'\" ■^^'^'■ 



"^^ 



M 



THE 

HOUSEWIFE'S GUIDE: 

OR, 

H Complete ®^mm 
MODERN COOKERY 



\ 



^AaTICULARLT ADAFTFD TO Tfl* 

MIDDLE CLASS OF SOCIETY^ 

And diligently sd[ecte4 Crom the most approved worlcs* 



PRFNTED BY JoSEPH SmYTH, S6, HiSH-JT. 



1822. 




■ss^/. 




f- 



Observations on Cooking Utensils, 

-*- HE various uteasiJs used for the preparation and 
keeping of food are made either of metal, glags, pot- 
tery ware, or wood ; each of which is better suit- 
ed to some partialar purposes than> the others. Mc- 
ta;hc utensils are quit« unfit for many uses, and the 
kno«r;edge of this is necessary to the preservation 

. iieaith m general, and sometimes to the preven- 
tion of immediate dangerous consequences* 

The metals commonly used in the coi^ction of 
:he3e vessels 3re silver, copper, brass, tinTiron, and 
ead. Silver is preferable to all the others, because 
t cannot be dissolved by any of the substances used 
18 food. ^ i3nmstone unites with silver, and forms a 
hm brittle. crast over it, that gives it the appear, 
nee of being tarnished, which may be accidentally 
aken with food j but this 'u not particularly un whole. 
pme,nor is it liable to be taken often nor inlar^e 
uantuies. The discolouring of silver spoon, used 
ith egg9, arises trom the brimstone contained iqthe 
Ig. -Nitre or saltpelie has also a slight effect upon 
Iver; but nitre and silver seldom, remain lon/c- 
bugh together in domestic uses to require any nar. 
pular caution. / 1 »*^ 

I Copper and brass arc both liable to .be dissoly. 



4 

by vinegar, acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such «ola- 
tions are highly poisonous, and great caution should 
be used to prevent accdents of the kind. Vessels 
made of these metals are generally tinned, that is, ' 
lined with a thin coating of a mixed metal, contain- 
ing both tm and lead. Neither acids, nor any thing 
containing pear) .ash, should ever be suffered to re- 
main above an hour in vessels of this kmd, a? the 
tinning is dissolvable by aci'^s, and the coating is scl- 
Uom perfect over the surface of the copper or brass.. 
The utensils made of what is called block tin, are: 
constructed of iron plates coated with tin. This 
is equally hable to be dissolved as the tinning of 
copper or brass vessels ; but iron is not an unwhole- 
some substance, if even a portion of it should be 
dissolved and mixed with food. Iron is therefore 
one of the safest metals for the construction of cuh- 
nary uteubils ; and the objection to its more extensive 
use only rests upon ilshability to rust, so that it re 
quires more cleaning, and soon decays. Some ani 
clesof food, such as quinces, orange peel, artiehokes 
&c. &c. are blackened by retnainiag in iron vessels 
which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and sho il 
never be used for milk or cream, it it be ever hke 
ly to stand till it become sour. They are uwsaf: 
alsofurthe purpoaeof keeping sdted meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental chim 
because the glazing is a perfect glass, which cannc 
be dissolved, and the whole substance is so compac 
that no liquid can penetrate it. Many of the Em. 
lifeh pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the gl; 
zlueii made principally of lead, it is necessary i 
avoid putting vinegar and orhtr acids into them,.. 



AciJs and greasy substances penetrate into unglazed 
wares, exceplinjx tl'.e strong stone ware, or into tlosc 
of which the glazing is cracked, and hence give a 
bad flavour to any thing they are used tor afterwards. 
They are quite unfit therefore for keeping pickles or 
salted meals. Glass vessels are infinitely preferable 
to any pottery ware but oriental china, and should 
be used whenever the occasion admits of it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for keeping many 
^rticles of food, and should always be preferred to 
those lined with lead. If any substance has ever fer- 
mented or become putrid in a wooden cask or tub. 
It is sure to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be 
put into it in future. It is useful to char the insides 
of these wooden vessels before they are used,- by 
burning wood shavings in them, so as to coat the 
insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must 
be sure, fr( m the repetition of its baneful effects, to 
injure the health, a due precaution with respect to 
pulinary vessels is necessary for its more certain pre- 
servation. 

Silver, oriental china, and glass, cannot certainly 
be applied to more useful purposes, wherever they 
:an be obtained, than those appertaining to culi* 
nary service. But as *♦ the world is still deceived by 
ornament," it is to be feared that it will not be re- 
ounced for objects of utility. 

"General remarks en the state in xuhich vari§us suhstaitm 
£es used as food are best adapted to the purposes 
of healthful sustenance. 

The properties of animal food in general seem no] 



to restrict the use of it to any particular season ; 
and the ^uccessire seasons of different kinds of it 
throuQ-hout the year, appear to a'imit the use of it 
at all times. The only period when perhaps it may 
be thought less seasonable than any other, should 
seem to be in hot weather, as the animals whicl) con-, 
stitute our butcher's me?.t are not then in so good a 
stats for food, as they are at other times of the 
year, and when animal substances of all kinds 
are very liable to taint. The profuse supply of ve- 
getables too at this season, seems to lessen the oc- 
casion for animnl food. At all times attention 
should be paid to the using each kind of animal in its 
proper -season, and under circumstances that may in 
all respects make it wholesome fi^od. The killing 
animals by the easiest means, and the not previously 
ill using them by over driving, or in any other way, 
materially affects their fitness as food, to say nothing 
of the inhumanity of barbarous slaughter, and ill 
^sage, which should always be considered. 

Hunted animals are improper food, from the heat- 
ed state in which they die. 

The haul gout, or ui English, taint, is the be- 
ginning of putrefaction ; therefore all animal substan- 
ces in -this ' state are very improper for food, particu- 
larly for persons with any tendency to putr.d disor- 
ders, and for all persons at a time when putrid fevers 
prevail, as tliey dispose the bljod and juices to re- 
ceive putrid infection. 

As far an regaidi the general properties of milk, iti 
is in season at all times, and by judicious manage, 
ment might be always supplied in.sufhcient quEjuti- 
ties to be (as would be very desirable) a plentiful 
source of human sustenance. It is of ihe best quahty 



I far^ve or six rfioatlis after a cow hai caived When 
I ^he becomes with calf again, her milk will of course 
i fall off a^aih both in quantity and quaUty. But 
the impatient greediness of cow-keepers would have: 
calves ^nd milk at the Same time, and therefore sel- 
dom allows in their dairies a fair interval for the 
kjeepmg up a successive supp'y of the best milk. — 
To keep cows in the hea'thiesc condition, and their 
milk consequently in the purest state, they should 
not be confined in houses, rior in yards, but should' 
be at large in fidds or in other open places. They 
should be well fed with wholesome prevender, and 
have access to good water. And they should be. 
kept clean, by occasionally rubb'ng down, and 
washing about the feet, ^egs, and bag, as may. be 
req'uired. 

ON DIET. 

Food is not more necessary than the abuse of it 
is injufious to iriatikirtd. But accustonried to it by 
necessity froti the first moments of -our existence, it, 
U so familiar to us, that .we -use it without any re- 
jection on the nature ol it, or the. excessive influence 
it is capable of, nay certain of having upon us, from 
its constant use^ both physically and morally. So 
nsens'ble are we indeed upon this subject- that food 
t> principally thought ot as a sensual indulgence, 
lovvever unpeiceived or unacknowledged this senti-. 
nent operates Upon us. 

That we require food, as vegetables require wa- 
■er^ to support our existence, is the primary con- 
siicration upon which we should take it. But in 
)ur general practice of eating, it cannot be said ** we 



rat to litre," but are living passages or channels, 
through which we are constantly propelling both 
solids and fluioS for the sake of pleasing our palates, 
at the severe cost often oi our whole system. 

The weather has very little serious effect upon a 
person in health, unless exposed to it in some un- 
usual manner that suddenly checks the customary 
evacuations, especially perspiration. 

Infection, formidable as it pounds, is almost di- 
vested of its power over those whose temperance in 
diet keeps their blood and juice.^ pure ; ju&tasthe 
spark which fires tinder dies away without effect up- 
on a moist substance. The closest attendance upon 
an infected pers ^n has been found perfectly consis- 
tent with personal safety under such circumstanc«s. 

Bad air, want of cleanliness, want of exercise, ex* 
cessive bodily fatigue, mental uneasiness, and, a* 
mongst females, absurdities in dress, a'e all unfavou- 
rable to health, but have not so immediate an influ- 
ence upon it as our food. 

We derive the renewal of our blood and juices, 
which are constantly exhausting, from the substan- 
ces we take as food. As our food, therefore, is pro- 
per or improper, too much or too little, so will our 
blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged on 
deficient, and our state of health accoidingly good 
or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever 
we eat or drink, including seasonings ; such as salt 
sugar, spices, vinegar, &c. Every thing, in short, 
which we receive into our stomachs. Our food, 
therefore, consists not only of such particles as arc 
proper for the uourishment and support of the hu. 
man body, but likewise contains certain active prin« 



9 
cJplcs, tiz. salts, oils, and spirits, which have the 
properties of stimulating the sohds, quickening the 
circulation, and making the fluids thinner : thus ren- 
<?ering them more suited to undergo the necessary 
secretions of the body. 

The art ot preserving health, and obtaining long 
life, therefore consists in the use of a moderate quan- 
tity of such diet as shall neither increase the sahs 
and oils so as to produce disease, nor diminish them 
so as to suffer the s lids to become relaxed. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as the eat- 
ing too much. Neither excess nor hunger, nor any 
thing else that passes the bounds of nature, can be 
good for man. 

Temperance and moderation in eating and drink- 
ing are nature's great preservatives. The throat has 
destroyed more than the sword* Some people are 
apt to think the more plentiiuUy they eat and drink 
the better they thrive, and the stronger they grow, 
Bot this is not the case. A little, well digested, 
will render the body more vigorous than when it is 
glutted with superfluity, most of which is turned to 
excrennentitious not alimentary fluid, and must be 
soon evacuated, or sickness will follow. 

By loading the stomach, digestion is impeded; 
for the natural juice of the stomach, which is the 
great medium of digestion, has not then room to ex- 
ert itself. The stomach therefore nauseates its con- 
tents, and is tioubled with eructatons, the spirits are 
oppressed, obstructions ensue, and disease is the con- 
sequence. Besides, that when thus overflUed, the 
ttomacb presses on the diaphragm„prevents the pro- 
per play of the lungs, and occasions uneasiness io 
©ur breathing* H^Bce also tariouj ill symptonis 

A2 ^ 



lo 

and depraved effects ihroughout the body, enerva- 
ting the strength, decaying the senses, hastening old 
a^e, and shortening Jife. Though these bad effects 
are not inr.mediately perceived, yet they are the cer- 
tain attendants of intemperance ; for it has been geu. 
erally observed in great caters, that, though from 
custom, a state of youth, an J a strong constitutio; , 
they have no present inconven'ence, but have digest- 
ed their foof^, suffered surfeit, and borne their im- \ 
nnoderate diet well ; if they have not been unexpec- 
tedly cut off, they have fojnd the sy.nproms ot -bli^ 
age come on early in life, aitended with pains and 
innumerable disorders. 

If we value our healthj we must ever make it a 
rule not to eat to satisfy our fulness, but desi t while 
the stomauh feels quite easy. Thus we shall be re- 
ffesher^, li<2;lit, and cheerful ; not dull, heavy or indis- 
posed. Should wq ever be tempted to eat tao much 
at one time, we should eat the less at another. Tliu-s 
if our dinner has been lirger than usual, Ut our sup- ; 
per be less, or rather quite omitted : for there is no 
man, however careful of his health, who does not 
occflssionally transgress in this way. < 

The diseases of Ifuman bodies often require sub- 
stances of more active principles than what are fouud 
in common aliment, viz. medicines in order to pro-, 
daoe sudden alterations. . But where such alterations 
are not immediately necessary, the same effect may 
be produced by means of regulating the diet, witli 
much greatrer sifety to the body. Abstinence isiiii 
short one of the best remedies to which we can re- 
port ; aad if resorted to in time will entirely cure 
many disorders, and check the violence cf such aai 
cannot be entirely carried off by it. 



•I 

In. all case* where there is an inflammation, an(Jv 
in stomach complaints, itis parii^cularlynecesjary,. 
►nd may be safely continued until the symptoms of 
Usease disappear. Where the digestion is habitually 
weak, a day ©f abstinence once a week will always 
be serviceable. 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater 
iifficulty than the quantity : moderation is an in- 
variably safe gui^e in the Utter instance ; but thougl?. 
Ahvays favourable to prevent ill effects from any er- 
'or in quality, it will not always be effectual. 

A prevailing error ia the diet of this cojntry ,i» 
jtoogreaf use of animal food. The dsease called 
the sea-scurvy often occurs in every great city in- 
^Efigland from this cause; and it is probable tliJt 
the. frequency and fatality oi putrid and scarlet fe- 
vers maybe justly attributed to it also. 

No part of our aliment is more important thaa 
our beverage. It is essential to moisten and convey . 
our more solid food info the stomach, and from thence 
to the respective p^rts of the body. To allay thirst, 
to dilute the blood, that it may circulate through . 
the minqtest vesels, and to dissolve ?nd carry 
off by the water/ secretions the snperfluou? 
salts we take in our food. To answer these pur- 
poses no liquid is so effectual as pure water, with the 
exception of ?orae few cases. No other liquid cjrs^ 
eulate« so well, orrrtixes so immedi?itely with opf 
fluids. All other liquids are impregnated «rith par- 
ticles which act strongly upon the spUd^ or iltiids^ 
or both; but w&tar being simple, operates only by 
diluting, moistening, and cooling, which are the 
great uses of drink pointed ©ut to us by nature.— 
Hence it is evident that water is in general the best 



IS 

and mot wholesome drink; but some constitntionS' 
require something to warm and srimulate the 
stomach, and then fermented Hqiiors taken in moder- 
ation are proper ; sach as beer, ale, cider, wine, &c. 
the choice and qaantity of which depend on the age, 
constitution, and manner of living of the drinker;, 
and to have them pure is above all things essential ; 
as otherwise, instead of being of any benefit, they 
will be highly detrimental 

Drams, or distilled spirituous li uor", the use of ( 
which is unhappily very prevalent, are of the mostt' 
])oi£onous qualites; and from their direful effects ' 
are the destruction of thousands From the degree 
of heat they have undergone in distillation, they ac-- 
quire a burn ng and corrosive quality, which makes; 
them as certain to kill as laudanum or arsenic, . 
though not so soon. They contract the fibres and 1 
vessels ot the body, especially whe^c they are ten- 
deiCht, as in the brain, and thus destroy the intellec- 
tual fiiculti^ Si 1 hey injure the coat of the stomach, : 
and thus expose the nerves, and weaken the fibres, 
till the whole be"oiT\es at last soft, ilabby, and relax- 
ed From hence ensues lo-s of appetite, indiges- 
tion, and diseases that generally terminate ia pre- 
mature de.th. Spirituous lic|ucr3 in any way, 
whether alone, mij^ed vv.th wster, in shrub, noyau,, 
or other liquo s, are all s'ow poi ons. 

The last thi g to be observed concerning Ijquorg 
is, ih^t the idea of their assisting t'igestion is a very 
erroneous one, as uine and »11 o^her stronjj liquor», 
are as hard to digest bs strong food. Th's is not 
only evident with respect to perrons of weak stomacha 
and digestion, but alsc from strong healthy people, 
Tvho Pfliy ^rink cither yat^^^ or snaay beer at their 



IS 

meals, and are able to eat and digest almost double 
the quantity of what they could if they drank 
strong liquors- 

Observations on Vej^etables, and on the manner of 
dressing them. 

Vegetables arc, generally speaking, a wholesome 
diet, but become very prejudicial if not properly 
dressed. 

Cauliflowers, and vegetables of the same species, 
are often boiled only crisp to preserve their beauty. 
For the look alone, they had better not be boiled at 
all, and almost as well for the use, as they are scarce- 
ly digestible for the strongest stomach in this crude 
kmd of state. On the other hand, when overboiled, 
they become vapid, and in a state similar to decay, 
in which they afford no sweet purifying juices to 
the body, but load it with a mass of mere feculent 
piatter. A contrary error often prevails respecting 
potatoes, as it seems an idea that they cannot be 
done too much. Hence they aie popped into the 
saucepan or steamer, just when it suits the cook, 
and left domg, not for the time they reqiure, but 
till it suits her to take th^m up. By whthtme 
perhaps ail tjie nutritious qualities are cooked away, 
and thty taste pf noth ng but water. Let them be 
neither un4 r ncr over dqne, and they will not fad tp 
please both a correct eye and taste, as well as to con- 
stitute a uhples -me species of diett 

A most periiicious practice in the dressing of ve- 
getables, is often adopted by cooks, of putting cop- 
per in with them, in the form of halfpence. They 
probably nev^r reMect cn those' bein^ copper, but 



14 ; 

only use them, as endowed they know not how wkU 
the quality of giving a green colour. This is a lazy 
way of spanng their own pains ; for if put into boiU 
ing water with some salt in it, and boiled up directly, 
they will be as beautifully green as the raoit fastidious 
person can require. 

A little pearl- ash might be safely used on such an ' 
occasion, and with equal effect ; and in the instance 
of all the cabbage species, with some further advan- 
tage from its alkaline properties being a correctot 
of acidity. 

Vegetables should be always as freshly gathefed" 
as possible. 

^Wherethey cannot be obtained fresh, it will re- 
vive them greatly to let them He a good while iri cold 
spring water. 

They should neither be so young as not to have 
acquired their good qualities, nor so old as to be ' 
losing tliem. 

Great nicety should always be observed in trim- 
ming away all the offal parts, and in washing them 
well from ing;?cts and dirt. 

Some Silt put into the water they He in to cleanse, 
will assist very much in clearing them from insects. 

All the utensils used in the dressing of vegetables 
should be exiremely clean and ruce ; and if any 
copper vessel is ever used for the purpose, the great- 
est attention nuist be paid to its being well tinned. 

'rii? scum which arisjs tVom vegetables as they 
boil sho'ild be carefully taken off, as cleanlinesj is 
essential both to their lwo'-<in^ and cat'ng well. 

The Hd of the saucepan should always be taken 



-15 . 

oS when they boil, to give access to the air, even if 
it is- not otherwise thought necetsary. 
To hod Tufnips. 
Young turnips should be boiled without -paring, 
as the rind will boil soft, aod it retains the natUFal 
jatces ; but full grown turnips must be pared till the 
stringy outside is quite cut away, as that will not 
boil tender. If the turnips are large, slice them in 
two the broad way-; if small, boil them whole. — 
Put them into boil ng water, and when they are ten- 
der enough to admit a fork through -thtm fr^fely^ = 
tafee them up, drain them, and send them to table. • 
• To mash Turnips. , • 

Paie and boil the turnips^s above. When they 
are quite tender," dra'n the. water from therpi, and 
bruise them in an earthen pan with a spoon till they 
are well mashed. Add a little salt, and milk or 
cream enough to moistea them moderately. Set 
them over the fire in a saucepan till they are 
thoroughly hot, but not so as to let them burn. 
Observations. 
Turnips are sometimes mashed with butter instead 
cf milk, but the latter is the most wholesome as well 
as delicate. 

They will boil very well with beef, mutton, or 
brob, bat are best borled by themselves. 
* To boil Carrots. 

Carrots should he well washed and brushed, and 
if ihere are any specks ir» them, as there v ill be some- 
times rn the winter, they should be cut out. They 
sheulid not be boiled in much water, and are general. 
Ip put in when it boils. I^arge carrots will require 
fr.li two hours boiling, smaller ones in proportion. — 
"Wfe-ri taken up, wipe the peels olf with a clean 



16 

coarse cloth, and send them to table either cut into 
slices or whole, at pleasure. 

Observafions, 

Tt is very usual to scrape large carrots before they 
are boiled : but though this may save Fome trouble, 
as sooner done than wiping the peels off afterwards, 
when they get to this size, they neither look roreat 
so well as the other way. They have a shabby rag- 
ged appci^rance, and are drier and less pleasant. 
7o boil Parsnirs. 

Parsnips must be clean washed, and boiled in the 
same manner as carrots, but they will not require 
boiling so long. An hcur and a quarter will boil a 
large parsnip well. Wipe off tl e peels, and serve 
them up either whole, or cut into slices, according 
to the occasion on which they are used. 
To mash Parsnips* 

Boil them as above, and \\ hen they are soft e- 
nough to admit a fork through them, take ihem up 
and scrape oS the outside quite clean. Then sirape 
them very fine into a saucepan, with new mi k or 
cream eiiou^h to make them of a good thickness, 
and Ptir them over the fire, being v< ry careful not to 
let them bum. Mix in a piece of butter and some 
«£lt, and serve them up. 

To boil Spifiage. 

pick every leaf of the spinage separately off the 
stalks, wash it well in two or three waters, and drata 
it in a cola der. It dors not require much water 
to dress it in, but rhould be put in when the warer 
boils, with a sm 11 handful of salt, pressi'd down in 
the saucep:;n wjth a spoon. Let it toil quick t.H 
quite tender, then pour it into a colander, and after, 
wards press it dry between two woodea trcncbcrit 



17 

Lay it neatly into a dish, cnt it through with a 
knife length- wise down the middle, and again cross- 
wise in different places, so as to divide it into proper 
sized pieces to help out at table. 

To boil Cabbage, 

Cut off all the outward offal lea^res of the cab- 
bage, and lay it in water. If small, cut it in two, 
if large, into four parts ; put it into plenty of boil- 
ing water, with some salt in it, and sprinkle a little 
more salt on tbe cabbage. Maice the saucepan boil 
up as quickly as possible, and when the cabbage is 
about half done take it up, put it directly into a- 
nother saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling 
very fast till the stalk is quite tender. Drain it in a 
colander, and send it to table« 

Observations. 

As the strong flavour of cabbage requires being 
well refined by cookery, it will be found a very su- 
perior way of dressing it, to boil it in two waters, 
rather than continue it in the water, rank as it be- 
comes, into which it is first put. It will be an ad- 
vantage also ill the dressing ©f cauliflowers, and 
every thing of the cabbage species. 
To boil BrocolL 

Cut off the stalk from brocoli so as to leave a 
nice head, and such part of the stalk only as will 
boil tender. Trim it of the leaves, but not of the 
imall branches, as they make the head look fuller and 
better^ When well washed, put the brocoli into 
boiling water with some salt in ir, and boil it up very 
quick. As soon as the stalk is quite tender it is 
^one enough. Take it up with a tin slice, to avoid 
breaking the heads. 



ITS 

To hnl Asparagus, 

Cut off as much of the white end as will kive 
the asparatrus about six inches loncfi Scrape the re- 
maining white part very clean, and throw them as 
they arc done into a pan of fresh water. After soak- 
ing some time, tie them up in small even bundles, 
put them into boiUng water and boil them up quick. 
When the heads are tender, which may be tried 
with a small fork, take up the asparagus directly, 
as, if overboiled, the l)eads will break off. Have a 
toast ready to dip into the water ; then lay it into the 
dish, and the asparagus upon it, with the white ends 
outward. Pour some melted butter over the heads, 
and send it to table. 

To Soil Cauliflowers. 

Cut off the stalk close at the bottom of the head^ 
andletthecauliflower soak at least an hour in fresh 
water to cleanse. Put it into boiling water, or 
milk and water if convenient, boil it up quick, and 
skim the saucepan well. When the stalk is quite 
tender, which may be proved with a fork,- take it up 
and drain it carefully to prevent its breaking. Serve 
it up in a dish by itself. 

To hoit green Pease. 

Pease should not be boded in more water than 
just enough to cover them well. Put them in when' 
the water boils, with a few sprigs of mint tied to- 
gether ; boil them up immediately, and keep thenl 
boihng very fast. They require being thoroughly 
done. Drain them and seivc them up either with a 
piece of butter stirred in among them, or with melt- 
ed butter in a turreen. Garnish them with the sprigs 
of mint laid round the dish, as mauy persons l^e to 
cat thera with the peas. 



19 

Tohoil B^ans, 
It is besUnot to shell beans till just before they 
are \*anted for dressing-. They require -boiling in a 
good deal of water, and must be put in when it boils, 
with some salt and a buneh of paisley- Bo 1 them 
up directly, and keep, them boil.ng very quick.— 
They must be done extremely well. To taate one 
is the surest way of knowing when they are done 
enough. Drain them off, garnish the di h with the 
parsley chopped, and serve them up with a tuiTeen 
of melted butter 

To boll yirllchohes. ., •; 

Twist off the head of the artichokes close to the 
bottom, lay them into water directly, arid let'them 
soak till they are quite clean. Put them into a 
saucepan of cold water. Moderate sized articlK)kes 
will reqwre doing for an hour after the water boils. 
But a certain way of knowing when they are done 
enough is to draw out a leaf. If it comes out easily 
they are sufficiently boiled.; Serve them up with 
as many small cwps of melted butter as there are ar- 
tichokes. 

. To boil Red Beet-Root, 

•Let the beet-root be well vi ashed, and boiled in a 
moderate qaantity of water, putting it into the wa- 
ter when cold^ It requires long boiling ; a large 
root will take an hour and a half after the water 
boils. Serve it up hot with melted butter to eat 
with it, or cold, and eat it with vinegar, or dice it 
into sallads. - •"' ■\ 

To boil Mangel JVurzel, or German Beet. 
The root (if this plant has lost all estimation in 
this country, except for fattening cattle, but is much 
used in France. The leaves'are used in the summer 



•/^ 



20 

^nd autumn to boil as greens, or as spinage. The 
stalks of the leaves are also drest in Hk manner of 
asparagus, as those of the white beet above. 
To toilTumtp tops* 

Turnip tops are the shuots which come out in the 
spring from the old turnip roots. Drest like sproutK, 
they make a very nice sweet gree;)5, and are esteemed 
great purifiers of the Hood and juices. 
Toboii Sea Cole, 

This mu<t be ho'led very ni e and tenclcr, and 
served upon toast like asparagus, with melted butter 
over it. 

To stc'w Cucumbers. 

Pare and divide a cucumber in two the long 
way, and once across. Put it into a stewpan with 
some sliced onion, a little pepper, some salt, and a 
piece of butter. Stew it very gjently til sufficiently 
done; then take it out, tni keh the liquor with 
a little flour, and pour it upon the cucnmber. If 
the liquor thould have srewed away very much, add 
a few spoonfuls x)f cream iftstf^ad of the flour. As 
all cucumbers are not equally juicy, this may hap- 
pen without any fault iu the cook. 

Stewed Spinage tvith Cf earn. 

Boil the spinage till neatly done enougli, t«>en 
squeeze all the water from it, and put it into a 
stewpan, with a piece of butter and some salt. 
Stir it over the fire till the butter is well mixed in 
with it, then add a^ ntuch crecim as will make it 
of a moderate t'^ckne'ss, shake it for a minute 
QT two over the fire, and then serve it up with sip- 
pets of fried or toasted bread. 

Stewed Spinage with Sorrel. 

Take spinage aad sorrel, in the proportion of 



2! 

threcfourthi of spinagt to one of sorrel. Pick 
and wash these very nicely, cut them a little, and 
put them ito a stewpan, with two or three spoon* 
fuls of wdter. Keep stirring these over the fire 
till they begin to soften and become liquid. Then 
leave it to stew at a distance over the fire for an 
hour or more, stirring it every now and then. 
Thicken it with a little flour. When it is quite 
done, add some pepper and salt, and serve it up. 
Observation* 
This is an excellent sauce to all kinds of meat, 
or to eat with potatoes. Almost any kind of cold 
▼egetables add well to this stew. They should be 
put in just long enough to heat, and mixed in pro- 
perly with the spinage before it is served up. 
' Tostenu SorreL 
Prepare and slew sorrel alone, in the same man- 
ner as the spinnage and sorrel above. Add the 
same thickening and seasoning. 

To iteu) red ^bbage, 
Trtm off all the coarse outside leaves of tl^| 
cabbage, then cut it small and wash it well. Addl 
one or two onions, according to the sze of them, 
slice i thin, some pepper and salt, and stew them 
altogether over a slow fire, vyith some gravy, till 
the cabbage is very tender. A few minutes before 
serving it up, thicken it with a piece of butter rol- 
led in fiour, and add some good vioegar to the taste. 
French Beans ivilh C^tam. 
Prepare young beans as for botting, and boil ' 
them in plenty of water with ?alt in it, till rather 
more than half done, then drain them dry. Beat 
up the yplks ^ three eggs fflth a quarter of a pint 
of cream, put them with two ounces of fresh but- 



tcr into a stewpan, and set it over a slow Gre. 
When hot, put in the Beans, with a spoonful of 
vinegar, and simmer them till quite tender," stirring 
the mixture to keep it from curdling. or burning.. 

"To stevo Endive. 
■ First' trim off all the green part of thfc endive, 
then wash and cut.it into pieces, and scald it: till 
about half .dione. Drainr it well, chop it a little, 
put it into a stewpan with a little strong gravy,- and 
stew it gently till quite tender. Season it iy.ith 
sotne pepper and saltj and:-serve it-up as sauce to 
any kind of roasted m€at, or it eats well witb 
potatoes. .* " ' 

To stents Cell-erif hrotvn. 

Strip off all the outward leaves, and cut off the 
heads of the celery so low as to leave only the best 
part remaining. Wash the^e vrell ; if the celery is 
very large, it may be parted in two down the mid- 
dle ;• if small, it will 'be better whole. Put it into 
•a stewpan with gravy enough to cover it, and stev 
it gently till quite tender, by which time the gravy 
will be nearly stewed away. -Add a little more 
gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, some pep- 
per and salt, simmei' it again for ten minutes, and 
then serve it up. 

To steiy Carrnlsioith Cream. 

Half, boil some' carrots, wipe off the skins yery 
clean, part them down thb middle, and once across, 
or slice then and pnt them ■ into a stewpan with a 
few spoonfuls iSf weak broth, as much cream, some 
pepper and salt. S-ew. them gently till very ten- 
der, but not to break them. Add a small piece 
of butter rolled in flour, about ten^lhinutesbtBorr 
served up. , .s . . 



23 

Slewed Parsnips with Gravy. 

Boil the parsnips in milk and water, or milk 
jalpne, tiil ?ometliing mor§,t^n half dpoe. Slice 
or divide them into two down the middle, or across, 
stew them gently with, some good gi'avy, seasoned 
with pepper or salt, till quite done, adding, fi?e 
minutes before they are taken up, a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Potatoes in Cream or Gravi^. 

Half boil some potatoes, drain them, peel them 
;niccly, and cut them into neat slices. Put them 
into a stewpan with some cream, fresh butter, and 
salt, of each a'proportion to the quantity of pota- 
toes ; or some good gravy, with pepper and salt. — 
Stew them very gently till weU.d^ne, but be careful 
not to let them break. 

To stew Onions, 

Peel some large onions, flour them moderately, 
and give them a gentle frying of a I'ght brown col- 
our. Tut then^ into a stewpan with some good broth, 
Cayenne pepper and salt. Stew them over a. very 
slow fire tiU thoroughly done. They will require 
about two hours. Serve them up with sippets, of 
toasted or fried bread. They will eat with macaroni, 
or.wjth potatoes either boiled or roasted, v, . 

In the spring, when all kinds of fresh vegetables 
are particularly grateful and. wholesome, as cleansing 
the body from obstruct'©ns that may have been oc- 
casioned by a long winter ; there are many little 
early shoots of herbs. Sec, we are apt to,:i»glect, 
both in the gardens and in the fields, which, well boil- 
.ed in plenty of good river or spring water, are both 
very salutary ^s^ pleasant. * Of these there are, 
^Cern Salad,. the young ouds growing on tbe ^alks 



S4 

of cabbage or colewort plants, Parsley, Mint- 
tops, Pcnny.royal, Borage, Succory, Nettle-tops, 
Tops of the wild hop. Red dock, Dandehon, Com* 
irey, &c. 

Carrots and parsnips should have the tops cut oft 
close, be cleaned from the rough earth, and kept in 
a dry place. Lay a bed of dry sand upon the floot 
about two or three inches thick, put. the roots upon 
it close together, with the top of one to the bottom 
of the next, and so on. Cove"- the first layer with 
sand two inches thick, and then lay another layer of 
roots, and go on thus till the whole store is laid up. 
Lay some dry straw pretty thick over the whole. 



ON SALADS. 

Salads are proper to be eaten at all times and 
seasons of the year, and are particularly to be recom- 
mended from the beginning of February to the 
middle or end of June They ar» in greater perfec- 
tion, and consequently more powerful, during this 
period than at any other season, in cleansing, opening 
obstructions, and sweetening and purifying the blood. 
For the frequent eating of herbs prevents that per- 
nicious and almost general disease, the scurvy, and 
all windy humours which offend the stomach. 

Then again from the middle of September till 
December, and indeed all the winter, if the weather 
be mild and ©pen, all green herbs are welcome to the 
stomach, and very wholesome. For though herbs 
have not so much vigour, nor are so opening and 
cleansing in the winter as in the spring, yet all such 
herbs as do grow, and continue fresh and green, do 
also retain their true natural virtues and qualities. 



25 

and being eaten as sallads, and seasoned as they ought, 
have in a degree the same operations as at other sea* 
sons of the year. 

On'ons both young and full grown, shalots, gar- 
lic, and chires, are all u>ed as seasonings to salads ; 
and red beet-root, boiled and cold, is often sliced in* 
to them. 

Our usual salads are indeed pretty much limited 
to what is specifically called small salading, lettuce, 
celery, and endive. These are all excellent in their 
kmd ; but to prefer them tb the exclusion of every 
thing else, is a prejudice. 

Salads of all kinds should be very fresh, or, if 
not to be procured thus, should be well refreshed 
in cold spr'ng water. 

They should be very carefully washed and pick- 
ed, and drained quite dry in a clean cloth. 

In dressing small herbs or lettuces, it is best to 
arrange them, properly picked and cut, in the salad 
dish, then to mix the sauce in something else, and 
pour it to the salad down the side of the dish, so as 
to let it run to the bottom, and not to stir it up till 
used at table. 1 his preserves th? crispness of the 
salad. 

With celery and endive the sauce should be 
poured upon them, and the whole well stirred to- 
gether to mix it equally. 

Lettuce, endive and celery may be eaten with 
salt only, and if well chewed, which all salads 
should be, often agree better than when m xed wttk 
seasooings. 



B 



s6 

EXCELLENT V/HOLESOME SALADS, 

THE USE OF WHICH WILL BE VERY CONDU(riVE TO 
KEEPING THE BODY IN HEALTlf. 

Salad 1, 
Take spinage, parsley, sorrel, lettuce, and a few 
onions, then add oil, vinegar, and salt, a good 
quantity of eachto make it of a high taste and relish, 
but let the salt rather predominate above the other 
ingredients. 

Salad 2. 
Take lettuce, spinagesops, pennyroyal sorrel, 
a few onions, and some parsley, and season them 
as above with oil, vinegar and ealt. 
ISaiad 3. ' 
Take lettuce, sorrel, spinage, tops of mint and 
onions, seasoned as above. 

Salad for the Winter. 
Take young tender colewort plants, sorrel, let- 
tuce, endive, celery, parsley, full-grown oniens, 
which are better to cut and eat with salads in the 
winter than young ones, and season them well with 
salt, oil and vinegar. 

Another Salad for the Winter. 
Take lettuce, spinage, endive, celery, and cut 
half a clove of garlic amongst it. Season it well 
with oil, vinegar and salt. 

Observation. — This sallad is very warm and 
wholesome. All these aromatic warm sil ds are 
particularly proper for phlegmatic and weakly per- 
sons, as they have the properties of warming the ' 
stomach, and diffusing warm juices through the 
blood. 

To supply the want of Oil in Salads, 
Melt good butter thick, and pour it upon the - 



p 

salad,, in the same proportion as oil. Or use some 
sweet thick cream in the same manner and propor- 
tion. The latter is most to be recommended of the 
t\<^o. 

ON VEGETABLES IN GENERAL. 

This head comprises the vegetables which are prin- 
cipally used in cookery, the manner of preparing 
them for table, and of preserving such of them as 
can be kept for the winter.. 

Of Peas, both greefi and dried. 

Green peas are in season for three months, -wz. 
June, July, and August. To judge of their qual- 
ity it is jieccssary to taste them If they taste su- 
gary and are tender, they may be depended on as 
fresh gathered and newly shelled. 

Green peas are used with all kinds of meats, make 
excellent ragouts, and are served, both rich and mea- 
gre> as entremets. 

Te make Pease Porridge. 

The peas, wKen boiled, must be pulped through 
a colander, and then heated in a saucepan with some 
butter, chopped parsley, and qhives, and seasoned 
with pepper and salt. 

Dried pease with streaketJ Bacon. 

Lay the bacon in water for a ^hile, to take out 
some of the salt, then boil it with the peas and some 
water. Add to them two csrrots or parsnips, as 
many onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When 
the peas are done enough, pulp them through a col- 
ander or sieve, and serve them up over the bacon. 
To sterv French Beans, ' 

C-hoose very young tender French Beans, break 
t^ the tops and ends, wash them, boil them in wa- 



«8 

tcr, and drain them, Mc't a piece of bHtter in a 
saucepan with some chopped parsley an.i chived, and 
when it is ready put in the beans, give them two or 
three shakes over the fire, then add a dust of flour, 
some salt, and a Hitle good broth, aod stew them 
till the liquor is gone. When they are to be served 
up, stir the yolks of three eggs mixed with some 
milk, and a dish of* verjuice or vinegar ; thicken it 
a few minutes over the fire, and serve it up as an en- 
treniet. 

U h^xi they are to be served up rich, put cull « 
and veal gravy, instead of eggs and milk. 
0/ Beans, 

Beans are generally skinned before they are dres- 
sed, but if to be dressed vith tiie skins •n, they 
must be boiled in water for ten minutes to take off 
the acrimony of them. The method of preparing 
them afterwards is the same either way. Put them 
into a saucepan with some butter, a bunch of pars- 
ley, chives, and a little savory. Shake them over 
the fire, then put in a pinch of flour, a piece of su- 
gar the size of a walnut, and moisten them with 
broth. When done enough, thicken them with three 
yolks of eggs, and a little milk. Serve them up as 
an entremet. 

0/ Cabbages. 

White cabbages, savoys, and Milan cabbages, are 
all dressed in the same manner. They are generally 
used to put in the pot, atter tying them round with 
packthread, that they may not mix with the meat. 
0/ CauKHoners, 

Cauliflowers are used to garnish some kinds of 
entrees, and as entremets. 



89 

Of Carrdts and Parsnips^ which are often specified 
by the name of roots. 

Catrote and parsnips are put into all kinds of 

soup, into braises, and into culliscs. They are used 

also in entrees of meat called hodge podge, and ra- 

goa'd as a garnish to small entrees. 

Of Chervil, Sorrel, and Beet, both white and green. 

All these herbs are excellent in making of soups 
and ragouts, and may te preserved in the summer 
for the winter. When they are prepared in a prdptr 
manner they lose nothing of their original flavour. 
The method of doing this is so easy as to requfre 
but little attention. 

Of Onions* 

Onton« are of great service in the kitchen when 
used with mederation, particularly in soups, gravies, 
and culliseis. 

The small white onion is the most in esteem for 
making ragouts. When used for this purpose, do 
not peel them, but merely cut off the head and the 
root. Scald them in W£ter for a quarter of a« hour, 
then put them into fresh water, peel ofif the first 
skin, and stew them in some broth. 

When sufficiently done, add two spoonfuls of cul- 
lis to thicken theeance-j season them with judgment, 
and serve them up with whatever is thought proper. 
Of Leeks. 

These are only used in the kitchen to put into 
the pot. They give a good flavour to the broth. 
'Of Celery.. 

Celery, when very white and tender, is eaten with 
ft sauce of salt, pepper, oil, vinegar,^ and mustard; 
It is used also to put into the pot, but it must bd 
\i\ a small quantity only, because the flavour is strong, 



30 

and would prevail above all other vegetefeles. 

When it is wanted for ragouts to serve with meat, 
soak it some time in water to wash it well, then 
boil it half an hour, and pwt it aftei wards into fresh 
water. Press it well, and stew it with some good 
broth and cullis. Season it properly, and be very 
careful to take off the fat. Serve it up with any 
kind of meat that is most approved. 

Of Radishes, and Turnip Radishes. 

Radishes and turnip radishes are of no other use 
in the kitch^ than to serve raw, as a very common 
corner dish at the beginning of a dinner, by the side 
of soup. 

Of Turnips, 

Turnips are used to put mto the pot, and like* 
wise make good soup. 

When to be used as a garnish round a dish of 
soup, cut them neatly, give them a short scald in 
water to take off the strong taste, and then dress 
them in broth, adding some gravy to give them a 
colour. 

()f Cabbage and Roman Cos lettuce. 

Tt is unnecessary here to enter into any detail re- 
specting the different natures of the cabbage and 
Roman lettuce : it is enough that they are both eaten 
in salads, when they are both fine and tender. They 
are used also in ragouts, and sometimes for garnish- 
ing soups. 

Cabbage lettuce^ with Forced Meat. 

Scald eight or twelve cabbage- lettuce, according 
to the size of them, half an hour in water, then 
put them into fresh water and press them well with 
the hands. Strip off the leaves of the lettuce, and 
Uytho-e of each one separate. Tie up each parcel 



of kaves with some forced me*t in the miJdle of it, 
and stew them with a little braise, When they are 
sufi&ciently done, drain tnd press them in a lijien 
cloth, dip them in a natter made with flour, white 
wine and a spoonful of oil, and a little salt, and 
fry them of a beautiful light brown, or rub them 
over with a little beaten eggs or crumbs of bread, 
and then fry them. 

Stuffed in this manner, and broiled, they serve 
to garnish eotrees of meat. 

Of Asparagus^ 
The largest asparagus are esteemed the bes% 
They are eaten in vai ious ways. Ragouts are made 
of them as garoish to entrees of meat and of fish, 
and to soups. They are also served witli a sauce as 
an entrement. 

Of Cucumbers, 
The cucumber is known to every body as pf 
the same species as the melon and the gourd. 

In using cucumbers, they should be pared, the 
inside taken out, and then cut in pieces. 
Of Mushrooms and Morels, 
The best mushrooms are those which are culti- 
vated in beds, and they may be had fresh all the 
year. 

It is rot the same with morels, and the mush- 
room which grow in the woods, are foi^nd at the 
foot of treef, in the months of March and April, 
To have these all the year it is necessary to dry them. 
After taking oft the end of the stalk , wash them 
and boil them f«r a moment in water. When they 
are drained, put them in a very cool oven to dry. 
Keep them when doD^j in a dry place^ Soak tkem 



3« 

in warm water for use.— Cultivated mushrooms may 
be dried in the same manner. 

Observations, 
It is an observation meant to apply equally both 
to English and French cookery, that the mixing 
animal juices in preparations of vegetables is not to 
be recomm'^nded. The difFetent modes of cookery 
desTable for each, makqs the mixing them together 
during the cooking to be avoided, where the health is 
to be consulted. The approbation of the French 
manner of dressing vegetables must therefore be un- 
derstood as confined to the doing them thoroughly, 
aid preserving the natural juiee=, not to the mixing 
them wi h animal juices. An slteration in this re- 
spect may eateily be made by substituting butter and 
flour, yolks of eggs and cream, or some mushroom 
or walnut catsup, instead of them. 



SOUPS, PORRIDGES, &c. FROM THE 
FRENCH. 

To prepare Broth Jtr all kinds of Soups. 
The meat must be sound and healthy in every re* 
spect, and fresh killed, that it may i:;ive the more and 
the better flavour to ihe bro'h. The most juicy 
pieoes should be used for this purpose, such as the 
flank, the rump, the ribs, the m'ddle of the leg, the 
under pirt of the sirlo n, &c. The be ->t pieces to 
serve at table are the rump and brisket of beef,— 
Veal nnust not be put into broths but on occasions' 
of ilhies^. L,et the meat be done first with nothing 
but water, and when it is well skimmed, put in 
some salt. Then aid all sorts of vegetables, well 
picked, scraped, and washcd> viz. celery, onicnaj 



33 

carrots, parsnips, leeks, cabbages, &c. &c. Boil 
the broth gently till the meat is done enough, then 
sira n it through a napkin or seive, ad keep it for 
use as it miy be wanted. 

Cabbage Soups, 

Cut sooTie cabbages in halves, wash chem well, and 
blanch them a few minutrs in scalding water, then 
tie up each half separate with a slice of streaked ba- 
con, cut with the nnd on Lay them in'o a stew- 
pan, sufficiently apart one from the other to prevent 
their being broke, w-th some bvoth prepared as above, 
and slew them gen(,ly. When the bacon and cab- 
bage are done enough, simmer the soup fviih some 
more of ihe same broth, and some crusts of bread. 
Serve up the soup with the cabbage and bacoa 
pound it, or in it at pleasure. Put very little salt 
into tlie ffoup, on accQunt of the bacon. 
Soup 'with small while Onions. 

Blanch some sma'l white onions in scalding water, 
peel off the first skin, and stew them in a little bioth. 
When ready, lay them in a row round the edge of 
the dish intended for the soup. 'J o keep them in 
their place, put a thin blip of bread rubbed with 
some white of tgg round th« rim of the dish, and 
set the di h over a stove for a moment to fasten the 
bread. Use slips of broad in this manner, to kt-ep 
all kinds of garnishing to soups io the proper pl-ice. 
Soup with Cucumbers, 

Pare and cut the cucurnb^rs, then stew them 
with some good broth, and veal gravy to celour 
them. When they are done enwugh, heat the soup 
with the liquor they were stewed in, and ses^son it 
with salt. Serve up tjie soup garnished with the 



3* 

cucumbers. These will be a proper garnish for al* 
most any kind of soup. 

Herb Soup, 
Put some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, and purslain, 
well picked and washed, into a saucepan wi h a car- 
rot, a parsnip, and a little celery cut into thin slips. 
Stew them with so-nc good broth, and a little veal 
gravy^ When they ?re wrll done and properly sea- 
soned with salt, heat the soup over a slow fire, and 
serve it up with the herbs in it without anygarnishisg. 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE CHOICE OF 
ANIMAL F. OD. 
In the use of animal, as of all other kinds of food, 
its beneficial or injurious effects very materially dc 
pend on the cljoice of it, and the manner of pre- 
paring it. There are peculiar constiti'tiotis, and 
particular states ot health, or rather particular dis- 
eases and periods of life, v\hen animal food is high'y 
detriracntal ; and others again when it is essentially 
necessary j but it is the general use of il, not these 
exceptions, that is here to be considered. As a part 
of our habitual diet, the main points to be attended 
to are the kinds of animal food, and the modes of 
dressing it which are most to be recommended. A 
choice of kind vvdl, however, be of but little conse- 
quence if the animals subject to this choLe are not 
sound and healthy. It is desirable therefore to avoid 
the fl.sh of all such as ate fatted in confinement, or 
upon improper substances, which never can make 
wholesome food. Oil cakes and- rank vegetables, 
with want of air and e<erci^e, produce flcih the 
sight of which alone will evidence the truth of tho 
assertion that it is unwholesome. 



35 

That animals will eat rancid fulsome food, and 
grow fat upon ir, ij no testimony in its favour.— 
Hunger and custom will induce the eating of revol- 
ting substances, both in the brute and human race ; 
and growing fat is by no nieans always a sign of 
health. Is it so amongst mankind ? or is it not 
more frequent that an increase of bulk is only sym- 
ptomatic of grossness of habit, tending to fever, a- 
poplexy, and other dreadful diseases, induced by im- 
proper and too miich diet, and want of air and ex- 
ercise. 

To be well fleshed, rather than/at, is the desirable 
state of animals destined for slaughter. There will 
always be with this a sufficient proportion of fat, 
and laboiiring to produce mere is only increasing 
that psrt of animal substance, which, from its gross 
indigestible nature, is not proper for human diet, un- 
less in a very limited degree. 

Venison, which in its domestic state is never fat- 
ted like otlier animals, game, and every wild animal 
proper for foid, are of very superior qualities to the 
tan^e, from the total contrast of circumstances at- 
tending them. *lhey have a free range of exercise 
in the open- air, and choose tbeir own food, the good 
effects of which arc very evident in a short delicate 
texti<re of flesh found only in them. Their joices 
and flavour are mo'C pure, and their fat, wlien.it i» 
in any decree, as in venisOn, and some other instaH- 
cef', differs as much from that of our fatted ainnwls, 
as silver and gold from the grosser materiak- " • 

Suppos'ng all animal flesh good of its kind, there 
is yet a decided preference in the choice of it. Mut- 
ton, beef, venison, game, wild rabbits, fowls, turkies, 
and various small birds, are preferable to lamb, veal. 



36 

pork, young pigs, ducks, geese, and tame rabbits. 

Beef and mutton are much easier of digestion 
and more mutrit'ous than ve^l and Iamb, from being 
of a more mature substance, particularly if nor kiU 
led till of a proper age. Nothing comes to perfec- 
tian under a stated period of growth, and till it at- 
tains this it will of course afford inferior nutriment. 
If the flesh of mutton and lamb, bepf and veal, are " 
compared, they will be found of a different textiire, 
and the two young meats of a more stringy indivis- 
ible nature than the others, which mak^s them harder 
of digestion. Neither are their juices so nourishing 
when digested ; as any one at all in the habit of ob- 
serving what is passing within and about them w 1! 
readily perceive from their own experience. Lamb 
and veal leave a craving nausea in the stomach, not 
felt after most other animal foods. 

Veal I roth soon turns sour by standing, owing to 
the sugar of m Ik contained in the blood of a calf ; 
and the same chang^e takes place in a weak stomach. 
Persons in the habit of drinking stronjr liquors wi.h 
their meals cannot competently judge of such an ef- 
feet, as these liqucrs harden all kind* of animal food, 
and therefore httle distinction can be perceived a- 
mongst them. 

Pork is a strong fat meat, and unless very nicely 
fed, only fit for h^nl-worki^g persons. Young pigs 
are liable to all the objections in a greater degree, 
than there are against lamb and veal ; they are fat, 
luscious, and afford no nulrinr.efit. Ducks and geese 
are of a coarse oily nature, and only fit for very 
strong stomach?. Tarae rabbits are of a closer 
heavier texture than the wil % and hence very inferior 
to them. Pigeons are of a hot nature, and must 
therefore be sparingly used. 



37 

It is unnecessary to add any thing further td 
what has been already said respecting venison, 
game, and other wild anima's. 

Fowls and turkeys are of a mild proper nature 
for food, bat the fattening them in conrinement is 
equally prejudicial t.» them as it is to the ani- 
mals cited above. If left at large, well fed with 
good barlt-y, and with clean water to drink, they 
will be little inferior to game. Barley is prefer- 
able to barley meal, as retaining all the natural 
qualities of the grain in greater perfection than 
when ground; and as these animals are provided 
with grind rs in the gizzard, the concocting 
their own food is more nourishing "and whole- 
some for tijem. These, like other animals, should 
be suffered to attain their full growth, to have 
them in the be^t state for nutriment. 

Fish is less nourishing than tlesh, because it 
is gross, phlegmatic, cold, and full of watery 
superfluities ; but under certain restriccions may 
bo safely used as a part of our general diet, it 
is bad for cold phlegmatic constituiions, and 
best suited to such as are hot and choleric. 

The white kind of tiih, which contain neither 
fat nor oil, such as whitings, turbot, soles, skate, 
haddock, flounders, doree, smelts, graylings, and 
others ot the same nature, are preferable (as 
easier of dijiesiion.) to sahnon, trout, macxarel, 
eels, lampreys, herrings, sprats, &c. 

Shell-fish, such as oysters, muscles and cock- 
les, are very far from being easy of digestion, 
although ic is the idea, that they are particularly 
proper for invalids; -an error that cannot fail to 
prove very injurious to them. 

Lobsters, crabs, cray-hsh, prawns, aad shrimps, 
C 



38 

very often occasion surfeits, whl-ch end in St. 
Anthony's fire Persons havesometimes suffered 
these effects from eating the gmaliest portion of 
the last named shellfish. 

The following rules relative to fish may be 
found useful. 

1. Those which are well grown, nourish better 
than the young. 

2. Sea-fish are wholespraer than fresh water 
fish. They are hotter and not so moist, and more 
approaching to flesh meat. 

3. Of all sea and river fish, those are the best 
which live in rocky places; next to those, in 
gravelly or sandy places, in sweet clear running 
water, where there is nothing offensive. Tho>e 
which live in pools, muddy lakes, marshes, or in 
any still muddy water, are bad. 

4. Of all fish, whfctlier sea or river, those are 
best which are not too large, and have not hard 
dry flesh, but are crisp and tender, taste and 
smell well, and have many scales and fins. 

5. All fresh fish should be eaten hot, and less 
eaten of fish, than of flesh meat. 

6. It should not be eaten very often, and never 
after great labour and exercise ; for then fish ea- 
fily corrupts ; neither should it be eaten after 
other solid food. 

7. Fish and milk are not proper to be eatdn at 
the same meal ; nor should eggs be used with fish, 
unless salt fish. 

8. Salt fish should not be used without soaking 
it well in water, and changing the water two or 
three times, according as the fish is more or less 
salt. Then not eaten very often, unless to 
weak stomachs. But if eaten without these pre- 



39 

cautions it produces gros^humours and bad juices, 
in the body ; occasions thirst, hoarseness, sharp- 
ness in the blood, and many other bud symptoms, 
and is therefore improper food for all constitu- 
tions except very strong labouring people. Even 
in them it will be attended uith exceeding bad 
effects if they feed upon it constantly, as may 
be seen in sea- faring people. All kinds of salt- 
ed and dried fish also are included in what is 
here said 

Observations on the Dressir/g of Animal Flesh, 
The most judicious choice of animal foods will 
be of little avail if the manner of preparing theoa 
is not equally judicious. The greatest error in 
the cookmg them is to over-do them: their qual- 
ities are then entirely changed, thty cease to be 
nourishment, as it is impossible to digest them 
into chyle. The y are literally therefore only put 
into the stomach to be pressed out of it by an 
unnatural exertion, which at last throws this 
oppressive load into the rest of the system, from 
whence it will not pass off, without leaving some 
injury behind it. And this, perpetually repeated, 
ends at last in acute or chronic diseasei, no less 
certainly than constant friction upon a stone, 
will at length wear it away, though it will be a 
long time before any impression upon it is per- 
ceived. Not that our aorguis resemble stone; 
there is an elasticity in them that will rebound 
after a shock many times, but if these occur in 
continued succession, they will give way at last, 
and feebly if ever return to their wonted office. 
Similar effects arise from drinking, but generally 
with a more rapid progress, from the extensioa 
and collapse of the vessels being more sudden 



40 

and violent. The power of the stomach to throw 
indigestible substances out of it, falls under the 
most common observation in the evacuation of 
cherry and plum stones, &c. 

Plain cookery in the exact medium between 
under and over-doing, is the point to be attained 
to render our food salutary. 

The mixture of a great variety of ingredients 
should be avoided, for even if good in themselves 
when separate, they are often rendered indiges- 
tible by being compounded one with another. 
As we must eat every day, there is opportunity 
enough for all things in turn, if we will only hava 
the patience to wait for it. 

Much seasoning, with spices, contributes to 
make animal food indigestible. Spices become 
so themselves by much cookery. - It is s^fer 
always to use them either just before serving up 
the dish, or adding them at the time of eating it. 

Beef and pork long salted, and ham, bacon, 
tongues, Bologna sausages, hung-beef, &.c , are 
very indigestible, and particularly improper for 
weak stomachs, though they will often crave them. 

Boiled flesh is preferable, pirticalarly for weak 
stomachs, to roasted. Boiling extracts more of 
the rank strong juices from it, and ren lers it 
more diluted, lighter, easier of digestion, thoagU 
not so nutritive. 

Roasting leaves it fuller of the strong nutri- 
tive juices, harder to digest, and requiring more 
dilution with some small liquors, to soften the 
greater rigidity and crispness of the fibres. 

The Rash ofyoung animals is best eaten roisted. 

Fried anJ broiled meats are diiiicuk to be di- 
gested, though tliey are very nourisiiing. Weak 
stomachs had better Avoid the^u.^ 



41 

Hasliing is a very bad mode («:f cooTiery. It is 
doing over again what has been already done 
enough, and makes the meat vapid and hard. 
What would have been good nourishment in the 
cold meat is thus totally lost, as the juices which 
are all drawn into the gravy, are spoiled by this 
second cookery exposing them too long to the 
fire. 



OBSERVATIONS ON BROTHS, SOUPS 
AND GRAVIES. 

The taking of animal food in broths is not ad- 
visable, unless in a very weak state of the sto- 
mach, under circumstances that require some 
animal nutriment. When the stomach is very 
feeble, it becomes necessary to take only such 
food as is In a state of solution. But it is quite 
the contrary with a person in health, who is best 
nourished by food dissolved in the stomach. 
Hence arises the importance of not taking any 
thing which has undergone, beyond a certain 
degree, the changes produced by the powerful 
and continued action of fire. 

All broths made of meat should be clear and 
not glutinous, considered only as a rnixture of 
meat and water, which renders them easier of di- 
gestion and proper to create good blood The 
addition of the grains above mentioned are not 
objectionable, like the animal gluten so largely 
contained in the shanks, feet and other bones 
often used in broths, &c. 

The dressing anim,yl and vegetable substances 
together is not desirable, on acdount of the dif- 
ferent manner of cookery they require. When 
vegetables therefore are added to preparations of 



42 

animal food, it is best to dress them separately* 
and add them a little before, or at the time of 
serving the dish. Onions may be excepted frona 
this rule, and dressed with the meat. 

The meat used for broth should be fresh killed, 
and otherwise good. The pieces selected for it 
should be such as contain good juices, and are 
not fat. Mutto.i, beef and fowls are preferable to 
veal, and no two kinds of meat should, be used 
together. 

In making broth, the kettle should be of such 
size as to hold water enough for the meat to 
swim freely. It should oe put into the water 
when it is cold or just luke-warm. 

When it boils, take off the lid of the kettle 
that the steam and fumes may pass away, and the 
air have a free influence upon it. 

By the access of the air, and having sufficient 
water, the meat is cleansed from thegross impuri- 
ties which the best meat is not exempt from. 

A clear brisk fire must be kept up, that there 
may be no interruption in the boiling, whicli 
would deaden the whole preparation, maUe it 
heavy upon the stomach, and gross nourishment. 
Nor shoulfl it boil too long; for animal food over 
done in whatever way it is drest, is heavy and un- 
grateful to tl)e stomach, and would be ungrateful 
also to the palate, if it were not perverted by our 
bad habits. 

To soups and gravies, which ditfer very little 
but in name, there are many more objections than 
to broths. The ingredients they are made of are 
sometimes of a very bad quality in themselves, 
or made bad by the manner of using them, and 
^re mixed together in the strangebt manner. — . 



43 

Meats of different kinds, fresh with salted meat * 
fish with meat ; fish of two or thref* different 
kinds, with sinews, gristles, and bones of all des- 
criptions, are jambled together in endless vari- 
eties. Though animal gluten, extracted from tha 
tiiree latter ingredients, is t-ometimes used medi- 
cinally, It is equally improper fjr common food 
as any other medicme. The little that is ex- 
tracted from the bones of joints of meat in 
proper cookery, is too trifling to be included in 
what is here said. It is the long stewing or di- 
gesting down thes-e things, as is frequently prac- 
tised for broths, soups, and gravies, that is mis- 
chievous. Every thing should be kept to its 
prop.T use. 

Then to colour soups and gravies, sugar, but* 
ter, and tiour, are compounded and burnt in var- 
ious ways, all admirably calculated to spoil them 
completely. 

The last, and not the least ingenious contrivance 
to mar the kindly productions of nature in this 
process, is to draw gravies by broiling or frying, 
stewing, drying, or boiling. Every particle of 
pure juice and genuine flavour must be thus des- 
troyed, and if it were not for the new davour 
given by spices, catsup, &c. it would scarcely be 
possible that such a composition should be eaten. 

Gravy, from good gravy meat, drawn simply by 
gentle stewing, not continued too long, and with 
no other mixture than a little flour and butter to 
thicken it, and a moderate seasoning, niay be used 
on occasions by perj?ons of strong stomachs, and 
accustomed to 'good exercise. If the natural 
taste is not entirely lost, a gravy like thii wiU 



44 

Stand a comparison with the others, and soon ob- 
tain a preference. 

A proper Broth, 

Take lean juicy mutton or beef» or well grown 
juicy fowl, and put it into water, either cold or 
just w&rra, sufficient to swim it fretly ; this will 
be about three pmts of water to a pound of meat. 
Let it boil gradually, but when once it boils it 
must be kept boiling brii^kly, or it will become 
flat bj subsiding again to a less powerful process. 
Take off the pot-lid when the pot boils, to evapo- 
rate the steam and fun)es of the meot. Add some 
salt at first, and whole rice, or Scotch or pearl 
barley, if agreeable. If ground rice or oatmeal 
be used, they must not be put in quite so soon, 
and should be first mixed with a little of the broth. 
Vegetables prepared separately, may be added 
on serving, or a little soo .er. It muj-t boil m pro- 
portion to the quantity; about an hour and a half 
after it begins to boil will be sufficient for two or 
three quarts of broth. 

Mutton Broth. 

Cut a nice piece of the best end of a neck of 
mutton, part of the remainder into steaks, and 
put the whole into a kettle, with three quarts of 
water, some turnips, carrots, celerj', onions, leeks, 
al! cut small, and a little bunch of herbs. As 
soon as it boils skim it clean, and when the whole 
piece of mutton is almost done enough, take it 
out. Stew the remainder till the juices are drawn 
from the meat, then strain off the liquor and 
skim it. To this add a littb turnip and carrot 
cut into dice, some leeks, celery and parsley cut 
small, and some leaves of the marigold flower, the 
jiiede of mutton, a little ground rice, and a season- 



45 

TTig of salt. Stmmer the whole together till done 
enough, then serve it up with toasted bread to 
eat with it. 

Chicken Broth. 

Cut two or three good sized chickens into 
pieces, and truss a whole one as for boiling. Put 
these into a kettle with v/ater in proportion, to 
make a mild broth, and let them boil genily till 
the wkole chicken is done enough, then take it 
out and stew the rest till they are quite stewed 
down. Strain off the broth through a coarse 
stive, and put into a clean stewpan^ with some 
chives and parsley chopped, some young carrots 
cut small, a quart of young peas, or two cabbage 
lettuces nicely shred. Set it upon the lire till 
the vegetables are tender, then put in the whole 
chicken, and as soon as it is thoroughly heated, 
add a reasoning of Cayenne pepper and salt, and 
serve it up. ^ 

Clservaiio?is, 

The skirt or oock-white of beef makes excel- 
lent gravy, preferable even to beef. The other 
gravies aie not recommended. 

To draw Gravy, 

To two pounds of gravy beet well notched with 
a sharp knife, allow two good-sized onions, and 
the same of whole carrots. Put them into a stew- 
pan, without any water, and stew them over a 
gentle fire till the gravy is entirely drawn from 
the meat. Add a quart of boiling water, and set 
it on again to stew for three hours. Strain off 
the gravy, and keep it for use. The fat must not 
be taken off till the gravy is wanted. 

Gra-cy for Poultry, 
^ Take a pound of yravy beef and score it across 
^ C 2 



46 ^ 

in various places. Flour it a good deal, and put 
it into a stew-pan, with a tolerable sized piece of 
butter, ready melted. Fry the beef, turning it 
on every side, that it may bs browned all over. 
Then put in three pints of boiling water, a little 
whole pepper, two or three cloves, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a pretty good piece of crust of 
bread. Cover this close, and let it boil till re- 
duced to a pint. Strain it oiF, and put in some 
jsalt. Thicken it, if required, with a little flour 
and butter. 

Essenee of Ham. 

Cut the lean of a ham into slices, beat them 
well, and lay them inaetew-pan with carrots, par- 
snips, and onions sliced. Cover the pan, anJ set 
it over a slow Sre till the ham begins to stick to 
tlie pan. Dredge a little flour over it, turn it, and 
moiiten it with some veal gravy. Add a leek or 
two, a little parsley, some mushrooms and truf- 
fles, and three or four cloves, v/itli some bread 
crumbs. Stew these very gently for three quar- 
ters of an hour. If a little more moisture should 
seem wanting, put in a little broth while it is stew- 
ing. Strain off the liquor and keep it for use. 
Fish Gravy. 

Put as much skate, or as many small eels or 
flounders cut into pieces as there will be gravy 
wanted, into a saucepan with water enough to 
cover them. Add some sweet herbs, a little 
whole pepper and mace, a piece of lemon peel, 
and a very little horse-rauish. Stew these till 
the fish is drawn down, putting in when abont 
half done- a crust of brea.l toasted brown. Strain 
it off, thicken it with a piece of butter and flour, 
and flavour it well with essence of anchovy ; or. 



^ 47 

if preferred, stew two anchovies with it. 
A mock Turtle Soup, 
Scald the hair off a calf's head, but do not 
s.kim it. Boil it for half an hour, and before it 
is cold cut it into small square pieces; put these 
into a stew-pan with some strong broth, made of 
six pounds of gravy beef, a knuckle of veal, turn- 
ips, carrots, onions, and celery. After st'iwjng 
some time, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a few 
leaves of sage, a thin slice or two of lean ham, or 
four anchovies. Boil the whole together til the 
head becomes tender, then strain it through a fine 
seive. Season the soup with salt, white pepper, 
Ctyenne pepper, Madeira wine, and lemon juice, 
and thicken it with flour and butter. Put in a 
part of the head wiped clean, and some force- 
meat and egg-balls. Give it a good buil for a 
few minutes, and serve it up. 

Chicken Sotip. 
Prepare four well-i^rown chickens, truss one as 
for boiling, and keep it back till wanted. Cut the 
other three into pieces, and put them into a sauce- 
pan with water enough m proportion to the 
size of the chickens, to make a good soup. Stew 
these completely down, then strain off the broth 
through a hair seive, and put it into the sauce- 
pan with some young carrots cut small, some par- 
sley, chives, and onions chopped, a pint and a 
half of young peas, ana the trussed chicken. — 
Boil these till the chicken is sufficiently done, 
then serve up the soup with that in it, adding 
seasoning to the taste. 

A Scotch Leek Soup. 
Prepare a sheep's head, either by cleaning the 
sltin very nicely, qx taking it o^ as preferred.-^ 



4S 

Split the head in two, take out the brains, and 
put them into a kettle with a good pro}3ortion of 
water, a large quantity of leeks cat small, and 
some pepper and salt. Stew these very slowly 
for three hour?. Mix as much oatmeal as will 
make the soup pretty thick, very smooth with 
cold water, pour it into the soup, and Continue 
stewing it till the whole is smooth and well done, 
then serve it up. 

A Potnio Sorip. 

Cut a pound and a half of gravy beef into thin 
slices, chop a pound of potatoes and an onion or 
two, and put them into a kettle with three quarts 
of water, half a pint of blue peas, and two ounces 
of rice. Stew these till the gravy is quite drawn 
from the meat, strain it off, take oat the beef, and 
pulp the oiher ingredients through a coarse seive. 
i\dd the puip to the soup, cut in two or three 
roots of celery, simmer it in a clean saucepan till 
this is tender, season it with pepper and salt, and 
serve it up vrith fried bread cut into it. 
A Familij So in). 

Wash the roots of a tongue in cold salt and 
v/aier, and pat them into a saucepm, with a scrag 
of nautlon, or other odJ pieces of meat, sometur- 
ijips, carrots, onions, parsnips, and a root of cel- 
ery. Add water in proportion to the meat, and 
let it stew very slowly for some hours till the 
gravy is drawn foni the meat. Strain oiY the 
soup, and let it v<tand till cold, The kernels and 
soft parts of the tongue and c rrots must be saved. 
\Vhen ti-ie soup is to be used, dear < ff the fat, 
put in che kernels and s >ft pans of the tongue, 
v'licc in the cirrotr'!, and add some fresh turnips 
and onions cut small, a. few spoonful;^ of rice 



49 

half boiled, or some oatmeal, and pepper and salt 
to the tast€. Stew these till the fresh veijetables 
are tender, and then serve it up with toasted 
bread to eat with it. 



OBSERVATIONS ON ROASTING. 

The first requisite for roasting is to have a 
stronj; steady fire, or a clear brisk fire, according 
as Ae joint of meat, or whatever tlse it mav be 
which IS to be laid down to it, shall require. A 
cook who does not attend to this., might as well 
afUmpt to govern the state as to roa{^t animal 
substances. She is quite incompetent to her busi- 
ness it J.he does not manage the fire judiciously. 

All roasting should be done open to the air, 
to ventilate the meat from its owro fumes ; other- 
wise it is in fact baked. 

The meat must be put down at such a distance 
from the fire as to heat it through gradu-ally, or 
it will be dry or burnt on the outside, long before 
the inside is properly done. It should be brought 
nearer by degrees, as necessary. 

It is better not to sprinkle meat with salt till 
almost done, as it contributes to draw out the 
gravy. Basting with a little salt and water when 
the meat is first laid down, is sometimes practise*!, 
but is liable to the same objections as the former. 

When the meat is quite done, it is best to take 
it up, as every moment beyond doing it enough 
does it an injury. If it cannot be sent to table 
immediately, a tin cover may be warmed and put 
over it, leaving a sniall vent for the fumes of the 
meat to go oft". This, though not desirable, is a 
less evil than keeping it at the fire. Setting it 
pver a chafing dish of coals, or any expedient 



50 

that dries it is very bad. Heat is not the only de- 
sirable quality in food ; and a dinner may by in- 
genious devices be kept hot, till every other re- 
commendation tliat it should have is annihilated 
for the sake of that one. 

With respect to the time required for roasting, 
the old rule of a quarter of an hour to a pound, 
is a pretty fair one for some joints, tliough it will 
not do for all. In cold weather rather more time 
must be alio ved than when it is mild or hot — 
Nothing but practice can perfect a cook in these 
discretionary kinds of cookery, but learners may 
be assisted by directions that will give general 
ideas upon the subject, and must find out by ex- 
perience when to follow or when to deviate from 
them. The time specified will be for temperate 
weather. A little longer or shorter time must be 
allowetl, as the wei^^ht of the meat may vary 
from that which is here given. 

Roasting Mutton. 

A leg of eight pounds will require two hours 
and ten minute?-. 

A shoulder of seven pounds, an hour and three 
quarters. 

A chine of ten or eleven pounds, two hours anii 
a half. 

A loin, rather more than an hour and a half, 

A neck, an hour and a half. 

A breast, an hour. 

The weight of the three last joints is not spe- 
cified ; for as they seldor vary materially in thick- 
ness, the difference of weight scarcel}' n)akes any 
dificrence in the time they require in roasting. 
Roasting Beef, 

A sirloin, of from twenty-five to thirty pounds 
^\\\ require four hour: 



:s. 



51 

A part of it, from twelve to fifteen peunds, twe 
hours and three quarters, or three hours. 

A piece of ribs of the same weight, much the 
same time. A sheet of paper should be tied over 
the, thin part, or it will burn before the thick 
part is done enough. 

A rump, four hours. 

Roasting Veal. 

A fillet of veal, of from twelve to fourteen 
pounds, will require three hours and twenty min- 
utes. This is usually stuffed, either in the place 
of the bone, when ;hat is taken out, or under the 
flap. 

A loin, two hours and a half. 

A shoulder, two hours and twenty minutes. 

A neck, near two hours. 

A breast, an hour and a half 

These directions suppose joints of a common 
size. If they are very thick, an allowance must 
be made for it. Veal is Stfldom very small, but 
when it does happen to be so, rather less time 
must be allowed. 

Roasting Lamb of a moderate size, 

A quarter will require two hours. 

A Jesr, an hour and forty minutes. 

A shoulder, an hour and twenty minutes. 

Ribs, or ji^^get, an hour and a half. 

A loin, an hour and twenty minutes, 

A neck, an hour and ten minutes. 

A brca&t. three qu.'arters of an hour. 
Roasting Pork. 

A leg of seven pounds wiil require twojiours 
all but a few minutes. The skin should be scored 
across in narrow stripes, either before it is laid 
^own, or abput half an hour after it is down. A 



52 

stuliing of sage and onion, chopped, may be put 
in at the knuckle A lejr of pork is sometimes 
half boiled, then the skin taken off, and the joint 
roasted, strewing it as it is done with sage chop- 
ped very small, mixed with bread crums, pepper 
and salt. 

A loin of five pounds, an hour and twenty 
minutes. This should be scored as above. 

A spare-rib of eight or nine pounds, an hour 
and three quarters. 

A griskin of six or seven pounds, an hour and 
a quarter. 

A chine, if parted dovrn the back-bone so as to 
have but one side, two hours ; if not parted, full 
four hours. 

To Roast a Pl<r. 

Stuff the belly of the pig with a stuffing made 
of bread crunibs, some sage leaves, and two shal- 
ots chopped small, a little pepper and salt, and a 
pieci of butter mixed together with two eggs, 
and then sew it up. When it is spitted, rub it 
over with a soft brush dipped in sweet oil, and 
roast it gently. It will take about an hour and a 
half. V\ hen it is done, cut oif the head, and p"nrt 
that and the body in two down the Uiiddle. Put 
the brains and the stuffi <g into a saucepan with 
some good gravy, i^ive thom a boil, and serve up 
the pig with the sauce under it. Lay the two 
parts of the head one on each side of the dish, 
and the ears one at each end of it. Some cur- 
rants, very clean wa.'hed, rubbed, and dried, 
fihould be strved with it in a turet n. 

To roast a Haunch of Vernson> 

Wipe the venison well m e\cvy part, and take 
off the skin from the upper side, rub a pic«e of 



53 

butter over the fat, and dredge It with a little 
flour. Butter a large s^heet of writing paper well, 
lay it over the fat, put on two or three more 
sheets of pr-per, and tie them well on with thin 
twine. Lay it down to the fire at a considerable 
distance, bring it very gradually nearer, as re- 
quired. A ia ge haunch should be allowed four 
hout)., not to hurry it in the doing. Keep it well 
basted : about ten minutes before it is to be ta- 
ken up, cut the i-tring and drop off the paper, 
sprinkle it with salt and froth it well with butter 
and flour Serve it with gravy in one tureen, 
and currant jelly malted with some port wine in 
another ; or with currant jelly alone not melted, 
which is far the best. 

Shoulder and neck of venison may be dressed 
and served in the same manner. A shoulder will 
take about two hours and a half roasting, and a 
neck not quite two hours. 



ROASTING POULTRY, GAME, &c. 

Observations, 

-^0 directions scarcely, however minute, nor 
even plates, can enable a person to truss poultry 
or eame, who has never seen any thing of the 
ki.ld done. Nor is it to be suppo^ed that any 
body will attempt for the first time what must be 
seen to be well under!^tood, bat under some prac- 
tical instruction. It would therefore be a useless 
labour to endeavour to give instructions for it, 
that must necess:^rily he tedious, as this very cir- 
tum^tance woulo occasion their nol being atten- 
ded to. A single gUnce only at a poulterer's 
shop will teach a person of any readiness much 



54 

more of trussing than the most laboured des- 
cription. 

Tg roast a Turhey. 

Fill the crop with a piece of crum of white 
bread, or stufBoir, or sausage meat, or force meat. 
If large, it will take full an hour and a half to 
roast it ; if small, an hour; and middle sizes in 
proportion. Serve it up with a little gravy in the 
dish, some more in one tureen, and bread sauce 
in another. 

Observations. 

For basting turkey, and birds in general, nice 
drippings answer quite as well as butter ; for it 
gives no unpleasant flavour whatever, if prepared 
as it ought to be. All birds should be floured, 
to froth them well, some minutes before they are 
taken up. 

To roast Foxds. 

A small chicken will not require above twenty 
minutes; a well grown fowl, half an hour; and a 
large one three quarters of an hour. Serve these 
like turkey, with gravy and bread sauce; unless 
small chickens are served with asparagus, and 
then bread sauce will not be wanted, 
» To roast a Goose. 

Stuff it with soft sage and onions. A young 
full-grown goose will require an hour, or very 
little more, to roast it. If n )t young, rather lon- 
ger time must be allowed. Serve it up with gravy 
and apple siuce. A green goose will not require 
above three quarters of an hour roasting. This 
is not always staffed Serve this with gravy and 
gooseberry sauce, or with green peas. 
To roast Ducks. 

3tuflPthem with sage and onion as above. They 



55 

will require from half to three quarters of an hour, 
according to the size. Serve them up with gravy. 
Ducklings will not require longer roasting than 
from twenty-five minutes to half an hour. 
J'n roast Pigeons, 

They require from a quarter of an hour to 
twenty minutes, according to the size of them — 
The insides are sometimes stuffed with chopped 
parsky. Serve them up with parsley and butter. 

Another way of roasting pigeons is to stuff 
the inside with stuffed parsley, pepper, salt, and 
a piece of butter mixed together. The neck ends 
must be tied very close, and they must be hung 
before the fire to roast, by a string tied round the 
legs and rump. They should be kept constantly 
turning very quick. When done, serve them up 
in their own gravy, of which there will be plenty. 
To roast Partridges. 
Partridges should roast from eighteen to twenty- 
five minutes, as they may be small or large. Serve 
them up with gravy and fried bread crumbs, or 
bread sauce. Melted butter is often served with 
fried bread crumbs instead of gravy. 
To roast Pheasants. 

A fine cock-pheasant will require roasting a- 
bout half an hour, or thirty-five miautes, or if old, 
aJittle longer. A hen from twenty five minutes 
to half an hour. Serve them with gravy and 
bread sauce, or fried bread crumbs. 
To roast Grouse. 

Roast grouse about twenty-five minutes, and 
serve them up with fried crumbs, or bread sauce, 
and gravy. 

To roast Woodcoclcs. 

Woodcocks must be put on a small bird spit, 



56 

and require from twenty to twenty-five minutes 
roastinir. A piece of toasted bread must be laid 
under them lo drip upon. When done, take out 
the trt^il, spreail it on the toast, and serve the 
birds U4)on it, with melted butter in a tureen, and 
gravy in anolh-er," but none in the dish, as some 
persons ony.'ct to ?ravy, as overpowering the fine 
flavour of the birds. 

To roatt Snipis. 

Dress them exactly like woodcoc cs, only short- 
ening the time of roasting. Serve them up in the 
same manner. 

To roast Larks. 

Put them un a \on^ skewer, and then tie the 
skewer to a spit. Strew them with crumbs of 
bread mixed with a little flour, while roasting — 
Eight or ten minutes will do them enough. Sirve 
them up with fried bread crumbs in the dish, and 
melted batter or ffravy, in a tur ?en. 

To roast Wild-ducks, Widgeons, Teal, Sfc. 

A wild duck or widgeon will recjitire twenty, 
or twentv five minutes roasting, according; to the 
size A teal, from fifteen to twenty minutes; and 
othtT birds of this kind, in proportion to their 
size, a longer or a shorte^r time. Serve them up 
with gravy and lemons cut in quarters, to use at 
pleasure. 

To roast a Turkey, Capon, or Fovo\ 
When the turkey, capon, or fowl has been long 
enough at the fire to be thoroughly hot. so as to 
requ re b:^sting, basie it once all over very well 
with fresh butter, then in a minute after, dredge 
it thinly all over with fiour. The heat of the fire 
will convert thiu into a thin crust, which will keep 
m the juice of the meat; therefore it is not to be 



57 

basted any more, nor any thing done to it till it 
is almost roasted sufficiently. Then baste it well 
with butter as before, on which the. crast will give 
way and fall off. As the nie it .begins to brown, 
sprinkle it with a little large salt, and let it do till 
the outside is of a nice broivn. 

It was sometimes the custom to baste such 
meats with the yolks of fresh laid e||gs, beaten 
thin, which vJi'as to hi continued ail the time ©f 
roasting. 

J'q roasting a Turkeij or Fowl iiith Chesnuts. 

Roast and peel two dozen of fine chesnuts, 
bruise si){teen of them in a nT^.rble mortar, with 
the liver of the turkey or fowl, and two ancho- 
▼ies. Add to these gome sweet herbs, and pars- 
ley chopped very fine, and u secvoning of mace, 
pepper, and salt. Mix these well together and 
put thein into the body of the bird, tying it very 
close at the neck and vent after it is spitted. 
When it is done enough serve it up with the re- 
mainder of the chesnuts cut in pieces and heated 
with some good gravy, thickened with 4oiirand 
butter poured into the dish. 

To roast a Hare. 

After the hare is skinned, Itt it be wiped clean 
from the hairs and loose skin that may ha;ig 
about it. Rinse the belly with a little water, and 
wipe it dry with a clean cloth. Make a stuffing 
with a quarter of a pound of grated bread, a 
quarter of a pound of beef-suet chopped very 
tine, some parsley and thyme shred very small, 
and some pepper and salt ; add the livers minced, 
if perfectly good; niix the whole up with an egg, 
put it into the belly of the hare, and se-.v it toge- 
ther. It will require an hour and a half to roast 



58 

it, if of a good size. Baste it with milk till about 
ten minutes before it is to be taken up, then 
sprinkle it with salt, dredge it with flour, and 
basic it with butter or nice dripping, to froth it 
well. Serve it with gravy and currant jeil}^ ia dif- 
ferent tureens, and a little gravy in the dish. A 
quart of milk put into the dripping pan at first, 
will last out the proper time. The head should 
be dredged occasionally with flour all the tioae 
it is roasting. 

To roast Rabbits. 

Either roast them with stuffing as above, like a 
hare, and serve them with gravy, or roast them 
without stuffing, and s^rve them with parsley and 
butter, with the livers boiled, chopped, and put 
into it. Half an hour will roast good sized rab- 
bits, twenty minutes, small ones. Baste them 
with nice dripping or butter. 

2b roast a Breast of Veal. 

Chop some parsley and thyme very small. — 
Beat the yolks of five or six eggs with some cream, 
and add to them the chopped herbs, some grated 
bread, a 'iQw cloves, a little mace and nutnaeg, 
gome currants and sugar. Mix these all well to- 
gether, raise the skin of the breast of veal, put 
the stuffing under it, and skewer down the skin 
very close. Lay it down to the fire and baste it 
with butter. When roasted, squeeze on the 
juice of a lemon, and serve it up. 

Fo roast a Loin of Veal, as in the same. 

Lay the veal down to the fire, and baste it with 
fresh butter. Set a dish under it with a piece of 
fresh butter in it, two or three sage It^aves, and 
two or three tops of rosemary and thyme. Let 
the gravy drop on tiiese> and when the veal is 



69 

finely roasted, warm the herbs and gravy over 
the <ire, and serve them up in the dish with^the 
veal. 

To roast a sucking Pig;. ^ 

Put some sage into the belly of the pig, sew it 
up, roast it, baste it with butter, and sprinkle it 
with a little salt. When roasted fine and crisp, 
serve it upon a sauce made with chopped sage 
and currants, well boiled in vinegar and water, 
the gravy and brains of the pig, a little grated 
bread, some barberries and sugar, all well mixed 
together, and heated over the fire 

To roast Ribs of Beef stuffed. 

Make a stuffing^ as for fillet of veal, bone the 
beef, put the stuffing into the middle of it, roll it 
up and bind it very tight. Let it roast gently a- 
beut two hours and a half, or if very thick, three 
hours will do it sufficiently. Serve it up with a 
brown sauce, of either celery or oysters. 

To roast Sweetbreads. ^ 

Scald the sweetbreads in water, with a little 
milk in it, till they are half done, take them out 
very clean, and wipe them dry. Rub them over 
with yolk of egg, and roll them in bread crumbs 
grated very fine. Roast them carefully in a 
Dutch oven, of a fine brown colour, without set- 
ting them near enougli the fire to burn. Serve 
them up with fried bread crumbs round them, antl 
melted butter in a tureen or upon a toast, with 
gravy or melted butter in the dish. 

To roast Tongue and Udder. 

Clean the tongue nicely, rub it with some com- 
mon salt, a very little saltpetre, and a little coarse 
sugar, and let it lie for two or three days. VVhen 
to be drest, have a fr. sh tender udder with sonje 



60 

fat to it, and boil that and the tongue gently to- 
getlier till half done. Take them very cl-'an o it 
of the water, then tie the thick end of one to the 
thia end of the other, and roast them with a \ew 
cloves stuck into the udder. Syrve them up with 
gravy in the dish, and currant jelly in a tureen. 
To rodsf Calf's Liver, 

Wash the liver well, and lay it in a clean cloth 
to dry. Cut a long slit in it, ind put into it a 
stuffing of bread crumbs; shred beef su-et and an- 
chovies chopped, with some s^veet herbs and an 
onion, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, all mix- 
ed up with an egg. Sew uptiie liver, wrap it 
round with a veal caul, and roast it gently. Serve 
it up with a brown gravy in the dish, and currant 
jelly in a tureen. 

To roast the head of a young Hog. 

Clean the head very nicely, op-n it underneath 
so as the two parts may lie flat in the dish, with- 
out cutting through the skin on the upper side. 
Take out the brains, fill up the cavities with bread 
crumbs, chopped sage, and a bttle pepp.^r and 
salt, sew up the head, and roast it on a hanging 
jack, or a string, but in other respects like a pig. 
When within a few minutes of being done, cut 
the stitches, and open the head enough to letthj 
stuffing fall out upon the plate; put this intoi 
saucepan with gravy, and the brains properly 
cleaned ; heat them over the fire till the brains 
are done enough, and then serve up the head laid 
open in the dish, with this sauce, and some cur- 
rants nicely washed and dri-ed, in a tureen. 
To roast a Bullock's heart. 

Stuff the heart with the same kind of stuffing 
used for a hare, and roast it with a paper over the 



61 

top of it, to preserve what little fat there is to it. 
A moderate sized heart will require roasting a- 
bout two hours. Serve it up with gravy and cur- 
rant jelly. 

To roast a Calf's heart. 

Stuff it and paper it as above. About an hour 
will roast a common sized heart. Serve it up 
with gravy, or parsley and butter. 
To roast a small Hen Turkey ^ Or a pullet tvith 
Batter. 

Bone the bird, and fill it with force-meat, or 
stuffing : paper it round and lay it down to roast. 
When towards half done, drop off the paper, and 
baste the bird with a very smooth light batter.-— 
When the first basting is dry, baste it again, and 
repeat this till the bird is nicely crusted over and 
sufficiently done. It will require ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour longer than a bird of the 
same size plainly roasted, on account of being 
filled with fcrce meat. Serve it up with white 
gravy, or mushrpom sauce. 

To roast a collared Neck of pork. 

Let the meat be boned, then strew the inside 
well with bread crumbs, chopped sage, a very lit- 
tle beaten allspice, some pepper and salt, all wiix- 
ed up together. Roil it up very close, bind Jt 
tight, and roast it gently. An hour and a half, 
or a little more, accordmg to the thickness, will 
roast it enough. 

A loin of pork with the fat and kidney taken 
out, and boned, and a spring or chine boned, are 
very nice, dressed in the same way. 

A collared Loin of Mutton roasted. 

Take oft' the fat from the upper side, and the 
meiU from the under side of a loin of muttofi : 
D 



62 

bone it, season it with pepper and salt, and some 
shiilot or sweet herbs chopped very small. Let 
it be rolled up very tight, well tied round, and 
roasted gently. About an hour and a half will 
do it. While this is roasting, half boil the meat 
taken from the under side, then mince it small, 
put it into half a pint of gravy, and against the 
mutton is ready, heat this and pour it into the 
dish when it is served up. 

Collar of Beef Roasted. 
Take out the inside meat from a sirloin of 
beef, sprinkle it with vinegar, and let it hang till 
the next day. Prepare a stuffing as for a hare, put 
this at one end of the meat, roll the rest round 
it, bind it very close, and roast it gently for an 
hour and three quarters or a little more or less, 
proportionate to the thickness. Serve it up 
with gravy the same as for. hare, and with cur- 
rant jelly. 

To Roast a Sirloinof Beef with the Inside Minced, 
When the beef is about three pirts roasted, 
take out the meat from the under side, mince 
it nicely, season it with pepper arid salt, and 
some shalot chopped very small. Against the 
beef is done enough, heat this with gravy just 
sufficient to moisten it. Dish up the beef with 
the upper side downwards, put the mince in the 
inside, strew it with bread crumbs ready prepared, 
have a salamander hot to brown them over,' of a 
fine colour, and then serve up the dish with 
scraped horse-radish laid round it. 

OBSERVATIONS ON BOILING. 
To boil well is not merely to put the meat in- 
to a kettle or boiler, and let it stand over the 



6S 

fire for a certain time, a« seems often to be sup- 
posed, but requires a degree of nicety and atten- 
tion, without which the meat will be spoiled. 

The kettle or boiler must always be of such a 
Eize in proportion to whatever is to be boiled, as 
to allow room for plenty of water, which dilutes 
the gross particles of the meat, and thus keeps 
the medium it is dressed in more pure, and makes 
the meat eat sweeter and wholesomer, than when 
boiled in « small quantity of water, which loaves 
it luscious and difficult to digest. 

Salted meats should be put in when the water 
is cold, fresh meat when it is lukewarm. Put- 
ting it into hot or boiling water fixes, instead of 
dissolving the juices, and consequently hardens 
the meat. 

It should boil gradually, and as soon as it boils 
the lid of the kettle should be kept off to venti- 
late the fumes of the meat, which for want of 
this vent would fall back upon the meat, and 
from their pernicious nature destroy the natural 
colour, smell and ta?ie; ma^e it close, heavy, 
gross on the palate, hard of digestion, and un- 
wholesome. 

That the fumes or vapours is<!uingf^om boiling 
meat are of a pernicious nature, contrary to the 
genuine nature of the food, may be perceived, 
if any kind of food is taken up when boiled, and 
covered close while it is hot, which forces b;»ck 
the fumes, and causes them to re-enter the food : 
it will hence become pallid, and lose its natural 
flavour, smell and colour. 

The using covers over dishes when they are 
brought to table, it will hence appear, is a pre- 
judicial practice, from producing these eftects 



6i 

upon the preparation they are put over, be it 
what it wi!i. This practice has the further ill 
effect of encouraging the prevailing bad habit 
amongst us of eating ever)' thing as hot as it is 
possible to get it through the mouth ; a habit 
attended with great injury to the stomach, not 
only in the immediate heat prejudicing its deli- 
cate coating, but from the windy disorders aris* 
ing from taking the food in tiiis state. It also 
renders the palate callous, and thus leads to tak- 
ing powerful stimulants to excite it to sensibility, 
which not only injures the stomach, but through 
that the whole system. 

Jt is necessary for cooks and housewives to 
understand that the true virtue of all food con- 
sists .in preserving the juices pure; th«?refore if 
any violence be done to them in the preparation, 
guch food becomes gross, and hard to digest. 

For this reason in boiling, when the water boils, 
it must be kept boiling without hiding suffered to 
slacken, or the meat will be sodden. The time 
of boiling too must be critically attended to, that 
the meat may neither be under nor over done. 
If under done, the grossness of the meat will not 
he boiled out as it ought; if over done, the best 
juice will be extricated, and the remaining sub- 
stance will scarcely answer a better purpose than 
merely to distend the stomach. No benefit is 
derived from exchanging the uneasiness of 
hunger for that of indigestion, as the latter is 
the most difficult evil to remedy. A small quan- 
tity of any light food would relieve us from 
hunger, but only fasting or physic removes im- 
proper food. 

Flesh being in its own nature the grossest of 



65 

^11 food, and most subject to putrefaction, re. 
quires the more care in the dressing to prevent 
its beincr injurious, 

A steady fire must be kept to boil well. 

The scum must be carefully taken oiF the wa- 
ter as fast as it rises. 

All the utensils used in boiling, as in every 
other kind of cookery, should be kept thoroughly 
vcell tinned, and otherwise in good repair: and 
great attention should be paid to having thera 
extremely clean. 

Joints of meat, poultry, iVc, should all be boil- 
ed by themselves, with the exception only of 
boiling carrots or parsnips with mutton, beef or 
pork. The boiling these two vegetables with 
the above meats is not liable in any considerable 
degree to the objection urged in a former obser- 
vation against dressing animal and vegetable 
substances together. The quantity of water 
used, and each substance bemg boiled whole, 
makes but little ir.terniixture between thera, and 
leaves the carrots and parsnips little different 
from what they v.ould havs been boiled by them- 
selves in water. No other vegetables should 
ever be boiled with meat, not oniy because it 
makes them greasy, but it also injures the flavour 
of both. 

Boiled meats should be taken up as soon as 
they are done, as it is even worse for them to 
remain in the water than to be under a cover. 

Meat if frozen, must be thawed before boiling 
as before roasting, by Ijing some time in cold 
water. 

To loil Mutton, 

Leg; allow a q^aarter of an hour for everj 



66 

pound, and from ten to twenty minutes longer, 
according to the size of it. 

Shoulders, neck and loin do not require more 
than a quarter of an hour to a pound. Though 
the diflerence of weight makes no difference 
scarcely in the time required for roasting joints 
of this kind, it does in boiling; as the more the 
boiler is filled up with solid substance, the longer 
the meat will be in getting sufficiently done. 
To boil Beef. 

Round and rump require a quarter of an hour to 
a pound, and from twenty minutes to half an hour 
or forty njinutes longer, in proportion to the 
size of them. 

To boil Veal. 

A neck should be allowed a few minutes more 
than a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

A breast a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

Knuckle: allow twenty minutes orlialf an hour, 
more than a quarter of an hour to a pound, in 
proportion to the size of it, to suften the sinews. 
7^0 bail Lamb. 

A leg will require a i^Qw minutes more than a 
quarter of an hour to a pound. 

A neck, a few minutes less than a quarter of 
an hour to a pound. 

To boil Pork. 

Leg : allow from twenty minutes to half an 
hoar above a quarter of an hour to a pound, in > 
proportion to the size of it. 

Soring : a quarter tf an hour to a pound will 
be sufficient for this. 

Chine : if parted down the back bone, a quart- 
er of an hour to a pouod will do it enough. If 
«ot parted, allow twenty minutes or half an hour 



67 

ftbove a quarter of an hour, to a pound, according 
to the size of it. 

To boil a haunch of Venison. 

A small haunch of venison will require about 
ten minutes more than a quarter of an hour to a 
pound. A large haunch, half an hour or forty 
minutes longer. It should be salted for about a 
week before it is dressed. 

To boil a calf's head. 

Clean thft head very nicely, and let it lie ia 
water for an hour or more befo"e it is dressed. 
When it is put into the kettle, tie the brains up 
in a piece of fine linen, and put them in with it. 
Boil it gently ; about an hour and a half will do 
it sufficiently. Serve up the head with parsley 
and butter in the dish. Stir a little butter, salt, 
and chopped parsley into the brains, and serve 
them up on a separate dish, with the tongue cut 
down the middle, laiil on each side of them. 

A calf's head locks very nice rubbed over with 
yolk of egg when it is taken up, tl^en strewedvvitU 
bread crumbs and chopped parsley, and browned 
with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. 
To boil a Tongue. 

A dried tongue requires soaking far ten or 
twelve hours before it is dressed. A tongue out 
of pickfe should only be washed, but no ditference 
need be made in the dressing of them. A tongue 
will take four hours to do it well, from the time it 
is put into the boiler: for the first two hoUiS it 
should simmer. About an hour before it is done 
it should be taken up and peeled, and then put 
ihto the water agaip to finish it. Serve it up with 
turaips nicely mashed, lai4 round it* 



68 

To hail -pickled pork. 

Wash aiul scrapa pickled poik very clean, put 
it into boiling water, and boil it till the rind is 
quite tender. A middling sized piece will be done 
enough in one hour., 

To boil Bacon, 

Both white and smoked bacon should be well 
washed and scraped, and put into the keltle with 
the water boiling Tiicy should boil till the riad 
18 tender, and will peel oft easily. 
To boil a Ham, 

A drUd Ham should be soaked twelve or four- 
teen hours before it is dressed. A green ham need 
only be v,^ashed. Either must be scMped very 
clean, and dressed in the f^ame manner. From a 
quarter to half an hour more than a quarter of an 
Ijour to a pound must be allowed for boiling a 
ham, in proportion to the size. It should simmer 
for an hour and a half or two hours, before it 
boils. Peel off the rind before it is served up, 
apd brown itbtfor? the fire. 

To buil Marrotv Bones. 

Tie a floured clath oyer the top, set the bone* 
upright in a saucepan of cold w^ter, not filled 
higher than to come within half an inch of the 
tpp of the bones. An hour will do them from the 
time the water boils. Sjrve them up, set upright, 
upon toasted bread. 

TO BOIL POULTRY, &c. 
Obse/vntioiu 
The same attention must be paid to preparing 
poultry, &«€. for boiling as for roasting. 
' To boll a Turkey, 

The crop of a turkey for boiiifig, is usually fi^- 



69 

led with force-meat; but it is very nice, filled 
with a piece of plain crumb of bread only, or a 
stuffing may be put, if preferred to force meat. 
A large turkey with the crop filled, will require 
two hours boiling, or if not filled, an hour and a 
half, and smaller sizes in proportion. A small hen 
turkey will be done sufficieoLly in three quarters 
of an hour, or very little more. Serve up a boil- 
ed turkey with white oyster or celery sauce. 
To boil Fowls and Chickens. 
A large fowl will require three quarters of an 
hour ; a smaller half an hour^ or thirty-five 
minutes. A large chicken, twenty-five minutes, 
and a small one from a quarter of an hour to 
twenty minutes. Boiled fowls are very nice ser- 
ved up with white mushroom, oyster, or celery 
sauce ; or parsley and butter ; and with ham, 
tongufij or bacon to eat with them. Chickens 
are generally served up with parsley and butter. 
To boil a Goose or a Duck. 

A goose should be stilted for three or four days 
before it is boiled : a duck for two or three, ac- 
cording to the shze of either. A full grown goos'3 
will require boiling an hour and a half, a larjre 
duck an hour. Serve up cither with onion sauce, 
or with cabbage boiled firgt, then cut to pieces, 
and stevred in a little gravy, or with brown celery 
sauce. 

To boil Rabbits. 

A full siaed rabbit may be boiled in thirty-five 
minutes ; smaller sizes will be done sufficiently 
in from twenty minutes to half an hour. Milk 
and water boils them very nice and white, as it 
would also any white meat. Serve up white rab^ 
bits with onion sauce, or with melted butter, 



70 

with the livers boileJ and minced, and some 
slices of lemon cut into very small squares, mixed 
into it, borne chopped parsley may be added, if 
agreeable. 

To boil rartridcre.^. 
Partridges for boiling should be trussed lika 
chickens for hoiiing. From twenty to twenty- 
five minutes wili do them sufficiently. Serve 
thern up with either white or brovvn mu«hrooin 
sauce ; or rice &tewed in gravy, made pretty 
thick, seasoned with pepper and salt, and poured 
over them ; or with ct-lerv sauce. 



B.ROILING, FRYING, STEWING, Sec. 

Observations. 
The only general directions that can be given 
for broihng, are, to have a very clear, quick fire, 
and to take t!ie greatest care, by frequent turn- 
ing?, not to sutLr any kind of broil to get dry 
and burnt. 

Frying also requires a clenr brisk fire, that it 
jnay be done quick ; if frying is long about, what- 
ever it is that is frying, ni!l be ^Iry, tou^^^h, and 
disaL^! eeable. In frying as vvtll as "broiling meat, 
turning it frequently is essential to its being well 
done, or it will burn and be dry. 

Stewing is best done over a small st<^ve fire, 
that it may be donQ very gently. A stew ought 
never to be suffered to boil up fust, but only to 
simmer. 

To broil a Beefsteak. 

Have rump steaks half an inch thick, beat 

them with a rolling pin, and season them with 

pepper and salt. VVhcn the fire is qaite clear, 

and the" gridiron hot, rub it with a piece of fat^ 



71 

lay on the steaks, and turn them often to prevent 
the gravy drying out of them. The Dioment the 
gteaks are done, iay them npon a hot dish with a 
littJe gravy in it, or a piece of butter with a very 
little water. Strew them with some minced sha- 
lot, and «e»rve them up with scraped horse radish 
on the edge of the dish. 

Mutton Chops. 
Cut the best part of a neck of mutton into 
chops, and season them with white pepper and 
salt. When put upon the gridiron, let the fire be 
clear and very hot, and keep frequently turning 
the chops. When sufficiently done, serve them 
up as hot as possible. The best chops are cut 
from the part of the neck which is covered with 
fat, but thei^fat must be carefully taken off. At 
the same time the ends of the bones must be neat- 
ly trimmed off. Take care to confine the gravy 
as much as possible, by not suffering the chops 
to be overdone. 

To fry a Beef Steak. 
Cut the steaks as for broiling, and put thera> 
into a stew-pan with a lump of butter. Set thenl 
over a slow fire; and keep turning them till the 
butter has become a thick white gravy ; pour this 
into a basin, and put more butter to the steaks. 
\V hen ajmost done enough, pour all the gravy in- 
to the blisin, and put more butter into the pan ; 
then fry the steaks over a quick fire till they be- 
come of a light brown, when they will be suffi- 
ciently done. Kemove them from the fire, and 
put them into a hot pewter dish, pouring upon 
them the gravy that had been drawn from them, 
into which should be put some chopped shalot. 
Serve them up very hot. 



73 

To fry Beef Steah another xaay* 

Beat the steaks very well with a rolling pin : 
put the lean only first into the frying pan, with 
just as much butter as will raoisten the pan. Set 
it over a gentle fire, turn the steaks often, and as 
the gravy comes from them, pour it out into the 
basin, when these are dry enough, ^xy the fat by 
itself and lay it upon the lean. For sauce> put a 
little catsup, an anchovy, some minced onion, a 
shalot, and a little pepper to the gravy, and heat 
them altogether while the fat is frying. 
Duch slewed iviik green pess* 

Half roast a duck without stuffing it ; then put 
it into a stew-pan, with two or three sprigs of 
mint, a little chopped sage, and about a pint of 
good gravy. Let these stew for half an hour, then 
thicken the gravy ; put in a pint of green peas, 
boiled the same as for serving up. Stew a few- 
minutes longer, and then serve up the duck with 
the peas and gravy ove/- it. 

To fry Cnlfs Liver ayid Bacon. 

Cut the liver into moderately thin slices, and 
fry it of a nice brown. Ti»en fry some thin slices 
of bacon, lay them upon the liver, and serve up 
the djsh with a little gravy added to it, and cris- 
ped parsley laid round or scattered over it. 
To stetv Pork _ Siealcs. 

Cut as many steaks as are wanted, from the 
best end of a loin or m.-ck of pork; take oft the 
skin and nearly all the fat, and fry them of a nice 
brown. Put the steaks into a stew-pan, with good 
gravy enough to make a proper sauce to thenn, 
and pepper and salt. Ten minutes before they 
are done, thicken the gravy v/ith a piece ef butter 



73 

tolled in flour, and rub it with a little c'ried sage 
or mint. 

Stewed Mutton steaks. 

Take some steaks off tiie best end of a lain of 
mattoa, or some slices out of the middle part of 
a leg. Season them with pepper and salt, lay 
them into a stew*pan with sonie sliced onion, and 
cover thera with water and a little gravy. VVhea 
done on one side, turn the steaks on the other, 
and thicken the gravy at the same time with some 
flour and butter. A little shalot or catsup, or 
both, may be added at pleasure. Twenty or 
twenty -five minutes will stew them enough. Long 
stewing makes meat hard. 

Fried Mutton steaks. 

Mix a little chopped parsley, thyme, and lemon- 
peel, with a spoonful or two of tine bread crumbs, 
a little grated nutmeg, some pepper and salt. — 
Take some steaks from a neck or loin of mutton, 
cut otf most of the fat, beat them well, lub them 
with yolk of egg, and strew them pretty thick 
with ihs bread and herbs, fry them ot a nice 
brown, and serve them up with crisped parsley Iti 
the dish. 

Family Beef. 

Take a brisket of beet, and after mixing half a 
pouad of coa se sugar, a quarter oi an oance of 
saltpetre, two ounces of bay salt, and a pound o^' 
common salt, rub the mixture well into ttiebeef; 
ihen put it into an earthen pan, and turn it every 
day. Let the nuat leniaiii in this pickle for the 
s^ace of a fonnighr, when it \\\d^ be boiled and 
sent up to t.ibie with aavoys, or other greens.— 
When coid and &ui into slices, it eats well with 
l^oivrade sauce. 



74 

Lamb sienks to fry. 

Cut a Join of lamb into neat steaks. Rub them 
over with yolk of egg weil beaten, and strew 
them wiih tine bread crumbs, mixed with a mo- 
derate seasoning of riiace, white pepper and salt. 
Fry them in lard, of a light brown, and lay thein 
round a dish wit!) a space in the middle i'or stew- 
ed spinage, sorrel, or cucumber; or serve theni 
round a boiled le» of lamb. 

7b hash Beef or Mutton, 

Take a lump of butter, rolled n flour, put it in- 
to a Btewpan, and stir it till it becomes of a good 
brown colour. Then put in as much gravy as will 
make sauce for tbe meat. Season it with salt, white 
pepper, shalot or onion, and a little ^hred parsley. — 
Cut the meat into thm pieces, and put it into the 
sauce; and vsheix sufficiently warmed, add some 
juice of lemon or a httlc vinegar, and serve it up 
hot. 

tied Beef for Slices: 

Take a piece of ihin flank of beef, and cut off 
the skin ; then rub it well with a mixture made 
with two pounds of common salt, two ownces of 
bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, auv» Imlf a pound 
of moist sugar pounded in a m.rbie mortar. Pat 
it into au' earthen pan, imd tnrn aitd rub it every duy 
for seven or eight days ; then take it out ot tlie brine, 
v.ipe it, strew over it pounded mace, cloves, pepptr, 
a little allspice, and plenty of chopped parsley, aod 
a few shalots. Then roll it up, bind it round 
with tape, boil it till tender, press tt in the same 
manner as a coDared pig, and when if is c(4d, cut it 
i.jto slices, and garnish it with pickltd barberries, 
frt'sh parsley, or any other garnish as approved. 



76 

Ox Cheek Stetved. 
Bone and wash the cheek very clean ; then tie it 
up round, put it into a stewpan v-ith some good 
gravy or boiling water, skim it, add two bay ieaveSj 
a litt!e garlic, sjme onions, nn.shrooms, celery, car- 
rots, half a Siuall cabbage, turnips, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some whole pepper, a little allspice and mace. 
Let the cheek stew till near done, then cut off the 
strings, put the cheek ioto a clean stewpan, strain 
the liquor through a seiye, skim off the fat very 
clean, season it wijh lemon jui«e, Cayenne pepper 
and salt ; a^ d a littU catsup, clear it with eggs, strain 
it throia2;h a tamis clotb to the cheek, aad stew the 
whole till tender. 

Hashed Calf's Head. 

Take a head without the bkiu, chopped in two, 
wash and blauch it, peel the tongue, cut it in slices, 
add hkewise the meat from the head. Add blan- 
ched morels aiid truffles, c^g and lorce-meat balla, 
stewed musrwoonia, artichoke bottoms, and some well> 
seasoned gravy. Let the meat stew gently tdl near, 
ly done, and then add some slices of sweetbreads. 
When it is to be served up, put the brams ro jnd the 
liash, and slices of bacon ; and if approved, half of 
the head may be laid on the top, prepared thus .— 
one halt of the head when blanched, to be done over 
with yolk oi raw egg, then seasoned with pepper 
and iult,.stre%ved with tine bread crumbs ba^cd till 
■very tender, and coLured with a salamander^ if re- 
^uu-ed. The braius to be egged and rolled in Wread 
crumbs, and fried in boiling lard. 1 be slices of ba- 
nou to be boiled. 

Ned of Veal Larded, 

Take of the uacef bene of the neck of veal, leave 



only a part of the long bones on, trim it neat, lard 
it, and roast it gently, with a veal caul over it. Ten 
minutes before it is done take off the caul, and let 
the veal be of a very light colour. When it is to 
be served up, put under it so-^re sorrel sauce, celery 
heads, or asparagus tops, or serve it with mushroom 
sauce. 

Irish Stew. 
Take the best end of a neck of mutton, chop off" 
the under bone, and cut it into steaks ; season it with 
pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder and beat- 
en mace. Put them into a sten'pan, add a large on- 
ian sliced, a bunch of parsley and thyfne, and a pint 
of veal broth. Simoier the chops till three part* 
done, then adi some whole potatoes peeled, and let 
them ste^v ti 1 doHe. Serve it up in a deep dish. 

Let the parsley and thyme be taken out when the 
Stew is to be served up. 

To Collar a Pig. 
A pig of a month or five weeks old will not be 
too lirge to collar. Cut off the head, open the pig 
down the back and hone it. Make a seasoning with 
a hrtudful of sage chopped small, nutmeg, mace, and 
a few clove* beaten tine, and a handful of saH jnixt 
all togetner. Strew this over the inside of the pig, 
roll it up as tight as possible, and bind it cl.>se with 
broad tape. Boil it gently in water, with a little 
oatmeal in it, and some salt. When boiled, pr^ss it 
between two clean boards till cold, or hang it up as 
pre fen ed. The tape must be kept on. It is very 
gi)od eaten imniedtately, and will keep fcr a week or 
more without any further precaution, or may be kept 
iii the foUowinjj pickle: — 

Boil •.me water with a little oatmeal in it, as if 



n 

for thin watfrgr..cl, with somes-'lt, a small handful 
of bruised pepper corns, and a pint of vinegar, for 
baU an honr. When cold, put in the collar, and let 
it lie for eight days before it is used. sAs long a» 
any of it remains it should be kept in the pickle. 

If small coUarai arc preferred, the pig may be par- 
ted both down the belly and back. 

The flap of a loin of pnrk makes a nice collar in 
the sair.e way. If very fat, some slices of lean veal, 
beaten v ith a roller, may be laid upon it, or the lean 
part of the loin of pork. 

To broil a Chicken. 

Split the chicken down the back, spread it open, 
season it with pepper and salt, and broil it over a 
quick clear fire very nicely. Serve 't up with mush- 
room sauce either brown or white. 

Pigeons or any other bird as approved, may be 
broiled in the same manner. 

To make Bologna sausages as they are ma*ie in 
Italy. 

Take seventeen- pounds and a half of a fore- 
quarter of pork, and three pounds and a half of lean 
buttock of beef, chop them well together, but not 
very small, put to them a pound and a half of salt, 
well dried and pounded, three ounces of white pep- 
per, a good deal bruised ; mix them all well toge- 
ther like paste, and if there is fat wanted, a pound 
CM- two of the fat of bacon may be put to them, cut 
in the form of dice. Add, as it is mixed, a glassful 
of red w^ne, then fill large beef skins with this, hav- 
inj5 first washed and cleaned them from all the slime 
Ijy turning them. "Wipe them dry before they arc 
filled. WKen filling them, the meat mu3t be squee- 
zed and pressed down quite bard, that all the wise 



7S 

may rim out of them, snd that they may be stuffed 
very close. Tie them hghtly with packthread, ond 
hang them up over the mantle piece so as to receive a 
moderate heat ; let them ban? for three we^ks, then 
hang them in a garret where they can have some air. 
When they are quite dry let them be taken down 
and wiped ; then rub them over well with salad od, 
«ftd lay them in a box in hay. They will keep very 
well lor a year. The skins had becter he cut the 
length of eight or nine inches, tying them at one end 
before they are filled. When to be used, boil one 
or two in fresh water for an hour, and when they are 
Gold, cut them into round slices, and t!'ey vvill look 
red and white. They are excellent me-»t, and will 
Jkeep a fortnight after they have been boi'ed. 

To make Sa'.sageif, 
■ Take six pounds of pork quite free from skin, 
gristle, and fat. Beat it in a mortar till it is very 
fine ; add to it six pounds of be^f snet shred very 
smalln season it with sa^e, sweet herbs, and lemon- 
peel mirced very fine, add pepper, salt and nutmeg. 
Put thii into skins well cleansed, or press it down in- 
to a pot, and when to be used loll it up abo-jt the 
usual size of sausages, rub them over with yolk of 
cgiT, and fry them of a nice brown. 

To dreis a Lamb's Pluck and Head* 
Boil the head by itself till it is tetid-r. Boil the 
pluck till it is nearly do-ae enough, then mince it. 
Take about half a pint of the liquor it was boiled 
in, thicken it with a little butter and flo-;r, add a 
little catsup, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Put 
in the brains and the mince, and let it st'^w a short 
time. While this is doing rub theheai, which should 
be parted in two, with yolk of egg, strew it with 



79 

bread criimba and chopped parsley, and bro^-n i^ 
with a salamander, or in a Dutch oven. Then serve 
it up with the mince poured round it. The heart 
may be seasoned and broiled, if preferred, ins cad of 
mincing it. 

To dire Tongues* 

To a moderate sized tongue put an ounce of sa't- 
petre, two ounces of coarse sugar, and a pound of 
common salt. K ub these well into the tongue, and 
iet it lie a fortnight or three « eeks, turning it some- 
times. It will then be fit to dry, or to dresi im- 
mediately out of the p'ckle. 

To pickle Biefy Tongues or Pork, 

To four gallons of sprinar water put four pound$ 
of bay salt, fonr pounds of common salt, one 
pound of coarse sujrar, and a quarter of a pound of 
ssiltpfetre. Boil this well, scumming it carefully. 
When cold, pour it on the beef or other article ; 
which should be first lightly salted for twenty-four 
hours, and wiped before it is put into the tub It 
must be covered with the pickle and will be fit fo^i 
use in one week. 



MEAT PUDDINGS, PIES, &c. 
Beef' Steak Pudding, 
Make a crust for a fruit pudding in crust, roll it 
out, and line a well buttered ba-in with it moder- 
ately thick. Trim the steaks nicely of the skin and| 
fat, beat them well with a rolling-pin, cut them 
into small pieces, season th?m with pepper and salt, 
lay them neatly into the basin, put in some water, 
cover the lop with paste, turn the edge of the side 
paste over it, and tie it iri a cloth, put it into boil- 



80 

ing wafer. A quart basin will require two hourj 
^nd half boiling. 

Oysters, sliced on'or^s, or potatoes, or a season- 
ing of sweet herbg, chopped small, may be added 
at pleasure between the layers of beef. 

Mutton steaks, veal, calf's hearts, beef kidneys, 
and various other meats may be made into puddings 
in the same manner, adapting the sta^oning and 
other mixtures to the kind of meat used. For in- 
stance, put force.meat balU to veal ; stuffing into 
a calf's heart, &c 

Mutton-Steak Pies 

Raise a crust pretty deep and thick. Cut part 
of a neck or breast of mutton into steaks, beat 
them and season th^m with nutmeg, pepper, salt, 
«weet herbs cut very fine, two onions chopped 
sm«»Il, the yokes of three or four hard eggs minced, 
and two spoonfuls of capers. Scatter these among 
the steaks as they are laid into the pie. Put on 
the top crust, and let tlie pie soak in a moderately 
hot oven, for two hours or longer, according to th« 
size of it. Have some gravy ready to put into 
it through a funnel when it is to be served up. 
^1 Turkey Pie. 

Break the bones and beat the turkey flat on the 
breast, lard it with bacon, lay it mto a raised crust 
with some slices of bacon under it, and well seasoned 
with salt, peppe', nutmeg, whole cloves and bay 
leaves. JLay a slice of bacon over it, cover it with 
a crust, ard bake it. When baked, put a clove of 
garlic or sbalot into the hole in the middle of the 
lid, and do not use it till it is cold. 
ABeef.Steak Pie. 

|*repare the steaks as for a beef steak pudding. 



81 

Season them with pepper, salt, and some sweet herbs 
cot fine, if approved. Arrange them neatly in the 
d»»h, pour m some water, put on the top crust and 
bake it* Any kind of meat almost will make a 
plain family pie in this way. 

ji Pigeon Pie, 
Season the pigeons well with pepper and salt, lay 
them into a dish with a beef fteak at the bottom of 
it, with brea«ts d« wnwards, scatter in the giblets, 
and put in the yolks of some bard eggs, pour in 
a little water, lay on the crust and bake it. A 
stuffing of chopped parsley, the hvers minced, and 
some Sdll, may be put mto the pigeons, if approved. 
A Partridge Pie, 
Season the partridges as above, and lay them 
into the dish in the same manuer, either upon beef 
cr veal steaks. If veal is used, grate a little 
lean ham upon it. Put in some yolks of hard eggs, 
a little w»ak gravy, and the giblets. Cover it with 
» crust, and about an hour and a half will bake it. 
Have some gravy ready to pour in when it is served 

Pies may be made in the same manner of wood- 
cocks, quails, thrushes,., larks, &c. 

T9 keep Meatfiom tainting, 

^l^n the weatlier is Bohot that meat wilJ scarce. 
ly kce^ from day to day, wrapping it in a thin 
<Ufh dipped in vinegar, and not wrunj *iery dry, 
vfisKist 10 keep it^weet. It mast be hung U(» 
as it would be othcrwk^. 



OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. 
JItere is no branch of coDkery that require* 
£ 2 



82 

greater nicety than the dre«singof fish, and at the 
same time none for which so little instruction can be 
given. A minute or two only, makes a mater'al 
difFerence, in the boiling^ of fish in particular. 
Done to a moment, it will come to the table in its 
best state ; if this point be at all exceeded, it will l.e 
breaking to pieces, the pure flavour almost pone, 
and the fish, consequently, rendeted indifferent food, 
if not absolutely spoiled as such. While on the 
other hnnd, if it be underdone, it is absolutely un- 
eatable. 

A quick observation and constant practice arc 
the only means of instruction to be relied on, to 
dress fish thoroughly well. W hatever is said here, 
therefore, upon this subject,- must be considered as 
mere outline, not at air meant for defin'd rules. 
Such, to be of real use, must not be too tetJiously 
■minute, either for a' writer to undertake, or a reader 
to look over. The variations of size and kinds of 
fish are so numerous, and make soesssential a differ- 
ence, where the time must be computed to .;a mo- 
mejit, that positive directions must be endlcs", or 
they co'ild not be applicable. 

The best way of dressing fish, as the tvhoie- 
somest manner of eating it, is to broil it; the next 
best, to boil it ; and frying it, the worrt. 

When fish is to be broiled or fried, there can 
be no dispute about pitting i^ on a gridiron, or into 
a fiyi»ig-pan; but when it is to be boiled, though all 
opinions agree about pitting -it into a fisli kettle, 
there are great disiendoris as to the state the \rz- 
tcr should be in vvlien tlu" fish is put into it. Cold, 
"warm, and boiling, hive all their several advocates. 
•The nature of fish, which is phlegmatic and waltry. 



83 

mak*s it require condensing rather than dilaiingt 
and thug the lying so much longer in water, as it 
must do when put into cold water, is iinfavourahie 
to it, Neither for large fish does it seem advisable 
to put it into boiling water, as this will have too, 
sudden an effect upon the outside, before the insidie 
can be at all affected. For these reasons, there- 
fore, the warm water s^ms favorable, but for 
«ome fish, which will be heated thro igh immedi- 
ately, the boiling water may be preferable. All 
this i^ suggested, partly from practice, and partly 
theoretically, amongst the contf-n^^in^ opinions upon 
the subject, and must abide the decision of those 
who are no^ so bigoted to their own notions as, 
to refuse the tryisg any fair experiment. The 
writer will readily enter into recognizance to adopt 
the cold water system, vhen ic «ihall be sufficiently 
proved to have the advantige of the oth rs. 

A good deal of sal^, and occasion nlly a little 
▼inegar put into the water, as'iist to give firmness 
to fish. 

Fish should be taken out of the water the mo,«! 
ment it is dore enough. It miy be kept hot by 
setting it upon the plate of the fi-h kettle, over the 
water coverad with a cloth. This wi'l be a disad- 
vantage to it, as it will be every moment getting 
vapid ; but not so great a one as lyi g ^n the water. 
Keeping it back in the doingr, as is sometimes prac- 
tised, when the dinn-r is not likely to be ouoctually 
served up, is a proct-s^ that will al 'ays inji-re fish. 

Some fish are boiled enough when the water boils, 
supposing them put in when it is warm ; others 
require a few minutes longer. 

Kettles, gridirons, and frying-pans, for dressing 



64 

fish, must be extremely nice, and kept very clean. 
To boil Sahnon, 

Put it in when the water is warm, first adding 
3 proper quantity of salt to it, let it boi^ gently. 
A small piece will be done cno«gh in twenty 
minutes. Fried smelts are very nice to serve round 
salmon. Lobsters, shrimp, or anchovy sauce 
should be served wi h it. 

To boil slices of Cod. 

"Use spring water, and put in salt enough to make 
it almost brackish. Boil it up quick, and when Jt 
boils put in the cod. Keep it boiling, and skim it 
very clean. It will be done sufficiently in about 
eight minutes. Some small slices may be fried and 
served round it. Oyster, shrimp, or anchovy 
sauce, should be served with it. 

To boil Herrings, 

Put them in vihen the water boils, and boil them 
about eight or ten minutes. Serve them up with 
Dutch sour sauce. 



TO B OIL FISH. 

To broil Herri Pigs, 

Open them along the belly, clean them, take out 
the back bone, leave the roe m ; lay two herrings 
together, the open side? next to each other, seasoa 
them with pepper 9nd salt, and broil them nicely. 
The heads are Ivtter taken off. 

To broil Slices of Salmon. 

When was^>cd, wipe the salmon quite dry, rub the 
sVces over with a soft brush dipped in sweet oil ; 
pepper and salt tl^m, fold them neatly in clean white 
paper, aad brpil then) over a clear fire. 



85 

Ohervation^ 

The person who can broil the fish here mentioned, 
will be able to breil any fish. To multiply particu- 
lar directions for broiling is therefore unnecessdiy. 
TO FRY FISH 

Wash and tvipe the fish very dry. Rub them 
over with a soft brush dipped in beaten yolk of e^g, 
and do them well over with fine bread crumbs. Put 
them into a fis.e frying pan witn plenty of boiling 
lard in it, and fry them of a fine brit5ht brovn.— 
Do not turn them till they are done enough on one 
side. Serve them up with fried parsley. 

The bread crumbs should be sifted through a 
coai se seive. 

To roast Pike or Sturgeon, 

Clean the fish well. Make a staffing oi bread 
crumbs, chopped sweet herbs and parsley, capers and 
anchovies, pepper, salt, some fresh butter and an ej^p. 
Stuff the fish and sew it up. Turn it round with 
the tail in the mouth, and roast it gently till proper- 
ly done, and of a fine brown. Serve it up with good 
gravy sauce. 

FisLdrest with Vegetables. 

Pick, wash, and chop some sorrel, spin age, sm?iH 
onion or chives and parsley. Put tiiem into a stew- 
pan with fresh butter, a good deal of lemon or Se- 
ville orange juice, or some vinegar w iih a little wa- 
ter) fome essence of aachovy, and Cayenne pepper. 
Do these gen ly over the fire l;ll the v>. gela' les are 
tender, then put in the fish, and stew thtm till v^cU 
done. 

To dress a Cod*s Head. 

Cut the head large, that there way be a good piece 
qf the body with it. toil it in salt and water.-^ 



86 

Have ready a quart of cockles, with the shelled meat 
of two or three crabs. Put these into a pipkin with 
near half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two onions, a Httle mace, a little grated nut- 
meg, and some oyster liquofj Boil these till the 
liquor is wHsted, then add three or four very large 
spoonfuls of melted bu»ter. Drain the cod's head 
well over a chafinij dish of coals, and serve it up 
with the ibove sauce, taking out the bunch of herbs, 
and adding more butter it require;!. Serve up th« 
liverand roc on the sides of the dish. 
To roast an Eel. 

Take a good large sdver eel, draw it, skin it, cut 
it in pieces, of four inches long ; spit them on a 
small spit cross ways, with bay leaves or large sage 
leaves between each piece. When roasted, serve it 
up with butter beaten with orange or leraon juice, or 
elder vinegar, and some grated nutmeg ; or serve it 
with venison sauce, and dredge it wit'i beaten cara- 
way seeds, cinnamon poondcd, or grated bread. 
Tg s'exu Carp or Tench, 

Scale and sprinkle the fish with flour, and fry 
them in dripping. When sufficiently fried, put them 
into a stcvvpan with some good gravy, add some es. 
sence of anchovy, a bunch of thyme, a little mace, 
some spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, with a small 
piece of onion. Add some Madeira, or red wine, 
and fl sufficient quantity of flour and butter to tt)ick- 
en it. 

To dress dried Cod. 

Let the fish ^oak in .some soft water for the sp^ce 
of six or seven hours, after which place it on a brick 
or stone floor for eight hours. Soak it again for 
the lame lime, but lei it lie oa the floor for only 



87 

two QOiirs. Brusli it well with a hard brush, and 
boil it gently in soft water. When the flesh is pro- 
perly boiled it will swell to a considerable size, and 
'the flakes will come off. Egg sauce, mustard, mash-* 
ed potatoes, or parsnips, are served up and eaten 
with it 

Haddocks stewd. 
Take five haddocks, let them be fresh, and of a 
"middling size. Take off the skin, and cut off the 
heads, tails, fins, and belly flaps. Stew these slowly 
for a quarter of an hour in a pan containing a quart 
of water, a few pepper corns, and a whole onion. — 
Strain off the liquor ; sprinkle the fish with flour, 
and fry them in dripping or butter After which 
8tcw the fish in a pan, with the above liquor ; Cay- 
enne pepper, catsup, and essence of anchovy, till 
thr*aucc acquires a proper strength and consistency. 
Servif up the fish with the sauce lound it in a deep 
dish. 

5^// fsh with crenm. 
Soak and then boil some good barrel cod, till a- 
. bout three pnrLs (*o e. Pa'-t it i«.to fidkes, put them 
into^ saucepan with some cream, a little pepper and 
jaiiirndfiil of parsley, scalded and chopped. Stew 
Ht gently tdl tender, thicken the sauce with two or 
tlirce yulks-of egg?, and serve it up. 
^ Oyster pie. 

Take a quarf of lar^e oysters, beard thf m, par- 
boil them irt t'leir own liquor ; cut them small, and 
po/jnd,them in a mortar, adding pitachio nuts, mar- 
j roV^r, sweet herbf;, an onion, savory s?eds, some grat- 
, ed bread. Lay this ia a shallow dish with a puff 
J cjust Under it, add the liquor the oysters were boil- 
ed ih, put* a C' :?it over it, and seirve it up hot. 



88 

SAUCES. 

Observations, 

After what has been said on the subject of gravies, 
iindtTthat article, and on other occasion?, respectinj/ 
incongruous mixtures, nothmg remains to be said on 
sauces in particular, but that the more simple they 
ar« the better, for the liealth sake of those that are 
to consirme them. 

Melting butter, it may not be amiss to observe, 
js not the best manner of using it ; for as it is in a 
full stHte of preparation after the operation of churn- 
ing, the preferable way of using it is without any 
further preparation. 

To melt Butter. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter, with two 
teaspoonfuls of cream, and put it into a plated or 
ver^ nice tin saucepan Shake it over a cle?.r fire 
till the butter be quite dissolved. It must be shaken 
only in one directi;''n, and be careful not to p!ace 
the saucepan upoD the tire. 

A colouring for sauces. 

Put six oiin es f 2;o d lump sugar into a pan, 
with the addito) of half a gill ot water, and near 
?n ounce of buher. P ace it over a gentle fire, stir- 
ring it with a woo 'ea spoon till it appear burnt lo a 
lively bro v:i colo r ; then add n^ore water ; skim it 
when boilin , a;.d after .^ arJs strain it. Keep it in a 
vessel covere fo»* use. 

English Soy^ 

Pound s me wa'n <t , when fir for p'ckline* in a 
maible m rtar, very .small. Squeeze them through 
a strainer : Lt the liquor stai d to settle ; then pour 
t^e fine off, and to every quart of liquor put a poun4 



89 

of anchovies, and two cloves of shalot : then boil it 
enough to make the scum rise, and »kkn it well- 
Add two ounces of Jamaica pepuer. a quarter of an 
ounce of mace, and half a pint of vinegar ; then 
boil it again until the anchovies be dissolved and the 
shalot tender ; let it stand till the next day ; pour 
off the fine and bottle it for use; strain the thick 
part through a seive, and bottle it separately. When 
used for fish, add some to the usual anchovies and 
butter, or to plain butter. 

Lemon Pkkle. 

Pare twelve lemons so thin that none of the white 
may appear ; slit them across al each end about aa 
inch deep, and work in as much salt as possible, rub- 
bing the lemons on the outside also. L?y them in 
an earthen pot for three days, with a good deal of 
salt thrown over them ; put to them twelve cloves 
of garlic, and a large handful of slii ed horse radish : 
dry these with the salt about them in a s'ow oven 
till the lenRons have no moisture left in thenn. The 
garlic and horse-radish should be slightly dried.— 
When these are baked, take a gallon of vinegar, half 
^n ounce of cloves, a little Cayenne pepper, boil 
these up in the vinegar ; when cold, stir in a quarter 
of a pound of flour of mustard, and pour it upon 
the lemons, garlic and horse rad'sh. Half this 
quantity will last a good time, and if w th keeping 
it grotvs too thick, stir in a pint of cold vinegar. — 
After it has stood half a year it should be filtered 
through paper till it is quite clear 
Quiti's Fish Sauce. 

Half a pint of walnut pickle, the same of mush- 
room pickle, six anchovies pounded, six others whol^, 



90 

h'alf a tea- spoonful of Cayenne pepper. Shake it 
well when used. 

Oyster Catsup, 

Take five hundred oysters, wash them in their 
own liquor, which ninst be boiled and well skinnmed, 
then chop them small, and stew them in the liquor for 
half an hour. Strain it, and add a pint ot white 
wine, a quarter of a pound of anchovies, half aa 
ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, nutmeg, and ginger, ten cloves and four bay 
leaves. Boil it t?n minutes, and bottle it. The 
spice should be put into the bottles. This numbe^ 
of oysters makes four quarts. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Choose some of the large broad mushrooms, 
break them into an earthen pan, strew som? salt over 
them, and stir them now and then for three days, 
JLet them Ftand for twelve days longer., till there is 
g, thick scum over them. Strain off the hquor and 
boil it with allspice and bhck pepper, mace, ginger,^ 
a clove Of two, and some mustard seed. When cold, 
bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. If for 
keeping, boil it again wi'th some fresh spice at the 
end of two or three months, and it will keep a 
twelvemonth, or longer. 

Lobster sauce. 

Take the 8p»»wn from a lobster l>efore it is boiled, 
pound ir well in a marh'o mortar wth a little cold 
water, strjin it through a seive, and keep it for use 
afterwards. Boil the lobter, and when three parts 
done, picK out and cut the meat into small pieces, 
and put them into a stew pan. Add a pound of 
fresh butter, and a pint of water to the meat of a 
large lobster, with as much of tlie spawn liquor as 



91 
^■ill make it a good colour. Place it over a fire, 
thicken it with flour mixed witli water, stT it till it 
l?o;ls, and then season it to the taste with essence of 
anchovy, lemon juice, or a little vineiijar and Cay- 
enne pepper. Let it simmer five minutes, and skim 
it quite clean. 

Oi/sler Sauce. 

Blanch and strain the oysten, preserving the 
liquor proceeding from them Wash them well, 
beard and drain them, and put them into a stewpan 
Vith a proper quantity of fresh butter, the oyster 
liquor strained from the sediment, a Ittle flour and 
water to thicken it, seasoning it to the ta^te with the 
juice of lemon, or Seville oranges, anchovy liquor, 
a little Cayenne pepper, a spoonful of catsup, rnd 
a little lemon peel. The two last mentioned articles 
to be added only if approved of, not being necessary. 
When it boib, skim it, and let it simmer five minutes, 

Observntion. — Mussels and cockles may be i^ade 
into sauce in the same manner. 

Anchovy Sauce, 

Put eight ounces of fresh butter into a saiiccpany 
with the addition of a spoonful of both walnut and 
mushroom pickle, three spoonfuls of anchovy liquor, 
as much flour and water as will make it ot a suffi- 
cient thickness, a little Cayenne pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of Indian soy or Chili vinegar, if approred. 
Boil the composition and skim it well. 
A Salad Sauce. 

Mix two yolks of eggs boiled hard, as much 
_grated Parmesan cheese as will fill a dessert spoon, 
a little patent mustard, a dessert spoonful of tarro- 
gan of vinegar, and a large spoonful of catsup. — 
Add to these, wben stirred together well, four spo«n. 



92 

faJs of sfila(^ oil, and one spoonful of elder vinegar, 
and beat them up very smooth. 

Fennel Sauoe for Fish. 

Take a little tetmel. mint, and parsley ; wash and 
boil them till they become te; der, (^rain them, and 
chop them fine. Put -rill together into melteJ but- 
ter Be careful to J^erve up the sauce immedately 
after the mix: n;j in 'he herbs, for they become dis- 
coloured by stindinj. 

ParsJet) and Butter* 

Wash parsley clean, chop it fine, and put it into 
melted butter Tt is by many perso s reckoned bel- 
ter to boil the parsley, a*^ d afterwards chop it. 
jippk ^Quce. 

Peel and core some boili ig apples, cut tlitm in 
pieces, and simmer them 1 11 hey become soft, in a 
Mucepan, with a fe^v c'oves and a very little water. 
Beat them very smooth, and mix them with a little 
butter and sugar. 

"Mint sauce. 

Wash mint very clean, chop it fine, sprinkle it 
with sugar, and pour vine^^ar upon it to the taste. 
Sauce for a roasted Gom^e. 

Mix a table spoonf'd of made mustard, and half 
a teaspoonful cl Cayenne pepper, into a glass and a 
halt of port wine. Heat thi', a' d pour i%hot in- 
to the inside of the goose when it is taken up, by a 
slit made in the apron. 

Store Fish Sauce. 

A pound of anchov e , hall an ounce of mace, 
half an ounce of »^^loves, two races of j^intrer sliced, 
some kmon peel, an onion, a sprig of thyme, and 
winter savory, a quart of port wine, and h^df a pint 
of vinegar. Boil them an hour over a slow fire, and 



93 

close covered. Strain it, and bottle it, put tht 
spice into the bottles. To three table spoonfuls of 
sauce, put half a pound of butter ; put thena in a 
saucepan, keep stirring it over the fire till it be as 
thick as cream, but put no flour to it. Shake the 
bottle when to be used. 

Fish Sauce. 

Half a pound of butter, ihrec anchovies chopped, 
the yolk of an egg, a spoonful and a half of gravy, 
the same of vinegar, a very little flour, half an onion, 
a bay leaf, and a little grated nutmeg. Melt them 
over a clear fire, in a saucepan well tinned ; stir it all 
the time to prevent its curdling. \A hen it is quite 
thick, take out the onion and bay leaf, and serve it 
up. Lob ters, shrimps, or oysters, may be added 
at pleasure. 

Bread Sauce, 

Boil an onion in a little water with a little whole 
pepper, till it be quite tender; pour it upon some 
slices of bread, and It t it stand till cooL Then pour 
upon it half a pint of scalding hot milk, bruise it 
fine, put it into a saucepan, and heat it over the fire 
for use. 



MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES 

USED IN COOKERY. 

Observation. 
Amongst these articles there is much more to dis- 
approve than to recommend. They are most of 
them appendages that male bad worse, or mar what 
IS good, wherever they are added. 

Force meat balls for Ragouts, ^c. 
pound come le^n veal and beef suet, with sweet 



94 

herbs, parsJey, some shalots, bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg, in a marble mortar. 
Make this up into balls with raw yolk of egg, 
and boil or fry them lightly before they are added to 
any pieparation. 

Force meat for Turkies^ Fowls, Piesy Isfe. 

Take lean veal, ham, parsley, thyme, some shalots, 
a little pounded allspice and pepper, a fevr nice 
mushrooms, or a little mushroom powder, some^alt, 
and lemon juice, and do them over a very slow fite, 
shaking the saucepan frequently, till about two 
thirds done. Pound them very fine in a marble mor- 
tar, and add bread crumbs and raw yolk of egg to 
make them up into balls, or fit tor stuffing. 
E^g Bails, 

Pound the yolks of a. many hard eggs as will be 
wanting, in a marble mortar, with a little flour anil 
salt, add as much raw yolk of egg as will make this 
up into balls, and boil them before they are put iu« 
to soupf, or auy other preparation. 

Stuffing for Veal, Turklcs, HareSf i^c. 

Put an equal quantity of grated bread, and beef 
suet, shred very fine, pai&ley and sweet herbs, chop- 
ped ?mall, a minced anchovy, some nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, and a little grated lemon peel. Mix them 
well together vith raw egg, or milk. 
To fry Bread Crumbs* 

Grate and sift through a coarse eeive, a proper 
quantity of crumbs. Set a very clean tryiag-pnn 
over the fire at a pretty good distancf, put the 
b)'c;\d crumbri into it, with a piece of fr< sh butter, 
stir them ab ;«t wish a wooden spoon till they aie of 
a fine light brown, aud tlieu use them aa thi; occa- 
siau Jeq^ircb. 



^5 

. Ta darify Butter for potting* 
Fresh butler roust be used lor potting. i*ut 
some into a stew pan, with a little water just to spread 
over the bottom of it. Set it over a slow fire till it 
is boiled, skim it, let it stand till the sediment sub- 
sided ; then pour off the liquid, and whea it begins 
to congeal, use it as wanted. 

Mushroom Powder. 
Take half a peck ot large fresh mushrooms, and 
clean theni well with dry tiannels ; scrape out the 
gills, and use only those which are quite sound. — 
Put them into a stewpan, without water, with three 
or four htaaXX onions, some cloves, a quarter of an 
ounce of mace, and ?.n ounce of white pepper, all 
pounded. Sec ihem over the fire, simmer and shake 
them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful 
that they do not burn. Lay them on wire plates or 
seives in a slow oven till they are dried enough to 
beat them to powder. Keep the powder in small 
bottles corked, and tied close with a piece of leather, 
and set them in a dry place. 

A tea-spoonful w)ll give a sufficient flavour to soup, 
gravy, or sauces. \dd it just before serving the 
preparation, and boil it a moment after it is pat in. 



PREPARATIONS OF EGGS, AND GOME 

OTHER LITTLE DISHES. 

Observation, 

The yolk of an 9:^gf either lightly boiled or taken 
raw, i's a salutary, and, on some occasions, even a 
medical food. But' when it has undergone the 
processes of the geiicral modes of dresi.ng it, the 



.96 

nature of it is entirely changed : it is no longer en- 
titled the to recommenddt OPS it deserves in the states 
above nlent oned. Enongh has been said respecting 
the white of an egg, ia the observations on puddings. 
fo poach Eggs. 

Have ready a broad stew-pan of boiling water, 
break the eggs into tea cups, put them gently in- 
to the water, and they will be done enough in two 
minutes or two and a half. Serve them up on 
toasted bread or spinage, or with any thing else as 
approved. 

Peas Pudding, 

Soak a pint of the yellow melting kind of whole 
peas in water, for an hour, then tie them loosely in 
a cloth, aid boil them till tender. I^raid them 
through a colander or hair sieve, stir in a piece of 
butter, a spoonful or two of cream, and a little salt. 
Tie it up tight in a cloih, and boil it baif an kour. 
BtacI: Puddings. 

Stew 2 quart of whole oatmeal in a quart of milk, 
and then set it by till the next morning. Add to it a 
pound and a half of beef suet, shred fine, a season- 
ing of pepper, salt, allspice, and cloves, a small 
hai>dful of pennyroyal, the same of parsley, a lit- 
tle thyme and winter savory, washed and chapped 
very fine ; a pint of cream, and three pints of hog's 
or sheep's blood. Mix all these well together, and 
stir them over the fire till they arc well waimed. 
Have ready the skms thoroughly cleaned and turn- 
ed inside outwards, fill them about half full, tying 
them at proper intervals hke sausages. Bod them 
about a quarter of an hour, pricking them with a 
fork as they boil, to prevent their bursting. Lay 
them in a cloth to cool, turning .hrm once or twic« 



97 

till cold, tlicn hang tbem up in a dry place. Whea 
to be served, they may be broiled, or fried, or 
warmed in a Dutch oven. 

To stew Mushrooms. 

Button mushrooms must be rubbed with a pie^e 
of clean flannel and some salt, the larger ones 
peeled and the g lis scraped out ; then lay them for 
a while in milk and water. When they are put 
into the 8tew*pan, sprinkle them with a little salt, 
add some mace, and set them over a slow fire. Let 
them stew till they are half done, then add some 
cream and yolks of eggs, and thicken the whole 
gently over the fire. Serve them with sippets of 
toasted bread. 

To make thepi savoury, use gravy, and a thicken- 
ing of flour and butter, instead of crean and Qgg%, 
Jo hro'il MuMhroQtns, 

Sprinkle the large mushrooms after they are 
peeled and the gills scraped out, >vith some pepper 
and salt, and broil them gently. Serve tbem with 
a httle gravy. 

To fry MorreU. 

Cut them in long slices and wash them well, then 
stew them in a little broth over a gentle fire for a 
short time. Season the broth they were stewed in 
with pepper and salt, and thicken it with flour and. 
butter, and serve them with this ia the dish (or sauce. 

Mushrooms may be fried in ihe same way. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PASTRY, Sec. 

Pastry in general having a great deal of butter 
in it, and no ferment, that is, neither leaven nor yrast, 
to m^ke it lights is a ciooe hpavy «ubst«iuge j from 
F 



98 

which, and the being baked in the close heat of as 
oven, it is very unwholesome. 

B tt r, e en ot the best quaUty, becomes rancid 
to a certain degree from bi.ing baked, whi^h maltei^ 
it bad for the stomach. PorK, lard, suet, and drip- 
ping, are in iheir nature less diwebtible than butter, 
and become more rancid than butter doea by bak- 
ing. Pasiry made w th any ot tiiesc is therefore 
much more unwhoWome thaa that made with but- 
ter, ho vever favourable the appearance of it maybe. 
All the materials us:;d in these preparations should 
should be good of their kind, and great attention 
paid to the neatness of every uten^d used, as well 
a<i to the makmg them in the best manner, that bad 
may nofc be made wo seby any defects of this nature. 
Tke ii.hoks9mesl crust for Fruit Pies, 
Break a hitle leavea into some good wheaten 
flour, and make it into a pasre in the mannrr of 
bread, with milk, or milk and water made a* warm 
as new milk, or put a little yeast instead oi leaven. 
The yolk of an egg miy be added, it agreeable. 
Mould this very smooth and roll it out for use. 
Observation^ 
The best manner of making up fruits in crust, is 
as pasties, or turnovers, as they are sometimes called* 
Whichever way they are to be mdde, they should 
not be baked in a close oven, but with the door 
open, or at least with some vent, that the air may 
have a passage, to preserve them from the bad effects 
that ensue when it is quite exluded in cookery. 

A good sized hv)le should be made at the top of 
all the pasties or pies, that the tumes may go off 
freely while baking. 

Let the apples and fruits in general be ripe, and 



99 

mix no otlicr ingredient with them. Some sugar 
may be added when eaten. Buttering pie^ and 
pasties is bad, and they should not be eaten hot, as 
they then create wind. Eaten very cool or quite 
cold they are a good wholesome' food, and ass st to 
open obstructions in the passage and bowels. 
Sugar Paste, 

To a pound of flour put tro ounces of loaf su- 
gar rolled and sifted, and rub in halt a pound of 
butter. Mix it up with one egg tt^ell beaten, and 
cold water sufficient to make it into a paste ; mould 
it with the hands till it be quite smooth, and roll it 
out for US2. 

Apple^ Cooseberru and other fruit pies. 

Butter I he edge and sides of the dish, and lay a 
border of crust over them, then put in the fruit , 
with a sfifficient quantity of sugar, and water if 
necessary. Roll out the crust, and lay it over the 
top of the dish. Ei'.her the light puff crust, the 
crust for tortures, or the short cruf-t, may be used 
at pleasure for these pies. An apple pie may be 
flavoured by putting in a liit!e quince, either raw 
or preserved, grated lemon peel or a few cloves; 
any of them give it an agreeable flavour. Black 
(iurrant;^, (though not in general use for pies,) mak^ 
a pie of which some people are extremely fond : 
they require a good deal of water in the d sh. A 1 ttle 
fine sugar sifted over the pie when to be served up, 
makes it look nicer. 

S'weetmeat Pies, Tarts anoTart/ets, 

Sweetmeats made with syrups arc made into pies 
the same as raw fruits, and the sanse crusts may be 
used for them. Tarts made with any kind of jam, 
are commonly made with a crust laid round the 



100 

bottom of the dish, the iweetmeats then put in and 
onljr a little ornamenis of crust cut with a jagjin^ 
iron, or otherwise, over the top. For these the sugar 
paste may be u^ed if preferred. L'ttle tanletf are 
made in the sai^e way, only baked in tins, and 
turned out. 



BISCUITS, CAKES, &c. 
A light sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs, only five whites, beat them together 
in an earthen pan for half an hour, then add a pound 
of lump sugar, beaten and si'ted : beat the sugar 
and eggs half an hour longer, then add three quar- 
ters of a pound of flour well dried, and a spoonful 
orange flower water. Mix them well, then butter 
the tin, pat in the cake, and bake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate oven. Care must be taken 
thit it is put into the oven immediately, or It will 
not be light. 

A Rice Cake, 

Put a quarter of a pound of rice, well washed, in- 
to a saucepan with half a pint of water; wheo it 
begins to swell, add about the same quantity of 
milk, and let it remain on the fire till the rice i* 
well mixed wiih the mdk and water, and is become 
perfectly soft Take it off the fire, let. i; st^nd till 
it be cold, and then add to it a pound and a quarter 
of flour, hilf a pound of butter, four eggs and a 
little salt. Mould the whole well together, make 
it up into a cake or loaf, glaze it over with yolks of 
eggs, and bake for an hour on a tin well buttered. 
Savoy Biscuits, 

Take six eggs, separate the yolks and whites, 
mix the yolks with six ounces of sug^u* pounded fine, 



101 

and the rind ot a lemon grated ; beat them together 
for a quarter of an hour, -then whisk the whites up 
in a broad dish til! they become entirely froth ; mix 
them with the yolks, and add five ounces of flour 
well diied. Stir the whole well together ; then 
with a piece of flat ivory take the batter ont, and 
draw it along clean w hite paper to the proper size 
of the biscuit. Sift some *iugar over them, and 
bake them in a very hot oven, but th-y must be 
carefully watched, for they ere eoon done ; and a 
fevr seconds over proper time will scorch and spoil 
them. 

Naples Biscuits, 
Put <k quarter of a pint of water, two spoonfuU 
of orange flower Water, 2nd hdlf a pound of fine 
t'jgar, into a saucepan ; let it boil till the sugar be 
melted, then pour it upon four eggs we-II beaten, 
stirring the whole as fast as possible while the syrup 
is poured in. Continue beating it well till it is cold, 
.and then stir in half a pound of flour, make clean 
white paper up i-to moiilds the proper size of the 
biscuits,^ pour the batter into them, and put them 
on tins to bake ; sift come fine sHgar over them 
before they are put i.fto the oven. Great care 
must be taicen to watdh them whil / they are in the 
oven, that they may not be scorched, and become 
of 'a bad colour. 
■*• '■ Shrenvslmn) Cakes. 

Beat a pound of fresh butter to creanr* with the 
hand, theg mix in a pound of s\igar powdered and 
•s^ftec^, and the volks of eight ecrgs, well beaten. 
'When these are well .mixed together, put in two 
^tind$of floMr well^dried,* make the whole up in- 
tcUa paste, .^roH: it o«t a quarter ^f -an ioeh thick> 
F 2 



102 

»nd €ut out the cakes wrth the top of a gla«8 to 
any size at pleasure. Lay them on a iheet of tin 
buttered : bake them in a rather slow oven, and 
take them out the moment they turn brown, 
A Rice Cah. 

Sixteen e^gs, but half of the whites ; beat them 
veil, then add a pound of fine sugar ?ifted, and 
beat them together a quarter of an hour. Sift a 
pound of rice flour through a lawn sieve ; mix it 
with the eggs and sugar, grate in the rind ot a 
lemon, and put in a spoonful of orange flour water j 
beat all together for an hour, butter the tin, and 
bake ii for an hour. Be careful to set it into the 
oven as soon as ever it is put into the tin. 
A very rich Plum Cake, 

Take four pounds of flour well dried, mix with 
it a pound and a half of fine sugar pofwdere ', a 
nutmeg gr-.tcd, and an ounce of mace pounded 
fine. When they are well piixed, make a hole ii\ 
the middle, and pour in fifteen eggrg, but seven 
whites, well beaten, with a pint of good yeast, half 
a quarter of a pint of orange flower water, and the 
«ame quantity of sack, or any other rich sweet wine. 
Then melt two pounds and a half of butter in a 
pint and half of cream, and when it is about the 
warmth of new milk, pour it into the mid lie of the 
cake to the eggs, &c. Throw a little of the flotir, 
&c. over the liquids, but do not mix the whole 
together till it is ready to go into the oven. Let 
it stand btf^re the fire an hour to rise, laying a 
cloth over it, then have ready six pounds of currants 
well washed, picked and dried ; a pound of citron, 
and a pound of orange- peel sliced, with a pound 
©f almondg blaached, half cut l^blic«a lengthways, 



and half fine pounded. Mix all irell together, butter 
the tin weil, and bake it two hours and. a half. 
This will make a pretty large cake. 

A common Plum Cake, 

Three pounds and a half of fiour, ha'f a pound 
of sugar, a nutmepj grated, eight eggs, a glass of 
brandy, half a pint of yeast, a pound of butter 
inelted in a pint and a half of milk, and put, just 
warm, to the other ingredients. Let it rise an hour 
before the fire, then mix it well toge her, add two 
pounds of currants, Gutter the lia, and bake it. 
Ginger Cakes > 

With four pounds of flour, mix four ounces of 
ginger powdered very fine, heap them in a di-^h and 
make a hole in the jniiJdie ; then beat six. eges and 
put them into a saucepan with a pint of cream, two 
pounds of butter, and a pound of powdered SMgar. 
Stir them together o»er a slow fire till the buiter is 
entirely melted, and then pour it to the flour and 
ginger. Make it up into a pa>te, and roll it out 
till it is about a quarter of an inch thick, then cut 
it into cakes with the top of a cup or glass. They 
must be baked in a very hot oven. 

Excellent Gingei bread. 

Put half a pound of treacle into a saucepan with 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a 
pound of butter. Set them over the fire till the 
butter is melted, stirring them several times to mix 
them well together. Then pour them out into an 
earthen dish, and put to them a quarter of an 
ounce of ginger finely powdered, a quarter of a 
pound of candied orange peel cut small, and two 
ounces of caraway seeds, if approved; if ^ not, they 
IQay be omitted. Mix in flour ^ough XOk 



104 

malce it mto a stiff psste, th?n roll it out, ?!nd cut 
it ontinto cakes with the top of a cup or g:la«s, or 
make it up into nuts. Bake them on tin plates, 
well buttered. 



PRESERVES. 
Observations* 

If preserves are to be made, they can never be done 
to any perfecrion without plenty ©f siipar. Fruits 
tnay he kept with small quantities of sugar, but 
then they must boil so long that there is as much 
waste in the boiling away, as some more suji^ar add- 
ed at Qrst would have cost, and the quality of the 
preserves will he neith r so pr-^per for U5e,,nor of so 
good an appear?nce, ?s with a larger proportion 
of s'lgar and mod-rate holing-. 

Fruits are offen put up witliont any sugar at all, 
but if they c'o not ferment and .spoil, which is very 
common, they must have » good rleal of ?upar added 
to them -when used, and thus the risk of spoiling 
fiepms hardly compensated by any savinir. The on- 
ly real economy hat can be exercised iti this case, is 
not to m ke any pre-'e rves 

The most perfecr {^tate in wh'ch fruits in general 
for preserving can be tak^n, is, just when they are 
full ripe Sooner than this they have not acquired 
their best qu^lit cs, andif thry hang long after, they 
begin to lose them. 

To 'preserve Strfinvherrics ■ 

Putq pour.d of fii e s'alet straw bcrien, befori? 
tbey are >'ery ripe, into a p nt and a hjilf o^ syrup; just 
give then) a scald thm take thrm out and setthem 
b^p.till tlv^^rext day, roviring them over with clean 
pap:T. Tlie next day bo 1 up the syrup, ar.d scald 



105 

them agafn, and do so twice more, leaving a day be- 
tween each; then keep them dose covered till red 
currants art ripe. Make a jelly with a pint an 1 a 
qnarter of currant juiteto a pound of sugar, ^ive 
thesirawheires ascald in the jelly, then take them 
OMt and put them into glasses. Then boil the jc lly 
and the syriip the strawberries were in together, till 
it looks fme and clear, ar-d v^hen cool, pour Jt upon 
the strawberries.; 

To preserve Morella Cherries. 

Allow to every potmd oi cherries, a pint of syrup, 
and boil the cherries in it till they look ^ne and rich, 
taking care tl.at they d© not boil too fast, tor th*t 
will make ihem into jam. 

Tq dry Cherries, 

Stalk and stone some large Kentish cherries, and 
boil them gent'y for half an Hour in syrup enough to 
cover them well. Let them stand for three or four 
days, then boil up the f^yrup, and put it boilirrg over 
the cherries, let it stand four d..ys longer, then take 
them out and lay ihem on seivea to dry. Set them' 
in a slow oven after the brCi^d has been taken out, 
and when they are sulficientiy dried, put thcpiin box« 
es, layipg a white paper between each layer gf «hcr* 
ries. 

Cherry Jam. 

To four pounds ol cherries allow two pounds of 
fine white JLibbon Sucar, and g pint of red currant 
juice. Stone the cherries, then boil the whole to- 
gether pretty fa^t till it is well stiffened, and put it^ 
into pots fur use. . v 

Go seberry Jam, 

Take six pounds of small deep red rouprh goose- 
berries, which are best /or the purj^ose. li cad and 



106 

tail them, put thfm into a preserving pan, over the 
f're, stirring and bruising the fruit well as it heats- 
Let !t boil for ten minutes, then put in four pounds 
of sug'ar, and set it upon the fire sgain. From the 
the time it bep;ins to boil it will require boilinjj about 
two hours. When it thickens well, and v iU jelly up- 
on a plate, it will be done enough. It shouM be 
stirred pretty conatantly o prevrnt its burtiiug. Put 
it into pots, and do n; t paper it tiil the secoad day 
after tt i^ done. 

Observaiinn. 
Preserves l;cep bet^?r in shallow or moderately 
t^eep pots, than in deep on^s : and quite as. well 
without brandy to the papers as with it. They 
must not be set in a damp i or in a hcrt place, and 
then, wi' ha due proportion of sugar, and proper 
boiling, they will not fail to keep well. 
Black and reef Currant Jam, 
Use rhe s me proportions of fruit and sugar as 
above, and boil it up in the same manner. 
RasjAerry Jam. 
To four povmds of red raspberries, put a pint of 
red currant juice drawn as for jellv. Set this over 
the fire, stir it as it heats, and let it boil ten mi- 
nutes. Add four pounds of sugar a«d boil ir again till 
•>t jellies. U done without the currant jutce, al- 
low three pounds of su^jar to four of fruit. 
DamfiOn, Bulla e, or Plum Jam, 
Cut the fruit from the st ne", ?1 O'v four pounds 
of sugar to si< of fruit, and boilit in the same man- 
ner *> the gooseberry jair. 

Fruit of different kinds for Tarts. 
Damson'?, buUacc, or almost any kind oi plums, 
MoreUa cherries, or black «nd red currants, mny be 



107 

put into wide mouthed bottles, with six ounces ^ 
fine Lisbon S'lgar to each bottle. Tie a piece of 
bladder over the reouth of eaih Lot 1 , an J sei them 
in a ketilc of -.vater pricking hoks in the bladder, 
or It will perhaps burst. Let them boil till the 
syrup rises above the fruit, set ihem by to coo!, and 
then t.e a fresh piece of bladder over the other, that 
the air may be tntireiy excluded. 

Damsons and bullace put into a stone jar, and set 
into an oven after the bread is drawn, to 4tand all 
night, repeating this till they arc well done, are a 
very good store for winter larts and pud .ings. Half 
their weight of sugar should be added to ttiem, but 
this is better not put in till they have been in the 
oven two or three times. They should be weighed 
before they are put into the jar. • 
Stexued Pears, 

Cut six pears in halves, and ta'ke out the cores, lay 
them in a tin Siucepan» with the flat side upwards. 
Pour over them a quaiter of a pint of red wine, half 
a pound of sugar, and water enough to cover them 
well with a few cloves. Let them stew till the 
pears are tender, keeping the saucepan covered to 
give them a good red colour. 



JELLIES, CREAMS, CHEESECAKES, &c. 
Hartshorn Jelly, 
Boil a pound ot hartshorn shavings w.th three 
quarts of spring water, till it is reduced to one quart ; 
stiain u off uad set it by till the next day ; then put 
it into a saucepan and jnelt it over a slow tire with 
half a pound of double retiutrd sugar ; when lueked, 
adJ to ix, half a piut of Shtrry or niountaiiiwiiic. 



108 

the juice of six lemons, the parin^rs of two, and the 
whiten of ten eggs whipped to a froth. Let alt boil 
togeth r for five ininrrtes ; break 8orr,e egz shells in- 
to the jel'y bag, mn the jelly three or four times 
through till it is perfectly clear, and then put it into 
glasses. If to be put into moulds for turning out, 
add an ounce of i'^in^Iass to the hartshorn shavings. 
Calves feet Jel y. 

Boil two calves feet in thrc^ quarts of water, till 
It is reduced o»e h;4f, sl^imming the 'at off carefully 
as it rises. Strain the liquor off through a fine 
seive, and set it by till the next day. Scrape the 
scum at the top, and the sedtment at the bottom, 
clean off ; then put the jelly into a saucepan with a 
piiii ot Sheny or mountain wine, half a pound of 
fine sugar, the JHice of four or five lemons, and the 
whites of eight egps whipped to a froth. Let the 
jelly boil five or six minutes, anei then pour it 
through the bag till it is quite clear. Bo 1 some of 
the parings of the lemous with the j<'lly> if ap- 
proved. 

Spanish Flummery, 

Scald a quart of cream with a little mace or cin- 
namon. Mix th'S gradually into half a pound of 
rice fl 'Ur, and then atii it over a gentle fire till it is 
the tt'ieknebS ot jelly. Swteten it to the taste, and 
pour it into cups or shapes. When cold, turn it out 
and serve it. Cream uine or preserves eat well with 
it, or it may be eaten alone as preferred. 

Oatmeal may be used at plea^^uf^ instead of rice. 
Lemon Cream, 

The whites of nine eggs,- the yolk of one; beat 
thfm we!l together 1 11 (,hey are thin like water, but 
ti.ey should nol be frothed. Add nine spoonfuls 



109 

of cold water, lemon juice and sugar to the taste. 
Strain the whole through a fine sieve, set it over a 
clear fire with the rind of a len\on pared thin, stir- 
ring it all the time till it is as thick as cream. Be 
careful not to let it stay too long over the fire when 
it begins to thicken, as it soon becomes too thick, 
Seville Orange or Lemon Posset, 

Squeeze Seville orange or lemon juice into a 
glass dish, or noix them together if preferred^ 
and sweeten it well with fine sugar. Then tak» 
creanf), and warm it well over the fire, but not 
to boil, put it into a teapot and pour it into the 
j\iice, holding the teapot up very high, that it 
may froth and curdle the better, instead of 
cream, milk thickened with one or two yolks of 
eggs may be used, if more convenient. 
Blanched Cream, 

Beat the whites of seven eggs very much, with 
about a quarter of a pint of fine rich cream. 
While this is doing set another pint of cream oa 
the fire with two spoonfuls of orange flower 
water, and two of fine sugar. When it boils, 
strain the eggs and the cream which have 
been beaten togetlier into it, and set it on the fire 
till the whole turns to a fine curd, stirring it all 
the time to prevent its burning. Strain it 
through a sieve, and put the curd into caps or 
giasties. 

Devonshire or Clouted Cream, 

Scald a gallon of new milk, or t>o quarts of 
cveani, in a very nice stew-ptm over a gentle fire, 
till it begins to froth round the sides of the jjan. 
The»i take it off directly, and set it in two broad 
earthen pans in the manner that milk is set for 
Gream. If this is done over night, it will be fit 



no 

for use the next da)'. Take ofF the cream nicely 
with vt skimmer, and put ft into layeis on china 
dishes, with fine sugar sprinkled between them. 
Eat it with v.-ine or sugar or with preserves, or 
fruit, at pleasure. 

Fresh Cheese. 

Sweeten some new milk to the tav<ite, grate in 
a little nutmeg, and put in a little runnet, 
enough to turn it ta a very soft curd. It must 
be made in the dish in which it is to be sent to 
table. 

Boiled Custards. 

If m.ade with cream, four yolks of eggs should 
be allowed to a pint; but where good cream can- 
not be had, they moy be made with milk, allow- 
ing six yolks of eggs to a pint, and putting in a 
tea-spoonful of Indian arrow root, or fine rice 
flour. Sweeten them with fine sugar, put in a 
little orange flower or rose water, accordin j to 
the flavour preferred, and a piece of oiunaioon. 
Be very careful to stir them all the time they are 
on the fire, to prevent their curdlintc. Preserved 
oranges cut in halves, and th^ i^l)■!de taken out 
and tilled wkh bvvijt^d custard, make a very nice 
dish. The French often flavour thei.' custards 
with a very small quantity of coltee or cltocolaie, 
cr with vanilla ; any of v.hich are very pltatiunJ,. 
but the latter particularly. 

Baked Cu iards. 

Boil the milk or cream with a piece of cinwd- 
mon or nutmeg, and let it stand till nearly cold. 
if' cream, then add lour yolks of eggs to a pint ; 
if milk six, with sugar to tiie taste ; pour iheui 
i.;ttt cups and bake them. 



Ill 

. Gooseberry Custards. 

Scald green gooseberries in water, drain theni 
from the water, and pulp them through a colan- 
der. To a pint of pulp put four etjgs, two spoon- 
fuls of orange flower water, and sugar to thy taste. 
Set it over the fire till it thicken*, and then put 
it out into glasses or cups. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Put green gooseberries into an earthen pot, 
and set it into a kettle of water; let them caudle 
till they are quite soft, then pulp them throujjh a 
colander, and mix the pulp with about an equal 
quantity of cream and milk : if too thick, add a 
little more. Sweeten it to the taste. Ripe goose- 
berries make very good fool. 

Preserves xvith Cream. 

To a pound of raspberry, gooscborry, or any 
other jam, mix a pint cf good cream, or a little 
more, according to the tasie. If cream cannot 
be procured, new niiik thickened ovtr t!ie fi^e, 
without letting it boil, with a spoonful of rice 
flour, or with half a spoonful, and the yolks of 
two eggs, wdl be a goo i substitute for it. 

Thid either way, a very simple pleasant dish. 
Cheesecakes. 

Set a pint of cream on the fire, and when it 
boi!^ put in eight eggs, only half the whites well 
beat. When it becomes a fine curd, strain it 
through a lawn sieve, and while the curd is hot 
slice in a quarter of a poand of butter. L t 
it stand till cool, then ada two dunces of almonds 
blanched and beaten wiib orange flower water, 
a little sack, a little Jaeaten mace or nutmeg, and 
sugar to the taste. Bake them in puft' paste. 
Aad currants or sweetmeats if approved. 



112 

Plain Cheesecakes. 
Three quarters of a pound of cheese curd, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter, beat together 
in a mortar. Add a quarter of a pound of bread 
soaked in milk, three eggs, six ounjes of currants, 
sugar to the taste, a littie candied orange peel, 
and a little sack. Bake thera in a put!" crust iu 
a quiclv oven. 

Bread Cheesecakes. 
Slice a penny loaf as thin as po«!sible, pour a 
pint of scalding cream upon it, and let it stand 
two hours. Then add eight yolks of eggs, 
half a pound of batter, and a nutmeg gratad. 
Beat them well together, and put in liaif a p«un 1 
of currants well w^ihed, and dried before the 
tire, and a spoonful of white wine or brandy. 
Bake them ia puty pans, lined witii a puff 
crust, or in a raised crust. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 
Boil the rinds of two lemons till they are quite 
soft, then pound them well in a mortar; add eight 
eggs, but half the whites, half a pound of sugar, 
a pint of cream, the juice of two lemons, and 
two Naples biscuits, grated. Mix them well to- 
getherj and set them over a slow fire to t:Hcken, 
stirring them all the time. When they beg!;i t^? 
thicken, tal<e them olf the fire, and continue stir- 
ring them till they are cold. Bake them in puif, 
and sift a little &ie sugar over them before they 
are sent to the oven. 

Almond Cheesscdkes, 
Half a pound of almonds Uhinched, and beat 
well with orarrge fiovviy: water, two Naples bis- 
cuits grated, half a pound of melted butter, eight 
eggs, but four wiiiies, the juice of a Seville or*|jjj 



113 

. « 

ange or Jemon, and the rind ^»ratec], with sugar to 
the taste. Bal^e them in puff" paste. 

Meringoes. \ 

Whip whites ©f eggs to froth in abroad par, 
and wlitn they are pretty well frothed, add a lit- 
tle grated lemon ptel, and sugar finely powdered ; 
whip them again till the whole is complete froth, 
thto drop the froth on sheets of paper, in drops 
iirach about the size of half an egg. Put them 
into a gentle oven till they become of a fine light 
brown, thentai^e them oft' the paper, spread^ 
littk sweetmeat on the flat part, unite them two 
and tw o by the flat sides, and the sweetmeat will 
keep ihcm together. 

Mince Meat. 
Three pounds of lean beef, weighed after it is 
boiled, and picked clean from skin, fat, or gristle ; 
chop it very small, and a pound and a half of rai- 
sins stoned along with it. Shred three pounds of 
beef suet very fine, and wash, pick, and dry two 
poucd> and a half of currants; powder a p<mnd 
and a q«aarter of loaf sugar, pound a quarter of 
afl ounce of eacli of the following spices : cloves, 
nutmegs, mace, and cinnamon ; of candied 
orange, citron, and lemon peel, take a quarter 
of a pound ef each, and slice it thin, but not very 
long. Grate the peel of two lemons, pare, core, 
and chop eighteen large apples, and then mix all 
these ingredients well together with a pint of 
port wine, half a pint of sweet wine, half a pint 
of lemon juice, and a little salt. Press the whole 
down very close into a stone jar, cover it well, 
and use 9s wanted. It will keep five or six weeks. 



114 

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON 
PUDDINGS. 

The only pudding that can be safely reconi' 
mended as really wholesome diet, are those of the 
simplest kind, such as are seldom met with but 
in families of the middle ranks of life. Fv^r the 
poor unfortunately cannot get them, and the rich 
use only those of a more complex species, of 
which the best that can be hoped is, that they 
will not do much mischief 

The princi[u\l ingredients of common puddings 
are so mild and salutary? that unless they Sre over 
cooked, or too many of them mixed together, 
such puddings are, generally speaking, good food. 

To make them of the best and wholesomec>t 
quality, the materials should be all fresh and good 
of their kind. 

Flour newly ground ; new milk ; fresh laid 
eggs ; fresh suet, &c. &c. 

The whites of egsj;s should never be used in 
puddinijs for children, ©r persons with weak 
stomachs, or for those who are invalids in any o* 
ther way, on account of their indigestible nature, 

Puddmgs should bo'l brisuly over a clear fire, 
with the pot-lid partly at least, if not entirely ofi^ 
as the access of air makes all things dress sweeter. 

That pudding clolhs, and every utensil in the 
making of puddings, should be quite clean, is so 
well established a maxim that it needs not be 
further enforced here. 

Where quantities are given by spoonfuls, a 
common sized kitchen spoon is meant, as less li- 
able to vary in size, from change of fashion, than 
table spoons. 



115 

riain hailed Rice Pudding, 
Wash hijlf a pound of whole rice, tie It ia a 
doth, allovvirig room for the rice to swell, '<\vA 
put it into a saucepan of cold water. It will re- 
quire doing for two hours after it is «£;t on the 
fire. After it has boiied for soms lime, if it seems 
too loose, take it up and tie it tichter. Send it 
to table v.'ith cold butter and sugar to eat with it. 
Observations. 
Kipe fruits, such as gooseberriais, red currants, 
almost any kind of plums or damson*, make a 
pleasant addition to this Dudding. It should be 
takeri up about half an hour before it is done, 
the fruit stirred in, and then tied pretty tight, 
and put in again for the remainder of the time. 
A pint of fruit will be sufficient. 

Raisins stoned, dried cui rants, prunes, or French 
plums, half a pound of either, are sometimes used 
for this pudding ; but the otlier fruits are prefer- 
able, and make a wholesome as well -as a pleasant 
pudding. 

A halted rice Pudding vcithout mill;. 
Boil half a pound of rice gentlj in a moderate 
quantity of water till it is just tender. TheA 
drain the water off as much as possible without 
squeezing it. Stir in a piece of fresh butter, a 
little salt, half a tea spyonful of ground ginger, 
?and half a pound of currents, or not as approved. 
Put it into a buttered dish and bake it. 

When ripe fruits are in season they may b.i 
a Ided instead of currants, as in the preceding 
receipt. 

Ground Rice Pudding baked. 
Mix three large. spoonfuls and a half of ground 
rice intQ half a pint of cold milk. Set a pintao4 



116 

a half of new milk on the fire, and when scalding 
hot, pour the rice and milk into it, stirring it 
over the fire till it thickens. Let it cool in a 
basin uncovered, then add sugar to the taste, and 
three effgs well beat^i with a little salt. An 
Iicur will bake it in a moderate oven. 

Bread Pudding eiiher baked or boiled. 

Grate or slice very thin six ©unces of white 
bread, pour upon it a pint of new milk made 
scaldin«i hot, and let it stand uncovered till cold. 
Work this fine with the back of a spoon, put in 
sugar to the tafte, and two or three eggs well 
beaten vv'ith a little salt. 

\Vith another ounce of bread this pudding is 
very good without eggs ; but if boiled, does not 
turn out of the basin quite so well as with them. 

Two large spoonfuls of suet cut very sinall, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants well washed, 
picked, and dried, added to the above, make a 
pleasant pudding either way ; or the currants 
may be added without the suet. 

Some of the coonmon fruits, when ripe, are al- 
so good with it. Half a pint will be sufficient. 

Boil it in a well buttered basin for an hour, or 
if with suet, an hour and a quarier. Three quar* 
ters of an hour will bake it. 
Bulled batter Pudding either plain or with Fruit, 

Mix fcix eprgs, well beaten with some, salt, into 
a pound of flour ; add gradually a quart of milk, 
beating up the whole as it is put in, to a very 
smooth batter. Boil it two hours in a basin well 
buttered, or an hour and three quarters in a cloth. 
Move it about for a few minutes after it is put 
into the water, to prevent ihe flour settling in 
any part. If in a basin, it should be put in bottona 



117 

upwards, to throw back the flour which may 
have fallen to the bottom. 

Half a pound of prunes, French plums, raisins, 
or currants, or a quarter of a pound of each of 
the two latter, may be added, when approved, to 
this pudding. 

Gooseberries, red currants, apricots, pared and 
stoned, plums of almost any kind, and damsons 
either black or white, are also good with it. A 
pint and a half of the smaller fruits, or a quart 
of the larg«r, is enouah. 

Observation. — Batter is always the better for 
being made an hour or more before it is wanted. 
Suet Pudding. 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of 
beef suet chopped very small, and a tea-spoonful 
of salt; mix these with just sufficient milk or wa- 
ter to keep them together. Boil it two hours anji 
a half in a basin or cloth. Prunes, currants, or 
raisins stoned, !\ ay be added for a change, half a 
pound of either. 

Suet Pudding tvith Eggs. 

To a ponnd of beef suei chopped very fine, six 
large spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of grated 
ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt ; add a quart 
of milk mixed in gradually, and four ega;s. Boil 
it three hoars in a bai?in well battered, or two 
hours and a half in a cloth well Soured. 
Hosfy Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little salt, 
and n)ix them with half a pint of cold new milk. 
Siir this by a Ititle at a time into four large spoon- 
fuls of flour, and beat it to a very smooth batter. 
Set a pint and a Half of milk on the fire, and 
when ft is scalding hot, pour in the batter, keep 
U 2 



118 

Stirling it well that it may be smooth and not 
burn; Nind let it be over the fire tiil it thickens, 
but it must not boil. Pour it out the moment it 
is taken off the fire. 

This eats well with cold butter and sugar stir- 
red into it, or with sugar only. 
Observ.ations. 

Fine oatmeal used with the flour, an equal quan- 
tity of each, makes this opening to t!ie bowels. 

Hasty pudding is very good without eggs ; and 
may be made by the above receipt, with no other 
(difference thar. the omitting them. 

Cake Pudiiino, 
^ Melt half a pound of butter in a quarter of i\ 
pint of milk; let it stand till it is iu» more than 
luke-warm, then add to it four egt's well beaten, 
two large spoonfuls of thick yeast, or four of tlnn^ 
and a litiJe salt, all well mixed together. Strui^i 
the whole into the middle of a pound of liour^ 
mix it up lightly, and set it before the tire to rise 
for an hour. Work it up like a cake, adding asi 
this is done, half a pound of currants, and tv\Q 
spoonfuls of moisi sujiar. Bake it in a dish, or- 
tin, well buttered, and turn it out before it is sent 
to table. An hour and a quarter will bake it in 
a brisk oven. 

Suet Dumplings xvithout Eggs. 
To a pound of flour, put ten ounces of suet 
shred small, half a pound of currants clean wash- 
eJ. and well dried, and some salt. Mix this up 
vith milk or water just sufficient to make it a 
stiff paste. Divide it into good sized dumplings, 
tie them in separate cloths, well floured, and boil 
them two hours : the currants may be omitted a( 
pleasure. 



119 

Suet Dumplings with Egg$. 

A pint of milk, two eggs, three quarters of a 
pound of beef suet chopped fine, a teaspoonful 
of grated ginger, and flour enough to make it in- 
to a moderately stiff paste. Make the paste in- 
to duraplins, roll them in a little flour, and put 
them into boiling water. Move them gently for 
a little while to prevent their sticking together. 
If the dumplings are smalj, three quarters of aa 
hour will boil them ; if larger the time must be 
proportioned to their size. They will boil equal- 
ly well in cloths, which is often pref.rred on ac- 
count of keeping the outside drier. They will 
boil with beef if approved, but must not then be 
put into cloths. 

Hard Dumpling.^* " -."*'' 

Make some flour with a little salt into a pretty 
stiff paste, either with milk or water. Roll it 
into balls with a little flour. Half an hour will 
boil them in boiling water. They are very nice 
boiled with a fine piece of beef. Made up of a 
common dumpling size, and boiled either with or 
without cloths, they are exceedingly good, eaten 
with cold butter. The addition of some currants 
makes them still better : these must boil an hour. 
A Fruit Pudding in crust. 

To a pound of flour put half a pound of suet 
chopped small; roll these together on a pye-board 
with a rolling pin, till the suet is well rolled into 
the flour. Add a little salt, mix it up lightly 
with cold water, and mould it just sufficiently to 
roll out. Butter a basin, and line it with this 
crust, rolled out .moderately thick ; put in the 
fruit, lay a piece of crust rolled out round on the 
tpp, and turn the side f rust ©ver it a little way 19 



120 

keep in the juice ; tie a cloth well floured over 
it. A quart basin will require boiling two hours. 
Apple Dumplings, 

Have ready a crust, as for the preceding pud- 
ding. Pare and core as many large spirited ap- 
ples as there are to be dumplings. Work a piece 
of crust round them moderately thick, lie them in 
separate cloths well floured, and boil them ; if 
large, an hour and a quarter, or if smaller, in 
proportion. 

Obsermaiious. 

These dumplings are certainly best when the 
apples are not cored, if persons can put up with 
the unusual appearance of letting the cores re- 
main in. The apples boil thus more juicy and 
better flavoured. The place of the core is some- 
times filled up with quince marmakde. 
A Cheshire Pudding. 

Make a crust as above for the fruit pudding; 
roll it out to fourteen or fifteen inches in length, 
and eight or nine in width. Spread it with rasp- 
berry jam, or any other preserve of a similar kind, 
and roil it up in the manner of a coikred eel. 
Wrap a clot'a round it two or three times, and tie 
it tight at each eud. Two hours and a quarter 
will boil it. 

A voliole Rice Pudding. 

Stew a quarter of a pound of whole rice very 
gently in a pint and a half of new milk. When 
the rice is lender pour it into a bason, stir in a 
piece of butler, and let it stand till quite cool. 
Then put in four eggs, a little salt, some nutmeg 
and sugar. Boil it an hour in a basia well but- 
tefed. 



121 

Apple Pudding with Cream. 

Pare and grate three or four apples ^ccordin^ 
to the size, but they must be pretty large. Add 
to them a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits 
grated, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, sugar to 
the taste, and ten eggs with but half the whites, 
well beaten with a little salt. Bake it tvith a crust 
round the edge of the dish for an hour. Sift it 
over with powdered sugar when done. 
A Carrot pudding. 

Scrape a raw carrot very clean, and grate it. 
To half a pound of this grated carrot, put half a 
pound of grated bread, half a pound of fresh but- 
ter melted, half a pint of cream, half a pint of 
sack, some orange flower water, sugar to the 
taste, a little nutmeg grated, and eight eggs, 
leaving out half the whites, well beaten with a 
little salt. It must be of a moderate thickness, 
if it is more than that, therefore put in some ad- 
ditional cream. This will either bake or boil. If 
to be baked, pour it into a dish with a puff pasta 
under it, and bake it an hour. Sift powdered 
sugar over it when it comes from the oven. If 
to be boiled, pour it into a well buttered basin, 
and boil it an hour and a half. Serve it up with 
white wine sauce. 

Cheese Rice Pudding. 

Set a quarter of a pound of ground rice, in a 
pint of milk, over the fire till the rce is soft.— 
Stir it that it may not burn, and do not let it boil. 
Put it into a basin, add a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, stirring it about till the butter is 
melted. Throw a xhin cloth over it to keep it 
from dust, without quite excluding the air, and 
Jet it stand till the next day. TI?en add thr^^ 



in 

■e^'^^i well beaten, with a little salt, sugar and nut- 
meg to the taste, two spoonfuls of sweet-wine, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants, clean 
washed and thoroughly dried. Bake this in patty 
pans, lined with puff paste. 

A Citron Pudding. 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter, add to 
•it five ounces of lump sugar powdered, th« yolks 
of four eggs, the whites of two, well beaten, 
and a spoonful of brandy. Lay a rich paste 
over the bottom of the dish. Grate an ounce 
of citron, and half an ounce of candied lemon 
peel, strew them upon the paste. Then pour 
in the other ingredientSj and bake it half an hour. 
Buttermilk Curd budding. 

Turn three quarts of ntw milk, warm from 
the cow, or made milk warm, with a quart of 
buttermilk. Drain off the whey through a 
sieve, and when the curd is dry, pound it in a 
marble mortar with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of 
sweet, and two three bitter almonds, and a le- 
mon boiled tender. VV' hen these are well beaten 
and wiixed togcter, add two ounces of crum of 
roll grated, some nutmeg grate^, a teacup full 
of thick cream, six eggs, with but^half the whites, 
well beaten with a little salt, and a glass of rich 
sweet wine. Bake this when well stirred to- 
gether, in a dish, or cups well buttered, turn 
out i>om either, and pour white wine sauce into 
£he dish. 

A potato pudiUv^, 

Take a pound of potatoes, after they are boiled 
and peeled, and beat theiti in a marble mortar, 
:¥«/iih half a pound of butter. Boil an ounce cS 



123 

lemon peel, and beat it in a mortar by itself, 
^ix the lemon with the potatoes, add to them 
icight yolks of eegs, and four whites, with sugar 
to the- taste. Put it into a dish with a crust 
round the edge, and bake it in a glow ov^n. 
A rich potato pudding. 

To half a pound of boiled potatoes beaten in 
» Fiiarble mcFtar, with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, add a quarter of a pint of cream, the 
rind of a lemon grated, add the juice strained 
in, two spoonfuls of white wine, sugar to the 
ta.^te, tv o ounces of almonds beaten with orange 
flcvvcr water, some candied orange peel cut thin, 
and the yolks of eight eggs well beaten with a 
little salt. Bake this in a dish with a puff crust 
founil the edge of it, for an hour in a moderate 
pvfen. Sift powdered sugar over it before it is 
^et to table. 

Pvead and Appfe pudding. 

Grate six ounces oF bread, put to it six ounces 
jpf powdered sugar, six ounces of apples grated, 
s-jx ounces of currants well washed and dried, 
aiid six ejirgs well beaten with somt; salt. Mix 
aJ'l those thi)rouglily together, and boil it in a 
■RfcJl buttered basin for an hour and a half; serve 
jt up with white wine sauce. 

White puddings. 

Pour two pints and a half of scalding hot 
jsjilk upon half a p^)und of Naples biscuits or 
bread, let it stand uncovered, and when well 
soaktd, bruise the bread very fine. Put to it 
hnll apound of almonds beat well with orange 
flower water, three quarters of a pound of sugar, 
^ pound of beef *suet or marrow, shred fine, a 
auarter of an ounce of salt, ten yolks of eggSj 



five whites. Mix the whole thoroughly together, 
and put it into the skins, filling them bat half 
full, and tying them at a proper distance like 
sausages. 

Observations. 

The skins must be carefully cleaned, and laid 
in rose water some hours before they are used. 

Currants may be put instead of almonds, if 
preferred. 

A plnm jmddia^. 

To three quarters of a pound of flour add three 
quarters of a pound of raisins, weighed after 
they are stoned, half a pound of su^.it or mar- 
row, cut small, a pint of miik, two eggs, three 
spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a little salt. Boil 
it five hours. 

A small very rich plura pudding* 

Three quarters of a pound of suet, shr?d 
small, half a pound of raisin*, weigh them after 
they ace stoned, and chop them a little ; three 
spoonfuls of flour, three spoonfuls of moist su- 
gar, a little cutmeg and salt, three yolks of ejiij!*, 
and two whites. Let it boil fourhours in a basin 
or tin mould well buttered. 

Pour over it, when served up, melted butter 
with white wine and sugar. 

Broivn Bread pudding, 

A pound of beef suet chopped very small, a 
pound of bread grale<I, halt a pound raisms, 
stont:d and chopped, half a pound i»f currants, a 
nutmeg grated, a teaspoon full of salt, and six 
eggs. Mix those well together, and let it boil 
six hours in a basin well buttered. 

Fluin pudding without eggs. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour, threa 



125 

quarters of a pound cf suet chopped small, three 
quarters of a pound of raisins, stoned ; three 
quarters of a pound of currants well washed and 
dried, a tea-spoonful of cround ginger, and 
rather more salt. Stir all well together, and add 
a little milk, a» will mix it up quite stitF. Boil 
this for four hours in a buttered basin. 
A baked -plumb pudding. 

Make it the same as above, only let it be a 
pint of milk, and add two eg^s. An hour and a 
halt will bake it. 

A rice pudding with cream. 

Stew a quarter of a pound of whole rice in 
water till it is tender, pour off the water, and set 
it over the fire with milk enough to make it mo- 
derately thick, till it is scalding hot. Pour it into 
a basin, and stir in a piece of butter. When cold 
add to it a quarter of a pint of cream, the yolks 
of five eggs, the whites of two, some nutmeg and 
sugar to the taste. Boil it in a cloth three quarter* 
of an hour. 

A bread pudding baked. 

Put a quarter of a pound of butter to a pint of 
cream or new milk, set it upon the fire, stirring it 
all the time» As soon as the butter is melted, stir 
in as much stale white bread, grated, as will make it 
moderately thick. Put in three eggs, a little salt 
and nutmeg, and some moist sugar. Bake it three 
quarters of an hour. The dish it is put imto should 
be buttered. Half a pound of currants may be 
added if agreeable. 

An Almond pudding. 

Blanch hdf a pound of sweet almonds, and beat 
them in a marble mortar, with orange flowri water, 



126 

Add the r nd of two lemons giai-e<J, half a pound of 
butter melted, eight yolks of eggs, and four tv bites, 
M'ith sugar\o the tacte. Bake it half an hour, with 
a puff pasie found the dish. 

A Lemon pudding. 

Grate half a pound of Naples biscuit, add to it 
three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, grate 
the rinds of two clear good sized lemons into it, and 
squeeze in the juice. To these put "three quarters 
of a pou! d of melted butter, a pint of thick cream, 
twelve yolks of eggs and six whites, and a nut- 
meg grated. Mix all well together, and pour it 
into a dish with a paste at the bottom. Sift a little 
iine sugar over it before it is put into the oven. 
Half an hour will bake it. 

Seville oranges may be used instead of lemons 
if preferred. 

A Biscuit pudiingi 

Scald a pint of cream or new milk, and pour it 
upon a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits grated. 
Let these stand till cold, then add two spoontuls of 
powdered sugar, half a spoonful of flour, some 
orange fljwcr water, some nutmeg grated ; i©ur 
yolks of eggs and two whiter, well beaten with a 
little salt, Mix all well together, and boil the 
pudding in a basin, buttered and dredged %ith flour, 
tor an hour. Serve it up with melted butter io the 
dish, and some fine sugar sifted over it. 

jipricot. Gooseberry, or Jpple pudding. 

Caudle the fruit m an earthen pi,t, set it into a 
saucepan of water, till it will pulp through a col- 
ander. To a pint of pulp put the yolks of ten 
eggs, the whites of five, a quarter of a pound of 
oiled butter, three [spoonfuls of rose water, and 



127 

-sugar to the taste. Stir ali well together, and bake 
it in achinj di h, with a puff paste under it, half an 
hour in a quick oven. 

Common Pancakes. 

Beat two eggs with a little salt, and stir them 
into three spo nfuls of flour. Add a pint of new 
milk by degrees, and beat up the batier very 
smooth. Fry these in a small pan of bciling lard, 
of a light brown colour. Make them of a n^.oder- 
2te thickness. Fried by spoonfuli?, this will make 
plain friticrs. 

Observation. 

Pork lard in general iries things of a lighter 
colour, and nicer than butter. It should be fresh, 
and carefully dried down. 

These pancakes will be very good witbout tlie 
eggs, and without any substitute for them. They 
may likewise be made with malt 1 quor, yeast 
or snow, instead of eggs : with the malt liquor or 
snow , rather lec-s tha;) the quantity of milk, or else 
add a liitle more flour. 

Cream Pancakes. 

Put an ounce of butter into half a pint of cream, 
set on the fiie till the butter is reelted, and then 
mix it gradaally into two spoonfuls of flour. Add 
the yolks of two eggs, a little nutmeg and salt- 
Fry them in a small pan, and this quantity will 
make a dozen. A small piece of butter should 
be put into the pan with the first pancake. 
Whole Rice Pancakes. 

Stew half a pouad of whole rice in as much 
water as w»ll just keep it doing properly, till it is 
*ery tender Let it; stand uncovered to cool, then 
|)reak it very small, and put to it half a pint ef 



128 

scalded cream, half a pound clarified butter, a hand- 
ful of flour, a little nutmeg, and five eggs well 
beaten with some salt. Stir these well together, 
and fry them in butter or lard. Serve them up 
with sugar sifted over them, and a Seville orange, 
cr lemon, cut and laid round the dish. 
Ground Rice Pancakes. 

Set a pint of new milk on the fire, asd when it 
is scalding hot, stir into it two spoonfuls of g^round 
rice, mixed up with a quarter of a pint of cold 
milk. Keep it on ths fire till it thickens, but do 
not let it bod. Put it into a basin to cool, stirring 
in gently a quarter of a pound of butter. Whea 
cold, add some suj^ar, a little nutmeg, and four 
eggs, well beaten with some salt. Fry these in as 
little lard as possible, of a nice light brown colour. 
Serve them up with sugar silted over them, and 
with lemon, or witli Seville orange, cut and laid 
round the dish. 

Potato Fritters^ 

Tohalf a pound of potatoes scraped, after it is boil 
add a large spoonful of cream, fouregjrs well beat- 
en with some salt, half a spoonful of lemon juice, 
a glass of sweet wine, and a little nutmeg, grated. 
Beat these to a very light batter, and fry them in 
a good deal of lard, the usual size of fritters Serve 
them up with sugar sifted over them, lemon, or Seville 
orange, cut and laid round the dish, and white wine 
sauce in a tureen. 



PICKLES. 
Observat'tQns, 
Pickles well chewed and eaten in moderation, 
^re not bad, as vehicles for taking a certain portion 



of vinegar, which is useful on many occasions as 
resifting putrefaction, assisting digestion, find re- 
movin J obstructons, and thus counteracting gross 
foods. But an immoderate use of vinegar is very 
injurious to all constitutions, and there are some 
that cannot bear it at all. 

The simplest kinds of pickles are the safest* 
When spices are too profusely used in them, or loo 
mfny kinds used together, they tend to counteract 
the benefits of the vincgan 

Vegetables are better pickled sep ratcly, than 
confusetl medleys of them put together. 

To green pickles by the me ns of copper or 
bi-ars, under any form, makes them a positive poi- 
son : and though its operation may not be immedi-* 
ately perceived, it will never fail to produce some 
injurious effect. 

Stone jars should be used for keeping pickles in, 
and i) wooden speon or «ilvei fork, to put them into 
or take them out of the jars. 

A very good Vinegar, 

Allow a T>ound ot Ii'mp sugar to a gallon of wa- 
ter. Boil this, taking all the scura off very carefully, 
and pour it ii.to a tob to cool. When no irore than 
milk warm, ruo som^ yeast upon a piece of bread 
and pit into it, and let it ferment about twenty- 
'fcur hours ; then put the liqt.or into a cask with iron 
hoops, lay piece of tile over the biaig hole, and set 
it into the kitchen, which is better than setting it in 
the sun. It w 11 be fit to bottle m six months. 

March is the ^e^t time of year for the n aking 
ef vineg«r, though if kept in the kitchen, this 's of 
YitUt cons c^ucnce. 



IBO 

To Pkhle Red Cabbage, 

Hang the cabbage up in the kitchen, bottoiw 
iipwardSi^ tor four days to dry ; then cut them into 
thin shce^, put tbem into a stone jar, first a layer 
of cabba^ce, thn a 1 ttle salt, some bhck pepper^ 
alspice and pjinger, and so on till the jar is full. Then 
fill it up with viHegar, and tie it down close. 
To Pickle Large CucumberSy Gherkins^ iffc. 

Wipe them clean with a cbth, then put them into 
a stone jar, and pour boilin^j vinegar wiih a hand- 
ful of salt over them. Boil the vi- ei^ar up 'every 
three days, and pour it upon them till they become 
green; then put some ginger and pepper to them, 
^d t:e them up close for use. 

To pickle Mushrooms. 

Cut the sjtems of small button mushro ms at the 
bottom ; wash them two or three times in fr sh 
water, with a piece of clean flannel. Have a stew- 
pan ready upon t! e fire, with some spring water 
in it, and a handful of common salt ; and, wh n it 
boils, put in th- mushrooms. Bo 1 them about thiee 
or four minutes, then take them off tiie fire, drain 
them in a colander, and tlien spread >h:m c iri ctly 
upon a linen cloth, covering them with another* 
Have ready several xvide mouthed bottles, and a^ the 
mushro ms a e put int them, every now au'l then 
put in a blad.' or tvvo <.>f mace, ?n;i some nutme^'-^ 
feliced : and then fil! the botiles with distiL'ed vine- 
gar. Some melted m 'ton fat, s r ined and poured 
over tht-ni, will keep them as well, or better than oiL 
Pickled Onions, 
Peel gcoie s.-rail onions, and put them into salt 
and ws er -or one day, clia;i^ing it gnce in that titre. 
i.^ryth?miu a tlvsh, tht*n t -ke s^me vAuie wine. 



ISl 

mace, a little pepj;cr, cloves and some- vinegar;. 
p<Hir this pickle over the ©nions, after having boiled 
it ; and when it is cold cover the oniaaa closely wiih 



a bladder. 



Directions for Carving. 

The carving knife should be light, and ©fa midd- 
ling size, and fine edge. The fork two pronged, 
made with a spring guard, is preferable. Strength 
is less required than address in the manner of usiag 
it, and to facilitate this, the cook should give orders 
to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of 
Jll carcase joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such 
as neck, breast, and loin,) which may then be ea \l\r 
cut into thin shces atta hed to the joining bones. If 
the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should 
be too thick, a small slice should be taken off be- 
tween every two bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, kg or 
saddle of mutton and beef,) are to be helped in 
thin slices, neatly cut and smooth ; observing to let 
the knife pass down to the bone, in the mutton and 
♦beef joints. 

The dijh should not be too far from the carver ; 
as it gives an awkward appearance, and makes the' 
t.'.sk more difficult* Attention is to be p?.i(i to help 
every one to a part of such articles as are consider- 
ed the best. 

In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes ; 
which in cod and very fresh salmon, are l^rge, and 
contribute much to tfte beauty of its appearance. 
A fish-knife, not being sharp, divides xx. best on this 



152 

Account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or l^vef, to 
each person. The heads ot carp, parts of those of 
cod and salmon, sounds of cod, fins of turbot, are 
likewise esteemed Biceties, and are to be attended to 
accordingly. 

In cutting up any wildfowl, duck, goose, or tur^ 
key, for a large party, if you cut the slices down 
from pinion to pinion, without making wings, there 
will be more prime pieces. » 

A Cod's Head — Fish in general, requires very 
little carvmof, the fleshy parts being those principal- 
ly esteemed. A cod's head apid shoulders, when in 
season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and 
handsome dish. When cut, it should be done wit^j. 
a fish trowel, and the parts about the back-bone or^ 
the shoulders are the best and most firm. About- 
the head are many delicate parta, aad a great deal 
of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw 
bones, and the firm part within the head. Some 
are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which 
likewise may be got by putting a spoon into the 
mouth. 

A Round of Beef* — Cat off a slice an inch thick 
all the length, and then help. The soft fat which 
resembles the marrow, lies at the back of the bone ; 
the firm fat must be cut in hor zontal slices at the 
edge. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as 
tasies differ. The skewer tiaat keeps the meat pro- 
perly together when boilin^Tj should be drawn out 
before it is served up ; or if necessary to leave the 
skewer in, put a silver or plated one. 

Sirloin of Beef m ly be begun either at the end, 
or by cuttiog into the middle. It is usual to in- 
quire whether ©utside or iuside is preferred. For 



133 

the outside, the slice should be cut down to tlie* 
bones, and the same with every following helping. 
Slice the in ide likewise, and give with each piece 
some soft fat. 

Rjimp of Beef is cut in the same way as a fillet 
of veal in the next article. It should be kept even 
all over. When helping the fat, observe not to 
" hack It, but cut it smooth. A deep sHce shoiiJd be 
cut off the beef before you begin to help, as dir- 
ected for the round. 

Fillet of Veah—lu an ox this part is a round of 
beef. Ask whether the brown or outside be liked, 
otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken 
out, and the meat tied close before dressing, which 
makes the f^lLt very solid. It should be cut thin 
ajid very smooth. A stuffing is put i- to the flap, 
which completely covers it ; you must cut deep in- 
to this, and help a thin shce, as likewise of f-t 

From can les-ness in not covering the latter uitli 
paper, it 's sometimes dried up to the great disap- 
pomtment of the carver. 

Breast of Peal—One part (which is called the 
brisket) 's tfickest, and has gri ties ; pr.t your knife 
about four inches from the edge of this, and cut 
through it, which vviil separate ti;e ribs from the 
bn^ket. Ask which is chosen, and help accor- 
dingly. 

Cal/'s Head has a great deal of reat upon it if 
properly D-anaged. Cut slices fiom ^t, letting the 
kmie uo close to the bone In the fleshy part at 
the neck end, tlierel.es ihc throat s-,vcet brea(^, which 
you sb)uld h.lpa shce of with t:-:e other p«rt.— 
Many hke the tat of the eye, which yoM mtust cut 
out wiih the poiii of yonr kmfe, and di-i leiu two. 
H 



]3i 

If the jaw bone be taken off, there will be found 
some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which 
is reckoned a nicety ; the person carving should b^ 
acquainted with all things that are thought so, that 
they may distribute them among the guests accor- 
ding to their liking. 

Shoulder of Mutton — ^Thi? is a very good joints 
and by many preierred to the leg ; it being very 
full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces 
many nice b t-', when Uid in the dish wiih its back 
uppermost. Wlien it is first cnt, it should be in 
the hollow part of it, not far from the shank ; and 
the knife should be to the bone* The pr me part of 
the fat lies on ihe outer edge, and is to be cut out 
in thin shces. If many are at table, and the hol- 
low part is eaten, some very good and de.icate pieces 
may be cut out on each side ot the bridge of tfic 
blade bone 

Leg of Mutton. — A leg of wether mutton 
(which is the bedt flavoured) may be known from 
ewe mutton by a string which passes down the loii . 
The best part is the mdw^y, inside between the 
knuckle and the further end. Begin to help there 
by cutting thin deep slices. If the out ide is not 
fat enough, help Swme from the s de of the broad 
end, called the lap This part is raoLt j^ icy, but 
many prt^ter the knuckle, which in fine mutton will 
be very tender, though dry. There a.-e very fine 
slices on the back of the leg : turn it up, and CJt 
the broad end, not in the direction you did the o- 
ther side, but longways:. To cut the cra:np, or 
what is mostly termed the gentleman's bone, take 
hold of the skaiik with your left hand, and cut down 
to the thigh bone ; thtn pns: the knife u der tb^ 



135 

knife under the cramp bone in the direction where 
it Uqs. 

A fore quarter of Lamb. — Separate tke shoulder 
from the breast and ribs by passing the knife under 
the joint, keeping it towards you horizontally, to 
prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. 
If grass lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into 
another dish Squeeze the jnice ©t half a Seville 
orange or lemon, on the other part, and sprinkle a 
little sa.t and pepper. Then separate the grivly part 
fri>m the ribs, and help either from that or from the 
ribs, as may be chosen. 

Haunch of Venison. — Cut down to the bone, i^ 
the usual place where you make the first cut in- a 
leg of mutton, to let out the gravy; then turn the 
*bro5d end of the haunch towards you, put in the 
kn (e. and cut as deep as you can to the eud of the 
haunch, then help in some thin slices, observing to 
give some fat to each person. There is more fat 
(which is a favourite part) on the left side than oa 
the other ; and those who help must take tare to 
proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to, 
the number of the company. 

H uHch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, 
cut so as to resemble a haunch of venison, and may 
be n.ade to resemble it very much in both look and 
flavour, by being kept hung up in a cojI p'ace a 
length of tiire according to the ©eason, with a clove 
of garlic in the shank : and it is to be helped at 
table in the same manner. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Cut long thin slices from 
the till to the end, beginning clost to the back bone. 
If alir^e joint, the slice may be divided. Cut 
sprrc fat from the sides. 



136 

Ham may be cut three ways ; the common me- 
thod is to begin in the middle, by lorjg slices in the 
cen:re through the thick fat. This br ngs to the 
prime at first, and with a sharp knife enlarging 
that, by cuttng succes-ive thin circles ; this pre- 
serves the gJ'avy, and keeps the meat moist. 

The Ijst and most saving way is to begin at the 
hock end (which many are most fond of) and pro- 
ceeed onwards. 

Ham that is used for pfes, &c should be cut 
from the under side, first takiig off a thin slice. 

tSuckhig Pig — rhe first thing is to separate a 
shoulde,' from the carcass at one side, and then the 
leg. The ribs are then to be divided into about" 
two helpings, and an ear or jaw preseiited with them 
and plenty ot sauce. The joints may either be di- • 
vided into two each, or piet es m ty be cut from them. 
The ribs are reckonei the finest parts ; but some 
people prefer the neck -end between the shoulders. 

Goose. — Cut oif the apron, and pour into the 
body a gla&s oi port ^ine, and a large t«a-sp onfiil 
of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn 
the neck end of the goose towards you, stick your 
fork firm in the centre of the breast, which you 
should not remove till you come to cut off the side- 
bones, and cut the whole breasi into long slices from 
one wing to another ; but only lemove them as you 
help each person, unless the company is so large as 
to require the legs likewis . This way gives more 
prime b ts tnan by mailing wings. Take off the 
leg and wing, put your knife into the small end of 
the pinion or sham wing, and press it close to the 
body, and divide the joint, which raise up No- 
thing but practice will eudble people to hit the joint 



137 

cx ftly at the Bni trial. When the leg and wiufir 
of one «ide are done, go on to the other ; but it is 
not oft n necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless 
the company be verv lai'ge. The best pieces are the 
bre?s and thighs, after being divided from the drum- 
sticks. 

Hare. — The best way of cutting it up is to put 
the point of the knife under the shoulder, and to 
cot all I he way down to the rump, on one side of 
the hack-bone. Do the same on the o'.her side, so 
that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. 
Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the 
j)art most esteemed. The shoulders must be cut off 
in a circular Tne; lay the pieces neatly on the dish 
^s you cut ihem, and then help the company, giv- 
« ing some pudding an J gravy to every person. This 
way can only be pi^actised when the hare is young ; 
if old, do'nt divide it down, which will require a 
ftrong arm : but put the knife between the leg and 
back, and give it a little turn inwards at the j©int, 
which you must endeavour to hit and not to break 
by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a 
fine col op on each s de of the back ; then divide 
the back into as many pieces as you please, and take 
off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and 
are caUed the sportsman's pieces. When every one 
is helped, cot off tfiehead; put the knife between 
the upper and lower j^w, and divide them, which 
wili enable you to leave the upper flat on your plate, 
then put the point of the knife in^o the centre, and 
cut the head in two. The ears and brains may then 
be helped to those who like them. 

^j^rve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare 5 

H 2 



138 

cutting them into two pieces, which with tli£ legs are 
the prime. 

A Fow'.— Lay the fowl on your plate ; and place 
the joints as cut ©fF on the dish. Take the wing off, 
only div.dinar the joints with your knife, and then 
with • our fork lift up the pimon and draw the wing 
towa. ds the 1 gs, and the mas.les will separate in a 
more complete ^orm than if cut. Slip the knife 
between the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then 
with the fork turn the ; eg back, and the joint will 
give way if the bird is not old. When the fore 
quarters are thus removed, take off the merry 
thoug^hcs and the nec»c bones. The next thing is 
to divide the breast from the carcass, by cutting » 
tlyough the tender ribs close to the brea-t, quite 
down to the tail Then lay the back upwards, put 
your knife in to the bone half way from the neck to * 
the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separ- 
ate readily. Turn the rump from you, and take off 
the side bones, and the whole will be done. After 
all, more advantage wi 1 be gained by observing 
those who cirve well, and a little practice, than by 
any written d rectiens whatever. 



F / N J S. 



:\ 



INBEX 

TO THE RECEIPTS. 



Observations on Cookins Utensils , . , 

General Reniarks on the state in which the various 

substances used as Food, are best adcpte«lto tbe 

purposes of Healthful Sustenance 
On Diet ... 

A 
AfSPAiAGUs, to boil 

, as an entreniet, to dress 

Artichoke?, to boil . . . , 

Animal food, observations on 

— ron dressing . . . 

:b 

Brocoli, to boil . . , 

Bread crunib*;, to fry , 

Beans, to boil . , , , 

— — — French with cieani . , 

-^ — — French, to stew , . , 

"Beet Root, red, to boil 

' - ■ ■ • — or German uian^^el vvuizel, to boiJ 
Broth, a proper — mutton broth 

■ Chicken — observations on broth 



Boiling Mutton 

Beef, Veal, Lanab, Povk 

»^ Haunch of Venison, Calf's Head, Tons^ue 

Pickled Pork, Bacon, Ham, Marrow Bones 68 

Poultry, &c. — Turkey 



5 
7 

13 
31 
19 
34 
39 

17 
9+ 
19 

^ 
28 
19 
Jb. 
44 
4.5 
65 
66 
67 



ib. 



Fowls and Chickens, Goose, duck i,&;c. Rabbits 69 

■ Partridges .... 70 

Poultry* ^c. observations oa . , > ^ 



140 

Beef or Afutton, to hasli— Red beef for slices , 74 

-^- — Steaks, to fry , . . , 71 

■• y- — another way . . 72 

Butter for potting, to fry , . , 95 

B'oilinc, frying, and stewing — to broil Beef steak 70 

To broil Mutton chops ... 71 

C 
Carving, General directions for , . 131 

Carrots, to boii . , . . 15 

■ " ' ■ observutions on . . . .16 

Cabbasie, to boil — observations on cabbage . 17 

Cauliflowers, to boil .... 18 

Cucumbers, to stew . . • .20 

— their uses in cookery . . 31 

Celery, to stew, brown-r- to stew carrots with cream 22 
Cabbages, of ..... 28^ 

Cabbage, red, to stew , . . , 21' 

Cauliliivwers for garnishing, &c. . . .28 

Carrots and parsnips which are often specified by the 
. name of roots, to dress for sauces, ragouts, &c. 29 

Chervil, sorrel, and beet, white and green, to keep 

for future use— Cek J*}', itt various uses . ib. 

Cake, a I'^rht sponge . . . 10t» 

a rice .... 10'7,102 

— — Sa\oy biscn;ts ... . I€0 

Naples biscuits, Shrewsbury cakes . . 101 

a verj' nch pliun . . - . .102 

arouimon pUun — -ginger — expellent gingerbread 103 

eiiicken,ti> broil . . .77 

CaU't bead hasl\fd .... 75 

in er wirli bacon, (0 fry . . .72 

Cheese, fresh — boiled custards — baked do. . 110 

Cheesecakes, plain — breaddo. lemon do. almond do. 112 

D 
Ducks stewed with green peas , . 72 

E 
F.NBivF., tostew - - .• - 22 
-E^j: balls - - ... 9-^ 
^:, to poach - - . - 96 

F 
Family Beef ... - 73 

■pi >h, \n drps<i - - - - - 81 

■«•— to boil falmon, slices of cod, Hearings - §^ 



^ 



141 

Fishtobroil — Herrings, — slices of Salmon . ib, 

to fry — to roast pike or Sturgeon - 85 

dresi with vegetables— to drevs a Cod's head ib- 

to roast an eel — to stew a Carp or Tench - 86 

to dress dried Cod - - - ib. 

— Haddocks stewed, salt fish with cream, oyster pie 87 

Forcemeat balls for ragouts - - 93 
for turkies, fowls, pies, &c. 94 

Gravy for poultry - - • - 45 

for fish - - - - 46 

to draw . . - - 45 

Gooseberry custards— gooseberry fool - 111 

H 

Ham, essence of - - • - 46 

I 

hhh Stew - - - - 76 

J 
Jellies, Creams, Cheesecakes, 3cc — hartshorn jelly '07 
Calves Feet — Spanish Flummery - - 108 

L 

*Lamb's Phick and i|ead, to dress - - 78 

Leeks to use in broths, &c. - » - 29 

Lamb steaks, to fry ... '74 

Lemon Cream - - - - 1*)8 

Lettuce, cabbage and Roman cos — with force meat 30 

M 

Mushrooms and morells - • - ^U 

Miscellaneous articles used in cookery - - 93 

Mushroom powder . - - 95 

■ ' . ^ to stew, to broil*- Morells to fry - 97 

Meat, to keep from tainting - ^ 81 

Mutton steaks, to stew, to fry - • - 73 

Meringoes— ^minced meat - - 113 

O 

Onions, to stew - - - ,23 

-5- to use in ragouts, &c. _ - 29 

Observations on broths, soups, and gravies 41 

Ox cheek stewed - - - - 75 

P 

Pork steaks, to stew • - - - - 72 

Potatoes in cream or gravy . . 23 



142 

f: Parsnips, to boil — to mash - - - 16 

to stew with gravy . . - 2i^ 

Peas, green, to bnil - . . 13 

r au.«t for tVqit ... 98 

Ixih icreen and drieH-^to inakepeas porridge '27 

dried with streaked bacon - - - ib. 

Pig, to collar . - . - 7b 

Pie, a turkey — mutton steak pie, — a beef steak pie 80 

fruit — sweetmeats, tarts, and tartlets - 99 

a pizeon — a Partridge pie - - 81 

Prepaiatioiis for es^'^s, and some other little dishes 9^5 

Preserveb, — Strawberries _ _ - 104 

— Moiella cherries, dry cherries, cherry jam 105 

Gooseberry Jam - - ib. 

Black and red currant jam — raspberry jam 106 

_ _ Diimson, bulloce, or plum jam - \b\ 

■ Fruits of different kinds for tarts . ib. 

Posset, oranjie and lemon, blanched cream, clouted do. 10^ 

Pieseives with cream — cheesecakes . Ill 

Puddings, observariou on . . 114 

a ppa>>e — a black pudding . 96 

beef steak . 'tf • * . 79 " 

boiled rice— bikeddo. wit^ut«1lk 1 15 

ground rice, baked . '. • ib. 

. . bread, baked or builed— boiled batter do. 116 

SBet — do. witii eggST— hasty pudding . 1 17 

cake — suet dumplings . 118 

— fruit with crust — hard dumplings . 119 

. apple — Cheshire do. — rice do. . 120 

with crefin> — caiYo^t do — cheese rice do. 121 

citron— buttermilk curd — potato— do. rich 122 

_ apple— white do. . ,123 

pUii»— do. rich— brovvn bread . 124 



— plum, without eggs . i , ib 

< —baked — nee with cream . 125 

, bread, baked — almonds . . ib. 

, lemon — biscuit — apt icot, gooseberry, &c. 126 

Pancake common— cream— rice 

rice, ground— potato fritters 

ricl<1es . . • - i*>» 

\inegar . . . i29 

Pickled red cabbage — cucumbers, gberkin§ 130 

««-.-»_ Mushrooms — onions . • ib, 



127 
123 



O 



Railishes and turnip radishes 

Rdasting, observations on , . 4^' 

'■ '' — ■ ■- mutton — beef . . . ' 50 

• — — veal — lamb— pork ' . , 51 

— pig — haunch ot venison . , 52 

• poiiltiy or game, &c. observatious on 53 

— —^turkey — fo\vls->~a goose — ducks , 54 

pigeons — partridges — pheasants— grouse 55 

■■ ' woodcock ... , ib, 

— snipes — -larks , , ,56 

-= — ' wild ducks, uidgeon, teal, &.c. . ib. 

■ ■ ■ - — capons, turkeys, &c. .. ib^ 

— — tuVkey or fovvl with chesnuts — a hare . 57 

—— rakbits — breast of veal — loin of veal 58 

a stacking pig— ribs of beef stuffed . 5s 

^. ..- -. m sweetbreads — tongue and udder , ib. 

'■ calf^^ liver — the head of a yoUng hog * 60 

■" - ■■— — - a bullock's h^art . , ib. 

a calf's heart *, , .61 

a small hen turkey or pullet with batter ib. 

neck of pork , , ib. 

in of mutton • ib^ 

jef 

jf with the inside minced ib. 

Spinage^ to bof 

- - ■ stewed with cream — steived with sorrel 
" observations oh . ; , 
Sea-cale, to boil .... 
Sorrel, to stew , 
.^allads, dissertation on ■ . . , 

■^— ^ excellent and wholesome, Nos. 1, 2, 3 

——— for the winter— another for wiut«r , 

— obsQrvations xm do. 

to supply the want of oil for do. 

Soups, porridges, &c. 

i— -i — to prepare broth for all kinds of 

cabbage — soup with small white onions 

• with cucumbeis , • . 

herb . . . ; m 

- ' a wi»ck turtle, a cbickon sftup, » Scotch i?ek sehjp 




144 

— a potato -a family soup 

— to make * . . >- 

05, &c.— a colouring for sauces— English sov ^ 

— lemon pickle — Quin's fish sauce 

— mfelted butter 



-^ ^^<*pter catsup — mushroom catsup —lobster /sauce 90 

' oyster — auchorvy— a salla^ sauce . ^ . / . 

fennel, for fish — parsley and butter-^appJe 

— M;.iit-:^ft>ra reasted ^Hose— store fie&sr^e 

r— Fish— bip^ad sauce . / ^ 

Sugar. pa>te . . , 

Stuffing for veal, turkies, hares, &c. 
SteWed pears 

V;, T 

Tiirmps, fo bo;l~to m;»«h — observations on lunups 
* |^ ' V - — *f>pSf' tc boil . 

'-$>—.'—, their u,<K in son PS &■ . 



