Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



TREATISE 



ON 



DIET: 



WITH A VIEW TO ESTABLISH, ON PRACTICAL GROUNDS, 



A SYSTEM OF RULES 



FOR THE 



PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE DISEASES 



INCIDENT TO A DISORDERED STATE OF THE 



DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS. 



BY 

J. A. PARIS, M.D. F.R.S. 

FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, 



ETC. ETC. 



" Some Physiologists will have it that the Stomach is a Mill; — others that it is a fermenting 
Vat;— others, again, that it is a Stew-pan; — ^but in my view of the matter it is neither a Mill, 
a fermenting Vat, nor a Stew-pan—but a Stomach, Gentlemen, a Stomach.'* 

Manuscript Note from Hunter' t Lectures. 



FIFTH EDITION, 

CORRECTED, ENLARGED, AND NEARLY RE-WRITTEN. 

LONDON: 
SHERWOOD, GILBERT, & PIPER, 

PATERNOSTER ROW. 

1837. 




LONDON : 

GILBERT ft RIVIN6TON, PRINTERS, 

ST. JOHN'S SQUARE. 



THIS EDITION 



IS 



INSCRIBED 

TO 

DAVIES GILBERT, Esq., M.P. 

LATE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 

AS A HOMAGE TO TALENT; 
A MEMORIAL OF LONG AND HIGHLY-PRIZED FRIENDSHIP ; 

AND 

A SINCERE TOKEN OF GRATITUDE 

FOR 

CONTINUED ACTS OF PERSONAL KINDNESS. 



Dover Street, 

May 17, 1837. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 

PAGE 

Introduction 1 

Anatomical View of the Digestive Organs . ....... 15 

Sect. I. The Alimentary Canal 17 

JI. The various Glands which are subservient to the Secretion 
of the different Fluids intended to act on Alimentary 

Matter 30 

III. Vessels for carrying the Nutritive Product to the Current of 

the Circulation 58 

IV. The Lungs 60 

V. The Kidneys 60 

VI. The Skin 61 

Physiological H^istory of Digestion 65 

Disorders of Old Age &l 

Reciprocal Relations of the Digestive Functions with our Sensations, 
and of the letter, with the waste and consequent wants 

of the System Ill 

Hunger ib. 

Thirst 118 

Instinctive Desire for Exercise 121 



PART II. 

Of Dibtbtic Obsbrvancbs Founded upon Physiological Prin- 

CIFLBS 123 

General Remarks 125 

Intermixture of Animal and Vegetable Food 132 

7 • • ' 



VI CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

On the Periods best adapted for Meals, and on the Intervals which 
should elapse between each 1 35 

Luncheons, objectionable 136 

The Quality of the Different Meals 138 

Breakfast 139 

Dinner 144 ' 

Tea and Supper . 146 

On the Quantity of Food that ought to be taken at different Meals. 148 

(>n the Quantity or Volume of Liquids that should be taken at 
Meak 154 

Conduct to be pursued previous and subsequent to Meals . . . .160 

Necessity of Exercise 16 1 

Danger of Gas-light 165 

Importance of Ventilated Apartments . 168 

Sleeping after Dinner 170 

PART IIL 

Of the Materia Alimentaria 173 

Introductory Observations — How fat the presence of Azote is essen- 
tial 176 

Of the Classification of Aliments 181 

Of the Circumstances which influence the Digestibility of 

different species of Food 184 

Cookery — Boiling — Stewing — Roasting — Frying — Baking . . . .189 

Of Condiments 193 

Of Salt, and Salted Meats 195 

Vinegar 198 

Aromatic Condiment — Spices 199 

Oil, Butter, &c 200 

An Estimate of tbe Nutritive and Digestible Qualities of several 
species of Aliment, as derived from the application of the Phy- 
siological and Chemical Principles established in the preceding 

pages 202 

Milk 203 

Cheese 206 

Eggs 209 

Fish 210 

Fish Poison — Remarks upon 218 

Birds 221 



CONTENTS. Vll 

PAGE 

Farinaceous Aliments 222 

Diflferent Varieties of Bread 223 

Puddings 233 

Rice 235 

Leguminous Vegetables 236 

Nuts 237 

Esculent Roots 239 

Esculent Herbs 242 

Fruits 244 

Plurality of Food . 250 

Of Drinks 250 

Water 250 

Barley Water, Gruel, &c 261 

Tea 262 

Coflfee 264 

Chocolate 266 

Cocoa 267 

Imperial ; Soda Water 267 

Fermented Liquors 268 

Wines, &c 270 

Malt Liquors 284 

Ardent Spirits 289 



PART IV. 

Of Indigestion 293 

Imperfect Chymiiication 296 

Imperfect Digestion in the Duodenum 310 

Of Headaches which arise from Indigestion .313 

Indigestion from Biliary Derangement 318 

Progress and Symptoms of Chronic Indigestion 321 

Dyspeptic Phthisis 322 

Organic Changes ^ 333 

A Tabular Scheme for investigating the Causes, Nature, and Seat of 

Indigestion 334 

A Commentary upon the Preceding Table 335 

Of the Cure of Indigestion 356 



Vm CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Practical Rules for the Guidance of Dyspeptic Patients 358 

Acidity of Stomach, Flatulence, &c 363 

Recapitulation 391 

Conclusion 395 

Illustrative Cases 397 



TREATISE ON DIET, 



8fc 



INTRODUCTION. 

• 

The present edition considerably extended — Popular interest of 
the subject — Works on Dietetics numerous, but not satisfac- 
tory — Contrariety of opinion begets Scepticism — ^The Fate of 
a Patient 'who consults too many Physicians — Quackery — The 
Quantity of Food, and the circumstances under which it is taken, 
more important than its Quality — Dietetic Precepts should not 
savour of ascetic austerities — ^Absurdity of the supposition that 
Nature can direct us in the selection of Food — Man has no natural 
food — ^The qualities of Vegetables completely changed by Cultiva- 
tion — Cookery — ^The folly of denying the influence of regimen in 
the cure and prevention of disease — Digestion — Comprehensive 
meaning of the term. 

1 . Several years have passed away since this work was 
first given to the public, and from events to which it is 
not necessary to allude it has remained out of print for 
a considerable period ; so far, however, from this being 
a subject of regret, I rejoice at the opportunity it now 
affords me of collecting from the stores of a wider ex- 

B 



INTRODUCTION. 



perience, such facts as may tend to confirm and extend 
the doctrines, or to illustrate more clearly those gene- 
ral views which were submitted to the profession in the 
first edition of the Treatise. I must here beg to repeat, 
that I did not entertain the idea of writing an Essay 
on Diet, without having been duly impressed with the 
high importance of the subject, and with the numerous 
difficulties by which it was encompassed. 

In venturing to add a new work on a branch of me- 
dical science, which had already animated such a host 
of writers, and which for reasons to be hereafter stated, 
had retained only a dubious claim to the attention of 
the practitioner, I well knew that I should expose my- 
self to a very severe ordeal, unless prepared either to 
increase the general firnd of information by the addi- 
tion of new facts, and the consequent developement of 
new views, or to render the often-repeated tale more 
simple and intelligible, by divesting the subject of the 
various fallacies with which wild theory on the one 
hand, and vulgar prejudice on the other, might have 
contaminated and disfigured it. I did not, indeed, 
despair of rendering the work acceptable on the former 
of these grounds, but 1 certainly relied with more con- 
fidence on pretensions founded on the latter ; for, let it 
be remembered, although many valuable works on die- 
tetics have descended to us, that since their publication, 
the views as well as language of medical and physiolo- 
gical science have undergone many and considerable 
revolutions. It is true that facts are immutable, but if 
buried amidst the ruins of fallen systems, they remain 
unknown and without value until rescued from the 



J 



INTHODUCTION. 



confused mass, and re-arranged in conformity with the 
acknowledged theories of the day. 

Since the publication of the first edition of the pre- 
sent treatise, a fresh impulse has been given to the 
enquiry, and some valuable productions have been the 

I result ; and I must be permitted to remark, that the 
little reserve with which several of their authors have 

' appropriated my own peculiar views and precepts 
affords, at least, some indication of their estimated, 
though not acknowledged, value. 

2. It will be readily admitted that few subjects, con- 
nected with the medical art, have excited greater in- 
terest, or occasioned more sedulous inquiry, than that 
of which I propose to treat in the following pages ; and 
yet, were the popular works on dietetics subjected to a 
healthy digestion, how meagre would be the proportion 
of real aliment extracted from their bulky materials. 
Upon this occasion, at least, we may, with Diderot, 
ri<licule the popular adage, " the more heads tfte better 
counsel — because notMng is more common than heads, and 
nothing so mtusu(d as good advice." Suppose an unpre- 
judiced reader (my assumption I admit is violent) were 
to wade through the discordant mass to which I allude, 
would he not inevitably arrive at the mortifying conclu- 
sion that nothing is known upon the subject in ques- 
tion ; or rather, that there does not exist any necessity 
for such knowledge ? Nothing cherishes the public 
scepticism, with regard to the efficacy of the medical 
art, 80 much as the publication of the adverse and con- 
tradictory opinions of its professors, upon points so 
apparently simple and obvious, that every superficially 
b2 



INTRODUCTION. 



iuformed person constitutes himself a judge of their 
merits. If a reader is informed by one class of authors, 
that a weak stomach is unable to convert liquid food 
into ahnient, and by another, that solid food is injurious 
to feeble stomachs, he at once infers that the question 
is one of perfect indifference; and ultimately arriTcs, 
by a very simple process of reasoning, at the sweeping 
conclusion, that the stomach, ever kind and accommo- 
dating, indiscriminately converts every species of food 
into nourishment, and that he has therefore only to 
consult his own inclination in its selection. And let 
me here observe that a conclusion, when in accordance 
with our wishes and prejudices, is not only very readily 
adopted, but most pertinaciously maintained. If the truth 
were told, a largo portion of dyspeptics seek the advice 
of a physician not so much for the adjustment and better 
regulation of their diet, as for the means by which they 
may counteract the ill effects of their indulgences • — 
hence the popularity of those "antiMiotis" remedies, 
which promise to take tlie sting out of their excesses, 
and to enable the unhappy dupes to fondle and play 
with vice as with a charmed serpent. On the valetu- 
dinarian, however, incapable of healthy reflection, and 
ever seeking for causes of fear and anxiety when they 
do not choose to come uncalled, such adverse and con- 
flicting opinions may have a contrary tendency, and 
lead him to suspect the seeds of disease in every dish, 
and poison in every cup. 

3. To make the case still stronger, let us suppose 
that the unprejudiced person whom we have chosen to 
represent on this occasion, instead of a reader becomes 



J 



INTRODUCTION. 



a patient, and submits his complaints to the judgment 
of these discordant authors ; might he not, like the 
Emperor Adrian, prepare an inscription' for his tomb- 
stone ? This is not an imaginary case, but one of daily 
occurrence in this metropolis. A dyspeptic invalid, 
restless and impatient from the nature of his com- 
plaints, wanders from physician to physician, and from 
surgeon to surgeon, in the eager expectation of pro- 
curing some relief from liis sufterings i under the direct- 
tiou of one, he takes the blue pill, and, like Sanctorius, 
measqres with scrupulous accuracy the prescribed 
quantity of his ingesta ; but, disappointed in the i)ro- 
mised benefit, he solicits other advice, and is mortified 
by hearing that mercury, in every form of combina- 
tion, must aggravate the evils he seeks to cure, and 
that a generous diet, and bitter stomachics, are alone 
calculated to meet the exigencies of his case ; a trial 
is given to the plan, but with no better success : the 
nnhappy patient at length determines to leave his case 
to nature ; but at this critical juncture he meets a sym- 
pathizing friend, by whom he is earnestly entreated to 
apply to a skilful physician, who had succeeded in 
curing a similar complaint, under which he had himself 
severely laboured : the anxious sufferer, with renewed 
confidence, sends for this long-sought-for doctor, and 
he hears with a mixture of horror and astonishment, 
that his disorder has been entirely mistaken, and that 



" It was the great number of ph; 



that killed the Em- 



J 



6 INTRODUCTION. 

he must submit to the mortifications of a hermit, or 
hia cure is hopeless. For a certain period he submits 
to the ordeal, but his general strength gives way, and 
in the extremity of despair he becomes the victim of 
some crafty knave, who undertakes his cure by the aid 
of the millionth 'part of a grain of blue pill, or some 
equally dishonest empiric, who, in one day, administers 
more pills than would suffice, according to Homceopa^ 
thic views, for every inhabitant of the solar system. 
I appeal to the candid and enlightened members of 
the profession to say whether I have caricatured the 
portrait. No one can believe that I intend to cast the 
slightest reproach upon any legitimate practitioner by 
these observations ; it is to the unsettled state of pro- 
fessional opinion upon the subject of diet, and to the 
obscurity which involves the theory of digestion, that 
all these evils are to be attributed. But to return to 
the subject of dietetic works ; it appears to me that 
their authors have laid far too great stress upon the 
quality of the different species of food, and have con- 
demned particular aliments for those effects which 
should he attributed to the quantity, and still more 
perhaps to the circumstances' under which they were 



' I allude particularly to a class of phenomena termed "Noa-nn- 
lurals," upon which the ancients laid considerable stress, but which 
the modems appeorto have too hastily disclaimeil; the name, it must 
be confessed, is very fai- from being philosophical ; it was liowever 
derived from the fact of their not being essential to the mere naturs 
or constitution of living animala, and which, besides the ahment, in- 
cluded air, exercise, steep, the excrctionSj and passions of the uiinU. 



i 



INTROUUCTION. 



I 



taken ; their dietetic precepts have frequently assumed 
the air of ascetic austerities, and they have thus re- 
presented the cure far more formidable than the 
disease. It has been sarcastically observed, that there 
exists a more intimate connexion between the doc- 
trine of TertulUan and that of many a dietetic practi- 
tioner, than is generally supposed — that he is tlie 
ascetic intrenched in gallipots and blisters, preaching 
against beef and porter ; terrifying his audience with 
fire and brimstone in one age, and in the other with 
gout and apoplexy. Now, while we must all deeply 
lament that the severity of this sarcasm should have 
been, in some measure, sanctioned by the theoretical 
absurdities of many of our minor writers, it is impos- 
sible that any reasonable person can seriously contend, 
that numerous diseases do not arise from an improper 
management of diet; much less, that a judicious regu- 
lation of it cannot be rendered subservient to their 
cure. 

4. It has been affirmed, with an air of much confi- 
dence, that the management of our diet requires not 
the aid of reason or philosophy, since Nature has im- 
planted in us instincts sufficiently strong and intelligi- 
ble to direct us to what is salutary, and to warn us 
from such aliments as are injurious. We may ob- 
serve in reply, that man has so long forsaken the 
simple laws which Nature had instituted for his direc- 
tion, that It is to be feared she has abandone<l her 
charge, and left; him under the control of that faithless 
guide and usurper, to which civihzation lias given do- 



J 



INTRODUCTION. 



miutoii. Hunger, wliich expresses the true wants of 
the system, can no longer be distinguished from that 
feeling which induces us to prefer one species of food 
to another, and to seek it at the most improper periods 
of the day. Nor must it be forgotten that, during 
disease, the senses frequently lose their tact, and the 
invalid experiences an appetite for objects that would 
be prejudicial. That the natural relations which sub- 
sist between the qualities of food and the impressions 
made by them on the senses, are changed or destroyed 
by the refinements of artificial life, is a fact supported 
by too many powerful arguments to refute ; how many 
kinds of aliments, originally disagreeable, become plea- 
sant by habit ; and how many substances, naturally 
agreeable, become disgusting from the creation of cer- 
tain prejudices ! I am acquainted with a lady who is 
constantly made sick by eating a green oyster; the 
cause of wliich may be traced to an erroneous impres- 
sion she received with respect to the nature of the 
colouring matter being cupreous. It has also been 
frequently observed, that persons in social lifo have ac- 
quired a preternatural sensibility to vegetable odours, 
while the savage has a keener sense for the exhalations 
of animal bodies : we are, for instance, assured by 
Captain Cook, that the people of Kamschatka did not 
smell a vegetable essence placed near them, but that 
they discovered, by their olfactory sense, a rotten fish, 
or a stranded whale, at a considerable distance. 

5. Dr. George Fordyce has urged a still more serious 
and conclusive objection to that hackneyed maxim — 



mTRODUCTION. 9 

that we ought to live naiundly, and on such food as is 
\ presented to us by nature ; viz. that man has no natu- 
ral food. It is decreed that lie shall earn his bread by 
the sweat of his brow ; or, in other words, that he shall 
by his industry, discover substances from which he is 
to procure subsistence; and that, if he cannot find such 
I te must cultivate and alter them from their natural 
state. There is scarcely a vegetable which we at pre- 
I sent employ, that can be found growing naturally. 
Buffon states, that our wheat is a factitious production, 
I raised to its present condition by the art of agriculture. 
Rice, rye, barley, or even oats, are not to be found 
I wild ; that is to say, growing naturally in any part of 
, the earth, but have been altered, by the industry of 
I mankind, from plants not now resembling them even 
j in such a degree as to enable us to recognize tbeir re- 
I lations. The acrid and disagreeable opium graveolens 
I has been thus transformed into delicious celery: and 
[ the cokuwt, a plant of scanty leaves, not weighing al- 
I together half an ounce, has been improved into cabbage, 
I whose leaves alone weigh many pounds, or into a cau- 
I liflower of considerable dimensions, being only the em- 
[ "bryo of a few buds, which, in their natural state, would 

' A work was published some time since by a Mr. Newton, en- 
I titled "A Return to Nature:" in which the author advocates the 
[ neceasity of vegetable diet, and of the ahandoament of food which 
I Nature never inteniled for our use. I confess, that upon opening 
f the work, I was not a little amused by the sentence which first met 
L my eye : — " Our drink is distilled water, having a slill eipressly for 
» purpose in our bark-kitchen " ! .' Art versus Nature leauld have 
M a more appropriate title for such a production. 



J 



10 INTRODUCTION. 

not have weighed many grains. The potatoe again, 
whose introduction has added many millions to our po- 
pulation, derives its origin from a small and bitter root, 
which gi-ows wild in Chili and at Monte Video '. These 
few instances may suffice to answer the object for which 
they were introduced : the reader will find many others 
in the Introduction to my Pharmacologia ^. If, how- 
ever, any of my readers should be still sceptical upon 
the subject of such metamorphoses, let them visit the 
fairy bowers of horticulture, and they will there per- 
ceive that her magic wand has not only converted the 
tough, coriaceous covering of the almond into the soft 
and melting flesh of the peach, but that, by her spells, 
the sour sloe baa ripened into the delicious plura, and 
the austere crab of our woods into the golden pippin ; 
that this, again, has been made to sport in almost end- 
less variety, emulating in beauty of form and colour, in 
exuberance of fertility, and in richness of flavour, the 
rarer productions of warmer regions and more propi- 
tious climates. 

6. If cultivation can ever be said to have left the 
transformation of vegetables imperfect, the genius of 
cookery is certainly entitled to the meiit of having 
completed it : for, whatever traces of natural qualities 
may have remained, they are undoubtedly obliterated 
during their passage through her potent alembic. It 
has been observed, that the useful object of cookery is 
to render aliments agreeable to the senses, and of easy 
digestion; in short, to spare the stomach a drudgery 



' Set: Pharmacologia, edit. ) 



Il.id. p. !U. 



INTRODUCTION. 



11 



■ 



which can be more easily performed by a spit or stew- 
pan — that of loosening the texture, or softening the 
fibres of the food ; and which are essential prelimi- 
naries to its digestion. A no less important effect is 
produced by rendering it more palatable ; for it is a 
iact, which I shall have to consider on a future occasion, 
that the gratification which attends a favourite meal is, 
in itself, a specific stimulus to the organs of digestion, 
especially in weak and debilitated habits. 

7. Experience can alone supply the want of instinct; 
and, unless we assume tliis as the basis of all our in- 
quiries upon the subject of diet, our theories, however 
refined, and supported by chemical and physiological 
researches, will prove but Will-o'-th'-wisps, to lead us 
astray into numerous difficulties and embarrassments. 
Experience, for instance, dearly-bought experience, has 
taught us that headaeh, flatulency, hypochondriasis, and 
a thousand nameless ills, have arisen from the too- 
prevailing fashion of loading our tables with that host 
of French entremets, and hors-d'ceuvres, which have so 
unfortunately usurped the roast-beef of old England. 
The theorists, in the true spirit of philosophical refine- 
ment, laugh at our terrors : they admit, to be sure, that 
the man who eats round the table, " ah ovo uxque ad 
mala," is a terrific glutton, but that, after all, he has 
ord^ eaten words ; for, eat as he may, he can only eat 
ftnimaJ matter, vegetable matter, and condiment, either 
cooked by the heat of water or by that of fire, figure or 
disfigure, serve, arrange, flavour, or adorn them as you 
please. There is not a physician of any pi-actical know- 
ledge who cannot, at once, refute such a doctrine ; 



INTRODUCTION. 



every nurse knows, from experience, that certain mix- 
tures produce deleterious compounds in the stomach, 
although the chemist may perhaps fail in explaining 
their nature, or the theory of their formation. What 
would such a reasonor say, if he were invited to a repast, 
and were presented only with charcoal and water? 
would he be reconciled to his fare by being told that 
his discontent was founded on a mere delusion ? that 
the difference between them and the richest vegetable 
viands waa merely ideal, an aflair of words, as in either 
case he would only swallow ari/gen, hydrogen, and car- 
bon? And yet the presumption in such a case woi:ld 
not be more violent, nor would the argument be less 
tenable, than that by which the chemist attempts to 
defend the innocence of a practice which converts our 
refreshments into burdens, and our food into poison. 
It is an ancient observation that, " under some circum- 
stances, words /become things ;" and, in the instance be- 
fore us, the words of the sophist are certainly things to 
the stomach. To those who question the value of die- 
tetic regulations in the cure of disease, I have only to 
observe, that they may as well deny the utility of the 
medical art altogether, and assert that, in all ilisorders 
of function. Nature is sufficiently powerful to rectify 
and cure them, without the intervention of art: unless 
this be granted, it is absurd to say that beneBcial im- 
pressions may not bo made as well through the medium 
of the materia alimentaria, as through that of the materia 
medica ; or, to borrow the language of Dr. Arbuthnot, 
that what we take daily by pounds must be, at least, 
as important as what we take seldom, and only by 



INTRODUCTION. 



13 



frgraina or tea-spoonsftil ; but the truth is tlisit tlie prac- 
ititioner of the present day, animated by an increasing 
iconfidence in the multiplied resources of cbemifttry, is 
■unfortunately disposed to undervalue the therapeutic 
finftuence of diet ; he feels with pride the full quiver at 
shoulders, and he disdains the use of familiar 
weapons. 

8. Those who have read my work on Phannacology 

[will easily discover the train of research by which my 

■ mind has been led, from the study of the operation of 

medicines, to that of the digestion of aliment ; while 

those who are acquainted with the various works on 

^^ dietetics will readily admit, tiiat an ample apology may 

^^B be found for giving to the public another volume on 

^H'that subject. 

^^M 9. Before the subject of dietetics can be systema- 
^^1 tieally considered, or the princi)}les upon which disease 
^^B may be prevented or cured by an appropriate diet, can 
^H be properly understood, or profitably applied, the reader 
^^B must be made aetniainted with the complicated ma^ 
^^B chinery by which Nature extracts blood from food, 
^^p The various processes engaged in this wonderful trans- 
mutation are expressed by the comprehensive term 
DIGESTION, although this word is sometimes employed, 
in a more limited sense, to denote only those jirepara- 
I tory changes which the food undergoes in the stomach. 
Mr. Abemethy would appear to use the term according 
I to this latter acceptation, for he says, — " Digestion takes 
place in the stomach, chylijication in the small intestines, 
I and a third process, hitherto undenorainated, is per- 
formed in the large intestines." The reader, however. 



J 



13 



INTRODUCTION. 



every nurse knows, from experience, that certain mix- 
tures produce deleterious compounds in the stomach, 
although the chemist may perhaps fail in explaining 
their nature, or the theory of their fonnation. What 
ivould such a reasoner say, if he were invited to a repast, 
and were presented only with charcoal and water? 
would he be reconciled to his fare by being told that 
his discontent was founded on a mere delusion ? that 
the difference between them and the richest vegetable 
viands was merely ideal, an affair of words, as in either 
case he would only swallow oj/ygen, hydrogen, and car- 
bon f And yet the presumption in such a case wot:ld 
not be more violent, nor would the argument be less 
tenable, than that by which the chemist attempts to 
defend the innocence of a practice which converts our 
refreshments into burdens, and our food into poison. 
It is an ancient observation that, " under some circum- 
stances, words become things ;" and, in the instance be- 
fore us, the words of the sopliist arc certainly things to 
tlie stomach. To those who tjuestion the value of die- 
tetic regulations in the cure of disease, I have only to 
observe, that they may as well deny the utility of the 
medical art altogether, and assert that, in all disorders 
of Hinction, Natm-e is sufficiently powerful to rectify 
and cure them, without the intervention of art ; unless 
this be granted, it is absurd to say that beneficial im- 
pressions may not be made as well through the medium 
of the materia alhnentaria, as through that of the materia 
medica ; or, to borrow the language of Dr. Arbuthnot, 
that what we take daily by pounds must be, at least, 
as important as what we take seldom, and only by 
10 



INTRomrCTIOS. 13 

^'-grains or tea-spoonsful ; but tlic truth is that the prac- 
titioner of the present day, animated by an increasing 

confidence in the multipHed resources of chemistry, is 

^Hionfortunately disposed to undervalue the therapeutic 
^^Kinfluence of diet; he feels with pride the full quiver at 
^H his sliciuldere, and he disdains the use of familiar 
^H<^weapons. 

^H 8. Those who have read my work on Pharmacology 

^B.vill easily discover the train of research by which my 

^^Pmind has been led, from the study of the operation of 

medicines, to that of the digestion of aliment ; while 

those who are acc^uainted with the various works on 

(dietetics will readily admit, that an ample apology may 
be found for giving to the public another volume on 
that subject. 
9. Before the subject of dietetics can be systema- 
tically considered, or the principles upon which disease 
may be prevented or cured by an appropriate diet, can 
be properly understood, or profitably applied, the reader 

(must be made acquainted with the complicated mar- 
chinery by which Nature extracts blood from food. 
The various processes engaged in this wonderful trans- 
mutation are exjiressed by the comprehensive term 
DIGESTION, although this word is sometimes employed, 
in a more limited sense, to denote only those prepara- 
tory changes which the food undergoes in the stomach. 
Mr. Abemethy would appear to use the term according 

I to this latter acceptation, for he says, — " Digestion takes 
place in the stomach, chylification in the small intestines, 
and a third process, hitherto undenominated, is per- 
formed in the large intestines." The reader, however, 



J 



14 INTRODUCTION. 

of this work is to understand that, by Digestion, is 
meant the whole series of functions from mastication to 
sanguification; for in truth the changes which take 
place during the act of respiration are as essential to 
nutrition as chymification, or the farther elaboration of 
the food into chyle. The relation of a tale which has 
been so often told may, perhaps, appear to many as 
superfluous : I must, however, remark, that every author 
is conventionally allowed to state the theme of his dis- 
cussion in his own language, and the advantages which 
have hitherto attended the indulgence sufficiently sanc- 
tion its continuance. 



ANATOMICAL VIEW OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 



I Tiieii elaborate Machinery. — Their Structure varies according to 
the Food of the Animal to which they belong. — Enumeration of 
the Heveral digestive Organs. — Their extraordinary sympathetic 
relations. — The ahmentary Canal : — its peristaltic Motion. — The 
Stomach: — its Figure, Dimensions, Situation, and Structure. — 
Small Intestines. — The Duodenum: — Peculiarities of its Functions 
entitle it to be considered as a second Stomach ; — Provisions to 
limit its Motions. — Jejunum. — Ilium. — Large Intestines. — Caecum, 
— Colon. — Rectum. — The various Glands, or secreting Organs, 
for the Preparation of the Digestive Fluids. — The salivary Glands, 
— Glands of the Stomach and Intestincs.^ — The Liver. — The Pan- 
creas. — Observations on the supposed Use of the Spleen. — Vessels 
for carrying the nutritive Product to the current of the Circulation. 
— The Lacteals. — Mesenteric Glands. — The Thoracic Duct. — The 
Lungs.— The Kidneys.— The Skin. 



10. No flinction in the animal economy presents such 
elaborate machinery as that of digestion ; but its com- 
plexity and extent have been found to vary according 
to the nature of the food upon which it is designed to 
act. If it greatly differ in composition from the matter 
of which the animal is constituted, the changes it has 
to undergo before it can be adapted for the support and 
reparation of the body which receives it, must neces- 
sarily be more considerable, and the organs are accord- 
ingly more extensive and elaborate in herbivorous than 



L 



J 



16 



SYMPATHETIC RELATIONS, 



in oainivoroiis aiiiniiils; while man, who derives liia _ 
supplies of nourishment from both the kingdoms of 
nature, possesses an intermediate organization. His 
digestive organs may be said to consist of 

1. A long canal, extending from the moutii to the 
anua, vai-ytng in the diameter of its different parts, 
according to the distinct duties which each is destined 
to perform; and which are also capable of contracting 
or enlarging their dimensions according to the circum- 
stances imder which they act, 

2. Various glands, or secreting organs, for the pre- 
paration of the liquids which are required for acting on 
the alimentary matters. 

3. Vessels for conveying to the current of the circu- 
lation the nutritive product of the operation. 

4. The Iung8, which complete its assimilation with 
the blood. 

5. The kidneys and skin, which carry otF the remain- 
ing portion as excrementitious. 

These different organs are not only intimately con- 
nected with each other, hut tliey display an extraordi- 
nary sympathetic relation with the sanguiferous and 
cerebral systems : there is, for instance, no organ of the 
body which is not directly or indirectly affected by the 
operations of the stomach : we shall therefore cease to 
wonder that an impression made upon it by a medicinal 
agent, or by an alimentary substance, should afford the 
means of exciting an action in the most distant parts 
of the machine ; nor can we be surprised that the aber- 
rations of this central organ should give origin to the 
greater number of maladies with which the body is 



J 



I 



THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. IT 

afflicted ; nor that those apphcations sliould be so ef- 
fective, which are directed, for their cure, through the 
metlium of its sympathies. But that we may not, like 
the members in the ancient fable, wage an unjust war 
against the stomach for the maladies which it may thus 
inflict, it is necessary to state, that the stomach suffers 
equally, in its turn, from the derangement of distant 
organs. What practitioner has not witnessed the sud- 
den sickness produced by the sprains of tendinous and 
ligamentous structures, or by blows on the head or 
other parts ? To distinguish between the sympathetic 
and primary affections of the digestive organs, is a pro- 
blem of the gi-eatest practical importance ; and the pro- 
fession is much indebted to Mr. Abemethy, for his 
endeavours to show how the stomach and bowels may 
become affected from local disorders, and vice versd. 

11. Although it would be obviously foreign to the 
plan and objects of this work to enter into minute ana- 
tomical investigations, yet as there are certain facts, 
connected with the structure and locality of the ali- 
mentary organs, which it is essential for the practitioner 
to bear in mind, I shall here offer such a description of 
tbem as may appear necessary for his guidance, or for 
the maintenance of that perspicuity which I am anxious 
to bestow upon the following pages. In the perform- 
ance of this task, I sliall preserve the order of arrange- 
ment already noticed (10), viz. 

1. THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 

12. In strict language the alimentary canal includes 
[ the whole passage from the mouth to the anus, but the 



18 



THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 



teiin is more usually employed to express only the 
stomach and intestinal tube. It may be represented 
as a long canal, commonly calculated as heing five or 
six times the length of the adult, differently twisted 
upon itself, and of different dimensions in various parts 
of its extent. Anatomists describe it as composed of 
several distinct tunics, or coats, the existence of wliich 
may be traced throughout its whole extent, although 
their structure undergoes variation in the different divi- 
sions of the canal ; but this will be better understood 
when we come to speak of its individual parts. The 
intestinal canal is susceptible of a peculiar motion, 
which arises from the successive or simultaneous con- 
traction of its longitudinal or circular fibres, and has 
been differently denominated by authors ; some have 
named it vermicular, othere peristaltic. This contraction 
always takes place slowly, and in an irregular manner ; 
it is, however, capable of being accelerated by the 
action of certain stimulants. It does not seem to be 
sensibly controlled by the will ; nor, indeed, does it 
appear to be dependent upon the nervous system, for it 
proceeds in the stomach after the section of the eighth 
pair of nerves, and it even continues, though the in- 
testinal canal be entirely separated from the body : at 
the same time it appears, from the experiments related 
by Dr. W. Philip, that although these muscular fibres 
be independent of the nervous system, they may in 
every instance be influenced through it ; a fact of very 
great pathological importance, since it follows that the 
muscular fibres of the canal may not only he affected 
by causes acting directly on them, but by such as act 



A 



I 

I 



ITS PERISTALTIC MOTION. 19 

through the medium of their nerves. M, Majendie 
observes, that the peristaltic motion becomes more 
active by the weakness of animals, and even by their 
death ; and that in some, by this cause, it become con- 
siderably accelerated. The object of this motion is to 
propel forward the contents of the canal, and to favour 
those changes which they are destined to undergo. 
The intestinal canal is never in a state of complete col- 
lapse, it always contains gas or vapour, which prevents 
its sides from coming into contact. It has been stated 
that this canal is of different dimensions in various 
parts of its extent, and it is principally from this diver- 
sity of magnitude that anatomists have established 
those divisions which we have next to consider. 

13. The stomach is a membranous bag, very much 
resembling in shape the pouch of a bag-pipe, or, more 
strictly speaking, a conoid bent upon itself. It is not 
easy to determine its exact capacity in the living body, 
nor is it a fact of much practical importance : in va- 
rious states of disease, we have reason to believe that 
it is considerably augmented in size. It has two ori- 
fices : the one termed the cardia, which is a termina- 
tion of the tube we call the oesophagus; the other, 
which communicates with the small intestine, and to 
which the term p^/lorus has been given. The latter is 
raised up, being nearly, but not quite level with the 
former, so that its upper and lower surfaces form, as it 
were, two concentric circles, one on the upper side, which 
is called the small curvature, and one on the lower, 
which is termed the great curvature. The stomach is 
situated immediately below the diaphragm, the cardia 
c 2 



^H wnicQ I 
^B Bittiate< 



EMPTY AND DISTENDED STOMACH, 



being nearly opposite to the middle of the vertebrce. 
From thence it bulges out to the left side, the great 
curvature coming forward and downward : it then 
passes on to the right side, rising upwards, eo that the 
pyhyi'tis is not much farther from the diaphragm than 
the cardia ; when, therefore, a man is in an erect pos- 
ture, substances must ascend to pass through the pylo- 
rus. It is, however, evident that its situation, and re- 
lation with the neighbouring organs, will always suffer 
variations according to its degree of distention ; the 
following observations will therefore deser\'e the atten- 
tion of the pathologist : — in its flaccid state, it occupies 
the epigastrium and part of the left hypochotidrium ; 
whilst, when distended, it exchanges its flattened for a 
rounded form, and fills almost completely the left h^po- 
chmidriuin ; the greater curvature descendiug towards 
the umbilicus, particularly on the left side ; on account 
of the resistance opposed by the vertebral column, the 
posterior surface of the stomach cannot distend itself in 
that direction; this viscus is therefore wholly carried' 
forward. The dilatation of the stomach produces very 
importa,nt changes in the abdomen : the total volume 
of the cavity augments ; the belly juts out ; the abdo- 
mmal viscera are compressed with greater force ; and 
the necessity of passing urine or fa;ces is frequently ex- 
perienced. At the same time, the diaphragm is pressed 
towards the breast, and it descends with some difficul- 
ty ; whence the respiratory motions are impeded. The 
stomach, although a single bag, must be considered as 
divisible into two distinct cavities, to which dilFerent 
oflices are evidently assigned. The left half has always 



i 



COATS UF THE STOMACH. 



21 



I 



larger dimensions than t!ie right ; and M. Majendie 
calls the one the _sj)lenic part, heca,\iae it is supported on 
the spleen, and the other tlie pi/kmc part, since it is 
supported on the pylorus. 

14. The stomach has been described as composed of 
several membranes, viz. the peiiioiKEd, muscular, nerv- 
ous, and villous coats. The nervous coat, however, of 
Haller and the old anatomists, is now acknowledged to 
fee nothing more than cellular membrane ; and we 
might with equal propriety dismiss the two former 
irom the number. The peritonteal covering, being 
'Common to all the contents of the abdomen, can scarcely 
be recogDi9e<l as one of the proper coats of the sto- 
mach ; while it has been very justly observed, that the 
muscular fibres, arranged between the peritonaeum and 
the villous membrane, cannot maintain the name of a 
coat with propriety, since the term signifies a contain- 
ing membrane, whereas the muscular fibres owe their 
connexion with each other to interposed cellular mem- 
brane. One layer of these fibres runs longitudinally 
Ifrom the cardia to the pylorus ; another takes a cir- 

LT course, embracing, as it were, the stomach from 
ifene curvature to the other, and constituting what are 
,lled the transverse fibres. There remains, then, only 
.tiie villous membrane ; and this, in fact, is the only 
proper intestinal coat, or containing membrane of the 
aliment. The same observations will apply to the 
structure of the alimentary canal generally. 

15. The villous, or mucous membrane has a whitish- 
red appearance, and presents a singular velvet-like 
sppearance, from which it has derived its name: not 



A 



22 



COATS OF THE STOMACH, 



being elastic, it has numerous folds, or ruga, which 
supply this deficiency, and serve to accommodate the 
capacity of the stomach to the bulk of its contents ; 
and, at the same time, to retain the aliment until it is 
duly elaborated. It is usually lined with a mucous 
matter, especially in its splenic extremity ; it also con- 
tains many follicles ; and near the pylorus are to be 
seen several glands, to which is assigned a peculiar 
office to be hereafter described. At this spot also, the 
mucous membrane thickens, and forms a circular fold, 
which performs the office of a valve ; a fibrous dense 
tissue is also here found, which some authors have 
called the ^j//f?n'e /«M«efc. The stomach is abundantly 
vascular ; indeed it may be observed, that few struc- 
tures receive so much blood as this organ : four arteries, 
three of which are considerable, are exclusively de- 
voted to its service ; and their several branches com- 
municate most freely with each other in all directions 
by innumerable anastomoses : and, being tortuous, 
they can thus accommodate themselves to the full and 
empty states of the cavity. Nor are its nerves less 
numerous : they are composed of the eighth pair, and 
a great many filaments proceeding from the solar plexus 
of the great sympatJietic. 

16. Notwithstanding the important discoveries of Sir 
Charles BeD, there still remains some obscurity with 
respect to the influence of each particular nerve on 
the functions of the stomach. The par-vatptm, or eighth 
nerve of Willis, (the pneumo-gastric nerve of the mo- 
dem physiologists of France,) would appear, from 
various experiments, to be that which imjiarts to the 



J 



THE DUODENUM. 



23 



stomach its peculiar sensibilities, and at ttie same time 
to connect it in a necessary tie of sympathy with the 
lieart aiid respiratory organs ; thus is it tliat a blow on 
the stomach " douhhs tip" the bruiser, and occasions 
that gasping and crowing which sufficiently indicate 
the course of the shock through the branches of the 
pneumo-gastric ?ierves ; a little more severe and the 
blow is fatal. In like manner may we explain the 
irritation of the lungs and palpitation of the heart so 
often excited by gastric derangement ; nor can the 
physiologist, unacquainted with these relations, assign 
any cause for certain disturbances of the stomach being 
accompanied by hiccup, vomiting, sneezing, &c. 

17. The nerves derived from the great sj/mpaifietic 
minister to its other functions, and although it may be 
difficult to assign to each nerve the duty with which it 
is charged, of this we may be assured, that through 
their combined agency, the stomach is brought into 
communion with every part of the machine. 

18. The duodenum comprehends that range of small 
intestine which commences at the pylorus, and extends 
for about twelve inches; and so important are the 
changes which the aliment undergoes in ita cavity, 
that many authors have regarded it as entitled to the 
appellation of a second or accessory stomach ; and I 
Bhall, hereafter, have occasion to state, that many dis- 

■ eases which have been erroneously attributed to the 
Btomach, derive their origin from the functional aber- 
rations of this intestine ; a fact which renders a know- 
ledge of its structiu-e and situation of great importance 
to the pathologist. Unlike the stomach, which may 



24 



LIMITED MOTION OF THE DCODENtlM. 



be said to be comparatively loose and floating in the 
abdominal cavity, it is secured in its position by various 
attachments, and the manner in which it is protected 
strongly evinces the importance of its functions. The 
practitioner should ever keep in mind the position and 
bearings of this intestine ; for patients, directed by 
their own uneasy feelings, will frequently trace, with 
most anatomical accuracy, the course of the duodenum 
with their finger, from the stomach to the loins on the 
right side, and back again across the abdomen to the 
umbilicus. The duodenum, at its commencement, turns 
backwards and downwards for a short way ; it then 
turns towards the right kidney, to the capsule of which 
it is more or less attached ; it here forma a sacculated 
angle, and in this depending part, the ducts for con- 
veying the pancreatic and biliary secretions enter the 
intestine ; it now ascends from the right to the left, 
just before the aorta and the last vertebras of the back ; 
it continues this direction from thence obliquely for- 
ward by a slight curvature, and makes its exit through 
the ring in the mesentery. Its mucous membrane, 
which presents many villi, and a great number of fol- 
licles for the secretion of its own peculiar fluid, forma 
irregular circular folds, termed " Valvulce conniveyiies" 
which increase the surface of the intestine, while they 
prevent the too rapid passage of its contents. It is 
furnished with nerves from th.e ganglions of the great 
sympaihetic ; and it is also abundantly supplied with 
blood-vessels. It is impossible to view all the arrange- 
ments of this organ, without being satisfied that nature 
was anxious to limit its motions; and a little reflexion 



i 



I 

I 



JEJUNUM. 25 

will convince us of the great importance of such a 
provision : Dr. Yeats, in his valuable paper on the 
duodenum ', which is pubUshed in the sixth volume 
of the Transactions of the College, has alluded to this 
fact in a very pointed maimer. It is evident that, had 
this intestine been loose and floating, the food might 
have passed too rapidly througli it : it might also have 
draTra the small end of the stomach out of its proper 
situation ; and there would have been a constant dis- 
position in the food to pass out of the stomach into 
the duodenum, upon every relaxation of the pylorus : 
besides which, had it been less confined, and conse- 
quently subject to greater distention, a regurgitation 
might have taken place into the ductus communis, from 
an alteration in that obliquity of its direction, which 
now so securely guards against such an occurrence. 
Dr. Fordyce, in noticing the fact of the peritonaeum 
being wanting on the back of the duodenum, most 
erroneously concludes, that this was ordained with a 
view of allowing a greater distention than can take 
place in the lower iutestines : ha<l such been the de- 
aign of nature, she certainly would not have discarded 
BO highly elastic a membrane, and attached the back of 
the duodenum to the vertebrae. 

19. The Jefu7iuin. The precise point at which the 
duodenum terminates, and the jejunum commences, 
cannot perhaps be accurately defined ; but this latter 

' Some Observations on the Daodenum ; with plates descriptive 
of its situation and connexions. Extracted from the Gulstonian 
' I^tuKis. by G. D. Yeats, M.D., &c. 



i 



26 



ILIUM — CtECUM. 



intestine is generally considered as beginning where 
the mesentery takes its rise. It appears to have de- 
rived its name from the fact of its usually being found 
empty ; probably fi-om its more rapid powers of ab- 
sorption. 

20. The Ilium is the continuation of the jejunum, 
and is the last division of the small intestine ; it is said 
to have derived its name from the manner in which it 
is coiled up by the mesentery. Its parietes are thinner 
than those of the preceding portion of the canal ; and 
this circumstance, together with the deep yellow colour 
of its contents, impart to it an appearance very distinct 
from that of the duodenum. 

21. The large intestines exceed the others in diame- 
ter, but are less considerable in length ; in structure 
they also differ materially from the small intestines : 
their mucous membrane does not present that villous 
appearance of which we have spoken ; but is, on the 
contrary, smooth : the number of follicles is also less, 
and it is supplied with much fewer arteries, veins, and 
nerves. 

22. The C(eatm constitutes the first division of this 
portion of the intestinal canal, although some ana- 
tomists consider it as merely the head of the colon, 
and restrict the term ccectun to a small gut which is 
usually described under the title of Appendij^ Vermi- 

Jvrmis, and which takes its rise from the posterior part 
of the coecum : it is about the size of a quill, resem- 
bling, in figure and diameter, a common earth-worm : 
its coat contains numerous mucous glands, and its 
cavity, which communicates freely with that of the 






THE COLON. 27 

' coecum, 19 usually filled with a thick mucous fluid ; its 
use is not well understood, but it is evidently designed 
to supply a fluid of some kind ; and if we admit that 
L the essential parts of the digestion are completed be- 
Ifore the aliment arrives at this part, we may fairly 
conclude that the object of such fluid is to lubricate 
the intestinal passage, and thus to facilitate the ex- 

» pulsion of the faices. At its junction with the ilium, 
tiie ccecum, or, according to some anatomists, the 
6olon, exhibits a valve, formed by the production of the 
interior coat of the intestine, designed, according to 
Fallopius, to permit matters to pass forwards, but to 
prevent their return into -the ilium. 

23. These views, however, regarding the coecum, 
must be materially modified, if we accept the theory 
lately promulgated by Dr. Schultz of Berlin, on what 
he considers " Cwcal diqestton ;" but of this hereafter. 

24, The Colon constitutes the principal tract of the 
large intestines, and exceeds them all in diameter : as 
accumulations in its cavity frequently produce various 
ill effects from their pressure, it becomes essential for 
the practitioner to know its direction and bearings. It 
commences in the cavity of the os ilium, on the right 
side; from thence, ascending by the kidney on the 
same side, it passes under the concave side of the 
liver, to which it is sometimes tied, as also to the gall- 
bladder, which tinges it yellow in that place ' ; it then 

Ei under the bottom of the stomach to the spleen, 
Atli 
AT tl 



• At least Buch is its appearance in the dead subject ; whether e 
tT tranEudation takes place duriog' life is very doubtful. 



28 



THE COLON ; HOW DIVIDED. 



in the left side, to which it ia also affixed ; and theiico, 
passing in the form of the Greek letter S, it terminates 
in the upper part of the os sacrum in the rectum. It 
appears, therefore, to be contiguous to all the digestive 
organs, and may consequently produce much distm-b- 
auce by its morbid distention. Its connexion with the 
duodenum is also a circumstance of much pathological 
importance : whatever motion takes place in the for- 
mer intestine will be communicated, more or less, to 
the latter; and should it become unnaturally distended, 
it will press immediately upon the ascending part of 
the duodenum, and retard the progress of the alimen- 
tary matter, which has always to rise against gravity, 
when the body is in an erect position, or recumbent 
on the right side. The colon has been divided into 
the ascending portion, which extends from the ececum 
to the right hypochondrium ; into the ^ans^erse por- 
tion, or what is termed its great arch ; and into the 
descending portion, including what has been called its 
sigmoid Jlejrure. The coats of this intestine are much 
stronger than those of the others : its muscular layer 
has also a peculiar disposition ; its longitudinal fibres 
form three straight bundles or bands, far separated from 
each other when the intestine is dilated ; at the same 
time, its circular fibres form bands, equally separated 
from each other, but more numerous : from which 
arrangement it follows, that, in a great number of 
places, the intestine only consists of the peritonaium 
and its mucous membrane ; these places are generally 
fonned into distinct cavities, which have been termed 
the cells of the colon: they serve to promote a gradual 



UllU 

^^ 
lo 
mer 
fat; 
eligl 

Buiat 



THE RECTUM. 39 

' descent of the excrement ; but, when the action of tlie 
canal is toqiid, they give origin to mnch mischief, by 
unduly retaining its contents. 

25. Several physiologists have supposed that the 
lolon performs some other fnnetion than that of a 
* tnere recipient. Sir E. Home imagined that it formed 
fat ; an hypothesis which would have received some 
slight support from the fact that the fattest animals 
lave generally the largest colons, did we not know 
liat persons have lived, and enjoyed good health, for 
many years, with an artificial anus formed by the ccecal 
extremity of the small intestines, which sufficiently 

(proves that the large intestines are not essential to 
^rfect digestion, nor to the maintenance of life. 
t 26. The rectum is the last portion of , the intestinal 
^nal ; it begins at the upper part of the os sacrum, 
Where the colon ends, and going straight down (whence 
its name), it is tied to the extremities of the coccyx by 
the peritona;um behind, and to the neck of the bladder 
^^ in men, but in women to the vagina uteri before ; 
^BRflience arises the sympathy between those parte. The 
^Hftoats of the rectum are more thick and Heshy than 
those of any other of the intestines : it has not in ge- 
neral any valves, but several ruga; ; had the former 
existed, the expulsion of the fasces would have suffered 
inconvenient delay. The figure of the rectum varies, 
as it is full or empty ; when empty, it is regularly cy- 

IUndrical, and contracts in transverse folds : it is capa- 
ble of very great distention, and may even be extended 
to the size of a largo bladder : the quantity of fajces 



60 CHYLOPOIETIC GLANDS. 

that aometimea accumulates ia prodigious, and cannot 
be removed except by mecliauical means. 

II. THE VARIOUS GLANDS WHICH ARE SUBSERVIENT 
TO THE SECRETION OF THE DIFFERENT FLUIDS 
INTENDED TO ACT ON THE ALIMENTARY MAT- 
TER. 

27. There is nothing; more mysterious in the diges- 
tive process than the great variety of the fluids which 
appear essential for its completion ; each of which 
has appropriate glands for its secretion. These fluids 
are, the saliva, which is formed by glands whose 
excretory ducts open into the mouth ; and mucoits 
matter, which results from the action of numerous folli- 
cles situated in the interior of the cheeks and palate, 
upon the back of the tongue, on the anterior aspect of 
the velum, and on the uvula ; — the gastric juice, formed 
by glands in the stomach ; and the muctts secreted by 
its membrane; — the "succus intesti?ialis" or proper juice 
of the duodenum and small intestines ; — the bile, which 
being secreted in the liver, and rendered more stimu- 
lating in the gall-bladder, is afterwards carried into the 
duodenum ; — the pancreatic juice, which is secreted in 
the pancreas, and carried into the duodenum along 
with the bile; to which may, perhaps, be added the 
watery liquids thrown into the intestines by the exha- 
lants. Were I to describe the intimate structure of 
the several glands and vessels which furnish these 
fluids, we should be led into anatomical details of te- 
dious length, and which would ho wholly unattended 



i 



THE SALIVA. 31 

hy practical utility. It is, however, essential for tlie 
I physiologist, as well as the practitioner, to become ac- 
quainted with the most recent account of the chemical 
I history of these several secreted fluids. 

28. The Saliva. The mixture under this name is 
probably variable in its physical and chemical proper- 
I ties, according to circumstances which have not hitherto 
I been examined. When first discharged from the mouth, 
it always holds suspended a 7nuais, which is not dis- 
solved, but imparts to it a frothy quality, by enabling 
it to retain the air which it absorbs from the atmos- 
phere. It is readily separated by merely diluting the 
, saUva as it flows from the mouth with distilled water, 
' when it will gradually subside, and may be collected 
on a filter. It is a curious circumstance that, although 
[ no traces of phosphate of lime can be detected in this 
I mucus by the application of re-agents, yet, after inci- 
neration, a considerable proportion appears in the ash '. 
It has been doubted whether this mucus be secreted 
by the salivary glands, or is the common mucus of the 
mouth ; the latter appears more probable. The saliva, 



' It IB this mucus that producea the tartar of the teeth, which, at 
first, is only mucus precipitated on the surface of the enamel ; but it 
I Boon begins to decompose ; its colour changes, by the influence of 
the air, from white to yellow ; the ^'varmth and moiBture of the 
mouth contribute to complete the decomposition, and the same earthy 
phosphates, which are produced by oxidation and combustion in 
open fire, are here formed, and deposited on the surface of the 
tooth by a slower but a similar process. The tartar is, therefore, 
as it were, the ask of mucus crystallized on the tooth. 



32 ITS CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 

deprived of this mucus, consists, according to tlie ana- 
lysis of Bcrzelius, of 

Water 992-9 

A peculiar animal matter 2-9 

Alkaline muriates l? 

Lactate of eoda and animal matter . . 0*9 
Pure Boda 9 

The peculiar matter of the saliva is soluble in water, 
but not in alcohol ; and the solution is not precipitated 
either by alkalies or acids, or sub-acetate of lead, or 
muriate of mercury, or tannin ; neither is it rendered 
turbid by boiling. The saliva derives its name from the 
saline qualities which it possesses; aud although, under 
ordinary circumstances, we are not conscious of them, 
yet, when the stomach haa been long empty, and the 
nervous system acquires increased sensibility, the saline 
taste is frequently perceptible. The same effect is 
produced by disease ; and the disagreeable taste of 
which invalids complain, often depends upon chemical 
changes having been produced in this secreted fluid. 
The common furred tongue would appear to arise from 
an increased quantity of vitiated mucus. The peculiar 
iTulky tongue', which appears in certain states of the 
system, occasionally derives its appearance from an in- 
numerable number of microscopic bubbles of air, as I 
have ascertained by observation : in such cases, the 
quantity, rather than the quality of the mucus, appears 

' 1 am induced to consider the milky tongue as rather indicating 
a sympathetic, than primary derangement of the stomach. It is thus 
constantly produced by mental anxiety. 



THE FUimED TONGUE. 



33 



^ trul 
Beert 



be affected. The black tongue of typhus, on the 
(6ther hand, is indebted for ita character to a decom- 
wed state of the mucus ; while a deficiency in the 
rue salivary secretion will explain its dryness, 
29. When we consider the size of the salivary glands, 
which altogether cannot weigh more than four ounces, 
the quantity of fluid which they continually secrete is 
I truly astonishing. It would be a difficult matter to as- 
Eertain, with accuracy, the proportion of saliva which 
Tthese glands can separate in a given time ; but we 
know that a person unaccustomed to smoking, will, by 
the influence of such a stimulus, discharge half a pint 
in a very short period. In the case of a felon, who cut 
his throat in prison, and so completely divided both 
the larynx, a little above the cricoid cartilage, and the 
oesophagus at the same point, that whatever was in- 
troduced into the mouth escaped by the external 
wound ; it was found that, during each meal, there was 
a discharge of saliva from the mouth, amounting to 

I from five or six, to eight ounces, or even more. This 
b sufficient to disprove the opinion of Dr. Fordyce, who 
toys, " As far as I can judge, the secretion during a 
Bteal, can hardly exceed an ounce or two ; and I should 
Blink that it serves only to lubricate the passages 
through which the food is to pass." With respect to 
this latter assumption, I shall have to oi!er some obser- 
vations in a future part of the work. The influence of 
the passions over this secretion is extremely curious ; 
the sight of a delicious repast to a hungiy man is not 
e effectual in exciting it, than is the operation of 
and anxiety in repressing and suspending it. If 



THE GASTRIC JUICE. 



the reader be a medical practitioner, we refer him for 
an illustration to the feelings he experienced during 
hia examination before the medical colleges ; if a bar- 
rister, he may remember with what a parched lip he 
gave utterance to his first address to a jury. There is 
a trial of ordeal in the Institutes of the Hindus, in 
which we fancy that we can discern through the dim 
mist of credulity, a ray of policy that may have been 
derived from the dawning of a rude philosophy. In 
the ordeal alluded to, persons suspected of theft were 
each made to chew a quantity of dried rice, and to 
throw it upon some leaves or the bark of a tree ; they, 
from whose mouth it comes dry, or stained with blood, 
are deemed guilty, while those who are capable of re- 
turning it in a pulpy form, are at once pronounced in- 
nocent. 

30, The Gastric Juice. Great difference of opinion 
has existed with regard to the qualities and composi- 
tion of this fluid ; it would, however, appear that other 
secretions of a mucous nature take place in the sto- 
mach, with which it may be mixed : this circumstance, 
together with the difiiculty of obtaining it in an isola- 
ted form, are sufficient to explain the contradictory re- 
sults which different chemists have obtained. It is, 
moreover, by no means improbable that this liquor may 
vary in different stomachs, or even in the same stomach 
under different circumstances. M. Majendie observes, 
that the contact of different sorts of food upon the 
mucous membrane may possibly influence its composi- 
tion ; it is, at least, certain that the gastric juice varies 
in different animals ; for example, that of man is in- 



J 



THE GASTRIC JUICE. 



35 



I 

* 



capable of acting upon bones, while that of tlie dog di- 
gests these subetanees perfectly ; and according to the 
experiments of Tiedemann and Gmelin, its acidity is 
considerably increased by the presence of vegetables, or 
substances of difficult digestion. From high autliori- 
ties upon this subject, the true gastric Juice is stated to 
be a glairy fluid, not very diffusible iu water, and pos- 
sessing the power of coagulating certain fluids iu a very 
eminent degree. Dr. Fordyce states, that six or seven 
grains of the inner coat of the stomach, infused in 
water, gave a liquor which coagulated more than a 
llundred ounces of milk. Some authors have regarded 
it as colourless, and without taste or eraell, while others 
have described it as being acidulous '. Dr. Young, of 
Edinburgh, is stated to have found that an infusion of 

I the inner coat of the stomach, which had been previously 
washed with water, and afterwards with a dilute solu- 
tion of subcarbonate of potass, still retained the power 
iof coagulating milk very readily. We see, therefore, 
tow unfounded that opinion is which attributes to the 
potation of water the mischief of diluting the gastric 
fluid, and thus of weakening the digestive process. The 
coagulating and efficient principle, whatever it may be, 
is evidently not diffusible in that liquid. After one fit 
of vomiting, should another take place after a short 
interval, the matter brought up will be little more than 
water, with a slight saline impregnation, and some 

' Dr. Prout has read a paper before the Royal Society, in order to 

e that the stomach alwaya contains muriatic acid. And it is now 

Hierally admitted that the gastric juice, in its healthy state, is more 



;i6 



THE GASTRIC JUICE. 



tiiiicus : it will not be found to possess any power of 
coagulation ; wliich. Dr. Fordyce observes, evidently 
shows, that even water flowing from the exhaknts, and 
which we should therefore expect would throw off the 
whole of any substance from the surface of the sto- 
mach, is incapable of detaching the gastric juice. 

31. Since the foregoing paragraph was written. Dr. 
Combe, in a work entitled " On Digestion and Dietetics" 
has published from the work of Dr. Beaumont, of the 
American army, an account of the case of Alexis St. 
Martin, a young Canadian of eighteen years of age, 
good constitution, and robust health, who was acciden- 
tally wounded by a musket-ball ; the ultimate result 
was a fistulous opening into the stomach, but with the 
perfect restoration of the digestive process, and all the 
other functions of the body. This enabled Dr. Beau- 
mont to undertake a aeries of observations and experi- 
ments, which Dr. Combe has very ably introduced into 
the body of his work. For obvious reasons, such an 
investigation must be, more or less, obnoxious to the 
suspicion of fallacy, unless its results be supported by 
collateral testimony. In the case of Alexis St. Mar- 
tin, however, this is remarkably striking, and we re- 
ceive from Dr. Beaumont's history a confirmation of 
what we alnsidy regarded as facts, rather than any im- 
portant addition to our previously acquired knowledge. 
The following appear to me to be the most interesting 
of the facts that were thus ascertained. 1, That, the 
gastric juice is perceptibly add, and possesses the property 
of coagvlating albumen ; that it is never found free in 
the stomach, but is always ej-cited to discharge itself by the 



THE CASTRIC JUICE. 37 

I iatroductiott i^/bod or so7nc oilier imtaiU. 2. TluU on 
e entrance (^ food into the stomach, the peristaltic rao- 
mtUm becomes greaier, and its blood vessels so distended as 
9 dumge^ tlte colour of the mucous membrane from a pale 
Hnk to a red: from the villi are then seen to arise innu- 
' tneraMe rnintUe lucid points, from which distils a colottrless, 
and slightly viscid fluid which collects in drops, and trickles 
damn the stomach till it is mingled with the food. This is 
iie true gastric juice. 3. The contact not only ff food, 
'I of any mcchanicalirritant, such as the bulb of a thermo- 
eter, or otlier indigestible body, ijivarioMy gave rise to the 
iioti of tlte gastric fluid ; but that in the latter cases, 
e secretion always ceased in a s/tart time, as soon, appor 
', as the organ could ascertain tfiat tlie foreign body 
: one over which the gastric juice had no power. 
4. That the motions of the stomach produce a wiistani 
'i.viming of its cofitents, and admi-rture of food aivl gas- 
trie juice. 5. That chyme is homogeneous but vari- 
able in its colour and consistence. 6. That water, and 
^—Most other fluids, are not affected by the gastric juice, but 
^^fossfrom tlte stomach soon after they have been received. 
^B^ That the temperature of the stomach is ahovi 100° <f 
^^VoAr., but is not elevated by the injection of food. 
^^^ Such are the only facts which I feel it necessary to 
^^enumerate in this place, I shall, hereafter, have occasion 
to advert to the oliservations of Dr. Beaumont. 

32. The mucous membrane of the small intestines 

Eiretes also a peculiar liquid, to which Haller gave the 
me of intestinal juice : the quantity that is formed in 
onty-four hours, he estimated at eight pounds : and 




38 



THE LIVER. 



laid bare in a dog, and the layer of niuens absorbed by 
a sponge, it is renewed in a minute ; and he says, that 
thia observation may be repeated as often as we please, 
until the intestine becomes inflamed by the contact of 
the air and foreign bodies. It has never been sub- 
mitted to an accurate analysis ; it appears, however, to 
be viscous, thready, of a salt taste, and capable of red- 
dening paper tinged with turnsol. 

33. The Livei' is, by far, the largest gland in the hu- 
man body, and is so disproportionate to the quantity of 
liquid secreted, that the bile must require a very ex- 
tensive apparatus for its elaboration; and this inference 
ie strengthened by an examination of its composition, 
for few fluids are so complex, and so different from the 
blood. A knowledge of the locality of the liver is a 
fact of considerable importance to the practitioner, as 
he is frequently called upon to investigate diseases 
which depend, or are supposed to depend, upon organic 
changes in the structure of this viscus. Under such 
circumstances, the patient must submit to a manual 
examination ; and the medical student who is unac- 
quainted with the situation of the liver, with respect to 
the general cavity of the abdomen, or with the changes 
which its position may undergo from various circum- 
stances, will frequently find himself involved in diffi- 
culty and confusion. 

34. The liver is situated in the superior part of the 
abdomen, principally on the right side: it generally 
occupies the epigastric and the right hypochondric 
regions ; but, since the inferior part of the chest may 
be diminished in capacity, or altered in flgiu^, these 



I 






XnE LIVER. 39 

regions may, by Buffering a corresponding alteration, 
become too much contracted to contaiu it ; in which 
case it will extend into the left hypochondric region, 
and may even occupy no inconsiderable part of the 
umbilical region. This occm'S in females, whose chests . 
are naturally contracted, or have become so by the bar- 
barous custom of tight lacing, and from which more 
mischief has arisen, than from all the dietetic errors 
which I shall have occasion to enumerate. 

35. As the liver is connected with the diaphragm 
by doublings of the peritonieum, termed litfaments, it 
follows that, in the Hving subject, it will vary with re- 
spect to the general cavity, in the acts of inspiration 
and expiration. 

36. The figure of the liver is also found to vary in 
different animals, being generally determined by that 
of the animal itself, or by that of the cavity in which 
it is contained. In the human subject it is somewhat 
convex on its anterior, irregular but concave on its 
posterior, surface ; it is extremely broad superiorly, but 
gradually becomes thinner inferiorly, and terminates in 
a thin margin. Its surfaces are smooth, being covered 

the peritonaeum, which foi-ms its several ligaments, 
.t the inferior edge of the liver there is a fissure extend- 
tg some way up, particularly on its posterior surface, 
which divides it into two lobes of unequal size. These, 
from their situation in the abdominal cavity, are dis- 
tinguished by the names of the right and left lobes, of 
which the right is the larger. Besides these, there is a 
smaller lobe, sitimted at the superior and posterior part, 
called, after its describer, lobidus Spigdii. The liver 



40 



THE LIVER. 



usually weighs, in a middle-sized man, about three 
pounds twelve ounces. 

37. In a depression on the concave surface of the 
right lobe, a pyriform-shaped bag, termed the gaU-blad- 
der, is lodged ; it has a duct inosculating with that from 
the liver, through which the bile enters its cavity, 
and, at the same time, it constitutes the only outlet 
through which that fluid can pass into the intestine. 

38. The pyloric portion of the stomacli is generally 
covered by the left lobe of the liver, and the gall- 
bladder would appear to rest usually on the duo- 
denum. 

39. The liver is composed of arteries, veins, nerves, 
lymphatics, and excretory ducts, united hy a pecuhar 
parenchymatous structure. In every other gland in the 
body, the same blood which supplies it with nutrition 
is also adapted to its secretory office, and is conveyed 
to the organ by the same vessel : but the liver re- 
quires arterial blood for its nourishment, and vmous 
blood for the materials of its secretion ; the hepatic 
artery supplies the former, and the vena portarum con- 
veys the latter. This vein is formed by the concur- 
rence of all the veins of the abdominal viscera, which 
gather together and constitute one large trunk, called 
the sinus of the vena portarum, which enters the liver, 
and divides in the manner of an artery. This pecu- 
liar arrangement induced some physiologists to suppose, 
that the bile was prepared in the abdominal viscera, or 
rather, that the blood underwent some peculiar modi- 
fication in the intestines, which prepared it for the pe- 
culiar change it was destined to undergo in the liver; 



THE SECRETION OF UTIE. 41 

»nd tliey have suiiported this opinioo by another equally 
gratuitous, that the blood of the vena portarum is 
better adapted for the secretion of bile, on account of 
the larger proportion of carbon and hydrogen which it 
must contain ; but Bichat has observed, that fat, which 
is a highly hydrogenated fluid, does not require venous 
blood for its secretion; and contends that the bile is 
secreted from the arterial blood of the liver, since the 
quantity of the latter sent to the liver is more in rela- 
tion with the quantity of bile formed, tlian that of the 
Tenons blood ; and that the volume of the hepatic canal 
is not in proportion with that of the vena portarum. M. 
Majendie seems inclined to believe that both kinds of 
blood may serve in the secretion : he thinks that such 
a theory is indicated by anatomy ; for injections prove 
that all the vessels of the liver, arterial, venous, lym- 
phatic, and excretory, communicate with each other. 
This idea, however, is highly repugnant to that simpli- 
city which Nature observes in all her operations ; and, 
although I am not prepared to prove that the blood 
of the vena portarum has more analogy with the bile 
than the arterial blood, still, the peculiar structure, 
disposition, and terminations of this singular vein ap- 
pear to testify the important function it is destined to 
discharge. M. Simon has shown, by recent experiments 
upon pigeons, that when the hepatic artery is tied, the 
secretion of bile continues : but that if the vena por- 
and the hepatic canals be tied, no trace of bQe 
1 be subsequently found in the liver: several pigeons 
•rived the latter operation for six-and-thirty hours, 
t appears evident, therefore, that in these animals the 



8TRUCTUEE OF THE LIVEIt. 



secretion of bile takes place from venous blood. M. 
Simon further observed, that if the hepatic ducts were 
alone tied, the liver became choked up and filled with 
globules of a green tint, which colour was difi'used over 
the whole surface of the organ; and what was very 
remarkable, that from ten to twenty hours after this 
experiment, the animals discharged absolutely green 
matter of the colour of bile, with which the liver was 
overloaded, a result which would seem to have pro- 
ceeded from a vicarious secretion of the kidneys. In 
opposition to these experiments, we are bound to 
adduce the case related in the Philosophical Trans- 
actions, by Mr. Abemethy, and to which the physiolo- 
gist will attach all the importance which can be fairly 
given to evidence furnished by monstrosity. The body 
of the infant, which forms the subject under inquiry, 
was found to measure two feet in length, and appeared 
of the age of about ten months. Its muscles were 
large and firm, and covered by a considerable quantity 
of healthy fat, and the general aspect of the body 
implied that the cliild had possessed much vigour. 
The liver was of the ordinary size, but had not the 
usual inclination to the right side of the body; it 
was situated in the middle of the upper part of 
the abdomen, and nearly an equal portion of the 
gland extended into either hypochondrinm. The gall- 
bladder lay collapsed in its usual situation, and, al- 
though rather smaller than usual, presented a natural 
stnicture ; it contained about a teaspoonful of bile, 
resembling in colour the bile of children, being of a 
deep yellow ; it was also bitter, but not so acridly and 



THE GALL-BLADDER. 43 

■nauseously bitter as (Common bile. But in tliis infant 

■i^e vena portarum terminated in the inferior cava, and 

be entire supply of the liver was derived through an 

tepatic artery of an extraordinary size. Dr. Saunders ', 

irho has devoted much attention to the investigation 

' of the liver, observes, that as the function of the vena 

portarum differs from that of other organs, so has it 

_ been supposed to possess certain peculiarities of struc- 

nre; but that the only marked dilTerenee consists in 

i tunic being thicker, in proportion to the capacity of 

its canal, than that of a common vein, 

40. From the sinus of the vena portarum, three 

principal branches usually take their origin ; these, by 

forming subordinate ramifications, in a regular series, 

at length arrive at their terminations, which are of two 

Utinct kinds ; the one with respect to the circulation 

f the blood ; the other, as connected with their eeo- 

' nomy as secreting vessels. In the first point of view, 

they inosculate with branches of hepatic veins, and, 

through that channel, return to the inferior cava all 

^Hhat blood which is not employed in the business of 

^B^cretion. It appears, therefore, that the hepatic veins 

^H^ the common recipients of the contents of the hepa- 

^Hlo artery, and likewise those of the vena portarum. 

^"5%e secreting termination of this vein is the beginning 

of the hepatic ducts, which. Dr. Fordyce has observed, 

have improperly been called pon biliarii ; for how can 

ie, says he, with propriety, call a tube of many inches 



beel 
Ptet 



at le 
Kftt 



A Treatise on the Structure, Economv, and Diseases of the 
by W. Saundere. M.D, 



44 



THE GAL]>BLADDER. 



in leng;th a pore ? These ducts must be exceediugly 
minute at their origin, since thej preclude the admis- 
sion of the red globules. They gradually enlarge by a 
union of branches, until at length they pass out from 
the liver, and form the trunk of the itepatic duct. From 
the side of this rises another tube that leads into the 
gall-bladder, and the union of the two constitutes the 
common duct, or ductus communis choledocJms ; through 
which, it is obvious, that either the bile arising from 
the liver immediately, or that part of it which has 
stagnated for some time in the gall-bladder, may pass 
into the duodenum. 

4 1 . With respect to the chemical changes which the 
blood undergoes during its passage into bile, we are 
entirely ignorant ; nor are we acquainted mth any 
of the affinities by which the transmutation can be 
effected. 

42. The liver is plentifully supplied with absorbents, 
which take their origin from every part of its sub- 
stance, but more especially from the branches of the 
liepatic duct : this latter circumstance renders it pro- 
bable tliat the bile loses a quantity of its aqueous par- 
ticles as it passes through these passages, and changes 
from a diluted to a concentrated state. 

43. The liver is supphed with nerves, which arise 
]>rincipally from the fiepatic plexus, and enter the sub- 
stance of the liver with the hepatic artery. 

44. M. Majendie states, that the secretion of bile 
appears constant ; for, in whatever circumstances an 
animal is placed, if the orifice of the ductus chokdochus 
is laid bare, this liquid is seen to flow, drop by drop. 



J 



45 



3 surface of the intestine : but we are not to con- 

I elude that, in the living body, its diacbarge into the 

[ duodenum is uniformly progressive, and without inter- 

[■niption; on the contrary, the termination of the duct 

Iwill be occasionally pressed upon, during the peristaltic 

action of the intestine ; at which periods the duct will 

suffer a degree of distention, and the bile will find its 

way through the cystic duct into the gall-bladder. 

H'This eflect will, in some measure, be promoted by the 

H oblique manner in which the common duct perforates 

B the intestine, although the more obvious utility of such 

Had arrangement is to prevent the regurgitation of bile 

* from the duodenum. To prevent the evils which must 

arise from a distended state of the gall-bladder, this 

viscus is so situated as to be pressed upon by the 

». stomach ; I also entertain but little doubt that, in such 
4i morbid condition of this receptacle, an irritation is 
communicated to the stomach, by which vomiting is 
produced, ■which must effectually contribute to the 
expulsion of its bile. M, Majendie has generally found 
it empty in animals that have died by the effect of an 
emetic poison. It seems very doubtful whether its 
coats are endowed with muscular powers to eject its 
contents. 

45. Bile appears as a perfectly homogeneous fluid, 
f a. yellowish green, or sometimes of a brown colour ; 
3 consistence, it is viscid and unctuous ; its taste is 
Hter and pungent ; and its odour peculiarly faint and 
Ktuseous. It is well known that the older chemists 
tnsidered the bile as an animal soap, composed of 
kla and a resin ; and this opinion received no small 



J 



46 



degree of support from the appearance of lather, whicli 
is produced by its agitation in a phial, and from that 
detergent quality so well known to every scourer of 
cloth. But in the present advanced state of science, 
the chemist is little disposed to infer the composition 
of a body from its external characters ; he submits it 
to the ordeal of experiment, and tortures it by the 
most refined operations : the happiest results have fol- 
lowed this rigorous process of inquiry. To the labours 
of Foiircroy, Thenard, and Berzelius, we are princi- 
pally indebted for our knowledge of the composition 
of bile ; and as the subject is one of deep interest to 
the physiologist and physician, I shall here give some 
account of their researches. 

46. Boerhaave, by an extravagant error, regarded 
the bile as one of the most putrescible fluids ; and 
hence originated many hypothetical and absurd theories 
on diseases and their treatment. Dr. Saunders has 
shewn, by a comparative experiment, that the bile of 
a healthy animal is far less disposed to putrefy than 
its blood. The bile of the ox, from the gi-eater quan- 
tity which may be procured, has been usually the 
subject of experiment. The odour, colour, and taste 
of bile appear to reside in a resinous matter, which js 
solid, very bitter, and, when pure, green ; but when 
melted, it passes to yellow. It is soluble in alcohol 
and in pure alkahes; and is precipitahle from the 
foi-mer by water, and from the latter by acids. The 
uncombined soda in bile does not exceed -j-i-g- its 
weight; and, as this very minute quantity of alkaJi 
must be quite incapable of dissolving the large pro- 
10 



J 



THE BILE CHEMTCALIY EXAMINED. 47 

rtion of resin which exists in bile, Thenard was in- 
jduced to turn his attention to the discovery of some 
tether solvent of resin, existing as a component part in 
that fluid. Acetate of lead (the common sugar of lead 
of commerce) precipitates, he found, not only the resin, 
but the peculiar substance of which he was in search, 
in union with oxide of lead. But an acetate, with a 
larger proportion of base, (foimed from eight parts of 
lOgar of lead and one of litharge,) produced a different 
(ffect, and precipitated only the albumen and the resin. 
When the remaining liquid was filtered, and the lead 
separated by means of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, it 
gave, on evaporation, a residue having less bitterness 
and considerably more sweetness. In this state the 
solvent of the resin could not be considered as pure, 
^Dce it retained in solution a quantity of acetate of 
ida, arising from the decomposition, by the acetate of 
lead, of the salts of soda existing in the bile. He 
again, therefore, precipitated the solution by the ace- 
^tate of lead saturated with oxide, and obtained an in- 
Wluble compound of the peculiar matter and oxide of 
This was dissolved in vinegar, the oxide of lead 
separated by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the acid 
driven off by evaporation. 

47. This substance, to which Thenard has given the 
name of picromel, possesses the property of rendering 
the resin of bile easily soluble in water. Three parts 

fe sufficient to one of the resin. The characters of 
erotnel are, that it is insoluble in water and alcohol, 
id incapable of being crystallized ; that it precipitates 
trate of mercury, and acetate of lead with excess of 



largf 
fcoga 
^frffec 



solve 

B^C6 

floda, 
lead, 
agaii 
tate 

^olubl 



48 COMPOSITION OF BTLE. 

oxide ; and that it forms, with resin and a miuuto 
quantity of soda, a triple compound, which is not de- 
composable by acids, nor by alkaline or eaithy salts. 
Chevallier has sho\vn that it exists in human bile 
taken from the gall-bladder after death, but he could 
not detect it in bile discharged by vomiting '. It has 
been analyzed by Dr. Thomson, who obtained products 
indicating five atoms of carbon -!- three of oxygen + 
one of hydrogen ^. 

48. Besides picromel, there exists a peculiar prin- 
ciple in bile, to which the name of yellow matter has 
been given. It is precipitated by acids. It appears to 
be the source of those concretions which form in the 
gall-bladders of oxen, and which are valuable as a 
pigment, on account of the extreme beauty of their 
colour. 

49. The composition of ox-bile has been determine{l 
as follows : — 

Water . . . i 700 

Resin 24 



Picromel . . . 
Yellow matter 

Phosphate of soda 
Muriate of soda . 
Sulphate of soda . 
Phosphate of lime 
Oslde of iron . . 



50. In analyzing the bile of other animals, a simi- 
■ Ann. de Chim. et Phya. ix, 400. • Ann. of Phil, : 



J 



VIEWS or BERZELIUS. 49 

■larity of composition was discovered, which little ac- 
lords with the known diversity of their aliments ; thus, 

Ptfcat of the dog, tlie sheep, the cat, and the calf, was 
found to be precisely similar. The bile of the pig, on. 
the contrary, contained neither yeUow matter nor picro- 
md. It consisted merely of resin in great quantity, 
of soda, and of salts, the nature of which has not been 
ascertained. It was entirely decomposed by acids, and 

taven by the weakest — the acetic. 

^L 51. Berzelius is not disposed to regard the peculiar 
matter, which is considered to be resin, as strictly 
falling under that denomination. He says it is precipi- 
table by acids ; and the precipitate is a compound of 
fce acid employed with the green colouring matter of 
This characteristic ingredient he palls biliary 
natter. He finds bile composed of 



Water 

Biliary matter .... 
Mucus of the gall-bladder 
Alkalies and salts 




One cireumstanee, adds M. Berzelius, relating to this 
biliary matter, has much surprised vnv., which is, that it 
gives no ammonia by destructive distillation ; therefore 
it contains no azote : but what can have become of the 
azote of the albuminous matter of the blood ? for no 
vestige of it is found in any other of the constituent 
parts of the bile, nor does bile contain any ammonia. 
^H* 52. M. Thenard also analyzed human bile ; and he is 
^^k opinion that his experiments have led him to as 



60 



THE PiNCEEAS. 



accurate a knowledge of it as, of any other sjwcies. All 
the acids decompose it, and precipitate from it a large 
quantity of albumen and resin. These may be sepa- 
rated from each other by alcohol. By the application 
of acetate of lead no picromel can be discovered ; nor is 
any other ingredient found in human bile than yellow 
matter, albumen, resin, and salts. The proportions are 
the following : — 



Water 1000, or i 

Yellow matter, insoluble, and floating in 

the bile, a variable quantity, from 2 to 10 
Yellow matter in solution .... a trace. 

Albumen 43 

Reain 41 

Soda 

Phosphates of soda and lime, sulphate and 

muriate of Eoda, and oside of iron 



5-6 



53. The yellow matter appears to be in every respect, 
similar to that of ox-bile. The resin is yellowish ; 
very fusible ; bitter, but less so than that of ox-bile ; 
soluble in alcohol, from which it ie precipitated by 
water ; and soluble in alkalies, from which it is thrown 
down by acids. In water it appears scarcely to dissolve; 
and yet sulphuric and nitric acids occasion a precipt- 
tato from water which has been digested on it. 

54. The pancreas, vulgarly called the sweetbread, is a 
large gland of the salivary kind, lyhig across the upper 
and back part of the abdomen, near the duodenum, 
behind the stomach and between the liver and spleen. 



THEPANCEEAS. 51 

[ts length is eight or niiie^ inches, its hi-cadth is about 
itwo fingers antl a half, and its thickness about one 
finger : it generally weighs about three ounces. It ia 
composed of innumerable small glands, the excretory 
ducts of which unite, and form the pancreatic duct ; 
which, in the human subject, always enters the duode- 
num with the ductus communis choledochus. Although 
the granulous structure of the pancreas has induced 

inatomists to regard it as a salivary gland, yet M. Ma- 
mdie observes, that it differs in the smallness of the 

irteriea which supply it, as well as in not apjiearing to 

receive any cerebral nerve. The peculiar fluid it se- 
letes is, doubtless, necessary to digestion, but we are 

K>tally ignorant of the particular duty assigned to it. 

is we descend in the scale of animals, the pancreas 
disappears : it is found in the shark and skate, but ia 
other fishes its place is supplied by cecal appendices, 
which afford a copious secretion analogous to the pan- 
creatic liquor. The quantity of fluid prepared by this 
gland does not appeal" to bear a just proportion to its 
Dr. Fordyce first attempted to collect a quantity 
' it, by inserting a small quill into its duct, in a living 
dog ; when there flowed out a colourless fluid, almost 
watery, having a saltish taste ; and on letting it evapo- 
rate on a plate of glass, he observed crystals of com- 
mon salt, and muriate of ammonia, together with a 
colourless mucilage. This experiment, however, as its 
author candidly confesses, cannot be considered as sa^ 
tis&ctory, since the secretion did not take place in ite 

Etural state; the quill might stimulate the duct, and 
oduce a different fluid. M- Majendie employed a 
: 






52 



THE SPLEKIT 



simpler mode : he laid bare the orifice of tlie canal in 
a dog, wiped the surrounding mucous membrane with a 
very fine cloth, and then waited until a drop of liquid 
passed out ; as soon as it appeared, he sucked it up with 
a capillary tube ; and in this manner he succeeded in 
collecting some drops, but never enough to analyze it 
with any precision : he recognized in it a slightly yel- 
low colour, a salt taste, but no odour ; and he found 
that it was alkaline, and partly coagulable by heat. 
The circumstance, says this able experimentalist, which 
most struck me, was the smallness of its quantity; a 
drop scarcely passed out in half an hour, and I have 
sometimes waited longer for it. That the pancreatic 
fluid plays an important part in the elaboration of 
chyle, appears evident from the fact, that diseases of 
that viscus are attended with extreme emaciation, 

55. The Spleen is a viscue of a deep blackish-red 
colour, situated on the left hypochondriuni, immediately 
under the diaphragm, and above the kidney. Its figure 
may be said to be that of a depressed oval, nearly twice 
as long as it is broad, and almost twice as broad as it is 
thick. However ingeniously we may speculate upon 
the uses of this organ, nothing satisfactory has been 
hitherto obtained upon the subject. It certainly does 
not appear to be essential to life, for Mr. John Hunter 
removed it from a wounded man, and the patient did 
well. Various other instances of a similar kind stand 
on record. Mr. Herbert Mayo, in whose accuracy I 
place the highest reliance, says, " A dog, from which I 
removed the spleen twenty-eight months ago, became 
upon recovering from the wound fatter than before ; at 



THE SPLEEN. 



53 



present there is not any essential ditFerence in its ap- 
pearance or habits from those of other dogs'." Hoffman 
Faleo relates that, when the spleen is removed from dogs, 
they rapidly increase in fatness. It cannot supply any 
fluid for the digestive process, since it has no excretory 

Bduct. Some have supposed, from the peenliarly dark 
livid colour of its blood, and the difficulty with which 
it coagulates, that its use is to produce some change 
upon the blood, in order to adapt it for the secretion of 
bile. I think it very probable, from the relations which 

I its blood-vessels bear to those of the liver, that it ad- 
ministers, in some way or other, to the latter viscus; 
fcut it cannot be instrumental in the formation of bile, 
Iks we have seen that this fluid can be properly elabo- 
rated without it. Is it not an organ of compensation, 
— a waste pipe, for the removal of any redundant blood 
■which may be thrown into the liver ? or a reservoir, to 
gopply any deficiency which circumstances may create ? 
nd that, in this respect, it is to its sanguiferous, what 
ihe gall-bladder is to its biliary system ? 

56. Having completed the history of the glands des- 
ined for the secretion of the several fluids which are 
feeential to the digestive process, I shall pause a short 
me, in order to offer a few observations upon the na- 
ture of those wonderful phenomena, which arise, as 
it were, on the doubtful confines of chemistry and vi- 
tality. What is secretion ? How are we to explain the 
tact of blood being successively converted into saliva, 
citric juice, bile, and a variety of other equally dissi- 



■ 



k 



1 Phyiiolog,.." 



54 



WHiT IS SECRETION ? 



milar fluids, by its mere transmission through a series 
of minute tubes? If we direct our attention to the 
most simple form of secretion, termed serofis exhalatton, 
we shall hastily arrive at the conclusion, that a separa- 
tion of the thinner from the thicker parts of the blood 
is all that has been effected by the operation, and that 
the organs by which the several membranes are thna 
supplied, are consequently mere sieves ; for if we exa- 
mine the composition of the fluid secreted by the se- 
rous membranes, it will appear to be the serum of the 
blood, deprived of a certain quantity of albumen. The 
following very interesting observations by M. Majendie 
prove that the physical disposition of the small vessels 
has an influence upon the exhalation. When, in the 
dead body, tepid water is injected into an artery that 
goes into a seroas membrane, as soon as the current is 
established from the artery to the Tein, a great number 
of small drops pass out of the membrane, and quickly 
evaporate. This phenomenon has certainly a close ana- 
logy to exhalation. If we employ a solution of gela- 
tine, coloured with vermilion, to inject a whole body, 
it frequently happens that the gelatine is deposited 
round the circumvolutions, and in the cerebral anfrac- 
tnositiee, without the colouring matter having escaped 
from the vessels ; on the contrary, the whole injection 
sjjreads at the external and internal surface of the cho- 
roid. If linseed oil be used, coloured also by ver- 
milion, the oil, deprived of the colouring matter, is often 
seen deposited in the great synovial capsule of articu- 
lations ; whilst there is no transudation at the surface 
of the brain, nor in tlie interior of the eve. With such 



I 



P WHETHEK THE GLANDS ACT AS FILTERS. 55 

'Xesulta before ua, and observing, at the same time, that 
[the structure of all glands agrees in this fact, that they 
[are composed of vessels of infinitely small diameter, we 
■re bound to conclude, that one part, at least, of the 
'process of secretion is mechanical, and that, whatever 
other oflSce a gland may perform, it undoubtedly acts 
«e a Steve or filter. In reflecting upon all the circum- 
jBtances and bearings of this important and interesting 
Bubject, I have often been struck with the wisdom and 
[extreme simplicity of the process by which the blood is 
Separated, by the structure of the eye, into those parts 
nrhich are of such striking utility in its economy. It 
bras essential that the crystalline humor should be pei^ 
QEsctly transparent, and that the interior surface of the 
choroid coat should be impregnated with a dark pig- 
ment, in order to absorb the light immediately after it 
has traversed the retina : now, if we submit the matter 
of the lens to analysis, we shall find that it coagulates 
by boiling, and has all the chemical properties of the 
colouring matter of blood, except colour, which is en- 
tirely absent. What then has become of this colour- 
ing ingredient ? we shall find that it has been appro- 
priated by the vessels of the choroid, for the important 
purpose above stated. On examining this pigment, 
its composition will be found to confirm such a theory; 
for, when dried and ignited, it will bum as easily as a 
vegetable substance, and the ash will contain much 
.jron. For these results we are indebted to the labours 
Berzelius ; and they certainly show that the circu- 
iting blood is decomposed on the interior surface of 
te choroid, leaving there its colouring matter, and con- 



AGENCY OF THE NEEVOUB FLUID. 

Teying the remainder to the inner part of the eye per- 
fectly limpid and colonrlees. 

57. But filtration cannot explain the developemeut 
of those secreted fluids which contain proximate prin- 
ciples that do not exist in the blood ; — no foreign in- 
gredient is added, no chemical re-agent is interposed, 
and yet the fluid which flows from the organized labo- 
ratory has acquired chemical properties, which render it 
decidedly different from the common circulating mass. 
The agent in this case can only be the nervous influ- 
ence, or, in other words, the influence of life — and thus 
is it ever with our physiological researches ; sooner or 
later we are obliged to abandon the light of chemistry, 
and to seek some unknown agent for the explication of 
the phenomena. 

58. Every attempt to understand the manner in 
which the nervous fluid produces the phenomena of se- 
cretion has hitherto completely failed ; the changes to 
which it gives origin no art can imitate, nor any philoso- 
phy explain ; but although we are thus unable to trace 
the steps of nature, we may venture to inquire into the 
general direction of the path which she follows. It ' 
must be allowed that a considerable analogy subsists 
between the operations of the nervous fluid, as an agent 
of secretion, and that of galvanic electricity ; they both 
suspend the natural aflinities of bodies, dissever ele- 
ments between which the strongest attractions exist, 
and determine them to unite in diflerent forms and 
proportions. In illustration of this truth, the following 
ijigenious experiment of Dr. WoUaston may be intro- 
duced : — he took a glass tube, two inclies long, and 



J 



AGENCY OF THE NERVOUS FLUID. 



sai 



ree-quarters of an inch in diameter, and closed one of 
extremities with a piece of bladder : he then poured 

little water into the tube, with -^{-^ part of its weight 
of common salt : he wetted the bladder on the outside, 
and placed it on a piece of silver : ho then bent a zinc 
wire, so that one of its ends touched the silver, and the 
other entered the tube the length of an inch : in the 
same instant, the external face of the bladder gave in- 
ications of the presence of pure soda ; so that, under 
1the influence of this very weak electricity, there was a 
decomposition of muriate of soda, and a passage of the 
soda, separated from tlie acid, through the bladder. It 
seems rational to believe that something analogous may 
happen in the act of secretion. Dr. Young has deve- 
loped this idea still farther; and has observed, that we 
may easily imagine that, at the subdivision of a minute 
artery, a nervous filament may pierce it on one side, 
and afford a pole positively electrical, and another op- 
posite filament a negative one ; then the particles of 
.oxygen and nitrogen contained in the blood being most 

itracted by the positive pole, will tend towards the 
,nch which is nearest to it, while those of the hy- 
drogen and carbon will take the opposite channel ; 
and that both these portions may be again subdivided, 
if it be required : and the fluid thus analyzed may be 
re-combined into new forms by a re-union of a certain 
number of each of the kinds of minute ramifications. 



_flxy 

^brai 




THE LACTEAL VESSELS. 



I. VESSELS FOR CARRYING THE NUTRITIVE PRO- 
DUCT TO THE CURRENT OF THE CIRCULATION. 



59. The Lacteak, so called from the milky appear- 
ance of the liquor they are destined to carry, arise, by 
numberless open mouths, from the inner surface of the 
intestines. Each lacteal takes its origin upon one of 
the villi, by numerous short radiated branches, and each 
branch is furnished with an orifice for imbibing the 
chyle. The radiated branches are collected in fasciculi, 
which are enclosed in processes of the inner coat of 
the intestines. These fasciculi are of a roundish form, 
and have been called ampuUul<B of Leiberkuhn, from 
the author considering them as little bottles receiving 
the chyle. From the villi, the lacteals run a consider- 
able way under the muscular coat of the intestines, and 
then pass obliquely through it, uniting in their coxirse 
into larger branches. Upon the surface of the intes- 
tines an external set apjiears ; it runs between the pe- 
ritoneal and muscular coats, and commonly proceeds 
some way in the direction of the intestine, and with few 
ramifications. The superficial and deep-seated lacteals 
communicate freely in the substance of the intestines : 
those of the jg'iijium are larger and more numerous than 
those of the ilium, the principal part of the chyle being 
contained in the former. The absorbents of the ^eat, 
are proportionally of an inferior size to those of the 
frmall, intestines, and have seldom, though sometimes, 
been observed to be filled with chyle. In their course 
they pass through a great number of lacteal or tnesen- 



THE MESENTERIC GLAND8. 

teric glands, whieli, like the lacteals themselves, are 
largest and most nntnerous in that part of the mesen- 
fery which belongs to the jejunum. 

The Mesenteric Ghnds are seated in the fat, 
between the layers of the mesentery, near the branches 
<rf the blood-vessels. They are commonly scattered over 
Hie mesentery, at a little distance from each other; but 
Hiere are seldom any observed within two or three 
inches of the intestines. They differ from each other 
a size, some being about half or two-thirds of an inch 
B diameter, while others are so small as to be traced 
rith difficulty. Their structure is the same as that of 
the absorbent glands in other parts of the body, but 
they are generally flatter, and are of a pale colour. 
When filled with chyle, they are nearly as white as the 
fluid contamed in them. The lacteals, having passed 
■ough these glands, proceed forward, and by anasto- 
mosing form a set of trunks, which, together with those 
of the lymphatics, unite and constitute the tftm-acic 
. ^td, which ultimately opens into the subclavian vein. 
Huch discussion has arisen as to the mechanism by 
"hich the chyle is made to pass forward through the 
lacteal system : capillary attraction would appear to 
have some influence in the operation, since absorption 
continues after death ; during life, the pressure of the 
abdominal muscles, and the ])ulsation of the arteries, 
no doubt contrilrate to the effect. In the interior of 
Lliie thoracic duct, and in the lacteals, there exist valves, 
^Bto disposed as to pei-mit the fluid to pass forward to- 
^Rrards the subclavian vein, but to prevent its return. 

L__ 



wt 

mof 

of 1 

_ daid, 

■Wuc 



J 



THE LUNGS AND KIDNEYS. 



IV. THE LUNGS. 



61. Although tho lungs perform several essential 
operations not immediately connected with nutrition, 
still, as the chyle ia incapable of becoming blood with- 
out their assistance, they necessarily constitute an im- 
portant link in the chain of assimilative functions. It 
would be digressing too much from the plan of this 
work, to enter into anatomical details of their struc- 
ture ; but it may be necessary to remind the practi- 
tioner, that the lungs are supplied with a part of the 
nerve of the eighth pair, and some filaments of the 
sympathetic, which will account for the sympathies 
which subsist between the respiratory and digestive 
organs. 



V. THE KIDNEYS. 

62, These organs are situated upon the sides of the 
vertebral column, just before the last false ribs. From 
their obiong figure, they have been compared in shape 
to large beans. The right kidney lies under the left 
lobe of the liver, and is consequently lower than the 
left, which lies under the spleen. Their volume is 
small when compared with the large quantity of fluid 
which they secrete ; and it appears probable, that the 
chemical functions which they perform are less exten- 
sive than those which may be regarded as more strictly 
mechanical. They are generally surrounded with a 
considerable quantity of fat : their parenchyma is com- 
posed of two substances ; the one exterior, vascular, or 



STRUCTUHE OF THE KIDNEY. 



•tical ; the other, called tuJtvlar, disposed in a certain 
of cones, the bases of which correspoDd to the 
'ace of the organ, while their summits unite in the 
lembranous cavity called joefou. These cones appear to 
formed by a great number of small hollow fibres, 
■which are excretory canals of a particular kind, and 
which are generally filled with urine. It is a curious 
(act, that if a slight compression be made upon these 
niferous cones, the urine will pass out in consider- 
ile quantity ; but, instead of being limpid, as when it 
out naturally, it is muddy and thick, which evi- 
lently proves that the hollow fibres act as filters. In 
ipect to its volume, no organ receives so much blood 
the kidney : the artery which is directed there is 
•ge, short, and proceeds immediately from the aorta. 
Haller has decided, that no less than a thousand ounces 
of blood may pass through the renal structure in the 
space of an hour ; and the extreme facility with which 
the coarsest injections pass through the renal arteries 
into the ureters, or excretory ducts, affords a convincing 
of the immediate connexion which exists between 
ilUl the different parts of the structure of the kidney. 
The filaments of the great sympathetic are alone distri- 
buted to these organs, 

L VI. THE SKIN. 

r- 63. The skin forms the envelope of the body, and 
is lost in the mucous membranes at the entrance of all 
the cavities; although some assert that these membranes 
are only a continuation of it, and thus accomit for the 
sympathy which subsists between such structures. Be 



62 THE SKIN. 

this as it may, it is evident that the interior organs, 
especially the stomach, alimentajy canal, the lungs, the 
liver, and the kidneys, sympathize in a very remarkable 
degree with the surface of the body. So striking and 
constant is the sympathy between these latter organs 
and the akin, that they appear capable of reciprocally 
assisting each other in their operations : where cold 
contracts the pores of the surface, we find the kidneys 
excited to a greater degree of activity ; and changes in 
the secretions of the skin are attended with correspond- 
ing alterations in the alimentary excretions. Its sym- 
pathy with the stomach is also evinced by the pheno- 
mena which accompany digestion. It has been ascer- 
tained by Lavoisier and Seguin, that the cutaneous 
transpiration is at its minimum during chymification, 
and at its maximum after its completion. No organ of 
the body, however, is in such close and intimate alli- 
ance with the skin as the brain ; nor is this surprising 
when we consider the universal expansion of tlie sen- 
tient extremities of its nerves. That the sympathies of 
the skin are more direct with the brain than with the 
heart is shown, as Mr. Travers ' very acutely observes, 
by the blush preceding the sensible increase of the 
heart's action, as well as by the paUor which precedes 
the state of Syncope, " So also," he adds, " we may 
observe that the fever of Scarlatina, measles, and small- 
]K>x precedes the eruption, and that the inflammation of 
eryaii>elas precedes the fever. " In a pathological point 



' " A Further Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation," &c. 
by B. Trvien. F.R.S. 



i 



CUTANEOUS ABSORPTION. 63 

r«f view this principle is extremely important, and is 
capable of explaining hitherto unintelligible or obscure 
phenomena. 

64. According to M. Theiiard, the liquid that escapes 
irom the skin ia composed of a great deal of water, a 
small quantity of acetic acid, of muriates of soda and 
potass, a small proportion of earthy phosphate, an atom 
of oxide of iron, and a trace of animal matter : the skin 
exhales also carbonic acid. The average amount of 
perspired fluid during twenty-four hours may be stated 

||t£ about thirty ounces, 
a 65. Much controversy has existed with regard to 
^e absorbing powers of the skin: the experiments of 
kl. Seguin would seem to show that, as long as the epi- 
Bermis remains entire, substances in contact with the 
surface will not pass into the circulation, but that as 
soon as it is abraded, absorption takes place. If, how- 
ever, ftiction be employed, an effect follows which sim- 
ple application would not produce ; it cannot, for in- 
stance, be doubted that mercury and other bodies may 
be thus made to pass into the system. This question 
is one of great importance, inasmuch as it would enable 
us to appreciate the value of nourishing baths of milk 
and broth ; but at present considerable doubt liangs 
OTer it. In opposition to the opinion of Seguin, Dr. 
Dill has lately published a paper in the second volume 
of the Transactions of the Medico-chirurgical Society 
of Edinburgh, on the subject of cutaneous absorption. 
His belief in the existence of such a ftinction, is 

Kmded in the fact that in some cases, both of health 
d disease, an immoderate quantity of urine is die- 



64 



IMPORTANCE OF ANATOMT TO PHYSICIANS. 



charged, whicb he maintains cannot be accounted for 
ou any other principle tlian that of cuticular inhala- 
tion ; and in order to confirm such an opinion, Dr. Dill 
instituted a aeries of experiments, with a view of dis- 
covering whether or not the weight of the body is af- 
fected by immersion in the warm-bath. I am bound 
to say that the results he obtained are far from carry- 
ing conviction to my mind. 

66. I have thus, with as much brevity as the subject 
will allow, offered a sketch of the different organs by 
which aliment is converted into blood. My object has 
been to bring into one point of view all those facts 
which are capable of practical application, and to ex- 
clude, as far as possible, those which have no other than 
theoretical relations to the subject before us. Minute 
anatomy is of little service to the physician ; but with- 
out a knowledge of the positions and localities of the 
different organs which constitute the seats of the di- 
seases he may be called upon to cure, he will be ine- 
vitably led into error. In consequence of such defici- 
ency, a practitioner at once refers a fulness of the right 
epigastrium to the liver, forgetting that a distended 
state of the duodenum may account for the symptom ; 
in like manner, he will attribute to the kidney pains 
which ought to be referred to the posterior edge of the 
liver. A hundred parallel examples might be adduced, 
but those above stated will answer every purpose of 
illustration. 




PHYSIOLOGICAL HISTORY OF DIGESTION, AND ITS 
CONSEQUENCES. 

futrition : — its final Cause. ^Old Age; — Sir A. Carlisle's View of 
the Disorders of Senility objectionable. — The Author's opinion. — 
Chemical and Mechanical Agents of Digestion. — Conventional 
acceptation of the term Chemical .^MaBtication.—InBalivation. — 
Blrroneous Opinion of Dr. Fordyce and others with respect to the 
Use of the Saliva.— Deglutition. — Action of the Gastric Juice. — 
Chymification : — Artificial Digestion.— Office of the Pylorus, — 
Vomiting. — Duodenal Digestion. — Chylification : — Uses of the 
Bile. — Sir B. Brodie's E^erimenCs. — Chemical Nature of the 
Chyle ; — its Absorption, — Excrementitioua Matter. — Liquid Ali- 
ments :~how decomposed in the Stomach. — The U quid part ab- 
eorbed or coagulated. — Digestion of Milk, Broth, Wine, Oil, &c. 
— Lymphatic Absorption. — Sanguifi cation. — Respiration. — Prac- 
tical Conclusions. — Urinary Secretion. — Acidifpng Powers of the 
Kidney. — The Quality of Urine influenced by the Digestive Pro- 
cess, — Necessity of Urinary Secretion. — A general View of the 
Digestive Process. — Reasons for believing in the esiatcnce of an 
Agent analogous to Electricity. — Experiments of Dr. Wilson 
Philip. — Speculations of the Author. 

^7. A VERY superficial examination of an organized 
|>ody will convince us, that it is constantly losing poi^ 
tioDs of the matter of which it is composed : several of 
its organs are incessantly engaged in separating fluids, 
which are loaded with its more solid constituents ; and 
^^ it is on the necessity of repairing these habitual losses, 
Httfaat the want of aliment is founded ; while the assimi- 



(JG 



lation of such nutritive materials with the composition 
of the organs which tliey are destined to supply, con- 
stitutes NUTRITION. And with such nicety are these 
processes of waste and repair adjusted, that, whatever 
may be the quantity of food taken, or however the cir- 
cumstances under which it is consumed may vary, the 
same individual, after having augmented in weight in 
proportion to the quantity of ingestrt, will return, in the 
space of twenty-four hours, to nearly the same standard, 
provided he is not growing, nor has suffered any disor- 
der of function. During this period the food has been 
decomposed, and re-combined into compounds analo- 
gous to those which compose the organs to which it is 
carried ; and this appears to take place with the same 
facility, however remote the composition of the aliment 
may be from that of the substances with which it assi- 
milated. Living bodies, then, have not inaptly been 
compared to furnaces, into which inert substances are 
successively thrown, which combine amongst them- 
selves in various manners, maintain a certain place, 
and perform an action determined by the nature of the 
combinations they have formed, and at last fly ofl^ in 
order to become again subject to the laws of inanimate 
nature. These views naturally suggest several import- 
ant questions for our consideration. If every part of 
the machine be thus capable of immediate and constant 
repair, why should it ever wear out ? Does there exist 
some secret spring which is incapable of renewal, and 
at whose expense all the subordinate parts of the ma- 
chinery are kept in repair ? And why should life be 
terminated by the hardening of fibres, and the obstruo 



_ of tin 



OLD AGE. 67 

f tion of vessels, wlioii those very fibres and vessels are 
usccptible of renewal ? These are mysteries which 
unot be cleared up uotll the sealed fountain of vita- 
lity be laid open. It seems probable, that every indi- 
vidual has a certain measure of living energy assigned 
» to him, which is gradually expended in directing and 
laintainir.g the performance of certain functions : 
brhen this is exhausted, the individual must perish, for 
t is incapable of reneival. Sir A. Carlisle, in his work 
the Disorders of Old Age, remarks, that it seems 
little better than a vulgar error, to consider the termi- 
nation of advanced life as the inevitable consequence 
I of time, when the immediate cause of death in old 
reona is generally known to be some well-marked 
Fdisease. I have directed some attention to this sub- 
ject, and I feel warranted by experience to state, that 
the greater number of those who terminate their exist- 
ence at an advanced age, die from the exhaustion of 
"vital power, and that this is manifested in some one of 
their principal organs, the consequence of which is an 
ill-marked species of inflammation. Symptoms indi- 
cating the existence of peritonitis are by no means un- 
common ; in some cases, the lungs or the brain appear 
to be the seats of disease. The arterial system owes 
its regularity of action to the presiding influence of the 
nervous power ; and if this be withdrawn, or irregularly 
supplied, inflammation follows. It is to such a cause 
that the local congestions, and topical inflammations, 
which so frequently occur in fever, are to be attributed. 

I With all due respect, therefore, for the ex]>erience and 
|fc)II of the author to whom I allude, I must differ with 



him in the view he has taken of the disorders of seni- 
lity : the doctrine he inculcatea is dangerous, and may 
lead to practical mischief. In cases of congestion, 
blood-letting is undoubtedly a judicious remedy, when 
directed with measured caution, because it removes an 
effect which may contribute to aggravate the original 
disease, or to obstruct the sanative operations which 
nature institutes for her own relief: but we should 
perfectly understand the mode in which it operates, 
and not mistake secondary for primary diseases. 

66. Although these views may disparage every effort 
to prolong the natural term of existence, they afford 
us the satisfaction of knowing that we may ward off 
those accidents which would otherwise lead to its pre- 
mature termination. Although we cannot augment the 
allotted measure of our vital energy, we can, at least, 
learn to husband its resources, and not to consume, 
with wanton indifference, the unreeruitable oil by which 
the lamp of life is supported, 

68. In examining tlie phenomena of waste and sup- 
ply, we shall observe that there is a marked difference 
depending on age, health, temperament, and bodily 
exercise, in the proportion of the parts which enter 
into this cmrent, and of those which abandon it ; and 
that the velocity of the motions usually varies accord- 
ing to the different conditions of each living being. A 
knowledge of these differences, which is to be disco- 
vered only by ample experience and well-directed ob- 
servation, must constitute the basis of a true theory, 
for the regulation of diet. If it be said, that a deficient 
quantity of food is indicated by our feelings, and that 



AGENTS OF DIGESTION. 



fees is carried off without inconvenience, I shall 
wply, that, under ordinary circumstances, nature rarely 
luffers from abstinence, but continually from repletion ; 
lat while, in one case, she limits her expenditure to 
the exigencies of her income, in the other, she 
called upon to exercise an injurious liberality to 
f off by various secretions and exhalations the uae- 
! burden. In the vigour of health and youth, the 
3 of such a system may not be felt, but as life ad- 
inces, organic changes are slowly and imperceptibly 
iroduced, wliich ultimately, by their aggregate effect, 
' the machine and lead to disease and premature 
^death. No one has illustrated this subject more forcibly 
and philosophically than Mr. Travera in a late work, to 
which I shall have occasion to refer more fully on a 
^^^ture occasion. 

^V 70. If there be one law in the animal economy which, 
^Etbove every other is irresistibly forced upon our atten- 
^B 4i6n, and which must command our unqualified assent, 
^Kit is this, that the adjustment of supplies should 
^^Klways bear a direct relation to the waste and 
^foROWTH OF THE INDIVIDUAL — and yet it would be 
difficult to point out a principle so little regarded, and 
BO generally abused. Do we not daily see the adult 
ndulging in an excess adapted only to the demands of 
, rapid growth ? — the sedentary and indolent feeding 
Bke the active and laborious ? Do we not witness the 
ntest alterations and changes in the habits of men 
active countryman becoming the sedentary 
rtist, — the sportsman, inhaling the invigorating 
•eezes of the morning, converted into the legislator. 



I 



70 AGEUTS OF DIGESTION. 

doomed to breathe during the greater portion of tlie 
twenty-four hours, smoke, carbonic acid, and animal 
effluTia? Do we not, I repeat, see these, and equally 
violent changes in the habits of men; but when, let 
me ask, do we see alterations in the diet in accordance 
with such changes ? 

71. If chemical change be defined that change of 
composition in which the elements of bodies are dif- 
ferently arranged, with regard to theii- proportions and 
modes of combination, the conversion of aliment into 
blood strictly falls under that description; but the de- 
finition generally includes the operation of certain 
known laws, by which such changes are produced. In 
this latter sense the analogy fails ue; for the forces 
which determine the decomposition of food, and its 
recombination into chyle, are undoubtedly not to be 
measured or appreciated by the laws which govern the 
transmutations of inanimate matter : we may, never- 
theless, conventionally retain the term, in order to dis- 
tinguish such actions from those which are more 
strictly mechanical ; and although, in the progress of 
such discussions, we may lapse into the common 
language of chemistry, the reader will, from this ex- 
planation, readily understand the latitude with which 
it is to be received. 

72. In every change which the aliment undergoes, 
from its introduction into the mouth to the exclusion 
of its refuse, we shall discover the combined operation 
of chemical and mechanical agents. When, for in- 
stance, the food enters the mouth, it is at once sub- 
mitted to the mechanical process of division by the 



J 









I 



MASTICATION AMD INSiLIVATION. 71 

teetli; and, during its mastication, it becomes intimately 
mixed and combined with a chemical agent, which 
prepares it for the process which it has shortly to un- 
irgo in tha stomach. 

73. Bat there exists, moreover, a tfital action which 
no natural philosophy can elucidate — the lights of che- 
mistry, feeble as they are in the stomach and first in- 
ieetine, fail us altogether after the change produced by 

le admixture of bile with the chyme in the duode- 
At this period of the process it is probable that 
certain organic molecules result, and are developed and 
modified by a new class of actions, wholly different 
from what we understand by chemiatl transmutation ; 
in short, the organization, and not the composition, of 
tbe products is to be regarded, and which during their 
passage through the different glands, are doubtless ela- 
borated by a series of ascending changes into forms of 

icreasing complication. 

74. The quantity of the salivary secretion appears to 
'^ augmented by the pressure occasioned upon the 

glands by the act of mastication ; but its flow, although 
perhaps less in quantity, equally takes place without the 
.j^A of such pressure, as is proved by the phenomena ob- 
'jierved during the repast of the criminal already alluded 
to (29). The glands appointed to secrete this fluid seem 
to act in sympathy with those of the stomach, both of 
which are simultaneously excited by the stimulus of 
le food, or even by the contemplation of a favourite 
Macbride considered the saliva as a ferment '. 

' This opititou has been revived by M. Raspnil, 
10 



72 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION. 



The gronnd of this opinion arose from his having 
made experiments, in which pieces of meat and water 
■were mixed together alone in one vessel, and in an- 
other the same substances were mixed with saliva ; in 
the former case no bubbles of air were perceptible, but 
in the latter a copious evolution of them took place. 
This, however, was a fallacy, depending upon the visci- 
dity which the saliva imparted to the water, by which 
the escape of air was prevented until it became sensi- 
ble. Dr. Fordyce, on the other hand, contends, that 
the saliva answers no other purpose than to lubricate 
the passages through which the food is to pass, because 
he cannot discover in the composition of that fluid any 
ingredients which are likely to act as powerful solvents. 
But the processes of nature are more refined than those 
of art ; and where chemistry refuses its aid, we may 
often derive information from simple experience. This 
happens in the question before us ; the introduction of 
saliva into the stomach is obviously essential to a 
healthy digestion. That a dry state of the fauces 
should be attended with loss of appetite, may, perhaps, 
be reconciled, on the supposition that the salivary 
glands sympathize with those of the stomach, and that, 
therefore such a condition of the fauces is merely indi- 
cative of a deranged state of the gastric secretion ; but 
this explanation will not apply to those cases of an- 
orexia, in which the saliva is duly secreted, but is, 
from some mechanical cause, not swallowed. Ruysch 
knew a man who was wholly deprived of his appetite 
by a fistula in one of the salivary ducts ; and it is well 
known to the physician who has attended maniacal 



J 



I 



MECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION. 73 

patients, that the constant spitting in which such per- 
sons occasionally indulge, is invariably attended with 
loss of appetite, dyspepsia, and emaxiiation. Insaliva^ 
tion, therefore, is as essential as mastication ; and al- 
though it will not supersede the necessity of this latter 
operation, as we iind that persons who do not chew 
their food have often, on that account, a latiorious 
digestion, yet it may, to a certain degree, compensate 
for it ; and it is probable that the abundance of saliva 
in children may render mastication less necessary ; in 
like manner, we find that, in old age, the loss of teeth 
is followed by an increased salivary discharge. The 
change which the savour and odour of food undergo in 
the mouth sufficiently testifies some chemical action ; 
but it must, at the same time, be admitted, that the 
deglutition is assisted by the moisture and lubrication 
which the saliva affords. 

75. M. Majendie says, we are informed that mas- 
tication and insalivation are carried sufficiently far by 
the degree of resistance and savour of the food ; be- 
sides, the sides of the mouth being endowed with tact, 
and the tongue with a real sense of touch, they are very 
capable of appreciating the physical changes which the 
food undergoes. Though deglutition is very simple in 
appearance, it is nevertheless the most complicated of 
all the muscular actions that serve for digestion. It is 
produced by the contraction of a great number of 
[Uscles, and requires the concurrence of many impor- 
int organs. It has been divided into three periods : 
the first, the food passes from the mouth to the 
;arynx ; in the second, it passes the opening of the 



J 



DIGESTION IN THE 8T0MA0H. 

glottis, and that of the nasal canals, and arrives at the 
CESophagus ; in the third, it passes through this tube, 
and enters the stomach. The progress of the alimen- 
tary bolus is facilitated by mucus, ■which is pressed out 
of the follicles over which it passes. Its passage through 
the oesophagus appears to be comparatively slow, and 
it sometimes stops for several seconds : every person 
must be convinced of this fact from his own sensa- 
tions; and where the bolus has been very large, its 
passage has been accompanied with vivid pain, occa- 
sioned by the distention of the nervous filaments which 
surround the pectoral portion of the canal ; thus then 
is the morsel passed on by the successive contractions 
of the muscular fibres of the canal, and not by its own 
weight, as we might be apt to consider: we should 
also remember that during the feeding of graminivorous 
animals it is propelled upwards into the stomach, and 
even man, as a matter of experiment, has often swal- 
lowed liftuids, while standing on his head. 

76. The seusationn excited upon the oesophagus by 
pressure, laceration, &c. are analogous to those of the 
skin on similar occasions ; but this mode of sensibility 
would appear to terminate at the cardia ; for the sto- 
mach, in a healthy state, does not experience any sen- 
sation on the contact of food. 

77. When the aliment is introduced into the sto- 
mach, it appears to remain there but a short period 
before it undergoes a change ; but this varies accord- 
ing to its nature, and other circumstances. It has 
been stated (13) that, although the stomach is a 
single bag, it may be considered, with respect to its 



DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH. 75 

fiinctions, as divisible into two distinct caTities, the one 
termed tlie pyloric, the other the splenic extremity ' ; 
and these portions are, during the activity of the 

I Stomach, separated from each other by a peculiar mue- 
pular contraction. These chambers evidently appear to 
j>erform different offices in the process of digestion. 
IThe splenic portion would seera to separate from the 
food the superfluous (|uantity of water, and then to 
transmit it to the pyloric division, where it undergoes 
die first great alimentary change, or is converted into 

>tAi/me : during this operation both orifices of the sto- 
)liach are closed. It has been stated that, as the food 
accumulates within the cardiac chamber, the stomach 
becomes prominent in the epigastrium, the abdomen 
is distended, and the neighbouring viscera are com- 
^k>i^6sed. Under such circumstances it is evident that 
^pphe reflux of food along the cesophagus would readily 
iake place, had not some provision been established to 
prevent it ; it has been accordingly observed that the 
muscular fibres of the tube fall into frequent contrac- 
lions, at such a period, and which more especially 
«jur during the act of inspiration, when the pressure 
[jion the abdomen is the greatest. In certain morbid 
^tea these muscular efforts are too feeble to accom- 
* pHsh their object, and a species of rumination takes 
place, which greatly infests the dyspeptic sufferer. I 

' In the horse, the mucous membrane of the two estremitiea of 
the stomach has a striking difference of structure : the horse being 
uimal, this arrangement may, in some degree, 
Krhaps, answer the purpose of the more complicated stomachs of 
e ruminaniin. 




J 



AGENCY OP THE GASTEIC JUICE. 

shall not consume the time of the reader by relating 
the numerous theories of putrefaction, concoction, fer- 
mentation, and trituration, which have been suggested 
by physiologists of different ages, to account for the 
changes which the food undergoes : it will be sufficient 
to state, that this question is at length determined, and 
that the solvent energy of the peculiar liquid, which 
has been already described (30) under the appellation 
of gastric juice, together with the motions of the sto- 
mach, alone produce that change upon the aliment 
which we have next to consider. 

78. It is not easy to define the exact nature of 
chyme ; but authors agree in considering it a homo- 
geneous paste, greyish, of a sweetish taste, slightly 
acid, and retaining some of the properties of the food. 
M. Majendie has lately examined the subject with 
greater precision, and it follows from his experiments, 
that there are as many species of chyme as there are 
varieties of food ; if, at least, we may judge by colour, 
consistence, and sensible qualities. 

79. The gastric juice is remarkable for three qua^ 
lities, — a coagulating, antipntrescent, and solvent 
power. I have already spoken of its coagulating pro- 
perties. Of its antiseptic powers abundant proofs have 
been furnished by the experiments of several physiolo- 
gists. Dr. Fordyce found that the most putrid meat, 
after remaining a short time in the stomach of a dog, 
became perfectly sweet. Spallanzani ascertained that 
the gastric juice of the crow and the dog will preserve 
veal and mutton, and without loss of weight, for thirty- 
seven days in winter ; whereas, the same meats, im- 



J 



I 

inl 






sue 



tDe 
K«asl 



ARTIFICIAL DIGESTION. 77 

mersed in water, emit a fetid smell as early as the 
seventh day, and by the thirtieth, are resolved into a 
state of most offensive putridity. The solvent powers 
of the stomach are equally remarkable. Reaumur and 
Spallanzani inclosed pieces of the toughest meats, and 
of the hardest bones, in small perforated tin cases, to 
^ard against the effects of muscular action, and then 
introduced them into the stomach of a buzzard : the 

leats were uniformly found diminished to three-fourths 
if their bulk in the space of twenty-fouj hours, and 
reduced to slender threads, and the bones were wholly 
digested, either upon the first trial, or after a few re- 
petitions. To ascertain whether the chymification of 
fiaod were entirely attributable to this gastric solvent, 
experiments were instituted in order to produce wiiat 
been termed artificial digestion. After having ma^ 

irated food, Spallanzani mixed it with gastric juice, 
and then exposed it, in a tube, to a temperature equal 
to that of the stomach ; it is said that the experiment 
succeeded, and that chyme was produced. M. de Mon- 

jgre, however, has sho\ra the iallacy of this conclusion ; 
t, says M. Majendie, we are not to conclude, from 
the failure of such an experiment, that the same iluid 
caimot dissolve the food when it is introduced into the 
stomach. The circumstances are indeed far from being 
the same : in the stomach, the temperature is constant, 
the food is pressed and agitated, and the saliva and 
itric juice are constantly renewed ; as soon as the 

lyme is formed it is carried away, — circumstances 
■which do not occur in a tube containing a mixture of 
the food and gastric juice. It seems probable that the 



78 



PKOGHES8 OF CHTMinCATION. 



gastric juice remains od the snrface of the Btomacb, 
and is secreted as the di^stion proceeds. The chymi- 
ficatioD of the food commences on ite surface, and 
gradually proceeds towards its centre : a soft layer may 
be easily detached, which presents the appearance of a 
corroded and half-dissolved sobstance. The white of a 
hard egg, for instance, very shortly assumes an appear- 
ance like that which would be produced upon it by 
immersion in vinegar, or an alkaline solution. This 
change, if duly performed, is not accompanied with any 
notable extrication of gas ; but, should the vital powers 
of the stomach be deficient, a different species of de- 
composition takes place, the laws of chemistry gain the 
ascendancy, and results are produced more or less 
analogous to those which would arise from the same 
materials, if placed under similar circumstances of tem- 
perature and motion, in a vessel out of the body. 

80. Whatever may be the alimentary substance in- 
troduced, the chyme will present the invariable pro- 
perty of reddening paj^er coloured with tumsol, and it 
has always a sharp odour aud taste ; vegetables, how- 
ever, would appear to elicit a more acidulatetl solvent 
from the secreting surface of the stomach, than food 
derived from the animal kingdom. 

81. The period necessary for chymification must 
vary according to the nature and volume of the food, 
the degree of mastication and insalivation it may have 
previously undergone, and the degree of vita! energy 
possessed by the stomach. According to the observa- 
tions of Majendie, fat, tendon, cartilage, coagulated 
albumen, niticilaginous and saccharine vegetables, re- 



I 



PROGRESS OF CHYMIFICATION. 79 

sist the action of the stomach longer than fibrinona 
and glutinoua substances. In experiments made by 
Sir A. Cooper, fat was found to be digested in the 
stomach of a dog, considerably quicker than muscular 
flesh, cheese, skin, cartilage, tendon, or bone, each of 
wliich had lost less in weight than the preceding, in a 
g^ven time, through the influence of the gastric sol- 
vent. The whole of the aliment is not simultaneously 
converted, but portions, as they are perfected, are suc- 
cessively passed out of the stomach into the duodenum, 
there to undergo further changes, to be presently de- 
scribed. In this case the pylorus must, as its name 
implies, be endowed with a peculiar sensibility and 
vigilance, by which it is enabled to distinguish between 
the crude and chymified portions, so as to admit the 
latter, while it opposes the passage of the former. To 
this theory it has been objected, that various foreign 
bodies have been known to pass from the stomach into 
the intestines, as buttons, pieces of iron, &c. : but it 
must be remembered, that such substances may be 
even less irritating than crude food, and that they are, 
'ibesides, not admitted into the intestines until they 
have been frequently presented to the pylorus, and the 
sensibility of this valve has been diminished. Nature 
has endowed the eye with an irritability which instantly 
causes it to close upon the contact of an extraneous 
substance ; but the ocuUst who is in the habit of per- 
forming operations on that organ, knows that, after 
the instrument has touched the eye several times, its 
irritability ceases, and it becomes passive. M. Ma- 
jendie, however, expresses his scepticism with regard 



A 



PROGRESS OF CHTMIFICATION. 



to this elective power of the pylorus. He seems to 
consider the idea as fanciful ; but 1 would ask whether 
there is anything improbable in the supposition ? Is 
not every part of the machine endowed with a sen- 
sibility adapted to the office it is destined to perform ? 
The eye is stimulated by light, the heart by blood; 
and why may we not sujipose that the pylorus is, in a 
like manner, stimulated by the contact of chyme ? If 
we reject this idea, can we propose a less objectionable 
explanation of the phenomena? — certainly not : on the 
contrary, the whole economy of the stomach is adverse 
to any other belief. If an unnatural stimulus be given 
to this viscus, so as to increase its motions, with a view 
of accelerating the progress of its contents into the 
duodenum, before they have been duly converted, what 
happens ? The pylorus refuses its assent to their egress, 
and the motions of the stomach are inverted, so as to 
expel the crude food by vomiting. 

82. In order to facilitate the expulsion of chyme 
through the pylorus, numerous glands are placed 
around it, which furnish a lubricating fluid. For the 
same purpose, glands are found in the crops of birds, 
near the entrance into the gizzard. In the human 
subject we recognize a similar provision in the lower 
part of the rectum, in order to assist the alvine eva- 
cuation. 

83. After the chyme has passed into the duodenum, 
it becomes mixed and incorporated with the peculiar 
fluid secreted by that intestine ; it still, however, pre- 
serves its colour, its semi-fluid consistence, its sharp 
odour, and its slightly acid savour, until it reaches the 



DUODENAL DIGESTION. SI 

Isacculated angle, where it meeta witli the biliary and 
pancreatic fluids, with which it mixes, and undergoes 
an important chemical change, which has been very 
accurately examined by M. Majendie; and as the re- 
sults of his inquiry are capable of throwing some light 
upou the subject, I shall offer a summary view of 
them. As soon as the chyme mingles with the chy- 
lopoietic fluids, it assumes a yellow colour and a bitter 
taste, and its sharp odour is diminished; but those 
changes, as well as the phenomena which accompany 
them, are variable, and appear to be influenced by the 
quality of the food. If the chynic proceed from ani- 
mal or vegetable matters containing fat or oil, irregular 
filaments, sometimes flat, and at other times rounded, 
are seen to form here and there on its surface, and to 
attach themselves quickly to the valvulet connivent4is. 
They appear to consist of crude chyle. This matter, 

t however, was not observed when the aliment did not 
bontain fat : in the latter case, the product appeared as 
a greyish layer, more or less thick, adhering to the 
mucous membrane, and might possibly contain only the 
elements of chyle. This change, whatever may be its 
chemical nature, is evidently produced by the action of 
the biliary and pancreatic liquids, aided by the agitation 
which the substances undergo by the motions of the 
duodenum itself, as well as by that communicated to it 
from the colon, to which it is attached. 
^Lt 84. Various opinions have existed, with regard to 
^Kfae use of the bile : some physiologists have considered 
^Kt as merely excrementitious, and with this opinion 
^Khe general mass of mankind would appear to coin- 

i- 



82 IISE8 OF THE BILE. 

cide ; for there is scarcely a patient who does not com- 
plain of being tormented ivitli bile, while the shop of 
the druggist groans with the weight of pills which are 
calculated to expel this fearful enemy from the sys- 
tem. The situation alone of the liver, connected as it 
is, in every instance, with the upper part of the alimen- 
tary canal, would be sufficient to repel such an idea. 
Others have imagined, that it is a natural and habitual 
stimulus to the intestines, keeping up their energy and 
peristaltic motion. It cannot be denied that this is 
one of its secondary uses ; it likewise, from its sapo- 
naceous and soluble qualities, diminishes the adhesive 
nature of the fasces, and, by smoothing their surfaces, 
promotes their evacuation ; but its first and most im- 
portant use is to change the nutritive part of the chyme 
into a new and more liighly animaiized product, termed 
chyle ', and to separate from it the useless and excre- 
mentitious part. That such is the truth, is at once 
proved by the fact, that chylijicaium takes place just 

' With respect to the temiB chyme and chyle. Dr. Bostock makee 
the folSowing observatioa ; — " It does not appear that there is any- 
thing- in their etymoiog;y which would lead to the distinction thus 
admitted, nor was it recognised by the old authors, nor even by 
some of those of the last century, who appear to have used the 
words indifferently, or to have considered them as syaan)'moni. 
The distinction between chyme and chyle is not recognised by Boer- 
haave ; he appears, indeed, not to contemplate any essential differ- 
ence between the contents of the stomach and the duodenum, 
except what depended upon the miiture of bile and pancreatic 
juice with the latter. I have not been able to ascertain who it was 
that first assigned to the words their present signification." — Bos- 
lock's Physiology. 



SIR BENJAMIN BRODIE's EXPERIMENTS. 83 

; the part where the bile flows into the intestine : 
(othing like chyle is ever found in the stomach ; ani 
: Front, whose able researches in animal chemistry 
; well known, has ascertained that albumen, which 
r characteristic part of chyle, is never to be dis- 
* covered in herbivorous animals higher than the pylorus. 
The question is, moreover, set at rest by the experi- 
mental inquiries of Sir Benjamin Brodie. He tied a 
ligature round a common duct of a cat, so as com- 
pletely to prevent the entrance of the bile into the 
intestine ; he then noted the effects produced in the 
digestion of the food which the animal had swallowed, 
either immediately before, or after the operation. The 
experiment was repeated several times, and the results 
were uniform. The production of chyme took place 
as usual, but the conversion of chyme into chyle was 
invariably and completely interrupted. Not the smallest 
trace of this latter fluid was discoverable, either in the 
intestines or in the laeteals. The former contained a 
semi-fluid substance, resembling the chyme found in 
the stomach, with this diiference, that it became of a 
thicker consistence, in proportion as it was at a greater 
distance from the stomach, and that, as it approached 
the termination of the ilium, the fluid part of it had 
altogether disappeared, and there remained only a solid 
substance, differing in appearance from ordinary fscces. 
The laeteals contained a transparent fluid, which pro- 

Ibably consisted partly of lymph, partly of the more 
(luid parts of the chyme which had been absorbed. 
SPhese experiments, then, clearly demonstrate, that the 
office of the bile is to change the nutritive part of the 



i 



84 



SIK BENJAMIN BRODIE S EXPERIMENTS. 



cJiyme into cliyle, and to separate from it tlie excre- 
mentitious matter. How, then, it may be asked, does 
it happen, that persons live to a considerable period, 
in whom the flow of bile into the duodenum ia Inter- 
rupted ? The truth is, that the obstruction of the duet 
by disease is seldom so complete as to prevent the pas- 
sage of bile altogether, and the white appearance of the 
faices may prove the deficiency, or morbid condition, 
but not the total absence of bile. To ascertain how 
far this supposition might be supported by experiment, 
I poured some dilute muriatic acid upon a portion of 
faeces that was perfectly white, when a green colom- 
was immediately produced, which could not have hap- 
pened without the presence of bile. 

85. The experiment of Sir B. Brodie, as above re- 
lated, was repeated by M. Majendie upon adult ani- 
mals. He found that few of the subjects survived the 
operation, but that in two cases, wherein they outlived 
the experiment for several days, white chyle was 
formed, and faical matter produced, although not of the 
usual colour. The animals had not, however, become 
tinged, as in the parallel experiment of Sir B. Bnjdie, 
in which they were deeply jaxmdiced, the tunica con- 
junctiva being yellow, and the urine loaded vrith bile. 
Results, so contradictory to each other, are <?ertainly 
very perplexing, and we are, therefore, much iftftebted 
to Mr. Herbert Mayo for the important weight of evi- 
dence which he has thrown into the scale of the 
English physiologist. The following are the experi- 
ments which agree in their results with those of Sir B. 
Brodie : — 



SIR BENJAMIN BRODIE's EXPERIMENTS. 8S 

"The ductus communis ckoledoc/uts was tied in 
three cats, eacli about four months old, which had 
fasted for twenty-four hours previously. They 
each 'took food after the operatiou, which they 
threw up ; but they afterwards again took food, 
consisting of milk and raw or boiled meat, and 
c'ontiuuetl to eat occasionally with a natural ap- 
petite. 

" One of these animals was killed between five 
and six hours after the duct tiad been tied. The 
stomach contained a full meal of meat, consisting 
in part of morsels, which were softened by the 
action of the gastric juice, but had undergone no 
further alteration, in part of a pulpy mass of a 
reddish-grey colour, in part of a brownish-grey 
viscid liquid, in which innumerable small globules 
of oil floated. Tlie small intestines were perfectly 
empty. 

" The second died within fifty hours after the 
experiment. The stomach contained a small 
quantity of half-digested food ; the small intes- 
tines contained scarcely a tra<5e of a greyish semi- 
fluid substance, which here and there admitted of 
being scraped from the villous surface. 

" The third was killed three days after the ope- 
ration. The stomach contained half-digested 
food; the small intestines contained a quantity of 
greyish viscid liquid, very like the liquid contents 
of the stomach. The great intestines, in this and 
the preceding instance, were distended with a 



i 



SIB BENJAMIN BHODIE'S EXPERIMENTS. 

greyish, tenacious, and highly offensive semi-fluid 
matter. 

" An adult dog, in which the duct had been 
tied, was found dead on the second morning of 
the experiment. The mucous membrane of the 
stomach and bowels was inflamed. The stomach 
contained water only ; the small intestines held a 
quantity of yellowish soapy liquid. 

" Finally, the duct was tied in two young dogs, 
which had fasted for twenty-four hours ; one died, 
the second was killed about forty-eight hours after 
the operation. Both had eaten boiled flesh, and 
had taken milk. In the first, the stomach contained 
half-digested food ; and the small intestines con- 
tained a quantity of grey liquid, separate from a 
viscid ropy material that adhered to the villous 
gur&ce. In the second, the stomach contained a 
frothy mucus only ; but the small intestine was 
moderately distended with a quantity of yellowish 
liquid. 

" The animals which were killed were imme- 
diately examined ; those which died were examiiied 
from four to five hours afterwards. In each case 
the duct was found to have been accurately se- 
cured ; the gall-bladder and gail-duct were dis- 
tended with bile ; there was no trace whaieeer ^ 
e^fk in tie lacteal vessels '." 
96. In the few autbenticsted cases of the total ob- 

' ■■ Mayo's Outlints of PhysioIogT,-, ■ Appendix. 



CHEMICAL NATURE OF CHYLE. 



87 



' Kteration of the duct, the emaciation has been extreme, 
and the circumstance of the patient having lived a few 
weeks or months, under such circumstances, only proves 
that nutrition may take place, to some extent, without 
any cliyle being formed. In the above experiments of 
Sir B. Brodie, it appeared that the more fluid parts of 
the chyme had been absorbed; and probably this would 
have been sufficient to maintain life for a limited 
period, especially where but little exhaustion had been 
occasioned by exercise. We know that nutritive glys- 
ters will afford support, and yet we are quite certain 
that no chyle can be formed under such circumstances. 
Sir E. Home has related the ease of a child in which 
no gall-ducts existed. The child did not live long, but 
it appears to have died rather of a marasmus than of 
any intestinal aflfection ; and from this fact he con- 
cludes, that one of the offices of the bile is that of 
converting mucus, or the refuse of the chyle as it passes 
into the colon, into fat, which is absorbed and diffused 

I ever the system. I have already offered an objection 
Mo this theory (25). 
87. When perfectly-formed chyle, as that obtained 
from the thoracic duct, is chemically examined, it will 
present a difference in composition, according to the 
nature of the aliment from which it was elaborated'. 
If the animal has eaten substances of a fatty nature, 
the chyle will be found milky white, a little heavier 
^an distilled water, with a strong and peculiar odour, 
md a saline and sensibly alkaline taste ; but if the food 
thould not have contained fat, it will be opaline and 
most transparent. Very shortly after chyle is cx- 
10 




THE CHYLE VARIES ACCORDING TO THE FOOD. 



tracted from the living auimal, it becomes firm, and 
almost solid : it then gradually separates into three 
distinct parts; the one solid, which remains at the 
bottom of the vessel, the second liquid, and a third 
that forms a very thin layer at the surface. The chyle 
at the same time assumes a rose colour. Of the three 
parts into which chyle thus spontaneously resolves 
Itself, that on the surface, of an opaque white, and 
which imparts to the fluid the appearance of milk ', is 
a fatty body ; the solid part, or coagulum, seems to be 
an intermediate substance between albumen and fibrin, 
for it unites several properties which are common to 
the two : it wants the fibrous texture as well as the 
strength and elasticity of the fibrin of the blood ; it is 
also more readily and completely dissolved by caustic 
potass. The liquid part of chyle resembles the serum 
of the blood. The proportion, however, of these seve- 
ral parts varies according to the nature of the food. 
There are species of chyle, such as that from sugar, 
which contain very little aliuminous JUmn ; others, 
such as that from flesh, contain more. Tlie fatty part 
is very abundant where the food has contained grease 
or oil, while there is scarcely any under other circum- 
stances. Dr. Marcet instituted a series of experiments 
u})on the chyle, with a view of comparing that pro- 
duced by vegetable and animal food in the same kind 



' The comparison which has been eatabhahed hetween chyle and 
milk has no real foundation ; for the former contains nothing which 
agrees exactly with the constituents of the latter. There is also this 
curious fact, that in the miik traces of certain vegetable principles 
may be frequently detected ; in the chyle this never occutb. 



THE CHYLE VAHIES ACCORDING TO THE FOOD. 



f animal, for wliich purpose he procured it from the 
l-tthoracic duct of dogs ; in all eesential points his results 
I agree with those of Vauquelin. The vegetable chyle 
I ^generally bore leas resemblance to blood than that 
I derived from animal food ; the latter was more disposed 
I to become putrid, and upon the addition of potass, it 
I evolved a quantity of ammonia, which was uot the case 
I "with the vegetable chyle, while the oily matter was 
I only found in the animal chyle. The two species were 
I «f the same specific gravity, and contained the same 
weight of saline matter, but the solid residuum of the 
animal chyle, as obtained by evaporation, was consider- 
^_ ably greater tlian from the vegetable chyle. When 
^■'tthey were both submitted to destructive distillation, 
^H.tbe vegetable chyle produced three times as much 
^B.carbon as the animal chyle, whence we may conclude, 
^H that the latter contains a much greater proportion of 
hydrogen and nitrogen. Dr. Prout has also given ua 
the results of a comparative series of experiments upon 
the same subject, and although upon the whole he 
i,-found less difference between the two kinds of chyle 
I than had been noticed by Dr. Marcet, yet the differ- 
e was sufficiently distinct and satisfactory. 
8. These observations are of great value to the 
Lphysiologist, as well as to the pathologist, as they de- 
1 rinonstrate the fallacy of that proposition which has 
I Ireen so frequently advanced ; viz. " that there are 
m-man^ species of food, but only one aliment ;" intimating 
\ -thereby, that all substances, by decomposition, contri- 
['ibute to form one identical, invariable, essentially nutri- 
[ tive principle, — the " (/uod nutrif" of ancient authors ; 



90 MESENTERIC ACTION. 

whereas, nothiug is more clear, than that the nature 
and composition of the chyle will vary with each in- 
dividual aliment. 

89. Having explained all that is known with respect 
to the formation of chyle, we may next consider the 
manner in which it is absorbed and carried into the 
blood. The chyliferous vessels by which this office is 
]>erformed have been already described (59). It is pro- 
bable that the mesenteric glands, through which they 
pass, produce an important change on the chyle, but 
the nature of this change is wholly unknown : it is 
certain that these glands receive many blood-vessels, in 
proportion to their volume, and that they secrete a 
peculiar fluid, which may be extracted by compressing 
them between the fingers : whence some physiologists 
have supposed, that they add a fluid to the chyle in 
order to pm-ify it ; while others, again, have contended, 
that their use is to produce a more intimate mixture of 
the elements which compose it. I have already hinted 
my belief tliat something, partaking more of an organiz- 
ing process, is effected by this glandular structure. 
Much discussion has also arisen upon the existence of 
the tact, or sensibility of these vessels ; and although 
M. Majendie ridicules the supposition, there are not 
wanting facts to support the belief, that their mouths, 
like the pylorus, possess the power of discriminating 
between chyle and other less congenial fluids, which 
enables them to absorb the former and to reject the lat- 
ter : and it is equally probable, that this selecting tact 
may bo destroyed by disease, from which many evil 
consequences may arise. The chyle is poured into the 






EXPULSION OF THE FJECES. 91 

Ithoracic duct, together with the lymph which is brought 
vfaither from every part of the body by the lymphatic 
PTessels, and thence caiTied into the subclavian vein, to 
be submitted to the action of the respiratory organs. It 
will, therefore, be remembered, that a portion of the 
I decayed and broken down materials is conveyed into 
■ the lunge, together with the new materials which are 
" to repair the waste. 

90. The nutritive principles of the aliment have now 
been traced, through all their changes, to the circular 
tion. Let us then return to the excreraentitious part 
which was left in tlie duodenum. This matter is 
pressed forward, by the peristaltic motion of the intes- 
tine, losing as it proceeds any portion of chyle which 
may have escaped the lacteals in the higher part of tlie 
small intestines, into the caicum : its return being pre- 
vented by the valve already described (22). 

91. Since the last edition of this work. Dr. Schultz 
of Berlin has very ingeniously maintained that where 
the food is of a vegetable nature, it undergoes a second 

^Liigestion in the ceeciim. He argues that in vegetable 
^Htaters, a large quantity of digestible, but as yet undi- 
gested matter, passes with the chyme into the intes- 
tine, and would be lost as refuse, if another digestion 
did not take place in the csecum, whereby the residual 
part of the nourishing matter is separated from t!ie 
food. Now what proofs have we of the existence of 

Inch a fmictiou ? In the first place, there is ample 
evidence to show that vegetable substances undergo 
Nome important changes in the intestinal canal beyond 
those which take place in the duodenum. The Baron 



92 



EXPCXSrON OF THE F^CES. 



Dupuytreu iu vigilantly observing the evacuations of 
those who bad intestinal openings, at different distances 
from the stomach, invariably found that the ingesta 
always presented themselves at the opening of the 
wound in the inverse order of their digestibility; for 
example, fresh vegetables, still retaining their charac- 
teristic structure, appeared first, whereas animal matter 
was scarcely to be recognised. In examining the for^ 
mer, however, after its natural evacuation through the 
rectum, the vegetable structure, above described, had 
wholly disappeared. If we apply to the comparative 
anatomist for aeaiatance on this occasion, he will point 
out to us the digestion of the horse, in which it is evi- 
dent that the intestinal canal performs an essential 
part ; he will also compare the developemeut of the 
ctEcum in herbivorous and carnivorous animals, and 
show that in the latter the stomach is neai-ly the only 
organ of activity. What further evidence is there in 
proof of the C(ecum being the seat of this second diges- 
tion ? Viridet had remarked that in rabbits the food 
became a second time sozir, after it bad been neu- 
tralized in the duodenum ; and this fact has been since 
estabhshed by repeated experiments ; while in its fu- 
ture progress it is once more neutralized by the access 
of bile ; changes which correspond exactly with those 
the food undergoes in the stomach and first intestine. 
Now it is evident that, in consequence of this twofold 
consumption of bile in the duodenum and cjecum, there 
must exist an " atUagonism" between the two diges- 
tions : for when ttie bile is consumed by the digestion 
in the duodenum, tlie reecal digestion cannot be per- 



MODES IN WHICH LIQUIDS AHE DIGESTED. 

&cted ; and on the other hand, when the bile flows 
into the csecum the neutralization of the acidity in the 
duodenum cannot take place. It is probable that in 
those cases in which the caKial digestion is most per- 
fectly developed, this antagonism is so prevented that 
each digestion has its particular period of action, so 
that when the one is in progress, the other is either 
lessened, or at rest. If these views be correct, we have 
no longer any difficulty in assigning to the valve of the 
^eecum its proper office ; for, that csecal digestion may 
take place, the still indigestible mass must be acidified, 
in the stomach ; now this could never happen, if 
the bile was allowed to flow without interruption into 
^Hie csecum ; its opening into the small intestine is 
Iflierefore closed during the process, as the stomach is 
^osed during chymification, with such a difference only 
■hs the different state of circumstances requires ; thus, 
the stomach is closed at its pyloric orifice to prevent 
^e egress of food, and the cfecum at its iliac opening 
|o prevent the ingress of bile. 

92. After the changes above related, the refuse mat- 
ter accumulates in the colon, having now acquired that 
iculiar fetor which distinguishes excrement ; it is 
(onsiderably retarded in this part of its passage by the 
ifells or compartments into which this intestine is di- 
irided ; at length, however, it enters the rectum, and, 
by forming a mass of considerable bulk, frequently dis- 
tends its parietes, and thus creates a sensation of un- 
easiness, which announces the necessity of relief. If, 
K however, this call be not imperious, and we neglect to 
^Bbey it, the intestine becoming insensible to the stiniu- 



94 



DIGESTION OF LIQUIDS. 



lus of distension, the desire ceases, and may not recur 
for some time. This efl'ect is greatly modified by the 
consistence of the fecal matter ; if it be soft, or almost 
liquid, we shall be less able to resist its expulsion. The 
intervals at which this operation is performed will vary 
extremely in different individuals: some persons eva- 
cuate their fseces twice or thrice a day ; others, not 
more than once in two days ; and there are those who, 
although in perfect health, pass over a week or ten 
days without any evacuation. Habit also exerts a won- 
derful inflnence in regidating such periods : a person 
accustomed to the act at a certain hour of the day, 
will generally feel an inclination at the appointed 



93. With regard to the relative proportion which the 
caput mortuum bears to the quantity of food, it is im- 
portant to observe that different articles of diet yield very 
different quantities of residua! matter, and in selecting 
a diet for particular forms of disease, this consideration 
becomes a circumstance of groat importance. 

94. We have hitherto only considered the digestion 
of solid aliments : it now becomes necessary that we 
should investigate the changes which liquids undergo, 
when introduced into the stomach. The subject 
teems with many curious physiological facts, and it 
is one of nmch importance to the pathologist, as 
it will enable him to appreciate the utility of liquid 
diet, and to understand the circumstances which should 
decide its preference, 

95. It was long supposed that liquids, like solids, 
passed through the pylorus into the small intestine, and 



DIGESTION OF LIQUIDS. 



95 



du 

I: 



■ere absorbed togetber with the chyle, or rejected with 
le excrement. It is not asserted that this never 
•.CUTS ; but it is evident, beyond contradiction, that 
lere exists another passage by which liquids can be 
veyed to the circulation : for it has been provud, 
that if a ligature be applied round the pyloric orifice, 
in such a manner as to obstruct the passage into the 
duodenum, the disappearance of the liquid from the 
,vity of the stomach is not so much as retarded. It 
evident, therefore, that there must exist some other 
passage, although its nature and direction remain a 
matter of conjecture. I am strongly persuaded, that 
the vena portm constitutes one of the avenues through 
which liquids enter the circulation ; and, in the Pliar- 
macologia, I have expressed my belief, and supported 
it by various arguments, that through this channel cet- 
tain medicinal bodies find their way into the blood. 
In order to discover whether dnnks are absorbed along 
with the chyle, M. Majendie made a dog swallow a cer- 
tain quantity of diluted alcohol during the digestion of 
his food ; in half an hour afterwards the chyle was ex- 
tracted and examined : it exhibited no trace of spirit ; 
but the blood exhaled a strong odour of it, and by dis- 
tillation yielded a sensible quantity. 

96. When Uquids are introduced into the stomach, 
the changes which they undergo are determined by the 
nature of their composition. 

97. If a hquid, holding nutritive matter in solution, 
introduced into the stomach, it is either coagulated 



' Pharinacologia, Bth edit, page 101. 



DIGESTION OF BROTH. 



by the gastric juice, or its watery part is absorbed, and 
the solid matter deposited in tlie stomach ; in both 
cases the product is afterwards chymified in the man- 
ner already described. Milk appears to be the only 
liquid aliment which nature has prepared for our nou- 
rishment ; but it seems that she has, at the same time, 
provided an agent for rendering it solid : hence we 
maycouclude that this form is an indispensable condition 
of bodies which are destined to undergo the processes of 
chymification and chylifieation ; and that, unless some 
provision had existed for the removal of aqueous fluid 
from the stomach, the digestive functions could not 
have been properly performed. When the broth of 
meat is introduced into the stomach, the watery part 
is carried off, and the gelatine, albumen, and fat are 
then converted into chyme. Wine and fermented 
liquors undergo a similar change ; the alcohol which 
they contain coagulates a portion of the gastric juices, 
and this residue, together with the extractive matter, 
gum, resin, and other principles which the liquid may 
contain, are then digested. Under certain circum- 
stances, these liquids may observe a diiferent law of 
decomposition, which will perhaps in some measure ex- 
plain the different eifects which such potations pro- 
duce : for example, the spirit may undergo a partial 
change in the stomach, and be even digested with the 
solid matter, or, on some occasions, converted into an 
acid by a fermentative process : this will be more likely 
to occur in vinous liquors, which contain ingredients 
favourable to the production of such a change ; and 
hence the less permanent and mischievous effects of 



AND CERTAIN SALTS. 



f)7 



Mrines than of spirits '. The liquor termed punch will 
lertainly, c<steris paribus, jirodiice a less intoxicating 
iffect than an equivalent quantity of spirit and water ; 
although it may, at the same time, be more liable to 
derange the stomach ; this may be accounted for, by 
supposing that a portion of the alcohol is digested by 
the stomach into an acid, a process which is determined 
and accelerated by the presence of a fermentable acid 
Eke that of lemon, aided, perhaps, by the saccharine 
matter. 

98. Oil, although possessed of the fluid form, does 
not appear to observe the law which governs the dis- 
posal of these bodies ; it is not absorbed, but is entirely 
transformed into chyme in the stomach. To effect 
this, however, it seems essential that the stomach 
should be in a state of high energy, or it undergoes 
chemical decomposition, and becomes rancid : nor will 
the stomach, unless it be educated to it, like those of 
some northern nations, digest any considerable quantity 
^fif it ; and since it cannot be absorbed, it must find its 
Out through the alimentary canal, and consequently 
■ove laxative, 

I have endeavoured to show in the Pharmaco- 
togia, that certain salts are absorbed with the water 
b'hich holds them in solution, unless they so far in- 
rease the peristaltic motion as to produce catharsis, in 
K^Which case, they pass at once through the alimentary 
passage ; but should this not occur, they enter the cir- 
culation, and will sometimes exhibit their effects on 



k 



See Phftrmacologia, edit. 8. art. Viimm. 



i 



98 



RELATIONS SUB8ISTTNG BETWEEN 



distant organs. It is on this account that sulphate of 
magnesia proves diuretic in horses, for the bowels of 
these animals are not stimulated by that salt ; and the 
same theory will explain why persons frequently expe- 
rience an increase in their urine on drinking the weaker 
waters of Cheltenham. 

] 00. It has been stated that the chyle, together with 
the lymph, is poured into the sub-clavian Tein. We 
know very little of the use of this latter iluid : it is 
conveyed by vessels, termed lymphatics, which appear 
to spring from extremely small roots in the substance 
of the membranes and of the cellular tissue, and in the 
parenchyma of the different organs. In man, these 
vessels uniformly traverse glands before they arrive at 
the venous system. The general opinion entertained 
upon the subject of lymphatic absorption, assigns to 
this order of vessels the office of returning the broken- 
down and useless parts of the various structures to the 
blood, in order that they may be finally ejected from 
the body. In examining the chemical composition of 
lymph, we find it to have a considerable analogy with 
the blood ; which has induced M. Majendie to con- 
clude that it is a part of that fluid, which, instead of 
returning to the heart by the veins, follows the course 
of the lymphatic vessels ; for what object, it is impos- 
sible even to offer a conjecture. He therefore doubts 
whether these vessels have any absorbing power, but 
endeavours to prove by experiments, which certainly 
have the merit of great plausibility, that the faculty of 
absorption is possessed by veins. Be this, however, as 
it may, it ts certain, that the chyle, as well as those 



J 



ItESPIRATlON AND SANGUIFICATION. 



99 



^P^t 



iuids which are absorbed from the stomach, are trans- 
itted through the luogs for the purpose of undergoing 
changes as may perfectly assimilate them with 
the blood. Every meal, therefore, must impose a cer- 
tain labour upon these organs ; and it is probable, that 
the extent of this labour mil vary with the nature of 
the food. It becomes, then, an object of the greatest 
pathological interest, to inquire into the relations 
which subsist between the functions of chylification 
and respiration, and to ascertain what species of food 
will require the greatest, what the least effort of the 
lungs, to complete its sanguification. In cases of 
pulmonary disease, such a discovery would be of the 
highest value, in order that we may not impose upon 
an enfeebled organ more duty than is necessary for the 
preservation of life. Unfortunately, the facts which 
have been collected upon this subject are few, and 
even discordant. The faint light which science afforded 
us in the investigation of the preceding stages of diges- 
here extinguished, and experience, embarrassed 

rjth a thousand sources of fallacy, is all that remains 

ir us. Notwithstanding the numerous experiments 
which have been instituted, and the various theories 
which have been formed, how extremely vague and 
doubtftii is our knowledge respecting the physiology of 
respiration ! It is true, that the chemist, by a refined 
examination of the air, before and after it has been 
respired, has ascertained that a quantity of oxygen is 
absorbed, and replaced by an equivalent proportion of 
earbonic acid ; but can any person accustomed to re- 

iction believe, that respiration serves no other pur- 



100 



INFLUENCE OF VARIOUa A1TMENT3 



])ose than that of the removal of a certain portion of 
carbon irom the blood ? A function which cannot be 
suspended for a minute without the certain destruction 
of life, must surely have some relation with the Tital 
energy more intimate and far more important'. The 
quantity of carbonic acid does not appear to have that 
striking connexion with the quality or quantity of our 
ingesta which theory would have led us to suppose. 
Whoever will read an account of the results obtained 
by Dr. Front, in his examination of the " Quantity of 
carbonic acid gas emitted from the lungs during respi- 
ration, at different times, and under different circum- 
stances V' will retire from the i)erusal of the essay with 
the mortifying conviction, that little or nothing is 
known upon the subject : such, at least, was my con- 
viction, upon that occasion. It must, however, teach 
us the folly of hasty generalization, for nothing tends 
more to the perpetuation of error. 

101. If no material influence is produced upon the 
sum of oxygen absorbed, or of carbonic acid disengaged, 
by the different quantities and nature of our aliments, 
it follows, that the conversion of chyle into blood is 
produced by some other agent than that of the atmos- 
pheric air. At the same time, ample experience has 
taught us, that the nature of our ingesta is not a mat- 



' LinnEEua considered the great object of respiTation to be the ex- 
traction of the electrii: fluid from the air by the lungs, and then to 
transmit it to the Medulla, hecoming, as it were, the Spiritm Ant- 
malis. Linnseus'a Diary, in Maton's edition of Pultney's " Life and 
writings," p. 353. 

' Annala of Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 328, j^f t". 



UPON THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 



101 



ter of indifference to the respiratory organs : diseased 
lungs are exasperated by a certain diet, and pacified by 
one of an opposite kind. Tlie celebrated diver, Mr. 
J Spalding, observed, , that whenever he used a diet of 
I animal food, or drank spirituous liquors, he consumed 
I in a much shorter period the oxygen of the atraos- 
I pheric air in his diving-bell ; and lie, therefore, had 
I learnt from experience to confine himself upon such 
(occasions to vegetable diet. He also foimd the same 
I effect to arise from the use of fermented liquors; and 
I he accordingly restricted himself to the potation of 
I simple water. Tlie truth of these results is confirmed 
I by the habits of the Indian pearl-divers, who always 
I abstain from every ahmentary stimulus previous to 
I their descent into the ocean. Those physicians who 
[ have witnessed the ravages of pulmonary disease will 
f readily concur in the justness of these views. The ex- 
I periments of Dr. Prout would lead us to the conclusion, 
I that less carbonic acid is given off from the lungs 
I during the infiuence of an alcoholic stimulant : but he 
I justly observes, that this may arise from the specific 
action upon the nerves ; and, indeed, it appears proba- 
ble, that the evolution of carbon from the blood is de- 
termined by nervous energy '. The principal changes 

1' The experimentG of Drs. Prout and Fyfe have shown, that 
■whaWver depresses the nervous energy, diminishes the qaantity 
of carbonic acid expired. The depressing passions, violent and 
long'continaed exercise, low diet, mercurial irritation, and spirituous 
liquors, uniformly produce this efl'ect. The quantity is also, for the 
Hune reason, diminished during sleep. Sir A. Cooper has very 
lately shown, by what may be regarded as an Exjicrimenltim Cruets, 



102 



i'ULMONARY STIMULANTS. 



which the chyle undergoes during its passage through 
the respiratory organs appear to consist in the more 
perfect elaboration of some of its principles ; for in- 
stance, the albumen is converted into fibrin, and the 
colouring matter acquires its more decided characteris- 
tics. But these changes may be in a great measure 
produced by th« action of the pulmonary vessels. It 
has been estimated, that about eleven ounces of carbon 
and twenty ounces of water are given off by the lungs 
during the twenty-four hours ; but what portion of 
these products are to be placed to the account of the 
alunent has not been ascertained. It does not even 
appear, that the useless carbon is always evolved from 
the blood during its passage throngh these organs ; it 
may be retained for want of sufficient nervous energy, 
and thus produce a morbid change upon the body. 

102. The quantity of pulmonary transpiration is also 
influenced by various circumstances, especially the 
liquid nature of the food, and the quantity of fluids 
taken into tlie stomach. I have paid some attention 
to this circumstance, for it suggests many important 
links in the treatment of disease '. 

103. The only safe conclusions at which we can ar- 
rive upon this intricate subject, may be embodied in 
the following canons : viz. Ist, That animal Jbod proves 



that " the changes of the blood are not chemical alterations merely, 
but dependent also upon the vital agency of the nerves and blood- 
veBsels," On the effects of placing ligatures on the Pneumo-gastrie 
Nerves, Stc. by Sir A. Cooper, Bart. Published la the Guy's Hotpitat 
Reportg, No. III. 

' See Pharmacologia, p. 150. 



ACTION OF THE KIDNEYS. 103 

more stimtdant to the lungs than vegetaMe aliment. '2d, 

i Jemiented liquors are injurious to these organSf both 

« account of their general effects upon the circulation, a?td 

<nf.c action upon the nerwtts system ; increasing, 

I the one hand, the necessity/ of respiratory changes, and 

the other, diminishing the energies of the organs by 

they aire accomplished. 3d, That moderate exer- 

dse, hilarity ofmind,free ventilation, and abstinence Jrom 

tifgrmented liquors, a/re essentially necessary ifi that stage 

" the digestive process at which the chyle is poured into 

»the Blood-vessels, in order to promote the free evdution of 

I corfoHic a<Ad. 

104. The office of the kidneys in secreting urine may, 
in reference to the present subject, be considered in a 
double point of view ; as removing from the body, 
I generally, certain principles whose jiresence must be 
I noxious; and in carrying off some portion of the aliment 
which cannot be assimilated with the blood, or such 
useless products as may arise during the progress of its 
elaboration. In examining the composition of urine, 
[ Ve shali find certain ingredients which existed in the 
blood, and which have therefore passed through the 
I minary organs without change ; we shall, at the same 
, time, discover peculiar compounds which owe their 
existence to the acidifying action of the kidneys upon 
certain substances contained in the blood. The prin- 
ciples derived from the blood by filtration are water, 
I lactic add, with its accompanying animal matters, the 
jU:ed alkalies, and lime. The new compounds formed 
are sulphuric and phosphoric acids, from the sulphur and 
phosphorus in the blood ; urea, jjrobably derived from 



I 



104 



ACTION OF THE KIDNEYS, 



albumen ; and Uthic acid. Dr. Prout observes, that in 
certain forms of disease the acidifying tendency of the 
kidneys is carried to an excess, and that nitric acid, 
02'alic acid, &:c., are produced ; whereas, on the other 
hand, it is occasionally suspended, diminished, or alto- 
gether subverted ; and unchanged albumen or Uood, 
neutral substances, as sugar, or even alkaline sub- 
stances, as ammonia, &c., are separated in abundance ; 
while the p/iospkwus and sulphur, at the same time, 
pass without being acidified. 

105. With respect to the character of the diseases 
attending these states of the urine, it will, says Dr. 
Prout, be generally found, that when acids are gene- 
rated in excess, the urbie is commonly small in quan- 
tity, and high-coloured, and the disease imflammatory ; 
when neutral or alkaline substances, the urine, on the 
contrary, is generally pale-coloured, and larger in quan- 
tity, and the diseases are those of irritation and debi- 
lity. In examining, however, the state of the urine, with 
reference to its pathognomonic indications, we must 
carefully distinguish between that which is voided after 
abstinence, and which is termed urina potus, and that 
which is voided five or six hours after a meal, and 
which is distinguished by the appellation of nrina san- 
ffuinis. The temperature and hygrometric state of the 
atmosphere ought also to be taken into consideration ; 
for these circumstances, by modifying the quantity of 
water given off by the skin, will exert a considerable 
influence upon the urinary secretion. Nothing, how- 
ever, produces a greater effect upon the character of 
the urine than the state of the digestive functions; 



FUNCTION OP THE SKIN. 



105 



r 



and by caiefully inspecting its appearances, many valu- 
able indications may be obtained. It is trne, that the 
practice of examining the urine has fallen into discre- 
dit, from the abuse which it has suffered in the hands of 
empiricism and imposture ' ; but the new views which 
modern chemistry has unfolded, and the valuable prac- 
tical purposes to which they have been made subser- 
vient by the labours of WoUaston, Marcet, and Prout, 
.ought to restore it to its merited reputation. 

106. I shall conclude these remarks by stating that 
one of the objects of the urinary secretion appears to 
be the removal of a portion of nitrogen, and perhaps 
also of oxygen, from the blood, as that of respiration is 
[the abstraction of carbon. This hypothesis is supported 
[by the ultimate analysis of lithic acid and urea. It is, 
lilt least, evident, that some principle is withdrawn from 
the circulation, whose presence would act upon the 
system as a destructive poison ; total suppression of 
urine is followed in a few hours by insensibility ; but 
this consequence is prevented by the discharge of a 

iw drops only of the secretion. 

107. The function of the skin may be considered as 
ihe last link in the chain of the digestive process. It 



' The vulgar hiive ever considered the urine as a glass, in which 
! physician may behold everything that passes within the body ; 
i the quacks have, for ohvious reasons, been willing to indulge 
e credulity. It has been stated, that the origin of the imposition 
urine-casting is to be looked for in the iguorance and barbariam of 
e middle ages, when the greater part of physicians were ecclesiaa- 
, who either saw their patients in their churches, or were satis- 
i with inspecting their urine. 



106 CriYLIFICATION DIFFERS FROM SECKETION. 

removes from the blood a considerable portion of water, 
with some saline matter ; and in this respect, it may 
be compared to the office of the kidneys, although, tv- 
like them, its function may be suspended withoat im- 
mediately fiital consequences. Experiments have also 
proved that an acid is discharged by the cutaneous 
emunctories ; and if this be suppressed, it appears to 
pass off by the kidneys, and to give origin to a deposite 
to be hereafter noticed. 

108. From a review of all the transformations which 
the :diment undergoes, from its conversion into chyme 
to that into blood, can we arrange the different changes 
under distinct heads, so as to bring each under the 
operation of any general law? I fear that our pre- 
sent state of chemical knowledge will not afford a sa- 
tisfactory solution of this problem. The production of 
chyle in the duodenum certainly differs in its nature 
from that of any of the secreted fluids, since the mass 
from which it is evolved is acted upon by foreign re- 
agents, as the bile and pancreatic liquor ; whereas a 
secreted fluid is at once separated from the blood 
without the aid of any precipitant. In this point of 
view, the operation bears a closer analogy to a chemi- 
cal process ; but here the comparison must end, for we 
are unable to account for the presence of any of the 
new compounds by an analysis of the ingredients from 
which they are produced. If we admit the operation 
of a galvanic power, generated by the nerves, and di- 
rected through their means to the decomposition of the 
alimentary materials, and to their recombination into 
other forms, we shall obtain, if not a satisfactory solu- 



THE DIGESTIVE FEODUCTS. 107 

tion of the problem, at least some clue for its inveeti- 
gation. We shall thus perceive, tbat elemeuts having 
a strong chemical affinity for each other, may be sepa- 
rated and re-united in different proportions ; and we 
shall be able to explain why substances, distinguished 
by their strong attractions for each other, do not com- 
bine in the alimentary organs, as they would in the 
vessels of our laboratory. But it will be asked, what 
reason there is for believing in the existence of any 
power analogous in its operation to electricity ? This 
question cannot be better answered than by a relation 
of the ingenious experiments of Dr. Wilson Philip, 
who has shown that when a nerve is divided, so as en- 
tirely to intercept the transmission of its energy, its 
fimction may, to a certain degree, be supplied by an 
il^ectrical stream from the galvanic battery. The 
-eighth pair of nerves were divided in the necks of three 
recently-fed rabbits, and every precaution was taken to 
keep their divided ends asunder. One of these animals, 
when subjected to the galvanic influence, remained 
ipingularly quiet, breathing freely, and with no more 
'^parent distress than the twitches usually produced 
by electric action, which was in this case kept up with- 
out interruption. The other rabbits laboured strongly 
iu their respiration. They were all three killed at the 
le period, and their stomachs successively opened. 
In the two non-galvanised animals chymification had 
scarcely made any progress ; but in that which had 
been galvanised, the process appeared to have been 

■ completed. 

^■' 109. It is not my intention, in this work, to enter 



_ iu thi 
■same 
Pin tt 



108 FOEMATION OF FAT. 

into any speculations with respect to the more minute 
clianges which may be supposed to take place under 
this galvanic influence of the nerves ; such details 
would be wholly inconsistent with the practical ob- 
jects of my present publication. I shall therefore con- 
clude this part of my subject by observing, that most 
of the digestive products are acid : the chyme is uni- 
formly distinguished by this character ; and, if the ex- 
periments of Dr. Prout be correct, muriatic acid is 
always present iu the stomach : we may, therefore, 
suppose that the nerves of this organ have the power 
of decomposing the muriatic salts, and transferring its 
alkali to some distant reservoir, perhaps the liver. The 
intestinal juices are also acid ; the faices, unless they 
have undergone a degree of putrefactive decomposition, 
redden litmus ; the urine, as well as the perspirable 
matter, are likewise acid ; and it is scarcely necessary 
to observe, that the only product of the respiratory 
function is carbonic acid. 

110. If the nerves act like galvanic conductors, may 
we not explain tlie transference of matter from one 
organ to another, without the necessity of supposing 
the existence of tubes or hollow vessels ? 

111. There still remains for our consideration a 
phenomenon, intimately connected with the digestive 
process and with the derangements to which it is 
liable, — the formation of fat. This substance may be 
regarded as the least animalized product of the animal 
body, since it does not contain any nitrogen, an ele- 
ment which, it will be remembered, is peculiarly cba^ 
mcteristic of animalization ; nor does it contain any 



FORMATION OF FAT. 109 

onsiderable proportion of oxygen, l)ut consists princi- 
ily of hydrogen and carbon, the latter element being 
p leB9 in its proportion than that -which occurs in any 
of the constituents of the blood, from which fat is se- 
creted. It is true that we have no certain data for 
enabling ua to judge from what part of the blood the 
fat is immediately produced, nor does there appear to 
be any specific organ for its secretion ; but, as its de- 
losition is evidently connected with the state of the 
fligestive functions, and bears a relation to the quantity 
f chyle produced, and as fat is deposited in so many 
rts of the body, or, at least, is connected with tex- 
'• tores of such various descriptions, it is fair to conclude 
that the blood must be the source from which it pro- 
ceeds, and the medium through which it is distributed ; 
ind, moreover, that the capillary vessels must consti- 
wte the organ for its secretion. Dr. Bostock observes 
' that there are two modes in which we may suppose 
the fat to be produced — while in the vessels them- 
selves, or not until it is just upon the point of being 
^kexcreted from them. In the first case the operation 
^Vinust consist in the abstraction, from the albumen or 
fibrin, of its nitrogen and oxygen, and a part of its car- 
bon ; in the other, of the hydrogen and a part of the 
» carbon, while the remainder of the elements is left in 
jthe vessels. 
112. Since an excess of nutritive matter received 
into the blood, while the various secretions and excre- 
tions remain unchanged in quantity, is the circumstance 
I which favours the deposition of fat, we may conclude 
tiiat, in such a case, nature has ordained a provision for 



ceec 
K»nd, 
Htute 



110 FORMATION OF FAT. 

the discharge of the superfluous matter, and that this 
is effected by various means, and by different organs. 
The principal part of the hydrogen appears to be dis- 
posed of in the formation of fat ; the carbon is also car- 
ried off partly by these means, and partly by the lungs ; 
while the nitrogen is, perhaps, principally removed by 
the kidneys. But it will be observed that the elements 
eliminated by these latter organs are at once excluded 
beyond the sphere of the system, whilst those removed 
from the circulation by the former are deposited as it 
were in a storehouse, to be again used whenever the 
waste of the body should call for supplementary nutri- 
ment, whence, in cases of extreme hunger, or of absti- 
nence from food, fat is re-absorbed and carried into the 
blood-vessels. 



RECIPROCAL RELATIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS 
WITH OUR SENSATIONS ; AND OF THE LATTER. WITH 
THE WASTE AND CONSEQUENT WANTS OF THE 
SYSTEM. 

Hunger: — Theories to explain the Sensation. — Referred by the 
Author to a peculiar Condition of the Nervea. — Destroyed by 
Narcotics. — Practice of the Indians to counteract ita cravings. — 
Its connexion with the state of the stomach only Secondary. — 
|| Chymification, ChyUfication, and Sao gnifi cation, may he consi- 
dered as incompatible with each other.— Why an interruption 
during a Meal destroys the Appetite. — The quahty and not the 
quantity of Food produces satiety. — Thirst: — Its filial Cause. — 
Ita proximate Cause. — General Phenomena of Inanition.— San- 
guification attended by a desire of activity. — Of Exercise imme- 
diately before and after Meals. 

HUNGER. 

113. When the stomach is in a healthy condition, and 
*lias remained for some time empty, the well-known 
sensation of hunger is produced ; to account for which, 
various hypotheses have been devised. Some have 
attributed its origin to the friction of the sides of the 
stomach upon each other, or to the dragging of the 
liver upon the diaphragm ; others to the action of bile 
or acid vapours upon the stomach ; to the compression 

I of the nerves, or to the fatigue of the contracted fibres 
irf the stomach : but such theories are subverted by 



112 



CAUSE OF HUNGER. 



the fact, that the Btomach may remain empty for a 
long interval, during disease, without any sensation of 
hunger ; and that, when present, it may cease or be 
allayed by various causes, although food should not 
have been taken ; as often, happens after the accus- 
tomed period of repast is over, or ftoni the sudden 
communication of news that overwhelms us with grief 
or disappointment. Sleep also allays it. The physio- 
logists of the present day attribute the phenomenon to 
the stimulant action of the gastric juice upon the 
nerves of the stomach ; and to support this opinion, 
Dr. Wilson Philip relates the following experiment. 
A person in good health was prevailed upon to abstain 
from eating for more than twenty-four hours, and 
during that interval to increase the appetite by more 
than ordinary exercise. At the end of this time he was 
extremely hungry ; but, instead of eating, he excited 
vomiting by drinking warm water, and irritating the 
fauces. The water returned mixed only with a ropy 
fluid, such as the gastric juice is described to be. After 
this operation, not only all desire to eat was removed, 
but a degree of disgust was excited by seeing others 
eat. He, however, was prevailed upon to take a 
little bread and milk, which in a very short time ran 
into the acetous fermentation, as indicated by flata- 
lence and acid eructation. I do not mean to deny that 
the presence of a portion of gastric juice may not con- 
tribute to the sensation of hunger ; but I feel more 
disposed to refer the phenomenon to a peculiar state of 
the gastric nerves, in consequence of a species of indi- 
rect sj-mpathy with the waning powers of the body, by 



CAUSE OF HUN6BH. 



113 



I 



which their peculiar sensibilities are exalted in propor- 
as those of other parts of the system decHne, and 
uB are they constituted monitors, to demand the 
supplies that are essential for the general resuscitation. 
With regard to the experiment of Dr. Philip, as above 
described, we may observe that it merely goes to show 
.that disturbance of the stomach will destroy appetite 
fcr food ; the existence of nausea, short of vomiting, 
U produce the same effect, and yet in this latter case 
kiie gastric juice is not removed ; nay, we know from 
:tual experiment that nausea is wholly independent of 
the stomach, for tlie sensation, and the spasm of retch- 
ing, may be produced by the injection of tartar emetic 
the veins of an animal, from which the stomach. 
been previously removed. Nausea, then, although 
like hunger it be referred to the stomach, is evidently 
independent of it ; and if nausea can exist, why may 
not hunger also, even though the animal should liave 
lost its stomach by excision ? 

1 14. With respect to the actual quantity of gastric 
fluid in an empty stomach, some doubts have arisen. 
It eeems most probable that it is supplied only during 
digestion ', and that its secretion corresponds with the 
nature and quantity of the ingesta. If a narcotic be 
applied to the nerves, their power is paralyzed, and the 
(ensation of hunger ceases ; such an effect is produced 
ihy the juice of tobacco, although by long habit the 
irtomach may become indifferent to its operation. When- 
,ever the Indians of Asia and America undertake a long 



' See the Experiments of Dr. Beaumont, at page 37. 



114 



NATURAL APPETITE. 



journey, anil are likely to be destitute of provisions, 
they mix the juice of tobacco with powdered shells, in 
the form of small balls, which they retain In their 
mouths, the gradual solution of which serves to coun- 
teract the uneasy craving of the stomach. In like 
manner we may explain the operation of spirit in taking 
away the appetite of those who are not accustomed to 
it ; while those who indulge the habit receive its stimu- 
lant without its narcotic impression. Lord Byron 
entertained a great dread of becoming corjjulent, and 
on that account frequently abstained from food for 
several days together, appeasing the cravings of hunger 
by a wafer and a glass of brandy '. 

1 15. In farther proof of the direct relation between the 
sense of appetite and the healthy influence of the brain, 
it may be stated, that in certain cases of idiotcy the in- 
dividuals are so low in the scale of intelligence, as not 
to manifest any desire for food, although they will eat 
and digest, when fed. From the conclusive experiments 
of M. Brochet of Lyons, we receive additional evidence 
of our theory of hunger. This intelligent physiologist 
kept a dog without any food for twenty-four hours, 
when it had become extremely ravenous ; he then di- 
vided the par-vagmn, and placed meat before it, but the 
animal, which had just before betrayed signs of the 
greatest impatience for a meal, lay quietly down. When 
the meat was brought into contact with its mouth, it 



' I state thia fact on the authority of Dr. John Badeley, who iii- 
fonned me that he received it from his Lordship's domestic Physi- 
cian. Dr. Polidori. 



I 



MORBID APPETITE EXPLAINED. 115 

began to eat, and continued to do bo, without any refe- 
rence to the quantity received by the stomach : in fact, 
the tie between that organ and the brain Iiad no longer 
any existence, and the animal, therefore, influenced 
only by the gratification of the sense of taste, continued 
to eat until the gullet could no longer receive a supply. 
116. Natural appetite, which is only the first degree 
-of hunger, never appears to recur until the aliment 
■previously introduced has been duly assimilated. It 
■cannot, therefore, strictly speaking, be said to have an 
immediate reference to the state of the stomach ; for 
although all the chyme may have long since passed out 
of that organ, if any delay occurs in its ulterior changes, 
-appetite will not return, for the nervous energy is 
engaged in their completion, and cannot therefore accu- 
mulate in the stomach : on the contrary, in certain 
idiseases, as in tabes mesenterica, notwithstanding the 
presence of alimentary matter in the stomach, the ap- 
petite is never pacified, in consequence, probably, of 
the gastric nerves not receiving that satisfaction which 
is the necessary consequence of healthy digestion. The 
circumstance of young persons daily losing flesh, while 
the appetite for food remained vigorous, appeared to 
the ancient physicians so extraordinary, that Sennertus, 
Etmuller, and others, have gravely inquired whether 
inarasmus might not be owing to magical incantation. 
Voracity, or canine appetite, may sometimes depend 
upon a morbid state of the pylorus, which suffers the 
food to pass out of the stomach before it is properly 
thymified : such cases are attended with extreme ema~ 
iation. It may also arise from nervous uritation, pro- 



!16 



FEELlNtl OF SATTETY. 



duced by accumulations in the colon. From these 
views we may deduce the following important corollary 
— that the several processes by which aliment is converted 
into Mood cannot be simultaneously performed, without such 
an increased expenditure of vital efwrgy as weak persons 
cannot, without inconvenience, sustain : thus, chylifieation 
would appear to require the quiescence of the stomach, 
and sanguification to be still more incompatible with 
the act of chymification. If, therefore, the stomach be 
set to work during the latter stages of digestion, the 
processes will in weak persons be much disturbed, if not 
entirely suspended. Certain circumstances cause hun- 
ger to return at nearer intervals, by accelerating the 
nutritive process ; while others, by producing an op- 
posite tendency, lengthen such intervals. 

117. It is a well-known fact, that if a person be in- 
terrupted in his meal for a quarter of an hour, he finds, 
on resuming it, that his appetite is gone, although he 
may not have eaten half the quantity which he required. 
Dr. Wilson Philip explains this circumstance by sup- 
posing that the gastric fluid which had accumulated 
has had time to combine with, and be neutralized by, 
the food he bad taken ; but those who believe with me, 
that a new supply of gastric fluid is furnished, on the 
contact of every fresh portion of food, must seek for 
some other explanation. Will not the views which I 
have offered in the preceding pai-agraph afford a solu- 
tion of the problem ? viz., that during the suspension of 
the meal the food had entered upon its ulterior changes, 
and that the energies of the stomach had therefore 
declined. 



ON WHAT IT DEPENDS. 



117 



118. Tbe subsidence of appetite, or the feeling of 
[ satiety, is not produced by tbe quantity, but the quality 
I of the food, — the very reverse of wliat would happen, 
\ were the mere volume of the aliment alone necessary 
I" to pacify tbe cravings of the stomach. This is remark- 
ably displayed in the liabits of ruminating animals; for 
in wet and gloomy seasons, when the grass contains a 
diminished portion of nutritive matter, these animals 
[ ore never satisfied — they are constantly in the act of 
gracing; whereas, in hot and dry weather, they consume 
I the greater portion of their time in ruminating, or 
j chewing their cud, I apprehend that this is not to be 
explained, as M. Majendie believes, by tbe sensibility 
[ of the mucous membrane of the stomach, but is to be 
solely referred to the fact, that the vital energy is only 
expended in decomposing such substances as are capable 
of furnishing chyle. Volume or bulk, however, is a 
necessary condition of wholesome food : the capacity of 
our digestive organs sufficiently proves that nature 
never intended them for the reception of highly-con- 
centrated food. I some years ago directed considerable 
attention, in conjunction with some well-known agri- 
I culturists, to the nutritive value of diiferent crops, as 
the food of cattle, and I constructed a logometrtc scale 
for the solution of various problems connected with the 
subject; but T soon found that mere bidk produced a 
^^ very important influence, and that, to render one species 
^H- of nutriment equivalent in its value to another, it was 
^H necessary to take into consideration the quantity of 
^H inert matter whicli furnished excrement. 



119. This instinctive feeling announces to the indi- 
vidual the necessity of introducing a certain quantity 
of liquid into the system, in order to repair the waste 
which the body has sustained in the exercise of its 
ftmctions ; or to impart a due degree of solubility to the 
aliments which have been taken. We accordingly find 
that excessive perspiration increases the demand, and 
dry food is followed by the same eifeet. With the 
history of morbid thirst we have at present nothing to 
do. The sensation is usually referred to the throat and 
fauces, as that of hunger is to the stomach ; and yet 
the intensity of this feeling does not beai- any relation 
to the dryness of these parts : for in some cases, where 
the tongue, to its very root, is covered with a thick and 
dry crust, there is little thirst ; while, on the other 
hand, it is frequently intolerable at the very time the 
mouth is surcharged with a preternatural quantity of 
saliva : like hunger, I apprehend it must be referred to 
^m a particular condition of the nerves wisely ordained to 
^B express the wants of the system. Dr. Gardner has 
^M remarked that, in the case of a person who had cut 
^H through the cesophagus, several buckets-full of water 
^1 were swallowed daily, and discharged through the 
^1 wound, without quenching the thirst, wliich was after- 
^H wards found to abate by the injection of diluted spirit 
^M into the stomach. Were I to consult my sensations, 
^1 the seat of thirst would be referred to the upper orifice 
^H of the stomach. The desire for drink after long speak- 
^H ing has some analogy to thirst, but nuist not be con- 



I 



HUNGER AND THIRST INCOMPATIBLE. 119 

founded with it. The influence of salted food iu excit- 
ing this sensation is to be explained upon the simple 
principle that saline bodies require dilution to mitigate 
their acrimony. 

120. Thirst is certainly under tlie control of habit: 
those who indulge in frequent potation are rendered 
thirsty by its privation. There are some persons who 
have never experienced the sensation, and who only 
drink from a sort of sympathy, but who could live a 
long time without thinking of it, or without suffering 
ftom the want of it. I have a lady, of fifty years of 
age, at this time under my care, who has declared that 
she is perfectly unacquainted with the nature of the 
sensation. Sauvage rehites two similar instances that 
CMJcmred to himself ; and Blumenbach, also, quotes 
several examples of the same idiosyncrasy, 

121. The sensations of hunger and thirst generally 
appear to be incompatible with each other : when the 
stomach requires food, there is rarely any inclination to 
drink ; and when thirst rages, the idea of solid ahment 
disgusts us. So, again, those circumstances which tend 
to destroy appetite may even excite thirst, such as the 
passions of the mind, &c. 

122. When the healthy system is in a condition to 
require food, besides the local sensation of hunger, there 
are certain general phenomena which deserve notice ; — 

universal lassitude of the body is experienced ; there 
also a sensation of pressure, or drawing down, in the 
ugastric region ; the diameter of the intestines he- 
mes diminished, and their peristaltic motion being at 
le same time iiicreased, portions of contained air are 
iccessively displaced, which give rise to gurgling 



120 



EXERCISE DURING SANGUIFICATION. 



sounds. There is, besides, an alteration in the situation 
of some of the abdominal viscera ; thej are less capa- 
ble of sustaining pressure, and they receive a less quan- 
tity of blood. M. Majendie also supposes, that when 
the stomach is empty, all the reservoirs contained in 
the abdomen are more easily distended by the matters 
which remain some time in them ; and he believes that 
this is the principal reason why bile then accumulates 
in the gall-bladder. As soon as a certain quantity of 
food has entered the stomach, the general feeling of 
lassitude gives place to that of renewed force, and this 
usually occurs more rapidly after the ingestion of liquid 
than of solid aliment ; which is sufficient to prove that 
the phenomenon results from a local action upon the 
nerves of the stomach, since in neither case is it possible 
that any nutritive principle can have been so rapidly 
transferred to the system. 

123. As soon as digestion commences, the blood flows 
with increased force to the organs destined for its com- 
pletion ; whence, in delicate persons, the operation is 
frequently attended with a diminution in the power of 
the senses, and a slight shiver is even experienced : the 
skin becomes contracted, and the insensible perspiration 
is diminished. As the process, however, proceeds, a 
re-action takes place; and, after it is completed,- the 
perspiration becomes free, and often abundant. When 
the chyle enters the blood, the body becomes enlivened, 
and the stomach and small intestines, having been 
liberated from their burden, oppose no obstacle to the 
free indulgence of that desire for activity, which nature 
has thus instinctively excited for our benefit. Then it 
is that animals are roused from that repose into which 



J 



EXERCISE BEFORE AND AFTER MEALS. 121 

■■ttiey had subsided during the earlier stages of digestion, 
and betake themselves to action ; then it is that civi- 
lized man feels an aptness for exertion, although he 
mistakes the nature and object of the impulse, and, as 
Dr. Prout justly observes, is inclined to regard it as 
nothing more than a healthy sensation, by which he is 
summoned to tliat occupation to wliich inclination or 
duty may prompt him. Thus, instead of being bodili/ 
■Active, the studious man receives it as a summons to 
^nnetttal exertion ; the indolent man, perhaps, merely to 
sii wp and enjoy himself'; the libertine to commence his 
libations ; and the votary of fashion to attend the 
crowded circles of gaiety and dissipation : in short, this 
feeling of renovated energy is used, or abused, in a 
thousand ways by different individuals, without their 
iBver dreaming that bodily ea^crcise, and that alone, is im- 
plied by it. The result of which is, that imperfect 
' assimilation, and all its train of consequences, take 
place. 
^^ 124. Some difference of opinion has existed with 
^Btegard to the utility or mischief of exercise immediately 
^Btf^er eating ; but in this question, as in most others of 
^Bliie like nature, the truth will be found to lie between 
^Bthc extremes. Those who, from confounding the effects 
^"■of gentle with those of exhausting exercise, maintain 
the necessity of rest for the perfect performance of the 
digestive process, appeal to the experiment of Sir 

t£ueick Harwood, the mere relation of which will be 
iMifficient to negative the inference which they would 
deduce from its result. The Downing Professor took 
two pointers, equally hungry, and equally well fed ; the 
fine he suffered to lie quiet after his meal, tlie other he 



inc 



^_one 



EXEBCI8E BEFORE AND AFTER MEALS. 

kept for above two hours in constant exercise. On 
returning home he had them both killed. In the 
stomach of the dog that had remained quiet and asleep, 
all the food was found chymified ; but in the stomach 
of the other dog, the process of digestion had scarcely 
commenced. Exercise, let it be remembered, must be 
measured in relation to the strength and habits of the 
individual : we have daily experience to prove that the 
husbandman may return to his daily labour, and the 
schoolboy to his gambols, immediately after a firugal 
meal, without inconvenience or injury; but the same 
degree of exercise to a person of sedentary habits, or 
of weak stamina, would probably arrest and subvert the 
whole process of digestion. The influence of habit, in 
rendering exercise salutary or injurious, is shown in a 
variety of instances : a person who would suffer from 
the slightest exertion after dinner, will undertake a 
fatiguing labour after breakfast, however solid and 
copious that meal may have been. If we assent to the 
proposition of the Cambridge Professor, we must in 
consistency acknowledge, that exercise, before a meal, 
is at least as injurious as he would lead ua to suppoae 
it is q/ter a repast : for if the valetudinarian take his 
dinner in a state of fatigue, he will assuredly expe- 
rience some impediment in its digestion ; but are we 
to argue that, on this account, exercise is neither to 
precede nor follow a meal ? We may as well, without 
further discussion, subscribe to the opinion of Ilierony- 
mus Cardanus, who, insisting upon the advantages of 
perfect rest, observes, that trees live longer than (mijiials. 
because they never stir from tlieir places. 



PART II. 



OF DIETETIC OBSERVANCES, 



FOUNDED UPON 



PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES. 



OF DIETETIC OBSERVANCES. 



General Remarka^Population of a Country depends upon the 

^L Quantity and not tbe Quality of its Food — Immuikity from 

^M Disease how connected with Salubrity of Diet — The Views of 

^V the Political Economist opposed to those of the Physician — On 

^^m the Periods best adapted for Meals, and on the Intervals which 

^^V should elapse between each — Breatfaat — Dinner — Tea — Sup- 

^H per — On the Quantity of Food that should be taken at each 

^^r Meal — On the Quantity or Volume of Liquids that should be 

^^r taken at Meals— Conduct to be pursued previous and eubse- 

^^ qnent to Meals. 



125. The necessity of dietetic regulations has ever 
been opposed by that popular and sweeping proposi- 
tion, — that man is omnivorous ; that there scarcely 
exists a species of animal or vegetable being that has 
not been applied as food by some nation or horde, with- 
out inconvenience; that, while one race subsists on 
roots and fruits, another lives, as exclusively, on raw 
flesh of the grossest description ; and another, again, 
on a mixed diet, partly animal, and partly vegetable ; 
and yet that all are equally nourished, equally healthy, 
and equally competent to discharge the various duties 
which circumstances may have imposed upon them. It 



DIETETIC OBSERVANCES. 



would be vain to deny that the Author of Nature lias 
80 constructed us and our organs of digestion, as to 
enable us gradually to accommodate ourselves to every 
species of aliment, without injury. By the same train 
of reasoning, the quantity, as welt as tlie period of a 
repast, would appear as immaterial as its quality. The 
Esquimaux, who feeds voraciously on the walrus, is 
frequently, from the precarious nature of its supply, 
deprived for days of his favourite meal ; and yet bodily 
disease neither follows repletion in the one case, nor 
privation in the other. Is it, then, immaterial to our 
health whether we feast with Apicius or fast with Py- 
thagoras ? Such, doubtless, ie the conclusion at which 
those who disparage the utility of a regulated regimen 
are so anxious to arrive ; but it becomes the duty of a 
writer upon Dietetics to inquire how iar such opinions 
are founded in truth. In the first place, it may be 
observed, that the population of a country must always 
advance in proportion to the facility with which chil- 
dren can be supported. The fecundity of the several 
ichthyophagous nations, as well as that of the inhabi- 
tants of our fishing-towns, is to he thus explained, and 
is not to be attributed, as Montesquieu believed, to the 
peculiar nature of their diet. In accounting, therefore, 
for the populousneas of a district, the quantity, and not 
the quality, of the food is to be principally considered. 
With respect to the general health and vigour of a 
population, we must be extremely cautious how we 
attempt to connect the immunity from disease with 
peculiarity of diet. The robust and healthy will sustain 
a regimen which would prove destructive to their less 



J 



DIETETTC OB8EHVANCE8. 



127 



irdy brethren. An innutritious diet may thus con- 
ribute to the general health of a community at the 
jspense of its weaker indiyiduals ; for, by weeding out 
the latter, the proportion of the former must be aug- 
mented. The same observation applies with equal 
force to the other non-naturals '. In this respect, then 
> What mimeroua esamples might he adduced ia illuetration of 
this subject ! The troojis of uncivilized countries compensate for 
their deficiency in discipline by eujierioritj of animal strength; be- 
cause the less robust ore swept from the KLnka by the hardships to 
which, they are exposed. This fact has been generally acknowledged, 
although the explanation of it has been frequently erroneous : the 
regimen of the Spartans has been a common theme of discussion ; 
and the exclamation of Pausanias, after the battle of Plataea, will 
readily occur to the reader. But a Spartan regimen will not give 
vigour to those who are naturally weak ; and yet the practitioners 
of modem times have not unfrequently acted upon sach a belief. In 
examining the billa of mortality, with the view of ascertaining the 
nnmbers who have died at different ages, in successive years, it will 
^_ jyipear that the number of deaths under two years of age, from the 
^^■near 1738 to that of 1750, annually fluctuated between nine and ten 
^^BiouEand ; and that in the latter half of the last century, it was di- 
^^^ttimshed to six or seven thousand : while, since the commencement 
^^K the present century, the number has averaged under five thousand 
^Hv»e hundred. This striking diminution of mortality among children 
seems imputable to the correction of that vulgar error which led 
nurses to expose children to cold, in order to " harden their constitu- 
tions." The political economist may, perhaps, censure the modern 
pbyaician, as Plato did Herodicus, for teaching the infirm to regulate 
their exercise and diet in such a manner as to prolong their lives. 
If by care and good nursing the sickly infant be carried through the 
first years of his life, be may possibly fall a victim to the diseases of 
puberty ; and the same principle, therefore, which explains the di- 
minished number of early deatlis, will also explain the increasing 
I tee of those of matnrer age, and the more frequent occurrence of 
ilmonary disease ; but are the terrors of the spring to encounge 
e apathy of the nurseryman during the season of winter ? 



128 WHETHER MAN WAS OHIGINALLV OMNIVOROUS. 

the views of the political economist are in direct oppo- 
sition to those of the physician ; the object of the one, 
is the promotion of the general good of a community, 
while that of the other is the preservation of its more 
feeble individuals. 

127. Whether nature originally intended that man 
should feed on animal or vegetable substances has 
afforded a fertile theme for discussion. It is not my 
intention to follow the various speculative authors who 
have attempted to prove that animal food was not 
eaten before the deluge, but was introduced in con- 
sequence of the deterioration which the herbage sus- 
tained on that occasion. Such questions may serve to 
exercise the ingenuity of the casuist, but they pre- 
sent uo interest to the physician. It is sufficiently 
evident, from the structm-e of our teeth, and from 
the extent of the alimentary canal being less than 
that of the vegetable eater, and greater than that of 
the carnivorous animal, that man is omnivorous, and 
capable of subsisting on aliment of every descrip- 
tion. Broussonet, however, is inclined to believe that 
man is more herbivorous than carnivorous in his na- 
ture ; and, from the proportion which the different teeth 
bear to each other, he even ventures to conclude, that 
his mixed diet should consist of animal and vegetable 
food in the proportion of 20 to 12, No rule, however, 
of this nature can possibly be established ; we have 
only to consider the different effects produced upon the 
body by these two species of aliment, to perceive that 
the circumstances of climate, set^on, exercise, habit, 
age, and individual peculiarity, must oppose such an 
attempt at generalization. 



CJiANUE Ol'" FOOD. 



128. It would, however, appear that althougli man 
is capable of subsisting upon almost every variety of 
food, he cannot bear with impunity a sudden and 
abrupt transition from one species to another. This 
fact was very strikingly exemplified in the eastern part 
of France in the year 1817, where the failure of the 
crops occasioned such a famine that the poor were 
compelled to feed upon such vegetable productions as 
could be obtained ; the consequences are stated to have 
been general anasarca, interruption of the menstrual 
discharge, and a permanent loss of strength ; the sud- 
den return even to barley bread, after this miserable 
regimen, was not unattended with danger. Avieenna 
remarks, that after fasting people should live sparingly ; 
and ho tells us that after the famine which occurred in 
city of Bochara, many of those who had lived on 
its and herbs, and retained their health, became 
seased as soon as they returned to a full diet of bread 
and flesh. A more modern illustration of this prin- 
ciple is to be found in the history of the celebrated 
but disastrous retreat of Sir John Moore's anny, in 
■which many of those who had braved its hardships and 
privations became victims to the liberality with which 
tbey were regaled on a return to their native shores. 
ipaUanzani has long since shown that animals may be 
pught to live on food of the most opposite kind, pro- 
led always that the change be gradually accomplished ; 
!h, for example, as a pigeon on flesh, an eagle on bread, 
We know that in certain maritime districts of the 
it, horses are not unfrequently fed on fish, while on 
coast of Coromandel they are fattened upon balls of 



13 



EFFECTS OF ANIMAL AND 



boiled flesh mixed with grain ; and it is on record, that 
a lamb kept on ship-board was fed with flesh irntU it 
actually refused the grass when turned into a meadow'. 
129. As every description of food, whether derived 
from the animal or vegetable kingdom, is converted 
into blood, it may be inferred that the ultimate eflfect 



' The reader may perhaps smile when, in support of this general 
truth, he is led to examine the strata of our globe ; when he ia told 
that amidst the ruins of a former world, he will find ample evidence 
of the fatal consequences of a sudden change in the habits and diet 
of animals, Mr. Mantell. of Brighton, who has added to lua repu- 
tation as a medical practitioner that of an original geoli^ical dis- 
coverer, has observed that, from an examination of the deposit in 
the chalk of the South-downs, it is clearly demonstnible, that after 
the catastrophe which broke through the chalk IuUb, and thus formed 
their transverse valleys, the basins of the chalk were filled with salt 
water ; the currents of fresh water flowing- from the interior, brought 
down clay, silt, and decaying vegetables, and soon occasioned an 
intermixture of lacustral tcstacen ; and at length so far changed the 
nature of the element, as to render it alone fit for the habitation of 
freah-water shell-fish. This conclusion results from the exclusive 
occurrence of marine shells in the lower beds, and that of fresh- 
water ones in the upper; both species, however, appearing inter- 
mixed in the intermediate layers. Now the experiments of M. 
Beudant (Ann. de Chim. ii, 32,J have proved that if freah-water 
moUusca be suddenly introduced into sea water, they die in a very 
short time ; whereas, if the fresh water be gradually impregnated 
with salt, tliey will even live in it, when of the strength of sea water, 
without sustaining any injury. Similar experiments on fresh-water 
mollusca gave corresponding results. I have introduced these factE 
to the notice of the physiologist, because they establish a uniform 
law, operating alike upon all living beings, from the insect to man; 
principally, however, for the purpose of showing that branches of 
science, however unconnected with, and alien to, each other, ni»y 
nevertheless be brought to interchange their mutual lights. 



VEGETABLE FOOD COMPARED. 131 

6f all aliments must be virtually the same ; and that 
the several species can only differ from each other in the 
quantity and concentration of nutriment they afford, in 
the comparative degree of stimulus they impart to the 
organs through which they pass, and in the proportion of 
vital energy they require for their assimilation. Were 
the degree of excitement which attends the digestion of 
a meal commensurate with the labour imposed upon the 
organs which perform it, less irritation and heat would 
attend the digestion of animal than of vegetable food ; 
for, in the one case, the aliment already possesses a 
composition analogous to that of the structure which 
it is designed to supply, and requires little more than 
division and depuration ; whereas, in the other, a com- 
plicated series of decompositions and reeompositions 
must be effected before the matter can be animalized, 
or assimilated to the body. But the digestive Jevor, if 
we may be allowed the use of that expression, and the 
complexity of the alimentary changes, would appear, 
in every case, to bear an inverse relation to each other. 
This must depend upon the fact of animal food affording 
a more highly animahzed chyle, or a greater proportion 
of that principle which is essentially nutritive, as well 
as upon the immediate stimulus which the alimentary 
nerves receive from its contact. In hot countries, 
therefore, or during the heats of summer, we are in- 
stinctively led to prefer vegetable food ; and we 
accordingly find that the inhabitants of tropical cli- 
mates select a diet of this description ; the Bramins in 
India, and the people of the Canary Islands, Brazils, 
&c., live almost entirely on herbage, grains, and roots, 



13-2 



THE NECESSITY OF A MIXED 



whilst those of the north use little besides an'imal food. 
On account of the superior nutritive power of animal 
matter, it is equally evident that the degree of bodily 
exertion or exercise, sustained by an individual should 
not be overlooked in an attempt to adjust the propor- 
tion in which animal and vegetable food should be 
mixed. Persons of sedentary habits are oppressed, and 
ultimately become diseased, from the excess of nutri- 
ment which a fall diet of animal food will occasion ; 
such a condition is best cori'ected by acescent vege- 
tables. It is well known that artisans and labourers, 
in . the confined manufactories of large towns, suffer 
prodigiously in their health whenever a failure occurs 
in the crops of common fruits ; this fact was remark- 
ably striking in the years 1804 and I8O0. Growing' 
youths generally thrive upon a generous diet of animal 
food ; the excess of nutritive matter is consumed in 
the developement of the body, and, if properly digested, 
imparts strength without repletion. Adults and old 
persons compai-atively require but a small proportion 
of aliment, unless the nutritive movement be accele- 
rated by violent exercise and hard labour. 

130. Those who advocate the exclusive value of i 
animal food, and deny the utility of its admixture with I 
vegetable matter, adduce in jiroof of their system the ' 
rude health and Herculean strength of our hardy "^' 

ancestors. The British aborigines, when iirst visited ; 

by the Romans, certainly do not appear to have bee*— ' 

• The aliment of almost every animfll, in its first stage of life, 
is composed of animal matter ; even graminivorous birds are n( 
riahed by the yolk for several days after being hatched. 



DIET EXAMINED AND EXPLAINED. 133 

onversant with the cultivation of the ground, and» 
iccording to the early writers, Ciesar, Strabo, Diodorus 
lus, and others, their principal subsistence was on 
1 and milk; but before any valid conclusion can 
! deduced from this circumstance, the habits of the 
people must be compared with those of their de- 
scendants. The history of later times will furnish us 
with a satisfactory answer to those who deny the 
necessity of vegetable aliment. We learn from the 
London bills, that scurvy raged to such an excess in 
the seventeenth century as to have occasioned a very 
great mortality: at this period the art of gardening 
had not long been introduced. It appears that the 
most common articles of the kitchen garden, such as 
cabbages, were not cultivated in England until the 
Bpeign of Catherine of Arragon ; indeed, we are told that 
HSiiB queen could not procure a salad until a gardener 
■ffae sent for from tlie Netherlands to raise it. Since 
the change thus happily introduced into our diet, the 
-Javages of the scurvy have been less severely ex- 
rienced. 

131. It follows, then, that in our climate a diet of 
joimal food cannot, with safety, be exclusively em- 
loyed. It is too highly stimulant ; the springs of life 
> urged on too fast ; and disease necessarily follows. 
There may, nevertheless, exist certain states of the 
system which require such a preternatural stimulus ; 
■and the physician may, therefore, confine his patient to 
^bi animal regimen with as much propriety as he would 
^Kpescribe opium, or any other remedy. By a parity of 
^■Basoning, the exclusive use of vegetable food may be 



134 A MIXED DIET EXAMINED. 

shown to be inconsistent with the acknowledged ] 
ciples of dietetics, and to be incapable of conveying a 
nourishment suflBciently stimulating for the active 
exertions which belong to our present civilized con- 
dition ', At the same time it must be allowed, that an 
adherence to vegetable diet is usually productive of far 
less evil than that which follows the use of an exclu- 
sively animal regimen, I must not quit this subject 
without adverting to the popular error by which vege- 
tables were denounced as most dangerous aiticles of 
food, during the late prevalence of malignant cholera. 
The great safeguard in all epidemics, is a healthy con- 
dition of the digestive organs, which the sudden ab- 
straction of all vegetable food is by no means calculated 
to promote. 

' The following is au extract from the letter of a highly intelligent 
gentleman, lately written during a tour throughFrance : — "' The quan- 
tity of work done by a French labourer is about equal to that done hy 
an English one ; but then he is much longer about it, commencing 
work at sunrise the year round, and leaving off, perhaps, two hoiffs 
later than ours. This inability of the French to do the same 
quantity of work in a given time as the English, is univereally as- 
cribed to the meagreness of their diet. The peasantry eat little 
meat, from habit rather than from inability to afford it. A gentle- 
man compels his own men to do so, and gives them wine (.which the 
peasantry do not usually drink) : be says that thia eyatein pays well 
in the increased quantity of work they perform. A ueigbboor of 
his, an Englishman, has some English labourers, who live in the 
English manner, eating much meat, and who do more work in a 
given time than their fellow French labourers. 

" Generally speaking all the evidence and opinions I have heard 
tend to establish the immediate connexion between the goodness of 
the diet^and the quantity of work done." 



ON THE PERIODS BEST ADAPTED FOR MEALS. AND 
ON THE INTERVALS WHICH SHOULD ELAPSE 
BETWEEN EACH. 



F 



1 32, It is not extraordinary that a discrepancy of 
opioiou should exist upon a question which involves 
so many fluctuating circumstances. Controversy upon 
this, as upon many other subjects of diet, has engendered 
a disbelief in its importance ; and this scepticism has 
given a plausible pretext for indulgence on the one 
hand, and protracted fasting on the other, as the wishes 
or habits of mankind may have rendered most agree- 
able. It will, therefore, be difiicult to convince the 
public of the necessity of those regulations which are 
so essential for the maintenance of health or for the 
cure of disease. We have been told that the best time 
for dining is, ^''for a rich man, when lie can get an appe- 
titCf and Jhr a poor one, when he can get food" But 
nppetite in health is regulated by habit, and in disease 
it acts but as an imperfect monitor. Certain general 
principles, therefore, deduced from observation and 
experience, must be laid down for our guidance ; and 
these again in their application must be modified and 
adapted to the circumstances of every particular case. 

133. All jjhysicians concur in advocating the im- 
portance of regularity, both as it regards the number of 
meals and the periods at which they are taken. Those 
who have weak stomachs will, by such a system, not 
only digest more food, but will be less liable to those 
affections wliicli arise from its imperfect assimilation, 



136 



LUNCHEONS GENERALLY OBJECTIONABLE. 



because, as Dr. Darwin has justly observed, tbey have, 
in Buch a case, both the stimulus of the aliment they 
take, and the periodical habit, to assist the process. 
The periods of hunger and thirst are undoubtedly 
catenated with certain portions of time, or degrees of 
exhaustion, or other diurnal habits of life ; and if the 
pain of hunger be not relieved by taking food at the 
usual time, it is liable to cease till the next period of 
time or other habits recur. As these periods must 
Tary in every individual, according to the powers of 
digestion, the degree of exercise taken, the age, and 
the rapidity of growth ', as well as the quality of the 
food, it frequently becomes necessary, in civilised life, 
to have recourse to intermediate meals, or luncheons, in 
order to support the powers of the stomach during the 
long interval which may occur between the conven- 
tional periods of repast. But to the dyspeptic patient, 
in search of health, sucli indulgences are rarely to be 
permitted ; unless, indeed, the circumstances under 
which he is placed leave him no option between long 
fasting and supplementary refection. I am more 
anxious to impress this precept upon the minds of 
invalids, as the anxiety of friends, and the popular 
errors which exist upon the subject of diet, are too apt 
to establish the mischievous belief that " a little and 
i^len" will be more likely to restore the languid stomach 



' Dr. Roget illustrates this subject by the caterpillar, which groYn 
very quickly, and must repeatedly throw off its integuments during 
its continuance in the larva state; it accordingly consumes a vast 
quantity of food compared with the size of its body ; and hence n 
find it provided with a digestive apparatus of coneidentble si 



nence we 



REGULAR MEALS. 



137 



*to its healthy tone than moderate meals at more pro- 
tracted intervals. The specious aphorism of Sir Wil- 
liam Temple, that " the stomach of an invalid is like a 
schoolboy, always at mischief unless it be employed," 
has occasioned more dyspeptic disease than that re- 
spectable physician could ever have cured, had lie been 
as successful in practice as .^culapius, and his life 
been protracted to the age of an antediluvian. The 
theory upon which this objection rests has already been 
explained (116), The natural process of digestion is 
thus disturbed, and the healthy action of the stomach, 
as evinced by the return of moderate appetite, is en- 
tirely prevented. In answer to this reasoning, the patient 
will sometimes tell you, that frequent refreshment is 
essential to his comfort ; that a sensation of faintness 
obliges him to fly to such a resource, in order to rescue 
bimself from the distress which it occasions. This, in 
general, is an artificial want, created by habit, and must 
be cured by restoring the patient to regular meals, 
"which is to be eifected by gradually lengthening the 
intervals of eating. The animal machine possesses al- 
jnost miraculous powers of accommodation, but then it 
must be trained according to its own laws ; if you 
■would conquer nature, you must obey her. But since 
no general rule is without its exceptions, so it may be 
observed, that there are cases of disease, in which the 
stomach is unable to bear any considerable quantity of 
aliment at one time, whence it becomes indispensable 
to repeat it at short intervals, in order to afford a 
sufficient proportion of nutriment ; but as the patient 



138 



THE NUMBER OF MEAIS. 



acquires strength, euch a syBtem should bo gradually 
abandoned. 

134. Although the advautage of regular meals at stated 
periods is generally admitted, it has been much disputed 
how many should be allowed iu the day: some physi- 
cians have considered one, others two, three, or even 
five necessary. It is, perhaps, impossible to lay down 
a general rule that shall apply to every particular case. 
In some persons the food rarely remains longer than 
three hours in the stomach; in others, four, five, or 
even six hours. It is evident, then, that the repetition 
of the meals ought to be regulated by this circum- 
stance, always avoiding the extremes of long fitsting 
and repletion. Some nations have been satisfied with 
one meal a day ; but the stomach would thus be op- 
pressed with too large a quantity, and in the interval 
would suffer from the want of some nourishment in it. 
Such a plan, therefore, is neither calculated for persons 
of robust health, and who are engaged iu much bodily 
exertion, and consequently require large supplies, nor 
for those of a weak habit, who are not able either to 
teJce or to digest such a quantity of aliment in a single 
meal as will be suflScient to supply the waste of tbe 
body during twenty-four hours. Celsus recommends 
the healthy to take food rather tveice in the day than 
once ; and Sanctorius says, " that the body becomes 
more heavy and uneasy after six pounds taken at oue 
meal, than after eight talcen at three ; and that he who 
makes but one meal in the day, let him eat much or 
little, is pursuing a system that must ultimately injure 



I 



THE QUAIITy OF THE DIFFERENT MEALS. 139 

m." When Plato returned that memorable answer 
the philosophers, who inquired whether he had seen 

ijthing remarkable in Trinacria? " Vidi inoiistrum 
in tiatura, horninem lis safuratum in diej" he referred 
rather to the quantity, than to the repetition of the 
meale of Dionyaius. In my own opinion, an invalid 
may safely take three frugal meals ; or, on some occa- 
sions, even four, provided a certain quantity of exercise 
be insisted upon. It is reported, that when Alexander 
l3ie Great turned away his cooks, on proceeding upon a 
march, he observed that he had no further occasion for 
such assistants, as he carried with him superior cooks ; — 
a long morning's journey to create an appetite for his 
dinner, and a frugal dinner to give a relish to his supper. 

135. I shall now consider the nature of the different 
meals, and the periods at which they can be taken with 
the greatest advantage ; repeating, however, that all 
gwieral rules must be modified in their application 
according to particular circumstances. 

136, Breakfast. This is, perhaps, the most natural, 
and not the least im])ortant of our meals ; for, since 
many hours must have intervened since the last meal, 
the stomach ought to be in a condition to receive a 
fresh supply of aliment. As all the food in the body 
has, during the night, been digested, we might presume, 
that a person in the moming ought to feel an appetite 
on rising. This, however, is not always the fact ; the 
gastric juice may not be secreted in any quantity dur- 
ing sleep, while the muscular energies of the stomach, 
although invigorated by repose, are not innnediately 
called into action : it is therefore advisable to allow an 



140 THE QUALITY OF THE DIFFERENT MEALS. 



interval to pass before we commence the meal of break- 
fast. We seem to depart more from the custom of our 
hardy ancestors, with regard to breakfast, than any 
other meal. A maid of honour in the court of Eliza- 
beth breakfasted upon beef, and drank ale after it ; 
while the sportsman, and even the day-labourer of the 
present day, frequently breakfast upon tea. The pe- 
riods of their meals, however, were so generally different 
from those of modern times, that we cannot establish 
any useful comparison between them, without taking 
into consideration the collateral circumstances which 
must have influenced their operation. The solidity of 
our breakfast should be regulated by the labour and 
exercise to be taken, and to the time of dining. Where 
the dinner hour is late, we should recommend a more 
nutritious meal, or what the French call un dejeuner a 
la fourchette, in order to supersede the necessity of 
luncJieon. At tho same time it must be remembered, 
that dyspeptic invalids are frequently incommoded by 
such a repast, if it be copious. Heartburn is a common 
effect of a heavy breakfast, especially if it be accom- 
panied with much diluting liquid ; and a question has 
consequently arisen as to the propriety of taking much 
fluid on these occasions. Some have recommended a 
dry breakfast, as peculiarly wholesome: and we have 
been told, that Marcus Antoninus made it a rule 
to eat a hard biscuit the moment he got up. I 
think, however, it will not be difficult to show the 
reasons why liquids are essentially necessary at this 
meal. To say notliing of the instinctive desire which 
we all feel for them, it is evident that there Is a certain 



I 



A LidUiD brkakfast; why salutary. 141 

acrimony and rankness in all our secretions at that 
time ; the breath has frequently a peculiar taint in the 
morning, which is not perceptible at subsequent periods 
of the day. This may bo explained by the lose which 
the fluids of the body have sustained by perspiration, as 
■well as by the quality of newly-elaborated matter intro- 
duced into the circulation during sleep. The experi- 
ments of Sanctorius have fully demonstrated the supe- 
rior power of sleep in promoting tlie perspiration ; 
insomuch, that a person sleeping healthily, and without 
,,jiny unnatural means to promote it, will, in a given 
»ace of time, perspire insensibly twice as much as 
■when awake. This fact is sufficient to prove the ne- 
cessity of a liquid breakfast. Nor must we overlook 
the highly active state of the absorbent system at this 
period of the day, arising, no doubt, from the expendi- 
ture of fluids to which we allude. This is shown by 
die facility "with which invalids are enabled to dispose 
of large draughts of mineral water before breakfast, 
which at any other period of the day would be followed 
■by the most painfld oppression. It also explains the 
nutritive and restorative influence of milk, when taken 
in the early morning. Every physician, in the course 
of his practice, must have been consulted upon the 
propriety of taking meat, tea, or coffee, at breakfast. 
I shall, therefore, offer to the profession the results of 
liiy experience upon this subject ; and I am encouraged 
this duty by a conviction of the advantages which 
ihave arisen from my view of the question. A person 
'ho has not strong powers of digestion is frequently 
iatressed by the i^nal association of tea with bread 



142 BREAKFAST. 

and butter, or, wLat ia more injurious, with liot buttered 
toast or muflm ; the oily part of which is separated by 
the heat of the liquid, and remains in the stomach, ex- 
citing, on its cardiac orifice, an irritation which pro- 
duces the sensation of heartburn. On such occasions 
I always recommend dry toast, without any addition. 
New bread, or spongy rolls, should be carefully avoided. 
Tea, to many persons, is a beverage which contains too 
little nutriment: I have therefore found barley-water, 
or a thin gruel, a very useful substitute. A gentleman 
some time since applied to me, in consequence of an 
acidity which constantly tormented him during the 
interval between breakfast and dinner, but at no other 
period of the day : he had tried the effects of milk, tea, 
eolFee, and cocoa, but uniformly without success.' 1 
advised him to eat toasted bread, with a slice of the 
lean part of cold mutton, and to drink a large cup of 
warm barley-water, for the purpose of dilution. Since 
the adoption of this plan he has entirely lost his com- 
plaint, and continues to enjoy his morning diversions 
without molestation. Hard eggs, although they require 
a long period for their digestion, are not generally of- 
fensive to the stomach ; they may therefore be taken 
with propriety, whenever, from necessity or choice, the 
dinner is appointed at a late season. 

137. In the course of my own practice I have not 
unfrequently been called upon to advise a patient under 
the following circumstances. He rises in the morning 
without much inclination for breakfast ; but such are 
his occupations that he is oomjielled to "Jonp. down" a 
substantial repast, in order to protect himself against 



your 
^L4)e in 



UKEAKFART. 143 

I the inauition which would otherwise take place during 
I -tbe day, his dinner being unavoidably postponed to six 
r or seven o'clock. Should he take but a moderate 
breakfast, he Is compelled to eat a luncheon at tliree 
o'clock, by which his dinner is rendered indigestible. I 
will tell the reader the plan which I have usually di- 
rected with success under such circumstances. If, at 
your usual breakfest honr, the stomach should not yet 
9 in the humom- for food, take a cup of tea, or thin 
■uel, and a piece of dry toast, or a biscuit ; and, after 
the lapse of two or three hours, eat some cold mutton, 
a, chop, or any other easily digestible meat. You will 
^_ thus gain all the advantages of a substantial breakfast 
^hvrithout its evils, and derive the profit of a luncheon 
^■nrithout the chance of unfitting your stomach for the 
^Bduties imposed upon it at dinner. The following pas- 
^Kbage is extracted from a letter which I lately received 
from a gentleman resident in the vicinity of London, 
whose mercantile engagements required his attendance 
in town every morning. " I never was more obhged 

»to any man than I am to you ; you may remember I 
Borne time ago applied for your assistance under cir- 
cumstances that rendered my life most uncomfortable ; 
by following your advice the evil has been completely 
I removed : and I absolutely feel ten years younger than 
[ did eight months back. I hope that, in the next 
idition of your work, you will take some notice of my 
je, for the sake of those poor d — Is, who may be suf- 
ring in a similar manner. I have been attentively 
perusing all you have said about breakfast, but I cannot 
find ajiy allusion to the plan you reconmiended to me. 
10 



144 DINNER. 

You may, perhaps, not recollect the particulars of my ■ 
case, and the difficulties in which this strange stomach j 
of mine placed me. I told you tliat whenever I ate a 
hearty breakfast, I suffered for it the rest of the day ; 
and, if I took a scanty one, I became so faint as to be 
obliged, in my own defehce, to spoil my dinner by a 
luncheon. I now break my fast by a small basin-full 
of barley-water with milk, and a biscuit ; two hours 
after which I find myself in trim for a chop, which 
carries me on comfortably till six o'clock, when I assure 
you I can make a most respectable dinner. The con- 
sequence of all this is, that I do not know I have a 
stomach, except, indeed, when it civilly reminds me 
that it is twelve and six o'clock, Vou perceive I can 
now look the enemy in the face, and laugh at the terrors 
which formerly frightened me almost to death. Is not 
this a good sign ?" — Indeed it is, the very best and least 
equivocal sign of convalescence. If any of my medical 
readers should question the intimate connection between 
body and mind, between, as Sterne says, the outside 
and inside of a jacket which, ruffle but the one, and J 
you will be sure to ruffle the other, all I cau say is, that-:^ 
they must have very superficially observed the phenc 
mena of disease. 

138. Dinner. Among the Romans this was rathei-^ 
considered as a refreshment to prevent taintnesa, than 
as a meal to convey nourishment. It consisted prin — ^ 
cipally of some light repast, without animal food oe:^ 
wine ; but in modern times it is considered the prin- — "'■ 
cipal meal, at which every species of luxurious gratifi^ — 
cation is indulged in. With regard to the proper" 
7 



THE DINNER HOUR. 



bet 
ftpn 



I 



period at which invalids should dine, physicians enter- 
tain but one opinion : it should be in the middle of the j 
day, or at about two or three o'clock. Sir A. Carliale 
has justly observed, that it is thus best adapted to the 
decline of animal vigour, because it affords a timely 
replenishment before the evening waning of the vital 
powei-s, and which naturally precedes the hour of rest ; 
besides which, the custom tends to prevent interape- 
mce ; while late houi-s and a consequent state of ex- 
lustion demand, or seem to justi fy, an excessive indul- 
gence iu strong drinks, and in variety of food. The 
exact period, however, of dinner must be directed by 
the physician with reference to the necessary habits of 
his patient, the nature and time of his breaklast, and, ' 
above all, to the rapidity or slowness of his digestion, 
I will illustrate the importance of this precept by the 
relation of a case which lately fell under my own imme- 
diate notice and care. A gentleman, resident in a dis- 
tant part of the country, applied for my advice under 
the following circumstances. His health was generally 
good, but he had lost all appetite for his dinner, ami i 
constantly experienced a sensation of weight and 
uneasiness after that meal : I prescribed some laxative 
and bitter medicines, and after a fortnight had elapsed 
I a^n saw him. He then told me that he had not 
[experienced the sensations of which he had complained 
'for some time ; but that the circumstance afforded 
bim but little encouragement, as he had uniformly found 
the same beneficial change whenever he resided in ] 
London, which he waa at a loss to explain, as he to 

' exercise in tlie country. T then inquired | 



146 TEA — SUPPER. 

whether tlie hour at which he dined was the same in 
both situations ? when it appeared, that in the country 
he dined at three, and in London at about six. I im- 
mediately suspected the origin of the complaint, and 
fortunately touched the spring which unfolded the 
whole secret : his digestion was remarkably slow, and 
the dinner in the country was served up before the 
breakfast had been duly digested. By my advice this 
evil was remedied; and he has never since had any 
reason to complain of want of appetite, or of the weight 
and oppression which had so long distressed him. 

139. Tea. I have already stated my reasons for 
considering this repast as salutary ; and where it is 
practicable, exercise should follow it. 

140. Supper. In the time of Elizabeth, the nobility 
and gentry were accustomed to dine at eleven, to sup 
between five and six, and to go to bed at ten. It is 
therefore evident, that any argument in fiivour of this 
meal, founded upon the healthy condition of our an- 
cestors, must be fallacious. By supper, in modem 
times, we understand a late meal just before bed-time. 
But as sleep is not favourable to every stage of diges- 
tion, it is very questionable whether retiring to rest 
with a full stomach can, under any circumstances, be 
salutary '. During the first part of the process, or that 
of chymification, a person so situated may perhaps 
sleep quietly, unless indeed the morbid distention of the 



ix magna ccena etomacho tit 
Ut sis nocte levia, sit tibi c 



J 



avc 



SUPPER. 147 

unach should impede respiration, and occasion dis- 

!8s ; but when the food has passed out of the stomach, 
the processes of chylification and sanguification 
have been established, the natural propensity of the 
body is for activity, and the invalid awakes at this 
period, and remains in a feverish state for some hours. 
Upon this general principle, then, suppers are to be 
avoided ; that is to say, hearty suppers, which require 
ihe active powers of the stomach for their digestion. 

e same objection cannot be urged against a light re- 
past, which is generally useful to dyspeptics ; and it has 
been truly and facetiously observed, that " some invalids 
need not put on their night-caps, if they do not first 
bribe their stomachs to good behaviour." An egg 
lightly boiled, or a piece of dry toast, with a small 
quantity of white wine negus, will often secure a 
tranquil night, which would otherwise be passed with 
restlessness. Amongst the intellectual part of the 
community, there has ever existed a strong predilection 
in favour of suppers : the labour of the day has been 
performed; the hour is sacred to conviviality, and the 
period is one which is not hkely to bo interrupted by 
the calls of business. To those in health, such indul- 
gences may be occasionally allowed ; but the physician 
should be cautious how he gives his sanction to their 
'holesomeness. The hilarity' which is telt at this 
iriod of the day must not be received as a signal for • 
ipairing to the banquet, but as an indication of the 

iguification of the previous meal (123). 

LBT hae been considered the meal o(/riendskip ; Dinner, 
it oi etiquette ; and Suffer thsfeast of wit. 
L 2 



ON THE QUANTITY OF FOOD 



ON THE QUANTITY OF FOOD THAT OUGHT TO BE 

TAKEN AT DIFFERENT MEALS. 
141. There ia no circumstance connected with diet, 
which popular writers have raised into greater impor- 
taTice ; and some medical practitioners have even 
deemed it necessary to direct that the quantity of food, 
appropriated to each meal, should be accurately esti- 
mated by the balance. Mr. Aberncthy says, that " it 
would be well if the public would follow the advice of 
Mr. Addison, given in the Spectator, of reading the 
writings of L. Cornaro ; who, having naturally a wealt 
constitution, which he seemed to have ruined by intem- 
perance, so that he was expected to die at the age of 
thirty-five, did at that period adopt a strict reginien, 
allowing himself only twelve ounces of food daily." 
When I see the habits of Cornaro so incessantly intro- 
duced as an example for imitation, and aa the standard 
of dietetic perfection, I am really inclined to ask with 
Feyjoo, — did God create Lewis Cornaro to be a rule 
for aU mankind in what they were to eat and drink ? 
Nothing can be more absurd than to establish a rule 
of weight and measure ujion such occasions. Indivi- 
duals differ from each other so widely in their capaci- 
ties for food, that to attempt the construction of a 
universal standard, is little less absurd than the practice 
of the philosophical tailors of Laputa, who wrought by 
mathematical calculation, and entertained a supreme 
contempt for those humble and illiterate fashioners 
who went to work by measuring the person of their 
customer ; but Gulliver tells us, that the worst clothes 






TO BE TAKEN AT Dli'FERENT MEALS. 149 

he ever wore were constructed on abstract principles. 
How then, it may be asked, shall we be able to direct 
the proportion of food which it may be proper for an 
invalid to take? I shall answer this question in the 
words of Dr. Philip, whose opinion so exactly coincides 
with my own experience, that it would be difficult to 
discover a more appropriate manner of expressing it. 
" The dyspeptic should carefully attend to the first feel- 
ing of satiety. There is a moment when the relish 
given by the appetite ceases ; a single mouthful taken 
after this oppresses a weak stomach. If he eats slowly, 
and carefully attends to this feeling, he will never over- 
load the stomach." But that such an indication may 
not deceive him, let him remember to eat slowly. Thia 
is an important condition ; for when we eat too fast, 
■we introduce a greater quantity of food into the stomach 
than the gastric juice can at once combine with; the 
consequence of which is, that hunger may continue for 
some time, after the stomach has received more than 
would be sufficient, under other circumstances, to in- 
duce satiety. The advantage of such a rule, over every 
artificial method by weight and measure, must be ob- 
Kjrious ; for It will equally apply to every person, under 
H#faatever condition or circumstances he may be placed. 
If he be of sedentary habits, the feeling of satiety will 
b? sooner induced ; and if a concurrence of circum- 
stances should have invigorated his digestive powers, 
^Mi will find no difficulty in apportioning the increase 
^Hf his food, so as to meet the exigencies of the occasion. 
^H 142. Although it must be admitted, that we all take 
^Blore solid food than may be necessary for supporting 



150 MISCHIEF OF MUCH ABSTINENCE. 

the body in its healthy state : yet it is important to 
know, that too great a degree of abstinence will also 
tend to weaken and distress both mind and body. Men 
who in the earlier ages, from a mistaken notion of reli- 
gion, confined their diet to a few figs, or a crust of 
bread and water, were so many visionary enthusiasts ; 
and the excessive abstinence to which some religious 
orders are subjected, has proved one of the greatest 
sources of modern superstition. The effects of feeding 
below the healthy standard, are also obvious in the 
diseases of the poor and ill-fed classes in many parts of 
England and Ireland ; and these are still more striking 
in those districts where the food is chiefly or entirely 
vegetable, and therefore less nutritious. It is also well 
known, that the obstinate fasting of maniacs often 
occasions a disease resembling the sea scurvy. 

143. Those who are induced from their situation in 
life constantly to exceed the proper standard of diet, 
will preserve their health by occasionally abstaining 
from food, or rather, by reducing the usual quantity, 
and living low, or rnaigre, as the French call it '. A 
poached egg, or a basin of broth, may on such occasions 
be substituted for the grosser solids. The advantage of 
such a practice has not only been sanctioned by expe- 
rience, but demonstrated by experiment, Tlie history 
of the art of " training" will furnish us with some curious 
fiicts upon this subject. It is well known that race- 
horses and fighting-cocks, as well as men, cannot be 



' Baglivi tells ws that in Italy a large proportion of invalids reco- 
vered their strength during the period of Lent. 



THE ATHLETIC WEIGHT. 



151 



breserved at their athletic weight, or at the " top of their 
»ndition," for any length of time; and that every 
:empt to force its continuance is followed by disease '. 
k. person, therefore, in robust health, should diminish 
ihe proportion of his food, in order that he may not 
attempt to force it beyond the athletic standard. 1 am 
particularly anxious to impress this important precept 
upon the mind of the junior practitioner, as I have, in 
he course of my professional experience, seen much 
aischief arise from the neglect of it. A person, after 
1 attack of acute disease, when his appetite returns, 
s in the condition of a pugilist who is about to enter 
kpon a system of traifiing ; with this difference, that he 
t more obnoxious to those evils which are likely to 
scrue from over-feeding. In a state of debility and 
Diaciation, without any disease, with a voracious appe- 
tite, he is prompted to eat largely and frequently ; and 
lie is exhorted by those not initiated in the mysteries 
■ the medical art, to neglect no opportunity to " get 
strength." The plan succeeds for a certain time, 
his strength increases daily, and all goes on well ; but, 
suddenly, his appetite fails, he becomes again unwell, 
and fever or some other mischief assails him. To the 
medical practitioner the cause of the relapse is obvious : 
he hafl attempted to force his strength too suddenly and 
violently beyond that athletic standard which corres- 
ponds with the vital condition of his constitution. This 



' When a sheep becomes fat, the butcher knc 
it will soon decline. 



s it must be killed. 



152 



CAUTIONS AGAINST 



remark will forcibly apply to the treatment of cases of 
debility after inordinate fluxes and hemorrhages. 

144. Any sudden transition from established habits, 
both with regard to the quantity and qnality of food, is 
injudicious. This precept is the more important, as 
persons who have too freely indulged, and begin to feel 
the bad effects of their excesses, are disposed to alter 
their habits without the preliminary preparations. They 
leap at once from the situation which gives them pain 
or fills them with alarm, instead of quietly descending by 
the steps which would secure the safety of their retreat. 

145. It has been already stated that, after long 
fasting, we ought to be careful how far we indulge. 
Persons who have been inclosed in coal mines for seve- 
ral days without food, in consequence of the accidental 
falling in of the surrounding strata, have not unfre- 
quently lost their lives from the too assiduous adminis- 
tration of food after their extrication. During the 
period of my studentship at Cambridge, Elizabeth 
Woodcock was buried under the snow for the space of 
eight days : on her being found, she was visited by 
those to whom so extraordinary an adventure presented 
any interest ; and I can state, from my personal know- 
ledge of the fact, that she died in consequence of the 
large quantity of sustenance with which she was sup- 
plied. In the first volume of the Memoirs of the Phi- 
losophical Society of Manchester, the case of a miner is 
recorded, who after remaining for eiglit days without 
food, was killed by being placed in a warm bed, and 
fed with chicken broth. 



OVER-FEEDING. 153 

146, Tlie advantages which are produced by render- 
ing food grateful to invalids are so striking, that the 
most digestible aliment, if it excite aversion, is more 
injurious than that which, though in other respects 
objectionable, gratifies the palate. If feelings of disgust 
or aversion are excited, the stomach will never act with 
healthy energy on the ingesta ; and in eases of extreme 
dislike, they arc either returned, or they pass through 
the alimentary canal almost unchanged. On the other 
hand, the gratification which attends a favourite meal 
i?, in itself, a specific stimulus to the organs of diges- 
tion, especially in weak and debilitated habits. In the 
eighth edition of my Pharmacologia, I published a ease 
Tvhich was related to ine by Dr. Merriman. highly illus- 
trative of the powerful influence of the mind upon 
these organs. A lady of rank, labouring under a severe 
menorrhagia, suffered with that irritable and unrelent- 
ing state of stomach which so commonly attends uterine 
affections, and to such a degree, that every kind of 
aliment and medicine was alike rejected. After the 
total failure of the usual expedients to procure relief, 
and the exhaustion of the resources of the regular jn-ae- 
titioner, she applied to the celebrated Miss Prescott, 
and was magnetized by the mysterious spells of this 
modern Circe. She immediately, to the astonishment 
of all her friends, ate a beefsteak, with a plentiful 
accompaniment of strong ale ; and she continued to 
eepeat the meal every day, for six weeks, without the 
; inconvenience ! But the disease itself, notwith- 
tanding this treacherous amnesty of the stomach, con- 
inned with unabated violence, and shortly afterwards 



154 INFLUENCE OF THE MIND UPON DIGESTION. 

terminated her life. On the other hand, I could cite 
several cases to show, that the most nutritive and di- 
gestible aliment may be rejected by the stomach, if 
any impression against its salubrity be produced. I 
remember a case, in which, from Bome groundless sus- 
picion, the idea of the food having been poisoned by 
copper was introduced, the persons at table became 
sick, one or two absolutely vomited, and the remainder 
complained of distress in the stomach and bowels. The 
following is another striking instance of the powers of 
the imagination. A Cambridge student called upon a 
friend, and observed a glass of sherry on his table, which 
he immediately swallowed ; the gentleman, in whose 
apartment this occurred, determined to play off a hoax 
upon his visitor, and turning towards him the label of 
a half-pint bottle of antimonial wine, declared that he 
had swallowed a portion of its contents. The student 
left the room, and instantly vomited. These facts show 
in a striliing manner to what an extent the digestive 
organs are influenced by the nervous system, and were 
it not otherwise obvious, they would point out the vast 
importance of serenity and cheerfulness during the 
? of their functions : 

' Unquiet meals make ill digestion." 



ON THE QUANTITY OR VOLUME OF LIQUIDS THAT 
SHOULD BE TAKEN AT MEALS. 

147. As the introduction of solid aliment into the 
stomach is for the purpose of furnishing materials for 
10 



i 



OF DRINKS. 155 

repair of the different textures of the body, so is a 
pply of liquid matter, essentially necessary to replace 
lose various fluids which are constantly ejected from 
body, during the exercise of its different functions, 
e necessity of this supply, as well as its quantity are 
both indicated by a certain feeling known by the name 
of thirst. In this point of view, therefore, drinks ought 
to be considered as real aliments ; and, indeed, it is a 
question whether they may not also undergo certain 
decompositions in the body, and be made to surrender 
elements for the formation of solid parts'. The chyme 
and chyle may also require the assistance of some 
liquid medium to favour the absorption of its finer and 
more nutritive parts, which, by increasing the fluidity 
of the mass, will expedite the numerous combinations 
it is destined to undergo. In every point of view, 
therefore, dilution is an essential operation ; and an 
animal will not only endure the sensation of hunger 
with more tranquillity than that of thirst, but he will 
survive longer under the privation of solid than of 
liquid aliment ^. Unfortunately, however, those in- 
Btincta which nature implanted in ns for our guidance 

t' Fiah, especially the cetaceous tribe, decompose water, and live 
Kin its hydrogen. 
' Rbdi (Osservaz. irUomo agliAnim. viventi, &c. No. 34.) instituted 
aeries of esperimente, with the sole view of ascertaining how long 
aaimalB can live without food. Of a number of capons which he 
kept without either sobd or liquid aliment, not one survived the 
ninth day i but one to which he allowed water, drank it with avidity, 
and did not perish until the twentieth day. See our work on Mbdi- 
CAL JniiiBPRunBNCB, Art. "Death hy Starvalion," vol. ti. p. 67. 



156 



CONSIDERATIONS EESPKCTINO THE 



have been eradicated by tbe babita of artificial life : 
thirst is so rarely experienced, that the very sensation 
is associated with the idea of disease. The consequence 
is, that we have been abandoned to the control of our 
caprice in the selection and use of these agents,— -a cir- 
cumstance which has given origin to numerous dis- 
orders. The quantity of diluents which each person 
may require will depend upon individual peculiaritj', 
climate, nature of the solid aliment, &c. 

148. In appreciating the effects of liquids upoij the 
human body, there are several circumstances indepen- 
dent of the quality of the fluid which deserve some 
notice ; such as temperature, volume, and the period of 
potation. Although fluids of the usual temperature of 
the air are grateful and congenial to a healthy stomach, 
persons disposed to dyspepsia frequently require them to 
be raised to the temperature of the body ; for the sto- 
mach, not having sufficient vital energy to establish the i 
re-action which the sudden impression of cold produces I 
in a healthy condition, falls into a state of collapse, and I 
is consequently unable to proceed in the performance 
of its requisite duties '. It deserves notice, however, 
that fluids heated much above the temperature of the I 
body are equally injurious : it is true that they will I 
frequently, from their stimulus, afford present relief; 
but it will always be at the expense of future suffering, 
and be compensated by subsequent debility. Iced 

' Tlila remark applies particularly to the residents of hot climates, | 
whose stomachB are always more or less enfeebled. It appears that 
the Romans were in the habit of drinking tepid potations at their 
nieEih. See Juvenal, Sat. V., v. 63, 



TEMPERATUHE AND VOLUME OF OUR POTATIONS. 157 

fluids should not be taken, under any circumstances, 
by those who have delicate stomachs, especially after a 
meal, the digestion of which is thus retarded, or wholly 
ipre vented. 

*. 149. It is a popular idea that hot hquida injure the 
teeth. I entertain great doubts upon the subject. 
Ribe, in a paper published in the Amcenitatcs A cademias, 
observes, that " Man is the only animal accustomed to 
hot food, and almost the only one affected with carious 

:eth." This is far from being true; the terra of life 
in all the graminivorous classes appears to be princi- 
pally limited by the decay of the teeth, and forms an 
insuperable obstacle to the prolongation of their ex- 
istence much beyond the term when they have attained 
to the perfection of their kind '. 

150. The quantity or volume of liquid taken at once 

ito the stomach is a circumstance of material conse- 
quence. The reader must refer to that part of the 
work in which the digestion of drinks is explained (97), 
in order to understand the importance of the conside- 
rations which this question embraces. It is evident that 
if the stomach be disteuded with fluid, the digestion of 
its solid contents must meet with considerable impedi- 
ment ; its bulk will stimulate the muscular fibres to 



^ ' In the elephant, who rivals, or perhaps exceeds, man in duration 
^rf life, a peculiar provision is found to esiat for the purpose of re- 
newing the'teeth. .'l^.The^grinding teeth, or tnolares, of the elephant. 
which consist each of a single piece of hone, intermingled with 
enamel, are bo constructed as to continue growing from behind, in 
proportion as they are worn away in front by the process of mas- 
tication ; so that their duration ia coeval with that of the animal. 



oh 
Liio 



to 



158 



THE DIFFERENT ALIMENTS EEQUIRE 



contract too rapidly, and tlius to expel the food before 
it has undergone the necessary changes ; while, at the 
same time, it is said that the gastric juice becomes too 
dilute to fulfil the objects of its secretion. Upon this 
latter point I entertain some doubt : the secretions of 
the stomach are not very soluble in water ; and it 
has been already stated with what extreme difficulty 
the coagulating quality of the gastric membrane ia 
removed by washing. Be this, however, as it may, it 
is evident, that if the solid matter be diffused through 
a large quantity of liquid, it cannot be so easily acted 
upon by the gastric juice ; nor can it be converted into 
that pultaceous mass which appears to be a preliminary 
step to its digestion. On the other hand, if the food 
be too hard or dry, its necessary change by the churning 
of the stomach cannot be accomplished, and the pro- 
gress of digestion will be impeded. It therefore fol- 
lows, that different aliments will require different 
quantities of liquid to assist their chymificatioD. 
Animal food demands, of course, a greater quantity of 
drink than vegetable food ; roasted, than boiled meat ; 
and baked still more than roasted. The nest question 
to be considered is, as to the most suitable period for 
taking liquids ; and this is, in some measure, answered 
by the preceding observations. By drinking before a 
meal, we place the stomach in a very unfit condition 
for the duties it has to perform. By drinking during a 
meal, we shall assist digestion, if the solid matter be of a 
nature to require it ; and impede it, if the quantity taken 
renders the mass too liquid. Those physicians, therefore, 
who have insisted upon the necessity of a total absti- 



» 



DIFFERENT PROPORTIONS OP DRINK. 159 

lence of liquid during a meal, appear to have forgotten 
that erery general rule must be regulated by cireum- 
iBtances. The best test of its necessity is afforded by 
the sensations of the individual, which ought not to be 
disregarded merely because they appear in opposition 
to some preconceived theory. The valetudinarian who, 
without the feeling of thirst, drinks during a meal be- 
cause he has heard that it assists digestion ; and he 
who abstains from liquid, in opposition to this feeling, 
in consequence of the clamour which the partizans of a 
popular lecturer have raised against the custom, will 
equally err, and contribute to the increase of the evil 
they so anxiously seek to obviate. Dr. W. Philip has 
stated a feet, the truth of which my own experience 
justifies, that "eating too fast causes thirst: for the 
food being swallowed without a due admixture of saliva, 
the mass formed in the stomach is too dry," The same 
babit is also a common cause of costiveness. I may 
conclude these remarks by observing, that as hunger 
and thirst are, to a certain extent, incompatible sensa- 
tions, it is probable nature intended that the appetite 
for food should first be satisfied, before a supply of 
drink becomes necessary ; and if our food possess that 
degree of succulence which characterizes digestible 
aliment, there will seldom be any occasion for it. But, 
under any circumstances, the quantity taken should be 
snaall : it is during the intervals of our solid meals that 
the liquid necessary for the repair of our fluids should 
be taken ; and both theory and experience appear in 
this respect to conform, and to demonstrate the ad- 
Tantage which attends a liquid repast about four or 



160 POTATIONS, WHKN ADVANTAGEOUSLY TAKEN. 

five lioiira after tbe solid mtal. At about this period 
the chyle has entered its proper vessels, and is flowing 
into the blood, in order to undergo its final changes. 
Then it is that tbe stomach, having disposed of its 
charge receives tbe wholesome draught with the great- 
est advantage : then it is that the blood, impregnated 
with new materials, requires the assistance of a diluent 
to complete their sanguification, and to carry off the 
superfluous matter ; and it is then that the kidneys and 
the skin will require tbe aid of additional water, to 
assist the performance of their functions. The com- 
mon beverage of tea, or some analogous repast, origi- 
nally suggested no doubt by an instinctive desire for 
liquid at this period, is thus sanctioned by theory, while 
its advantages are established by experience. So, 
again, after tbe repose of the night, we feel an in- 
stinctive desire for liquids, as already stated (136) in 
consequence of the loss of fluids sustained by tbe body 
during sleep. 



. CONDUCT TO BE PURSCJED PREVIOUS AND 
SUBSEQUENT TO MEALS. 



151. As dietetic regulations are intended for the use 
of those who are either suffering under disease, or are 
compelled, from the precarious state of their health, to 
attend to every circumstance which may be likely to 
preserve it, it is scarcely necessary, in a professional 
work, to apologize for the introduction of advice, which, 
to the robust and healthy, may appear frivolous and 



J 



r EXERCISE ESSENTIAL TO DIGESTION. Ifil 

I unnecessary. It is admitted, that nature never con- 
I templated the necessity of confining men to a certain 
I routine of habits ; nor did she contemplate, as far as 
I "we can learn, the existence of those diseases which may 
I render such discipline necessary. We liave in this 
I place only to inquire into the habits which are most 
favourable or hostile to the process of digestion, and 
, then to form a code for the direction of those who 
I stand in need of such artificial assistance. 
I 152. Exercise in the open air is essential to the well- 
I being of every person ; but its degree must be regulated 
I ty the circumstances under which the individual is 
• placed. The interval between breakfast and dinner is 
the period for active exertion ; and the enjoyment 
of it, when not attended with severe fatigue, will 
strengthen and invigorate all the functions of the body. 
This, too, is the period when the mind may direct its 
energies with the greatest chance of success ; but it is 
important to remark, that the valetudiuarian and dys- 
peptic ought ?iever to take Ms fmncipal meal in a state of 
fatigue ; and yet I would ask, whether there is a habit 
more generally pursued, or more tenaciously defended ? 
Aye, and defended too upon principle ; — the invalid 
merchant, the banker, the attorney, the government 
clerk, are all impressed with tlie same belief, that after 
the sedentary occupations of the day, to walk several 
miles to their villas, or to iatigue themselves with exer- 

Icise before their dinner, or rather early supper, will 
sharpen their tardy stomachs, and invigorate their feeblo 
organs of digestion ; as if bodily fatigue were an anti- 
dote to mental exhaustion. The consequence is ob- 
L ^ 



I 



M 



162 



EXERCISE ESSEITTrAL TO DIGESTION. 



vious: instead of curing, such a practice is calculated 
to perpetuate, and even aggravate the malady imder 
which they may suflfer, by calling upon the powers ot' 
digestion at a period when the body is in a state of 
exhaustion from fatigue. Often liave I, in the course 
of ray practice in this town, cured the dyspeptic invalid, 
by merely pointing out the error of this prevailing 
opinion, and inducing him to abandon the mischievous 
habit which has been founded upon it. Do not let me 
be understood as decrying the use of moderate exer- 
cise before dinner ; it is the abuse of it that I am 
anxious to prevent. No person should sit down to a 
full meal, unless he has had the opportunity of previ- 
ously inhaling the open air, and taken a quantity of 
exercise, proportionate to his power of sustaining it 
without fatigue. Upon this point I agree with Mr. 
Abernethy, who says, " I do not allow the state of the 
weather to be urged as an objection to the prosecution 
of measures so essential to health, since it is in the 
power of every one to protect himself from cold by 
clothing : and the exercise may be taken in a chamber 
with the windows thrown open, by walking actively 
backwards and forwards, as sailors do on shipboard." 
Horse exercise is undoubtedly salutary, but it should 
not supersede the necessity of walking ; where the two 
modes can be conveniently combined, the greatest ad- 
vantage will arise. I have heard that a physician of 
eminence has declared, that " equitation is more beneficial 
to the horse tlian to his rider ;" my own experience on 
this subject will not allow me to concede to such a pro- 
position ; nor to that which maintains, that " riding is 



EXERCISE GENEaALLV. 



163 



I 



I 



; the best e-tercise for regaining healthy and wdlkiiuj Jin- 
retaining it." It must be admitted, that the shaking 
which attends horse exercise, is salutary to the sto- 
mach and intestines; it is also loss fatiguing to the 
inferior limbs ; so that persons in a weak state can use 
it with less pain or difficulty ; they can, moreover, 
better regulate the quantity of exercise, and bring 
their excursions to a close without fatigue, as soon as 
they discover the propriety of so doing, which is not so 
easy in the case of walking. There is also another 
circumstance connected with this subject, upon which 
I am inclined to think tliat sufficient stress has not 
been laid, the rapidity with which we change the air. 
I am not aware that any theory has been proposed to 
explain the fact ; but I am perfectly well satisfied, 
that rapid motion through the air is highly beneficial. 
As this is a gymnastic age, I may be allowed to offer 
aome further observations upon the importance of ex- 
ercising the body. The occupation of digging is more 
beneficial than is usually supposed ; and to dyspeptic 
persona it proves useful, by the agitation thus occa- 
sioned in the abdominal region. Patients who have 
suffered from visceral congestion have experienced the 
greatest benefit from it. I am induced to believe, that 
the general discontinuance of those manly exercises, 
which were so commonly resorted to by our ancestors 
in the metropolis, has contributed to multiply our 
catalogue of dyspeptic diseases ; and I cannot but ex- 
press my satisfaction at the prospect of the establish- 
tnent of a society for their rcintroduction. Stow, in 
Survey of London, laments the retrenchments of 
M 2 



^Kii8 Su 



164 



SECESSITY OF EXEBCISK. 



tlio grounds appropriated for pastimes, wliicb had begun 
to take place eyen in his day : what would lie say, 
could he now revisit the metropolis? It has been 
truly observed, that had it not been for the effect of 
bodily exercise, Cicero ' would never liave triumphed 
at the bar, nor Julius Ca)sar in the field. 

153. One of the great evils arising from too seden- 
tary habits, is constipation of the bowels. This, how- 
ever, may to a certain degree be remedied, by standing 
for a certain period ; and I have repeatedly known the 
greatest benefit to arise from the student or clerk in- 
troducing a high desk into his office, by whieh he is 
enabled to pursue his occupation in an erect posture. 

1 54. In speaking of inordinate exercise before meals, 
I have alluded principally to bodily exercise ; but let 
me here observe, that the undue exertion of the mind 
is equally hostile to the due performance of the diges- 
tive functions ; and when we consider the vast im- 
portance of nervous influence in carrying on their ope- 
rations, we cannot feel surprised should a person, after 
he has been jaded by mental anxiety, or exhausted by 
intellectual exercise, be incapable of digesting an ac- 
customed meal. These observations suggest many 
important questions for the deliberations of those who 
are placed in superintendence of public and private 
seminaries ; the school-cry of " Duty before pleasure," 
has scattered the seeds of disease, even amongst the 
most robust of our species. 

155. I have already explained the necessity of exer- 



' See I'lutarch's Life of Cici 



DANGER OF GAS IN OUK APARTMENTS. 165 

3 at that period of the digestive process, when the 
i enters the circulation (123); and it is, perhaps, 
the least of the evils which attend the modem 
fiishion of late dinners, that it should preclude the 
possibility oF such a regulation. The utility of dancing 

• may certainly be deduced from these views, and its 
propriety sanctioned on just principles ; but the late- 
ness ' of the hour at which these recreations com- 
mence, and, what is worse, the excessive heat and ill- 
ventilation of the apartments in which they are usually 
carried on, must counteract any benefit which might 
otherwise attend an indulgence in them. If exercise 
be useful during the period of sanguification, pure air 
is no less so ; and I shall take this opportunity of 
entering my protest against the introduction of gas 
into the interior of our houses. Carburetted hydrogen 
is a deadly poison ; and even in a state of great dilu- 
tion, it is capable of exerting a very baneful effect 
upon the nervous system. I have been consulted on ^^^f 

i several occasions for pains in the head, nausea, and ^^^^ 
distressing languor, which evidently had been produced I 

by the persons inhaling the unhumt gas in the boxes j 
of our theatres. In order to afford additioual sirpport a^^| 
to the objections which I have urged upon this occa- B^^^ 
Bion, I shall quote an account of the effects produced ^^1 
upon Sir Humphry Davy by the inspiration of car- 

Ibtiretted hyd/fogen gas. He introduced into a silk bag , 

four quarts of this gas nearly pure, wiiich had been 
' In former times the ball commenced at eix, and terminated as 
rieven ; but now it begins at eleven and ends at six. 



166 



SIR H. DAVYS EXPERIMENT. 



carefully produced, from the decomposition of water 
by charcoal, an hour before the experiment, and which 
had a very strong and disagreeable smell. " After a 
forced exhaustion of my lungs," says he, " the nose 
being accurately closed, I made three inspirations and 
expirations of the gas. The first inspiration produced 
a sort of numbness and loss of feeling in the chest and 
about the pectoral muscles. After the second inspira^ 
tion, I lo«t all power of perceiving external things, 
and had no distinct sensation, except a terrible oppres- 
sion on the chest. During the third expiration this 
feeling disappeared, I seemed sinking into annihila- 
tion, and had just power enougli to drop the moath- 
piece from my unclosed lips, A short interval must 
have elapsed, during which I respired common air, be- 
fore the objects about me were distinguishable. On 
recollecting myself, I faintly articulated, ' / do iiot think 
I shall die.' Putting my linger on the wrist I found 
my pulse threadlike, and beating with excessive quick- 
ness. In less than a minute I was able to walk ; and 
the painful oppression on the chest directed me to the 
open air. After making a few steps, which carried me 
to the garden, my head became giddy, my knees trem- 
bled, and I had just sufficient voluntary power to 
throw myself on the grass. Here the jiainful feeling 
of the chest increased with such violence as to threaten 
suffocation. At this moment, I asked for some nitrous 
oxide '. Mr. Dwyer brought me a mixture of oxygen 



' Sir H. Dhvv had previously ineiiircci this gas. and found i' 



I 



SIR H. davy's experiment. 167 

and nitrous oxide, which I breathed for a miuute, and 
belieced m3-self relieved. In five minutes the painful 
feelings began gradually to diminisii. In an hour they 
had nearly disappeared, and I felt only excessive weak- 
ness and a slight swimming of the head. My voice 
was very feeble and indistinct : this was at two o'clock 
in the afternoon. I afterwards walked slowly for about 
half an hour, and on my return was so much stronger 
and better, as to believe that the effects of the gas 
had disappeared, though my pulse was 120, and very 
feeble. I continued without pain for nearly three 
quarters of an hour, when the giddiness returned with 
such violence as to oblige me to lie on the bed ; it was 
accompanied with nausea, loss of memory, and deficient 
sensation. In about an hour and a half the giddiness 
■went off, and was succeeded by an excruciating pain 
in the forehead, and between the eyes, with transient 
pains in the chest and extremities. Towards night 
these affections gradually diminished ; at ten no dis- 
agreeable feeling except weakness remained. I slept 
Bound ; and awoke in the morning very feeble and 
. very hungry. I have," adds Sir H, Davy, " been minute 
in the account of this experiment ; because it proves, 
that carburetted hydrogen acts as a sedative, i. e. that it 
produces diminution of vital action, and debility with- 
.out previously exciting. There is every reason to 
believe, that if I had taken four or five inspira- 
tions, instead of three, they would have destroyed 

capable of producing an excitement reaembling that of incipient 
intosication. 



168 



EVIL EFFECTS OF INSPIRING IMPURE AIR. 



life immediately, without producing any painful sensa- 
tion '." After this proof of the poisonous nature of car- 
buretted hydrogen, — after the cases of sickness and 
headache which have occurred, in consequence of its 
inhalation at the theatre, am I not borne out in my 
opinion, that its introduction into our apartments is 



156. We may, in this place, very properly take into 
consideration the evil effects produced by the inspi- 
ration of impure air. It may be stated, as a general 
proposition, that all living bodies when crowded to- 
gether generate a matter which would seem to bo 
highly destructive. No species of animal can con- 
gregate in ill ventilated apartments with impunity. 
Under such circumstances, the horse becomes infected 
with glanders, fowls mth the pip or pep, and sheep 
with a disease peculiar to them, if they be too closely 
folded". Our chemical tests for the detection of ani- 



' " Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, cliiefly concerning 
Nitrous Oxide, and its Respiration, hy Humphry Davy." 

' Tiiis objection of course points to the escape of unbumt gas ; if 
the combustion is perfect, watery vapour and carbonic acid are the 
only products, with, perhaps, a small proportion of sulphurous acid- 
The heat generated by the comhustion of gas when compared with 
that produced by oil lamps is as 3 to 2. 

' It is worthy of remark that these diseases, evidently engen- 
dered by congregation, become subsequently contagious. In the 
expedition to Quiberon in 1795, several transports, crowded with 
horses, had their hatches shut for a considerable time in a storm, by 
which some of them were suffocated, and amongst the surviving 
horses the contagious disease called glanders was propagated. At 
another period it was proposed to send live stock from England 



IMPROVED EUDIOMETRY. 



169 



ma! impurities in the atmosphere, have hitherto been 
inadequate, and we have therefore been en-oneously 
led to question the presence and extent of such con- 
tamination ; and the palpable unhealtbiness of crowded 
asBeniblies has been referred rather to temperature, or 
to the diminished proportion of oxygen in the air, than 
to the true source of the evil. We may, I think, look 
forward with some confidence to an improved system 
of eudiometry; and wlien this shall have been esta- 
blished, I will venture to predict that many important 
facts connected with the public liealth, and with the 
origin and propagation of epidemic diseases, will be 
disclosed. It has been lately discovered that certain 
substances, in the state of minute division, Iiave the 
power of absorbing animal matter from the atmosphere, 
and of rendering its presence sensible by yielding am- 
monia ', on exposure to heat ; such are pure sand, lime. 



across the Atlantic, but the a&imak all died of a febrile disease in a 
few weeks, in consequence of being too much crowded. 

' This fact maybe illustrated by the following simple experiments. 
Heat some common sand red hot, in order to expel from it every 
trace of animal matter ; when cool, introduce a portion into a small 
glasa tube, in which a piece of test-paper has been placed. — Heat 
the sand by means of a spirit lamp, and the test-paper will not be 
found to indicate the presence of any ammonia. Repent this e\pe- 
. riraent, with another portion of sand which has been touched by 
» Ote band, and the test-paper will now show the development of the 
alkali. In like manner, quick-lime, or gypsum, after exposure to 
&n atmosphere impregnated with animal matter, will betray the 
contamination by a similar indication. It ie, perhaps, worthy of 
I notice, that oxide of iron possesses the same imbibing property : 
> discovery of the fact is connected, in a very interesting 
', with a trial for murder which latelv occurred in Paris. A 



^^L«iid the dii 
^^■'nuuner, wi 



170 



SLEEPIMG AFTER DINNER. 



gypsum, &c. ; to this absorbing faculty may, perhaps, 
be attributed the advantages derived from whitewash- 
ing infected apartments, and from strewing the floors 
with freah sand. 

157. The observations which have been offered 
upon the congregation of animal bodies will equally 
apply to the vegetable kingdom ; indeed Nature would 
seem to have established the law, in order that the 
extent of her productions might be limited to those 
bounds which are essential to the well-being of the 
whole — but let us return from this digression. 

158. Sleeping after dinner is a practice of very 
questionable propriety ; it is true, that the inhabitants 
of many southern climates indulge it with impunity : 
but it does not appear essential in our country, where 
animal food is used in such considerable quantities. 
Its effect is to hurry on the latter stages of digestion, 
and hence the fever and state of excitement in which 
the person not unfrequently awakes. In states of dis- 
ease it may occasionally be useful, and the recumbent 



dagger had been found, with spots of mat, in the apartment of a 
euapected person. The ehemist was called upon to ascertaio, if 
posaihle, whether these spots had been occasioned by blood. He 
accordingly examined them by Che aid of heat, and finding that 
ammonia had been given off during the process, he concluded that 
they must have originated from animal matter, and delivered his 
opinion accordingly ,* but Vaaquelin, ooe of the most celebrated itnd 
acute chemists in France, submitted to a. similar examination a 
sn'ord that had contracted rust m the ordinary manner, and he was 
surprised to obtain the same production of ammonia. The fact, 
although at the time incapable of esplanation, disarmed the evi- 
dence of its force, and the prisoner was acquitted, 
10 



JSLEEPING AFTER DINNER. 171 

posture may expedite the passage of the aliment out 
of the stomach into the intestines ; but the person 
who lies down for the accomplishment of such an ob- 
ject should be careful to remove all ligatures from his 
body. 



PART III. 



OF THE MATERIA ALIMENTARIA. 



OF THE MATERIA ALIMENTARIA. 



Whether Nitrogen be an eBsential Element of Food.— M. Majendie's 
ElxperiinentB, — ClasBification of Aliments. — Digestible and Nu- 
tritive not synonyniouB. — Texture of Food. — Cookery. — Boil- 
ing. — Roasting. — Baking, &c. — Cottdiments, — Importance o{ 
Salt. — Vinegar.— Oil, &c. 

159. Those bodies which have possessed life can 
alone be strictly considered capable of affording aliment 
to animals ; yet there exist a certain number of in- 
organic substances, such as water, common salt, lime^ 
&c. whicli, although incapable by themselves of nourish- 
ing, appear, when administered in conjunction with the 
former, to contribute essentially to nutrition. The 
consideration, therefore, of the Materia Alimentaria, 
necessarily embraces not only the substantive agents 
above stated, but those which, from their modus operandi, 
are entitled to the distinctive appellation of Alimentary 
I Adjectives. Under the former division will be ar- 
fc^anged alt the varieties of animal and vegetable food ; 



1 

J 



176 M. majendik's theory, and experiments 

under the latter, the class of condiments will merit our 
attention '. 

1 60. The science of Chemistry had no sooner de- 
monstrated that all the different tissues of the body 
contained azote (nitrogen), than it became an important 
physiological question, whether that element were de- 
rived from the food introduced into the stomach, or 
from the atmospheric air inhaled by the lungs. To the 
practical physician this subject may not perhaps appear 
to present any points of professional interest ; but the- 
experiments which have been lately instituted by M^— — 

Majendie, in support of the former opinions, have fiu- 

nished results which, in my judgment, are susceptible^ 
of some useful applications to practice. M. Majendi^^ 
observes, that the partisans of the theory he propose^^ 
to subvert insist particularly upon the example of the^ 
herbivorous animals, which are supported exclusivel y r 
upon iion-GZOtised matter ; upon the history of certai^HO ' 
people that live entirely upon rice and maize ; upoi^Hi 
that of negroes, who can live a long time without ea^E> 
ing anything but sugar; and, lastly, upon what ^Es 
related of caravam, which, in traversing the desert-^i 
have for a long time had only gum in place of eveiry 
sort of food. Were it, says he, indeed proved by these 
facts that men can live a long time without azotised 
food, it would be necessary to acknowledge that azote 



' Dr. Bostock has obsen'ed that condiments differ from aliments 
in one essential circumstance, viz. that whereas the latter are alwav? 
resolved into their ultimate elements before they can contribute to 
nutrition, the former act in tbeir entire state, and, if decomposed, 
would probably cease to produce their specific effects. 



IN PROOF OF THE NECESSITY OF AZOTE. 



177 ' 



tas an origin different from the food ; but the facta 
rated by no means sustain this proposition, for almost 
the vegetables upon which man and animals feed 
contain more or less azote ; for example, the impure 
sugar that the negroes eat presents a considerable pro- 
portion of it ; and with regard to the people, as they 
say, who feed upon rice or maize, it is well known that 
they eat milk or cheese ; now casein is the most azotised 
of all the nutritive proximate principles. In order to 
acquire some more exact notions on this subject, M. 
Majendie submitted several animals, during a necessary 
period, to the use of food of which the chemical com- 
position was accurately ascertained. I shall present 
the reader with an account of these experiments, and 
then explain the different, but not less important con- 
clusions, which I deduce from their results. He took a 
small dog of three years old, fat, and in good health, 
and put it to feed upon sugar alone, and gave it dis- 
tilled water to drink : it bad as much as it chose of 
both. It appeared very well in this way of living for 
seven or eight days ; it was brisk, active, ate eagerly, 
and drank in its usual manner. It began to get thin 
in the second week, although its appetite continued 
good, and it took about six or eight ounces of sugar in 
twenty-four hours. Its alvioe excretions were neither 
frequent nor copious ; that of the urine was very abund- 
ant. In the third week its leanness increased, its 
strength diminished, the animal lost its liveliness, and 
its appetite declined. At this period there was de- 
veloped upon one eye, and then on the other, a small 
ulceration on the centre of the transjiarent cornea ; it 



MAJENDTE^ EXPERIMENTa. 

inereaeed very quickly, and in a few days it was more 
than a line in diameter; its depth increased in the 
same proportion ; the cornea was very soon entirely 
perforated, and the humours of the eye ran out. This 
singular phenomenon was accompanied with an abun- 
dant secretion of the glands of the eyelids. It, however, 
became weaker and weaker, and lost its strength ; and, 
though the animal ate from three to four ounces of 
sugar per day, it became so weak that it could neither 
chew nor swallow ; for the same reason every other 
motion was impossible. It expired the thirty-second 
day of the experiment. M. Majendie opened the animal 
with every suitable precaution. He found a total want i| 
of fat ; the muscles were reduced to more than five- 'I 
sixths of their ordinary size ; the stomach and intestines — 4 
were also much diminished in volume, and strongly con — 4 
tracted. The gall and urinary bladders were distendedBB 
by their proper fluids, which M. Chevreul was calletim 
upon to examine. That distinguished chemist foun^H 
in them nearly all the characters which belong to th^^ 
urine and bile of herbivorous animals; that is, that th^^ 
urine, instead of being acid, as it is in camworous ani — f 
male, was sensibly alkaline, and did not present any 
trace of uric acid, nor of phosphate. Tlie bile con- 
tained a considerable portion of picromel ; a character 
considered as peculiar to the bile of an ox, and, in i 
general, to that of herbivorous animals. The excre- 
ments were also examined by M. Chevreul, and were 
found to contain very little azote, whereas they usually 
furnish a considerable quantity. J 

Ifil. M. Majendie considered that such results re- 



majendie's experiments. 



179 



■quired to be verified by new experiments : he accord- 
ingly repeated them on other dogs, but always with the 
same conclugions. He therefore considered it proved, 
that sugar, by itself, is incapable of supporting dogs. 
This want of the nutritive quality, however, might pos- 
sibly be peculiar to sugar : he therefore proceeded to 
inquire whether other substances, non-azotised, but 
generally considered as nutritive, would be attended 
with the same consequences. He fed two dogs with 
olive oil and distilled water, upon which they appeared 
to live well for about fifteen days ; but they afterwards 
underwent the same series of accidents, and died on 
the thirty-sixth day of the experiment. In these cases, 
however, the ulceration of the cornea did not occur. 

162. Gimi is another substance that does not contain 
azote, but which is considered as nutritive. To ascer- 
tain whether it acted like sugar and oil, he fed several 
dogs with this substance, and the phenomena which 
he observed did not differ sensibly from those above 
described. 

163. The same distinguished physiologist lately re- 
peated the experiment, by feeding a dog with butter, 
an animal substance free from azote. Like the other 
animals, it was supported by this food very well at first; 
but, in about fifteen days, it began to lose flesh and to 
become weak : it died the thirty-sixth day, although, on 
the thirty-fourth day, he gave it as much flesh as it 
would eat, a considerable quantity of which it took for 
two days. The right eye of this animal presented the 

IMceration of the cornea that he noticed in those which 
^nre fed on sugar. The opening of the body presented 

K 



THE AUTiroli'S VIEW OF THE QUESTION- 

the same iiiotlificatious of the bile and uriue. In order 
to make the evidence furnished by these experiments 
complete, after having given to doga separately, oil, 
gum, or sugar, he opened them, and ascertained that 
these substances were each reduced to a particular 
chyme in the stomach, and that they afterwards fur- 
nished an abundant chyle ; whence he argues, that it 
these different substances are not nourishing, it cannot 
be attributed to want of digestion. 

164. Now, giving all due credit to the accuracy and 
good faith with which these experiments were per- 
formed, what do their results show ? That the azote 
of the organs is produced by the food, says M. Majendie; 
and, consequently, that no substance which does not 
contain this principle can support life. By no means : 
they merely prove that an animal cannot be supported 
by highly-concentrated aliment. In contradiction to 
the theory of Majendie, we know that sugar is highly 
nutritive, provided it be properly mixed with a quantity 
of substantial viands ; it is certain that, in the process 
of making hay, if well performed, it will be found that 
the nutritive matter is greatly increased by the partial 
conversion of the cruder mucilaginous sap into a sub- 
stance analogous to sugar ; as we find that animals 
thrive faster with this food, and prefer it to that which 
is left on the ground, and found in a state of self-made 
hay. Horses fed on concentrated aliment are invariably 
liable to various diseases, originating from diseased 
action in the stomach, and hence arise broken wind, as 
it is termed, staggers, blindness, &c. The intolerable 
fetid odour of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, perceptible 



p^ 



CLASSIFICATION OF ALIMKNTS. 181 

when i>08t-horses are fed with oats and beans only, 
cannot have escaped observation; and it affords suffi- 
cient proof of the mischief which arises from a too-con- 
centrated diet. The same remark applies to men ; and 
1 shall have occasion to show hereafter, that the use of 
chocolate, hutter, cream, sugar, and rich sauces, without 
a due admixture of bread, potatoes, and other less 
nutritive aliments, is invariably attended with disordered 
digestion. Unless the taste be vitiated by habit, there 
ejtists an instinctive aversion to sucli food. 



" The prudent taete 

Rejects, like banc, Buch loathsome lueciouaaess." 



tisi 

t 



The Kamtschatdales arc frequently compelled to live on 
fish-oil, but they judiciously form it into a paste with 
tW-dust, or the rasped fibres of indigenous plants '. 
165. M. Haspail, in alluding to the experiments of 
Majeudie, observes that, as digestion is a complex opera- 
tion, we should not seek to study it by isolating its 
elements. If such a mode of jcxperimenting entitle 
us to erase sugar, oil, and gum from the list of nutritive 
substances, we must also erase pure gluten, and even 
jiure albumen ; for if an animal be fed on them alone, 
it will die just as certainly as if it be fed exclusively 
pn sugar. 

OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF ALIMENTS. 
106. The arrangements which different authors have 
oposed will be found to vary according to the parti- 

' Norwegian unleavened liread consists of three parts of oatmeal, 
I one part of the sawdust of fir, and is said to be very whole- 



182 



SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS AKRANGED IN CLASSES. 



ciilar theory by which each may have been influenced. 
The chemist investigates the composition of an aliment, 
and arranges it according to the proximate principles 
which predominate in its composition. The naturalist, 
on the other hand, merely considers to what division in 
his system each article of diet belongs, and assigns to 
it a corresponding place in his arrangement ; while the 
empirical practitioner distributes the various kinds of 
food in an order which answers to his notions of their 
relative nutritive value, or to the supposed facility 'with 
which they are digested in the stomach. If there be 
any truth in our dietetic researches, or any natural 
affinity between the objects of our classification, the 
theory of the arrangement will he imimportant ; for, 
however greatly the roads of our pursuit may vary, we 
must ultimately arrive at the same goal. 

167. Chemistry has satisfactorily demonstrated the 
nature of those proximate principles of organic matter, 
upon the presence of which the nutritive qualities de- 
pend, viz. Jihrin, albumen, gelatin, oil and fat, giulen, 
feada, or starch, mucilage, sugar, adds, &c. Although a 
combination of two or more of these principles appears 
essential, yet assuming that the variety, observable in 
the nutritive value of different substances, arises from 
the predominance of some one of them, we may conve- 
niently distribute the Nutrientia into the following 
nine classes : — 

CI. I. Fibrinous Aliments. Comprehending the 
flesh and blood of various animals, especially such 
as have arrived at puberty : venison, beef, mutton, 
hare. 



■ SOLIDS AND LiauiDS ARBANGED IN CLASSES. 183 

CK II. Albuminous. Bgga ; certain animal matter. 

CI. III. Gelatinous Aliments. The flesh of young 
animals : veal, chickens, calf s foot, certain fishes. 

CI. IV. Fatty and Oily Aliments. Animal fats, 
oils, and butter; cocoa, &c.; ducks, pork, geese, eels, &c. 

CI. V. Caseous Aliments. The different kinds of 
milk, cheese, &c. 
I CL VI. Farinaceous Aliments. Wheat, barley, 
oats, rice, rye, potato ; sago, arrow-root, &c. 

CI. VII. Mucilaginous Aliments. Carrots, turnips, 
asparagus, cabbage, &c. 

CI. VIII. Sweet Aliments. The different kinds 
of sugar, fige, dates, &c. ; carrots. 

CI. IX. Acidulous Aliments. Oranges, apples, 
and other acescent fniits. 

To these we may add Condiments ; such as salt, the 

varieties of pepper, mustard, horse-radish, vinegar, &c. 

In classing the different species of potations, 

we may, in like manner, be governed by the chemical 

! composition which distinguishes them. They may be 

I arranged under four divisions, viz. 

CI. I. Water. Spring, river, well water, &c. 

CI. II. The Juices and Infusions of Veqetables 
AND Animals. Whey, tea, coffee, &c. 

I CI. III. Fermented Liquors. Wine, beer, &c. 
CI. IV. The Alcoholic Lihuors, or Spirits. Al- 
cohol, brandy, mm, &c. 
169. Before we attempt to appreciate the value of 
the different substances arranged under the foregoing 
classes, it will be necessary to caution the reader against 
the popular error of regarding the terms digestible and 



a 

I 



CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH TNTLUENCE THE 



uutritive as synonymous and convertible. A substance 
may be highly nutritive, and yet be digested with diffi- 
culty ; that is to say, it may require all the powers of 
the digestive organs to convert it into chyle, and yet, 
when so converted, it may afford a priuclple of highly- 
restorative energy : this is the case with some of the 
fatty and oily aliments '. Ou the contrary, there are 
substances which apparently pass out of the stomach 
with sufficient readiness, but afford but little compare^ 
tive support to the body, 

170. Writers on dietetics have descanted very learn- 
edly upon .what they please to term the perspirahiliiy 
and (dkalesc(mcy of certain aliments. To the former I 
am quite unable to attach any precise meaning ; with 
respect to the latter, I apprehend that it is intended to 
express a highly-nutritive quality, with a certain degree 
of indigestihility. Hmvy and lights as applied to food, 
are terms equally vague and indefinite, and ought never 
to be introduced into vvTitings which aspire to the cha- 
racter of philosophical precision. The observation may 
be extended to the epithet bilious. 

171. It is only necessary to reflect upon the chemical 
and mechanical processes by which chymification i$ per- 
tbrmed in the stomach to perceive, that the diges- 
tibility of a substance may depend upon other circum- 
stances than that of its chemical com)iosition. Its 
mechanical state, with regard to texture and consistence, 
is of the highest importance ^ ; and if we attempt to 



' It has been calculated, that an 
equal to four ounces of lean. 

' Some physiologiatB have gone s 



: of fat affords nutriment 



far as to believe that the me- 



DIGESTIBILITY OF DIFFERENT SUBSTANCES. 185 

deduce any law upon this subject, from the known solu- 
bility of a substance out of the body, we shall fall into 
several fatal errors. It will be necessary to investigate 
this question with some attention ; for it not only ex- 
plains the relative digestibility of aliments, but furnishes 
the only true basis for a system of skilful cookery. 

172. The healthy stomach disposes most readily and 
effectually of solid food, of a certain specific degree of 
density, which may be termed its digestive te-vture ; if it 
exceed this, it will require a greater length of time, and 
more active powers, to complete its chymification ; and 
if it approaches too nearly to a gelatinous condition, 
the stomach will be equally impeded in its operations. 
It is, perhaps, not possible to appreciate or express the 
exact degree of firmness which will confer the highest 
order of digestibility upon food ' ; indeed, this point 
may vary in difierent individuals ; but we are taught by 
experience, that no meat is so digestible as tender mut- 
ton: when well-conditioned, it appears to possess that 
degree of consistence which is most congenial to the 
stomach ; and in this country it is perhaps more univer- 
sally used than any other animal food. Wedder mutton 

chaDical condition of food ib even more important than its compo- 
eition ; that the gastric juice is alike capable of acting upon all, 
provided the aliment be sufBciently comminuted ; and that all the 
anatomical varieties in the structure of the stomach in different 
animals may be resolved into their mechanical efiects upon the 
^■^ aliment. 

^^H ' Some esperimentB were instituted for this purpoBe by Gosee, 
^^1 'of Geneva ; but the conclusions deduced A-om them are by no 
^^H means eatiefactory. He confounds solubility with digestibility. 
^^1 wliich in itself ia sufficient to vitiate his reasoning. 



I 
I 



J 



186 



TEXTUHE OF ALIMENT CONSIDEKED. 



or the flesh of the castrated animal, ia in perfection at 
five years, and is by far the sweetest and most diges- 
tible. Ewe mutton is best at two years old. Beef 
appears to be not ao easy of digestion ; its texture ia 
firmer, but it is equally nutritive — much, however, will 
depend upon the period which has elapsed since the 
death of the animal, and more upon the method of 
cookery ; in short, it would be worse than useless to 
attempt the construction of any scale to represent the 
nutritive and digestive qualities of the different species 
of food : the observations here introduced are merely 
noticed for the sake of illustrating those general prin- 
ciples whose application can alone afford us any rational 
theory of diet. 

173. It will not be difficult to understand why a 
certain texture and coherence of the aliment should 
confer upon it digestibility, or otherwise. Its conver- 
sion into chyme is effected by the solvent power of the 
gastric juice, aided by the churning which it undergoes 
by the motions of the stomach ; and unless the substance 
introduced possesses a suitable degree of firmness, it 
will not yield to such motions : this is the case with 
soups, and other liquid aliments ; in such cases, there- 
fore, nature removes the watery part before diges- 
tion can be carried forward. It is on this account that 
oils are digested with so much difficulty ; and it is pro- 
bable that jellies, and other glutinous matters, altbongh 
containing the elements of nourisbment in the highest 
state of concentration, are not digested without consi- 
derable difficulty ; in the first place, on account of tlieir 
evading the grappling powers of the stomach, and, in 
10 



TEXTURE Of THE ANIMAL FIBRE. 187 

the next, in consequence of their tenacity opposing the 
absorption of their more fluid parts. For these reasons 
I maintain, that the addition of isinglass, and other 
glutinous matter, to animal broths, with a view to ren- 
der them more nutritive to invalids, is a questionable 
custom. 

174. The texture of animal food is greatly influenced 
by the age, sex, habits, condition, diet, and description 
of death of the animal which furnishes it. In propor- 
tion, generally, to the age, its flesh is coarser and more 
firm in texture, as every one must have noticed in eat- 
ing birds. If the flesh of mutton and lamb, beef and 
■veal, are compared, they will be found of a different 
texture ; the two young meats are of a more stringy, indi- 
■visible nature than the others, which makes them harder 
of digestion. It has been also justly obsen'od, that 
young animals differ from old ones in the distribution 
of the fat, which in the latter is chiefly collected in 
masses or layers, external to the muscles ; whereas, in 
the former, it is more interspersed among the muscular 
fibres, giving the flesh a marbled appearance, which is 
always a desirable property of butchers' meat. The 
texture of food will also vary according to the wild or 
domesticated state of the animal ; that of the former is 
more dense, although highly nutritive. The sex also 
modifies the quality of the flesh, that of the female 
being always more delicate and finer-grained than 

I that of the entire male, whose fibres are denser : the 
influence of the genital organs upon this occasion is 
very extraordinary ; it is generally believed, that the 
flavour of the female is even improved by removing the 



i 



188 TEXTURE rNPLUENCED BY VARIOUS CAUSES. 



ovaries, or spaying them, as it is called. Every day the 
testes are permitted to remain, even though totally in- 
active with regard to their proper functions, injures the 
delicacy of the veal of tho bull-calf; and an animal 
which is not castrated until after puberty always retains 
much of the coarseness of the entire male. The mode 
of killing an animal has been considered, from the re- 
motest ages, as capable of affecting the quality of its 
meat. The flesh of hunted animals is characterised by 
peculiar tenderness ; tlie same effect is produced by 
any lingering death. Tills tact probably explains the 
policy of those old municipal laws, which ordained that 
no butcher should offer or expose any bull-beof for sale, 
unless it had previously been baited ; and it is upon 
the same principle only, that the quality of pigs' flesh 
could be improved by the horrid cruelty of whipping 
tliem to death, as said to be practised by the Germans. 
The action of vinegar, administered to an animal some 
hours before killing it, is also known to bo capable of 
rendering its flesh less tough. It is a common prac- 
tice in the country to give a spoonful of this acid to 
poultry, when they are intended for the immediate 
service of the table. 

175. Nothing, however, tends more effectually to 
ameliorate the rigidity of the animal fibre, than inci- 
pient putreftiction. The length of time that meat ought 
to be kept after it is killed will necessarily depend upon 
its tendency to undergo the putrid fermentation, and 
the prevalence of those circumstances which are in- 
clined to favour it. 

176. The circumstances whicli have been just enu- 



I 



I 

I 



BOILINO. 189 

merated, as being capable of influencing tbe texture 
of oar food, and consequently its degree of digestibility 
are, however, unimportant wben compared with the 
modifying powers of cookery, wliich I shall now pro- 
ceed to examine. 

177. By cookery, alimentary substances undergo a 
t-wofold change ; their principles are chemically modi- 
fied, and their textures mechanically changed. The 
extent and nature, however, of these changes will 
greatly depend upon the manner in which heat has 
been applied to them ; and if we inquire into the cu- 
linary history of different countries, we shall trace its 
connexion with the fiiel most accessible to them ', 
This fact readily explains the prevalence of the pecu- 
liar species of cookery which distinguishes the French 
table, and which has no reference, as some have ima^ 
gined, to the dietetic theory, or superior refinement, of 
the inhabitants. 

178. Boiling. By this operation, the principles not 
properly soluble are rendered softer, more pulpy, and, 
consequently, easier of digestion ; but the meat, at the 
same time, is deprived of some of its nutritive pro- 
perties by the removal of a portion of its soluble con- 
stituents : the albumen and gelatin are also acted upon ; 
the former being solidified, and the latter converted 

' Fuize constitutes the principal fuel of the Cornish peasant, 
whence in that country, from the convenience thus offered for halt- 
ing, the use of pics ia so general as to have betome proverhial ; 
'* The Devil mil not come into Cornwall, for fear of being put into 
a pie." 



190 



STEWrNG, roasting; effects or. 



into a gelatinous substance. I^ therefore, our meal 
be boiled too long or too fest, we shall obtain, where 
the albumen predominates, as in beef, a hard and in- 
digestible mass, like an overboiled egg ; or, where the 
gelatin predominates, as in young meats, such as veal, 
a gelatinous substance equally injurious to the ttjg;es- 
tive organs. Young and viscid food, therefore, as veal, 
chickens, &c., are more wholesome when roasted than 
when boiled, and are easier digested. Dr. Prout has 
very justly remarked, that the boiling temperature is 
too high for a great many of the processes of cooking, 
and that a lower temperature and a greater time, or a 
species of infitsio7i, are better adapted for most of them. 
This is notorious with substances intended to be stewed, 
which, even in cookery books, are directed to be boiled 
slowly (that is, not at all), and for a considerable time. 
The ignorance and prejudice existing on these points is 
very great, and combated with difficulty ; yet, when we 
take into account their importance, and how intimately 
they are connected with health, they will be found to de- 
serve no small share of our attention '. The loss occa- 
sioned by boiling partly depends upon the melting of the 
fat, but chiefly from the solution of the gelatine and os- 
mazone : mutton generally loses about one-fifth, and beef 
about one-fourth, of its original weight. Boiling is 
particularly applicable to vegetables, rendering them 
more soluble in the stomach, and depriving tliem of a 



' Hence it is, that beef tea and mutte 
lated for invalids tiian the broths of these meats. 



s much more calcu- 



I 



coneiderable quantity of air, so injurious to weak sto- 
machs. But, even in this case, the operation may be 
carried to an injurious extent ; tlius, potatoes are fre- 
quently boiled to the state of a dry, insipid powder, 
instead of being preserved in that state in which the 
parts of which they are composed are rendered soft 
and gelatinous, so as to retain their shape, and yet be 
very easily separated. On the other hand, the cab- 
bage tribe, and carrots, are frequently not boiled long 
enough, in which state they are highly indigestible. 
In conducting this process, it is necessary to pay some 
attention to the quality of the water employed : thus, 
mutton boiled in hard water is more tender and juicy 
than when soft water is used ; while vegetables, on the 
contrary, are rendered harder and less digestible when 
boiled in hard water. 

179. Roasting. By this process the fibrine is cor- 
rugated, the albumen coagulated, the fat liquefied, and 
the water evaporated. As the ojieration proceeds, the 
surface becomes first brown, and then scorched ; and 
the tendinous parts are rendered softer and gluey. 
Care should always be taken that the meat should not 
be mei'-done, nor ought it to be under-dressed ; for al- 
though in this latter state it may contain more nutri- 
ment, yet it will be less digestible, on account of the 
density of its texture. This fact has been satisfactorily 
proved by the experiments of Spallanzani ' ; and Mr. 
Hunter ^ observes, that " boikd, and roasted, and even 



' Bpallanza 
' Hunter o 



li on Digestion, vol, i. p. 277. 
the Animal Ekionomy, p. 220. 



192 



PRYINO, BROILING, AND BAKING. 



putrid meat is easier of digestion than tliat which is 
raw." Animal matter loses more by roasting than by 
boiling ; it has been stated above, that by this latter 
process mutton loses one-fifth, and beef one-fourth ; 
but by roasting, tliese meats lose about one-third of 
their weight. In roasting, the loss arises from the 
melting out of the fat, and the evaporation of the 
water ; but the nutritious matter remains condensed in 
the cooked solid ; whereas, in boiling, the gelatine is 
partly abstracted. Roast are, therefore, more nutritive 
than boiled meats ', 

180. Frying. This process is, perhaps, the most 
objectionable of all the culinary operations. The heat 
is applied through the medium of boiling oil, or fat, 
which is thug rendeied empyreumatic, and therefore 
extren]ely liable to disagree with the stomach. 

181. Broiling. By this operation, the sudden 
browning or hardening of the surface prevents the 
evaporation of the juices of the meat, which imparts a 
peculiar tenderness to it. It is the form selected, as 
the most eligible, by those who seek to invigorate 
themselves by the art of training. 

182. Baking. The peculiarity of this process de- 
pends upon the substance being heated in a confined 
space, which does not permit the escape of the fumes 
arising from it ; the meat is, therefore, from the reten- 
tion of its juices, rendered more sapid and ten<ier. 
But baked meats are not so easily digested, on account 

' It has been computed that, from the dissipation of the nutritive 
juicea by boiling, one pound of roasted contains as much nourish- 
ment as two of boiled meat. 



THE NECESSITY OF CONDUrENTS. 



193 



OP COND[MENTS. 



i«f the greater retention of their oils, which are, more- 
over, in an empyreumatic state. Such dishes accord- 
ingly require the stimulus of various condiments to 
I increase the digestive powers of the stomach. 
i 

183. These way be defined substances which are, in 
themselves, incapable of nourishing, but which, in con- 
cert with our food, promote its digestion, or correct 
some of its deleterious properties. The existence and 
necessity of such agents are far more universal and 
important than has been generally supposed '. The 
bitter principle which exists in the composition of 
grasses and other plants appears to be essential to the 
digestion of herbivorous animals ; it acts as a natural 
stimulant ; for it has been shown, by a variety of expe- 
riments, that it passes through the body without suf- 
fering any diminution in its tjuantity, or change in its 
nature. No cattle will thrive upon grasses which do 
not contain a portion of this vegetable principle : this 



* PharmacologiH., edition 6th, p. 111. Dr. Bostock observes that 
it is a curious fact, strikingly exemplified in the history of condi- 
ineats, that snch articles aa are. in the first instance, disagreeable 
to the palate, are tliose for which we afterwards acquire the strongest 
partiality, and which even become necessary for our comfort ; 
whereas the frequent repetition of flavours that are originally grate- 
fid is very apt to produce a sense of satiety, or even of disgust. 
The examples of tobacco, garlic, and even assafiEtida, on the one 
I fcan H, and of such Bubstances as poescis simple 
ther, may be adduced in proof of this position. 
O 



194 



THE NECESSITY OF CONDIMENTS. 



fact has been most satisfactorily proved by the re- 
searches of Mr. Sinclair, gardener to the Duke of 
Bedford, which are recorded in that magnificent work, 
the " Hortus Gramineus WoSwnensis." They show, 
that if sheep are fed on yellow turnips, which contain 
little or no bitter principle, they inetinctively seek for, 
and greedily devour, any provender which may contain 
it ; and that if they cannot so obtain it, they become 
diseased, and die. We are ourselves conscious of the 
invigorating effects of slight bitters upon our stomach ; 
and their presence in malt liquors not only tends to 
diminish the noxious effects of such potations, by coun- 
teracting the indirect debility which they are liable to 
occasion, but even to render them, when taken in 
moderation, promoters of digestion. The custom of 
infusing bitter herbs in vinous drinks is very ancient 
and universal. The poadum alisinthiaium was regarded 
in remote ages as a wholesome beverage, and the worm- 
wood w^as, moreover, supposed to act as an antidote 
against intoxication. Civilization has, in a great mea- 
sure, destroyed our natural taste for bitters ; while, by 
improving our food, it has probably rendered its stimu- 
lus less necessary. The Swiss peasant cheers himself 
amid the frigid solitude of his glaciers with a spirit 
distilled from gentian, the extreme bitterness of which 
is relished with a glee that is quite unintelligible to a 
more cultivated taste. It may be safely affirmed, that 
the utility of this condiment is in an inverse ratio with 
the nutritive, or rather digestible power of a vegetable 
substance ; and we accordingly find, in conformity with 
that universal scheme of aelf-adjustraent and compen- 



GENERAL IMPORTANCE OF SALT. 195 

sation, so visible in all the operations of nature, that 
cultivation, which exalts and extends the nutritive 
powers of vegetable bodies, generally diminishes their 
bitterness in the same proportion. The natural history 
of the potatne, already alluded to (5), oiTers a good 
illustration of this fact. 

184. From the different nature of condiment, it has 
been usually divided into three classes; viz. the saline, 
the spicy, or aromatic, and the oi/y. 

185. Salt appears to be a necessary and universal 
stimulus to animated beings ; and its effects upon the 
vegetable as well as animal kingdom have furnished 
objects of the most interesting inquiry to the physiolo- 
gist, the chemist, the physician, and the agriculturist. 
It appears to be a natural stimulant to the digestive 
organs of all warm-blooded animals, and that they are 
instinctively led to immense distances in pursuit of it. 
This is strikingly exemplified in the avidity with which 
animals in a wild state seek the salt-pans of Africa and 
America, and iu the difficulties they will encounter to 
reach them : this cannot arise from accident or caprice, 
but from a powerful instinct, which, beyond control, 
compels them to seek, at all risks, that which is salu- 
brious. To those who are anxious to gain further in- 
formation upon this curious subject, I would recom- 
mend the perusal of a work entitled " Thoughts on the 
Laws relating to Salt, by Samuel Parkes, Esq." and a 

Ismail volume by my late lamented friend. Sir Thomas 
Bernard, on the " Case of ike Salt Duties, with Proofs 
and niush-ations." We are all sensible of the effect of 
Bait on the human body; we know how unpalatable 
o2 



I 
I 



J 



19fi EVILS WHICH ARISE FROM THE WANT OF IT. 

fresh meat and most vegetables are without it. During 
the course of my professional practice, I have had fre- 
quent opportunities of witnessing the evils which have 
attended an abstinence from salt. In my examination 
before a committee of the House of Commons in 1818, 
appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the laws 
respecting the salt duties, I stated, from my own ex- 
perience, the bad effects of a diet of unsalted fish, and 
the injury which the poorer classes, in many districts, 
sustained in their health from an inability to procure 
this essential condiment. I liad some years ago a gen- 
tleman of rank and fortune under my care, for a, de- 
ranged state of the digestive organs, accompanied with 
extreme emaciation. I found that, from some cause 
which he could not explain, he had never eaten any 
salt with his meals: I enforced the necessity of his 
taking it in moderate quantities, and the recovery of 
his digestive powers was soon evinced in the increase 
of his strength and condition. One of the ill effects 
produced by an unsalted diet is the generation of 
worms. Mr. Marshall has published the case of a lady 
who had a natural antipathy to salt, and was in con- 
sequence most dreadfully infested with worms during 
the whole of her life. — {London Medical and Phr/sicd 
Journal, vol. xxix. No. 231.) In Ireland, where, from 
the bad quality of the food, the lower classes are greatly 
infested with worms, a draught of salt and water is a 
popular and efficacious anthelmintic. Lord Somervillei 
in his Address to the Board of Agriculture, gave au 
interesting account of the effects of a punishment 
which formerly existed in Holland. " The ancient laws 



opkhations of salted meat considered. 



197" 



CO I 



th< 



as 



it. 

ic 



the country ordained men to be kept on bread alone, 
UNMIXED WITH SALT, as the severest punishment tliat 
could be inflicted upou them in their moist climate, 
effect was horrible ; these wretched criminals are 
d to have been devoured by worms engendered in 
their own stomachs." The wholesomeness and digesti- 
bility of our bread are undoubtedly much promoted by 
the addition of the salt which it so universally receives '. 
186. If the utility of salt be thus estabhshed, it may 
asked, how it can happen that salted provisions 
should ever produce those diseases which exi>erience 
has shown to ai'ise from their use ? It is true that a 
certain proportion of this condiment is not only usefiil 
but indispensable: but an excess of it is as injurious 
as its moderate application is salutary. This observa^ 
ion applies with as much force to the vegetable as to 
le animal kingdom ; a small proportion, applied as a . 
manure, promotes vegetation in a very remarkable 
manner; whereas a larger quantity actually destroys 
The experiments of Sir John Pringle have also 
lown, that a little salt will accelerate putrefaction, 
id a large quantity prevent it. In explaining the 
operation of salting meat, and in appreciating the efiects 
of such meat as food, it will be necessary to advert to 
a chemical fact, which has not hitherto attracted the 
attention which its importance merits. The salt thus 
combined with the animal fibre ought no longer to be 



* A pouad of Bait is generally added to each biuhel of flonr. 
Peace it may be preaiuned, that every adult conBumes two ounces 
per week, or six poumfs and u half per annum, in bread 
«ly. 



198 



USES OF VINEGAR. 



considered as the condiment upon which so much lias 
been said; a chemical combination has taken place; 
and, althougli it is difficult to explain the nature of the 
affinities which have been brought into action, or that 
of the compound to which they ha^e given origin, it is 
sufficiently evident that the texture of the fibre is so 
changed as to be less nutritive, as well as less digestible. 
If we are called upon to produce any chemical evidence, 
in support of such an assertion, we need only relate the 
experiment of M. Eller, who found, that if salt and 
water be boiled in a copper vessel, the solution wiil 
contain a notable quantity of that metal ; whereas, if, 
instead of heating a simple solution, the salt be pre- 
viously mixed with beef, bacon, or tisb, the fluid result- 
ing from it will not contain an atom of copper. Does 
not this prove that the process of salting meat is some- 
thing more than the mere saturation of the animal fibre 
with muriate of soda ? 

187. The beneficial operation of salt as a condiment 
is proved by ample experience: theory has had no 
share in establishing the fact ; and, in the present state 
of our physiological knowledge, it will be, perhaps, 
difficult to offer a theory for its explanation. It may 
jirobably only opei-ate as a stinmlant upon the alimen- 
tary passages, although, to those who are disposed to 
place any confidence in the views ah-eady stated (109), 
an hypothesis will necessarily suggest itself^ which, on 
the present occasion, it is not my intention either to 
support or to invalidate. 

188, Vinegar. This acid, in small quantities, is a 
grateful and wholesome stimulant; it will often check 



THE AROMATIC CONDIMENTS. 



199 



wiiie chemical fermentation of certain substances in the 
I .Btomach, and prevent vegetable matter in ita raw atate 
f" from inducing flatulence ; but its use requires caution, 
and in some morbid states of the system it is obviously 
improper. Fatty and gelatinous substances frequently 
appear to be rendered more digestible in the stomach 
by the addition of vinegar, although it is difficult to 
offer either a chemical or physiological explanation of 
Kfebe fact. The native vegetable acids may also be occa- 
r^ionally substituted ; the addition of lemon-juice to rich 
and glutinous soups renders them less liable to disagree 
with the stomach ; and the custom of eating apple- 
r .sauce with pork is, undoubtedly, indebted for its origin 
i to the same cause. I shall take this opportunity to 
(observe that vinegar, if taken in considerable quantities, 
i is not unfrequently the case with young persons, to 
prevent the accumulation of fat, is highly injurious to 
ihe digestive organs ; and, if the habit be long con- 
tinued, will produce fatal marasmus. 

189. The Aromatic Condiments comprise the fo- 
reign spices, as pepper, cayenne pepper, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, cloves, ginger; and the indigenous herbs and 
iffootfi, such as parsley, thyme, sage, garlic, leek, onioa, 
I horse-radish, mustard, &c. The former of these were 
ftot intended by nature for the inhabitants of temperate 
ijjmea : they are heating, and highly stimulant '. I 



■ Nature is very kind in favouring the growth of those prodnc- 
tionE which are moat Ukely to answer our local wants. Those situa- 
tions, for inetance, which engender endemic diseases, arc in general 
mgcnial to the growth of the jilanls thai operate as antidotes to 
—Pharmacologia, p. 113. 




200 



THE OLEAGINOUS CONDIMENTS. 



aiu, however, not anxious to give more weight to this 
objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child 
of nature, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular 
region: he ranges over every part of the globe, and 
elicits nourishment from the protluctions of every cli- 
mate. It may be therefore necessary that he should 
accompany the ingestion of foreign aliment with foreign 
condiment '. If we go to the East for tea, there is no 
reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. 
The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be cautious in 
their use ; they may afford temporary benefit at the 
expense of permanent comfort. It has been well said, 
that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appe- 
tite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, 
the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic goodness of 
meats should always be suspected, when they require 
spicy seasoning to compensate for their natural want of 
sajiidity. But, mischievous as the abuse of aromatic 
condiments may be, it is innocent in comparison with 
the custom of swallowing a quantity of brandy to pre- 
vent the upbraiding of our stomachs, or an increased 
libation of wine to counteract the distress which super- 
venes a too copious meal — as if drunkenness were an 
antidote to gluttony. 

190. Oil. This, with butter, constitutes what is 
called the oleaginous condiments. Melted butter is, 
perhaps, the most injurious of all the inventions of 



' Swift observes, that such is the extent of modem epicuriBin, thai 
" the world must be encompassed befoTe a washei-womari can sit doicn to 
breahfast." 



THE OLEAGINOUS CONDIMENTS. 201 

cookery: oil, when used in extremely small quanti- 
ties, as a seasoning to salads, appears to prevent their 
running into fermentation, and consequently obviates 
flatulency. 




AN ESTIMATE OF THE NUTRITIVE AND DIGESTIBLE 
QUALITIES OF SEVERAL SPECIES OF ALIMENT, AS 
DERIVED FROM THE APPLICATION OF THE PHYSIO- 
LOGICAL AND CHEMICAL PRINCIPLES ESTABLISHED 
IN THE PRECEDING PAGES. 



Milk, although fluid, is, in fact, a. mixture uf solid aud liquid aliment 
—its cliemical compoaition — Cream, Curd, Cheese — Eggs- 
Fish — Birds — Farinaceous Aliments ; Bread, &c. — Putatoea — 
Rice— Pulses— Fruits— Plurality of Food. 



191. Were I to follow the steps of all preceding 
writers on dietetics, I should present a catalogue of the 
nutrientia, and introduce, under each article, a history 
of its composition and virtues ; but the utility of gene- 
ral principles is to abbreviate labour, and to class under 
a few heads those remarks which were previously scat- 
tered and unconnected. 

192. We have seen that the nutritive qualities of a 
substance depend upon its composition ; but that its 
digestibility may be influenced by various mechanical 
causes. It is by such tests that we have now to 
examine the several classes of aliment, and to assign to 
the individual bodies which they comprehend their rela- 
tive value as articles of diet. 
10 



MILK CREAM. 



20S 



I 

I 
I 



193. Milk. This is the only nutritive fluid with 
■which nature has presented us ; but if we examine its 
chemical composition, we shall soon discover that it 
po^esses an ingredient which is instantly coagulated in 
the stomach ; so that, in fact, it must be regarded as a 
mixture of solid and liquid aliment ; the latter, however, 
considerably exceeding the former in quantity, and 
thereby demonstrating the necessity of a greater portion 
of fluid than of solid matter, for the reparation of that 
habitual waste, upon which the necessity of alimentary 
supplies is founded. 

194, Although recent milk appears as a homoge- 
neous liquid, it may be resolved, partly by standing, and 
partly by agents that do not essentially alter the nature 
of its components, into three proximate ingredients, the 
cream, curd, and whey. 

1. The Cream rises to the surface of the milk, after it 
has stood for some hours, and may be skimmed ofi^ 
and thus separated from it. It appears to possess 
many of the properties of oil ; is smooth and unc- 
tuous to the touch, and stains cloth in the same 
manner as other unctuous substances. By standing 
for some days it becomes giadually thicker, and at 
length forms a soft solid, In which the flavour of 
cream is no longer perceived, and that of cheese 
is substituted in its place. According to the ex- 
periments of Berzehus, cream is a compound body, 
consisting of butter, 4'5 ; cheese, 3'5 ; and whey 
92 parts : but since the whey holds certain salts in 
solution, we may consider the whole of the solid 
matter contained in cream as amounting to 12'5 



per cent. When cream is agitated, as is done by 
the common process of churning, it is separated 
into two parts ; a thick animal oil, well known by 
the name of butter, and a fluid which possesses 
exactly the same properties as milk that has been 
deprived of its cream. This change has been sup- 
posed to he owing to the combination of the cream 
with the oxygen of the atmosphere ; but it takes 
place, though jierhaps not equally well, in vessels 
from which the air has been excluded. 
!. Curd. When milk, either deprived or not of its 
cream, is mixed with certain substances, or allowed 
to stand till it becomes sour, it undergoes a change 
which is called coagulation, consisting in its sepa^ 
ration into a solid substance termed curd, and a 
fluid called w/iei/. This change may be effected 
by several agents, such as alcohol, gelatine, and all 
astringent vegetables ; by acids, and many neutral 
salts ; by gum, sugar, and more particularly by the 
gastric juice. The effect is suj)posed to arise trom 
the affinity of the coagulating substance for water, 
the curd being principally albumen, having very 
little affinity for the same ; hut this theory can 
hardly explain the operation of the gastric juice : 
the infusion of a piece of calfs stomach, not 
larger than a half-crown, will coagulate a quantity 
of milk sufficient for making a cheese of sixty 
pounds weight, although the quantity of coagu- 
lating matter cannot in this case exceed a few 
grains. 
3. Whev, or the liquid which remains after the 



205 



separation of the curd, is a thin and almost trans- 
parent fluid, of a yellowish-green colour, and a 
pleasant sweetish taste. It atill contains, gene- 
rally, a portion both of curd and of butter ; the 
former of which may be separated by a boiling 
heat, in the form of coagulum. The buttery matter 
also separates by heat, especially if the whey be 
previously allowed to become sour. Wliey con- 
tains, indeed, in its recent state, some acetic acid. 
When whey, which has been deprived as much as 
possible of the butter and curd, is slowly evapo- 
rated, it yields the peculiar substance termed 
" sugar of milk" which may be obtained, by clarifi- 
cation with whites of eggs, in the form of crystals. 
The presence of this saccharine matter held in 
solution in whey enables that fluid to undergo the 
vinous fermentation ; and it is accordingly em- 
ployed by the Tartars for making a sort of wine, 
which is called Koumiss. For this purpose mare's 
milk is selected, as containing a larger portion of 
sugar than that of the cow. Whey also contains 
several saline bodies, viz. muriate of potass, phos- 
phates of lime and (if iron, and sulphate of potass ; 
and a peculiar animal matter ; which gives a preci- 
pitate with infusion of galls, and affords carbonate 
of ammonia by distillation. 

From these investigations, the constituents of 
skimmed milk from the cow appear to be as fol- 
low ; — 



CHEESE, ITS IN^niGESTIBILITY. 

Water , . 92C-7 

Curd, with a little cream i 

Sugar of milk i 

Mnriate of potass 

Phosphate of potass 

Lactic acid, acetate of potass with a trace 

of lactate of iron 

Earthy phosphates 



195. Although nature has presented us with this 
compound fluid for the purposes of nourishment, and 
although it is evident that its several ingredients are 
wholesome, and designed for the various objects of 
aliment, yet, when separated by art, they are frequently 
unwelcome to the stomach ; that viscua would appear 
to dislike the interference of the cook, in the perform- 
ance of an analysis which its own powers are so well 
calculated to perform. We are well assured, that the 
first process which takes place in the stomach for the 
chymification of milk, is its separation into curd and 
whey ; and yet the former of these substances, when 
obtained by art, frequently proves highly oppressive to 
the stomach, and sometimes occasions obstructions in 
the bowels. Cheese, again, which is nothing more 
than the coagulum of milk, pressed, salted, and partly 
dried, with a portion of butter, which, having been en- 
veloped in the curd, is not afterwards separable, ia one 
of the least digestible of our aliments, and is only 
adapted to strong stomachs, and to such pei'sons as use 
great and constant exercise. When toasted, it is still 
more injurious, from acquiring a tenacity of textuie 



^m 



CHEESE, ITS mDIGESTIBILITY. 



207 



highly hostile to the digestive function of the stomach. 
Butter, from its oily nature, is apt to disagree with 
delicate stomachs, and when rendered empyreiimatic 
by heat, produces heartburn, and other distressing 
symptoms : the use of liot buttered toast or mufRns 
should, therefore, never be allowed to dyspeptic in- 
valids. Whey differs considerably in its dietetic value, 
according to the method employed for its separation. 
When this is effected by rennet, it always holds a por- 
tion of cream and curd suspended in it, besides its 
quantity of sugar. It is, therefore, considerably nutri- 
tive ; but it is, at the same time, more acescent than 
milk, and hence it is liable to produce flatulence in 
those whose stomachs are disposed to encourage fer- 
mentation. Whey that has been produced by spon- 
taneous coagulation always contains less nutritive mat- 
ter, is more acid, and consequently more objection- 
able, unless, perhaps, as a drink in certain states of 
fever. 

196. From this account of the composition of milk, 
several properties of the entire fluid may be under- 
stood. By boiling it, its albuminous part is not coagu- 
lated into a mass like the white of an egg, on account 
of the large quantity of water through which it is dif- 
fused ; but a thin pellicle forms on the surface, which, 
if removed, is immediately replaced by another ; and 
thus the whole of the albumen may be separated in 
successive portions. The efiect of this process is there- 
fore to diminish the nutritive quality of the milk; but 
it may at the same time render it more easily diges- 
tible. I have known many invalids who coidd take 



208 



MILK, AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. 



boiled milk, but were uiiable to bear that fluid in its 
natural state. 

197. Milk, in its dietetic relations, may be con- 
sidered as intermediate between animal and vegetable 
food ; it is easily assimilated, and therefore affords a 
quick supply of aliment to the ayetem, while it does 
not excite that degree of vascular action which is pro- 
duced by other animal matters. Its nutritive powers 
may be increased by various additions, which have also, 
on some occasions, the eifect of correcting its natural 
tendency to acidity, and on others, that of obviating 
the costiveness which it is liable to occasion ; such 
objects are sometimes fulfilled by adding oatmeal gruel 
to it. In certain states of organic disease, I have 
found that milk, impregnated with the fatty matter of 
mutton suet, is a valuable article of diet : such a repast 
is best prepared by inserting the suet in a muslin bag, 
and then simmering it with the milk. In common 
cases of dyspepsia it would prove injurious, for the 
reasons so often alluded to in the course of this work ; 
but where it is an object to introduce much nutritive 
matter in a small space, I am not acquainted with a 
better form of aliment. With some practitioners it is 
a custom to recommend an admixture of lime-water 
with milk, to jirevent the acidity which it is apt to 
create in feeble stomachs. I have occasionally expe- 
rienced the benefit of such a pi-actice, especially in 
cases of tabes mesenterica. 

\ 98. Before quitting this subject, it is necessary to 
observe, that there exists son:iG difference in the com- 
position of the milk of ditferent animals. That of the 



EOOfi. 20» 

\ humau subject in tmu'li tliiiinor tliaii l-ow's milk ; is of 
luer colour, and contains much more saccharine 
Ematter. It also yields a larger proportion of cream, 
I but from which the butter cannot be separated by 
I agitation. It deposits a part of its curd by mere re- 
s. Asses' milk bears a stronger resemblance to 
liuman milk than to any other ; it contains more sugar 
than that of the cow, and the proportion of curd is so 
considerable as even to separate on standing, before 
the milk becomes sour. Goats' milk yields a re- 
markably thick and unctuous cream, and abounds also 
in curd. 

199. Eggs, in point of nutriment and digestibility, 
may be classed next to milk ; but their qualities will 
greatly depend upon the maimer in which they have 
been cooked. When raw, they are certainly not so 
easily digested as when lightly boiled, so as slightly to 
coagulate their albuminous principle : but if this pro- 
cess be carried too far, they are converted into a hard 
mass, which requires a long period for their digestion: 
but this is much accelerated by the use of vinegar as a 
condiment. They are distinguished by the peculiar 
quality of singularly aifecting some stomachs, even in 
the smallest quantity ; while they do not produce any 
uneaey impressions on others. I am acquainted with 
a person who constantly finds an egg to produce un- 
easiness when bis stomach is in the least deranged, 
but who can eat them with impunity at all other times. 
It is a notorious fact, that eggs, when raw, are laxa- 
tive, and when cooked are apt to produce costiveness. 




FISH. 



200. Fish have been generally considered as holding 
a middle rank between the flesh of warm-blood ani- 
mals and vegetable food. It is certain that they are 
less nutritive than mutton or beef; but the health and 
vigour of the inhabitants of fishing-towns evidently 
prove that they are sufficiently nourishing for all the 
purposes of active life : but in order to satisfy the 
appetite, a large quantity is requisite ; and the appetite 
returns at shorter intervals than those which occur 
during a diet of meat. Nor does this species of food 
produce the same stimulus to the body; the pulse is 
not strengthened as after a repast of flesh ; and that 
febrile excitement which attends the digestion of the 
more nutritive viands is not experienced. Hence fish 
afford a raost valuable article of diet to invalids la- 
bouring under particular disorders ; for it fiirnishes a 
chyle moderately nutritive, but, at the same time, not 
highly stimulant. From the nature of theii- texture, 
they do not require a laborious operation of the stomach ; 
although sufficiently solid to rescue them from those 
objections which have been urged against liquid or 
gelatinous food. From the observations just offered 
upon the nutritive powers of fish, it must follow, that 
such a diet is not calculated to restore power to habits 
debilitated by disease, and should never be directed 
under such circumstances, but from the conviction that 
the digestive powers are unable to convert stronger 
aliment into chyle. The jockeys who waste tJiemsetves 



J 



DIETETIC VALUE OF FISH. 



211 



I 

I 



I 



at Newmarket, in order to reduce their weight, are 
never allowed meat, when fish can be obtained. On 
account of the low stimulant power of fish, they require 
Uie assistance of condiment ; and on this account salt 
appears to be an essential accompaniment. 

201. Fish have been arranged under three divisions ; 
viz. Jresh-water fish, salt-water fish, and shell fish. But, 
since the value of these animals as articles of food has 
an intimate relation to the colour and texture of their" 
muscles, and to their gelatinous or oily qualities, it will 
be expedient to consider their several varieties, with 
reference to such conditions, Turbot, cod, whiting, 
haddock, flounder, and sole, are the least heating of 
the more nutritive species ; and the flakiness of the 
fish, and its opaque appearance after being cooked, 
may be considered as true indications of its goodness; 
for when the muscles remain semi-transparent and 
bluish, after sufficient boiling, we may reject it as in- 
ferior in value, or not in season. When the fish is in 
high perfection, there is also a layer of white curdy 
matter, resembling coagulated albumen, interposed be- 
tween its flakes. The whiting (" the chicken of the sea") is 
well adapted for weak stomachs, on account of the little 
viscidity which it possesses ; it is, at the same time, ten- 
der, white, and delicate, and conveys sufficient nutriment, 
with but little stimulus, to the system. The haddock 
much resembles it, but is firmer in texture. Cod has a 
more dense fibre than the two former, and contains 
aliKi more glutinous matter : it is an excellent aliment, 
but, upon the whole, is not quite so digestible as 
whiting or haddock. It is generally preferred when 
p 2 



212 ON THE CRIMPING OF FISH. 

large ; but such fish are frequently coarse. The had- 
dock is certainly better wheu it does not exceed a 
middling size. A process called crimping is sometimes 
adopted, for the purpose of improving cod and some 
other fish. Sir Anthony Carlisle has investigated the 
change thus produced ; and we are indebted to him 
for some curious observations ujon the subject. When- 
ever the rigid contractions of death have not taken 
place, the process may be practised with success. The 
sea fish, destined for crimping, are usually struck on 
the head when caught, which, it is said, protracts the 
term of this capability ; and the muscles which retain 
this propej'ty longest are those about the head. Many 
transverse sections of the muscles being made, and the 
fish immersed in cold water, the contractions called 
crimping take place in about five minutes ; but if the 
mass be large, it often requires thirty minutes to com- 
plete the process. It has been found that the muscles 
subjected to this process have both their absolute weight 
and specific gravity increased ; whence it appears, that 
the water is absorbed, and condensation produced. It 
was also observed, that the effect was always greater 
in proportion to the voraciousness of the fish. The 
object, therefore, of crimping, is to retard the natural 
stiffening of the muscles, and then, by the sudden ap- 
plication of cold water, to excite it in the greatest pos- 
sible degree ; by which means the fish acquires its 
natural firmness, and keeps longer. The operation 
certaiuly improves the flavour, as well as the diges- 
tibility of the fish. Turbot is an excellent article of 
food ; but it is usually rendered difficult of digestion by 



J 



; NUTRITIVE UUALITY. 



213 



I 



■*lie quantity of lobster sauce with whiph it la eaten. 
'Sole is tender, and yet sufficiently firm; it is, there- 
^re, easy of digestion, and affords jiroper nutriment to 
I'^elicate stomachs. It is necessary to state, that every 
^Mirt of the same fish is not equally digestible ; and it 
unfortunately happens, that those which are consi- 
dered the most delicious are, at the same time, the 
most exceptionable ; the pulpy, gelatinous skin of the 
*urbot, and the glutinous parts about the head of the 
■cod, are very apt to disagree with invalids, Salmon 
may, perhaps, be considered the most nutritive of our 
fish ; but it is heating and oily, and not very digestible : 
and persons, even with strong stomachs, are frequently 
under the necessity of taking some stimulant to assist 
its digestion. The addition of lobster sauce renders 
,#t still more unwholesome : the best condiment that 
be need is vinegar. As connected with the time 
of spawning, the season of tlie year has the most de- 
cided influence upon the quality of salmon. It is in 
the highest perfection, or in season, as it is termed, 
.Some time previous to its spawning; the flesh is then 
firm and delicious : whereas, after this event, it is for 
«on)e time unfit for food. This circumstance, however, 
is not sufficient to prevent those who have an oppor- 
tunity, from catching and eating the fish in that state ; 
id the legislature has accordingly found it necessary 
fix the periods at which salmon fishing is lawfid. In 
Ireland, where there is great freedom used in killing 
B&lnion, during and after the spawning season, the eat- 
ing of the fish at such times has been often found to 
Reproductive of disease; and Dr. Walker has related 



4 



214 



SHELL FISH — OVaTERS INDIGESTIBLE. 



a circumstance of the same kind as having occurred in 
Scotland. Salmon trout is not so rich and oily as the 
salmon ; although, therefore, it is less nutritive, it is, 
at the same time, less heating and more digestible. 
Eels are extremely objectionable, on account of the 
large proportion of oil which they contain. I have 
witnessed several cases of indigestion and alimentary 
disturbance from their use. When eaten, they should 
always be qualified with vinegar. From these observa- 
tions, the value of fish may be appreciated, and the 
qualities which entitle them to election easily under- 
stood. Firmness of texture, whiteness of muscle, ajid 
the absence of oiliness and viscidity, are the circum- 
stances which render them acceptable to weak sto- 
machs. 

202. Shell Fish have been greatly extolled by 
some physicians, as nutritive and easily-digestible arti- 
cles of food. It will be necessary to examine this 
question, by the application of those principles which 
I have endeavoured to establish. Oysters, in my opi- 
nion, enjoy a reputation which they do not deserve ; 
when eaten cold, they are frequently distressing to weak 
stomachs, and require the aid of pepper as a stimu- 
lant ; and since they aie usually swallowed without 
mastication, the stomach has an additional labour to 
perform, in order to reduce them into chyme. When 
cooked, they are still lo^ digestible, on account of the 
change produced upon their albuminous principle. It 
is, however, certain, that they are nourishing, and con- 
tain a considerable quantity of nutritive matter in a 
small compass; but this latter circumstance affords 



J 



I 



OYSTERS OCCASIONALLY NOXIOUS. 215 

another objection to their uae. Certain it is, that 
oysters have occasionally produced injurious effects, 
"which have been attributed to their having lain on 
coppery beds : but this idea is entirely unfounded, and 
arose merely from the green colour which they oiiten 
acquire, the cause of which is now generally under- 
stood ; it is sometimes an operation of nature, but it is 
more generally produced by art, by placing them in a 
ntuation where there ia a great deposite from the sea, 
consisting of the vegetable germs of marine conferves 
an^fuci, and which impart their colour to the oyster. 
For this object, the Dutch formerly carried oysters 
from our coasts, and deposited them on their own. 
Native oysters, transported into the Colchester beds, 
soon assume a green colour. Where this food has 
produced a tit of indigestion, it has evidently arisen 
from the indigestible nature of the oyster, and the 
state of the individual's stomach at the time ; and had 
such a person indulged to the same amount, in any 
equally indigestible aliment, there can be no doubt but 
that he would have experienced similar effects. I>r. 
Clarlie has related ' some striking cases of convulsion, 
which occurred to women after child-birth, in conse- 
quence of eating oysters : the same effects might have 
supervened the ingestion of any food that is not easily 
digestible ; for the stomach of a woman at such a period, 
in consequence of the irritable state of the nervous 
Erystcm, is easily disturbed in its fimctions. The oyster 
casts its spawn, which the dredgers call the spat, in the 

' Medical Transactions ol" the College of Physicians, vol. v. 



216 



MUSCLES, "WHETHEB POISONOUS. 



moittb of May, after which they are sick and unfit for 
food ; but in June and July they begin to mend, and in 
August they are perfectly well. We therefore see the 
cause of their going ont of season, and discover the 
origin of the old maxim, that an oyster is never good 
except when there is an R in the month. Lobsters are 
certainly nutritive ; but they are exposed to the Bame 
objection, on the ground of indigestibiUty ; and such 
lias been their effect upon certain stomachs, as to have 
excited a suspicion of their containing some poisonous 
principle : they have been known to occasion pain in 
the throat, and, besides eruptions upon the skin, to ex- 
tend their morbid influence to the production of pain 
in the stomach, and affection of the joints. As found 
in the London market, they are generally underboilcd. 
with a view to their better keeping ; and in that case 
they are highly indigestible. The same observations 
apply to the crab. Shrimps are a species of sea crab, 
which vary in their colour and size, and are considered 
easier of digestion tlian the preceding articles. The 
muscle is a species of bivalve which is more solid, and 
equally as indigestible as any animal of the same tribe. 
The common people consider them as poisonous, and, 
in eating them, take out a [jart in which they suppose 
the poison principally to reside. This is a dark part, 
ivhich is the heart, and is qxiite innocuous : the fact, 
however, is sufficient to prove, that this species of 
bivalve has been known to kill ; but probably not more 
frequently than any other indigestible substance. Oiu- 
annals abound with inst^mces of the deleterious proper- 
ties of melons, cucumbers, &c., and yet no one will con- 



MUSCLES, WHETHER POISONOUS. 217 

tend that any poison, properly so callt'd, resides in such 
[ vegetables. The peculiar cutaneous eiflorescence whicli 

is produced by the imperfect digestion of abell-fish, has 
I been observed to occur more frequently in cases where 
I, the fish Las been stale or tainted'; although it also 
' happens where no such error can be suspected. 



' I am inclined to think that, under auch circumstances, an absolute 
poison may be occasionally generated. Witliout thia concesBion, it 
will be impaseible to explain many of the phenomena of fi::h-poiEoD. 
Dr. Burrows has published a very striking case, in which two youths 
of the ages of nine and fourteen died, in consequence of eating 
about a dozen of small muscles, which they had picked from the side 
a fishing-smack at Gravcsend. The muscles were found to have 
been in a putrid state. In the Gazelle de Santi, and in the works of 
Fodere and Behren, similar cases are recorded. Vancouver, in his 
voyage to the coast of America, relates, that several of his men were 
ill from eating some muscles which they had collected and roasted 
for breakfast ; in an hour after which, they complained of numbness 
of the face and extremities, sickness and giddiness. Three were 
e affected than the others, and one of them died. A question 
I has long since arisen, how far the ingestion of animal matter in a 
state of putrelaction is liable to affect the health. ' I am strongly in- 
f cilined to believe that the muscular fibre does not become poisonous 
t under such circumstances, but I would not extend this remark to the 
brain and viscera. In Cranls's History of Greenland, we read an 
account of the death of thirtv-two persons, at a missionary station, 
called Kangek, shortly after a repast upon the putrid bndns of a 

» walrus. Some highly interesting observations have lately been pub- 
Itehed by Dr. Kemer of Wurtemberg, respecting the probable exist- 
^ce of a species of animal poison hitherto unknown. He informs 
UB that the smoked sausages, which constitute so favourite a repast 
in hie country, often cause fatal poisoning. The effects of the poison 
occasionally manifest themselves in the spring, generallv in the 
^Kmoath of April, in a degree more or less alarming. He states that 
^^HDnt of tnenti/'Six persons, who became sick from eating such sansages. 



I 



I 

I 



218 FISH-POISON. 

Q03. In eating eome species of fish, as the pike, it is 
essential that the small bones should be carefully ex- 
tracted ; the swallowing of them is likely to irritate the 
alimentary membrane, and instances are recorded in 
which fistula has been thus produced. 



thirty-seven died in a short time, and that several otJierB renuuned 
ill for years. Upon these occasioos it has been observed that the 
most virulent sausages were made of liver, M. Cadet, of Paris, 
analyzed all the meat, examined all the vessels in which they had 
been prepared, and inspected the matters vomited, or found in the 
stomach after death, without being able to trace the veatige of any 
known poieon ; nor was there the slightest evidence, in these caaee, 
of malevolence or negligence. Similar accidents have occnrred at 
different periods in Paris ; npon which occasions, the police officers 
visited the pig-dealers, and were perfectly assured that the anunals 
had never been fed with unwholesome food ; the use of poison for 
rata, with which these places abound, was interdicted, and every 
precaution taken. What, then, asks jVf . Cadet, is this poison found 
in sausages — is it Prussic acid — is it a new matter ? It is evidently 
not the effect of putrefaction, since it exists in meat perfectly well 
preserved. To the above queries of M. Cadet, I beg to add one 
more— may not the skin enclosing the meat have been the part in 
which the poison resided ? It is well known that the bodies of 
animals who die diseased are capable of communicating fatal diseases 
to the human species ; and experience has shown that such animal 
poison is particularly energetic in those parts that are commonly 
called the Offals, in which term are included the intestines. In the 
History of fish-poison above alluded to, we have nnmeroos instances 
of dogs, cats, hogs, and birds, dying from eating these parts, while 
persons who have partaken of the fish to which those offals belonged, 
remained uninjured. Moreover, to account for the deleterious change 
of which those parts appear to be occasionally susceptible, it is not 
in the least necessary to suppose that the animal died in a state of 
disease. Captain Scorbsbf, in his account of the " Arctic Regions." 
states that, although the flesh of the bear is both agreeable and 



J 



FISH-POISON. 219 

204. It has been usual to attribute all the cutaneous 
ffections which follow the liberal use of fish as depend- 
Ping upon the sympathy of the skin with the stomach, 
This, I believe, is, in general, the true explanation, since 
the eifect is merely temporary ; and when the proeesB 
of digestion is finished, it departs. Its departure may 
even be hastened by the o])eration of an emetic remov- 
ing the noxious aliment. At the same time, the fact 
mnst not be overlooked, that the oily principle, upon 
which depends the odour of certain fish, is absorbed 
from the alimentary canal, and carried into the blood; 
this is evident from the peculiar flavour of the flesh of 
certain birds who live upon fish : from the ready access 
which the hogs in Cornwall have to pilchards, the pork 
of that county is very commonly deteriorated by a fishy 
savour. It is also well known, that persons confined 

'wholesome, the liver of that animal is poisonous : Bailors who had ia- 
advertently eaten it, were almost always sick after it, and some actually 
died; while in others, the cuticle has peeled off their bodies. The 
Ancients appear to have entertained a fear with reg^dto the whole- 
BomenesB of the viscera of certain animals, and of the fluids which 
they secrete. Phny says that Che Gall of a horse was accounted 
poison ; and therefore at the sacrifices of horses at Rome, it was 
unlawful for the Flumen (Priest) to touch it. Sir B. Brodie lately com- 
municated a fact to me, which, in my opinion, goes far to support 
the idea I have just stated as to the possible source of poison in 
eanBagcB. He says that he has, on several occasions, met with 
evidence of the acrid and poisonous nature of " Dogs' Meat," as sold 
in the streets of London ; which manifested itself by producing | 

ulcerations, of a peculiar and distinct character, on the hands, accom- I 

panied with swellings in the axillie, of the venders. This lact ie J 

iwell worthy of further inquiry, and might even lead to some new | 

imd important conclusions respecting the origin of hydrophobia. ^ 



220 



MODE OF COOKING FISH. 



for any length of time to a diet of fish, secrete a sweat 
of a rancid smell. It is not, therefore, improbable, that 
certain cutaneous diseases may be produced, or at least 
aggravated, by such diet ; and in hot climates this effect 
may be less questionable. The priests of Egypt may 
therefore have been prohibited from eating fish upon 
just principles, in order that the leprosy might be 
averted ; and the great legislator of the Jews was, no 
doubt, influenced by some such belief, when he framed 
his celebrated prohibition '. 

205, It is usual to add various condiments to fish, 
and many of them are doubtless thus rendered more 
digestible, by affording a necessary stimulus to the sto- 
mach ; but rich sauces are ever to be avoided by the 
valetudinarian. Vinegar and salt, perhaps, form the 
best additions. 

206. The mode of cooking fish is another circum- 
stance of some importance ; frying them in lard or oil, 
is an objectionable process. In general, the process of 
boiling is best adapted to render them wholesome. 
Stewed fish, with all the usual additions of glutinous 
and stimulant materials, are extremely injurious to 
dyspeptics. The objections which were urged against 
salted meats apply to salted fish ; they are, however, 
rendered less injurious by a plentiful admixture of po- 
tatoes : indeed, this esculent root, with perhaps the 
exception of parsnip, is the only vegetable that should 
accompany a meal of any species of fish ; and it will be 
well for the invalid to abstain, upon such occasions, 



291 



V firom fruit, CuUen says, that, by way of experiment, 
he has taken apples after fish ; but he always found that 
miiis digestion was disturbed by them. Milk may be 
i'considered as another incompatible aliment ; the most 
|«eriou8 diarrhcea has followed such a mixture. 



■ 



I 



207. There exists a o;reat variety in the qualities of 
the food which is furnished by this class of animals, 
with regard to nourishment-, stimulus, and digestibility : 
the whiter meat of domesticated birds, as the wings and 
breasts of chickens, contains less nutriment, and is less 
idjgestible, than that which is furnished by wild birds, 
the partridge, Stc, ; but the former is, at the same 
Ime, less stimulant and heating than the latter. These 
the circumstances ■which are to direct the medical 
^practitioner in his opinion. No general rule for the 
choice of either species can be established : it must be 
[determined by the particular condition of the patient, 
.d the effect which the aliment is intended to produce. 
The same observation will apply to the flesh of quad- 
rupeds ; that which is dark-coloured and contains a large 
proportion of iihrin, as venison, &c., is easily disposed of 
by the stomach, and a large quantity of highly-stimu- 
'^iating chyie is produced from it. The whiter meats are, 
on the contrary, detained longer in the stomach, and 
fiimish a less stimulant chyle. The former, therefore, 
will be more easily digested by weak persons, while the 
itter will frequently run into a state of acetous fermen- 



292 



FARINACEOUS ALIMENTS. 



tation; but they may, nevertheless, be preferable on 
many occasions, inasmuch as they impart less stimulus 
to the general system. We see, therefore, the folly 
into which raaoy popular writers have fallen, of stating 
such or such an article aa being wholesome or other- 
wise ; the wkolesoTneness of an alhnent must depend upon 
Usjitness to produce t/ie particular effect which the case in 
question may require. Van Swieten has justly said, that 
" to assert a thing to be wholesome, without a know- 
ledge of the condition of the person for whom it is 
intended, is like a sailor pronouncing the wind to be fair, 
without knowing to what port the vessel is bound." 



FARINACEOUS ALIMENTS. 

208. We are principally indebted to the industry of 
man for this valuable addition to our materia alimentaria. 
The vegetables which yield it may be said to owe their 
nutritive qualities to cultivation. The art of feeding 
mankind on so small a grain as wheat, says Dr. Darwin, 
seems to have been discovered in Egypt, by the im- 
mortal name of Ceres ; but it is probable, that it has 
risen to its present advanced state progressively, and is 
indebted to the labour of many generations for its 
perfection. The flour of wheat contains three distinct 
substances; a mucilaginous saccharine matter, stasvh, 
and a peculiar substance, possessing many of the pro- 
perties of animal matter, termed gluten. It is to the 
quantity of this latter ingredient that wheat flour pos- 
sesses BO decided a superiority over that of barley, 



iMfl 



WHEATEN BREAD, THE MANUFACTURE OF. 223 

rye, or oats, for from these latter grains much less 
gluten can be extracted. It fumiehea by far the best 
ingredient for making that iDiportant article of diet, 
Bread ; although it may also be made of all the vari- 
ous sorts of grain, as well as of chestnuts, of several 
roots, and of the potatoe. I shall first describe the 
nature of wheaten bread, and then compare it with 
that produced from other substances. The first process 
for rendering farinaceous seeds esculent, is to grind 
them into powder, between mill-stones, which Dr. Dar- 
win aptly terms the " artificial teeth of society." The 
meal thus produced is purified from the husk of the 
seed, or bran, by the operation of sifting or bolting; and 
it is then denominated flour. This, when mixed with 
water or milk, undoubtedly possesses the power of 
nourishing the body ; but it will evidently follow, from 
the observations which have been so frequently made 
in the progress of this work, that in this raw state it 
would not be sufficiently digestible : it would clog the 
stomach, and oppose those actions which are essential 
to chymification. The application, however, of heat 
renders the compound more easy to masticate as well 
as to digest ; whence we find, in the earliest history, a. 
reference to some process instituted for the purpose of 
producing this change, although the discovery of the 
manufacture of bread, simple as it may appear to us, 
was probably the work of ages. It has been just 
stated, that wheaten flour is the best adapted for 
maJdng bread, that is to say, haf bread ; this depends 
^B upon the superior quantity of glnten which it contains, 
^Bpnd which operates in a manner to be presently ex- 



I 

I 



324 



plained. The first stage of this process of patiificatioii 
consists in mixing the flour with water, in order to fonii 
a paste, the average proportion of which ia two parts of 
the latter to three of the former ; but this will neces- 
sarily vary with the age and quality of the flour : in 
general, the older and the- better the flour, the greater will 
be the quantity of water required. This paste may be 
regarded as merely a viscid- and elastic tissue of gluten, 
the interstices of which are filled with starch, albumen, 
and sugar. If, then, it be allowed to remain for some 
time, its ingredients gradually re-act upon each other, 
the gluten probably performing an important part ; by 
its action on the sweet principle, ajermeniation is esta- 
blished, and alcohol, carbonic acid, and lastly acetic 
acid, are evolved. If the paste be now baked, it forms 
a loaf full of eyes like our bread, but of a taste so sour 
and unpleasant that it cannot be eaten. If a portion 
of this old paste, or leaven, as it is called, be mixed with 
new-made paste, the fermentation commences more 
immediately, a quantity of carbonic acid is given off, 
but the gluten resists its disengagement, expands like a 
membrane, and forms a multitude of little cavities, 
which give lightness and sponginess to the mass. We 
easily, therefore, perceive why flour, deficient in the 
tenacity which gluten imparts to it, is incapable of 
making raised bread, notwithstanding the greatest ac- 
tivity may be given to the fermentative process by 
artificial additions. Where, however, leaven has been 
employed, the bread will be apt to be sour, in conse- 
quence of the great difficulty of so adjusting its propor- 
tion, that it shall not, by its excess, impart an unplea- 



BARM, THE THEORY OF ITS OPERATION. 225 

Bant flavour, nor, by its deficiency, render the bread too 
I compact and heavy. It is for such reasons, that, in this 
country, we employ barm ; a ferment which collects on 
I the surface of fermenting boer. It appears that we are 
I indebted to the ancient Gauls for this practice. In 
Paris it was introduced about the end of the seven- 
teenth century; the Faculty of Medicine, however, 
declared it to be prejudicial to health, and it was long- 
before the bakers could convince the public that bread 
baked with barm was superior to that of leaven. A 
great question arose among chemists, as to the nature 
of this darm that could produce such effects, and elabo- 
rate analyses were made, and tlieories deduced from 
their results ; but all these ingenious speculations fell 
to the ground, when it was found tliat //arm dried, and 
made into balls, would answer every purpose : the bakers 
imported it in such a form from Picardy and Flanders, 
and when again moistened, it fermented bread as well 
as the recent substance. The presence, therefore, of 
carbonic acid, water, acetic acid, and alcohol, could not 
be essential, for these ingredients were separated by 
the process of its preparation. At length it was dis- 
covered, that gluten, mixed with a vegetable acid, pro- 
duced all the desired effects ; and such is the nature of 
leaven, and such is the compound to which barm is 
indebted for its value as a panary ferment. After tlie 
dough has sufficiently fermented, and is properly raised, 
it is put into the oven previously heated, and allowed 
to remain till it is baked. The mean heat, as ascer- 

Eby Mr. Tillet, is 448", When the bread is re- 
it will be found to have lost about one-fifth of 
— 



J 



226 PREPARATION OP BREAD. 

its weight, owing to the evaporation of water; but this 
proportion will be varied by the occurrence of numer- 
ous circumstances, which it is not easy to appreciate. 
Newly-baked bread has a peculiar odour as well as 
taste, which are lost by keeping : this shows, that some 
peculiar substance must have been formed during the 
operation, the nature of which is not understood. Bread 
differs very completely from the flour of which it is 
made, for none of the ingredients of the latter can be 
discovered in it ; it is much more niiscible with water 
than dough ; and on this circumstance its good qualities, 
most probably, in a great measure depend. It is iwt 
easy to explain the chemical changes which have taken 
place. It appears certain, that a quantity of water, or 
its elements, is consolidated and combined with the 
flour ; the gluten, too, would seem to form a union witli 
the starch and water, and thus to give i-ise to a com- 
pound, upon which the nutritive qualities of bread 
depend '. 

' The late novel researches of M. Rasjiail, with regard to the true 
nature of fecula, have thrown a new light upon this subject. The 
prosimale principle, fecula, lias been generally described as com- 
posed of small grains of a white crystalline appearance, insoluble in 
cold, but combining easUy with boiling water, forming a hydrate 
which is known by the name of starch. M. Raspail, however, by a 
microscopic examination of these grains, and by numerous experi- 
ments conducted with great care, has very satisfactorily shown that 
these grains are " organic vesicles,'' consisting of an investing mem- 
brane filled with gummy matter. When put into water, heated to 
122°, this membrane, which is impervious to cold water, expands : 
in boiling water it bursts, and then its contents dissolve ia the 
water. So that fecula is not actually nutritive to man until it has 



J 



aci 

L bit 

I viz 



PREPARATION or BREAD. 227 

209. Urdnavetied bread consists of a mixture of meal 
and water, formed into a firm and tough cake, made as 
thill as possible, to favour its drying, and sometimes 
with the addition of butter, to render it more soluble, 
friable, and porous ; but it renders it sourer, and more 
apt to produce acidity on the stomach. Of tlie un- 
leavened sorts of bread, biscuit is by far the best ; and 
in all cases where leavened or fermented bread does 
not agree, its use cannot be too strongly advocated. I 
ehall have occasion, hereafter, to relate cases in which 
the use of common bread did not agree, and in which 
acidity of the stomach was cured by the substitution of 
biscuit. 

210. The different sorts of bread to be met with in 
lis country may be considered under three classes : 

viz. white, wheaten, and household. In the first, all the 
bran is separated ; in the second, only the coarser ; in 
the third, none at all : so that fine bread is made only 
of flour, wheaten bread of flour and a piixture of the 
finer bran, and household of the whole substance of the 
grain, without taking out either the coarse bran or fine 

been boiled, for the heat of the stomnch is not sufficient to burst all 
tbe grains of the feculent mass which is subjected to the rapid action 
of this organ. Panification, therefore, must be regarded as a process, 
the object of which is to burst all thegrainaoffecnls. Thefinestand 
best-baked bread is that which is made of farina abounding in glu- 
ten ; for this latter body, rising in large blisters by the dilatation of 
the gases imprisoned within it, allows each feculent grain to parti- 
cipate iu the communication of the heat, and to burst as it would by 
boiling. Hence, after panification, if the paste has been weU kneaded, 

^^nre do not find a single grain of fecula entire. — RaspaiTs Organic 

^ffa&emtstry, by W. Henderson. M.D. 

L__ 



228 



EARLET AND RYE BREAD. 



flour. It is necessary for the medical practitioner to 
understand these distinctions ; for it mil be proved 
that an important dietetic fact is connected with them. 
The tendency of starch upon the bowels is astringent. 
Bread, therefore, which is made of the whitest flour, is 
apt to render them costive ; but this is counteracted by 
the presence of bran, the scales of which appear to 
exert a mechanical action upon the intestines, and thus 
to excite them into action. I have already stated, in 
the Pharmacologia, that there are many bodies which 
have the power of thus acting upon the inner coats of 
the intestinal canal, and of increasing its peristaltic 
motion ; and it is not improbable, that the harsh and 
coarse texture which certain grasses assume in moist 
situations may be a wise provision in nature to fiimish 
an increased stimulus to the intestines of the animals 
who are destined to feed upon them, at a time when 
their diminished nutritive qualities may render such an 
effect salutary. The practical application of snch views 
is obvious ; and experience has sanctioned the propriety 
of the practice that may be founded upon them. By 
changing the quality of the bread, I have frequently 
succeeded in regulating the alvine discharges. 

211. The French have many varieties of bread, in 
which eggs, milk, and butter, enter as ingredients. They 
are also in the habit of adding ammonia to the dough ; 
which, during its evaporation in the oven, raises it, and 
thus adds to its sponginess. 

212. Barley Bread has a sweetish but not unpleasant 
taste ; it is, however, rather viscid, and is less nutritive, 
as well as less digestible, than wheaten bread. It is 



OATEN ISREAD. 229 

I common to mix peas-meal with the barley, which cer- 
[ tainly improves the bread. Ri^e Bread is of a dark- 
I brown colour, and is apt to lie heavy on the stomach ; 
lit is also liable to create acescency and purging : but it 
I appears to be highly nutritive. In some of the interior 
counties of England, where their bread is often manu- 
factured from oatmeal, there is a mode of preparing the 
meal by making it sour; the bread, instead of being 
hard, is thus rendered of a soft texture, and from its 
moderate acidity is wholesome to strong persons : but 
invalids should, if possible, avoid it. In bread, how- 
ever, this grain is more usually in an unfermeiited state, 
or it is made into flat, thin cakes, which are baked or 
roasted. The bannock, dap-brend, bUchincss-bread, and 
riddle-cakes, are the names which such productions hitve 

t received. Thejannock is oaten bread made into loaves. 
It is evident, from the health and vigour of the people 
who use this grain as a principal article of diet, that it 
must be very nutritive ; but the stomach will require 
some discipline before it can digest it. In those unae- 
customed to such food, it produces heartburn ; and it is 
said to occasion, even in those with whom it agrees, 
cutaneous affections. In times of scarcity, potatoes 
have been made into bread ; but they contain too much 
mucilage in proportion to their starch to aftbrd a good 
article : the bread thus produced is heavy, and apt to 
crumble into powder ; but such effects are obviated by 

I mixing a certain quantity of wheat-flour with the potar 
toes. Rice will also serve the purpose of making very 
good bread : but, like the potatoe, it requires the addi- 
tion of some floiu-. It is said by some, that bread, 



J 



IMPORTANT USES UF BREAD. 

made of different kinds of gmiii, is more wholesome 
than that made of only one sort, as their qualities serve 
to correct one another. This is certainly the case with 
that which is commonly called hrown bread, and which 
is made of a mixture of wheat and rye ilour ; the former, 
being of a more starchy nature, ia apt to produce cos- 
tiveness, while the latter often proves too lasative : 
a due proportion of each, therefore, must furnish a de- 
sirable compound. 

213. The importance of bread, as an article of diet, 
will be easily deduced from the principles upon which 
the digestion of food in the stomach has been already 
explained. In addition to its nutritive qualities, it per- 
forms a mechanical duty of some importance. It serves 
to divide the food, and to impart a suitable bulk and 
consistence to it ; it is therefore more necessary to con- 
join it with articles containing much aliment in a small 
space, than where the food is both bulky and nutritive, 
The concentrated cookery of the French is rendered 
much more wholesome from the large quantity of bread 
which that people use at their meals. I know irom 
personal experience how greatly this habit can correct 
the evil which arises from rich soups and ragouts. If I 
eat a rich soup, without a considerable quantity of stale 
bread, I inevitably suffer from heartburn ; but it never 
offends my stomach when taken with such precaation. 
Bread should never be eaten new ; in such a state it 
swells, like a sponge, in the stomach, and proves very 
indigestible. Care should also be taken to obtain bread 
that lias been duly baked. Unless all its parts are in- 
timately mixed, and the fixed air expelled, it will bt' apt. 



J 



IMPORTANT USES OF BEEAD. 231 

in very small quautities, to produce acescency and indi- 
gestion. After stating tlie advantages of bread, it is neces- 
Bary to make a few observations upon the evils which it 
may occasionally produce : in certain diseases it evidently 
produces a tendency to acidity ; we have daily instances 
of this fact in children, in whom acidity and much 
alimentary disturbance follow its use. In early life it 
is scarcely admissible, on account of the flatulence and 
costiveneas which it produces ; and even at a mora 
advanced period it gives children a pale countenance, 
and breeds worms. Shebbeare goes so far as to say, 
that the rickets are so common in Frajice only because 
the quantity of bread given to children is excessive ; 
which, by its acidity, destroys the calcareous substance 
of the bones, and reduces them to a state of cartilage. 
This is mere idle speculation, which is in direct variance 
with the received opinions upon the subject. Where 
acidity occurs, the bread should be toasted, or well- 
prepared biscuit substituted. 1 shall have occasion to 
state, in a subsequent part of this work, that striking 
changes in the urinary deposits may be produced by 
suspending the use of bread, and giving biscuit in its 
^lace. 

214. Bread has also been charged with producing 
(vil consequences, from the presence of noxious prin- 
liples, either naturally or artificially introduced into it. 
It will be necessary to direct some attention to these 
points. The presence of a peculiar poisonous principle, 
termed ergot, or spurred rye, has frequently proved a 

tBOurce of extensive disease : but as this subject has 
been ably treated in the various works on Toxicology, 



I 



232 



ADULTEHATIONS OF BREAD. 



it will uot be necessary to enter into its history on this 
occasion. Mucli has been said and written upon the 
subject of the adulteration of bread ; but I am inclined 
to believe, that the evCs arising from such a practice 
have been greatly exaggerated. It is certain, that the 
inferior kinds of flour will not make bread of sufficient 
whiteness to please the eye of the fastidious citizen, 
without the addition of a proportion of alum. It has 
been also found, that unless this salt be introduced into 
the flour, the loaves stick together in the oven, and will 
not afterwards separate from each other with that 
smooth surface which distinguiahes the loaf of the 
baker. This circumstance is probably owing to the 
action of the alum ujion the mucilage of the flour, which 
it coagulates. It has been said, that the smallest quan- 
tity that can be employed for these purposes is from 
three to four ounces to two hundred and forty pounds 
of flour. It cannot be denied, that the introduction of 
a portion of alum into the human stomach, however 
small, may be prejudicial to the exercise of its functions, 
and particularly to dyspeptic invalids. It was found 
by Mr. E. Davy, of Cork, that bad flour may be made 
into tolerable bread by adding, to each pound, fr-om 
twenty to forty grains of the common carbonate of 
magnesia. The operation of this substance in render- 
ing the bread lighter has not been satisfactorily ex- 
plained ; but from my own experience of its effects, 
I apprehend that it neutralizes an acid which is pro- 
duced during the fermentation of inferior flour, and, 
becoming itself decomposed by the same action, gives 
out carbonic acid, and thus contributes to the spongi- 



► 



PUDDTNGS. 233 

less of the loaf. The addition of salt greatly improves 
le digestibility of the bread, for reasons which have 
en already considered. 

215. Besides bread, several other preparations are 
lade by the solidification of flour, such as pudding, 

pancake, &c. The most digestible pudding is that made 
with bread, or biscuit and boiled flour : hatter pudding 
is not so easily digested ; and suet pudding is to be con- 
sidered as the most mischievous to invalids in the whole 
catalogue. Pancake is objectionable, on account of the 
process of frying imparting a greasiness to which the 
dyspeptic stomach is not often reconciled. All pastry 
ia an abomination : I verily believe, that one half, at 
least, of the cases of indigestion which occur after din- 
ner-parties may be traced to this cause. 

216. Many persons entertain a strange prejudice in 
fevour of pudding, and appear as if they considered it 
to possess a balsamic virtue, or some property by which 
the digestion of other aliment is expedited. If ever 
such a diet has served the valetudinarian, it must 
have been by excluding less stimulant food, and not 
by any virtue inherent in the pudding itself. This 
opinion is well illustrated by the case of the Billericay 
Miller, whose history must be well known to many of 
my readers ' : this person, by reducing the quantity of 
his daily food, until at length he took nothing more 
than a pudding made of sea biscuit, was, to use his 
own expression, " metamorphosed from a monster to a 
person of a moderate size ; from the condition of an 

• Medical Transactions, vol. ii. 



234 THE POTATOE. 

unhealthy, decrejiit, old man, to perfect health, and to 
the vigour and activity of youth." Mr. Wadd, in his 
work on corpulence, has introduced a very pleasant 
story, which will serve to complete the illustration of 
our subject. A gentleman, says he, who was fond of 
good living, and found himself becoming too corpulent, 
having heard of the salutary effects of the miller's regi- 
men, ordered his cook to prepare the " millet's pudditig" 
which he ate with great regularity every day, qfler his 
usual dinner. From the above anecdote the sagacious 
reader will deduce far more than is expressed. Plu- 
tarch, in his life of Lyeurgus, tells us that one of 
the kings of Pontus having heard great praises of 
the black /»'otk of Sparta, hired a cook from that city. 
But when he came to taste this celebrated dish, he 
called immediately for his cook, and warmly reproached 
him for the imposition. " iS'iV," replied the cook, "to 
make this broth relish u/ell, a man must bathe hims^in the 
river Eurotas '." — But to return from this digression. 

217. Amongst the farinaceous aliments, the Potatoe 
holds a distinguished rank ; but its digestibility greatly 
depends upon its kind, and the nature of the cookerj 
to which it is subjected. That species which is known 
by the name of waj'y potatoe should be shunned by the 
dyspeptic, for it is so indigestible as to pass through 
the intestines in an unaltered state. The same objec- 
tion applies to the young, or new potatoe. The meaty 
kind more readily yields to the powers of the stomach, 

' A river of Laconia, running by Spakta, so that "to bathe tit 
Eurotas," signified to imitate the discipline and temperance of the 
Lacedemonians. 



J 



biob: 235 

and affords a healthy nutriment ; in some respects it 
supplies the place of bread, and should therefore be 
eaten with freedom whenever our food is concentrated. 
To the dyspeptic, however, I have generally found this 
vegetable to be injurious ; if ever allowed to such pa- 
tients, it is worthy of remark that roasting is preferable 
to every other form of cookery. The process of mash- 
ing certainly does not contribute to their digestibility : 
by such an operation they escape being so intimately 
mixed with the saliva : and when they are impregnated 
mth the fat of roast meat, they should be studiously 
avoided. If boiled, care should be taken that they are 
not over-done ; for in such a case, they are deprived of 
their nutritious qualities. Under any circumstances, 
they are apt to accumulate in the colon, and to form in- 
digestible masses in that part of the canal. 

218. Rice is the general aliment of the people of the 
East, with whom it answers the same purposes as bread 
does with us. As it is not much disposed either to 
acescency or fermentation in the stomach, it inimishes 
a wholesome aliment when mixed with other food ; but, 
if taken in large (juantities by itself, from its low degree 
of stimulant properties, it is apt to remain for a length 
of time in the stomach : this effect is greatly increased 
by protracted boiling. Where the stomach is in a state 
bief relaxation and debility, it ought not to be taken 
^^rithout condiment : it is, for this reason, found neces- 
sary in the warmer climates to conjoin it with a con- 
siderable quantity of M'arm spices. There formerly 
—•existed a prejudice against its use, from a belief that it 
Bftftd a tendency to produce blindness. It is scarcely 



236 LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES OR PULSES. 

necessary to state, that Buch an idea has no foundation 
in truth. It is generally considered as astringent, and 
is, therefore, a popular remedy for diarrhoea; no as- 
tringent principle, however, has yet been discovered in 
its coiaposition, and it is probable that it owes its vir- 
tues, on such occasions, to the mild and bland mucilage 
with which it abounds, shielding the intestines from 
acrimonious humours. 

219. There are various other aliments in domestic 
use, which owe theii- qualities to starch, sueh as sago, 
tapioca, arrow-root, &c. From the mucilaginoua form 
in which they are usually administered to invalids, they 
are not so digestible as is generally supposed ; hut 
where the stomach rejects more substantial viands, they 
are useful in themselves, as well as proper vehicles for 
the administration of vinous stimulants. 

220. The leguminous productions, or piihes, may be 
considered as constituting the second division of fari- 
naceous aliment. They dilTer little from grains, except 
in affording a more unctuous flour, which forms a milky 
solution with water, owing to the presence of an oily 
matter. Although they are highly nutritive, they are 
certainly more indigestible than seeds, and the bread 
they afford is apt to occasion flatulence, and to lie 
heavy on the stomach. The use, therefore, of this 
species of food is more circumscribed than that of the 
farinaceous seeds ; it is principally confined to the lower 
classes, and to those possessing strong powers of diges- 
tion. In dyspeptic habits they ought on no account to 
be allowed ; the symptoms of uneasiness which they 
produce in such persons is often alarming : flatulence 



J 



PRAS NUTS. 337 

I and colic are tlie common consequences of their action. 
It has been said with some truth, that nature herself 
would seem to point out the necessity of mixing such 
food with otlier grains, for the soil becomes exhausted, 
unless it is alternately sown with grains and pulses; 
whereas, by such an alternation, the ground is preserved 
in a condition to afford a constant supply of nutriment. 
Pulses are employed in two very different states : in an 
early stage of their growth, when they are succulent ; 
ajid when all their parts have reached maturity ; in the 
former condition they are frequently acceptable to the 
stomach ; hut in the latter, they are only calculated 
for those who have strong digestive powers. 

221. Peas form a wholesome and light food, when 
green and young, but when full grown and dry, they 
are very indigestible : in this latter state they contri- 
bute, in a remarkable degree, to the generation of gas 
in the intestines. In the form of pudding they are, if 
possible, still more objectionable; for, in addition to 
the bad qualities which depend upon their composi- 
tion, are thus added those which arise from tenacity of 
texture. Beans, like peas, are comparatively wliole- 
some in their immature state. The Kidney-bean, 
being eaten with its cod, is not so flatulent as other 
pulse : when well boiled, it is easy of digestion, but not 
very nutritive. 

222. Nuts are generally supposed to have consti- 
tuted the earliest food of mankind ; and they still 
furnish, in some countries, a considerable source of 

B^food, In this country they are principally known as an 
^Hrticle of the dessert, although on some occasions they 



238 



MISCHIEVOUS EFFECTS OF NUTS. 



are eaten with our food ; they constitute a favourite 
accompaniment with turkey ; and I allude to this cir- 
cumstance in order to guard dyspeptics against their 
use. I was lately desired to see a person who, after 
such a repast, was seized with violent pain in the region 
of the duodenum, accompanied with distressing retch- 
ing ; I instantly suspected the cause, and the appear- 
ance of the stools which were produced confirmed my 
supposition. The chestnuts had swelled in the intes- 
tines, and produced an obstruction, probably at that 
part of the duodenum where it makes its exit through 
the ring of the mesentery ; or they might have lodged 
in the stomach, and produced an irritation upon the 
pylorus. With regard to composition, the chestnut 
may perhaps be considered as more nearly allied to the 
pulse than to the nut tribe, since it affords no oil by 
expression, and from its farinaceous qualities it may 
even be made into bread, although it is heavy and in- 
digestible. Its nutritive power must be considerable, 
since it forms the chief food of the lower orders in the 
plains of Lombardy ; and it has been conjectured, that 
it was the aco7m so frequently mentioned in ancient 
history and tradition. When eaten after dinner, an 
indulgence which can only be conceded to the moat 
robust, it ought to be previously roasted ; its digesti- 
bility is also increased by being kept for some time 
after it has been gathered. It is at the same time thus 
rendered more palatable, by the greater evolution of 
its saccharine principle. 

223. The evils which may arise from the use of the 
chestnut are still more likely to occur after tbe inges- 



J 



THE CARROT. 239 

tion of nuts, for tliey are more oily, as well as more 
viscid and glutinous: when eaten, they should always 
be accompanied with salt ; but it would be wise to 
banish them entirely from our tables. It is much 
easier, as Dr. Johnson has said, to be abstinent than 
temperate; an aphorism which applies with peculiar 
force on this occasion : for there is a fascination in nuts 
which will lead most persons, who once begin to eat 
them, to take a quantity which the best-disposed stomach 
cannot bear with impunity. Hoffman observes, that 
dysenteric complaints are always more common in those 
years in which the harvest of nuts is plentiful; and 
there is not a physician in any practice who will be in- 
clined to doubt his statement, 



^^ ESCULENT ROOTS. 

224. These are of two kinds ; those used as food, and 
those which principally answer the purposes of condi- 
ment or seasoning. Under the first division may be 
classed turnips, carrots, parsnips, Jerusalem, artichokes, 
radishes, &c. ; many of which, it will be seen, are seldom 
used solely for aliment, but are rather brought to our 
tables to qualify our animal food. Under the second 
division may be arranged onions, garlic, horseradish, &c. 
It will be necessary to offer a few observations upon 
the qualities of these several roots. 

225. The Carrot, from the quantity of saccharine 
matter which it contains, is very nutritive, and slightly 
laxative; but it also possesses a large proportion of fibrous 



J 



240 TURNIP, PABSNir, RADISH. 

matter, which in some stomacbs prevents the digestion 
of the root, and it passes through the bowels with but 
little change : to obviate this effect, it ought to be Tery 
thoroughly boiled, and it should be eaten when young. 
It appears to have been introduced by the Flemings, in 
the reign of Elizabeth. The Turnip is a very excellent 
vegetable, and, although it has the character of being 
flatulent, is less liable to disagree with the stomach 
than the carrot ; it ought, however, to be well boiled, 
and the watery part separated by pressure. Lord 
Townshond, secretary to Charles I., was the person who 
introduced its use into England ; but it appears that 
the ancient Romans, in the best period of their republic, 
lived much upon this root. The Parsnip is nutritive 
and digestible, although many persons dislike it on 
account of its sweet flavour. The Jeeusalem Arti- 
choke ^ is agreeable, but watery and flatulent ; it ought, 
therefore, never to be eaten without a proper accom- 
paniment of salt and pepper. Radishes. AU the 
varieties of which have a pungent and acrid taste, in 
consequence of a peculiar stimulating matter, which 
resides in the cortical part of the root. They may he 
said to contain little else than water, woody fibre, and 
acrid matter, and cannot, therefore, be very nutritive ; 
they may act as a stimulant and thus prove useful, but 

' The reader is aware, that this root of a species of sun-flower 
has no botanical relation with the artichoke properly so called ; its 
name is a curious specimen of verbal corruption. The word Jeru- 
salem is a corruption of Gira-sole, Tum-sun, or Heliotrope. It 
acquires the title of artichoke from ita supposed resemblance in 
flavour to that vegetable. 



J 



oNroN. 341 

they ought never to be eaten when old, as the quantity 
of inert matter in such a condition is apt to disagree 
with the stomach. From the consideration of radishes 
■e pass, by an easy transition, to that of onions, ice, 
ir they appear to form the connecting link between ' 
alimentary roots and those used principally as condi- 
ment. The Onion, however, although classed under 
this latter division, and must be considered as valuable 
on account of its stimulating matter, certainly contains 
a considerable proportion of nourishment. This ap- 
pears evident in its boiled state, by which process its 
acrimony is exhaled, and a sweet mucilage separated. 
Sip John Sinclair says, that it is a well-known fact, that 
a Highlander, with a few raw onions in his pocket, and 
a crust of bread, or some oat-cake, can travel almost 
to an incredible extent, for two or three days together, 
without any other sort of food. The French are fully 
aware of the quantity of nourishment this plant affords ; 
hence the soup d Voignon is considered by them as the 
best of all restoratives. As a stimulant to the stomach 
id bowels, the onion, in a raw state, is certainly of 
,lue, and this is much enhanced by its diuretic quali- 
ties. The leek, garlick, shallot, are of the same spe- 
cies, and possess qualities of the same nature. Hokse- 
(Kadisb' is a warm and pungent root, and is highly 
* ' The epithet horse is a Grecism : Wtoq and (iovc, i. e. horse and 
bull, when prefixed to any word, were used to express its compara- 
tive greatnesB. We have thus, Aorse-radiah, or the greater radish ; 
horae-mint ; buU-rush, &c. The ^eat dock is called hifpo-]ap&- 

Eid the horse of Alexander, from the size of its head, Buce-, 



t>ei 



34-2 



ESCUl-ENT HERBS WATER-CRESS. 



valuable to the dyspeptic as a stimulant ; it is, ( 
the best of all condiments for the prevention of flatu- 
lence. 



ESCULENT HERBS. 



226. In this class are arranged the leaves and stalks 
of such vegetables as are eaten at table in the form 
of "greens and salads." Some ancient nations, we are 
told, were accustomed to range over flelds and woods in 
search of food, devouring, like animals, any wild herb 
they could find likely to satisfy their hunger : 

" Qax eol atque imbres dederant, quod terra credrat 
Sponte BuS, satis id placabat pectora donum." 

Lttcret. lib. v. 

Some herbs are still eaten in a raw state ; but they are 
far less digestible than when cooked. During the heats 
of summer they are refreshing, and are well calculated 
to assuage that febrile state which full meals of animal 
food are known to occasion. Of all these herbs, the 
Water-Cre8S is the most beneficial ; for, by operating 
in some degree as an aromatic, it promotes digestion, 
and corrects that tendency to flatulency which other 
raw vegetables are apt to produce. According to Xeno- 
phon, the ancient Persians lived upon water-cresses, 
which they considered the most wholesome of vegetable 
productions'. The Lettuce is generally eaten with 



' The island of St. Helena abounds witb tbem, and 1 am informed 

that crews arriving there when soffering with scurvy, almost imme- 
diately experience relief from their use. 



J 



LETTUCE, CUCUMBER, BROCOLl. 243 

■other lierbs, in the form of a salad, dressed with oil 
and vinegar. Some difference of opinion has arisen 
with respect to the propriety of such additions. Gosse, 
of Geneva, found that vinegar retarded its sohition in 
the stomach ; and oil has been stated by others to 
render it less digestible. I have generally found such 
condiments useful, and that dressed lettuce is less likely 
to ferment in the stomach than that which is eaten 
without them. Oil is known to have such an effect in 
checking fermentation, and the vinegar is not found to 
promote it. The lettuce contains a narcotic principle '; 
and the effect of this is, in a great measure, obviated 
by a vegetable acid. Those persons, therefore, who eat 
lettuce with a view to obtain such effects, ought to 
take it without vinegar. Whatever difference of opinion 
may exist with regard to lettuce, there is none with 
regard to celery, the digestibility of which is greatly 
increased by maceration in vinegar. Cucumbbes are 
by far the most unwholesome of all raw vegetables, and 
should be avoided as poison by dyspeptics. 

227. The vegetables which require to be boiled are 
the different species and varieties of colewort; the value 
of which does not depend so much upon their nutritive 
quality as the tenderness of their texture. On this 
account, the cauhflower and brocoli are the species to 
t>e preferred, particularly the younger sprigs of the 



' We are told that Galen^, in the decliae of life, suffered much 
(rom morbid vigilance, until he had recourse to eating a lettuce 
every evening, which cured him. 

r2 



244 FRUITS. 

former. Of the kinds where the leaves only are em- 
ployed, the Savoy is of a sweeter and more tender tex- 
ture than the others, particularly its central and upper 
leaves. The Cabbage tribe appear to contain a peculiar 
essential oil, whence the unpleasant odour of cabbage 
water ; this matter is liable to produce offensive effects 
oil the stomach. The vegetable should therefore be 
boiled in two successive waters, in order to free it en- 
tirely from the noxious ingredient, and at the same 
time to render its texture soft and digestible. Aspa- 
ragus is quickly dissolved in the stomach, and, when 
sufficiently boiled, is not disposed to create flatulence 
or acidity : along with its mucilage it frequently con- 
tains some sweetness, which affords a proof of its nutri- 
tive equality. From the peculiar odour which it imparts 
to the urine of those who eat it, it appears to possess 
some active matter distinct from its mucilage ; and it is 
generally considered diuretic. I have, however, pre- 
pared a strong infusion, as well as extract, from it, in 
order to ascertain this point, and 1 have not been able 
to discover any diuretic eifects from its administration 
in large doses. Asparagus is only wholesome when in 
an intermediate state, between root and plant. When 
older than this, it is remarkably acrid. 



■228. These are generally regarded as articles rather 
of luxury than of food ; and were we to form our opinion 
of their value from their abuse, we should certainly be 



J 



DIFFERENT FRUITS. 245 

■ rather disposed to class tliem under tlie liead of poisons 
than of aliments. Nothing can be more mischievous 
to the invalid than lar^e quantities of apples, pears, and 
plums, in the form of dessert, after the stomach has 
been already loaded, and its good-nature taxed to the 
utmost by its Epicurean master. But, when taken 
under other circumstances, they contribute to health, 
and appear to be providentially sent at a season when 
the body requires that cooling and antiseptic aliment 
which they are so well calculated to afford. It is not 
my intention to enter into a minute history of the 
several kinds ; but it will be useful to take a general 
view of the qualities which distinguish each division, 
and to state the circumstances which render them use- 
ful or objectionable. 

229. Fruits may be arranged under the following 
heads : stone fruits, the apple species, small-seeded 
fruits, small berries, and farinaceous fruits. 

230. The stone fruits have been denounced as the 
least digestible species by popular acclamation, and I 
am inclined to acquiesce in the truth of the assertion 
aa a general proposition; but much of the mischief 
that has been attributed to their use has arisen from 
the unripe state in which they wore eaten. They are, 
however, certainly less digestible than other species, and 
more liable to undergo fermentation in the stomach. 
The hard pulp of certain plums remains also in the 
alimentary canal for a long time, and is frequently 
passed without having been materially changed. The 
ripe peach is the most delicious, as well as one of the 
most digestible of the stone fruits ; the apricot is equally 



246 DIFFERENT FlttnTS. 

wholesome ; but the nectarine is liable to disagree with 
some stomachs. Cherries are far less digestible : their 
pulpy texture and skins are not easily disposed of by 
the stomach ; and as the sweetest species contain a 
considerable excess of acid, they may be objectionable 
in some cases, and desirable in others. The apple 
species is not so dilute and watery as the foregoing 
fruits, and is less apt to pass into a state of noxious 
fermentation; but its texture is firmer, and on that 
account it is retained longer in the stomach, and ofteu 
proves indigestible. The same observations apply to 
pears, except that, their texture being in general less 
firm, they are less objectionable. The orange, when 
perfectly ripe, may be allowed to the most fastidious 
dyspeptic : but the white, or inner skin, should be scru- 
pulously rejected, for it is not more digestible than 
leather. The small-seeded fruits are, by far, the most 
wholesome. Of these, the ripe strawberry and rasp- 
berry deserve the first rank. The grape is also cooling 
and antiseptic, but the husks and seeds should be re- 
jected. The gooseberry is less wholesome, on account 
of the indigestibility of the skin, which is too frequently 
swallowed. The fruits to be classed under the head of 
small berries, are the cranberry, the bilberry, and the 
red whortleberry. These are seldom eaten, except when 
baked, and in that state their acescency seldom proves 
injurious. The farinaceous fruits are universally im- 
wholesome. The melon, which is the principal one, is 
very apt to disagree with weak stomachs, and should 
never be eaten after dinner, even by persons in health, 
without a plentiful supply of salt and pepper. 
10 



J 



^eo1 



INTEKMrXTtfRE OF ALIMENTS. 247 

li3i. The most proper periods for indulgence in fruit 
appear to be the morning and evening. On some occa^ 
sioRS it may be taken with advantage at breakfast, or 
three hours before dinner, and it affords a light and 
agreeable repast if taken an hour before bed-time ; but 
these regulations are to be influenced by circumstances 
which no general rule can possibly embrace. 

232. By cookery, fruit, otherwise unwliolesome, may 
be converted into a safe and useful aliment. Apples, 
when baked, afford a pleaeant repast ; and from their 
laxative properties are well adapted to certain cases of 
dyspepsia. Fruit pies, if the pastry be entirely rejected, 
may be considered valuable articles of diet. Dried 
fruits are by no means eo useful or safe as is generally 
imagined ; the quantity of sugar which enters into their 

imposition disposes them to fermentation. 

233. Having offered some general rules with respect 
to the circmnstances which render food salutary or 
noxious, and illustrated these principles by an exami- 
nation of the several classes and species of aliments, it 
remains for me to say a few words upon the subject of 
their intermixture. I have already, in the introduction 
of this work (6), alluded to the mischief which arises 
from the too-prevailing fashion of introducing at our 
meals an almost indefinite succession of incompatible 

The stomach being distended with soup, the 
igestion of which, from the very nature of the opera- 
Sons which ai-c necessary for its completion (84), would 
itself be a sufllicient labour for that organ, is next 
ipted with fish, rendered indigestible from its sauces ; 
len with flesh and fowl ; tlie vegetable world, as an in- 



248 



PLURALITY OF FOOD. 



tcUigent reviewer ' has observed, is ransacked fi'om the 
crtfpto;)fi]/iia upwards ; and to this miscellaneous aggre- 
gate are added the pernicious pasticcios of the pastry- 
cook, and the complex combinations of the confectioner. 
All these evils, and many more, have those who move 
in the ordinary society of the present day to contend 
with. It is not to one or two good dishes, even abun- 
dantly indulged in, but to the overloading the stomach, 
that such strong objections are to be urged ; nine per- 
sons in ten eat as much soup and fish as would amply 
suffice for a meal, and, as fai- as soup and fish are con- 
cerned, would rise from the table, not only satisfied, 
but saturated, A new stimulus appears in the form of 
stewed beef, or cdtelettes a la supreme : then comes a 
Bayonne or Westphalia ham, or a pickled tongue, or 
some anaJogous salted, but proportionately indigestible, 
dish, and of each of these enough for a single meal. 
But this is not all ; game follows ; and to this again 
succeed the sweets, and a quantity of cheese. The 
whole is crowned with a variety of flatulent fruits and 
indigestible kuick-nacks, included under the name of 
dessert, in which wo must not forget to notice a moun- 
tain of sponge cake'. Tlius, then, it is, that the sto- 



I See the review of my Pharmacologia, in the Journal of Science 
and the Arts, No. xxvii. 

' The custom of introducing cake after a rich entertainment is very 
ancient; but the cakes or " mustacea" of the Romans were very 
different compositions. They consisted of meal, aniseed, cDinmiD, 
and several other aromatics : their object was to remore or prevent 
the indigestion which might occur after a feast. A cake was, there- 
fore, constantly introduced, for such a purpose, after a marriage en- 



tot 



WHY SIMPLE FOOD IS MOIiE DIGESTIBLE. 249 

ill is made to receive, not one full meal, but a suc- 
1 of meals rapidly following each other, and 
in their miscellaneous and pernicious nature with 
"the ingredients of Macbetb's cauldron. Need the phi- 
'Josopher, then, any longer wonder at the increasing 
number and severity of dyspeptic complaints, with their 
long train of maladies, amongst the higher classes of 
society ? " Innymerabiles morbos non miraheris, coguos 
numera." But it may be said, that this is a mere tirade 
against quantity; against over distention of the stomach ; 
that it argues nothing against variety of food, provided 
the sum of all the dishes does not exceed that which 
might be taken of any single one. Without availing 
myself of the argument so usually applied against plu- 
rality of food, that " it induces us to eat too much," I 
will meet the question upon fairgrounds. It is evident 
that the different varieties of food require very different 
exertions of the stomach for their digestion; it may be 
that the gastric juice varies in composition, according 
to the specific nature of the stimulus which excites the 
isels to secrete it ; but of this we are uncertain, nor 
it essential to the argument : it is sufficient to know, 
that one species of food is passed into the duodenum in 
a chymified state in half the time which is required to 
effect the same change in another. Where, then, the 
stomach is charged with contents which do not harmo- 
nise with each other in this respect, we shall have the 
iveral parts of the mixed mass at the same time in 

inment ; and hence the origin of the " Bridb Cakb," which in 
xlem times ie au excellent invention for producing, instead of 
wing, tndigeation. 



250 DRINKS. 

cUiFerent etagee of digestion : one part will therefore be 
retained beyond the period destined for its expulsion, 
wliile another will be hurried forward before its change 
has been sufficiently completed. It is, then, highly ex- 
pedient, particularly for those with weak stomachs, to 
eat but one species of food, so that it may be all digested 
and expelled at nearly the same period of time ; that 
when the duodenal digestion has been fully established, 
the operations of the stomach shall have ceased. 



OF DRINKS. 

234. Water is unquestionably the natural beverage 
of man ; but any objection to the use of other beve- 
rages, founded on tlieir artificial origin, I should at once 
repel by the same argument which has been adduced in 
defence of cookery, that we are to consider man as he 
is, not as he might have been, had he never forsaken 
the rude path of nature. I am vrilling to confess, that 
" the more simply life is supported, and the less stimu- 
lus we use, the better ; and that he is happy who con- 
siders water the best drink, and salt the best sauce :" 
but how rarely does a physician find a patient who has 
regulated his life by such a maxim : He is generally 
called upon to reform stomachs, already vitiated by bad 
habits, and which cannot, without much discipline, be 
reconciled to simple and healthy aliment. Under such 
circumstances, nothing can be more injudicious than 
abruptly to withdraw the accustomed stimuli, unless it 
can be shown that they are absolutely injurious — a 



mai 
Krei 



QUALITIES OF WATER. 251 

iBeBtion which it ■will be my duty to investigate here- 
;er. 

235. The qualities of ■water differ essentially, accord- 
ing to the source irom which it has been obtained ; and 
those accustomed to this beverage are sensible of 
differences which wholly escape the observation of less 
experienced judges. How far the existence of foreign 
matter injures its salubrity, has been a subject of much 

introveray : the truth, perhaps, lies between the ex- 
imes ; those who insist upon the necessity of distil- 
lation for its purification, and those who consider every 
description of water as alike salubrious, are, in my 
opinion, equally remote from truth. That the presence 
of very minute quantities of earthy matter can become 
a source of disease, appears absurd ; while it would be 
highly dangerous to deny the morbid tendency of water 
that holds putrescent animal or vegetable matter in 
solution, or which abounds in mineral impregnation. 

236. The usual varieties of common water were 
classed and defined by Celsus, and modem chemists 

ive not found any reason to reject the arrangement — 
Aqua le^issima plmiialis est ; dein frnitana, turn ex fiu- 
\ine, turn ew puteo ; posthtBC ex nive aut glade, gravior 
ew lacu ; gravissima ex palude." 
J, Rain Water, when collected in the open fields, is 
certainly the purest natural water, being produced, 
as it were, by a natural distillation. When, how- 
ever, it is collected near large towns, it derives 
some impregnation from the smoky and contami- 
nated atmosphere through which it falls : and, if 
allowed to come in contact with the houses, will be 



253 SPRING WATEE. 

found to contain calcareous matter ; in wtiich case 
it ought never to be used without being previously 
boiled and strained. Hippocrates gave this advice; 
and M. Margraaf, of Berlin, has shown the wisdom 
of the precaution, by a satisfactory series of 
experiments. 
2. Spring Water, in addition to the substances de- 
tected in rain water, generally contains a small 
portion of muriate of soda, and frequently other 
ealta : but the larger springs are purer than the 
' smaller ones ; and those which occur in primitive 
countries, and in siliceous rocks, or beds of gravel, 
necessarily contain the least impregnation. An 
important practical distinction has been founded 
upon the fact, that the water of some springs dis- 
solves soap, while that of others decomposes and 
curdles it : the former has been termed sq/l, the 
latter hard, water. Soft water is a more powerful 
solvent of all vegetable matters, and is conse- 
quently to be preferred for domestic as well as 
medicinal purposes. The brewer knows well, 
from experience, how much more readily and copi- 
ously sq/i water will dissolve the extractive matter 
of his malt ; and the housewife does not require 
to be told, that hard water is incapable of making 
good tea. Sulphate of lime is the salt which 
generally imparts the quality of hardness to water ; 
and it has been said that its presence will some- 
times occasion an uneasy sense of weight in a weak 
stomach. The quantity of this salt varies con- 
siderably ; but, in general, it appears that the 



;r. 253 

proportion of five grains in a pint of water will 
constitute hardness, nnfit for washing with soap, 
and for many other purposes of domestic use. 
Animals appear to be more sensible of the im- 
purities of water than man. Horses, by au in- 
stinctive sagacity, always prefer soft water; and 
when, by necessity or inattention, they are confined 
to the use of that which is hard, their coats become 
rough and ill-conditioned, and they are frequently 
attacked with the gripes. Pigeons are also known 
to refuse hard, after they have been accustomed to 
soft water '. 
I 3. River Water. This, being derived from the 
conflux of numerous springs with rain water, un- 
less in the immediate vicinity of a large town, 
generally possesses considerable purity ; that the 
proportion of its saline contents should be small, 
is easily explained by the precipitation which must 
necessarily take place from the union of different 
solutions : it is, however, liable to hold in suspen- 
sion particles of earthy matter, which impair its 
transparency, and sometimes its salubrity ; it may 
also, in the neighbourhood of a city, hold dissolved, 
as well as suspended, a considerable proportion of 
animal and vegetable matter : this is unquestion- 
ably the case in the water supplied from the 



* Hard water has certainly a tendency to produce disease in the 
ipleen of certain animals, especially in sheep. This is the case on 
Hie eastern side of the island of Minorca, as we are informed by 
iOegfaorn. 



2m well water. 

Thames by the Grand Junction Water Conipany ; 
the discovery of the polluted source from whence 
this water flows into our houses, has lately filled 
the inhabitants with just alarm'. There exists a 
popular belief, that the water of the Thames is 
peculiarly adapted for the brewery of porter ; it is 
only necessary to observe, that such water is never 
used in the London breweries. The vapid taste of 
river, when compared with spring, water, depends 
upon the loss of carbonic acid, from its long ex- 
posure. It is well known that Thames water, by 
rest, undergoes a species of fermentation, and 
becomes free from organic matter, but Dr. Bos- 
tock has shewn that by the same process the 

, saline contents are increased fourfold : the greatest 
proportionate increase being in the mmnates, which 
are nearly twelve times more in the purified than 
in the ordinary state of the Thames water ; the 
carbonate of lime is between two or three times as 
abundant as before, and the sulphate of lime be- 
tween five and six times. So that .*he process 
of spontaneous depuration actually converts a so/i 
into a hard water. The source of these saline 
matters would appear to be the animal substances 
so copiously deposited in the Thames. 

4. Well Water is essentially the same as spring 

' See a pamphlet entitled. " The Dolphin, or Grand Junction 

Nuisance, proving that seven thousand families in Westminster, and 
ite Huburbs, are supplied with water in a state ofiensive to the eight, 
disgusting to the imagination, and destructive to health." 



SNOW WATER. 



255 



water, being derived from the same source; it is, 
however, more liable to impurity from its etagna- 
tion, or slow infiltration ' : hence our old wells 
fiimish much purer water than those which are 
more recent, as the soluble particles are gradually 
washed away. Mr. Dalton observes, that the 
more any spring is drawn from, the softer the 
water will become. 
5. Snow Water has been supposed to be unwhole- 
some, and in particular to produce bronchocele, 
from the prevalence of that disease in the Alps ; 
but it does not appear upon what principle its 
insalubrity can depend. The same strumous af- 
fection occurs at Sumatra, where ice and snow 
are never seen; while, on the contrary, the disease 
is quite unknown in Chili and Thibet, although 
the rivers of those countries are supplied by the 
melting of the snow with which the mountains are 
covered. The same observations will apply to ice 
water. The trials of Captain Cook, in his voyage 
round the world, prove its wholesomeness beyond a 
donbt: in the high southern latitudes, he found a 
salutary supply of fresh water in the ice of the 
I. "This melted ice," says Sir John Pringle, 
" was not only sweet but soft, and so wholesome 
as to show the fallacy of human reasoning, un- 



' Dr. Percival observea. that bricks harden the softest water, and 
; it an aluminous impregnation ; the common practice of lining 
A with them is therefore very improper, unless they be covered 
ritli cement. 



supported by expeiiiiients." Wlieu immediately 
melted, snow water contaius no air, as it is ex- 
pelled during the act of treezing, consequently it 
is remarkably vapid ; but it soon recovers the air 
it had lost, by exposure to the atmosphere. 

6. Lake Water is a collection of rain, spring, and 

river waters, contaminated with various animal 
and vegetable matter, which from its stagnant 
nature have undergone putrefaction in it. This 
objection may be urged with greater force against 
the use of water collected in ponds and ditches, 
and which the inhabitants of some districts are 
often under the necessity of drinkiug, I have 
known an endemic diarrhoea to arise from such a 
circumstance. 

7. Mahsh Water, being the most stagnant, is the 

most impure of all water, and is generally loaded 
with decomposing vegetable matter. There can 
be no doubt that numerous diseases have sprung 
up from its use. 
237. It is, however, in vain that pure water is dis- 
covered, if proper means be not adopted to convey it 
for the use of the inhabitants. In ancient times this 
was done by means of aqueducts of extraordinary mag- 
nificence ; and the materials of which they were com- 
posed were even then acknowledged to be capable of 
affecting the water which flowed through them. Pal- 
ladius testifies his aversion to the use of lead, as apt to 
become covered with ceruse, and thereby rendered 
poisonous ; and Vitruvius and Columella recommend 
pipes of earthenware, as not only cheaper, but more 



LEAD PRESENT IN WATER. 

wholesome tban those of lead. Dr. Lambe, to whom we 
are indebted for an important work ' upon this subject, 
states, that there is a great diversity in the corrosive 
powers of different waters; in some places the use of 
leaden pumps has been discontinued, from the expense 
entailed upon the proprietors by the perpetual want of 
repair. Dr. Lambe states an instance where the pro- 
prietor of a well ordered his plumber to make the lead 
of a pump of double the thickness of the metal usually 
wnployed on such occasions, to save the charge of 
repairs ; because he had observed that the water was so 
hard, as he called it, thai it corroded the lead very somi. 
If any acidity be communicated to the water, from 
the accidental intrusion of decayed leaves or other 
vegetable matter, its power of dissolving this metal will 
he increased to a very dangerous extent. The noted 
colic of Amsterdam is said by Tronchin, who has 
written a history of the epidemic, to have been occa- 
sioned by leaves falling and putrefying in leaden cisterns 
filled with rain water. Van Swieten has also related 
au instance of a whole family who were afflicted with 
colic from a similar cause * ; and Dr. Lambe entertains 
no doubt, but that the very striking case recorded in 
the Medical Commentaries ' proceeded more from some 
foulness in the cistern, than from the solvent i)ower of 
the water. In this instance, the officers of a packet 
vessel used water out of a leaden cistern ; the men 
uilso drauk the same water, except that the latter had 

^F ' Ilesearchee into the Propeiliea of Spring Water, with Medictk) 
Cftutiona against the Use of Lead. 

* Van Swieten and Boerhaav, Aphor. 1060, Comment. 
» Duncan. Med. Comment, Dec. 2, 17!)4. 



258 



LEAD PBESBTTT IN WATER. 



been kept in wood : the consequence was, that all tlie 
officers were seized with colic, while the men remained 
healthy. Sir George Baker hns furnished the follow- 
ing striking illustration of this subject : — ^The most re- 
markable case that now occurs to my memory," says he, 
" is that of Lord Ashburnham'a family in Sussex ; to 
which spring water was supplied from a considerable 
distance in leaden pipes. In consequence, his lord- 
ship's servants were every year tormented with colic, 
and some of them died. An eminent physician of 
Battle, who corresponded with me on the subject, sent 
up some gallons of that water, which were analyzed 
by Dr. Higgins, who reported that the water had con- 
tained more than the common proportion of carbonic 
acid ; and that he found in it lead in solution, which 
he attributed to the action of the carbonic acid, in 
consequence of this representation. Lord Ashbumham 
substituted wooden for leaden pipes ; and from that 
time his family have experienced no particular com- 
plaints in their bowels." As timber pipes are liable to 
decay, and to impart a bad taste to the water, those 
made of cast-iron are to be greatly preferred. Before 
quitting this subject, I ought to state that I have found 
the presence of iron, as for instance a pump, in contact 
with lead to accelerate the solution of the latter metal ; 
by forming a simple voltaic circuit, and thus effecting 
the decomposition of the saline ingredients, and trans- 
ferring the alkaline element to the lead, by which it is 
dissolved. (Pharmacologia, edit. 8th, p. 394.) 

'238. For the purification and preservation of water, 
numerous methods have been adopted. The mechanical 
impurities may be removed by filtration, a process 



PUBIFICATTON OF WATER. 2S9 

trhich is suggested by nature herself; for all sprmgB 
rising through sand, gravel, &c., must undergo this 
Hence it occurred, that if waters of a putrid, 
marshy, or unwholesome nature, were filtered through 
a factitious bed of sand, or a vessel made of porous 
Btone ', they might be deprived of their bad qualities. 
As that peculiar property of water which constitutes 
■wliat is termed hardness, generally depends upon the 
presence of sulphate of lime in solution, it cannot be 
removed by simple filtration ; but the addition of an 
alkaline carbonate ', twenty-four hours before it is used, 
will be found to restore it ; or, if it should depend 
upon super-carbonate of lime, long ebullition, without 
any addition, will be found sufficient for its cure. 
Another mode of improving water, and one that has 
been most recently discovered, is by means of charcoal, 
a substance which enjoys, in an eminent degree, the 
property of preserving water from corruption, and of 
purifying it after it has been corrupted : hence the fil- 
tration of water through alternate layers of sand and 
I charcoal offers a ready and effectual mode of abstracting 
• its impurities, especially when they consist of animal 
or vegetable matter. Where we have reason, however, 
to suspect much injurious contamination, the process of 
boiling should never be omitted ; after which it may be 
strained and filtered, and lastly agitated in contact with 
the atmosphere, in order to restore to it its natural pro- 

I portion of air. In China, water is never drunk imtil 
fte 



t 



' Varioua machines have been constructed for this purpose ; but 
I'fte moat modem are those known by the name of, " Brnnbt's 

(ipATKNT FlI.ritRfNG MACHINE." and RoBINS'b RotAL FlUTSR, 

' In the proportion of from ten to fifteen grains to every pint. 

s2 



J 



260 PURIFICATION OF WATER. 

it has been boiled. The mischievous effects of impure 
water, where it cannot be corrected by any chetnical 
process, are said to be best counteracted by some bitter 
vegetable. Virey supposes that this circumstance 
first induced the Chinese to infuse the leaves of 
the tea plant. The brown tinge so generally seen 
in ponds and slow streams, depends upon a minute 
quantity of extractive matter, from the decomposition 
of fallen leaves and other vegetable bodies, and will be 
retained by the water in solution, after it has undergone 
the process of depuration ; nor can it be removed by 
boiling, but alum and certain metallic salts, as sulphate of 
irim, especially if heated with it, throw down a preci- 
pitate, and leave the water colourless. 

239. The juices and infusions of vegetable and animal 
matter constitute the second division of drinks. 

240. Toast Water. By impregnating water with 
the soluble parts of toasted bread, it will frequently 
agree with those stomachs which rebel against the use 
of the pure fluid. It is thus rendered slightly nutritive, 
holding a certain portion of gum and starch in solution. 
Sir A. Carlisle recommends that it should be prepared 
with hard biscuit, reduced by fire to a coffee colour. 
This driuk, says he, being free from yeast, is a most 
agreeable beverage. Much depends upon the water 
being at a boiling temperature, and it ought to be 
drank as soon as it has cooled sufficiently; for, by keep- 
ing, it acquires an unpleasant flavour. Infusions of 
other kinds of bread, in particular of toasted oat-cakes, 
also dried or toasted oatmeal, have been recommended; 
but the taste of such infusions would not be palatable 
to any one who has not been accustomed to oat-bread. 



241. Barley Water. The decoction of barley is a 
I Very aucieiit beverage ; it is recommended by Hippo- 
ierates, and preferred by him to every other aliment in 

acute diseases. Barley has the advantage over other 
grains, in afibrding less viscid potations. The invention 
of pearl barlej/ baa greatly increased the value of this 
grain ; it is prepared by the removal of its husk or 
cuticle, and afterwards by being rounded and polished 
in a mill. These well-known granules consist chiefly 
of fecula, with portions of mucilage, gluten, and sugar, 
which water extracts by decoction ; but the solution 
soon passes into the acetous fermentation. The bran of 
barley contains an acrid resin, and it is to get rid of 
such an ingredient that it is deprived of its cuticle. 
The addition of lemon juice and sugar-candy greatly 
improve the flavour of this drink. 

242. Gruel. Oats, when freed from their cuticle, 
are called groats ; in which state, as well as when ground 
into meal, they yield to water, by coetion, the fecula 
they contain, and form a nutritious gruel, which has 

I lUso the property of being slightly aperient. It should 
P^ver be kept longer than forty eight hours, as it be- 
comes acescent after that period. Gruel may be made 
of a different degree of consistence, according to the 
object of its potation. If it be used as a demulcent 
drink, it should be thin ; and may be made, as Dr. 
Kitchener, our culinary censor, informs us, by mixing 
well together, by degrees, in a pint basin, ojie table- 
spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water, and then 
K adding carefully a pint of boiling water, which is to be 
Hboiled for five minutes, stirring it all the time, to pre- 






vent tbe oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the 
stewpan ; then strain through a hair sieve, to separate 
the undissolved parts of the meal from the gruel. If a 
more substantial repast is required, double the above 
quantity of oatmeal must be treated in a similar man- 
ner. To increase the nutritive quality of this aliment, 
broth or milk may be substituted for water. Some 
persons are in the habit of introducing a piece of butter 
into gruel : but the propriety of this practice is ques- 
tionable, where the stomach is disposed to generate 
acidity. 

243. Sage Tea. The virtues of sage have been so 
extravagantly praised, that, like many of our remedies ', 
the plant has fallen into disuse from the disgust which 
its panegyrists have excited. I am convinced, however, 
that in the form of infusion it posseases some power in 
allaying the irritability of the stomach *, and that, on 
many occasions, it will furnish a salutary beverage. 
The same observation will apply to the infusions of 
halm and rosemari/. A drink extremely agreeable to 
the stomach of invalids may also be made by infusing 
lemon-peel in boQing water, and adding a small quan- 
tity of sugar. 

244. Tea. There is no subject that has occasioned 
a greater controversy amongst dietetic writers than the 
subject of tea. By one party it is decried as a poison ; 
by another it is extoUed as a medicine, and a valuable 
addition to our food ; while some refer all its beneficial 

' Pharmacologia, see Introduction. 

' It is frequent])' used by the Chinese as a tonic for debility of the 
stomach. 



effects to the water thus introduced into the system, 
and its evil consequences to the high temperature at 
which it is drunk. In order to understand the value 
of the different arguments which have been adduced in 
support, or to the disparagement, of this beverage, it 
will be necessary to inquire into its composition. Two 
kinds of tea are imported into this country, distinguished 
by the epithets Hack and green. Both contain astrin- 
gent and narcotic principles, but in very different pro- 
portions ; the latter producing by far the most poweiful 
influence upon the nervous system. As the primary 
operation of every narcotic is stimulant, tea is found to 
exhilarate and refresh us, although there exist indivi- 
duals who are so morbidly sensible to the action of cer- 
tain bodies of this class, that feelings of depression, 
accompanied with various: nervous sensations and an 
unnatural vigilance, follow the potation of a single cup 
I of strong tea ; while others experience, from the same 
cause, symptoms indicative of derangement of the di- 
jstive organs : but these are exceptions ' from which 



' While correcting this sheet for the preas, I have, for the first 
in a pamphlet entitled " ObsenatioM on tie Medicinal and 
■etetic Propertieg of Green Tea," by W. Nbwnham, Esq. There 
a great deal of sound aense in this littie production. The author 
efers the different effects produced by green tea to the different states 
i the ayatem in which it is taien. He maintains that in a state of 
jHrhat he calls st/iemc excitement of the brain and nervous system, as 
that produced by alcoholic stimulants, or by intense and long-conti- 
nued application of the mind to any particular object of hterary re- 
search, green tea will act as a salutary remedy ; whereas, on the 
Erary, in states of diminished excitement, morbid vigilance and 
ous disturbance will follow its potation. 



964 OOFFHE. 

110 general rule ought to be deduced, Tbe salubrity of 
the infusion to the general mass of the community is 
established by sufficient testimony to outweigh any 
argument founded on individual cases. Tt must, how- 
ever, be admitted, that if tliis beverage be taken too 
soon after dinner, the digestion of the meal may be dis- 
turbed by the distension it will occasion, as well as by 
its influence as a diluent ; the narcotic and astringent 
principles may also operate in arresting chymifieation ; 
but when a physician gives it his sanction, it is with the 
understanding that it shall be taken in moderate quan- 
tities, and at appointed seasons. When drunk four 
hours after tlie principal meal, it will assist the ulterior 
stages of digestion, as already explained (146), and 
promote the insensible perspiration : while it will ajford 
to tlie stomach a grateful stimulus after its labours. 
With regard to the objection urged against its use, on 
the ground of temi>erature, it will be only necessary to 
refer to the observations which have been already 
offered upon this subject (147). In enumerating, how- 
ever, the advantages of tea, it must not be forgotten 
that it has introduced and cherished a spirit of sobriety ; 
and it must have been remarked by every physician of 
general practice, that those persons who dislike tea, 
frequently supply its place by spirit and water. The 
addition of milk certainly diminishes the astringency of 
tea ; that of sugar may please the palate, but cannot 
modify the virtues of the infusion. 

■245. Coffee. The hostility which has been mani- 
fested against the use of tea has been extended, with 
er|iial rancour, against that of coH'ee ; and, probably 



COFFEE. 265 

■with equal injustice. The priuciple upon M'hich its 
qualities depend is more stimulant than that of tea, 
and certainly exerts a different species of action upon 
the nervous system, although it is very difficult to de- 
fine the nature of this difference. If taken immedi- 
ately after a meal, it is not found to create that disturb- 
ance in its digestion which lias been noticed as the 
occasional consequence of tea; on the contrary, it 
accelerates the operations of the stomach, and will fre- 
quently enable the dyspeptic to digest substances, such 
as fat and oily aliment, which would otherwise occasion 
much disturbance. The custom of taking coffee imme- 
diately after dinner, so universally practised by the 
yrench, no doubt must counteract the evil effects which 
le peculiar form of their diet is calculated to produce. 
Coffee, like tea, has certainly an antisoporific effect on 
many individuals ; it imparts an activity to the mind 
which is incompatible with sleep : but this will rarely 
occur if the beverage be taken for several hours before 
our accustomed period of repose. It seems to be gene- 
rally admitted, that it possesses the power of counter- 
acting the effects of narcotics ; and hence it is used by 
the Turks with much advantage, in abating the influ- 
ence of the inordinate quantities of opium they are 
accustomed to swallow, \\1ien our object is to admi- 
nister it as a promoter of digestion, it should be care- 
fiiHy made by infusion ; decoction dissipates its aroma. 
The addition of milk is one of questionable propriety ; 
that of sugar, or rather sugar-candy, may bo allowed '. 

' Coffee has been often imitated by the toirefactaon of varioaB 
groins. In the " Fourth Century of ObservatioTU," in the " Misetl- 



P^. 



[ Iiave known some persons who liave never taken this 
beverage without suffering from acidity in the stomach : 
where.this happens, the practice must be abandoned. 

246. Chocolate. In consequence of the large quan- 
tity of nutritive matter which this liquid contains, it 
should be regarded rather aa food than drink. It is 
prepared by reducing the cocoa-nut into paste, with 
sugar, milk, or eggs : it is also frequently mixed with 
different aromatics, the most common of which is the 
vanilla, a substance very liable to disagree with the 
stomach, and to produce a train of nervous symptoms. 
Asa common beverage, chocolate is highly objection- 
able ; it contains an oil which is difficult of assimilation ; 
it therefore oppresses the stomach : this effect is of 
course increased by the application of too much heat 
in its preparation. Another objection against its use is 
to be found in the observations which I Ijave already 
offered upon the subject of too great concentration. 
(164.) 

247. Cocoa is usually considered as a substitute for 
chocolate. As it contains leas nutritive matter, it is 
not so objectionable ; and, aa the oily matter exists only 



lanea Ctarioaa," we find n critical dissertation on the cofl^ of the 
Arabians, and on European coffee, or such aa may be prepared £rt>m 
graiu or pulse. Dillenlus gives an account of big own preparations 
made with peas, beans, and kidney-beana ; but eays, that made of 
rye comes nearest to true coffee, and was with difficulty distinguished 
from it. This fact is curious, inasmuch as a spurious coffee has been 
lately vended, which is nothing more than roasted rye. The article 
is well known, under the name of " Hunt's Econohicai, Bobakfast 
PowDBa." 



IMPEEIAL — SODA-WATER. 267 

in small quantities, it is leas Ukely to disagree with the 
stomach. 

248. Whey is a delightful beverage ; but as its na- 
ture and operation cannot be well understood until the 
composition of miJk is investigated, the observations 
which I have to oflFer upon its use will be deferred 
untU the history of that fluid has been examined. 

249. The nature of weak broths, and the manner in 
wUich they are decomposed in the digestive organs, 
have been already considered (97) ; and I shall have 
occasion to revert to the subject in a future part of the 
work. 

250. There are certfun saline solutions which are 
frequently employed as drinks, and deserve some atten- 
tion in this place : such are imperial and soda water. 

251. Imperial. This is a solution of cream of tartar 
ifiavoured with lemon peel. It ought never to be used 
except as a medicine. If employed as an ordinary 
drink, it is apt to retard digestion. If ever useful as an 
article of diet, it will be under circumstances of robust 
health, and where a large quantity of animal food has 
been taken. 

252. Soda Water. The modern custom of drink- 
ing this inviting beverage during, or immediately after 
dinner, has been a pregnant source of dyspepsia. By 
inflating the stomach at such a period, we inevitably 
counteract those muscular contractions which are 
essential to ehymification. The quantity of soda thus 
introduced scarcely deserves notices with the exception 

tthe carbonic acid gas ', it may bo regarded as water, 
Late djecoveries have shown, that the carbonic acid exists in a 



1 

V 



268 



FEEMENTED LIQUORS. 



more mischievous only in consequence of the exhilara- 
ting quality inducing us to take it at a period at wliich 
we should not require the more simple fluid. 

FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

253. Volumes have been written to prove that 
spirit, in every form, is not only unnecessary to those 
who are in health, but that it has been the prolific 
source of the most painful and fatal diseases to which 
man is subject ; in short, that Epimetheus himself did 
not, by opening the box of Pandora, commit a greater 
act of hostility against our nature than the discoverer 
of fermented liquors. Every apartment, it is said, de- 
voted to the circulation of the glass, may be regarded 
as a temple set apart for the performance of human 
sacrifices ; and that they ought to be fitted up, like 
the ancient temples of Egypt, in a manner to show 
the real atrocity of the superstition that is carried on 
within their walls. This is mere rant and nonsense ; a 
striking specimen of the fallacy of reasoning against 
the use of a custom from its ahtse. There exists no 
evidence to prove that a temperate use of good wine, 
when taken at seasonable hours, has ever proved inju- 
rious to healthy adults. In youth, and still more in 
infancy ', the stimulus which it imparts to the stomach 

liquid state in aoda water ; if then it be hastily swallowed, it will rob 
the stomach of a certain portion of heat, as it passes from a liqnid 
into a gaseous state. It will therefore cool as well aa distend that 

' An ingenious surgeon tried the following experiment. — He gave 
10 



Mam 



WINE. 26f) 

1 undoubtedly injurious ; but there are exceptions even 
> this general rule. The occasional use of diluted^ 
Jie has improved the health of a child, by imparting 
vigour to a torpid stomach : we ought, however, to con- 
sider it rather as a medicine than as a luxury. 

y54. Without entering further into the discussion 
of a question which has called so many opponents into 
the field, it may be observed, that whatever opinion we 
may have formed as to the evils or advantages conse- 
quent upon the invention of wine, we are not called 
upon, as physicians, to defend it ; our object is to direct 
remedies for the cure of those diseases which assail 
man as we find him in the habits of society, not as he 
might have been Iiad he continued to derive his nourish- 
ment from the roots of the earth, and his drink from its 
springs. As these habits, says Dr. W. Philip, are such, 
that more or less alcohol is necessary to support the 
usual vigour of the gi-eater number of people even in 
health, nothing could be more injudicious than wholly 
to deprive them of it when they are already weakened 

to two of his children, for a week alternately, after dinner, to the 
one a full glass of Sherry, and to the other a large China Orange. 
The effects that followed were sufficient to prove the injurious ten- 
dency of vinous liquor. In one the pulse waa quickened, the heat 
increased, the urine became high coloured, and the stools deetitute of 
the usual qaanlUy of bite ; whilst the other had every appearance that 
indicated high health. The same effects followed when the eiperi- 
ment was reversed. See Beddoes's Hygeia, vol. ii. p. 35. 

' By diluting the wine, we apply the stimuluB more generally to 
the Btojnacb, and thus produce a greater effect with a less quantity 
<rfBiarit. 



270 WINE. 

by disease, unless it could be shown that even a mode- 
rate use of it essentially adds to their disease, which, 
in dyspeptics, is by no means the case. My own expe- 
rience coincides with that opinion. In cases where 
the vinous stimulant has been withdrawn, I have gene- 
rally witnessed an aggravation of the dyspeptic symp- 
toms, accompanied with severe depressiou of spirit: 
like Sindbad, in the Arabian tale, the patient has 
borne a weight on his shoulders which he has in vain 
attempted to throw off, until the fermented juice of the 
grape enabled him to triumph over his enemy; 

255. Although it is impossible to enter at any lengtli 
on the subject of winej upon which so many volumes ' 
have been already written, a work on dietetics would 
be very imperfect, were the distinctions which exist 
between the different species to be left unnoticed. 
Many of these distinctions are important in a medical 
point of view, aa the chemical circumstances, upon 
which they depend, confer upon the respective wines 
qualities which are directly connected with their effects 
on the body. 

256. The term Wine is more strjctly and especially 
applied to express the fermented juice of the grape ; 
although, in common language, it is used to denote 
that of ani/ sub-acid fruit. The presence of tartar is 
perhaps the circumstance by wliich the grape is more 



' For any information upon this subject, the reader is referred to 
Dr. Henderson's able work, entitled " The History of Ancient and 
Modem Wines." 



DIVIRION OF WINES. 271 

Strongly distinguished from all the other sub-acid fruits 
that have been applied to the art of wine making. Its 
juice, besides, contains, within itself, all the principles 
essential to vinification, in such a proportion and state 
of balance as to enable it, at once, to undergo a regular 
and complete fermentation ; whereas, the juices of 
other fruits require artificial additions for this purpose : 
and the scientific application, and due adjustment of 
these means, constitute the art of making domestic 
wines \ It has been remarked, that all those winea 
that contain an excess of malic acid are of a bad qua- 
lity ; hence the grand defect that is necessarily inhe- 
rent in the wines of this country, and which leads 
tbem to partake of the properties of cider ; for in the 
place of the tartaric, the malic acid always predomi- 
nates in our native fruits. 

257. The characteristic ingredient of all wines is 
alcohol; and the quantity of this, and the condition or 
state of combination in which it exists, are the circum- 
stances that include the more interesting points of in- 
quiry, and explain the relative effects which different 
wines produce upon the system. I shall tlicrefore pro- 
ceed to investigate the various species, with reference 
to such conditions. 

258, Wines may be, at once, resolved into two great 
divisions ; into those which are coloured, and commonly 
called red wines, and into those which have a yellow 



^( 



For an ticconnt of which, the reader is referred to a inost inge- 
LOns and mterestiiig eaeay by Dr. Maculloch, entitled " Remarke 
on the Art of making Wine; with Suggestions for the Application 
of its Principlee to the Improvement of Domestic Winea." 



272 



DIVISION OF WINES. 



tinge, more or less deep, termed u^hite wiiies. This 
colouring matter is not derived from the juice, but from 
the hnsk of the grapes. If, therefore, the fermentation 
be not permitted to take place in contact with the 
hulls, and sometimes even with the stalks of the ftiiit, 
a white wine is in all cases produced. This colouring 
matter is highly astringent, and consequently the red 
wines differ from the white in their effects upon the 
stomach ; and yet it is difficult to explain the well- 
known extent of this operation, by the presence of so 
small a proportion of active matter. It must, however, 
be remembered that irritable stomachs are frequently 
impatient of astringent matter. Many persons are in- 
capable of drinking Port wine, in consequence of the 
heartburn it occasions ; while others, on the contrary, 
appear to derive advantage from the tonic influence of 
its astringency. This is a circumstance of idiosyncrasy 
which no theory can explain. A popular writer re- 
marks, " When my stomach is not in good temper, it 
generally desires to have red wine ; but when in best 
health, nothing affronts it more than to put Port into 
it ; and one of the first symptoms of its coming into 
adjustment, is a wish for white wine." On the contrarj', 
a gentleman lately informed me, that when his stomach 
was not "right" the smallest quantity of Port wine 
produced acidity, while, at all other times, it was much 
more grateful to him than any species of white wine. 
Every physician must be practically aware of the caprice 
which the stomach displays in its morbid conditions; 
but as a general rule, it may he stated, that white de- 
serve a preference over red wines, because the latter. 



J 



I 



THE BOUQUET OP WINE. 273 

being pressed, and subjected to a stronger fermentation 
to extract the colouring principle from the husk, are 
necesaarilj more loaded with extractive and astringent 
matter ; and as this remains in the stomach after the 
liquid portion of the wine is absorbed (97), it will be 
liable to occasion disturbance. 

259. The odour, or bouquet, and flavour, which dis- 
tinguish one wine from another, evidently depend upon 
Bome volatile and fugacious principle not hitherto in- 
Testigated by the chemist : this, in sweet and half- 
fermented wines, is immediately derived from the fruit, 
as in those from the Frontignan and Muscat grapes ; 
but in the more perfect wines, as in Claret, Hermitage, 
Mimsaltes, and Burgundy, it bears no resemblance to 
the natural flavour of the fruit, but is altogether the 
product of the vinous process. The menstruum of this 
volatile principle is, doubtless, in most instances, the 
alcohol contained in wines ; but its quantity is so mi- 
nute as to be incapable of separation. In this latter 
case it frequently appears to produce a very remarkable 
effect upon the nervous system, and may, possibly, be 
hereafter discovered to be a new principle, of extraor- 
dinary powers : such an opinion, at least, is sanctioned 
by the well-known effects of Burgundy ; the excitement 
produced by this wine being peculiar, and not bearing 
any relation to the proportion of alcohol contained in 
it. Some wines are artificially flavoured by the intro- 
duction of foreign ingredients, as by almonds in Ma- 
deira wines, as well as in those of Xeres and Saint 
Lucar ; and hence their well-known nutty flavosr. 
Among the ancients, and in modern Greece, it is at 



274 



ERROHS OF BIR A. CARLISLE. 



this day the fashion to give a resineus flavour, by the 
introduction of turpentine into the casks. These wines 
were supposed to assist digestion, to restrain morbid 
dischargee, to provoke urine, and to strengthen the 
bowels ; but Dioscorides informs us, that they were 
known to produce vertigo, pain in the head, and many 
evils not incidental to the potations of the same vinous 
liquor, when free trom such admixtures. 

260. The quantity of acid contained in wines has 
been supposed capable of diminishing their salubrity, 
and in some cases of rendering them eminently noxious. 
There can be no doubt, that where there exists a con- 
siderable excess of gallic or malic acids, or where acetic 
acid has been generated during a protracted fermenta- 
tion, such wine will be obnoxious to the stomach ; but 
where the acid arises from the nature of the fruit, it 
surely cannot merit the odium which popular opinion 
would assign to it. What, for instance, is the acid con- 
tained in Madeira, and against which so many mighty 
objections have been urged ? an atom merely of tartar ! 
And yet the person who fancies that his digestion can 
be deranged by its action, will swallow twenty times 
the quantity of the same ingredient in some other shape, 
with perfect indiiference and impunity. Sir Anthony 
Carlisle ', who has carried his prejudices a^nst acids 
farther than any other writer, says, " Long-continued and 
watchful observation induces me to conclude, that the 
acid qualities of fermented liquors are no less injurious 
than the spirit which they contain." If the process of 



' An Essay on the Disorders of Old Age. 



ERRORS OF SIR A. CARLISLE. 



275 



I 



reasoning, by wliicli he arrived at such a conclusion, be 
not more correct than the experiments which enabled 
■tim to aBcertain the quantities of acid matter in dif- 
ferent fermented liquors, it cannot merit the confidence 
of the public. His table, which was constructed to 
exhibit "gross -^xog^ (of error f ) of the relative quan- 
tities of free acid in ordinary fermented drinks," is a 
chemical curiosity. The tyro who has attended a single 
eonrse of lectures will at once perceive, by casting his 
«yes over this table, that its results are wholly incon- 
sistent with the doctrine of chemical equivalents. He 
tells us, that " a moderate-sized glassful, containing 
two ounces (avoirdupois) of Port wine, required, for 
neutralization, three grains of Henry's calcined mag- 
nesia, or six grains of carbonate of potass, or four grains 
of subcarbonate of soda, or nine grains of prepared 
chalk." Now these are not the relative proportions in 
which such bases could, by any possibility, unite with 
any acid ; but granting, for the sake of argument, that 
our scales of equivalents are in error, and that the true 
proportions have been ascertained by the experiments 
in question, we shall then discover, that the tabulated 
results are not cousistent with themselves ; for in a 
second experiment, made with vidonia, the numbers 
indicating the combining weights of these substances 
are not, as in the former case, in the relation of 3, 6, 
and 4, but in that of 5, 7, and 6 ; in the third experi- 
ment with Sherry, in that of 3, 5, and 4 ; in a fourth 
with London porter, in that of 3, 3-5, and 3 ; and in 
the last, with brewers' fresh table-beer, the proportions 
■re 2'5, 2, and 2. Sir Anthony was aware of these 
t2 



276 



EFFECTS OF AI.OCHOL. 



discordances ; and he attempts to explain them by sup- 
posing that they may be " owing to the varying aflS- 
nities of native acids, derived from the fruits, and the 
acid products of fermentation, as they regarded the 
several tests." It is almost unnecessary to state, that 
this supposition is in direct variance with the acknow- 
ledged doctrine of definite proportionals, and the fun- 
damental principle of chemical combinations. Let the 
acids be what they may, let their intermixture be ever 
90 complicated, the respective bases must always unite 
with them in an invariable and constant ratio. 

261. Before we quit the subject of vinous acidity, I 
shall beg to say a few words upon its supposed influence 
in exciting paroxysms of gout. That such attacks have 
followed particular potations, I do not mean to deny ; 
but a slight excess of any kind, whether in diet or in 
exercise, will excite the disease in those predisposed to 
it. Where the train is laid, an additional glass of claret 
may have acted as the match ; but in all such cases, 
tlie explosion would have equally taken place, had, 
instead of claret, some other exciting cause fired it. 

262. It has been already stated, that the character- 
istic ingredient of all wines is Alcohol ; and that its 
quantity, and the condition or state of combination in 
which it exists, are the circumstances in which the 
medical inquirer is principally interested. Tlie late ex- 
periments of Mr. Brande have thrown considerable 
light upon this subject; althoiigli, as in most instances 
of discovery, they have raised up new doubts and diffi- 
culties. Daily experience convinces us, that the same 
quantity of alcohol applied to the stomach um\er the 



EFFECTS OP ALCOHOL. 277 

form of wine, and iu a etate of mixture with water, 
will produce very different effects upon the body, and 
to an extent which it is difficult to understand. It haa, 
for instance, been demonstrated beyond the reach of 
doubt, that Port, Madeira, and Sherry contain from 
one-fourth to one-fifth their bulk of alcohol ; so that a 
person who takes a bottle of either of them, will thus 

I take nearly half a pint of alcohol, or almost a pint 
of pure brandy ! And, moreover, that different wines, 
although containing the same absolute proportion of 
spirit, will be found to vary very considerably in 
their intoxicating powers. No wonder, then, that such 
results should have staggered the philosopher, who is 
naturally unwilling to accept any tests of difference 
from the nervous system, which elude the ordinary re- 
sources of analytical chemistry. The conclusion was 
therefore drawn, that alcohol must necessarily exist in 
wine in a far different condition from that in which we 
know it in a separate state ; or, in other words, that its 
elements only could exist in the vinous liquor, and that 
their union was determined, and, consequently, alcohol 
produced, by the act of distillation. That it was the 

(product, and not the educt of distillation, was an opinion 
which originated with Rouelle, who asserted, that 
alcohol was not completely formed until the tempera- 
tnre was raised to the point of distillation. More 
lately, the same doctrine was revived and promulgated 
by Fabbroni, in the Memoirs of the Florentine Academy. 
Gay Lussac has, however, silenced the partisans of this 
theory, by separating the alcohol by distillation, at the 
[^temperature of 66" Fahrenheit ; and, by the aid of a 



\ 



278 MODIFIED BY COMBINATION. 

vacuum, it has siuce been effected at 56". And to 
complete the demonstration, Mr, Brande has shown 
that, by precipitating the colouring matter, and some 
other dements of the wine, by the svb-acetate of had, 
and then saturating the clear liquor with sub-carbonate 
of potass, the alcohol may be separated without any 
elevation of temperature ; and he has accordingly, by 
this ingenious expedient, been enabled to construct a 
table, exhibiting the proportions of spirit which exist 
in the several kinds of wine. No doubt, therefore, 
can any longer be entertained upon the subject; and 
the fact of the difference of effect produced by the 
same bulk of alcohol, when presented to the stomach 
in different states, is to be explained on the supposition 
that, in wine, it is not only more intimately mixed with 
water, but that it exists in combination with its ex- 
tractive matter ; in consequence of which it is inca- 
pable of exerting its full effects before it becomes 
altered in its properties, or, in other words, partially 
digested ' ; and this view of the subject may be fairly 
urged in explanation of the fact, that the intoxicating 
effects of the same wine are liable to vary in degree, in 
the same individual, from the peculiar state of his diges- 
tive organs at the time of its potation. 

263. In the former editions of this work, the reader 
was presented with an abstract of Mr, Brando's table ; 
upon more mature deliberation, however, I agree with 

' Dr. Maccnlloch has conjectured that alcohol may he aul^ect to 
varieties of composition, analogous to those which are found in the 
bodies included under the denomination of carburetted hvdrogen 
gas. 



MR. BRANDES TABLE. 



279 



Dr. Henderson in suspecting, that several of the wines 
analysed by that distinguished chemist, must have been 
mixed with a considerable quantity of adventitious 
alcohol. I have therefore availed myself of those 
corrections which the author of the history of wines, 

H in conjunction with his friend, Dr. Prout, has been 

H^iabled to afibrd us. 



P'TiBl.E of the quantity of Alcohol (sp. gr. ■82S), at tHI 
wines and other liquors. 



Madei 



1, average of four apeei- 



Shecry, average of four kinds 

Ditto, very old 

CLuet, average of three kiads 

Calcai^ella. 

Lirton 



. 1726 



i 



HedMadeira 18'40 

Malnuey do. 1-406 

Hanala 1726 

Bed Champagne llilO 

White do. 12-80 

Burgundy U-67 

IHtto. 1 1 '95 

WUte Hermitage 17'43 



Red do. 
Hock . 



, 12^2 
. 14-37 



Rousillon. . 
Cape Madei I 
Cape Mucha 



. 13-79 

. 1233 

. 1726 

. 1011 



Tokay 

Raisin Wine. . 
Grape Wine... 



Gooseberry Wine . . 
Elder Wine, Cider, a 
Stout 



264. We have hitherto only considered alcohol as 
t exists in a combined state in wine ; but it is essential 
I state, that the stronger wines of Spain, Portugal, 



280 



'■' FRETTINO in" OF WINES. 



and Sicily, are rendered marketable in this country by 
the addition of brandy, and must consequently contain 
more or leas uncotnbined spirit ; but the proportion of 
which will not bear a ratio to the quantity added, 
because, at the period of its admixture, a renewed fer- 
mentation is produced by the scientific vintner, which 
will assimilate and combine a certain proportion of the 
foreign spirit with the wine ; this manipulation, in 
technical language, is called "fretting in." It is to the 
quantity oi free, not to that of comlined spirit, that the 
injurious effects of such wines are to be attributed. 
" It is well known," observes Dr, MaccuUoch, " that 
diseases of the liver are the most common and the most 
formidable of those produced by the use of ardetit 
spirits." It is equally certain, that no such disorders 
follow the intemperate use of pure wine, however long 
indulged in; to the concealed and unwitting consump- 
tion of spirit, therefore, as contained in the wines 
generally drunk in this country, is to be attributed the 
excessive prevalence of those hepatic affections, which 
are comparatively little known to our continental 
neighbours. 

265. Much lias been said about the effects of netv 
wine upon the stomach, compared with those produced 
by that which has been long kept. It will be neces- 
sary to ' consider the changes produced in this liquor 
by being kept. In the first place, red wine giadually 
deposits a quantity of cream of tartar, in combination 
with extractive and colouring matter, forming what is 
commonly called the crust ; so that a considerable por- 
tion of that matter which is likely to disagree with the 



SWEET WINES. 281 

stomach is thus removed ; but when kept in a cask, in 
addition to this change, a quantity of water is evapo- 
rated, and the wine becomes comparatively stronger '. 
The custom of exposing Madeira to motion, and a 
certain elevation of temperature, by sending it a voyage 
to the East Indies, unquestionably improves the Bavour, 
and produces some internal change in the composition 
of the wine, which the chemist is unable to explain. 

266. In a dietetic point of view, wines may be 
arranged into four classes; viz. 1. Sweet Wines; 
2. Sparkling or Epfervescino ; 3. Dry and Light ; 
4. Dry and Strong. 

1. Sweet Wines contain the greatest proportion of 
extractive and saccharine matter, and generally the 
least ardent spirit, though this is often rather disguised 
than absent. Since a proportion of sugar has remained 
unchanged in these wines during the process of vinifi- 
cation, they must be considered as the results of an 
imperfect fermentation, and are, in fact, mixtures of 
wine and sugar ; accordingly, whatever arrests the pro- 
gress of fermentation must have a tendency to produce 
a sweet wine. Thus, boiling the must, or drying the 
fruit, will, by partially separating the natural leaven, 
and dissipating the water, occasion such a result, as is 
exemplified by the manufacture of the wines of Cyprus, 
the Vino Cotto of the Italians, and the Vinum Coctum 
of the ancients ; by that of Frontigiiac, the rich and 
lioua wines of Canary, the celebrated Tokay, Vino 



BdOBci 



This obeervatjon, however, wilt only apply to certain wines, and 
at certain temperatures. In some cases the alcohol, in others the 
water, will transpire in the greatest proportion. 



282 



EFFERVESCING, DRY, AND LIGHT WINES. 



Tiido (Tent of Hungary), the Italian Montejiascone, the 
Persian Schiras, the Malmsey wines of Candia, Ohio, 
Lesboa, and Tenedos, and those of the other islands of 
the Archipelago. On account of the sugar contained 
in such wines, they are liable to become acescent on 
weak stomachs ; but where this is not the case, they 
are, in small quantities, frequently beneficial to in- 
valids. 

2. Sparkling or Efferviscing Wines. These are 
indebted for their characteristic properties to the pre- 
sence of carbonic acid : they rapidly intoxicate, in con- 
sequence of the alcohol which is suspended in, or, more 
probably, in chemical combination with the gas, being 
thus applied in a sudden and very divided state to a 
large extent of nervous surface ; for the same reason, 
their effects are generally as transitory as they are 
sudden. Independently of the alcohol thus held in 
solution in the carbonic acid, it is probable that some 
active aromatic matter is volatilised together with it, 
and which may account for the peculiar effects produced 
on some persons by Champagne, 

3. Dry and Light Wines. These are exemplified 
by the more esteemed German wines, as Hock, Mhenisk, 
Mayne, Moselle, Necker, and Elsass ; and those highly- 
flavoured wines, Burgundy, Claret, Hnmitaqe, &c. The 
former of these wines combine the effect of an acid 
with that of the spirit. They do not contain any un- 
combined alcohol, and on that account are to be greatly 
preferred. Genuine Claret must be considered as the 
most beneficial of all our vinous liquors; it is well 
fermented ; and, on account of the small proportion of 

10 



J 



MADEIRA, PORT, AND SHERRY, 



283 



^g, 



spirit, as well as of extractive, which it contains, it is 
more sahibrious than Port. It has been already ob- 
served, that Burgundy appears to hold dissolved some 
unknown principle of great activity ; upon no other 
supposition can we explain its stimulant properties. A 
few glasses of this vrine will produce heat and head- 
ache, which the relative quantity of alcohol in its 
composition (see the preceding table) will not account for. 

4. Dry and Strong Wines, as Madeira, Port, Sherry, 
&c. The name sec, corruptly written sack, signifies 
dry. The sec wine, prepared at Xerea, in Spain, is 
called, according to our orthography, SJtcrris, or Sherry. 
In the manufacture of this wine, lime ' is added to the 
grapes; a circumstance, observes Dr. Macculloch, ap- 
parently conducive to its well-known dry quality, and 
which, probably, acts by neutralizing a portion of malic 
or tartaric acid. 

267. It is a fact not easily explained, that the stomach 
is frequently outraged by a wine to which it has not 
been accustomed ; and it is equally true, that a mixture 
of different wines is a common source of indigestion. 
The custom of mixing wine with water has its advan- 
es as well as its evils ^. By dilution it frequently 



sack of Shakapeate waa probably Sherry : a conjecture 
which receives additional streng;th from the following passage ; — 
" You rogue ! here's lime in thia Sack too. There is nothing but 
roguery to be found in villanoua man. Yet a coward is worse than 
a cup of sack with lime in it — a villanoua coward I" 

' This custom was a favourite practice amongst the anrients ; in- 
deed, to drink wine unmixed woe held disreputable, and those who 
were guilty of such excess were said to act like Scythians. See 



284 CIDER, PERRY, AND BEER. 

proves too little stimulant to the stomach, and runs 
into a state of acescency. An invalid is also thus liable 
to deceive himself, by taking more wine than may be 
consistent with his welfare. Much, however, depends 
upon the quality of the wine taken ; the lighter wines 
cannot require dilution, while Port is certainly rendered 
less injurious by the admixture. 

268. Home-made or domestic wines may be gene- 
rally considered as injurious to delicate stomachs ; they 
are apt to ferment, and produce indigestion. Cider and 
Perry are grateful drinks in hot weather ; but as they 
do not contain a sufficient quantity of spirit to prevent 
their passing into the acetous fermentation in the 
stomach of an invalid, they should be avoided by those 
who have any predisposition to indigestion. 

269. Beer. This is an article of beverage in almost 
every country. The Chinese prepare it from rice, and 
the Americans from maize. We are also informed by 
Herodotus, that, in very early history, the art of making 
a fermented liquor from barley was discovered by the 
Egyptians. As the climate of England is not conge- 
nial to the growth of the vine, this species of Hqnor is 
perhaps more universal than in any other country ; and 
it has therefore been denominated Vinum Britannicum. 
In the higher walks of society, it has, indeed, of late 
years, been nearly excluded : but whether this revolu- 

Hendereon on Wines, p. 98. But a question may arise as to the 
modification thus produced on the intoxicating powers of wine. I 
suspect that a quantity of wine, in a state of dilution, will be more 
intoxicating' than an equivalent portion of vinoua liquor in a more 
concentrated form. 



ALE, ITS TfUXniTIVE QUALITY. 285 

I tton has been attended with advantage, wo shall pre- 
sently have occasion to inquire. Malt liquors diifer 
from wines in several essential points : they contain a 
much larger proportion of nutritive matter, and a less 
proportion of spirit ; while they contain a peculiar bitter 
and narcotic principle derived from the Imp. It would 
appear, that the extractive matter furnished by the 
malt is highly nutritive ; and we accordingly find, that 
those persons addicted to such potations are in general 
fat'. Where, however, they are indulged in to any ex- 
tent, without a corresponding degree of exercise, they 
induce a plethoric state of the body, and ail the diseases 
consequent upon such a condition. In order to under- 
stand the process by which they furnish nourishment, 
I must once more beg to refe>- the reader to the obser- 
vations which are offered on the important subject of 
the digestion of liquids (97) ; from which it will appear, 
that a highly-concentrated extract will be left in the 
stomach after the removal of its watery part. This 
extract is, for reasons already stated, not very digestible; 
and will, therefore, require the presence of less inspis- 
sated food to promote its chymification. Ale, there- 
fore, when taken without such precautions, is liable to 
disturb the digestive organs. The addition of the hop 

1 This fact is bo generally admitted by all those who are skilled 
in the art of training, that a quantity of ale is taken at every meal 
by the pagilist who is endeavouring lo screw himself vp to his fullest 
strength. .lackson, the celehraled trainer, aflirma, if any person ac- 
customed to drink wine would but try malt liquor for a month, he 
would find himself so much the better for it, that he would soon take 
the one, and abandon the other. 



286 REMARKS ON MALT LIQUOES. 

increases the value of the liquor, by the grateful stimu- 
lus which it imparts, and in some measure redeems it 
from those vicea with which it might otherwise be 
charged '. To those, therefore, whose diet is not very 
nutritive, ale may he considered not only as an innocent, 
but as a salubrious article ; and happy is that country, 
whose labouring classes prefer such a beverage to the 
mischievous potations of ardent spirit ^. These remarks, 
however, cannot apply to those classes of the commu- 
nity who " fare sumptuously every day." They will not 
require a nutritive potation of such a character ; and 
light wines have accordingly, in these days of luxury, 
very properly superseded its use ; but I am not disposed 
to extend this remark to its more humble companion, 
" tahh beer." I regard its dismissal from the tables of 
the great as a matter of regret ; its slight but invigor- 
ating bitter is much better adapted to promote diges- 
tion than its more costly substitutes. But it should be 



' In the observations made upon the Bills of Mortality in the 
year 1662, by an ingenious citizen, concerning the increase of some 
diseases and the decrease of others, we meet with the following 
remark : — " The stone and strangury decreasetk from the drinking of 

' I certainly do not agree with Dr. Franklin when he states, that 
the bodily strength furnished by beer can only be in proportion to 
the solid part of the barley dissolved in the water of which the beer 
was composed ; and that, as there is a larger proportion of flour in 
ii penny loaf than in a pint of beer, consequently, that more strength 
is derived from a penny loaf and a pint of water than from a pint of 
beer. It is the stimulus of the beer that proves eo serviceable to 
the poor man, enabling his stomach to extract more aliment from 
his innutritive diet. 



REMARKS ON MALT LIQUORS. 287 

soft and mild ; for, when stale and hard, it is likely to 
disturb the bowels, and occasion effects the very oppo- 
site to those it is intended to produce. Nor ought it 
to have too great a proportion of hops, but should be 
thoroughly fermented and purified. Sydenham always 
took a glass of small beer at his meals, and he consi- 
dered it as a preservative against gravel. 

270. The great division of malt liquors is into small 
beer, ale, and porter. 

271. The liquor called Ale was originally made of 
barley, malt, and yeast alone. We are told by one of 
the oldest English writers on medical subjects (Andrew 
Boorde ') that those who put in any other ingredient 
" sophisticated the labour." " It is," he says, " the na- 
tural drink of an Englishman ; but beer, on the other 
hand, which is made of malt, bops, and water, is the 
natural drink of a Dutchman, and of late is much used 
in England, to the great detriment of many English- 
men." There existed, for a long time, a strong prejudice 
against hops, which were considered as " pernicious 
weeds ;" but it is now generally admitted, that they 
constitute the most valuable ingredient in malt liquors. 
Independent of the flavour and tonic virtues which they 
communicate, they precipitate, by means of their astrin- 
gent principle, the vegetable mucilage, and thus remove 
from the beer the active principle of its fermentation : 
without hops, therefore, we must either drink our malt 
liquors new and ropy, or old and sour. There are 
several varieties of ale, distinguishable by their colour : 

' The founder of Ihe class of itinerant quacks termed Merry- 
Andrews. 



288 PORTER, ORIGIN OP THE BEVERAGE. 

when the malt is slenderly dried, the ale is pale ; or 
brown when the malt is more roasted or high dried. 

272. PoRTEK. This is made from high-dried malt, 
and differs from other malt liquors in the proportions of 
its ingredients, and from the peculiar manner in which 
it is manufactured. Much baa been said upon the 
fraudulent adulteration of this article ; but I am in- 
clined to believe that these statements have been 
exaggerated. It is, at all events, certain, that sucb 
adulterations are not carried on in the cauldrons of the 
brewers, but in the barrels of the publican (see our 
work on Medical Jurisprudence, vol. i. p. 375). The 
origin of the beer called entire is to be thus explained; 
— Before the year 1730, the malt liquors in general use 
in London were ale, beer, and two-penny ; and it was 
customary to call for a pint, or tankard, of half-and- 
half, i. e. half of ale and half of beer, half of ale and 
half of two-penny. In course of time, it also be- 
came the practice to call for a pint or tankard of 
three-threads, meaning a third of ale, beer, and two- 
penny; and thus the publican had the trouble to 
go to three casks, and turn three cocks for a, pint 
of liquor. To avoid this inconvenience and waste, 
a brewer of the name of Harwood conceived the idea 
of making a liquor which should partake of the same 
united flavours of ale, beer, and twopenny. He did so, 
and succeeded, calling it entire or entire butt, meaning 
that it was drawn entirely from one cask or butt ; and, 
as it was a very hearty and nourishing liquor, and sup- 
posed to be very suitable for porters and other working 
people, it obtained the name of Porter. 



CONCLUSION OF PART III. 289 

273. Ardent Spirits. The art of extracting alco- 
holic liquors by distillation from vinous liquors, must 
be regarded as the greatest curse ever inflicted upon 
human nature. The iatal effects of dram-drinking 
have been vividly depicted by numerous writers ; and 
the awful truth has been too irequently illustrated, to 
render any remarks in this place necessary. In a 
medical point of view, however, spirit may be con- 
sidered as occasionally useful. Where it is taken in a 
diluted state, the mixture should always be made twelve 
hours before it is used. Spirit and water do not easily 
combine; and much of the force of the former is 
blunted by intimate incorporation with the latter, as we 
have already observed under the history of wine. I 
throw out this hint to those who are in the habit of 
drinking weak brandy and water at their meals. There 
are cases of dyspepsia, in which wine and beer equally 
disagree with the stomach, producing acidity, and 
other distressing symptoms : very weak spirit in such a 
case may, perhaps, be taken with advantage ; but its 
strength should be uniform, and no circumstance should 
induce the patient to increase the proportion of the 
spirit. The habit of drinking liqiieurs cannot be too 
loudly reprobated : many of these cordials are impreg- 
nated with narcotic substances, which add to the noxi- 
ous qualities of the spirit. 

274. I have now brought to a conclusion the history 
of Alimentary substances. It will be readily per- 
ceived that the terms digestible and indigestible, as 
applied to particular kinds of food, are but relative 
in their import, depending upon circumstances which 



290 CONCLUSION OF PART III. 

I have endeavoured to investigate ; with what degree 
of success I have performed the task it will be 
for the professional public to decide ; but I may 
be allowed to observe, that the importance which I 
have bestowed upon some, perhaps, apparently trivial 
cireumstancea, has arisen from a belief, founded on 
practical grounds, in the influence which they exert 
on the human body ; while, if I have passed over others 
with less notice than they may appear to deserve, it 
has arisen from a conviction that they have either been 
overrated in importance by those writers who have in- 
dulged in discussions upon them, or are so involved in 
doubt and uncertainty, that I have despaired of throw- 
ing any additional light upon their nature and bearings. 
The theory of Digestion, and the history of the Alimen- 
tary Substances, are so intimately connected with the 
diseases to which our organs are exposed, that, without 
a thorough knowledge of the former, we cannot expect 
to understand the phenomena of the latter ; nor to 
establish a rational and successful system of treatment 
for the prevention and cure of Dyspepsia. I shall now 
proceed to the fourth division of the work, which will 
embrace the history of Indigestion in all its forms and 
stages ; in which I shall hope to turn the principles 
already developed to a practical advantage. 



PART IV. 



OF INDIGESTION. 



u2 




OF INDIGESTION. 



275. It has been already observed (9), that authors 
haTe differed in their acceptation of the term Di- 
gestion — some regarding it as merely denoting that 
preparatory process which the food undergoes in the 
stomach ; while others have received it in a more ex- 
tensive latitude, as comprehending the whole of that 
elaborate and complicated series of actions, hy which 
nature converts bread into hlood. We cannot, there- 
fore, be surprised to find that pathologists should as 
widely have differed in their definition of the disease 
termed Dyspepsia, or Indigestion. Notwithstanding 
the distinction which Dr. Philip is disposed to establish 
between these terms, by considering " Dyspepsia'''' as 
expressing a disease much less varied, and of much less 
extent, than that which he comprehends under the 
denomination of " Indigestion" 1 am still disposed to 
regard them as synonymous ; and when they occur in 
the following pages, I must beg the reader to receive 
them with that impression. The term Indigestion is 
evidently nothing more than a literal English transla- 
tion of the Greek compound Dyspepsia. 



294 INDIGESTION DEFINED. 

276. I define Indigestion to be a disease, in which 
one or more of the severtd processes by which food is con- 
verted into blood, are imperfectly or imp'operly performed, 
in conseqiience either of functional aberration, or organic 
lesion. This definition may, perhaps, be opposed, on 
the ground of its too comprehensive signification ; but 
I may observe, that however extensive may be the 
series of symptoms which are thus included under one 
general head, they will afford, when viewed collectively, 
sufficient evidence of their relation with the digestive 
process — although, on a loose and hasty observation, 
they may not present any general principle of depend- 
ency and connexion : if they appear disunited, let the 
practitioner suspect that he has never viewed them 
with sufficient reference to that physiological harmony 
which subsists between the organs in which they arise. 
Acidity of stomach and urinary depositions are equally 
indicative of deranged digestion ; but the mind that is 
not acquainted with the relations of the stomach and kid- 
neys, or with the connexion which subsists between the 
formation of perfect chyle and the discharge of natural 
urine, will not be disposed to arrange symptoms, so appa- 
rently remote in their alliance, under one common head. 
There are many sympathies subsisting between different 
functions, which are not perceptible as long as the gene- 
ral balance of health is preserved : this is remarkably 
the case with the skin and stomach ; but the moment 
this healthy equilibrium is destroyed, the sympatliics 
become apjiarent. The physiologist, therefore, without 
an acquaintance with the body in its morbid states. 
must remain ignorant of some of the more impcwtaiit 



t 

J 



SYMPATHIES OF THE STOMACH. 295 

circumstances of the animal economy. The same rea- 
soning applies to the study of natural philosophy : the 
discovery of the existence of an electric fluid coidd 
never have been made, bad the natiual conditions of 
matter, with regard to this agent, remained unchanged: 
the basis of all chemical research is founded upon the 
same principle ; decomposition, and the developement 
of the elements of bodies, are effected by overturning 
the aflSnities by which they are naturally combined. 
These observations are introduced in order to warn the 
practitioner not to deduce any conclusion against tlie 
existence of certain sympathies, on the ground of their 
not being apparent in a state of health. In a practical 
point of view, I consider the classifications of the noao- 
logist as of very little utility ; they have no solid foun- 
dation in nature, but are entirely the work of human 
reason — artificial contrivances, for the purpose of assist- 
ing us in the acquirement and retention of knowledge. 
Such an avowal will snfiiciently explain the motive 
_ which has induced me to throw off the trammels to 
Kirhich I might have been expected to conform. 
K- 277. From the sympathy which the stomach enter- 
Htains for every part of the living body, its functions 
Bviay become impeded or perverted from the existence 
of diseases which originate in organs with which it has 
no immediate connexion. An affection of the head, 
or even a disease in the urethra, may create sickness, 
of appetite, or a suspension in the digestive pro- 
; but such phenomena are not to be confounded 
with the primary symptoms of Dyspepsia — they are 
affections of sympathy or induction, and will require 



r 



L. 



296 IMPERFECT CHYMIPICATION. 

very different treatment. As connected with this 
opinion, I beg to direct the reader's attention to the 
first case which I have introduced, in my " Practical 
Illustrations," a,t the end of the present volume. In 
distinguishing between such effects, consists the siiill of 
the practitioner ; and it requires a comprehension of 
mind, a freedom from prejudice, a clearness of judgment, 
and a patience of minute inquiry, that do not fall to 
the lot of every member of our profession. I am 
strongly inclined to think that many physicians of the 
present day are too apt to accuse the alimentary func- 
tions of offences which should be charged on other 
organs. It is, perhaps, natural in those who have de- 
voted much time and attention to one particular sub- 
ject, to fall into an error of this kind; they have a 
favourite child of their own to support, and they prefer 
it with the blind partiality of a parent. 

I. IMPERFECT CHYMIFICATION. 

278. The symptoms which arise from the food under- 
going its appointed changes in the stomach with diffi- 
culty, or in an imperfect manner, are generally those 
which first indicate the approach of indigestion, and 
frequently recur at intervals, for a considerable period, 
without occasioning any constitutional disturbance, or 
even a degree of local distress sufficient to awaken the 
alarm of the patiei t. In some cases indeed they are 
only produced by the use of particular aliments, or 
under the operation of peculiar circumstances ; but in 
others, they follow the ingestion of every species of 



J 



IDI08YNCEASY DISTINGUISHED FROM DISEASE. 297^1 



case 
Hteirci 



food, although their violence 18 usually influenced by 

the quality and quantity of the meal. In this latter 

morbid state of the stomach exists, which ought 

be remedied without delay. In investigating the 

lumatances of an indigestion produced only by some 

particular aliment, we shall soon discover whether it 

is to be attributed to a peculiar idiosyncrasy of the 

stomach, which cannot be said to amount to disease, or 

to a debilitated condition of that organ, which renders 

it unable to digest any food that requires considerable 

powers for its chymification. The mucous membrane 

of the stomach in certain persons appears to be irritated 

by particular aliments, as the skin is known to be 

by particular coverings : I am acquainted with a person 

who can never wear cotton stockings without suifer- 

ing from considerable cutaneous irritation ; and I also 

know a gentleman who is incapable of eating the smallest 

quantity of mackerel without experiencing uneasiness 

in the stomach, and yet he digests every other species 

of food with facility : this is not disease, but idiosyn- 

ly, and it is very essential to distinguish them from 

ih other. If, on the other hand, a person informs me 

it, as long as he lives upon mutton or beef, his diges- 

ion goes on well, but that if he eats pork, veal, or fried 

meat, he suffers from heartburn, and other unpleasant 

feelings in his stomach, I deduce a different conclusion, 

and infer that his general powers of digestion are feeble, 

id easily depressed ; and that he is consequently un- 

ible to convert into healthy chyme those aliments which 

•quire a higher degree of exertion. 

279. There is no fact better understood, than that 



^ 



298 SYMPTOMS OF A FIT OF INDIGESTION. 

the living principle of our organs possesses the power 
of preventing the chemical changes to which their 
contents would, under other circumstances, be exposed. 
The blood does not coagulate or putrefy in the vessels ; 
the urine does not undergo decomposition in the healthy 
bladder; nor does the food ferment in the stomach, 
unless that organ be in a state of disease ; but if its 
vital powers fail, the chemical affinities gain the ascend- 
ency, and after a certain interval, various symptoms 
arise, which clearly evince the change which has been 
produced. This is the philosophy of an ordinary attack 
of indigestion, when, either from the quantity or quality 
of the food, the stomach is inadequate to perform its 
necessary duties. An uneasiness and sensation of 
weight and distention is experienced in the region of 
the stomach, acidity ]irevails, and eructations of disen- 
gaged air distress the patient ; a sensation of nausea is 
felt, arising from an effort of the stomach to eject that 
wiiich it is unable to digest. Chilliness is perceived, 
and a general lassitude arises from the sympathy which 
is produced on the nervous and sanguiferous systems. 
These effects are felt particularly towards the end of 
chymification, and, after a certain period, pass off) and 
the remaining parts of the process are conducted with 
regularity. But this is a statement of the symptoms 
which attend a casual fit of dyspepsia, as it may occur to 
persons in health, from the influence of various circum- 
stances, such as an overloaded stomach, indigestible 
food, a too hearty meal after long tasting or fatigue, 
obstructed bowels, or any other cause which may occa- 
sion a temporary debility of the stomach. It is only 
10 



J 



SYMPTOMS OF A FIT OF INDIGESTION. 



299 



' necessary, in such a case, to avoid in future the exciting 
causes, and to clear the bowels of any superfluous and 
crude matter which may be supposed to lodge in them. 
But lightly as we may, in general, treat a casual indi- 
gestion of this kind, cases are on record which should 
awaken us to a sense of its possible mischief, especially 
if the subject of it be a person advanced in life. If a 
patient retires to rest before the stomach is relieved 
from its load, he may pass into a comatose state, ac- 
companied with apoplectic stertor, from which it is not 
nnfrequently difficult to rouse him ; and which arisea 
from the sympathy of the brain with the oppressed 
stomach. It la of great importance to distinguish such 
an affection from genuine apoplexy, since, if the stomach 
be not relieved, the stupor increases, and the patient 
is lost. We should carefully examine the epigastrium, 
in order to ascertain whether any considerable fulness 
can be felt in that region, and inquire into the history 
of the patient ; if he can be awakened, no time should 
, be lost in administering an emetic, and it will be a safe 

Lctice to abstract a quantity of blood from the arm, 
(fhich will have the additional advantage of accelerating 
iie operation of any medicine that may have been 

ninistercd for his relief. 

I have lately met with two cases which are 
well calculated to illustrate this subject. The one was 
that of a gentleman painfully engaged in mercantile 
speculations of great extent and considerable hazard. 
His custom had been to proceed to the house of busi- 

ts early in the morning, and to remain until seven in 

! evening, when he returned to the west end of the 



300 SYMPTOMS OF A FIT OF INDIGESTION. 

town and dined. At ten he retired to bed, and at one 
or two in the morning, he frequently awoke with palpi- 
tation of the heart, and a dyspncea, which on more than 
one occasion was so violent as even to have threatened 
his life. The treatment indicated by the circumstances 
of this case was as obvious as it was successful. Here 
was a person exhausted throughout a long day by mental 
anxiety and fatigue, who imposed upon his digestive 
organs a labour which they were incapable of perform- 
ing, and who consequently retired to bed with a load of 
undigested matter in his stomach. The paroxysm was 
invariably relieved by a warm and active purgative; 
and its recurrence was ultimately prevented by a revo- 
lution in his habits — ^tbe dinner hour was changed, and 
the principal meal being thus taken before the waning 
of the vital powers, its digestion was accomplished be- 
fore night. The other case was that of a keen sports- 
man, who, after a day of such severe fatigue as to have 
been unable to dismount his horse without assistance, 
partook of a very hearty meal, and retired to rest ; in the 
middle of the night he was seized with a paroxysm 
resembling Angina Pectoris in its most awful form. It 
was, however, speedily relieved by a large dose of am- 
monia, combined with an active purgative. It ought 
to be stated, that this gentleman had suffered on former 
occasions, in a less degree, from the same cause, but 
he had never experienced the same alarm ; he was now, 
therefore, most anxious to obviate the possibility of 
such another attack ; for this purpose, I advised him 
upon all occasions of excessive fatigue, to retire to rest 
without taking any other refreshment than that of a 



RECURRENCE OF INDIGESTION, 



30 IT 



L 28 
Baary 



cupful of thin gruel with the addition of a table-spooafiil 
of brandy ; and I have since learnt that the plan has 
been successful. 

281. It must, however, be allowed that under ordi- 
circumstances such attacks from an overloaded 

stomach are not fre(iuent, nor likely to occur, except 
the muscular powers of that viscus be so impaired as 
to prevent the usual efforts which nature employs to 
throw off an unmanageable burthen, 

282. Should indigestion in the stomach continue to 
recur, the paroxysm will assume a more troublesome 
character ; its symptoms will increase in number and 
extent, and the mischief will speedily involve other 
functions : but before I proceed to follow the course 
which it usuiUly rnns, it will be useful to examine the 
causes to which the origin of the disease in the stomach 
is to be attributed. 

283. It has been stated that, in every change which 
the aliment undergoes, we shall discover the combined 
operation of mechanical and chemical agents : when the 
food, therefore, is introduced into the stomach, it owes 
its conversion into chyme to such combined actions, 
viz, the chemical power of the gastric juice, and the 
mechanical movements of the stomach. It is to the 
failure or imperfect operation of the one or the other 
of these necessary actions that indigestion is to be 
attributed. However perfectly the gastric juice may 
be secreted, if the mass be not sufficiently churned in 
the stomach, it cannot become perfect chyme ; and the 
most active motions of the stomach will not compen- 

,te for a deficiency in the alimentary solvent. It sig- 



302 



INDIGESTION EXCITED BY LOCAL, 



nifies very little whether the jiaucity of the gastric 
liquor be absolute or relative ; that is to say, whether 
it be originally secreted in less than a natural propor- 
tion, or the quantity of food taken be so great that the 
usual proportion of the solvent is insufficient for its 
solution: in either case, an indigestion must follow! 
although there appears to exist an accommodating 
power in the healthy stomach, which enables it to regu- 
late its supply according to the call which may be made 
for it. 

284. The quality and quantity of the gastric fluid, 
secreted by the stomach, may be influenced by causes 
immediately acting upon that organ, or by those which 
affect it through the medium of sympathy. Under the 
first class of causes may be noticed those wliich produce 
a direct influence upon the nerves of the stomach, 
without whose healthy action no secreting surfece can 
perform its functions with regularity. Amongst these, 
the injudicious ingestion of narcotic substances, or of 
alcohol, deserve a distinguished notice. The languor 
arising from inanition also brings on what Mr. Aber- 
nethy calls a " discontented state of the stomach ;" in 
which case the gastric juice is not secreted in a healthy 
manner. But the causes which act locally on the se- 
creting powers of the stomach are few in number, and 
perhaps small in importance when compared %vith those 
which act through the medium of sympathy. During 
the periods at which the posterior stages of digestion 
are performed, the healthy secretion of gastric juice i% 
not easily excited ; and if, therefore, food be presented 
at these times, it will be apt to occasion indigestion. 



AND BY 8EVEEAL OTHEE CAUSES. 



3031 



\ 



An overloaded state of the bowels will be attended 
■with the same consequence ; exercise, when accompa- 
nied with fatigue, or indolence, may, by producing 
general debility, occasion a corresponding state of cot- J 
lapse in the stomach. Passions of the mind ', ft 
anxiety, and rago, are also well known to affect the 
nervous system, and through that medium, the stomach ; 
and so immediately are its consequences experienced, 
that a person receiving unpleasant intelligence at the 
hour of a repast, is incapable of eating a morsel, what- 
ever might have been his appetite before such commu- 
nication. 



iveau o er iqis ; im .la^-a V 

And after this ; and then to break&at \i^' ^T^'a" 
With what appetite you may." 



H 285. The sympathy subsisting between the skin is 
another source, and often an unexpected cause of gas- 
tric debility. If the cutaneous vessels be unusually ex- 
cited, and this excitation be continued for any length 
of time, they will at length fall into a state of indirect 
debility, whence a sense of faintness, loss of appetite, 
and inability of digesting solid food, will be experienced. 
This fact explains the diminished appetite of which 
persons complain in hot weather, and that universal 
custom in tropical climates of combining the food with 
large quantities of aromatic stimulants. One of the 
most striking instances indicative of this consent be- 

' During a late conimercml excitement, bo extremely prevalent 
d dyspepsia become, that it vas distinguished by the appellation of 

nSie " CiTV DiSBABR." 



4 



304 OTHER CAUSKS OF INDIGESTION. 

tweeii the skin and stomach ia, where cold or wet is 
applied to the lower extremities, exciting pain in that 
organ, and indigestion '. Violent spasms, and, in per- 
sons predisposed to gout, an attack of that disease in 
the stomach, have been occasioned by remaining for 
some time with the feet thoroughly wet. The custom 
of pouring spirit into the shoes or boots upon such 
occasions, from the mistaken idea of counteracting the 
evil, increases the mischief, from the additional cold 
produced by its evaporation. The first object, under 
such circumstances, is to prevent evaporation ; and the 
chance of taking cold is greatly diminished, if not en- 
tirely prevented, by covering the wet clothes with some 
dry garment. It has been said, and perhaps vrith some 
reason, that thin shoes and light dress render delicate 
females, notwithstanding their temperance, more sub- 
ject to the whole tribe of dyspeptic complaints, parti- 
cularly flatulence and want of appetite. 

286. As the skin acts upon the stomach, so does the 
stomach, in its turn, re-act upon the skin ; for all sym- 
pathies are reciprocal. A physician who is conversant 
with affections of the stomach, well knows how to ap- 
preciate the indications which the appearance of the 
countenance affords ; there is a peculiar pallor and re- 

' I extract the following paserige from a letter which I received 
from Dr. John Badeley : — " A gentleman, who consulted my father, 
complained that on getting out of bed in the morning, and patting 
on his leather breeches, he constantly vomited, from the sensation of 
cold thus occasioned. My father recommended him to drink a 
glassful of cold water before he commenced dressing. The ^nlleman 
followed this advice, and found that the vomiting was entirely pre- 
vented bv it." 



J 



STOMACHIC DISTENTION ONE CAUSE. 305 

' laxed condition of the skia, which is truly indicative of 
a deranged state of the digestive organs, and which gra- 
dually disappears under a successful treatment. The 
want of appetite for breakfast, which is complained of 
by invaUds, is frequently to be attributed, amongst 
other causes, to the atony produced on the surface of 
the body, and consequently on the stomach, through 
sympathy, by the relaxing influence of a warm bed ; 
and hence arises the utility of restoring a re-action, by 
iresh air and exercise, before we attempt to sit down to 
our morning repast. The warm-bath, if not at too 
high a temperature, or indulged in for such a length of 
time as to induce indirect debility, will be found, by its 
stimulant operation on the skin, to place the stomach 
iu a condition to digest the dinner when employed a 
few hours before that meal. I shall have to refer to 
these facts when I come to consider the modes of curing 
indigestion. 

287. The influence of a healthy condition of the 
digestive organs upon the sldn, is so well understood 
by those that direct the art of training, that the clear- 
ness of the complexion is considered the best criterion 
of a man beinff in good condiHon, to which is added the 
appearance of the under-lip, " which is plump and rosy 
in proportion to the health of the constitution." 

288. The stomach also sympathises, in a remarkable 
degree, with the urinary organs ; nephritic complaints 
are invariably attended with nausea. I lately had a 
very troublesome case of dyspepsia under my care, 
which was aggravated, if not originally produced, by a 



J 



306 



INDIGESTION FROM DISTENTION. 



stricture in the urethra, which kept up a cooatant irri- 
tation. 

289. I have next to consider the causes which may 
operate in depressing or paralysing the muscular powers 
of tlie stomach, by which the mechanical process, essen- 
tial to chymification, is imperfectly performed. Of 
these, undue distention is perhaps the most common, 
and, at the same time, the moat powerful. This may 
be proved, not only from ample observation on the 
stomach, but by the analogy of other cavities ; if the 
bladder be distended for some time with urine, its mus- 
cular powers are paralysed ; it has often happened that 
where a person has, fi'om necessity, retained his urine 
for a considerable time, on attempting to void it, he 
has found himself incapable of expelling a single drop, 
although the bladder has been ready to burst from 
over-distention. The same fact occurs with respect to 
the rectum : if this observation be applied to the sto- 
mach, we shall easily perceive why, in an over-distendeJ 
slate of that viscus, vomiting can scarcely be produced 
by the most violent emetic ; and we shall readily un- 
derstand, from the same train of argument, how greatly 
the muscular fibres may become permaneadif debili- 
tated by the repetition of such an excess. This over- 
distention is particularly apt to occur in cases where 
the food has a tendency to swell, from the heat and 
moisture of the stomach ; for a person may not be 
aware of the quantity he has taken from any sensation 
of fulness at the time he ceases to eat, and yet, in the 
space of an hour, he may experience the greatest un- 



THE STOMACH THE SFAT OF INDIGESTION. 307 

isiness from such a cause. This generally happens 
where much new bread has been taken ; nuts have also 
this property in a remarkable degree, and ought, for 
that reason, to be prohibited, where such an effect is to 
be apprehended. A draught of soda water, or any 
beverage which contains fixed air, may be visited with 
the same penalty. There are certain postures of the 
body, which, by preventing the necessary egress of the 
contents of the stomach, favour an accumulation in its 
cavity ; this occurs in the occupation of the shoemaker, 
tailor, engraver, from stooping on the last, or desk, by 
which their thoracic and abdominal viscera are com* 
pressed together for many hours : the margin of the 
ribs is pressed upwards, so as force the stomach against 
the diaphragm, and to mpede the passage through the 
pylorus : it is evident that, if such a habit be continued 
after a full meal, all the train of dyspeptic terrors must 
be produced ; and we have witnessed too many practical 
illustrations of the fact, to require further evidence of 
its truth. The profession is indebted to Dr. W. Philipj 
for having proved by experiments, related in his Inquiry 
into the Laws of the Vital Functions, that the muscular 
fibre, though independent of the nervous system, may, 
in every instance, bo influenced through it ; from which 
it follows, as a corollary, that the muscular fibres of 
the stomach may not only be affected by causes acting 

E»lin^ctly on them, but by such as act through the medium 
he nerves. Hence, the presence of offensive matter 
;he stomach, whether arising frotn noxious aliment, 
ntiated secretion, will have the effect of diminishing 
muscular energy. It is in this way that a draught 
x2 



308 HICCUP ; ITS nature, and causes. 

of cold water, or a quantity of ice, may at once para> 
lyze the stomach. In cases, therefore, of protracted 
indigestion, it is evident that both the chemical and 
meclianical functions of the stomach will be injured ; 
neither the one nor the other can long remain alone 
affected. Irritation of the nerves will occasion vitiated 
secretion, and vitiated secretion will become a source of 
irritation to the nerves. 

390. Amongst tite symptoms which attend a fit of 
indigestion, we must not pass unnoticed the trouble- 
some spasmodic affection of the diaphragm, well known 
by the name of Hiccup, a term, no doubt, suggested bj 
the peculiar dissyllabic sound which characterizes it. 
By some it has been considered as a disorder of the 
stomach exclusively, but it is evident from the sound 
which accompanies the spasm, that it is imraediately 
connected with an affection of some of the organs of 
respiration, and ttiis is, obviously, the diaphragm. It 
is, however, true that the spasmodic contraction of this 
muscle is generally excited by some irritation within 
the stomach, and especially about the upper orifice, or 
cardia ; thus a large quantity of dry food, taken without 
any liquid, will often occasion hiccup. Certain acrid 
substances, either taken into the stomach, or generated 
during its diseased action, will have a similar tendency, 
for which reason heartburn is frequently attended with 
hiccup. On the other hand, it may sometimes arise 
from inanition, in which case we must suppose that the 
stomach suffers irritation from its own fluids. Such 
are the causes of the common hiccup, which may be 
regarded as a natural concussion for the removal of any 



HICCUP ; ITS CURE. 



309 



nsoi 



itating substance from the lower part of the oesopba^ 
gus, or from the upper orifice of the stomach, to a less 
sensible part of tliat organ. In this point of view it is 
to be regarded as a trifling affection, scarcely requiring 
any medical assistance, since it will usually cease spon- 
taneously, or may be readily removed by a little warm 
liquid. The operation of any sudden emotion in at 
once removing it, is well known ; and may be explained 
upon the general principle, that spasmodic action of 
muscular parts is frequently stopped by drawing the 
patient's attention strongly to any particular object. 
Hiccup, when a symptom of any other disease, is fre- 
quently indicative of danger, or the approach even of 
death, but this form of the complaint is obviously 
foreign to our present subject. It may, however, be 
Useful to state, that it is common in almost every dis- 
order of the digestive ftmctions : it is, for example, 
one of the symptoms of a scirrhous state of the liver, 
and is sometimes found in simple jaundice, in which 
the biliary ducts are obstructed, although the liver is 
»und. 

291. We have seen the manner in which indigestion 
may take place in the stomach ; but there are cases in 
which the secretions of that organ are perfectly per- 
formed, and in which the muscular contractions of the 
stomach are carried on with healthy vigour and regu- 
larity. The chyme is, therefore, duly elaborated, and 
the paroxysm of dyspepsia may not commence until 
the food has entered the duodenum. 



DUODENAL INDIGESTION. 



[MPERFECT DIGESTION IN THE DUODENUM. 



293. In the earlier part of this work, the structure, 
position, find functions of this " second stomach" have 
been fully described, and the practitioner must bear in 
mind the peculiar circumstances which relate to its 
anatomy and physiology, in order to understand the 
nature and extent of those aberrations to which it is 
liable. The chyme certainly undergoes some change in 
this organ, independent of that which is produced on it 
by its admixture with the bile and pancreatic juice, and 
which would appear to be affected by the agency of its 
own peculiar secretion ; this secretion may become in- 
sufficient in quantity to answer its intended purpose, 
or its quality may be occasionally vitiated ; but tb^e 
exists no direct evidence upon this point, and we can 
only maintain the probability of such an occurrence on 
the ground of analogy. I am quite satisfied, that many 
morbid affections which have been usually attributed to 
the stomach, ought to be solely referred to the func- 
tional aberrations of the duodenum ; and when we con- 
sider the situation of this intestine, with respect to the 
colon, and the pressure which it must suffer whenever 
this latter gut is loaded with faeces ; when we reflect 
upon the elaborate manner in which it is constructed ; 
the connexion of its nerves with other organs ; its 
limited capacity and motion ; its tortuous course; tlie 
distress which must arise from its distention, and the 
irritation which, from such a cause, must be immediately 
propagated through its nerves to very important parts ; 



J 



DUODENAL INDIGESTION- 



311 



» 



■when we remember that the pancreatic and biliary ducts 
.y be obstructed by its repletion, and the necessary 
low of the bile prevented ; and lastly, when we consider 
lat the vena cava inferim; may be thus pressed upon, 
id the circulation of its blood obstructed, — we shall 
not have much hesitation in admitting that a morbid 
condition of the duodenum must prove a pregnant 
source of local as well as of general distress. It is also 
necessary to state that, from the confinement which this 
intestine suffers at its termination within the ring, at 
^e mesentery, the propulsion of its contents is liable 
^to be retarded or obstructed ; and, should any hard or 
indigestible matter have escaped the axstion of the 
stomach, it may, by lodging, occasion a temporary stop- 
page in this part of the canal. 

293. The symptoms, which arise from duodenal iudi- 

i;^8tion, arc easily distinguishable from those which 

depend upon an affection of the stomach. In a casual 

paroxysm of this kind, the distress is not felt until 

some time has elapsed after the indigestible meal, and 

len no oppression is felt at the pit of the stomach, 

it on the right side, and a puffiness is frequently per- 

itible in the region occupied by the intestine. In 

ime cases a severe pain is felt in the back, especially 

in the region of the right kidney ; and Dr. Yeates 

states a symptom, which I have also noticed on such 

occasions — a faint and fluttering pulse, occasioned by 

the pressure of the vena cava against the spine by the 

distended intestine. Where we liave reason to suspect 

that a fit of duodenal indigestion has arisen from some 

mechanical obstruction, as above explained, an emetio I 



k 



312 DUODENAL INDIGESTION. 

will prove a safer remedy than a purgative ; by its 
action, the oifending substance is regurgitated into the 
stomach, and thus at once eliminated ; whereas a pur- 
gative may increase the distress, and even produce 
further mischief. Clysters, however, will be always 
advisable, in order to remove any pressure which the 
colon may occasion by its indurated contents. In cases 
where no such mechanical obstruction can be supposed 
to exist, purgatives are to be preferred to emetics. 

594. I believe that where indigeation in the stomach 
has remained for any considerable length of time, the 
duodenum rarely escapes corresponding mischief; it is 
difficult to imagine a case in which the fluids of the 
stomach are constantly in a vitiated, and those of the 
duodenum in a healthy condition. The very circum- 
stance of half-concocted chyme being repeatedly urged 
forward into the cavity of the intestine, will be sufB- 
cient to derange its functions. When, therefore, wc 
take a general view of the symptoms which mark con- 
firmed digestion, we must take into consideration the 
effects produced by the derangement of this important 
organ. In some cases the evidence of such an afiection 
will be more striking than in others, but in most we 
shall iind some proof of its existence. 

295. A casual indigestion in the duodenum may be 
produced by various causes ; in addition to those already 
enumerated as capable of occasioning such an afiection 
in the stomach, we. may mention mechanical obstruc- 
tion, arising from the presence of nuts, cherry-stones, 
&ic. ; a vitiated state of the bile, or a temporary sus- 
pension of its flow from the liver, by which the chyme 



SYMPTOMATIC HEADAOH. 



313 ' 



' ■will be prevented from undergoing its destined changes, 
and thus, remaining in the duodenum, may ferment, 
and distend the intestine with_ air ; accumulations also 
in the colon, hy diminishing the diameter of the duo- 
denam, will necessarily impede its functions. 

OF HEADACHS WHICH ARISE FROM INDIGESTION. 



P%ei 



296. From the intimate sympathy which subsists 

itween the nerves of the stomach and the brain, it is 
lot extraordinary that any casual derangement of the 

igestive process should communicate its influence to 
head. Dr. Warren ' has described this complaint 

ith an accuracy which, as far as description goes, 
leaves nothing to be desired. He states that there are 
two forms of dyspeptic headach ; the one he refers to a 
feult in the stomach, the other to a defective action of 
the upper bowels. The former is distinguished by a 
languid and feeble, but not an unnaturally frequent 
pulse ; the tongue is whitish and slightly coated ; the 
edges are of a pale red colour. The patient perceives 
a sensation of mistiness before the eyes, and general 
indistinctness of vision ; he feels a dull pain or weight 
in the head, attended with some confusion, is slightly 
,mddy, and fearful of falling. These symptoms are at- 

inded with slight nausea, or an uneasiness and sense 
of irritation in the stomach ; and often also by a feeling 
of constriction about the fauces, accompanied with a 
■watery secretion from the posterior part of the mouth. 



k 



Medical TrBtisactionB, vol. iv. p. 333. 




314 SYMPTOMATIC IlEADACH. 

Coldness, slight etifftiess or numbness of the fingers, 
are sometimes present : and the other parts of the 
system are, in general, affected with a great degree of 
nervous sensibility. The second species of headach, or 
that depending upon irritation in the bowels, probably 
in the duodenum, is remarkable for the appearance of 
brilliant ocular spectra ' which distress the patient ; 
there is chillness of the body, and coldness and damp- 
ness of the hands and feet ; the pain in the head is 
very severe, attended with a sensation of coldness and 
tightness of the scalp, slight giddiness, weight, disten- 
sion and stiffiiess of the eye-balls. In some cases, as 
these symptoms increase, they are accompanied by 
tingling and numbness of the fingers and band. The 
tongue, in this disorder, is usually covered with a yel- 
lowish white fur, and is often very considerably coated 
with it. The pulse is of the natural frequency, but 
languid ; nausea is often present, but seldom in so great 
a degree as to produce vomiting. There is usually 
flatulency, and a sensation of dryness and inactivity of 
the bowels. This last symptom I consider as patho- 
gnomonic : the patient feels as if his bowels bad lost 
their sensibility, and were unable to propel their con- 
tents, which occasions a peculiar sensation of weight 

' Depending probably upon what has been termed the Phospho- 
rescence of the Retina, and produced by pressure, as any person may 
readily observe by pressing the eye-ba]] outwards with the point of 
the finger, when a circle of light will be percerred ; in like manner 
in the act of sneezing gleams of light are seen. In the case of 
dyspeptic headach the effect is probably induced by the pressure of 
the blood'Vessele upon the retina. 



SYMPTOMATIC IIEADACH. 



315 



ftnd stoppage. Dr. Warren observes, that the appear- 
ance of the stools vary so much, that a general nile 
cannot be drawn from them; but he believee, that in 
all cases of headach of this description, they will be 
foond of an unhealthy quality. The most frequent 
appearance in them is bile in too large a quantity ; 
sometimes of various colours, and of different degrees 
of Tiscidity : occasionally the evacuations have a na- 
tural appearance, but contain portions of undigested 
food. At other times, the stools are of a iaint yellow 
colour, and float upon water, giving out an odour like 
that of saliva : a very common appearance, especially 
where there has been great dejection of spirits, is a 
loose stool, of a dark greenish-brown colour, in smell 
resembling that of the grounds of sour beer. 

297. The stomach headach generally occurs in the 
•lier stage of digestion ; that -which may be termed the 

dtiodenal headach, takes place when the food has passed 
into the intestines. The former is relieved by an emetic, 
the latter receives little or no mitigation from such a 
remedy : this is consonant with our theory of its origin ; 
whereas, a purgative, as we stiould expect, generally 
cuts short the paroxysm, by hastening the expulsion of 
the offending cause. The practitioner, however, will 
remember the circumstances that may render the 
administration of an emetic safer than that of a pur- 
,^tive. 

298, From the symptoms above related, he will not 
at a loss to discriminate between these two species 
headach ; but [lain in the head may arise from causes 

Setinct from the alimentary caua) ; as from congestion 
7 



rese 
■mrl 



316 SYMPTOMATIC IIEADACH. 

in the brain, from its internal disorganization, from 
diseased bones of the skull, or from a deranged state of 
tbe nervous system. It will be usefnl to point out the 
diagnostic symptoms by which each of these affections 
may be distinguished. Dr. Warren observes, that 
headachs which arise from congestion in the brain, are 
distinguished from those of dyspeptic origin, by the 
presence of plethoric symptoms, by a full and oppressed 
pulse, by a difference in the character of the pain, which, 
in the headach arising from fulness of blood, is accom- 
panied with throbbing, and a sense of action in the 
system, which alarms the feelings ; while the pain of 
dyspeptic headachs is described as being either a dull 
aching, or else a racking pain, often moving from ooe 
part of the head to another, and attended with soreness 
of the scalp. In the first, the eyes look red and full ; 
in the second, they have a depressed and languid ap- 
pearance. Those which arise from internal disorgani- 
zation, the same eminent physician considers to be 
marked by an acute fixed pain, by a quick, irritable, 
and sometimes irregular pulse ; but should pressure on 
the brain have taken place, the pulse is fiill and slow, 
but is not attended with the steady violent heat which 
accompanies sudden congestion of blood in that organ. 
When headach is caused by chronic disease of the bones 
of the skull, it is distinguished by the constancy of the 
pain, which is confined to one spot, whence violent 
shootings proceed to some fixed point. As the disorder 
advances, slight symptoms of pressure on the brain 
ensue ; and on examination, a tenderness of the bone 
is observed. The nervous headach is distinguished by 



J 



HEADACH PROM PLETHOKA. 317 

tbe absence of constitutional disorder, and by the Bmall- ] 
ness of the space on the surface of the head which the 1 
pain occupies. 

299. There sometimes occurs a sorencsB of the aealp, 
with shooting pains, which are produced by the slightest 
touch. This affection, I believe, generally depends 
upon some derangements of the biliary system. 

300. There is a species of headach which would ap- 
pear to depend upon a languid circulation through the 
brain ; it occurs after an excess of wine ; or, in women, 
during the catamenial discharge. It is described aa 
rather resembling numbness than pain, or that sensation 
which is produced by intense cold. The languor of the 
circulation, pallor of the countenance, and other symp- 
toms of debility, will offer sufficient means for distin- 

ishing it. 

301. If the dyspeptic headach be allowed to take its 
course, it will generally terminate in a few hours ; but 
when it has become habitual, it is often protracted 
through one, two, or more days. Its cure is to be 

fected by those means which we have afterwards to 
insider, as the best modes of rectifying the errors of 
rive organs. 

302. Cutaneous eruptions are not unfrequently pro- 
duced by a fit of indigestion : such affections are 
popularly denominated surfeits ; they are generally of 
short duration, and disappear on the removal of the 
offending cause ; although severe and inveterate diseases 
of the skin are sometimes established, and continued 
by a chronic disease of the stomach or other digestive 
organs. The best mode of treating such affections, and 



torn 



OIB MILIARY DEKAXCIKMENT. 

tlie diet wliich should be employed for their cure, will 
form a subject for future consideration. 

INDIGESTION FROM BILIARY DERANGEMENT. 

303. It is evident that a regular and healthy secre- 
tion of bile is indispensable to the act of chylificatioD, 
and to the proper action of the intestines, and that a 
deficiency, redundancy, or a vitiated condition of this 
fluid may act aa an exciting cause of indigestion. If 
it be deficient, the chyme cannot undergo that decom- 
position in the duodenum by whicb chyle is formed and 
separated ; and as the bowels are, at the same time, 
deprived of their natural stimulus, the undigested mass 
is not protruded, but is left to undergo various morbid 
changes; air is extricated, the alimentary secretions 
become depraved, and tho whole series of the digestive 
functions are thus suspended, of deranged. If the bile 
be too copiously secreted, it is poured out in large 
quantities into the intestine, producing temporary diaN 
rhcea, and part of it being regurgitated into tbe stomach, 
during the act of vomiting, which, in the first instance, 
is excited by the sympathy of the stomach with the 
duodenum and hepatic system, occasions a train of 
symptoms of greater or less severity, according to the 
circumstances of each particular case. If the bile be 
vitiated in quality, it will not only be incapable of 
accomplishing the alimentary change which it is des- 
tined to fulfil, but it will irritate and fret the mucous 
membrane by its contact. It is evident that the 
violence and extent of the symptoms produced by such 



BILIABY AFFECTIONS. 319 

causes will be liable to vary ; and the practitioner must 
not imagine, that the absence of diarrhcea, colic, and 
other violent feelings, affords evidence of the healthy 
state of the biliary secretions. Derangements in these 
functions often proceed insidiously, and lay the founda- 
tion for a serious disease, which, although latent for 
a period, will ultimately be kindled into activity, when- 
ever an exciting cause shall fire the train. 

304. To explain the origin of biliary irregularities, 
we have to consider the sympathies by which the liver 
may be influenced. The investigation of the diseases 
of warm climates, and the corrected views, with regard 
to the autumnal complaints of our climate, have suffi- 
ciently established the existence of a sympathy between 
the skin and the liver. Whenever an organ has been 
in a state of over-excitement, it is liable to fall into a. 
corresponding state of torpor. The perspiration ia, 
therefore, more apt to be checked after the continuance 
of hot weather, than at any other season of the year ; 
and since the same observation may be extended to the 
liver, we shall readily perceive the cause of those biliary 
aiTections which so generally occur in this country during 
the autumnal season. The application of cold to the 
feet, or whatever contributes to check the perspiratory 
functions, may create, in those predisposed to such 
complaints, a biliom attack. The sympathy which sub- 
sists between the stomach and liver has already been 
adverted to. It seems a wise provision, that the biliary 
function should be connected, by a close sympathy, with 
that of the stomach, in order that the food, converted 
into chyme, may meet with a necessary quantity of bile 



320 BILIARY AEPBCTIONS. 

in the duodenum. In consequence of such a Bympathy, 
irritation in the stomach is generally attended with mi 
increased secretion of bile; the action of < nausea is 
usually followed by such an effect. Hence, melted 
butter, every thing fried, pastry, and other indigestible 
materials, are popularly denominated bilious ; and al- 
though such a term countenances a latitude of expree- 
sion, which is inconsistent with the more definite notions 
of strict pathology, yet it cannot be said to be BEnv 
neous. As the varied and increased action of a glandi 
has much influence in determining the nature ofthe' 
fluid secreted, we cannot be at a loss to explain the 
vitiated condition in which the bile is .secreted under, 
such circumstances : indeed it is frequently on suflU 
occasions of a degenerated colour, extremely acrid, and 
scarcely possessing the qualities of bile. Dr. Saunders 
considers it probable, that from the quantity secreted, 
and the rapid manner in which it is poured intO the 
duodenum, there is not time sufScient for a perfect 
secretion. 

305. We may therefore agree with Dr. Saunders, 
that whenever, either from an irregular distribution of 
nervous energy, or from the operation of iudigestible 
and acescent food, tie tone of the stomach falls below 
the degree necessary to the digestive process, the livor 
immediately sympathizes with it, and bile is no longer 
emulged into the duodenum, until a re-action takes 
jilace, when its quantity is morbidly increased in pro- 
portrion to the degree of previous atony. If this occur 
to such an extent, that its free admission into the in- 
testine be impeded, it will accumulate in the excretory 



systet 



8YMPT0MB OF CHRONIC INDIGESTION. 32 1 

Aicte of the liver, and either regurgitate into the system 
by the hepatic veins, or be absorbed by the l3miphatie 
system, and a yellow suffusion of the skin will follow. 

306. The abuse of spirituous liquors, from their 
,tion on the stomach and brain is a fertile cause of 

liliary derangement ; and from the sympathy between 
the sensorium and the liver, the effects of strong and 
sudden mental emotions, in occasioning an irregidar 
secretion of bile, will also admit of satisfactory espial- 
nation. I was lately called to a patient, who had 
become violently jaundiced in the space of three hours, 
in consequence of having received some intelligence 
which threw him into the highest state of consterua^ 
tion. 

PROGRESS AND SYMPTOMS OF CHRONIC 
INDIGESTION. 

307. From considering a fit of indigestion in the 
stomach or duodenum, let us now proceed to trace its 
consequences, when it is fre(|uently repeated or pro- 
tracted. In this case, other organs become succes- 
sively involved in the mischief, and a train of distressing 
and complicated symptoms arises. Dr. Wilson Philip 
has considered indigestion as divisible into three distinct 
stages. Under the first, he arranges those symptoms 
which merely announce a disturbed and unhealthy con- 
dition of the digestive functions. The second stage he 
considers as denoted by the tenderness of the epigas- 
trium, and the hardness of the pulse. The third stage 
includes those diseases which he supposes to arise from 
the change of structure, which is ultimately produced 



322 SYMPTOMS OF CHRONIC INDIGESTION. 

by long-continued functional derangement. I have no 
great objection to a conventional division of this kind, 
if it can in any way assist the memory of the practi- 
tioner, and contribute to the perspicuity of the descrip- 
tion, by presenting the symptoms in well-defined groups, 
rather than in a separate and unconnected form. But 
the arrangement is wholly artificial. Nature does not 
acknowledge it, nor will she submit to it ; if, then, any 
advantage is to be derived from it, it must be received 
and considered only as an attempt to class together 
those symptoms which may arise from functional aber- 
ration, and those which are more usually associated 
with organic change. We must renounce all rigid 
adherence to definite stages and arbitrary divisions, 
which nature disclaims. Every practitioner of any 
experience must well know that the hard pulse and 
tenderness of the epigastrium are likely to occur in 
even a temporary attack of indigestion; and I have 
frequently witnessed extensive mischief, with change of 
structure, without the occurrence of such indications, 
with regard to the " third stage," I would observe, that 
if the diseases therein stated as the results of indiges- 
tion, be purely such, we may as well, at once, refer all 
organic disease to the same source, and, like the an- 
cient physicians of Egypt, confine our prescriptions to 
vomits, purgatives, and abstinence. 

308. In the former editions of this work I animadverted 
upon a form of pulmonary disease, to which Dr- Wilson 
Philip gave the name of ^^ Dyspeptic Phthisis T I de- 
clared myself sceptical as to the existence of any malady 
which could be strictly entitled to such a specific appel- 



DYSPEPTIC PHTHISIS. 323 

lation. I never doubted the tendency of dyspeptic 
disturbance to call into activity previously-existing 
tubercles, nor have I ever ceased to rely upon measures 
.which are calculated to invigorate the functions of 
digestion, as those most likely to retard the develope- 
ment of tubercular disease. I know, from ample ex- 
perience, that persons may pass through a long series 
of years v^rith extensive pulmonary disorganization, pro- 
vided the diet and habits be judiciou' ly managed, — the 
circulation kept in check, and, above all, the expendi- 
ture of muscular power cautiously economised. On 
the contrary, the fatal termination may be equally 
accelerated by creating a permanent disturbance in the 
digestive functions, and by repeated fatigue. The sys- 
tem of exposing such patient to that combination of 
evils which are inseparable from a constant change of 
place, or long-continued journeys, has too frequently 
cut short the thread of life. 

309. If Dr. Philip designates a latent disease, thus 
kindled into activity. Dyspeptic Phthisis^ we are no longer 
at issue. Mr. Travers, in one of the most philosophical 
works that has appeared in our times ^ has demon- 
strated, by argument and examples, that " most indi- 
viduals carry within themselves the seeds of disease and 
death. Upon examination of the bodies of persons 
dying from disease or accident, after the middle of life, 
it is rare not to meet with some palpable evidence of 
organic change not previously known, or at best only 
vaguely surmised to exist." Diseases sometimes lie hid, 

' " A further enquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation, and 
the Pathology of the Nervous System/* 

y2 



324 PROGRESS OF INDIGESTION. 

as if they had, by slow introduction and encroachment, 
inured the system to beai- with tbem ; " but," centinuee 
Mr. Travers, " it is unneceesary to urge this argument 
farther than to show that minute organic cbftngea, 
scarcely discernible in detail, because not actualJy in- 
ducing illness, compose in the aggregate an amount of 
mischief which clogs the machine when called upon by 
any extraordinary emergency." Mr. Rose has stated 
that, during the Peninsular war, he met with several 
instances of abscesses in the lungs occurring after am- 
putations and wounds of the extremities. 

3 1 0. But to return from this digression to the sub- 
ject more immediately before us, viz. the complicated 
train of symptoms which successively present them> 
selves in cases of protracted dyspepsia. 

311. It has been seen that indigestion may originate 
in the stomach, or intestines, either from vitiated secre- 
tion, muscular imbecility, nervous derangement, or 
biliary and pancreatic disturbance ; but, from whatever 
cause the disease may primarily originate, after it has 
remained for some time in operation, the different 
organs, directly or sympathetically connected with the 
chylopoietic apparatus, will participate in the mischief, 
and it will not be easy to distinguish between primary 
8)-mptom8, and those of mere induction. There is, per- 
haps, not any disease which is more proteiform in its 
asjiects than dyspepsia ; we shall rarely find any two 
cases precisely similar in the origin and progress of 
their symptoms, although, to an experienced judge, 
they will present such a general similitude, as to leave 
no doubt of their nature and causes. 



bee 

LesB 



PROGBESS OF INDIGESTION. 325 

"'"Sl'S^ The dyspeptic patient having, for some time, 
Bnilfered fi-om those feelings of uneasiness which have 
been already described, experiences some diminution ih 
strength. This, at first, is orily occasional, and' iS 

r awhile attributed by him to some accidentttl cti'titiTn- 
fetance ; he had felt it before, and the readiness wWh 
which his elasticity and strength returned, naturfiliy 
inspires a hope that his present depression may be re-" 
moved ; but it has endured longer than usual, and he 
ultimately becomes alarmed. It is in this stage of the 
malady, that the patient frequently introduces himself 
for the first time, to a physician. It is of great im- 
portance, upon such an occasion, to distinguish between 
that feeling of transient depression, which, as Tissot 
observes, is invariably associated with alimentary dis^ 
turbance, and that debility Which annonnces a general 
diminution of constitutional energy. In the former 
Case, there are periods in which the patient feels per^i 
fectly well and strong ; but in the latter, although his 
Spirits may vary, he never rises to the healthy standard 
of vigour. He tells you, that "he begins to feel his 
ii^al avocations irksome, and too laborious; that he 
Haft long sulfered from a bad digestion" which by care 
ihd management he had been hitherto enabled to con- 
ttdl ; but that he has now little or no appetite, that his 
strength fails him, and that he fears he is " getting into 
A bad way." He finds that the slightest exercise occa- 
llfonfl fatigue,' and deluges him with perspiration. On 
.^amining the tongue, it will be usually found coated 
the posterior part, and on its centre, with a brownish- 

ellow ftir : his bowels are, by turns, costive, and too 



:i-26 



PROGRESS UF INDIGUSTIOS. 



mucli relaxed ; the pulse at this period is generally 
alow and small, although it is sometimes hard ; his 
countenance \h more palid than usual ; the eyes appear 
sunken, and the eye-lids swollen, and the eye-balls are 
occasionally injected with yellow streaks. 

313. In some cases, heartburn and a sense of oppres- 
sion are experienced after meals; but in others, the 
patient only complains of languor and extreme listless- 
ness. On some occasions, a sense of constriction is 
felt about the fauces, and a difficulty of swallowing is 
experienced, as if the oesophagus presented some me- 
chanical obstruction to the passage of food. Dizziness: 
unusual di-owsiness ; pains iu the head ; ringing in the 
ears ; a disagreeable taste in the mouth ; an altered 
state of the salivary secretion, being sometimes limpid 
like water, and at others thick and ropy; palpitation 
and a sense of faintness are symptoms which also, in a 
greater or less degree, usually distress the dyspeptic 
sufierer. His hands are alternately hot and cold ; in 
the former state they are dry, in the latter more usually 
damp. His nights are sometimes, but not generally, 
disturbed by restlessness and uneasy dreams. He wakes 
in the morning without that feeling of refreshment 
which follows repose in health, and is unwilling to rise 
from his bed, or indeed to move; his limbs ache, the 
muscles of the trunk are even sore to the toueh; and 
any change of position is attended with inconvenience. 
Every alteration in the weather is felt as a serious evil : 
if it becomes a degree or two colder, he creeps to the 
fire, and inveighs, in terms of bitterness and sarcasm, 
against the variableness of the climate: if its tempera- 



J 



PKOGRESS OF INDIGESTION. 327 

ture be raised he is oppressed with heat. His bowels 
become more and more untractable ; the usual purga- 
tive ceases to produce its accustomed effect; he in- 
creases the dose, and when it does operate, the action 
is too powerful, and its effects are not easily checked ; 
a diarrhoea is established, and this again, in its turn, is 
superseded by still more obstinate constipation. " If I 
could but obtain a medicine," cries the invalid to his 
physician, " that would keep my bowels in a regular 
state, I should soon become convalescent :" there lies 
the difficulty ; the 6vil arises from the inconstant and 
unsettled state of the alimeiltary secretions, and it is 
not easy to graduate an artificial stimulant so that it 
shall always correspond with the varying state of the 
organs upon which it is to operate. The depression of 
his spirits increases as the disease advances : he gives 
his case up as lost ; loses flesh, suffers a thousand dis- 
tressing sensations, and fancies the existence of a thou- 
sand more. Wandering pains are felt in the bowels 
and side ; a tenderness in the epigastrium is experienced 
on pressure ; the abdomen is often preternaturally tense; 
his breathing is occasionally oppressed; a short dry cough 
distresses him, and expectoration is extremely difficult. 
If, under such circumstances, the alvine discharges be 
inspected, they may present every variety of morbid 
appearance; they may be unnatural in colour, odour, con- 
sistence, figure, or quantity. I shall, hereafter, have 
occasion to speak more fully upon this subject, as well 
as upon the morbid appearances which the urine pre- 
sents under such circumstances. 

314. The patient, in this state of his disorder, will 



328 PROGRESS OF INDIGESTION. 

BoDietimes complain of being disturbeiJ, on first falling 
asleep, by fearful startings, and catching of the limba, 
uneasiness in the region of the chest, att^Q^ed with - 
difficulty of breathing, so as to resemble OTiffina pef^vHi,; 
and it is not unusual for him on such oceasions to jierr 
ceive flashes of fire, like lightning, with a numbness in 
his hands ; this numbness is somotlmes only felt in oaa 
or two fingers. Sore throat, occasioned by relax;ation, 
is also a very usual symptom ; the skin is fregneptjy 
dry, and even scaly ; the tongue also becomes drier,: and 
sometimes clean, and of a brighter colour than usual. 
Harassed by such feelings, the unhappy invalid anx- 
iously proposes a trial of change of air, and his friends 
acquiesce in the belief that such a plan will tend to his 
recovery. He quits bis residence, but to no purpose ; 
his emaciation increases: his ancles swell: and the 
general debility thus produced sooner or later calls 
some other disease into activity, the nature and locality 
of which will necessarily vary in difl'erent cases. If 
the spring of a piece of machinery snaps, and all its 
diflferent pai'ts are hurried into violent motion, the 
wheel upon which the greatest strain is made, or that 
which is of the weakest construction, will be the first 
to give way. Just so is it with the human body. Those 
organs more immediately connected with the digestive 
function will more readily undergo a change of struc- 
ture, on account of the protracted irritation they must 
have sustained. Then, in succession, those which are 
connected by the ties of sympathy ; while the general 
loss of balance, thus occasioned, will render any organ, 
originally weak, very liable to disease. Tliis view of 



■del 



SVrtPTOSlS OP INDTOKSTION. "^9 

^e subject is supported by experience ; the bistory of 
those complaints which terminate the life of the dys- 
peptic patient will eufficiently explain the manner in 
which they were produced. Unless they take their 
origin hi a tiscus immediately connected ' with the 
'digestive functions, as in the stomach, intestines; me^- 
Bcnteric glands, liver, &c. dyspepsia can only be const- 
■dered in the light of a general debilitating cause ; and 
is a circumstance no less extraordinary than irff- 
irtant, that when ani/ niw disease is permaneritltf esta^ 
hUshed, the original symptoms are mitigated, and sometimes 
whiMy suspended; whereas, if the new affection bemU/ 
^mptomatic, histead nf relieving, it often aggravates theiti. 
315. Dr. Philip lays great stress upon the hardness 
of the pulse, as indicative of approaching mischief; I 
confess that my experience does not confirm the im- 
portance he has ascribed to it. The permanent tenders- 
ness of the epigastrium, if accompanied by a clean bright 
tongue, excites a greater apprehension in my mind. 
The pulse is very treacherous in its indications : I have 
found it to be soft and undulating in cases where no 
doubt could exist as to the presence of organic mischief. 
It is just, however, to state, that Dr. Philip acknow- 
ledges that its hardness is sometimes only perceptible 
when examined in a particular waj. He says that 
those who have been much in the habit of examining 
the diflferent states of the pulse, must be aware, that its 
hardness is most perceptible when a slight degree of 
pressure is Employed. A certain degree, -by 'greatly 
compressing the vessel, vrill give some feeling of soft- 
ness to the hardest pulse, and a slight degree of liard- 



330 ORGANIC CHANGES IN THE BOWELS. 

ness is not perceptible with the pressure generally em- 
ployed in feeling the pulse. If the pressure be gradu- 
ally lessened till it comes to nothing, it often happens 
that a hardness of pulse is felt before the pulse wholly 
vanishes under the finger, when no hardness cagi he 
perceived in the usual way of feeling. 

316. After indigestion has continued to harass the 
stomach for some time, its villous coat may certainly 
become affected : and as the pylorus, from the pecu- 
liar nature of its oflftce, is more exposed to the con- 
tinued source of irritation than other parts of the 
stomach, it is perhaps liable to become inflamed, and 
the tenderness in the epigastrium may possibly in soma 
cases be thus explained ; but it should be remembered 
that, in internal diseases, the pain is frequently referred 
to a part at some distance from the real source of it ; a 
morbid distension of the liver, an irritated state of the 
duodenum, and a gorged condition of the colon, are not 
uncommonly attended with the same feeling. It is, at 
the saine time, difficult to imagine, how serious mis- 
chief can be inflicted upon the pylorus without the 
occurrence of vomiting. 

317. When the bowels have been long in a state of 
disorder, the villous coat becomes tumid, turgid with 
blood, and sometimes ulcerated ; and Mr. Abemethy 
states that these appearances have been most manifest 
in the large intestines. He says that he has repeatedly 
observed, in dissections of these cases,, the large intes- 
tines to be more diseased than the smaller ones, and he 
accounts for this fact in the following- manner. If di» 
gestion is incomplete, the indigested food must be liable 



ORGANIC CHANGES IN THE BOWELS. 



331 " 



lar 



to chemical changes, and the products resulting from 
this cause are likely to be most stimulating to the 
large intestines. Indeed, he adds, in advanced stages 
this disorder, mucus and jelly tinged with blood are 
ischarged, and it seems probable that a kind of chronic 
dysentery may be thus induced. In my own practice, 
I have witnessed several cases of this kind ; but I eon- 
iess that I cannot perceive why the duodenum and 
nailer intestines should not be equally exposed to 
ich a source of irritation, unless we suppose that Na- 
has kindly thrown a protection around that part 
tf the canal which is most active in the process of 
Ingestion. 

318. It is not extraordinary that protracted dyspep- ] 
lia should sometimes terminate in a disease of the 
iiesentcric glands ; it is only surprising that such a 
^Ete of irritation and imperfect developement of chyle 
liould continue for so long a period, as they are in 
iiany cases known to do, without occasioning such an 
We must suppose that the selecting tact with 
hich the laeteals are endowed, enables them for a I 
jnsiderable time to reject imperfectly-formed or 
itiated chyle, and that it is not until this is destroyed, j, 
lat the irritating matter finds its way to the glands, 
he circulating fluids of the body are for the same 
saeon not materially deteriorated until the dyspeptic 
ieease has continued for some time ; the blood then 
ndergoes some important change, but animal che- 
listry is not yet sufficiently advanced to demonstrate 
its nature. I have examined the blood of a patient 
who had long laboured under a disease of the digestive 
2 



i 



i332 - EXCESSIVE FOBHATIOWOrPAlr;' 

organsi and the most remaricablef character IrM^'ft 
preaented was the loose texture of its crassamentmi; 
and 3. deficiency in its red globules. In some caSeS'tte 
serum assumes an opaline appearance. " , '■'' '"■"J"' 

319. AVhen we consider the connexicm ■which'swbl 
sists between the function of the kidneys and tJUtA of 
the chylopoietie organs, we shall easily explain the 
disturbed appearance of the urine, and the occurrenoe 
of calculous disorders in eases of dyspepsia; ' 

320. In relating the diseases immediately conse- 
quent upon a deranged state of the digestive organs 
it may appear somewhat strange to introduce the con- 
sideration of a condition of the body, generally arising 
from a vigorous action of th^e organs, but which, 
nevertheless, must be considered, when it passes beyond 
certain bounds, as a serious evil ; I allude to the ex- 
cessive formation of Fat. The subject has been v&j 
ably considered by Mr. Wadd {Cursory Remarks 'm 
Corpulence), and liis work, which, during its progrees 
through three editions, hssjhtteiied from a meagre pam- 
phlet into a portly octavo, may be said to comprehend 
nearly all the knowledge we possess upon the subject. 
It is written in a humorous style, and if there be any 
truth in the popular adage, "Laugh and grow Jat" I 
will, without hesitation, assert, that the perusal of the 
work is ill calculated to benefit the class of patients 
for which it was written. He enumerates the several 
remedies which have, at different times, been proposed 
to check the excessive formation of fat ; but he appears 
to have overlooked the most important, and, in my 
judgment, the only medicinal agent which is likely to 

10 



OR<»AKIO CHANQBS IN THB BOWELS. 333 

answei the object of its exhibition, viz., small doses of 
tbe su^^hate qfrnagnesia^ so as to increase the peristaltic 
motion of the alimentary canal, at that period of the 
digestive process, when the chyle is about to enter the 
kieteal system. 

321. Before I jH'ooeed to consider tbe medical treats 
ment and dietetic regulations most appropriate for the 
cure of the several forms of indigestion, it will be ne- 
cessaiy to inquire into the remote and immediate cansfes 
of that disease. In fulfilling this part of my duty, I 
shall deviate from the usual plan of such investigations, 
and arrange my observations in an order that may, in 
some degree, correspond with that which should be 
adopted by every physician who undertakes to examine 
a patient with a view to detect the cause, nature, and 
seat of his disease. I shall first present the reader with 
a tabular arrangement of the objects of such an inquiry, 
and then comment upon the relative importance of 
each. 



334 SCHEME OF DYSPEPTIC SYMPTOMS. 



A SCHEME FOR INVESTIGATING THE CAUSES, NATURE, 

AND SEAT OF INDIGESTION. 



1. LEADING QUESTIONS, concerning 

fl. Their Nature; Intensity; Duration; Permanence and Locality. 
2. Their Accession ; Concourse ; and Order of Succession. 
^ .3. Whether Increased or Mitigated by any Particular Posture or Motioo. 

bYMPTOMS. I , y^^^ Patient's otvn belief, 

1.4. Assignable Causes. < b. Preceding Ailments. 

yc. Hereditary Predisposition, 
i\. Strength and Regularity of Voluntary Motions. 

/ Animal 72. Sensations. 

Functions, is. Intellectual Opera- 

V. tions. 

ra. Strength, 

A, Pulse, with respect to )^; ^^IrdT^l' 
^ Vital td. Order, 

Symptom^s \ Functions. \ 2. Respiration. 



^ "A. itespiration. 

I (a. Its 

^3. Animal Heat lb, — 

U- — 

f 1. Appetite and Thirst. 
2. State of the Tongue. 



Its Degree. 
Uniformity, 
Equable Diffusion. 



Natural J 3 g f ^e Secretions, i"' ^/I'^'T- 

Functions. I (o. Cutaneous. 



M. of the Excretions, j?* ^/T^' 

(^ b. Urinary. 

l. Age. 

f a, Whether sedentary or active, 

p 12. Occupation. < b. conducted in any particular postun. 

l^- " '" I— ^-J -•- -.1. ••- 



Circumstances. 



- in heated rooms, or in the open air. 



3. Former Habits and Customs. {^ '^'Jfj^'^fjJtJ^^ Btd). 



4. Residence. Climate, 



n. OCCASIONAL QUESTIONS, concerning 

1. State of Menstrual Discharge. 
Fem.\les. . . -^ 2. Married or Unmarried State. 

Impregnation. Lactation. Number of Children. 
Children 1. Dentition. 2. Former Diseases. 3. Diet, &c. 



5. . . < 2. 
1 3. 



in. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, upon 

Physical f I. Bulk and Stature. 2. Particular Conformation. 
Character. \ 3. Complexion and Physiognomy. 4. Mobility and Irritability. 



IV. COLLATERAL CIRCUMSTANCES. 

1. Season of the Year. 2. Nature of Prevailing Epidemics. 

( a. Moisture and Dryness. 
3. Weather . . < 6. Prevailing Winds. 

\c. Abundance and Quality of Fruits. 



COMMENTARY, &C. 335 



COMMENTARY UPON THE PRECEDING TABLE. 

322. Iji order to illustrate the relative importance 
of the several subjects which are embraced in the pre- 
ceding tabular scheme, as well as to direct the practi- 
tioner into the more direct path of pathological inquiry, 
let us suppose a person labouring under some one of 
the forms of dyspepsia, to present himself for exami- 
nation. We first learn, from his own report, the general 
nature of the symptoms by which he is distressed ; and 
we then proceed to make such further inquiries as may 
enable us to form an opinion respecting their origin and 
mode of cure, 

323. The intensity of the symptoms cannot be always 
inferred from the patient's own report, but must be 
deduced from our experience in such cases. The dys- 
peptic is too apt to depict his feelings in extravagant 
language, and to become unnecessarily anxious and 
apprehensive. An inquiry into the duration of his 
complaints is of much importance ; for it has been 
already stated that the intervals of comfort are 
abridged as the disease progresses, until at length he 
becomes harassed by an uninterrupted series of suffer- 
ings. It is, however, from the locality of the symptoms 
that we are to form our opinion with respect to their 
seat and origin ; and for ascertaining this fact we must 
be particular in our inquiry, and minute in our exami- 
nation. Is the stomach affected ? If a sense of weight 
or burning after the ingestion of food, acid, or putres- 
cent eructations be present, we may conclude such to 



COMMENTARY UPON THE SCHEME. 

lie the case. If there exist any uneasiness or fulness 
in the epigastric and right hypochondric regions, pro- 
duced or increased hy pressure we may infer that there 
exists some diseased condition of the liver, duodenum, 
or, jierhaps, of the stomach ; and that we may be en- 
ahled, under such circumstances, to form a diagnosis, 
the patient must be submitted to a manual examina- 
tion. For this purpose, every ligature must be re- 
moved from the abdomen, and he must be placed on a 
sofa, reclining on his back, with his legs drawn up, so 
as to throw the abdominal muscles into a state of re- 
laxation. Where the fulness and tenderness arise from 
a distended state of the duodenum, the sensation given 
to the hand is very different from that which is pro- 
duced by organic disease of the liver; the tumour in 
the former case is more diffused and less defined. It 
also deserves particular notice, that, by pres^re, on the 
region of the liver, no uneasiness will be complained o£ 
but if tlie pressure be made with the edge of the open 
hand under the ribs, with the palm of it flat upon the 
abdomen, considerable uneasiness will be felt up to- 
wards the liver, and down towards the right kidney ; a 
soreness is likewise felt an inch or two to the right, 
just above the navel. In such cases, also, the anato- 
mical accuracy with which the patient will trace the 
course of the duodenum with his finger, from the stomacli 
to the loins on the right side, and back again across 
the abdomen to the umbilicus, will greatly assist the 
diagnosis. There are, besides, other symptoms to be 
hereafter enumerated, which will enable us to arrive at 
a still more positive conclusion. It is of the greatest 



FOR INVEWIOlTmaiDVfiPEfTrOmsKASE. 3137 

■ ^Mnptortance- to- distinguish ' betweewi a 'Aiorbid state ttf 

the duodenuDi and that of the liver : I have frequently, 

in the course of my own practice, seen patients who 

H^sve uudergone salivation, from a belief in the exist- 

^Bhnce of hepatic disease, but who were merely suffering 

BJider duodenal irritation. On the other hand, I am 

equally satisfied that chronic inflammation of the liver 

hns been- repeatedly mistaken for a dyspeptic state of 

jthe btomacb. Dr. ' Satinders> says, that ho has seen 

saanj cases of this kind, which have been supposed to 

^btrise from indigestion. The patient generally complains 

^hf pain, which he falsely attributes to tHic stomach ; 

^M)at its continuance is so short, and the degree: of it 

frequently so inconsiderable, that no alarm respecting 

theifuture health of the patient is ])rodnced. The ro. 

Kef obtained by eructation and discharge of air tends 

to confirm the opinion that the seat of the disease ie in 

the stomach ; but this relief may Ijc explaiued on tho 

principle of removing the distension of the stomachy 

^aod so taking off the pressiure of this organ from that 

^hdiich'is the seat of the complaint. 

^K 824. Where the tenderness in the epigastrium is 

^Bktremely circumscribed, not occupying a space lai'ger 

^■Anna shilling, Dr. Philip infers the presence of an iu- 

flalnniatory affection, or a state approaching to it, of 

the pylorus, excited by the passage of the irritating 

contents of the stomach; I cannot, however, conceive 

Hkieh a state of pylorus, as to occasion pain on ]ire8sure, 

^Bp be unattended with vomiting. 

^ftj'32d. The accession, concourse, and oMer of succession 
^■llEthe different symptoms, are calculated to throw. con- 

LIU 



338 



COMMENTARY UPON THE SCHEME 



siderable light upon the nature of a dyspeptic disease ; 
indeed, in protracted cases, it is only by a careful ex- 
amination of these circumstances that we shall be able 
to separate primary from secondary affections. The 
stomach cannot long err without communicating its 
Tiee to the other chylopoietic organs ; the liver may 
become affected from mere irritation, and every pare of 
the body, from sympathetic influence, may put on the 
appearance of disease. How are we, then, except by a 
careful examination into the history of the case, to as- 
certain the organ in which the mischief originated ? 

326. Whether the symptoms are mitigated, or increased 
hf any particular posture or motion. This is an im- 
portant question. Where the disease is confined to 
the stomach, the patient appears capable of lying with 
equal ease on either side ; but if the duodenum or liver 
be affected, he will experience some uneasiness on lying 
on the left side. Where the disease has become compli- 
cated, lying on either side is irksome, and the easiest 
position is found to be that of lying on the back, with 
the shoulders a little raised, and inclined to the right 
side. The muscles of the chest are, on such occasions, 
not unfrequently sore, and the patient finds it difficult 
to turn even in liis bed without jjain. 

327. Assignable causes. It will be always right to 
inquire of the patient whether he can account for the 
accession of his disease. He wiU tell you whether ho 
has exposed himself to the operation of any of those 
causes which are known to be active in producing it. 
His previous state of health should also be investigated, 
for we may be thus enabled to explain the occurrence 



J 



r 



FOR INVESTIGATING DYSPEPTIC DISEASE. 339 



mi 
Lap] 

tic 
_ pece; 
■lemi 



of symptoms, and to connect them with the derange- 
ments of distant organs. An affection of the stomach 
may, for instance, be traced to some Bympathetic action, 

'hich might otherwise be mistaken for a primary 

lisease. 

328. Hm^eAitary siiscqjtibilih/. So many vague no- 
tions are entertained upon this subject, that it will be 
pecessary for mo to define the latitude in which the 

to be received. Dyspepsia, depending upon 
luliarity of stornaeb, is certainly hereditary, but it is 
only hereditary in predisposition, always requiring the 
influence of some cause to produce it, and consequently 
always to be prevented, and often relieved, by avoiding 
such exciting pause. In cases of great obscurity, a 
knowledge of the disease to which the patient's parent 
is particularly obnoxious, must, for reasons sufficiently 
obvious, assist our judgment, 

329. Having acquired all the information which is to 
be obtained by questioning the patient upon the subject 
of his " specific symptoms," we are next to investigate 
the " general symptoms," connected with the animal, 
vital, and natural functions. In this line of inquiry, 
the judgment which we have been able to form will bo ■ 
confirmed or modified ; we shall, at the same time, be I 
enabled to discover the influence which the local aifeo- | 
tion has produced upon the general system. 

330. It has been observed that the strength of the I 
patient, both as it regards the voluntary motions, and in- | 
tellectnal operations, does not suffer until the dyspeptic ' 
disease has acquired a considerable influence over the 
system. The condition, therefore, of these functions 

z 2 



340 



COMMENTARY UPON THE SCHEME 



will serve as a measure of the severity of the complaint; 
but in forming such an estimate, we must be careful to 
avoid the fallacies with which it is surrounded. 

331. The pidse only affords indications of question- 
able value ; when taken in conjunction with other 
symptoms it may serve to fortify our conclusions; but 
1 am anxious to impress my strong conviction upon the 
mind of the practitioner, that vrhen received as an 
isolated testimony, it will be liable to lead him into 
error. Its strength, when other evidences concur, will 
undoubtedly throw some light upon the general state of 
the vital powers ; its frequency may indicate a state of 
morbid excitement, its hardness must excite the sus- 
picion of organic mischief, and its irregularity will denote 
a disturbed state of the circulation, the cause of which 
must be deduced from other symptoms. 

332. The state of the respiratioti is a circumstance 
worthy of attention : for it may concur, with other 
symptoms, to indicate a state of congestion in the abdo- 
minal viscera, by which the descent of the diaphragm 
is impeded. It will also suggest other states of primary 
or secondary disease, the nature of which the reader 
wall easily understand from the various observations 
which are interspersed through the preceding pages of 
this work. 

333. Animal heat. The degree, uniformity, and 
equable dilftision of heat are circumstances of import- 
ance : they will enable us to form some estimate of the 
state of the vital powers generally ; and when we con- 
sider what an intimate connexion subsists between the 
temperature of the body and the different stages of 



FOR INVESTIGATING DYSPEPTIC DISEASE. 



3411 



idigestioii, it will throw some light upou the couipara- j 
yve energy with which they are performed. 

334. With regard to the indications afforded by the | 
Ate of the appetite for solids or liquids, I have already 
)delivered my opiuious. 
■ 335. T/ie appearance oft/ie tongue haa also been no- 
led in the preceding pages of this work ; it ia natural 
I expect that a part, which is so immediately con- 
jcted with the functions of the stomach, should be the 
first to exhibit a deranged condition in dyspepsia, and 
we accordingly find this to be the case. Baglivi hafi . 
laid that the pulse may deceive you, but that the indi- 
cation afforded by the tongue is infalliljle. It greatly 
Taries, however, in ap|)earaiice, in different cases, and 
in different stages of the same case. When white and 
milky, it announces general irritation, frequently from 
mental causes. When brown or dark-coloured, foul 
lieongestions in the prima via;, or the presence of vitiated 
lecretion ; and when unusually bright and shining, a 
norbid condition of the villous coat of the stomach or 
intestines, which is usually associated with, or is the 
torecuTBor of, organic mischief; for it indicates the pre- 
tence of a degree of fever not commonly excited by the 
Simple functional aberrations of the digestive organs. 
In some cases the tongue is comparatively clean, but its 
cuticle loses its natural hue and natural transparency, 
and presents a sodden appeai-ance : this generally de- 
lends upon the secretions having been for a considerable j 
mgth of time in au unnatural state. 
336. There is a phenomenon connected with the 
ifcppearauee of the tongue of much importance in its 



342 COMMENTARy UPON THE SCHEME 

indication, and 'whicli, as far as I believe, lias been so 
little noticed, that I am anxious to call the particulitr 
attention of the practitioner to its nature. It is a dirty 
brown fur principally occupying one half of the tongue, 
longitudinally from its root to its tip. I believe that 
sucli an appearance may be very generally received as 
an evidence of cerebral disturbance. In paralysis it is 
frequently very striking, but in morbid states of the 
nervous system, short of such mischief, I have noticed 
its presence in a less defined form, and have found the 
conclusion deduced from it subsequently confirmed by. 
other symptoms. 

337. The salivary sea-etion is susceptible of various 
morbid conditions, to which the labours of the animal- 
chemist have not hitherto been directed ; it is some- 
times unnaturally ropy or viscid, so as to occasion an 
incessant hawking ; at other times it is so pretematu- 
rally thin and copious, as to be discharged from the 
mouth in considerable quantities. I have lately seen 
a dyspeptic patient who declares, that his pillow is 
thoroughly wet in the morning with the discharge which 
takes place during the night ; and yet dryness of the 
mouth, and a parched tongue, are amongst the most dis- 
agreeable of his symptoms, as if the secretion had lost 
the power of lubricating the parts to which it is applied. 
Frank states that he has known the saliva, when se- 
creted in unnatural quantities, to have become sacchar- 
rine. 

338. The stale of the cutamous discharge is a circum- 
stance of more importance than physicians usually as- 
sign to it. The reciprocal connexion which subsists 



FOE INVESTIGATING DYSPEPTIC DISEASE. 343,1 

between the functions of the skin and stomach is so ' 
obvious, that if the latter be deranged, the former is 
immediately affected, and vice versa. It ia the change | 
jMuduced upon the skin which assists in bestowing that 
peculiar pbysioguomj- so cliaracteristic of protracted in- 
digestion ; and amougst the most useful remedies in this 
disease, will be found those which are calculated to 
restore the healthy action of the cutaneous organs. 
When we remember that a j)erson in health who takes 
eight pounds of ahment duiing the twenty-four hours, 
will discharge five of them by perspiration, we shall 
readily perceive how greatly the suspension or derange- 
— 3nt of such a function must burden the digestive 
fans. 

339. T/ie condition of the ej-'cretions, as to quantity 

d quality, is another object of important inquiry. I 

ftll first describe the difierent appearances which the 

tseces may present in the various cases of chylopoietio 

disturbance. On some occasions they will contain an 

—.excessive quantity of bile; on others they .will not be 

■Haificiently tinged with that secretion, and will there- 

Rfbre assume a light yellow, or a clay-brown colour. 

They \vill sometimes more particularly indicate by their 

appearance the presence of vitiated secretion, and have 

a dark olive, or a blackish-brown hue. In some cases 

they have so far degenerated as to resemble pitch. The 

gall-bladder frequently discharges highly concentrated 

Bifid acrid bile, scalding the anus during its passage. 

^■Vhere the biliary secretion has been irregularly sup- 

^bied, the fseces may assume a partially coloured appear- 

^Bpce. It is not unusual to notice mucous and gelatin- 



344 



EXAMINATION OF THE F.«CE8. 



Oils matter accompanyiTig, but not mixed with the fieces, 
aud which have been sometimes mistaken for worms, 
Tt must have derived its origin from the alimentary 
membranes, or from the glands situated in the canal. 
There is a very peculiar morbid evacuation which I 
have occasionally witnessed, and which has been de- 
scribed as resembling yeast in colour and consistence. 
This frequently cornea on suddenly, and as suddenly 
departs ; it is generally very profuse in quantity, and is 
usually preceded by uneasy sensations in the alimentary 
canal. It would appear to be a morbid secretion of the 
intestinal juices during a torpid state of the liver : al- 
though in one case, in which I witnessed its occurrence, 
it was evidently connected with a diseased state of the 
pancreas. I may, in this place, take notice of the ap- 
pearance of fat-like lumps of matter which are some- 
times passed from the intestines. I suspect that they 
are inspissated portions of mucus from the cajcum ; I 
have, at least observed such evacuations to be accom- 
panied by pain in that region. In most cases of dys- 
pepsia, the stools will contain portions of undigested 
food, showing at once the failure of the assimilating 
powers. The odour of the discharge is a circumstance 
of importance ; a fetid stool indicates less permanent 
or extensive change, than one which is deficient in the 
characteristic odour, and yields a faint smell. The con- 
sistence of the fgcces will likewise bo foinid to afford 
some useful signs. It has been generally supposed that 
their dryness affords a proof that the nutritive part of 
the aliment has been duly absorbed; and there can be 
no doubt that such motions, if their colour be natural, 



EXAMINATION OF THE FvECES. 345 

' should be considered as favourable in cases of indiges- 
tion. Boerbaave has remarked, that "people who 
complain of going too sehlom to stool, and of voiding 
hard and dry fa-ces, complain without reason, because 
this proves the strength of tbeir constitution," The 
least favourable consistence is that of a soft pudding, 
especially if the discbarge of the motion be unattended 
with a feeling of relief corresponding with the quantity 
evacuated ; a sensation of something being retained, 
accompanied with that of a bearing down in the lower 
portions of the intestines, is not unusual upon such 
occasions. There is a peculiar appearance connected 
with this species of evacuation, which, I believe, has 
never been described in any work, nor indeed is it easy 
to convey by words its exact nature. It was first 
pointed out to me by Dr. Baillie, and T have since 
noticed it in numerous instances, and become satisfied 
of its immediate connexion with diseased secretion. 
Tlie consistence of the motion is that of a pudding, but 
it is of unequal density in its different parts, and ex- 
hibits a surface as if it had been rasped by a file. I 
have still another form of tacees to describe, which 
tould seem to depend upon a contraction of the intee- 
, the excrement is hard, but having a diameter 
^not much exceeding that of a tobacco-pipe. In pro- 
tracted cases of dyspepsia, the occurrence of this ap- 
pearance has given origin to a belief in the existence of 
stricture in the rectum ; but I believe its cause is always 
seated in the higher portions of the large intestines. 
^Bd order that we may deduce safe conclusions from the 
^■jtpearance of a fspcuient discharge, we must be well 



DBve 
■taoul 
H»]e 



346 



EXAMINATION OF THE FjBCBS. 



acquainted with the nature and extent of the change 
which may ho produced upon it by the operation of 
different aliments and medicines. The air, too, has the 
efiect of altering the colour, for which reason it shoiUd 
be examined as speedily as may be convenient. This 
observation applies with great force to the stools of in- 
fants, which, although perfectly yellow when voided, ra- 
pidly assume a green appearance ; a I'act which would 
seem to arise from the decomposition of the bile. 

340. Certain green vegetables, especially spinach, 
impart to the freces a green hue, which may be mis- 
taken for vitiated bile. Beet-root will also give a 
colour to the alimentary discharge, wliicU it is necessary 
to distinguish. Persons who take a considerable quan- 
tity of milk will pass pale-coloured evacuations, as if 
the bile were imperfectly secreted. Where the aliment 
has been of a very complicated description, the fames 
will generally assume a crude and diversified character, 
owing, probably, to the several parts not having under- 
gone the same degree of digestion, as already explained. 
Where much stimulant drink has been used, and the 
person has been subjected to long fasting, or much 
labour, or has perspired profusely, the fceces acquire a 
hardened character. It is essential for the practitioner 
to know, that certain parts, both of animaUand vege- 
table substances, pass through the body without under- 
going any change : this is the case with the skin and 
seeds of fruits, &c. Cheese is also very apt to pass in 
an undigested state. Dr. Marcet records an instance 
of this kind, in which the substance was at first mis- 
taken for an intestinal concretion ; but it proved to he 



ALIMENTARY CONCRETIONS. 347 

either a piece of cheese formed into a ball by the action 
of the intestines, or a portion of caseous matter actually 
formed in the intestines, from milk taken as nourish- 
ment by the patient, and coagulated by the gastric 
juices into an midigestible mass. This latter supposi- 
tion is the more probable, as Dr. Wollaston, a few 
years afterwards, had several concretions of the same 
kind brought to him for examination by a medical prac- 
titioner, and which proved of the same nature, and had 
been discharged by a patient whilst using a milk diet. 
t has also been stated by Dr. Marcet, that concretions 

■ oat seeds are not unusually passed by the inhabit- 

"■ftnts of Scotland and Lancashire, where the oatcake is 

in common use as an article of food amongst the lower 

classes. The spawn of lobstei's, a very indigestible 

pabstance, has also occasioned similar deception. Mag- 

ffiia, when repeatedly taken, will, by the assistance of 

a little animal mucus, become consolidated into masses 

of formidable magnitude. Mr. E. Brande has recorded 

_4n interesting case of this kind in the first volume of 

i Journal of the Royal Institution. The influence 

■educed by certain medicines upon the colour of the 
fa;ce8 is equally striking ; iron and bismuth have the 
property of tinging them black, and magnesia of giv- 
ing a white appearance. We see, therefore, the im- 
portance of attending to such circumstances, where it 
is an object to ascertain the state of the biliary secre- 
tion from the colour of the stools ; and it would be 
judicious, on such occasions, to restrict patients to a 

Idiet that is not likely to colour the fseces. 
341. The qtiantit^ o{ fseculent discharges is also an 



■ith 

ants 

in c 

classi 

■vibst 

fvesia 

alitt 

of foi 

_4n in 

Urodi 



348 



EXAMINATION OP THE F,BCES. 



important object of enquiry ; and in estimating it, we 
must always consider it with reference to the Datare as 
well as quantity of the food. I have known persons 
who have lived for some time on the fat of veal, Duurow, 
&c. for the purpose of obtaining nutriment with the 
least possible quantity of excrement, iu order to avoid 
irritation in a diseased rectum, and it is surprising how 
scanty the evacuations have been on such occasions. 
Rice scarcely leaves any excrementitious matter to be 
transmitted along the intestines, and hence has arisen 
the idea of its astringent quality. Fish, on the contrary, 
leaves a large quantity of excrement. 

Some of my readers may ]ierhapB consider the ob- 
servations which I have been induced to offer upon the 
appearances of the fseculent discharge as unnecessarily 
minute; but I am anxious to urge upon every practi- 
tioner the absolute necessity of such inspections. No 
one can successfully conduct the treatment of a severe 
dyspeptic com])Iaint unless he submits to the perfor- 
mance of such a duty. All the great physicians of 
antiquity relied upon such a source of information fw 
their guidance. Hippflcrates **arHed 'the' phictice tlT 
such an extent as to have acquired from Bt)mte of trf^ 
wits of his age the appellation of vKtu'ofdyt}^, as AtI^-' 
phanes had before named Eectllapiua. Some fijAdtenii' 
practitioners have, from the same scrupulous attention, 
been obnoxious to a similar charge; but I trust that 
no physician will be induced to swerve from the per- 
formance of a paramount duty by such intimidation '. 



' A patient may be so circumstanced, that the preservation of thf 



EXAMINATION OF THE URINE. 349 

342, The examinaiion of the urine is also a matter 
of considerable importance. Its appearance will not 
only assist us in forming a judgment respecting the 
seat of the dyspeptic disease ; but, if carefully watched 
from day to day, will point out the beneficial changeB 
which our plan of diet and medicine may have produced. 
It will also instruct ua in the species of food which 
best agrees with the patient ; for slight errors of diet, 
although imperceptible in other respects, are generally 
announced by obvious changes in the urinary deposites. 

343. Without entering with chemical minuteness 
into the history of the changes which the urine under- 
goes under diiferent conditions of the body, there are 
certain phenomena with which every practitioner ought 
to be well acquainted ; these I shall briefly enumerate, 
and endeavour to point out the indications which they 
severally afford. The quantity evacuated during a given 
interval is the first question which presents itself; a 
diminished flow of deep-coloured urine is invariably 
associated with febrile action ; while an increased quan- 
tity of pale urine more generally indicates a peculiar 
state of nervous irritability, unattended with fever. 
When urine of this description (Diabetes Insipidus) 
flows most copiously during the night, I have generally 
found it to be symptomatic of some affection of the 

feeces. for inspection, is attended with inconvenience. It ia, there- 
fore, worthy of notice, that a table -spoonful of Bweet oil poured over 
them, by investing the surface with a film, effectually prevents 
evaporation, and the consequent stench they might otherwise 
occasion. This precaution aliould always be adopted in the wards of 
boepitals. 



350 EXAMINATION OP THE UEINE. 

brain. In estimating, however, this aymptom, the prac- 
titioner will see the importance of inquiring into the 
vicarious excretion of the skin. Much has been written 
upon the subject oi albuminous urine, or that in which a 
coagulum ia produced by the application of heat ; Dr. 
Blackall has maintained that it is connected with too 
great an action in some part of the system, and he con- 
siders that its occurrence in dropsy should be received 
as an indication of the necessity of blood-letting. I 
have met with several cases of dyspepsia, in which 
such a state of urine occurred, and I am disposed to be- 
lieve with Dr. Prout that it is derived irora the chyle. 
I have, at this time, two patients under my care, who 
have long suffered from the effects of tuherculated 
lungs ; and during the progress of the present work, I 
examined their urine, and found, in both cases, that it 
was albuminous. We have, probably, too few data to 
lead us to a safe concluaion with regard to the cause of 
the phenomenon; but I am, at present, impressed vrith 
a belief that it arises from imperfect sanguification ; the 
chyle, not undergoing the necessary changes to convert 
it into perfect blood, is eliminated by the kidneys. It 
is essential, in every case of protracted dyspepsia, to 
inquire into the state of the urinary secretion, in order 
to ascertain whether the patient may not be labouring 
under diabetes ; for this disease is far more common 
than is generally supposed. So many valuable works 
have appeared upon this subject, that I consider it unne- 
cessary to enter upon its history ; but I should not dis- 
charge my duty to the professional reader, were I to 
omit noticing the concise but luminous chapter with 



— this 



EXAMINATION OF THK URINE. 351 

which Dr. Prout has favoured us, in his valuable work on 
the diseases of the urine. 

344. But of all the changes of which the urine is 
susceptible, none perhaps are less equivocal, or more 
mdicative of a deranged state of the alimentary func- 
tions, than the deposite of lithic acid, either in an 
amorphous or crystalline form. Dr. Prout states that 
this acid, when in the former condition, is always in 
state of combination, generally with ammonia; 

it when in the latter, it is nearly pure. He observes, 
that in healthy urine the lithic salt exists in such a pro- 
portion, as to be held in permanent solution at all ordi- 
nary temperatures ; but that, from particular causes 
affecting the health, its quantity is prcternaturaliy in- 
creased, and the e^^cess is deposited as the urine cools. 
Dr. Philip is inclined to account for its appearance in 
the urine from an increased quantity of acid passing 
through the urinary organs : from this view of the sub- 
ject the lithic acid deposited must be considered as 
arising, not from the excess of that substance in the 
Mrine, but from a decomposition of the compounds into 
which it enters, by the agency of a iree acid. He con- 
wders that, in a healthy state of the system, the preci- 
pitating acid is thrown off by the skin, and he supposes 
that, even when generated in excessj it may be diverted 
to the surface of the body by merely increasing the 
insensible perspiration ; an opinion which is certainly 
igthened by the admitted fact, that calculous affec- 

ms are more frequent in cold and moist climates than 
in those regions where the cutaneous is in a state of 
predominant activity in relation to the tmnaiy system. 



inse 



I 



353 LITHIC SEDIMENTS. 

But, from whatever cause the precipitation may take 
place, it9 occurrence muat be considered as a very deli- 
cate test of alimentary disturbance. By watching the 
occurrence and disappearance of these deposites, we are 
enabled to form a very just conclusion as to the efficacy 
of any plan of medicine or diet that may have been pre- 
scribed. I am acquainted with a gentleman who can 
never eat bread without discovering a change in his 
urine. He told me that he had entirely overcome the 
lithic diathesis by substituting biscuits. To those who 
are not acquainted with the influence which the slight- 
est error in diet possesses over the urine, this may 
appear a refinement scarcely mthin the bounds of 
credibility : Dr. Prout, however, has stated a parallel 
case. The variety of colour exhibited by the lithie 
sediments is also deserving of some attention, and 
the profession is under deep obligations to Dr. Prout 
for the able manner in which he has described such 
modifications. He arranges them under three divisions, 
viz. 1. Yellowish or nut-brown sediment ; 2. Meddish- 
brmim or lateritious sediments ; and 3. Pink sediment. 
The first variety indicates a strong tendency to the lithic 
acid diathesis : although in some cases an opposite 
state of system prevails, and an alkalescent condition 
of the stomach and bowels may be supposed to exist ; 
in general the nearer such sediments approach to white, 
the more of the phosphates they contain. He says, 
that the second variety varies in tint from nearly white, 
in which state it is with difficulty distinguished from 
the last variety, to a deep brick-red or brown. It is to 
be considered as a symptom indicative of phlogistic fever, 



AGE AND OCCUPATION. 353 

^^j very frequently of local inflammatory action. The 
third variety of sediment owea its colour principivlly to j 
the Purpurate of Ammonia : its presence indicates the 
existence of certain chronic visceral aftections, especi-- 
ally of the liver. 

345. These observatioiiM are sufficient to impress 
upon the practitioner the necessity of inspecting the 
^rine of his patient, but the indications it affords are 
^■M>t to be received without due caution. If taken 
^Hklone, they may not be worthy of any considerable 
degree of credit, but when viewed in conjunction with 
other symptoms, they will undoubtedly assist hia 



*Jirc 



I 



346. We come now to consider the "Particular 
Circumstances" of the patient under examination. His 
for obvious reasons, is a fact of importance. By 
ning the nature of his occupation, we shall be en* 
abled to form some judgment with respect to the 
causes that may have excited his disease. The posture 
in which some persons are accustomed to sit is a fre- 
quent source of affections of the stomach and bowels. 
Literary people and clerks, from bending to the desk 
or table, are frequently thus affected. Tailors and 
Bhoem^ers are notoriously obnoxious to serious ob- 
Btructiona from such a cause : by the position in which 
these artisans pass a considerable portion of the dayi, 
the margin of their ribs is pressed upwards so as to 
iJbrce the stomach against the diaphragm, and to impede 
tlie passage through the pylorus. It is equally essen- 
tial to inquire into tlie fm-mer koLits and customs of the j 
patient; we thus become acquainted with his dietetie i 



L. 



354 



RESIDENCE IN A WARM CLIMATE. 



irregularities, the degree of exercise fo which he has 
been accustomed, and with various other eircumstances 
which may have coiitribiited to produce the disease 
under which he labours. Nor ought we to overlook 
the mental condition of the patient ; for while one clafis 
of persons are suffering from the anxious and intempe- 
rate exercise of the mind, another class become the 
victims of an ever wearying indolence and a blighting 
ennui. It is perhaps difficult to say from which of these 
two cardinal evils the greatest portion of mischief 
arises ; whether the machine suffer most from excessive 
friction or from rust. Persons, whose minds are wholly 
unoccupied, especially after active employment, are led 
to exaggerate every sensation, and to watch and criticise 
each action of the body, as if life were nothing more 
than a wearisome reiteration of the animal functions; 
give a man, under such circumstances, occupation, and 
you will cure him; idleness has been "the head and 
source of his distemper," and would you charm away 
the dusky gnome by wliich be is possessed, you must 
treat him, as the enchanter Michael Scott treated his 
demon, by finding him constant employment. If 
he has resided in a warm climate, we shall be led 
to suspect the existence of hepatic affection. The 
" Occasional Questions" which I have introduced, as 
necessary for the examination of females and children, 
are too obvious in their importance to require any 
further comment. With respect to the value of 
"General Observations" upon the physical diaracter 
of the individual, I have only to state, that those ac- 
customed to medical physiognomy will derive much 



AGE AND OCCUPATION. 355 

information from such an inspection ; although the evi- 
dence is of such a nature that it cannot well be de- 
scribed : it is to be learnt only by experience. There 
is, however, an important fact, in connection with the 
colour of the skin, which deserves some notice, as it has 
given origin to a very general and fallacious opinion. 
The sallow and subdued yellow aspect of the dyspeptic 
has almost universally been placed to the account of bile, 
morbidly afloat in the circulation. This is not the fact, 
the appearance to which I allude arises from a degene- 
rated state of the serum of the blood. 



A a2 



356 



OF THB 



CURE OF INDIGESTION, 

AS IT RELATES TO DIET, EXERCISE, AND MEDICINAL 

TREATMENT. 



347. The previous habits of the patient, and the origin 
and seat of the disorder, are the circumstances from 
which the physician is to derive his indications of cure. 
If the disease has not extended its influence beyond the 
stomach and bowels, the means to be adopted will be 
more simple, and, at the same time, more prompt in 
their salutary operation, than where it has involved the 
functions of remote organs ; but in this latter case, the 
symptoms are so frequently those of mere sympathy, 
that the practitioner has often the satisfaction of wit- 
nessing their removal by remedies that can only have 
acted on the primge viae. 

348. It has been stated, that the stomach may fail in 
the performance of its duties, either from a deficiency 
in the secretion of its menstruum, or from a loss of 
power in its muscular fibres; but in either case we must 
refer the disease to a loss of nervous energy. Some 
persons, predisposed to indigestion, and who inherit the 



PATHOLOGY OF THE STOMACH. 



357 



I temperament most favourable to its production, M-ould 
I fleem to Lave less than an ordinary ratio of nervous 
• energy supplied to their muscular etructures. In such 
cases, there is an unusual torpor in the bowels, even 
during health. An attention to this fact has frequently 
led me to adopt measures which might have proved 
less successful under other circumstances. As a gene- 

Ixal propoaition it may be stated, that the secretion of 
gastric juice, and the muscular power of the stomach, 
Sre so intimately associated with each other, that the 
ftne cannot long be deficient without the other partak- 
feig in the torpor ; and the practitioner, who has had 
ftinch experience in the treatment of dyspeptic disease, 
will readily believe that whatever tends to restore a 
healthy nervous power to the stomach, tends to form 
ihe food into that substance which is beat fitted to ex- 
3 the muscular fibres of this organ ; and that w!iat-» 
jfet excites the natural action of these fibres, tends to 
eUeve the nerves from their load, and, in the most 
fevourable way, to bring into contact with their extre- 
mities the food on which, through the intervention of 
the gastric fluid, their powers are to be exerted. 
B|' 349. The pathology of the stomach may, therefore, 
Bpb greatly simplified by referring it to a defect of 
nervous action; and our first duty is to inquire into the 
causes that may have occasioned it, and which, in 
^jpneral, may be identified with errors of diet, affections 
^■f the mind, or ii-regularity of exercise, 
H^350. The nature and influence of such remote cause? 
have been fully discussed in the preceding pages; and 
by carefully ai)preciating their ojieration, the practi,- 



358 



PRACTICAL RULES FOR 



tioiier will obtaiu a clue for his guidance. He must 
lay down a system of rules tor his patient, by which 
the remote causes of his complaints may be removed ; 
but, in his attempts to reform bad habits, he must be 
careful to avoid all abrupt transitions, except in those 
circumstances which have no direct influence upon the 
vital powers of the body. I shonld, for instance, be 
^'ery cautious how I withdrew spirituous stimulants, 
although I might be well satisfied that the indulgence 
of such potations had given origin to the disease ; but 
I should not feel any hesitation in at once withholding 
every species of pastry, or other indigestible matter, 
without reserve. Upon the same principle, we should 
gradually diminish the number of meals, wJiere they 
have exceeded the proper limit, adapting them with 
skill and caution to the fluctuating circumstances of 
the patient. The same observation applies to exercise ; 
nothing would be more injudicious than to expose the 
invdlid, debilitated by sedentary habits, to the effects of 
sudden and protracted exercise ; nor should the person, 
whose habits have been laboriously active, be abruptly 
restricted to an irksome state of indolence. The dis- 
cipline, in such cases, must be graduated according to 
the previous habits of the patient ; to his age, strength, 
and the nature of his disease. Exercise can never 
prove salubrious, if it be followed by fatigue. Mr. 
Abernethy has prescribed to his patients a set of rules, 
which I shall take the liberty of quoting in this place, iu 
order that I may offer such observations upon their 
value, as my own experience has suggested. " Thai 
shonld rhe early when their powers hnre liecn refreshed hif 



» 



GUIDANCE OF DYSPEPTIC PATIENTS. 359 

Ueep', and actively exercise tJiemselves in the open air till 
thet/Jedn slight degree of fatigue." Upon this first rule, 
I am disposed to make the following comment. Al- 
though we must all agree in the advantages of early 
rising, yet, in dyspeptic cases, I have frequently known 
the disease greatly aggravated by the patient suddenly 
changing his habit, with regard to the hour of rising ; 
and that if he becomes the least fatigued, before his 
morning repast, he remains languid and uncomfortable 
dnring the rest of the day. A long walk before break- 
last, imless the person has been accustomed to the 
practice, will frequently produce a fit of indigestion. 
1 have already observed, that it is advisable to allow an 
interval to pass before we commence the meal of break- 
fest; and where the weather and circumstances will 
permit it, this interval may be passed in the open air, 
but the body should not suffer the least fatigue. Mr. 
.bernethy then proceeds to say, " Tliey should rest one 
tr, then breakfast, and rest three hours, in ordei- that the 
'gies (f the constitution should be concentrated in Uie 
•hff digestion." It appears, then, that the jmtient is 
rise early, to take exercise until he feels slightly 
fatigued, and then to rest an hour before he is allowed 
to take any refreshment. This plan might succeed very 
well in preserving a robust and healthy man in vigour; 
but where wo have to deal with a person whose ener- 
gies are languid, and whose feeble powers are easily 
exhausted, I fear that such discipline would be ill-cal- 
culated to afford assistance. It is notorious that all 
dyspejitic jiersons are especially languid in the morning, 
and they accordingly require a regimen the very reverse 



360 



PRACTICAL RULES FOH 



of that which Mr. Abernetby recommends. Such, at 
least, is the conviction of my mind. To the practice of 
resting three hours after breakfast there can be no ob- 
jection ; it is the period best adapted for intellectual 
business. He then recommends "active exet'cise agedn' 
for two hours, rest one ; then taking their dinner, they shmdd 
rest for three hours, exei-cise two, rest one, and take their 
third slight meal." 

351. It is impossible to frame any general rule that 
shall apply to every case, but I will offer a sketch of 
the plan I have usually recommended : the practitioner 
"Will readily modify its appliciition to meet the circum- 
stances of any particular case. The dyspeptic patient 
should rise from his bed as soon as he awakes in the 
morning: for, as Mr, Abernethy justly states, "many 
persons upon first waking feel alert and disposed to 
rise, when, upon taking a second sleep, they become 
lethargic, can scarcely be awakened, and feel oppressed 
and indisposed to exertion for some time after they 
have risen." This is undoubtedly true. He should then 
walk, or rather saunter for some time in the open lur, 
previously to taking his breakfast, the material of 
which is to be selected according to the principles 
already discussed (132). He is now in a condition to 
follow his usual avocations ; but it is a circumstance of 
no slight importance to procure an evacuation at this 
period, which is easily effected by habit (92) ; a person 
who accustoms himself to the act at a certain hour of 
the day, will generally feel an inclination at the ap- 
pointed season. The invalid should not allow his occu- 
pations, if sedentary, to engage him for more than 



per 



GUIDANCE OF DYSPEPTIC PATIENTS. 361 

three hours, after which, exercise on horseback, or by 
watking, should be uniformly taken. I have ab-eady 
observed, that the state of the weather ought not to be 
urged as an objection to the prosecution of measures 
so essential to health. Where the season of the year, 
and the situation of the patient, will allow the exercise, 
I strongly urge the advantages to be derived from 
digging: the stimulus thus given to the abdominal 
regions is highly salutary in dyspeptic affections. The 
hour of dinner should not be later than three o'clock 
(134), and the patient should rest for an hour before 
he sits down to the meal. It should consist but of 
few articles, should he carefully masticated ', and tlie 
invalid should rise from the table at the moment he 
perceives that the relish given by the appetite ceases. 
le manner in which he should regulate his potations, 
^t and subsequent to this meal, has been already con^ 
aidered (146). With respect to the allowance of winei 
every practitioner must use his discretion, and be 
ffuided by the former habits and recent condition of 
patient (254). It is essential that the invalid should 
ijoy rest for at least two hours after dinner (121), 
lat is to say, he should not enter upon any occupa- 
iftion or diversion that may occasion the slightest fatigue ; 
to a gentle walk, or saunter in the garden, there can be 
no rational objection, especially at that season of tlie 
year when such a pastime is the most iuvitiug. At 

' Tqo much stress cannot belaid upon this ci reams tan ce ; apd, 
I person who dines alone generally hurries his meals, I have 
ienerally advised the dyspeptic to dine in company witfi bis 



J 



362 



ACIDITY OF STOMACH, FLATULENCE. 



eix or seven o'clock, he may take some diluting liquid, 
as tea ; after which, exercise will be highly useful, to 
assist the sanguification of his previous meal : in the 
summer season there will be no difficulty in accom- 
plishing this object ; and if the strength of the patient 
will allow the exertion, some active game, as bowl% 
will be attended with advantage. At ten o'clock he 
may take some toasted bread, or a lightly boiled egg, 
with a glass of wine and water, should his previous 
habits render such an indulgence necessary, and at 
eleven he may retire to rest. The bed-room should be 
well ventilated, and its temperature should, as nearly as 
possible, be that of the apartment from which the patient 
retires. A well-stuffed mattress is to be preferred to 
a bed of down, and the curtains should not be so drawn 
as to exclude the free circulation of air. The invalid 
should be careful in not retiring to rest with cold feet: 
nothing contributes more readily to disturbed sleep, 
and uneasy dreams, than the unequal circulation which 
takes place on such occasious. 

352. Such are the general rules which I should 
enforce for tho protection of those invalids who are 
liable to dyspeptic attacks. There are particulai- fea- 
tures in the history of every case which will require 
appropriate treatment, and I shall now proceed to 
their consideration. 



ACIDITY OF STOMACH. FLATULENCE. &c. 

353, It has been a question more frequently discussed 
than satisfactorily answered, whether the morbid acidity 
■yhich occurs in the stomach of invalids be the product 
^Hf a fermentation generated by indigestible food, or the 
^Consequence of a certain condition of the gastric secre- 
tion ? It seems to rac that it may arise from either of 
these causes. In cases of imperfect chymification it 
Hbiay depend upon the ingesta actually undergoing the 
Hdietoua fermentation, or upon an increased acidity in 
the gastric juice itself, occasioned by the indigestible 
nature of the aliment upon which it has to operate ; 
for it has been already remarked (30) that the gastric 
falvent varies in this respect, according to the charac- 
of the ingesta which excite its secretion. The 
Beidity, therefore, so prevalent in weak stomachs, in- 
iead of being regarded as of morbid origin, ought to 
; frequently considered as an effort of nature to assist 
digestion. It has been very truly stated that the 
necessity of acid for the chymification of vegetable food 
(fiords an explanation of the fondness which the Germans 
J Dutch display for saur kraut, or cabbage in a state of 
letous fermentation, and of its alleged easy digesti- 
Besides the above sources of acidity there 
1 remains one to be examined, more obscure in its 
tature, and far more difficult in its cure ; it is a condi- 



' Dr. Combe on the Physiology of Digcstioi 



364 



METHOD OF CURE. 



tion of tlie stomacli arising from its sympathetic action 
with some distant organ, as the kidneys, uterus, &c. 
Cardialgia, from tliis latter cause, resists the ordinary 
methods of cure, and is more frequently relieved by 
acids than alkalies, or by the exhibition of a narcotic. 

354, The above view of the sources of Cardialg;ia, or 
heartburn, will suggest some very important bints for its 
cure. Should it arise from the indigestible nature of 
the food, a change of diet will promise success ; if, 
however, it can be supposed to depend upon a condi- 
tion of the gastric solvent, rendered necessary for the 
solution of the ingesta, a difltrent plan of treatment 
will suggest itself to the practitioner; and let me here 
protest against the too prevailing fashion of taking, 
indiscriminately, doses of soda, or of some alkaline 
salt, after a meal, " to correct any acidity^'' — to correct 
acidity ! say rather to neutralize that power which 
nature has provided for our well-being. Acidity is 
essential to chymification, — if it be excessive, let us 
inquire how far it may be morbid, or salutary, before 
we attempt to remove it from its sphere of action by 
the interference of art. 

355. In ordinary cases of acidity, or those depend- 
ing upon an acetification of the food, and complicated 
with symptoms of indigestion, the procuring evacuations 
from the bowels is the first measure to which wo are 
to resort, and this may be effected by the combination 
of some purgative and antacid. According to my own 
experience, which has been tolerably extensive, I have 
never found any formula so efficacious as the following. 



METHODS OF CURE. 365 

R. Decoct. Aloes coirip. f ^iv. 
Infos. Senns, £ Jiss. 
Ammoniae Sesquicarb. 5ss. 
Tinct. Sennse, et 
Tinct. Rhei, co. aa. f 313. 
Fiat Mistura, de qua sumr. Cochl. duo ampla quotidie mane. 

The purgative force of the mixture may be readily 
varied according to circumstances by modifying the 
proportion of infusion of senna. If, from the appear- 
ance of the discharges, we discover an undue secretion 
of bile, a piU composed of the compound ea^trad of Colo- 
cynth^ with a grain or two of Calomel^ may be given 
with advantage. We have afterwards to adopt such 
treatment as may prevent its recurrence. This indica- 
tion is to be fulfilled by bringing the digestive organs 
into healthier action by a well-regulated regimen, and by 
such medicines as may give tone to the stomach, and 
increase that propulsatory action of the bowels, by 
which they are enabled to pass off the undigested por- 
tions of food ; and here again, the compound decoction 
of Aloes^ in combination with some bitter and aromatic 
ingredients, will be found a most valuable compound for 
the occasion ; or the following formula, which is a mo- 
dification of one proposed by Dr. Fothergil, may be 
adopted : — 

R. Aloe Spicat. fj. 

Rhei Rad. et Calumbae Rad. aa. ^ss. 

Liquor Calcis, f Jviij. 

Spir. Arraoraciae comp. f 3SS. 

Infunde per horas xij. in vase clauso, et cola. Colaturae sumr 
Cochl. ij. ampliora, bis de die. 



366 METHODS OF CURE. 

356. The exhibition of alkalies and absorbent earths, 
although it may remove the existing evil, will not avert 
the cause from which it arisea. Carbonate of Ammonia 
is, perhaps, the most efficacioue of the antacids, since it 
neutralises a portion of the acid matter which appears 
to exist in a gaseous state in the stomach, and which 
on that account eludes the action of the fixed alkalies. 
It is, moreover, calculated to relieve the gastric debi- 
lity which so frequently follows an attack of this nature. 
Diarrhoea, as might be predicated, is not an unusual at- 
tendant, in consequence of the irritation which the 
mucous membrane receives from the contact of the 
acrid matter ; small doses of Magnesia, combined with 
a few drops of Laudanum, and made into a draught 
with mucilage will generally be found to pacify the 
bowels, and relieve the complaint. 

357. We are, however, to look for permanent rehef 
to a change in the food ; all the vegetables should he 
withdrawn, and a diet of animal food substituted : but 
if such a change should excite the disgust of the patient, 
we must relax in our commands, for the stomach will 
never digest that against which the inclination rebels. 
The substances which are found, by experience, more 
particularly liable to create this disorder, are all fried 
articles, butter and greasy viands, pastry and crude 
vegetables; in short, whatever is indigestible may act 
as its exciting cause. Astringent wines, as port, are 
very apt to favour its occurrence. I have before ob- 
served, that the stomach is frequently sensible to very 
minute portions of astringent matter (258), Dr. Phi- 
lip says, that he has known more than one instance in 

S 



ever 



TREATMENT OF CAEDIALGIA. 367 

*-"wLieli the stomach was even sensible to the difference 
between coloured and colourless brandy. Broths of 
every description, but especially those made of the 
peat of young animals, are a fruitful source of heart- 
Veal contains a saccharine principle which is 
Tery susceptible of acetification. 

338, It has been stated that in certain morbid con- 
ditions, the contents of the stomach exhibit an opposite 
B^haracter, and that in the place of acid, an alkali may 
Bpredominate. Dr. Thomson, in a highly interesting 
■paper ' on " The Chemistry of the Digestive Organs," 
Bjias announced the important fact of having actually 
~ detected such a condition in several cases of Pyrosis, 
and that the attack was cured by diluted sulphuric acid. 
It has unfortunately occurred to me to have met with 
many cases of this disease, which baffled all my efforts. 
In most of them I can assert that the gastric liquid was 
generally neutral, occasionally acid, but as far as I know, 
never alkaline; I do not, however, intend by these ob- 
servations to throw the slightest discredit upon the ex- 
periments of Dr. Thomson ; on the contrary, I place 
implicit rehance upon his results, and the relief whieh 
LJ have witnessed fi-om acids, in certain forms of gastric 
^uUsease tends to confirm the opinion. If, however, I 
can adduce one case of Pyrosis, in which the liquid is 
proved to be neutral, it must be admitted that alka- 
linie, like acidity, is only contingent, and not essentia! 

t' TTiia paper was read before the Medical Section of the British 
Beociation. 26th August. 1836, and subsequently published in the 
ritiah Annals of Medicine. March 1837. 



368 DIFFERENT CADBE3 OF FLATULENCE. 

to the disease. The profession is much indebted to Dr. 
Thomson for his researches upon the subject ; they will 
have the effect of more immediately directing the atten- 
tion of the practitioner to the state of any liquid that 
may be ejected from the stomach, and of thus leading to 
a more scientific and successful plan of practice. 

359. Flatulence is often a very distressing disease; 
it sometimes is associated with acidity, but frequently 
is the only symptom which indicates an imperfect di- 
gestion. Wliether the gas, with which the intestines 
are inflated, bo a product of fermentation, or a secre- 
tion from their vessels, is a question which has given 
origin to some discussion. It may probably arise from 
either of these causes, although it is generally attri- 
butable to the former. In some cases, it appears to 
contain sulphuretted hydrogen gas, and eructations 
take place which are ebaracteriaed by the smeU of 
rotten eggs. Where this occurs, we may infer the 
existence of great alimentary disturbance ; the natural 
affinities, by which the digestive changes are produced, 
appear to be subverted, and a new chain of composi- 
tions and decompositions established. The albumen 
would seem to be the substance from which this com- 
pound is generated ; and in several cases which have 
fallen under my notice, relief has been obtained by 
confining the patient to a strictly farinaceous diet. 
Ordinary eases of ilatus, however, are of a different 
nature ; the air appears to be the product of fermenta- 
tion, and by avoiding such vegetables as are known to 
be susceptible of it, the disease has been removed, n 



^Ue o' 

Httb 

be, ' 
and 

^pJBte 



CAUSEa OK FI.ATUI.ENCF.. 367 

Seftain states of the alimentary canal, a sense of dis- 
tention may be felt, without any morbid increase in the 
quantity of intestinal gas ; an undue sensibility or irri- 
tability of the bowels may occasion such a feeling. 
This fact has been well illustrated by Dr. Parry ' : 
^e observes, that "tiiere is often considerable variation 
i the degree of inconvenience resulting from the use of 
»od or drinks which disagi-ee." " Sometimes," saya 
be, "if I take acids, as considerable quantities of fruit, 
and immediately afterwards eight or ten scruples of 
»li at a dose, in saturated aqua kali carb., I feel no 
tstention of the stomach, and bring up no carbonic acid 
^;as : several hours afterwards there is a great uneasiness 
in the colon, which is not relieved till a great quantity 
o£ wind passes downwards. In this case it was abso- 
htely necessary that the wind should have existed in 
jbe stomach, because an acid and an aerated kali were 
pixed there. But no dyspepsia, or what is called wind, 
produced by it, because the stomach itself was 
Tint thrown into a spasmodic state from being over- 
irritable. Afterwards, however, when the same wind 
passed into the colon, that bowel being in a state of 
morbid irritability, the uneasiness from the wind was 
produced there till the wind was expelled." Although 
the terms in which this fact is expressed may not be 
consonant with those of modern science, the fact itself, 

twelt as the explanation of it, are of great practical 
ue. It is not the presence of gas in the intestinal 
c, 
: 



' Collections from the Unpuliliished Medical Writings of the late 
kb Hillier Parry. 1835. 

B b 



368 TItEATMENT TO BE ADOPTED. 

canal, but tlio irritability of the intestinesj wliicli ren- 
ders tbem impatient of the slightest stimulus of dis- 
tention, that occasions the distress so common to dys- 
peptic invalids. In different forms of dyspepsia diffe- 
rent parts of the alimentaiy canal have their sensibili- 
ties excited : I have a patient, who, from the sligbtest 
error of diet suffers from flatulency, but he never 
feels the distress but in the sigmoid flexure of the 
colon. A person in robust health may, from various 
accidental circunistances connected with the nature of 
his food, experience an unusual intestinal distention ; 
but it will not occasion distress, for the reasons above 
stated. The practice to be founded upon such obsCTva- 
tions is evident : we shall obtain more advantage from 
calming the irritability of the bowels, than by dispel- 
ling the flatus by carminatives. I have found small doses 
of the extract of hyoscyamus, combined with two grains 
of ipecacuan, produce relief in attacks of flatulence 
which have resisted the ordinary methods of cure. 

360. Some dyspeptics, in consequence probably of 
an uneasy sensation at the cardia of the stomach, ac- 
quire the habit of swallowing a quantity of air, and of 
again expelling it. I have seen a patient who, for a 
considerable period, has thus appeared to bring up 
torrents of wind from his stomach, whereas in truth he 
merely suflered the air to return into the mouth which 
he had previously forced through the pharynx. I do 
not intend to insinuate that this is a voluntary decep- 
tion; it is evidently a habit originally acquired from a 
spasmodic effort to relieve a painful sensation. 



J 



TREATMENT TO BE ADOPTED. 



testin 
Bsertai 



361. Dr. Parry considers that dyspepsia consists in 
such a state of the villous coat of tlie stomach or in- 
testines, or both, as subjects them to be morbidly sn»- 
(Bptible of irritation from certain kinds of food, or 
rtain changes of the food, which are not perceived, or 
produce no uneasiness in healthy stomachs ; and that 
this affection of the villous coat, throughout all its 
^degrees, up to inflammation itself, is apt to be followed 
Hkjr sympathetic or symptomatic affections of the secre- 
^■ory arteries or glands seated in it, and often of the 
^nascular coat of the alimentary canal itself. I believe 
^Hbat such an affection is the general consequence, 
although not the cause of dyspepsia. In the treatment, 
therefore, of this complaint, we may frequently inter- 
^pose sedatives with advantage. Protracted dyspepsia 
Bk)t unfrequently depends upon a morbid condition of 
B^e alimentary surfaces ; the raucous membrane be- 
comes affected, and the disorder is not removed until 
measures have been adopted to restore its healthy 
, ^Secretiona. A fretful state of the intestinal discharges 
R generally associated with such a disturbance, and 1 
iBve found the administration of a lenient aperient 
fVery morning, with small doses of the vinum coldtici, 
)ated twice a day, eminently successfiil in such 



36'2. Where the dyspeptic disease is connected with 
_.dnodenal irritation, I know of no medicine more useful 
I the vinum mlcMci ; taking care to accompany its 
libition with that of occasional laxatives. Purgatives 
1 with violence are always followed with an 
liSaa of the symptoms. Dr. Yeats speaks in 
Bb2 




370 niltlTABILITY OF THE INTESTINES. 

high terms of commendation of the sulphate of potass : 
" It appears to me," says he, " to have a more specific 
effect upon the duodenum than the sulphate of mag- 
nesia. I give 9j. of it twice a day in the infusion of 
quassia. If mucli feverish irritation prevails, arising, aa 
I imagine, from some slight inflammatory action in the 
duodenum, the saline draught, in a state of effervescence, 
is substituted, with the sulphate of potass, for the 
bitter infusion, with the happiest effects." This is very 
excellent practice: I am satisfied that nothing is more 
mischievous than active purgation in every stage of 
dyspepsia. Drastic doses of calomel, to which some 
practitioners resort, are calculated to increase the mor- 
bid irritability by which the disease is kept alive. In 
cases even of loaded bowels, it will be more prudent to 
excite their peristaltic action by a gentle but coutinued 
stimulant, than to irritate by active purges. Wbere 
the biliary discharges are faulty, small doses of mercury 
are useful ; and I prefer the hydrargyrum cum creia, 
on such occasions, in doses of three or four grains, and 
combined with two or three grains ot pulcis ipecacuanha, 
to every other form of combination. 

363. Mr. Ahernethy has justly stated that persons 
may be purged without having their bowels cleared of 
the fiecal matter which may be detained in them ; we 
should therefore endeavour to ascertain what kind or 
combination of purgative medicines will excite a healthy 
action of the bowels, without teasing them, or produ- 
ciug discharges frotn the organs themselves. The beet 
mode of proportioning the degree of excitement to the 
end designed, is to take a dose of a suitable medicine 



ACTIVE PURGATION INJURIOUS. 



371 



at night, but short of that which may prove Irritating ; 

if it fail sufficiently to excite the organs, a similar dose 

_-inay be taken in the morning : which also failing, it 

iiiaj be repeated at regular intervals during the day. 

3 principle that should govern our conduct in the 

Itlministration of purgatives, may be briefly stated — the , 

•scitement is to be repeated till the requisite action is in- 

auced, yet no single ejudtemcnt, being such as may prove an 

irritant to the organ. 

3fi4. The mischief which may be produced by too 
itive purgation seems to have been well understood 
By the ancients ; but the modern practitioner has too 
•equently rejected the advice which the sages of our 
■ofession have recorded for his instruction, "He who 
; a rough purge," says Plutarch, " to relieve his 
tody from too great a load of food, may be compared 
) the Athenian, who finding the multitude of citizens 
roublesome to him, contrived to drive them out by 
ling the city with Scythians and wild Arabs." I do 
not wish to invest the Grecian historian with the attri- 
butes of a medical oracle, but we may be allowed to 
borrow from him a figurative allusion to illustrate the 
mportanee of a precept which cannot be too frequently 
*r too forcibly impressed upon the mind of the medical 
practitioner, who, I cannot' but believe, is far too in- 
discriminate in this practice, the idea of purgation would 
seem to predominate over every other, be sweeps away 
the meconium of the new born child, and he admini- 
sters a black dose to the expiring octogenarian. 

k365. Where the symptoms of dyspepsia are aceom- 
nied with an evident spasmodic affection of the ali- 
^ J 



borr 
bmp 



372 



ALOETIC STIMULANTS. 



mentary caoal, as indicated by its inverted and convu" 
sive movement, the malady may be inferred to exist 
more particularly in tlie muscular structure. Dr. Parry 
is inclined to regard sucb cases as distinct from those of 
dyspepsia, and to elasa them under the head of neroous 
iiTitabiUty of' the stomach ; but they evidently consti- 
tute a link in the same chain, and are so intimately 
connected with the series that they cannot be practically 
separated from it. In such cases the symptoms of 
flatus are prominently distressing : the air which exists 
in the canal, and which should pass insensibly down- 
wards, inviscating itself with the food, is thua arrested 
in its course, producing borborygmi and eructations 
from the stomach. Under these circumstances, the 
medicines most likely to afford relief are aloetic stimu- 
lants : I have found the decoctum aloes compositum a, truly 
valuable remedy in all affections connected with a torpid 
or irregular action of the muscular coats of the intes- 
tines. On some occasions I have subjoined the iiifusum 
arvKyrada compositum with evident advantage ; and on 
others the oil of cajupnt, in doses from three to eix 
minims have produced much relief. 

366. The administration of the white mustard seed, 
which has been lately revived with all the confidence 
which attaches to a newly discovered remedy, is certainly 
a useful medicine in several morbid states of the intes- 
tinal canal ; but, according to my experience, it is ser- 
viceable only in such cases as are marked by alimentary. 
tor|)or. In affections attended with muscular inirrita- 
bility, or in those associated with a diseased state of the 
mucous surfaces, it is unquestionably useful. I have 



I 

I 
I 



WHITE MUSTARD SEED. 373 

known it to ensure a regular alvine discharge in persons 
of costive habits ; and I have also found it to correct 
tiiat species of diarrhcea which attenda a diseased con- 
dition of the mucous membrane of the intestines. 
These unbruised seeds were much commended bj Dr. 
Mead in Mcites, and by Bergius in intermittents, and 
numerous writers have extolled their virtues in stimu- 
lating the stomach and intestines. Dr. CuUcn, however, 
observed that the seeds given in this form are never 
broken down or diseolved in the stomach, but pass away 
entire by stool ; and lie therefore inferred that they 
were incapable of producing any beneficial effect. This 
statement appeal's to have thrown so much discredit 
upon their value, that they fell into disuse, and they 
Have only lately regained the confidence of the profes- 
,aon. I confess myself to have been amongst those 
■who were disposed to consider the mibniised seeds as 
perfectly inert ; but experience has taught me that such 
an opinion is incorrect. The seeds consist of fecula, 
mucilage, an acrid volatile oil, on which their 'virtues 
depend, and which on standing deposits a quantity of 
Bulpbur, a bland fixed oil, which considerably obtunds 
the acrimony of the former constituent, and an ammo- 
niacal salt. The fixed and volatile oils may be obtained 
by expression, and if the mixture be submitted to the 
action of alcohol, the latter will be dissolved, and be thus 
separated from the former. It has been lately disco- 
vered, by some experiments conducted in France, that 
if the alcoholic solution be evaporated, a solid and 
' cry stall izable substance, distinguislied by acid proper- 



J 



374 



ANALYSIS OF THE MU8TAHD SEED. 



ties, may be obtained ; and as sulphur is said to enter 
into its composition, it baa been termed " sulp/tosinapic 
acid." If the whole seeds be macerated in boiling 
water, we shall at first obtain an insi]>id mucilage, 
which, like that of linseed, resides in the skin; but if 
the maceration be long continued, the water will be- 
come impregnated with matter yielding the odour of 
sulphuretted hydrogen ; a proof that a portion of the 
volatile oil may be thus extracted ; and it is probable 
that this process may even proceed more rapidly in the 
digestive canal. In administering them, however, as n 
remedy, we should be cautious to prevent their accumu- 
lation in the bowels. A patient, to whom I recom- 
mended their use, informed me that his evacuations 
became extremely offensive, so that it is not improba- 
ble that a portion of suljthuretted hydrogen may be 
disengaged during their passage. Their administra- 
tion evidently requires caution: if any inflammatory 
irritation exists, they must prove injurious : where, 
however, there is a sluggish or deficient secretion of 
the alimentary juices, I have no doubt respecting their 
utility. 

367. The practitioner is well acquainted with the 
doctrines of Broussais : he maintains, that almost every 
disease arises from an inflammatory affection of the di- 
gestive canal ; and, although the absurdity of so general 
a proposition must be admitted, we shall act wisely in 
suspecting the existence of such a state of disease in 
p'otracted dyspepsia : permanent tendemeas upon pres- 
sure, and the appearance of the discharges from the 



k 



BITTER STIMULANTS. BLISTERS. 375 

bowels will generally announce sucll a condition : and 
lenient purges, the application of leeches, and a low 
diet, will furnish the best methods of treatment. 

368. The utility of bitters, jn the treatment of 
tyspepsia, is a very questionable and often a dangerous 
' practice. It is, however, the popular resource of those 
who suiFer from deficient appetite ; and I am satisfied 
that many serious evils have arisen from its indiscrimi- 
late application. Where the disease arises from a mere 
frant of tone, and is not complicated with intestinal ir- 
ritation, such medicines are, of all others, the most effec- 
tual ; a truth which will be readily deduced from the 
observations which I have already offered upon the 
operation of these agents (183). 

Blisters are of eminent service in cases of intes- 
|tinal irritation, accompanied with tenderness on pres- 
pflure; they will frequently also put a stop to obstinate 
■vomiting, when other methods have failed of success. 
370. The external application of heat to the region 
^ of the stomach will often allay gastric irritation that de- 
B pends upon the presence of indigestible matter. The 
^ft process of chymification is thus promoted by a species 
^B of contiguous sympathy that is not well understood. 
^P 371. The application of heat to the feet will be at- 
tended with the same beneficial consequences : this 
connexion is still less apparent, but it is a fact, no less 
remarkable than true, that the digestion of a person in 
whealth may bo arrested by the sudden application of 
f Aold to the lower extremities. 

372. The use of friction, when applied by means of 
I the flesh-brush to the abdominal region, deserves a dis- 



Oiet, 

pl^»l 

prac 

who 

that 

fcate 

^P^an 



I' 



376 



THE USE OF FLANNEL. 



tinguiahed place in the catalogue of dyspeptic remedies. 
I have usually directed its apjilieation for a few minutes, 
night and morning, and the most obvious benefit has 
arisen from it. The ancients are well known to have 
held friction in high estimation, not only in the cure, 
but- for the prevention of disease. The modems have 
miwisely suffered the practice to fall into disuse. If it 
were necessary to illustrate the utility of friction, we 
have only to adduce the well known effects which M-e 
produced on horses by the operation of currying ; and 
which can alone depend upon freeing the surface from 
the recrementitioua part of the perspirable matter, and 
promoting a due circulation in the skin. In thus mak- 
ing them sleek, they become more gay, lively, and ac- 
tive, and will preserve their strength with half the 
quantity of food, than when it is given to them with- 
out such assistance. In cases where the application of 
cold may be considered useful, the brush may be im- 
mersed in equal quantities of vinegar and water. 

373. With respect to the utility of wearing flannel 
next the skin, some diversity of opinion has existed. 
Its advantages consist in gently stimulating the sur- 
face, promoting perspiration, and conveying away the 
moisture as it may be deposited. When worn only in 
the day it does not appear objectionable, hut is, on the 
contrary, salutary to those whose skin maybe supposed 
to require such a stimulant; but I agree with Dr. 
Beddoes in believing that no good reason can be as- 
signed why any one, who is the master of a comfort- 
ahle bed, should wear it during the night. In that 
state of increased sensibility of the skin which sleep in- 



I 



» 



THE COLD BATH. 

duces, it is more likely to be injurious tlian at any other 
time, by the stimulating effects of its piles, and by the 
warmth it keeps collected round the body. There is 
also another objection to its use, under such circum- 
etanecs : the perspirable matter, by accumulation, un- 
dergoes a chemical change, and the skin is thus, as it 
■were, immersed in a noxious atmosphere. For the same 
reason, the flannel should be frequently changed. I 
have generally preferred, in dyspeptic cases, the uses of 
a flannel stomacher, or a piece of loose flannel ■worn 
over the stomach and bowels during the day, and which 
may be thrown off at bed-time. 

374. Tlie use of cold and warm bathing offers another 
Buhject for consideration. The advantages arising from 
it, in the treatment of dyspepsia, ai'e indisputable ; but 
its application requires skill and prudence. When we 
consider the limetions of the skin, in their relations to 
tfie digestive process, we cannot be surprised that an 
improvement in the state of the former should confer a 
corresponding benefit on the latter. The cold bath 
appears eminently serviceable to those who are suffering 
from dyspepsia, induced by the enervating modes of 

»life peculiar to great towns, or by great mental exer- 
I tion. Where, however, there exists considerable biliary 
disturbance, it generally does harm. It is also a matter 
of great consequence to ascertain the strength of the 

I patient, and whether his vital energies are sufficient to 
produce that re-action, without which the cold bath 
must ever prove a source of mischief. This circum- 
Btance must likewise direct us in appointing an appro- 
priate period for the operation. The robust and healthy 



378" 



PRACTICAL DIRECTIONS FOE BATHING. 



may bathe early ia the morning, or before breakfest, 
without the least hesitation ; but the dyspeptic invalid 
should never venture into the water until his etoniach 
has been stimulated by a slight meal. The period best 
calculated for immersion is about two hours after break- 
fast, which will enable him to take some previous exer- 
cise; he ought never to feel any degree of chilliness, 
but should be rather warm than cool, before he attempts 
to bathe. Dr. Currie has justly observed, " that persons 
ought not to wait on the edge of a bath, or of the sea, 
until they are perfectly cool, for if they plunge into the 
water in that state, a sudden and alarming chilliness 
may be expected, which would not have been the case 
had they been moderately warm when they went into 
the water." There exists a po]>ular belief that, unless 
a person plunges head foremost, an accumulation of 
blood may take place in the brain. There is no truth 
in this observation. A sudden plunge is a violent arid 
unnatural exertion, and if the patient has not strong 
powers of re-action, it may be followed by unpleasant 
consequences. The shock thus given to the nervous 
system may, like a blow on the head, produce syncope. 
A case occurred at Brighton, in which a person in a 
state of debility died suddenly from the shock of a 
shower-bath, 

375. An invalid should never remain longer than 
two minutes in the water, and the body should be kei>t 
during the whole time under the surface. If, instead 
of a genial glow, chilliness, languor and headach follow, 
we may conclude that the vigour of the system is not 
equal to create and sustain that re-action upon which 



THE WARM BATH. J/y 

the benefits of bathing must depend, and the practice 
should be immediately abandoned. It is, I think, gene- 
rally advisable for invalids to bathe only on alternate 
days, until they find their strength so much increased 
as to allow them, without risk, to indulge in it daily. 

376. The patient generally inquires whether, before 
bathing in the sea, it may not be proper to prepare 
himself by the use of a warm bath. T generally recom- 
mend a previous immersion in the tepid bath, at a tem- 
perature commencing at 90° Fahr., lowering five degrees 
each time, and terminating at 05°. >Some laxative should 
be taken a few days before the course of bathing is 
commenced; but all violent purges must be cautiously 
avoided. I have known persons who, from a popular 
notion of the safety of purgation on such occasions, have 

r 1«ken violent doses of medicine, and been rendered ex- 
I tremely ill by their first immersion. 

377. The warm bath is better calculated for those 
I invalids whose rc-aetion is not sufiicient to sustain the 

shock of cold water. In such cases it will augment 

rather than diminish their natural strength and vigour ; 

it will regulate the functions of the skin, promote the 

m digestive powers, and concur with other measures to 

I re-establish their health. To ensure objects so d&- 

' sirable, there are several precautions which it may 

be necessary to enumerate. As our purpose is not 

to induce profuse sweating, the temperature should not, 

^ on the first going into the bath, exceed 94° or 95°, but 

lit may be gradually increased to 99°. In ascertaining 

{tjto beat, we should never trust to our sensations ; the 

Jiermometer is the only indication upon which we 



380 



THE WARM BATH 



should TGly. Tlie most proper period for using the warm 
bath is an hour or two before dinner. If it be used 
during any of the ulterior stages of digestion, as in the 
evening, it will be liable to accelerate the circulation, 
and to prodnce disturbance, I have known persons, 
troubled with indigestion, to suffer considerable restless- 
ness and irritation, by going into a warm bath just be- 
fore bed-time ; so susceptible, indeed, are some dyspep- 
tics to the stimulus of heat, that the immersion of the 
feet alone in hot water, at this period, will be followed 
by a restless night. The patient ought not to remain 
immersed longer than twenty minutes ; and upon com- 
ing out, he may walk in the open air, but should bo 
cautious not to occasion fatigue. Count Rumford haa 
published an interesting essay on the subject of warm 
bathing, in which he observes that " a person may gam 
fresh health, activity, and spirits, by bathing every day 
at two o'clock in the afternoon, at the temperature of 
96" or 97° Fahr., and remaining in the bath half an hour. 
He continued that plan for thirty-five days, and derived 
from it permanent advantage ;" and he adds, " that the 
idea of going into bed after a warm bath, in order to 
prevent taking cold, is erroneous; that no alteration 
should be made in tlie clothing, and that the body, on 
exposure to the air, is not more susceptible of catching 
cold than it was before going into the bath." This co- 
incides so perfectly with my own experience, that Ifeel it 
unnecessary to offer any further remarks upon the sub- 
ject. Count Rumford also justly reprobates the idea of 
any advantage being derived from temperate baths of 
from 55° to 60°. The animal temjierature, he observes, is 



SHOWER BATHS. t)8l 

in those temperate baths therefore, we lie motion- 
less in a temperature inferior to that of oar oM-n bodies, 
and consequently must lose instead of acquiring heat, or 

I even retaining that which we possessed. 
- 378. Shower baths have been supposed to be more 
efficacious, in certain diseases, than baths of less partial 
Implication. In stating the result of my own experience 
upon this subject, I have to observe, that in debilitated 
habits they are not unattended with danger. I liave 
certainly seen that species of indigestion which would 

»Beem to arise from, or be intimately connected with 
nervous instability, greatly alleviated by the use of such 
partial baths, but I have generally recommended that 
the temperature of the water should bo raised to 50°. 
Persons of a strong habit, who have been exhausted 

I by intellectual exertion, are greatly resuscitated by such 
ineans. 
' 379. Clmnge of air is one of the most efficacious 
koetbods of curing dyspeptic complaints. The chemist 
has proved that the essential constituent parts of the 
atmosphere are the same in all places and situations ; 
it has been collected in cities and in the country, on 

t mountains and in plains, and even at the height of 
7250 yards above the level of the sea, by Gay Lussac, 
in his aerial voyage in September 1805; but it has 
never been found perceptibly different in composition. 
From the latest and most accurate experiments, the 
portions of oxygen and azote are 2 1 and 79. It is 
badeed true, that various foreign bodies may be present, 
1 as an increased quantity of carbonic acid, animal 
txhalations, smoke, &c. The quantity of aqueous va- 



382 



CHiJIGE OF AIR. 



pour is also liable to constant variation. What then 
renders the air of some places so much more salubrious 
than that of others? or, wlience arise the advantages 
which the invalid so constantly experiences from change 
of place ? The proposition itself may, perhaps, be de- 
nied ; and any attempt to establish an explanatory 
theory upon such a subject may be compared to that 
made by the lloyal Society at the command of king 
Charles, to explain " why, if a vessel is filled brimful of 
water, and a large live fish be plunged therein, that it 
shall nevertheless not overflow." — Is it a fact ? Is one 
situation more salubrious than another? and do dys- 
peptic patients actually derive any benefit from mere 
change of air? T do not imagine that any physician, 
who has practised a few years, will require any evidence 
of these facts beyond that which his own experience 
must have supplied. It is notorious that children, who 
may be regarded in the light of sensible instruments, 
become unhealthy, if constantly confined to the air of 
large cities; robust and healthy persons are not so 
alFected; but the delicate, and, above all, the dyspeptic 
invalid, is notoriously injured by it. Let him retire 
only for a few days into the country, and the effect 
which is produced by the change is too apparent to 
admit of any question. Some have supposed that the 
insalubrity of the air of a large city may depend upon 
the greater dampness and stagnation of the air, occa- 
sioned by its numerous buildings : I am not disposed to 
assert that such causes may not have a share in pro- 
ducing the elfect ; but the animal effluvia, and the 
carbonaceous matter so abundantly floating in the Rt- 



k 






METEOROLOGICAL REMARKS. 385 

Hiospiiere, must also be taken into consideration. How- 
does it happen that plants wither and die in a short 
time after they are brought from the nursery-groundB 
into the more capacious sti-eets of the metropolis ? Why 
shouJd iron rust with so much greater celerity in Lon- 
don than in the country? These observations, how- 
ever, merely go to prove that the air of a city is less 
pure than that of the country. Is there any evidence 
show that the air of different places, remote from 
'towns, varies in its salubrity in different places, or in 
the same place at different times? I apprehend that 
mtyst of the beneficial or evil effects of different air may 
be ultimately referred to its relations to moisture and 
dryness. That such changes are considerable and 
striking, under certain circumstances, have been ren- 
dered apparent by the admirable researches of Mr. Da- 
niell, who, by the invention of a simple and correct 
hygrometer, has been enabled to throw very consider- 
able light upon this hitherto obscure subject. That the 
cutaneous discharge is very materially affected by the 
degree of moisture in the atmosphere is evident ; and 
that the digestive organs may therefore be thus influ- 
enced, through its medium, is a corollary which no one 
will refuse to admit. When the air is very moist, it is 
a bad conductor of the perspirable matter, which, there- 
fore, instead of being carried off in an insensible form, 
is condensed upon the surface ; hence we appear to 
persi)ire greatly upon the slightest exercise, whereas 
the cuticular discharge is, at that time, absolutely less. 
We have all experienced the sensation of heat, and dis- 
position to sweating, during the moist weather which so 



METEOROLOGICAL REMARKS. 



frequently occurs in this country in April and May, the 
wind being at the time stationary at south-west or 
soutli. On the contrary, during the prevalence of an 
east wind, the most violent exercise will scarcely 
prove diaphoretic, and yet the quantity of cutaneous 
exhalation is far greater than during that state of at- 
mosphere when the slightest exercise deluges us with 
perspirable matter. Dr. Scbmidtmeyer says, that in 
Chili, notwithstanding the high temperature, which 
would have been intolerable in Europe, and deluged 
the inhabitants with perspiration, so rapidly does eva- 
poration proceed, that it might even be doubted 
whether, after considerable exercise, any perspiration 
was occasioned by it.* It is scarcely necessary to ob- 
serve that the atmosphere of Chili is remarkable for its 
dryness. The functions of the lungs are no less influ- 
enced by the state of the atmosphere than those of the 
skin. The former organs are constantly giving off water, 
and if it be not carried off, with equal rapidity, it is 
reasonable to suppose that some influence will be pro- 
duced upon them, beneficial or otherwise, according to 
the peculiar condition of the patient, as I have endea- 
voured to explain in the last edition of my Pharmaco- 
logia, under the history of Expectorants. How is the 
cure of hooping-cough, by change of air, to be explained, 
unless we adopt the belief which I have endeavoured to 
enforce ? 

Experience has taught us that the air most bene- 
ficial to the dyspeptic patient is that which is dry and 

* Travels into Chili. 




^ Bar 

no 



CHANtit: OF SCENE AND HABITS. 387 

ien ; a residence in mi elevated spot sliould therefore 
be selected: for the atmosphere of a valley, Iiowever 
congenial to the pulmonary invalid, will be generally 
found injurious to the class of patients whose welfare 
it is the object of the present work to promote. 

380. The advantages which attend "change of air," 
HI the treatment of various diseases, have been ascribed 
by many physicians to the exhilarating impressiona 
thus produced upon the mind, and to the simuItaneouB 
change of habits which usually takes place upon such 
occasions. I am willing to admit the extensive and 
powerful operation of such causes in the treatment of 
diseases in general, but more particularly in those cases 
in which the digestive organs constitute the source of 
the derangement; for such affections are influenced by 
the state of the mind to an extent to which it would be 
difficult to assign a limit. It therefore follows that, in 
the recommendation of a place of resort fof invalids, 
various circumstances are to be taken into considera- 
tion : it is no less important to furnish amusement for 
the mind, than to provide salubrious air and wholesome 
food for the body. A continual change of residence is, 
perhaps, better adapted for insuring our object, than a 
protracted stay in any one place. The genial excite- 
ment, which a succession of novelties produces on the 
mind, to say nothing of the advantage? which neces- 
sarily arise from the exercise of the body, is more likely 
insure exhilaration and cheerfulness, and to break 

iwn the associations which continued disease will 
always engender, than a monotonous ' residence in a 
waterintj-place, where, after the first few days, the patient 
cc2 



388 CHANGE OF SCENE AND HABITS, 

boonnies ftimiliarizeil with the objects around him, the 
Bpel! by which he is to be cured is broken, and his 
mind is watching every pulsation, in order to discover 
some indication of that returning health which he so 
anxiously anticipates. This truth is beautifully illus- 
trated by an anecdote related by Sydenham, and will 
go further in establishing the importance of the prin- 
ciple I am desirous of enforcing, than any argument 
which it is in my power to adduce. This great physi- 
eian, having long attended a geatleman of fortune with 
little or no advantage, frankly avowed his inability to 
render him any further service, adding, at the same 
time, that there was a physician of the name of Bobm- 
Bon, at Inverness, who had distinguished himself by the 
performance of many remarkable cures of the same 
complaint as that under which his patient laboured, 
and expressing a conviction that, if he applied to him, 
he would come back cured. This was too encouraging 
a proposal to be rejected : the gentleman received from 
Sydenham a statement of his case, with the necessary 
letter of introduction, and proceeded without delay to 
the place in question. On arriving at Inverness, and 
anxiously inquiring for the residence of Dr. Robinson, 
he found, to his utter dismay and disappointment, that 
there was no physician of that name in the place, nor 
ever had been in the memory of any person there. Tlie 
gentleman returned, vowing eternal hostility against 
the peace of Sydenham ; and on his arrival at home, 
instantly expressed his indignation, in not very mea- 
sured terms, at having been sent so many hundred 
miles for no purpose, " Well," replies Sydenham, "are 



I 



I 

I 

I 



AS ESSENTIAL AS CHANGE OF AXlt, 389 

you better in health ?" — " Yes ; I am now perfectly 
well, but no thanks to yon." — " No ?" says Sydenham, 
" but you may thank Dr. Robinson for curing you. I 
wished to send you a journey with some object of in- 
terest in view : I knew it would be of service to you : 
in going, you had Dr. Robinson and his wonderful cures 
in contemplation, and in returning you were equally 
engaged in thinking of scolding me." There was more 
wisdom and address in such a scheme than in that 
which is said to have been practised by Hippocrates, 
who sent his patients from Athens with no other 
object than to touch the walls of Megara, and then to 
return. 

381. I have thus endeavoured to investigate the 
principles upon which the treatment of indigestion is 
to be conducted. I might have descended into fuller 
detail, but the art of selecting remedies, of graduating 
their strength, and of modifying their powers by com- 
bination, constitutes a subject to which I have directed 
the attention of the practitioner in a distinct work, the 
extensive sale of which convinces me that it must be 
already in the hands of every professional reader, and 
will render any further observations in tliis place unne- 
cessary. After all, more benefit will arise in dyspeptic 
diseases, from a judicious regulation of the diet and 
habits of the patient, than from large quantities of me- 
dicines : although I do not intend, by this observation, 
to undervalue the importance of such agents, when di- 
rected by the skilful hand of the physician. The unhappy 
invalid, who seeks for relief from the nervous cordials 
and stomachic mixtures of the empiric, may occasion- 



J 



390 CHANGE OF SCENE AND HABITS, &C. 

ally derive the feeling of temporary relief, from the 
operation of stimulants to which the regular practitioner 
will never resort. Let him remember that such relief, 
if obtained, must be at the expense of his future wel- 
fare. Such expedients have been aptly enough said to 
be drafts upon the constitution, payable vnth compound 
interest a few months after date. If we examine the 
history of quackery, we shall generally find that the 
administration of a boasted panacea has been associated 
by its crafty author with some reformed system of diet 
and habits, to which any benefit that may have arisen 
ought injustice to be assigned ; for mystery carries with 
it a spell that overcomes every prejudice, secures the 
implicit obedience of the patient, and reconciles the 
most refractory to privations which reason would in 
vain endeavour to enforce. 

381. I shall now recapitulate some of the more 
prominent doctrines which have been established in 
the preceding pages — a plan which will not only have 
the advantage of placing the subject in a simple and 
perspicuous point of view, but of affording the reader 
a convenient reference to the practical parts of the 
work. 



RECAl'ITULATION. 



RECAPITULATION. 



I 



1. The first object ia to discover the origin and seat 
of the disease (322). 

2, If it arise from a debilitated state of the stomacfa, - 
in which either the secretions are deficient or depraved, 
or the muscular powers of that organ have lost their 
vigour, we have first to remove, as fiir as we are able, 
the remote causes which may have produced the dis- 
order. The alimentary canal must be cleared of all foul 
congestions, and their ftiture accumulation prevented, 
first, by a strict adherence to a diet most likely to 
iasure the digestion of the food ; and, secondly, by the 
careful exhibition of laxatives, which may carry off the 
superfluous parts. The functions of the skin must be 
restored, and a general vigour imparted to the body, by 
remedies which are calculated to strengthen the nervous 
system. 

3, If the dyspeptic disease has continued long, and 
we have reason to suspect an inflammatory state of the 
gastric membranes, we must employ antiphlogistic 
means for its cure (366). 

4. If the duodenum be the seat of the disorder (292), 
we must carefully insure, by appropriate diet, the com- 
plete chymification of the food, so that it shall not he 
irritated by the contact of half-digested food ; the se- 
cretions which enter its cavity must be regulated and 
improved, by small doses of mercury ; and colchicum 
may be administered in the manner above directed (36 1 ). 



J 



392 



RECAPITUliTION. 



Above all, tbe colon must be carefully preserved from 
feculent accumulations. 

5. If the bowels be distressed with flatus, we must 
ascertain whether the feeling arises from an increased 
Cjuantity of air present in the canal, or a morbid sensi- 
bility of the membranes, ivbich renders the ordinary 
(juantity of elastic matter burthensome. In the former 
case tlie treatment must be regulated by such measures 
as may prevent fennentation (359); in the latter, the 
irritability of tlie intestines must be appeased by seda- 
tives. 

6. If acidity prevail^ we have to inquire whether it 
arises from the nature of the food, or the morbid state 
of the gastric juice, and regulate our measures accord- 
ingly (353). 

7. Where disease exists in the bowels, and the 
appearance of the stools indicates a dysenteric affection, 
we may infer that the mucous membrane is in a state 
of disease. 

S. The administration of tonics and aromatic stimu- 
lants will always be attended with mischief, where a 
phlogistic condition of the mucous membranes exists: 
mild aperients and light diet are to he prescribed under 
such circumstances (368). 

9. When there exists a languor in the muscular 
powers of the alimentary canal, and a torpor in the 
secreting membranes, bitters, aromatics, and other sti- 
mulants, such as mustard-seed, &c. may be safely admi- 
nistered. 

10. The dietetic code of the dyspeptic patient may 
be summarily included under the following precepts: — 



J 



RECAPITULATION. 



A. Precepts in relation to the Qtialiti/ of Food. 

, Animal food ie more digestible, but at the same time 
more stimulant and less flatulent, than vegetable 
diet. A dyspeptic invalid may be restricted to 
meat and bread with advantage, until his digestive 
powers have gained sufficient energy to enable him 
to convert vegetable matter into healthy chyle 
(129), after which a due mixture of botb species , 
of aliment will be essential (131). 



, The wholesome quality of food depends as much, 
or even more, upon its mechanical condition, as 
upon its chemical composition (171) ; and as ' 
this is influenced by various circumstances under 
our own control, we may render food, naturally 
indigestible, of easy digestion (174). The di- 
gestibility of any species of aliment, as well as 
its nutritive qualities, are influenced by the dif- 
ferent modes of cookery (177). The addition 
of condiments is also capable of producing the 
same effects (183). The practitioner will be en- 
abled to direct that species of food, which is best 
calculated to fulfil the indications of the case, by 
an attentive perusal of those remarks which are ] 
introduced in the body of this work And he ] 
will also And ample directions for ttis guidance 
in the selection of liquids for drink. 



Wi 



RECAPITULATION. 



B. Precepts in relation to tfie Quantity of Food. 

is must, in every case, be regulated by the feelings 
of the patient: let him eat slowly, masticate 
thoroughly, and, on the first fech'ng of satiety, 
dismiss his plate, and he will not have occasion for 
any artificial standard of iveight and measure. But 
he must, in such a case, restrict himself to one 
dish ; an indulgence in variety provoltes au arti- 
ficial appetite vk'hich he may not readily distinguish 
from that natural feeling which is the only true 
indication. 



C Precepts with regard to tJie Periods best adapted for 
Meals, and on the intervals which should elapse betwe&i 

each. 

I have, upon every occasion, endeavoured to impress 
upon the practitioner the high importance of these 
considerations. In every situation of life, we tou 
frequently pass unheeded objects of real impor- 
tance, in an over-anxiety to pursue others of more 
apparent but of far less intrinsic value ; bo is it 
with the dyspeptic invalid in search of health : 
What shall I eat ? Is this, or that species of food 
indigestible ? — are the constant queries which he 
addresses to his physician. He will religiously 
abstain from whatever medical opinion, or even 
popular prejudice has decried as unwholesome; 
and yet the period at which he takes his meal is 



r 



RECAPITULATION. 395 

ii matter of comparative indifference with him : 
although he will refiise to taste a diah that con- 
tains an atom of vinegar with as much pertinacity 
as if it held arsenic in aolution, he will allow the 
most trifling engagement to postpone his dinner 
for an hour. So important and Berions an error 
do I consider such irregularities, that I have fre- 
quently said to a patient labouring under indiges- 
tion, " / will waive all my objections to tJie quality 
and (juaniity of yom- food, jf J were sm-e that such a 
sacrifice qf opinion would insure regularity in the 
periods of yovir meals." 

The principal solid meal should be taken -in the 
middle of the day. 

Four hours after which a liquid meal should be in- 
dulged in. 

The digestion of one meal should be always com- 
pleted before fresh labour is imposed upon the 
stomach. 

The intervals at which food is to be taken must be 
regulated by the digestive powers of the individual, 
and the rapidity with which they are performed. 

The patient should never take his meal in a state of 
fatigue. 

Exercise, if practicable, should always be taken three 
or four hours after dinner. 



CONCLUSION. 



I have now fulfilled the objects, which I proposed to 
myself in the composition of the present Work, I have 



396 CONCLtTSlON. 

attempted to establish the general principle upon which 
the digestibility and nutritive powers of different ali- 
ments depend ; and I have endeavoured to point out 
the circumstances which may render any species of food 
indigestible and noxious; but, after all, it is impossible 
that any standing orders, however judicious can be 
made applicable to every case ; nor can any work be 
written which shall embrace every modification of so 
proteiform a disease; I therefore trust that the practi- 
tioner will make a liberal allowance for the defects of 
the present treatise, and not like the country fellow, in 
Aristophanes, pick a quarrel with the map, because he 
could not find a particular farm in it. It only remains 
for me to relate a few Cases in illustration of the views 
I have offered, with regard to the causes and nature of 
dyspepsia, and in confirmation of the utility of that 
medicinal and dietetic treatment which has been deve- 
loped in the preceding pages. 




CASES 

IN ILLUSTRATION OF THE PRECEDING VIEWS. 



CASE I. 

A. B., a gentleman of rank and fortune, of the age of 
twenty-four years, had suffered for several months with 
occasional headach in the evening, which, at first, was 
generally relieved by a cup of strong coffee, and it 
therefore excited little or no attention. The pain, 
however, became more severe, and returned at shorter 
intervals ; it sometimes attacked him during the morn- 
ing, and was accompanied with sickness, by which a 
Utrong quantity of acid was ejected from hia stomach, 
and the paroxysm was thus terminated. His person 
was strong and athletic, his countenance florid, and he 
underwent considerable exercise during the pursuit of 
the field amusements to which he was devoted ; his 
appetite was therefore considerable, and the quantity of 
food which he was in the daily habit of taking, exceeded - 
that which is generally sufficient for the most robust ; 
be had never been in the habit of restricting his diet, 
because he had hitherto never felt any inconvenience 
^ from its excess. In the use of wine, however, he was 
^k temperate. The first professional communication wlu(fh 



398 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



I received from him was in April 1824 ; he had then 
for some weeks been suffering from headach and sick- 
ness, and distressing aymptoms of acidity. I shall 
(jiiote that part of his letter in which he describes the 
treatment he had received. " My medical attendant 
ordered me aloes and blue pill, and a potion made of 
gentian, bark, cascariila, and liquor potassse. I found 
the prescriptions, word for word, in your Pharmacologia. 
I cannot however, say much for them, although the 
draught certainly does me some little good : he also 
ordered me lime-water, which is worth all the other 
put together : as for magnesia, I might as well eat 
powdered glass. What do you recommend next ? I 
ara regularly feeding on mutton, beef, &c., to the utter 
disgrace of vegetable diet." From this period he gra- 
dually grew worse ; his attacks of headach increased in 
severity and frequency, and were rarely relieved until a 
great quantity of bile and intensely acid matter were 
thrown off the stomach : he grew rather thinner, but 
was by no means emaciated. I ordered him doses of 
carbonate of ammonia an hour after his dinner, and 
desired him to confine himself to an animal diet. He 
was well purged, and the action of the bowels kept up 
by small portions of a neutral salt. The stools were al- 
ways natural in appearance. He now found the slightest 
deviation from the prescribed diet to produce a head- 
ache ; and when he jirognosticated its approach from 
the presence of acid eructations, he was frequently en- 
abled to avert it by a dose of ginger and carbonate of 
soda, which I had also prescribed for him. He says, 
"*I have found it necessary to take your prescription 
10 



wl 



OF THE PRECEDIND VIEWS. 399 

once or twice a day, which has averted many a vile 
headach, aa I always take it if I feel any symptoms of 
the generation of acid, such as heartburn, or an acid 
taste in ray mouth. Having thus converted ' my stew- 
pan, vat, mill,' &I.C. into an apothecary's shop, I am much 
better than I have been, and have been nearly free 
from headach for the last fortnight, until yesterday, 
when I was in dock all day, and shall be so to-raorrow. 
'here is still, however, remaining to plague me, a sort 
"of languor and laziness, which perhaps Dr. C.'s bitter 
prescription is intended to obviate, though it scarcely 
has such an effect, I wish the shooting season had 
arrived." I have introduced the relation of his feelings 
in his own words, because they will serve to convey a 
good idea of their nature and intensity, as well as of that 
hilarity and natural flow of spirits which constantly ac- 
companied the progressof the disease in this highly-gifted 
and amiable young man. In November I received from 
him a letter, of which the following is an abstract: "I find 
that the perpetual recurrence of my old headachs leaves 
iBoe nothing for it but to turntheminto asubjectof amuse- 
'Baent. I have been reading some speculations about 
muriatic acid in the human stomach, and would like 
very much to know what acid is in mine ; and I wish 
you would put me in the way of testing it, for I can 
obtain any quantity. If it is a vegetable acid, how does 
it get into giblet soup, or salt beef, or fresh butter, cum 
mvltis aliisf If it is an animal acid, 1 know of none ex- 
■cept the phosphoric, and I have no idea of making a 
match-box out of my viscera, so I vote at once it is not 
,iliat. If it is a vegetable acid, how comes it that I may 



400 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



eat a dozen ripe peaches, and be none the worse for 
them ? but woe to me if I eat a buttered muffin ! JErgo, 
I infer that it is not wholly the acetic acid ; and if not, 
what else can make sweet tea, or any thing like ale, 
beer, or porter, perfect poison to me ? As for an animal 
acid, there is no poison for me like strong broth, or 
soup ; ergo, there must be some villany in that. I was 
told, the other day, that baked meat would disagree 
with me, and I find this to be the case. Now, for the 
muriatic acid, which I strongly suspect to be the one 
under which I sulFer, for the action on my teeth, when I 
am sick, is too sharp for any thing less pungent — I find 
that if I eat salt meat, an acid is immediately formed 
in my stomach, and yet I can take any quantity of salt 
with my meat without being the worse for it : how can 
this happen ? I am so often almost frantic with these 
headachs, that I am quite wilhng to devote myself to 
any experiment which you may choose to institute. 
The next curious, and to me unaccountable (act is, that 
if I eat an^ iking, even a mutton chop, between, break- 
fast and dinner, I am sure to suffer from it, and that 
severely. About a week ago I went to Dublin, to tran- 
sact some important business ; and, lo, when the day 
came, my head felt as if it were nailed to my pillow. 
They sent for Mr. Crampton, the surgeon-general, who 
greatly approves of the carbonate of soda and ginger, 
and added to it five grains of rhubarb. This very day 
I have taken, at three times, thirty grains of the soda, 
which gives a very temporary relief. I am particular 
in my diet, and take no drink but water ; still, in spite 
of these precautions, I have a very bad headach once a 



i 



OP THE PttECEDING VIEWS. 401 

week, and a moderate one or two besides. It is very 
odd that I never had two of ray severe headachs on 
two successive days ; that they never make me look the 
least pale or yellow. Their progress is exactly similar: 
I am at first heavy and dull, then headach comes ; then 
Ifeel sick, then I am sick : the produce of the opera^ 
tion is very acidj or yerj bitter ; then I get better, and 
go to sleep, but in a quarter of an liour I wake worse, 
and so on, every half hour, until about four in the morn- 
ing, when I gradually get better, and invariably wake 
quite well." 

By a steady perseverance in the plan of diet and me- 
dicines prescribed for him, he found considerable allevi- 
ation, until April 1825, when he complained of having 
a return of his old lieadachs, with their usual severity; 
but he had relaxed in the strictness of his diet : and he 
adds : " I think, by more care in future, I shall be able 
to keep them in check ; but I ought to state that I now 
suffer from a sense of weight and oppression, chiefly 
after meals." On the 18th of May he had a most vio- 
lent attack, owing to having eaten a minco pie, and hia 
subsequent letters complain of a Ustlessness and n-ant 
of energy, which rendered him incapable of the slightest 
exertion. I expressed a wish to see him, and he ar- 
rived from Ireland on the first of June ; the journey had 
been of service to him, and I found him much thinner, 
but better than I had expected. His numerous friends 
in London, anxious to pay that respect which his talents 
and urbanity so justly commanded, poured in their in- 
^m vitations, so that to expect obedience to any plan of 
^1 reg^en was not to be calculated upon. He left Lon- 



I 



402 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



don, and proceeded to Leamington, where he unfor* 
tunately, hy the explosion of the fowling piece, lacerated 
his little finger, and was compelled to sufFer its ampu- 
tation. His health declined under this operation ; he 
lost flesh, experienced increased headachs, and waa so 
ill aa to induce his friends to call in the aid of a popular 
practitioner in that neighbourhood, under whose super- 
intendence he took drastic doses of scamraony, not only 
without relief, but with an evident aggravation of the 
symptoms. He became thinner, and more than pro- 
portionally reduced in strength ; so much so, that ho 
found himself incapable of horse exercise : he suffered 
severely from constant nausea and oppression. In this 
state he continued, until bis bowels, for the first time 
since the commencement of the disease, exhibited signs 
of torpor. " From a daily pill of camboge, scammony, 
aloes, and colocynth," says he, " I was obliged to increase 
the dose to four, and at last to discontinue them as en- 
tirely inefficient ; and medicine having become as neces- 
sary to me as food, my medical attendant in Ireland has 
contrived a more active combination, which I take daily ; 
but I fear that I shall be obliged either to increase its 
dose, or supersede it by one still more powerful, as I find 
that this is even losing its effect." His bowels at length 
became so torpid, that the most powerful drastics failed 
in their operation ; his strength was daily declining ; 
scarcely a day passed without hcadach and sickness: he 
suffered, during the night, from most violent cramps in 
his legs. In the middle of December I received a letter 
fiom him, which was nearly illegible; and he states 
that he can scarcely see his hand, not from dizziness, 



OF THE PRECEDING VIEWS. 403 

bnt from an indistinctness of vision, wliich continuGs 
without any amendment during the day. His vision at 
length became so imperfect, that he could no longer cor- 
respond with me : I then urged the necessity of his once 
more coming to town — a proposal which he eagerly 
embraced ; but such was his weakness, and so severe 
hia sickness, vomiting without any cessation for forty- 
eight hours, that he was many days on the road. His 
face, hands, body, and lege swelled to a considerable 
degree, and he experienced great difficulty in breathing. 
As soon as he arrived in town, I immediately proposed 
a consultation. His bowels had not been moved for 
ten days, and every medicine given for that object had 
failed in its eifects : this circumstance, connected with 
the fact of his deficient vision, which now rendered him 
incapable of recognising his friends, or even of distin- 
guishing the -window-frames, induced mo to suspect that 
all the sjTnptoms of this unfortunate ease were to be 
referred to some disease in the brain. Sir H. Halford, 
Dr. Maton, and Dr. Warren met me in consultation. 
The first great indication to be fulfilled was the evacu- 
ation of the bowels ; he had already, by my directions, 
taken ten drops of the oil of the Croton Tiglium without 
effect. He was now directed to take twenty grains of 
calomel, with five grains of scammony ; and a dose of 
the infusion of senna, with jalap and a neutral salt, every 
hour until an cv'a^uation was procured. After some 

I hours the bowels answered, and a perfectly healthy and 
figured motion was obtained. The vomiting was ap- 
peased by effervescing draughts ; and a trial of the hy- 
drocyanic acid was proposed. He was cupped, and 
Dd2 



I 



404 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



bliBtered at the back of the head ; but liis Tisioii grew 
daily more obscure : his headach was relieved, but ho 
coDBtantlj experienced a sense of weight and uneasiness 
in the region of his stomach; his pulse was regular, 
but hard, and rarely less than a hundred beats in a 
minute. In this distressing state he remained for ten 
days ; when I was suddenly called to hira in the middle 
of the night, in consequence of a violent dyspnoea which 
had seized him. I found him in a state of apparent 
suffocation, and immediately requested the attendance 
of Mr. Keate, in order that some blood might be ab- 
stracted from the arm. He lost sixteen ounces, but no 
relief was afforded by the operation. Dr. Maton saw 
him shortly afterwards with me ; haemorrhage had taken 
place from the lungs, and he died at two o'clock, after 
the failure of the methods usually adopted in such 
an exigency. What was the nature of the disease ? 
I confess that I bad long considered the brain as its 
seat ; and I explained the dyspncea from a deficient 
supply of nervous energy, his symptoms bearing a strik- 
ing analogy to those which were produced by a division 
of the eighth pair of nerves. The resulty however, of 
the dissection, will throw some light upon this obscure 
and interesting case. Upon inspecting the abdominal 
viscera, not the slightest trace of disease could be dis- 
covered ; the stomach was larger, and the diameter of 
the intestines smaller than usual, but there was no other 
appearance worthy of notice. On opening the thorax, the 
lungs appeared so gorged with blood, as almost to re- 
semble the spleen in texture ; they were emphyse- 
matous in several places. The heart was apparently 
7 



i 



I 

I 



OF THE PRECEDING VIEWS. 405 

healthy in external appearance, but of a large size ; upon 
making an opening into the right auricle and ventricle, 
the cavities were morbidly dilated, so as to constitute 
what has been termed passim aneurism : their parietes 
were not thickened. The left ventricle was also un- 
usually large : the valves were in a healthy condition. 
Upon opening the head, the structure of the brain and 
its membranes were found in a perfectly healthy state, 
but without the usual presence of blood. The sub- 
stance of the brain itself Was perfectly blanched, and, 
upon cutting into it, the usual spots of blood were not 
produced. This organ, therefore, although not injured 
in structure, must have been unfitted for the perform- 
ance of its functions from a deficiency of blood ; in con- 
sequence, probably, of the feeble action of the heart. 
The history of this extraordinary case will admit of 
much physiological speculation. That the heart was 
the primary seat ' of the disease, appears to be the most 
probable conjecture ; the loss of vision must have arisen 
from a deficient circulation through the brain ; and to 
this also we are to attribute the obstinate state of the 
bowels. The derangements of the stomach may be re- 
ferred to its sympathetic relations to the heart, or brain. 
The gorged state of the lungs may be accounted for, 
either by the imperfect action of the heart, or by the 
deficiency of nervous energy ; for a similar appearance 

' 1 have learnt, etnce his death, that the pulsations of his heart 
frequently produced a considerable noise in bed, but he was himself 
uncoQBcioua of it, and never experienced the least unpleasant feeling 
a hia chest : nor did the pulse, or any other symptom, indicate dis- 
ease in that organ. 



I 

J 



406 CASES IN II-LUSTUATION 

is observed in cases of narcotic poisoning, where the 
deatli ofthe animal takes jjlace from tlie destruction of 
the powers of the brain. I have lately- met with a case 
of diseased heart, in which the patient complained of a 
similar imperfection in his vision ; and he died in con- 
sequence of pulmonary hemorrhage. I had no oppor- 
tunity of examining the body. 



C. D., a gentleman resident in the country, and far 
advanced in life, was seized with a violent pain in the 
gastric region at two o'clock in the morning: he arose 
from bis bed, walked for some time about his room ; 
and at length, the pain having left hira, ho again re- 
tired to rest, and awoke in the morning perfectly well. 
Tho paroxysm returned every morning, at about the 
same hour, for several weeks : his medical attendant 
administered large doses of calomel, from a couvlctioB 
that the disease arose from »ome hardened fseces in tho 
colon; but this treatment aggravated the complaint. 
He afterwards gave him five grains of pit. hydrargyri 
every night, and a dose of neutral salt iu the morning ; 
but the disease continued to harass him with more 
or less violence every successive morning. Under these 
circumstances, he proceeded to London for advice, and 
placed himself under the care of a physician of cele- 
brity, who decided at onco that the liver was the seat 
of the disease. The patient was accordingly subjected 
to a course of mercury ; his gums were affected, but 
still no alleviation ofthe pain was experienced. It was 



OF THE PRECEDING VIEWS. 



407 



I 



H UiClJ 



fleveral weeks after this event that I first eaw him, and 
the effects of the mercury had subsided. My first object 
was to inquire into the state of his digestive fiinctions, 
■with a view to ascertain the length of time which his 
organs required for the completion of their operations. 
It appeared that his digestion was unusually slow, and 
that one meal in the day was amply sufficient to satisfy 
his wants. He dined at six o'clock, and I therefore 
thought it probable, that at the period when he was 
usually awoke out of his sleep by pain, the food might 
be undergoing its ulterior changes in the duodenum. 
I carefully examined the seat of this complaint ; there 
was evidently a pufliness in the region of the duodenum, 
and, by pressure, he experienced a slight pain, which 
extended into the lumbar region. I directed Mm to 
change his dinner-hour from six to three o'clock, and 
I laid down for his guidance such a plan of diet and 
exercise as would be best calculated to insure a perfect 
digestion. I also prescribed the following mixture: — 

} ft Mist, Camphone, f JyeB. 

Vini Colcbici, fjij. 
. MagnesiiB Carbonatis, jj. 

Spir. Juniper. Co. fjij. 
Fiat mistuni, de qua Bumantur cochlearia duo ampla, mane 
nocteque. 

■ I saw him after the interval of a week ; he in- 
formed me that he had entirely lost the pain, and 
that his bowels had been gently relaxed by the me- 
dicine. His tongue, which was previously furred, had 
ffcecome clean, and no pain was now produced on pres- 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



sure. He called upon me several tiniea, and left Lon- 
don perfectly cured. 



E. P., a young man, twenty-six years of age, and a 
clerk in one of the public offices, applied to me under 
the following circumstances. Previous to the attack 
of which he complained, he had enjoyed very good 
health, although his bowels were constitutionally slug- 
gish, and he bad been in the habit of taking, occasion- 
ally, a purgative pill to excite them into action. He 
was attacked with a sense of oppression in the region 
of the stomach, accompanied with an uneasiness in his 
head, and great depression of spirits. His skin was 
harsh and dry, bis tongue furred on the back part, 
and his appetite was grgatly impaired. He awoke 
in the morning with a parched mouth, and a. feel- 
ing of lassitude which he had never before experi- 
enced. His urine deposited large quantities of lithic 
acid : he was unable to give me any satisfactory ac- 
count of the appearance of his alvine evacuations ; I 
however desired that measures might be taken in order 
to obtain the necessary information. I directed him to 
take a pill composed of five grains of the compound ex- 
tract of colocynth, and two grains of calomel, at night, 
and a draught of senna, with sulphate of magnesia, in 
the morning. It produced four copious evacuations of 
highly offensive matter, of a greenish hue, and mixed 
with a quantity of undigested matter, like soft soap. 



OF THE PRECEDING VIEWS. 409 

He experienced a feeling of relief, but still his un- 
comfortable sensations wcro not removed. After an 
interval of three daya the dose was repeated ; the eva- 
cuations were more healthy in appearance, but his 
symptoms were rather aggravated by the medicine. 
His head felt heavy, and his ideas were confused. His 
pulse was perfectly natural. I directed him to take 
three grains of the pil. hydrargyri, with two grains of 
the powder of ipeeacuan, every night, and to take each 
morning a draught composed of three fluid-drachms of 
the infusion of senna, six iluid-drachms of mint-water, 
and a drachm of tartrate of potass. His diet and 
habits he had told me were perfectly regular, and that 
his occupation would not allow him to alter the hour 
at which he took his dinner. At this period I lost 
sight of him for several weeks ; his friends had per- 
suaded him to apply to some other practitioner, who, 
as I afterwards learnt, had directed a very proper plan 
of medicine for his cure ; but he daily became worse, 
lost flesh, and suffered much from uneasiness in his 
head : he had, at his own desire, been cupped, but the 
operation afforded no relief. On his return to me, I 
found him labouring under all the symptoms of pro- 
tracted dyspepsia, and the greatest depression of spirits. 
II told him that nothing short of a complete revolution 
in his habits would cure him ; that it was in vain to 
expect relief from medicine, unless its administration 
was associated with a strict adherence to such a plan of 
regimen as I should propose. He reluctantly consent- 
ed to obey my injunctions. 1 learnt from him that his 
usual habit was to breakfast at nine o'cloek.to proceed to 



I 



410 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



his office at ten, where ho continued till Hjo o'clock, 
after which he walked for two hours, and dined at 
seven, or sometimes later. I was satisfied that this 
plan had gradually debilitated his digestive organs, and 
rendered them inadequate to the healthy performance 
of their functions. His mind had been exhausted by 
the duties of the morning, and his body by the fatigue 
consequent upon exercise at so unfavourable a period. 
I desired him to dine at three o'clock, to take some tea 
at six, and to walk for an hour afterwards : the only 
medicine which was directed for him was a draught of 
a saline aperient every morning. He continued this plan 
of diet for six weeks, and was perfectly restored to 
health. 



G. H., the active partner in an extensive firm at the 
west end of the town, applied to me for advice, in 
order that he might be relieved from a severe attack of 
heartburn and flatulence, which invariably assailed him 
every evening. He informed me that he had tried 
every species of food for his dinner; sometimes re- 
stricting himself entirely to animal food, and at others 
to a vegetable diet; that he had taken water, and 
drank wine, but that no perceptible difference was 
experienced. His usual hour for retiring to rest was 
eleven o'clock ; but although fatigued by the labours of 
the day, ho was unable to close his eyes before two or 
three o'clock in the morning. I told him that I suspected 
the error was not in the quantity or quality of his food. 



OF THE rilECEDING VIEWS. 411 

but in the poriods at which it was taken, and reijucstod 
that I might bo informed as to his general habits in 
this reB]iect. He told me that such was the nature of 
the business in which he was engaged, that it was 
impossible for him to leave the counting-house before 
six o'clock ; and that he could not therefore dine 
before seven; but, as he commenced business at an 
early hour, ho was compelled to take a luncheon at 
three or four o'clock. I immediately discovered the 
origin of bis complaint ; and told him, that he must 
either abandon his meat luncheon, or convert it into a 
regular dinner : for the simple iact was this, that tho 
digestive organs were thus rendered unable to dispose 
of the second meal, since the stomach was called 
into action before the food, of which the luncheon 
consisted, was converted into chyle. I ordered kim no 
medicine, but he called npon me after the interval of 
a fortnight, and informed me that he had entirely lost 
all his unpleasant symptoms, having made an arrange- 
ment which enabled him to dine at his house of busi- 
ness at five o'clockj and to return home to tea at 
eig^t. 

i 

^B K. L., a gentleman of forty-five years of age, who 
l^ud long indulged in the luxuries of the table, and 
sacrificed liberally to Bacchus, was attacked, about six 
months before I saw him, with severe symptoms of dys- 
pepsia ; loss of appetite, pain and distention after eat- 
ing, dei»res8ion of spirits, loss of strength, restless 



1 



CASE V. 



412 



CASES IN ILLUSTRATION 



njglits, and various other Bymptoms, which it is un- 
necessary to enumerate, were sufficient to mark the 
nature and intensity of his complaint. He had been 
under the care of different practitioners ; but the 
treatment suggested tor his relief had been unsucces- 
fal. When I first saw him, there was considerable 
tenderness in the epigastric region, his tongue was 
furred, his bowels extremely irregular, being sometimes 
relaxed, and at other times obstinately costive ; he had 
occasionally passed stools loaded with mucous matter, 
and tinged with blood. His pulse was quick and small. 
He complained particularly of attacks of fever, which 
occasionally assailed him in the evening ; they were 
preceded by nausea, and a slight shiver ; he then be- 
came extremely hot, and his head throbbed : this feel- 
ing continued for three or four hours, and left him 
extremely languid and dejected. He was unable to 
account for these paroxysms : sometimes be fancied 
that they might have been induced by exposure to cold, 
at other times he referred them to some indigestible 
food which he had taken. I frankly told him, that, 
unless he would strictly conform to the plan of diet 
and medicine that I should propose, I considered him 
in a hazardous situation. I directed him to be cupped 
on the epigastric region, and to take two grains of 
ipecacuan, with five grains of the extract of hjoBcyamua, 
every night. I prescribed a laxative draught, com- 
posed of tartrate of soda, with a small quantity of 
manna, in a vehicle of mint-water, to be taken twice a 
day. His diet was directed to consist of the most 
digestible and least stimulant species of animal food, to 



OP THE PBECEDING VIEWS. 413 

be taken but onco in tbe twenty-four hours, at about 
three o'clock. I advised him to take thin gruel with 
dry toast for his breakfast, and to use a tepid shower- 
bath on alternate mornings. I saw him a^in in the 
following week. There was less tenderness in the 
epigastrium, his bowels had been shghtly relaxed, and 
he thought himself rather better, but there was no 
material improvement in his general health. I im- 
pressed upon him the importance of persevering in the 
plan, and allowed him to take two glasses of claret, 
diluted with an equal bulk of water. I did not see 
him again until after the expiration of a fortnight. 
He was then evidently improved, and told me that he 
felt confident that the plan upon which he was proceed- 
ing was the right one. He had already experienced 
less uneasiness after his dinner, and slept better. I 
found his pulse fuller, and at the same time slower. I 
now prescribed for him doses of the vinum colcMci, 
with magnesia, in mint-water, and desired that the 
pills of ipecacuan and hyoscyamus might be continued. 
At this time he went into the country, and I lost sight 
of him for two months ; but he returned very much 
better : his tongue was now clean, his bowels regularly 
acting twice a day, but he had still no appetite; I 
therefore ventured to prescribe an infusion of calumba, 
adding to each five ounces, an ounce of the infusion 
of senna, and two drachms of tartrate of soda. He 
continued this medicine regularly twice a day, for three 
weeks, and is at this time so far recovered, as to be able 
H to take two mutton chops for dinner, without experi- 
^1 encing any unpleasant feelings after the meal. I con- 



I 

I 



414 CASES IN ILLUSTRATION OF PRECEDING VIEWS. 

sider this simj^e plan to have succeeded in correcting 
the alimentary secretions, and imparting tone to the 
digestive organs ; and I have introduced the relation of 
the case, merely to show that the most aggravated case 
6f dyspepsia may be cured by a strict adherence to a 
judicious diet, with scarcely any other medical remedies 
than such as are calculated to keep up a gently-increased 
action of the bowels. 

I could adduce many similar cases ; but my object is 
to avoid prolixity. I trust that, in the preceding pages, 
I have succeeded in demonstrating the great import- 
ance of a well-regulated diet, and in establishing the 
principles upon which the digestibility and indigesti- 
bility of various aliments depend* 




THE END. 



Gilbert & Rivinqton, Printers, St. John's Square, Lond6n. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




600010771 M 



2^. fz 



7- 




r 



♦•; 



*< 



TREATISE ON DIET, 



ETC. ETC. 



LONDON: 
PRINTED BY J. MOY£S^ BOUVERIE STREET. 



A 



TREATISE 



09 



DIET: 




WITH A VIEW TO ESTABLISH. ON PRACTICAL GROUNDS, 

A SYSTEM OF RULES, 



FOR 

THE PREVENTION AND CURE 

OF 
INCIDENT TO A DISORDERED STATE OF THE 

DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS. 



BY 

J. A. PARIS, M.D. F.R.S. 

FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS. 



■TC. BTC 



«« Some PhyslologiflU will have it that the Stomach ii a MUl ; >• others, that it la a 
fermenting Vat ; — othen, again, that it is a Stew-pan ; — but in my view of the 
matter, it is neither a Mill, a fermenting Vat, nor a Stew-pan— but a Stomach, 
Gentlemen, a Stomach.**— MamMcHfjit Note/yarn Hunta't Lecturet. 



LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR THOMAS & GEORGE UNDERWOOD, 

32, FLEET STREET. 



M.DCCC.XXVI. 



^ar. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 

PAOK 

Introduction * 1 

Anatomical View of the Digestive Organs 10 

Sect. I. The Alimentary Canal 12 

II. The various Glands which are subservient to the 
Secretion of the different Fluids intended to act 
on the Alimentary Matter 21 

III. Vessels for carrying the Nutritive Product to the 

Circulation 42 

IV. The Lungs 44 

V. The Kidneys 44 

VL The Skin '. . . 46 

Physiological History of Digestion 48 

Relations of the Digestive Functions with our Sensations. . 77 

Hunger 77 

Thirst 81 

Instinctive desire for Exercise 83 

PART II. 

The Materia Alimentaria 89 

Introductory Observations 90 

Effects of Animal and Vegetable Food compared 93 

The Classification of Aliments 100 

Cookery 106 

Of Condiments 190 

Of Drinks 115 

Water 119 

Barley Water, Gruel, &c 12^ 

Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, &c 129 

Feiftnented Liquors 13S 

Wines, &c 135 



VI CONTENTS. 



PAOK 



An Estimate of the Nutritive and Digestible Qualities of 
several species of Aliment, as derived from the appli- 
cation of the Physiological and Chemical Principles 

established in the preceding pages 151 

. Milk 151 

Fish 157 

Birds 165 

Farinaceous Aliments 166 

Different Varieties of Bread 167 

Pulses 176 

Nuts 177 

Esculent Roots 178 

Esculent Herbs 180 

Fruits 182 

On the Intermixture of Aliments 189 

On the Periods best adapted for Meals, and on the Intervals 

which should elapse between each 188 

Breakfast 191 

Dinner 193 

Tea 195 

Supper 195 

On the Quantity of Food that ought to be taken at dif- 
ferent Meals 196 

Conduct to be pursued previous and subsequent to Meals. . 201 
On the Influence of different Aliments in modifying the 
appearances of the Alvine Discharges 207 

PART III. 

Of Indigestion 213 

Imperfect Chymification 216 

Imperfect Digestion in the Duodenum 224 

Of H^adachs which arise from Indigestion 227 

Indigestion from Biliary Derangement 231 

A Tabular Scheme for investigating the Causes, Nature, 

and Seat of Indigestion 244 

A Commentary upon the Preceding Table 245 

Of the Cure of Indigestion 259 



• • 



CONTENTS. Vll 

PAOB 

Practical Rules for the Guidance of Dyspeptic Patients. . . 262 

Acidity of Stomach, Flatulence, &c 264 

Recapitulation 284 

On the Diet best adapted for Persons labouring under 

Tabes Mesenterica, &c 288 

Conclusion 291 

Illustrative Cases 293 



LONDON: 
PRINTED BY J. MOYES^ BOUVERIS STREET. 



A TREATISE ON DIET, 



ETC. ETC. 



INTRODUCTION, 

Apology for the Work, — Popular interest of the Subject,'^ 
Works on Dietetics, numerous, but not satisfactory. — - 
Contrariety of Opinionjbegets Scepticism. — The fate of 
n Patient who consults too many Physicians. — The 
. quantity of Food, and the circumstances under which it 
is taken, more important than its quality, — Dietetic 
Precepts should not savour of ascetic austerities, — Ab- 
surdity of the supposition that Nature can direct us in 
the selection of Food, — Man has no natural Food, — 
The qualities of Vegetables completely changed by Cul- 
tivation. — Cookery, — The folly of denying the influence 
of Regimen in the cure and prevention of Disease. — 
Digestion, comprehensive Signification of the Term. 

In these days of literary fecundity, an author who ven- 
tures to add a new work upon a subject which has already 
given birth to so many volumes, must be able to satisfy 
the public tribunal, that he is either prepared to extend 
the general stock of information, or to correct the errors 
into which preceding writers have been betrayed. I shall 
certainly, upon the present occasion, rely with greater con- 
fidence upon this latter plan of defence. It will be readily 
admitted that few subjects, connected with the medical' art. 



LONDON: 
PRINTED BY J. MOYES^ BOUVERIS STREET. 



A 

TREATISE 

OH 

DIET: 




WITH A VIEW TO ESTABLISH, i 

A SYSTEM OF RULES, 

FOR 

THE PREVENTION AND CURE 

OF 
INCIDENT TO A DISORDERED STATE OP THE 

DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS. 



J. A. PARIS, M.D. F.R.S. 

FELLOW DP THE ROYAL COLLEGE O. 



' Souk Phyiioki^Ni Hill biie It tint the Stoiuch la ■ Hill : — olhen, tt 
remiaulDg VM i — «hm, igtln. that II b a Stew-pan ; — but In my vli 
miltB, 11 Is neichna MDl, a lennaitlDg Vat, DMa Stew-pan— but a S- 
Ccntlxnoii a Stdh^ch.'— Jfamuertpi NnUflnn Hantti't Lkiuw. 



LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR THOMAS & GEORGE UNDERWOOD, 



^2 



7- 



LONDON: 

PRINTBD BY J. MOVES. BOUVERIS STREET. 

s K I y / . . . 



Intr'odtu:tion: 5 

system, can no longer be distinguished from that feeling 
which induces us to prefer one species of food to another, 
and which entirely depends on habit, and certain associa- 
tions. That the natural relations which subsist between 
the qualities of food and the impressions made by them 
on the senses, are changed or destroyed by the refinements 
of artificial life, is a fact supported by too many powerful 
arguments to refute : how many kinds of aliments, origi- 
nally disagreeable, become pleasant by habit ; and how 
many substances, naturally agreeable, become disgusting 
from the creation of certain prejudices ! I am acquainted 
with a lady who is constantly made sick by eating a green 
oyster ; the cause of which may be traced to an erroneous 
impression she received with respect to the nature of the 
colouring matter being cupreous. It has also been fire- 
quently observed, that persons in social life have acquired 
a preternatural sensibility to vegetable odours, while the 
savage has a keener sense for the exhalations of animal 
bodies: we are, for instance, assured by Captain Cook, 
that the people of Kamschatka did not smell a vegetable 
essence placed near them, but that they discovered, by 
their olfactory sense, a rotten fish, or a stranded whale, at 
a considerable distance. 

4, Dr. George Fordyce has urged a still more serious 
and conclusive objection to that hackneyed maxim — *' that 
we ought to live naturally, and on such food as is presented 
to us by nature ;" viz. that man has no natural food. 
It is decreed that he shall earn his bread by the sweat of 
his brow ; or in other words, that he shall, by his industry, 
discover substances from whence he is to procure subsist- 
ence ; and that if he cannot find such, he must cultivate 
,and alter them from their natural state; There is scarcely 
a vegetable which we at present employ, that can be found 
growing naturally: BufFon states, that our wheat is a 
factitious production, raised to its present condition by the 



6 Introdactmu 

art of agriculture. Rice, rye, barley, or even oats, are not 
to be found wild ; that is to say, growing naturally in any 
part of the earth, but have been altered, by the industry 
of mankind, from plants not now resembling them even in 
such a degree as to enable us to recognise their relations. 
The acrid and disagreeable apium graveolens has been thus 
transformed into delicious celery ; and the colewort, a plant 
of scanty leaves, not weighing altogether half an ounce, 
has been improved into cabbage, whose leaves alone weigh 
many pounds, or into a cauliflower of considerable dimen* 
sions, being only the embryo of a few buds, which, in their 
natural state, would not have weighed many grains. The 
potatoe, again, whose introduction has added many mil- 
lions to our population, derives its origin from a small and 
bitter root, which grows wild in Chili and at Monte 
Video.* These few instances may suffice to answer the 
object for which they were introduced : the reader will 
find many others in the Introduction to my Pbarmaco- 
logia.t 

5. If cultivation can iever be said to have left the trans- 
formation of vegetables imperfect, the genius of cookery is 
certainly entitled to the merit of having completed it ; for, 
whatever traces of natural qualities may have remained, 
they are undoubtedly obliterated during their passage 
through her potent alembic. It has been observed, that 
the useful object of cookery is to render aliments agreeable 
to the senses, and of easy digestion ; in short, to spare the 
stomach a drudgery which can be more easily performed 
by a spit or stewpan, — that of loosening the texture, ot 
softening the fibres of the food ; and which are essential 
preliminaries to its digestion. A no less important effect 
is produced by rendering it more palatable ; for it is a fact ^ 
which I shall have to consider on a future occasion, that 

* See Pharinacologia, edit. 6. vol. i. p. 147. f Ibid. p. 114. 



LUroduction. t 

the gratification which aitends a favourite meal is, in itself, 
a specific stimulus to the organs of digestion, especially in 
weak and debilitated habits. 

6. Experience can alone supply the want of instinct ; 
and, unless we assume this as the basis of all our inquirieiS 
upon the subject of diet, our theories, however refined, 
and supported by chemical and physiological. researche&(^ 
will prove but Will-o'-th '-wisps, to lead us iistray into 
numerous difficulties and embarrassments. Experience, 
for instance, dearly bought experience, has taught us that 
headach, flatulency, hypochondriasis, and a thousatid 
nameless ills, have arisen from the too prevailing fashion 
of loading our tables with that host of Frehch entremets, 
and horS'd'auvres, which have so unfortunately usurped 
the roast beef of old England. The theorists, in the true 
spirit of philosophical refinement, langh at our terrors 5 
they admit, to be sure^ that the man who eats round the 
table, " ab ovo usque ad mala," is a terrific glutton, but 
that^ after all, lie has only eaten words; for, eat as he may, 
he can only eat animal matter, vegetable matter, and con- 
diment, either Cooked by the heat of water or by that of 
fire, figure or disfigure, serve, arrange, flavour, or adorn ^ 
them as you please. There is no physician of any prac- 
tical knowledge who cannot, at once, refute such a doc- 
trine ; every nurse knows, from experience, that certain 
mixtures produce deleterious compounds in the stomach, 
although the chemist may perhaps fail in explaining their 
nature, or the theory of their formation. What would 
such a reasoner say, if he were invited to a repast, and 
were presented only with charcoal and water? would he be 
reconciled to his fare by being told that his discontent was 
founded on a mere delusion ? that the difference between 
them and the richest vegetable viands was merely ideal, 
an affair of words, as in either case he would only swallow 
oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon? and yet the presumption 
in such a case would not he more violent, nor would thfe 



9 Introduction.^ 

argument be less tenable, than that by which the chemist 
attempts to defend the innocence of a practice which 
converts our refreshments into burdens, and our food into 
poison. To those who question the value of dietetic regu- 
lations in the cure of disease, I have only to observe, that 
they may as well deny the utility of the medical art alto* 
gether, and assert that in all disorder of function. Nature 
is sufficiently powerful to rectify and cure them, without 
the intervention of art : unless this be granted, it is absurd 
to say that beneficial impressions may not be made as well 
through the medium of the materia alimentaria, as through 
that of the materia medica ; or, to borrow the language of 
Pr. Arbuthnot, that what we take daily by pounds must 
be, at least, as important as what we take seldom, and only 
by grains or tea-spoonsful. 

7, Those who have read my work on Pharmacology^ 
will easily discover the train of research by which my 
mind has been led, from the study of the operation of 
medicines, to that of the digestion of aliment ; while those 
who are acquainted with the various works on dietetics 
will readily admit, that an ample apology may be found 
for giving to the public another volume on that subject. 
Upon this point, however, I wish to be distinctly undet-^ 
stood ; for I should be seriously concerned at being iden^ 
tified with a school, which uniformly depresses the opi- 
nions and writings of others, in order that those of their 
own immediate disciples may rise in relative importance. 
It would be worse than foolish to assert that, upon the 
subject of dietetics, we have no works of merit; the 
valuable treatise of Dr. Fordyce would, singly, be sufficient 
to repel with triumph a charge so illiberal and unjust : 
at the same time, it cannot be denied, that since the 
periods in which many excellent works were composed, 
physiology, as well as chemistry, has advanced with rapid 
strides ; pathology has thrown off the mystic veil with 
which the humoral doctrine had invested her, and the 



Introduction. 9 

tiews« as well as the language of medical science"; have 
undergone corresponding revolutions. Facts alone remain 
unchanged ; but those are so buried In the ruins of the 
fallen fabric, that, unless they be rescued from the confused 
mass, their intrinsic value must be entirely lost : any work, 
therefore, carefully collated, with the view of accomplish- 
ing such an object, even should it present but little novelty, 
must prove an acceptable offering to the intelligent part of 
the community^ 

8# Before the subject of dietetics can be systematically 
considered, or the principles upon which disease! may be 
prevented or cured by an appropriate diet, can be pro- 
perly understood^ or profitably applied, the reader must be 
made acquainted with the complicated machinery by which 
Nature extracts blood from food« The various processes 
engaged in this wonderful transmutation are expressed 
by the comprehensive term, digestion, although this 
word is sometimes employed in a more limited sense, to 
denote only those preparatory changes which the food 
undergoes in the stomach. Mr. Abomethy would appear 
to use the term according to this latter acceptation, for he 
says, — " Digestion takes place in the stomach, chylifkation 
in the small intestines, and a third process, hitherto unde- 
nominated, is performed in the large intestines." The 
relation of a tale which has been so often told, may, 
perhaps, appear to many as not only superfluous but repre** 
hensible; I must, however, remark, that every author is 
conventionally allowed to state the theme of his discussion 
in his own language, and the advantages which have 
hitherto attended the indulgence sufficiently sanction its 
continuance^ 



10 Of the Digestive Organs. 



ANATOMICAL VIEW OF THE DIGESTIVE 

ORGANS. 

Their elaborate Machinery. ^-^Their Structure varies accord^ 
mg to the Food 'of the Animal to which they belong. 
— Etmmeration of the several digestive Organs, — 
Their extraordinary sympathetic relations. — The Ati- 
M fiNTARY Canal : — its peristaltic Motion. — The Sto- 
mach : — its Figure, Dimensions, Situation, and Struc-- 
ture, — Small Intestines. — The Duodenum : — Pecu- 
liarities of its Functions entitle it to be considered as a 
second Stomach i-^Provisions to limit its Motions. — 
Jejunum. — Ilium^— Large Intestines. — Cacum, — Colon . 
— Rectum. — The vauious Glands, or secretins 
Organs, for the Preparation of the di- 
gestive Fluids. — The salivary Glands. — Glands of 
the Stomach and Intestines. — The Liver. — The Pan* 
creas. — Observations on the supposed Use of the Spleen. 
, — ^Vessels for garryi^ng the nutritive Pro- 
duct TO THE CURRENT OF THE CIRCULATION. — 

The Lacteals. — Mesenteric Glands. — The Thoracic 
Duct.-^The Lungs. — The Kidneys. — The Skin. 

9. No function in the animal economy presents such 
elaborate machinery as that of digestion; but its com- 
plexity and extent have been found to vary according to 
the nature of the food upon which it is designed to act. 
If it greatly differ in composition from the matter of 
which the animal is constituted^ the changes it has to 
undergo before it can be adapted for the support and 
reparation of the body which receives' it, must necessarily 
be more considerable, and the organs are accordingly more 
extensive and elaborate in herbivorous than in carnivorous 
animals ; while man, who derives his supplies of nourish- 



Sympathetic relations of the Stomach. 1 1 

tci^ni from both the kingdoms of nature^ possesses an inter-^ 
mediate organization. His digestivd organs may be said 
to consist of a long canal, extending from the mouf^ to 
the anus, varying in the diameter of its different parts, 
according to the distinct duties which each is destined to 
perform ; and which are alito capable of contracting or 
enlarging their dimensions according to the circumstances 
under which they act; — of various glands, or secreting 
organs, for the preparation of the liquids which are re- 
quired for acting on the alimentary matters; - of regsels 
for conve3ring to the current of the circulation the nutritive 
product of the operation ] -^ of the lungs, which complete 
its assimilation with the blood; — and of the kidneys, 
which carry off the remailiing portion as excrementitious. 
These different organs are not only intimately connected 
with each other, but they display an extraordinary sym- 
pathetic relation with the sanguiferous and cerebral sys- 
tems : there is, for instance, no organ of the body which 
is not directly or indirectly affected by the operations of 
the stomach : we shall therefore cease to wonder that an 
impression made upon it by a medicinal agent, or by an 
alimentary substance, should afford the means of exciting 
an action in the most distant parts of the machine ; nor 
can we be surprised that the aberrations of tfiis central 
organ should give origin to the greater number of maladies 
with which the body is afflicted ; or, that tlK)se applications 
should be so effective which are directed, for their cure, 
through the medium of its sympathies. But that we may 
not, like the members in the ancient fable, wage an 
unjust war against the stomach for the maladies which 
it may thus inflict, it is necessary to state, that the stomach 
suffers equally, in its turn, from the derangement of 
distant organs. What practitioner has not witnessed the 
sudden sickness produced by the sfnrains of tendinous and 
ligamentous structures, or by blows on the head or other 
parts ? To distingui^Bh between the sympathetic and pri- 



1 2 The Alimentary Canal ; 

mary affections of the digestive organs, is a problem ^ 
tbe greatest practical importance; and the profession is 
much indebted to Mr. Abemethy for his endeavours to 
shew how the stomach and bowels may become affected 
(koxxi local disorder. 

10« Although it would be obviously foreign to the 
plan and objects of this work to enter into, minute anato^ 
mical investigations, yet as there are certain facts, con- 
Q/ected with the structure and locality of the alimentary 
oi^ans, which it is essential for the practitioner to bear ia 
mijid, I shaU here offer such a description of them as may 
appear necessary for his guidance, or for the maintenance 
of that perspicuity which I am anxious to bestow upon 
the following pages. In the performance of this task, I 
$b9Jll preserve the order of arrangement already noticed (9), 
vix^ — 

I. The Alimentary Canal. 

11. Although, in strict language, the alimentary canal 
includes the whole passage from the mouth to the anua^ 
the term is more usually employed to express only the 
stomach and intestinal tube. It may be represented as a 
long canal, commonly calculated as being five or six times 
the length of the adult, differently twisted upon itself, 
and of different dimensions in various parts of its extent. 
Anatomists describe it as composed of several distinct 
tunics, or coats, the existence of which may be traced 
throughout its whole extent, although their structure 
undergoes variation m the different divisions of the canal; 
but this will be better understood when we come to speak 
6f its individual parts. The intestinal canal is susceptible 
of a peculiar motion, which arises from the successive 
or simultaneous contraction of its longitudinal or circular 
fibres, and has been differently denominated by authors ; 
some have named it vermicular, others peristaltic. This 



its Peristaltic Motion. 13 

contraction always takes place slowly, and in an irregalar 
manner; it is> however, capable of being accelerated by 
the action of certain stimulants. It does not seem to be 
sensibly controlled by the will; nor, indeed, does it 
appear to be much influenced by the nervous system, for 
it proceeds in the stomach after the section of the eighth 
|>air of nerves, and it even continues, though the intestinal 
canal be entirely separated from the body: at the same 
time it appears, from the experiments related by Dr. W. 
Phillip^ that, although these muscular fibres be inde- 
pendent of the nervous system, they may in every instance 
be influenced through it; a fact of very great pathological 
importance, since it follows that the muscular fibres of 
the canal may not only be affected by causes acting 
directly on them, but by such as act through the medium 
of their nerves. M. Majendie observes, that the peri- 
staltic motion becomes more active by the weakness of 
animals, and even by their death ; and that in some, by 
this cause, it becomes considerably accelerated. The 
object of this motion is to propel forward the contents of 
the canal, and to favour those changes which it is destined 
to undergo. The intestinal canal is never in a state of 
complete collapse, it always contains gas or vapour, which 
prevents its sides from coming into contact. It has been 
stated that this canal is of different dimensions in various 
parts of its extent, and it is principally from this diversity 
of magnitude that anatomists, have established those divi- 
sions which we have next to consider. 

12. The stomach is a membranous bag, very much 
resembling in shape that of the pouch of a bag-pipe, or, 
more strictly speaking, that of a conoid bent upon itself. 
It is not easy to determine its exact capacity in the living 
body, nor is it a fact of much practical importance : in 
various states o$ disease, we have reason to believe that it 
is considerably augmented in size. It has two orifices ; 
the one termed the cardia^ which is a termination of the 



14 Relatiire situation of cmjUjf and (fistended Stomach. 

tube we eall the (Beophague; the other, which oommu- 
nicates with the ematt intestine* and to which the term 
pylorus has been given. The pylorus is raised up« beiag 
nearly, but not quite level with the cardia, so that its 
upper and lower eurfaces form* as it were, two concentric 
circles^ one on the upper side, which is called the small 
curvature, and one on the lower, which is termed the great 
curvature. The stomach is situated immediately below 
the diaphragm, the cardia being nearly opposite to the 
middle of the vertebrss. From thence it bulges out to the 
left side, the great curvature coming forward and down- 
ward ; it then passes on to the right side, rising upwards, 
80 that the pylorus is not much farther from the dia- 
phragm than the cardia: when, therefore, a man is in an 
erect posture, substances must ascend to pass through the 
pylorus. It is, however, evident that its situation, and 
relation with the neighbouring organs, will always sufiia: 
variations according to its degree of distention ; the Mr 
lowing observations will therefore deserve the. attention of 
the pathologist: — in its flaccid state, it occupies the 
epigastrium and part of the left hypochondrium : whilst, 
when distended, it exchanges its flattened, for a rounded 
form, and fills almost completely the left hypochondrium ; 
the greater curvature descends towards the umbilicus, 
particularly on the left side : on account of the resistance 
that the vertebral column presents, the posterior surface 
of the stomach cannot distend itself in that direction ; 
this viscus is therefore wholly carried forward. This 
dilatation of the stomach produces very important changes 
in the abdomen: the total volume of the cavity aug- 
ments; the belly juts out; the abdominal viscera are 
compressed with greater force ; and the necessity of passing 
urine or faeces is fi*equently experienced. At the same 
time, the diaphragm is pressed towards the breast, and it 
descends with some difficulty ; whence the respimtory 
motions are impeded. The stomach, although a single 



Coats ^ of th^ Stomach M 1 5 

b^g, must be consid^recl a^ jdivisuble intoHwo (listinel 
cayiti^^ to which diiFereut offices ^re evidently assigned, 
T)l^ left half haa altvaya l^ger dimensions than the right ; 
and M. Majendie calls the one the jrp/^mV part, because it 
is supported on the spleen, and the oth^r the pyloric part, 
^ince it is supported on the pylorus* 

13. The stomach Has been described as composed of 
several membranes^ viz., ih^ peritoneal, muscular, nervous, 
and villous coats. The nervous coat, however, of Haller 
and the old anatomists, is now acknowledged to be nothing 
more than cellular membrane ; and we might with equal 
propriety dismiss the two former from the number. The 
peritonaaal covering, being' common to all the ccmtents of 
the abdomen, can scarcely be recognised as one of the 
proper coats of the stomach ; while it has been very justly 
observed, that the museular fibres, arranged between the 
peritoneum and the villous membrane, cannot maintain 
th^ name of a coat with. propriety, since the term signifies 
a contjftining mejnbrane, whereas the . muscular fibres owe 
their connection with each other to interposed cellular 
membrane. There remains, then, only the villous mem-* 
brane; and this, in fact, is the only proper intestinal 
coat, or containing membrane of the aliment. The same 
observations will apply to the structure of the alimentary 
canal generally. 

14. The villous, or mucous membrane, has a whitish-? 
red appearance, and presents a singular velvet-^like appear^ 
ance, from which it has derived its name; not being 
elastic, it has numerous folds, or ruge, which supply this 
deficiency, and serve to accommodate the capacity of the 
stomach to the bulk of its contents ; and, at the same 
time, to retain the aliment until it is duly elaborated. It 
is usually lined with a mucous matter, especially in its 
splemc extremity; it also contains many follicles; and 
lEiear. the pylorus are to be seen severed glands, to which is 
assigned a peculiar office, to be hereafter described. The 



16 Duodenum ; its structure and situation. 

stomach is abundantly vascular; indeed it may be ob- 
served that few atruetures receive so much Uood as this 
organ; four arteries, three of which are considerable^ 
are exclusively devoted to its service; and their several 
branches communicate most freely with each other in all 
directions, by innumerable anastomoses ; and, being tor- 
tuous, they can thus accommodate themselves to the full 
and empty states of the cavity. Nor are its nerves less 
numerous ; they are composed of the eighth pair, and a 
great many filaments proceeding from the solar plexm of 
the great sympathetic. At the pylorus the mucous mem- 
brane thickens, and forms a circular fold, which performs 
the office of a valve ; a fibrous dense tissue is also here 
found, which some authors have called the pyloric muscle. 

15. The duodenum comprehends that range of small 
intestine which commences at the pylorus, and extends 
for about twelve inches ; and so important are the changes 
which the aliment undergoes in its cavity, that many 
authors have regarded it as entitled to the appellation of 
a second stomach ; and I shall, hereafter, have occasion 
to state, that many diseases which have been erroneously 
attributed to the stomach, derive their origin from the func-^ 
tional aberrations of this intestine ; a fact which renders a 
knowledge of its structure and situation of great importance 
to the pathologist. Unlike the stomach, which maybe said 
to be comparatively loose and floating in the abdominal 
cavity, it is secured in its position by various attachments; 
and the manner it is protected strongly evinces the import- 
ance of its functions. The practitioner should ever keep 
in mind the position and bearings of this intestine ; for, as 
Dr. Yeats has justly observed, and the fact has been con- 
firmed by my own experience, that patients, directed by 
their own^uneasy feelings, will frequently trace, with most 
anatomical accuracy, the course of the duodenum with 
their finger, from the stomach to the loins on the right 
side, and back again across the abdomen to the umbilicus^ 



Its limited Motion. 17 

The duodenum, at its commencemei^t, turns backwards 
and downwards for a short way ; it then turns tow9xd$ 
the right kidney, to the capsule of which it is more 
or less attached ; it here forms a sacculated angle, and ii\ 
this depending part, the ducts for conveying the pancreatic 
and biliary secretions enter the intestine ; it now ascends 
from the right to the left, just before the aorta and the 
last vertebrae of the back ; it continues this direction from 
thence obliquely forward by a slight curvature, and makes 
its exit through the ring in the mesentery. Its mucous 
membrane, which presents many villi, sind a great number 
of follicles for the secretion of its own peculiar fluid, forms 
irregula^r circular folds, termed " Valvules. Cojiniventes,^* 
which increase the surface of the intestine, while they 
prevent the too rapid passage of its contents. It is fur- 
nished with nerves from the ganglions of the great synp" 
pathetic ; and it is also abundantly supplied with blood- 
vessels. It is impossible to view all the arrangements of 
this organ, without being satisfied that Nature was 
anxious to limit its motions ; and a little reflection will 
convince us of the great importance of such a provision : 
Dr. Yeats, in his valuable paper on the duodenum,* 
which is published in the sixth volume of the Transactions 
of the College, has alluded to this fact in a very pointed 
manner. It is evident that, had this intestine been loose 
and floating, the food might have passed too rapidly 
through it ; it might also have drawn the small end of the 
stomach put of its proper situation ; and there would have 
been a constant disposition in the food to pass out of the 
stomach into the duodenum, upon every relaxation of the 
pylorus : besides which, had it been less confined, and 
consequently subject to greater distension, a regurgitation 

* Some Observations on the Duodenum; with plates descriptive of its 
situation and connexions. Extracted from tlie Gulstonian Lectures, by 
G. D. Yeats, M.D., &c. 

c 



1 8 Jgunum — Ilium — Cacum . 

might have taken place into the ductus communis, from an 
alteration in that obliquity of its direction, which now so 
securely guards against such an occurrence. Dr. Fordyce, 
in noticing the fact of the peritoneeum being wanting on 
the back. of the duodenum, most erroneously concludes 
that this was ordained with a view of allowing a greater 
distension than can take place in the lower intestines ; had 
such been the design of Nature, she certainly would not 
have discarded so highly elastic a membrane, and attached 
the back of the duodenum to the vertebrae. 

16. The Jejunum. The precise point at which the 
duodenum terminates, and the jejunum commences, 
cannot perhaps be accurately defined; but this latter 
intestine is generally considered as beginning where the 
mesentery takes its rise. . It appears to have derived its 
name from the fact of its usually being found empty ; 
probably from its more rapid powers of absorption. 

17. The Ilium is the continuation of the jejunum, and 
is the last division of the small intestine ; it is said to 
have derived its name from the manner in which it is 
coiled up by the mesentery. Its parietes are thinner than 
those of the preceding portion of the canal, and this cir- 
cumstance, together with the deep yellow colour of its 
contents, impart to it an appearance very distinct from 
that of the duodenum. 

18. The large intestines exceed the others in diameter, 
but are less considerable in length ; in structure they also 
differ considerably from the small intestines ; their mucous 
membrane does not present that villous appearance of 
which we have spoken ; but is, on the contrary, smooth : 
the number of follicles is also less, and it is supplied with 
much fewer arteries, veins, and nerves. 

19. The Caecum constitutes the first division of this por- 
tion of the intestinal canal, although some anatomists con- 
sider it as merely the head of the colon, and restrict the term 
cecum to a small gut which is usually described under the 



The Colon. 19 

title of Appendix Vermiformis, and which takes its rise 
from the posterior part of the ceecum ; it is about the size 
of a quill, resembling, in figure and diameter, a common 
earth worm : its coats contain numerous mucous glands, 
and its cavity, which communicates freely with that of the 
caecum, is usually filled with a thick mucous fluid : its 
use is not well understood, but it is evidently designed to 
supply a fluid of some kind ; and as the essential parts of 
the digestion are completed before the aliment arrives at 
this part, we may fairly conclude that the object of such 
fluid is to lubricate the intestinal passage, and thus to 
facilitate the expulsion of the faeces. At its junction with 
the ilium, the caecum, or, according to some anatomists, the 
colon, exhibits a valve, formed by the production of the 
interior coat of the intestine, evidently disposed to permit 
matters to pass forwards, but to prevent their return into 
the ilium. 

20. The Colon constitutes the principal tract of the 
large intestines, and exceeds them all in diameter : as 
accumulations in its cavity frequently produce various ill 
effects from their pressure, it becomes essential for the 
practitioner to know its direction and bearings. It com- 
mences in the cavity of the os ilium, on the right side ; 
from thence, ascending by the kidney on the same side; 
it passes under the concave side of the liver, to which it 
is sometimes tied, as also to the gall bladder, which tinges 
it yellow in that place ; * it then runs under the bottom 
of the stomach to the spleen, in the left side, to which it 
is also affixed ; and thence, passing in the form of the 
Greek letter 2, it terminates in the upper part of the 
OS sacrum in the rectum. It appears, therefore, to be 
contiguous to all the ^digestive organs, a:nd may cohse*- 
quently produce much disturbance by its morbid disten- 

* At least such is its appearance in the dead subject ; whether a 
similar transudation takes place during life, is very doubtful. 



20 The Colon ; how divided. 

sion ; its connexion with the duodenum is also a circum* 
stance of much pathological importance : whatever motion 
takes place in the former intestine, will be communicated, 
more or less, to the latter ; and should it become unnatu* 
rally distended, it will press immediately upon the ascend- 
ing part of the duodenum, and retard the progress of the 
alimentary matter, which has always to rise against gravity, 
when the body is in an erect position, or recumbent on 
the right side. The coI(m has been divided into the 
ascending portion, which extends from the Cfficum to the 
right hypochondrium ; into the transverse portion, or what 
is termed its great arch; and into the descending portion, 
including what has been called its sigmoid flexure. The 
coats of this intestine are much stronger than those of the 
others ; its muscular layer has also a peculiar disposition ; 
its longitudinal fibres form three straight bundles or bands^ 
far separated from each other when the intestine is dilated ; 
at the same time, its circular fibres form bands, equally 
separated from each other, but more numerous: from 
which arrangement^ At follows, that in a great number of 
places, the intestine only consists of the peritoneeum and 
its mucous membrane ; these places are generally formed 
into distinct cavities, which have been termed the cells 
of the colon ; they serve to promote a gradual descent of 
the excrement ; but, when the action of the canal is 
torpid, they give origin to much mischief, by unduly 
retaining its contents. 

^1. Several physiologists have supposed that the colon 
performs some other function than that of a mere recipient. 
Sir E. Home imagined that it formed fat ; an hypothesis 
which would have received some slight support from the 
fact that the fattest animals have generally the largest 
colons, did we not know that persons have lived, and 
enjoyed good health, for many years, with an artificial 
anus formed by the cecal extremity of the small intestines, 
which sufficiently proves that the large intestines are 



Chylopoietic Glands. 21 

not essential to perfect digestion, nor to the maintenance 
pf life. 

22. The Rectum is the last portion of the intestinal 
canal ; it begins at the upper part of the os sacrum, where 
the colon ends, and going straight down (whence its 
name), it is tied to the extremities of the coccyx by the 
peritonaeum behind, and to the neck of the bladder in 
men, but in women to the vagina uteri before; whence 
arises the sympathy between those parts. The coats of 
the rectum are more thick and fleshy than those of any 
other of the intestines : it has in general no valves, but 
several rugae; had the former existed, the expulsion of the 
faeces would have suffered inconvenient delay. The figure 
of the rectum varies, as it is full or empty ; when empty, it 
is regulariy cylindrical, and contracts in transverse folds*: 
it is capable of very great distension, and may even be ex- 
tended to the size of a large bladder : the quantity of faeces 
that sometimes accumulates is prodigious, and cannot, be 
removed except by mechanical means. 



II. The various Glands which are subservient 
TO THE Secretion of the different Fluid:^ 

INTENDED TO ACT ON THE ALIMENTARY MAT- 
TER. 

23. There is nothing more mysterious in the digestive 
process than the great variety of the different fluids which 
appear essential for its completion; each of which has 
appropriate glands for its secretion. These fluids are, the 
saliva, which is formed by glands whose secretory ducts 
open into the mouth ; and mucous mutter, which results 
from the action of numerous follicles situated in the interior 
of the cheeks and palate, upon the back of the tongue, on 
the anterior aspect of the velum and on the uvula; — the 
gastric juice, formed by glands in the stomach ; aqd the 



22 The Sativa ; 

mucus secreted by its membrane ; — the ** succus intestinalis," 
or proper juice of the duodenum and small intestines ; — 
the Ink, which being secreted in the liver, and rendered 
more stimulating in the gall-bladder, is afterwards carried 
into the duodenum ; — the pancreaticjuice, which is secreted 
in the pancreas, and carried into the duodenum along with 
the bile; to which may, perhaps, be added the watery 
liquids thrown into the intestines by the exhalants. Were 
I to describe the intimate structure of the several glands 
and vessels which furnish these fluids, we should be led 
into anatomical details of tedious length, and which would 
be wholly unattended by practical utility. It is^ however, 
essential for the physiologist, as well as the practitioner, 
to become acquainted with the most recent account of the 
chemical history of these several secreted fluids. 

24. The Saliva. The mixture under this name is pro- 
bably variable in its physical and chemical properties, 
according to circumstances which have not hitherto been 
examined. When first discharged from the mouth, it 
always holds suspended a mucus, which is not dissolved, 
but imparts to it a frothy quality, by enabling it to retain 
the air which it absorbs from the atmosphere. It is 
I^adily separated by merely diluting the saliva as it flows 
from the mouth, with distilled water, when it will gradually 
subside, and may be collected on a filter. It is a curious 
circumstance that, although no traces o( phosphate of lime 
can be detected in this mucus by the application of 
reagents, yet, after incineration, a considerable proportion 
appears in the ash.''^ It has been doubted whether this 
mucus be secreted by the salivary glands, or is the 
common mucus of the mouth; the latter appears more 

* It is this mucus that produce the tartar of the teeth, which, at first, 
is only mucus precipitated on the surface of the enamel ; but it soon 
begins to decompose ; its colour changes, by the influence of the air, from 
white to yellow ; the warmth and moisture of the mouth contribute to 
complete the decomposition, and the same earthy phosphates, which are 



its chemical Composition. 23 

probable. The saliva^ deprived of this mucus, consists, 
according to the analysis by Berzetius, of 

Water 992-9 

A peculiar animal matter 2*9 

Alkaline muriates V7 

Lactate of soda and animal matter 0*9 

Pure soda 9 

The peculiar matter of the saliva is soluble in water, but 
not in alcohol ; and the solution is not precipitated either 
by alkalies or acids, or sub-acetate of lead, or muriate of 
mercury, or tannin ; neither is it rendered turbid by 
boiling. The saliva derives its name from the saline 
qualities which it possesses ; and although, under ordinary 
circumstances, we are not conscious of them, yet when the 
stomach has been long empty, and the nervous system 
acquires increased sensibility, the saline taste is frequently 
perceptible. The same eflFect is produced by disease ; and 
the disagreeable taste of which invalids complain, often 
depends upon chemical changes having been produced in 
this secreted fluid. The common furred tongue would 
appear to arise from an increased quantity of vitiated 
mucus. The peculiar milky tongue* which appears in 
certain states of the system, occasionally derives its ap- 
pearance from an innumerable number of microscopic 
bubbles of air, as I have ascertained by observation : in 
such cases, the quantity, rather than the quality of the 
mucus, appears to be affected. The black tongue of 
typhus, on the other hand, is indebted for its character to 
a decomposed state of the mucus ; while a deficiency in 

produced by oxidation and combustion in open fire, are here ft>rmed, and 
slowly deposited on the surfade of the tooth by a slower but a similar 
process. The tartar is therefore, as it were, the a^h of mucus ciystal- 
lized on the tooth. 

* I am induced to consider the milky tongue as rather indicating a 
sympathetic^ than primary derangement of the stomach. It is thm 
constantly produced by mental anxiety. 



24 The Furr^ Tongue. 

the true salivary secretion will explain its dryness. It 
must at the same time be confessed, that there are certain 
morbid conditions of the tongue which cannot be ex- 
plained upon these principles, much less can we discover 
the nature of their connexion with those diseases which 
are known to produce them. I am, for instance, at a loss 
to understand why the tongue should be clean in certain 
stages of hectic fever, at the very time that the stomach 
is palpably deranged : and thus again^ although experience 
has established the fact, how are we to explain why an 
unnaturally red tongue, of a cherry colour, when accom- 
panied with tenderness in the epigastric region, should 
denote organic mischief in the alimentary organs ? I am 
so perfectly satisfied of the truth of this statement, from 
experience, that if a patient applies to me with aggravated 
symptoms of dyspepsia, and I perceive his tongue to be 
bright^ I foim an unfavourable diagnosis of his case. 
I state this as a general proposition, to which of course 
there will be many exceptions. 

When we consider the size of the salivary glands, which 
altogether cannot weigh more than four ounces, the 
quantity of fluid which they continually secrete is truly 
astonishing. It would be a difficult matter to ascertain, 
with accuracy, the proportion of saliva which these glands 
can separate in a given time; but we know, that a person 
unaccustomed to smoaking, will discharge half a pint in 
a very short period. In the case of a felon, who cut his 
throat in prison, and so completely divided both the 
larynx, a little above the cricoid cartilage, and the cesq- 
phagus at the same point, that whatever was introduced 
into the mouth escaped by the external wound ; it wa^ 
found that, during each meal, there was a discharge of 
saliva from the mouth, amounting to from five or six, to 
eight ounces, or even more. This is sufficient to disprove 
the opinion of Dr. Fordyce, who says, " as far as I can 
judge, the secretion during a meal can hardly exceed an 



The Gastric Juice. 25 

' .^ ounce or two ; and I' should think that it serves only to 

lubricate the passages through which the food is to pass." 
With respect to this latter assumption, I shall have to 
offer some observations in a future part of the work. 

25. The Gastric Juice. Great difference of opinion has 
existed with regard to the qualities and composition of 
this fluid; it would> however, appear that other secretions 
of a mucous nature take place in the stomach, with which 
it may be mixed: this circumstance, together with the 
difficulty of obtaining it in an isolated form, are suffi- 
cient to explain the contradictory results which different 
chemists have obtained. It is, moreover, by no mean^ 
improbable that this liquor may vary in different stomachs, 
or even in the same stomach under different circumstances. 
M. Majendie observes, that the contact of different sorts 
of food upon the mucous membrane, may possibly influence 
its composition : it is, at least, certain that the gastric 
juice varies in different animals ; for example, that of 
man is incapable of acting on bones, while that of the dog 
digests these substances perfectly. From the best autho- 
rities upon this subject, the true gastric juice would seem 
to be a glairy fluid, not very diffusible in water, and pos- 
sessing the power of coagulating certain fluids in a very 
eminent degree. Dr. Fordyce states, that six or seven 
grains of the inner coat of the stomach, infused in water, 
gave a liquor which coagulated more than a hundred 
ounces of milk. Some authors have regarded it as 
colourless, and without taste or smell, while others have 
described it as being acidulous.''^ Dr. Young, of Edinburgh, 
is stated to have found that an infusion of the inner coat 
of the stomach, which had been previously washed with 
water, and afterwards with a dilute solution of sub- 

* Dr. Prout has lately read a paper before the Royal Society, in 
order to prove that the stomach always contains muriatic acid, I shall 
have occasion to advert to this fact in a subsequent part of the vioxk. 



26 The Intestinal Juice. 

carbonate of potass^ still retained the power of coagulating 
milk very readily. We see, therefore, how unfounded that 
opinion is which attributes to the potation of water, the 
mischief of diluting the gastric fluid, and thus of weak- 
ening the digestive process. The coagulating and efficient 
principle, whatever it may be, is evidently not diffusible 
in that liquid. After one fit of vomiting, should another 
take place after a short interval, the matter brought up 
will be little more than water, with a slight saline impreg- 
nation, and some mucus ; it will not be found to possess 
any power of coagulation ; which. Dr. Fordyce observes, 
evidently shews that even water flowing from the exha- 
lants, and which we should therefore expect would throw 
ofif the whole of any substance from the surface of the 
stomach, is incapable of detaching the gastric juice. 

26. The mucous membrane of the small intestines 
secretes also a peculiar liquid, to which Haller gave the 
name of intestinal juice ; the quantity that is formed in 
twenty-four hours, he estimated at eight pounds: and 
M. Majendie states, that if this mucous membrane be 
laid bare in a dog, and the layer of mucus absorbed by a 
sponge, it is renewed in a minute ; and he says, that this 
observation may be repeated as often as we please, until 
the intestine becomes inflamed by the contact of the air, 
and foreign bodies. It has never been submitted to an 
accurate analysis; it appears, however, to be viscous, 
thready, of a salt taste, and capable of reddening paper 
tinged with tumsol. 

27. The Liver is, byfar, the largest gland in the huma,n 
body, and is so disproportionate to the quantity of liquid 
secreted, that the bile must require a very extensive appa- 
ratus for its elaboration; and this inference is strength- 
ened by an examination of its composition, for few fluids 
are so complex, and so diflerent from the blood. A know- 
ledge of the locality of the liver is a fact of considerable 
importance to the practitioner, as he is frequently called 



The Liver. 27 

upon to investigate diseases which depend, or are sup- 
posed to depend y upon organic changes in the structure of 
this viscus. Under such circumstances, the patient must 
submit to a manual examination; and the medical stu- 
dent who is unacquainted with the situation of the liver, 
with respect to the general cavity of the abdomen, or 
with the changes which its position may undergo from 
various circumstances, will frequently find himself involved 
in difficulty and confusion. 

28. The liver is situated in the superior part of the 
abdomen, principally on the right side ; it generally occu- 
pies the epigastric and the right hypochondric regions; 
but, since the inferior part of the chiest may be diminished 
in capacity, or altered in figure, these regions may, by 
suffering a corresponding alteration, become too. much 
contracted to contain it ; in which case it will extend into 
the left hypochondric region, and may even occupy no 
inconsiderable part of the umbilical region. This occurs 
in females, whose chests are naturally contracted, or have 
become so by the barbarous custom of tight lacing, and 
from which more mischief has arisen, than from all the 
dietetic errors which I shall have occasion to enumerate. 

29. As the liver is connected with the diaphragm by 
doublings of the peritonseum, termed Ugamefits, it follows 
that, in the living subject, it will vary with respect to the 
general cavity, in the acts of inspiration and expiration. 

30. The figure of the liver is found to vary in different 
animals, being generally determined by that of the animal 
itself, or by that of the cavity in which it is contained. 
In the human subject it is somewhat convex on its anterior 
surface, irregular but concave on its posterior; it is ex- 
tremely broad superiorly, but gradually becomes thinner 
inferiorly, and terminates in a thin margin. Its surfaces 
are smooth, being covered by the peritonaeum, which forms 
its several ligaments ; viz. two, already mentioned, which 
are attached to the* diaphragm, and termed lateral; in the 



28 The Liver. 

middle of its lower and anterior margin is a round liga- 
ment adhering to the iiavel, through which the mabilical 
yein^ 8ic. of the fcetus passes ; between this round liga- ! 
ment and the diaphragm is another, called the suspensory 
ligament, which adheres to the peritonsBum of the anterior | 
part of the abdomen. At the inferior edge of the liver 
there is a fissure extending some way up, particularly 
on its posterior surface, which divides it into two lobes of 
unequal size. These, from their situation in the abdo- 
minal cayity, are distinguished by the dames of the right 
and left lobes, of which the right is the larger. Besides 
these, there is a smaller lobe, situated at the superior and 
posterior part, called, after its describer, lobulus spigelii. 
The liver usually weighs, in a middle-sized man, about 
three pounds twelve ounces. 

31. In a depression on the concave surface of the right 
lobe, a pyriform-shaped bag, termed the gall-bladder, is 
lodged; it has a duct terminating in the duodenum* 
through which the bile enters its cavity, and, at the same 
time, it constitutes the only outlet through which that 
fluid can return into the intestine. 

32. The pyloric portion of the stomach is generally 
covered by the left lobe of the liver, and the gall-bladder 
would appear to rest usually on the duodenum. 

33. The liver is composed of arteries, veins, nerves, 
lymphatics, and excretory ducts, united together by a pecu- 
liar parenchymatous structure. In every other gland in 
the body^ the same blood which supplies it with nutrition 
is also adapted to its secretory office, and is conveyed to 
the organ by the same vessel ; but the liver requires 
arterial blood for its nourishment, and venous blood for 
the materials of its secretion ; the hepatic artery supplies 
the former, and the vena portarum conveys the latter. This 
vein is formed by the concurrence of all the veins of the 
abdominal viscera, which gather together and constitute 
one large trunk, called the sinus of the vena portarum, 



Secretion of Bile. 29 

which enters the liver, and divides in the manner of an 
arteiy. This peculiar arrangement induced some physio- 
logists to suppose, that the bile was prepared in the 
abdominal viscera, or rather, that the blood underwent 
some peculiar modification in the intestines, which pre- 
pared it for the peculiar change it was destined to undergo 
in the liver; and they have supported this opinion by 
another equally gratuitous, that the blood of the vena 
portarum is better adapted for the secretion of bile, on 
account of the larger proportion of carbon and hydro- 
gen which it must contain : but Bichat has observed, 
that fat, which is a highly hydrogenated fluid, does not 
require venous blood for its secretion ; and contends, that 
the bile is secreted from the arterial blood of the liver, 
since the quantity of the latter sent to the liver is more 
in relation with the quantity of bile formed, than that of 
the venous blood ; and that the volume of the hepatic 
canal is not in proportion with that of the vena portarum. 
M. Majendie seems inclined to believe that both kinds 
of blood may serve in the secretion ; he thinks that such 
a theory is indicated by anatomy ; for injections prove 
that all the vessels of the liver, arterial, venous, lymphatic, 
and excretory, communicate with each other. This idea, 
however, is highly repugnant to that simplicity which 
Natur6 observes in all her operations ; and, although I am 
not prepared to prove that the blood of the vena portarum 
has more analogy with the bile than the arterial blood, 
still, the peculiar structure, disposition, and terminations 
of this. singular vein appear to testify the important func- 
tion it is destined to discharge. Dr. Saunders, ''^ who 
has devoted much attention to the investigation of this 
subject, observes, that as the function of the vena por- 
tarum differs from that of other organs, so hais it been 

* A Treatise on the Structure, Economy, and Diseases of the Liver, 
by W. Saunders, M.D. 



30 Structure of the Liver. 

supposed to possess certain peculiarities of structure ; but 
that the only marked difference consists in its tunic being 
thicker, in proportion to the capacity of its canal, than 
that of a common vein. 

34. From the sinus of the vena portarum, three prin- 
cipal'branches usually take their origin ; these, by forming 
subordinate ramifications, in a regular series, at length 
arrive at their terminations, which are of two distinct 
kinds ; the one with respect to the circulation of the blood ; 
the other, as connected with their economy as secreting 
vessels. In the first point of view, they inosculate ivith 
branches of hepatic veins, and, through that channel, 
return to the inferior cava all that blood which is not 
employed in the business of secretion. It appears, there- 
fore, that the hepatic veins are the common recipients of 
the contents of the hepatic artery, and likewise those of 
the vena portarum. The secreting termination of this 
vein is in the beginning of the hepatic ducts, which. Dr. 
Fordyce has observed, have improperly been called port 
biliarii; for how* can we, says he, with propriety call a 
tube of many inches in length a pore? These ducts must 
be exceedingly minute at their origin, since they preclude 
the admission of the red globules. They gradually en- 
large by a union of branches, until at length they pass 
out from the liver, and form the trunk of the hepatic duct. 
From the side of this, rises another tube that leads into 
the gall-bladder, and the union. of the two constitutes the 
common duct, or ductus communis choledicus ; through 
which, it is obvious, that either the bile arising from the 
liver immediately, or tliat part of it which has stagnated 
for some time in the gall-bladder, may pass into the 
duodenum. 

36. With respect to the chemical changes which the 
blood undergoes during its passage into bile, we are 
entirely ignorant ; nor are we acquainted with any of the 
afiinities by which the transmutation can be effected. 



The Gall-bladder. 31 

36. The liver is plentifully supplied with absorbents, 
which take their origin from every part of its substance, 
but more especially from the branches of the hepatic 
duct; this latter circumstance renders it probable that 
the bile looses a quantity of its aqueous particles as it 
passes through these passages^ and changes from a dilute 
to a concentrated state. 

37. The liver is supplied with nerves which arise 
principally from the hepatic plexus, and enter the substance 
of the liver with the hepatic artery. 

38. M. Majendie states^ that the secretion of bile 
appears constant; for, in whatever circumstances an 
animal is placed, if the orifice of the ductus choledochus 
is laid bare, this liquid is seen to flow, drop by drop, at 
the surface of the intestine ; but we are not to conclude 
that, in the living body, its discharge into the duodenum 
is uniformly progressive, and without interruption : on the 
contrary, the termination of the duct will be occasionally 
pressed upon, during the peristaltic action of the intes- 
tine; at which periods, the duct will suffer a degree of 
distension, and the bile will find its way through the 
cystic duct into the gall-bladder. This effect will, in 
some measure, be promoted by the oblique manner in 
which the common duct perforates the intestine, although 
the more obvious utility of such an arrangement is to 
prevent the regurgitation of bile from the duodenum. To 
prevent the evils which must arise fi^om a distended state 
of the gall-bladder, this viscus is so situated, aa to be 
pressed upon by the stomach : I also entertain but little 
doubt that, in such a morbid condition of this receptacle, 
an irritation is communicated to the stomach, by which 
vomiting is produced, which must effectually contribute 
to the expulsion of its bile. M. Majendie has generally 
found it empty in animals that have died by the effect of 
an emetic poison. It seems very doubtful whether its coats 
are endowed with muscular powers to eject its contents. 



32 The Bile. 

39. Bile appears as a perfectly homogeneous fluids of 
a yellowish green, or sometimes of a brown colour ; in 
consistence, it is viscid and unctuous ; its taste is bitter 
and pungent ; and its odour peculiarly faint and nauseous* 
It is well known that the older chemists considered the 
bile as an animal soap^ composed of soda and a recdn ; 
and this opinion received no small degree of support from 
the appearance of lather, which is produced by its agi- 
tation in a phial, and from that detergent quality so well 
known to every scourer of cloth. But in the present 
advanced state of science, the chemist is little disposed to 
infer the composition of a body from its external cha- 
racters ; he submits it to the ordeal of experiment, and 
tortures it, by the most refined operations ; the happiest 
results have followed this rigorous process of inquiry. 
To the labours of Fourcroy, Th^nard, and Berzelius, we 
are principally indebted for our knowledge of the conoi- 
position of bile ; and as the subject is one of deep interest 
to the physiologist and physician, I shall here give some 
account of their researches. 

40. Boerhaave, by an extravagant error, regarded the 
bile as one of the most putrescible fluids; and hence 
originated many hypothetical and absurd theories on 
diseases and their treatment.* Dr. Saunders has shewn^ 
by a comparative experiment, that the bile of a healthy 
animal is far less disposed to putrify than its blood. The 
bile of the ox, from the greater quantity of it which may 
be procured, has been usually the subject of experiment. 
The odour, colour, and taste of bile appear to reside in a 
resinous matter, which is solid, very bitter, and, when 
pure, green ; but when melted, it passes to yellow. It is 
soluble in alcohol and in pure alkalies ; and is precipitable 
from the former by water, and from the latter by acids. 
The uncombined soda in bile does not exceed ,,^ its 
weight ; and, as this very minute quantity of alkali must 
be quite incapable of dissolving the large proportion of 



J 



The Bile chemically examined. 33 

resin which exists in bile^ Thenard was induced to turn 
his attention to the discovery of some other solvent of 
resin, existing as a component part in that fluid. Acetate 
of lead (the common sugar o£ lead of commierce) . preci- 
pitates, he found, not only the resin, but the peculiar 
substance, of which he was in search, in union with .oi^ide 
of lead. But an acetate, with a lai^er proportion of base, 
(formed. from eight parts of sugar of lead and one of 
litharge,) produced a different effect, and precipitated only 
the albumen and the resin. When the remaining liquid 
was filtered, and the lead separated by means of sulphur- 
retted hydrogen gas, it gave, on evaporation, a residue 
having less bitterness and considerably mdre sweetness. 
In this state the solvent of the resin could not be con- 
sidered as pure, since it retained in solution a quantity 
of acetate of soda, arising from the decomposition, by the 
acetate of lead, of the salts of soda existing in the bile. 
He again, therefore, precipitated the solution by the 
acetate of lead saturated with oxide, and obtained an 
insoluble compound of the peculiar matter and oxide of 
lead. This was dissolved in vinegar ; the oxide of lead 
separated by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the acid driven 
off by evaporation. 

41. This substance, to which Thenard has given the 
name of picromel, possesses the property of rendering the 
resin of bile easily soluble in water. Three parts are 
sufficient to one of the resin. The characters of picromel 
are, that it is insoluble in water and alcohol, and inca- 
pable of being crystallised ; that it precipitates nitrate of 
mercury, and acetate of lead with excess of oxide ; and 
that it forms, with resin and a minute quantity of soda, 
a triple compound, which is not decomposable by acids, 
nor by alkaline or earthy salts. Chevallier has shewn 
that it exists in human bile taken from the gall-bladder 
after death, but he could not detect it in bile discharged 



34 Cofnposition of Bite. 

by vomiting,* It has been analysed by Dr. Thcmwon, 
who obtained products, indicating fire atoms of carbon 
+ three of oxygen + one of hydrogen.f 

42. Besides picromel, there exists a peculiar principle 
in bile, to which the name of yellow matter has been 
given. It is precipiuted by acids. It appears to be the 
source of those concretions which form in the gall-bladden 
of oxen, and which are valuable as a pigment, on account 
of the extreme beauty of their colour. 

43. The composition of ox bile has been determined 
as follows ; — 

Water 700 

Resin 24 

Picromel 60*5 

Yellow matter 4 but variable. 

Soda 4 

Phosphate of soda 2 

Muriate of soda 3-2 

Sulphate of soda 0*8 

Phosphate of lime 1-2 

Oxide of iron a trace, 

800 

44. In analysing the bile of other animals, a similarity 
of composition was discovered, which little accords with 
the known diversity of their aliments j thus, that of the 
dog, the sheep, the cat, and the calf, was found to be 
precisely similar. The bile of the pig, on the contrary, 
contained neither yellow matter nor picromel. It con- 
sisted merely of resin in great quantity, of soda, and of 
salts, the nature of which has not been ascertained. It 
was entirely decomposed by acids, and even by the 
weakest — the acetic . 

45. Berzelius is not disposed to regard the peculiar 
matter, which is considered to be resin, as strictly falling 
under that denomination : he says it is precipitable by 

» Ann. de Chim. et Phys. ix. 400. f Ann. of Phil. xiv. ro. 



Views of Berzettus. 36 

acids; and the precipitate is a compound of the acid 
employed with the green colouriiig matter of bile. This 
ciiailftcteristic ingredient be calls biliary matter. He finds 
bile composed of 

WaWr 907-4 

Biliary matter $0*0 

Mucus of the gall bladder . . 3*0 
Alkalies and salts 9*6 

1000 

One cii^umstance, adds M. Benelins^ relating: to this 
biliary ja^ktter has much surprised me^ which is, that 
it gives no ammonia by dei^nictiTe distillation ; therefore 
it eosftains no azote : but wha;! can hwire become of the 
azote of the albuminoid matter of the blood ? for no vestige 
of it is fomid in any otiier of the constituent parts of 
the bile^ nor doed bile contain any ammoiua, 

46. M^ fh^nard also analysed humatn bifef and he 
fs qS opinion that his experiments hnre led him to as 
aceui^te a kiiiowledge of it as of any other species. All 
the acids ddcolnpose it, and precipitate {rem* it a large 
quantity of albitmen and of resin* These may be sepa*- 
rated frcmi each otiier by akc^ol. By the application 
of acetate of lead no fieromel can be discovered; nor 
is any other ingredient found in humai^ bile thAn yellow 
matter, albumen, resin, and salts. The proportions are 
the following: — 

Water 1000, or more. 

Yellow matter, insokibley and 

floaliDg in the bile, a variable 

<]piantit7 fron 2 to 10 

Yellow matter in solution .... a trace. 

Albumen 42 

Resin 41 

Soda 5'e 

Phosphates of soda and Utne, 

sulphate aad mumate of Soda^ 

and oxide of iron 4*5 



1100 



36 The Pancreas. 

47. The yellow matter appears to be,- in every respect, 
similar to that of ox bile. The resin is yellowish ; verj 
fusible ; bitter, but less so than that of ox bile ; soluble 
in alcohol, from which it is precipitated by water; and 
soluble in alkalies, from which it is thrown down by 
acids. In water it appears scarcely to dissolve; and yet 
sulphuric and nitric acids occasion a precipitate from 
water which has been digested on it. 

48. The Pancreas, vulgarly called the sweet-bread, is a 
large gland of the salivary kind, lying across the upper 
and back part of the abdomen^ near the duodenum, behind 
the stomach, and between the liver and spleen. Its 
length is eight or nine inches, its breadth is about two 
fingers and a half, and its thickness about one finger : it 
generally weighs about three ounces. It is composed of 
innumerable small glands, the excretory ducts of which 
unite and form the pancreatic duct ; which, in the human 
subject, always enters the duodenum with the ductus 
communis choledochus. Although the granulous structure 
of the pancreas has induced anatomists to regard it as a 
salivary gland, yet M. Majendie observes, that it differs * 
in the smallness of the arteries which, supply it, as well 
as in not appearing to receive any cerebral nerve. The 
peculiar fluid it secretes is, doubtless, necessary to diges- 
tion, but we are totally ignorant of the particular duty 
assigned to it. As we descend in the scale of animals, the 
pancreas disappears : it is found in the shark and skate, 
but in other fishes its place is supplied by cecal appendices, 
which afford a copious secretion analogous to the pan- 
creatic liquor. The quantity of fluid prepared by this 
gland does not appear to bear a just proportion to its size. 
Dr. Fordyce first attempted to collect a quantity of it, by 
inserting a small quill into its duct, in a living dog; when 
there flowed out a colourless fluid, almost watery, having a 
saltish taste; and on letting it evaporate on a plate of 
glass, he observed crystals of common salt, and muriate of 
ammonia, together with a colourless mucilage. This ex- 



The Spleen. 37 

periment, however, as its author candidly confesses, cannot 
be considered as satisfactory, since the secretion did not 
take place in its natural state ; the quill might stimulate 
the duct, and produce a different fluid. M. Majendie 
employed a simpler mode ; he laid bare the orifice of the 
canal in a dog, wiped the surrounding mucous membrane 
with a very fine cloth, and then waited until a drop of 
liquid passed out; as soon as it appeared, he sucked it up 
with a capillary tube ; and in this manner he succeeded 
in collecting some drops, but never enough to analyse it 
with any precision : he recognised in it a slightly yellow 
colour, a salt taste, but no odcrur ; and he found that it 
was alkaline, and partly coagulable by heat. The circum- 
stance, says this able experimentalist, which most struck 
me, was the smallness of its quantity ; a drop scarcely 
passed out in half an hour, and I have sometimes waited 
longer for it. That the pancreatic fluid plays an important 
part in the elaboration of chyle, appears evident from the 
fact, that diseases of that viscus are attended with extreme 
emaciation. 

49. The Spleen is a viscus of a deep blackish-red 
colour, situated on the lefl hypochondrium, immediately 
under the diaphragm, and above the kidney. Its figure 
may be said to be that of a depressed oval, nearly twice as 
long as it is broad, and almost twice as broad as it is 
thick. . However ingeniously we may speculate upon the 
uses of this organ, nothing satisfactory has been hitherto 
obtained upon the subject. It certainly does not appear 
to be essential to life, for Mr. John Hunter removed it 
from a wounded man, and the patient did well. Various 
other instances of a similar kind stand on record. Hoffman 
relates that, when the spleen is removed from dogs, they 
rapidly increase in fatness. It cannot supply any fluid for 
the digestive process, since it has no excretory duct. Some 
have supposed, from the peculiarly dark livid colour of its 
blood,' and the diflSculty with which it coagulates, that it3 



38 What is Secretion ? 

OM is to prodoce some change upon the blood, ia order 
to adapt it for the secretion of bile. I think it very pro* 
bable, from the relations which its blood-vessek bear to 
those of the liver, that it administers, in B<Hne way or oth^-, 
to the latter viscus ; but it cannot be instrumental in the 
formation of bile, as we have seen that this fluid can be 
properly elaborated without. Is it not an organ of compen- 
sation, — a waste pipe, for the remoral of any redundant 
blood which may be thrown into the liver ? or a resenroir, 
to supply any deficiency which circumstances may create ? 
and that, in this respect, it is to its sanguiferous, what the 
gall*bladder is to its biliary system ? 

50. Having completed the history of the glands de* 
stined for the secretion of the several fluids whieh are 
essential to the digestive process, I shall pause a short 
time, in order to offer a few observations upon the nature 
of those wonderful phenomena, which arise, as it were, on 
the doubtful confines of chemistry and vitality. What is 
secretion ? How are we to explain the fact of blood beii^ 
successively converted into saliva, gastric Juice, bile, and a 
variety of other equally dissimilar fluids, by it^ m^re trans* 
mission through a series of minute tubes ? If we direct 
our attention to the most simple form of secretion, termed 
serous exhalation, we shall hastily arrive at the conclusion, 
that a separation of the thinner from the thicker parts of 
the blood is all that has been effected by the operation, 
and that the organs by which the several membranes are 
thus supplied, are consequently mere sieves ; for if we exa* 
mine the composition of the fluid secreted by the serous 
membranes, it will appear to be the serum of the blood, 
deprived of a certain quantity of albumen. The following 
very interesting observations by M. Majendie prove that 
the physical disposition of the small vessels has an in< 
fluence upon the exhalation. When, in the dead body, 
tepid water is injected into an artery that goeis into a 



Whether the Glands act as Filters. 39 

seroiQS m^i»]t>rane, as soon ^ the current is established 
firom the artery to the vein, a great number of small drops 
pass out af the membrane, and quickly evapor^jbe. This 
pfaeiKMnenon has certainly a close analogy with exhalation. 
If we employ a solution of gelatine, coloured with ver- 
milion, to inject a whple body, it frequently happens th^ 
the gelatine is deposited round the circumvolutions, and 
in the cerebral anfractuosities, without the colouring mat- 
t^ halving escaped from the vessels; on the contrary, the 
whole injection spreads at the .external and internal surface 
of the choroid. If linseed oil be used, coloured also by 
vermilion, the oil, deprived of the colouring matter^ is 
often seen deposited in the great synovial capsule of arti- 
culations ; whilst there is no transudation at the surface of 
the brain, nor in the interior of the eye. With such results 
before me, and ob^ervkig, at the same time, that the struc- 
ture of all glands agrees in this fact, that they are composed 
of vessels of infinitely small diameter, I am bound to con- 
elude> that one. part, at least, of the process of secretion is 
mechanical, and that whatever other office a gland may 
perform, t;hat it undoubtedly acts as a sieve or filter. The 
dioeoveries. which modern chemists have effected, with 
^egafd.tp the atomic composition of bodies, seem to me to 
be papable of biding. brought, in some degree, to bear on 
the question befcnre us. It appears probable that the ulti- 
mflte, as well as proximate atoms of different bodies, are 
^adQwed with, different degrees of magnitude : a ciucked 
j^r has been known to retain oxygen for a considerable 
p^ipdy without contamination ; but when the same jar 
Wftfi filled with hydrogen^ this latter. gas sp^dily escaped : 
we find a rational explanation of this fact in the supppsi- 
ti/i^n^ tb^t the atoms of. hydrogen have less magnitude than 
tbofiie of oxygen. Again, if diluted alcohol be kept in a 
ye^el carefully closed by a slip of bladder, after some time 
the spirit vvUl be fom^d stronger ; whence it appears, that 
the ^coholic vapour transpires throug^h this animal mem- 



40 The Theory of Secretion. 

brane less freely than aqueous vapour : are then the atoms 
of water smaller than those of alcohol ? Let us consider 
this question : an atom of water is compounded of one 
atom of oxygen and one atom of hydrogen ; whereas an 
atom of alcohol consists of two atoms of carbon, one atom 
of oxygen, and three atoms of hydrogen : but it may be 
said, that bodies chemicaUy combined cannot be thus dia* 
united by mechanical division : this, as a general propo- 
sition, is undoubtedly true ; but we have ample proofs to 
shew that chemical affinities may be suspended in the 
living body. In reflecting upon all the circumstances and 
bearings of this important and interesting subject, I have 
often been struck with the wisdom and extreme simplicity 
of the process by which the blood is separated by the 
structure of the eye, into those parts which are of such 
striking utility in its economy. It was essential that the 
crystalline humour should be perfectly transparent, and 
that the interior surface of the choroid coat should be 
impregnated with a dark pigment, in order to absorb the 
light immediately after it has traversed the retina ; now, 
if we submit the matter of the lens to analysis, we shall 
find that it coagulates by boiling, and has all the chemical 
properties of the colouring matter of blood, except colour, 
which is entirely absent. What then has become of this 
colouring ingredient ? we shall find that it has been appro- 
priated by the vessels of the choroid, for the important 
purpose above stated. On examining this pigment, its 
composition will be found to confirm such a theory ; for, 
when dried and ignited, it will bum as easily as a vegetable 
substance, sknd the ash will contain much iron. For these 
results we are indebted to the labours of Berzelius ; and 
they certainly shew that the circulating blood is decom- 
posed on the interior surface of the choroid, leaving there 
its colouring matter, and conveying the remainder to the 
inner part of the eye perfectly limpid and colourless. 
51. But filtration cannot explain the development of 



Agency of the Nervous Fluid. 4 1 

those secreted fluids which contain proximate principles 
that do not exist in the blood ;' — no foreign ingredient is 
added, no chemical reagent is interposed, and yet the 
fluid which flows from the organised laboratory has 
acquired chemical properties, which render it decidedly 
different from the common circulating mass. The agent 
in this case can only be the nervous fluid, which appears 
to exert its influence principally upon the albumen, which 
M. Berzelius considers as the source * of every sub- 
stance that peculiarly characterises each secretion : all the 
other parts are contained in the Uood, and are identical 
with the fluid separated from the serum after its coagu- 
lation. 

52. Every attempt to understand the manner in i^ich 
the nervous fluid produces the phenomena of secretion, 
has hitherto completely failed; the changes to which it 
gives origin no art can imitate, nor any- philosophy explain; 
but, although we are thus unable to trace the steps of 
nature, we may venture to inquire into the general direc- 
tion of the path which she follows. It. must be allowed 
that a considerable analogy subsists between the opera- 
tions of the nervous fluid, as an agent of secretion, and 
that of galvanic electricity; they both suspend the natural 
affinities of bodies, dissever elements between which the 
strongest attractions exist, and determine them to unite in 
difierent forms and proportions. In illustration of this 
truth, thei following ingenious experiment of Dr. Wol- 
laston may be introduced : — he took a glass tube, two 
inches long, and three-quarters of an inch in diameter, 
and closed one of its extremities with a piece of bladder ; 
he then poured a little water into the tube, with ^^ parts 
of its weight of common salt ; he wetted the bladder on 

* Our English chemist^ Mr. Hatchett, expressed the same opinion, in 
a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1800 : he there 
shews that it is convertible into gelatine and fibrine. - Is not -the chick 
produced in the egg from the albumen? 



42 The Lacteal Vessels. 

the outside^ and plaoed it on a piece of silver ; be then 
bent a zinc wire^ so that one of its endi touched the silver, 
and the other, entered the tube the length of an inch : 
in the eame instant, the external face of the bladder gave 
indications of the presence of pure soda ; so that, under 
the influence of this very weak electricity, there was a 
decomposition of muriate of soda, and a passage of the 
soda, separated from the acid, through the bladder. It 
seems rational to believe that something analogous inay 
happen in the act of secretion. Dr* Young has developed 
this idea still farther; and has observed, that we may 
easily imagine that, at the subdivision of a minute artery, 
a nervous filament may pierce it on one side, and afford 
a pole positively dectrical, and another opposite filament a 
negative one; then the particles of oxygen and nitrogen 
contained in the blood being most attracted by thf posi- 
tive pde, will tend towards the branch which is nearest to 
it, while those of the hydrogen and carbon will take. the 
opposite channel; and that both these portions may be 
again subdivided, if it be required ; and the fli^id thus 
analysed may be recombined into new forms by a reunion 
of a certain number of each of the kinds of minute rami- 
fications. 



III. Vebsels for carbyino tme Nutaitjvjs Pmo-- 

DUCT TO TUB CURRENT OP TEE CIRCULATION. 

53. T3ie Lacteah, so oslied bom the milky appearwce 
of the liquor they are destined to icany, arise, by number- 
less open mouths, firom the inner sur&ce of the intestines. 
Each lacteal takes its origin upon one of the villi, by 
numerous short radiated branches, and each branch is 
furnished with an orifice for imbibing the chyle. The 
radiated branches are collected into fasciculi, which are 
enclosed in processes of the inner coat of the intestines. 



The Mesenteric Qlands. 48 

These fasciculi are of a roiutdidi ffann^ and havie been 
called ampuUula of Leiberknlin^ from the author consider* 
ing them as little bottles receiving the chyle. From tibe 
viUi, the lacteab run a consideiable uray under the niiis* 
eular coat of Ihe intestines^ and then pass obUquely 
through it, uniting in their ocmrse into larger brancdies. 
Upon the sur&oe of the intestines an external set af^ars; 
it runs between the peritoneal and muscular coats, and 
commonly proceeds some way in the direction of the intes* 
tine, and with few ramifiysations. The superficial and 
deep-seated lacteals communieate iiieely in the subsiatnce 
of the intestines : those of the jejunum are larger and 
more numerous than those of the ilium, the principal part 
of the chyle being contained in the farmer. The absorbents 
of the great, are proportionally of an inferior size to those 
of the small intestines, and have seldom, though some- 
times, been observed to be filled with chyle. In their 
course they pass through a great number of lacteal or mesen- 
teric glands, which, like the lacteals themselves, are largest 
and most numerous in that part of the mesentery which 
belongs to the jejunum. 

54. The Mesenteric Glands are seated in the fat, between 
the layers of the mesentery, near the branches of the 
blood-vessels. They are commonly scattered over the 
mesentery, at a little distance from each other; but there 
are seldom any observed within two or three inches of the 
intestines. They differ from each other in size, some 
being about half or two-think of an inch in diameter, 
while others are so small as to be traced with difficulty. 
Their structure i^ the same as that of the absorbent glands 
in other parts of the body, but they are generally-flatter, 
and are of a pale colour. When filled with chyle, they 
are nearly as white as the fluid contained in them. The 
lacteals having passed through tbes^ glands, proceed for* 
ward, and by anastomosing form a set of trunks, which, 
together with those of the lymphatics, unite and c^mstitute 



44 The Lungs and Kidneys. 

the titoracic duct, which ultimately opens into the sub- 
davian yfein. Much discussion has arisen as to the 
mechanism by which the chyle is made to pass forward 
through the lacteal system : capillary attraction would 
appear to have some influence in the operation^ siiice ab- 
sorption continues after death ; during life, the pressure of 
the abdominal muscles, and the pulsation of the arteries, 
no doubt contribute to the effect. In the interior, of the 
thoracic duct, and in the lacteals, there exist valves so 
disposed as to permit the fluid to pass forward towards 
the subckyian vein, but to prevent its return. 



IV. The Lungs. 

55. Although the lungs perform several essential ope- 
rations not immediately connected with nutrition^ still, as 
the chyle is incapable of becoming blood without their 
assistance, they necessarily constitute an important link 
in the chain of digestive functions. It would be digressing 
too much from the plan of this work, to enter into ana- 
tomical details of their structure ; but it may be necessary 
to remind the practitioner, that the lungs are supplied 
with a part of the nerve of the eighth pair, and some fila- 
ments of the sympathetic, which will account for the sym- 
pathies which subsist between the respiratory and digestive 
organs.* 

V. The Kidneys. 

56. These organs are situated upon the sides of the 
vertebral column, just before the last false. ribs. From 

* Upon this subject, the practitioner will do well to consult the highly 
ingenious paper by Mr. Charles Bell, published in the Philosophical 
Transactions, and entitled, '* On the Nerves; giving an Account of some 
Experiments on their Structure and Functions, which had to a new 
Artangement of- the System J* 



Structure of the Ki(hieys. 46 

their oblong figure, they have been compared in shape to 
large beans. The right kidney lies under the great lobe 
of the liver, and is consequently lower than the left, which 
lies under the spleen. Tteir volume is small when com- 
pared with the large quantity of fluid w^ioh they secrete; 
and it appears probable, that the chemical functions which 
they perform are less extensive than those which may be 
regarded as more strictly mechanical. They ate generally 
surrounded with ^a considerable quantity of. fat : their 
parenchyma is composed of two substances; the oHe 
exterior, vascular, or cortical; . the other, called tubulan, 
disposed in a certain number of cones, the bases of which 
correspond to the surfiice of the otgaii, while their summits 
unite in. the membranous cavity called jve^ms. These cones 
appear to be formed by a great number of small hollow 
fibres, which are excretory canals of a particular kind, and 
which are generally filled with urine. It is a curious fact, 
that if a slight compression be made upon these uriniferous 
cones, the urine will pass out in considerable quantity; 
but, instead, of being limpid» as when it passes out natu-^ 
rally, it is muddy and thick, which evidently proves that 
the hollow fibres act as filters. In respect to its volume, 
no organ receives so much blood as the kidney : the artery 
which is directed there is large, short, and proceeds imme- 
diately firom the aorta. Haller has decided, that no less 
than a thousand ounces of blood may pass through the 
renal structure in the space of an hour : and the extreme 
facility with which the coarsest injections pass through 
the renal arteries into the ureters, or excretory duets, affords 
a convincing proof of the immediate connexion which 
exists between all tilie different parts of. the structure of 
the kidney. . The filaments of the great jsympathetic are 
alone distributed to these organs. 



46 The Skin. 



VI. Tb& Skin. 

67. The dun forms the envelope of the body, and is 
lost in the mucous membranes at the entrance of all the 
cavitieft; although some assert that these membranes are 
only a continuation of it^ and thus account for the sym- 
pathy whid^ subsists between such structures. Be this as 
it may, it is evident that the interior organs, espeeiaUy the 
stamach, alimentary canal, the lungs, the liver, and the 
kidneys, 8yEEq>athise in a very remarkable degree with iht 
surfece of the body* So striking and constant is the sym^ 
pathy between these latter organs and the skin, tiiat they 
.^.pear capable of reciprocaUy aasirting each other in tbdr 
eporaiions: wheie cold contracts the pores of the^ surface^ 
we find the kidneys excked to a greater degree of activity ; 
and changes in the secretions of the skin are attended 
witb coriespoiiding alterations in the urinary discharge. 
Its sympathy with the stomach is aha evinced by^ tite 
phenomena which accompany digestion. It baa been 
ascertained by Lavoisier and Seguin, that the culianeous 
transpiration is at its minimum during chynlifieation, and 
at its maximum after its completion. 

58. According to M. Th6nard, the liquid that escapes 
from the skin is composed of a great deal of water, a small 
quantity of acetic acid, of muriates of soda and potass, a 
small proportion of earthy phosphate, an atom of oxide of 
iron, and a trace of animal matter : the skin exhales also 
carbonic arid. 

59. Mueh controversy has existed witii r^ard to the 
absorbing powers of the skin ; but the question appears te 
me to have been settled by the expmments of M. Seguin; 
and that, as long as the epidermis remains entire, sub*^ 
stances in contact with the surface will not pass into the cir- 
culation, but that as soon as it is abraded, absorption takes 
place. If, however, friction is employed, an effect follows 



Importance of Anatomy to Physicians. 47 

which simple application would not produce ; it cannot be 
doubted that mercury and other bodies may be thus made 
to pass into the system. This question is one of great 
importance, inasmuch as it enables us to appreciate the 
value of nourishing baths of milk^ broth, &c. 

60. I have thus, with as much brevity as the subject 
would allow, offered a sketch of the different organs by 
which aliment is converted into blood. My object has 
been to bring into one point of view all those facts which 
are capable of practical application, and to exclude, as far 
as possible, those which have no other than theoretical 
relations to the subject before us. Minute anatomy is of 
little service to the physician, but without a knowledge of 
the positions and localities of the different organs which 
constitute the seats of the diseases he may be called upon 
to cure, he will be inevitably led into error. In. conse- 
quence of such deficiency, a practition^ at once refers a 
fulness of the right epigastrium to the liver, forgeUing 
that a distended state of the duodenum may account for 
the symptom; in like manner, he wUl attribute to the 
kidney, pains which ought to be referred to the posterior 
edge of the liver. A hundred parallel eJtamples might be 
adduced^ but those I have stated will answer the purpose 
of illustratian. 



48 Of the History of Digestion. 



PHYSIOLOGICAL HISTORY OF DIGESTION. 

Nutrition : — its final Cause. — Old Age: — Sir A. Car^ 
lisle* s View of the Disorders of Senility objectionable.-^ 
The Author's Opinion. — Chemical and Mechanical 
Agents of Digestion. — Conventional acceptation of the 
term Chemical. — Mastication. — Insalivation. — Erro- 
neons Opinion of Dr. Fordyce and others with respect 
to the Use of the Saliva. — Deglutition. — Action of the 
Gastric Juice. — Chymification : — Artificial Diges- 
tion. — Office of the Pylorus. — Vomiting. — Duodenal 
Digestion. — Chylification : — Uses of the Bile. — 
Mr. Brodie's Experiments. — Chemical Nature of the 
Chyle: — its Absorption. — Excrementitious Matter. — 
Liquid Aliments : — how decomposed in the Stomach. 
— The liquid part absorbed or coagulated. — Digestion 
of Milk, Broth, Wine, Oil, S^c, — Lymphatic Absorp- 
tion. — Sanguification, — Respiration. — Prac- 
tical Conclusions. — Urinary Secretion. — Acidifying 
Powers of the Kidney. — The Quality of Urine influenced 
by the Digestive Process. — Necessity of Urinary Secre- 
tion. — A general View of the Digestive Process. — Rea- 
sons for believing in the existence of an Agent analogous 
to Electricity. — Experiments of Dr. Wilson Philip. — 
Speculations of the Author. 

61. A very superficial examination of an organised body 
will convince us, that it is constantly losing portions of the 
matter of which it is composed : several of its organs are 
incessantly engaged in separating fluids, which are loaded 
with its more solid constituents : and it is on the necessity 
of repairing these habitual losses, that the want of aliment 
is founded ; while the identification of such nutritive 
materials with the composition of the organs which they 



'J 



U' 



1 1 



i 



Disorders of Old Age. 49 

are destined to supply, constitutes nutrition* And with 
such nicety are these processes of waste and repair ad- 
justed, that^ whatever may be the quantity of food taken^ 
or however the circumstances under which it is consumed 
may vary, the same individual, after having augmented 'm 
weight in proportion to the quantity of ingesta, will return, 
in the space of twenty-four hours, to nearly the same 
standard, provided he is not growing, nor has suffered any 
disorder of function. During this period the food has been 
decomposed, and re-combined into compounds analogous 
to those which compose the organs to which it is carried : 
and this appears to take place with the same facility, how- 
ever remote the composition of the aliment may be from 
that of the substances with which it assimilated. Living 
bodies, then, have not inaptly been compared to furnaces, 
into which inert substances are successively thrown, which 
combine amongst themselves in various manners, maintain 
a certain place, and perform an action determined by the 
r nature of the combinations they haye formed, and at last 

^^ fly off, in order to become again subject to the laws of 

f • 

' inanimate nature. These views naturally suggest several 

f important questions for our consideration. If every part 

^ of the machine be thus capable of immediate and constant 

^ repair, why should it ever wear out? Does there exist 

' some secret spring which is incapable of renewal, and at 

whose expense all the subordinate parts of the ms^hinery 

ftre kept in repair ? And why should life be terminated 

by the hardening of fibres, and the obstruction of vessels, 

when those very fibres and vessels are susceptible of 

renewal? These are mysteries which cannot be cleared 

up until the sealed fountain of vitality be laid open. It 

seems probable, that every individual has a certain measure 

of living energy assigned to him, and which is gradually 

expended in directing and maintaining iU performance of 

certain functions : when this is exhausted, the indiyidual 

must perish, for it is incapable of renewal. Sir A. Carlisle, 

E 



;« 



60 Disorders qf Old Age. 

in his work on the Disorders of OM kgt, remarks, that it 
seems little better than a vulgar error, to consider the ter- 
mination of advanced life as the inevitaUe consequence of 
time, when the immediate cause of death in old persons 
is generally known to be some well-marked disease. I 
have directed some attention to this subject, and I fed 
warranted by experience to state, that the greater number 
of those who terminate their existence at an advanced age, 
die from the exhaustion of vital power in some one of their 
principal organs, the consequence of which is an ill-marked 
species of inflammation. Symptoms indicating the exist- 
ence of peritonitis are by no means uncommon ; in some 
eases, the lungs or the brain appear to be the seats of 
disease. The arterial system owes its regularity of action 
to the presiding iqfhience of thet nervous power ; and if this 
be withdrawn, or irregularly supplied, iniammation foHows. 
It is to such a cause that the local congestions, and topieai 
inflammations, which so frequently occur in fever, are to 
be entirely attributed. With all due reapect, theFefore> foi 
the experience and skill of the author to whom I allude, I 
must difier with him in the view he has taken of the dis- 
<Mrders of senility : the doctrine he inculcates is dangerous, 
and may lead to practical mischief. In cases of congestion, 
blood-letting is undoubtedly a judicious remedy, •wh^o 
directed with measured caution, because it removes an 
effect which may contribute to aggravate th^ original 
disease, or to obstruct the sanative operations which 
nature institutes for her own relief; but we should per** 
fectly understand the mode in which it operates, and noi 
mistake secondary for primary diseases. 

62. Although these views may disparage eveiy effort 
to prolong the natural term of existence, they afford us 
the satisfaction of knowing that we may ward off thoss 
accidents whipb would otherwise lead to its premature 
termination. Although we cannot augment the allotted 
measure of our vital ^tergy, we can, at least, learn to hus' 



Chemical and Mechanical Agents cf Digestion , 5 1 

band its redburees, and not to conaume, wrth wanton in-» 
diffcfrence, the ctnreeruitable oil by whioh the lamp of life 
is supported. 

634 In examining the phenomena of wasle and supply^ 
we shall observe that there is a marked difference, depend* 
ing on age, health, temperament, and bodily exercise^ in 
the proportion of the parts whioh enter into this cnrrent, 
and of those which abandon it ; and that the velocity of 
the motions usually varies aecording to the different con* 
ditions of each living being* A knowledge of these dif* 
ferences, which is te be discovered only by ample expe* 
rience and well-directed observation, must constitute the 
basis of a true theory for the regulation of diet« If it be 
said, that a deficient quantity Cft food is indicated by our 
feelings, and that an excess is carried off without ineon-^ 
venience, I shall reply, that nature rarely suffers firom 
abstinence, but continually from repletion ; that while in 
one case she limitift her expenditure to meet t^e exigencdes 
of her income, in the other, she is called upon to exercise 
an injurious liberality to throw off the useless burden. In 
the vigour of health and youth, this expenditure is not 
felt ; but the period will assuredly arrive when it must be 
repaid with compound interest. 

64. If chemical change be defined that change of com^ 
position in which the elements of bodies are differently 
arranged, with regard to their proportions and modes of 
combination, the conversion of aliment into blood strictly 
falki under that description ; but the definition genercdly 
indudes the operation of certain known laws^ by which 
such changes are produced. In this latter sense the 
ancdogy f%iils us ; for the forces which determine the decom^ 
position of food, and its recombination into chyle, are 
undoubtedly not to be measured or appreciated by the laws 
which govern the transmutati<ms of inanimate matter t 
we may, nevertheless, conventionally retain the term, in 
order to cUstinguish such actions from those which are 



52 Masticatiofi and Insalivatkm. 

more Btrictly mechanical ; and, although, in the progress 
Of such discussions, we may li^e into the common Ian* 
guage of chemistry, the reader will, from this explanation, 
readily understand the latitude with which it is .to be 
received. 

65. In every change which the aliment undergoes, from 
its introduction into the mouth to the ezcluaioik of its 
refuse, and the perfect assimilation of its nutritive part 
with the blood, we shall discover the combined operation 
of chemical and mechanical agents* When the food enters 
the mouth, it is at once submitted to the mechanical pro- 
cess of division by the teeth ; and, during its mastication, 
it becomes intimately mixed and combined with n che- 
mical solvent, which prepares it for the process which it 
has shortly to undergo in the stomach. The quantity of the 
salivary secretion appears to be augmented by the pressure 
occasioned upon the glands by the act of mastication; but 
its flow, although perhaps less in quantity, equally takes 
place without the aid of such pressure, as is proved by 
the phenomena observed during the repast of the criminal 
already alluded to (24). The glands appointed to secrete this 
fluid seem to act in sympathy with those of the stomach, 
both of which are simultaneously excited by the stimulus 
of the food, or even by the contemplation of a favourite 
meal. Macbride considered the saliva as a ferment. The 
ground of this opinion arose from his having made expe- 
riments, in which pieces of meat and water were mixed 
together, alone in one vessel, and in another the same 
substances were mixed with saliva : in the former case no 
bubbles of air were perceptible, but in the latter a copious 
evolution of them took place. This, however, was a fal-* 
lacy, depending upon the viscidity, which the jsaliva im- 
parted to the water, retaining the escape of air until it 
became sensible. Dr. Fordyce, on the other hand, con- 
tends, that the saliva answers no other purpose ihm tot 
lubricate the passages through which the food is to pass. 



Mechanism of Deglutition. 5Z 

because he caniiot discover in the composition of that 
iluid any ingredients which are likely to act as powerful 
solvents. But the processes of nature are more refined than 
those of art ; and where chemistry refuses its aid, we may 
often derive information from simple experience. This hap- 
pens in the question before us : the introduction of saliva 
into the stomach is obviously essential to a healthy diges- 
tion. That a dry state of the fauces should be attended 
with loss of appetite, may, perhaps, be reconciled on the 
supposition that the salivary glands sympathise with those 
of the stomach, and that therefore such a condition of the 
fauces is merely indicative of a deranged state of the 
gastric secretion ; but this explanation will not apply to 
those cases of anorexia, in which the saliva is duly secreted, 
but is, from some mechanical cause, not swallowed. 
Ruysch knew a man who was wholly deprived of his 
appetite by a fistula in one of the salivary ducts ; and it 
is well known to the physician who has attended maniacal 
patients, that the constant spitting in which such persons 
occasionally indulge, is invariably attended with loss of 
appetite, dyspepsia, and emaciation. Insalivation, there- 
fore, is as essential as mastication ; and although it will not 
supersede the necessity of this latter operation, as we find 
that persons who do not chew their food have often, on 
that account, a laborious digestion, yet it may, to a cer- 
tain degree, compensate for it ; and it is probable that the 
abundance of saliva in children may render mastication 
less necessary. The change which the savour and odour 
of food undergo in the mouth, sufficiently testifies some 
chemical action ; but it must, at the same time, be admitted, 
that the deglutition is assisted by the moisture and lubri«- 
cation which the saliva affords. 

66, M. Majendie says, we are informed that mastica- 
tion and insalivation are carried sufficiently far by the 
degree of resistance and savour of the food ; besides, the 
sides of the mouth being endowed with tact, and the 



52 Masticatiofi and Insalwatkm. 

more Btrictly mechanical ; and, althongh, in the prepress 
6f Buch discassions* we may li^pae into the conunon lan- 
guage of chemistry, the reader will, from this explanation, 
readily understand the latitude with which it is .to be 
received. 

65. In every change which the aliment undergoes^ from 
its introduction into the mouth to the excluaioix of its 
refuse, and the perfect assimilation of its nutritive part 
with the blood, we shall discover the combined operation 
of chemical and mechanical agents. When the food enters 
the mouth, it is at once submitted to the mechanical pro- 
cess of division by the teeth ; and, during its mastication, 
it becomes intimately mixed and combined with a che- 
mical solvent, which prepares it for the process which it 
has shortly to undergo in the stomach. The quantity of the 
salivary secretion appears to be augmented by the pressure 
occasioned upon the glands by the act of mastication; but 
its flow, although perhaps less in quantity, equally takes 
place without the aid of such pressure, as is proved by 
the phenomena observed during the repast of the criminal 
already alluded to (24). The glands appointed to secrete this 
fluid seem to act in sympathy with those of the stomach, 
both of which are simultaneously excited by the stimulus 
of the food, or even by the contemplation of a fayourite 
meal. Macbride considered the saliva as a ferment. The 
ground of this opinion arose from his having made expe- 
riments, in which pieces of meat and water .were mixed 
together, alone in one vessel, and in another the ^ame 
substances were mixed with saliva : in the former case no 
bubbles of air were perceptible, but in the latter a copious 
evolution of them took place. This, however, was a f '- 
lacy, depending upon the viscidity, which the isa^" 
parted to the water, retaining the escape of air u 
became sensible. Dr. Fordyce, on the other hand, Cv 
tends, that the saliva answers no other purpose thaa t^ 
lubricate the passages through which the food is to pass. 






Mechamsm of Deglutition. J53 

laecause he cannot discover in the compoeition of that 
"fluid any ingredients which are likely to act as powerful 
solvents . But the processes of nature are more refined than 
those of art; and where chemistry refuses its aid, we may 
often derive information from simple experience. This hap- 
pens in the question before us : the introduction of saliva 
into the stomach is obviously essential to a healthy diges- 
tion. That a dry state of the fouces should be attended 
-with loss of appetite, may, perhaps, be reconciled on the 
supposition that the salivary glands sympathise with those 
of the stomach, and that therefore such a condition of the 
fauces is merely indicative of a deranged state of the 
gastric secretion ; but this explanation will not apply to 
those cases ofanorexia, in which the saliva is duly secreted, 
but is, from some mechanical cause, uot swallowed. 
Kuysch knew a man who was wholly deprived of bis 
appetite by a fistula in one of the salivary ducts ; and it 
is well known to the physician who has attended maniacfJ 
patients, that the constant spitting in which such persons 
oecasion^Iy indulge, is invariably attended with loss of 
appetite, dyspepsia, and emaciation. InsaJivatioii, then- 
fore, is as essential n-i nragtication ^ and although it will n.>: 
supersede the necessity of this latter operation, as «v *» 
that persons who do not chew their food have oftpw •* 
that account, a laborious digestion, yet it may. i'' ~" 

tain degree, compensate for it ; and it is probal.'i' I 

abundance of saliva in children may reti'i' '-" "^ 

leas necessary. The change which tl- mslmd by 

of food undergo in the moulb '^^- lurdyce 

chemical action; but itn^u.,:,, maining u, short 

that the deglutition is n^ -"e perfectly sweet- 

catioD which the saljv; -^tric juice of the crow 

66. M. Majendic' ad mutton, and without 

tion and insalivati. ^*^ys m winter; whereas, 

degree of resistanr cnut « fetid smell as 

sides of the ni' '^rtieth, are resolved 



52 Masticatiofi and Insalivatkm. 

more Btrictly mechanical ; and^ although, in the progress 
6f such discussions, we may lapse into the commoii lan- 
guage of chemistry, the reader will, from this explanation, 
readily understand the latitude with which it is .to be 
received. 

65. In every change which the aliment undergoes^ from 
its introduction into the mouth to the exclusioix of its 
refuse, and the perfect assimilation of its nutritive part 
with the blood, we shall discover the combined operation 
of chemical and mechanical agents. When the food Altera 
the mouth, it is at once submitted to the mechanical pro* 
cess of division by the teeth ; and, during its mastication, 
it becomes intimately mixed and combined with a che- 
mical solvent, which prepares it for the process which it 
has shortly to undergo in the stomach. The quantity of the 
salivary secretion appears to be augmented by the pressure 
occasioned upon the glands by the act of mastication; but 
its flow, although perhaps less in quantity, equally takes 
place without the aid of such pressure, as is proved by 
the phenomena observed during the repast of the criminal 
already alluded to (24). The glands appointed to secrete this 
fluid seem to act in sympathy with those of the stomach, 
both of which are simultaneously excited by the stimulus 
of the food, or even by the contemplation of a fayoarite 
meal. Macbride considered the saliva as a ferment. The 
ground of this opinion arose from his having made expe- 
riments, in which pieces of meat and water were mixed 
together, alone in one vessel, and in another the same 
substances were mixed with saliva : in the former oase no 
bubbles of air were perceptible, but in the latter a copious 
evolution of them took place. This, however, was a fal-* 
lacy, depending upon the viscidity, which the isaliva im- 
parted to the water, retaining the escape of air until it 
became sensible. Dr. Fordyce, on the other hand, con- 
tends, that the saliva answers no other purpose than to 
lubricate the passages through which the food is to pass. 



Mechanism of Deglutition, 53 

'because he cannot discover in the composition of that 
iluid iany ingredients which are likely to act as powerful 
solvents. But the processes of nature are more refined than 
those of art ; and where chemistry refuses its aid, we may 
often derive information from simple experience. This hap- 
pens in the question before us : the introduction of saliva 
into the stomach is obviously essential to a healthy diges- 
tion. That a dry state of the fauces should be attended 
with loss of appetite, may, perhaps, be reconciled on the 
supposition that the salivary glands sympathise with those 
of the stomach, and that therefore such a condition of the 
fauces is merely indicative of a deranged state of the 
gastric secretion ; but this explanation will not apply to 
those cases of anorexia, in which the saliva is duly secreted, 
but is, from some mechanical cause, not swallowed. 
Ruysch knew a man who was wholly deprived of his 
appetite by a fistula in one of the salivary ducts ; and it 
is well known to the physician who has attended maniacal 
patients, that the constant spitting in which such persons 
occasionally indulge, is invariably attended with loss of 
appetite, dyspepsia, and emaciation. Insalivation, there- 
fore, is as essential as mastication ; and although it will not 
supersede the necessity of this latter operation, as we find 
that persons who do not chew their food have often, on 
that account, a laborious digestion, yet it may, to a cer- 
tain degree, compensate for it ; and it is probable that the 
abundance of saliva in children may render mastication 
less necessary. The change which the savour and odour 
of food undergo in the mouth, sufficiently testifies some 
chemical action ; but it must, at the same time, be admitted, 
that the deglutition is assisted by the moisture and lubri«- 
cation which the saliva affords. 

66. M. Majendie says, we are informed that mastica- 
tion and insalivation are carried sufficiently far by the 
degree of resistance and savour of the food ; besides, the 
sides of the mouth being endowed with tact, and the 



52 Masticatiofi and Insalivatum. 

more strictly mechanical ; and^ although, in the progress 
6f such discussions. We may lapse into the common lan- 
guage of chemistry, the reader will, from this explanation, 
readily understand the latitude with which it is .to be 
received* 

65. In every change which the aliment undergoes, from 
its introduction into the mouth to the exclusion of its 
refuse, and the perfect assimilation of its nutritive part 
with the blood, we shall discover the combined operation 
of chemical and mechanical agents< When the food enters 
the mouthi it is at once submitted to the mechanical pro- 
cess of division by the teeth ; and, during its mastication, 
it becomes intimately mixed and combined with & che- 
mical solvent, which prepares it for the process which it 
has shortly to undergo in the stomach. The quantity of the 
salivary secretion appears to be augmented by the pressure 
occasioned upon the glands by the act of mastication; but 
its flow, although perhaps less in quantity, equally takes 
place without the aid of such pressure, as is proved by 
the phenomena observed during the repast of the criminal 
already alluded to (24). The glands appointed to secrete. this 
fluid seem to act in sympathy with those of the stomach, 
both of which are simultaneously excited by the stimulus 
of the food, or even by the contemplation of a favourite 
meal. Macbride considered the saliva as a ferment. The 
ground of this opinion arose from his having made expe- 
riments, in which pieces of meat and water .were mixed 
together, alone in one vessel, and in another the same 

m 

substances were mixed with saliva : in the former <$ase no 
bubbles of air were perceptible, but in the latter a copious 
evolution of them took place. This, however, was a fal- 
lacy, depending upon the viscidity, which the saliva im- 
parted to the water, retaining the escape of air until it 
became sensible. Dr. Fordyce, on ^;he other hand, con- 
tends, that the saliva answers no other purpose than to 
lubricate the passages through which the food is to pass. 



Mechanism of Deglutition, 5Z 

because he cannot discover in the composition of that 
iluid any ingredients which are likely to act as powerful 
solvents. But the processes of nature are more refined than 
those of art ; and where chemistry refuses its aid, we may 
often derive information from simple experience. This hap- 
pens in the question before us : the introduction of saliva 
into the stomach is obviously essential to a healthy diges- 
tion. That a dry state of the fauces should be attended 
with loss of appetite, may, perhaps, be reconciled on the 
supposition that the salivary glands sympathise with those 
of the stomach, and that therefore such a condition of the 
fauces is merely indicative of a deranged state of the 
gastric secretion ; but this explanation will not apply to 
those cases of anorexia, in which the saliva is duly secreted, 
but is, from some mechanical cause, not swallowed. 
Ruysch knew a man who was wholly deprived of his 
appetite by a fistula in one of the salivary ducts ; and it 
is well known to the physician who has attended maniacal 
patients, that the constant spitting in which such persons 
occasionally indulge, is invariably attended with loss of 
appetite, dyspepsia, and emaciation. Insalivation, there- 
fore, is as essential as mastication ; and although it will not 
supersede the necessity of this latter operation, as we find 
that persons who do not chew their food have often, on 
that account, a laborious digestion, yet it may, to a cer- 
tain degree, compensate for it ; and it is probable that the 
abundance of saliva in children may render mastication 
less necessary. The change which the savour and odour 
of food undergo in the mouth, sufficiently testifies some 
chemical action ; but it must, at the same time, be admitted, 
that the deglutition is assisted by the moisture and lubri- 
cation which the saliva affords. 

66, M. Majendie says, we are informed that mastica- 
tion and insalivation are carried sufficiently far by the 
degree of resistance and savour of the food ; besides, the 
sides of the mouth being endowed with tact, and the 



64 Digestion in the Stomach. 

tongue with a real sense of touch, they are very capable 
of appreciating the physical changes which the food 
iindeifioes* Though deglutition is very simple in appear- 
ance, it is neverthelesB the most complicated of all the 
muscular actions that serve for digestion. It is produced 
by the contraction of a great number of muscles, and 
requires the concurreoce of many important organs. It 
has been divided into three periods : in the first, the food 
passes fnmi the mouth to the pharynx ; in the second, it 
passes the opening of the glottis, that of the nasal canals, 
and arrives at the cesi^hagus ; in the third, it paiaaes 
through this tube, and enters the stomach, The progress 
of the alimentary bolus is facilitated by mucus, which is 
pressed out of the follicles over which it passes. Ita pass- 
age through the oesophagus appei^ to be comparatively 
slow, and it sometimes stops for several seconds; eveiy 
pem<m must be convinced of this fact from his own sensa- 
tions; and where the bolus has been very large, its passage 
has been accompanied with vivid pain, occasioned by the 
distension of the nervous filaments which surround the 
pectoral portion of the canal. 

67, When the aliment is introduced into the stomach, 
it appears to remain there a short period before it under- 
goes any change ; but this varies according to its nature, 
and other circumstances. It has been stated (12), that 
although the stomach is a single bag, it maybe considered, 
with respect to its functions, as divisible into two dbtijict 
cavities, the one termed ih^ pyloric, the other the splenic 
extremity ; * and these portions are, during the activity of 
the stomach, separated from each other by a peculiar 
muscular contraction. They evidently appear to perform 
different ofiices in the process of digestion*' The splenic 

* In the horse, the mucous membrane of the two extremities of the 
stomach has a striking difference of structure : the horse being a gramiai* 
yt>T0U8 animal, this arrangement may, in some degree, |)erhaps, answer 
the purpose of the move complicated 3tQi)»Qch9 pf^ rumwmth* 



^g^(^y 9f ^he {jrostric Juice. 55 

][K>Ttion would seem to sqiarate from the food the super- 
fluous quantity of water, and then to transmit it to the 
pyloric division, where it undergoes the first great ali- 
me&tajy change, or is converted into chyme : during this 
operation, both orifices of the stomach are closed. I shall 
not consume the time of the reader by relating the 
numerous theories of putrefaction, concoction, fermenta- 
tK^, and trituration, which have been suggested by phy- 
siologists of difierent ages, to account for the changes 
which the food undergoes : it will be sufficient to state, 
that this question is at length determined, and that the 
solvent energy of the peculiar liquid, which has been 
already described (25) under the appellation of gastric 
juice, together with the motions of the stomach, alone 
produce that change upon the aliment which we have 
next to consider. 

68. It is not easy to define the exact nature of chyme ; 
but authors agree in considering it a homogeneous paste, 
greyish, of a sweetish taste, slightly acid, and retaining 
some of the properties of the food. M. Majendie has lately 
examined the subject with greater precision, and it follows 
from his experiments, that there are as many species of 
chyme as there are varieties of food ; if, at least, we may 
judge by colour, consistence, and sensible qualities. 

69. The gastric juice is remarkable for three qualities, — 
a coagulating (25), antiputrescent, and solvent power. I 
have already spoken of its coagulating properties. Of itM 
antiseptic powers abundant proofs have been furnished by 
the experiments of several physiologists. Dr. Fordyce 
found that the most putrid meat, after remaining a short 
time in the stomach of a dog, became perfectly sweet- 
Spallanzani ascertained that the gastric juice of the crow 
and the dog wiU preserve veal and mutton, and without 
loss of weight, for thirty-seven days in winter; whereas, 
the same meats, immersed in water, emit a fetid smell as 
early as the seventh day, and by the thirtieth, are resolved 



56 Artificial Digestion. 

into a state of most offensive putridity. The solvent 
powers of the stomach are equally remarkable. Reaumnr 
and Spallanzani enclosed pieces of the toughest meats, and 
of the hardest bones, in small perforated tin cases, to guard 
against the effects of muscular action, and then introditced 
them into the stomach of a buzzard : the meats were uni- 
formly found diminished to three-fourths of their bulk in the 
space of twenty-four hours, and reduced to slender threads, 
and the bones were wholly digested, either upon the first 
trial, or a few repetitions of it. To ascertain whether the 
chymification of food were entirely attributable to this gas- 
tric solvent, experiments were instituted in order to produce 
what has been termed artificial digestion. After having 
macerated food, Spallanzani mixed it with gastric juice, 
and then exposed it, in a tube, to a temperature equal to 
that of the stomach : it is said that the experiment suc- 
ceeded, and that chyme was produced. M. de Montegre, 
however, has shewn the fallacy of this conclusion; but, 
says M. Majendie, we are not to conclude, from the failure 
of such an experiment, that the same fluid cannot dissolve 
the food when it is introduced into the stomach. The 
circumstances are indeed far from being the same ; in the 
stomach, the temperature is constant, the food is pressed 
and agitated, and the saliva and gastric juice are constantly 
renewed; as soon as the chyme is formed it is carried 
away, — circumstances which do not occur in a tube con- 
taining a mixture of the food and gastric juice. It seems 
probable that the gastric juice remains on the surface of 
the stomach, and is secreted as the digestion proceeds. 
The chymification of the food commences on its surface, 
and gradually proceeds towards its centre : a soft layer may 
"be easily detached, which presents the appearance of a 
corroded and half-dissolved substance. The white of a 
hard egg, for instance, very shortly assumes an appearance 
like that which would be produced upon it by immersion 
in vinegar, or to alkaline solution. This change, if duly 



Progress of Chymification. b*t 

performed, is not accompanied with any notable extrication 
of gas; but, should the vital powers of the stomach b^ 
deficient, a different species of decomposition takes place, 
the laws of chemistry gain the ascendancy, and results are 
produced more or less analogous to those which would 
arise from the same materials, if placed under similar cir- 
cumstances of temperature and motion, in a vessel out of 
the body. 

70. Whatever may be the alimentary substance intro- 
duced, the chyme will present the invariable property of 
reddening paper coloured with tumsol, and it has always 
a sharp odour and taste. 

71. The period necessary for chymification must vary 
according to the nature and volume of the food, the degree 
of mastication and insalivation it may have previously 
undergone, and the degree of vital energy possessed by 
the stomach. The whole of the aliment is not simulta- 
neously converted, but portions, as they are perfected, are 
successively passed out of the stomach into the duodenum, 
there to undergo farther changes, to be presently described. 
In this case, the pylorus must, as its name implies, be 
endowed with a peculiar sensibility and vigilance, by 
which it is enabled to distinguish between the crude and 
chymified portions, so as to admit the latter, while it 
opposes the passage of the former. To this theory it has 
been objected, that various foreign bodies have been known 
to pass from the stomach into the intestines, as buttons, 
pieces of iron, 8cc. ; but it must be remembered, that such 
substances may be even less irritating than crude food, 
and that they are, besides, not admitted into the intestines 
until they have been firequently presented to the pylorus, and 
the sensibility of this valve has been diminished. Nature 
has endowed the eye with an irritability which instantly 
causes it to close upon the contact of an extraneous sub- 
stance; but the oculist who is in the habit of performing 
operations on that organ, knows that, after the instrument 



60 Mr. Brodie*8 Experiments. 

adhesive nature of the ftaeces, and, by smoothing their sQr- 
faces, promotes their evacuation ; but its first and most 
important use is to change the nutritive part of the chym 
into a new and more highly animalised product, termed 
chyle, and to separate from it the useless and excrementi- 
tious part. That such is the truth, is at once proved by 
the fact, that chyltfication takes place just at the part 
where the bile flows into the intestine ; nothing* like chyle 
is ever found in the stomach ; and Dr. Prout, whose aWc 
researches in animal chemistry are well known, has asoer- 
tained that albumen, which is the characteristic part o( 
chyle, is never to be discovered in herbirorous animals ' 
higher than the pylorus. The question is, moreover, set 
at rest by the experimental inquiries of Mr. Brodie. He 
tied a ligature round the common duct of a cat, so as com"- 
pletely to prevent the entrance of the bile into the intes- 
tine ; he then noted the effects produced in the digestion 
of the food which the animal had swallowed, either im- 
mediately before, or after the operation. The experiment 
was repeated several times, and the results were uniform. 
The production of chyme took place as usual, but the 
conversion of chyme into chyle was invariably and com- i 
pletely interrupted. Not the smallest trace of this latter 
fluid was discoverable, either in the intestines or in the 
lacteals. The former contained a semi-fluid substance, 
resembling the chyme found in the stomach, with this dif- 
ference, that it became of a thicker consistence, in propor- 
tion ^18 it was at a greater distance from the stomach, and 
that, as it approached the termination of the ilium, the fluid 
part of it had altogether disappeared, and there remained 
only a solid substance, differing in appearance from ordi* 
nary fsBces. The lacteals contained a transparent fluid, 
which probably consisted partly of lymph, partly of the 
more fluid parts of the chyme which had been absorbed. 
These experiments, then, clearly demonstrate, that the 
office of the bile is to <;hange the nutritive. part of the 



Chemical Nature ofChyk. Q\ 

chyme into chyle, and to separate from it the excrementi-*. 
tious matter. How, then, it may be asked, does it happen^ 
that persons live for a considerable period, in whom the 
flow of bile into the duodenum is interrupted ? The truth 
is, that the obstruction of the duct by disease is seldom 
so complete as to prevent the passage of bile altc^ether, 
and the white appearance of the faeces may prove the de* 
ficiency, or morbid condition, but not the total absence pit 
bile. To ascertain how far this supposition might be sup-, 
ported by experiment, I poured some dilute muriatic acid 
upon a portion of faeces that was perfectly whitCi when a 
green colour was immediately produced, which could not 
have happened without the presence of bile* 

75* In the few authenticated cases of the total oblite* 
ration of the duct, the emaciation has been extreme, and 
the circumstance of the patient having lived a few weeks 
or months, under such circumstances, only proves that nu- 
trition may take place> to some extent, without any chyle 
being formed. In the above experiments of Mr. Brodie, 
it appeared that the mor&ji^uid parts of the chyme had 
been absorbed ; and probably this would have been suffi- 
cient to maintain life for a Umited period, especially where 
but little exhaustion had been occasioned by exercise. We 
know that nutritive glysters will a£Pord support, and yet we 
are quite certain that no chyle can be formed under such 
circumstances* Sir £. Home has related the case of a 
child in which no gall ducts existed. The child did not 
live long, but appears to have died rather of, a marasmus 
than of any intestinal affection ; and from this fact he con- 
cludes, that one of the offices of the bile is that of convert- 
ing mucus, or the refuse of the chyle as it passes into the 
colon, into fat, which is absorbed and diffused over ther 
system. I have already offered an objection to this 
theory (21). 

76. When perfectly formed chyle, as that obtained 
from the thoracic duct, is chemically examined, it will 



63 The Chyle varies aeef^ding to the Food. 

preMfRt a differsnce in eompoettion, aeeordmg to the natnre 
of tlie ttKment from which it was elftborated . If th^ anioni) 
has eaten sabstancea of a fatty nature, the chyle will be 
found milky white, a Utile heavier thsn dietilled water, 
with a strong nnd peculiar odonr, and a aaline and sen- 
sibly alkaline taste; bat if the food should not have con- 
tained fat, it will be opaline and almost transparent. Very 
shortly after chyle is extracted from the living animal, it 
becomes firm, and almost solid ; it then gradually sepa- 
rates into three distinct parts ; the one solid, which remains 
at the bottom of the vessel, the second liqnid,^ and a tbini 
that forms a very thin layer at^ the snrftu^e. The chyle at 
the same time as^fumes a rose colour. Of the three ^9Xi» 
into which chyle thus spontaneously reeolveft itself, that 
on the snr&eo, of an opaque white, and which impartd 
to the fluid the appearance of milk,** is a fatty body ; the 
solid part, or coagulum, seems to be an intermediflle sui^ 
8<»nce between albumen and fibrin, for it unites several 
propei-ties which are common to the two; it wants the 
fibrous texture as well as the ttr^ngth and elasticity of the 
fibrin of the Uood ; it is also more readily and completely 
dis&olved by caustic potass* The liquid part of chyle re- 
sembles the serum of the blood. The proportion, however, 
of these several parts varies according to the nature of tite 
food. t%ere are species of bhyle, such as that from 
sugar, which contain very little' albuminous ^rin ; others, 
such as that from flesh, contain more» The fetty f^ 
is very abundant where the food has contained grease 
or oil, while there is scarcely any under other cif^um^ 
stances. 

77. These observations «tfe of greee value to the pky^ 
si^Aogist, as well as- to- the pathologist, as they d^Odonstrate 

♦The comparison which has been established between chyle and 
rtilk hay no reaf fotmdation ; for the former contains nothing which 
agrees eiaetly witk Ae constitnent^ of the latter. 



Mesenteric Action, 63 

the fallacy of tkat proposition whieh has been so fre- 
quently advanced; viz. ^* that there are many species of 
food, but only one aliment;'^ intimating thereby, that 
all substances, by decomposition, contribute to form one 
identical, invariable, essentially nutritive principle, — 'the 
*' quod nutrit" o( ancient authors; whereas, nothing ia 
more clear, than that the nature and composition of the 
chyle vary with each individual aliment. 

78. Having explained all that is known with respect 
to the formation of chyle, we may next consider the man-* 
ner in which it is absorbed and earned into the blood. 
The chyliferous vessels by which this oflBLee is performed 
have been already described (63). It is probable that the 
mesenteric glands, through which they pass, produce an 
important, change on the chyle, but the nature of this 
change is wholly unknown : it is certain that these glands 
receive many blood-vessels, in proportion to their volume, 
and that they secrete a peculiar fluid, which may be ex- 
tracted by compressing them between the fingers ; whence 
some- physiologists have supposed, that they add a fluid to 
the chyle in order to purify it ; while others, again, have 
contended, that their use' is to produce a more intimate 
mixture of the elements which compose it. Much discus- 
sion has also arisen upon the existence of the tact, or sensi- 
bility of these vessels ; and although M. Majendie ridicules 
the supposition, there are tiot wanting facts te support the 
belief, that their mouths, like the pylorus, possess the 
power of discriminating between chyle and other less con- 
genial fluids, which enables them to absorb the former, 
and to reject the latter ; and it is equally probable, that 
this selecting tact may be destroyed by disease, and that 
many evil consequences arise from it. The chyle is poured 
into the thoracic duct, together with the lymph which i& 
brought hither from every part of the body by the lymphatic 
vessels, ajoid thence carried into the subclavian vein, to be 
submitted to the action of the respiratory organs. It will. 



^4 Ea^ulsim of th^ F^^ces. 

therefore^ be remembered, that a portion of the decayed 
and broken down materials is conveyecl into the lungs, 
together with the new materials which are to repair i3oL^ 
waste* 

79. The nutritive principles of the aliment have notr. 
been traced, through all their changes^ to the circulation. 
Let us then return to the excrementitious part which was^ 
left in the duodenum. This matter is pressed forward, by 
the peristaltic motion of the intestine, losing as it proceeds 
any portion of chyle which may have escaped the lacteals 
in the higher part of the small intestines^ into the csBCUm : 
its return being prevented by the valve already described 
(19), it accumulates to a certain extent in the colon, hav- 
ing now acquired that peculiar fcetor which distinguishes 
excrement: it is considerably retarded in this part of its 
passage by the cells or compartments into which thi& 
intestine is divided; at length, however, it enters the 
rectum, and, by forming a mass of considerable bulk, fre*, 
quently distends its parietes, and thus creates a sensation; 
pf uneasiness, which announces the necessity of relief. If, 
however, this call be not imperious, and we neglect to obey 
it, the intestine becoming insensible to the stimulus of 
distension, the desire ceases, and may not recur for some 
time. This effect is greatly modified by the consistence 
qS the fecal matter : if it be soft, or almost liquid, we shall 
be less able, to resist its expulsion. The intervals at which 
this operation is performed will vary extremely in different 
individuals: some persons evacuate their faeces twice or 
thrice a day; others, not more than once in two days; and 
there are those who, although in perfect health, pass over 
a week or ten days without any evacuation. Habit also^ 
exerts a wonderful influence in regulating such periods : a 
person accustomed to the act at a certain hour of the day» 
will generally feel an inclination at the appointed season^ 

80. We have hitherto only considered the digestion of 
solid aliments ; it now becomes necessary that we should 



Modes in which Fluids are digested. 65 

investigate the changes which fluids underg6> when intro- 
duced into the stomach* The subject teems with many 
curious physiological facts^ and it is one of much import- 
ance to the pathologist, as it will enable him to appreciate 
the utility of liquid diet, and to understand th6 circum- 
stances which should decide its preference^ 

81. It was long supposed^ that liquids, like solids, 
passed through the pylorus into the small intestine, and 
were absorbed together with the chyle, or rejected with the 
excrement. It is not asserted that this never occurs \ but it 
\& evident, beyond contradiction, that there exists another 
passage by which liquids can be conveyed to the circula- 
tion ; for it has been proved, that if a ligature be applied 
xound the pyloric orifice, in such a manner as to obstruct 
the passage into the duodenum, the disappearance of the 
liquid from the cavity of the stomach is not so much as 
retarded; It is evident, therefore, that there must exist 
some other passage, although its nature and direction re- 
main a matter of conjecture. I am strongly persuaded^ 
that the vena porta constitutes one of the avenues through 
which liquids enter the circulation ; and, in my Pharmaco- 
logia, I have expressed my belief,* and supported it by va- 
rious arguments, that through this channel certain medicinal 
bodies find their way into the blood. In order to discover 
whether drinks are absorbed along with the chyle, M. 
Majendie made a dog swallow a certain quantity of diluted 
cdcohol during the digestion of his food ; in half an hour 
afterwards, the chyle was extracted and examined : it ex- 
hibited no trace of spirit; but the blood exhaled a strong 
odour of it, and by distillation yielded a sensible quantity. 

82. When liquids are introduced into the stomach, the 
changes which they undergo are determined by the nature 
of their composition. 

83. When a liquid, holding nutritive matter in solu- 

* Pharmacologia, ^it. 6, vol. i. p. 127. 

F 



66 Digestion of Flmds. 

tion, is introduced into the stomachy it is either coagulated 
by the gastric juice, or its watery part is absorbed, and the 
solid matter deposited in the stomach ; in both cases the 
product is afterwards chymified in the maiuier already 
described. Milk appears to be the only liquid aliment 
which nature has prepared. for our nourishment; but it 
seems that she has, at the same time, provided an agent 
for rendering it solid ; hence we may conclude that this 
form is an indispensable condition of bodies which are 
destined to undergo the processes of chymification and 
chylification ; and that, unless some provision had existed 
for the removal of aqueous fluid from the stomach, the 
digestive functions could not have been properly performed. 
When the broth of meat is introduced into the stomach, 
the watery part is carried off, and the gelatine^ albumen, 
and fat are then converted into chyme. Wine and fer- 
mented liquors undergo a similar change; the alcohol 
which they contain coagulates a portion of the gastric 
juices^ and this residue, together with the extractive mat- i 
ter, gum^ resin, and other principles which the liquid may 
contain, are then digested. Under certain circumstances, 
these liquids may observe a different law of decompositioB, j 
which will perhaps in some measure explain the different 
effects which such potations will produce : for example, 
the spirit may undergo a partial change in the stomach, 
and be even digested with the solid matter, or, on some 
occasions, converted into an acid by a fermentative pro-r 
cess : this will be more likely to occur in vinous liquoiSi 
which contain ingredients favourable to the production of 
such a change ; and hence the less permanen;t and mis'* 
chievous effects of wines than of spirits.* The liquor 
termed jiuncA will certainly, cateris paribus, produce a less 
intoxicating effect than an equivalent quantity of spirit 
and water : this may be accounted for by supposing that 

♦ See Pharmacologic^ edit. 6. vol. iiu art. Vinum, 



Digestion of Oil, and certain Salts. 67 

a portion of the ^oh6l is ctigested by the stomach into 
an aeid, a process which is <letermined and accelerated by 
the preseitice of a fermentable acid like that of letnon^ aided, 
perhaps^ by the saccharine matter. 

84. Oil> although possessed of the fluid form, does not 
appear to observe the law which governs the disposal of 
these bodies; it is not absorbed, but is entirely transformed 
into chyme in the stomach. To effect this, however, it 
seems essential that the stomach should be in a state of 
high energy, or it undergoes chemical decomposition, and 
becomes rancid ; nor will the stomach, unless it be edu<* 
Gated to it, like those of some northern nations, digest any 
considerable quantity of it : and, since it cannot be ab- 
sorbed, it must find its exit through the alimentary canal, 
and consequently prove laxative. 

85. I have endeavoured to shew in the Pharmacologiai 
that certain salts are absorbed with the water which holds 
them in solution, unless. they so far increase the peristaltic 
motion as to produce catharsis, in which case, they pass 
at once through <the alimentary passage; but should this 
not occur, they enter the circulation, and will sometimes 
exhibit their effects on distant organs. It is on this ac- 
count that sulphate of magnesia proves diuretic in horses^ 
for the bowels of these animals are not stimulated by that 
salt; and the same theory will explain why persons fre- 
quently experience an increase in their urine oh drinking 
the weaker waters of Cheltenham. 

86. It has been stated, that the chyle, together with 
the lymph, is poured into the sub-clavian vein. We know 
very little of the use of this latter fluid: it is conveyed by 
vessels, termed lymphatics, which appear to spring from 
extremely small roots in the subststnce of the m^nbrane^ 
aqd of the cellular tissue, and in the parenchyma- of the 
different organs. In man, these vessels uniformly traverse 
glands before they arrive at the venous system. The gene- 
ral opinion entertained upon the subject of lymphatic ab« 



68 Relations subsisting between 

sorption, assigns to this order of Teasels tbe office of 
returning the broken-down and useless parts of the yarious 
structures to the blood, in order that they may be finally 
ejected from the body. In examining the chemical composi- 
tion of lymph, we find it to hare a considerable analogy with 
the blood; which has induced M. Majendie to ccmclude 
that it is a part of that fluid, which, instead of returning 
to the heart by the veins, follows the course of the lympha- 
tic ressels; for what object it is impossible even to offer a 
conjecture. He therefore doubts whether these vessels have 
any absorbing power, but endeavours to prove by experi- 
ments, which certainly have the merit of great plausibi- 
lity, that the faculty of absorption is possessed by veins. 
Be this^ however, as it may, it is certain, that the chyle, 
as well as those fluids which are absorbed from the 
stomach, are transmitted through the lungs for the puf- 
pose of undei^oing such changes as may perfectly assimi- 
late them with the blood. Every meal, therefore, must 
impose a certain labour upon these organs ; and it is pro- 
bable, that the extent of this labour will vary with tbe \ 
nature of the food. It becomes, then, an object of the 
greatest pathological interest, to inquire into the relations ' 
which subsist between the functions of chylification and 
respiration, and to ascertain what species of food will 
require the greatest, what tbe least effort of the lungs to 
complete their sanguification. In cases of pulmonary dis- 
ease, such a discovery would be of the highest value, 
in order that we may not impose upon an enfeebled organ 
more duty than is necessary for the preservation of ii^^' 
Unfortunately, the facts which have been collected upon 
this subject are few, and even discordant. The faint light 
which science afforded us in the investigation of the pre* 
ceding stages of digestion is here extinguished, and expe- 
rience, embarrassed with a thousand sources of fallacy, i* 
aU that remains for us. Notwithstanding the numerous 
experiments which have been instituted, and the various 



Respiration and Sanguification. 69 

theories which have been formed^ how extremely vague 
and doubtful is our knowledge respecting the physiology 
of respiration ! It is true, that the chemist, by a refineil 
examination of the air, before and after it has been 
respired, has ascertained that a quantity of oxygen is 
absorbed, and repliekCed by an equivalent proportion of car- 
bonic acid ; but can any person accustomed to reflection 
believe, that respiration serves no other purpose than that of 
the removal of a certain portion of carbon from the blood ? 
A function which cannot he suspended for a minute 
without the "Certain destruction of life, must surely have 
some relation with the vital energy more intimate and imn 
portant. The quantity of carbonic acid does not appear to 
have that striking connexion with the quality or quantity 
of our ingesta which our theory would have led to suppose^ 
Whoever will read an account of the results obtained by 
Dr. Prout, in his examination of the " Quantity of car- 
bonic acid gas emitted from the lungs during respira-^ 
tion, at different times, and under different circum-^ 
stances,"* will retire from the perusal of the essay with 
the mortifying conviction, that little or nothing is known 
upon the subject : such, at least, was my conviction upon 
that occasion. It must, however, teach us the folly of 
hasty generalization, for nothing tends more to the perpe- 
tuation of error. It has been well observed, that when we 
have once tied up our ideas into bundles, the trouble, the 
difficulty, the shame of untying them is felt ev6n by supe-' 
nor minds. ** Sir," said Dr. Johnson, '^ / don't like to 
have any of my opiniom attacked, — / have made up my 
faggot, and if you draw out one, you weaken tJie whok," 

87. If no material influence is produced upon the sum 
of oxygen absorbed, or of carbonic acid disengaged, by the 
different quantities and nature of our aliments, it follows, 
that the conversion of chyle into blood is produced by 
some other agent than that of the atmospheric air. At the 

♦ Annals of Philosophy, vol. ii. p, 328. 



70 . Influence of vdrwus AiifAents . 

•tme time» amfde experience has tanght vm, that the natuft 
of our ingesta is not a mattw of indiffefence to the 
respiratory organs: diseased lung^ are eicasp^ated by 
a certain diet, and pacified by on6 of an opposite haL 
The celebrated diver, Mr. Spalding^ ob«erFed^ that when* 
ever he used a diet of animal food» or drank spirituoas 
liquors, he consumed in a much shcnter period the oxygen 
of the atmospheric air in his diving-bell ; and he, therefore^ 
had learnt from experience to confine himself upon sucb 
occasions to vegetable diet. He also found the same 
effect to arise from the use of fermtoted liquors ; and ie 
accordingly restricted himself to the potation of simpk 
water. The truth of these results is confirmed . by tie 
habits of the Indian pearl-divers, who always abstain from 
every alimentary stimulus previous to their descent ioto 
the ocean. Those physicians who have witnessed the 
ravages of pulmonary disease will readily concur in the 
justness of these views. The experiments of Pr« Frout 
would lead us to the conclusion, that less carbonic acid is 
given off from the lungs during the influence of to alco- 
holic stimulant; but he justly observes, that this may 
arise from its.specific action upon the nerves : and, indeed, 
it appears probable, that the evolution of carbon from the 
blood is determined by nervous energy,"*^ The principal 
changes which the chyle undergoes during, its passage 
through the respiratory organs appear to consist in the 
Bsore perfect elaboration of some of its princijdes ; for in- 
stance, the albumen is converted into fibrin, and the co- 
louring matter acquires its more decided characteristics. 
But these changes may be in a great measure produced 

* The experiments of Drs. Prout and Fyfe have deaiiy 9hewn> tbiait 
whatever depresses the nervous energy, diminishes the quantity of car- 
bonic acid expired. The depressing passions, violent and long-continued 
exercise, low diet, mercurial irritation, and spirituous liquors, uniforrol/ 
produce this effect. The quantity is also, for the same reason, diminished' 
during sleep. 



upon the Respiratory Orgatis. 7 1 

by the action of the puhnonary vessels. It has been esti- 
mated^ diat about eleven ounces of carbon and twenty 
ouniDes of water are given off by the lungs during the 
twenty-four hours; but what portion of these products are 
to be placed to the account of the aliment' has not been 
ascertained. It does not ev^n appear^ that the useless car- 
bon is always evolved from the blood during its passage 
through these organs; it may be retained for want of suf- 
ficient nervous enei^^ and thus produce a morbid change 
upon the body. 

88. The quantity of pulmonary transpiration is also 
influenced by v^^rious circumstances^ especially the liquid 
naturQ of the food^ and the qug^ntity of fluids taken into 
the stomach. I have paid some attention to this circum- 
8tance> for it suggests many important links in the treat- 
ment of disease.'^ 

89. The only safe conclusions at which we can arrive 
upon this intricate subjaot^ may be embodied in the fol- 
lowing canons : %)h, Ist, That animal food proves more 
stimulant to the lungs than i)egetable aliment. 2d^ That 
fermented liquors are iryurious to these organs, both on 

account of their general effects upon the circulation, and 
their specific action upon the nervous system ; increasing, on 
the one hand, the necessity of respiratory changes, and on 
the* other, diminishing the energies of the organs by which 
they are accomplished, 3d; That moderate exercise, hilarity 
of mind, free ventilation, and abstinence from fermented 
liquors, are essentially necessary in that stage of the diges- 
tive process at which the chyle is poured into the blood- 
vessels, in order to promote the free evolution of carbonic 
add. 

90. The office of the kidneys in secreting urine may^ 
in reference to the present subject^ be considered in a 
double point of view ; as removing from the body, gene-^ 

♦ S^e my Pharmacologia, vol. i. p. 192. 



72 Action of the Kidneys. 

rally 9 certain principles whose presence rnoBt be noxious ; and 
in carrying off some portion of the aliment which cannot 
be assimilated with the blood» or such useless products as 
may arise during the progress of its elaboration. In exa- 
mining the composition of urine, we shall find certain 
ingredients which existed in the blood, and which hare 
therefore passed through the urinary oi^gans without 
change; we shall, at the same time, discover peculiar 
compounds which owe their existence to the acidifying 
action of the kidneys upon certain substances contained in 
the blood. The principles derived from the blood by filtra- 
tion are water, lactic acid, with its accompanying animal \ 
matters, the fixed alkalies, and lime. The new compounds 
formed are sulphuric and phosphoric adds, from the sulphur 
and phosphorus in the blood ; urea, probably derived froio 
albumen ; and lithic acid. Dr. Prout observes, that in cer- 
tain forms of disease the acidifying tendency of the kidnej'^ 
is carried to an excess, and that nitric acid, oxalic acid, &Cm 
are produced; whereas, on the other hand, it is occa- 
sionally suspended, diminished, or altogether subverted; 
and unchanged albumen or blood, neutral substances, as 
sugar, or even alkaline substances, as ammonia, 8cc*, sre 
separated in abundance; whiLe the phosphorus znd sulphur ^ 
at the same time, pass without being acidified t 

91. With respect to the character of the diseases at- 
tending these states of the urine, it will, says Dr. Front, 
be generally found, that when acids are generated in excess, 
the urine is commonly small in quantity, and high-coloured, 
and the .disease inflammatory ; when neutral or alkaline 
substances, the urine, on the contrary, is generally pale- 
coloured, and larger in quantity, and the diseases are those 
of irritation and debiUty. In examining, however, the 
state of the urine, with reference to its pathognomonic 
indications, we must carefully distinguish between that 
whicti is voided after abstinence, and which is termed 
urina potus, and that \^hich is voided five or six hours after 



The Function of the Skin. 73 

a meal, and which is distinguished by the appellation of 
urina sanguinis. The temperature and hygrometric state 
^f the atmosphere ought also to be taken into considera- 
tion; for these circumstances, by modifying the quantity 
of water given off by the skin, will exert a considerable, 
influence upon the urinary secretion. Nothing, however, 
produces a greater effect upon the character of the urine, 
than the state of the digestive functions ; and by carefully, 
inspecting its appearances, many valuable indications may 
be obtained. It is true, that the practice of examining the 
prine has fallen into discredit, from the abuse which it has 
suffered in the hands of empiricism and imposture ; ^ hn% 
the new views which modem chemistry has unfolded, and, 
the valuable practical purposes to which they have been 
made subservient by the labours of Wpllaston, Marcetji 
and Prout, ought to restore it to its merited reputatiop, 

92. I shall conclude these remarks by stating, that 
one of the objects of the urinary secretion appears, to b^ 
the removal of a portion of nitrogen, and perhaps also of 
oxygen, from the blood, as that of respiration is the aba** 
traction of carbon. This hypothesis is supported by the 
ultimate analysis of lithic acid and urea. It is, at least, 
evident, that some principle is withdrawn from the circu-* 
lation, whose presence would act upon the system as a 
destructive poison : total suppression of urine is followed 
in a few hours by insensibility ; but this consequence is 
prevented by the discharge of a few drops only of th^ 
secretion, 

93« The function of the skin may be considered as th^ 

* The vulgar hav^ ever .oonsidered the urine as a glass, in which thci 
physician may behold every thing that passes within the body ; and the^ 
quacks have, for obvious reasons, been willing to indulge the credulity^ 
It has been stated, that the origin of the imposition of ttrine casting is to 
be looked for in the ignorance and barbarism of the middle ages, when 
the greater part of physicians were ecclesiastics, who either saw their 
patients in their churches, or were satisfied with inspecting their urine. 



74 Chj/Uficati(m no^a Chemical Process. 

hMV^ak in the chain of the digestiTe process. It removes 
from the -blood a conaiderable portion of water, with some 
sidine matter ; and in this respect it may be compared to 
the office of the kidneys, although, unlike them, its func- 
tion may be suspended without immediately fatal conse- 
quences. Experiments hare also proved that an acid is 
discharged by the cutaneous emunctories ; and if this be 
suppressed, it appears to pass off by the kidneys, and to 
give origin to a deposit to be hereafter noticed. 

94. From a review of all the transformations which 
the aliment undergoes, fVom its conversion into chyme to 
that into blood, can we arrange the different changes under 
distiaet heads, so as to bring each under the operation of 
any general law ? I fear that our present state of chemical 
knowledge will not afford a satisfactory solution of this 
problem. The production of chyle in the duodenum cer- 
tainly differs in its nature from that of any of the secreted 
fluids, since the mass from which it is evolved is acted 
upon by foreign re-agents, as the bile and pancreatic liquor ; 
whereas a secreted fluid is at once separated from the 
blood without the aid of any precipitant. In this point of 
view, the operation bears a closer analogy to a chemical 
jMfocess; but here the comparison must end, for we are 
unable to cu^count for the presence of any of the new 
compounds by an analysis of the ingredients from which 
tiiey ar e produced. If we admit the operation of a gal- 
vanic power, generated by the nerves, and directed through 
their means to the decomposition of the alimentary mate* 
rials, and to their recombination into other forms, we shall 
obtain, if not a satisfactory solution of the problem, at 
least some elue for its investigation. We shall thus per- 
ceive, that elements having a strong chemical affinity for 
each other may be separated and reunited in different 
proportions; and, we shall be able to explain why sub- 
stance^s^ distinguished by their strong attractions for each 
otb«r, do npt combine in the alimentary organs, as they 



«^oiil4 ii^ ike yi99sels of quf labonttovj^ Batcit: witt bQ 
askedi what rffason there i^ for beliie¥i«g ,'ni ih»^^im09 
of any power analogous m ks (>p^ratio& ta el^elripity 1 
This question cannot bQ better fioisweted th$^ by «^ relai^ii 
of the ingej^ious experiments of Dr..Wil80^; Pl|iUp>.>i?<^ 
has clearly shewn that wha[i a nerre cis diyi4edji sq a^ e^ 
tirely to inta^cept the transmissiim of it$ est^tgy.^ ito func^ 
tipn may, to a pertain, degree^ be supplied by aa electrioiU 
stream from the galvanip ba^ttery . The eight pair of nerves 
were divided in the necks of thr^e reQently*-|edtaU)ite^'and 
evejy . precaution was taken tp: keep their divided end« 
asunder. One of these ftiiimals, when Subjected to the 
galvamc influence, remained sipgullirly quiet> breatbitig 
freely, and with no more apparent distress than the twitohen 
usually produced by electric action, ^hieh was in this caa$ 
kept up without interruption. The other rabbits laboured 
strongly in their respiration. They were all three killed 
at the same period, and their stomachs successively 
opened. In the two non-galvanised animals chymifica- 
tion had scarcely made any progress ; but in that which 
had been galvanised, the process appeared to have been 
completed. 

95. It is not my intention, in this work, to enter into 
any speculations with respect to the more minute changes 
which may be supposed to take place under this galvanic 
influence of the nerves. My determination in this respect 
has been made, in consequence of learning from Dr. Prout 
that he has been long engaged in the investigation, and 
has arrived at some very curious and important results, 
which it is his intention shortly to give to the public. In 
the next place, such details would be wholly inconsistent 
with the practical objects of my present publication. I 
shall therefore conclude this part of my subject by observ- 
ing, that most of the digestive products are acid ; the chyme 
is uniformly distinguished by this character ; and, if the 
experiments of Dr. Prout be correct, muriatic acid is 



76 Are the Nerves Galvanic Conductor al 

always present in the stomach : we may, therefore, suppose 
that the nerves of this organ have the power of decomposing 
the muriatic salts, and transferring its alkali to some 
distant reservoir, perhaps the liver. The intestinal juices 
are also acid ; the faces, unless they have undergone a 
degree of putrefactive decomposition, redden litmus; the 
urine, as well as the perspirable matter, are likewise acid; 
and it is scarcely necessary to observe, that the only pro- 
duct of the respiratory function is carbonic acid. 

96. If the nerves act like galvanic conductors, we may 
explain the transferrence of matter from one organ to an- 
other, without the necessity of supposing the existence of 
tubes or hollow vessels. Is it possible — I merely put it as 
a query — that certain liquids may thus find their way from 
the stomach to the kidneys ? 



RELATIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE FUNCTIONS 

WITH OUR SENSATIONS. 

• • 

Hunger : — Theories to explain the Sensation, — Referred 
by the Author to a peculiar Condition of the Nerbes. — 
Destroyed by Narcotics. — Practice of the Indians io 
counteract its cravings. — Its connexion with the state oj^ 
the Stomach only secondary. — Chymification, ChyUfica' 
tion, and Sanguification, may be considered as income 
patible with each other* — Why an Interruption durifig a 
Meal destroys the Appetite* — The quality and not the 
quantity of Food produces Satiety. — Thirst: — Its final 
Causes. — Its proximate Cause. — General Phenomena of 
Inanition. — Sanguification attended by a desire of 
activity. — Of Exercise immediately before and after 
Meals. 

Hunger. 



97. When the stomach is in a healthy condition^ and has 
remained for some time empty^ the well-known sensation 
of hunger is produced ; to account for which, various hypo- 
theses have been devised. Some have attributed its origin 
to the friction of the sides of the stomach upon each other, 
or to the dragging of the liver upon the diaphragm; others 
to the action of bile or acid vapours upon the stomach ; to the 
compression of the nerves, or to the fatigue of the contracted 
fibres of the stomach : but such theories are subverted by 
the fact, that the stomach may remain empty for a long 
interval, during diseteise, without any sensation of hunger ; 
and that when present, it may cease or be allayed by 
various causes, although food should not have been taken ; 
as often happens after the accustomed period of repast iei 
over, or from the sudden communication of news that over*^ 



78 Cause of Hunger. 

whelms us with grief or disappointment. The physiolo- 
gists of the present day attribute the phenomenon to the 
stim^^nt action of the gastric jai<^ upon the nerves of 
the stomach; aad to support this opinion. Dr. Wilson 
PhiUp relates the following experiment. A person in good 
herith was prevailed upon to abstain ficom eating for more 
than twenty4biir hours^ and during that internal to increase 
the appetite by inore than ordinary exercise. At the end of 
this time he was eztrranely hungry ; b«t» instead of eating, 
he excited vomiting by drinking warm .water, and irritating 
the fauces. The water returned .mixed only with a ropy 
fluid, such.as the gastric juice is described to be. After 
this operation,. not pnly all desire to eat was remored^ bot 
k degree of disgust was excited .by .seeing others eat. He, 
however, was tpxevailed upon to igk&. a little .bread snd 
milk,. which in a very short time ran into the acetoua fer- 
mentation, as indicated by flatulence and acid eructation. 
I do not mean to deny that the presence of a portion of 
gastric juice may not contribute to the sensation of hunger; 
but I feel more disposed to refer the phenomenon to an 
energetic state of the gastric nerves, occasioned by an 
interval of inactivity, during which their vital powers may 
be supposed to accumulate. With respect to the actual 
quaifttity of gastric fluid in an empty stomach, we know 
little or nothing. It seems probable that it is supplied 
during digestion, and that its secretion corresponds with 
tiie nature and quantify of the ingesta. If a narcotic be 
applied to the nerves, their power is paralysed, and the , 
sensation of hunger ceases ; such an effect is produced by 
the juiee of tobacco, although by long habit the stomach 
itoay become indifferent to its operation. Whenever the 
Indians of Asia and America undertake a long journey, 
and are likely to be destitute erf" provisions, they mix the 
juice of tobacco with powdered shells, in the form of small 
balls, which they retain in their mouths, the gradual soln- 
tion of which serves to counteract the uneasy craving of 



MorUet Appetite ettplainfd. 7& 

the stomftth. tti i±e tiiSim^ y^eisA'^^^xpXhiWI^^^ 
lion of spirit in taking away tlie appetite of tfaonewko 1M 
not accustomed to it; whfle tbose win) inda^ the habit 
receive its Stimulant without its narcotic impres^on^ 

98. Natural appetite, which is only the first degree 

of hunger, nerer appears to recut ntttil 4^^ aliment pi^- 

vionsly introdnced has been daly assimilated. It cafin^f, 

therefore^ strictly speaking, be said to hare an immediiate 

reference to the state of the stomach; for altiliough all 

the chyme may have long since passed oat of that Orga]i> 

if any delay occnrs in ^ts ulterior changes, appetite mH 

not return, for the nervoufa 'eoEergy is. engaged <m th^ir 

completion, and cannot therefoie accumulate in thei^to- 

mach : on the contrary, m certain diseases, as in tabe^ 

mesehterica, notwithstanding the presence of alimentaiy 

matter in the stomaich, the appetite is never ^paeiied, in 

consequence, probably, of>the dimimshed expenditure of 

vital power which attends ihe act of ehylification in 

such cases, where only a small quantity of chyle is ab^ 

sorbed by the lacteals, and poured into the cire^Iationi 

Voracity, or canine appetite, may sometimes, depend upoii 

a morbid state' of the pylorus, which suffers the food td 

pass but of the stomach before it is properly chymi* 

fied : such cases are attended with extrraie .emacia* 

tion. From these views we may deduce the following 

important coroUaiy, — thai the several processes bj^ whi^h 

aliment is converted into blood canmot be simultaneousfy 

performedy without such an increased expenditure of vital 

energy as weak persons cannot^ without inconvenience, sus-^ 

tain: thus, ehylification would appear to require the 

quiescence of the stomach, and sanguification to be still 

more incompatible with the act of chymifioation. If; 

therefore, the stomach be set to work during the latter 

stages of digestion, the processes will in weak persons! be 

much disturbed, if not entirely suspended. Certain cir* 

cumstances catise hunger to return at neilrer intervals, by 



80 Feeling of Satiety,— on what it depends. 

BOO«lerating tbe Qutritirs proceu ; while othen, by pro- 
dttdng an oppocite tendeacy, lengthen such intervals. 

99. It is a well-known fact, that if a, persmi be inter- 
rupted in his meal for a qnartei of an hour, he finds, od 
resaming it, that his appetite is gone, although he mij 
have not eaten half the qaantity which he requiin'. 
Pr. Wilson Philip explains this circumstance by supposing, 
that the gastric ftuid which bad accumulated has hi ' 
time to combine with, and be neutralised by, the food ht | 
had taken ; bat those who believe with me, that a nen 
supply of gaatric fluid is furnished on the contact of evei; J 
fresh portion of food, must seek for some other explanation. | 
-Will not the views which I hare offered in the precedio^ 
paragraph afford a solutioa of the problem ? viz. that 
daring the suspension of the meal the food had enten»' 
upon its ulterior changes, and that the energies of tbe 
stomach had therefore declined. 

100. The subsidence of appetite, or the feeling of 
satiety, is not produced by the quantity, but the guaOty 
of the food, — the very reverse of what would happen were 
the mere volume of the aUment alone necessary to pacify 
the cravings of tbe stomach. This is remarkably disphyed 
in the habits of ruminating animals; for in wet and gloomy 
seasons, when the grass cont^s a diminished portion ol 
nutritive matter, these animals are never Satisfied — they 
are constantly in the act of grazing ; whereas, in hot ani' 
dry weather, they consume the greater porUon of then 
time in that of ruminating, or chewing the cud. 1 appre- 
h^ul that this is not to be explained, as M. Majendie 
beheves, to the sensibility of die mucous membrane of the 
stomach, but is to be solely referred to the fact, that ibe 
vital energy is only expended in decomposing such sah" 
stances as are capable of furnishing chyle. Volume ot 
bulk, however, is a iiecesisary condition of wholesome food ■' i 
the capacity of our digestive organs sufficiently proves list i 
nature never intended them for the reception of highl 



Thirst. 81 

concentrated food. I some years a^o diirected considerable 
attention^ in conjunction with some weill^known agricul- 
turists^ to the nutritive value of different crops^ as the food 
of cattle, and I constructed' a Idgometric scale for the solu- 
tion of various problems connected with the subject ; but 
I soon found that mere bulk produced a very important 
influence, and that, to render one species of nutriment 
equivalent in its value to another, it was necessary to take 
into consideration the quantity of inert matter which fur- 
nished excrement. 



Tbjbst. 

101. This instinctive feeling announces to the indi- 
vidual the necessity of introducing a certain quantity of 
liquid into the system, in order to repair the waste which 
the body has sustained in the exercise of its functions ; or 
to impart a due degree of solubility to the aliments v^ich 
have been' taken. We accordingly find that excessive 
perspiration increases the demand, and dry food is followed 
by tiie same effect. With the history of morbid thirst 
we have at present nothing to do.* ' The sensati6n of thirst 
appears to reside in the throat and fauces, as that of 
hunger does in the stomach; and yet the intensity of this 
feeling does not bear any relation to the dryness of these 
parts; for in some cases where the tongue, to its very root, 
is covered With a thick and dry crust, there is little thirst; 
while, on the other hand, it is frequently intolerable at the 
very time the mouth is surcharged with a preternatural 
quantity of saliva: like hunger; I apprehend it must be 
referred to a- particular condition of the nerves. 'Hie desire 
for drink after long speaking is analogous to thirst, but 
must not be confounded with-it. The influence of salted- 
food in exciting this* sensation is not Well understood. 

102. Thirst is certainly under the control of habit : 



82 Hunger and Thirst, inannpatible Sensations. 

those who indulge in the vicious habit of frequent pota- 
tions are rendered thirsty by its privation. There are 
some persons who have never experienced the 8enBatio&, 
and who only drink from a sort of sympathy, but who 
could live a long time without thinking of it^ or without 
suffering irom the want of it. I have a lady» of fifty 
years of age, at this time under my cue^ who has declaied 
tha( s^e is perfectly unacquainted with the xiatare of tlie 
SAUsatipn. ^auvage r^lfLtes two similar instances that 
occurred to himself; and Blumenbach, also, quotes seFe- 
ral examples of the same idiosyncrasy. 

103. The sensations of hunger and thirst appear to be 
incompatible with each other : when the stomach requires 
foody there is no inclination to drink ; and when thirst 
rageSy.the veiy idea of solid, aliment disgas^ us. So, 
again^ those circumstances which tend to destroy appetite 
may even excite thirsty such as the passions c£ the 
mind, &c. 

104. When the healthy system is in a condition to re- 
quire food, bepides the local sens^ion of hunger, there are 
certain general phenomena which deserve notice; ^ — a uni- 
versal lassitude of the body is experienced ;. there is also a 
sensation of pressure, or drawing down, in the epigastric 
region; the diameter of the intestines become dipainisli^; 
and their peristaltic ^lotion being at the same time in- 
creased, portions of copta^i^ air are EmQce8si]irely disr 
placjed, iqrhiqh give ria^ tp gurgling^ sound^^ Thei)s iS|, b^ 
sides, an altej;ation in the situation of s(m^ of the abdo- 
minal, viscera ; th^y are less capable of siii^ining pressofo^ 
and they receive a lepis quantity of blood, M. Mtgeudi^ 
al^o supposes, that whea the stoma/ch is.ei^pty, all tba 
reservoirs contained i^ Ih^ j^t{domea:are mor$ .easily di^- 
t^i^ded by the mattets which remaip some ^ime. in ^eicf 
an4 he believes that tl(is i^ the principal .reason why bile 
then accumpjlajbe^ in tbe^gaU-bladder.^ ,4^4K)qn^i^^^^^ 
tain quantity of fpod has enter^ tl^e stomacliL, t^e g^^eral 



Necessity of Exercise during Sanguification. 83 

feeling of lassitude gives place to that of renewed force^ 
and this usucdly occurs more rapidly after the ingestion of 
liquid than of solid aliment ; which is sufficient to prove 
that the phenomenon results from a local action upon the 
nerves of the stomachy since in neither case is it posfsible 
to suppose that any nutritive principle can have been so 
rapidly transferred to the system. 

105. As soon as digestion commences^ the blood flows 
with increased force to the organs destined for its comple- 
tion; whence, in delicate persons^ the operation is fre* 
quenitly attended with a diminution in the power of the 
iseDSes, and a sHght ehiver -is even experienced; the skin 
becoi&es contracted, and the insensible perspiration isdimi- 
nil»hed. As the process, however, proceeds, a reaoiion 
takes plac^ ; and, aft^f it is completed^ the pevspiration 
beeonfes iree, and often abundant. When the chyle enters 
the blood, the body becomes enlivened, and the . stomach 
and small intestines hating be^ liberated fnxDi :their 
burden, oppose no obstacle to die free indulgence of that 
desire for activity, which nature ihas thus- instinctively 
excited- for our benefit. Then it ^ is that animals a^ 
itmsed from that- irepese into ^hich, they .had subsided 
duimg the earlidr stages of d%e6lion, and. betake them«r 
sdves to action; then it is. that civilised man feels an 
aptness for exertion, although .he mistakes the natoni 
and* Object of the iinpube, .ahd^r.as Drl Prout justly 
observes, is inciined' to: regard it ae >aadiing;mi>re tl^aa a 
heakhy sensation by idbich he is summoned to lliat occu^ 
pifttion to which inclination: or duty may! prompt hinu 
Tikis, instead of being «&>i2f^activev the studious n»an 
recmves it as a summons ix), mental exertion : the ifidolenA 
man, perhaps^ merely to sit up and enjoy liimelf: the 
hb^ne to eompience his UbatioiiS' ; • and the votaiy of 
feshion to attend the crowded circles^of gaiety and disn^' 
ftatabn : in short, this feeli^aig of ronevated energy is ufted, 
or abused, in a thousand way» by different individualc^ 



84 . Exercise before and after Meals. 

witbottt their ever dreaming that bodihf exercise, and thrt 
alone, is implied by it. The reeiilt of wfaticli is, that im- 
perfect animilation, and all its train of ooiiseqiiences^ take 
place. 

106. Some difference of opinion has existed with re- 
gard to the utility or mischief of exercise immediately after 
eating ; but in this^ question, as in most others of the like 
nature, the truth will be found to lie between the extremes. 
Those who, from confounding the effects of ^gentle with 
those of exhausting exeiciBe, maintain the necessity of rest 
for the perfect performance of the digestive process, appeal 
to the experiment of Sir Busidc Harwood, the mere rela- 
tion, of which will be sufficient to negative the inference 
which thay would deduce from its result. The Downing 
Professor tod& two pointers^ equally hungry^ and eguallj 
well fed ; the one he suffered to lie quiet after- his meal, 
the other he kept for above two hours in constant exercise. 
On :retuming home, he had them both kUled. In tbe 
stomach of the dog. that had remained quiet and asleep, 
all the food, was found chymified ; but in the stomach of 
the other dog, the prociess of .digestion had scarcely com- 
menced* Exercise, .let it be remembered, -must be mea- 
sured in relation to the strength and habits of the indi- 
vidual :« we have daily experi^ice to prove that tbe 
husbandman, may return to his: daily labour, and the 
schoolboy to his gambols, immediately after a frugal 
meal, without inconvenience or injury.; but the same de- 
gree of exercise to a perscm of sedentary habit8,'^or of weak 
stamina^ would probably .arrest and .subvert the whole 
process of digestion. The influence of < habit,. in rendering 
exercised sakitary or injurious, is shewn in a variety of 
instances: a. person who would suffer. from the slightest 
exertioa after dinner, will undertake a fatiguing labour after 
breakfsist,; however solid and copious that meal may have 
been. If we assent to. the proposition of the Cambridge 
Professor, we. must in consistency acknowIedge,-^that ex- 



Conclusion of the First Part. 85 

ercise, before a meal, is at least as injurious as he would 
lead us to suppose it is after a repast : for if the valetudi- 
narian take his dinner in a state of fatigue^ he will as- 
suredly experience some impediment in its digestion ; but 
are we to argue that, on this account, exercise is neither 
to precede nor follow a meal ? We may as well, without 
farther discussion, subscribe to the opinion of Hieronymus 
Cardanus, who, insisting upon the advantages of perfect 
rest, observes, that trees live longer than animals because 
they never stir from their places. 



PART II. 



OF THE 



MATERIA ALIMENTARIA. 



PART II. 



■^'— r 



OF THE 



MATERIA ALIMENTARIA. 



INTRODUCTION. 

r* 
* *■ - * • 

Population depends upon the Quantity, not the Quality, of 
Food. — Immunity from Disease, how connected with 
Salubrity of Diet. — The Views of the Political Econo- 
mist in direct (^position with those of the Physician. — 
Animal and Vegetable Diet. — Whether Nitrogen be an 
essential Element of Food. — Classification of Alhnents. 
. — Nutritive and Digestible not Synonymous Terms. — 
Digestibility of Food influenced by its Mechanical Con- 
dition. — Cookery; Boiling, Roasting, S^c.-^— CONDI- 
MENTS: Salt, Vinegar, Spices, S^c. — Drinks: Water, 
Gruel, Barley-water, Tea, Coffee, S^c. Broths. — Fer- 
mented Liquors.' — Different Species of Wine. — Beer, S^c. 

107. Those bodies whiQh have possessed life can alone 
be. strictly considered as affording aliment to animals ; yet 
there exist a certain number of inorganic substances^ such 
as water, common salt, lime, &c., whicti> al though. inca-. 
pable by themselves of nourishing, appear, when, admi-f 
nistered in conjunction, with the former, to : contribute. 



i 






PART II. 



OF THE 



MATERIA ALIMENTARIA. 



92 Wketier Men mu origmaiiy Omnivorous. 

TiMts of the politiMl eeonomut' tre in direct opposition 
to those of tile phyncian: the object of the (Mie, is thepro- 
motkui of the general good of a community, -while th&toF 
the other, is the pr eeerrathwi of its more feeble indindDals. 
109. Whether M^iire originaHy intended that man 
■faonld feed on animal or regetable snbatanoes h&s afibnted 
a fertile theme for diaonasion. It ia not my intention to 
feUow the varions anthors who hare attempted to pton 
that animal food was not eaten before the deluge, but vas 
introduced in cooiieqnenoe of the deteri<»atioD ^bicb the 
herbage siistained on that occaaim. Soch questions ma; 
serve to ezerciBe the ingenuity of the casMist, but the; 
present no interest to the physician. It is sufficiently en- 
doit from the structure of our teeth, and from the extent 
of the alimentary canal being less than that of the ra- 
table eater, and greater than that of the carnivorous ani- 
Bial, that man is omnmoroitt, and capable ofsubsistiag' on 
aliment of every description. Bronasonet, however, is 
inclined to believe that man is more faerbivorons than car- 
nivorous in his nature ; and, from the proportion which 
the different teeth bear to each oUior, he even ventures to 
conclude, that his mixed diet should consist of animal and 
vegetable food in the proportion of 20 to 12. No rule, 
however, of this nature can possibly be established ; ff^ 
have only to consider the different effects produced upon 
tJie body by these two species of aliment, to perceive ttaf 
the circumstances of climate, season, exercise, habit, age< 



cold, in order to " harden their constitutions." The political e 

may, perhaps, censure (he modem physician, aa Plalo did Herodieuii 
for teaching the infinn to regulate their enercise and diet in such a wan- 
ner as to prolong tlieir lives. If by care and good nursing the sickly iofeni 
be carried through llie lirat years of his life, he may possibly fall a vicliin 
to the diseases of puberty ; and the same principle, therefore, viblch 
explains the diminished number of early deaths will also explnia ll^^ 
increasing rates of those of maturer age, and the more frequent occur- 
i-cnce of pulmonary disease : but are the terrors of the spring lo en- 
courage the a.pathy of llic nuracrymen during llie seaison of winter! 



-1 



Effects of Animal and Vegetable Food compared. 93 

and indiyidual peouliarity, must, oppose 43uch an attempt 
at generalisation. . 

110. As every description of food^ whether derived 
from the animal or vegetable kingdom, is converted into 
blood, it may be inferred that the ultimate efiect of all 
aliments mi»3t be virtually the same ; and that the several 
species can only diflPer from each other in the quantity of 
nutriment they afford, in the comparative degree of sti- 
mulus they impart to the. organs through which they pass; 
and in the proportion of vital energy they require for their 
assimilation. Were the degree of excitement which at- 
tends the, digestion of a meal commensurate with the 
labour imposed upon the organs which perform it, less 
irritation and heat would attend the digestion of ammal 
than of vegetable food; for in the one case* the aliment 
already possesses a composition analogous to that of the 
structure which it is designed to supply, and requires 
little mote than divisionand depuration ; whereas, in • the 
odier, a complicated . series oS decompositions > and recom-: 
positions must be effected before the matter can be ani-' 
malised, or assimilated to the body. But the digestive 
fever^ if we may be allowed the use of that expression^ and 
the complexity of the alimentary changes, -would appear, 
in every case, to bear. an inverse relation to each other. 
This must depend ujpbn the fact of animal food affording 
a more highly animalised chyle, or^a greater -pr^ortion of 
that principle which is .essentially nu^tive; as well as 
upon the immediate stimulus which the alimentaryt nerves 
receive from its contact. In hot countries^ therefore, - or 
during the heats of summer, we are instinctively led to 
prefer vegetable food ; and we accordingly find that the 
inhabitants of tropical cUmates select a diet of this- de- 
scription: the Bramins in India, and the people of the 
Canary Islands, Brazils, 8lc., live almost entirely on herb- 
age, grains, and roots, while those of the north use littl^ 
besides animal food. On account of the superior nutritive 



94 The Necessity of a mixed 

power of animal matter, it is equally evident that the 
degree of bodily exertion, or exercise, sustained by an 
individual should not be overlooked in an attempt to 
ildjust the proportion in which animal and vegetable food 
should be mixed. Persons of sedentary habits are op* 
prepsed, and idtimately become diseased, firom the . excess 
of nutriment which a fiiU diet of animal food will oecaai<Hi ; 
siioh. a condition, by some process not understood, is beat 
porrscted. bjr acescent negetaUes/ lit is well\known that 
fjrttQans and labonrersji in the oonfined manufactories of 
leige^ towns, suffer prodigioufty in their health wheneiFor 
a faihire,occui8 in the cxosp^ of common fruits; this fact 
9M iHimadKahly striking in the. years 1804 and .1805. 
¥:€ilUlg .chfldMB^ and^growilig. youths generally thrive 
iqpNPn (t generous diet of ammal food j.the exdsw of nutritive 
9llit^r is consumed, in the development of the body, and, 
ilf |H?^rly /d]ge6teNd,>! impafts strength without repLetka. 
MgaHii^ find', old r persons comparatively require bat a -small 
proportiom of alimcs^:,. unless the. nutritive movement be 
al^l^^ted by violent exercise and hard labour. 
',: -111. Those, who. advbcatis theeatclusive value of ietoi- 
flial food^^ar^l deny the utility of its admixture with vege* 
t^e mttter, adduce in prt)of of their system the rude 
b^t^ tod Herculean strength, of. our hardy ancestors. 
Tbiei British aborigines, when first visited by the Romans, 
c^rjbMoly jio not appear to have been conversant with the 
c^ltivsjtion ^ the ground, and, accoiding to the early 
wril^rei, Gmar, Strabo, J>iadorus Sicuhis, and otheis, 
tbe\r .principal subsistence was on flesh* and milk; : but 
before aiiy .valid conclusioa can be deduced. from this 
circumstance, the habits of the peoplecnuist be compared 
wiith those of their descendants* . Thp history of later 
l^uEKies .will furnish us with a. satietfactory answer tto those 

''^ ♦'The akment of almost every animaf, in its first stage of life, is 
TOinpfose'd of animal mattet; even graminivorous birds ar^ nourished W 
Ili&yiQlk ftrstfvHBrf^l days after beh^ghatcfi^^. ' 



Diet examined and explained. 95 

who deny the necessity of vegetable aliment. We learn 
from the London bills^ that scurvy raged to Such an excess 
in the seventeenth century as to have occasioned a very 
great mortality : at this period the art of gardening hl^d 
not long been introduced. It appears that the nuost comr 
mon articles of the kitchen garden, such, as c^I^^dgsi^ 
^ere not ealtiyaied in England mitU the mgn of C»A«i«« 
of Arragon ; indeed, we are told, that thia.c^^u^W' ^i^puld Qg^ 
prqcure a salad until a ^urdener was sent; £or from th^ 
Netherlands to jaise. it. Since the change thu9 happjUy 
introduced into our diet, the. ravages, of the sQvrvy $^$ 
wiknown. • i . \: 

• 112. It follows^ then, that in. our ettmate a,,4i^ ^ 
Sjoiimal food cannot^ with safety, be exclusively, en^plpye^^ 
it is too highly stimulant ; the, springs of life, are* uigfsd 0m 
too fast; and disease necessarily follows; There ^9^ 
nevertheless, exist certain states of the system whieb re? 
quire stich a preternatural stimulus; : and the phy^iciaA 
may, Aerefore, confine his patient to an animal regiiaien 
with as much propriety as he wbi^ld prescribe opiu^i^ <)t 
any other remedy. By a parity <^reas<»ung*, tiie ex^his^iv^ 
use of vegetable food may be shewn to be' inoon^ifitept; 
with .^le acknowledged principles of dietetics, .^nd.t^ be 
incapable of eonveyii]^ a nourishment suffici^titly stimi^ 
lating'for the active exertions which bdk)ng to ourf^resept 
cmlised condition. \ At the same time; \t mu^'be aitWjVjed 
that aik adherence, to vegcitahleidiet is losuaUyprodu^tiv^ 
of far less evil thaa that which follows the ii^. of ^ 
exchi8i¥ely:animal/r^gimexi. :;, ??-.;;. - \; . , ,,, 

~ 1 13. 'Ihp science of eb^ipi^tary . had . i^o sooner d^mc^ 
stmted that all the different tfiissue$ of th^ .a^knal body 
boistaii]»ed azot (nitrogep^), than-it becjtmje a queiltien 
aittQfngst' physiologists,, wh^hef that element iwere derived 
from the food introduced into our .stomachs, or from. the 
atmospheric air: inhaled by pur lungs.?. To the pnictic^tji 
physician this, subject may not .perhat>s a{q>ear< to :preH 



96 it/; Majehdies Theory, and 

sent' any points of professional interest; bat the experi* 
ments which haye been' lately instituted by M. Mi^endie, 
in support of the former opinions, have furnished results 
which^ in my judgment^ are susceptible of some useful 
apptications to practice. M. Majendie observes^ that the 
partisans of the theory he proposes to subvert insist par- 
ticularly upon the example of the herbivorous animals, 
which are supported exclusively upon nonnnotised matter; 
upon the history of certain people thait live entirely upon 
rice atid "maize ; upon that of negroes, who can live a long 
time without eating any thing ' but sugar ; and, lastly, 
upon what is related of caravans, which, in traversing the 
deserts, hkve for a long time had only gum in place of 
every sort of food. Were it, says he, indeed' proved by 
these facts that men can live a long time without azotised 
food, it would be neces^ry to acknowledge that azot has 
an origin' different from the food; but the facts cited by 
no means Sustain this proposition, for almost all the vege- 
tables upon which man and animals feed contain more or 
less azot : for example, the impure sugar that the negroes 
eat presents a considerable proportion of it; and with 
regard to the people, as they say,- who feed upon rice or 
maize, it is well known that they eat milk or cheese : now 
cusein is the most azotised of all the nutritive proximate 
principles. In order to acquire some more exact notions 
on this subject, M. Majendie submitted several aninialsi 
during a necessary period, to the use of food of which the 
chemical compositioii was accurately ascertained. I shall 
present the reader with an account of these experiments, 
and then explain the different, but not less important con- 
clusions, which I deduce from their results. He took a 
small dog of three years old, fat, and in good health, and 
put it to feed upon sugar alone, and gave it distilled water 
to drink : it had as much as it cUose of both. It appeared 
very well in this way of living for the first seven or eight 
dajTS ; it was brisk, active, eat eagerly, and drank in its 



Earperiments in proof of the necessUy of Azot. 97 

usual mann^. It biBga[n to get thin iir flie seoDod w^ek, 
although its appetite continued good^ and it to6k about 
six 6r eight ounces ot £(ttgar id twenty-four hours. Its 
alvine excretions were neither frequent nor copious; that 
of the urine was very abundant. In the third we^k its 
leanness increased, its strength diminidied, the animal 
tost its liyelinesSy and its appetite declined. At this 
period there was developed upon one eye, and then on: the 
other, at i^mall ulceration on the ceistre of the transparent 
cornea ; it increased very quickly, and i!n a few days it 
was more than a line in diameter } its depth increased in 
the same proportion ; the cornea was very soon entirely 
perforated, and the humowrs of die eye ran out. . This 
singular phenomenon was accompanied with an abundant 
secretion of t&e glands of the eyelids. It, however, became 
Weaker and weaker, and lost its strength ; and, though 
the animal eat from three to four ounc^ of sugar per day, 
it became so weak that it could neither chew nor swallow; 
for the same reason every other motion was impossible. It 
expired the thidy-secdnd day of the experiment. M. Ma- 
jendie opened the animal with every suitable precautioii.' 
He found a total want of fat ; the muscles were reduced to 
more than five-sixths of their ordinary size ; the stomach 
and intestines were also much diminished in volume, andr 
strongly contracted. The gall and urinary bladders wei^ 
distended by their proper fluids, which M. Chevreul wasi 
called upon to examine. That distinguished chemist found 
in them nearly all the characters which belong to the urine 
and bile of herbivorous animals ; that is, tiiat the urime/ 
instead of being acid, as it is in carnivorous animals, wa9 
sensibly alkahne, and did not present any trace of uric 
acid, nor of phosphate. The Bile contained a consider- 
able portion of picromel; a character considered as peculiar 
to the bile of the ox, and, in general, to that of herbi- 
vorous animals. The excremente were also examined by 

H 



98 Mqjendies Experiments. 

M. Chevreul^ and were, found to contain very little azot, 
whereas they usually furnish a considerable quantity. 

114. M. Majendie considered that such results re- 
quired to be verified by new experiments : he accordingly 
repeated them on other dogs, but always with the same 
conclusions. He therefore considered it proved, that 
sugar, by itself, is incapable of supporting d(^s. This 
want of the nutritive quality, however, might possibly 
be peculiar; to sugar : he therefore proceeded to inquire, 
whether other substances, non-azotised, but g^aerally ooa- 
sidered as nutritive, would be attended with the same con- 
sequences. He fed two dogs with olive oil and distilled 
water, upon which they appeared to live well, for about 
fifteen days ; but they afterwards underwent the same series 
of accidents, and died on the thirty-sixth day of the ex- 
periment. In these cases, however, the ulceration of the 
cornea did not occur. 

115. Gum is another substance that does not contain 
azot, but which is considered as nutritive. To ascertain 
whether it acted like sugar and oil,- he -fed several dogs 
with this substance, and the phenomena which he observed 
did not differ sensibly from those above described. 

116. The same distinguished physiologist lately re- 
peated the experiment, by feeding a dog with butter, an 
animal substance free from azot. Like the other animals, 
it was supported by this food very well at first; but, in 
about fifteen days, it began to lose fiesh and to bedome 
weak : it died the thirty-sixth day, ialthough, on the thirty- 
fourth day, he gave it as much flesh as it would eat, a 
consijierable quantity of which it took for two days. The 
right eye of this animal presented the ijilceration of the 
cornea that he noticed in those which were fed on sugar. 
The opening of the body presented the same modifications 
of the bile and urine. In order to make the evidence fur- 
nished by these experiments complete, after having given 



J 



The. Author's view of the question. 99 

to dogs separately, oil, gum, or sugar, he opened them, 
and ascertained that these substances were each reduced 
to a particular chyme in the stomach, and that they after- 
wards furnished an abundant chyle ; whence he argues, 
that if these different substances are not nourishing, it 
cannot be attributed to the want of dio:estion. 

11 7, Now, giving all due credit to the accuracy and 
good faith with which these experiments were performed, 
what do their results shew ? That the azot of the organs is 
produced by the food, says M. Majendie, and consequently 
that no substance which does not contain this principle 
can support life. By no means : they merely prove that 
ah animal cannot be supported by highly-concentrated 
aliment. In contradiction to the theory of Majendie, we 
know that sugar is highly nutritive, provided it be properly 
mixed with a quantity of substantial viands ; it is certain 
that, in the process of making hay, if well performed, it 
will be found that the nutritive matter is greatly increased 
by the partial conversion of the cruder mucilaginous sap 
into a substance analogous to sugar ; as we find that ani- 
mals thrive faster with this food, and prefer it to that 
which is left on the ground, and found in a state of self- 
made hay. Horses fed on concentrated aliment are in- 
variably liable to various diseases, originating from dis- 
eased action in the stomach, and hence arise broken wind; 
as it is termed, staggers, blindness, 8cc. The intolerable 
fetid odour of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, perceptible when 
post-horses are fed with oats and beans only, cannot have 
escaped observation ; and it affords sufficient proof of the 
mischief which arises from a too-concentrated diet. The 
same remark applies to men ; and I shall have occasion to 
shiBw hereafter, that the use of chocolate, butter, cream, 
sugar, and rich sauces, without a due admixture of bread, 
potatoes, and other less nutritive aliments, is invariably 
attended with disordered digestion. Unless the taste be 



100 ClMsification of Aliments. 

vitiated by habit, there exists an uistiiietiTe aTendon to 
lucb food. 

* ' Tlie prudent taste 
Rqects, like bane, such loatfaioiM Infciofosiieas." 

The Kamtschadales are frequently compelled to live on 
fish-oil, but they judiciously form it into a paste ivith 
saw-dust, or the rasped fibres of indigenous plants. 



Op TBS Classification op Aliments. 

118. The arrangements which different authors hare 
proposed will be found to vary according to the particular 
theory by which each may have been influenced. The 
chemist investigates the composition of an aliment, and 
arranges it according to the proximate principles wfaid 
predominate in its eompOsttion. .The naturalist, on thie 
other hand, merely considers to what division in his system 
each article of diet belongs, and assigns to it a eorreapfond- 
ing place in his arrangem^t ; while the empirioal prac^ 
titioner distributes the various kinds of food in soi order 
which answers to his notions of their relative' nuCrittve 
value, or to the supposed facility with which they are 
digested in the stomach. If there be any truth in our 
dietetic researches, or any natural afiinity between the 
objects of our classification, the theory of tb^ arrangement 
will be unimportant; for, however ^eatly the roaib of 
our pursuit may vary, we must ultimat^y arrive at the 
same goal. 

119. Chemistry has satisfactorily demonstrated the 
nature of these proximate principles of organic matter, 
upon the presence of which the nutritive, qualities depend, 
viz. fibrin, albumen, gelatin, oil aijid fiat, gluten,. fieci{h, or 
starch, mucilage, sugar, adds, &c. Assuming that the 
variety, observable in the nutritive value of different i»ib- 



Solids and Liquids arranged in clds^es. 101 

stances arises from the predominance of one or more of 
Such principles^ we may conveniently distribute the Nu«- 
TRiiSNTiA into the following nine classes : 

CI. L FiBBiNous Aliments, Comprehending the 
flesh and blood of rarious animals^ especially such as have 
arrived at puberty : venison^ beef^ mutton^ hare. 

CI. II. Albuminous. Eggs; certain animU matter^ 

CI. 111. Gelatinous Aliments. The flesh of 
young animals : veal, chickens, calf's foot, certain fishes. 

CI. IV. Fatty and Oily Aliments. Animal 
fats, oik^ atid butter ; cocoa, &c. ; ducks^ fcxk, geeae^ 
eel8,&c. 

OL y. CasSous Aliments. The different kinds 
of milk, cheese^ 8co. 

01. VI. Fabinaceous AlimeKts. Wheat, barley, 
oats, rice, rye, potato ; sago, arrow-rOot, &c. 

01. Vll. Mucilaginous Aliments. Carrots, tur- 
nips, asparagus^ oabbage, &c. 

CI. VIII. SwAET Aliments. The different kinda 
of sugar, figB> dates, &c« ; carrots. 

01. IX. Acidulous Aliments. Oranges, apples, 
and other acescent fruits. 

To these we m&y add CoNDiMBNts) such as Salt, 
the varieties of pepper, mustard, horse-radish, vinegar, 8ic. 

120. In classing the different species of potaliotis, we 
may, in like manner^ be governed by the chemical com- 
position which distingmshes them. They may be arranged 
under four divisions, vis. 

01. 1. Water. Spring, river, well water, Su;. 

01. IL The Juices and Infusions of Veoe- 
tabl&s and Animals. Whey, tea, c<^ee, &c. 

Q. JII. Fermented Liquors. Wine, beer, &c. 

CL IV. The Alcoholic Liquobs, or Spibits. 
Alcohol, brandy, rum, 8cc. 

121. Before we attempt to appreciate the value of 
the different substances arranged under the foregoing 



102 Circumstafices which vtfluence 

classes^ it will be necessary to caution the reader against 
the popular error^ of regarding the terms digestible and 
nutritive as synonymous and convertible. A substance 
may be highly nutritive, and yet be digested with dif- 
ficulty ; that is to say» it may require all the powers of the 
digestive organs to convert it into chyle, and yet, when so 
converted, it may afford a principle of highly-rest(M*ative 
energy : this is the case with some of the fatty and oily 
aliments.* On the contrary, there are substances which 
apparently. pass out of the stomach with sufficient readi- 
ness, but afford but little comparative support to the body. 

122. Writers on dietetics have descanted very leam-^ 
edly upon what they please to term the perspirabiliiy 
and alkalescency of certain aliments. To. the former I am 
quite unable to attach any precise meaning ; with respect 
to the latter, I apprehend that it is intended to express a 
highly-nutritive quality, with a certain degree of indigesti- 
bility. Heavy and light, as applied to food, are terms 
equally vague and indefinite, and ought never to be intro- 
duced into writings which aspire to the character of philo- 
sophical precision. The same observation maybe extended 
to the epithet bilious (74). 

123. It is only necessary to reflect upon the chemical 
and mechanical processes by which chymification is per- 
formed in the stomach (66), to perceive, that the digesti- 
bility of a substance may depend upon other circumstances 
than that of its chemical composition. Its mechanical 
state, with regard to texture and consistence, are of the 
highest importance ; and if we attempt to deduce any law 
upon this subject, from the known solubility of a substance 
out of the body, we shall fall into several fatal errors. It 
will be necessary to investigate this question with some 
attention \ for it not only explains the relative digestibility 

* It has been calculated, that an ounce of fat meat affords nutriment 
equal to four ounces of lean. 



the Digestibility of different Substances. 103 

of aliments, but furnishes the only true basis for a system 
of skilful cookery. 

124. The healthy stomach disposes most readily and 
effectually of solid food, of a certain specific degree of 
density, which may be termed its digestive texture: if it 
exceed this, it will require a greater length of time, and 
more active powers, to complete its chymification ; and if 
it approaches too nearly to a gelatinous condition, the 
stomach will be equally impeded, in its operations. It is, 
perhaps, not possible to appreciate or express the exact 
degree of firmness which, will confer the highest order of 
digestibility upon food ;* indeed, this zero may vary in dif* 
ferent individuals ; but we are taught by experience, that 
no meat is so digestible as tender mutton : when well con* 
ditioned, it appears to possess that degree of consistence 
which is most congenial to the stomach; and in this- 
country it is perhaps more universally used than any other 
animal food. Wedder mutton, or the flesh of the castrated 
animal, is in perfection at five years, and is by far the 
sweetest and most digestible. Ewe mutton is best at two 
years' old. Beef appears to be not so easy of digestion ; 
its texture is firmer, but it is equally nutritive. Much, 
however, will depend upon the period which has elapsed 
since the death of the animal, and more upon the method 
of cookery; in short, it would be worse than useless to 
attempt the construction of any scale to represent the 
nutritive and digestive qualities of the different species of 
food : the observations here introduced are merely noticed 
for the sake of illustrating those general principles whose 
application can alone afford us any rational theory of diet. 

125. It will not be difficult to understand why a cer- 
tain texture and coherence of the aliment should confer 

* Some experiments were instituted for this purpose by Gosse, of 
Geneva ; but the conclusions deduced from them are by no means satis- 
factory. He confounds solubility with digestibility, which in itself is 
sufficient to vitiate his reasoning. 



104 • The Texture of the Animal Fibre 



upon it digettibility, or otlierwise. Its eottviarstoa into 
chyme is effected by the solvent power of the gastric 
juice, aided by the churmng which it undergoes, by the 
motions of the stomach ; and unless the substance intro- 
duced possess a suitable degree of firmness^ it yriU not 
yield to such motions: this is the case witl^ AOvps and 
other liquid aliments; in such cases, therefore* nature 
removes the watery part (83) before digesticm ean be 
carried forward. It is on this account that oils are di- 
gested with so much difficulty ; and it is jm)bable that 
jellies, and other glutinous matters/ although coa^ining 
the elements of nourishment in the highest stat^ of con- 
centration, are not digested without considerable difficulty ; 
in the first place, on account of their erading the grappling 
powers of the stomach, and in the next, in consequence of 
their tenacity opposing the absorption of their more fluid 
parts. For these reasons I maintain, that the addition of 
isinglass, and other glutinous matter, to animal broths, 
with a view to render them more nutritive to invalids* is a 
pemiciouB custom. 

126. The texture of animal food is greatly influenced 
by the age, sex, habits, condition, di^t, and description of 
death of the animal which fumi9hes it. In proportion, 
generally, to the age, its flesh is coarser and more firm in 
texture, as every one must have noticed in eating birds. 
If the flesh of mutton and lamb, beef and veal, are com- 
pared, they will be found of a different texture, the two 
young meats are of a more stringy, indivisible nature than 
the others, which makes them harder of digestion. It has 
been also justly observed, that young animals difler from 
old ones in the distribution of the fat, which in the latter 
is chiefly collected in masses or layers, external to the 
muscles; whereas, in the former, it is more interspersed 
among the muscular fibres, giving the flesh a marbled ap- 
pearance, which is always a desirable property of butcher's 
meat. The texture of food will also yary according to the 



is if^fy/fmpisd bjf various oau^s. 105 

wil4 or ^iA09ticatad stole of the suiimal ; thai; of the for- 
9»eir is 10019 d^DJSQ, although highly ttu|^tiYO. The sciz 
al90 modifies tho qa»lity of tho fl^sh^ that of the female 
beiiijg; alnrayA. more delieate iind fiineFTgmined than that of 
th^ m^f^ male« whofse fibiBs are denaet ; the iinfiiieBce of 
the genitol orgaoit upon this oceasiop is T&ry eirtmoidinary ; 
it 13 g^n«:idJily b^UQved* that the flayxmr of the female ist 
e¥0ii improv^ by ifemoYing the ovaties, cht spmfir^ them, 
as it is caO^. Every day tbe testes are permitted, to re-t 
main, even though totally inactive with regaid to theiv 
proper function, ii^ures the delicacy of the veal of the buU 
calf) and an animal which is not castrated until after 
puberty always retains much of the. coarseness of the 
entire male. The mode of killing an animal has been con- 
sidered, from the remotest ages, as capable of affecting the 
quality of its meat. The flesh of hunted animals is cha^ 
racterised by peculiar tenderness.; the same effect is pro^ 
dueed by any lingering death. This fact probably elEplains 
^e policy of those old municipal la/ws, which ordained 
that no butcher should offer or expose any bull-beef for 
sale, unless it had previously been baited ; and it is upon 
the same principle only, that the quality of pig's flesh 
could be improved by the horrid cruelty of whipping 
them to death, as said to be practised by the Germans. 
The action of vinegar, administered to an animal some 
hours before killing it, is also known to be capable of ren- 
dering its fl^h less tough. It is a common practice in 
the country to give a spoonful of this acid to poij^ltry, 
when they are intended for the immediate service of the 
(able. 

127. Nothing, however, tends more effectually to 
ameliorate the rigidity of the animal fibre, than incipient 
putrefaction. The length of time that meat ought to be 
kept after it is killed will necessarily depend upon its tendr 
ency to undergo the putrid fermentation, and the prevalence 
of those circumstances which are inclined to favour it. 



106 Cookery. — Boiling, S^, 

128. The circumstances which hare been just enu* 
merated, as being capable of inflnencing the texture of our 
foody and consequently its degree of digestibility, are, 
however^ unimportant when compared with the modifying 
powers of cookery, which I shall now proceed, to examme. 

129. By cookery, alimentary substances undergo a 
twofold change; their principles are chemicaUy modified, 
and their textures mechanically changed. The extent and 
nature, however, of these changes will greatly depend 
upon the manner in which heat has been applied to them; 
and if we inquire into the culinai^ history of different 
countries, we shall trace its connexion with the fuel most 
accessible to them. This fact readily explains the preva- 
lence of the peculiar species of cookery which distinguishes 
the French table, and which has no reference, as some 
have imagined, to the dietetic theory, or superior refine- 
ment> of the inhabitants. 

130. BoiLiN o. By this operation, the principles not 
properly soluble are rendered softer, more pulpy, and, 
consequently, easier of digestion ; but the meat, at the 
same time, is deprived of some of its nutritive properties 
by the removal of a portion of its soluble constituents : the 
albumen and gelatin are also acted upon; the former being 
solidified, and the latter converted into a gelatinous sub- 
stance. If, therefore, our meat be boiled too long or too 
fast, we shall obtain, where the albumen predominates, as 
in beef, a hard and indigestible mass, like an overboiled 
egg ; or, where the gelatin predominates, as in young 
meats, such as veal, a gelatinous substance equally inju- 
rious to the digestive organs. Young and viscid food, 
therefore, as veal, chickens, &c., are more wholesome when 
roasted than when boiled, and are easier digested. Dr. 
Prout has very justly remarked, that the boiling tempera- 
ture is too high for a great many of the processes of cook- 
ing, and that a lower temperature and a greater time, or a 
species of infusion, are better adapted for most of them* 



Stewing i Roasting ; effects of, 107 

• 

This is notorious with substances intended to be stewed^ 
^hich^ even in cookery books^ are. directed to be boileA 
slowly, (that is^ not at all), and for a considemble time.> 
The ignorance . and prejudice existing on these points is 
very great, and . combated with difficulty ; yet, when we 
take into account their importance, and ho'w intimately 
they are connected with health, they will be found to de- 
serve no small share of our attention.''^. The loss occasioned 
by boiling partly depends upon the melting of thefai, but 
chiefly from the solution of the gelatine and osmazone :' 
mutton generally loses about one-fifth, : and beef about' 
one-fourth, of its original weight. Boiling is particularly^ 
applicable to vegetables, rendering them. more soluble in 
the stomach, and depriving them 6f a considerable quan- 
tity otair, so injurious to weak stomachs. But, even in' 
this case, the operation may be carried to an injurious 
extent; thus, potatoes are frequently boiled to the state of 
a dry, insipid powder, instead of being preserved in that 
state in which the parts of which they are composed are 
rendered soft and gelatinous, so as to retain their shap^,' 
yet be very easily separated. On the other hand, the^ 
cabbage tribe, and carrots, are frequently not boiled long* 
enough, in which state they are highly indigestible. In 
conducting this process, it is necessary to pay some atten- 
tion to the quality of the water employed ; thus, mutton 
boiled in hard water is more tender and juicy than when' 
soft water is used ; while vegetables, on the contrary, are 
rendered harder and less digestible when boiled in hard 
water. 

131. Roasting. By this process the fibrine is cor-^ 
rugated, the albumen- coagulated, the fat liquefied, and the 
water evaporated. As the operation proceeds, the surface 
becomes first brown, and then scorched; and the ten- 

* Hence it is, thjat beef tea and mutton tea are much more Calculated 
for invalids than the broths of these meats. 



108 Frying, BraiUng^ Baking. 

4inaiift parts are rendered aofter aad ghiey. Care ahoald 
alwaj/e be taken that the meat ehoidd not be ^nvr^^biif, nor 
ought it to be under-dreued; for although in such a state 
it may contain more nntriment, yet it will be less digest!- 
hie, on aecoont of the density of its texture. This fact has 
been satisfaetorily proved by the experiments of Spollan- 
lani;* aad Mr. Hmiterf obsenres^ that ^* boiled^ and 
tooited, and evexi putrid meat^ is easier of digestion than 
raw.'' Animal matter loses more by roastiiig than by 
boiling : it has been stated above, that by this latter pro- 
cess mutton loses one-fifth, and beef one-fourth; but by 
roasting, these meats lose about one-third of their weight. 
In roasting, the lose arises from the melting out of the fat, 
and the evaporating of the water; but the nutritious matter 
remains condensed in the eooked solid ; whereas, in boil- 
ing, the gelatine is partly abstracted. Roast are, therefore, 
Qtoie nutritive than boiled meats. % 

133. FuYiNG. This process is, perhaps, the most 
olgectionable of all the oulinary operations. The heat is 
applied through the medium of boiling oil, or fat> which 
is rei;idered empyreumattc, and therefore extremely liable 
to disagree with the stomach. 

133. BnoiLTNG. By this operation, the ,sudden 
browning or hardening of the surface prevents the evapo- 
ration of the juices of the meat, which imparts a peculiar 
tenderness to it. It is the form selected, as the most 
eligible^by those who seek to invigorate themselves by 
the art of trdimng. 

134. Baking. The peculiarity of this process de- 
p^ds upon the substance being heated in a confined 
c^>ace, which does not permit the escape o£ the t^i^^ 

* Spallanzani on Digestion, vol. i. p. 277. 

f Hunter on the Animal Economy, p. 220. 

I It has been computed that, from the dissipation of the nutiiti^^ 
juices by boiling, one pound of rfmted oontains as much nouriedimeDt as 
two of boiled meat. 



The necessity of Condiments. 109 

ariBing from it ; the meat is^ therefore,, from tiie rdtentioiB 
of its juicea, rendered more sapid and tender. But bajked 
meats are not so easily digested, ont aceonnt' of the greats 
retention <^ their oila^ w hi(ch are, moieoyer, in an empy^ 
reumatio state. Such diahes aeeordingl; ieqmre the 
stimulna of various eondiiqeiits to increase the dtgeathre 
powers of the stomal. 

Or CaysuMsH'TM. 

135. Th^se may be defined substances which are, in 
themselves, incapable of nourishing, but which, in concert 
with our food, promote its digestion, or. correct some of its 
deleterious properties^. The existence and necessity of 
such agents are far more universal and important than has 
been generally supposed.* The bitter principle which 
exists in the composition of grasses and other plants 
appears to be essential to the digestion of herbivorous ani- 
mals ; it acts as a natural stimulant ; for it has been shewn, 
by a variety of experiments, that it passes through the 
body without suffering any diminution in its quantity, o^ 
change in its nature* No cattle will thrive upon grasses 
which do not contain a portion of this vegetable principle: 
this fact has been , most satisfactorily proved by the re- 
searches of Mr. Sinclair, gardener to the Duke of Bedford, 
which are recorded in that magnificent work, the " Hortm 
Gramineus Wobumensis/* They shew, that if sheep are 
fed on yellow turnips, which contain Kttle or no bitter 
principle, they instinctively seek for, and greedily devour, 
any provender which may contain it ; and that if they 
cannot so obtain it, they become diseased and die. We 
are ourselves conscious of the invigorating effects of slight 
bitters upon our stomach; and their presence in malt 
liquors not only tends to diminish the noxious effects of 
such potations, by counteracting the indirect debility 

* See my Pharmacokooia, edition 6lh, vol. i. p. 145. 



110 Salt; iU general importance. 

which they are liable to occasion, but even to render them, 
when taken in moderation, promoters of digestion. The 
custom of infiising bitter herbs in vinons drinks is veiy 
ancient and universal. The poculum abnnthiatum was 
regarded in remote ages as a wholesome beverage^ and the 
wormwood was, moreover, supposed to act as an antidote 
against intoxication. Civilisation has, in a great measuie, 
destroyed our natural taste for bitters; while, by improyiiig 
our food, it has probably rendered its stimulus less neces- 
sary. The Swiss peasant cheers himself amid the frigid 
solitude of his glaciers with a spirit distilled from gentian, 
the extreme bitterness of which is relished with a glee that 
is quite unintelligible to a more cultivated taste. It may 
be safely affirmed, that the utility of this condiment is in 
an inverse ratio with the nutritive^ or rather digestible 
power of a vegetable substance; and we accordingly find, 
in conformity with that universal scheme of self-adjust- 
ment and compensation, so visible in all the operations of 
nature, that cultivation, which exalts and extends the 
nutritive powers of vegetable bodies, generally diminishes 
their bitterness in the same proportion. The natural history 
of the potato, already alluded to (4), offers a good illus- 
tration of this fact. 

136. From the different nature of condiment, it has 
been usually divided into three classes; viz. the salim, 
the spicy or aromatic, and the oily. 

137. Salt appears to be a necessary and universal 
stimulus to animated beings; and its effects upon the 
vegetable as well as animal kingdom have furnished ob- 
jects of the most interesting inquiry to the physiologist) 
the chemist, the physician, and the agriculturist. It ap- 
pears to be a natural stimulant to the digestive organs of 
all warm-blooded animals, and that they are instinctiveJy 
led to immense distances in pursuit of it. This is strikingly 
exemplified in the avidity with which animals in a wiW 
state seek the salt pans of Africa and America, and in the 



Evils which arise from dwant of it. Ill 

difficulties they will encounter to reach them : this cannot 
arise from accident or caprice, but from a powerful instinct, 
which, beyond control, compels them to seek, at all risks, 
that which is salubrious. To those who are anxious to 
gain further information upon this curious subject, I would 
recommend the perusal of a work entitled " Thoughts on 
the Laws relating to Salt, by Samuel Parkes, Esq." and 
a small volume by my late lamented friend. Sir Thomas 
Bernard, on the " Case of the Salt Duties, with Proofs 
and Illustrations." We are all sensible of the. effect of 
salt on the human body ; we know how unpalatable; 
fresh meat and vegetables are without it. During the 
course of my professional practice, I have had frequent 
opportunities of witnessing the evils which have attended 
an abstinence from salt. In my examination before a 
committee of the House of Commons in 181 8, appointed for 
the purpose of inquiring into the laws respecting the salt 
duties, I stated, from my own experience, the bad effects? 
of a diet of unsalted fish, and the injury which th^ poorer 
classes, in many districts, sustained in their health from 
an. inability to procure this essential condiment. I had 
some years ago a gentleman of rank and fortune under my 
care, for a: deranged state of- the digestive Organs, accom- 
panied with extreme emaciation. I found that, from some 
cause which he could not explain, he h^d never eaten any. 
salt with his meals : I enforced the necessity of his taking 
it in moderate quantities, and the recovery of his digestive 
powers was soon evinced in the increase of his strength 
and condition. One of the ill effects produced by an, 
unsalted diet is the generation of worms. Mr. Marshall, 
has published the case of a lady who had a natural anti- 
pathy to salt, and was in consequence most dreadfully 
infested with worms during the whole of her life. (London 
Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xxix. No. 231.) In 
Ireland, where, from the bad quality of the food, the 
lower classes are greatly infested with worms, a draught 



112 The operation of Saking Meat amsidered. 



and ivaUr ii a popular and effieackntt anifaebmnlic. 
Lord Somerrille, in hi» Address to the Board of Agriculture, 
gave an interesting aocount of the effects of a pudishment 
wbieh iitNmerly existed in Holland. '* The ancient hws 
ei the eoimtry oidained men to be kept on bread alone, 
VNXiXKD WITH sALT^ as the severest pnuBlinient that 
(k>ttld b^ inflieted upon them in their moist climate. TIm 
effect wad hornble ^ these wretehed criminals are said to 
hi^ve been devoured by worms engendered in their own 
stomachs/' Hie whotesomeness and digestibility of ov 
bread ar^ undontitedly much promoted by the addition of 
salt which it so m»tersally receives.* 

138. If the ntOity of salt be thus establishfed, it my 
f>e asked^ how it can happen that salted provinons shodd 
&r&t produce those diseases which experience has shewn 
to {urise from their use ? It is true that a certain pf oportioD 
of this condiment is not only useful but indispensable; but 
an excess of it is as iiajurious as its mod^tite appfidation is 
Satutaiy . This observation applies with as mnch force to 
the vegetable as to 1^ animal kingdom; a spiall proportion 
applied as a inanure, promotes vegetation in a vefy remark- 
^bfe -manner; wheress a krger quantity actually destroys 
hi The experiments of Bir John Pringle have also shewn, 
that a little sak will accelerate puti^ftu^tion^ and a \^ 
t^S9iatity prevent it. In explainin{g the operation 6{ salting 
meat, and in appreciating the effects of such meat as food, 
it will be necessary to advert to a chemical fact which has 
not hitherto attracted the attention which its importance 
merits. The salt thus combined with the animiJ fihre 
ought no longer to be considered as the condiment upon 
which so much has been said; a chemibal cbmbiaation 
has taken place, and, although it is difficult to explain the 
nature of the affinities which have been brought into action, 

« 

* A- pound of salt is generally added to each bushel of flour. Hence 
it may be presumed, that every adult consumes two ounces of salt p*^ 
week, or six pounds and a half per annum, in bread only. 



Uses of Vintgat. 113 

or that 6f the compound to which they have given origin, 
it is sufficiently evident that the texture of the fibre is so 
changed as to be less nutritive, as well as less digestible. 
Jf we ^e called upon to produce any chemical evidence in 
support of such an assertion, we need only relate the expe- 
riment of M. EUer, who found, that if salt and water be 
boiled in a copper vessel, the solution will contain a nota- 
ble quantity of that metal ; whereas, if* instead of heating 
a simple solution, the salt be previously mixed with beef, 
bacon, or fish, the fluid resulting from it will not contain 
an atom of copper. Does not this prove that the process 
of salting meat is something more than the mere saturation 
of the animal fibre with muriate of soda ? 

139. The beneficial operation of salt as a condiment is 
proved by ample experience : theory has had no share in 
establishing the fact; and, in the present state of our 
physiological knowledge, it will be, perhaps, difficult to 
offisr a theory for its explanation. It may probably only 
operate as a stimulant upon the alimentary passages, 
although to those who are disposed to place any con- 
fidence in the views of Dr. Prout (95), an hypothesis will 
necessarily suggest itself, which, on the present occasion, 
it is not my intention either to support or invalidate. The 
subject is in good hands; and I look forward with some 
degree of impatience for the result of more extended 
researches. 

140. Vinegar. This acid, in small quantities, is a 
grateful and wholesome stimulant ; it will often check the 
chemical fermentation of certain substances in the stomach, 
and prevent vegetable matter in its raw state from in- 
ducing flatulence ; but its use requires caution, and in 
some morbid states of the system it is obviously improper. 
Fatty and gelatinous substances frequently appear to be 
rendered more digestible in the stomach by the addition of 
vinegar, although it is difficult to ofier either a chemical or 
physiological explanation of the fact. The native vege- 



1 14 Tlie Aromatic Condiments. 

table acids may also be occasionally substituted : the addi- 
tion of lemon juice to rich and glutinous soups, remders 
them less liable to disagree with the stomach ; and the 
custom of eating apple-sauce with pork is, undoubtedly, 
indebted for its origin to the same cause; 

141. Th£ Abomatic Coi^diments comprise the 
foi^ign spices, as pepper, cayeilne pepper, cinnamoc, nut- 
meg, cloves, ginger; and the indigenous herbs and roots, 
such as parsley, thyme, sage, garlic, leek, bnion, horse- 
radish, mustard, 8cc. The former of these were not in- 
tended by nature fbr the inhabitants of temperate climes; 
they are heating, and highly stimulant.* I am, however, 
not anxious to give more weight to this objection than \\ 
deserves. Man is no longer the child of nature, nor the 
passive inhabitant of any particular region : he ranges; ow ' 
every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the 
productions of every climate. It may be therefore neces- 
sary that he should accompany the ingestion of foreign 
aliment with foreign condiment. f If we go to the East to 
tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West 
for sugar. The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be 
cautious in their use ; they may afford temporary beneft 
at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well 
said, that the best quality of spices is to stimtilate tie 
appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insenisible degrees, 
the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic goodness of meats 
should always be suspected, when they require spicy 
seasoning to compensate for their natural want of sapidity. 

• Nature is tery kind in favouring the gmMh bf those productions 
which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those situations, Aa* 
instance^ which engender endemic diseases, are in gener^r congenial to 
the growth of the plants that operate as antidotes to them.— PAflrnwc^ 
/ogia, vol.i. p. 148. 

t Swift observes, that such is the extent of modem epicurism, that 
*' the world must be encompassed before a washerwoman can sit down to 
breakfast.'' 



Of Drinks. 115 

But, mischievous as the abuse of aromatic condiments may 
be, it is innocent in comparison with the custom of swal- 
lowing a quantity of brandy to prevent the upbraiding of 
our stomachs, or an increased libation of wine to counter- 
act the distress which supervenes 'a too-c6pious meal — as 
if drunkenness were an antid6t6 to gluttony. 

142. Oil. This, with butter, constitutes what is called 
the oleaginous condiments. Melted butter is, perhaps, 
the most injurious of all the inventions of cookery : oil, 
when used in extremely small quantities, as a seasoning to 
salads, appears to prevent their running ihto fermentation, 
and consequently obviates flatulency. 

Of Drinks. 

143. As the introduction of solid aliment into the sto- 
mach is for the purpose of furnishing materials for the 
repair of the different textures of the body, so is a supply 
of liquid matter essentially necessary to replace those 
various fluids which are constantly ejected from the body, 
during the exercise of its different functions. The neces- 
sity of this supply, as well as its quantity, are both indi- 
cated by a certain feeling which the want of it excites, 
named thirst. In this point of view, therefore, the drinks 
ought to be considered as real aliments ; and, indeed, it 
is a question whether they may not also undergo certain 
decompositions in the body, and be made to surrender 
elements for the formation of solid parts.* The chyme 
and chyle may also require the assistance of some liquid 
medium to favour the absorption of its finer and more 
nutritive parts, which, by increasing the fluidity of the 
mass, will expedite the numerous combinations it is 
destined to undergo. In every point of view, therefore, 

* Fish, especially the cetaceous tribe, decompose water, and live 
upon its hydrogen. ^ 



1 l(i Considerations respecting the 

dilution is an essential operation ; and an animal will not 
only endare the sensation of hunger with more tranquillity 
than that of thirsty but he will survive longer under tk 
privation of solid than of liquid aliment.* Unfortunately, 
however, those instincts which nature implanted in us for 
our guidance have been eradicated by the habits of arti- 
ficial life : thirst is so rarely experienced, that the very 
sensation is associated with the idea of disease. The con- 
sequence is, that we have been abandoned to the control 
of our caprice in the selection and use of these agents,- 
a circumstance which has given origin to numerous dis- 
orders. The quantity of diluents which each person may 
require, will depend upon individual peculiarity, climate, 
nature of the solid aliment, &c. 

144. In appreciating the effects of liquids upon tb 
human body, there are several circumstances independent 
of the quality of the fluid which deserve some notice; 
such as temperature, volume, and the period of potation. 
Although fluids of the usual temperature of the air are 
grateful and congenial to a healthy stomach, persons dis- 
posed to dyspepsia frequently require them to be raised to 
the temperature of the body; for the stomach, not having 
sufficient vital energy to establish the re-action which the 
sudden impression of cold produces in a healthy condition, 
falls into a state of collapse, and is consequently unable to 
proceed in the performance of its requisite duties, f I^ 

* Redi (0}sservaz, intomo agli Amm» viventiy ^c. No, 34) instituted 
a series of experiments, with the sole view of ascertaining how long ani- 
mals can live without food. Of a number of capons wmch he kept ^tb- 
out either solid or liquid aliment, not one survived the ninth day ; but 
one to which he allowed water drank it with avidity, and did not perisii 
until the twentieth day. See our work on Medical Jurisprudence, 
Art, ** Death by Starvation,^^ vol. ii. p. 67. 

f This remark applies particularly to the residents of hot climates^ 
whose stomachs are always more or less enfeebled. It appears that the 
Romans were in the habit of drinking tepid potations at their meals. 3^ 
Juvenal,^Sat. V. v. 63. 






:Jf 



Temperature and Volume of our Potations. 117 

deserves notice, however, that fluids heated much above 
the temperature of the body are equally injurious : it is 
true that they will frequently, from their stimulus, afford 
present relief; but it will always be at the expense of 
future suffering, and be compensated by subsequent de- 
bility. Iced fluids should not be taken, under any cir- 
cumstances, by those who have delicate stomachs, espe^ 
cially after a meal, the digestion of which is thus retarded, 
or wholly prevented, 

145. It is a popular idea that hot liquids injure the 
teeth. I entertain great doubts upon the subject. Ribe, 
in a paper published in the Amanitates Academicup, ob- 
serves, that '* Man is the only animal accustomed to hot 
food, and almost the only one affected with carious 
teeth.'* This is far from being true; the term of life in 
all the graminivorous classes appears to be principally 
limited by the decay of the teeth, and forms an insuper^ 
able obstacle to the prolongation of their existence much 
beyond the term when they have attained to the perfection 
of their kind.* 

146. The quantity or volume of liquid taken at once 
into the stomach is a circumstance of material conse- 
quence. The reader nmst refer to tiiat part of the work 
in which the digestion of drinks is explained (81), in order 
to understand the importance of the considerations which 
this question embraces. It is evident that, if the stomach 
be distended with fluid, the digestion of its solid contents 
must meet with considerable impediment; while, at the 
same time, it is said that the gastric juice becomes too 

* In the elephant, who rivals, or perhaps exceeds, man in duration of 
life, a peculiar provision is found to exist for the purpose of renewing th^ 
teeth. The grinding teeth, or molares, of Uie elephant, which consist 
each of a single piece of bone, intermingled with enamel, are so con- 
structed as to continue growing from behind, in proportion as they are 
worn away in front by the process of mastication ; so that their duration 
is coeval with that of the animal. . . i 



118 The different Aliments require 

dilute to fulfil the objects of its secit^tion. Upon tk 
poiBt I enteiiain some doubt ; the secretions of the sto- 
mach are not very soluble in water ; and it has been al- 
ready stated (26) with what extreme difficulty the coagu- 
lating quality of the gastric membrane is removed b^ 
washing. Be this^ however, as it may» it is evident, that 
if the solid matter be diffused through a large quantity oi 
liquid, it cannot be acted upon by the.gastjric juice; m 
can it be converted into that pultaceous mass which ap- 
pears to be a preliminary step to its digestion* On ^ 
other hand, if the food be too hard or dry, its necessan 
change by the churning of the stomach canuot.be accom- 
plished, and the progress of digestion will be impeded. It 
therefore follows, that different aliments will require dii- ' 
ferent quantities cf liquid to assist .their chyinificati(»i ' 
Animal food demands, of course,. a greater quantity 
drink than vegetable food ; roasted than boiled .meat; 
baked still more than roasted. — ^The next question to V 
considered is, as to the most suitable period for taking 
liquids : and this is, in some measure, answered by the I 
preceding observations. By drinking before a meal, we 
place the stomach in a very unfit condition for the duties 
it has to perform^ By drinking during a meal, we shall 
assist digestion, if the solid mc^tter be of a nature to re- 
quire it ; and impede it, if the quantity taken renders the 
mass too liquid ». Those phy^icia^s, therefore, who bare 
insisted upon the necessity of a total abstinence of liquid 
during a meal, appear to have forgotten that every general 
rule must be regulated by (circumstances. The best 
test of its necessity is afforded by the sensations of tbe 
individual, which ought not to be disregarded merelj 
because they appear in opposition to some preconceived 
theory. The valetudinarian who, without the feeling of 
thirst, drinks during a meal because he has heard that it 
assists digestion; and he who abstains from liquid, in oppo- 
sition to this feeling, in consequence of the clamour which 



H 

111! 
f 

li 
d 

4 



ft 

IT? 



i« 



different prcportiom qf- Drink. 110 

the partisans of a popular lecturer have raised against the 
custom ; will equally err, and contribute to the increase of 
tha evil they so anxiously seek to obviate. Dr. W. Philip 
has. stated a fact, the truth of whiah my own experience 
justifies, that " eating too fast causes thirst ; for the food 
being swallowed without a due admixture of saUva, the 
mass fprmed in the stomach is too dry.'' I may conclude 
these remarks by observing, that as hunger and thirst are, 
to a certain extent, incompatible sensations, it is probable 
that nature intended that the appetite for food should first 
be satisfied, before a supply of drink becomes necessary ; 
and if our food possess that degree of succulence which 
characterises digestible aliment, there will be no occasion 
for it. But, under any circumstances, the quantity taken 
should be small : it is during the intervals of our solid 
meals that the liquid necessary for the repair of our fluids 
should be taken ; and both theory and experience appear 
in this respect to conform, and to demonstrate the advan- 
tage whi<^h attends a liquid repast about four or five hours 
aftei; the solid me^l. At about this period the chyle has 
entered its proper vessels, and. is flowing into the blood, in 
order to undergo it& final changes. Then it is that the 
stomach, having, disposed of its charge, receives the whole* 
some draught with the greatest advantage ; then it is that 
the blood, impregnt^ted with new materials, requires the 
assistance of a diluent to complete their sanguification, 
and to carry ofl'the superfluous matter; and it is then that 
the kidneys and the «kin will require the aid of additional 
water to assist the performance of their functions. The 
common beverage of tea, or some analogous r^ast, ori^- 
naily suggested no doubt by an instinctive desire for liquid 
at this period, is thus sanctioned by theory, while its ad- 
vantages are established by experience. 

147. Water is unquestionably the natural beverage of 
man; but any objection against the use of other beverages, 
founded on their artificial origin, I should at once repel by 



120 Qualities of Water. 

the same argument (4) which has been adduced in defence 
of cookery. We are to consider man as he is, not as he 
might have been, had he never forsaken the rude path of 
nature* I am willing to confess, that ** the more simply 
life is supported, and the less stimulus we use, the better; 
and that he is happy who considers water the best drink, 
and 9alt the best sauce :" but how rarely does a physician 
find a patient who has regulated his life by such a maxim! 
He is generally called upon to reform stomachs, already 
vitiated by bad habits, and which cannot, i^ithout much 
discipline, be reconciled to simple and healthy aliment. 
Under such circumstances, nothing can be more injudicious 
than abruptly to withdraw the accustomed stimuli, unless 
it can be shewn that they are absolutely injurious ; a ques- 
tion which it will be my duty to investigate hereafter. 

148. The qualities of water differ essentially, according 
to the source from which it has been obtained ; and those 
accustomed to this beverage are sensible to differences 
which wholly escape the observation of less experienced 
judges. How far the existence of foreign matter injures 
its salubrity, has been a subject of much controversy : the 
truth, perhaps, lies between the extremes ; those who insist 
upon the necessity of distillation for its purification, and 
those who consider every description of water as alike 
salubrious, are, in my opinion, equally remote from truth. 
That the presence of minute quantities of earthy matter 
can become a source of disease, appears absurd ; while it 
would be highly dangerous to deny the morbid tendency 
of water that holds putrescent animal or vegetable matter 
in solution, or which abounds in mineral impregnation. 

149. The usual varieties of common water were classed 
and defined by Celsus, and modern chemists have not 
found any reason to reject the arrangement-^** Aqua fe- 
vissima pluvialis est : deinfontana, turn ex Jlumine, turn ex 
j)Uteo; posthac ex nive aut glade, gravior his ex lacu; gra-- 
vissima expaluden" 



Rain and Spring Water. 121 

1. Rain Watee, when collected in the opeh fields, 
is certainly the purest natural water^ being pro- 
duced as it were by a natural distillation. When, 
however, it is collected near large towns, it derived 
some impregnation from the smoky and contami- 
nated atmosphere through which it falls ; and, if 
allowed to come in contact with the houses, will be 
found to contain calcareous matter; in which case 
it ought never to be used without being previously 
boiled and strained. Hippocrates gave this advice; 
and M« Margraaf, of Berlin, has shewn the wisdom 
of the precaution by a satisfactory series of experi- 
ments. 

2. Spring Water, in addition to the substances 
detected in rain water, generally contains a small 
portion of muriate of soda, and frequently other 
salts : but the larger springs are purer than the 
smaller ones; and those which occur in primitive 
countries, and in siliceous rocks, or beds of gravel, 
necessarily contain the least impregnation. An 
important practical distinction has been founded 
upon the fact, that the water of some springs dis- 
solves soap, while that of others decomposes and 
curdles it : the former has been termed soft, the 
latter hard, water. Soft water is a more powerful 
solvent of all vegetable matters, and is consequently 
to be preferred for domestic as well as medicinal 
purposes. The brewer knows well from experience, 
how much more readily and copiously soft water 
will dissolve the extractive matter of his malt ; and 
the housewife does not require to be told, that Iiard 
water is incapable of making good tea. Sulphate 
of lime is the salt which generally imparts the 
quality of hardness to water ; and it has been said 
that its presence will sometimes occasion an uneasy 
sense of weight in a weak stomach. The quantity 



122 River Water. 

of this salt varies considerably.; but, in general, it 
appears that the proportion of five grains in a plot 
of water will constitute hardness, unfit for washing 
with soap, and for many other purposes, of domestic 
^se. Animals appear to be more sensible of the 
impurities of water than man. Horses, by an io- 
stinctiv.e sagacity., always prefer soft water ; and 
when, by necessity or inattention, they, are confined 
tp the use of that which is hard^ their coats become 
cpugh and ill-conditioned, and they are frequentl) 
attacked with the gripes. Pigeons are also known 
to refuse hard» after they have, been accustomed to 
soft water.* 
3. RiVEH. Watrb. .This, being derived from the con- 
Au^ of numerous ^priiigs with rain watei% generally 
pos^essefl considerable purity ; that the proportion 
of its^^aline contents should be small, is easily ei- 
plaiaefi by the precipitation which must necessarily 
take place from the union of different solutions : it 
is, however, liable to hold in suspension particles 
of earthy matter^ which . impair its transparency, 
and sometimes its salubrity. This is . particularly 
the case with the Seine, the Ganges, and. the Nile:t 
but as. the impurities . are, for the most part, on)/ 
suspended,. and. not truly dissolved, mere rest or 
filtration wiU therefore . restore to it its original 
purity. The chemist, therefore, after such a pro- 
cess, would be unable to distinguish water taken 

* Hard water has certainly a tendency to produce disease in ^^ 
spleen of certain animals, especially in sheep. This is the case on the 
eastern side of the island of Minorca, as we are informed by Cleghoro. 

f 'Alpini informs us, that elephantiasis is endemial in Egypt, which 
Galen ascribed to the impure water of the Nile ; an opinion which is 
adopted by Lucretius: 

" Est elephas morbus, qui propter flumina Nili 
Gignitur ^gypto in medio/' 



-— 1 



WeiL Water.-^Snow.-^Ice. 123 

Up^c^t Loi\d(9i . from {that {>Focured at Hampton- 
po^rfe^ There. exists t a popular belief, that the 
water of the Hhamea is p^uliarly , adapt^ for the 
brewery of porter ; it is only necessary to observe, 
Al^t sttQh wa^i: e^.net;^;' used i^ the London brew- 
eries. The vapid taste of river, when' compared 
.with spi^mg w^tet, depends, upop th^Joss of air and 
carbopiis api4# ffom it^ long ^xposure.» 

4. Well .WAxpRi&.^^sentially th^.^ame .^s spring 
wat^r, being; derived froim the same sour^^e,- it is, 
howevei'^n^o^re. liable tP iinpurky froi|i it^ stagnation 
pr .^low infiltration ic* he^ce our old w^lk , furnish 
n^iuch purer jvf^ter than those which ^re more recent, 
as the soluble particles are gradually washed away. 
Mr. Dalton observes^ that the . more any spring is 
drawn from, the softer the water will. become. 

6. Snow.,W4^ter hc^ be0n. supposed to be unwhole- 
some, $md in parti9\ilar to produce bronchocele, from 
the prevalence of that disease,, in the Alps^ but it 
does ,not appear upon, what prinpiple its insalubrity 
can depend. The same strumous affection occurs 
at Sumatra, where ice itnd snow are never seen ; 
while, on the contrary, the disease is quite unknown 
in Chili,jand Thibet,' although the rivers of those 
countries are supplied by the melting of the ^ow 
with which the mountains are covered.. The same 
observations will apply to ice water. The trials of 
Captain Cook, in his voyage round the world, prove 
its. wholesomeness beyond a doubt : In the high 
southern latitudes he found a salutary supply of 
frash. water in the ice of the sea. V This melted 
ice," says Sir John Pringle, ** was not only sweet 
. but soft, and m wholesome as to shew the fallacy 

* Dr. Percival observes, that bricks harden the softest water, and 
give it an aluminous impregnation : the common practice of lining wells 
with them is therefore very improper, unless they be covered with cement. 



124 Lake and Marsh Waters. 

of human reasoning, unsupported by experiments/' 
When immediately melted, snow water contains no 
air, as it is expelled during the act of freezing, con* 
sequently it is remarkably vapid ; but it soon re- 
covers the air it had lost, by exposure to the atmo- 
sphere. 

6. Lake Water is a collection of rain^ spring, and 
river waters, contaminated with various animal 
and vegetable matter, which from its stagnant na- 
ture have undergone putrefaction in it. This ob- 
jection may be urged with greater force against the 
use of water collected in ponds and ditches, and 
which the inhabitants of some districts are often 
under the necessity of drinking. I have known 
an endemic diarrhoea to arise from such a circum- 
stance. 

7. Marsh Water, being the most stagnant, is the 
most impure of all water, and is generally loaded 
with decomposing vegetable matter. There can 
be no doubt, that numerous diseases have sprun^r 
up from its use. 

160. It is, however, in vain that pure water is disco- 
vered, if proper means be not adopted to convey it for the 
use of the inhabitants. In ancient times this was done 
by means of aqueducts of extraordinary magnificence; and 
the materials of which they were composed were even 
then acknowledged to be capable of affecting the water 
which flowed through them. Palladius testifies his aver- 
sion to the use of lead, as apt to become covered with 
cerusse, and thereby rendered poisonous ; and Vitruvius 
and Columella recommend pipes of earthenware, as not 
only cheaper but more wholesome than those of lead. Pr. 
Lambe, to whom we are indebted for an important work* 

♦ Researches into the Properties of Spring Water, with Medical 
Cautions against the Use of Lead. 



Lead present in Water. 125 

upon this subject, states, that there is a great diversity in 
the coiTOsive powers of different waters: in some places 
the use of leaden pumps has been discontinued, from the 
expense entailed upon the proprietors by the perpetual 
want of repair. Dr. Lambe states an instance where the 
proprietor of a well ordered his plumber to make the lead 
of a pump of double the thickness of the metal usually 
employed on such occasions, to save the charge of repairs; 
because he had observed that the water was so hard, as he 
called it, that it corroded the lead very soon. If any acidity 
be communicated to the water, from the accidental intru- 
sion of decayed leaves or other vegetable matter, its power 
of dissolving this metal will be increased to a very dan- 
gerous extent. The noted colic of Amsterdam is said by 
Tronchin, who has written a history of the epidemic, to 
have been occasioned by leaves falling and putrefying in 
leaden cisterns filled with rain water. Van Swieten has 
also related an instance of a whole family who were af- 
flicted with colic from a similar cause ; * and Dr. Lambe 
entertains no doubt, but that the very striking case re- 
corded in the Medical Comnfentariesf proceeded more from 
some foulness in the cistern, than froni the solvent power 
of the water. In this instance, the officers of a packet 
vessel used water out of a leaden cistern ; the men also 
drank the same water, except that the latter had been kept 
in wood : the consequence was, that all the officers were 
seized with colic, while the men remained healthy. Sir 
George Baker has furnished the following striking illus- 
tration of this subject : — " The most remarkable case that 
now occurs to my memory," says he, " is that of Lord 
Ashburnham's family, in Sussex ; to which spring water 
was supplied from a considerable distance in leaden pipes* 
In consequence, his lordship's servants were every year 
tormented with colic, and some of them died. An eminent 

* Van Swieten ad Boerhaav. Aphor. 1060, Comment. 
'f Duncan Med. Comment., Dec. 2, 1794. 



126 Purification of Water. 

phyBician of Battle, who correspqiided with me on the 
subject. Bent up some gallons of that water, which were 
analysed by Dr. Higgins, who reported that the watefr had 
contained more than the common proportion of carbonic 
dcid ; and that he found in it lead in solution, which he 
attributed to the action of the carbonic acid. In conse- 
quence of this representation. Lord Ashbumham substituted 
wooden for leaden pipes ; and from that time his family 
have experienced no particular complaints in their bowete." 
As timber pipes are liable to decay, ahd to impart a bad 
taste to the wateir, those made of cast-iron are to be greiltly 
preferred. 

151. For the purification and preservati<m of crater, 
numerous methods have been adopted. The mechanical 
impurities may be removed by filtration, a process which 
is suggested by nature herself; for dll springs arising 
dirough sand, gravel, &c., must undergo this j)rf><ites. 
Hence it occurred, that if waters of a putrid, marshy, or 
unwholesome nature, were filtered through a fiictitibus bed 
of sand, or a vessel made of porous stone,* they might be 
deprived of their bad qualities. As that peculiar property 
of water which constitutes what is termed' Aardfnes5 gene- 
rally depends upon the presence of sulphate of lime in 
Solution, it cannot be removed by simple filtration ; but the 
addition of an alkaline carbonatef twenty-four hours be- 
fore it is usied, virlll be found to restore it; or, if it should 
depend upon super-carbonate of lime, loiig ebullition, with- 
out any addition, will be found sufficient for its cure. 
Another mode of improving water/ and the onfe that has 
been most recently discovered, is by means of charcoal,' a 
substance which enjoys, in an eminent degree, the property 
of p'reserving water from corruption, and of purifying it 

' \ Various machines have been constructed for this purpose ; but the 
most modem, and, in my opinion, the best, is that known by the name 
of " Bennet's Patent Filtering Machine." 

f In the proportion of from ten to fifteen grains to every pint. 



Toast and Barley Water. 127 

after it has been corrupted : hence the filtration of watiifr 
through alternate layers of sand and charcoal offers a 
ready ahd effecti]ial niode of abstracting its imjluritie^ 
especially when they cotisiert; of toimal or yeg<etable matter^ 
Where we have reason^ howeter^ tb suspect much iiijuriotw 
contamination, the' process of boiling should never" -foe 
omitted ; after which it may be strained and filtered^ ai^ 
lastly agitd.ted in contact with th^ atmosphere, in order tb 
restore to it its natural proportion of air. In Chtnn; 
t^ater is never drank until it ha6 been boiled. The mis- 
chievous effects of impure water, where it cannot be edr-« 
rected by any chemical process, are* said to be best counter* 
acted by some bitter 'v^geta.ble. Virey supposed that this 
circumstance first induced the Chinese' to infuse the teaves 
of the tea plant. 

152. The jui^^ aiid infusions of vegetable and animal 
matter constitute the second division of drinks. 

153. Toast Wat^k^ By io&prbgnatingf water with 
the soluble parts 'of toasted bresld, it i^ill firequently agree 
with those stomachs which rebel agaihst the use of the 
pure fluid; It is thus rendered slightly nutritive, holding 
a certain portion of gum and starch in solution. Sir- AJ 
Carlielle recommends thit it should be prepared with hard 
biscuit, reduced by fire to a cofiee colour. This drink, he 
says, being free from yeast, is a most agreeable beverage; 
Much depends upon the water being at a boiling tempera-^ 
ture, and it ought to be drank as soon as it has cooled 
sufficiently; for, by keeping, it acquires ah unpleasant 
flavour. Infusions of other kinds of brelEid, in particular 
of toasted oat-cakes, also dried or tdasted oatmeal, have 
been recommended; but the taste of such infusions would 
not be palatable to any one who has not been accustomed 
to oat^bread. 

154. Barley Watbr. The decoction of barle^ ier a 
very'ancietit beverage ; it is recommended by Hippocrates, 
and preferred by him to every other aliment ih acute 



128 Gruel, ^c. 

diseases. Barley has the advantage over other grains, in 
afibrding less viscid potations. The invention of pearl 
barley has greatly increased the valne of this grain ; it is 
prepared by the removal of its husk or cuticle, and after- 
wards by being rounded and polished in a mill. These 
well-known granules consist chiefly of fecula, i^th portions 
of mucilage, gluten, and sugar, which water extracts by 
decoction ; but the solution soon passes into the acetous 
fermentation. The bran of barley contains an acrid resin, 
and it is to get rid of such an ingredient that it is deprived 
of its cuticle. The addition of lemon juice and sugar- 
candy greatly improve the flavour of this drink. 

165. Orubl. Oats, when freed from their cnticle, m 
called groats ; in which state, as well as when ground into 
meal, they yield to water, by coction, the fecula they con- 
tain, and form a nutritious gruel, which has also the pro- 
perty of being slightly aperient. It should never be kept 
longer than forty-eight hours, as it becomes acescent after 
that period. Gruel may be made of a different degree of 
consistence, according to the object of its potation. If it 
be used as a demulcent drink, it should be thin ; and may 
be made, as Dr. Kitchener, our culinary censor^ infonn^ 
us, by mixing well together, by degrees, in a pint basin, 
one table-spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water, and 
then adding carefully a pint of boiling water, which is to 
be boiled for five minutes, stirring it all the time, to prevent 
the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the stewpan ; 
then strain through a hair sieve, to separate the undissolved 
parts of the meal from the gruel. If a more substantia) 
repast is required, double the above quantity of oatmeal 
must be treated in a similar manner. To increase the 
nutritive quality of this aliment, broth or milk may be 
substituted for water. Some persons are in the habit of 
introducing a piece of butter into gruel ; but the propriety 
of this practice is questionable, where the stomach is 
disponed to generate acidity. 



Ha. 129 

156. " Saob T£a. The virtues of sage have been so 
extmyagantly praised^ that, like many of our remedies^* 
the plant has fallen into disuse from the disgust which its 
panegyrists have excited. I am convinced, however, that 
in the form of infusion it possesses some power in allaying 
the irritability of the stomach, f and that, on many occa* 
sious, it will furnish a salutary beverage. The same ob* 
servation will apply to balm tea. 

167. Tea. There is no subject which has occasioned a 
greater controversy amongst dietetic writers than the sub* 
ject of tea. By one party it is decried as a poison; by 
another it is extolled as a medicine, and a valuable addition 
to our food ; while some refer all its beneficial effects to 
the water thus introduced into the system, and its evil 
consequences to the high temperature at which it is drank. 
In order to understand the value of the different arguments 
which have been adduced in support, or to the disparage- 
ment, of this beverage, it will be necessary to inquire into 
its composition. Two kinds of tea. are imported into this 
country, distinguished by the epithets black and green. 
Both coiitain astringent and narcotic principles, but in 
very different proportions; the latter producing by far 
the most powerful influence upon the nervous system. As 
the primary operation of every narcotic is stimulant, tea is 
found to exhilarate and refresh us, although there exist 
individuals who are so morbidly sensible to the action of 
certain bodies of this class, that feelings of depression, 
accompanied with various nervous sensations and an un- 
natural vigilance, follow the potation of a. single cup of 
strong tea ; While others experience, from the same cause, • 
symptoms indicative of derangement of the digestive oiv* 
gans: but these are exceptions from which no general rule 
ought to be deduced. The salubrity of the infusion to 

* Phannacologia,- vol. L p. 35. 

t It is frequently used by the Chinese as a tonic for debility of the 
stomach. 

K 



130 Coffise. 

the general msAd^f the oonusitiiiily ii established by suf- 
ficient tetiititt6iiy tb Mtv^tgh taslif airgttni^i founded on 
individual e^utes. U ttinst/ howey«r^ be admitled, that 
if this be^^rage "be faken too soon a^r dinner; the 
digestion of the^^tn^mtiy be distnfbed by the distamon 
it will oocasion, as if^elt ils'^by its ittfl»enee as a dilneni; 
the narcotic and astringa^t^piiBdiples tbay also eptayte in 
arresting chymification : biHt whWa physieiain gives-it^his 
sanction, it is with the nnderstiinding that iV shall be 
taken in moderate < qilamities, and at appointed ^eatansi 
Wbra dfank ronl- bMris^fter theiptiticipid mnl, it teU 
assist the loltisfiot -stages c»f digontkm, ^s-alhoady .)9xpUdned 
(146X and <prOinofe^ the 'inSensifalepe^piiatklBu;^ while ^i^ 
Will afford to the "sttMnaOh a gfattifcilnstmitihis^^aliier eits 
labours. >With^ re^tdto''tli^'Objec*ion'4iig0d.agaiii8tilB 
use^ oi\ the ground of iEeinpkatifri^/itwill 4ie oily aecefr- 
sary to ref(^ to ilm) obserratioius whidhharvbeen^ already 
offered ixpoa tfii^'Mb|eet <<I44). Inenumeniting, how^inosr, 
the adVantig€$$ Of lea/^t^mnstnot be^^ forgotten tint it has 
intiroduced ^d^dherishei^a spirit bf ^bfiety ; audit mmt 
have beenir^iiitttkfsd %4fveiry physictaniof getteealpracilieia, 
that.tho^ p^jrsd^s tAi^ diislike^tea,< frequently. supply lits 
place by spirit and w«;feeri70(^%e addftiod of i»^ teuftaiBly 
diminishes 'the tnstril^eMy/jof >tea; itot of^sagair mify 
please th^ ^ate^^butit^ntiotmbdifyctheitviytueiir 6£*the 
'infnsidiw ^^-^ ■'- ' ' ' '-.r..i. - .. ,' • ' 

IS6. C6^pn^. The hdstflify whioh^ ha» bean: mani^ 
fested s^afinat tl^ tus^^of lieai 4itta foedi extfiidedv^mth 
equal TanxKrtn'«>agaiaia> ttiat! of icbfii»ei)knd; probably^Jiridi 
equal injtiat^. ^ The^ ptinoiple upon whiohr itsj^qalitisi 
depend is more stitaAilant Wn -tEeiA uof t^ ^d^oertainfy 
oxerts a different i^iesof aoiibiiupon thfeaeraoussystena, 
although it % - very' dM^eult to define ' the i natlii^ of ^ihis 
difference. If taken immediately .after a meal, it is not 
-found to create that disturbance in. its digertjkm t which 
has been noticed as the occasional consequence of t^.oa 



t^ Choeolats. 



131 



eonbrary, it lEiccelaiates ih^ operations of the stoaiach» 

''*^ar{ vrill firequently enable the dyspeptic to digest- stib- 

H iMeice8> such as fat and oily aliment, -which woiild otlier^ 

'^ t»m occasion mudhdistufbaace* The custom, of tadcing 

^ hf dMde. immediately ^after.dianer, as so tinifsersaUy praefised 

bfkii/the French, no doubt must countenwit the ml ^fects 

priBcm^ch, the peculiar foim of their diet is calei:dated* to proH 

t wia f ipe^ CcuffeiB', like tea» has, cevta&ily an antisoporific effect 

y^f^ .naany indtridualsjit impaits^an^^Mbrntyto the mind 

'. aodtfinch; is : incompatible with sl^p : but' this will raveljjt 

r Aejaf^^^'^ tbecbevemgi^ be iafarar^iBeveral .hours: before Our 

^^y^ciistomed.s period .of repose.; It' seeins to be. geheiailly 

^^jinutled, .that it possesses the powwr.jof countetactiiig the 

^^JTecIs bfiiuaeotios; andii^ itiismsed by thfe Turks 

• ^ ith much ^adTantagei in abatit^ the. influence of the 

^ • ..lordkiate quantities of.opnim they- are aiceustMned to 

, vraUow.- Where 'Our :obi^Ct .isi tO' administer it as a.pro- 
mm' . 

EM^erof digestion, it should ibe careftkH(ymade.Wififusioiy; 

, leaodbion di8aipetes>itfi..aj!omai .TbeadditiGm lof >miik..is 

^ >ne o£qu^8tii3Bafalapcbptie^ ;.tfaatof sagar^or rather sugari- 

' sandy, may be allowed.* . IhaTcknown som6 persons who 

^ay» nererf .taken: I. this. bereiiBge; without .sufiering from 

^'jaeidEty. in die^stilKiaph :iiiidieBe: thisjliappetts, tfaeipaiotice 

jBBmst be abandoned. ' hi, . ; ' ' - 



i 



159. CHodo'tAtx;^ Injeonsequeo^fof the large quan<- 
tify ofjiiitritiTeniatter:whicbthisliq^dcoi^imii,^ it should 



I 



k 



H '•7- <» i. l.. 



M 



* Coffee has been often imitated ^ the torrefaiction of various grains'. 
Inlhe <f Fau9*ih CetOuhf i>f dbttfiuaiom/Uu ihe*' MkceUanea Cttriosa;' 
we find « CEittca^ 4mrtii|ioa,Qii i^e cpffee of jtbe Arabians, aqd on EutG- 
^f pean coffee, or such as may be pieparedfrom j^ndn or pulse. Dillenius 
i$ gives an account of his own preparations made with peas, beans, and 
kidney-beans ; but says that made of lye comes nearest to true coffee, 
and w^ witH'di&culty distinguished from it/ ^hfs fact is curious, inas- 
much as a spurious coffee has been latety vended, which is nothing more 
dianioatledty^. ThiEiartide tewseQ known^' under the htinne of.<' Hunt's 
' £gonomicai< BsiA^i^AST Powmsit.*' 



IS 

I 

i 



132 Soda Water. 

be regarded rather aa food than drink. It i& prepared \ 
reducmg the coeoa nut into paste, with sugar, milk, o 
eggs : it is also frequently mixed with diflferent aromatics 
the most common of which is the vanilla, a substance ven 
liaUe to disagree with the stomach, and to produce a traia 
of nervous symptoms. As a common beverage, chocolate 
is highly objectionable; it contains an oil ^rhich is difficok 
of assimilation ; it therefore oppresses the stomach ; tins 
effect is of course increased by the appbcation of too muii 
heat in its preparation; Another objection against its o^ 
is to be found in the observations which I have alrea^ 
offered upon the subject of too great concentration (117)' 
160« Cocoa is usually considered as a substitute for 
chocolate. As it contains less nutritive matter, it is not so ' 
objectionable ; and, as the oily matter exists only in sasll \ 
quantities, it is less likely to disagree with the stomach. 

161. Whey is a delightful bererage ; but as itsBStoK 
and operaticm cannot be well understood until the com- 1 
position of milk is investigated, the observations which I 
have to offer upon its use will be deferred until the history > 
of that fluid has been examined. 

162. The nature of weak broths, and the mfameris 
which they are decomposed in the digestive oi^gans, baie 
been already considered (83) ; and I shall have occsbi^ 
to revert to the subject in a future part of the work. 

163. There are certain saline solutions which are 6e- 
quently employed as drinks, and deserve some attention m 
this place : such are imperial and soda water. 

164. Imperial. This is a solution of cream of tartar 
flavoured with lemon peel. It ought never to be used 
except as a medicine. If employed as an ordihaiy dnni' 
it is apt to retard digestion. If ever useful as an article of 
diet, it vnll be under circumstances of robust health, aiuf 
where a large quantity of animal food has been taken. 

165. Soda Water. The modem custom of drinkuaS 
this inviting beverage during, or immediately after dinned 



Fermented Liquors. 1'33 

has been a pregnant source of dyspepsia. By iniBating 
the stomach at such a period, we inevitably counteract 
those muscular contractions of its coats which are essential 
to chymification. The quantity of soda thus introduced 
scarcely deserves notice : with the exception of the carbonic 
acid gas,* it may be regarded as water, more mischievous 
only in consequence of the exhilarating quality inducing 
us to take it at a period at which we should not require 
the more simple fluid. 

Fermented Liquors. 

166. Volumes have been written to prove that spirit, in 
every form, is not only unnecessary to those who are in 
health, but that it has been the prolific source of the most 
painful s^d fatal diseases to which man is subject; in 
short, that Epimetheus himself did not, by opening the 
box of Pandora, commit a greater act of hostility against 
our nature than the discoverer of fermented liquors. Every 
apartment, it is said, devoted to the circulation of the 
glass, may be regarded as a. temple set apart for the per- 
formance of human sacrifices ; and that they ought to be 
fitted up, like the ancient temples of Egypt, in a manner 
to shew the real atrocity of the superstition that is carried 
on within their walls. This is mere rant and nonsense; 
a striking specimen of the fallacy of reasoning against the 
use of a custom from its abuse. There exists no evidence 
to prove that a temperate use of good wine, when taken at 
seasonable hours, has ever proved injurious to healthy 
adults. In youth, and still more in infancy ,t the stimulus 

* Late discoveries have shewn, that the carbonic acid exists in a 
liquid state in soda water ; when, therefore, it is hastily swallowed, it 
robs the stomach of a certain portion of heat, as it passes from a liquid 
into a gaseous state. It therefore cools as well as distends that organ. 

t An ingenious sui^eon tried the following experiment. — He gave to 
two of his children, for a week alternately, after dinner, to the one a full 



134 Wine. 

whiek it imparto to the stDmacli is undoubtedly mfurioos, 
but there are ezeeptioiia evta to this geneial rule. The 
oocaaional uae of dUuied^ wine h» implored the healtli 
of a child, by impartkig yigoar te a torpid stiHiUM^: «% 
onghty however, to consider it rather, ae. a mediciiie tb 
as a loxury. 

167» Without entering farther into the diacuasioB of a 
question which has called e6 many opponents into the field, 
it may be observed, that whatever ppinionL we may haie 
formed as to the evils or advantages consequent upon tlic 
invention of wine, we are not called upon, as physician 
to defend it; our object is to direct remedies for the con 
of those diseases whicb assail man a& we find liim. in ths 
habits of society, not as he might have been had he con- 
tinued: to derive his nourishment from the. roots of 
earth,, and his drink from its springs. Asithese 
says Dr. W. Philip, ate .such, that more orless.akobolis 
necessary to support the usual vigour, of the gtoeaternonir 
ber of people, even in health, nodiuig 'conld be more ii^ 
judicious than wholly to deprive them of it when tiiej ^ 
abeady weakened by disease, unleiss it. could be.fibevit 
that. even a moderate use pf it essentially adds. to theii 
disease, which, in dyspeptics, is by. no means the case. 
My own expaience coincides .with iihat:of Dc. W. PbiliP' 
In cases where the vinous* stimulant .has .been withdrawn, 
I haVegeneraUy witnessed an aggravatieoiof the dy^p^^^ 
symptoms^ accompanied with -severer deprfesstim of spint: 

glass of Sherry, and to the other a large Chiiia orange. The effects tfaat 
fellowed were aufiicient to prove the inianous tendency of rioous liqu<^- 
In die one the pulse was quickened^ the heat increased, the urine became 
high coloured, and the stooU destitute of the usual quantity ofh'de; whilst 
the other had every appearance that indicated high he^th. The same 
effects followed when the experiment was reversed. See Bdiot^^ 
Hygeiay vol. ii. p. 35. 

* By diluting tlie wine, we apply, the stimulus more generally (otfie 
stomach, and thus produce a greater effect with .a less quantity ofspin^* 



Wim. 135 

like.SiodHmii ^tb^^Ai^aiPi t^e^^^^]^^ hfi^ bpm^, a 
^weight on his shoulders ivhich he has i9.j^^MI j^^te^ipted to 

him<jtQc^ri»iniid»:09ec fl^sh^n^piy. ' • : ^ • , 

oa ih^^^eiibb^t ^ wioferu wbiQb:s% toajiy ^}|^)B6$ haw 
beeti{A]fQ»dy^^tt(^l$t jto)ik/ qq dif^ot^ Wi>u]4i b^ very 

differ«iU^:9pf«Q^/tOi)^j^Sr»inioti(ced« ,- .Mi^iiy:pCilb0^'diaT 
tkie^(tt)9jaraiHin{x>iClli»lxii^ %i»»efiUc^ ppipt f^^fdm^ \m the 
chemical. $it3(^uR#t9a)Qfis^oup^ Jj^tj3 (J^p^ii4sr€Oo|^ 

upon; tbei: T?af>eo1»f Q ^iuyea qtipli|;i0s, mliiqlk/fi^e , clilfoctly. 
eeonec1«(d with theuh^^eetl^o^ the>ody, ., 

applied fto exiKress th^ . ferw^n^ J»i€e^ of jJbiQ gr^/»e ; qI* 
4l!i9iiieb> in, «iQ4^iii<»[i jiaiiguagejg it Js me^ to; 4emta tjbjt of 
fd^r ,eiib?fieid iwt(.: : ThQ/prf)B|^«^ oC^^fqr, isjp^rjb^ipi j(hQ 
ciitaiMmlitiiiee^hy'Mhi^^ strpj^yidi^linT 

gui^hftd fr09>:dtt:^^ Otfewt. Wbr^<ad fruitft that M^^. bf^P 
applied ^: the iirt,. of wiAer^akittg, : Its jm<?e,. b^s|4eSi 
cpmt«i9a> iint^ini ita$ilf# ^ the p4p^{^s.e6sei;iitis^.'to icrini^ 
fioatipt^^ in .Sfneh/.a {proportion <an4 ^^t^ ; of ^bc^ftPlce ,ja^ to 
tmti^.h,:2i% oi|c^« tor u](iderg|p a>r^i|la»r a^d complete, far* 
n^ntatiani whj^ea^« l^e jiUie?§ ;of qtjbkeryf^s reqitiJiFe 

artiftcipl. fldditiop^. fof; t^in. puq^«^ ? J^»d . tfee APi^fi^ftp 
appUcitiiQpitba^ ^j^^ji^tiwnt <rf,th(Q8i9rW§apB> pqnsiitute 
the aftjof niak4ng(dop|cf»)iG.iiviltf)8.f : ](t>hasbp^^eii^^kedi 
that, all thoB0 .wines thai pontai% an excea^.of n^^a^ 
are xAibl bad qimlity : h^ocQ.tbe grandjlef^ct that is neces- 
9fMfily ifth^i^t u^ the, win^s of , this, country^ and vrhich 
I^sth^eoi tp: parl^al^ Qf the propeiitiea of cider; for in the 



* For an account of which, the reader is referred to a most ingenious 
and interesting ess^y hy Dr. Macculioeh^ entitled ^ Remarks on the Art 
of making Wine; witivSoggestiiMis ibr.the A^^cation of its Principles to 
ibejnipipyeineotof Domestic >yines.'' 



132 Soda Water. 

be regarded rather as food than drink. It is prepared i 
reducing the cocoa nut into paste, with sugar, milk,; 
eggs : it is also frequently mixed with different aromatic 
the most common of which is the vanilla, a substance m 
liable to disagree with the stomach, and to produce atn 
of nervous symptoms. As a common beverage, chocola 
is highly objectionable; it contains an oil which is diet 
of aasimiktioa ; it therefore oppcesses the stomach :i 
effect is of course increased by the application of too m 
heat in its preparation; Another objection against iui 
is to be found in the observations which I have aliea 
offered upon the subject of too great concentration (ll<' 

160« Cocoa is usually considered as a substitute i 
chocolate. As it contains less nutritive matter, it is noti 
objectionable ; and, as the oily matter exists only in sun 
quantities, it is less likely to disagree with the stomadi 

16L Whey is a deUghtful bererage ; but as 
and operati(m cannot be weU understood until the 
position of milk is investigated, the observations wi 
have to offer upon its use will be deferred until the 
of that fluid has been examined. 

162. The nature of weak broths, and the manner 
which they are decomposed in the digestive organs, ^ 
been already considered (83) ; and I shall have occasi 
to revert to the subject in a future part of the work. 

163. There are certain saline solutions which are 
quently employed as drinks, and deserve some attention 
this place : such are imperial and soda water. 

164. Imperial. This is a solution of cream of tart 
flavoured with lemon peel. It ought never to be Q^ 
except as a medicine. If employed as an ordinaiy ^ 
it is apt to retard digestion. If ever useful as an artick' 
diet, it will be under circumstances of robust health* ^ 
where a large quantity of animal food has been taken. 

165. Soda Water. The modem custom of drinl^ 
this inviting beverage during, or immediately after &^ 



The Bouquet of Wine. 137 

red wines^ because the latter being pressed^ and subjected 
to a stronger fennentation to extract the colouring prin- 
ciple from the husk, are necessarily more loaded with ex- 
: tractive and astringent matter ; and as this remains in the 
: stomach- after the liquid portion of the wine is absorbed 
: (83), it will be liable to occasion disturbance, 
c 172. The odour, or bouquet, and flavour; which dis- 

I tinguish one wine from another, evidently depend upon 
i some volatile and fugacious principle not hitherto, investi- 
I gated by the chemist ; this, in sweet and half*ferm^ted 
I wines, is immediately derived from the fruit, as in .those 
; from the FroMignan^jiA Muscat grapes : but in the more 
perfect wines,, as in Claret^ iHermitage, lUvesaltes, 9i3aA 
J Burgundy, it bears no resemblance to the natural' flavour 
of the fruit, but: is altogether the product of the vinous 
process. The menstruum of this volatile principle is, 
doubtless, in most instances, .the alcohol contained in 
wines ; but its quantity is so minute as to be incapable of 
separation. In this latter case it frequently appears to 
produce a very remarkable effect upon the nervous system, 
and may^ possibly, be hereafter discovered to be a n^w 
principle of extraordinary powers : such an opinion^ at 
least, is sanctioned by the well-known effects of Burgundy; 
the excitement produced by this wine being peculiar, and 
not bearing any relation to the proportion of alcohol con- 
tained in it. Soipe wines are artificially flavoured by the 
introduction of foreign ingredients, as by almonds in 
Madeira wines, as well as in those of Xeres and Saint 
Lucar; and hence their well-known nutty flavour.; AnK>ng 
the ancients, and. in modern Greece, it is at this day the 
fashion to give a resinous. flavour, by the introduction of 
turpentine into the: casks. These wines were supposed to 
assist digestion, to restrain morbid discharges, to provoke 
urine, and to strengthen the bowels : but Dioscorides in- 
forms us, that they, were known to produce vertigo, pain 



132 Soda Water. 

be regarded rather as food than drink. It is prepaiedl 
reducing the cocoa nut into paste, with sngar, milk, 
eggs : it is also frequently mixed with different aromatit! 
the most common of which is the vanilla, a substance m 
liable to disagree with the stomach, and to produce atn 
of nervous symptoms. As a common beverage, chocoia: 
is highly objectionable; it contains an oil which is dibi 
of assimiktion ; it therefore oppcesses the stomach :i: 
effect is of course increased by the apphcation of too r.: 
heat in its preparation; Another objection against its 31 
is to be found in the observations which I have alieii 
offered upon the subject of too great concentration (B 

160. Cocoa is usually considered as a substituted 
chocolate. As it contains less nutrittye matter, it is ooti 
objectionable ; and, as the oily matter exists only io ^ 
quantities, it is less likely to disagree with the stomad 

16L Whey is a delightful beverage; butasitsoatir 
and operation cannot be well understood until the ceo 
position of milk is investigated, the observations whidi 
have to offer upon its use will be deferred until the histi' 
of that fluid has been examined. 

162. The nature of weak broths, and the manner 
which they are decomposed in the digestive oigans, i^ 
been already considered (83) ; and I shall have occtf" 
to revert to the subject in a future part of the work. 

163. There are certain saline solutions which are ^ 
quently employed as drinks, and deserve some attentioo 
this place : such are imperial and $oda water. 

164. Imperial. This is a solution of cream of tart 
flavoured with lemon peel. It ought never to be Q^ 
except as a medicine. If employed as an ordinaiy^''^ 
it is apt to retard digestion. If ever useful as an article' 
diet, it will be under circumstances of robust health, ^ 
where a large quantity of animal food has been taken. 

165. Soda Water. The modem custom of drinl^ 
this inviting beverage during, or immediately afiker i^ 



with r^^i 10 Vif9im Acidity. 1 39 

ounc^ X^-v^iwhipoU) of Port yroe/jpequwd^for tieutrali- 

zation, three grains of Ijteniry'ii^- ealoinedoiagQe^iil, or six 

graina of'C$fbo)Ei9,te of potasA, Qb;four->gnsilis cif Wub*carbo- 

nate:f6ff;8oda,: ^r Iniri^ "gcrinftdfipj^ai^: cbalfc^^^ Now 

theae; ace fxiit fthe is^ttve iprC>pdi^i<iQ8 in :iviJ<^«uc'b>hfi»es 

eotiU/'lqr anjiipos^lvStty^iuhito !ii^^ any atid ; -bat,.gi»nt* 

ii^Spto tbeiiaJlOTof^g!adi%oti1J«^ioi>«iB$aka 

atiQ in esxor, ip^tbikt the tirfie'iHfa^QrtftmQ' bai^o.bj^ii aaoer*^ 

tttitedbjr :th&jiex|>erimeQt9 in v^ifestion^^a ^hiUl then dicK 

eoiner^ fhajtrthe; t«bi»lated;i<eiau}ts)ar^ Hbt congbtoiit with 

tbemadhres i fomia a'seeotod' fsxp^riioefit^ macle withMvi*" 

doma;r:tfa&rnitfnber8 mdkciti^ jcomhining wmghta of 

these* dajMtambe^ ar^ not^ rras ia'tibe :forM^ ^ase^ in the 

relation 'of 3, diand 4, but in ltokf;of 5; 7/ aild<6; im the 

thiid isxperiinent with Sherry ,!itt that; of 3^ 6; aild^ 4;.in a 

fourth M^ith Ixmd^n por^r* iutthat "of , fiu 3'A tod 35 and, 

in tSbe last, with biaewim' fresh l^le be^, (!he ptoportioii» 

affe'2*^, :2^iaiid.2^ Sir Anthony wtus a>rare of these disr; 

Q^r^iU^^ees ; 'and! he aMetaipts; \i^ OKi^in^ thezh:by piiqppoiing 

that thiBy f»ay be: <'owiog to th^/vtar^rfaigFftffinities^of native 

aaidsy deviyect f from the firvitts; a]!id tii&'iieid^pnodueta oC 

fern^ntatipn^.as .they tegaxded the is^veical tests;." It m 

almost ru^n^c^isary to ^te» thatiihtsrstippbsition. is ia 

direct ▼ariaiic0)i%ith tiie actknowledged doctrine of ti^uiite 

proportionals/ and tiio: landamerital; prjind^le of/chemioal 

c^Q»bi&ations«, .Let the. acids be whatrtiiey ntay, the.xe* 

spg^twj^ bases mu^ alwiqra uwln with tihetsr in ah invkiiable 

and ^(mstaikt ratio. • n 

174> SeffMre weqaiti.i&e.subjact bfoYuiotts acidity^ I 
shall beg toisay a few! "words upon its isoffiicwied Influence 
in ^E^^ting paj^xys^^a of goul« That sxioh attacks have 
foUpwed psrtienl^ pgtationsi I da not nssah: to deny; but 
a Blighte9»ess of aAy kind, l^etb^in dieiorio' exercise, 
^ill eiccite Ijbe disfiase \n those pr^tsposed : to it. Where 
tke train ii^) laid» an additional glass of daret may have 
ai^o4^ th« n^tch ; but in aU such cases/ the explosioa 



140 The Effects of Alcohol 

would have equally taken place, had, instead of claret, 
some other exciting cause fired it. 

176. The characteristic ingredient of all wines is 
Alcohol ; and the quantity of this, and the condition or 
state of combination in which it exists, are the circam- 
stances in which the medical inquirer is principally inte- 
rested. The late experiments of Mr. Brande have thrown 
considerable light upon this subject ; although, as in most 
instances of discovery, they have raised up new doubts 
and difficulties. Daily experience convinces ns, that tbe 
same quantity of alcohol applied to the stomach under the 
form of wine, and in a state of mixture with water, will 
produce very different effects upon the body, and to aa 
extent which it is difficult to understand. It has, for 
instance, been demonstrated beyond the reach of doubt, 
that Port, Madeira, and Sherry contain from one-fourth to 
one-fifth their bulk of alcohol ; so that a person who talces 
a bottle of either of them, will thus take nearly half a pint 
of alcohol, or almost a pint of pure brandy ! and, moreoyer, 
that different wines, although containing the same absolute 
proportion of spirit, will be found to vary very considerably 
in their intoxicating powers. No wonder, then, that such 
results' should have staggered the philosopher, who is 
naturally unwilling to accept any tests of difference from 
the nervous system, which elude the ordinary resources of 
analytical chemistry. The conclusion was therefore drawn, 
that ' alcohol must necessarily exist in wine in a fistr Af- 
ferent condition from that in which we know it in a sepa- 
rate state; or, in other words, that its elements only could 
exist in the vinous liquor, and that their union was deter- 
mined, and, consequently, alcohol produced, by. the act of 
distillation. That it was the product ^ and not the educt of 
distillation, was an opinion which originated with Roueli^i 
who asserted that alcohol was not completely formed until 
the temperature was raised to the point of distillation. 
More lately, the same doctrine was revived and promul- 



moAfiedby Combination. 141 

gated by Fabbroni, in the Memoirs of the Florentine Acar 
demy. Gay Lusac has^ however, silenced the partisans of 
this theory, by separating the alcohol by distillation, at 
the temperature of 66^ Fahrenheit ; and, by the aid of a 
vacuum, it has since been effected at 56^. And to com- 
plete the demonstration, Mr. Brande has shewn that, by 
precipitating the colouring matter, and some other elements 
of the wine, by the sub-acetate of lead, and then saturating 
the clear liquor with sub-carbonate of potass, the alcohol 
may be separated without any elevation of temperature ; 
and he has accordingly, by this ingenious expedient, been 
enabled to construct a table, exhibiting. the proportions of 
spirit which exist in the several kinds of wine. No doubt, 
therefore, can any longer be entertained upon the subject; 
and the fact of the difference of effect produced by the 
same bulk of alcohol, when presented to the stomach in 
different states, is to be explained on the supposition that, 
in wine, it is not only more intimately mixed with water, 
but that it exists in combination with its extractive matter; 
in consequence of which, it is incapable of exerting its 
full effects before it becomes altered in its properties, or, 
in other words, partially digested; and this view of the 
subject may be fairly urged in explanation of the fact, that 
the intoxicating effects of the same wine are liable to vary^ 
in degree, in the same individual, from the peculiar state 
of his digestive organs at the time of its potation. . . 

176. As the results obtained by Mr. Brande are highly 
important in a medical point of view, I shall here subjoin 
an extract from his table* 



142 



Mr. Branded Tabk. 



Port, ftTerage of tix kiods. . 

Do. highest 

Do. loiwett 

Madein, h%liett 

Do. low«tt .•..•••• 

Sheny, aveiage of four kinds 

Do. highest 

Do. lowest 

Clarety aver, of three kinds • 
CalcaTaHa 



Tablb of the quanti^ of alcohol (sp. gr. -835), at GO* Fah., in aeveni 

kinds of wine and other liquors. 



23*48 

35-83 

31*40 

34-43^ 

^9*34. 

17-92 

19-83 

12-25 

14-43 

18-10 

liB^4 

17-26 

18-49 

18-40 

16-40 

25-87 

17*3» 

11-30 

12-80 

11-55 

11-95 

17*43 

12-3^ 

14^87 



Malaga ..^ 

Bucellas 

Red Madeira.... 
Malmsey do..... 

Marsala 

Ditto 

Red Champagne 

White do. 

Burgundy 

Ditto 

White Hermitage 

Red do;. .' . . 

<«eek... 



Hock 8« 

PalmWme '. 4-W 

Vin de Gm^- . • » . «^ 12« 

Fronligattt^.«.«* 12t9 

CpteBoti .............. 13-r. 

RoustUon \n^ 

I 

_ r 

Cape Madeira 1811 

Cape Muchat 1^2i 

Constantia 19^^ 

.Tfent .w.....<.4 .•. 13^ 

iibmM •*.•..>•.••.»••*•% 15'^^ 

Syracuse 15-^ 

Nice ....*. 14-63 

Tokay 9« 

Raisin Wine 25-7T 

Ghrapc Wine 18-U 

CurtttittVine ..«.« 30-» 

Gooaefa^riry Wine •..«.... U^ 
Eld^ Wine, Cider 8c Perry 9*87 

Stout 6«> 

Ale.,.; 8-88 

Brandy ...*....:..'.... 53-39 

Ruin ». 53*68 

UoliajidA .. •.. 51150 



177. We havf hitherto osij JGoo0^enBd - aUfiobol as i^ 
exiito ia a eooibiiied; $tate in wine |: but it is eimtitial to 
state, that the iistiopger.Mrinea^'Spaiiir/ P^rtngsL ^ai 
Sicily, are rendered marketable in this coantry by th^ 
addition of brandy, and must consequently contain moie 
or less uncondnned spirit; but the proportion of which will 
not bear a ratio to the quantity added, because, at the 
period of its admixture, a renewed fermentation is produced 
by the scientific vintner, which will assimilate and combine 
a certain portion of the foreign spirit with the wine : this 
manipulation, in technical language, is called *' fretting in^*^ 



*. 

) 



J 



Arrangement of Wines, m 143 

It is to the quaatity :of ^eei not to that :o£ combined spint,: 

that the injurioim effecta^f siich:;i(rineaarei»^fae^^^ 

'* It is weUIuiowity'^obserTeflKDr. MacduUoch, f^>thatd^^ 

eases el* the Uvei^^re the inostooiiamoix land th^ most foimi-i 

dable oEibmefarndtdoiibyiixe'i^ ,lt is 

equally ceortaih, that no siidi disoiders<follorw'die'intemper^ 

rate use of pdre wine^'howey^r longMndulged rin:; to thid 

coQoeaied.aild uawitting) *ooiBBumption, of vBpml;;th3raford^ 

as contained inithe wines generally dnink^in.this oonntry^ 

is tobeattrih^ted the ^cestaii^ ptevalelilc^oftfaoikehqpttliio 

affections; which tneiodD[ipadn.ti¥ely' little 4ntw^ ta.cHir 

contineiU!BL:ii^hfoodl'a;, ' ) X • r 

•^ ; 178. . Muehi has beeni Itaid vponi thd leffscts >of >new mnk 

updh thesto^aadi^ cdmpfuped^with tho9e>|N^ 

whiehhaos' beeii'tongiikdpt;* oEt will .be'neces^ajiy ;toMeoi^ 

stder th^'Ohaliges pcoduedd tin Hhisrhquot^by.beiikg- Idepix 

In thefivBt pldjoe,>7ed wine:>gtadtially;diepa(»its> quantity 

off (a^eaim^ of taftai^- in ^ ddnlbinaiiioiv mth- extara^tiv^ tand 

colouring mattei^^ 'fomiingi.wliktr'is ^clannfint^ ^eaUedi-Ap 

crmt; so thaf'fi considi^able poiitioB ofdiat'matter which 

is Ijkely to disagrpe iivitih idi6>«toibaek>iB'dl^ 

b«it (wfaeh . k^ 'in' the crn^yi ino dddiiioa ttk^^ tUk; chamgssy oa 

quantity of wiat^' is-eirapov^tedy/ aind the c\iikie become^ 

comparatifeiyistibiigerk 3 The- oustoin of ;ex^»ing ^jKEadeir^ 

to motioli^ and di^^rtifnvele^sttion iOftt^mperaiivei'^^end^ 

ingilt {i^royage:to^4he£ilstIiidies>inn<pi6Blioaablyiimpi^^ 

thei>ifta^otxrv {^<^p7odiiGC^<^80iikeeinteniait^o|iaag« m the 

compesitiibn'iofi ite ."^n^iwihibht'l^ eh^inist.is jteal^le to 

esfploin*^ ir.'^-. • '■-' v \ •• -V 

179^.: In a' dietetic point o£«teir^ wines mdy be ananged 
into fofir ptoses ;bm;r L ^l^w&£t Wwidb^^ 2wSBAdKxiNJG; 
or Effervescing; 3. Dry and Light.: 4. X)&ik lind 

11 SwBBT ^WiNE^s cootaiv tiie:greiLtaHt:tpibp€»tion ;6f 
extractive and saoeharirie matter^ . and 'generaUy tb^/)least 
ardent iGJipirit, thou^vthisvis.often^-'^alher dng^^ 



144 Effervescing^ Dry, and Light Wifies. 

absent. As in these wines a propottioii of sugar has i^ 
mained unchanged during the process of vinification, the; 
must be considered as the results of an imperfect fermenta- 
tion, and are, in fact, mixtures of wine and sugar ; accord- 
ingly, whatever arrests the progress of fermentation, must 
have a tendency to produce a sweet wine. Thus, boihng 
the mmty or drying .the fruit, will, by partially separating 
the natural leaven, and dissipating the water, . oocasioD 
such a result, as is exemplified by the manufacture of the 
wines of Cyprus, the Vino Cotto of the Italians, and the 
Vinum Cocium of the ancients ; by that of Urontignac, the 
rich and luscious wines of Canary, the celebrated Tokay, 
Vino Tinto (Tent of Hungary), the ItaiiKa.Montefiascone, 
the Persian Sckiras, the Malmsey wines of Candia, Chio, 
Lesbos, and Tenedos, and those of the other islands of the 
Archipelago. On account of the sugar contained in such 
wines, they are liable to become acescent on weak sto- 
machs ; but where this is not the case, they are» in small 
quantities, frequently beneficial to invalids. 

2. Sparkling or Effervescing Wines. These 
are indebted for their characteristic properties to the pre- 
sence of carbonic acid ; they rapidly intoxicate, in conse- 
quence of the alcohol: which is suspended in, or, more 
probably, in chemical combination with the gas, being 
thus applied in a sudden and very divided state to a large 
extent of nervous surface: for the same reascm, their 
effects are generally as transitory as they are sudden. 
Independently of the alcohol thus held in solution in the 
carbonic acid, it is probable that some active aromatic 
matter is volatilised together with it, and which may 
account for the peculiar effects produced on some persons 
by Champagne. 

3. Dry and Light Wines. These are exemplified by 
the more esteemed German wines, as Hock, Rhenish, Mayne, 
Moselk, Necker, and Elsass;.9nd those highly-flavoured 
wines. Burgundy, Claret, Hermitage, 8cc. The former of 



Madeira f Port, and Sherry. 145 

these wines combine the effect of an aicid >sdt]i' that of 'the 
spirit. They do not contain any uncombined alcohol 
and on that account are to be greatly preferred. Genuine 
Claret must be censidcred as the most beneficial of allonr 
vinous liquors ; it is weH fermented ; and, on account of 
the small proportion of spirit, as well as of extractive; 
which it contains, it is more salubrious than Port. It has 
been already observed, that Burgundy appears to hold 
dissolved some unknown principle of great activity : upon 
no other supposition can we explain its stimulant proper* 
ties. A few glasses of this wine will produce heat and 
headach, which the relative quantity of alcohol in its 
composition {see the preceding table) will not account for. 

4. Dry and Stbono Wines, as Madeira, Pont, 
Sherry, &c. The name sec, corruptly written sack, signi-' 
fies dry. The see ^ine, prepared at Xeres, in Spain, is 
called, accordingly to our ojrthography, SJierris., or Shenyi 
In the manufacture of this wine, iime'^ is added to the 
grapes ; a circumstance, observes^ Dr. i\Iaeculloch, appa- 
rently conducive to its well-known dry quality^ and which, 
probably, acts by neutralising a portion of maKc ottartmic 
acid. 

180. It is a iact, not easily explained, that the stomach 
is frequently outraged by a wine to which it has not been 
accustomed ; and it is equally true, that a mixtui'e of dif-' 
ferent wines is a common source of indigestion. The 
custom of mixing wine with water has its advantages as 
well as its evils.t By dilution it frequently proves too 

* The Sack of ^hakspeare was probably S^rty; a coi^cture which 
receives additional strength from the foUoY'ing paissage :t— 'f You rogue ( 
^ere*s lime in this Sack, too. There is nothing but roguery to be found in 
villanous man. Yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in 
it — a villanous coward V* 

•f This custom was a favourite practice amongst the ancients. Hence 
Bacchus was called Kfctus, because he first introduced it, haying taught 
a certain king of Athens to dilute his wine with water : men^ who through 

L 



146 Cukr, Perry 9 Beer, Sfc. 

Utde stimiilant to the stomach, and nins into a atate of 
acescency. An invalid is also thus liable to deceive himself^ 
by taking more wine than may be consistent with his 
welfare. Much, however, depends upon the quality of the 
wine taken; the lighter wines cannot require dilution^ 
while Port is certainly rendered less injurious by the ad-* 
mixture. 

181. Home-made, or domestic wines, may be generally 
considered as injurious to delicate stomachs ; they are apt 
to ferment, and produce , indigestion. Cider and Perry 
are grateful drinks in hot weather; but as they do not 
contain a sufficient quantity of spirit to prevent their 
passing into the acetous fermentation in the stomach of 
an invalid, they should be avoided by those who have any 
predisposition to indigestion. 

182. Beer. This is an article of beverage in almost 
every country. The Chinese prepare it from rice, and the 
Americans from maize. We are also informed by Hero* 
dottts, that, in very early history, the art of making a fer- 
mented liquor from barley was discovered by the Egyp- 
tians. As the climate of England is not congenial to the 
growth of the vine, this species of liquor is perhaps more 
universal than in any other country ; and it has therefore 
been denominated Vinum Britannicum^ In the higher 
walks of society it has, indeed, of late years, been nearly 
excluded: but whether this revolution has been attended 
with advantage^ we shall presently have occasion to in- 
quire. Malt liquors differ from wines in several essential 

drinking staggered before, by mixing water with their wine, begaii to 
walk straight. It is also said, in ancient mythology, that the joUy god 
was educated by the Naiads, or the nymphs of the rivers and fountains; 
implying, that men ought thence to learn to dilute their wine widi water* 
But a question may arise as to the modification thus produced on th6 
intoxicating powers of wine. I suspect that a quantity of wine, in a state 
of dilution, will be more intoxicating than an equivalent portion of vinous 
liquor in a more concentrated form* 



Akf its nutritive quality. 147 

points : they contain a much liurger proportion of nutritive 
matter^ and a less proportion of spirit; while they contain 
a peculiar bitter and narcotic principle derived from the 
hop. It would appear, that the extractive matter fur- 
nished by the malt is highly nutritive; and we accordingly 
find, that those persons addicted to such potations are in 
general fat.* Where, however, they are indulged in to 
^ny extent, without a corresponding degree of exercise, 
they induce a plethoric state of the. body, and all the 
diseases consequent upon such a condition. In^rderto 
understand the process by which they furnish nourish-^ 
ment, I must once more beg to refer the reader to the 
observations which are offered on the important subject 
of the digestion of liquids (83) ; from which it will appear, 
that a highly-concentrated extract will be left in the sto- 
mach af|:er th^ removal of its watery part. This extract 
is, for reasons already stated, not very digestible; and 
will, therefore, require the presence of less inspissated food 
to promote its chymification. Ale, therefore, when taken 
without such precautions, is liable to disturb the digestive 
organs. The addition of the hop increases the value of 
the liquor, by the grateful stimulus which it imparts, and 
in some measure redeems it from those vices with which 
it might otherwise be charged* To those, therefore, 
whose diet is not very nutritive, ale may be considered 
not only as an innocent, but as a salubrious article ; and 
happy is that country, whose labouring classes prefer 
such a beverage to the mischievous potations of ardent 



* This feet is so generally admitted by all those who. are skilled in the 
art of TRAINING, that a quantity of ale is taken at every meal by the 
pugilist who is endeavouring to screw himself up to his fullest strength, 
Jackson, the celebrated trainer, affirms, if any person accustomed to drink 
wine would but try malt liquor for a month, he would find himself so 
uiuch the better for it, that he would soon take the one, and abandofi the 
other. 



148 Remarks an Malt Idguars. 

spirit.* These remarks, however, cannot apply to those 
classes of the community who *' fare sumptuoady every 
day.'' They will not require a nutritive potati<m of such 
a character; and light wines have accordingly » in these 
days of luxury, very properly superseded its use : but I 
am not disposed to extend this remark to its more humble 
companion, '' table beer,'* I regard its dismissal from the 
tables of the great as a matter of regret ; its slight, but 
invigorating bitter, is much better adapted to promote 
digestion than its more costly substitutes. But it should 
be soft and mild ; for, when stale and hard, it is likely to 
disturb the bowels, and occasion effects the very opposite 
to those it is intended to produce. Nor ought it to have 
too great a proportion of hops, but should be thoroughly 
fermented and purified. Sydenham always took a glass 
of small beer at his meals, and he considered it as a pre- 
serrative agaiittt gravel. 

183. The great division of malt liquors is into small 
beer, ale, and porter. 

184. The liquor called Ale was originally made of 
barley, malt, and yeast alone. We are told by one of 
the oldest English writers on medical subjects (Andrew 
Boordet), that those who put in any other ingredient 
'^ sophisticated the labour.'' '' It is," he says, '* the natural 
drink of an Englishman ; but beer, on the other hand, 
which is made of malt, hops, and water, is the natural 

* I certainly do not agree with Dr. Franklin when he states, that die 
bodily strength furnished by beer can only be in proportion to the solid 
part of the barley dissolved in the water of which the beer was com- 
posed ; and that, as there is a larger proportion of flour in a penny loaf 
than in a pint of beer, consequently, that more strength is derived from m 
penny loaf and a pint of water than from a pint of beer. It is the stimu- 
lus of the beer that proves so serviceable to the poor man, enabling bis 
fliomadi to extract more aliment from his umntritiTe diet. 

f The founder of the class of itinerant quacks termed Meny-Andiews; 
for an account of whom see my Pharmaoologia, edit. 6, vol. i. p. 60,nat^*> 



' Portef, origin of the Beverage. 149 

dfink of a Dutchman^ and of late is much used in 
England, to the great detriment <^ many Englishmen." 
There existed, fer a long time, a strong prejudice against 
hops, which were considered as '' pernicious weeds ;'' but 
it is now generally admitted, that they constitute the most 
valuable ingredient in malt liquors. Independent of the 
flavour and tonic virtues which they communicate, they 
precipitate, by means of their astringent principle, the 
vegetable mucilage, and thus remove from the beer the 
active principle of its fermentation : without hops, tha^e* 
fore, we must either drink our malt liquors new and Topy, 
or old and sour. There are several varieties of ale, distin- 
guishable by their cdour: when the malt is slenderly 
dried, the ale is pale ; or brown when the malt is more 
roasted, or high-dried. 

165. Porter. This is made from high-dried malt, 
and differs from other malt liquors in the proportions of 
its ingredients, and from the peculiar manner in which it 
is manufactured. Much has been said upon the fraudu- 
lent adulteration of this article : but I am inclined to 
believe that these statements have been exaggerated. It 
is, at all events, certain, that such adulterations are not 
carried on in the caldrons of the brewer, but in the barrels 
of the publican (see our woik on Medical Jurisprudence, 
vd. i. p. 376). The origin of the beer called entire is to 
be tims explained; — Before tiie year 1730, tihe malt liquors 
in general use in London were ale, beer^ and two-penny ; 
and it was customary to call for a pint, or tankard, of half- 
and-half, i. e. half of ale and half of beer, half of ale and 
half of two-penny. In course of time, it also became the 
practice to call for a pint or tankard of three-threads^ 
meaning a third of ale, beer, and two-penny ; and thus 
the publican had the trouble to go to three casks, and 
tum three cocks, for a pint of liquor. To avoid this in- 
convenience and waste, a brewer, of the name of Harwood, 
conceived the idea of making a liquor which should par- 



160 Ardent Spirits. * 

take of the same united flavours of ale, beer/ and two« 
penny. He did so, and succeeded, calling it entire, or 
entire butt, meaning that it was drawn entirely from one 
cask or butt ; and, as it was a very hearty and nourishing 
liquor, and supposed to be very suitable for porters and 
other working people, it obtained the name of" Porter/^ 
186. Ardent Spirits, The act of extracting alco- 
holic liquors by distillation from vinouB liquors, must be 
regarded as the greatest curse ever inflicted upon human 
nature. The fatal effects of dram-drinking have been 
vividly depicted by numerous writers ; and the awful truth 
has been too frequently illustrated to render any remarks 
in this place necessary. In a medical point of view, how- 
ever, spirit may be considered as occasionally useful. 
Where it is taken in a diluted state, the mixture should 
always be made twelve hours before it is used. Spirit and 
water do not easily combine ; and much of the force of 
the former is blunted by intimate incorporation with the 
latter, as we have already observed, under the history of 
wine. I throw out this hint to those who are in the habit 
of drinking weak brandy and water at their meals ; although 
the propriety of such a practice is very questionable. There 
are cases of dyspepsia, in which wine and beer equally dis- 
agree with the stomach, producing acidity, and other dis- 
tressing symptoms : very weak spirit in such a case may, 
perhaps, be taken with advantage ; but its strength should 
be uniform, and no circumstances should induce the pa- 
tient to increase the proportion of the spirit. The habit 
of drinking liqueurs cannot be too loudly reprobated : 
many of these cordials are impregnated with narcotic 
substances, which add to the noxious qualities of the, 
Spirit. 



151 



An Estimate of the Nutritive and Digestible 
Qualities of several Species of Aliment, 
as derived from the application of the 

* 

Physiological and Chemical Principles 
established in the preceding pages. 



MiLKy although fluid, is, in fact, a mixture qf solid and 
liquid aliment — its chemical composition. — Cream, 
Curd, Cheese. — -Eggs. — Fish. — Birds. — Farina- 
ceous Aliments; Bread, Ssc. — Potatoes. — Rice. — 
Pulses. — Fruits. — Of the Diet of Convalescents. 
— Periods for Meals. — Conduct to be pursued 
previous and subsequent to Meals. — Exercise, Rest, 
Sleep. 

187. Wbr^ I to follow the steps of all preceding writers 
on dietetics, I should present a catalogue of the nutrientia, 
and introduce, under each article, a history of its com- 
position and virtues; but the utility of general principles 
is to abbreviate labour, and to class under a few heads 
those remarks which were previously scattered and un- 
connected. 

188* We have seen that the nutritive qualities of a 
substance depend upon its composition; but that its di- 
gestibility inay be influenced by various mechanical causes 
(123). It is by such tests that we have now to examine 
the several classes of aliment, and to assign to the indi- 
vidual bodies which they comprehend their relative value 
as articles of diet. 

189. Milk. This is the only nutritive fluid with which 
nature has presented us ; but if we examine its chemical 
composition, we shall soon discover that it possesses 
an ingredient which is instantly coagulated in the sto* 
mach ; so that, in fact, it must be regarded as a nwture of 
iolid and liquid aliment ; the latter, however, considerably 



152 Cream. — Curd. 

exoeednug the fomwr in qaantity, and thenby demi^ 
rtntmg the ntoMttty of a greater portion of fluid thangi 
flolid matber, for the reparotioD of that habitual waste, vpa 
which the neceaaity of aliiaflntai^ supplies is foonded. 

190. Although recent milk appeara as a homogeneom 
liquid, it may be resolred, partly by standing, and parth 
by agents that do not easenttaUy alter the natnre of n 
components, into three proximate ingredients, the cram 
curd, and toh^. 

1. The Cbbah rises to the surface of the niilk,tfuT 
it has stood for some honra, and may be skimw^ 
oS, and thus separated from it. It appean tt 
possess many of the properties of oil ; is ixaoo& 
and unctuous to the touch, and stains cloth in tltt 
same manner as other uuctuous substances. 6y 
standing for some days it becomes gradually thicker, 
and at length forms a soft solid, in ^vliicii t^e &■ 
vour of cream in no longer perccired, and that d! 
cheese is substituted ia ks place. According ti 
the experiments of BerzelinS) cream ia a eompoonJ 
body, coDsisting of butter, 4'S ; cheese, 3'£ j ^ 
whey, 92 parts : but since the whey holds cei^ 
salts in solution, we may consider the whole of tbt 
M^id matUr contained in cream as ameuntiDg ^ 
12'A per cent. When cream is agitated, ms is dou 
by tihe common pmoess of ohumiog, it is sepeisU^ 
into two parts ; a thick aaitnal cal, weU known \i) 
tfie name of butter, and a fluid which possevB 
exactly the tame prtqvertwa as milk diat has bu" 
deprived of its cream. This change h^been sxf- 
posed to be owing to the combination of the creitai 
wHh ik» oxygen of the atmosphere ^ but it tstte 
place, though po^aps not e(|nally well, in refiseli 
from which the air has been excluded . 

2. GuR'D. When milk, mthtr deprived or not of i" 
cream, is mixed with certain substancni, or ailowt^ 



Wkey. 153 

to stand until it become^ BOur> it undi^tgoes a 
change irhich is called coltgiilation/ ccnsisting in 
its separtition into a sdid substance tenned curd^ 
and a fluid oalled whey. This change may be ef- 
fected by several agaats, such as alcohol, gelatine, 
and aU astringent vegetables ; by acids, and many 
neutral salts ; by gum, sugar, and more particularly 
by the gastric juice. The effect is supposed to 
arise from the affinity of the coagulating substance 
to water, tiie curd, being prificipally albumen, 
having v&ry little affinity for the same ; but this 
theory can hardly explain the opemticm of the 
gastric juice : the infusion of a piece of calf's sto- 
mach, not larger than a half crown, will coagulate 
a quantity of milk sufficient for making a cheese 
of sixty pounds weight, although the quantity of 
coagvdating matter cannot in this case exceed a few 

■ 

grains. 
3. Whey, or tiie liquid which remains after the sepa- 
ration of the cfurd, is a thin and almost transparent 
fluid, of a yellowish-green colour, and a pleasant 
sweetish taste. It still contains, generally, a por- 
tion both of curd and of butter; the former of 
whiob may be separated by a bctilutg heat, itt the 
iocm of coagolum. The buttary matter aliK> mpa,^ 
rates by heat, especially if the whey be ^vioiisly 
allowed to become sour. Whey ocHitains, indeed, 
in its recent state, some acetic acid. When whey^ 
which has been deprived as much as possible from 
the butter and curd, is slowly evaporated, it yields 
the pecuKar sul^stance termed " mgar of milk/^ 
which may be obtained, by clarificaticm with 
whites of eggs, in the form of crystals. The pre* 
sence of this saccharine matter heki in solution ia 
whey enables that fluid to undergo the vinews ier- 
mentation ; and rt is accordingly employed by the 



154 Analysis of Milk. 

Tartars for making a sort of wme, which is 
Kawniis. For this purpoee mare's milk is 'selected, 
as coDtaining a larger proportion of sugar-tliaiitlMt 
of the cow. Whey also contains several sabe 
bodies, viz* muriate of potass, pkosphates ofht 
and of iron, and sulphate of potass : and a peculiar 
animal matter, which gives a precipitate with in- 
fusion of galls, and affords carbonate of ammonis 
by distillaticm. 

From these investigations, the constituents 0/ 
skimmed milk from the cow appear to be as 
f<^w: — 

Water 92675 

Curd, with a little cream .... 28* 

Sugar of milk 35' 

Muriate of potass 1*70 

Phosphate of potass 0*25 

Lactic acid, acetate of potass ^ 

with a trace of lactate of I 6* 

iron J 

Earthy phosphates 0'30 



IQOO 



191. Although nature has presented us with this com- 
pound fluid for the purposes of nourishment^ and althoiigh 
it is evident that its several ingredients are wholesom^) 
and designed for the various objects of aliment, yet, when 
separated by art, they are frequently unwelcome to the 
stomach ; that viscus would appear to dislike the interfe- 
rence of the cook, in the performance of an analysis which 
its own powers are so well calculated to perform. We af^ 

• 

well assured, that the first pit>cess which takes placed 
the stomach for the chymification of milk, is its separati^^ 
into curd and whey ; and yet the former of these sub* 
stances, when obtained by art, frequently proves highly 
oppressive to the stomach, and sometimes occasions ob- 



Cheese, Butter, Sfc. 156 

structions in the bowels. Chek^e, again^ which is no- 
thing more than the coagulum of milk, pressed, salted, 
and partly dried, with a portion of butter, which, having 
been enveloped in the curd, is not afterwards separable, is 
one of the least digestible of our aliments, and is only 
adapted to strong stomachs, and to Buch persons as use 
great and constant exercise. When toasted, it is still more 
injurious, from acquiring a tenacity of texture highly 
hostile to the digestive function of the stomach* Butter, 
from its oily nature, is apt to disagree with delicate sto- 
machs ; and when rendered empyreumatic by heat, pro- 
duces heartburn, and other distressing symptoms: the use 
of hot buttered toast or muffins should, therefore, never 
be allowed to dyspeptic invalids. Whey differs consider- 
ably in its dietetic value, according to the method employed 
for its separation. When this is effected by rennet, it 
always holds a portion of cream and curd suspended in it, 
besides its quantity of sugar. It is, therefore, considerably 
nutritive ; but it is, at the same time, more acescent than 
milk, and hence it is liable to produce flatulence in those 
whose stomachs are disposed to encourage fermentation. 
Whey that has been produced by spontaneous coagulation 
always contains less nutritive matter, is more acid, and 
consequently more objectionable, unless, perhaps, as a 
drink in certain states of fever. 

Id2. From- this account of the composition of milk, 
several properties of the entire fluid may be understood. 
By boiling it, its albuminous part is not coagulated into a 
mass like the white of an egg, on account of the large 
quantity of water through which it is diffused ; but a thin 
pellicle forms on the surface, which, if removed, is imme- 
diately replaced by another ; and thus the whole of the 
albumen may be separated in successive portions. The 
effect of this process is therefore to diminish the nutritive 
quality of the milk ; but it may at the same time render it 
more easily digestible. I have known many invalids who 



156 Milk, as an Article of Diet. 

oould take lioikd milk, who were unable to bear t^at fhiid 
in its natural state. 

193. Milk, in its dietetic relations, may be considered 
as intermediate between animal and vegetable food; it 
is easily assimilated^ and therefore affords a quidi supply 
of aliment to the system, while it does not excite that 
degree of vascular action which is produced by oUier 
ammal matters. Its nutritive powers may be increased 
by various additions, which have also, on some occasions, 
the efiect of correcting its natural tendency to acidity; and 
on others, that of obviating the costiveness which it is 
liable to occasion; such objects are sometimes fiiUttled by 
adding oatmeal gruel to it. In certain states of organic 
disease, I have found that milk, impregnated widi the 
fatty matter of mutton suet, is a valuable article of diet t 
such a repast is best prepared by inserting the suet in a 
muslin bag, and then simmering it with the milk. In 
common case of dyspepsia it would prove injurious, for 
the reasons so often alluded to in the course of this work : 
but where it is an object to introduce much nutiitivB 
matter in a small space, I am not acquainted with a better 
form of aliment. With some practitioners it is a custom 
to recommend an admixture of lime watar witii milk, to 
prevent the acidity which it is apt to create in feeble 
stomachs. I have occasionally experienced tiie bene* 
fit of such a practice, especially in cases of taies mesen^ 
terica. 

194. Before quitting this subject, it is necessary to ob- 
sarve, that tliere exists some difference in the composition 
of the milk of different animals. That of the h\unan sub- 
ject is much thinner than cow's milk ; is of a bluer cdour, 
and contains much more saccharine matter. It also yields 
a larger proportion of cream, but irom which the butter 
cannot be separated by agitation. It d^osits a part of 
its curd by mere repose. Asses' milk bears a stronger 
resemblance to human milk than to any other ; it ocmtaina 



Eggs.^M^. 167 

>: more sugar ihan that of the cow, and ihei proportion of 
eurd is so considerahle aa even to separate on standings 

:; before the milk hecomeB sour. Goats' milk yields a re-r 

■.. markably thick and unctuous cream^ and abounds also in 

. Gurd. 

195« Eggs^ in point of nutriment and digestibUity^ 

,^ may be classed next to milk; but their quahties will 
greatly depend upon the manner in which they have been 
cooked. When raw, they arp certainly not so easily di-* 
gested as when lightly boiled, so as ahghtly to coagulate 
their albuminous principle : but if this pit>cesB be carried 

: .„. <^. «.., ^ L^ i... . ^'^, ,^ ^ 

quires all the powers of the stomach for its chymificatibn : 
but this is much accelerated by the use of vinegar as a 
condiment. They are distinguished by the pecuhar qua-^ 
lity of singularly affecting some stomachs, even in the 
smallest quantity ; while they do not produce any uneasy 
impressions on others. I am acquainted with a person 
who constantly finds an egg to produce uneasiness when 
his stomach is the least deranged, but who can eat them 
with impunity at all other times. It is a notorious fact, 
that eggs, when raw, are laxative, and when cooked arc 
apt to produce costiveness. 

FiSB. 

m 

196. Fish has been generally considered as holdiiig a 
middle rank between the flesh of warm-blood aiumals and 
vegetable food. It is certain that it is less nutritive than 
mutton or beef; but the health and vigour of the inhabit- 
ants of fishing-towns evidently prove that it is suffiQiently 
nourishing for all the purposes of active life : but in order 
to satisfy the appetite, a large quantity is requisite ; and 
the a.ppetite returns at shorter intervals tba^ those which 
occur during a diet of meat. Nor does this species of food 
produce the same stimulus to the body ; the pulse^ is not 



158 Dietetic value qfFish. 

strengthened as after a repast of flesh; and that febrile 
excitement which attends the digestion of the more nutri-» 
tiye viands is not experienced. Hence fish afibrds a most 
yaluable article of diet to invalids labouring under parti*- 
cular disorders ; for it furnishes a chyle moderately nutri-* 
tive, but, at the same time, not highly stimulant. From 
the nature of its texture, it does not require a laborious 
operation of the stomach ; although it is sufficiently solid 
to rescue it from those objections which have been urged 
against liquid or gelatinous food. " From the observations 
just offered upon the nutritive powers of fish, it must 
follow, that such a diet is not calculated to restore power 
to habits debilitated by disease, and should never be di-r 
rected under such circumstances, but from the conviction 
' that the digestive powers are unable to convert stronger 
aliment into chyle. The jockeys who waste thenuehes at 
Newmarket, in order to reduce their weight, are never 
allowed meat, when fish can be obtained. On account of 
the low stimulant power of fish, it requires the asmstance 
of condiment ; and on this account salt appears to be an 
essential accompaniment. 

197. Fish have been arranged under three divisions; 
viz. fresh-water fish, salt-water Jish, and shell fish. But, 
since the value of these animals as articles of food has an 
intimate relation to the colour and texture of their muscles, 
and to their gelatinous or oily qualities, it j^ill be expedient 
to consider their several varieties, with reference to such 
conditions. Turbot, cod, whiting, haddock, flounder, and 
sole, are the least heating of the more nutritive species; 
and the flakiness of the fish, and its opaque appearance 
after being cooked, may be considered as true indications 
of its goodness ; for when die muscles remain semi-trans* 
parent and bluish, after sufficient boiling, we may reject it 
as inferior in value, or not in season. When the fish is in 
high perfection, there is also a layer of white curdy mattery 
resembling coagulated albumen, interposed between 1(9 



Whiting, Cod, Haddock, ^c, 15d 

flakes* The whiting is well adapted for weak stomachs, 

on account of the little viscidity which it possesses ; it is; 

at the same time, tender, white, and delicate, and conveys 

sufficient nutriment, with but little stimulni^, to the system* 

The haddock much resembles it, but is firmer in texture. 

Cod has a more dense fibre than the two former, and con-* 

tains also more glutinous matter: it is an excellent aliment, 

but* upon the whole, is not quite so digestible as whiting 

or haddock. It is generally preferred when large; but 

such fish are frequently coarse. The haddock is certainly 

better when it does not exceed a middling size. A process 

called crimping is sometimes adopted, for the purppse of 

improving cod and some other fish. Sir Anthony Carlisle 

has investigated the change thus produced; and we are 

indebted to him for some curious observations upon the 

subject. Whenever the rigid contractions of death have 

not taken place, the process may be practised with success^ 

The sea fish, destined for crimping, are usually skiick on 

the head when caught, which, it is said^ protracts the 

term of this.capabihty ; and the musdes which retain this 

property longest are those about the head. Many trans* 

verse sections of the muscles b^ng made, and the fish 

immersed in cold wat^r, the contractions called crimping 

take place in about five minutes; but if. the mass be 

large, . it often requires thirty minutes to . complete the 

process. It has-been found that the muscles subjectsd 

to this process have both their absolute weight and specific 

gravity increased ; whence it appears, that the water is 

absorbed, and condensation produced. It was also ob-> 

served, that the effect was always greater in proportion to 

the voraciousness of the fish. The object, therefore, of 

crimping is to retard the natural stiffening of the muscles, 

and then, by the. sudden application of cold water, to 

excite it in the greatest possible degree ; by which meana 

it acquires the natural firmness, and keeps longer. The 

operation certainly improves the flavour, as well as the 



100 Sabnen^ iu nutritwc fuaUty. 

digMtibiKty of tha fiah. Turbot is an exoeUent artide of 
food ; bot it lo usually^ readeied difficult of digestion by 
the quantity of kbater or oyster sauce with whidi it is 
eaten. Sole is tender, and yet saffici«ntly firm; it is, 
therefore, easy, of digestion, and affords proper nutrineDt 
to delicate stomachs. It is necessary to state, that every 
part of the same fidi is not equally digestible ; and it 
unfortunately happens, that those which are oossidered 
the most deliciouB, are, at the same time, the most excep- 
tionable : the pnlpy gelatinous skin of the turbot, and the 
glutinous parts about the head of the cod, are very apt to 
disagree with invalids. Salmon may, perhaps, be coosi- 
d«red the most nutritive of our fish ; but it is heating asii 
oily, and not very digeetiUe : and persons, even with strong 
stomachs, are frequently under the necessity of taking 
stimulant to assist its digestion. The addition of 
sauce renders it still more unwholesome : the best condi- 
ment that can be used is vinegar. As connected with d^t 
time of spaijming, the season of the year has the mo^ 
decided influence upon the quality of salmon. It is ii^ 
the highest perfection, or in seaum, as it is termed, sooie' 
time previous to its spawning ; the flesh is then finn and 
delicions ; whereas, after this evept, it is fi>r some time 
unfit for food. This pircumstance, however, is not fis(' 
fioient to prevent those who have an opportmiityi f^ 
catching and eating the fish in that state ; and the leff^ 
lature has accordingly found it necessary to fix the periods 
at which salmon fishing is lawful. In Ireland, wberQ 
there is great freedom used in killing salmon, during ^ 
after the spf^wning season, the eating of the fish s^t sucb 
times has been often found to be productive of disea^' 
end Dr. Walker has related a circumstance of the f^ 
kind as having occurred in Scotland. SalmoA-troui i^ 
not so rich and oily as the salmon ; although, therefoie»^^ 
is less nutritive, it is, at the same time, less heating ^^ 
more digestible. Eels are extremely objectionable, ^ 



Sheii Fish. — OyHers indigestible, 161 

account of the large propcMtion of oil which they oontaiii. 
I have witnessed several cases of indigestion and alimentary 
disturbance from their use.. When eaten, they should 
always be qualified with vinegar. From these observa- 
tions, the value of fish may be appreciated, and the quali-^ 
ties which entitle them, to election easily understood. 
Firmness of texture, whiteness of muscle, and the absence 
of oiliness and viscidity, are the circumstances which 
render them acceptable to weak stomachs. 

198. Shell Fish have been greatly extolled by some 
physicians, as nutritive and easily-digestible articles of 
food. It will be necessary to examine this question, by 
the application of those principles which I have endea- 
voured to establish. Oysters, in my opinion, enjoy a 
reputation which they do not deserve : when eaten cold, 
they are frequently distressing to wcsJl stomachs, and 
require the aid of pepper as a stimulant; and since 
they are usually swallowed without mastication, the sto- 
mach, has an additional labour to perform, in order to 
reduce them into chyme. When co<d^ed, they are still 
less digestible, on account of the change produced upoO' 
their albuminous principle. It is, however, certain, that 
they are nourishing, and contain a considerable quantity of 
nutritive matter in a small compass : but this latter circum* 
stance afiSKds anotiiier/ objection to their use. Certain it 
is, that oysters- have occasionally produced injurioua ef- 
fects, which have been attributed to their having laid on 
coppery beds: but this idea is entirely unfounded, and 
arose . merely from the green colour which they often 
acquire, the cause of which ia how generally understood ; 
it is sometimes an operation of nature, but it is more gene- 
sally produced by art, by placing, them in a situation where 
there is a great deposit^ from the sea, consisting of the 
vegetating germs of marine conferva and fuci, and which 
impart their colour to the oyster. For this object, the 
Dutch formerly carried oysters from our coasts, and depo- 

M 



162 OjfHers occamanally noxious. 

sitad them on their own. Native oyBtem transported into 
the Cokhester beds^ soon assume a green calour. Whet 
this food has produced a fit of indigestion, it has eridentli 
arisen from the indigestible nature of the oyster, and tiu 
state of tiie individual's stomach at the time ; and bad 
snoh a person indulged, to the same amount, in any equally 
indigestible aliment, there can be no doubt but that it 
would have experienced similar effects. Dr. Clarke has 
related*" some striking cases of convulsion, which occorrRi 
to women after child-birth, in consequence of ea^ 
oysters ; the same effects might have supervened the it 
g^stion of any food that is not easily digestible ; for tlv 

* 

stomach of a woman at such a periodi in consequeace ot 
the irritable state of the nervous system, is easily distoriw^ 
in its functions. The oyster oasts its spawn, which the 
dredgiMs call the tpat^ in the month of May, after wlii<^ 
they are sick and unfit for food ; but in June and Jnij 
they begin to mend, and in August they are perfectlv 
well. We therefore see the cause of their going out oi 
season, and discover the origin of the old maxim, that as 
oyster is never good except when there is an R i'l ^^ 
montb;.i Lobsters are c^tainly nutritive ; but they ^ 
exposed to the same objection, on the ground of indig^^' 
bility ; and such has been their effect upon certain ^^ 
maehs, as to have excited a suspicion of their contaiaiBf 
some poisonous principle : they have been known to ooca* 
sion pain in the throat, and, besides eruptions upon the 
akin, to extend their morbid influence to the prodv^^^'^'^ 
of pain in the stomach, and affection of the joints. ^ 
found in the London market, they are generally ^^' 
boiled> with a view to their better keeping ; and in ^ 
Qsae trhey are highly indigestible* The same observations 
s^ply to the crab. Shrimps are a species of sea ^^ 
which vary in their colonr and size, and are consi^^ 

* Mcdiqal TxaQsaotioDS of tbe Coiltge of Phjaiciaos, vol* v> 



Musckif whether pamnom. 16d 

eftsier of digestion than the preceding atiiolos. The.mupcle 
is a species of bivalve which is more solid, c^nd equally ^ 
indigestS>le as any animal of the same tribe* The ^om«* 
mon pec^le consider tbem as poisonous, wd in eating 
them^ take out a part in which they suppose the poison 
principally to reeide. This is a dark parfc» which is tb^ 
heart, and is quite innocaoufi ; the lact, howey«dp« is puf^i 
fioient to prove, that this species of bivalye has been 
known to kill ; but probably not more frequently than any 
other indigestible substance. Our annals abound with 
instances of the deleterious properties of melon, ouC^m-* 
bers, 8co.^ and yet no one will contend that any poison^ 
properly so called, resides in snoh vegetables* The . peou** 
liar cutaneous efflorescence whieh is prodnoed by the im*' 
perfect digestion of sbdl fish, has been observed to occur 
moiie fireqiienfly in cases where the fish has been stale (QV. 
tainted ;^ aliiiimgh it also happens where no such error 
oan be suspected^ 

199. In eating some speoies of fish« as the pike, it is 
sssential that the smiaU hones should be carefully eK<- 
traoted ; the swaUowing ^f them is likely to irritate the 
ilimantafy membmne, • and instaikces are recorded m 
ivhich fistula has been thus produced* 

* I am inclined to think thst« under iwcdl mewMtmee^ SP 0bf9blU 
poison Vi9f bf gsosratod* Witbout this be |;iaated, it wi^ be impossible 
:o explain many of the phenomena of fish-poison. Dr. Burrows has 
published a very striking case, in which two youths of the ages of nine 
md fourteen died, in consequence of eating about a dozen of small 
nuscles, which they had picked from the s^de of a fishing-smack a^ 
Grravesend. The musdes mete fo«nd to h^re beep in a putrid stats. In 
Jo GmutU ^ iSMI, and «i litf wsiki of Bedwe sad BAten, aimilaur 
;sMs ^3ffi jpectnied» VaiicQ^Fer, w his voyt^e to ihe icosst of Awencii^ 
'fihue^ that^veral of his Joen «were ill J^m ^tin^ SQme muscles which 
hey had collected and roasted for breakfiist; io an hour after which, 
hey complained of numbness of the face and extremities, sickness, 
md giddiness. Three were more afiected than the others, and one 
)f them died. 



164 Fish Diet produces Cutaneous Disease. 

200. It has been usual to attribute aU the cutanea 
affections which follow the liberal use of iBsh as depe^ 
ing upon the sympathy of the skin with the stomad 
This, I believe, is, in general, the true explanation, sii!:: 
the eflfect is merely temporary ; and wh«i the process i 
digestion is finished, it departs. Its departure mayeni 
be hastened by the operation of an emetic removing t^ 
noxious aliment. At the same time, the &ct must rd\ 
overlooked, that the oily principle, upon which depeL' 
the odour of certain fish, is absorbed fi-om the alimeoir 
canal, and carried into the blood ; this is evident bomt 
peculiar flavour of the flesh of certain Inrds who Ure uf 
fish : from the ready access which the hogs in Comr- 
have to pilchards, the pork of that county is very com- 
monly deteriorated by a fishy savour. It is alsow^ 
known, that persons confined for any length of time toi 
diet offish, secrete a sweat of a rancid smell. It i^^^- 
therefore, improbable, that certain cutaneous diseases mi' 
be produced, or at least aggravated, by such diet,* sjd^ 
hot climates this effect may be less questionable. ^ 
priests of Egypt may therefore have been prohibited i^- 
eating fish upon just principles, in order that the lepi^ 
might be averted ; and the great legislator of the i^' 
was, no doubt, influenced by some such belief, when s' 
firamed his celebrated prohibition.* 

201. It is usual to add various condiments to isb, 
many of them are doubtless thus rendered more digestibi^ 
by affording a necessary stimulus to the stomacb : ^' 
rich sauces are ever to be avoided by the valetudin^ 
Vinegar and salt, perhaps, form the best additions. 

202. The mode of cooking fish is another circumstance 
of some importance; fiying them in lard or oil is ^^ 
jectionable process. In general, the process of boito)?^ 
best adapted to render them wholesome. Stewed i^^ 

* Leviticus, xi. 9 — 1^. 



Birds, the nutritive quality of the Fksh of. J 65 

with all the UBual iidditions of glutinouB and itimuknt 
materials^ are extremely injurious to dyspeptics. The ob- 
jections which were urged against salted meats apply to 
salted fish ; they are, however^ rendered less injurious by 
a plentiful admixture of potatoes : indeed, this esculent 
root, with perhaps the exception of parsnip, is the only 
vegetable that should accompany a meal of any species of 
fish : and it will be well for the invalid to abstain, upon 
such occasions, from fruit. Cullen says, that by way of 
experim^Qit, he has taken apples after fish ; but he always 
found that his digestion was disturbed by them. Milk 
may be considered as another incompatible aliment ; the 
most serious diarrhcea has followed such a mixture. 

Birds, 

203. There exists a great variety in the qualities of 
the food which is furnished by this class of aaimals, with 
regard to nourishment, stimulus, and digestibility ; the 
whiter meat of domesticated birds, as the wings and 
breasts of chickens, contaiils less nutriment, and is less 
digestible, than that which is furnished by wild birds, as 
the partridge, &c. ; but the former is, at the same time, 
less stimulant and heating than the latter. These are the 
circumstances which are to direct the medical practitioner 
in his opinion. No general rule for the choice of either 
species can be established : it must be determined by the 
particular condition of the patient, and the effect which 
the alim^t is intended to produce. The same observation 
will apply to the flesh of quadrupeds ; that which is dark 
.coloured, and contains a large proportion of fibrin, as 
venison, &c., is easily disposed of by the stomach, and a 
large quantity of' highly-stimulating chyle is produced 
from it. The whiter meats are, on the contrary, detained 
logger in the stomach, and furnish a less stimulant chyle. 



166 Farinaceous Aliments. 

The fomer, tli«r«fore» will be more easily digefete^ 
weak persons, while the latter will firequently nm ii 
state of aoetous fermentatton ; but tbej may, neyertk 
be prefiMrable on many occasions, inasmuch as they ini 
less stimnltts to the general System. liVe see, there 
the folly into which many popular writeis hare falia 
stating such or such an article, as being whoksoot 
otherwise ; the wkohaamenen of am aUnumi must iq 
upon iti JUnm to jnvduce the particular ^td viUci 
dSM tn queetion nunf require. Van Swieten has jo 
said, that *' to assert a thing to be wholesome, withci 
knowledge of the condition of die person for wbmi 
intended, is like a sailor pnmounoing the wind to be I 
without knowing to what port the vessel is bound/' 

Farinaceous Aliments. 

204. We are principally indebted to the iriduitrft 
nian for this iraluable addition to our nmteriu aUmentti* 
The vegetables which yield it may be said to owe t^ 
nutritive qualities to cultivation. The art of feeding ^ 
kind on so small a grain as wheat, saya Dr. Darwin^ sees 
to have been discovered in Egypt, by the intmortdi ^ 
of Ceres ; but it is probable, that it has risen to its pn^ 
advanced state progressively, and is indebted to the kbof 
of many generations for its perfection. The flour oi^^ 
contains three distinct substances ; a mueUagitumi ^\ 
tine fnktter, starchy and a peculiar substance, posfffl^l 
many of the properties of animal matter, termed ^ 
tt is to the quantity of this latter ingredient that wi^{ 
flour possesses so decided a superiority over that of l«^ 
rye, or oats, for firom these grains far. less gluten ^ ^^. 
extracted. It lamiidies by far the best ingiediefit^ 
making th&t impertafit article of diet, BrbaI>; altho^' 
it may also be mad^ of all the vurious sorts i£ gniJ^ 'i 



Wheaten Bread, the manufacture of, 167 

well as of ebestnuts^ of serdral roptd^ and of the potalx>e. 

( shall firdi doKribe the nstare of wbeatea bread> and 

then <;ompare it with that produced from other ^betances* 

The first process for rendering ferinaceous seeds esfeuloit^ 

is to grind theiki into powder^ between mill-stones^ which 

Dr« Darwin aptly terms the ** artificial teeth of society v'^ 

The fkzal thus prodooed is purified from the husk of the 

8eed> or hran, by the operation of dfting or boitir^i and 

it is then denominated flour* This, when mixed widi 

water or milk, undoubtedly possesses the power of nourish«- 

ing the body; but it wiU evidently follow^ from the obser* 

TEtions which haye been so frequently made in the piogFees 

of this woik, that in this mw state it would not be essiiy 

digestible : it would clog the stomachy and oppose those 

actions which are essential to chymification. The appli*- 

eation, however, of heat, renders the compound more easy 

to masticate as well as to digest ; whence we find, in the 

earliest history, a referoice to some process instituted fbr 

the purpose of producing this change, although the dis« 

covery of the manufacture of bread, simjde as it may 

appear to us, was probably the work of ages. It has 

been, just stated, that wheaten flour is the best adapted 

for making bread, that is to say, /oq/* bread ; this depends 

upon tiie superior quantity of gluten which it contains^ 

and which operates in a manner to b^ pres^itly eKplained^ 

The first stage of this process of purifieation consists in 

mixing the flour with water, in order to form a paste, the 

average proportion of which, is two parts of. the ktter' to 

three of the former 4 but this will necessanly vary with 

the age and quality of the flour : in general, the older and 

the better the flour, the greatsr will be the quantity d 

water required. This paste may be regarded as merely a 

viscad and dastic tissue of gluten, the interstices of which 

are filled ivitfa starchy albumen, and sugar. If, theut,' it 

be aUowed to remain for some time^ its ingredients gra«- 

dually re-act upon each other, the gluten probably per- 



168 Leaven, Barm ; the theory of their Operation 

forttaing an ' important part; by its action on the sweet 
principle, a fermmtution is established, and alcohol, car- 
bonic acid, and lastly acetic acid, are erolyed. If the 
paste be now baked, it forms a loaf full of eyes like our 
bread, but of a taste so sour and unpleasant that it cannot 
be eaten. If a portion of this old paste, or leaven, as it is 
called, be mixed with new-made paste, the fermentation 
commences more immediately, a t][uantity of carbonic acid 
is given off, but the gluten resists its disengagement, 
expands like a membrane, and forms a multitude of little 
cavities, which give lightness and sponginess to the mass. 
We easily, therefore, perceive why flour, deficient in the 
tenacity which gluten imparts to it, is incapable of making 
raised bread, notwithstanding the greatest activity may 
be given to the fermentative process by artificial additions; 
Where, however, leaven has been employed, the bread will 
be apt to be sour, in consequence of the great difficulty 
of so adjusting its proportion, that it shall not, by its 
excess, impart an unpleasant^flavour, nor, by its deficiency, 
render the bread too compact and heavy. It is for such 
reasons that, in this country, we employ barm ; a ferment 
which collects on the surface of fermenting beer. It ap- 
pears that we are indebted to the ancient Gauls for this 
practice. In Paris it was introduced about the end. of the 
Seventeenth century ; the faculty of medicine, however, 
declared it to be prejudicial to health, and it was long 
before the bakers could convince the public that bread 
baked with barm was superior to that with leaven. A 
great question arose among chemists, as to the nature of 
this barm that could produce such effects, and elaborate 
analyses were made, and theories deduced, from their 
results; but all these ingenious speculations fell to the 
ground, when it was found that barm dried^ and made 
into balls, would answer every purpose : the bakers imt* 
ported it in such a form from Picardy and Flanders, and 
when again moistened, it fermented bread aS well as the 



in Panificatum considered. 169 

recent sabstance. The presence^ thwefore, of carbonic 
acid, water, acetic acid, and alcohol, could not be esaen- 
ttal, for these ingredients were separated by the process 
of its preparation. At length it was discovered, that glu- 
ten, mixed with a vegetable acid, produced all the desired 
effects ; and such is the nature of leaven, and such is the 
compound to which barm is indebted for its value as a 
panary ferment. After the dough has sufficiently fer- 
mented, and is properly raised, it is put into the oven pre- 
viously heated, and allowed to remain till it is baked. 
The mean heat, as ascertained by Mr. TiUet, is 448^. 
When the bread is removed, it will be found to have lost 
about .onerfifth of its weight, owing to the evaporation of 
water; but this proportion will be varied by the occurrence 
of numerous circumstuices, which it is not easy to appre* 
ciate. Newly-baked bread has a peculiar odour as well as 
taste, which are lost by keeping : this shews, that some 
peculiar substance must have been formed during the 
operation, the nature of which is not understood. Bread 
differs very completely from the flour of which it is made, 
for none of the ingredients of the latter can be discovered 
in it ; it is much, more miscible with water than dough ; 
and on this circumstance its good qualities, most probably, 
in a great measure depend. It is not easy to expll^^ the 
chemical changes which have taken place. It appears 
certain, that a quantity of water, or its elements, is consoU- 
dated and combined with the flour ; the gluten, too, would 
seem to form a union with the starch and water, and thus 
to give rise to. a compound, upon which the nutritive 
qualities of bread depend. 

205. Unleavened bread consists of a mixture of meal 
and water, formed into a firm and tough cake, made as 
thin as possible, to favour its drying, and sometimes with 
the addition of butter, to render it more soluble, friable, 
and porous ; but it renders it sourer, and more apt to pro- 
duce acidity on the stomach. Pf the unleavened sorts of 



1 70 Tht iifftrent Species €f Bread. 

bread, biscuit is by ftur tke best ; aUd in all cases where 
leavened or fennented bread does not agree, its tiee cannot 
be too strongly adrocated. I shall have occasion, here'' 
after, to relate cases in which the use of common bread 
did not agree, and in which acidity of the stcMnaeh was 
cured by the substitution of biscuit* 

206. The different sorts of bread to be met widi in 
this country, may be considered under three classes ; viz. 
whiten, wheaten, and household. In the fii^t, all the bran 
is separated; in the second, only the coarser; in the 
third, none at all : so that^tie bread is made only erf* flour, 
ivhedten bread of flour and d mixture of the finer bmn, 
and household of the whole substance of the grain, widiout 
taking out either the coarse bran or fine flour* It is ne* 
cessary for the medical practitioner to understand these 
distinctions; for it will be proved that an important 
dietetic fact is connected with them. The. tendency of 
starch upon the bowels is astringent. Bread, therefore, 
which is made of the whitest flour is apt to render them 
costive ; but this is counteracted by the presence of bran, 
the scales of whieh appear to exert a mechanical action 
upon the intestines, and thus to excite l&mn into action. 
I have already stated, in the Pharmacdogia, that there 
are many bodies which have the power of thus acting 
upon the inner coats of the intestiiial canal, and of in*- 
creasing its peristaltic motion ; and it is not improbaMe, 
that the harsh and coarse texture which certain grasses 
assume in moist situations, is a wise prevision in nature 
to furnish an imteased stimulus to the intestines of the 
animals who are destined to feed upon them, at a time 
when their diminished nutritive qualities may render such 
an «ffiect salutary. The practical application of such views 
is obvious; and experience has sanctioned the propriety 
of the practice that may be founded upon them. By 
changing the quality of the bread, I have frequently sue- 
)ceeded in regulating the alvine discharges. 



Barky ^ Rye, and Oaten Bread. 171 

207. The French have mmny varieties of breeds in 
which eggs, milk^ tnd butter^ enter as ingredients. Th^ 
are in the habit of adding ammonia to the dough ; whieh^ 
during its evaporatioa in l^e oven^ raises it» and ihns adchi 
to its sponginess. 

208. Barley bread has a sweetish but not unpleasant 
taste ; it is» howerery rather viscid, and is less nutritive as 
well as less digestible than wheaten bread. It is commoB 
to mix peas-meal witth the barley, which certainly im- 
proves the bread. Rye bread is of a dark*brown colour, 
and is apt to lie heavy on the stomach ; it is also liable 
to create acescency and purging: but it appears to be 
highly nutritive. In some of the interior counties of Eng^ 
land, where their bread is often manufactured from oat^* 
meal, th«re is a mode of preparing the meal by making it 
sour ; tiie bread, instead of being hard, is thus renderMi of 
a soft texture, and from its moderate acidity is wholesonie 
to stiong persons : but invalids should, if possible, avoid 
it. In bread, however, this grain is more usually in an 
unfermented state, or it is made into flat, thin cakes, 
which are baked or roasted. The bannoek, dap^eadi 
biichinisi'iread, and ridcUe-^cakes, are the names which 
such productions have rec^ved. The jannock is oaten 
bread made into loaves. It is evident, from the health 
and vigour of the peo{de who use this grain as a prinoipri 
article tji diet, that it musi be very nutritive ; but the sto- 
mach wiU require some disciptine before it can digest it. 
Id those unaccaatomed to such food, it produces -heartn 
bam ; and it is said to occasioo, even in those with whom 
it agrees, cutaneous affections. In times of scarcitjr, 
potatoes have been made into bread; but they contain too 
muoh mucilage in proportion to their starch to afibrd a 
good article : the bread thus produced is heavy, and apt 
to evuadirfe into powder ; but such eflSscts are obviated by 
mixing a certain quantity of wheat-flour with the potatoeSi 

will also serve the purpose of making very good bread; 



172 Important tises of Bread. 

but, like the potatoe, it requires the addition of some flour. 
It is said by some, that bread, made of different kinds of 
grain, is more wholesome than that made of only one sort, 
as their qualities serve to correct one another. This is 
certainly the case with that which is commonly called 
brown bread, and which is made of a mixture of wheat 
and rye flour ; the former being of a more starchy nature 
is apt to produce costiveness, while the latter often proves 
too laxative : a due proportion of each, therefore, must 
furnish a desiiable compound. 

209. The importance of bread, as an article of diet, 
will be easily deduced from the principles upon which the 
digestion of food in the stomach has been already ex- 
plained. In addition to its nutritive qualities, it performs 
a mechanical duty of some importance. It serves to 
divide the food, and to impart a suitable bulk and con- 
sistence to it ; it is therefore more necessary to conjoin it 
with articles containing much aliment in a small space 
than where the food is both bulky and nutritive. The 
concentrated cookery of the French is rendered much more 
wholesome fnnn the large quantity of bread which that 
people use at their meals. I know fix>m personal expe- 
rience how greatly this habit can correct the evil which 
arises from rich soups and ragouts. If I eat a rich soup, 
without a considerable quantity of stale bread, I inevitably 
suffer from heartburn ; but it never offends my stomach 
when taken with such a precaution. Bread should never 
be eaten new ; in such a state it swells, like a sponge in 
the stomach, and proves very indigestible^ Care shoukl 
also be taken to obtain bread that has been duly baked. 
Unless all its parts are intimately mixed, and the fixed air 
expelled, it will be apt, in very small quantities, to produce 
acescency and indigestion. After stating the advantages 
of bread, it is necessary to make a few observatioas upon 
the «vils which it may occasionally produce ; in certain 
diseases it evidently produces a tendency to acidity : we 



Adulterations of Bread. 173 

have daily instances of this fact in children, in whom 
acidity and much alimentary disturbance follow its use. 
In early life it is scarcely admissible, on account of the 
flatulence and costiveness which it produces ; and even at 
a more advanced period it gives children a pale counte- 
nance, and breeds worms. Shebbeare goes so far as to 
say, that the rickets are so common in France only because 
the quantity of bread given to children is excessive ; which, 
by its acidity,, destroys the calcareous substance of the 
bones, and reduces them to a state of cartilage. This is 
mere idle speculation, which is in direct variance with the 
received opinions upon the subject. Where acidity occurs, 
the bread should be toasted, or well-prepared biscuit sub- 
stituted. I shall have occasion to state, in a subsequent 
part of this work, that striking changes in the urinary 
depcMiits may be produced by suspending the use of bread, 
and giving biscuit in its place. 

210. Bread has also been charged with producing evil 
consequences, from the presence of noxious principles, 
either naturally or artificially introduced into it. It will 
be necessary to direct some attention to these points. The 
presence of a peculiar poisonous principle, termed ergot, 
or spurred rye, has frequently proved a source of ext^isive 
disease : but as this subject has been ably treated in the 
various works on Toxicology, it will not be necessary to 
enter into its history on this occasion. Much has been 
said and written upon the subject of the adulteration of 
bread; but I am inclined to believe, that the evils arising 
from such a practice have been greatly exaggerated. It 
is certain, that the inferior kinds of flour will not make 
bread of suflScient whiteness to please the eye of the fasti- 
dious citizen, without the addition of a proportion of alum. 
It has been also found, that unless this salt be introduced 
into the flour, the loaves stick together in the oven, and 
will not afterwards separate from each other with that 
smooth surface which distinguishes the loaf of the baker. 



174 PuMngs, PaM0k^, Sgc. 

This ciicuumtioiice i9 probtibly owing to the action of thd 
alum upon the mucilage of the flour; whioh it coagulates. 
It has been 8aid> that the smallest quantity that can be 
employed for these purposes is from three to four ounces 
to two hundred and forty pounds of flour. It cannot be 
denied, that the introduction of a pcnrtion of alum into the 
human stomach, howeyer small, may be prejudicial to the 
exercise of its functions, and particularly to dyspeptic 
invalids. It was found by Mr. £. Davy, of Cork, that 
bad flour may be made into tolerable bread by adding, to 
each pound, from twenty to forty grains of the common 
carbonate of magnesia. The operation of this substance 
in rendering the bread lighter, has not been satisfactorily 
explained ; but, from my own experience of its efiects, I 
apprehend that it neutralises an acid which is produced 
during the fermentation of inferior flour, and, beeonung 
itself decomposed by the same action, gives out carbonic 
lM»d, and thus contributes to the sponginess of the loaf. 
The addition of salt greatly improves the digestibility of 
the bread, for reasons which have been already cimsidered. 

211. Besides breads several other preparations are 
made by the solidification of flour, such as pudding, pan*- 
cake, 8u>. The most digestiUe pudding is that made with 
bi^ad, and boiled ; flour or batttr pudding is not soeaaly 
digested ; and suet pudding is to be. omstdered as the 
most miadiievous to invalids in the whole catalogue; 
Pancake is objectionable, on account of the process of 
frying imparting a greasiness to which the dyspeptic 
stomach is not often reconciled. All pastry is an abomi^- 
nation : I verily believe, tiiat one half, at leaet, of the 
cases of indigestion which occur after dinner parties may 
be traced to this cause. 

212. Amongst the fioinaeeous aliments, the PorATOX 
holds a distinguished rank ; but its digestibility 'greatiy 
depends upon its kind, and tiie mature erf* the cookery te 
which it is subjected. That species which is known by 



The Potatoe, Riot^ ^c. 175 

.he name of tatuy pot^toe should be (rixunnod by the 

lyapeptic^ for it is bo indigestible as to pass through the 

.atestines ia an unaltered state. The meal/ potatoe, on 

the other hand> readily yields to the powers of the sto«» 

mach^ and affords a healthy nutriment ; in some respecta 

it supplies the place of bread, and should therefore be 

eaten with freedom whenever our food is concentrated. 

The process of mashing them certainly does not contribute 

to their digestibility ; by such a process they are not so 

intimately mixed with the saliva : and when they are 

impregnated with the fat of roast meat, they should be 

studiously avoided. When boiled^ care should be tsJken 

that they are not over-done ; for in such a case> they are 

deprived of their nutritious qualities. 

213. RicB is the general aliment of the people of the 
Ea8t.withwhomitan8weratiie8«»epurpow8«breaddoea 
with us. As it is not much disposed either to acescency or 
fermentation in the stomachy it furnishes a wholesome aU-» 
ment when mixed with other food ; but, if taken in large 
quantities by itself^ from its low degree of stimulant pro^ 
pertiesy it is apt to remain for a length of time in the 
stomach : this effeet is greatly increased by protracted 
boiling. Where the stomaoh is in a state of relaxation 
and debility^ it ought not to be taken without condiment ; 
it is, for this reason, found necessary in the warmer cli- 
mates to conjoin it with a considerable quantity of warm 
spices. There formerly existed a prejudice against its use, 
from a belief that it had a tendency to produce blindness. 
It is scarcely necessary to state, that such an idea has no 
foundation in truth. It is generally considered as astrin'* 
gent> and ia, therefoi*e, a popular remedy for dianhcsa ; no 
astringent principle, however, has yet been discovered in 
its composition, and it is probable that it owes its virtues, 
on such occasions, to the mild and bland mucilage with 
which it abounds, shielding the intestines from acrimonious 
humours. 



1 76 Leguminous Vegetables, or Pulses. 

214. There are various other aliments in domestic use, 
which owe their qualities to starch, such as sago, tapioca, 
arrowroot, &c. From the mucilaginous form in which 
they are usually administered to invalids, they are not so 
digestible as is generally supposed ; but where the stomach 
rejects more substantial viands, they are useful in them- 
selves, as well as proper vehicles for the administration of 
vinous stimulants. 

215. The leguminous productions, or pulses, may be 
considered as constituting the second division of farinaceous 
aliment. They differ little from grains, except in affording 
a more unctuous flour, which forms a milky solution with 
water, owing to the presence of an oily matter. Although 
they are highly nutritive, they are certainly more indi- 
gestible than seeds, and the bread they afford is apt to 
occasion flatulence, and to lie heavy on the stomach. The 
use, therefore, of this species of food is more circumscribed 
than that of the farinaceous seeds ; it is principally con- 
fined to the lower classes, and to those possessing strong 
powers of digestion. In dyspeptic habits they ought on 
no account to be allowed ; the symptoms of uneasiness 
which they produce in such persons is often alaiming : 
flatulence and colic are the common consequences of 
their action. It has been said with some truth, that 
nature herself would seem to point out the necessity of 
mixing such food with other grains, for the soil becomes 
exhausted, unless it is alternately sown with grains and 
pulses ; whereas, by such an alternation, the ground is pre- 
served in a condition to afford a constant supply of nutri- 
ment. Pulses are employed in two very difierent states ; 
in an early stage of their growth, when they are succulent; 
and when all their parts have reached maturity : in the 
former condition they are frequently acceptable to the 
stomach ; but in the latter, they are only calculated for 
those who have strong digestive powers. 

216. Peas form a wholesome and light food, -when 



MischievQUs effects of Nuts. 177 

re^n and young, but when full ^*own and dry, thpy are 
3ry indigestible : in this latter stat^ they eontribute^ in a 
iinf^rkmble d^ee« to the generation of gaci in th0 intes- 
n^s. In the.ferm of puddipg.they are, if possible, still. 
xore objiedtionable ; for, in addition ib the b^d qualities 
^hich depc^nd upon th^ir <^iapQsition> af^ thus added 
bose which arise from tenacity of texture. Beans, like 
leas, arecomi^rittively^hole^omeinitheii; immature state. 
L*he Kidney-bean being ea;ten mth.itB cod, is ^ot so. 
latulent 9s other puke : wb^a well boiled, it is ea^y of, 
ligestion, but not very nutritive. 

217* N^ts are genei;ldly supp<M3ed,to have constituted. 

iie earliest food of mankind ; and they still fu.mi$h, in 

iome cQjaQtri^s> a cjon^denable source^ of food. In thi& 

c^ouQtcy they are principally known a^ ap article of th§ 

dessert, altbaugb on. «ome occasions they are eaten with; 

OUT f<>9d ;. they.^Q^titttte.a.favoufite accon^paniinent ivit^ 

turkey; and I allude to this circumstance. in ord^r to 

guard dyspeptioB against their Uise- I was lately desired 

to see a ; person. who, after SiK^h anejan^t^ w^^ fi^iz^ with 

Tiokntipain in the region of the..duod€^uAi,.4Mx;p9^ani|ld 

veith distressing retching ; I instantly, suspeqt^ th0 <^auae, 

and the appearance of the stools which were produced 

confirmed my supposition. The chestnuts had swelled in 

the intestines, and produced an obstruction, probably at 

that psrt.o£ the duodenum where it ^^^s its exit through 

the ring of the meseiitery; or, .they might, have Ipdged in 

the sttHQfl^h, and produced an ir^jta^ion i)pon the pylcMrus^ 

With regard. to.coipposition, the chc^s^nut may perhaps b^ 

con»dered as more j9early allied to fjie ^pulse than to th^ 

nut tribe,. since it affords no oil^ by expression^ ajodfrom 

its farinaceQUS :qiiaUtiea it may even l^e^made into br^^d, 

although it is heavy, and indigestible. Its nutritive power 

must be considerable, since it forms, the chief food of the 

lower orders in the plains of Lombardy ; and it has been 

coDJectoisd, that it was the acorn so frequently mentioned 

N 



178 Esculent Roots. 

in ancient history and tradition. When eaten after dinner, 
an indulgence which can only be conceded to the most 
robust, it ought to be previously roasted ; its digestibility 
is also increased by being kept for some time after it has 
been gathered. It is at the same time thus rendered more 
palatable, by the greater evolution of its saccharine prin- 
ciple. 

218. The evils which may arise from the use of the 
chestnut are still more likely to occur after the ingestion 
of nuts, for they are more oily, as well as more viscid and 
glutinous : when eaten, they should always be accom«- 
panied with salt; but it would be wise to banish them 
entirely from our tables. It is much easier, as Dr. John- 
son has said, to be abstinent than temperate; an aphorism 
which applies with peculiar force on this ^ occasion; for 
there is a fascination in nuts which will lead moat persons, 
who once begin to eat them, to take a quantity which the 
best-disposed stomach cannot bear with impunity. Hoff- 
man observes, that dysenteric complaints are always more 
common in those years in which the harvest of nuts is 
plentiful ; and there is not a physician in any practice who 
will be inclined to doubt his statement. 

Esculent Roots. 

219. These are of two kinds; those used as food, and 
those which principally answer the purposes of condiment 
or seasoning. Under the first division may be classed 
turnips, carrots, parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, radishes, 
&c.; many of which, it will be seen, are seldom used* 
solely for aliment, but are rather brought to our tables to 
qualify our animal food. Under the second division may 
be arranged onions, garlic, horse-radish, &c. It will be* 
necessary to offer a few observations upon the qualities ot 
these several roots. 

220. The Carrot, from the quantity of saccharine 



rhe Turnip y Parsnip, Radishes, iSgc, 179 

3Aatter which it contains^ is very nutritive and slightly 
.^xative ; but it also possesses a large proportion of fibrous 
ociatter, which in some stomachs prevents the digestion of 
the root^ and it passes through the bowels with but little 
oliange : to obviate this effect^ it ought to be very thor 
roughly boiled, and it should be eaten when young. It 
a-ppears to have been introduced by the Flemings, in the 
reign of Elizabeth. The Turnip is a very excellent vege- 
table, and, although it has the character of being flatulent, 
is less liable to disagree with the stomach than the carrot ; 
it ought, however, to be well boiled, and the watery part 
separated by pressure. Lord Townshend, secretary to 
Charles I., was the person who introduced its use into 
England ; but it appears that the imcient Romans, in the 
best period of their republic, lived much upon this root. 
The Paksnip is nutritive and digestibte, although many 
persons dislike it on account of its sweet flavour. The 
Jerusalem Artichoke* is agreeable, but watery a^d 
flatulent ; it ought, therefore, never to be eaten without a 
proper accompaniment of salt and pepper. Radishes. 
All the varieties of which have a pungent and acrid taste, 
in consequence of a peculiar, stimulating matter, which 
resides in the cortical part of the root. They may be said 
to contain little else than water, woody fibre, and acrid 
matter, and cannot therefore be very nutritive ; they may 
act as a stimulant and prove useful, but they ought 
never to be eaten when old, as the quantity of inert matter 
in such a condition is apt to disagree with the stomach. 
From the consideration of radishes we pass,, by an easy 
transition, to that of onions, &c., for they appear to form 



* The reader is aware, that this root of a speciets of sun-flower has no 
botanical relation with the artichoke properly so called; its name is a 
curious specimen of verbal corruption. The word Jerusalem is a.cor- 
luption of Girar^ole, Turn Sun, or Heliotrope. It acquires the title of 
artichoke from its supposed resemblance in flavour to that vegetable. 



180 Esculent Herbs. 

the connecting link between alimentary roots and tliose 
tised principally a8 condiment. The Onion^ bomnfer, 
although classed under this latter division^ and must be 
considered as valuable on account of its stimulating matter; 
certainly contains a considerable proportion- of nourishment. 
This appears evident in their boiled state, by which process 
their acrimony is exhaled, and a sweet mucilage separate^* 
Sir John Sinclair says, that it is a well-known fact, that' a 
HighlandeTi with a few raw Onions in his pocket, and* a 
crust of bread, or some oat-cake, can travel 4;oii& almost 
incrediUe extent, for two or three days together, without 
any other sort- of food. The French are fully aware of Ifie 
quantity of nourishment this plant affords; hence the>S<Aip 
i Poignon is considered by th^ as the best of ;all'«e9lo* 
ratives. As a stimulant to the stomaeh and bow^, the 
onion, in a raw state, is certainly of valuB, antd ' this is 
much enhanced by its diuretic qualities. Tlie led^^ gitflic, 
shallot, are of the same species, and possess qtmhties of 
tlie same nature. Hohse-hadish* is a warm and pun- 
gent root, and is highly valuable to the dysp^tic w a 
stimulant ; it is, perhaps, the best of all condiments for 
the prevention of fiatidence . 

Esculent Herbs. 

221. In this class are arranged the leaves and. stalks 
of such vegetables as are eaten at table in the &na of 
" greens land salads.'' Some ancient nations, we are >told, 
were accustomed to range over fields and woods in 



* The epidiet hone is a Grecitm : «nr«f and /kiv, t. e. horse and bull, 
when prefixed to any word, were lued to express its comparatiye graat- 
ness. We have thus, A^se«>radish, or the gmOer radirii } horse-mint; 
ball-rush; &c. The great Dock is called H9}po-lapatbttiny and the bMdo 
of Alexander, from the size of its head, BiKiphabti, 



Water-cress, Lettuce, S^c^ 181 

>f £oiod> devouring, like anina^b, any wild herb they coUM 
ijQtd lU&9ly to satiafy their himger : 

** Quae sol atque imbres dedeiant, quod terra cre&rat 
Sponte suk, satis id placabat pectora donum/' 

Lucret, lib. v. 

Some herbs are still eaten in a raw state ; but they are far 
less digestible than when cooked. During the heats of 
summer they are refreshing, and are well calculated to 
assuage that febrile state which full meals df animal food 
are known to occasion. Of all these herbs, the Water- 
cress is the most beneficial; for, by operating in some 
degree -as an aromatic, it promotes digestion, and corrects 
that tendency to flatulency which other raw vegetables are 
apt to produce. According to Xenophon, the ancient 
Persians lived upon water-cresses, which they considered 
the most wholesome of vegetable productioils. The Lrt- 
TVCE is generally eaten with other herbs, in the form of a 
salad, dressed with oil and vinegar. Some difference of 
opinion has arisen with respect to the propriety of such 
additions. Go^e, of Geneva, found that vinegar retarded 
its scfluiion in the stomach ;' and oil has been stated by 
others to render it less digestible. I have generally 
found such condiments useful, and that dr^issed lettuce is 
less likely to ferment in the stomactr than that which is 
eaten without them. Oil is known to hav^ such aH effect 
in checking fbrmeiitation, and the vinegar is not found to 
promote it. The lettuce contains a narcotic'* principle ; 
and the effect of this is, in a great measare, obviated hj a 
vegetable acid. Those persons, therefore, who eat lettuce 
with a View to obtain such e£fects, ought to take it with- 
out vinegar. Whatever difference of opinion may exist 

* We are told that Galen, in the decline of life, suffered much from 
morbid vigilance, until he had recourse to eating a lettuce every evening, 
which cured him. 



182f Cucumbers y Broccoli, Cauliflower y Sgc. 

with regard to lettuce^ there is none with regard to celery^ 
the digestibility of Which is greatly increased by macera- 
tion in vinegar. Cucumbers are by far the most un- 
wholesome of all raw vegetables, and should be avoided as 
poison by dyspeptics. The vegetables which require to 
be boiled are the different species and varieties otcolewort; 
the value of which does not depend so much upon their 
nutritive quality as the tenderness of their texture. On 
this account^ the cauliflower and brocoli are the species to 
be preferred, particularly the younger sprigs of the former. 
Of the kinds where the leaves only are employed, the 
Savoy is of a sweeter and more tender texture than the 
others, particularly its central and upper leaves. The 
Cabbage tribe appear to contain a peculiar essential oil, 
whence the peculiar odour of cabbage water ; this matter 
is liable to produce offensive effects on the stomach. The 
vegetable should therefore be boiled in two successive 
waters, in order to free it entirely from the noxious ingre- 
dient, and at the same time to render its texture soft and 
digestible. Aspabagus is quickly dissolved in the sto- 
mach, and, when sufficiently boiled, is not disposed to 
create flatulence or acidity : along with its mucilage it 
frequently contains some sweetness, which affords a proof 
of its nutritive quality. From the peculiar odour which it 
imparts to the urine of those who eat it, it appears to pos- 
sess some active matter distinct from its muoilage ; and it 
is generally considered diuretic. I have, however, pre- 
pared a strong infusion, as well as extract, from it, in 
order to ascertain this point, and I have not been able to 
discover any diuretic effects from its administration in 
large doses. Asparagus is only wholesome when in an 
intermediate state, between root and plant. When older 
than this, it is remarkably acrid. 



MffereM Fruits. 183 



Fruits. 

222. These are generally regarded as articles rather of 
luxury than of food ; ajnd were we to form our opinion of 
their value from their abuse> we should certainly be rather 
disposed to class them under the head of poisons than of 
aliuients. Nothing can be more mischievous to the inya- 
lid than large quantities of apples^ pears, and plums, in 
the form of dessert, after the stomach has been already 
loaded, and its good nature taxed to the utmost by its 
Epicurean master. But, when taken under other circum- 
stances, they contribute to health, and appear to be provi- 
dentially sent at a season when the body requires that 
cooling and antiseptic aliment which they are so well 
calculated to afford. It is not my intention to enter into 
a minute history of the several kinds ; but it will be useful 
to take a general view of the qualities which distinguish 
each division, and to state the circumstances which render 
them useful or objectionable. 

223. Fruity may be arranged under the following 
heads : stone fruits, the apple species, small-seeded fruits, 
small, berries, and farinaceous fruits. 

224. The stone fruits have been denounced as the least 
digestible specks by popular acclamation, and I am in- 
clined to acquiesce in the truth of the assertion as a gene- 
ral proposition ; but much of the mischief that has been 
attributed to their use has arisen from the unripe state in 
which they were eaten. They are, however, certainly less 
digestible than other species, and more liable to undergo 
fermentation in the stomach. The hard pulp of certain 
plums remain also in the alimentary canal for s^ long time, 
and are frequently passed without having been materially 
changed. The ripe peach is the most delicious, as well as 
one of the most digestible of the stone fruity ; the apricot 



584 Different Ptmts. 

18 equally wholesome; but the nectarine is liable to disagree 
with some stomachs. Cherries are far less digestible: 
their pulpy texture and sirihs are not easily disposed of 
by the stomach; and as the sweetest species contain a 
considerable exeesd 6f acid, they may be ol]jectloniabIe in 
sonle cases, and desirable in others. The apple species is 
not so dilute and watery as the foregoing fruits^ and is 
less apt to pass into a state of noicious fermentaltion ; but 
its texture is firmer, and on that account it is i^tamed 
loiter ii\ the stomach, and often proves iiidigeistible. The 
same observations apply to pears, except that tbeir texture 
being in general less firm, they are less objeetionaUe. 
The orange, when perfectly ripe, may be allowed to the 
most fastidious dyspeptic ; but the white, or irmet drin, 
JEfhoutd be scrupulously rejected, for it is not more d^teti«- 
ble than leather. The small-seeded fruits are, by far, the 
most wholesome. Of these, the ripe strawberry and rasp- 
berry deserve the first rank. The grape is also cooling 
and antiseptic, but the husks and seeds should be rejected. 
The gooseberry is less wholesome, on account of &e in«* 
digestibility of the skin, which is too frequently swuUowed. 
The fruits to be classed under the head of sm&ll berries, 
ai'e the cranberry, the bilberry, and the red whortleberry. 
These are seldom eaten, except when baked, arid in that 
^ate their acescency seldom proves injurious. The fari- 
naceous fruits are universally unwholesome. The metoti, 
"virhich is the principal one, is very apt to disagri^e with 
Weak stomachs, and should n^ver be eat^n after dittner, 
without a plentiful Supply of salt and pepper. 

225. The most pKop^r periods fbr ind4ilgenOe in fbuit 
appear to be the morning aftd etenmg. On soine OCca« 
bions it m^y be tiiken with advantage at hmSLiMii 0> 
three hpiits befbre dinner, and it afibrds a light and agnee^ 
abli^ repast if taken an hbUr before bed-time ; but these 
regulations are to bO ihfluehced by circumstances which 
ho general rule can possibly embrace. 



Intermsi^re qf Aliments. t85 



223. 'B3r'Oookety;'frait, oAepiriie: uimlKoIesomei rb$sf 

>aked, afford' a pldosodit- Fspadit ; and fifom their laaoAive 
properthsB utei'-wttt'odapted tac^ertuft oaHeff;of dyapiqm 
Prtnt^ pies> if tfie paslry be entirety te^oted^ mo^be con- 
sictei^d ' TS^imble nfiftibles o£ diet. ' DHeid f riiils aie^ by- n!^ 
itfeantr so uaeitki or^fe a& is geaohjilly imagmed; iiie 
q^xatitity af sagar which, entein into their compositioif 
disfKM^ tbierm'tn fermenlaitfofii 

1397 * Havidg ofibr^ some gaieral rales with reiipect to 
tbe circutDStaiices which ivender food salutary or nbztous, 
abd illustrated these principles by aa examibatioa of th# 
several dasses and spleeies of ahmeiits; it rentains^ for me 
to say a few words ufotk the subject of iheir intcpnniziaf e« 
I have iadr^ady^ in the introduetibn of this work {&), alluded 
to the mischief which arises from the too^prevailiag fashion 
of iiltlt)daeing at our loeais an alasbst indefinite suecessioii 
of incompatible dishes. The stomaeh being diM^s^ed 
With sotip^ the digestion of which, ftom thfi very nature of 
the operatioiid which am necesswy for its completion (81X 
w6Qld in itself be a sufficient labour for that organ, id next 
tempted with fish, rendered indigestible from its sauces ; 
then with flesh and fowl ; the vegetable world, as an in* 
telligent reviewer* has observed, is ransacked fWMn tho 
cryptogamia upwards ; and to this niiscellaneous aggregate 
is added the pernicious pasticoios of the pastry-cook, apd 
the complex combinations of Ihe confectioner. All th4se 
evihi, and many more, have those who move in the ordi- 
nary society of the present day to contend with. It is 
not to one or two good dishes, even abuhdandy indulged 
in, but to the overloading the stomach, that such istrong 
objections are to be urged; nine persons in ten eat as 
much soup and fish as would amply suffice for a meal, 

* See the review of my Pharmacologia, in the Journal of Science 
and the Arts, No. xxviii. 



186 Plurality of Food. 

a»d as far as soup and fish are concerned, .would rise from 
the table, not only satisfied but saturated. A new stimulus 
appears in the form of stewed beef, or c6telettes a la 
suprhne : then comes a Bayonne or Westphalia ham, or a 
pickled tongue, or some analogous salted, but proportion- 
ately indigestible dish^ and of each of these enough for a 
single meal. But this is not all; game ficdlows; and to 
this again succeeds the sweets, and a quantity of cheese. 
The whole is crowned with a variety of flatulent fruits and 
indigestible knick-knacks, included imder the name of 
dessert, in which we must not forget to notice a mountain 
of sponge cake.* Thus, then, it is, that the stomach is 
made to receive, not one full meal, but a succession of 
meals rapidly following each other, and vying in their 
miscellaneous and pernicious nature with the ingredients 
of Macbeth's caldron. Need the philosopher, then, any 
longer wonder at the increasing number and severity of 
dyspeptic complaints, with their long train of maladies, 
amongst the higher classes of society ? " Itmumerabiks 
morbos nan miraberis, coquas numera*'' But it may be 
said, that this is a mere tirade against quantity ; against 
over-distention of the stomach; that it argues nothing 
against variety of food, provided the sum of all the dishes 
does not exceed that which might be taken of any single 
one. Without availing myself of the argument so usually 
applied against plurality of food, that '' it induces us to 
eat too much," I will meet the question upon fair grounds. 
It is evident that the different varieties of food requite 

'^ The custom of introducing cake after a rich entertainmeDt is v^>7 
ancient; but the cakes or '^muitacea** of the Romans were very diffe^^^ 
compositions. They consisted of meal, aniseed, cummin, and several 
other aromatics : their object was to remove or prevent the indigestion 
which might occur after a feast. A cake was therefore constantly ^^^ 
duced, ft)r such a purpose, after a marriage entertainment; and h«"^ 
the origin of the " Bride Cake," which in modem times is an exceU^ 
invention (ot producing, instead oicuringy indigestion. 



Why simple Food is more digestible 187 

very different exertions of the stomath for their digestion ; 
it may be that the gastric juice varies in coniposition» 
according to the specific nature of the stimulus which ex- 
cites the vessels to secrete it ; but of this we are uncer- 
tain^ nor is it essential to the argument : it is sufficient to 
know^ that one species of food is passed into the duo- 
denum in a chymified state in half the time which is 
required to effect the same change in another. Where, 
then^ the stomach is charged with contents which do not 
harmonise with each other in this respect, we shall have 
the several parts of the mixed mass at the same time in 
different stages of digestion : one part will therefore be 
retained beyond the period destined for its expulsion /while 
another will be hurried forward before its change has been 
sufficiently completed. It is then highly expedient, par- 
ticularly for those with weak stomachs, to eat but one 
species of food, so that it may be all digested and expelled 
at nearly the same period of time ; that when the duodenal 
digestion has been fully established, the operations of the 
stomach shall have ceased. I have, on a former occasion 
(98), insisted upon the importance of such a regul^^tion, 
and it now leads me to make some remarks. upon the 
periods best adapted for our meals, and upon the intervals 
which should be allowed between them. 



1$S. 



ON TH£ PERIODS BEST ADAPTED FOR MEALS, 
AND ON THE INTERVALS WHICH SHOULD 
ELAPSE BETWEEN EACH. 



228. It is not extraordinary thai a duorepaoey of opinion 
should exist u|Mm a question which involvea so many 
flnctuatiiig cirduaastances. Gontrov^sy upon thki» bb 
npon many other sulgeets of diet^ has engendoxed a dis- 
belief in its importanqe ; and this soeptieiflni has given a 
plausible. pre^t for indolence on th^ eine haa4» and pro- 
traof ed fasting on the other, as the iviahea or habits of 
mankind m%y have rendered most agc^eable. It wiU 
therefore be difficult to eta vines the public of the neces- 
sity qf those regulations which are so essential for the 
inaantenance of health or for the cuvo of (tisease. We 
hate been told f hat the best time for dining i6>. '^for ^ 
rich tnan, when hx can get an appetite, and for a poor one, 
VfheM he can get food.'' But appetite in hefilth is xegiilsted 
by habi|;; and in disease it acts but as an impei&ot moni- 
tor. Certfldh gqneial principles, tfaerefol:^, deduced ft^. 
observation and experience, must be laid dowa fot oof 
guidance ; and these again in their application must be 
modified and adapted to the circumstances of every part^' 
cular case. 

229. All physicians concur in advocating the import- 
ance of regularity, both as it regards the number of meals 
and the periods at which they are taken. Those who 
have weak stomachs will, by such a system, not only 
digest more food, but will be less liable to those affecUons 
which arise from its imperfect assimilation, because, as 
Dr. Darwin has justly observed, they have, in such a case, 
both the stimulus of the aliment they take, and the periodi- 
cal habit, to assist the process. The periods of hunger and 



Lunchedm generally olgectwnahk. 1)89 

thiist M^ \m(k)ubtedly;G8taifuted yii&i cMain portions 'of 
time, or degrees of eochftHfllion/ or otber diurnal litfbits iof 
life.; and if the pain of kniiger be not Telfei^^ by' taking 
food at the usiialtiine, it'is' liable toosease ttill the ^neitt 
period of time or other habits reeor. Ais these "peti^klB 
^Ust vary in every individual, acoor£ng :to the pdw€^ Of 
digestion, the decree: of exeMse taken^ ^nd the qtiMity of 
the i<ibd, it fcequchtly bec6mes neceseary ;iQ ^^ivilised Kfe, 
to bare recoiurse to intermediate 'meals, or h&icheons, in 

4 

order to sup^drt the pollers of the stomach during the 

long interval which may occur between the cotiY^n^ional 

periods of repast. But to the dye^eptic patient, in search 

of health, such indulgencies are lurely to be penbitted ; 

unleto, indeed, the ctrcumstanees under which he is placed 

leave him no dption^betweaen^long fasting and supptemeht-* 

ary! refection* I am/more anxious to-in^presisi this precept 

upon.tiie misdstof invalids, as the ansiiety of friends, and 

the popular errors which exist upon the subject of diet^ 

are. too. ^t to establish 'the mischievous belief, t&at *' a 

Iktle and aften*^ will be more likely to, restore -the languid 

stonach'to its healthy tone than moderate meals at more 

psotraetedintervals. The speciotts ciphcirism of Dr< Teinple, 

that '^tbestoolaoh of an invalid is like a^schoolboy, always 

at mischief unless it be employed,'^ has Occasioned more 

dyspe|^ disease than that rei^pe^table physician c6uld 

ever have cured, had bis .practice b^^n as sucii^essful Hb 

that of ^sculapius, €md his life aslcfng as that of an ante-* 

diluvian. The diecury upon which this Obj€<etion rests' hais 

already been exj^ined <d8). <tlite natural process of di<- 

gestion is thus disturbed, and the healthy action of the 

stiDBUtch, 39 eviinced by the return of moderate appetite, is 

entir^l prevented. In answer to this reasoning, the pa- 

tisat will sometimes tell you, that frequent refreshment 

is essential to his comfort; that a sensation of Faintness 

obliges iiim to fly to such a resource, in order to rescue 

himself ffom the distress which it occasions. This, in 



1 90 The Number of Meats. 

general, is an artificial want« created by habit, and must 
be cored by restoring the patient to regular meals, whicli 
is to be effected by gradually lengthening the intervals of 
eating. But, since no general rule is mthout its excep- 
tioBs« so it may be observed, that there are cases of disease, 
in which the stomach is unable to bear any considerable 
quantity of aliment at one time, whence it becomes indis- 
pensable to repeat it at short intervals, in order to afford a 
suflicient proportion of nutriment; but as the patient 
acquires strength, such a system should be gradaallf 
abandoned. 

230. But, though the advantage of regular meals it 
stated periods is desirable, it has been much disputed how 
many should be dlowed in the day : some physicians hare | 
considered one, others two, three, or even five necessaiy. 
It is, perhaps, impossible to lay down a general rule that ■ 
shall apply to every particular case. In some persm, 
the food rarely remains longer than three hours m the 
stomach; in others four, five, or even six houis. It^ 
evident, that the repetition of the meals ought to be regu- 
lated by this circumstance, always avoiding the extremes 
of long fasting and repletion. Some. nations have be^ 
satisfied with one meal a day; but the stomach would 
thus be oppressed with too large a'quantity, and in tbe 
interval would suffer from the want of some nounshment 
in it. Such a plan, therefore, is neither calculated /^r 
persons of robust health, and who are engaged in much 
bodily exertion, and consequently require large suppli^' 
nor for those of a weak habit, who are not able either to 
take or to digest such a quantity of aliment in a sisg^^ 
meal as will be sufficient to supply the waste of the body 
during twenty-four hours. Celsus recommends the healthy 
to take food rather twice in the day than once; and.SaD^ 
torius says, that '' the body becomes more heavy and un- 
easy after six pounds taken at one meal, than aftisr eig^^ 
taken at three ; and that he who makes but one. meal in 



The Quality of the different Meals. 191 

the day, let him eat muoh or little, is purauing a ByBteoi 
that must ' ultimately injure him." In my opinion, an 
invalid may safely take three frugal meals ; or/ on some 
occasions, even four, provided a certain quantity of exer- 
cise be insisted upon. It is reported, that when Alexasnder 
the Great turned away his cooks, on proceeding upon a 
march, he observed that he had no further occasion for 
such assistants, as he carried with him superior cooks ;-— 
a long morning's journey to create an appetite for his 
dinner, and a friigal dinner to give a relish to his supper. 

231. I shall now consider the nature of the didfer^t 
meals, and the periods at which they can be taken with 
the greatest advantage ; repeating^ however; that all geite- 
ral rules mu8t> be modified in their application according 
to particular circumstances. ' 

332. Breakfast. This is, perhaps, the most natural, 
and' not the least important of our meals; for, since many 
hours must have intervened since the last meal, the stx^ 
mach ought to be in a ccnxdition to receive a fresh supply 
of aliment. As all the food in the body has, during the 
night, been digested, we might presume, that a person in 
the -morning ought to feel an appetite on rising. This^ 
however, is not always the' fact; the gastric juice does 
not appear to be secreted in any quantity during sleeps 
while the « muscular energies of the stomach, although -in- 
vigorated by repose, are not immediately called into action : 
it is therefore advisable to allow an interval to pass before 
we commence the meal of breakfast. We seem to depart 
more from the custom of our hardy ancestors, with regard 
to breakfast, than any * other meal. A maid of honour' in 
the court of Elizabeth breakfasted upon beef, and drank 
ale after it; while the sportsman; and even the day la- 
bourer of the present day frequently breakfast upon tea. 
The periods of their meals, however,' were so genemlly 
different from those of modern times, that we cannot esta- 
blish any useful comparison between them, without taking 



192 A Uquid Breakfast ; why salutary. 

fflt^-^eensi^eratioir the oolhtevaloiDcumBtaiices ^hioh. janat 
have infliii^cisd • thmr op^vfttionj The wdiditjr^ of our brdak* 
fiust should b0 regulated, by the labour atid ^exemise to. be 
tiken, and to the >ttme*of dining. Where the dipner Jtouv 
is late, we sfadttld recommend a ihore nutritious meal, in 
order, to supersede the necesBity of Juncheon, or. what dsd 
French call tin dSfenner d lafourehktte. At the 'Same 
time it must be remembered, that dyspeptie invalids are 
frequently incommoded by such a repast, if 'it be copious. 
Heartburn is a common efiect of a heavy breakfast; espe^ 
cially if it be accompanied with much/dihiting liquid ; and 
a question has consequently arisen as tQ the propriety of 
taking much fluid on these occasions. Some havtf recom- 
fiiended « dry breakfast, as peculiarly wholesome; and we 
have been told, that the celebrated -Marcus Antoni^ius 
made a rule to eat a hard biscuit -the moment he got up. 
I think 'it will not be difficult to shew the reasons* why 
hquiite are essentially necessary at this meal.' Tosay no- 
tiiing of the instinctive desire which we all feel , fbr them, 
it is evident that there is a' certain aerimoiiy and rankmess 
in all our secretions tit that ttmej ^ihe breath haaffe- 
quentlya peculiar taint in'the morning> -which: is not per« 
e€ptible at subsequent periods of the day. This may be 
efpluned by the loss which the fluids o# the body have 
sustained by perspirationV as 'iv^ll as 'by the quality k>f 
nei^Iy-^iaborated matter introduoed into ibhe cireulatiob 
dating isleep. ' ^e experiments of 'iSancterius have fully 
demonstrated the superior- power Asleep m promoting the 
f>ef^rati<^n ; insomuch, that a person^ sleeping heaHhAdly> 
alid' without any unnatural means to.' promote. it, will,* in a 
given space of time, perspire insensibly twice as much as 
when awake. This fact is sufficient to prove the necessity 
ef a 14^q^(ad breakfast. Every physician, ii\ the eourse>^f 
his practice, must have been consulted upon the propriety 
of tsdLing meat, tea, or cofiee, at breakfast. I shall,- there^ 
fiore, offer to the profession the results of my ie:tperience 



Breakfast. — Dinner. \ 93 

upon this subject ; and I am encouraged in this duty by a 
conviction of the advantages which have arisen from my 
views of the question. A person who has not strong 
powers of digestion, is frequently distressed by the usual 
association of tea with bread and butter, or, what is more 
injurious, with hot buttered toast or muffin; the oily part 
of which is separated by the heat of the liquid, and re- 
mans in the stomach, producing, on its cardiac orifice, an 
irritation which produces the sensation of heartburn. On 
siich occasions I always recommend dry toast, without any 
addition. New bread, or spongy rolls, should be carefully 
avoided. Tea, to many persons, is a beverage which con- 
tains too little nutriment : I have therefore found barley 
water, or a thin gruel, a very useful substitute. A gentle- 
n^an some time since applied to me, in consequence of an 
acidity which constantly tormented him during the interval 
between breakfast and dinner, but at no other period of 
the day : he had tried the effects of milk, tea, coffee, and 
cocoa, but uniformly without success. I advised him to 
eat toasted bread, with a slice of the lean part of cold 
mutton, and to drink a large cup of warm barley water, 
for the purpose of dilution. Since the adoption of this 
plan he has entirely lost his complaint, and continues to. 
enjoy his morning diversions without molestation. Hard 
eggs, although they require a long period for their diges- 
tion, are not generally offensive to the stomach ; they may 
thierefore be taken with propriety, whenever, from necessity 
or choice, the dinner is appointed at a late season. 

233. Dinner. Among the Romans this was rather 
considered, as a refreshment to prevent faintness; than as a 
meal to convey nourishment. It consisted p]*incipally of 
some light repast, without animal food or wine; but in 
modem times it is considered the principal meal, ^t which 
every species of luxurious gratification is indulged in. With 
regard to the proper period at which invalids should dine, 
physicians entertain but one opinion ; it should be in the 



194 The Dinner hour. 

middle of tht day, or at about two or three o'clock. Sir 
A. Carlisle ban justly obaerredy that it is thus best sdapted 
to the dedine of animal vigour, because it affiwds a timelj 
replenishment before the evening waning^ of the vital pow- 
ers, and which naturally precedes the hour of rest ; besids 
which, the custom tends to prevent intemperance; ^ 
late hours aad a consequent state of exhaustion demttid, 
or seem to justify an excessive indulgence in strong drini^ 
and in variety of food. The exact period, however, of dinoer 
must be directed by the physician with reference to die 
necessary habits of his patient, the nature and time of bii 
breakfast, and, above all, to the rapidity or slowness of hb 
digestion* I will iUustmte the importance of this preeejit 
by the relation of a case which lately foil under my iniQ^ 
diate notice and care. A gentleman, resident in adistu^ 
part of the country, appUed for my advice under the follow- 
ing circumstances. His health was generally good, ^^ 
he had lost all appetite for his dinner, and constantly cx' 
perienced.a sensation of weight and uneasiness lUier ii^ 
meal: I prescribed sosae laxative and lutter medicines, 
and Bftet a fortnight bad elapsed I again saw him. H< 
then told me that he had not experienced thesensatioitf 
of which he bad complained for some ttms^ but that tk 
circamstance aJTorded him but little encouragement, as hi 
had unifoimly found the same beneficial change wbeoeTet 
he resided in London, which he was at a loss to ezpbio, 
as he took the same exercise in the country. I then ui- 
quired whether the hour at which he dined was the saise 
in both situations ? when it appeared, that in the coontiy 
he dined at three, and in London at about »u[. I iassit 
dia/tely suspected the origin of the complaint, and (ott^' 
nately touched the spring which unfolded the whole secret: 
his digestion was remarkably slow, and the dinner in t^ 
country was served up before the breakftst had been duly 
drgestied^ By my advice this evil was lemedied ; and ht 
has never since had any reason to complain of wast ^ 



Tea.. — Supper. 195 

appetite, or of the weight and oppression which h^d so 
long djistressed him. 

234. Tea. I have already stated my reasons (146) for 
considering this repast as salutary; and where it is prac- 
ticable, exercise should follow it. 

235. SuppBR. In the time of EU^betb, the nobility 
and gentry were accustomed to dine at eleven^ to sup 
between five and six, and to go to bed at ten. It is th^re-; 
fore evident, that any argument, in favour of this meal^ 
founded upon the healthy condition of our ancestors, must 
be fallacious. By supper, in modem times, we understand 
a late meal just before bed-time. But as sleep is not 
favourable to every stage of digestion, it is very ques- 
tionable whether retiring to rest with a full stomach can, 
under any circumstances, be salutary. During the first 
part of the process, or that of chymification, a person so 
situated may perhaps sleep quietly, upless indeed the 
morbid distension of the stomach should impede respi- 
ration, and occasion distress ; but when the food has passed 
out of the stomach, and the processes of chylification and 
sanguification have been established, the natural pfopen-p 
sity of the body is for activity, and the invalid awakes at 
this period, and remains in a feverish state for some 
hours. Upon this general principle, then, suppers are to be 
avoided ; that is to say, hearty suppers^ which require the 
active powers of the stomach for their digestion. The 
same objection cannot he urged against a light repast, 
which is generally useful to dyspeptics ; and it has been 
truly and facetiously observed, that " some invalids need 
not put on their night-caps, if they do not first bribe their 
stomachs to good behaviour.'' An egg lightly boiled, or a 
piece of dry toast, with a small quantity of white wine 
negus, will oft^ secure a tranquil night, which would 
otherwise be passed with restlessness. Amongst the in- 
tellectual part of the community, there has ever existed a 
strong predilection in favour of suppers ; the labour of the 



1 96 Of tht QuoNtittf of Food 

day has been performed ; the hour is sacred to conviviality 
and the period is one which is not likely to be intemiptei! 
by the calls of business. To those in health, sacli indnl- 
gencies may be occasionally allowed ; but the physiciaa 
should be cautious how he gives his sanction to tli«r 
wholesomeness. The hilarity* which is felt at this perioi 
of the day must not be received as a signal for repaii^ 
to the banquet, but, as an indication of the sanguificatioi 
of the previous meal (105). 

On the Quantity of Food that ought to si 

TAKEN AT DIFFERENT MeALS. 

236. There is no circumstance connected with dir. 
which popular writers have raised into greater impoTtast 
and some medical practitioners have even deemed it ne 
cessary to direct that the quantity of food, appropriated t 
each meal, should be accurately estimated by the balan« 
Mr. Abernethy says, that " it would be well if the p* 
would follow the advice of Mr. Addison, given in tuJ 
Spectator, of reading the writings of L. Comaro ; ^^ 
having naturally a weak constitution, which he seemed t^) 
have ruined by intemperance, so that he was expected t« 
die at the age of thirty-five, did at that period adopts 
strict regimen, allowing himself only twelve ounces ofW 
daily.*' When I see the habits of Comaro so incessantij 
introduced as an example for imitation, and as the standp 
of dietetic perfection, I am really inclined to ask wp 
Feyjoo, — did God create Lewis Cornaro to be a rule fr' 
all mankind in what they were to eat and drink ? Nothi^S 
can be more absurd than to establish a rule of weig^b^^ 
measure upon such occasions. Individuals differ bo^ 

each other so widely in their capacities for food, that to 

* ■ • . 

* Breakfast has been considered the nieal of friendship ; D'^'^'^* 
that of etiquette; and Supper the Jeast of wit. 



to be taken at different Meals. 197 

SLttempt the construction of a universal standard, is little 
less absurd than the practice of the philosophical tailors 
of Laputa, who wrought by mathematical calculation, and 
entertained a supreme contempt for those humble and illi- 
terate fashioners who went to work by measuring the per- 
son of their customer; but Gulliver tells us, that the 
worst clothes he ever wore were constructed on abstract 
principles. How then, it may be asked, shall we be able 
to direct the proportion of food which it may be proper for 
an invalid to take ? I shall answer this question in the 
words of Dr. ' Philip, whose opinion so exactly coincides 
with my own experience, that it would be difficult to dis- 
cover a more appropriate manner of expressing it. ''The 
dyspeptic should carefully attetid to the first feeling of 
satiety. There is a moment when the relish given by the 
appetite ceases : a single mouthful taken after this, op- 
presses* a weak stomach. If he eats slowly, and carefully 
attends to this feeling, he will never overload the stomach.'' 
' But that such an indication may not deceive him, let him 
remember to eat slowly. This is an important condition ; 
for when we eat too fast, we. introduce a greater quantity 
of food in the stomach than the gastric juice can at once 
combine with ; the consequence of which is, that hunger 
may continue for some time, after the stomach has received 
more than would be sufficient, under other circumstances, 
to induce satiety. The advantage of such a rule over 
every artificial method by weight and measure, must be 
obvious ; for it will equally apply to every person, under 
whatever condition or circumstances he may be placed. 
If he be of sedentary habits, the feeling of satiety will be 
sooner induced; and if a concurrence of circumstances 
should have invigorated his digestive powers, he will find 
no difficulty in apportioning the increase of his food, so as 
to meet the exigencies of the occasion. 

237. Although it must be admitted, that we all take 
more solid food in health than may be necessary for sup- 



198 The Athletic Weight. 

porting th& body in its healthy state ; yet it is important 
to know, that too great a degree of abstinence will also 
tend to weaken and distress both mind and body. Men 
who in the earlier ages, froi^ a mistaken notion of religion, 
confined their diet to a few figs, or a crust of bread and 
water, were so many visionary enthusiasts; and the ex-* 
eessive abstinence to which some religious orders are sub- 
jected, has proved one of the greatest sources of modem 
superstition. The effects of feeding below the healthy 
standard, are also obvious in the diseases of the poor and 
ill-fed classes in many parts of England and Ireland ; and 
these are still more striking in those districts where the 
food is chiefly or entirely vegetable, and therefore less 
nutritious. It is also w^l known, that the obstinate fasting 
of maniacs often occasions a disease resembling the sea 
scurvy. 

238. Those who are induced from their situation in life 
constantly to exceed the proper standard of diet, vrill pre- 
serve their health by occasionally abstaining from food^ or 
rather, by reducing the usual quantity, and Uving low, or 
mmgre^ as the Frenoh call it. A poached egg, or a basin 
«f broth, may on such occasions be substituted fm* the 
greaser solids. The advantage of such a practice hieus not 
only been sanctkmed by experience, but demoastrated by 
experiment. The history of the art of ^^truinimg*' will 
furnish us with some curicms &cts upon this subject. It 
is well known that race-horses and fighting^ocks, as well 
as men, cannot be preserved at their athletic weight, or at 
the " top of their ccmdition,'' for any length of time ; and 
that every attempt to foroe its continuanoe is followed by 
disease. A person, therefore, in robust health, should 
diminish the proportion of his food, in order that he may 
not attempt to force it beyond the athletic standard. I 
am particularly anxious to impress tibia impcNiant precept 
upon the mind of the junior practitioner, as I have, in the 
course of my professional experience, sem much nusdiief 



CautioM agaimt Qv^-Jfeeding. 1 99 

ariae from a neglect of it. A person a,fter an attack Of 

acute disease, when his appetite returns, is in the condition 

of a pugilist who is about to enter upon a system of trainn 

ing i with thi^ difference, that he is more obnoxious to thoae 

evila whic^b aie likely to accrue from over^^Qeding^ In a 

statei of debility and emaciation^ without any disease, widi 

a voracious appetite, he is prompted to eat largely and fire-' 

quently ; and he is exhorted by those not initiated in the 

mysteries of the medical art, to negle^ct no opportunity to 

'' gei up his strength" The plan succeeds for a certain 

time, his strength increases daily, and all goes on weU ; 

but, suddenly, his appetite fails, he becpmea again unwelli 

and fever or some other mischief assails him. To the 

medical practitioner the cause of the relapse is obvious : 

he has attempted to force his strength too suddenly and 

violently beyond that athletic standard which corresponds 

with the vital condition of his constitution, 

289. Any sudden transition from estabhshed habits, 
both with regard to the quantity and quality of food, is 
injudicious. This precept is the more important, as per- 
sons who have too freely indulged, and begin to feel the 
bad effects of their excesses, are disposed to alter their 
habits without the preliminary preparations. They leap 
at once from the situation which gives them pain or fills 
them with alarm, instead of quietly descending by the 
steps which would secure the safety of their retreat. 

240. After long fasting, we ought also to be careful 
how far we indulge; this is a caution given to us by 
Avicenna, and practical physicians must be well aware of 
the penalty which attends a disobedience of it. When a 
famine occurred in the city of Bocbara, those who had 
lived on roots and herbs, on their return to bread and 
flesh, filled themselves greedily, and died. But we need 
not search the annals of former times for an illustration ; 
persons who have been enclosed in coal mines fpr sever^ 
days without food, in consequence of the accidental falling 



200 Influence of the Mind 

in of the surrounding strata, have not unfrequently lost 
their lives from the too assiduous administration of food 
rfter their extrication. During the period of my student- 
ship at Cambridge, Elizabeth Woodcock was buried under 
the snow for the space of eight days : on her being found, 
she was visited by those to whom so extraordinary an ad- 
venture presented any interest ; and I can state, from my 
personal knowledge of the fact, that she died in conse- 
quence of the large quantity of sustenance with which she 
was supplied. In the first volume of the Memoirs of the 
Philosophical Society of Manchester, the case of a miner 
is recorded, who after remaining for eight days without 
food, was killed by being placed in a warm bed, and fed 
with chicken broth. 

241. The advantages which are produced by rendering 
food grateful to invalids are so striking, that the most 
digestible aliment, if it excite aversion, is more ii\jurious 
than that which, though in other respects objectionable, 
gratifies the palate. If feelings of disgust or aversion are 
excited, the stomach will never act with healthy energy 
on the ingesta; and in cases of extreme dislike, they are 
either returned, or they pass through the alimentary canal 
almost unchanged. On the other hand, the gratification 
which attends a favourite meal is, in itself, a specific sti- 
mulus to the organs of digestion; especially in weak and 
debilitated habits. In the sixth edition of my Pharma- 
cologia, I published a case which was related to me by 
Dr. Merriman, highly illustrative of the powerful influence 
of the mind upon these organs. A lady of rank, labouring 
under a severe menorrhagia, sufiered with that irritable 
and unrelenting state of stomach which so commonly 
attends uterine affections, and to such a degree, that every 
kind of aliment and medicine was alike rejected. After 
the total failure of the usual expedients to procure relief> 
and the exhaustion of the resources of the regular practi- 
tioner, she applied to the celebrated Miss Prescott, and 



upon the Digestion. 201 

„» ■«««,«. by «,e mysun,™ .pdl. of ^ «od». 
Circe. She. immediately, to the astonishment of all her 
friends, ate a beef-steak, with a plentiful accompaniment 
of strong ale ; and she continued to repeat the meal every 
day, for six weeks, without the least inconvenience ! But 
the disease itself, notwithstanding this treacherous amnesty 
of the stomach, continued with unabated violence, and 
shortly afterwards terminated her life. On the other hand, 
I could cite several cases to shew, that the most nutritive 
and digestible aliment may be rejected by the stomach, if 
any impression against its salubrity be produced. I re- 
member a case in which, from some groundless suspicion, 
the idea of the food having been poisoned by copper was 
introduced, the persons at table became sick, one or two 
absolutely vomited, and the remainder complained of dis- 
tress in the stomach and bowels. 



Conduct to be pursued previous and 

SUBSEQUENT TO MeALS. 

242. As dietetic regulations are intended for the use 
of those who are either suffering under disease, or are com- 
pelled, from the precarious state of their health, to attend 
to every circumstance which may be likely to preserve it, 
it is scarcely necessary, in a professional work, to apologise 
for the introduction of advice which, to the robust and 
healthy, may appear frivolous and unnecessary. It is 
admitted, that nature never contemplated the necessity of 
confining men to a certain routine of habits ; nor did she 
contemplate, as far as we can learn, the existence of those 
diseases which may render such discipline necessary. We 
have in this place only to inquire into the habits which 
are most favourable or hostile Xo the process of digestion, 
and then to form a code for the direction of. those who 
stand in need of such artificial assistance. 



202 Ejxrcise, without Fatigue, 



243* Exercise in the open air is essential to^ the welt* 
being of every person ; but its degree mu^ be regulated 
by the circnmstanoes nnder which the individual is placed. 
The interval between breakfast and dinner is the period 
for active exertion; and the ai|o3rnient of it, when not 
attended with severe fatigue^ will strengthen and invigorate 
all the functions of the body. This, too, is the period 
wh^i the mind may direct its energies with the greatest 
chance of success ; but it is important to remark, that the 
valetudinarian and dyspeptic ought never to take bis prin-^ 
dpal meal in a state of fatigue: and yet I would ask, 
whether there is a habit more generally pursued, or more 
tenaciously defended ? Ay, and defended too upon prin 
ciple; — ^the invalid merchant, the banker, the attorney, 
the government clerk, are all impressed with the same 
belief, that after the sedentary occupations of the day, to 
walk several miles to their villas, or to fatigue themselves 
with exercise before their dinner, or rather early «upper, 
will sharpen their tardy stomachs, and invigorate their 
feeble organs of digestion. The consequence is obvious : 
instead of curing, such a practice is calculated to per- 
petuate, and even aggravate the malady under which they 
may suffer, by calling upon the powers of digestion at a 
period when the body is in a state of exhaustion from 
fatigue. Often have I, in the course of my practice in 
this town, cured the dyspeptic invalid, by merely pointing 
out the error of this prevailing opinion, and inducing hisfi 
to abandon the mischievous habit which has been founded 
upon it. Do not let me be understood as decrying the 
use of moderate exercise before dinner; it is the abuse of 
it that I am anxious to prevent. No person should sit 
down to a full meal, unless he has had the opportunity of 
previously inhaling the open air, and taken a quantity of 
exercise, proportionate to his power of sustaining it with* 
out fatigue. Upon this point I agree with Mr. Abemethy, 
who says, ** I do not allow the state of the weather to be 



essential to Digestion. 208 

urged as all objectioii to the proseonlicni of meamirea so 
esaeatial to healths since it is in the power of every one to 
protect himself from cold by clothing ; and the exercise 
may be taken in a chamber with the windows thrown 
open, by walking actively backwards and forwards^ as 
sailors do on shipboai'd/' Horse exereise is undoubtedly 
salutary^ but it should not supersede the necessity of 
walking; where the two modes can be conveniently com* 
bined> the greatest advantage will arise. I have heard 
that a physician of eminence has declared, that ** equitatt^n 
is more beneficial to the horse than to his rider :" my own 
experience on this subject will not allow me to concede to 
such a proposition; nor to that which maintains that 
" ridifig is the best exercise far regaining health, and walk*- 
i^g for retaining it" It must be admitted, that the 
shaking which attends horse exercise, is salutary to the 
stcnnach and intestines; it is also less fatiguing to thf 
inferior limbs ; so that persons in a weak state can use it 
with less pain or difficulty. There is also another circmn'- 
stanee connected with this subject, up(m which I am in«- 
x^lined to think that sufficient stress has not been laid, the 
rapidity with which we change the air. I am not aware 
that any theory has been proposed to explain the fact; but 
I am perfectly well satisfied, that rapid motion through 
the air is highly ben^cial. As this is a gymnastic age, I 
may be allowed to offer some further observations upon 
the importance of exercising the body. The occupation 
^digging is more beneficial than is usually supposed; and 
to dyspeptic patients it proves useful, by the agitation thus 
<)iccasioned in the abdominal region. Patients who have 
suffered from visceral congestion, have experienced the 
greatest benefit from it. I am induced to believe, that 
the general discontinuance of those manly exercises, which 
were so commonly resorted to by our ancestors in the me- 
tropolis, has contributed to multiply our catalogue of dys- 
peptic diseases ; and I cannot bat express my satisfiEtction 



204 Danger of inti^oducing Gas 

at the prospect of the establishment of a society for tU 
re-introduction. Stow, in his Sorrey of London, lament 
the retrenchments of the grounds appropriated for pastime 
which had begun to take place even in his day: wh 
would he say, could he now revisit the metropolis? 
has been truly observed, that had it not been for the eft 
of bodily exercise, Cicero* would never have triumphed 
the bar, nor Julius Caesar in the field. 

244. One of the great evils arising from too sedenti 
habits, is constipation of the bowels. This, however, n 
to a certain degree be remedied, by standing for a certi 
period ; and I have repeatedly known the greatest bem 
to arise from the student or clerk introducing a highd( 
into his office, by which he is enabled to pursue his oci 
pation in a standing posture. 

245. I have already explained the necessity of eie/t 
at that period of the digestive process, when the ch 
enters the circulation (105) ; and it is, perhaps, not < 
least of the evils which attend the modem fashion of 1 
dinners, that it should preclude the possibility of sucl 
regulation. The utility of dancing may certainly be 
duced from these views, and its propriety sanctioned 
just principles; but the lateness f of the hour at 
these recreations commence, and, what is worse, the 
cessive heat and ill-ventilation of the apartments in 
they are usually carried on, must counteract any beo 
which might otherwise attend an indulgence in them. 
exercise be useful during the period of sanguification, } 
air is no less so ; and I shall take this opportunity of en 
ing my protest against the introduction of gas in^^ 
interior of our houses. Carburetted hydrogen is a dea 
poison ; and even in a state of great dilution, it is capa 

* See Plutarch's Life of Cicero. 

t In former timies the ball commenced at six, and terroi»a^^ 
eleven ; but now it begins at eleven and ends at six. 



into our Apart menh-. 205 

of exerting a very baneful effect upon the nervous system. 
I have been consulted on several occasions for pains in the 
head, nausea, and distressing languor, which evidently 
had been produced by the persons inhaling the' unburnt 
gas in the boxes of our theatres. In order to afford addi- 
tional support to the objections which I have urged upon 
this occasion, I shall quote an account of the effects pro- 
duced upon Sir Humphry Davy by the inspiration of car- 
buretted hydrogen gas. He introduced into, a silk bag 
four quarts of this gas nearly pure, which had been care* 
fully produced from the decomposition of water by char- 
coal, an hour before the experiment, and which had a very 
strong and disagreeable smell. '* After a forced exhaustion 
of my lungs,'' says he, " the nose being accurately closed, 
I made three inspirations and expirations of the gas. The 
first inspiration produced a sort of numbness and loss of 
feeling in the chest and about the pectoral muscles. After 
the second inspiration, I lost all power of perceiving ex- 
ternal things, and had no distinct sensation, except a 
terrible oppression on the chest During the third expira- 
tion this feeling disappeared, I seemed sinking into anni- 
hilation, and had just power enough to drop the mouth- 
piece from my unclosed lips. A short interval must have 
elapsed, during which I respired common air, before the 
objects about, me were distinguishable. On recollecting 
myself, I faintly articulated^ ' / do not think I s/iaU die,* 
Putting my finger on the wrist I found my pulse thread- 
like, and beating with excessive quickness. In less than 
a minute I was able to walk; and the painful oppression 
on the chest directed me to open air. After making a few 
steps, which carried me to the garden, my head became 
giddy, my knees trembled, and I had just sufficient volun- 
tary power to throw myself on the grass. Here the painful 
feeling of the chest increased with such violence as to 
threaten suffocation. At this moment, I asked for some 



206 Sir H. Davy's Ej!^ri$nent. 

nitrous oxide.''^ Mr. Dwyer brought me a mixture of 

oxygen and nitrous oxide, which I breathed for a minute, 

and believed myself relieyed. In ftve minutes, the painful 

fiedings began gradually to diminish. In an hour they 

had nearly disappeared, and I fAt only excessiFe weakness 

and a slight swimming of the bead. My voice was very 

feeble and indistinct : this was at two o'clock in the after* 

noon. I afterwards walked slowly for about half an hour^ 

and on my return was so much stronger and better, as to 

believe that the effects of the gas had disappeared, though 

my pulse was 120, and very feeble. I continued without 

pain for nearly three quarters of an hour, when the giddi-^ 

ness returned with such violence as to oblige me to lie on 

the bed; it was accompanied with nausea^ loss of memory^ 

and deficient sensation. In about an hour, and half the 

giddiness went off, and wae succeeded by an excruciating 

pain in the forehead, a|id between the eyes, with transient 

peins in the chest and extremities* Toward night these 

affections gradually diminished ; at ten, no disagreeable 

feeling except weakness remained. I slept sound ; and 

awoke in the morning very feeble and very hungiy. I 

have," adds Sir H. Davy, ** been minute in the account 

of Ais experiment; because it proves, that carbur6tte4 

hydrogen acts as a sedative, i, e. that it produces diminution 

of vital action, and debility without previously excitii^. 

There is every reason to believe, that if I had tak^n f<mr 

or five inspimtions, instead of three, they would have de- 

ataroyed life immediately, without producing any painful 

sensation." t After this proof of the poisonous nature of 

carburetted hydrogen, — after the cases of sickness and 

headach which have occurred, in consequence of its 

* Sir H. Davy had preTiously inspired this gas, and found it capable 
of prodacing an excitement resembling that of incipient intoxication. 

f " Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly concerning 
Witrous Oxide, and its Respiration, by Humphry Davy/' 



i Certain Aiiments colour the Excrements. 207 

inhalation kt the theatre, am I not borne out in my opinion, 
that it$ introduction itUo our apartments is fraught with 
clanger? 

' 246. Sleeping after dinner is a practice of very ques* 
j^icmaJble pn^riety ; it is true, that the inhabitants of many 
[^southern dimates indulge it with impunity : but it does 
^not appear essential in our country, where animal food is 
,uBed in su<^ considerable quantities. In states of disease 
^it may ocoasionally be useful, and the recundbent posture 
^may expedite the passage of the aliment out of the sto- 
^tnach into the intestines ; but the person who Ues down 
^fbr the accompli^ment of such an object, should be care- 
^ful to remove all Ugatures from his body. 

Is 

e: On the Influence of different Aliments in 

fl: MODIFYING THE APPEARANCES OF THE DiS- 

tf CHARGES OF THE EoDT. 



Si 



247. The external characters of the feculent discharges 

of the body, may be said to annoimce the healthy or diseased 

state of the digestive functions, with as much certainty as 

the pulse 4oes that of the sangui£eious system. But, in 

order diat we may deduce safe conclusions from suchjdata^ 

we must be acquainted with the nature and extent of the 

dianges which are produced on tiiese discharges by the 

operation ctf 4iflSBirent aliments and wecticines. The air 

has also the effect of c^nging the oolour of the feaces ^ 

diey shoald therefore be examined before such an ater*- 

ation is hkely 4k) be pvod^iced. This observatum applies 

with great force lo the steols of infonts, which, Jatbomgh 

perfectly yettow when voided, speedily assume a green 

' ^eamnce; a fact which would seem to arise from ihe 

^ spontsaeous decomposition of the bile. 

ji 348. Certain green vegetaUes, espeeialty spinach, iut* 

i jpart to the feces a green hue, which may be mistaken 



208 Alimmtary Concretions. . .. > 

for vitiated bile. Beet-root will also give a colour to the 
alimentary discharge^ which it is necessary to distinguish. 
Persons who take a considerable quantity of milk^ will pass 
pale-coloured evacuations, as if the bile were imperfectly 
secreted. Where the aliment has been of a very compli- 
cated description, the faeces will generally assume a crude 
and diversified character, owing, probably, to the several 
parts not having undergone the same degree of digestion, 
as already explained (227). Where much stimulant drink 
has been used, and the person has been subjected to long 
fasting, or much labour, or has perspired profusely, the 
feeces acquire a hardened character. It is essential for 
the practitioner to know, that certain parts, both of animal 
and vegetable substances, pass through the body without 
undergoing any change : this is the ckse with the skin and 
seeds of fruits, &c. Cheese is also very apt to pass in an 
undigested state. Dr. Maroet records an instance of this 
kind, in which the substance was at first mistaken for an 
intestinal concretion ; but it proved to be either a piece of 
cheese formed into a ball by the action of the intestines, 
or a portion of caseous matter actually formed in the in- 
testines, from milk taken as nourishment by the patient, 
and coagulated by the gastric juices into an undigestible 
mass. This latter supposition is the more probable, as 
Dr. WoUastoti, a few years afterwards, had several con- 
cretions of the, same kind brought to him for examination 
by a medical practitioner, and which proved of the same 
nature^ and had been discharged by a patient whilst using 
a milk diet. It has also been stated by Dr. Marc^t, that 
concretions of oat seeds are not unusually passed by the 
inhabitants of Scotland and Lancashire^ where the oat- 
cake is in common use as an article of food amongst the 
lower classes. The spawn of lobsters, a very indigestible 
substance, has also occasioned similar deception. ' Mag- 
nesia, when repeatedly taken, will, by the assistance of a 



Cmdmion of Part II. 209 

ittle animal mucus» become consolidated into madses of 
formidable magnitude. Mr. E. Brande has recorded an 
interesting case of this kind in the first volume of the 
Journal of die Royal Institution.. The influence pro- 
duced by certain medicines upon the colour of the forces, 
is equally striking ; iron has the property of tinging them 
blacky and magnesia, of giving a white appearance. We 
see« therefore, the importance of attending to such circum- 
stances, where it is an object to ascertain the state of the 
biliary secretion from the colour of the stools; and it 
i^ould be* judicious, on such occasions, to restrict patients 
to a diet that is not likely to colour the foeces. 

249. I have now brought to a conclusion the history 
of Alimentary Substances. It will be readily perceived, 
that the terms digestible and indigestible^ as applied to 
particular species of food, are but relative in their import, 
depending upon circumstances which I have endeavoured 
to investigate : with what degree of success I have per- 
formed this task, it will be for the public to decide ; but 
I may be allowed to observe, that the importance which 
I have bestowed upon some, perhaps, apparently trivial 
circumstances, has arisen from a belief, founded on prac- 
tical grounds, in the influence which they exert on the 
human body ; while, if I have passed over others with less 
notice than they may appear to deserve, it has arisen from 
a conviction that they have either been overrated in 
importance, by those writers who have indulged, in dis- 
cussions upon them, or are so involved in doubt and un- 
certainty, that I have despaired in throwing any additional 
light upon their nature and bearings. The theory of 
Digestion, and the history of Alimentary Substances, are 
80 intimately connected with the diseases to which our 
organs are exposed, that without a thorough knowledge 
of the former, we cannot expect to understand the phe- 
nomena of the latter ; nor to establish a rational and sue- 

p 



210 



Conclmion of Fart 11. 



ceMfol tystem of treatment for the prereatioo asd cr 
of Dyspepsia. I shall now proceed to the thiid diTtsr 
of the work» which will embrace the histcMty <rf Ix:;.- 
OBSTioN in all its forms and stipes; in whidi I sbii 
hope to turn the principles, already developed* to a pQ^ 
tical adTantage. 



«. 



!': 



PART III. 



OP 



INDIGESTION. 



PART III. 



or 



INDIGESTION. 

260. It has been already obsenred (8) that authors have 
diffaied in th«r acceptation of the term Diobstion. 
Some regarding it as merely denoting that preparatory 
process which the food undergoes in the stomach; while 
others have received it in a more extensive latitude^ as 
comprehending the whole of that elaborate and compli- 
cated series of actions^ by which nature converts bread 
into blood. We cannot^ therrfore^ be surprised to find 
that pathologists should as widely have differed in their 
definition of the disease termed Dyspepsia^ or Inbi- 
GESTioN. Notwithstanding the distinction which Dr. 
Philip is disposed to establish between these terms^ by 
considering "Dyspepsia*^ as expressiug a disease much 
less varied^ and of much less extent, than that which he 
comprehends under the denomination of " Itidigestion" 
I am stiU disposed to regard thein as synonymous ; and 
when they occur in the following pages> I must b^g the 
reader to receive them with that impression. The term 
JndigeHion is evidently nothing more .thai\ a literal 
English translation of the Greek compound DyspepMs 



214 Indigestion defined. 

261. I define Indigestion to be a primary disease, 
in which one or more of the several processes by which 
food is converted into blood, are imperfectly or improperly 
performed, in consequence either of functional aberration, 
or organic lesion. This definition may« perhaps^ be op- 
posed» on the ground of its too comprehensive signifi- 
cation; but I may observe, that however extensive may 
be the series of symptoms which are thus included under 
one general head, they will afford, when viewed collec- 
tively, sufficient evidence of their relation with the diges- 
tive process ; although, on a loose and hasty observation, 
they may not present any general principle of dependency 
and connection : if they appear disunited, let the prac- 
titioner suspect that he has never viewed them with 
sufficient reference to that physiological harmony which 
subsists between the organs in which they arise. Acidity 
X>{ i^omftch *aAd urihaiy depositions are equbHy indicadive 
of deiimged digestion; but the tntnd tiiat is hot acquinted 
^frtth thre tielktions of the stomach and ladimyB, or wi& 
the connectifm which subsists between <3ie 'fibi'maftion of 
l^erfect chyle and the discharge of natural urme, will ikot 
lie 'disposed toismnge Irymptoms, so appaieiidyi«motein 
kh^it dttia:nce, under one cbnamon head. There are tnany 
bytof^tbies subsisting bi^lTween different functimu Which 
ktt Mt piferceptiMe as long as the gomBl balance of 
ilealth }s preserved : this is remarkatify the case with ike 
Aia'HjiA'BtinntLth; btit the mbmctat ithfo healthy ^eqn»- 
ti!l)rin:m is ^destroyed, the sympathies become apparent 
lllie phy^iologii^t, tfaer^foire, without an acquaiotsnee'wilh 
the %6cry th its ttiorbid i^tes, mu«t resnttin i^orttnt of 
some of the mdre im^iti^t oirctiinstiuieM of (be ^uimal 
bdOinbiiiy. The saine teasoiiibg ap^ies to Ae tfludy of 
'fiatidtil ][>liilos6phy : Ihe discovery of the existenefe of an 
(Electric fluid could neVer have been tntide, had the naitanl 
'<idndition8 of mim»r, with t-^gard to ti^fs agent, remained 
unch^Ettige^ ; 'thetAiHis of dl cteiinical left^amh k feonded 



Sympaihies of the Stmach. 215 

ipon the same principle ; decozI^>06ition^ and the deve-* 
opem^it of the elements of bodies, are effected by oyer- 
Cuming the affinities by which they are naturally com- 
3ined. These obsenrations are introduced in. order to 
siram the practitioper not to deduce any conclusion 
against the existence of certain sympathies, on the ground 
of their not being apparent in a state of health. In a 
practical point of view, I consider the classifications of 
the nosologist as of very little utility ; they have no solid 
foundation in nature, but are entirely the work of human 
reason ; artificial contrivances, for the purpose of assisting 
us in the acquirement and retention of knowledge. Such 
an avowal will sufficiently explain the motive which has 
induced me to throw off the trammels to which I might 
have been expected to conform, 

262. From the universal sympathy which the stomach 
entertains for every part of the living body, its functions 
may become impeded or perverted from the existence of 
diseases which originate in organs with which it has no 
imo^edis^te connectipn ; . an affection of the head, or even a 
disease in the; urjBthra, may create sickness, loss of appe- 
tite, or a suspension in the digestive process ; but such 
phenomena sure not to be confounded with the primary 
symptoms of Dyspepsia ; they are affections of sympathy 
or induction, and will require very different treatment. 
In .disti^uisliing between such effects, consists the skill 
of the practitioner; and it requires a comprehension of 
mind, a freedom from prejudice, a clearness of judgment^ 
and a patience of minute enquiry, that do not fall to the 
lot qf every member of our profession. I am strongly 
inclined to think that physicians of the present day are 
too apt to accuse the alimentary functions of offences 
which should be .chained on other organs. It is, per- 
heqpn, natural in those who have devoted much time and 
attention to one particular subject, to fall into an ern^r of 



216 Imperfect Ckymificatian. 

this kind ; they hare a favourite child of their own to 
support^ and they prefer it with the blind partiality of a 
parent. As connected with this opinion^ I beg to diiect 
the reader's attention to the first case which I have intro- 
duced^ in my *' practical illustrations/' at the end of tbt 
present volume. 

I. Impebfect Chvmification. 

253. The symptoms which arise from the food under- 
going its appointed changes in the stomach with difficulty, 
or in an imperfect manner^ are generally those which M 
indicate the approach of indigestion, and frequently recur 
at intervals, for a considerable period, without occasionii^ 
any constitutional disturbance, or even a degree of local 
distress sufficient to awaken the alarm of the patient. In 
some cases, indeed, they are only produced by the use of 
particular aliments, or under the operation of peculiar 
circumstances ; but in others, they follow the ingestioo 
of every species of food, although their violence is usnaDv 
influenced by the quality and quantity of the meal. In 
this latter case, a morbid state of the stomach exists, 
which ought to be remedied without delay. In inycsti- 
gating the circumstances of an indigestion, produced only 
by some particular aliment, we shall soon discover whetber 
it is to be attributed to a peculiar idiosyncrasy of the 
stomach, which cannot be said to amount to disease, or to 
a debilitated condition of that organ, which renders ii 
unable to digest any food that requires considerable 
powers for its chymification. The mucous membranes 
of the stomachs of certain persons, appear to be irritated 
by particular aliments, as the skin is known to be by 
particular coverings : I am acquainted with a person wbo 
can never wear cotton stockings without suffering froffl 
considerable cutaneous irritation ; and I also know a 



Idiosyncrasy to be distinguished from Disease. 217 

rentleman who is incapable of eating the smallest qn^n^ 

:ity of mackarel without experiencing uneasiness in the 

stomach, and yet he digests every other species of food 

with, facility : this is not diseiase, but idiosyncrasy, and it 

is very essential to distinguish them from each other. If, 

on the other hand, a person informs me that, as loi^ as 

he lives upon mutton, or beef, that his digestion goes on 

well, but that if he eats pork, veal, or fried meat, he 

suffers from heartburn, and other unpleasant feeUngs in 

his stomach, I deduce a different conclusion, and infer 

that his general powers of digestion are feeble, and easily 

depressed ; and that he is consequently unable to convert 

into healthy chyme those aliments which require a higher 

degree of exertion. 

264. There is no fact better understood, than that the 
living principle of our organs possesses the power of 
preventing the chemical changes to which their contents 
would, under other circumstances, be exposed. The 
blood does not coagulate or putrefy in the vessels ; the 
urine does not undergo decomposition in the healthy 
bladder ; nor does the food ferment in the stomach, unless 
that organ be in a st^te of disease ; but if its vital powers 
fail, the chemical affinities gain the ascendency, and, 
after a certain interval, various symptoms arise, which 
clearly evince the change which has been produced. This 
is the philosophy of an ordinary attack of indigestion, 
when, either from the quantity or quality of the food, the 
stomach is inadequate to perform its necessary duties. 
An uneasiness and sensation of weight and distention is 
experienced in the region of the stomach, acidity prevails, 
and eructations of disengaged air distress the patient ; a 
sensation of nausea is felt, arising from an effort of the 
stomach to eject that which it is unable to digest. Chil- 
liness is perceived, and a general lassitude arises from the 
sympathy which is produced on the nervous and sangui- 



218 SympUmis ofaRt<^ LuUgestion. 

fovNis aysteimfi. These effects are isM particularly to- 
wards the . end of chyiiufication, and^ after a certain 
period, pass off, and the remaining parts of the process 
are apparently eonducted with r^ularity. But this is a 
statement of the symptoms which attend a casual fit of 
dyspepsia, as it may occur to persons in health, firom the 
influence of various circumstances, such as an OTerloaded 
stomach, indigestible food, a too hearty meal after long 
festing or fatigue, obstructed bowels, or any other cause 
which may occasion a temporary debility of the stomach, 
li is only necessary, in such a case, to avoid in future the 
exciting causes, and to clear the bowels of any super- 
fluous, and crude matter which may be supposed to lodge 
in them. But lightly as we may, in general, treat a 
casual indigestion of this kind, cases are on record which 
should awaken us to a sense of its possible mischief^ 
especially if the subject of it be a person advanced in 
life« If a patient retires to rest before the stomach is 
rdiieved from its load, he may pass into a comatose state, 
accompanied with apoplectic stertor, from which it is not 
nnfrequently difficult to rouse him; and which arises 
firom the sympathy of the brain with the oppressed 
stomach. It is of great importance to distinguish such 
an affection from genuine apople:igy, since,. if the stomach 
he not relieved, the stupor increases, and the patient is 
lost. We should carefully examine the epigastriuoti, in 
iMfder to ascertain whether any considerable fulness can 
he felt in that region, and enquire into the history <^ the 
patient : if he can be awakened, no time should be lost in 
administering an emetic, and it will be a safe practice to 
abstract a quantity of blood from the arm, which will 
have the additional advantage of accelerating the opera* 
4ion of any medicine that may have been administered for 
his relief. 

256. It must, howeyer, be allowed that such attacks 



Its Causes. 219 

from aa oteiloa<ted stomach are not fireqttent; $iid .a^e 
unlikely to occur, except the amscular powers of that 
viacuB be so impaired as to prevent the usual efforts which 
nature employs to throw off an unmanageable burthen, 

256. Should indigestion in the stomach continue to 
recur» the paroxysm will assume a more trmblesome 
character ; its symptoms will increase in . number and 
extent^ and the mi^tef will speedily involye other func* 
tioas : but before I proceed to follow the course which it 
usually runs, it will be useful to examine the causes to 
which the origin of the disease in the stomach is to be 
attributed. 

267. It has been stated (65) that, in every change 
which the aliment und^goes, we shall discover, the com- 
bined operation of mechanical and chemical agents : when 
the food, therefore, is introduced into the stomach, it 
Owes its converaion into chyme to such combined acti<»i», 
viz. the chemical power of the gastric juice, and the 
mechanical movements of the stomach. It is to the 
lailure or imperfect operation of. the one or the other 
of these necessary actions that indigestion is to be attri- 
buted. However perfectly the gastric juice may be se- 
creted, if the mass be not sufficiently churned in the 
stomach, it cannot become; perfect chyme.; and the most 
active motions of the stomach, will not compensate for a 
deficiency in the alimentary /solvent. It signifies very 
little whetbei; the paucity of the gastric liquor be absolute 
dr i^tive ; that is to say, whether it be originally secreted 
in less thaai a natural pTopcMrti<m, or the quantity of food 
taken be so great that the usual proportion of the solvent 
is insufficient for its solution ; in either case, an indiges- 
tion must follow; although there appears to exist an 
accommodating power in the healthy stomach, which en- 
ables it to regulate its supply according to the call which 
may be made for it. 

'368. The quaUty aiul quantity of the gastric fluid. 



220 Indigestion cvcited by Mental Emotion^ 

Beereted by the stomachy may be influenced by causeB 
immediately acting upon that organ^ or by those which 
affect it through the medium of sympathy. Under the 
first class of causes may be noticed those which produce a 
direct influence upon the nenres of the stomachy without 
whose healthy action no secreting surface can perform its 
functions with regularity. Amongst these^ the injudicious 
ingestion of narcotic substances^ or of alcohol, deserve a 
distinguished notice. The Icmguor arising from inanition 
also brings on what Mr. Abemethy calls a '^ discontented 
state of the stomach ;" in which case^ the gastric juice 
is not secreted in a healthy manner. But the causes 
which act locally on the secreting powers of the stomach 
are few in number, and perhaps small in importance, when 
compared with those which act through the medium of 
sympathy. During the periods at which the . posterior 
stages of digestion are performed; the healthy secretion of 
gastric juice is.not easily excited; and if, therefore, food be 
presented at these times, it will be apt to occasion indi* 
gestion. An overloaded state of the bowels will be at^ 
tended with the same consequence; exercise, when ac* 
companied with fatigue, or indolence, may, by producing 
general debility, occasion a corresponding^ state of collapse 
in the stomach. Passions of the mind, fear, anxiety, and 
rage, are also well known to affect the nervous system, 
and through that medium, the stomach ; and so immedi- 
ately are its consequences experienced, that a person 
receiving unpleasant intelligence at the hour of a repast, 
is incc^able of eating a morsel, whatever might have been 
his appetite before such a communication. 



" Read o'er this ; 



And afler this ; and then to breakfast 
With what appetite you have/' 

259. The sympathy subsisting between the skin is 
another source, and often an unexpected cause of gastric 



and bjf several other Games. 221 

lebility. If the cutaneous vessels be unusually excited, 
ind this excitation be continued for any length of time, 
:liey ^11 at length fall into a state of indirect debility, 
whence a sense of faintness, loss of appetite, and inability 
of digesting solid food, will be experienced. This fact 
explains the diminished appetite of which persons com- 
plain in hot weather, and that universal custom in tropical 
climates of combining the food with . large quantities' of 
aromatic stimulants. One of the most striking instances 
indicative of this consent between the skin and stomach, 
is, where cold or wet is applied to the lower extremities, 
exciting pain in that organ and indigestion. Violent 
spasms, and in persons predisposed to gout, an attack of 
that disease in the stomach, have been occasioned by re- 
maining for some time with the feet thoroughly wet. The 
custom of pouring spirit iiito the shoes or boots upon such 
occasions, from the mistaken idea of counteracting the 
evil, increases the mischief, from the additional cold pro- 
duced by its evaporation. The first object, under such 
circumstances, is to prevent evaporation; and the chance 
of &king cold is greatly diminished, if not entirely pre- 
vented, by covering the wet clothes with some dry gar- 
ment. It has been said, and perhaps with some reason, 
that the thin shoes and light dress render delicate females, 
notwithstanding their temperance, more subject to the 
whole tribe of dyspeptic complaints, particularly flatu- 
lence and want of appetite. 

260. As the skin acts upon the stomach, so does the 
stomach, in its turn, re-act upon the skin; for all sympa- 
thies are reciprocal. A physician who is conversant with 
afiections of the stomach, well knows how to appreciate 
the indications which the appearance of the countenance 
affords ; there is a peculiar pallor and relaxed condition of 
the skin, which is truly indicative of a deranged state of 
the digestive organs, and which gradually disappears 
under a successful treatment. The want of appetite for 



222 LiiSi of Mu9euiar Power in 



breaktet, wtaeh. is oomplainfld of by invalicU« is frec^uenttj 
to be attributed^ amongst other cauaes* to the atony pto*^ 
duced on the suiikce of the body» and ooosequently Oft 
the stomach* by sympathy* by the rehucmg influenee of a 
wann bed ; and hence arises the utility of restoring % 
Fsaction, by fresh air and exercise, before we attempt to 
ait down to oor mormng repast. The wsjrm bath, if not 
at too high a temperature, or indulged in for such a UmgU)^ 
of time as to induce indirect debility, will be found, by its 
stimulant operation on the dun, to place the stomach in a 
condition to digest the dinner when employed a few hounl 
before that meal. I shall have to refer to these facts 
when I come to consider the modes of earing indigestion. 

261. The infiueaee of a healthy condildon of the diges^ 
ttTe organs upon the skin, is so well understood by those 
that direct the art of training, that the cJeamess of the 
complexion is considered the best oriterifon of a man 
being m good coadiiion, to m^ich is added the appesranos 
of the under-lip, *' which is plump and rosy, in propOiiiod 
to the health of the constitntion." 

265L The stomach also sympathises, in a remarkable 
degree, with the urinary organs; nephritic complaints lyre 
invariably attended with nausea. I lately had a very 
tfonblfisome case of dyspepsia under mf care, which Ywas 
aggravated, if not originally produced* by a troublesoiM 
stricbire in the urethra, which kept up a constant irrila** 
tion. 

263. I have next to consider the causes which may 
operate in depressing or paralysing the muscular powers 
of the stomach, by whidb the mechanical process, essen*- 
tial to chymifioation, is imperfectly perfonned. Of th9M> 
undue distention is perhaps the most common, axMl, Si 
the same time, the most powerful. TUs may be proved, 
not only from ample observation en the stomach, but by 
the anakgy of other cavities : if the bladder be distended 
for some time with urine, its muscular powers are pans*' 



the Stomachy a Cause of Indigestion. 223 

raed ; it has often happened that where a person has^ 
*oin neeeesity^ retained his urine for a considerable time, 
n attempting to void it^ he has found himself inoapaUe 
f expelling a single drop^ although the bladder has been 
eady ta burst from over-distention. The same fiict 
occurs i^ith respect to the rectum': if this observation be 
ipplied to the stomach, we shall easily perceive why, bb 
xn over-distended state of that viscus, vomiting can 
scarcely be produced by the most violent emetic; and 
ive shall readily understand from the same train of argtt«» 
ment/ how greatly the muscular fibres may become fer^ 
manently debilitated by the repetition of such an excess. 
This over-distention is particularly apt to occur ia casds 
where the food has a tendency to swell, from the beat and 
moisture of the stomach ; for a person may not be awaxe 
of the quantity he has taken from any senvaticm of falneds 
at the time he ceases to eat, and yet, in the space of an 
hour, he may experience the greatest uneasiness from 
such a cause. This generally Imppens where mudi new 
bread has been taken ; nuts have also tiiis prc^rly in a 
remarkable degree, and ought, for such a reason, to be 
prohibited, where such an effect is to be apprehended^ 
A dmught of soda water, or any beven^e which oontaiha 
fixed air, may be visited with the same penalty. There 
are certain postures of th6 body, which, by preventing 
the necessary egress of the contents of the Momadk, 
favour an accumulation in its cavity ; this occurs in tke 
occupation of the shoemaker, tailor, engraver, from stoop* 
ing on the last, or desk, by which their thoracic and 
abdominal viscera are compressed together for many 
hours; the margin of their ribs is pressed upwards, so as 
to force the stomach against the diaphragm, and to im- 
pede the passage through the pylorus : it is evident, that 
if such a habit be continued after a full meal, that all the 
train of dyspeptic terrors must be produced ; and we ihave 
all witnessed too many practical illustrations of the feiet. 



224 Duodenal Indigestion. 

to require farther evidence of its truth. The profession 
is much indebted to Dr. W. Philip, for having proved 
by experiments, related in his ' Inquiry into the Laws of 
the Vital Functions, that the muscular fibre, though 
independent of the nervous system, may, in every in- 
stance, be influenced through it; from which it follows, 
as a corollary, that the muscjular fibres of the stomach 
may not only be afiected by causes acting directly on 
them, but by such as act through the medium of the nerves. 
Hence, the presence of ofiensive matter in the stomach, 
whether arising from noxious aliment, or vitiated secretion, 
will have the effect of diminishing its muscular energy. 
It is in this way that a draught of cold water, or a 
quantity of ice, may at once paralyse the stomach. In 
cases, therefore, of protracted indigestion, it is evident 
that both the chemical and mechanical functions of the 
stomach will be injured; neither the one nor the other 
can l(»ig remain alone affected. Irritation of the nerves 
will occasion vitiated secretion, and vitiated secretion will 
become a source of irritation to the nerves. 

264. We have seen the manner in which indigestion 
may take place in the stomach; but there are cases in 
which the' secretions of that organ are perfectly performed, 
and in which the muscular contractions of the stomach 
are carried on with healthy vigour and regularity. The 
chyme is, therefore, duly elaborated, and the paroxysm of 
dyspepsia may not commence until the food has entered 
the duodenum. 

Imperfect Digestion in the Duodenum. 

265. In the earlier part of this work, the structure, 
position, and functions of this '* second stomach/* have 
been fully described, and the practitioner must bear in 
mind the peculiar circumstances which relate to its 
anatomy and physiology, in order to understand the 



Duoddml Disease. 225 

natiDre and extent of those ^.taerrations to which it is 
liable. The chyme certainly undergoes some change in 
this oiigan, independent of that which is produced on it 
by its admixture with the bile and pancreatic juice, and 
which would appear to be effected by the agency of its 
own peculiar secretion; this secretion may become in* 
sufficient in quantity to answer its intended purpose, or 
its quality may be occasionally vitiated ; but there exists 
no direct evidence upon this point, and we can only 
maintain the probability of such an occurrence on the 
ground of analogy. As far as the pathology of this organ 
is concerned, I consider the contributions of Dr. Yeats, 
in his paper published in the Medical Transactions, as 
truly valuable; and I have great pleasure in bearing 
testimony of its importance. The hints which I have 
derived from it, have not only been useful to me, in the 
execution of my present task, but in the prosecution of 
my duties as a private practitioner. I am quite satisfied, 
that many morbid affections which have been usually 
attributed to the stomach, ought to be solely referred to 
the functional aberrations of the duodenum ; and when we 
consider the situation of this intestine, with respect to the 
colon, and the pressure which it must suffer whenever 
this latter gut i» loaded with faeces ; when we reflect upon 
the elaborate manner in which it is constructed ; the con*^ 
nexion of its nerves with other organs; its limited capacity 
and motion ; its tortuous course ; the distress which must 
arise from its distension, and the irritation which, from 
such a cause, must be immediately propagated through its 
nerves to very important parts ; when we remember that 
the pancreatic and biliary ducts may be obstructed by its 
repletion^ and the necetoary flow of tiie bile prevented ; and, 
lastly, when we consider that the vena cava inferior may 
be thus pressed upon, and the circulatioQ of its blood 
obstructed,-^ we shall not have much hesitation in admit- 
ting that a morbid condition of the duodenum must prove 

Q 



226 Duodenal Indigestion. 

a pregnant source of local as well as of general distn^ 
It is also necessary to state that, from the coBfinem 
which this intestine suffers at its terminaticm within tiy 
ring, at the mesentery, the propulsion of its contents 
liable to be retarded or obstructed ; and, should any bar 
or indigestible matter have escaped the action of ^ 
stomachy it may, by lodging, occasion a temporary stop 
page in this part of the canal. 

266. The symptoms, which arise from duodenal m 
gestion, are easily distinguishable from those which ()^ 
pend upon an affection of the stomach. In a cast 
paroxysm of this kind, the distress is not felt until sib^ 
time has elapsed after the indig^tible meal^ and theai< 
oppression is felt at the pit of the stomach, but ou tlii 
right side, and a puf&ness is frequently perceptible in ttt 
region occupied by the .intestine. In some cases a seffc 
pain is felt in the back, especially in the region ofti)^ 
right kidney ; and Dr. Yeats states a symptom, ^^ 
I have also noticed on such occasions— a faint and BuUff- 
ing pulse, occasioned by the pressure of the vena cotn 
against the spine by the distended intestine. Emetics i£ 
such a case are safer remedies than purgatives; bythei: 
action, the offending substance is regurgitated into tlie 
stomach, and thus at once eliminated ; whereas a purga- 
tive may increase the distress, and even produce farther 
mischief. Glysters, however, will be always advisable, ic 
order to remove any priessure which the colon may occaflon 
by its indurated contents. 

267. I believe that where indigestion in the stooac'^ 
has remained for any considerable length of time, that the 
duodenum rarely escapes corresponding mischief; ^^^ 
difficult to imagine a case in which the fluids of tk<! 
stomach are constantly in a vitiated, and those of^^ 
duodenum in a healthy condition. The very circumstance 
of halfi-concocted chyme being repeatedly/urged (or^ 
into .the cavity of the intestine, will be sufficient to de- 



Symptomatic Headachs. 227 

.nge its functioas. When^ therefore^, we take a general 
lew of the symptoms which mark confinued digestion, 
e. must take into consideration the effects produced by 
le derangement of this important oigan* In some cases 
tie evidence of such an affection will be more striking 
ban in others, but in most we shall find some proof of its 
xistence. 

268. A casual indigestion in the duodenum may be 
>Toduced by yarious causes 4 in addition to those already 
enumerated as capable of occasioning such an affection in 
Lhe stomach, we may mention mechanical obstruction, 
etrising from the presence of nuts, cherry-stones, &c.; a 
vitiated state of the. bile, or a temporary suspension of its 
flow from the liver, by which the chyjotie will be prevented 
from undergoing its destined changes, and thus, remain- 
ing in the duodenum, niay ferment, and distend the intes- 
tine with air ; accumulations also in the colon, which, by 
diminishing the diameter of the duodenum, will neces- 
sarily impede its functions^ 

Of Headachs which arise from Indigestion. 

269. From the intimate sympathy which subsists 
between the nerves of the stomach and the brain, it is not 
extraordinary that any casual derangement of the diges- 
tive process should communicate its influence to the head. 
Dr. Warren * has described this complaint with an accu- 
racy which, as far as description goes, leaves nothing to be 
desir^^ He states that there are two forms of dyspeptic 
headach ; the one he refers to a fault in the stomach, the 
.other to a defective ^tion of the upper bowels. The 
former. is distinguished by a languid and feeble, but not 
an unnaturally frequent pulse ; the tongue is whitish and 
.slightly coated ; the edges are of a pale red colour* The 

* Medical Transactions, voL iv. p. 233. 



228 Symptomatic Headach. 

patient perceives a sensation of mistiness before the eyee^ 
and general indistinctness of vision ; he feels a dull pain 
or weight in the head^ attended with some confusion, is 
slightly giddy, and fearful of falling. These symptoms 
are attended with slight nausea, or an uneasiness and 
sense of irritation in the stomach ; and often also by a 
feeling of constriction about the fauces, accompanied with 
a watery secretion from the posterior part of the mouth. 
Coldness, slight stiffness or numbness of the fingers, are 
sometimes present ; and the other parts of the system are, 
in general, affected with a great degree of nervous sensibility. 
The second species of headach, or that depending upon 
irritation in the bowels, probably in the duodenum, is 
remarkable for the appearance of brilliant ocular spectra 
which distress the patient ; there is chilliness of the body, 
and coldness and dampness of the hands and feet ; the 
pain in the head is very severe, attended with a sensation 
of coldness and tightness of the scalp, slight giddiness, 
weight, distension and stiffness of the eye-balls* Iti somt 
cases, as these symptoms increase, they are accompanied 
by tingling and numbness of the fingers and hand. The 
tongue, in this disorder, is usually covered with a yellow- 
ish white fur, and is often very considerably coated, with 
it. The pulse is of the natural frequency, but languid ; 
nausea is often present, but seldom in so great a degree as 
to produce vomiting. There is usually flatulency, and a 
sensation of dryness and inactivity of the bowels. This 
last symptom I consider as pathbgnomonic ; the patient 
feels as if his bowels had lost their sensibility, and were 
unable to propel their contents, which occasions a peculiar 
sensation of weight and stoppage. Dr. Warren observes, 
that the appearances of the stools vary so much, that a 
general rule cannot be drawn firom them ; but he believes, 
that in all cases of headach of this description, they will 
be found of an unhealthy quality. The most frequent 
appearance in them is bile in too large quantity ; some- 



Symptomatic Headdch. 229 

nes of various colours^ and of different degrees of vifici- 
ty ; occasionally the evacuations have a natural apf>ear«- 
ice, but contain portions of undigested food. At other 
mes, the stools are of a faint yellow colour^ and float 
pon water, giving out an odour like that of saliva : a 
ery common appearance, especially where there has been 
reat dejection of spirits, is a loose stool, of a dark gteen- 
jh- brown colour, in smell resembling that of the grounds 
f Bour beer. 

270. The stomach headach generally occurs in the 
earlier stage of digestion ; that which may be termed the 
luodenal headach, takes place when the food has passed 
nto the intestine. The former is relieved by an emetic, 
^he latter receives no mitigation from such a remedy ; this 
is consonant with our theory of its origin ; whereas, a 
purgative, as we should expect, generally cuts short the 
paroxysm, by hastening the expulsion of the offending 
cause. 

271. From the symptoms above related, the prac* 
titioner will not be at a loss to discriminate between these 
two species of headach ; but pain in the head may arise 
from causes distinct from the alimentary canal ; as from 
congestion of the brain, from its internal disorganization, 
{torn diseai»ed bones of the skull, or from a deranged state 
of the nervous system. It will be useful to point out the 
diagnostic symptoms by which each of these affections 
may be distinguished. Dr. Warren observes, that head* 
achs which arise from congestion of the brain, are distin- 
guished from those of dyspeptic origin, by the presence of 
plethoric symptoms,- by a full and oppressed pulse, by a 
difference in the character of the pain, which, in the head* 
ach arising from fulness of blood, is accompanied with 
throbbing, and a sense of action in the system, which 
alamis ihe feelings ; while the pain of dyspeptic head- 
nchs is described as being either a dull aching, or else a 



230 Headachfrom Pkthara. 

racking pain, often moving from one paft of the head to 
another, and attended with soreness of the scalp. In the 
first/ the eyes look red and fiill; in the second, they have 
a depressed and languid appearance. Those which arise 
from internal disorganization, the same eminent physician 
considers to be marked by an acute fixed pain, by a quick, 
irritable, and sometimes irregular pulse ; but should pres- 
sure on the brain have taken place, the pulse is full and 
slow, but is not attended with the steady violent heat 
which accompanies sudden congestion of blood in that 
organ. When headach is caused by chronic disease of 
the bones of the skull, it is distinguished by the constancy 
of the pain, which is confined jto one spot, whence violent 
shootings proceed to some fixed point. As the disorder 
advances, slight symptoms of pressure on the brain ensue; 
and on examination, a tenderness of the bone is observed. 
The nervous headach is distinguished by the absence of 
constitutional disorder, and by the smallness of the space 
on the surface of the head which the pain occupies. 

272. There sometimes occurs a soreness of the scalp, 
with shooting pains, which are produced by the slighteist 
touch. This affection, I believe, always depends upon 
some derangement of the biliary system . 

273. There is a species of headach which would 
appear to depend upon a languid circulation through the 
brain ; it occura after an excess' of wine ; or, in women, 
during the catamenial discharge. It is described as rather 
resembling numbness than pain, or' that sensation' whioh 
is produced by intense cold . The languor of the circula- 
tion, pallor of the countenance, and other symptoms of 
debility, will offer sufficient means for distinguishing it. 

274. If the dyspeptic headach be allowed" to take its 
course, it will generally terminate in a few hours; but 
when it has become habitual, it is often protFiB^ctod 
through one, two, or more days. Its cure is to be effeotsd 



''t^/rrm}. Biliary Derangements. . 231 

Ofic^/^fose means which we have afterwards to consideir/ as 
^' ti Morest modes of rectifying the errors of the digestiye 
And !iL,its. 

si ippeKC^^' Cutaneous eruptions are not unfrequently pro- 
utitD. uei^ ''^y ^^^ o^ indigestion ; such affections are popularly 
brniKa^'^^^^^ ^'^'rfeits: they are generally of short dura- 
LT^^'2 a.nd disappear on the removal of the offending cause; 
• Ji« odft^^S^ severe and inveterate diseases of the skin iare 
Sf wii 2 *^*"^®® established, and continued by a chronic disease 
X ,«««^^ stomach or other digestive organs. The best mode 
.. ^ /eating such affections, and the diet which should.be 

. . loved for their cure, will form a subject for future 
li ims^ - , . 
, ' sideration. 

^{^l^gg,llN DIGESTION FROM BiLIARY DERANGEMENT. 

276. It is evident that a regular and healthy secretion 
"^^="*'^" bile is indispensable, to the act of chylification, and to 
■ . proper action of the intestines, and that a deficiency, 
^^^ '^.undancy, or a vitiated condition of this fluid, may act 
^^ an exciting cause of indigestion. If it be deficient, the 
wpwf^yme cannot undergo that decomposition in the duo- 
lieve, ^^^'num by which chyle is formed and separated ; and as 
rvsj^ e bowels are, at the same time, deprived of their natural 
o/ i^imulus, the undigested mass is not protruded, but is left 
ltd i^ undergo various morbid changes ; air is extricated, the 
^(/^imentary secretions become depraved, and the whole 
, Itis^ries of the digestive functions are thus suspended, or 
, or tb^^eranged. If the bile be too copiously secreted, it is 
be^^^oured out in l^rge quantities into the intestine, producing 
add oti^bmporary diarrhoea, and part of it being regurgitated into 
j/iirdi^e stomach, during the act of vomiting, which, in the 
iljeMirst instance, is excited by the sympathy of the stomach 
^inil^mth the duodenum and hepatic system, occasions a 
j^ is dtrain of symptoms of greater or less severity, according to 
lj^ii/tifH.he circumstances of each particular case. If the bile be 



232 Biliarif Affections. 

vitiated in quality, it will not only be incapable of accom-* 
plishing the alimentary change which it is. destined to 
fulfil, but it will irritate and fret the mucous membrane by 
its contact. It is eyident that the violence and extent of 
the symptoms produced by such causes will be liable to 
vary; and the practitioner must not imagine, that the 
absence of diarrhoea, colic, and other violent feelings, 
affords evidence of the healthy state of the biliary secre- 
tions. Derangements in these functions ctften proceed 
insidiously, and lay the foundation for a serious disease, 
which, although latent for a period, will ultimately be 
kindled into activity, whenever an exciting cause shall 
fire the train. 

277 To explain the origin of biliary irregularities, we 
have to consider the sympathies by which the liver may 
be influenced. The investigation of the diseases of warm 
diinates, and the corrected views, with regard to the au- 
tumnal complaints of our climate, have sufficiently esta^ 
blished the existence of a sympathy between the skin and 
the liver. Whenever an organ has been m a state of over^ 
excitement, it is hable to fall into a corresponding stale of 
torpor. The perspiration is, therefore, more apt to be 
checked after the continuance of hot weather, than at any 
other season of the year; and since the same observation 
may be extended to the liver, we shall readily perp^ve the 
cause of those biliary affections which so generally occur 
in this country during the autumnal season. The appli- 
cation of cold to the feet, or whatever contributes to check 
the perspiratory functions, may create, in those predisposed 
to such complaints, a bilious attack. The sympathy which 
subsists between the stomach and liver, has already beea 
adverted to. It seems a wise provision, that the biliary 
function should be connected, by a close sympiUliy, with 
that of the stomach, in order that the food, converted into 
chyme« may meet with a necessary quantity of bile in the 
duodenum. In consequence of such a sympathy, irrita-! 



Biliary Affections. 233 

tion in the stomacb is genendly attended with an in- 
creased secretion of bile ; the action of nansea is usually 
followed by such an effect. Hence^ melted butter, every 
thing fried, pastry, and other indigestible materials, are 
popularly denominated biliotis; and although such a term 
countenances a latitude of expression, which is incon- 
sistent with the more definite notions of strict patholbgy, 
yet it cannot be said to be erroneous. As the varied and 
increased action of a gland has much influence in deter* 
mining the nature of the fluid secreted, we cannot be at a 
loss to explain the vitiated condition in which the bile is 
secreted under such circumstances; indeed, it is ire* 
quentlyon such occasions of adegenerated colour, extremely 
acrid, and scarcely possessing the qualities of bile. Dr. 
S^uinders considers it probable> that from the quantity 
secreted, and the rapid maimer in which it is poured into 
the duodenum, there is not time sufficient for a perfect 
secretion. 

278. We may therefore agree with Dr. Saunders, that 
whenever, either from an irregular distribution of nervous 
energy, or from the operation of indigestible and aceseent 
food, the tone of the stomach falls below the degree 
necessary to the digestive process, the liver immediatdy 
sympathises with it, and bile is no longer emulged into 
the duodenum, until a reaction takes place, when its 
quantity is morbidly increased in proportion to the degree 
of previous atony. If this occur to such an extent, that 
it^ free admission into the intestine be impeded, it will 
accumulate in the excretory ducts of the liver, and either 
regurgitate into the system by the hepatic veins, or be 
absorbed by the lymphatic system, and a yellow suffusion 
of the skin will follow. 

279. The abuse of spirituous liquors, from their ope- 
ration on the stomach and brain, is a fertile cause of 
biliary derangement, and from the sympathy between 
the sensorium and the liver, the effects of strong and" 



234 Symptoms of Chronic Indigestion. 

sudden mental emotions, in occasioning an' irregvrlal' 
secretion .of bile, will also admit of satisfactory ex- 
planation. 

Progress and Symptoms of Ceronic 

Injojgestjon. 

280. From ccmsidering a fit of indigestion in the 
stomach or duodenum, let us now proceed to trace its 
consequences, when it is frequently repeated or protracted. 
In this case, other organs become successively involved in 
the mischief, and a train of distressing and complicated 
symptoms arise. Dr. Wilson Philip has ciEmsidered indi- 
gestion as divisible into three distinct stages. Under the 
first, he arranges those symptoms which merely announce 
a disturbed and . unhealthy condition of the digestive 
functions. The second stage he considers as denoted by 
the .tenderness, of. the epigastrium, and the hardness of 
the pulse. The third stage includes those diseases which 
he. supposes to arise from the change of structure, which 
is. ultimately produced by long-continued functional de- 
rangement. I have no great objection to a conventional 
division. of this kind, if 'it can in any way assist the 
memory of the practitioner, and contribute to the perspi- 
cuity of the description, by presenting the symptoms in 
wellrdefined groups, rather than in a separate and uncon- 
nected form. . But the arrangement is wholly artificial. 
Nature does not acknowledge it, nor will $he submit to it; 
if, then,, any advantage is to be derived from it, it must be 
received.and considered only as an attempt to class to- 
gether those symptoms which may arise from functional 
aberration, and those which are more usually associated 
with organic change. We must renounce all rigid adhe- 
rence .to definite stages, and arbitrary divisions, which 
nature disclaims. Every practitioner of any experience 
must well know that the hard pulse and tenderness of the 
epigastrium are likely to occur in even a temporary attack 



Dyspeptic Phthisis; Doubts respecting. 236 

of indigestion ; and I 'have frequently witnessed extensive 
mischief, with change of structure, without the occurrence 
of such indications. With regard to the '* third stage/' 
I would observe, that if the diseases therein stated as the 
riesults of indigestion, be purely such, we may as weU, at 
once, refer all organic disease to the same source, and, 
like the ancient physicians of Egypt, confine our prescrip- 
tions to vomits, purgatives, and abstinence. I am well 
aware how unpopular must be any doctrine that opposes 
such a belief, for I have practised too much in the western 
part of Cornwall, not to know the consolation which 
phthisical patients derive from being assured that their 
complaints owe their origin to a disordered stomach ; but 
although the physician may reconcile his conscience thus 
piously to deceive his patient, let him be aware how he 
deceives himself. I make these observations in the pure 
spirit of philosophic candour; I respect and duly appre- 
ciate the talents of Dr. Philip ; I give him every possible 
credit for the good intention and integrity with which he 
advances his opinions, and I feel well assured thai he will 
extend the same charity to me; but I differ with him. 
Indigestion, or, in other words, derangement of the 
stomach, is a frequent companion of pulmonary disease, 
and what is the disease in which the stomach does not 
sympathise ? but I am sceptical as to the existence of any 
malady which is entitled to the specific appellation of 
** dyspeptic phthisis" A person having tubercles in the lungs 
may have his life protracted for many years, by judicious 
management, and by avoiding every exciting cause which 
might kindle the spark into flame, by keeping the circn- 
liation in check, and promotitig the healthy action of the 
secretions. ' On the contrary,' the fatal termination may 
be equally accelerated^ by want of care, and, above all, by 
creating a permanent disturbance in the digestive func- 
tions. If Dr. Philip designates a latent disease, thus 
kindled into activity, *' dyspeptic phthisis," I have no objec- 



236 Progress of Indigestion^ 

tion to the term ; we are no longer at issue, our £fference 
of opiuiou is jxoi essential ; it is an affair of words/ and of 
words only. But to return from this digression to the 
subject more immediately before us> viz* the com^^cated 
train of symptoms which successively present themselves 
in cases of protracted dyspepsia. 

28 L It has been seen that indigestion may originate 
in the stomach, or intestines, either from vitiated secretion, 
muscular imbecility, nervous derangement, or biliary and 
pancreatic disturbance ; but, from whatever cause the 
disease may primarily originate, after it has remained for 
some time in operation, the different organs, directly or 
sympathetically connected with the chylopoietic apparatus, 
will participate in the mischief, and it will not be easy 
to distinguish between primary symptoms, and those of 
mere induction. There is, perhaps, not any disease which 
is more protiform in its aspects than dyspepsia : we shall 
rarely find any two cases precisely similar in the origin 
and progress of their symptoms, although to an e^Lperienced 
judge they will present such a general similitude, as to 
leave no doubt of their nature and causes. 

282. The dyspeptic . patient having, for some time, 
' suffered from those feelings of uneasiness, which have 
been already described (254), experiences some diminution 
in his strength. This, at first, is only occasional, and is 
for awhile attributed by him to some accidental circum- 
stance; be had felt it before, and the readiness with* 
which his elasticity and strength returned, naturally in- 
spires a hope that his present depression may be removed ; 
but it has endured longer than usual, and he ultimately 
becomes alarmed. It is in this stage of the malady, that 
the patient frequently introduces himself, for the first 
time, to a physician. It is of great importance, upon such 
an occasion, to distinguish between that feeling of transient 
depression, which as Tissot observes, is invariably associ- 
ated with alimentary disturbance, and that debility which 



/veil; oymptoms successively aeveiopea. z 

ainnounces a general ditniittition of constitutional eii^f) 
In the former case^ there are periods in which the pati« 
feels perfectly well and strong ; but in the latter^ althoti 
his spirits may vary, he never rises to the healthy standi 
of yigour. He tells you^ that '' he begins to feel his usi 
avocations irksome, and too laborious ; that he has to 
suffered from a bad digestion/' which by care a: 
management he had been hitherto enabled to control ; b 
that he has now little or no appetite, that his streng 
fails him, and that he fears he is '' getting into ia bad way 
He finds that the slightest exercise occasions fatigue^ ai 
deluges him with perspiration. On examining the tongu 
it will be usually found coated on the posterior part, ati 
on its centre, with a brownish-yellow fur ; his bowels ar 
by turns, costive, and too much relaxed ; the pulse at th 
period is generally slow and small ; although it is som< 
times hard ; his countenance is more pallid than usual 
the eyes appear sunken, and the eye-lids swollen, and th 
eye-balls are occasionally injected with yellow streaks. 

In some cstses, heartburn and a sense of oppression ar 
experienced after meals ; but in others, the patient onl; 
complains of languor and extreme listlessness. On som< 
occasions, a sense of constriction is felt about the fauces 
and a difficulty of swallowing is experienced, as if the 
oesophagus presented some mechanical obstruction to th< 
passage of food. Dizziness; unusual drowsiness; painfi 
in the head ; ringing in the ears ; a disagreeable taste in 
the mouth ; an altered state of the salivary secretion, being 
sometimes limpid like water, and at others thick and 
ropy; palpitation and a sense of faintness are symptoms 
which, also, in a greater or less degree, usually distress the 
dyspeptic sufferer. His hands are alternately hot and 
cold-; in the former state they are dry, in the latter more 
usually damp. His nights are sometimes, but not generally, 
disturbed by restlessness and uneasy dreams. He wakes 
in the morning without that feeling of refreshment whtck 



238 SifTnptoms of Indigestion. 

follows' repose in health, and is unwilling to rise from his 
bed, or indexed to move ; his limbs ache, the muscles of 
the trunk are even sore to the touch ; and any change of 
position is attended with incoavenience. Eyery alteration 
in the weather is felt as a serious evil ;. if it becomes a 
degree or two colder, he creepa to the fire, and inveighs, 
in terms of bitterness and sarcasm, against the variable- 
ness of the climate ; if its temperature be raised, he is 
Oppressed with heat. His bowels become more and more 
tmtractable ; the usual purgative ceases to produce its 
accustomed effect ; he increases the dose, and when it does 
operate, the action is too powerful, and its effects are not 
easily checked ; a diarrhcea is established ; and this again, 
in its turn, is superseded by still more obstinate consti- 
pation. If I could but obtain a medicine, crieg the invalid 
to his physician, that would keep my bowels in a regular 
state, I should soon becopie convalescent ; there lies the 
difficulty; the evil arises from the inconstant and. unsettled 
state of the alimentary secretions, and it is not easy to 
graduate an artificial stimulant so that it shall always 
correspond with the varying state of the organs upon 
which it is to operate* The depression of bis spirits 
increases as the disease advances; he gives his case up as 
lost; loses, flesh, suffers a thousand distressing sensations, 
and fancies the existence of a thousand more. Wandering 
pains fure felt in the bowels and side ; a tenderness in the 
epigastrium is experienced on pressure ; the abdomen is 
often pretematurally tense ; his breathing is occasionally 
oppressed ; a short dry cough distresses him, and expecto- 
ration is extremely diflQicult. If, under such circumstances, 
the alvine discharges be inspected, they may present every 
variety of morbid appearance; they may be unnatural in 
colour, odour, consistence, figure, or quantity^ I shall, 
hereafter, have occasion to speak more fully upop this 
subject^ as .well as -upon the morbid appearances which 
jthe urine presents under such circumstances. 



t 

Symptotns of Indigestion. . 239 

283. The patient^ in this stage of his complaint, will some- 
times complain of being disturbed, on first falling asleep,^ 
by fearful startings, and catching of the limbs, uneasiness 
in tUe region of the chest, attended with difficulty of 
breathing, so as to resemble angina pectoris ; and it is not 
unusual for him on such occasions to perceive flashes of 
fire, like lightning, with a numbness in his hands ; this 
numbness is sometimes only felt in one or two fingers^ 
Sore throat, occasioned by relaxation, is also a very usual 
symptom ; the skin is frequently dry, and even scaly ; the 
tongue also becomes drier, and sometimes clean, and of a 
brighter colour than usual. Harrassed by such feelings, 
the unhappy invalid anxiously proposes a trial of change 
of air, and his friends acquiesce in the belief that such a 
plan will tend to his recovery. He quits his residence, but 
to no purpose, his emaciation increases ; his ancles swell ; 
and the general debility thus produced sooner or later 
calls some other disease into activity, the nature and 
locality of which will necessarily vary in different cases. 
If the spring of a piece of machinery snaps, and all its 
different parts are hurried into violent motion, the wheel 
upon which the greatest strain is made, or that which is of 
the weakest construction, will be the first to give way. 
Just so is it with the human body. Those organs more 
immediately connected with the digestive function will 
more readily undergo a change of structure, on iaccount of 
the protracted irritation they must have sustained. Then, 
in succession, those which are connected by the ties of 
sympathy; while the general loss of balance, thus. occa- 
sioned, will render any organ, originally weak, very liable 
to disease. This view of the subject is supported by ex- 
perience ; the history of those complaints which terminate 
the life of the dyspeptic patient, will sufficiently explain 
the manner iii which they were produced. Unless they 
take their origin in a viscus immediately connected with 



240 . Syrnptoms of Indigestkm. 

the digestive functions, as in the stomach, intestines, me- 
senteric glands, liver, &c. dyspepsia can only be considered 
in the light of a general debilitating cause ; and it is a cir* 
cumstance no less extraordinary than important, that when 
any new disease is permanently established, the original 
symptoms are mitigated, and sometimes wholly suspended; 
whereas, if the new affection be only symptomatic, instead 
of relieving, jt often aggravates them. 

284. Dr. Philip lays great stress upon the hardness of 
the pulse, as indicative of approaching mischief; I confess 
that my experience does not confirm the importance he 
has ascribed to it. The permanent tenderness of the 
epigastrium, and a clean bright tongue, always excite a 
greater apprehension in my mind. The pulse is very 
treacherous in its indications : I have found it to be soft 
and undulating in cases where no doubt could exist as to 
the presence of organic mischief. It is just, however, to 
state that Dr. Philip acknowledges that its hardness is 
sometimes only perceptible when examined in a particular 
way. He says that those who have been much in the 
habit of examining the different states of the pulse, must 
be aware, that its hardness is most perceptible when a 
slight degree of pressure is employed. A certain degree, 
by greatly compressing the vessel, will give some feeling 
of softness to the hardest ptdse, and a slight d^ee of 
hardness is not perceptible with the pressure generally 
employed in feeling the pulse. If the pressure be gradually 
lessened till it comes to nothing, it often happens that a 
hardness of pulse is felt before the pulse wholly vanishes 
under the finger, when no hardness can be perceived in 
the usual way of feeling it. 

285. I consider the train of reasoning by which Dr. 
Philip establishes the important fact, that long^ontinued 
irritation at length terminates in inflammation and organic 
derangement in the part affected,-^^ constituting a very 



Or game changes in the Bowels. 241 

Yaluable part of his work. The idea is certainly not new, 
but the cases which he has adduced in illustration of its 
truth, are apposite and very satisfactory. The practical 
mischief which arises from a neglect of the fact is, I am 
satisfied, very extensive. 

286. After indigestion has continued to harrass the 
stomach for some time, its viHous coat becomes affected, 
and as the pylorus, from the peculiar nature of its office, 
is more exposed to the continued source of irritation than 
ether parts of the stomach, it is certainly, as Dr. Philip 
justly states, very liable to become inflamed, and the ten- 
derness in the epigastrium may perhaps in some cases be 
thus explained ; but it must be remembered that, in inter- 
nal diseases, the pain is frequently referred to a part at 
«ome distance from the real source of it ; a morbid disten* 
tion of the liver, an irritated state of duodenum, and a 
gorged condition of the colon, are not uncommonly at- 
tended with the same feeling. It is, at the same time, 
difficult to imagine, how serious mischief can be inflicted 
upon the pyiorus wrthout the occurrence of vomiting. 

287. When the bowels have been long in a state of 
disorder, the villous coat becomes tumid, turgid with 
blood, and sometimes ulcerated ; and Mr. Abernethy states 
that these appearances have been most manifest in the 
large intestines. He says that he has repeatedly observed, 
in dissections of these cases, the large intestines to be 
more diseased than the smaller ones, and he accounts for 
this fact in the following manner. If digestion is incom- 
plete, the indigested food must be liable to chemical 
changes, and the products resulting from this cause are 
likely tp be most stimulating to the large intestines. 
Indeed, he adds, in advanced stages of this disorder, mucus 
and jelly tinged with blood are discharged, and it seems 
probable that a kind 6i chronic dysentery may be thus 
induced. In my own practice, I have witnessed several 
cases of this kind ; but I confess that I cannot perceive 

£ 



242 Organic changes m the Bowels. 

why the diiddennm and smaller intestines should not he 
equally exposed to such a source of irritation. 

268. It is not extraordinary that protracted dyspepsia 
should sometimes terminate in a disease of the mesenteric 
glands ; it is only surprising that such a state of irritation 
aiid imperfect development of chyle should continue for 
so long a period, as they are in many cases known to do, 
without occasioning such an effect. We must suppose 
that the selecting tact with which the lacteals are en- 
dowed, enables them for a considerable time to reject 
imperfectly formed or vitiated chyle, and that it is not 
uiitil this is destroyed, that the irritating matter finds its 
way to the glands. The circulating fluids of the body are 
for the same reason not materially deteriorated until the 
dyspeptic disease has continued for some time ; the blood 
then undergoes some important change, but animal che- 
mistry is not yet sufficiently advanced to demonstrate its 
nature. I have examined the blood of a patient who had 
long laboured under a disease of the digestive organs, and 
the most remarkable character which it presented was the 
loose texture of its crassamentum, and a deficiency in its 
red globules. In some cases the serum assumes an opaline 
appearance. 

289. When we consider the connection which subsists 
between the function of the kidneys and that of the 
chylopoietic organs, we shall easily explain the dis- 
turbed appearance of the urine, and the occurrence of cal- 
culous disorders in cases of dyspepsia. 

290. Before I proceed to consider the medical treat- 
ment and dietetic regulations inoist appropriate for the 
cure of the several forms of indigestion, it will be neces- 
sary to inquire iiito the remote and immediate causes of 
that disease. In fulfilling this part of my duty, I shall 
deviate from the usual plan of such investigations, and 
arrange my observations in an prder that may, .in some 
degree, correspond with thiat which should be cuiopted by 



Organic changes in the Bowels. 243 

-Very physician who undertakes to examine a patient with 

* view to detect the cause, nature, and seat of his disease. 

* shall first present the reader with a tabular arrangement 

* f the objects of such an inquiry, and then comment upon 
i/lie relative importance of each. 



j^ 



t 



244 



A SCHEME 

FOR INVESTIGATING THE CAUSES, NATURE, AND SEAT 

OF INDIGESTION. 

I. LEADING QUESTIONS, concerning 



^1. Their Nature; Intensity; Duration; Permanence and 

Locality. 
2. Their Accession; Concourse; and Order of Succession. 
Specific J g Whether Increased or Mitigated by any particular 
Symptoms. ^ Posture or Motion. 



ra. The Patienfs own belief. 
i, < b. Preceding Ailments. 



^4. Assignable Causes. 

(. c. Hereditary/ Predisposition. 

1. Strength and Regularity of Voluntary 

. . , « Motions. 
Animal J^ . Sensations. 

3. Intellectual 



General 



Functions. 



Operations. 
'*1. Pulse, with respect to 



Vital 




General j vitai j ^ Respiration. 
Symptoms. [ Functions. *^ 

^3. Animal Heat, 



Natural 
Functions. 



1 . Appetite and Thirst. 
,2. State of the Tongue. 



a. Strength, 
Frequency, 
Hardness, 
Order, 

ra. Its Degree, 
lb, — Uniformity, 
fc. — ^liable dif- 
V. fusion. 



f 1. Age. 



3. State of tiie Secretions. {^ g^aZ^. 
f the Excretions. {--^^^3.. 



2. Occupation. 



Particular ^ 

Circumstances. 



^a, 

r 



a. Whether sedentary or active, 

conductedin any par' 

ticvlar posture, 

- in heated rooms, or 



in the open air, 

{a. With respect 
b, ^Activity of 



V^ 



4. Residence. 



MindandBody, 
Climate' 



II. OCCASIONAL QUESTIONS, concerning 



Females 



. <2. 

C3. 



1 . State of Menstrual Discharge. 
Married or Unmarried State. 
Impregnation. Lactation. Number of Children. 
Children. 1. Dentition. 2. Former Diseases. 3. Diet, &c. 



A Commentary upon the preceding Scheme. 245 

III. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, upon 

Physical (*!• Bulk and Stature. 3. Particular Confonnation. 
Chabacter i ^* Complexion and Physiognomy. 4. Mobility and 

IV. COLLATERAL CIRCUMSTANCES. 

1. Season of the Year. 2. Nature of Prerailing Epidemics, 
ra. Moisttire and Dryness, 
3. Weather. < 6. Prevailing Winds. 

Lc, Abundance and qualify of Fruits, 

A COMMENTARY UPON THE PBECBDING TABLE. 

29 L In order to illustrate the relative importance of 
the several subjects which are embraced in the preceding 
tabular scheme, as well as to direct the practitioner into 
the more direct path of pathological inquiry, let us suppose 
a person, labouring under some one of the forms of dys^ 
pepsia, to present himself for examination. We first learn, 
from his own report, the general nature of the symptoms 
by which he is distressed ; and we then proceed to make 
such farther inquiries as may enable us to form an opinion 
respecting their origin and mode of cure. 

292. The intensity of the symptoms cannot be always 
infnred from the patient's own report, but must be de« 
duced from our experience in such cases. The dys- 
peptic is too apt to depict his feelings in extravagant 
language, and to become unnecessarily anxious and ap- 
prehensive. An inquiry into the duration of his com- 
plaints is of much importance ; for it has been already 
stated (283) that the intervals of comfort are abridged as 
the disease progresses, until at length he becomes har- 
rassed by an uninterrupted series of sufierings. It is, 
however, from the locality of the symptoms that we are to 
form our opinion with respect to their seat and origin; 
and for ascertaining this fact we must be particular in our 
inquiry, and minute in our examination. Is the stomach 
.affected ? If a sense of weight or burning after the inges- 



246 A Commentary upon the Scheme 

tion of food, acid, or putrescent eructations be present, we 
may conclude such to be the case. If there exist any un- 
easiness or fulness in the epigastric and right hypochon- 
dric regions, produced or increased by pressure, we may 
infer that there exists some diseased condition of the liver, 
duodenum, or, perhaps, of the pyloric orifice of the 
stomach ; and that we may be enabled, under such cir- 
cumstances, to form a diagnosis, the patient must be sub- 
mitted to a manual examination. For this purpose, every 
ligature must be removed from the abdomen, and he must 
be placed on a sofa, reclining on his back, with his legs 
drawn up, so as to throw the abdominal muscles into a 
state of relaxation. Where the fulness and tenderness 
arise from a distended state of duodenum, the sensation 
given to the hand is very different from that which is pro- 
duced by organic disease of the liver ; the tumor in the 
former case is more diffused and less defined. Dr. Yeats 
also justly observes, that, by pressure on the region of the 
liver, no uneasiness will be complained of, but if the pres- 
sure be made with the edge of the open hand under the 
ribs, with the palm of it flat upon the abdomen, consider- 
able uiieasiness will be felt up towards the liver, and down 
towards the right kidney ; a soreness is likewise felt an 
inth or two to the right, just above the navel. In such 
cases also, the anatomical accuracy with which the patient 
will trace the course of the duodenum with his finger 
from the stotnach to the loins on the right side, and back 
again across the abdomen to the umbilicus, will greatly 
assist the diagnosis. There are, besides, other symptoms 
to be hereafter enumerated which will enable us to arrive 
at a still more positive conclusion. It is of the greatest 
importance to distinguish between a morbid state of the 
duodenum and that of the liver : I have frequently, in the 
course of my own practice, seen patients who have under- 
gone salivation, from a belief in the existence of hepatic 
disease, but who were merely suffering under duodenal 



forAnvestigating Dyspeptic Disease. 247 

irritation ; and my friend Dr. Yeats has stated the same 
conviction upon the subject. On the other hand; I am 
equally satisfied that chronic inflammation of the liver has 
been repeatedly mistaken for a dyspeptic state , of the 
stomach. Dr. Saunders says, that he has seen many 
cases of this kind, which have been supposed to arise from 
mdigestion. The patient generally complains of pain; 
which he falsely attributes to the stomach ; and its con- 
tinuance is so short, and the degree of it frequently so 
inconsiderable, that no alarm respecting the future health 
of the patient is produced. . The relief obtained by eruc^ 
tation and discharge .of air, tends to confirm the opinion 
that the seat of the disease, is in the stomach ; . but this 
relief may be explained. on the principle of removing the 
distention of the stomach, and so taking off the pressure 
of this organ from that which is the seat of the complaint. 

293. Where the tenderness in the epigastrium is ex- 
tremely circumscribed, not occupying a space larger than 
a shilling. Dr. Philip infers the presence of an inflamma- 
tory affection, or a state approaching to it, of the 
pylorus, excited by the passage of the irritating con- 
tents of the stomach. I have already expressed some 
doubt upon this subject; I cannot conceive such a. state 
of pylorus, as to occasion pain on pressure, to be unat- 
tended with vomiting. 

294. The accession, concourse, and order of succession 
of the different symptoms, are calculated to throw con- 
siderable light. upon the nature of a dyspeptic disease; 
indeed, in protrac^d cases, it is only by a careful exami-^ 
nation of, these circumstances that we shall be. able to 
separate primary from secondary affections. The stomach 
cannot long err .without, communicating its vice to the 
other chylopoietic organs ; the liver may become affected 
from mere irritation, and .every jmrt of the body, from 
sympathetic influence, may put on the appearance of 
disease; How are we then, e^ept by a careful examina* 



248 A Commentaty upon the Scheme 

tion into the history of the case^ io ascertain the organ in 
which the mischief originated ? 

295. Whether the symptoms are mitigated, or increased 
by any particular posture or motion. This is an important 
question. Where the disease is confined to the stomach, 
the patient appears capable of lying with equal ease on 
either side : but if the duodenum or liver be affected, he 
will experience some uneasiness on lying on the left side. 
Where the disease has become complicated, lying on 
either side is irksome, and the easiest position is found to 
be that of lying on the back, with the shoulders a little 
raised, and inclined to the right side. The muscles of the 
chest are, on such occasions, not unfrequently sore, and 
the patient finds it dilBicult to turn even in his bed with* 
out pain. 

296. Assignable causes. It will be always right to 
inquire of the patient whether he can account for the 
accession of his disease. He will tell you whether he has 
exposed himself to the operation of any of those causes 
which are known to be active in producing it. His pre- 
vious state of health should also be investigated, for we 
may be thus enabled to explain the occurrence of symp* 
toms, and to connect them with the derangements of difr* 
tant organs. An affection of the stomach may, for in- 
stance, be traced to some sympaUietic action, which might 
otherwise be mistaken for a primary disease. 

297. Hereditary susceptibility. So many vague no- 
tions are entertained upon this subject, that it will be 
necessary for me to define the latitude in which the term 
is to be received. Dyspepsia, depending upon peculiarity 
of stomach, is certainly hereditary, but it is only here^ 
ditary in predisposition, always requiring the influence of 
some cause to produce it, and consequently always to be 
prevented, and often relieved, by avoiding the exciting 
cause. In cases of great obscurity, a knowledge of the 
disease to which the pati^it's parent is particularly ob* 



for investigaiing Dyspeptic Disease. 249 

noxious^ must, for reasons safficiently obvious, assist our 
judgment. 

298. Having acquired all the information which is to 
be obtained by questioning the patient upon the subject 
of his " specific symptoms/' we are next to investigate the 
" general symptoms/' connected with the animal, vital, 
and natural functions. In this line df inquiry, the judg- 
ment which we have been able to form will be confirmed 
or modified ; we shall, at the same time, be enabled to 
discover the influence which the local affection has {pro- 
duced upon the general system. 

29d. It has been already observed (283) that the 
strength of the patient, both as it regards the voluntary 
motions, and intellectual operations, does not suffer until 
the dyspeptic disease has acquired a considerable influence 
over the system. The condition, therefore, of these func- 
tions will serve as a measure of the severity of the com- 
plaint ; but in forming such an estimate we must be care- 
ful to avoid the fallacies with which it is surrounded (283). 

300. The pulse only affords indications of questionable 
value; when taken in conjunction with other symptoms 
it may serve to fortify our conclusions ; but I am anxious 
to impress my strong conviction upon the mind of the 
practitioner, that when received as an isolated testimony, 
it will be liable to lead him into error. Its strength, when 
other evidences concur, will undoubtedly throw some light 
upon the general state of the vital powers ; its frequency 
may indicate a state of morbid excitement, its hardness 
must excite the suspicion of organic mischief, and its 
irregularity will denote a disturbed state of the circulation, 
the cause of which must be deduced from other symptoms. 

301. The state of the respiration is a circumstance 
worthy of attention ; for it may concur, with other symp- 
toms, to indicate a state of congestion in the abdominal 
viscera, by which the descent of the diaphragm is im- 
peded. It will also suggest other states of primary or 



260 A Commentary upon the Scheme 

secondary disease, the nature of which the reader ril 
easily understand from the various obserrations which are 
interspersed through the preceding pages of this work. 

302. Animal heat. The degree, uniformity, and 
able diffusion of heat are circumstances of some imj 
ance : they wiU enable us to form some estimate of the 
state of the vital powers generally ; and when we consids 
what an intimate connection subsists between the tempe- 
rature of the body and the difierent stages of digestioii. 
it will throw some light upon the comparative energy witli 
which they are performed. 

303. With regard to the indications afforded by tie 
state of the appetite for solids or liquids, I have alreadv 
delivered my opinions. 

304. The appearance of the tongue has also been noticed 
in the preceding pages of this work ; it is natural to ei- 
pect that a part, which is so immediately connected wit^ 
the functions of the stomach, should be the first to exhibit 
a deranged condition in dyspepsia, and wis accordioglj 
find this to be the case. Bs^livi has said that thepois? 
may deceive you, but that the indication afforded by tiis 
tongue is infallible. It gi*eatly varies, however, in appear- 
ance, in different cases, and in different stages of the same 
case. When white and milky, it announces general irri- 
tation. When brown or dark coloured, foul congestions 
in the primes viae, or the presence of vitiated secretion; 
and when unusually bright and shining, a morbid condition 
of the villous coat of the stomach or intestines, whicb is 
usually associated with, or is the precursor of, organic 
mischief; for it indicates the presence of a degree of fe^^^ 
not commonly excited by the simple functional aberrations 
of the digestive organs. In some cases the tongue is com- 
paratively clean, but its cuticle loses it^ natural hue Bnd 
transparency, and presents a sodden appearance : this 
generally depends upon the secretions having been for « 
considerable length of time in an unnatural state. 



for investigating Dyspeptic Disease. 251 

306. The salivarif secretion is susceptible of various 
aorbid conditions, to which the labours of the animal- 
ihemist have not hitherto been directed (24) ; it is some- 
imes unnaturally ropy or viscid, so as to occasion an in- 
cessant hawking; at other times it is so pretematurally 
bhin and copious, as to be discharged from the mouth in 
considerable quantities. I have lately seen a dyspeptic 
patient who declares, that his pillow is thoroughly wet in 
the morning with the discharge which takes place during 
the night : and yet dryness of the mouth, and a parched 
tongue, are amongst the most disagreeable of his symp- 
toms, as if the secretion had lost the power of lubricating 
the parts to which it is applied. Frank states that he has 
known the saliva, when secreted in unnatural quantities, 
to have become saccharine. 

306. The state of the cutaneous discharge is a circum- 
stance of more importance than physicians usually assign 
to it. The reciprocal connexion which subsists between 
the functions of the skin and stomach is so obvious, that 
if the latter be deranged, the former is immediately af- 
fected, and vice versa. It is the change produced upon 
the skin which assists in bestowing that peculiar physiog- 
nomy so characteristic of protracted indigestion; and 
amongst the most useful remedies in this disease, will be 
found those which are calculated to restore the healthy 
action of the cutaneous organs. When we remember that 
a person in health who takes eight pounds of aliment 
during the twenty-four hours, will discharge five of them 
by perspiration, we shall readily perceive how greatly the 
suspension or derangement of such a function must burthen 
the digestive organs. 

307.. The condition of the excretions, as to quantity 
and quality, is another object of important inquiry. I 
shall first describe the different appearances which the 
faeces may present in the various states of chylopoietic 
disturbance. On some occasions tiiey will contain an 



252 A Commentary f Sfc. 

excessiye quantity of bile, on others they will not be 
sufficiently tinged with that secretion, and will therefore 
assume a light yellow, or a clay-brown colour. They will 
sometimes more particularly indicate by their appearance 
the presence of vitiated secretion, and have a dark oliye, 
or a blackish-brown hue. In some cases they hare so far 
degenerated as to resemble pitch. Where the biliary se- 
cretion has been irregularly supplied, the faeces may 
assume a partially coloured appearance. It is not un- 
usual to notice mucous and gelatinous matter, accompany- 
ing, but not mixed with the faeces, and which have been 
sometimes mistaken for worms. It must have derived its 
origin from the alimentary membranes, or from the glands 
situated in the canal. There is a very peculiar morbid 
evacuation which I have occasionally witnessed, and 
which has been described as resembling yeast in colour 
and consistence. This frequently comes on suddenly, and 
as suddenly departs; it is generally very profuse in quan- 
tity, and is usually preceded by uneasy sensations in the 
alimentary canal. It would appear to be a morbid secre- 
tion of the intestinal juices during a torpid state of the 
liver : although in one case in which I witnessed its oc- 
currence, it was evidently connected with a diseased state 
of the pancreas. I may, in this place, take notice of the 
appearance of fat like lumps of matter which are some- 
times passed from the intestines. I suspect that they are 
inspissated portions of mucus from the coecum ; I have, at 
least, observed such evacuations to be accompanied by 
pain in that region. In most cases of dyspepsia, the 
stools will contain portions of undigested food, shewing at 
once the failure of the assimilating powers. The odour of 
the discharge is a circumstance of importance; a foetid 
stool indicates less permanent or extensive change, than 
one which is deficient in the characteristic odour, and 
yields a faint smell. The consistence of the faeces will 
likewise be found to afford some useful signs. It has 



The Ea?aminat%m of the Faeces. 253 

been generally supposed that their dryness affords a proof 
that the nutritive part of the aliment has been duly 
absorbed : and there can be no doubt that such motions, 
if their colour be natural, should be considered as favour- 
able in cases of indigestion. Boerh'aave has remarked, 
that '^ people who complain of going too seldom to stool, 
and of voiding hard and dry faeces, complain without 
reason, because this proves the strength of their constitu- 
tion/' The least favourable consistence is that of a soft 
pudding, especially if the discharge of the motion be un- 
attended with a feeUng of relief corresponding with the 
quantity evacuated ; a sensation of something being re- 
tained, accompanied with that of a bearing down in the 
lower portions of the intestines, is not unusual upon such 
occasions. There is a peculiar appearance connected with 
this species of evacuation, which, I believe, has never been 
described in any work, nor indeed is it easy to convey by 
words its exact nature. It was first pointed out to me by 
Dr. Baillie, and I have since noticed it in numerous in- 
stances, and become satisfied of its immediate connexion 
with diseased secretion. The consistence of the motion is 
that of a pudding, but it is of unequal density in its differ- 
ent parts, and exhibits a surface as if it had been rasped 
by a file. I have still another form of faeces to describe^ 
which would seem to depend upon a contraction of the in- 
testine; the excrement is hard, but having a diameter not 
much exceeding that of a tobacco-pipe. In protracted 
cases of dyspepsia, the occurrence of this appearance has 
given origin to a belief in the existence of stricture in the 
rectum : but I believe its cause is always seated in the 
higher portions of the large intestines. Some of my 
readers may perhaps consider the observations which I 
have been induced to offer upon the appearances of the 
feculent discharge as unnecessarily minute : but I am 
anxious to urge upon every practitioner the absolute neces- 
sity of such inspections. No one can successfully conduct 



254 A Commentary y Sfc. 

the treatment of a severe dyspeptic complaint unless he sub- 
mits to the performance of such a duty. All the great phy- 
sicians of antiquity relied upon such a source of infonhation 
for their guidance. Hippocrates carried the practice to such 
an extent as to have acquired from some of the wits of his 
age the appellation of tr^aropaycg, as Aristophanes had 
before named Esculapius. Some modem practitioners 
have, from the same scrupulous attention^ been obnoicious 
to a similar charge ; but I trust that no physician will be 
induced to swerve from the performance of a paramount 
duty by such intimidation.^ 

308. The examination of the urine i& also^ matter of 
considerable importance. Its appearance will not only 
assist us in-forming a judgment respecting thft seat of th^ 
dyspeptic disease ; but, if carefully watched from xlay^o 
day, will point out the beneficial changes which otfrplan 
of diet and medicine may have produced. It will also 
instruct us in the species of food which best agrees with 
the patient ; for slight errors of diet, although imper- 
ceptible in other respects, are generally announced by 
obvious changes in the urinary deposits. 

309. Without entering, with chemical minuteness, into 
the history of the changes which the urine undergoes 
under different conditions of the body, there are certain 
phenomena with which every practitioner ought to be well 
acquainted: these I shall briefly enumerate, and endea- 
vour to point out the indications which they severally 
afford. The quantity evacuated during a given interval is 
the first question which presents itself; a diminished fiow 
of deep coloured urine is invariably associated with febrile 

* A atient may be so circumstanced, that the preservation of the 
feces, for inspection, is attended with inconvenience. It is, therefore, 
vForthy of notice, that a table-spoonful of sveeet oil poured over them, by 
investing the surface with a film, effectually prevents evaporation, and 
the consequent stench they might otherwise occasion. This precaution 
should always be adopted in the wards of hospitals. 



/ 



The Examination of the Urine. 255 

ai^tion; while an increased quantity of pale urine more 
generally indicates a peculiar state of nervous irritability^ 
unattended with fever. In estimating, however, this cir- 
cumstance, the practitioner will see the importance of 
inquiring into the vicarious excretion of the skin. Much 
has been written upon the subject of albuminous urine, or 
that in which a coagulum is produced by the application 
of heat ; Dr. Blackall has maintained that it is connected 
with too great an action in some part of the system, and 
he considers that its occurrence in dropsy should be re- 
ceived as an indication of the necessity of blood-letting. 
I have met with several cases of dyspepsia> in which such 
a ^state of urine occurred, and I am disposed to believe 
with Dr. Prout that it is derived from the chyle. I have, 
at this time, two patients under my care, who have long 
suffered from the effects of tuberculated lungs ; and during 
the progress of the present work/I examined their urine, 
and found in both cases that it was albuminous. We 
have, probably, too few data to lead us to a safe conclu- 
sion with regard to the cause of the phenomenon : but 
I am, at present^ impressed with a belief that it arises 
from imperfect sanguification ; the chyle not undergoing 
the necessary changes to convert it into perfect blood, is 
eliminated by the kidneys. It is essential in every case of 
protracted dyspepsia, to inquire into the state of the 
urinary secretion, in order to ascertain whether the patient 
may not be labouring under diabetes. So many valuable 
works have appeared upoii this subject, that I consider it 
unnecessary to enter upon its history : but I should not 
discharge my duty to the professional reader, were I to 
omit noticing the concise but luminous chapter with 
which Dr. Prout has favoured us in his truly valuable 
work on the diseases of the urine. 

310. But of all the changes of which the urine is 
susceptible, none perhaps are less equivocal, or more indi- 
cative of a deranged state of the alimentaiy functions-. 



256 A Commentary^ tSgc. 

than the deposit of lithic acid, either in an amorphous or 
crystalline form. Dr. Prout states that this acid, when in 
the former condition, is always in some state of combina- 
tion, generally with ammonia ; but when in the latter, it is 
nearly pure. He observes, that in healthy urine the lithic 
salt exists in such a proportion^ as to be held in permanent 
solution at all ordinary temperatures ; but that from par^^ 
ticular causes affecting the health, its quantity is preter-^ 
naturally increased, and the excess is deposited as the 
urine cools. Dr. Philip is inclined to account for its ap- 
pearance in the urine from an increased quantity of acid 
passing through the urinary organs : from this view of the 
subject the lithic acid deposited must be considered as 
jEtrising, not from the excess of that substance in the urine, 
but from a decomposition of the compounds into which it 
enters by the agency of a free acid. He considers that, in 
a healthy state of the system, the precipitating acid is 
thrown off by the skin, and he supposes that even when 
generated in excess, it may be diverted to the surface of 
the body by merely increasing the insensible perspiration. 
But, from whatever cause the precipitation may take place, 
its occurrence must be considered as a very delicate test of 
alimentary disturbance. By watching the occurrence and 
disappearance of these deposits, we are enabled to form a 
very just conclusion as to the efficacy of any plan of 
medicine or diet that may have been prescribed. I am 
acquainted with a gentleman who can never eat bread 
without discovering a change in his urine. He told me 
that he had entirely overcome the lithic diathesis by sub* 
stituting biscuits. To those who are not acquainted with 
the influence which the slightest error in diet possesses 
over the urine, this may appear a refinement scarcely 
within the bounds of credibility : Dr. Prout, however, has 
stated a parallel case. The variety of colour, also, ex- 
hibited by the lithic sediments, is deserving of some atten- 
tion, and the profession is under deep obligations to Dr. 



Age and Occupation of the Patient considered. 257 

Prout for the able manner in which he has described such 
modifications. He arranges them under three divisions, 
yiz. 1. Yellowish ornut'brotonBediment; 2. Reddish^brown 
or Lateritious sediments; and 3. Pink sediment. The 
first variety indicates a strong tendency to the lithic acid 
diathesis : although in some cases an opposite state of 
system prevails, and an alkalescent condition of the sto- 
mach and bowels may be supposed to exist, in general, 
the nearer such sediments approach to white, the more of 
the phosphates they contain. Dr. Prout says, that the 
second variety of sediment varies in tint from nearly white, 
in which state it is with difficulty distinguished from the 
last variety, to a deep brick-red or brown. It is to be 
considered as a symptom indicative of phlogistic fever, or 
very frequently of local inflammatory action. The third 
variety of sediment owes its colour principally to the Piir- 
purate of Ammonia: its presence indicates the existence 
of certain chronic visceral affections, especially of the liver. 

311. These observations are sufficient to impress upon 
the practitioner the necessity of inspecting the urine of his 
patient ; the indications it affords are not to be received with^ 
out due caution. If taken alone, they may not be worthy 
of any considerable degree of credit, but when viewed in 
conjunction with other symptoms, they will undoubtedly 
assist his diagnosis. 

312. We come now to consider the " Particular Cir- 
cumstances'' of the patient under examination. His age, 
for obvious reasons, is a fact of importance. By learning 
the nature of his occupation, we shall be enabled to form 
some judgment with respect to the causes that may have 
excited his disease. The posture in which some persons 
are accustomed to sit, is a frequent source of affections of 
the stomach and bowels. Literary people and clerks from 
bending to the desk or table are frequently thus affected. 
Tailors and shoemakers are notoriously obnoxious to 
serious obstructions from such a cause : by the position in 

s 



958 Thcformet^ habits cfthe Fatkat. 

which these tradesmen peaa a conaidecable poitioaol i 
day, the margin of their ribs is pressed upwards sos 
force the stomach against the diaphragm^ and to im; i 
the passage through the pylorus. It is equally e^i I 
to inquire into the former habits and customs of the pain 
we thus become acquainted with his dietetic irregolan]! 
the degree of exercise to which he has been accastoQ 
and variousother circumstances which may haTecoDtribi 
to produce the disease under which he labours. Ifk 
resided in a warm cliqutte, we fihall be led to suspect 
existence of hepatic affection. The " Oocasional Qi 
tions" which I have introduced, as. necessary fot tk^ 
mination of females and children, are too obvious in d 
importance to require any farther comment. With re^ 
to the value of " General Observations'' upon thepb;^ 
character of the individual, I have only to state, thattk 
accustomed to medical physic^nomy ivill deiive m 
information from such an inspection; although the 6 
dence is of such a nature that it cannot be descMl^ 
is to be learnt only by experience* 



259 



OF THE CURE OF INDIGESTION, 

it relates to diet, exercise, and medicinal 

Treatment. 



313. The previous habits of the patient, and the origin 
id seat of the disorder, are the circumstances from which 
e physician is to derive his indications of cure. If the 
sease has not extended its influence beyond the stomach 
id bowels, the means to be adopted will be more simple, 
id, at the same time, more prompt in their salutary ope- 
fction, than where it has invdved the functions of remote 
-gans ; but in this latter case, the symptoms are so be- 
aently those of mere sympathy, that the practitioner has 
Pten the satisfleu^tion of witnessing their removal by reme- 
ies that can only have acted on the primse viea. 

314. It has been stated (257) that the stomach may 
iil in the perfonnance of its duties, either from a defici- 
Bcy ia the secretion of its menstruum, or from a loss of 
K>wdr in its muscular fibres ; but in either case we must 
efer the- disease to a loss of nervous energy. Some per* 
tons, predisposed to indigestion, «m1 who inherit the tern- 
)erament most favourable>to its production, would seem to 
3ave less than an ordinary ratio of nervous energy supplied 
bo their muscular structures. In such cases, there is an 
anusual torpor in the bowels, even during^ health. An at- 
tention' to thie fact has frequently led me to adopt measures 
which might- have^ proved- less- successM under other eii"^ 
cumstauees. As a general proposition it may be- stafed, 
that the secretien^ of gastric juice,, and the muscular power 
of the stomach, are so intimately associated with each other, 
thai the one cannot long be deficient without the odief 



260 Pathology of the Stomach to be 

partaking in the torpor ; and the practitioner, who b 
much experience in the treatment of dyspeptic dii 
will readily concur with Dr. Philip in belieTing, 
whatever tends to restore a healthy nervous power i 
stomach, tends to form the food into that substance i 
is best fitted to excite the oiuscular fibres of thisoi 
and that whatever excites the natural action of 
fibres, tends to relieve the nerves from their load, m 
the most favourable way, to bring into contact with 
extremities the food on which, through the intejreiiti 
the gastric fluid, their powers are to be exerted. 
. 315. The pathology of the stomach may, there^ 
greatly simplified by referring it to a defect of nei 
action ; and our first duty is to enquire into the (a 
that may have occasioned it, and which, in general, 
be identified with errors of diet, affections of the mioJ 
irregularity of exercise. 

316. The nature and influence of such remote csi 
have been fully discussed in the preceding pages; ace 
carefully appreciating their operation, the practitioneii 
obtain a clue for his guidance. He must lay down a>i 
tem of rules for his patient, by which the remote cao^^ 
his complaints may be removed ; but, in his attempts 
reform bad habits, he must be careful to avoid aU ^^ 
transition's, except in those circumstances which haf^^ 
direct influence upon the vital powers of the body 
should, for instance, be very cautious how I ^^ 
spirituous stimulants, although I might be well s0 
that the indulgence of such potations had given orijioi 
the disease; but I should not feel any hesitation ui' 
once withholding every species of pastry, or other Wf 
tible matter, without reserve. Upon the samepn^^ 
we should gradually diminish the number of meai^ f*^^ 
they have exceeded the proper limit, adopting them^^ 
skill and caution to the fluctuating circumstances of ^ 
patient. The same observation applies to exercise :°^' 






referred to a defect of Nervous Action. 261 

thing would be more injudicious than to expose the in* 
valid, debilitated by sedentary habits/ to the effects of 
sudden and protracted exercise ; nor should the person, 
whose habits have been laboriously active, be abruptly re- 
stricted to an irksome state of indolence. The discipline, 
in such cases, must be graduated according to the previous 
habits of the patient; to his age, strength, and the nature of 
his disease. Exercise can never prove salubrious, if it be 
followed by fatigue. Mr. Abernethy has prescribed to his 
patients a set of rules, which I shall take the liberty of 
quoting in this place, in order that I may offer such ob- 
servations upon their value, as my own experience has 
suggested. ^^ 7%ey should rise early when their powers 
have been refreshed by sleep, and actively exercise themselves 
in the open air till they feel a slight degree of fatigue,^' 
Upon this first rule, I am disposed to make the following 
comment. Although we must all agree in the advantages 
of early rising, yet, in dyspeptic cases, I have frequently 
known the disease greatly aggravated by the patient sud- 
denly changing his habit, with regard to the hour of rising ; 
and that if he becomes the least fatigued, before his morn- 
ing repast, he remains languid and uncomfortable during 
the rest of the day. A long walk before breakfast, unless 
the person has been accustomed to the practice, will frc - 
quently produce a fit of indigestion. I have already ob- 
served, that it is advisable to allow an interval to pass 
before rve commence the meal of breakfast ; and where the 
weather and circumstances will permit it, this interval 
should be passed in the open air, but the body should not 
suffer the least fatigue. Mr. Abernethy then proceeds to 
say, " they should rest one hour, then breakfast, and rest 
three hours, in order that the energies of the constitution 
should be concentrated in the work of digestion.'- It^iap- 
pears, then, that the patient is to rise early, to take exer- 
cise until he feels slightly fatigued, and then to rest an 
hour before he is allowed to take any refreshment. This 



262 Practical Ruksfor tht 

plan might succeed very well in preeerving a robiiBi and 
healthy man in vigour ; but whaie we have to deal witil a 
peiBon whose energies are languid, and whose feebte powers 
ure easily exhausted, I fear that such discipline would be 
ill-calculated to aff<»d assistance. It is notorious that all 
dyspeptic persons are especially languid in the morning, 
and they accordingly require a regimen the very reverse to 
that which Mr. Abemetby recommends. Such, at least* 
is the conviction of my mind. To the practice of resting 
three hours after breakfast diere can be no ofa^cction ; it is 
the period best adapted for intellectual business. He then 
recommends *' active exercise again for two hourSy rest one ; 
then taking their dinner, they should rest for three hours, 
exercise two, rest one, and take their third slight meal.** 

317. It is impossible to irame any general rule that 
shall apply to every case, but I will offer a sketch of the 
plan I have usually recommended : the practitioner wiU 
readily modify its application to meet the circumstances of 
any particular case. The dyspeptic patient should rise 
from his bed as soon as he wakes in the morning : for as 
Mr. Abemethy justly states, that ** many persons upon 
first waking feel alert and disposed to rbe, when, upon 
taking a second sleep, they become lethargic, can scarcely 
be awakened, and feel oppressed and indisposed to exer?- 
tion for some time after they have risen." He should 
then walk, or rather saunter for some time in the open 
air, previous to taking his bioak£Mt, the material of which 
is to be selected according to the principles already dis- 
cussed (232). He is now in a condition to fdlow his naval 
avocations; but it is a circumstance of no slight import- 
ance to procure an evacuation at this period, which is 
easily effected by habit (79) ; a person who accustoms 
himself to the act at a certain hour of the day, will gene- 
rally feel an inclination at the appointed season. The in- 
valid should not allow his occupations, if sedttitary, to en* 
gage him for more than three hours, after which exercise 



Guidance of Dyspeptic Pmknts. 263 

a horseback, or by watking, should be tmifonnly taken, 
have already obserred, that the state of the weather 
ught not to be urged as an objection to the prosecution 
f measures so essential to health. Where the season of 
he year, and the situation of the patient, will allow the 
ixercise, I strongly urge the advantages to be derived 
rem digging: the stimulus thus given to the abdominal 
-egions is highly salutary in dyspeptic affections. The 
lOUT of dinner should not be later than three o'clock 
^233), and the patient should rest for an hour before 
he sits down to the meal (243). It should consist 
but of few articles (227), should be carefully masti- 
cated (236), and the invalid should rise from the table 
at the moment he perceives that the relish given by the 
appetite ceases. The manner in which he should regulate 
his potations, at and subsequent to this meal, has been 
already considered (146). With respect to the allowance 
of wine^ ev^ry practitioner mast use his discretion, and be 
guided by tiie former habits and Resent condition of his 
patient (167). It is essenticd that the invalid should enjoy 
rest for at least two hours after dinner (106), that is to 
say, he i^ould not enteir upon any occUpatioh or diversion 
that may occasion the ^slightest fatigue ; to a gende wsdk, 
or saunter in the garden, there can be no rational objec- 
tion, especially at that seadon of the year when such a 
pastime is the most inviting. At six or seven o'clock, he 
may take some diluting liquid, as tea ; atle^ which, exer- 
cise win be highly useful, to assist the sanguific^tioh of his 
previous meal : in the summer seasoti there will be no diffi-> 
c^ltyb accomplishing this ols^eet \ and if the strength of the 
patient will allow the exertien> some active game, as bowls, 
will be attended with advantage. At ten o'clock he may take 
somis toasted brlted, or a lightly boiled egg^ with a glass of 
wine and water, should his previous habits render such an 
iadalgenee necessary^ and at eleveh he may retiire to rest. 
The bed*-rdom should be well ventilated, and its tempera- 



264 Acidity of Stomach ; 

ture should^ as nearly as possible, be that of the apartm^it 
from which the patient retires. A well-stuffed mattress is 
to be preferred to a bed of down, and the curtains should 
not be so drawn as to exclude the free circulation of air. 
The invalid should be careful in not retiring to rest with 
cold feet : nothing contributes more readily to disturbed 
sleep, and uneasy dreams, than the unequal circulation 
which takes place on such occasions. 

318. Such are the general rules which I should enforce 
for the protection of those invalids who are liable to dys- 
peptic attacks. There are particular features in the history 
of every case which will require appropriate treatment, and 
I shall now proceed to their consideration. 

Acidity of Stomach, Flatulence, 8^c. 

319. It has been a question often discussed, whether 
the acidity which occurs in the stomachs of dyspeptic 
invalids, arises from the fermentation of the food, or from 
a vitiated state of the gastric secretion ? It appears to me 
that it may occasionally depend upon either of these 
causes. In cases of imperfect chymification, it would 
appear more generally to depend upon the matter gene- 
rated by the food ; for it is instantly relieved by a dose of 
carbonate of soda : but where it is symptomatic of some 
disease in a distant organ, as in that of the uterus, it 
would, seem to be connected with an acid state of the 
gastric juice, and is not relieved by the administration of 
alkalies. I am not aware that this distinction has ever 
been established, but I am so well satisfied of its truth, 
that I have, in several cases, been led, from this circum- 
stance alone, to distinguish between primary and sympto- 
matic affections of the stomach. Unrelenting and con- 
tinued cardialgia ought to lead us to suspect disease in 
some other organ ; although I am not prepared to state that 
it is never the effect of a primary affection of the stomach* 



Flatulence. Methods of Cure. 265 

320. In ordinary cases of acidity, the procuring eyacu- 
itions from the bowels is the first measure to which we 
ire to resort. We have afterwards to adopt such treat* 
nent as may prevent its recurrence. This indication is to 
be fulfilled by bringing the digestive org-ans into healthy 
action by a well-regulated regimen, and by such medicines 
as may give tone to the stomach, and increase that pro- 
pulsatory action of the bowels, by which they are enabled 
to pass off the undigested portions of food. It is also pro- 
bable that the bile may be unduly secreted in quantity or 
quality, for cardialgia is a common symptom of hepatic 
obstructions. Emetics have been recommended by some 
authors; but I suspect that such remedies, however quickly 
they may remove the present paroxysm, are calculated to 
favour its return.' I am therefore disposed to prefer pur- 
gatives, especially as the disease is generally complicated 
with foecal congestions in the colon. Five grains of the 
compound extract of colocynth, or of the compound cam- 
boge pill, combined with two of calomel, afford a very 
efficient remedy upon such an occasion. When the bowels 
have been thus relieved of their load, their peristaltic 
motion may be kept in a state of gentle excitement by the 
following draught, which I have found to be singularly 
efficacious in such cases. 

R Sodae Tartarizats, ij. 
Sods Carbonatis, dij. 
Aquae Anethi, f ^j. 
Tinct. Calumbs, f3j. 
Fiat haust. cum Acidi Tartarici granis quiodecem in aquae 
semi-fluid-uDcia solutis, in impetu effervescentiae sumendus. 

321. The exhibition of alkalies and absorbent earths 
will remove the present evil, but it will not produce any 
beneficial influence in averting the cause by which it was 
produced. Carbonate of ammonia is, perhaps, the most 
efficacious of the antacids, for it neutralises a portion of 
the acid matter which appears to exist in a gaseous state 



266 Treatment of Cardialgia. 

in the 6tomacfa« and whicli, on that account, eludes the 
action of the fixed salts, it is^ fiaoreover, ci^nlated td 
relieve the debility which so frequently attends an attack 
of this nature. I have known very small doses of opium 
relieve this affection afiter the bowels have been thoroughly 
evacuated ; and in cases where there is reason to refer its 
origin to a symptomatic affection of the stomach, nitric 
acid has been found useful. Diarrhcea is not an unutsual 
attendant of this disease, in consequence of the irritation 
which the bowels receive from the contact of the acrid 
matter : small doses of magnesia, combined with a few 
drops of laudanum, and made into a draught with some 
mucilage, will generally be found to relieve the complaint. 
322, We are, however, to look for permanent relief it 
a change in the food ; all the vegetables should be with* 
drawn, and a diet of animal food substituted : but if such 
a change should excite the disgust of the patient, we must 
relax in our commands, for the stomach will never digest 
that against which the inclination rebels^ The substances 
which are found, by experience, more particularly liable to 
create this disorder, are all fried articles, butter and 
greasy viands, pastry and crude vegetables; in short, 
whatever is indigestible may act as its ^iciting cause. 
Astringent wines, as port, are very apt to ftivour its occur- 
rence. I have before observed, that the stomach is fre- 
quently sensible to very minute portions of astringent 
matter (171). Dr. Philip says, that he has known more 
than one instance in which the stomach was even sensible 
to the difference between coloured and colourless brandy. 
Broths of every description, but especially those made of 
the meat of young animate, are a fruitful source of heart- 
bum. Veal contains a saccharine principle which is very 
susceptible of acettficatioo. The medicines best calculated 
to invigorate the alimentary canal, are those composed of 
pure vegetable bitters, with the addition of some aperient 
salt. The infusion of quassia, in the dose of half a fluid* 



Flatulence may arise from different Catcses. 267 

[3unce» wi<& two flaid-diachiiiB of the infusion of senna, 
Busd a dracbin of tirtrate of potass, wanned with some 
aromatic tincture, is an excellent compound in such eases. 
I hare also found the infusion of rhubarb, quickened with 
a small proportion of the compound tincture of aloes, a 
very useful remedy. 

323. Flatulence is often a very distressing disease ; it 
sometimes is associated with addity, but frequently is 
the only symptom which indicates an imperfect digestion. 
Whether the gas, with which the intestines are inflated, 
be a product of fermmtation, or a secretion from their 
vessels, is a question which has given origin to some dis- 
cussion. It may probably arise from either of these 
causes, although it is generally attributable to the fonaer^ 
In some cases, it appears to contain sulphuretted hydro- 
gen gas, and eructations take place which are character- 
ised by the smell of rotten e^s. Where this occurs, we 
may infer the existence of great alimentary disturbance^ 
the natural affinities, by which the digestrve changes are 
produced, appear to be subverted, and a new chain of 
compositions and decompositions established. The al- 
bumen would seem to be the substance from which this 
compound is generated ; and in several cases which have 
fallen under my notice, relief has been obtained by con- 
fining the patient to a strictly farinaceous diet* Ordinary 
cases of flatus, however, are of a different nature ; the air 
appears to be ihB product of fermentation, and, by avoid- 
ing such vegetables as are known to be soaoeptible of it, 
the disease has been removed. In certain states of the 
alimentary canal, a sense of distention may be fek, with- 
out any morbid increase in the quantity of intestinal gas ^ 
an undue sensibility or irritability of the bowels may occa- 
sion such a feeling. Hits fact has been well illustrated 
by Dr. Parry:* he observes, that *^ there is often consider- 

* Collections from the Unpublished Medical Writings of the late 
Caleb HOUer Parry, 1 8S5. 



268 Flatulence may depend upon 

able variation in the degree of inconvenience resulting 
from the use of food or.drinks which disagree." '* Some- 
times/' says he, '' if I take acids, as. considerable quantities 
of fruit, and immediately afterwards eight or ten scruples 
of .kali at a dose, in saturated aqua kali carb., I feel no dis- 
tention of the stomach, and bring up no carbonic acid gas : 
several hours afterwards there is a great uneasiness in the 
colon, which is not relieved till a great quantity of wind 
passes downwards. In this case it was absolutely neces- 
sary that the wind should have existed in the stomach, 
because an acid and an aerated kali were mixed there. 
But no dyspepsia, or what is called wind, was produced 
by it, because the stomach itself was not thrown into a 
spasmodic state from being over-irritable. Afterwards, 
however, when the same wind passed into the colon, that 
bowel being in a state of morbid irritability, the uneasi- 
ness from the wind was produced there till the. wind was 
expelled." Although the terms in which this fact is ex- 
pressed may not be consonant with those of modem 
seience, the fact itself, as well as the explanation of it, are 
of great practical value. It is not the presence of gas in 
the intestinal canal, but the irritability of the intestines, 
which renders them impatient of the slightest stimulus of 
distention, that occasions the distress so common to dys- 
peptic invalids. A person in robust health may, from 
various. accidental circumstances connected with the na- 
ture of his food, experience an unusual intestinal disten- 
tion ; but it will not occasion distress, for the reasons above 
stated. The practice to be founded upon such observa- 
tions is evident: we shall obtain more. advantage from 
calming the irritability of the bowels, than by dispelling 
the flatus by carminatives. I have found small doses of 
the extract of hyoscyamus, combined with two grains of 
ipecacuan, produce relief in attacks of. flatulence which 
have resisted the ordinary methods of cure. Dr. Parry 
considers that dyspepsia consists in such a state of the 



Irritability of the Intestines. 269 

villous coat of the stomach or intestines, or both, as sub-* 
jects them to be morbidly susceptible of irritation from 
certain kinds of food, or certain changes of the food, which 
are not perceived, or produce no uneasiness in healthy 
stomachs; and that this affection of the villous coat, 
throughout all its degrees, up to inflanimation itself, i» 
apt to be followed by sympathetic or symptomatic affec- 
tions of the secretory arteries or glands seated in it, and 
often of the muscular coat of the alimentary canal itself^ 
I believe that such an affection is the general consequence, 
although not the cause of dyspepsia. In the treatment, 
therefore, of this complaint, we may frequently interpoise 
sedatives with advantage. Protracted dyspepsia not un- 
frequently depends upon a morbid condition of the ali^, 
mentary surfaces ; the mucous membrane becomes af- 
fected, and the disorder is not removed until measures 
have 1)een adopted to restore its healthy secretions. A 
fretful state of the intestinal discharges is generally asso*- 
ciated with such a disturbance, and I have found the ad^ 
ministration of a lenient purge every morning, with small 
doses of the vinum colchici, repeated twice a day, emi- 
nently successful in such cases. 

324. Where the dyspeptic disease is connected with 
duodenal irritation, I know of no medicine more useful 
than the vinum colchici; taking care to accompany its 
exhibition with that of occasional laxatives. Purgatives 
that act with violence are always followed with an aggra- 
vation of the symptoms. Dr. Yeats speaks in high terms 
of commendation of the sulphate of potass :-'' It appears 
to me," says he, " to have a more specific effect upon the 
duodenum than the sulphate of ms^esia. I giv4i 9j . »f it 
twice a day, in the infusion of quassia, and gr. iij. of the 
pilula hydrargyri, with or without two grains of extract, 
aloes, according to the state of the bowels. If much 
feverish irritation prevails, arising, as I imagine, from 
some slight infiammatoiy action in the ' duodenum, the 



270 Utility cf Leniejit Purgatives. 

Baliae draugbt, in a state of efferrescenee, is substituted, 
witk the sdphate of potass, for the bitter infusion, widi 
the happiest effects, and the pil. hydrarg. is given without 
the aloes/' This is verj excell^t practice : I am satisfied 
that nothing is more misehieTOus than active purgation in 
every stage of dyspepsia. Drastic doses of calomel, to 
which s(»ne practitioners resort, are calculated to increase 
the morbid irritability by which the disease is kept alive. 
In cases even of loaded bowek, it will be more prudent to 
excite their peristaltic action by a gentle but continued 
stimulant, than to irritate by active purges. Where the 
b^iary discharges are faulty, small doses of mercury are 
useful; and I prefer the hydrargyrum cum creta, on such 
occasions, in doses of four grains, and combined with two 
or three grains ofpulvis ipecacuanha, to every other form 
of ccnnbination. 

326. Mr. Abemethy has offered some very valuable 
observations upon the subject of purgatives : he says that 
p^sons may be purged without having their bowds cleiuied 
of the fcecal matter which may be detained in them ; we 
should therefore endeavour to ascertain what kind or cofBr 
bination of purgative medicines will excite a healthy 
action of the bowels, without teasing them, or producing 
discharges from the organs themselves. The best mode 
of proportioning the degree of excitement to the end de-* 
signed, is to take a dose of a suitable medicine at night, 
but short of that which may prove irritating ; if it fiiil 
sufKciently to excite the organs, a similar dose may be 
taken in the morning; which also failing, it may be 
repeated at regular intervals during the day. The prin- 
ciple tha^ should govern our conduct in the administration 
of purgatives, may be briefly stated* — the excitement isto^be 
repeated till the requisite action is induced, yet na single 
iexdtement, Imng such as maypr&ve an irritant to the organ. 

326« The mischief which may be produced by too 
-active pui^ticm seems to have been well understood by 



Active Purgation injurims. 2TI 

e ancients; but the modem practitioner has too&equently 
jected the advice which the sages of our profession have 
corded for his instruction. *' He who takes, a rough 
arge," says Plutarch^ '' to relieve his body from too great 
load of food, may be compared to the Athenian, wha 
nding the multitude of citizens troublesome to him, con- 
rived to drive them out by filling the city with Scythians 
ud wild Arabs." I do not wish to inveat the Grecian, 
listorian with the attributes of a medicd oracle; but we 
nay be allowed to borrow from him a figurative allusion 
;o illustrate the importance of a precept which cannot be 
too frequently or too forcibly impressed upon the mind of 
the medical practitioner. 

327. We may obtain the best form of a purgative from 
an infusion of senna, graduated in strength according ta 
the circumstances of each particular case, and comlmied 
with small doses of some neutral salt. Where accumula- 
tions may be supposed to have taken place in the colon, a^ 
dose of the pilula cambogia cwnposita is an effectual 
remedy. 

328. Where the symptoms of dyspepsia are accom-. 
panied with an evident spa3modic affection of the aliment- 
ary canal, as indicated by its inverted and convulsive 
movement, the malady may be inferred to exist more par- 
ticularly in thQ muscular structure. Dr. Parry is inclined: 
to regard such cases as distiuct from those of dyspepsia, 
and to class them under the head of nervous irritability of 
the stomach: but they evidently constitute a link in the 
same chain, and are so intimately connected with the. 
series that, they cannot be practically separated from it. 
In such cases the symptoms of flatus ajre prominently dis- 
tressing: the air which exists in the canal, and whiok 
should p^ss insensibly downwards, inviscating itself with. 
the food, is thus arrested in its course, producing borbo- 
rigmi and eructations from the stomach. In such caass,. 
the medicines, most likdy to afford relief are alo^tiic ^timu** 



272. Stimulants. White Mustard Seed. 

lantfl : I have found the decoctum aloes compositum a truly' 
valuable remedy in all affections connected with a torpid 
or irregular acticm of the muscular coats of the intestines. 
On some occasions, I have subjoined the infusum armo- 
racia compositum with evident advantage. 

329. The administration of the white mustard seed » 
which has been lately revived with all the confidence which 
attaches to a newly discovered remedy, is certainly a use- 
ful medicine in several morbid states of the intestinal 
canal ; but, according to my experience, it is serviceable 
only in such cases as are marked by alimentary torpor. 
In affections attended with muscular inirritability, or in 
those associated with a diseased state of the mucous sur- 
faces, it is unquestionably useful. I have known it to 
ensure a regular alvine discharge in persons of costive 
habits ; and I have also found it to correct that species of 
diarrhcea which attends a diseased condition of the mucous 
membrane of the intestines. These unbruised seeds were 
much commended by Dr. Mead in ascites, and by Ber- 
gius in intermittents, and numerous writers have extolled 
their virtues in stimulating the stomach and intestines. 
Dr. CuUen, however, observed that the seeds given in this 
form are never broken down or dissolved in the stomach, 
but pass away entire by stool ; and he therefore inferred 
that they were incapable of producing any beneficial 
effect. This statement appears to have thrown so much 
discredit upon their value, that they fell into disuse, and 
they have only lately regained the confidence of the pro- 
fession. I confess myself to have been amongst those 
who were disposed to consider the unbruised seeds as 
perfectly inert ; but experience has taught me that such 
an opinion is incorrect. The seeds consist of fecula, mu- 
cilage, an acrid volatile oil, on which their virtues depend, 
and which on standing deposits a quantity of sulphur, a 
bland fixed oil, which considerably obtunds the acrimony 
of the former constituent, and an.ammoniacal salt. The 



Chemical Composition of the Seed. 273 

fixed atid volSitild oils teay be obtained by eKpression, and 
if the mixture be sabmitted to the action of alcohol, the 
latter n^ill b6 dissolved, and be thus separated from the 
former. It has been lately discovered, by some experi* 
ments conducted in Ftance, that if the alcoholic solution 
be (Bvaporated, a Holid and crystalliEable substance, distin- 
gniriled by acid properties, may be obtained; and as 
sulphur is said to enter into its composition, it has been 
termed ^' mlpha^rinapic add^^ If the whole seeds be 
mf&cefated in boiling water, we shall at first obtain an 
insipid mucilagie, which, Kke that of linseed, resides in 
die skin; but if the maceration be. long continued, the 
water will become impregnated with matter yielding the 
odour of sulphuretted hydrogen ; a sufficient proof that a 
portion of the volatile oil may be thus extracted; and it id 
probable that this process may even proceed more rapidly 
in the digestive canal. In administering them, however, 
as a remedy, we should be cautious to prevent their accu- 
mulation in the bowels. A patient, to whom I lately 
recomnSieiided theifr use, informed me that his evacuations 
becanire extremely offensive, so that it is not improbable 
that a portion of sulphuretted hydrogen may be disen- 
gaged during their passage. Their administration evi- 
dently requsres caution: if any inflammatory irritatioa 
exists^ they must prove injurious : where, however, there 
is* a sluggish or deficient secreticrn of the alimentary juices, 
t h^ve no doubt respecting their utility. 

330. The practitioner is well acquainted with the doc- 
il^iies of Bbroussais*: he maintains, that almost every 
disealfe aarii^es from an mfhmmatory affection of the diges-* 
tive ca^al ; and, although thei absurdity of so general a 
pro^sition Musi be admitted, we shall act wisely in sus* 
peoting the e&istence of sueh a state of disease in pro*- 
Iraoted dyspepsia: tenderness upon pressure, and the 
appeimmce' of the discharges from the bowels, will geiw^ 
Mdly aiUloiitice such a condition ; and lenient purges, tfato 

T 



274 Bitter Stimulants. — Blisters. 

application of leecheB, aod a low diet, will famish the best 
methods of treatment. 

331. The utility of bitters, in the treatment of ,dyj»- 
pepsia, is a very questionable and. often a dangerous pnic- 
tice. It is, however, the popular resource of those who 
suffer from deficient appetite; and I am satisfied that 
many serious evils have arisen from its iadiscrimioate 
application. Where the disease arises from a mere want 
of tone, and is not complicated, with intestinal initajtion, 
such medicines are, of all others, the most effectual ; a 
truth which will be readily deduced from the observations 
which I have already offered upon the operation of these 
agents (135). 

332. Blisters are of eminent service in cases of in- * 
testinal irritation, accompanied with tenderness on pres- 
sure; they will frequently also put a stop to obstinate 
vomiting, when other methods have .failed of succqss. 

333. The external application of heat to tlie region of 
the stomach will often allay gastric irritation that de- 
pends upon the presence of indigestible matter. The 
process of chymification is thus promoted by a species of 
contiguous sympathy that is not well understood. 

334. The application of heat to the feet will be at- 
t^ided with the same beneficial consequences : this con- 
nexion is still less apparent, but it is a fact, no less re- 
markable than true, that the digestion of a person in 
health may be arrested by the sudden application. of cold 
to the lower extremities. 

335. The use of frictions, when applied by means of 
the fleshrbrush to the abdominal region, deserves a, dis- 
tinguished place in the catalogue of dyspeptic remedies. 
I have usually directed its application for a fei^^ minutes, 
night and morning, and the most obvious l>en.efi.t ha^ 
arisen from it. The ancients are well known to Ixa^^re. helc^i 
tiction in high estimation, not only in the cure, but fo 

le prevention of disease. The modems have \En^^ise) 



Friction . — Use of Flannel. i75 

suffered the practice to fidl inibo disuse. If it were neces- 
sary to illustrate the utility of friction, we have only tb 
adduce the well known effects which are produced on 
horses by the operation of currying ; and which can alone 
depend upon freeing the surface from the recrementious 
part of the perspirable matter, and promoting a due circu- 
lation in the skin. In thus making them sleek, they 
become more gay, liyely, and active, and will preserve 
their strength with half the quantity of food, than when it 
is given to them without such assistance. In cases where 
the application of cold may be considered usefViI, the 
brush may be immersed in equal quantities of vinegar and 
water. 

336. With respect to the utility of wearing flannel 
next the iskin, some diversity of opinion has existed. Its 
advantages consist in gently stimulating the surface, pro- 
moting perspiration, and conveying away the moisture as 
it may be deposited. When worn only in the day it does 
not appear objectionable, but is, on the contrary, salutary 
to those whose skin may be supposed to require such a 
stimulsint ; but I agree with Dr. Beddoes in believing 
that no good reason can be assigned why any one, who 
is the master of a comfortable bed, should wear it during 
the night. In that state of increased sensibility of the 
skin which sleep induces, it is more likely to be injurious 
than at any other time, by the stimulating effects of its 
piles, and by the warmth it keeps collected round the 
body. There is also another objection to its use, under 
such circumstances : the perspirable matter, by accumula- 
tion, undergoes a chemical change, and the skin is thiis, 
as it were, immersed in a noxious atmosphere. For the 
same reason, the flannel should be frequently changed. 
M I have generally preferred, in dyspeptic cases, the use of a 
i5 '^ flannel stomacher, or a piece of loose flannel worn over the 
n^^stomach and bowels during the day^ and which may be 
) ctt^thrown off at bedtime. 



276 . The Cold Bath. 

337« The ti«ie of cold and warm bathing o&en another 
smbjeet for ccHmideratioi^. The advantages arising ffom 
it, in the treatipent of dyspepsia, ^s^ indisputable ; but its 
applic^^Qn requires skill and prudence. When we con* 
sid^r the fopctions of the skin, in tb^ relations to the 
digeBtive process* w^ oaimot be surprised that an improve* 
ipa^t in the state of the former shoi](ld confer a corres* 
ponding benefit on the latter. The oold bath appears 
eminently serviceaUe to those who are B^ffering from 
dyspepsia, induced by the enervt^ting modes of life pe- 
culiar to great towns, or by gres^t mental exertion. Where, 
iM^wever, there exists considerably bili^^ry distarbance» it 
generally does harm. It is also a matter of great ccmse* 
quenee to ascertain the strength of the patient, and 
whether his vital energies are sufficient, to' produce that 
redaction, without which the cold bath must ever prove a 
source of mischief. This circumstance must likewise di* 
rect us in appointing an appropriate period for the opera- 
tion. The robust and healthy may bathe early in the 
morning, or before breakfast, witfiout the least hesitation ; 
but the dyspeptic invalid should never venture into the 
Wftter iintil his Stomach has been stimulated by a slight 
meal. The period best calculated for immersion is about 
two hours after breakfast, which will enaU^ him to take 
some previous exercise ; he ought never to feel any degree 
of <diiUiness, but should be rather warm tha^ cool, before 
he attempts to bathe. Dr. Cmrie has justly observed, 
*' that persons ought not to m^ftit on the edge of a bath, or 
of the sea, until they are. perfectly cool, for if they plunge 
into the water in that state, a ^dd^^n a^d planning chilli* 
ness may be expected, wUicb would not have been the 
case had they been moderately warm when they went 
into ikt water." There exiats a popular belief that, unless 
St person plunges head foremost, an accumulation of blood 
nay lake place in the bi^. There ia no truth in this 
observation. A sudden plunge is a vieleiut and unnatttral 



Practical Directions^ for Bathing. 277 

exertion^ and if the patient has not strong powere of re- 
action^ it may be followed by unpleasant consequences. 
The shock thus given to the nervous system may» like ar 
blow on the head, produce syncope. A case occurred at 
Brighton in which a person, in a state of debility, died 
suddenly from the shock of a shower-bath. 

338. An invalid should never remain longer than two 
minutes in the water, and the body should be kept during 
the whole time under the surface. If, instead of a genial 
glow, chilliness, languor, and headach follow, We may 
conclude that the vigour of the system is not equal to 
create and sustain that re-action upon which the benefits 
of bathing must depend, and the practice should be im- 
mediately abandoned. It is, I think, generally advisable 
for invalids to bathe only on alternate days, until they find 
their strength so much increased as to allow them, without 
risk, to indulge it daily. 

339. The patient generally inquires whether, before 
bathing in the sea, it may not be proper to prepare himself 
by the use of a waim bath. I generally recommend a 
previous immersion in the tepid bath, at a temperature 
commencing at 90^ Fah., lowering five degrees each time, 
and terminating at 65^. Some laxative should be taken a 
few days before the course of bathing is commenced ; bat 
all violent purges must be cautiously avoided. I have 
known persons who, from a popular notion of the safety of 
purgation on such occasions, have taken violent doses of 
medicine, and been rendered extremely ill by their first 
immersion. 

340. The warm bath is better calculated for those in-r 
valids whose reaction is not sufficient to sustain the shock 
of cold water. In such cases it will augment rather than 
diminish their natural strength and vigour; it will regulate 
the functions of the skin, promote the digestive powers, 
and concur with other measures to re-estabHsh their heatt)i. 
To ensure objects so desirable, there are several precau- 



278 Tht Warm Bath. 

tions which it may be necessary to enumerate. As our 
purpose is not to induce profuse sweating, the temperature 
should not, on the first going into the bath, exceed 94® or 
96*, but it may be gradually increased to 98*, In ascer- 
taining its heat, we should never trust to our sensations ; 
the thermometer is the only indication upon which we 
should rely. The most proper period for using the warm 
bath is an hour or two before dinner. If it be used during 
any of the ulterior stages of digestion, as in the evening, 
it will be liable to accelerate the circulation, and to pro- 
duce disturbance. I have known persons, troubled with 
indigestion, to suffer considerable restlessness and irrita* 
tion, by going into a warm bath just before bed*time. 
The patient ought not to remain immersed longer than 
twenty minutes ; and upon coming out, he may walk in 
the open air, but should be cautious not to occasion 
fatigue. Count Rumford has published an interesting 
essay on the subject of warm bathing, in which . he 
observes that ** a person may gain fresh health, activity, 
and spirits, by bathing every day at two o'clock in the 
afternoon, at the temperature of 96° or 97° Fah.^ and 
remaining in the bath half an hour. He continued that 
plan for thirty-five days, and derived from it permanent 
advantage;" and he adds, " that the idea of going into 
bed after a wanQ bath, in order to prevent taking cold, is 
erroneous; that no alteration should be made in the cloth* 
ing, and that the body, on exposure to the air, is not more 
susceptible of catching cold than it was before going inta 
the bath.'^ This coincides so perfectly widi my own ex- 
perience, that I feel it unnecessary to offer any . farther 
remarks upon the subject. Count Rumford also justly 
reprobates the idea of any advantage being derived from- 
temperate baths of from 56^ to 60^. The animal tempera- 
ture, he observes, is 98^ ; in those temperate baths, there- 
fore, we lie motionless in a temperature inferior to that of 
our own bodies, and consequently must lose instead of 



Shmoer Baths. — Change of Air. 279 

acquiring heat, or even retaining that which we pos* 

sessed. 

341. Shower-baths have been supposed to be more 
efficacious, in certain diseases, than baths of less partial 
application. In stating the result of my own experience 
upon this subject, I have to observe, that in debilitated 
habits they are not unattended with danger. I have 
certainly seen that species of indigestion which would 
seem to arise from, or be intimately connected with nervous 
irritability, greatly alleviated by the use of such partial 
baths, but I have generally recommended that the tempe- 
rature of the water should be raised to 60°. Persons of a 
strong habit, who have been exhausted by intellectual 
exertion, are greatly resuscitated by such means. 

342. Change of air is one of the most efficacious 
methods of curing dyspeptic complaints. The chemist 
has proved that the essential constituent parts of the 
atmosphere are the same in all places and situations; it 
has been collected in cities and in the country, on moun- 
tains and in plains, and even at the height of 7260 yards 
above the level of the sea, by Gay Lussac, in his aerial 
voyage in September 1806 ; but it has never been found 
perceptibly different in composition. From the latest and 
most accurate experiments, the proportions of oxygen and 
azot are 21 and 79. It is indeed true, that various foreign 
bodies m4y be present, such as an increased quantity of 
carbonic acid, animal exhalations, smoke, &c. The quan- 
tity of aqueous vapour is also liable to constant variation. 
What then renders the air of some places so much more 
salubrious than that of others ? or, whence arise the ad- 
vantages which the invalid so constantly experiences from 
change of place ? The proposition itself may perhaps be 
denied; and any attempt to establish an explanatory 
theory upon such a subject, may be compared to the 
attempt made by the Royal Society, at the command of 
king Charles, to explain " why, if a vessel is filled brim- 



fiSQ Change of Air. 

ful of water, a^d a large live fi^h be plunged therein^ that 
it shall nevertheless not overflow." — Is it a fact? Is one 
situation m^re salubripus than another? and do dy0peptic 
patienta aotnally derive any benefit from meice change of 
air ? I do npt ima^ne that any physician, who has prac- 
tised a few years, wiU require any evidence of these facts 
beyond that which his own experience must have supplied* 
It is notorious that children, who may be regarded in the 
light of sensible instruments, become unhealthy, if con- 
stantly ooxifined to the air of large citiea; robust and 
h^thy persons are not so afl*ected ; but the delicate, a^d 
s|bove all, the dyspeptic invalid, is notoriously injured by 
it. Let him retire oqly for a few days into the country, 
and the effect which is produced by the change is tOQ 
fipparent to admit of any question. §pme have supposed 
that th^ insalubrity of the air of a large city may depend 
upon the greater dampness and stagnation of the air, 
occasioned by its numerous buildings : I am not disposed 
ta assert that such causes may not have a share in pro- 
duping the effect ; but the animal effluvia, and the carbo- 
pacepus matter sq abundantly floating in the atmosphere, 
IP¥|st also he takea into consideration. How does it 
happ>en that plants wither and die in a short tjuoae after 
they are bronght, itim the nursery-grounds into the more 
9apacious st^TQcts of the metrppolia? Why should iron 
Tust with so much greater celerity ii^ London than in the 
country? These observations, however, merely ga tQ 
prove that the air of a dty is less, pure than that of the 
country. Is there any evidence to show that the air of 
diJSfereat places, remote from t9^p% va^efi in. its. sa^ubii^ 
in different placesj, or in the ^amp plaqe at different times? 
( ap|Mrebend that most of the beneficial or evil effects of 
different air may he ultimately referred to iti^ relationa tq 
moisture and dryness. That such changes ^re conaL4<V« 
able and striking, under certain circumstances, have been 
render^ ^pfaient by the admirable re^^arches of Mr. 



Meteorological Remarks. %%1 

Dimiel, who, by tba invention of a simple aad ooneet 
hygrometer, has been enabled to throw very considerabte 
light upon this hitherto obscure subject. That the en* 
taneQua discharge is very materially affected by the degree 
of moisture in the atmosphere is eyident; and that the 
digestive organs may therefore be thus influenced, through 
its medium^ is a corollary which no one will refuse to 
admit. When the air i^ very moist, it is a bad amductor 
of the perspirable matter, which, therefore, instead of 
being eerried off in an insensible form, is condensed upon 
the surface ; henpe we appear to perspire greatly upon the 
slightest exercise, whereas the cuticular discharge is, at that 
time, absolutely le^s. We have all experienced the sensa-^ 
tion o( heat, and disposition to sweating, during the mcMst 
weather which so frequently occurs iu this country in April 
and May^ the wind being at the time stationary at south-^ 
west or south. On the contrary, during the prevalence of 
an east-wind, the most violent exercise will scarcely prove 
diaphoretic, and yet the quantity of cutaneous exhalation 
is far greater than during that state of atmosphere when the 
slightest exercise deluges us with perspiiable matter. Dr. 
Schmidtmeyer says, that in Chili, notwithstanding the high 
temperature which would have been intolerable in Europe^ 
9nd deluged the inhabitants with perspiration, so rapidly 
does evaporation proceed, that it might even be doubted 
whether, after considerable exercise, any perspiration was 
occasioned by it*. It is scarcely necessary to observe that 
the atmosphere of Chili is remarkable for its dryness. The 
functions of the lungs are no less influenced by the state 
of the atmosphere than those of the skin. The formei: 
organs are constantly giving off water, and if it be not 
carried eff, with equal rapidity, it is reasonable to suppose 
that some influence will be produced upon them, bene* 
ficial or otherwise, according to the peculiar cwditioa 

^ Trnvsls into Chili. 



282 Chbnge of Scene and Habits, 

of the patient, as I have endeayonr^ to explain <iii the 
last edition of my Pharmacologia, tinder the histoty of 
Expectorants. How is the cnre of hooping-cough, by 
change of air, to be explained, unless we adopt the belief 
which I have endeavonred to enforce ? 

343. The advantages which attend *' change of air,'* 
in the treatment of various diseases, has been ascribed 
by many physicians to the exhilarating impressions 
thus produced upon the mind, and to the simultaneous 
change of habits which usually takes place upon suoh 
occasions. I am willing to admit the extensive and 
powerful operation of such causes in the treatment of 
diseases in general, but more particularly in those cases ih 
which the digestive organs constitute the source of th\B 
derangement ; for such affections are influenced by the 
state of the mind to an extent to which it would be d{fli<- 
cult to assign a limit. It therefore follows that, in the re- 
commendation of a place of resort for invalids, varioui^ 
circumstances are to be taken into consideration : it is no 
less important to furnish amusement for the mind, than to 
provide salubrious air and wholesome food for the body. 
A continual change of residence is, perhaps, better adapted 
for ensuring our object, than a protracted stay in any oncf 
place. The genial excitement, which a succession of 
novelties produces on the mind, to say nothing of the 
advantages which necessarily arise fVom the exercnse of 
the body, is more likely to ensure exhilaration and dh^erJ 
folness, and to break down the associations which con-' 
tinned disease will always engender, than a monotonous 
residence in a waterihg place, where, after the first few* 
days, the patient becomes familiarised with the olijectir 
around him, the spell by which he is to be cured is 
broken, and his mind is watching every pulsation, in order 
to discover some indication of &at returning health which 
he so anxiously anticipates. This truth is beautifully 
illustrated by an anecdote related by Sydenham, and will 



as essential as Change of Air. 283 

go farther in establishing the importanoe of the principle 
I Bxn desiTDus of enforcing^ than any argnment which it is 
in my power to adduce. This great physician having 
long attaided a gentleman of fcnrtune with little or no 
advantage^ frankly avowed his inability to render him any 
farther service, adding, at the same time, that there was a 
physician of the name of Robinson, at Inverness, who had 
distinguished himself by the performance of many remark- 
able cures of the same complaint as that under which his 
patient laboured, and expressing a conviction that, if he 
applied to him, he would come back cured. This was too 
encouraging a proposal to be rejected : the gentleman re« 
ceived from Sydenham a statement of his case, with the 
necessary letter of introduction, and proceeded without 
delay to the place in question. On arriving at Inverness, 
aad: anxiously enquiring for the residence of Dr. Robin- 
son, he found, to his utter dismay and disappointment, 
that there was no physician of that name in the place, nop 
ever had been in the memory of any person there. . The 
gentleman returned, vowing eternal hostility against the 
peace of Sydenham ; and on his arrival at home, instantly 
expressed his indignation, in not very measured terms, at 
having been sent so miany hundred miles for no purpose.^ 
" Well,'' replies Sydeidiam, '* are you better in health?'' 
— ** Yes; I am now perfectly well, but no thai^s to you." 
''No?" says Sydenham, ''but you may thank Dr. 
Robinson for curing you. I wished to send you a journey 
with some object of interest in view ; I knew it would 
be of service to you : in going you had Dr. Robinson and 
his wonderfiil cures in contemplation, and in returning 
you were equally engaged in thinking of scolding me." 
There was more wisdom and address in such a scheme 
than in that which is said to have been practised by Hip- 
pocrates, who sent his patients from Athens with no 
other object than to touch the walls of Megara, and theni 
to return. 



284 RecapUukUian. 

344. I have tfaus endeayoured to inresligate the prio* 
e^es upon whidi the treatment of indigestion is to be 
condueted. I might hare descended into fuller detail, 
but the art of sdecting remedies, of graduating their 
strength, and of modifying their powers by combination^ 
constitutes a subject to which I have directed the attention 
of the practitioner in a distinct work, the extensive sale 
of which convinces me that it must be already in the 
hands of every professional reader, and will render any 
farther observations in this place unnecessary. After all, 
more benefit will arise in d3rspeptic diseases, from a judi- 
cious regulation of the diet and habits of the patient, than 
from large quantities of medicines ; although I do not 
intend by this observation, to undervalue the impcvtance 
of such agents, when directed by the skilful hand of the 
physician. The unhappy invalid, who seeks for rdiief from 
the nervous cordials, and stomachic mixtures of the 
empiric, may occasionally derive the feeling of temporary 
relief, from the operation of stimulants, to which the 
rc^lar practitioner will never resort. Let him remember 
that such relief, if obtained, must be at the expense of his 
future welfare. Such expedients have been aptly oiough 
said to be drafts upon the constitution, payable with com*- 
pound interest a few months after date. 

346. I shall now recapitulate some of the more promi* 
nent doctrines which have been established in the pre- 
ceding pages ; a plan which will mt only have the advan- 
tage of placing the subject in a simple and perspicuous^ 
point of view, but of affording the reader with a con- 
venient index to the practical parts of the work. 

RsCAWITULATiON. 

1. The first object is to discover the origin and seat of 
the disease (290). 

2. If it arise from a debihtated state of the stomach, in 



Recofitulatum. 286 

which either the secretions are deficient or depraved, or 
the musculars powers of that organ have lost, th^tr 
vigour, we have first to remove, as fax as we are able, 
the remote causes which may have produced the disorder^ 
The alimentary canal must be cleared of all foul 
congestions, and their future accumulation prevented* 
first, by a strict adherence to a diet most likely tq eiwure 
the d%estion of the fo^d ; and, secondly, by the carrful 
exhibition of laxatives, which may carry off the sup^uous 
parts. The functions of the skin must be reatored, and a 
general vigour imparted to the body, by remedies whicb 
are calculated to strengthen the nervous system* 

3. If the dyspeptic disease has continued so long as 
to produce an inflammatory state of the gf^tric mem^ 
branesy we must, employ antiphlogistic meaois for its 
cure (330). 

4. If the duodenum be the seat of the disorder (^5), 
we must carefully ensure, by appropriate diet,, the eomr 
plete chymification of the food, so that it shall not be 
irritated by the contact of half digested food ; the secre- 
tions which enter its cavity must be regulated and. im- 
proved, by small, deees of mercury ; and colahicum may 
be adminialered in the maimer above directed: (324). 
Above alU the colon, must be caielally poeaerved from 
feculent aoeuBHolaikionSt 

^ If the bowiek be dislvessed witii fiatus, we must 
ascert^n whether the feeling arisea from an tncreased 
quantity of air present in the caaal, or a morbid sensibility 
of the membranes, wbieh renders the ordinary quantity of 
elastic matter bnrtbenaome. In the formm case the 
treatment must be regulated by such meaaures as may 
prevent fennentetion (323), in the latter, ih^ irritability 
^f the intestines must be appeased by aedativea. 

6. If acidity prevails, we have to inquire whether it 
arises from the nature of the food, or the moBrtnd state of 



286 Recapitulation. 

the gd»tric juioe, and regulate out measures accordingly 
(319). 

7. Where disease exists in the bowels, and the ap- 
pearance of the stools indicates a dysenteric affection, we 
may infer that the mucous membrane is in a state of 
disease. 

8. The administration of tonics and aromatic stimu- 
lants will always be attended with mischief, where a 
phlogistic condition of the mucous membranes exists: 
mild aperients and light diet are to be prescribed under 
such circumstances. 

9. Where there exists a languor in the muscular 
powere of the alimentary canal, and a torpor in the secre- 
ting membranes, bitters, aromatics, and other stimulants, 
such as mustard-seed, &c. may be safely adminis- 
tered. 

10. The dietetic code of the dyspeptic patient may be 
summarily included under the following precepts : — 

A. Precepts in relation to the Quality of Food. 

a. Animal food is more digestible, but at the same 
time more stimulant and less flatulent, than vege- 
table diet. A dyspeptic invalid may be restricted 
to meat and bread with advantage,- until his diges- 
tive powers have gained sufficient energy to enable 
him to ccmvert vegetable matter into healthy chyle 
(110, 111)» after which a due mixture of both spe- 
cies of alunent will be essential (112). .^ 

b. The wholesome quality of food ' depends as much; 
or even more, upon its mechanical condition, than 
upon its chemical composition (123— *1 26); and as 
this is influenced by various circumstances under 
our own control, we may render food, naturally 
indigestible, of easy digestion (126 — 128). > The 
digestibility of any species of aliment, as well as its 



Hecapitulation. 287 

nutrttivfi. qualities^ are influenced by the different 
modes of .cookery (129—134). The addition of 
condiments is also capable of producing the same 
effects (135 — 142). The practitioner will be enabled 
to direct that species of food,, which is best calcu- 
lated to fulfil the indications of the case, by an 
attentive perusal of those remarks w^ich are intro- 
. duced in the body of this work (189 — ^227). And 
he will. also, find ample directions for his guidance 
in the selection of liquids for drink (143 — 186). 

B. Precepts in relation to the Quantity of Food. 

a. This must, in every case, be regulated by the feel- 
ings of the patient : let him eat slowly, masticate 
thoroughly, and, on the first feeling of satiety, dis- 
miss his plate, and he will not have occasion for 
any artificial standard of weight and measure. But 
he must, in such a case, restrict himself to one dish ; 
an indulgence in variety provokes an artificial appe- 
tite which he may not readily distinguish from that 
natural feeling which is the only true indication 
(236—241). 

C. Precepts, with regard to the Periods best adapted 
for meah, and, on the Intervals which should elapse between 
each. 

I have, upon every occasion; endeavoured to impress 
upon the practitioner the high importance of these 
consideratiops. In every situation of life, we too 
frequently pass, unheeded, objects of real import- 

. ance, in an over-anxiety to pursue others of more 
apparent but of far less intrinsic value ; so is it with 
the dyspeptic invalid in search of health : What 
shall I eat ? Is this, or that species of food diges- 
tible ? are the constant queries which* he addresses 
to his physician. He will ireligiously abstain from 



2B8 RecupituloHm, 

whatever mectod opintom, or even pdpulsff pMjadiee 
has deeried as unwholtaome; asid ye^t the peiiod 
at which he takes his meal is a m^ter of compara- 
tive indifference w«th htm : although he wi8 refime 
to taste a dish that coBtaifis an atom of vinegar 
with as much pertinacil^ as if it held arsoiic in 
solution^ he will allow the m^t trifliiig engage- 
ment to postpone his dinner for an hour. So im- 
portant and serious an error do I consider such 
irregularities^ that I have frequently said to a patient 
. labouring under indigestion, ** I will warn all my 
objections to the quality and quantity <>fyourj'ood, 
if Iwepe sure that suck a sacrifice of opinion would 
ensure regularity in the periods of your meals/* 

a. The principal solid meal should be taken in the 
middle of the day (233). 

b. Four hours after which a liquid meal should be. 
indulged in (234). 

•c. The digestion of one meal should be always com- 
pleted before fresh labour is imposed upon the stomach 
(98), 

d. The intervals at which food is to be taken must be 
legidated by the digestive powers of tiie^ individual, 
ittsd the rapidity witi^ whudi thqr ar0 pcH^fatmeed 
(233). 

e. The {MMsMt'shouldttever take bis meai in a state of 
iat%ue<24a>. 

f. Exercise should alwayv be taken three or fou« hours 
afte ditmet < 105^ 246), 

« 
On the Diet Bt:sr ADAprEi) por P^rsoi^s labour- 

JNQ UNDER TASES MsSENtERICA. 

We know nothing of the open^tion of the mesenteric 
glaads> nor of the part they perfevm in the scheme of 



Diet to be used in Mesenteiuc Affections. 289 

digestion; but we are assured, by experience, that when 
bhey become diseased, emaciation and atrophy follow. 
rhe dietetic plan which I am about to propose in such 
cases, was neither suggested, nor am I aware that it 
can be successfully supported, by physiological theory; 
although, if it were my object to adduce an hypothesis, 
[ think I might be able to give it the air of plausibility. 
My conviction of the utility of the treatment, however, 
rests exclusively upon the basis of experience. I have 
uniformly found a vegetable diet injurious in 'such cases, 
while one entirely composed of animal matter has proved 
beneficial ; but in order to ensure such a result, the meals 
should be scanty, and in' quantity short of what the appe- 
tite may require ; the intervals, also, between the repasts 
should be lengthened. In this . way are the unwilling 
absorbents induced to perform their duty with greater 
promptitude and activity; but it is a practice which, 
from the extreme anxiety of friends and relatives, ^ the 
Feelings of craving and hunger expressed by the patient, 
and the mistaken but universal prejudice respecting dietv 
it is always painful to propose, and generally difficult to 
enforce: where, however, circumstances have given me 
a full and unreserved control, the advajitage of the plan 
has hetn most decisive. In affections of this kind, the 
stomach rarely loses its powers ; and it is less an object 
to provide easily digestible, than highly nutritive food. 
I have a patient of this description, who has derived much 
advantage from a diet composed principally of animal fat ; 
and I have frequently noticed a sort of instinctive desire 
for rich and concentrated nourishment, which has not 
produced the ill effects which it undoubtedly would have 
occasioned in a simple dyspeptic disease. 



290 Diet of Pulmonary Invalids. 



Of TBS Debt of Pulmonabv Isvaiim. 



In tubercular affections of the lunga, it has been 
disputed whether the low diet, so uniyeraally prescil 
in such casee, is that which is best calculated to ar 
the progress of the disease. From my residence at P 
zance, and from the various cases which have fallen ii 
my care, in consequence of baying there practised, 1 n 
without the risk of incurring the charge of presampt 
assert that few physicians have possessed greater op| 
tunities of experience in this complaint than mysdf. 
conclusions to which this has led me niay be expre 
in a very few words. Where there exists, in the eai 
stages, great lassitude, coldness of the extremities 
quick but weak pulse, a tightness across the chest, 3 
it were confined by cords, but unaccompanied with a 
pain in the side, a strictly vegetable diet is injun* 
I have in such cases prescribed a regimen similar to i 
which I have above proposed for the cure of meseni 
affections; and I have certainly found it to be use 
To assert that I have cured an <»rganic disease in 
lungs would be more than foolish; but I have certi 
arrested its progress in some cases, and I have resti 
others to perfect health, who had hem gradually 
dining under a different treatment. Where a penna/ 
cure has been effected, the presumption is, that the lo 
were never actually deranged in structure ; but the ^ 
toms were of a nature to have justified such a ( 
elusion. The medicine upon which I place the gre^ 
reliance in such cases, is the extract of hemlock; 
were I to express the extent of my own confidence io 
powers, I might, perhaps, fall into the dangerous ei 
against which I have so strongly protested in my Ft 
macologia — that of bestowing such extravagant pn 
upon a remedy as to detract from its reputation. I sii 



» Treat Diad of Phthim. 29 1 

herefore, only observe, that this remedy tranqaiHixes.tfae 
irritation of the lungs to a greater degrte' thair any other 
nedicine with which I am acquaint^ \ but in .order to 
'insure so desirable an effect, it must be given in mudi 
^rger doses than those in which it is usually admiiiis^ 
^ered. I usually commence with a dose of five graiiiB 
three times a day, which I graduaUy increase to 9j, or 
.;ven more : it will generally produce a slight giddiness^ 
lausea, and a tremor of the body ; a peculiar heavy sen- 
sation is also experienced about the eyes, and a tightness 
^icross the forehead; and the bowels frequently become 
ii'elaxed : unless some of these sensations are produced, 
I consider that the remedy has not had ^fair trial. The 
^following is the formula for the preparation of the mixture 
which I have found to be so highly serviceable. If I am 
Required to explain the modus operandi of each ingredient, 
fi might, perhaps, fail in inspiring that confidence in its 
^utility, to which I am convinced it is entitled. The 
^practitioner must therefore rest satisfied with the results 
of experience, and accept facts in the place of theory. 

t R Extract. Conii, et 

I Extract. Hyoscyami, aa Bij. 

Mucilag^inis Acaci«, f3ij. 
Tere simul, et adde 
f Liquoris Ammonis Acetatis, f^. 

Aque purae^ fjivss. 
{ Vini Ipecacuanhse, fSj. 

Synipi Rhsados, fSij. 
Fiat mistora, de quft sumantur cochlearia duo ampla ter que 
tidie. 



I have now fulfilled the objects which I proposed to 
myself in the composition of the present Work. I have 
attempted to establish the principles upon which the di- 
gestibility and nutritive powers of different aliments de- 
pend; and I have endeavoured to point out the circum- 



290 Diet of Pulmonary Invalids. 



Of TBS Debt of Pulmonabv Invaum. 



In tubercular affections of the lunga, it has been ol 
disputed whether the low diet, so univeTaaUy prescri 
in such cases, is that which is best calculated to ar 
the progress of the disease. From my residence at F 
zance, and from the various cases which haye falleD u 
my care, in consequence of haying there practised, 1 1 
without the risk of incurring the charge of presumj^ 
assert that few physicians haye possessed greater of 
tunities of experience in this complaint than mysdf. 
conclusions to which this has led me may be expre 
in a yery few words. Where there exists, in the ea 
stages, great lassitude, coldness of the extremitk 
quick but weak pulse, a tightness across the chest, 
it were confined by cords, but unaccompanied with i 
pain in the side, a strictly vegetable diet is injur 
I have in such cases prescribed a regimen similar to 
which I have above proposed for the cure of mesei 
affections; and I have certainly found it to be us 
To assert that I have cured an <»rganic disease in 
lungs would be more than foolish; but I have cert 
arrested its progress in some cases, and I have res 
others to perfect health, who had been giaduaU] 
dining under a different tieatment. Where a permi 
cure has been effected, the presumption is, that the I 
were never actually deranged in structure ; but the s; 
toms were of a nature to have justified such a 
elusion. The medicine upon which I place the gre 
reliance in such cases, is the extract of hemlock; 
were I to express the extent of my own confidence i 
powers, I might, perhaps, fall into the dangerous t 
against which I have so strongly protested in my I 
macologia — that of bestowing such extravagant p 
upon a remedy as to detract from its reputation. I ^ 



Treatnieiit of Pkthms. 291 

lerefora, only observe, that this remedy tranquiHiuB tbc 
ritatioQ of the lungs to a greBtar degree than any otiier 
tedicine with which I am acquainted ; but in order to 
38ure so desirable an effect, it must be given in mudi 
^rger doses than those in which it is usually adHutti»- 
;red, I usually commence with a dose- of five gnMiw 
iree times a day, which I gradnally increasa to Sg, or 
ven more : it will generally produce a alight giddiness^ 
ausea, and a tremor of the body ; a peculiar heavy sen- 
ation is also experienced about the eyes, and a tightness 
Lcross the forehead; and the bowels frequently become 
elaxed : unless some of these sensations are produced, 
'. consider that the remedy has not had y.fair trial. The 
bUowing is the formula for the preparation of the mixture 
ivhich I have found to be so highly serviceable. If I am 
■equired to explain the modus operandi of each ingredirait, 
[ might, perhaps, fail in inspiring that confidence in its 
utility, to which I am convinced it is entitled. The 
practitioner must therefore rest satisfied with the results 
of experience, and accept facts in the place of theory. 

R Extract. Conii, et 

Eitiact. Hyoscyami, ai 9ij. 

Mucilagiuis Acadv, t$i). 
Tere sinuil, et adde 

Liqnoris AnimoaiEe Acelalia, T^. 

Aqiw purttj fJivM. 

Vini Ipecacuanhs, f3j. 

Syrupi Rhteados, f3ij. 
Fitt mistura, de qu& tiunantur cochlearia duo ampla ter quo- 
ttdie. 



I have now fulfilled the objects which I proposed to 
myself in the composition of the present Work. I have 
attempted to establish the principles npon which the di- 
gestibility and nutritive powers of different aliments de- 
pend; and I have endeavoured to point out the circum- 



^ 



> 



290 Diet of Pulmonary Invalids. 



Of the Diet of Pulmonaey Invalids. 

In tubercular affections of the lungs, it has been often 
disputed whether the low diet, so universally prescribed 
in such cajses, is that which is best calculated to arrest 
the progress of the disease. From my residence at Pen- 
zance, and from the various cases which have fallen under 
my care, in consequence of having there practised, 1 may, 
without the risk of incurring the charge of presumption, 
assert that few physicians have possessed greater oppor* 
tunities of experience in this complaint than mysdf. The 
conclusions to which this has led me may be expressed 
in a very few words. Where there exists, in the earlier 
stages, great lassitude, coldness of the extremities, a 
quick but weak pulse, a tightness across the chest, as if 
it were confined by cords, but unaccompanied with acute 
pain in the side, a strictly vegetable diet is injurious. 
I have in such cases prescribed a regimen similar to that 
which I have above proposed for the cure of mesenteric 
affections; and I have certainly found it to be useful. 
To assert that I have cured an organic disease in the 
lungs would be more than foolish; but I have certainly 
arrested its progress in some cases, and I have restored 
others to perfect health, who had been gradually de- 
clining under a different tPBatment. Where a permanent 
cure has been effected, the presumption is, that the lungs 
were never actually deranged in structure ; but the symp- 
toms were of a nature to' have justified such a con- 
clusion. The medicine upon which I place the greatest 
reliance in such cases, is the extract of hemlock ; and 
were I to express the extent of my own confidence in its 
powers, I might, perhaps, fall into the dangerous error^ 
against which I have so strongly protested in my Phar- 
macologia — that of bestowing such extravagant praise 
upon a remedy as to detract from its reputation. I shall. 



TreatmaU of Phthisis. 29 1 

therefore, only observe, that this remedy tranqaiHixes. the 
irritation of the lungs to a greater degr^' thair any other 
medicine with which I am acquaintisd ; but in .order to 
ensure so desirable an effect, it must be given in mudi 
larger doses than those in which it is usually adminis- 
tered. I usually commence with a dose of five grains 
three times a day, which I graduaUy increase to 9j, or 
even more : it will generally produce a slight giddiness^ 
nausea, and a tremor of the body ; a peculiar heavy sen- 
sation is also experienced about the eyes, and a tightness 
across the forehead; and the bowels frequently become 
relaxed : unless some of these sensations are produced, 
I consider that the remedy has not had 2Lfair trial. The 
following is the formula for the preparation of the mixture 
which I have found to be so highly serviceable. If I am 
required to explain the modus operandi of each ingredient, 
I might, perhaps, fail in inspiring that confidence in its 
utility, to which I am convinced it is entitled. The 
practitioner must therefore rest satisfied with the results 
of experience, and accept facts in the place of theory. 

R Extract. Conii, et 

Extract. Hyoscyami, aa Bij. 

Mucilaginis Acaci«, f5ij. 
Tere simul, et adde 

Liquoris Ammomae Acetatis, f^. 

Aque pune, fjivss. 

Vini Ipecacuanhse, f5j. 

Synipi Rhsados, f3ij* 
Fiat mistara, de qu& sumantur cochlearia duo ampla ter que 
tidie. 

I have now fulfilled the objects which I proposed to 
myself in the composition of the present Work. I have 
attempted to establish the principles upon which the di- 
gestibility and nutritive powers of different aliments de- 
pend; and I have endeavoured to point out the circum- 



292 Conclusion. 

statoees which may raider any apecies of food indigestlUs 
and noxious. I have shewn the canaea upon which dyi- 
pepaia depends, and enumerated the remedies which mar 
be applied for ita cure. It only remaina for me to rdite 
a few Caaea in iHustration of the Tiews I have offered. 
and in confirmation of the utility of that medicinal m 
dietetic . treatment which has been developed in the p 
ceding pages. 



293 



CASES 

IN ILIiUSTAATJON OF THE PRECKDING VIEWS. 



CASE I. 

A. B., a gentleman of rank and fortune^ of the age of 
twenty-four years, had suffered for several months with 
occasional headach in the evening, which, at first, was 
generally relieved by a cup of strong coffee, and it there- 
fore excited little or no attention. The pain, however, 
became more severe, and returned at shorter intervals ; it 
sometimes attacked him during the morning, and was 
accompanied with sickness, by which a quantity of strong 
acid was ejected from the stomach, and the paroxysm was 
thus terminated. His person was strong and athletic, his 
countenance florid, and he underwent considerable exer- 
cise during the pursuit of the field amusements to which 
he was devoted : his appetite was therefore considerable, 
and the quantity of food which he was in the daily habit 
of taking, exceeded that which is generally sufficient for 
the most robust. He had never been in the habit of re- 
stricting his diet, because he had hitherto never felt any 
inconvenience from its excess. In the use of wine, how- 
ever, he was temperate. The first professional commu- 
nication which I received from him was in April 1824; 
he had then for some weeks been suffering from headach 
and sickness, and distressing symptoms of acidity. I 
shall quote that part of his letter in which he describes 
the treatment he had received. ** My medical attendant 
ordered me aloes and blue pill, and a potion made of 
gentian, bark, cascarilla, and liquor potassae. I found 



294 Cases in Illustration of the Preceding Views, 

the prescriptions, word for word, in your Pharmacologia. 
I cannot, however, say much for them, although the 
draught certainly does me some httle good: he also 
ordered me lime-water, which is worth all the other put 
together : as for magnesia, I might as well eat powdered 
glass. What do you recommend next? I am regularly 
feeding on mutton, beef, &c., to -the utter disgrace of 
vegetable diet." From this period he gradually grew 
worse ; his attacks of headfeM^h increased in severity and 
frequency, and were rarely relieved until a great quantity of 
bile and intensely acid matter were thrown off the stomach : 
he grew rather thinner, but was by no means emaciated. I 
ordered him doses of carbonate of ammonia an hour after 
his dinner, and desired him to confine himself to an 
animal diet. He was well purged, and the action of the 
bowels kept up by small portions of a meutral salt. The 
stools were always natural in appearance. He now found 
the slightest deviation from the prescribed diet to produce 
a headach; and when he prognosticated its approach 
from the presence of acid eructations, he was frequently 
enabled to avert it by a dose of ginger and carbonate of 
soda, which I had also prescribed for him. He says, ** I 
have found it necessary to- take your prescription once or 
twice a day, which has averted many a vile headach, as 
J always take it if I feel any symptom of the generation 
of acid, such as heiartbum, or an acid taste in my mouth. 
Having thus converted ' my stew-pan, vat, mill, &c.' into 
an apothecary's shop, I am much better than I have been, 
and hav«~ been nearly free from headach for the last fort- 
night, until yesterday, when I was in dock all day, and 
dball be so to-morrow. There is still, however, remaining 
to plague me, a sort of languor and laziness which perhaps 
Dr. C.'s bitter prescription is intended to obviate, though 
it scarcely has such an effect. I wish the shootmg season 
had arrived." I have introduced the relation of his feel- 
ings in his. own words, because they will serve to convey 



Cases in Illustration of the Preceding Views. 295 

a good idea of their nature and intensity, as well as of 
that hilarity and natural flow of spirits which constantly 
accompanied the progress of the disease of this highly- 
gifted and amiable young man. In November I received 
from him a letter, of which the following is an abstract : 
" I find that the perpetual recurrence of my old headaches 
leaves me nothing for it but to turn them into a subject 
of amusement. I have been reading some speculations 
about muriatic acid in the human stomach, and would 
like very much to know what acid is in mine ; and I wish 
you would put me in the way of testing it, for I can 
obtain any quantity. If it is a vegetable acid, how does 
it get into giblet soup or salt beef, or fresh butter, cum 
multis aliis ? if it is an animal acid, I know of none ex- 
cept the phosphoric, and I have no idea of making a 
match-box out of my viscera, so I vote at once it is not 
that ; if it is a vegetable acid, how comes it that I may 
eat a dozen ripe peaches, and be none the worse for them? 
but woe to me if I eat a buttered muffin ; ergo, I infer 
that it is not wholly the acetic acid; and if not, what 
else can make sweet tea, or any thing like ale, beer, or 
porter, perfect poison to me? As for an animal acid, 
there is no poison for me like strong broth, or soup ; ergo, 
there must be some villany in that. I was told, the other 
day, that baked meat would disagree with me, and I find 
this to be the case. Now, for the muriatic acid, which I 
strongly suspect to be the one under which I suffer, for 
the action on my teeth, when I am sick, is too sharp for 
any thing less pungent ; I find that if I eat salt meat, an 
acid is immediately formed in my stomach, and yet I can 
take any quantity of salt with my meat, without being the 
worse for it : how can this happen ? I am so often almost 
frantic with these headaches, that I am quite willing to 
devote myself to any experiment which you may choose 
to institute. The next curious, and to me unaccountable 
fact is, that if I eat any thing, even a mutton ch(^, be- 



290 Diet of Pulmonary Invalids. 



Of TBS DiBT OF PULMONAMT InVAIWS, 

In tubercular affections of the lungs, it has been 
disputed whether the low diet, so uniTersally prescnbed 
in such cases, is thiat which is best calculated to arrest 
the progress of the disease. From my residence at Pen- 
zance, and from the various cases which have Men uoder 
my care, in consequence of haying there practised, 1 ma;, 
without the risk of incurring the charge of presumptioii 
assert that few physicians have possessed greater oppa- 
tunities of experience in this complaint than mysellf. '^ 
conclusions to which this has led me may be expressed 
in a very few words. Where there exists, in the earis 
stages, great lassitude, coldness of the extremities, a 
quick but weak pulse, a tightness across the chest, as n 
it were confined by cords, but unaccompanied with acott 
pain in the side, a strictly vegetable diet is injurious 
I have in such cases prescribed a regimen similar tx) 
which I have above proposed for the cure of 
affections; and I have certainly found it to be useM 
To assert that I have cured an organic disease in th 
lungs would be more than foolish; but I have certaiiil] 
arrested its progress in some cases, and I have restored 
others to perfect health, who bad been gradually d^ 
dining under a different treatment. Where a permaDeo^ 
cure has been effected, the presumption is, that the loog^ 
were never actually deranged in structure ; but the symp' 
toms were of a nature to' have justified such a cdb- 
elusion. The medicine upon which I place the greats 
reliance in such cases, is the extract of hemlock; ^ 
were I to express the extent of my own confidence in ^^ 
powers, I might, perhaps, fall into the dangerous erroi> 
against which I have so strongly protested in my ^^' 
macologia — that of bestowing such extravagant f^ 
upon a remedy as to detract firom its reputation. I shall 



Treatment of Phthim, 2© 1 

therefore, only observe, that this remedy tranqaitlises. the 
irritation of the lungs to a greateT'^ degree' thanr any; other 
medicine with which I am acquainted ; but in .order to 
ensure so desirable an effect, it must be given in mudi 
larger doses than those in which it is usually admiiiifi^ 
tered. I usually commence with a dose of five grains 
three times a day, which I gradually increase to 9j, or 
even more : it will generally produce a slight giddiness^ 
nausea, and a tremor of the body ; a peculiar heavy sen- 
sation is also experienced about the eyes, and a tightness 
across the forehead; and the bowels frequently become 
relaxed : unless some of these sensations are produced, 
I consider that the remedy has not had a /air trial. The 
following is the formula for the preparation of the mixture 
which I have found to be so highly serviceable. If I am 
required to explain the modus operandi of each ingredient, 
I might, perhaps, fail in inspiring that confidence in its 
utility, to which I am convinced it is entitled. The 
practitioner must therefore rest satisfied with the results 
of experience, and accept facts in the place of theory. 

R Extract. Conii, et 

Extract. Hyoscyami, aa 9ij. 

Mucilaginis Acaci«, f3ij. 
Tere simul, et adde 

Liquoris Ammonise Acetatis, f^. 

Aqus purs^ f^ivss. 

Vini Ipecacuanha, f3j. 

Syrupi Rheados, f3ij. 
Fiat mistura, de quft sumantur cochlearia duo ampla ter quo- 
tidie. 

I have now fulfilled the objects which I proposed to 
myself in the composition of the present Work. I have 
attempted to establish the principles upon which the di- 
gestibility and nutritive powers of different aliments de- 
pend; and I have endeavoured to point out the circum- 



298 Cases in Illustration of the Preceding Views. 

any amendment daring the day. His vision at length 
became so imperfect, that he could no longer correspond 
with me : I then urged the necessity of his once more 
coming to town ; a proposal which he eagerly embraced ; 
but such was his weakness, and so severe his sickness, 
vomiting without any cessation for forty-eight hours, that 
he was many days on the road. His face, hands, body, 
and legs, swelled to a considerable degree, and he expe- 
rienced great difficulty in breathing. As soon as he 
arrived in town, I immediately proposed a consultation. 
His bowels had not been moved for ten days, and every 
medicine given for that object had failed in its effects : this 
circumstance, connected with the fact of his deficient vi- 
sion, which now rendered him incapable of recognising his 
friends, or even of distinguishing the window-frames, 
induced me to suspect that all the symptoms of this 
unfortunate case were to be referred to some disease in 
the brain^ Sir H. Halford, Dr. Maton, •and Dr. Warren, 
met me in consultation. The first great indication to be 
fulfilled was the evacuation of the bowels ; he had already, 
by my direction, taken ten drops of the oil of the Croton 
Tiglium without effect. He was now directed to take 
twenty grains of calomel, with five grains of scammony ; 
and a dose of the infusion of senna, with jalap and a 
neutral salt, every hour, until an evacuation M^as pro- 
cured. After some hours the bowels answered, and a 
perfectly healthy and figured motion was obtained. The 
vomiting was appeased by effervescing draughts ; and a 
trial of the hydrocyanic acid was proposed. He was 
cupped, and blistered on the back of the head ; but his 
vision grew daily more obscure ; his headach was relieved, 
but he constantly experienced a sense of weight and un- 
easiness in the region of his stomach; his pulse was 
regular, but hard, and rarely less than a hundred beats in* 
a minute. In this distressing state he remained far ten 
days ; when I was suddenly called to him in the middle 



Cases in lUustratian of theFreceding Views. 299 

of the Bight, in consequence of a violent dysfUM^ which 
had seized him. I found him in a state of appcurent suffo-^ 
cation, and inunediately requested the attendance of 
Mr. Keate, in order that some blood might be abstracted 
from the arm. He lost sixteen ounces, but no reUef was 
afforded by the operation. Dr. Maton saw him shortly 
afterwards with me: haemorrhage had taken place froni 
the lungs, and he died at two o'clock, after the failure of 
the methods usually adopted in such an exigency. What 
was the nature of his disease? I cpnfess that I had long 
considered the brain as its seat; and I explained the 
dyspnoea from a deficient supply of nervous en<trgy, his 
symptoms bearing a striking analogy to those, which were 
produced by a division of the eighth pair of nerves. The 
result, however, of the dissection will throw some light 
upon this obscure and interesting case. Upon inspecting 
the abdomifial viscera, not the slightest trace of disease 
couki be discovered; the stomach was laiger, and the 
diameter of the intestines smaller than usual, but there 
was no other appearance worthy of notice. On opening 
the thorax, the lungs appeared so gorged with blood, as 
almost to resemble the spleen in texture; they were 
emphysematous in several places. The heart was appa- 
rently healthy in external appearance, but of a large size ; 
upon making an opening into the right auricle and ven- 
tricle, these cavities were morbidly dilated, so as to con- 
stitute what has been termed passive aneurism: their 
parietes were not thickened. The left ventricle was also 
unusually .large: the valves were in a healthy condition^ 
Upon opening the head, the structure of the brain and 
its membranes were found in a perfectly heahby state, but 
without the usual presence of blood. The substance of 
the brain itself was perfectly blanched, and, upon cutting 
into it, the usual spots of blood were not produifed. This 
organ, therefore, although not injured in structure, must 
have been unfitted for the performance of its functions 



300 Ca$ei in lUusirMmH of the Precedimg Views, 

ftoai ft defieiMcy of Uood ; in coimeqaenee/ probtblj, of 
the feeble eetioii of the heart. The history of this extra- 
ordinary ease will admit of mach physiologioal specuk- 
tion. That the heart was the primary seat of* the disease, 
appears to be the most probable oonjectmre ; the loss of 
vision most have arisen from a deficient circahtim 
through the brain; and to this also we are to attribnte 
the ofastmate state of the bowels. The demngemeDts of 
the stomach . may be referred to its sympaAetic rdatiom 
to the stomach. The gorged stale of the lungs may be 
accounted for^ either by the imperfect action of the heart, 
or by the deficiency of nerrons energy ; for • a sii&ilar 
appearance is observed in cases of namotic poisonisg, 
where the death of the animal takes place from the de 
stmction of the powers of the brain. I have lately met 
with a case of diseased heart, in which the patient coid- 
plained of a similar imperfection in his yision ; and lie 
died in consequence of pulmonary hsBmorrhage. I had no 
opportunity of examining the body. 

CASE II. 

C. D., a gentleman resident in the country, and far 
advanced in life, was seized with a violent pain in the 
gastric region at two o^clock in the morning : he arose 
from his bed, walked for some time about his room ; and 
at length, the pain having left him, he again retired to 
rest, and awoke in the morning perfectly well. This 
paroxysm returned every morning, at about the same hoar, 
for several weeks: his medical attendant administered 
lai^e doses of calomel, from a conviction that the disease 

* I have learnt, since his death, that the pulsations of his beait be- 
quently produced a considerable noise in bed, but he was himself uncon- 
scious of it, and never experienced the least unpleasant feeling in tbe 
chest ; nor did the pulse, or any other symptom, indicate disease in that 
organ. 



Cm€S in lUuftn^im (tf the^Preceding^ Viem. 301 

« 
arose ftom some hardened fseees^ in- the colon ; but this 

treatment aggravated the complaints : He afterwards gare 

him five grains of piL hydrargyri eyery night, and a dose 

of neutral salt in the morning ; but the disease eontinued 

to harrass him with more or less vidence every successive 

morning. Ulider these circumstances/ he proceeded to 

London for advice, and placed himself under the care of 

a physician of celebrity, who decided at once that the 

liver was the seat of the disease. The patient was ac-' 

coidingly subjeoted to a conrse of mercury; his gums 

were afieoted, but still no. alleviation of' the pain was 

expeiienced. It was several weeks after this event that 

I first saw hiin> and l^e effed;s of the mercury had sub-* 

sided* My ftrst object was ta inquire into the state of his 

digestive ftinQtions, with a view to ascertain the length of 

tiiQe .whj^h his organs required for. the completion of their 

opera(tions. It appeared that hia digestion was unusually 

slow, and that one meal in the day was amply sufficient 

to satisfy his wants. He dined at six o'clock, and I 

therefore thought it probable, that at the period when he 

was usually awoke out of his sleep by pain, the food might 

be undergoing its ulterior changes in the duodenum. I 

ca]:efi41y examined the seat of this coniplaint; there was 

evidently a puffin^ss in the region of the duodenum, and, 

by pressure, he experienced a slight pain, which extended 

into the lumbar region, I directed him to change his 

dinner hour from six to three o'clock, and I laid down for 

his guidaace such a plan of diet and exercise as would be 

bes|; c^culated to ensure a perfect digestion. I also {H^e* 

fscribed the following mixture : — 

R Mist. Camphore, f Jvss. 
Vini Coichici, f5ij. 
Magnesise Carbonatis,3j. 
Spir. Jumper, Co. f 5ij. 
Fiat mistiuu, de qua sumantur cochlearia duo ampla, mane 
nocteque. 



302 Cases in Illustratmi of the Preceding Views. 

I saw Mm after the interval o£ a week : he infonned 
me that be had eatirely^^losttfa^ pam; and tha^ his; boweift 
had been, geotly relaxed^ by the mediciBe. His tongue, 
which was piByioualy furred^ had. become dean, and: ho 
pain was now prodaced on pressure. He called upon roe 
several times, and left London perfectly cured. 

CASE III. 

E. F., a young man, twenty-six years of age, and a 
clerk in one of the public offices, applied to me under tile 
following circumstances. Previous to the attack of which 
he complained, he had enjoyed very good health, although 
his bowels were constitutionally sluggish, and he had been 
in the habit of taking, occasionally, a purgative pill to 
excite them into action. He was attacked with a sense of 
oppression in the region of the stomach, accompanied wilii 
an uneasiness in his head, and great depression of spirits. 
His skin was harsh and dry, his ^tongue fiirred en the 
back part, and his appetite was greatly impaired. He 
awoke in the morning with a parched mouth, and a feeling 
6f lassitude which he had never before experienced. His 
urine deposited large quantities of lithic acid : he was 
unable to give me any satisfactory account of the appeai^ 
ance of his alvine evacuations; I however desired' that 
measures might be taken in order to obtain the necessary 
information. I directed him to take a pill composed of 
five grains of the compound extract of colocynth, and two 
grains of calomel, at night, and a draught of senna, witJk 
sulphate of magnesia, in the mornings It produced fcinr 
copious evacuations of highly offensive matter, of a green- 
ish hue, and mixed with a quantity of undigested matter, 
like soft soap. He experienced a feeling of relief, but 
still his uncomfortable sensations were not removed. After 
an interval of three days the dose was repeated ; the eva- 
cuations were more healthy in appearance, but his symp- 



Cases in Illustration of the Preceding Views. 303 

toms were rather aggravsuted by the medicine. His head 
felt heavy, and his ideas were confused. His pulse was 
perfectly natural. I directed him to take three grains of 
the pil, hydrargyria with two grains of the powder of 
ipecacuan, every night, and to take each morning a 
draught composed of three fluid-drac^ms of the infusion 
of senna, six fluid-draohms of mint^water, and a drachm 
of tartrate of potass. His diet and habits he had told me 
were perfectly regular, and that his occupation would not 
allow him to alter the hour at which he took his dinner. 
At this period I lost sight of him for several weeks ; . his 
friends had persuaded him to apply to some other prac* 
titioner, who, as I afterwards learnt, had directed a very 
proper plan of medicine for his cure ; but he daily became 
worse, lost flesh, and suffered much from uneasiness in his 
head : he had, at his own desire, been cupped, but the 
operation afforded no relief. On his return to me, I found 
him labouring under all the symptoms of protracted dys- 
pepsia, and the greatest depr^sion of spirits. I told him 
that nothing short of a complete revolution in his habitii 
would cure him; that it was in. vain to expect relief from 
medicine, unless its administration was associated with a 
strict adherence to such a plan of regimen as I should 
propose. He reluctantly consented to obey my injunc- 
tions. I learnt from him that his usual habit was to 
breakfast at nine o'clock, to proceed to his office at ten, 
where he continued till five o'clock, after which he 
walked for two hours, and dined at seven, or sometimes 
later. I was satisfied that, this plan had gradually debi* 
litated bis. digestive organs^ and rendered them inadequate 
to the healthy performance of their functions. His mind 
had been exhausted by the duties of the morning, and his 
body by the fatigue consequent upon exercise at so unfa- 
vourable a period. I desired him to dine at three o'clock, 
to take some tea at^ix, and to walk for an hour after- 
wards: the only medicine which was directed for him 



^ 



'^mmmm^ 






.'X-' 



