Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



■) 



THE 



# 



ART 



% 



OF 



FRENCH COOKERY 



BY 



I 



,<"■■ 



s«. 



A^ B. BEAUVILLIERS, 



RESTA;U5^TET7I5g, i^ASiU. '■■ 



• > , » c 



% » ^ s 



> (> ■> > • » > 



I u -* . * 



> < 



THIRD EDTTIO!^, " ' 






- 1 •• •* o 



rf ■! iQ >1M 



• , • J 9 



*«> » 



. * k " 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR 

LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, 

7ATBAN0ST£&-R0W. 

1827. 



ft 



f 



T]1E KEV/ YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 



J- 



*:i 



-«►. 



* 



/-^ 'On, ! "NOX AND 
li..U^N rOL,\DA" :ONS 

R 1916 L 






••• 









• < 



• • • 






• • 



* \ • • • •• •!• 

••• ••••• • 






•••• 






► •• ••• • 

» • • • • 






London: 

Printed by A. & R. Spottiswoode. 

New.StreetJSquare. 



\ 



PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE. 



The Art of Cookery, simple in its origin, but refined 
from time to time, is now so complicated, that many 
authors have written upon it without having been able 
to investigate all its departments. Our pleasures are 
rare; the ideas that renew them are fugitive and 
variable; the endeavour to fix those ideas is cer- 
tainly justifiable; and it is a pursuit natural to man to 
enlarge the sphere of his enjoyments, by turning to 
the best advantage the gifts of nature. We all pur- 
sue, consciously or unconsciously, this object; and in 
the secret of approximating to it, happiness may be 
said to consist. 

Those who unsparingly \c^&ure \h&,wtfXJhi ot an 
often necessary si^Drfiuity in olhere, ' bx2 ' by no 
means inclined to quarr4Bl^:w?^it*in'llifemselves, and 
would repine under the priValibn 'of jcfelicacies, were 
they no longer attainable; ;'^^in(i$,th^c?foEfe, it is im- 
possible for us to confme'6urGelvfe§*t6'SpSartan broth, 
it is certainly more reasonable to enjoy the refinements 
of our sensuality than affect to scorn them ; and more 
conformable to our tastes to augment than diminish 
.J them. Our tomplaisant epicures will relish my theory, 
and far perhaps from censuring it, would rather 
|Carry it into practice. It would be difficult to s ytr 
the delicacy to which cooking was carried in fli 

It century. The French gloried to see their gout 

A 2 



It PRELIMIHARt 

in culinary affairs bear equal sway with that of their 
language and fashions over the opulent states of 
Europe from north to south. I know not, if we have 
attained the refinement of the grandees of Asia, or of 
the Apicii of Rome ; but certain it is, that we have 
been acknowledged umpires of elegance in this art 
and that our superiority has never been called in quea* 
tion. The studiers of delicacies, engaged in ideas less 
dangerous and more substantial than those [of meta- 
physicians, had made that course of observations which 
their fortune opened to them ; the doctrine of profes- 
sors was established, they expected no farther pro- 
gress, although ready to encourage the discovery of 
any new pleasure. I have had the opportunity of fol- 
lowing the most accredited methods, and often indeed 
of improving on them, by successive experiments, and 
it is the statement of these ameliorations, and my 
particular method, which I here present, with the cir- 
cumstances necessary even for those who are well ac- 
quainted with the first elements. 

It is*<fftft**fi]jf V)l^ci;I^re *{^ "Otiter into long details 
on the**Arl ^f*OookingVt^t t<>u3ute, according to the 
respective se%sg(2ns,| Ahl fksMonable dishes, to cook 
those formerly adoAipefl*^ ^(S thus to present to the 
amateurs {kvV]^dis^ i4^*6f an Excellent and well con- 
ducted repitet/ I If 1 oh&ve* ^K4yended the limits of our 
knowledge on this subject, I may also flatter mysclt 
with having added new attractions by a clear and ra- 
pid survey, which coincides with the considerations ot 
economy. 

Curiosity certainly may lead to new experiments 
«ui necessary variety may introduce changes in the 
flkple decorations without affecting the chief ingre- 
dients. An ingenious cook, such as Laguippiere; 



DISCOURSE. V 

Daligre, &c. adds something to the composition 
or decoration of a known dish, or takes something 
irom it, and gives it some fanciful name ; such for in- 
stance as that of his master. This variety of expres- 
sion for the same idea may confuse the learner, and 
produce confusion in the preparation ; but the new 
name it acquires gives it the advantage of novelty ; 
thus for example, the Cotelets ^ la puree d*oignofi^ 
has been named d la Soubise. 

Far from priding myself on copying the learned in 
this art, I have piade different useful innovations, 
and I lay myself under a particular obligation of ex- 
posing with precision my method, which I believe to 
be carried to perfection, according to the first qfficiers 
de boiiche, comptrollers of the royal palaces, and the 
cooks of the highest repute, under whom I learned 
and exercised it. I give circumstantial instructions 
and new ideas on the best methods of distilling li- 
queurs, of choosing wines, of bottling, preserving, and 
repairing them. I offer a complete system for the store- 
% rooms, as ices, preserves, &c. A mistress of a family 
may from this book learn all known dishes, together 
widi those I have invented, and likewise be able to 
direct their composition. 

I give my methods in all their details ; I present my 
courses as they ought to be, according to their kinds ; 
but especially as they were prepared when foreigners 
themselves did justice to the delicacy of our taste, 
and the refinement of our luxury. 

I have thought it necessary to add an index of re- 
ferences to their composition. 

In this work, I can flatter myself with having 
enabled inn-keepers, cooks, confectioners, or ama- 
teurs, with the assistance of the commonest q.qo\5.> 

A 3 



71 PRELIMINAEY DISCOURSE. 

io make a great display and excellent cheer, by ttie 
simplest and most economical means. 

The experience of forty-four years is a guaranty for 
my doctrine, which I believe to be the best, rather from 
the general opinion than my own. Those who best 
understand the enjo3rments of the table, have never 
ceased to rely on me. Proud of their suffi*age8, 1 shall 
j^teem myself happy still to contribute to their- ei^'oy- 
ments, and to add to their pleasures. I here present 
the progress of the art, and my observations, mpitured 
by long experiaice. These ar6 my last adieus. . 






••*.. 






TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. 



*^0 

The Author of the following pages, in offering >||ui 
work to the public, and especially to all concerned 
jn the economical and elegant arrangement of the 
table, has not in particular addressed any one class, 
either masters or servants. To those who have 
lived long in foreign countries, this can have no 
appearance of neglect, as there is not on the face 
of the globe so extravagant a people as the Eng- 
lish. The author, while practising economy in the 
service of princes, and dedicating his life to the 
palate of kings, could not discern the necessity of 
inculcating economy to subjects, according to the 
usual practice in works of this kind in this country. 
It is still more astonishing, on a comparison of the 
respective means for procuring the necessaries and 
luxuries of life, that we should be so prodigal, and 
that there should be less waste in the kitchens of 
kings than in the middling and lower ranks with 
us. This question would admit of much investi- 
gation, into which we cannot now enter. Look to 
the following pages, and observe, that the claw of a 
chicken or the bone of a fish is not allowed to be lost ; ' 
this is the management observed for the king's table, 
and the care with which it is conducted is astonishing. 
If the good things of this life are lavished on us, 
we ought to use them without abusing them, "^^^^^ 



w 



Yin TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. 

not competent to judge why much is given or with- 
held ; but we shall undoubtedly be called to account 
for the use of what has been entrusted to us. It is 
much to be wished, that heads of families, in all 
situations of life, would adopt the resolution of looking 
into those details of expenditure which even a 
Buipnaparte did not think beneath his attention and 



#% 



MVe hear a continual outcry against bad servants, 
but who makes them bad ? Are not the masters alone 
to blame in most instances ? The best masters are 
those who keep their servants constantly employed, 
who look strictly after the morals of their household, 
excluding the fashionable vice of cards from their 
halls, and drunkenness from their stables. Let the 
labourer live, but let not idle, useless, high fed people, 
a pest to the community, and often a terror to their 
masters, be left in indolence and luxury. Servants 
ought to be well fed and well treated ; they ought 
also to be made to attend to their duty; as it is 
evident, that those members of the community often 
occasion extensive mischief iA society by the ex- 
travagance which they learnt in their masters' houses. 
Put the question candidly to servants, if they were 
not happier, healthier, and freer from anxiety when 
they were strictly kept ; cleaner, better clothed, and 
more modest in their deportment. Many servants 
have allowed this, and have owned, that their tempt- 
ations have arisen from idleness and full feeding. 

Having cited the example of Buonaparte, it may be 
contended, that the low state of French commerce 
rendered the exhibition of such an example extremely 
necessary ; but that was not the case, for a country 
producing not only the necessaries but the luxuries 



J 



TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. U 

of life may, without censure, use t&em more pro- 
fusely than countries depending upon foreign markets, 
whatever the state of the finances may l>e. Those 
who have duly considered diis important subject, 
mast have perceived the dreadful privations into which 
luxury plunges her votaries* To day a sumptuous 
dinner, and to-morrow a gaol, if not worse. A gentle- 
man, upon his return from India, met a friend ii^fltfr 
streets of London, and after the congratulations wm 
over, regretted that he could not ask him to dinner, 
as he was going to their friend 6— —'s who would be 
delighted if he would be of the party : this^ invitation 
was declined. A few days afler they again met, 

when the ftiend exclaimed, " Poor B is gone to 

the d ! all is spent ! We knew he could not stand 

it." — " And were you not a pack of r Is," ex- 
claimed the other, " to go day aflter day to eat, 
drink, and make merry with him, and neither to warn 
him of his danger, nor now to visit him in his 
affliction. Go and pay for your dinners by relieving 
him." 

Perhaps an amiable young person, carefully perusing 
every thing that comes in her way upon this very 
interesting subject, the price of which is comfort and 
peace of mind, may be able to appreciate the ex- 
perience of those that have gone before her ; and to 
such a one it may be hardly necessary to say more 
than to place her in the jight path. Let her be 
told, that from eight to ten shillings a week for each 
person throughout the family will procure abundance 
of the real necessaries of life in beer, bcead, beef, 
butter, cheese, and the lesser items: this is a fair 
estimate for mere living, all beyond it is luxury 
and ought to be retrenched as means and situation re- 



X TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. 

quire, for parsimony is as reprehensible as the bolder 
vice of prodigality. 

It is the bounden duty of those who have the 
management of the kitchen, to be faithful in the dis- 
charge of their trust with respect to every thing 
placed under their care. They ought, in the first 
place, to have a thorough knowledge of every thing 

Sissary for the kitchen ; such as the qualities of the 
t, the age, the healthy appearance, the best mode 
of keeping, the various ways of cooking, salting, 
pickling, and hanging ; the preparing and melting of 
fats for kitchen uses; the making of stocks and gravies 
with parings, bones, and carcasses of poultry. The 
requisites for first and second courses, and all par- 
ticulars relative to poultry, fish, vegetables, sauces, 
sallads, pastry, creams, compotes, &c. &c. A per- 
son of good understanding, who knows a little of 
cookery, may by attention and care, with the 
assistance of the following receipts, soon become an 
excellent cook ; but great accuracy ought to be 
observed, which, with a little experience, will soon 
overcome every difficulty. As it is not customary in 
English cookery to braise and poele as the French do, 
these operations ought to be thoroughly understood, 
as well as that ofjarcing, which is so superior to the 
preparation of English forced meats. If a cook has 
to turn over a receipt book continually, the labour 
c> immense, and the time lost is incalculable. A 
cook ought to spend a part of every unhurried day in 
orocuring instruction, from which he will learn to 
substitute one thing for another, and ascertain what 
can and what cannot be dispensed with. A person 
of this description would be invaluable in a family. 
When he has a day or an hour of leisure, he ought to 



TO MI8TBESSB8 OF FAMILIES. XI 

go and assist at entertainments when in town. There 
is something to be learned every where. The greatest 
source of complaint is the want of propriety in the 
conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, 
6rom the simple family dinner to the royal banquet ; 
for instance, a family dinner ; a family dinner to which 
guests are admitted ; a common party dinner ; an en- 
tertainment ; a bachelor's dinner ; a ministerial din^k 
and a dress dinner ; though these and similar enter- 
tainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not ab 
strictly observed as those in other usages of society 
^ At the plainest, as well as the most splendid of these 
entertainments, every thing presented ought to be as 
good, as well cooked, and as nice as possible ) but the 
style of service ought to be varied, rising from, the 
simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous ; for 
real taste does not indiscriminately present turtle and 
venison on every occasion ; something more delicately 
palatable and less obtrusive is presented with the zest 
of a fine mangoe, high flavoured vinegars, well made 
sauces, nice sallads, and appropriate wines, and the 
charms of a well-supported conversation afford an un- 
doying feast throughout the year. 

The plateau and dormants, which are now coming 
generally into use, give great elegance to the table; 
but the constant sameness exhibited in general ought 
to be carefully avoided by those who wish to attain 
perfection in the management of a table. To avoid 
this every elegant trifle ought to be introduced, ac- 
cording to the style of the entertainment, as nesls of 
moss with plovers' eggs, sugar plumbs, grapes, ot 
any other delicate fruits, en chemise, small mos^ 
baskets of roses, violets and othersweet-smelling 



Xll TO MISTRESSES OF FAMILIES. 

delicate flowers ; many are not necessary, as the moss 
may be raised under them, intermixed with crystal 
vases, gold bowls, cups, &c. &c. The Romans used 
to have their live fish under the table in vessels, from 
which they were taken to be cooked in the sight of 
the guests. We have had an example of fish mean- 
cUring on the royal table; in fine vases they would 
ipke a beautiful ornament for the plateau. This the 
French call dormant, because it remains all the time 
of dinner, as they never take off the cloth, nor drink 
as die English do after the dessert, it being their 
custom to leave the dining room with the ladies. 
Wherefore, if the plateau be changed, appropriate 
ornaments should be substituted ; but whoever has 
die management should be careful to avoid a same- 
ness either in dishes or. decoration: herbaceous 
flowers done en chemise, flower and almond candies, 
pralinSes of orange flowers, confected pine-apples, 
melons, citrons, lemons, and oranges ; in short, every 
thing delicate, bright, and shining, constitutes the 
true ornament of the plateau. Having said so much 
with respect to the table, sometlung must now be ob- 
served regarding the kitchen. JConcluding that the 
cook is perfectly cleanly and careful of the utensils) 
attention must be paid to the washing of the'kitchen 
napkins, which never ought to be touched with soap, 
as it alters the taste and destroys the colour of every 
thing in cookery ; they ought all to be lessived in wood 
ashes, or washed with American ashes : the wooden 
and marble pestles, spoons, spatulas and bowls, ought to 
be boiled in ash-lye, and all cream and meat searches 
ought to be cleaned with the same material. Sweet- 
meat and sugar searches must never be used for any 
other purpose. Let not a beginner be alarmed at 



TO MISTRESSES OF FAMtLIBS. XUl 

the quantity of ingredients that is sometimes met with 
in the following receipts ; a little time will convince 
him of their utility. Let him be only careful not to 
overcharge or alter the proportions, as none of the 
ingredients, but in given dishes, ought to predominate. 
The cook must become acquainted with the taste that 
every dish ought to have.| In France, a dish once tasted 
is always known again^^- but in England that is not the 
case I a ragouty Jricasee, curry ^ Sfc. will, vary in fla- 
vour at different tables: this is owing to the con- 
trariety of the receipts in the different cookery books, 
and to the liberty taken with them. Hence, and from 
the want of knowledge, bad cooks use much more 
meat than is necessary, making up in this way for 
their ignorance, which a steady attention to the fol- 
lowing pages will obviate. Whenever a sauce is men- 
tioned in any of the receipts, it will be found at its 
place of reference. 



a 



TO THE COOK. 



EVsRT thing has been done to render the fidlonring 
articles intelligible to every capacity, but it cannot be 
too much recommended to the cook, if she wishes to 
become an adept in her profession, to peruse the fol* 
lowing pages with attention, till she acquires a 
thorough knowledge; and instead of being intimi- 
dated by French names, she ought to learn their sig- 
nification. She will always find what she wants 
under its own article, and one recipe will elucidate 
another. 

The first annoyance will arise i¥om the frequent re- 
currence of po&ey braiscy godiveauy espagnoUy potage^ 
eonsommiy veloutSy marinadeyjumety rouxy pSte hjrirty 
salpi^onypurScy Sfc. These terms once properly under- 
tood, practice and regular attention will do the rest ; 
for without method there can be little attainment. 
Some words that cannot well be left out of the work 
are added : 

Barbery to cover with slices of lard. 

Blanchivy to blanch by giving some boils in water. 

BridtTy to truss up a fowl, or any thing else with a 
needle and pack thread, or tape. 

Chevrettcry to dish in a sort of garland one thing over 
another round a dish. 



i 



TO TH£ COOJK. XT 

Glace, or: demi-glace, a sauce reduced till it becomes 
a strong or weak jelly. 

Marquer, is to dispose properly ingredients into a 
stewpan. 

Masquer, is to cover any thing oyer, as with a sauce, 
Ac 

PaiUassey a grill over hot cinders. 

Pttxf, a well, or the void left in the middle, when any 
thing is dished round as a crown. 

Sasser, to stir and work a sauce with a spoon. 

Singery to dredge lightly with flour 

Vannery to work a sauce well with a spoon, by lifting it 
up and letting it fall. 

Entreesy first-course dishes drest. 

EntremetSy second- course dishes ditto. 

Crril ^ tirage. A grill with close and narrow ribs, 
used for drying caramel and chemised fruits and 
flowers 



THE ART 

or 

FRENCH COOKERY. 



SOUPS. 

Potages*— Chrand BouiUqn. 

To prepare a great dinner, it is necessary that a 
sufficient quantity of stock for soups and sauces 
should be ready, for which purpose put into a laree 
pot a piece of the breast or rump of beef, with the 
dressings of any other sort of meat you may have 
in preparation at the time for the repast ; veal, mut- 
ton, lamb, with the bones, neck, and feet of the 
poultry and game, that may be prepared for removes. 
Put the pot upon a moderate fire, not quite filled with 
water, and skim it carefully ; throw in a little cold 
water every time you skim it, till it becomes per- 
fectly limpid, for upon this stock depends the beauty 
of your soups and sauces : season it with salt, two 
turnips, six carrots, six onions, one of which is to be 
stuck with three cloves and a bunch of leeks, and let 
the whole simmer slowly. When the piece of meat 
is cooked, or nearly so, if it is to be served, put it 
into a stewpan, and pour over it a little of the top of 
the stock ; wet and wring a cloth, and run the stock 
through, which will then be in readiness to make 
soups, sauces, &c* 

Stock.'^^Empotage Consommi. 
Take a proper tinned pot ; heat it lightly and wipe 
it well ; put in a shank and a piece of a buttock of beef, 



2 FRENCH COOKERYc 

a knuckle of veal, a fowl, an old rabbit, or two old 
partridges, and about six pints of stock ; reduce it 
upon a quick fire till it becomes a jelJy, then add 
more stock, boil it on a quick fire and skim it : 
season it with three tunups, three carrots, three 
onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch 
of leaks, and celery ; put it then on the side of the 
grate, and let it simmer till it is done enough : when 
the different meats of which it is composed are suffi- 
ciently cooked, they ought to be taken out, as they 
may be dressed for successive tables; when ready 
take off the fat, put it through a gau2e search or a 
linen cloth, first wet and wrung. 

Strong Stock for Soups and Sauces. Grand 

Consomme. 
Put into a pot two knuckles of veal, a piece of a 
leg of beef, a fowl, or an old cock, a rabbit, or two 
old partridges; add a ladleful of soup, and stir it 
well : when it comes to a jelly, put m a sufficient 
quantity of stock, and see that it is clear : let it boil, 
skimming and refreshing it with water ; season it as 
the above : you may add, if you like, a clove of gar- 
lic : let it then boil slowly or simmer four or five 
hours : put it through a towel, and use it for mixing 
in sauces^ or clear soups, 

TVhite Soup,-^^Blond de Veau, 
Butter the bottom of a saucepan and put into it 
some slices of ham, four or five pounds of a leg of 
veal, two or three carrots, and as many onions ; wet 
them with a ladleful of grand bouillon^ make it sweat 
over a slow fire, and reduce it to jelly : when it is of 
a fine yellow tint, take it off the fire, prick the meat 
with the point of a knife to let the juice flow ; cover 
and let it sweat another quarter of an hour, and then 
put in a sufficient quantity of grand bouUlon, or the 
strong stock given in the nrst receipt : season it with 
parsley and small onions, a clove of garlic stuck with 
a clove ; boil and skim, and put it to simmer on the 
edge of the grate, and when enough, skim it, run it 



SOUPS. 3 

through a cloth, and make use of it for empotage, or 
rice or vermicelli soup, and even sauces. 

Crust Soup, Mitonnage, 

Take a household loaf and rasp it liehtly, cut out 
the crumb without breaking it, which will answer for 
frying to garnish spinage dishes or soups, or for a 
charlotte or a panade; round the crusts handsomely, 
and let them simmer a few minutes : before serving, 
put any vegetables on them, and pour over an em- 
potage : serve it as hot as possible. 

Grilled Crusts j to be served up toith Soups. 

Potage, Croutes au Pot. 
Cut bread in slices, put them in a deep silver dish, 
wet them with good stock or soup, and let them sim- 
mer; when it is reduced, put red cinders into the 
furnace to make it gratinet* ; cut one or two house- 
hold loaves in two, take out the crumb, put the crusts 
upon a gridiron, and dry them over hot cinders ; 
when they are sufficiently dried, wet the inside with 
the fat of the bouillon or soup, what is generally 
called top-pot, and shake a little fine salt over ; drain 
them and put them on th6 gratin without covering 
them, that thev may not soften, basting them from 
time to time with the top of the bouillon or soup, till 
they are perfectly done ; take off the fat, and send in 
separately a tureen of consommS or bouillon. 

Spring Soup. Potage Printanier, 

It is made as that of hla Julienne^ except that peas 
and points of asparagus are added, small radishes and 
small boiled onions ; in cooking the vegetables, put 
in a little sugar, to correct the bitter ; let the potage 
simmer ; cover it with the vegetables, and serve. 

Cressy Soup. Potage h la Crectj* 

According to the season, have all sorts of vegetables 

icked and washed with care, such as carrots, turnips, 

cdery, onions, &C., in small quantity; boil them a 

* Graimer is to crisp and obtain a little grilled tattti 

B 2 



4 FRENCH COOKERY. 

quarter of an hour ; put them into a stewpan with a 
large piece of butter, and some slices of ham ; set 
them upon a slow fire till they are enough ; drain and 
pound them in a mortar, and add the liquor in which 
they were boiled; rub them through a search to make 
a purie ; let it boil, and leave it to cook two hours ; 
skim well ; have ready a mitonagCy as has been before 
directed, and serve the crecy upon it. 

Rice Soup. ^— Potage au Riz, 
Take a quarter of a pound of good ricd ; wash it in 
different waters ; boil, drain, and put it into a little 
pot or stewpan, wet it a little, and break it slowly 
under the furnace ; when done add a sufficient quantity 
oi'consommS (or blond) of veal; let it be properly 
salted, and serve. 

Another tooy. Autre Jagon* 

Truss a capon as a fowl ; learve the pinions, truss 
them nicely ; put it in a pot with a bunch of herbs 
well seasoned, and two onions, one stuck with two 
cloves ; wet the whole with grand bouillon, and skim 
it. During the time it is cooking, prepare rice as 
in the last article; skim it, and let the rice sweU: 
when ready to serve, put into the rice the bouHbm in 
which the capon was cooked, first having put it 
through a gauze search, and adding a' spoomul of 
beef stock to give it a fine colour; unskewer and 
dish the capon ; lajr it in a dish, strew a little sak 
on the breast, with a spoonful of juice, or die 
bouillon in which it was dressed, and serve it as a re- 
move for the soup. 

Fotjol or Capon in Rice. Chapon au Rix* 

Truss the capon as in the last article, and dreM li 
pound of rice exactly as the preceding; put it widij 
the capon in a pot large enough to contain die*] 
without being too full ; put in but little bouiBonf 
it may not be too thin ; when the • n is 
which will be known by pinching the wine, unikc 
it, and put it into a dish ; take the fiit off Uie ric^ 



80UP8. 5 

some beef soup to colour it, pour it over the capon, 
and serve it for an entrie or a remove. 

dear Soup mth VermiceUu Potage au Vermicelle 

Clair. 
Put into a stewpan as much blond de veau, bouillon, 
or consomm^j as will make a potage for six or eight 
persons ; make it boil ; take six ounces of vermicelli, 
and put it by little and little into the soup, breaking 
it slowly in with the hand, that it may not run to- 
other, or ball ; let it boil six minutes, draw it to the 
nront of the furnace, and skim it ; let it simmer till 
enough, taking care that it does not dilate or melt too 
much. 

Italian Soup. -Potage Italien. 

Take carrots, turnips, onions, celery> parsnips, 

lettuces, and sorrel, in equal quantities, boil them in 

salt and water, and then put them into fresh water ; 

cut the roots in slices of an equal length, then cut 

them still finer ; cut the sorrel, lettuce, and celery in 

the same manner ; wash the whole in a quantitv of 

water; drain them; put a quarter of a pound of 

: butter into a stewpan with the vegetables ; put them 

L over a furnace till they have taken a slight colour ; 

f wet them with a ladlefuU of bouillon; when 

^ they are half done put in the sorrel; let them 

^ simmer till enough; skim; have ready at the time 

f of serving a mHtonage, pour it over, mix it lightly, 

and serve* 

* Brunoiie Soup.-^^Potage cL la Brunoise. 

Cut into small mce carrots, turnips, parsnips, and 

- celery ; take the top of the pot, or clarified butter ; 

i heat it, and throw in the vegetables, let them 
brown, drain, and wet them with wnite soup, (or blond 
de veau, consomme, or bouillon,) that is, any soup ; 
cook it as directed for the Italien, skim, and cover 
the mitonnag€m If it is served with rice, care must be 
taken that &e dice of the vegetables are not larger 
than the rice when it is swelled, and mix all well to- 
gether. 

B 3 



6 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Green Pease Soup, Potage d la PurSe de Pots. 

Take a suffioient quantity of peas, put them into 
a pot with onions, carrots, a bunch of leeks, and 
celery, with a bone, or some slices of ham or bacon ; 
if they are old, let them be steeped the night before ; 
if new, use them immediately ; toss them in butter, 
with a handful of parsley and small onions ; wet them 
with good soup ; when tney are soaked enough, drain, 
and beat them in a mortar, put them through a search, 
with the juice that was drained out of them ; put 
it into a saucepan, and let it simmer four or five 
hours ; stir it oflen, that it may not stick ; skim before 
stirring it ; when it is done, serve it over rice, ver- 
micelli, or fried bread, which must be added at the 
moment of servmg. 

Lentil Soup. Potage ^ la Purie de Lentilles cL la 

Retney ou autre Lentilles. 
Proceed in the same manner as is directed for the 
green-pease soup, and the same also^or the potage; 
take care if they are the lentilles ^ la reine to leave it 
longer on the fire, that the pur6e may have as fine a 
red as possible, on which depends the beauty and 
goodness oiihe potage. 

Carrot Soup. Potage d la Pur^e de Carottes. 

Prepare fifteen or twenty carrots, cut them in slices, 
put them in a stewpan, f with three-quarters of a 
pound of good butter, upon a quick fire, and stir 
them till they are browned, then add some good 
soup ; when enough, rub it through a search, and 
finish it as directed for green-pease soup and lentils ; 
take off the fat, and let it simmer a long time, and 
serve it in the same manner as the.pease soup. 

Turnip Soup. Potage a 7a Puree de Navets.. 

It is done in the same manner as that of carrots, 
only that it is not browned, and takes less boiling ; it 
is kept as white as possible. « 

Lettuce Soup. Potage aux Laitues. ] 

^ Take twelve or fiueen lettuces, clean and pick them, 1 
keeping them entire, and wash them through several r 



iratera, taking care that no wonns remain ; boil them 
and throw them into Aresh water; take them out, press- 
ing the water from them, tie two or three together, 
cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, arrange them 
upon it, put in two or three slices of ham, a carrot, 
an onion, a bunch of parsley in which is a clove, and 
half a bay leaf; wet the lettuce with the top of the 
botnUony or consomm^; season with salt and pepper ; 
when ready to serve, drain the lettuces and press them 
lightly, that the fat may come out, and according to 
their size they may be left whole or cut in two, and 
put into the soup. 

Chesmtts Soup. Potage ci la PurSe de Marrons, 

T^e boiled chesnuts, skin and pick out all the bad 
ones; put them in a fryingpan, with a little bit of butter, 
and toss them till the inner scurf comes easily off; when 
it is rubbed off, put them in a pot with a little stock 
or consommdyand let them cook ; drain, and pound them 
in a mortar, put them through a search, wetting them 
with the stock in which they were cooked ; when they 
are thus prepared, put them in a stewpan with two 
spoonsful of stock ; mix it well with the pur^e; leave 
it to simmer three or four hours ; take off the fat and 
add a little sugar, season it properly, and serve it with 
bread fned in butter, or a mittonage. 

Mock Turtle. Potage en Tortus, 

Take four or five pounds of mutton, of the shoulder 
or leg, or six or seven of any of the other parts, put 
in the offals of fish, as head and fins of whitings, sal- 
mon, a carp or its ofials, and so or others ; put alto- 
gether into a pot, sea^n it as the bhnd de veau; make 
it sweat in the same manner, wet it with water, and 
skim it well, let the bunch of parsley be stuffed with 
aromatics and two branches of sweet basil, and two 
of marjoram ; let the mutton simmer till it comes off 
the bones ; 9/A the bouillon through a cloth, clarify it 
with the whnn of two or three eggs, slightly beaten ; 
give it a boil, and let it repose to clarify ; put it again 
through another cloth, and reduce it till it is strong 

B 4 



S VRSMCB COOKERY. 

€noueh to bear Madeira ; take half a calf's head, pre- 
pare It the evening before, that it may be white, take 
out the bones, and leave it in water, which must be 
changed Uiree or four times ; blanch and refresh it, 
cook it in a blanc (see article Blanc) ; when enoudi, 
drain and cut in squares of an inch, and put it into Uie 
bouiUon with three-quarters of a bottle of Madeira, a 
small teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and another of 
allspice; dish; have ready fifteen hard yolks of eggs, 
put them in whole when ready to serve ; if small 
eggs can be procured from the fowls in use, they will 
answer better, or some small ones may be made. 

Cabbage Soup, Potage au Chou, 

Take the cabbages that will be necessary, cut them 
in quarters, boil Uiem in a greiat quantity of water, 
after which throw them into fresh water, take out 
the stalks, tie them, and put them as directed for 
lettuce soup into a stewpan with a little bacon ; nou- 
rish* and season them still more, and serve them in 
every way as directed for the lettuce soup. They 
require more boiling. 

Sago and Turnip Soup,---'-^ Potage au Sagou et ^ la 

Purie de Navets. 
The sago is used in the same manner as rice, ex- 
cept that it is not boiled ; put it into strong boiling 
soup, and let it have two or three boils ; £aw it to 
the edge of the furnace, and when it becomes jelly 
put in the pur^e de navels ; stir all well ; see that it is 
properly salted, and serve. 

CondS Soup, — Potage d la CondS, 
Take the necessary quantity of red haricots^ put 
them into a pot with water or grand bouillon (soiq>), 
and a bit of bacon, three carrots, three onions, one 
of them stuck with two cloves, a bunch of leeks and 
celery ; let all cook well together, take out the vege* 
tables, rub them through a search, ad^g the soup 
in which they were cooked, put it agiV on the fire; 

* To nourish, is to put in more ham, btcon, butter, kc &c. 



SOUPS. 9 

if it is foTtipotage maigre^ use butter instead of bacon, 
and to finish it m either way a bit of butter must be 
added ; fry some bread cut in dice, and when ready 
to serve, put it in ihepurie 

Craiofish Soup. Potage h la Bisque iTEcremsse, 

Take half an hundred of crawfish, or more, ac- 
cording to their size, wash them through several 
waters, and take out those that are dead ; drain, and 
put them in a stewpan with bouUlony but not enough 
to allow them to swim, upon a good fire ; toss them, 
and when enough take them off the fire, and leave 
them covered for five or six minutes ; drain them ; 
when they are half cold take off the tails and the 
shells, and put them all into a mortar with the bodies, 
and beat them till you hardly perceive the shells, to 
the consistence of a paste ; put the size of two eggs 
of crumbs of bread into the bouillon in which they were 
cooked, dry it upon a slo^ fire, put it into the mortar 
with the crawfish, and mix the whole with good 
bouilloTiy and rub it through a search ; put it into a 
stewpan upon the fire without allowing it to boil ; 
stir it well, and observe that it is of a proper thickness, 
set it in a bain marie*, taste that it is properly salted, 
and serve it with rice or fried bread. 

Ctbieens Soup,-^^Potage d la Heine* 
Take the breasts of three fowls, skewer them, put 
over them a thin slice of lard, cover them with 
paper, and put them upon the spit or into a stewpan, 
which must be covered with slices of ham, veal, and 
an onion with two or three pared carrots and a bunch 
of seasoned parsley, cover it lightly with thin slices of 
lard, and anerwards with two or three rounds of 
buttered paper, that they may not take any colour ; 
put in two or three spoonfuls of consommd; make them 
boil upon the furnace, put them under it or. upon 
2LpaiUasse\ ^et them cook twenty minutes, take them 

* Bain manFu a deep pan filled with water niged nearly to 
boiling heat, 
t A hot hearth, or grill oyer hot^cinden. 

s 5 



10 FRENCH COOKERY 

up, and let them cool ; strain the soup through a gauze 
search, make a panade with it, such as that which is 
directed for the potage cL la bisque; hash the breasts 
very fine, put them in a mortar, and pound them with 
twenty sweet and two bitter almonds, as is directed 
(article Lait d'Amandes)^ pound all well together, 
aferwards take it out and mix it with the consomme 
made of the carcases of the three fowls from which 
the breasts were taken, run it through a search* 

Another loay. Autre mantle. 
Put in the heads and debris of the fowls, wet them 
with consommiy and skim them ; put in vegetables, but 
take care that it is not too much coloured ; let it boil 
slowly for an hour and half; run this soup through a 
cloth, and use it to mix with purie de volatile, passing 
it through a search ; let it be of a proper thickness ; 
put it in a new tinned pan, that it may be very white, 
neat it without boiling m a bain-marie ; you may serve 
it with bread cut and fried in butter, or with rice well 
broken, and pretty dry; taste if it is good, and serve. 

Macarone Soup, Potase au Macaroni. 

Have som§ gooa consmnm^ boiling in a stewpan, 
put in some macaroni, boil and skim it as is directed 
for the vermicelli, and let it boil a quarter of an hour ; 
draw it to the side of the furnace and let it simmer ; 
rasp some parmesan and the same quantity of Gruyires 
cheese, put it in before serving, or serve them sepa- 
rately ; let it be rather thick than clear. 

Genoa Soup. Potage h la G^nois, ou aux Raviolis. 

Take the breast of a young cock that has been 
roasted, hash it well, and add as much of veal udder, 
the same quantity of spinage, boiled and pressed, and 
as much rasped parmesan, pound it altogether in a 
mortar ; add, from time to time, five yolks of eggs ; 
season it with salt, a small quantity of large pepper, 
and the quarter of a grated nutmeg ; w|HSn the whole 
\a well pounded and of a good taste, take someJeuiUe' 
tage or p6te brisee, and roll it out as thlB as possible ; 
wet with the yolks of eggs this paste, and put about 



SOUPS, 11 

half the size of a nut of this farce from distance to 
distance upon it, and fold the paste over it, and unite 
it well in forming the raviolis; then cut them with a 
paste cutter, taking care that the jTarce is in the 
middle, and that the raviolis have the form of a little 
star; hoil them in a grand bouUlon ; drain, and put them 
into an excellent consomme when ready to serve. 

Italian Paste Soup.^-'--'Potage aux Pdtes d'ltalie. 
Put upon the fire some exceflent bouillon, and when 
it boils fast throw in some Italienne paste of any 
shape, stir it that it may not ball, skim in the same 
manner as is directed for the potage au macaroni ; let 
it simmer a quarter of an hour, and serve 

Another Italian Paste Soup,-— ---Potage cL la Semoule, 
The semoule is also an Italian paste, which resem- 
bles grits ; make tlds potage as the others, only stirring 
it a Uttle more that tne semoule may not stick or ball. 

Chicken Broth. Bouillon de Poulet. 

Skin a fine fowl, dress the feet and truss it nicely ; 
put it in a pot with ten pints of water, put in an ounce 
of (he quatre seme^ices ffroid) after having broken it ; 
put it in a linen bag, sunmer it over a slow fire till it 
is reduced to eight pints, and use it as refreshing 
bouillon, or chicken broth. 

Pectoral Chicken Broth. Bouillon de Poulet 

Pectoral. 
Take a fowl as above, two ounces of barley and as 
much rice, put them altogether into a pot, with two 
ounces of Narbonne honey; skim it, let it simmer 
three hours till it is reduced to two-thirds ; it is very 
good for softening'irritation of the breast. 

Veal Brjoth.'^^BouiUon de Veau refraichissant. 
Cut in dices half a pound of the fillet of veal, boil 
in three pints of water with two or three lettuces 
and a handful of endive ; add a little wild endive ; 
pass it through a gauze search, and serve. 

Soup of Calf s Lights. Bouillon de Mou de Veau. 

lake a piece of calfs lights, clean it well, and cut it 

B 6 



12 FRENCH COOKERY. 

into small dice, put it into a saucepan with twelve pints 
of water, six or eight turnips cut small, three heads of 
chiccory, and a dozen of jububes^; make it boil, skim 
and reduce it to two-thirds, pass it through a gauze 
search ; this is another excellent broth for tne breast. 

SAUCES. 

BeefJvice. Jns de Bcetif, 

Butter the bottom of a stewpan, put into it some 
thin slices of ham and lard or bacon, with slices of 
onions and carrots, covering the whole with thick 
slices of beef, wet it with two spoonfuls of grand 
bouiUoriy or good stock, make it boil upon a brisk fire ; 
when it begins to stick, give it a prick with a knife ; 
put it upon a slow fire or furnace, and take care it 
does not burn; when it is firmly fixed, wet it as 
directed for the blond de veauy skim it and season it 
with a bunch of parsley, and some stalks of mush- 
rooms ; when the meat is sufficiently cooked take off 
the fat and run the juice through a napkin ; make use 
of it to colour potagesy sauces, or macte-dislies, which 
either require juice or colouring. 

Grande Sauce. 
Butter a saucepan and cover it with slices of ham, 
cut veal in pieces and cover the ham witii it, and put 
in one or two spoonfuls of bouillony as much as will 
nearly cover the veal ; put in two carrots, a large 
onion, which must be taken out when done ; when it 
has become jelly, leave very little fire under, sur- 
round it with hot cinders, let it colour by sticking, 
detach it by putting in a ladleful of cold bouillon^ 
and as soon as it is detached fill the saucepan with 
bouillon ; when the veal is done enough, take it out 
and pass it through a napkin into a saucepan, and if 
too strong reduce it to the proper thickness for saucer 
by adding roux ; boil it and set it aside upon the fur 
nace; shake it from time to time, and if it is not of a 
good colour add some beef juice (jus de bceuf)\ if a 

* Jububes H ft fruit not much known hert but as ft preienre. 



SAUCXS. IS 

ridn should form, do not take it nor the fat off till if 
is perfectly done and ready to be passed through a 
search, but do not force it through ; vannez * or stir 
and cool it by letting it fall from the spoon into the 
basin till quite cold to prevent its skinning anew, and 
make use of it for all brown sauces. 

Satice Espagnole, 
Take two or three noix of vealt, cover a saucepan 
with slices of bacon and ham, let there be most of the 
last, and conduct it by wetting it with consommiy as is 
directed for the grande sauce ; season it with five or 
six carrots and as many onions ; after it has boiled 
put it upon a slow fire that the juice may be made ; 
when the glaze is properly formed it will be a fine 
yellow ; take it off the fire, prick it with the point of 
a knife that the juice may come out ; wet it with coU" 
somm^ in which has been cooked a sufficient quantity 
of partridges, rabbits, or fowls; put in a bunch of 
parsley and young onions, seasoned with two cloves 
according to the quantity, half a bay leaf, a clove of 
garlic, a little sweet basil and thyme ; boil the whole, 
and draw it to the edge of the grate, and skim it ; at 
the end of two hours mix it with the rotuc as the 
couLis ; let it rather be clear than thick ; boil it from 
half to three quarters of an hour that the rotuc may 
. incorporate ; skim and pass it through a search into 
another stewpan ; put it again upon die fire, and let it 
reduce a fourth part. Tms answers for all brown 
sauces ; add Madeira, Champagne, or Burgundy, ac- 
cording to the sauce. Never put wine into EspagnoUy 
as some sauces do not require it, and it spoils before 
next day ; it is therefore better to reduce the wine in a 
littleglaz^ according to the quantity wanted at the time. 

Eipagnole TravailUe. 
When Espagnole is used for sautes, or simple saucQ 
take two or three ladlesful and a third of consomme 

• Striking a wuce up and down with a spoon is called by tibe 
Fkench vanner. 
f Noix de veau is the largest muscle in the leg or fillet. 



14 FRENCH COOKERY. 

tome parings of truffles and stalks of mushrooms, re- 
duce It on a strong fire, and skim it with great care ; 
if not enouffh coloured, put in a little blond de veau ; 
bring it to the consistence of sauce, pass it through a 
search ; and put it afterwards into a bain marten to be 
in readiness when required. 

Velout^y ou Cotdis Blanc. 
Take a piece of the fillet of veal, and put it into a 
buttered stewpan, with some slices of ham, a spoon- 
ful of strong consommiy three or four carrots, and as 
many onions ; make it boil upon a strong fire ; when 
reduced and ready to stick, put in a sufficient quan- 
tity oiconsommS; let it boil, set it on the side of the 
stove, and add some shalots, some chips of mushrooms, 
(but take care to put no lemon); a bunch of sweet 
herbs, which must be taken out when they are done, 
pressing them between two spoons ; while it is on the 
fire e;et ready a roux blanc to mix in it, prepared in 
the following manner: — melt a pound of good butter 
and pour it ft'om the sediment into another stewpan ; 
mix with it a sufficient quantity of flour; put the 
stewpan upon a slow fire, and shake it constantly 
that It may not take any colour ; mix it well by lifting 
it with a spoon and letting it fall till it is sufficiently 
done ; add a sufficient quantity to the velouU, and keep 
stirring it that the flour may not fall to the bottom 
and stick ; skim, pass it through a search, put it again 
upon the fire, skim again and reduce it ; take it off 
the fire, put it into a vessel, keep stirring and cooling 
it with a spoon to prevent it from forming a skia 

Velout4 TramilU. 
It is done in the same manner as the Ema^ole, only 
that care is taken to keep it perfectly white. 

Savory Jelly. Grand Aspic. 

Put into a pot a knuckle or two of veal, an old 
partridge, a fowl, some feet of fowls, if there are 
any, and two or three slices of ham, tie them together, 
and add two carrots, two onions, and a bunch of 



SAUCES. ] 



r. 



sweet herbs ; moisten the whole with a little eoiu 
somm^t and let them sweat gently ; when it becomes 
glazej and has taken a yeUow tint, moisten with 
oouillony or water, reducing it more; skim, season 
with salt, and let it simmer three hours; then skim 
and pass it through a wet napkin ; let it cool ; break 
two eggs, whites, yolks, and shells together ; whip 
them, wet them with bouillon, and add a spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, and put it into the aspic; set it 
upon the fire, and stir it with a whisk ; when it begins 
to boil, draw it to the side of the stove, that it may 
simmer; put fire over it; when it becomes dear, 
pass it through a wrung wet cloth, hung upon a 
irame ; put it upon the fire, and cover as before ; pass 
it again through a napkfn, when it will be ready for all 
sorts of aspics. 

White Butter Sauce, Sauce Blanche au Beurre. 

Put into a saucepan half a pound of butter, cut 
into pieces, and strew a little flour over ; pour 
water softly upon it, shake the saucepan till it is well 
mixed with the water, put in a little salt, and, if 
agreeable, a little rasped nutmeg; put it upon the 
fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon, until it is ready 
to boil ; then take a skimming spoon, vannez* your 
sauce ; when enough, pass it through a search, and put 
it in a bain marie. 

BichameUe Sauce, Sauce h la B^chamdle* 

Put such a quantity o£velout^SLS may be wanted into 
a saucepan, with a little consomm^ ; if required four 
pints otvelouti; put it upon a quick fire ; stir it with 
care till it is reduced a third ; reduce four pints of 
good cream to two-thirds, and mix it in little by 
Httle, and stir it till the whole has reduced a half; 
this sauce ought to be rather tliin ; pass it through a 
search ; put it in a bain-marie to be ready for use. « 

Another ivav. 
Cut some slices of ham, and twice as much veal, 
some carrots, five small onions, with a little shalot. 

• Fannex, or work the lauce. 



16 FRENCH COOKERY. 

two cloves, a bay-leaf, and nearly half a pound of 
butter; put all upon the fire; stir with a wooden 
spoon ; when the meat begins to give the juice, shake 
a little flour over it, take it off the fire, stir it, that 
the flour may be well mixed ; put it upon the fire, 
stirring it, that it may not burn; when sufficiently 
done, mix in some consomme^ or good bouillon ; put 
it on. a quick fire, and finish as above with the cream 
or good milk, and put it into the bain-marie, 

Satice Men£hould.^^Sainte M€n4hould. 

Put into a stewpan a bit of butter, broken in pieces ; 
shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or 
cream ; season it with parsley, young onions, half a 
bay-leaf, mushrooms, and shalots ; put it on the fire, 
keep stirring it, pass it through a search, put it again 
upon the fire, with some hashed parsley, and a little 
nepper 

Sauce d la Bonne Morue. 

It is made in the same way as the Sainte MenehouH 
only that it is not so thick, and hashed parsley is 
strewed over such meats as is served with it. 

Sauce d, la Pouletie, 
Put some reduced velout^ into a stewpan, let it 
boil ; add a little bit of butter, with the juice of a 
lemon, and a little hashed parsley ; if there is no 
veloute, make a roux blanc, mix it with bouillon ; add 
parsley and small onions, simmer, and reduce ; skin), 

pass it through a tammy, and serve. 

• 

Italian Brotvn Sauce. Sauce Italienne Rousse. 

Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stew- 
t>an, with a handful of mushrooms well minced, and a 
sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be 
taken, add a spoonful of hashed shalot, washed and 
• dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill 
of oil ; put all upon the fire ; when nearly ready, 
take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced 
iMursley, a spoonful of Evpagnoky a glass of good 
white wine, without reducing it, and a little pepper 



SAUCES. 17 

reduce, skim, take out the hanii and when it has ob- 
tained its point, take it off 

Italian White Sauce, Sauce Italienne Blanche. 

It is exactly the same, only velout6 is used instead 
dlEspagnoU. 

Sauce h la Maitre^d^ Hotel, 
Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some 
hashed parsley, some tarragon leaves, one or two 
leaves of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice ; 
mix the whole with a wooden spoon until they are 
well incorporated. 

Sauce a la Mattre-d' Hotel li^e. 
Take two ladlesful of velout^ and put it into a 
stewpan ; put in the size of an egg of butter, with 
some very fine-minced parsley, and two or three 
leaves of minced tarragon ; put it over the fire, and 
stir it, that it may be properly mixed; at the 
moment of serving it, pass and vannez the sauce; 
add lemon or verjuice. i 

Sauce au Supreme, 
Take two or three ladlesful of reduced velout^^ and 
put it into a stewpan, with the same quantity of 
the con^OTTtm^ of fowls ; reduce it a half; when ready to 
serve, put in the size of an egg of butter; put it 
upon a brisk fire ; mix it well, and when sufficiently 
done, not too thick, take it off, and add lemon or ver- 
juice ; vannez it, and serve. 

Sauce a la Matelote. 

Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced Espag' - 
ndU; when done, put in small onions which have 
been fried in butter, with some dressed mushrooms 
and artichoke bottoms ; when ready to serve, put in 
the size of a small walnut of butter ; shake it well, in 
order to mix it without breaking the ingredients, and 
serve 

Sauce Poivrade. 

Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into 
a stewpan, with a little bit of butter, five or silP 



18 FRENCH COOKERY 

branches of parsley, two or three young onions cut in 
two, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a little sweet basil, 
thyme, and two cloves; put them together upon a 
quick fire ; when they are well done, put in a little 
fine pepper, a large spoonful of vinegar, and four 
spoonsful of Espagnole not reduced ; shake and boil 
it, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let it simmer 
three quarters of an nour ; skim, and pass it through a 
tammy. 

Satice HachSe. 

Put into a stewpan a spoonful of hashed blanched 
shalots, as many mushrooms, and a little minced 
parsley; pour over it two or three ladlesful of Espag- 
nole, as much bouillon, and two spoonfuls of vinegar, 
with a little pepper ; boil, and skim it, mince a spoon- 
ful or two of capers ; when ready to serve, add the but- 
ter of one or two anchovies ; pass it through a search, 
and vannez it well. The capers ought not to be boiled. 

Sauce piquante. 

Put into a stewpan two or three skimming spoonfuls 
of Espagnole or coulis, a spoonful of white vinegar, a 
bay leaffa clove of garlic, a little thyme, a clove, a 
spoonful or two of houtUon, and a little salt; skim it, 
and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, pass it 
through a search. 

Sauce ci la Nonpareille, ou ^ VArliquine. 

Cut some dices of ham very equal, with the same 
quantity of truffles ; put them into a stewpan, with a 

• bit of butter, upon a slow fire, and let them sinuner a 

auarter of an hour; if the sauce is to be white, put 
iree skimming spoonfuls o£velouti; but if brown, let 
it be reduced as Espagnole; add haif a glass of good 
white wine, and a spoonful of consomm4; let it re- 

* duce ; put in the whites of hard eggs and mushroomi 
in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut 
in the same manner ; also lobsters' tails, and spawn, if 

^ere is any ; finish with a bit of butter the size of a 
%alnttt and half. 



< 



8AUCBS. 19 

Sauce ^ la Pluche. 
Take some rery green parsley leaves, blanch and 
refresh them, and throw them into a search ; put into 
a stewpan three skimming spoonsful of reduced 
veUmtSy and two of consomme; reduce the whole; 
when ready to serve throw in the parsley ; if too salt, 
put in a bif of butter ; pass, vannez it, and serve. 

SaiLce aux Tniffesy ou a la P^rigueux, 
Cut down truffles in rounds or dices ; put them on 
a slow fire, with a bit of butter, and let them simmer ; 
put in a sufficient quantity of reduced Espagnole, and 
add consommd or bouillon ; white wine in equal pro- 
portion ; reduce, and skim it, and finish it with a bit of 
butter. 

Observe, that acid should never be put to this sauce, 
as it takes off its softness, and the wine is quite 
sufficient. 

Mushroom Sauce, Sau£e a laPurSe de Champignons. 

* Take two handfuls of mushrooms, wash them in 
several waters, rubbing them lightly ; put them into a 
drainer ; mince them with their stalks ; put them into 
a stewpan, with the size of an egg of butter ; let them 
fall over a slow fire, and when nearly done, moisten 
them with two skimming spoonfuls of veloutS; let them 
simmer three quarters of an hour more ; rub them 
through a search, and finish it with cream as is di- 
rected for the onion purie^ with this difference, how- 
ever, that this ought to be rather clearer. 

Sauce en Tortus. 
Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced Espagnole, 
a large glass of hard Madeira, a tea-spoonful of curry 
powder, and half that quantity of Cayenne ; reduce 
the whole ; skim, put in some cocks* combs and kid- 
neys, artichoke bottoms, a veal or lamb's sweetbread ; 
boil the whole, that the ingredients may taste and 
take the colour of the sauce ; at the moment of 
serving put in six or eight hard yolks of eggs ; take 
care not to break them in stirring the sauce, b0 
serve. ' 



20 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Curry Sauce^ ou ^ VIndienne, 
Put into a stewpan three spoonfuls of reduced 
telout^f as much consommi^ a teanspoonful of curry- 
powder ; take a little saffron, boil it in a maall pan ; 
when it has given its colour rub it through a search 
into the sauce ; let it boil, and skim it ; if it ift not hot 
enough put in a little Cayenne pepper. 

Sauce Tomate. ^ 
Take a dozen of tomates very ripe, and of a fine 
red ; take off the stalks, open and take out the seeds, 
and press them in the' hand to take out the water ; 
Dut the expressed tomates into a stewpan, with the 
size of an egg of butter, a bay leaf, and a little th3ane; 
put it upon a moderate fire ; stir it till it becomes a 
purie; while it is doing put in a spoonful of Espasnole^ 
or the top of bouillon^ called top-pot, which will be 
better; when it is thus prepared, rub it through a 
search, and put it into a stewpan with two spoonfuls 
of Espagnole; reduce to the consistence of a light 
bouime; put in a little salt, and a small quantity of 
Cayenne pepper. 

Sauce ^ rivoire* 
Take a common fowl, and open it at the back; 
draw it, put it into a small pot, with two carrots, two 
onions, a clove stuck in one of them, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs; add two ladlesful of consommiy or 
bouillon that has no colour ; let it boil, skim, set it 
upon the side of the stove to simmer, leave it nearly 
an hour and a half ; pass it through a napkin ; take two 
or three spoonsful of this consommiy put it in a stew- 
pan with the same quantity of veloute ; reduce it to 
the consistence of sauce ; when ready to serve put in 
the half of the size of an egg of butter ; pass it, and 
vannez it well ; put in a spoonful of lemon-juice, and 
serve. 

White Ratigote Sauce. Sauce Ravigote Blanche, 
Take cresses, bumet, chervil, tarragon, a few stalks 
qf celery, and two balm leaves, prick and wash them, 
put them into a vesseli and pour over them a little 



SAUCES. 21 

boiling water ; cover, and let them infuse three quar- 
ters of an hour ; strain, and put the juice in a stew- 
pan with three skimming spoonfuls of veloutSy half a 
spoonful of white vinegar, and the half of the size of 
an egg of butter; pass, vannez, and serve. 

Cold Ravigote Sauce. Sauce RavigSteJroide et crue. 

Take the same ravigote, or small herb, as that di- 
rected above ; mince it very fine ; add a spoonful of 
capers also finely minced, one or two anchovies, well 
bruised, a little fine pepper and salt; put all into 
a marble mortar, beat till all is completely mixed ; 
add a raw yolk ; while beating, wet it with a little 
oil, and from time to time with a little white vinegar 
to prevent its turning ; continue till it is of the con- 
sistence of sauce ; if wanted very strong, add mustard, 
and serve. 

Drest Ravigote Sauce* Sauce Raingote cuite. 

Take the same ravigote or herbs sur^adv men- 
tioned, clean and blanch them ; when cooked, throw 
them into fresh water ; drain, and beat them well in 
t mortar ; rub them through a search ; moisten them 
with oil and vinegar ; season with pepper and salt, as 
a remoulade ; taste if well seasoned, and serve. 

Green Sauce, Sauce Verte, 

Make this sauce as sauce au suprime, in adding 
a ravigote, as in the preceding article, and of the 
green of spinage, which is made thus : — express the 
juice by wringing the spinage in a cloth, put the 
juice into a stewpan upon the comer of the stove ; 
It rises like milk ; when it does, put it through a gauze 
search ; when ready to serve, add till the colour is 
obtained ; put in lemon juice or vinegar, pass, and 
serve it inunediately, as it may become yellow. 

Sauce Robert. 
Cut in rounds or dice six large onions or more, if 
necessary ; put them into a stewpan with butter ; set 
1 them on a good fire, dredge^ and brown them ; moisten 



22 FRENCH COOKERY. 

them with bouillon, and let them cook ; add pepper 
and salt ; when finished, put in mustard, and serve. 

Crat^sh Sauce. Sauce au Beurre d' Ecrevisses. ' 

Wash in different waters half an hundred of small 
crawfish, put them into a stewpan, cover and boil 
them in grand bouillon, but let it be in small quan- 
tity ; as soon as they begin to boil, toss them, that 
those below may come up ; when they are of a fine 
red, take them from the fire, leave them ten minutes 
covered ; drain, and let them cool ; take out the flesh 
and the tails for garnishing ; after taking out the feet, 
throw away the belly part, wash the shells well, drain 
them, and put them mto a cool oven ; when dried, 
beat them in a mortar; when they are entirely 
. pounded, put in about the size of an egg of butter ; 
beat them again till the shells become a paste ; if the 
butter is not red enough, put in two or three small 
roots of orchanet ; put it on a very slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour; when it is very hot put a fine 
search over a basin of fresh water, and pour the 
butter through the search, which will shake in the 
water ; gather it up, and put it on a dish, and use it 
for sauce {au beurre d*Screvisses) ; take three skimming 
spoonfuls of reduced velouti, mix it well with the 
butter ; vannez the sauce well, and serve it. 

Lobster Sauce. Sauce aux Homards. 

Take a middling sized lobster, take out the flesh 
and the spawn, cut the flesh in small dices; wash 
the spawn in such a manner as to leave no fibres ; 
put the flesh and spawn into a stewpan without any 
moistening; cover them with a cover or paper that 
the flesh be not too dry ; wash the shells, take off the 
small claws ; the shells being well washed, let them 
be dried in a stove ; beat them, and make a butter as 
directed for the beurre d'ecrevisses ; and let them be 
finished in the same way ; when it is cooked, put it 
in a white sauce, ^)annez it upon the fire without al- 
lowing it to boil ; add to it, if liked, a little Cayenne 
or large pepper; pour this sauce over the lobster, 



SAUCK8. 2S 

mix all welly and serve in a sauce-boat for turbot or 
any otber fish. 

Sorrel Sauce. Sauce h la Purle cTOseiUe. 
Take two handsful of sorrel, pick, wash, and 
blanch it, mince it very small, put it in a stewpan 
with a bit of melted butter ; when the sorrel is 
enough done, rub it through a search ; put it again 
into a stewpan, with one or two spoonfuls of Et' 
pagnole; leave it to cook three quarters of an hour ; 
Jet it be often stirred ; skim ; season it with salt ; 
when it has the consistence of bouUlie it is ready to 
s^rve. 

Onion Sauce. Sauce ^ la PurSe d'Oignons Blana. 

Mince twelve onions, put them in a stewpan with 
a bit of butter; put the stewpan on a slow^fire, that 
they may not take any colour ; let them simmer ; stir 
them often with a wooden spoon; when they yield 
under it, put in two spoonfuls of veloutS^ and let 
them remain cooking; when they are well re- 
duced, rub them through a search, put them again 
upon the fire; boil two pints of cream, and put it 
into the puree; add nutmeg; when it has obtained 
the degree of a good bouiUon, serve. 

Browi Onion Sauce. Sauce ^ la PurSeiTOignons 

rousse dite Bretonne. 
Take onions as above ; brown them upon a quick 
fire ; when thev are of a fine colour, moisten them 
with two spoonmls ofEspagnole ; cook it as the above, 
put it through a search, and again upon the fire ; but 
mstead of cream use Espagnole ; reduce it to the con- 
sistence of bouUlie; season it properly, and serve. 

Puree Sauce, Sau^e h la Purie de Pois. 

Prepare this purie in the same manner as for the 
potages; make what is necessary for the entrSeSy and 
reduce them with a sufficient quantity of veloutSy and 
when it has attained its point, add the green of spin- 
age to give the green colour ; finish* it with a bit of 
butter and a little rasped sugar ; when it has the con- 
iiitence of thick bouuHe^ serve. 



^ FRENCH COOKERY. 

Satice Pois verts pour Entries et Entremets. 
Take the necessary quantity of peas, wash and drain 
them, put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a 
handful of parsley in branches, four or five young onions 
cut in two ; toss the peas ; when they wrinkle, put in 
two ladles full of bouulon ; put in one or two shoes of 
ham ; let them boil, and drain aside, and leave them 
to simmer ; drain, take out the ham, and break 
them with a spoon or bruise them in a mortar ; cub 
them through a search, wetting them with the bouillon 
in which they were cooked; put the purSe into a 
stewpan with a piece of butter and a spoonful or two 
of veloutS, reduce it to the proper consistence of a 
purie ; skim, season with salt, put in a little bit of 
sugar, and finish it with a pat of butter ; if it is not 
sreen enough, add a little green of spinage, as is 
directed before. 

Pease Soup. Pur^e de Pois sees. 

Do it in the same manner as the other potages, and 
finish it as green pease. 

LentUe Sauce ou Pur4e. Sauce ct la Puree de LentiUes 

d la Reine. 
It is made as the purie of pease, except that Es" 
pagnole must be used, and that they take more cook- 
mg than the peas ; it ought to be a fine red colour ; 
finish it with a bit of butter, and let it have the same 
consistence as the purie of pease. 

Purie de Gibier. 
Take one or two roasted partridges and a leveret^ 
either separate Or mixed together, take off all the 
flesh, pick off the skin and nerves, hash it very fine, 
beat it well in the mortar, add reduced Espagnole and 
a little consommi; heat the whole on a slow fire 
without boiling ; when it is very hot, rub it through a 
search; gather it carefully, put it into a stewpan, 
heat it and put it in a bain-marie^ and when ready to 
serve, finish it with a bit of butter ; if not strons 
enough, put in a bit of glaze, and serve it with poachea 
egggy fried bread, or croustades. 



8AOCE« 25 

Poor Man's Sauce, Sauce au pauvre Homme* 

Take five or six shalots, hash them fine with a 
little parsley ; put them into a stew-pan with a little 
bouillon juice or water, and a skimming-spoonful of 
good yineear, a little salt, and a little large pepper \ 
simmer till enough and serve. 

Veal Stock. Glace ou Consommi r^duite. 

Take one or two knuckles of veal, and any rem- 
nant or trimmings of veal; put them into a fresh 
tinned pot with four or five carrots, two or three 
onions, and a bunch of parsley and young onions ; 
moisten it with good bouillon, or some good soup ; care- 
fully skim, and refresh it several times with freshwater ; 
put it upon the side of the stove, and when the meat 
comes from the bone put the consommi through a 
wrung wet cloth ; let it cool ; clarify it, as is directed at 
the article Culotte de boeuf h la geUe ; reduce it to 
the consistence of sauce ; take care to stir it often, as 
it is ready to stick and burn ; let the fire be mode- 
rate that it may not turn black. It oueht to be a 
fine transparent yellow : put no salt, it does not re- 
quire any. Thi^ consommi serves to give strength of 
body to sauces and ragouts that may require it, and 
to glaze meats ; make a pencil of the tail feathers of 
old fowls ; wash it in warm water, squeeze and boil it 
in the glaze, that it may not separate, which would 
prevent it glazing properly. 

Boiled Pickle, Marinade cuite. 

Put the size of an eg^ of butter i^o a stew-pan, 
one or two carrots in slices, the same of onions, a 
bay leaf, the half of a clove of garlic, a little thyme 
and basil, branches of parsley, two or three young 
onions cut in halves; boil them upon a brisk fire; 
when it begins to brown, moisten it with a glass of 
white vinegai, and a little water ; put in salt and large 
pepper ; let it be enough done ; put it through a 
search, and use it. "4 

Poile. 
Take four pounds of the kidney-fat of veal ; cut it 

c 



26 FRENCH COOKERY. 

in pieces; a pound and a half of ham ; a pound and 
half of rasped bacon, or cut as the others ; five or six 
carrots cut also ; eight small whole onions, a large 
6unch of parsley, and young onions stuck with three 
cloves ; two bay leaves, some thyme, a little sweet 
basil, a little mace, and three sliced lemons without 
the peel or seeds ; put all into a new tinned pot, 
with a pound of good butter : set them upon a 
slow fire, moisten it with bouillon or consommi •• boil 
and skim ; let them simmer five or six hours ; pass 
the poUe through a hair search, and keep it for use. 

Sauce ^ la Mirepoix. ^ 

This sauce is made like the preceding ; it only dif- 
fers in having for its moistenmg a quart of cham- 
pagne, or any other good white wme instead of 
houiUonn 

Blanc, 
Take a pound or a pound and half of fat of beef kid- 
ney, cut it in dices ; put it into a pot with carrots cut in 
slices, a whole onion stuck with two cloves, one or 
two bay leaves, a bunch of parsley and young onioib, 
clove of garlic, two sliced lemons, without the peel 
or seeds ; put the whole upon the fire without allow- 
ing it to brown : when the fat is three fourths done; 
shake in a spoonful of Hour ; moisten it with water, 
put in what is necessary of (eau de sel), which is made 
thus ; put into a stew-pan one or two handfuls of salt, 
let it boil in the water, skim it, leave it to settle, draw 
it off clear, and use it. 

I^Petite Sauce h V Aspic. 
Put into a stew-pan a large glass of consommi ; in- 
fuse in it a quantity of fine herbs such as are used for 
ravigotes ; put it on hot cinders for a quarter of an 
hour ; it must not boil ; pass it through a cloth ; do not 
press it too much; put in a spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, and a little large pepper. 

Game Sautt* Sauce au Fumet de Gihier. 

Put into a stew-pan four skimming spoonfuls of 
consommi; take two or three carcasses or partridgeii 



8AUCS. 27 

the bones of which must be broken, a large glass of 
white wine, and let it simmer three quarters of an 
hour ; put it through a gauze search ; let it come to 
a glaze ; put then in two or three skimming spoon- 
fuls of Espagfiole : let it boil ; skim, and use it. 

Crarlic Butter^ Sauce au Beurre (PAU. 

Take two large heads of garlic ; beat them with the 
size of an egg of butter ; when well beaten rub it 
through a double hair search with a wooden spoon ; 
father it, and use, either with velouti or with re- 
duced Espagnole, 

Anchovy Butter Sauce. > Sauce au Beurre d*Anchoit, 

Take three or four anchovies; wash them well; 
mb them so that no scales may remain ; take off the 
^sh, beat them with the size of an egg of butter, 
^ther it together ; have four skimming spoonfuls of 
Ewagnole; warm the sauce without allowing it to 
ooil; having put in the anchovy butter just at the 
moment of serving, add the iuice of one or two 
lemons to freshen it ; pass it through a search and 
vannez it well ; if too Uiick add a little consommi and 
serve. 

Sauce au Beurre de Provence. 
Take five or six heads of garlic and beat them in 
butter as in the f6regoing article ; rub it through a 
search, gathering it with care ; put it into a china 
dish ; put some fine olive oil over it ; mix it with the 
butter, and stirring it in by little and little, adding 
the oil and a little salt ; it ought to become like but- 
ter, by the force of rubbing it round ; when it is 
ready for use. 

• Sauce h la Tartar, 

Mince one or two shalots very fine, with a little 
chervil and tarragon ; put it into an earthen vessel 
with mustard, a glass of vinegar, salt and pepper ; 
^rinkle it with oil, and stir it constdbtly ; if it gets 
too thick, put in a little vinegar ; if too salt, put in a 
fittle more mustard and oil. 

c 2 



28 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Fennel Sauce. Sauce au FenouiL 
Take some branches of green fenntl; pick, blanch, 
«nd mince it very fine, refresh and drain it ; put into 
a stew-pan a little velouii, the same quantity of butter 
sauce ; heat it and let it be vanned the moment it is 
to be served ; put the fennel into the sauce ; mix it 
well ; add salt and nutmeg. 

If there is no ve^^ut^y put butter into a stew-pan, 
with flour as is directed for sauce blanche or au heurre; 
moisten with consomme or bouUlony and let it be more 
done. 

Tarragon Clear Sauce. Sauce Claire a VEstragon, 

Take some^ranc^ aspic: if there is none, ta£e some 
other good stock, and clarify it as for the grand aspic ;^ 
put in a glass of tarragon vinegar ; cut some leaves or 
tarragon in lozenges ; boil them, and, when ready to 
serve, put them into the aspic. 

Another xjoay, Sauce a VEstragon li^e. 

Put into a stew-pan two or three skimming spoon- 
fuls of reduced veloute; if the sauce is to be white, 
(reduced espagnole if brown,) put in a glass of tarragon 
vinegar, and tarragon prepared, as in the preceding ; 
and finish the sauce with a pat of butter. 

Sauce Mayonnaise, 
Put into an earthen vessel three or four spoonfuls 
of fine oil, and two of tarragon vinegar; add tarragon, 
shalots, pimpernel, -all minced very fine, salt, pep- 
per, and two or three spoonfuls of grlee or aspic; 
stir it well with a spoon ; the sauce will thicken- and 
form a sort of butter ; taste it, and if too salt or acid, 
add a little oil ; if it is wanted clear, break the gdet 
with a knife, and mix it lightly with the seasoning. 
Fillets of fowl, game, fish, or any other meat, may be [ 
sent to table in a clear mayonnaise, garnished with 
jelly or any other garnishing. 

Roux, 
Put into a sauce-pan a pound of butter or more; : 
melt it without letting it brown; pass through a 



SAUCE. 29 

search some of the finest and whitest flour; put 
in as much as the butter will take; make only what 
will be required : this roux ought to have the consist- 
ence nearly of a firm paste ; put it first upon a quick 
fire; let it be constantly stirred; when it becomes 
very white, and begins to thicken, put it upon hot 
cinders under a lighted stove, in such a manner as the 
red cinders may fall upon the cover ; stir every seven 
minutes imtil it is a fine roux; by this manner of doing 
it, it will not have that acidity that roux generally has. 

Roux Blanc. 
Melt some of the finest butter over a slow fire, and 
put in sufficient quantity of flour as directed above, 
and let care be taken that it takes no colour ; stir it 
half an hour, and use it for veloute. 

Batter for Frying, Pate h Frire. 

Search half a pound of flour ; put it into a vessel 
with two spoonfuls of oil, salt, and two or three yolks 
of eggs ; moisten it with beer, in such quantity that 
the paste does not cord ; work till it is of the consist- 
ence of bouillie; whip one or two whites of eggs ; work 
them Hghtly into the paste ; make it two or three hours 
before it is wanted. Remember the lightness of the 
paste depends upon the whipping of the whites of the 
eggs ; the paste may be made with butter instead of 
oil, and with hot water instead of beer, in adding a 
glass of white wine. 

Fritters, Fritures, 

Experience has taught that the fat taken from the 
stock pot makes the best fritters : when there is not 
any of this, its place is supphed by the kidney fat of 
beef, hashed very fine or cut in dices, which must be 
melted with care ; these fats are much better than the 
sain-doux or hogs' lard, which softens the paste, and 
still more when they are heated to swell and froth, 
making it fly into the fire, which is dangerous. Oil 
has nearly the same effect, and of course not less at- 
tended with danger, but it does not soften. Melted 
&t has nearly the same fault, and is very expensive i 

c 3 



30 FRENCH COOKERY. 

It may be concluded that for appe^urance, goodness, 
and economy, the top of the pot is the best« and next 
to it is that which is made of beef suet. 

Beef Suet. 
Manner of preparing it. 
When there has been accumulated a sufficient 
quantity of that fat, render and clarify it ; boil it in 
tne same way as bouillon is done ; skim it ; put in some 
slices of onions and some pieces of bread ; let it sim- 
mer on the side of the stove or before the fire four or 
five hours ; take out the bread and onions and draw it 
off clear ; it ought to be very limpid. When it is to 
be used, let a sufficient quantity be put into the filing 
pan, and heat it : to know if it is sufficiently hot, let 
the finger be dipt into water and sprinkle it upon the 
friture; if it hisses and rejects the water, it is then 
sufficiently hot. If it is fish that is to be fried, dip in 
the tip of the tail, holding it by the head ; if on pull- 
ing it out immediately it hardens, put in the fish, 
taking care to turn it. 

Sauces aux Hatelettes, 
Mince a little parsley, young onions and mushrooms ; 
put them into a stew-pan with a bit of butter ; put 
them upon the fire ; flour, and moisten them wim a 
spoonful of consomm4 ; season with salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, and half a bay leaf; reduce it over a brisk fire, 
takmg care to stir it till it has acquired its proper de« 
gree, which is when it is come to the consistence of 
clear bouiUie; take out the bay leaf, and thicken it 
with two yolks of eggs, a little bouillon^ and serve. 
This sauce may be served over almost every thing. 

Another Sauce aux Hatelettes. 
Put a ladleful of velouti into a saucepan, with a 
little parsley, a few young onions or shalots, and 
twice as many mushrooms finely minced ; stir the 
sauce and reduce it to a clear bouillon; thicken and 
season it as above ; if liked, nutmeg, and serve. 

Bread Sauce, Br'^de Sauce. 

Take the crumb of a stale roll ; put it into milk ; 



SAUCE. 31 

let it simmer three quarters of an hour, till it has the 
consistence of a thick bouiUie; add twenty grains of 
black pepper and salt ; finish it with the size of a 
walnut of good butter ; serve it in a sauce boat along 
with woodcock or partridge. 

Truffle Sauce, — ^^ Sauce aux Tmffes h la Saint Cloud, 

ou en Petit Deuil. 
Cut a truffle in small dices; do them in butter, 
moisten them with four skimming spoonfuls of veloutd, 
and two of consommS; reduce it ; skim, and finish it 
with a pat of butter. 

Sauce ct, la Pluche Verte. 
Put into a stew-pan four spoonfuls of reduced 
velout^; let it boil ; skim it at the moment of serving ; 
put into it some blanched parsley, pepper, salt, and 
a pat of butter, with the juice of a lemon ; observe that 
it ought to taste of the acid. A, 

Court- Bouillon, 
Put into a stew-pan a bit of butter, sliced onions, 
and carrots, two bruised bay leaves, three cloves, two 
cloves of garlic, thyme, sweet basil, and a little 
ginger ; do these ingredients over a quickish fire, to 
give them a little colour ; let them stick a little to tHe 
bottom of the stew-pan, moisten with two or three 
bottles of wine ; if the court-bouillon is gras put in 
some good stock ; let it boil and use it. 

Ketchup. 

Take a dozen of handfuls of mushrooms, pick, 
wash, and mince them very fine ; put them into a new 
earthen dish, and make a layer of mushrooms of about 
half an inch, sprinkle fine salt over, continuing to do 
so till they are finished. 

Tie a cloth over, and lay on a cover ; leave them 
five or six days to draw out the juice ; draw it off, and 
wring the mushrooms in a cloth; put the juice in a 
stew-pan, and reduce it ; put in two bay leaves ; dress 
a pot as for making glaze (see article slaze) ; when it 
is ready, pass it through a search ; skim it, and mix 
it with the mushroom juice; it may be made by 

c 4 



'^ • four or five po«»J*jeduce the 

^^"^"^SSty «f,?±;dCcon' P? ^Scenes, 
tbe »a«'^J^tha8muc\ia^P^'' pepper, ^^^.Z«i*» 

*^^ ^the V^^^ ^ -V and serve. 

t. i^£^t'..orldBg .t,^ , f orange. 

^ *''^ Orange Sa^--;;rthem in t.;^^^^„?ehv 
\ Take three o^^f Uarch, i^^" f ^nd that contav 

of ca^*^- u W tlTe'^ quarters 
clove* ; ^e« " " 



GARNISHINGS. 33 

take it off the fire, cover it with a cloth, leave it half 
or three quarters of an hour to settle ; pass it through 
a gauze search; it is then ready for cooking fish, or 
any thing that requires salt water. 

Thickened Butter, Beurre Li4, 

Put the yolks of two eggs into a stew-pan ; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter without browning it; 
break the eggs with a wooden spoon ; put the butter 
by degrees to the eges ; set it upon a slow fire ; add 
lemon juice, and use it for panures.* 

VERJUICE, and the making, of it that it may keep. 
Take verjuice grape before it is ripe, take out the 
seed and stalks, put them into a mortar, and beat them 
with a little salt ; express the juice by a press or by 
wringing through a cloth ; have a fustian bag or two 
if the quantity require it ; wet it and shake flour upon 
the shaggy side, hang it up in such ^Jiray as it will be 
open; pour the verjuice through s^eral times, till 
perfectly limpid : it must be put in very clean or new 
bottles, which ought to be prepared, as announced in 
the article Wine, by sulphuring them ; cork it well 
and set it on its end in the cellar ; when it is used, let 
the little pellicle be taken off that gathers upon the 
top of the bottle : this verjuice may be used, instead 
of lemon, for lemonade, punch, and otherwise, in add- 
ing a little spirit or zest of lemon. This verjuice is 
excellent against the consequences of falls, a glassful 
ought to be taken when the accident happens: if used 
for punch or drinking in any way, no salt should be 
put in in making, but for all culinary uses it is better. 

GARNISHING FOR DISHES. 

Garnitures^— -^Bords de Plats. 
Take firm stale bread, cut the crumb in slices of 
the thickness of the blade of a knife ; cut those 
slices into any form; heat some oil in a stew-pan, 
and put in the bread ; make both white and brown ; 
when they are very dry, drain them, make white 

* Panures. £v^ thing that is rolled in or strewed with 
aumibs of bread. « 

C 5 



84* FRENCH COOKERY. > 

paper cases, and put them up separately, according 
to their form and colour ; when they are wanted to 
garnish dishes, pierce the end of an egg, let a little 
of the white out, and beat it with the blade of a 
knife; mix a little flour ; heat your dish a little C dip 
one side of the form into the beaten paste ; in this 
manner continue till the border is finished: care 
must be taken not to heat the dish too^much. 

Cocks* Combs. Cr^es de Cons, 

Prepare the combs, and cut off the points, put them 
to blanch three-quarters of an hour in warm water, on 
the side of the stove, and shake them often ; have 
some hotter water ready ; put in the combs in a new 
cloth, with a little great salt : hold the four comers 
of the ^loth, and plunge them into almost boiling 
water, rub them with the hand, open the cloth to see 
if the skin cong^ off; if it does not, they must be 
plunged again'ftto a water still hotter : this operation 
requires much attention: rub the skin off with the 
hands, then put them into fresh water to degorge ; cook 
them in a blaiK (see that article), and put them with the 
other garnishings to be ready when they are wanted. 

Cocks* Kidneys. Garnitures de Rognons de Coqsy 

Are done exactly as the foregoing article, and put 
aside like the others for use. 

Fat Livers.— '^■'Foies Gras et Demi-gras pour Garni- 

tures. 
Take what number of fat livers is necessary, and 
take off the galls carefully, leave no part that has 
been touched by them, taking care not to break 
them ; steep and blanch them lightly ; cook them with 
slices of bacon ; moisten them wiu ffood mirepoix: 
when enough, put them aside for garnishing. 

Garnishing of Carrots^f^-^—Carottes pour Garnitures. 

Take what carrots may be necessary ; choose them 

tender and of a fine colour ; cut them into any shape, 

if in- a hurry, with an apple-scoop ; take care not to 

use the hearts ; blanch these carrots, and do them in 



GARNISHIKOd* 35 

a little bouillon or consommi ; put in a little bit of 
sugar, and let them fall into a glaze ; take care they 
do not stick : they are then ready to be put amongst 
the garnitures. 

Turnips. Navetspour Garnitures. 

Take firm sweet-tasted turnips ; cut them into shapes 
as in the preceding article ; cook them in the same 
manner, if they are not to be browned ; in that case, 
don't blanch them, but brown them in butter or in 
«ainw/oux (hogs' lard), and put them aside for garnishing. 

Mush rooms, Champignons, 

See article de Ragouts de Champignons^ MoriUes, et 
Mousserons, 

Small Onions for Gamishing.'^—Pefits Oignons pour 

GarrSures. 
Take small onions as many as are necessary ; cut the 
tops and tails off; blanch them, take off the skin, and 
make them of an equal size ; cook jtteih in consommS 
or bouillon ; put in a little bit of sugbr, let them fall 
almost to a glaze ; if they are to be brown, brown 
them in butter, instead of blanching them. 

Lettucejbr Garnishing. Laituespour Garnitures. 

Take what lettuces are necessary ; clean them, do 
not cut the roots too near; plunge them seyeral 
times in water, one after another, that if there are 
any worms they may fall out; blanch and refresh 
them ; tie them three and three together ; cover a 
stew-pan with slices of bacon ; put them in ; season 
chem with salt, large pepper, a bay-leaf, a clove of 
garlic, an onion, and a slice of ham ; moisten them 
with consomm^y bouillon^ or any good stock; cover 
them with slices of bacon, and a round of paper, cut to 
fit the stew-pan; let them boil, and put them to simmer, 
with fire above and below; when cooked, leave them 
in the seasoning, and set them aside for garnishing. 

Green of Spinage.'—-^ Vert d'Epinards.* 
Take a sufficient quantity of spinage ; pick, wash, 

* This is the best for colouring entremets, and that of parsley 
forentre^ 

c 6 



36 FRENCH COOKERY. 

and drain them ; put them into a mortar ; beat them ; 
wring out the Juice through a coarse cloth ;- put the 
juice into a n*ying-pan or the <;over of a pot ; put 
it on hot cinders that it may only shake ; ana when it 
thickens put it through a gauze search; it is then ready 
for colouring soups, sauces, jellies, omelets, &c. 

Artichoke Bottoms,'— '^Cuis d*Arttckauts Toumis. 

Take a dozen of tender artichokes ; be careful that 
they are not thready, which will be known by snapping 
a bit off the stalk: slip off the leaves in such a 
ihanner as to leave the bottom whole, with a few of 
the tenderest leaves on the top ; then pare the arti- 
chokes nicely with a knife, cutting off the points of 
the leaves that remain ; rub the artichokes with the 
half of a lemon, and throw them mto fresh water, 
with the juice of one or two lemons ; put them into 
boiling water, and let a plate be put in to keep them 
down; let them bqjU; when the choke comes out easily, 
they are enoughfji take it out, and throw them into fresh 
water ; drain> and put them into a blanc ; when they are 
enough, take them out; put them into a dish, and pour 
the blanc over them through a gauze search ; let them 
be used for garnishing, eidier whole or in quarters. 

To make Cayenne Pepper. Poivre de Cayenne. 

Take half a pound of long pepper, let it be chosen 
thick-skinned, and of a fine red ; dry it well in the 
shade ; separate and take off the stalks ; put them into 
a mortar, and beat them with an iron pestle ; let 
care be taken that the mortar is covered well with a 
skin, as it is dangerous if it get into the eyes. 

Onions. Oignons Glacis. 

(See Boetif, or BouilU Ordinaire.) 
Cucumbers* Concombres au Blanc. 

Let the points and ends of three cucumbers be 
taken off; if they are bitter, take others ; peel them, 
and cut them in quarters ; take out the seeds, and let 
them be cut in the form of oyster-sheus, making them 
equal ; blanch them in water with a little s^t, and 
cook them in a blanc ; when sufficiently done, drain 
them, and put them aside for use. 



RAGOUTS. 37 

Browned Cucumbers. Concombres au Brun. 

Let them be prepared as before, and then be put 
into an earthen dish with water, salt, and white vine- 
gar; let them steep an hour; wring them in a 
cloth, and fry them of a light fine brown, in rasped 
lard ; drain, and use them in brown ragouts. 

Brotvn and White Onions. Pltiche d'Oignons, 

Blanche et Rousse. 

Let a dozen of large onions be taken ; peel, and 
cut them in two, taking out the hearts ; cut them in 
rounds ; put a bit of butter into a stew-pan; drain the 
onions, if they are to be cooked white ; do them 
upon hot cinaers ; shake them oflen ; when three- 
fourths done, dust them with a little flour ; finish as 
(au roux blanc ;) moisten them with consommi or 
bouillon; reduce to the consistence of a strong bouUlie; 
season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; they are 
then ready for use. 

Another tvay. Pluche d*0ign6ns au Roux, 

Prepare onions as in the foregoing receipt, put them 
into a stew-pan with a piece of butter ; fry them of a 
fine colour ; dredge, and shake them upon the fire, 
that the flour may be browned ; moisten with beef 
juice ; put in salt and pepper, and make it into the 
consistence of sauce ; taste if good^ and serve. 

RAGOUTS. 
Salpi^ons. 

Salpigons are made of all sorts of meats and veget- 
ables, such as truffles, artichoke bottoms, and mush- 
rooms ; but every thing must be put in in equal propor- 
tions ; it is necessary to have them all cooked apart, so 
that Uiey may be properly done, as each requires. 

Salpifon Ordinaire, 

Is made of veal sweetbreads, fat or half fat livers, 
ham, mushrooms, truffles, if in season ; cut the whole 
in small dices, of an equal size : when ready to serve, 
put them in espagnole much reduced ; put it on the 
fire ; shake it, without letting it boil, and serve. 

It may also be made with quenelles or godiveauy 
the white of roasted fowls, cocks' combs, and arti- 



38 FRENCH COOKERY. 

choke bottoms, whatever is in season, and the larder 
ought to regulate the cook. 

Ragout of Stveetbreads, — Ragout de Ris de Veau, 
Soak two sweetbreads in fresn water, to take out 
the blood ; blanch them ; put into a stew-pan one or 
two carrots, two onions, some parings of veal, with a 
bunch of seasoned parsley, and young onions ; put 
in the sweetbreads; cover them with a thin slice of 
bacon ; moisten with one or two spoonfuls o£ bouillon i 
do not let them swim; cover with buttered paper; 
let them boil ; put them under the furnace, with fire 
over and under ; let care be taken that they may not 
be over done ; when they are enough, take them out 
of their seasoning ; if there is no sauce, let what they 
were cooked in be run through a search ; but should 
they be for a blanCf mix a pat of butter in a little 
flour, and put it with some mushrooms into the sauce ; 
let them cook ; skim, and add artichoke bottoms ; 
the sweetbreads being cut in slices, put them in, but 
care must be taken that they do not boil : when ready 
to serve, thicken it with the yolks of one or two eges, 
some fine minced parsley, lemon, or verjuice, in the 
ordinary manner, adding a little butter to make it 
soft, and serve.* 

Ragout of Cocks* Combs and Kidneys, Ragout de 

Cretes et de Rognons de Coqs en Financiers 
Let the combs be dressed and cooked in blanc; 
drain them, (see Crites de Coqs, article des Garnitures), 
also the kidneys; let there be put a sufficient quantity 
of reduced velout^, into a stew-pan, if the ragout is 
to be au blanc ; but if roux, use reduced espagnoU, 
adding a little consomm^ if the sauce should be too 
thick; let the combs simmer a quarter of an hour ; 
put them in with the kidneys an instant before serving, 
and some mushrooms that have been cooked, arti- 
choke bottoms, or truffles ; if the ragout is au blanc, 

* Obsenre, that lemon or any acid diminishes the richneM 
of Muces, and should neyer be used profusedly in high-seasoned 
dishtf. 



EAOOtrrs. S9 

thicken as in the preceding article, and if au raux, 
follow the directions also in that article. 

So/i Roes of Carp. Ragout de Laitance de Carpes. 

Let two dozen of the roes of carps be taken ; take 
out the alimentary canals, and put them into fresh 
water, to degorge for half an hour ; change the water, 
and let them be put on tlie side of a stove ; leave them 
till they become white ; let another stew-pan be ready 
with boiling water ; throw them in with a little salt ; 
let them boil ; take them off the fire ; have in a stew* 
pan four skimming-spoonfuls of \ltaUenne blanchcy or 
rousse); put in the roes ; let them boil once or twice ; 
skim them, and finish with lemon juice ; serve them 
ns ragout de laitancesy either in a silver stew- dish, a 
case> or in a vol-au-vent, 

A Ragout of Carp Tongues. Ragout deLanguesde 

Carpes. 
Let a hundred tongues be taken ; and proceed and 
finish as in the foregoing receipt. 

Truffies.^-^^Ragout aux Tniffes. 
Take a pcand or two, as may be ngcessary ; choose 
them if possible, round, heavy, anS fine skinned; 
press them with the hand ; they ought to resist, that 
they may neither be soft nor gluey ; if they smell of 
cheese they are not good ; when thus picked, throw 
them into fresh water, and such as swim are not so 
good as those that remain at the bottom ; brush them 
to take off aH the earth, and throw them again into 
fresh water;, and not mto hot, that they may not lose 
their fiavoiR' ; brush them again and with a knife clear 
all &e specks of the earth and the little wooden 
skewers by which they are often put together by the 
sellers to make them look better ; wash them a third 
time, and more if the water still appears turbid ; take 
them out and peel off the skin as thin as possible ; the 
foest are generally kept to serve in a napkin, or en 
troustadey the others are cut in slices or in dices, to 
tiake truffle sauce, which will be found in the follow- 
ing article. 



40 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Ragout of Truffle. Rago&t aux Truffes et cL VEs^ 

pagnole. 
Take the truffles that may be necessary ; cut them 
in slices or dices ; put them in a stew-pan on a slow 
fire with a bit of butter ; let them sweat ; moisten with 
half a glass of wine and two spoonfuls of reduced 
espagnole ; let them cook upon a slow fire; skim the 
sauce, and finish with a little bit of butter ; let car^ be 
taken to mix it well whether on the fire or in shaking ; 
put no lemon juice, as it would take o£P the softness of 
the sauce. 

Another,'~'--^Ragout aux Truffes a Vltalienne. 
Prepare the truffles as in the above receipt ; sweat 
them in butter; put in hashed shalots and parsley, 
salt and pepper ; moisten with half a glass of white 
wine and two skimming-spoonfuls of espagnole; boil 
the sauce ; skim it, and finish with a little good oil of 
olives. 

Another i»ay. Ragout aux Truffles dlaPiedmontaise. 

Dress the truffles as directed before, but instead of 
butter, use olive oil, with a little bruised garlic ; put 
them upon ho# cinders that they may only sliake; 
after a quarter of an hour, season with fine sak and 
pepper; force them a little with lemon juice, and 
serve. 

Another way. Ragout cL la Peregueux, 

Cut the truffles in small dices ; do them in butter , 
put in two or three large spoonfuls of italienne rousse 
or espagnole, with a little white wine, and finish it 
with h^f a pat of butter : this sauce seilNs for par- 
tridges, fowls, chickens, and turkeys stuffed with 
tj^uffles. 

Mushrooms. Observations sur les Champignons* 

The surest manner to discover bad ones, is to cut 
them with a piece of metal : when they have been so 
cut and the leafy substance extracted, let them lie an 
hour, and if they remain unchanged in their colour, 
being white, they may be used ; peel off the skin; lay 
them in oil or vinegar, making many incisions in thenou 



BA60UTS 41 

Ragout of Mushrooms, Ragout aux Champignons. 

Let two handful 8 of mushrooms be picked and 
cleaned; take out the stalks; peel and pare them nicely 
with a knife, as also the stalks ; throw them as they 
are done into a stew-pan with a little water and 
lemon juice to whiten them ; toss them to prevent 
their getting red; put in a little salt, and a bit of 
butter ; set them on a brisk fire and toss them ; then 
let them simmer slowly on the side of the stove till 
enough, which will be when they have given their 
juice. 

If to be a brown ragout^ put in a slice of ham with 
parsley and young onions ; moisten with three large 
spoonfiils of espagnole; take out the ham and sweet 
herbs when the ragout is ready to be reduced ; skim 
and finish with a little bit of butter ; if there is no 
espagnole, let there be made upon a slow fire a brown 
roux of a fine colour; moisten with a ladleful of 
bouillon; put in a little more ham, some parings of 
veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, and an onion ; 
cook the whole ; when enough pass it through a search, 
and use it in place of espagnole. ^ 

White Ragout of Mushrooms. Ragout de Cham^ 

pignons au Blanc. 
It is to be done as the foregoing, except that 
veloute is used instead of espagnole, and is thickened 
with yolks of eggs, moistened with milk or cream, and 
a bit of butter; if there is no velout4, let the juice of 
the mushrooms be taken, and dredge in a little flour ; 
run it throi%h a search; afterwards mix it by little and 
little with Uie juice, in adding a ladleful of bouillon 
without colour, a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley 
and young onions ; simmer, skim, and reduce it to a 
proper degree ; thicken it as directed above, and let 
it be finished in the same manner. 

Ragout de Morilles. 
The moriUes are of the same family, and are cooked 
in the same manner ; prepare them as above, clearing 
them perfectly from the earth, and soak them in warwv 



42 FRENCH COOKERY 

water ; take them out and blanch them ; drain them 
and put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter ; pass 
them over the fire and add a roux sauce, if they are 
au roux, and white if they are au blanc, and fimsh as 
above 

Ragout de Mousserons. 
They are of the same family and grow under the 
moss ; they are cooked in the same manner as the 
moriUes, 

Ragout of Endive. Ragout de Chicor^e au Brun. 

Let twelve heads of endive be taken ; wash them in 
several waters, plunging them oflen that no worms 
may remain ; drain them ; blanch them in a great 
quantity of salt and water ; when they break easily 
with the finger they are enough ; take them out with 
a skimmer ; put them into a pail of fresh water ; drain 
and press them with the hands that no water may re- 
main ; take away the roots and the large ribs ; hash it ; 
put it into a stew-pan with a bit of butter ; set it on a 
slow fire for a Quarter of an hour to dry ; moisten it 
with two spoonfuls of espagfiole^ and one of consomm^; 
let it cook at lolist an hour in stirring continually with 
a wooden spoon, that it may neither stick nor bum ; 
when sufficiently cooked, add a little salt, and serve. 

Another Way. ^-^^ Autre Maniere, 
Proceed as in the foregoing receipt, only use a 
smaller quantity of veloutd than of Espagnole ; this 
ragout is nnished with cream or good millc, which must 
be added by little and little, with nutnl^g And salt. 

Another Way. ., i 

To make it au blanc without velout4* pass it in but- 
ter : when dried enough, dress it lightly ; moisten it 
with bouiUony and put in a little salt ; cook, and re- 
duce it ; add cream or good milk and a little nutmeg. 

Way to have Endive tvhen out of season. Mantire 

de remplacer la ChicorSe dansla saison ou elle manque. 
Take the heart of one or two cabbages ; if Uiey 

smell of musk take others ; cut them in quarters ; take 

* To fry it white or brown. 



BAOOUTS. 4S 

off all the coarse ribs ; mince them very fine ; throw 
them into water ; wash them w^ll and drain them ; 
blanch them in the same manner as the endive, but 
let them have more time ; refresh them ; press out the 
water and hash them, and accommodate them as the 
endive 

Ragout of Spinage.'-^-^' Ragout tTEpinards. 

Pick off the stalks and the decayed leaves from the 
spinage ; wash them several times in a quantity of 
water ; blanch them on a quick boil, in a great deal 
of water and sufficient salt ; stir and skim them ; take 
care the water does not boil over, that the ashes may 
not rise over the spinage ; when they break easily 
under the fingers, they are enough done ; take them 
off the fire and throw them into a drainer, and imme* 
diately into a great quantity of fresh water ; leave 
them there a quarter of an hour ; put - them again 
into the drainer ; gather them in a baJl without press- 
ing them too much ; hash what is necessary ; put them 
into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of butter 
to nourish them ; set them upon a quick fire : stir 
them with a wooden spoon; when they are dry enough 
and of a fine green, moisten with espagnole ; if for an 
entree, reduce them to the consistence of a strong 
houUUe ; add a little nutmeg, and finish with a bit of 
butter ;, dish and serve. 

Ragout of French Beans. Ragout de Haricots 

h la Bretonne. 

Pick and cl0an a pint of haricots dry or green, and 
put them into a pot with cold water, and a bit of 
butter without salt; while they are doing, throw in from 
time to time a little cold water, ^ich will prevent 
them from boiling and soften them; when cooked, 
drain them ; put them into a stew-^pan, with a bit of 
butter, and a spoonful or two of purSe of onions au 
hrun and espagnole ; season with large pepper and 
salt ; toss them oflen and finish with butter. 
Ragout of French Beans injuicc^-^-^Ragout de Hari- 
cots aujus. 

Put into a stew-pan cooked AanW«, willi a \A\. A 



44* FRENCH COOKERY. 

butter two spoonfuls of espa2nol€f one of beef-juice, 
salt and large peppeV, and finish with butter. 

Garnishing of Celery* Garnitures de Cileri ou 

Entremets. 

Let twenty heads of celery be cleaned and dressed ; 
let their roots be nicely pared ; wash them in several 
waters ; blanch, refresh, drain, and tie them in five 
bunches ; cover a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put 
in the celery with an onion stuck with a clove, a car- 
rot cut in quarters, a bunch of parsley and young 
onions, a little salt ; moisten with a little of the top 
pot ; cover it with slices of bacon and a round of 
paper ; let it boil, and leave it to simmer with fire 
under and over ; put it round what it is to be served 
with, such as veal-kidneys, fowlsy or gigots, &c., and 
sauce it with espagnole or clear juice. 
fVhite Ragout of CucumberS'-''''^Ragout Blanc aux 

Concombres. 

Prepare cucumbers as is directed for garnishing ; 
put into a stewpan three large spoonfuls of veloutSy 
with cucumbers and a little salt ; finish with a bit of 
butter, a little nutmeg, and serve. 
Bravon Ragout of Cucumbers* — Ragout Brun aux 

Concombres. 

I^epare the cucumbers as above ; put into a stew- 
pan four spoonfuls of reduced espagnole , grasse or 
maigre ; put in the cucumbers ; skim and reduce ; add 
the size of a large nut of glaze or portable soup ; 
finish with a little bit of butter and^erve. 

Ragoit a la Chipolata, 

Put into a stewpan two ladlefuls of reduced es- 
pagnolCf half a bottle of Madeira, mushrooms, small 
onions cooked au blancy chesnuts prepared, small 
sausages h la chipolata^ which must be cooked in 
bouillon with truffles cut in quarters ; salt and pepper; 
reduce and serve. 

Ragout of Peas and Bacon. — Ragout de Pots au 

Lard, 

Take half a pound of lard or ham, or as much as 
may be necessary ; cut it in large dices and blanch it ; 



R460UTS. 45 

put some butter into a stew-pan, and put in the bacon 
or ham, and brown it of a fine colour ; have some 
fine young pease ; put them into a vessel with the 
size of a walnut of butter, and let them be worked 
in the hands ; pour fresh water over them ; leave 
them in it a few minutes to soften ; drain, and put 
them into a stew-pan to sweat ; when they become 
very green, moisten them with a ladleful ofespagnole; 
add the prepared ham or lard^ a bunch of parsley 
and young onions ; let them boil ; set them on the 
side of the furnaces to simmer and reduce ; the ragout 
being sufficiently done, skim, and salt it : if it should 
be too salt, put in a little sugar and serve. 

Ragout of Olives. - — Ragout (T Olives. 
Take a quart of very green new olives ; take out the 
stones, put them in fresh water ; when they are to be 
served blanch them, and put into another stew-pan 
three large spoonfuls of espagnole reduced ; boil and 
skim it; when ready to serve, put the olives into the 
sauco ; add half a pat of butter, shake and serve. 

Ragouts de Navets en Haricots Vierges 
^See article Ailerons de Poulardes en Haricots 
Vierge.) 

Ragout aux Points d'Asperges. 
(See Article Tendons d'Agneaux.) 

Ragouts ofsTjipll Roots. Ragouts depetites Racines' 

Prepare small ro6ts as is directed in the article for 
garnitures, &c. : %i them reduce to glaze ; moisten 
them with two'. or three spoonfuls of espasnole and 
one o£ consomm^; let them cook ; skim, ana let them 
reduce ; finish with about the size of a nut of butter, 
and a little sugar ; toss, and if properly seasoned, 
serve. If there is no espagnole, make a little roux 
and moisten with bouillon or consomme; add a bunch 
of sweet herbs ; cook and strain the sauce ; add the 
roots ; let them simmer ; reduce and finish as above. 

Ragout of smaU Onions.^^-'^Ragout aux petits Oignons. 
Follow exactly the above receipt. 



46 FRENCH COOKERY 

t 

Ragout ^ la Macidoine* 
(See Macidoine blanche ou rotuse^ at the article 

Entremets.! 

Ragout ^ la Godiveau. 
Put enough of espagnole into a stew-pan for the 
ragout, with a sufficient quantity of andouillettes de 
godiveau; add prepared mushrooms^ as for garnish* 
mg, and artichoke bottoms cut in four or eight 
pieces ; finish the cooking ; skim and reduce it ; put 
m the juice of a lemon or a little verjuice, and serve, 
either to sarnish a tart or a hot pat^y or any other 
ragout; slices of sweetbread may be added, craw- 
fisn, fowls' livers, or pinions to augment it. 

BEEF. 

Rump of Beef, BoeufBouilli Ordinaire. 

Take a rump or part of a rump of beef; bone it, 
and bind it properly ; put it into a pot as for tht 
grand bouillon ; when cooked, serve it with greep 
parsley in branches, or sauce hachie or eamish with 
onions and roots or other vegetables : if it is served 
with glazed onions, take a sufficient quantity rather 
large ; after peeling and dressing them nicely, take otf 
the first skin carefully, not to hurt the next ; buttei 
very well the bottom of a saucepan ; strew a little 
sugar over it ; put in the onions with the heads down 
that they may be covered ; moisten thioi with a little 
bouillon^ that it may only cover half of the onions ; 
put them upon a good fire ; when theji^oil, draw them 
to the side; cook them and put fire over; attend 
to them, and when nearly done, j)ut them on a brisk 
fire ; take off the cover and reduce them, that they 
may fall to a glaze of a fine colour ; before arranging 
them round the beef by means of a fork, roll them in 
the glaze ; put a little bouillon into the stewpan to 
detach the glaze, which must be poured over the beef 
after the skm has been taken off, and that the fat hat 
been arranged upon such places where there is none ; 
serve. 



BSEF. 47 

' Beef and Cabbage.^'^'^Bceufgamie de Choux, 
Let two or three cabbages be taken ; wash, blanchy 
d refresh them ; tie them and put them into a pot ; 
there is a braise or some good stock, use it; add 
rrots, two or three onions, one stuck with three 
)ves, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf and thyme ; and 
It the cabbage may be well nourished, put in a 
tie of the top pot ; let them simmer three quar- 
rs of an hour ; drain them upon a cloth ; press 
em to take out the fat, in giving them the form of 
roll of paste ; put them round the beef, and pour 
er the whole a reduced espagnole. 

Piece de Boeufau Pain Perdtie. 
If there is not a rump of beef take a loin ; take 
* the under fillet, it will serve for an entrSe ; bone the 
n ; roll and tie it, and proceed as for hcetif d Vor^ 
laire ; when done, cut some crumb of bread into 
apes ; beat three eggs as for an omelet; season with 
[t and a little cream ; dip in the bread, and fry it a 
e brown carefully on both sides : drain it upon a 
>th ; drain and untie the beef; dress it upon the 
ih, and garnish it with the bread ; and pour either 
espagnole or a sauce hackee over it. 

Scarlet Beef. Boeufh tEcarlate. 

Take the whole or a part of a rmnp of beef ; hang 
?or three or fiur days ; bone and lard it with large 
d ; season the lard with minced parley and young 
ions, pepp^, and fine spiceries; rub it with fine 
t pounded and 8ifi!;ed, in which an ounce or two of 
rined saltpegre^has been mixed; put the beef in 
earthen vessel with a handful of juniper berries, 
^e, basil, ^some young onions, two cloves of 
rlic, three or four cloves, and some slices of 
ion ; cover it ; putting some folds of cloth be- 
een to prevent the air from penetrating ; leave it 
;ht days ; then turn and cover it with the same 
re, and leave it three or four days more ; take it 
t and drain it ; put it in a pot with water seasoned 
th carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let 
boil ; and, when it boils strong, put in the beeC 



48 FRENCH COOKERY. 

wrapt in a cloth, which must be bound with pack- 
thread ; let it cook four hours, constantly ; take it up 
and put it into a vessel of the same form ; pour over 
it the seasoning in which i^ was cooked ; when cold 
serve it on a napkin as a ham garnished with parsley : 

if served hot, dish it in a strong beef stock. 

« 

Rump of Beef in Jelly. Culoite de Boeufh la Gelee 

ou d la Royale. 

lake a rump or part of its bone, and lard it 
with great lard, as in the foregoing article ; season 
it in the same manner ; wrap and tie it in a cloth ; 
put it in a braising pot, after it has been dressed 
with the bones, five or six carrots, four onions, 
two cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley and young 
onions, two bay-leaves, a knuckle of veal, a glass 
of white wine, salt, and two or three ladlefuls of 
bouillon ; make it boil upon a good fire ; cover it 
with three covers of buttered white paper ; cover it 
and let it cook slowly, with fire under and over it 
nearly four hours ; when done, take it off; let it cool 
in the cloth ; run the juice through a cloth, which must 
be previously wetted, that the fat may not go 
through ; let it cool ; beat with a fork two whites of 
eggs with a littl€f water ; put it into the Juice still 
warm ; shake it ; put it upon the fire till it is near 
boiling ; take it t)ff, and lay over it some hot cinders ; 
leave it a quarter of an hour ; when the sauce becomes 
limpid, run it through a wet cloth: let it cool, to 
know if too thick or too thin ; if it slyuld happen to 
be too thick, put in a little bouillon; if too thin, put 
it again upon the fire, adding a knuckle of veal ; and 
clarify as before. 

If not enough ambred, put in a little beef-juice ; 
but if it is to be decorated with different colours, 
such as red and green, use a fe^ drops of the infusion 
of cochineal for the former, and for the green the. 
juice of spinage ; be equallv careful to put it in by 
drops, as it is more beautiful when the colours are 



BEBF. 49 

ight. Run the different jellies into dishes that they 
aay be cut out the thickness of an inch at least, A 
li£ierent shapes, that it may be elegantly garnished ; 
inbind the beef and take off the outer skin nicely ; 
»are, and dish it; garnish it with the jellies, and make 
I complete circle round the dish, disposing the dif- 
erent colours with taste, and serve. 

Round of Beef. Rosbif Rond'bif ou Come-bif, 

Take a round of beef, of such a size as is necessary, 
nd as fat as possible ; dry and pound three or four 
»ounds of salt, put it through a search, and mix fine 
pices and aromatics in powder; rub the beef ex- 
remely well all over with it, and put it into an earth- 
so vessel as near as possible of the shape and size, 
md strew over it all the seasoning that has been left ; 
rover it closely X)ver with some folds of cloth, and 
ie it round the vessel to exclude the air ; put it in 
k cool place ; leave it four days, then turn it, which 
Qust be continued for eight or ten days ; when it is to 
ie used take it out, drain it, and tie it into a proper 
hape ; put upon the fire a round pot that will contain 
he beef easily ; put in water, carrots, turnips, onions, 
bur cloves, four bay leaves ; let them boil, and put in 
he beef; let it be put upon a turbot drainer, that it 
aay be taken out without breaking or piercing it ; let 
t boil three hours, dish it and garnish i^with the vege 
ables with which it has been cooked ; serve it with two 
auces in boats; one of butter, and the other with 
leef-juice. Brocoli may be served also. (See Choux 
3rocolis, Article Entremets). It may again be served 
;old with English mustard and pickled cucumbers. 

Smoked or Hung Beef Boeufjiimd ou de Hani' 

bourg. 
Employ the same manner as above, adding salt- 
)etre, juniper berries, and other aromatics ; after 
welve days skewer it, leave it to drain a whole day. 
Bid put it in the smoke for seven or eight days, taking 
care to turn it every four days, that it may be equally 
smoked ; cook it exactly as the round* it may be 

3> 



50 FRENCH COOKERY. 

dished upon sour crout ; and garnished with sausageB, 
cervelaSf and petit lard, or simply with a sauce. 

Roasted Sirloin, Aloyau h la Broche. 

Take such a sized sirloin as is necessary ; let the 
large bones be sawn off, lay it in a vessel, strew fine 
salt over it, and sprinkle it with olive oil, adding slices 
of onion and bay leaves ; leave it, if practicable, two 
or three days, turning it two or three times a day ; 
when it is to be laid down, spit it nicely, rolling the 
Hank part under to show the fat, which must be 
slightly pared, it makes the piece look better ; cover 
it with strong paper, and put it down to a brisk fire, 
to concentrate the juice, taking care that it is neither 
over nor under done ; and serve with sauce hach^ in 
a separate dish. 

Sirloin* Aloyau h la^ Godart, 

Chop off part of the chine bones of 4he sirloin ; lard 
it with large lard, season it as hoeufh Vicariate; dress 
and tie it into a propep form ; put it into a braising 
pot with a bunch of sweet herbs, onions, and carrots 
sufficient, moisten with good bouillon, half a botde of 
Madeira, half a bottle of Champagne, salt, and pep- 
per, let it cook upon a slow fire in such a manner 
that the stock may become glaze : take it out, and 
serve with the following ragout: — put four lanpe 
spoonfuls of Espagnole into a stewpan, add to it toe 
stock that the beef has been cooked in, when it liai 
been skimmed and strained ; cut some veal sweet^ 
breads in slices, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms in 
quarters, combs and kidneys of cocks, and small effsi ; 
cook and skim this ragoUt, and serve the beef with it; 
there may be added at pleasure larded and glazed 
sweetbreads, small pigeons d la gautier, whole tru£B[es» 
quenelles, six or eight nice craw-fish, some whole 
artichoke bottoms, and serve. 

Braised Beef, Noix de BceufbraisSe. 

Take a noix of beef, covered with the skin, lard it 
with large lard, season it d Fecarlate, arra — s and tie 
it, put It into a stewoan with carrots, a bunch it 



BEEF. Bi 

sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, two cloves, salt, a 
ladleful of bouiUon, and a glass of white wine ; when 
half done put in six or eight white onions ; put fire 
over and under ; when it is cooked take a little of the 
stock and reduce it, to glaze the beef and onions ; 
dish it and samish it with the carrots and onions ; 
glaze the whole, put the remainder of the stock into 
the glaze, and sauce the beef with it. 

Ribs of Beef with Roots. CStes de Bosuf convenes 

aux Racines* 

Take the covered ribs and lard them with large 
lard; do them in the same braise* as the foregoing 
article ; cut a sufficient quantity of carrots to cover 
the beef, blanch them, cook them in a stewpan with 
some of the stock of the beef; let them glaze; take 
a spoonful of flour and a little butter ; make a rouxy 
moisten it ; when it is very white put in the stock 
of the beef and cook it ; skim and put it through a 
search over the carrots ; put the whole upon the fire 
with the size of a nut of sugar and a pat of butter ; 
toss all well together that the butter may be perfectly 
incorporated ; pour it over the beef, and serve. 
The Ribs under the Shoulder, Entre-cdte de Bceuf 

The entre-cdte lies under the shoulder blade ; tne 
best part is that which is nearest the covered ribs, 
they require to be kept to tender them, the fatter 
tfaey are the more delicate. Take out the nerves, 
cut them the breadth of two fingers, flatten them, 
powder them lightly with salt, put them on a grid- 
iron over a brisk fire, turn them often till they are 
done, and serve them with a sauce (hach^es), or put a 
bit of butter on a dish, lay them over it, and turn Uiem, 
adding a little lemon or verjuice. 

Fillet of Beef Filet de Bceuf Pique d, la Broche^ 

Take a nice fillet, from which must be taken the 
fibrous skin, and any other small nerves, without 
hurting the appearance of the beef; pare and cut 

* To braize, agnifies to cook meats wi<^ vegetables and other 
ingiedients, which, though always of that nature, vary according to 
tfie meats, 

D 2 



52 FBXNCR COOKBRT 

out the points, and let it have only the thickness ot 
two fingers ; lard it equally all over. [A long de- 
scription is here given how to lard a thing which can 
hardly be done without practice, and what eveiy 
tolerable cook is equal to.] Put it, afler it is lard- 
ed, into a marinade or pickle, by pouring over it a 
little olive-oU, salt, pepper, sliced onions, and bay 
leaves ; after it has been sufficiently marinaded, spit 
it, which may be done in various ways, in the form of 
a serpent, gimblet, or horse shoe ; let it be done be- 
fore a brisk fire, and serve it with a sauce {hackee or 
poivrade,) 

Fillet ofBeeftJoith Madeira. FUet de Bonifau Vin 

de Madere. 
Take a nice fat fillet of beef, lard and prepare it at 
is directed for JUet de hceufh la broche; cover a stew- 
pan with carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbSy 
and put slices of bacon round it ; put the fillet upon 
the vegetables, after they have been strewed witii a 

Suarter of a pound of rasped lard ; having made the 
llet into the form of a gimblet, put in half a bottle 
of Madeira, as much stock, a little salt, and let it boil 
upon a good fire ; then cover with two or three rounds 
of buttered paper ; cover it, and put hot coals over 
it, lessen the fire under that it may only simmer. 
When done, or nearly so, put the greatest part of its 
seasoning through a gauze search, returning what 
does not go through it into the wells of the fillet to 
nourish it, and keep it moist; put what has run 
through the search into a stewpan with a large spoon* 
ful of espagnole , let it reduce to the consistence of 
half glaze ; drain the fillet, glaze it, and dress it upon 
a dish. Finish with a bit of butter ; season it, and put 
it into the wells of the fillet, serve. 

Fillet of the Loin xvith Cucumbers. Filet d^Aloyau 

aux Concombres. 

Follow the above directions without using Madeirti 

put in its stead a glass of white wine and a little more 

soup or stock, and do it in the same manner ; mix a 

part of the stock and a spoonful of Espagnole ; reduce 



BEEF. 53 

skiniy and put in the prepared cucumbers. (See 
Ragout de Concombres.) 

Fillet of Beef with Endive. Filet de BcBufh la 

Chicorie, 

The same as the preceding article, except that there 
is put in the wells, or under, a good reduced endive 
sauce (au hlanc or au roux^ 

Fillet of Beef with Love Apple Sauce.'^^Filet de 

BceufcL la Sauce Tomate* 
The same as the above, or roasted, with a tomate 
sauce, (see article Tomate Sauce). 

Fillets of Beef in their Juice, Filets de BoeiifSautSs 

dans leur Glace. 

Take off the large end and joint ; cut the slices half 
an inch thick ; if the fillet is large it may be cut into 
four or fewer slices ; if not, flatten them, cut them 
with a paste cutter the size of the hollow of the hand 
dip them in clarified butter ; arrange them in aflat stew 
pan ; put them upon a brisk fire, and turn them often 
that they may not lose their juice ; when nearly done 
drain off the buttei, and replace it with a little re. 
duced stock ; turn them often, pressing them down, 
tiiat they may glaze and take the flavour ; when they 
are properly glazed, put them uflon a dish in the form 
ofamiroton; put into the sauce a spoonful of con - 
somme, to detach the glaze, finish with a bit of butter 
and pour it over the fillets. 

Potatoes turned whilst raw, the size of small onions, 
which may be done in butter till they have a fine 
colour, and put into the miroton; tomate sauce, 
chicor^e, or turned small turnips may be used, but 
potatoes appear preferable. 

Beef Stakes. -Bifieck. 

Choose the middle of the fillet of beef, preserving 
the fat, and picking out the sinews ; cut it an inch 
and half thick ; flatten them, and reduce to half an 
inch; put them upon a gridiron over a brisk fire, 
turning them constantly to preserve the juice ; they 
require only three minutes to do if the fire is proper ; 



54 FRENCH COOKERY. 

put a bit of butter in a dish, on which lay the steaks, 
and turn them on it ; garnish with potatoes cooked in 
butter or water, serve. 

Hotch-potch of Ox Tail Queue de Boeuf en 

Hotche-pot^ 

Cut an ox tail by the joints ; degorge it well and 
blanch it ; cover the bottom of a saucepan with paring 
of butcher's meat, put in the tail ; add onions, carrots, 
a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a clove 
of garlic, thyme, basil, and two cloves ; nioisten well, 
but do not cover the meat with soup ; cover with slices 
of bacon ; make it boil ; cover it with a round of 
paper, and put it upon a moderate fire, with fire over 
it ; let it simmer four or five hours ; when done enough 
it will come from the bone, drain and serve it with a 
rasoui of roots, (see Article cotes de bcerifaux racines,) 

If there is no sauce, make a little roux with the size 
of an egg of butter, and what flour the butter will 
take ; when melted, put it upon a slow fire ; stir it to 
prevent its burning ; strain the stock, and mix the 
rouj: with it ; when enough run it again through a 
search ; observe that in this case roots must be pre* 
viously prepared, as directed for cStes de bcetif; put 
the roots into the sauce, that they may take a good 
taste ; let them boil, adding a bit of sugar, and finish 
with a bit of butter ; dress the tail as high as possible 
in the middle of the dish, and sauce it. 

Ox Tail with Pease, Queu£ dt la puree de pois^ 

LentUles, Sfc. 
Prepare the tail as in the foregoing article ; and 
make the pur^e as those for potage ; finish with a bit 
of butter; if there is no sauce to thicken it, take some 
of the stock the tail has been done in, reduce it, skim, 
and put in a bit of sugar, salt it properly, and finish 
with a bit of butter ; drain and arrange it upon the 
dish, pour the purSe over, and serve. 

Smoked Tongues Langue Fumie, 

Take the tongues, cut out the throats, and put 
them to degorge three hours in water ; scrape them ; 



BEKF* 55 

let them drain ; rub them with fine salt and a sufficient 
quantity of salt-petre ; put the tongues in layers in an 
earthen dish, strewing between them bay leaves, sweet 
basil, thyme, juniper berries, parsley, young onions, 
some cloves of garlic, shalots, and cloves ; cover the 
vessel in such a manner as to exclude the air ; leave 
them eight days ; then tie them by the points to a long 
pole, and put them into the chimney till they are dry ; 
when they are used let them be washed, scraped, and 
cooked in a good seasoning. (Petit sal^) may be 
made in the same way or put into the same pickle. 
Hung Beef Tongues^^—^Langue de Bceiif FourrSe. 

Prepare the tongues, and clean some ox's great 
puddings, which must be left some hours in water 
with aromatic herbs ; put the tongues into them, and 
tie them at the ends; have a brine made of salt, a 
little saltpetre, mace, cloves, ginger, long pepper, 
bay leaves, thyme, sweet basil, juniper berries, and 
coriander ; boil this pickle half an hour upon a slow 
fire ; pass it through a search, and let it repose; pour 
it off clear ; put the tongues well covered m it twelve 
days ; take them out and dry them in the chimney ; 
aromatic herbs may be burned under them : these 
tongues are to be cooked in a bMise. 

Braised Tongue,— ^-^Langue ae BcetifiL la Braise. 

Cut off the throat from an ox*s tongue ; let it 
d^gorge some hours at least ; take it out, scrape and 
clean it perfectly ; blanch it in a boiler or pot ; take 
it out upon a cloth, skin it, and lard it with great 
lard, that has been seasoned with salt, pepper, fine 
spiceries, parsley and young onions ; cook it in a pot 
with onions and carrots, moisten with good stock, and 
a glass of white wine ; put in the parings of butchers' 
meat^ fowl, or game, to give it a taste ; let it boil ; 
put it upon a moderate fire, cover it with paper and 
put fire over ; let it simmer four hours and a half, dish 
and garnish it with the roots that have been cooked 
with it ; pass the stock through a gauze search, add 
two spoonfuls of espagnole; sauce the tongue with it, 
and serve. 

j> 4 



56 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Tongue with Parmesan, — -Langue deBceufy b, Vltalienne 

ou au Parmesan, 
I^repare and cook an ox's tongue in a braise ; let it 
cool; cut it in veiy thin slices; put rasped Parm^^an in 
a deep dish, and lay the slices of tongue over it ; con- 
tinue doing so till three or four beds have been made, 
alternately of tongue and cheese ; sprinkle every layer 
with a little of the stock the tongue was braised in, 
and finish it with a covering of cheese, which must be 
basted with melted butter ; put it into the oven, and 
when the cheese is of a fine colour, serve* 

Beef Palates. Palais de Bceufau Gratinm 

Put two or three palates of beef upon the gridiron, 
on the skinny side, on a hot fire, let them grill till the 
skin will come easily off, with a knife ; scrape it well 
where the skin has come off, that nothing may be left; 
take off the point and what attaches to the throat, and 
the black that runs down the middle, without taking 
too much ; degorge and blanch them ; cook them in 
a blanc as is directed at the (article TSte de veau en 
Tortuey) thr^ or four hours ; drain them and let them 
cool a little ; cut them open as bacon is sliced ; cover 
them with cogged forced meat the same thickness ; roll 
them up, dress them iicely at both ends, making them 
equal ; cover the bottom of the dish the thickness ot 
a finger with forced meat ; range the little canndons 
upon their ends round upon the forced meat, it must 
have the appearance of the base of a tower ; cover it 
with thin slices of bacon, and fill the well with a bit 
of' crumb of bread, to keep the cannelons in their 
position; melt some butter and glaze them; sift 
crumbs of bread over ; put them into the oven, apd 
give them a fine colour ; take out the bread and the 
bacon; drain off the butter ; put a nice Italienne into 
the well, and serve. 

Another xioay, Palais de Boeufh la Italienne. 

Prepare five or six ox palates; braise them as 
above, cut them in scollops, small squares, or in 
rounds, the size of half-a-crown ; put into a stew- 



BEEP. 57 

pan five or six large spoonfuls ofiltalienne rousse,) 
which must be reduced to two-thirds; put in the 
palates, and let them simmer a little ; toss them ; put 
in a little lemon juice, and serve. 

Palates another 'may. Palais deBoeufd. la Poulette. 

Prepare as above the same quantity of palates ; 
cut thcnn round or in slices ; put them into a stew- 
pan with three large spoonfuls ofvelotUe; let them sim- 
mer; make a thickening with two yolks of eggs, mix 
them with a little milk or cream ; take the palates from 
the fire, put in the thickening, and set them on the 
fire, shaking them continually r put in a little, bit of 
butter, lemon, or verjuice, and minced parsley. The 
dish may be garnished with fried corks of bread. 

Palates another xjoay. Palais de Bcetifd, la Ravigote. 

When cut in shapes as above, toss them in a cold 
or hot ravigote sauce, (see that article), and serve. 

Palates another way, Croquettes de Palais de Bceiif. 

Cook three palates in a blanc, cut them as above, aa 
also mushrooms and truffles ; reduce four spoonfuls of 
JSspagnole or velout^ to half glaze, piif in the in- 
gredients with minced parsley ; tak^ it off the fire ; 
thicken with two yolks of eggs and t||e size of a 
walnut of butter ; put it into a dish, spread it with 
the blade of a knife, leaving it pretty thick ; when 
the salpifon is cold, cut it in equal squares, give it 
iny form, cutlets, cannelons, pears, or little balls; 
beat three eggs, put in a little fine salt, dip them all 
in one afler another, roll them in crumbs of bread, 
in keeping the form that has been given thertf; 
put them on a dish ; put the crumbs of bread again 
through a search; dip a second time the croquettes 
into tne egg, pass them again ; powder the dish with 
crumbs, put them upon it, and cover them with 
crumbs, that they may not dry ; when ready to serve, 
take them out of the crumbs, put them upon a 
couverclcj place it upon the fire, and turn the croquettes 
at one time, that they may have the same colour ; 
lake f hem off, drain and dish them upon fried parsley, 

D 5 



58 FRENCH COOKERY. 

with which the croquettes are also to be covered, and 
serve. 

Palates another uoay^ Palais de Bceufen Cracovie. 

Prepare three palates as in the foregoing articles : 
cut each into four pieces, then slice or split eadi 
piece into two, which will give twenty-four pieces ; 
have a calf's udder blanched in water, or cooked in 
the pot; cut it in thin slices like the palates, have 
also a salpifon as is made for the croquettes ; spread 
the thickness of an inch of it upon the palates, roll 
them, and wrap each in a slice of udder ; fry them 
as the croquettes, or dip them into (pate d, frire) ; fry, 
dish, and serve as the croquettes. 

Palates another ijoay. Palais de Bceufh la Lyon- 

naise. 

Let four or five palates be cooked in a blanc ; fry 
five or six onions in slices, let them have a fine 
colour; when cooked moisten them with a spoon- 
ful or two r of espagnole; if there is none, dust in 
a little flour, and add some broth ; cook altogether ; 
cut the pal^es into squares or fillets, put them into 
the sauce ^ith a little salt, pepper, and a little 
mustard. 

Tripe, Gras-double. 

Take the thickest and fattest part of the tripe, put 
it into warm water, scrape it well, and take off the 
spungy part ; then throw it into a quantity of hot 
water, let it boil, and clean it enough ; rub it with a 
lemon, make il as white as possible ; cook it in a blanc 
seven or eight hours; then cut it in lozenges, or 
fillets. If to be served ct la poulette (see that article), 
and if d la Italienne (see that article). 

VEAL 

Ought rather to be of a greenish colour than red» 
very &t, the bones well covered, and the kidnief 
large and fat. 



TBAL. 59 

Calf^s Head, TSte de Veau au naturely ou d, la 

Bourgeoise, 
Choose a very white head ; take out the bones of 
the under jaws, and those of the nose as iar as the 
eyes, without hurting the form of the head ; take out 
the tongue without cutting it; put it to degorge 
in a great quantity of water ; blanch it, dress, singe, 
and rub it with lemon; cook it in a blanc, (see blanc, 
p« 26.), wrap it in a cloth, boil, and leave it to simmer 
two or three hours ; when ready to serve, drain it. 
After having skinned the tongue, prepare the brains ; 
dress and serve with a sauce (aupauvre homme,) (See 
that article.) 

Sttiffed Calf*s Head, Tete de Veaujarcie. 

Take a nice calf's head, and prepare it as above, 
only keep the eyes attached to the skin; put it to 
degorge; also the tongue, from which the throat 
must be taken ; make a farce with a pound of veal, 
and a pound and a half of beef kidtiey suet ; mince 
them separately ; pound the veal ; add the suet, and 
pound altogether ; add a sufficient quantity of crumb, 
which must have been steeped in cream, and after- 
wards dried ; fine herbs, minced and done in butter ; 
such as mushrooms, parsley, and young onions, which 
must be cooled before they are mixed with the farce ; 
season with salt, fine spices, and pepper ; pound alto- 
gether; moisten this farce with a little water from 
tilne to time, and three or four eggs one after the 
other; i^ too firm a little water may be added; 
drain and wipe the head ; if necessary singe it ; 
spread the farce about two inches Ihflk upon the 
head ; then put on it a cold salpifony of which the 
dices are larger than for croquettes ; skin, and put in 
the tongue in its place ; cover the salpigon with the 
farce; then form and sew up the head; cover the 
throat with slices of bacon, or a bit of the skin of 
veal ; bind it close up in a cloth, take care of laying 
the ears properly to keep it in form ; put into a pot 
some parings of butcher's meat, salt, onions, carrots, 
two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, two cloves^ a 

D 6 



60 FRENCH COOKERY. 

bottle and half of good white wine, some braise or 
good soup ; leave it to cook two or three hours, 
which must be constant ; drain it, and serve it with 
the following ragoiit. 

Put into a saucepan two large spoonfuls ofEspag- 
nole^ and some white wine ; reduce it ; put in six or 
eight quenelles of the same farce, which have been 
poached in soup, add some small mushrooms, arti- 
choke bottoms, slices of veal, and sweetbreads; let 
the whole simmer, skim, dish, put the ragoiit round it, 
and garnish with craw-fish, glazed larded sweetbreads, 
or truffies, and serve. It may also be served with the 
ragout en tortus. 

Calf*s Head another iioay' Tete de Veau en Tortue. 

Prepare a calf's head as above, cut it in two ; singe 
it ; rub it with lemon, and cook it in a blanc ; when 
cooked cut it in twelve pieces ; dress these pieces on 
a dish, lay over it the tongue, which must be grilled ; 
with crumbs of bread, of a fine colour (d. la Anglaise;) 
add the brains afler having divided them into five or 
six p^s, cooked in marinade and fried in patera Jrire, 
sauc^ it with ragout en tortue, garnish it with six 
poached eggs, twelve fine truffles, twelve crair-fish, 
an^ larded sweetbreads, and serve. 

Stuffed Calces' Ears. OreiUes de Veaujarcie, 

Clean, singe, and cook in a blanc the calves' ears 
necessary, let them cool, and stuff them with Jarce 
cuite (see that article) ; unite the farce with the blade 
of the knife ; beat some eggs ; . dip the ears into 
them, thenjnto crumbs of bread ; dip them into the 
eggs and cflpks a second time ; put them into a dish, 
and covef tnem with the remains of the crumbs ; when 
ready to serve, ta^e them out and fry them ; take 
care that the frying pan is not too hot, as the ears do 
not require much colour, and also that the farce may 
have time to cook ; dish with the points up, with a 
little fried parsley over, and serve. 

Fried Calves' Ears. Oreilles de Veau en Marinade. 

Cook five calves* ears in a blanc ; cut them length- 



VEAL* 61 

ways in four pieces ; put them into vineear, large 
pepper, and ssJt, dip them into p&te a yhre, which 
ought to be very light (see the art.) ; fry them of an 
equal colour, turn them ; let them be done upon a 
quick fire ; when they are of a fine colour take them 
off, and drain them ; dish them nicely with a crown of 
fried parsley, and serve. 

Calves* Ears another ijoay* Oreilles de Veau ^ la 

Italienne. 
Prepare seven or eight ears, and cook them as 
above ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of 
lard ; put in the ears with a bunch of. parsley and 
young onions, and some slices of lemon ; moisten with 
stock, and half a glass of white wine ; cover the 
whole with slices of bacon; put over a round of 
buttered paper; let them cook an hour and half; 
drain, wipe, and cut off the points ; serve them under 
an Italian sauce. (See that article;) 

Calves* Ears another uoay, Oreilles de Veau d la 

Ravigote, 
Prepare the ears as directed above ; they ought to 
be very white ; when ready to serve cut the points 
and slit the homy part ; serve them upon a ravigote, 
cold or hot. 

Tongues, 
Calves' tongues are served in the same manner as 
those of beef. 

Calves* Feet, Pieds de Veau, 

Calves* feet are cooked in the same manner as the 
heads, and are eaten* (au naturely en m^nade, or d la 
ravigote) ; they are at enmity with fat sKcfS. 

Calves* Brains, Cervelles de Veau cL VAllemande, 

Wash three calves' brains, take off the skin and 
fibres without breaking them ; let them degorge in a 
sufficient quantity of water ; change and pick out 
any fibres that may have escaped; have ready a 

* Au naturel signifies plain boiled; marinade is the French 
manner of pickling, which is excellent ; and rcangote is a sauce. 



62 FRENCH COOKERY. 

stewpen with boiling water, a little salt, and a glass of 
white vinegar ; put in the brains, and let them blanch 
a quarter of an hour ; cover a stewpan with slices of 
bacon, put in the brains, moisten with a glass of white 
wine and two of stock ; add a bunch of parsley and 
young onions, well seasoned, some slices of lemon, 
taking off the peel and seeds ; cover with slices of 
bacon and a round of paper ; put them on a paillasse 
three-quarters of an hour ; dish, and cover with sauce 
d Vltdtienne. 

Calves' Brains. Cervelles de Veau en Matelote, 

Cook the quantity necessary, as above; dish and 
garnish with craw-fish and bread cut into peacocks* 
tails, fried nicely; sauce them (ct la matelote,) and 
serve. 

Fried Calves' Brains. Cervelles en Marinade. 

Prepare the brains as above ; divide them into five 
pieces ; put them into a marinade that has been run 
through a search ; make a light pate afrire ; dip in it 
the pieces, and drain them ; fry them of a fine colour ; 
drain ; dish with a little fried parsley on the top, and 
serve. 

Brains mth Pease Sauce. Cervelles de Veau ci la 

Purie de Pois, 
Prepare as above ; when ready to serve, drain and 
masque* them with a pur^e de pois. 

Brains in Black Butter. Cervelles de Veau au 

Beurre Noir. 

Prepare ii^Iie same manner as for the AUemande, 
when ready to serve drain, dish, and sauce with 
beurre noir prepared in the following manner : 

Put half a pound of butter into a devil f ; brown 
it without burning, which is avoided by shaking; 
when sufficiently black, skim it, pour it off clear, 
wipe the pan, put into it a large spoonful of vinegar 
and a little salt ; let it warm ; put m the black butter 

* Maspie 18 to cover* f A shortphanded fryingpan. 



VEAL. 63 

toid shake it ; sauce the brains with it ; garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

Brains another Way. Cervelles de Veaux h la 

Ravigote. 
Prepare in the same manner as above ; serve with 
any of the ravigote sauces ; they may be garnished 
with small onions cooked in consomme. 

Calf's Liver, Foie de Veaux h la PoSle. 

Take a very white, or otherwise a very fat cairs 
liver, cut it into slices of the thickness of a crown- 
piece ; put into a frying pan a bit of butter, set it on 
a good fire, and shake it often; when the liver is 
firm, dust it with a little flour ; shake it ; and give the 
flour time to cook ; strew over it hashed parsley and 
some young onions, or shalots ; season with salt and 
large pepper ; moisten it with half a bottle of red 
wine ; shake it well over the fire, without letting it 
boil, as it would harden the liver : if the sauce is too 
thick put in a little stock, and finish it with some 
lemon or verjuice if agreeable, and serve. 

Larded Liver, Foie de Veau h la Bourgeoises ou 

^ rEtotiffade, 
Lard the liver with large lard across*, that has 
been seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, basil, and 
thyme in powder, with parsley and young onions 
mmced ; cover a stewpan with slices of lard, onions, 
and carrots, two cloves, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, 
some parings of veal, half a bottle of white wine, 
and some stock ; let it boil, skim it, cover with slices 
of bacon, and a round of paper put on a cover, and 
lute it ; put it an hour and quarter upon a palliasse 
with fire over and under ; when done, pass some of 
the seasoning through a gauze search, put it on the 
fire with a piece of butter rubbed in flour to thicken 
it ; let it reduce ; if liked, a little butter of anchovies 
may be added ; masque, and serve. 

* The lard ought to be well rolled in this seasonini^. 



64< FRENCH COOKERY. 

Calfi Liver with Italian Sauce. Foie de Veau h 

ritalienne. 
Take a nice white liver, cut it in slices an inch 
thick ;^*inake them all of the same size, cutting them 
into the form of a fan ; dredge them with flour ; put 
some good oil into a frying pan, put in the liver, and 
shake over a little salt ; set it on a good fire ; when 
cooked, which will be known by cutting it, dish it, 
en cordon ; sauce it with a good Italienne rousse to 
which the juice of a lemon has been added, and 
serve. 

Calf*s Liver roasted. Foie de Veau d la Broche, 

Choose a fine white liver, lard with large lard the 
under side, which must be seasoned as that for etouff' 
ade; put it on an earthen dish, with some sprigs of 
parsley, young onions cut in pieces, two bay leaves, 
and a little thyme ; strew over a little salt, sprinkle 
with salad oil, and leave it to pickle ; when it is spit- 
ted, care must be taken to fix it properly by small 
skewers, that it may not turn ; then wrap it in buttered 
paper, which must be tied to the spit, baste and cook 
it an hour and quarter, but that depends upon the 
size and the fire employed: when ready to serve» 
glaze, and put it upon a good poivrade. 

Calf's Lights. Mou de Veau ct la Poulette* 

Take a very white calf's lights, cut it in large dices ; 
degorge it by changing the water often ; clear it en- 
tirely of the blood, put it to blanch in cold water, and 
give it a boil ; refresh, drain, and put it in a stewpan 
with a bit of butter ; let it come without browning ; 
dredge a little flour over it ; turn and moisten it by 
little and little with stock, stirring it continually; 
season with salt, pepper, parsley, a bay leaf, a clove, 
and a clove of garlic ; let it boil upon a brisk fire, 
always shaking it, that the flour may keep suspended ; 
when three -fourths done, put in small onions and 
mushrooms; if the sauce is still too thin, put the 
greatest part into another stewpan and reduce it; 
then thicken with two yolks of eggs ; add a little 
minced parsley, and lemon or verjuice, and serve 



VEAL. 65 

Calf*s Lights in Brown Sauce. Mou de Veau au 

Roux, 
Prepare as above, but instead of putting it into but- 
ter put it into a roua:, moisten and season as Above ; 
when three quarters cooked, put in young onions and 
mushrooms ; reduce it, and when it has attained a 
fine colour rousse^ finish with lemon or verjuice, and 
serve. 

Veal Fraise. Fraise de Veau, 

Take a very fat white paunch, clean, prepare, de- 
gorge, and blanch it well ; refresh and cook it in a 
blanc ; when enough drain it, and serve it witli a sauce 
(au pauvre homme) in a sauce-boat. 

Veal Fraise, Fraise de Veau ct la Brisac, 

When cooked as above, cut it in equal pieces, put 
it m a highly seasoned and well reduced Italienne ; it 
being insipid of itself, when ready to serve heighten 
it by lemon juice, a little oil, and rasped garlic. 

Veal StD€etbreads,^^^Ris de Veau d la Daupkine. 

Take five sweetbreads, cut off the throats, degorge 
them by changing the water often that they may be 
very white, give Uiem a slight blanch to make tnem 
firm enough to lard, put one over another ; dress them 
into a stewpan with some parings of veal, onions, and 
carrots, and line the sides with bacon ; put in the 
sweetbreads ; moisten with consomm^y and take care 
the bacon does not swim ; cover with buttered paper ; 
let them boil, put them on 2i paillasse with fire over, 
let it be strong enough to give them a fine colour ; let 
them cook about triree quarters of an hour ; drain, 
glaze, and put them upon a good white endive sauce ; 
four large crusts of fried bread may be added ; if 
there is no glaze, some of the stock of the sweetbreads 
may be reduced, and passed through a gauze search. 

Sweetbreads xvith Espff<mole Sauce, Ris de Veau d 

fjSspagnole, 
Prepare, blanch, lard, and cook, as in the above 
article ; put their stock into a stewpan, and reduce it 
nearly to glaze ; put in the sweetbreads till it is com- 



66 FRENCH COOKERY. 

piete, turn them lightly upon the larded side, didi 
them, put into the stewpan a large spoonful of espag- 
nolcy detach the glaze, sauce the sweetbreads, and 
servCi 

Hatelets de ris de Veau. 
Prepare and cook the sweetbreads ds above with- 
out larding ; let them cool, and cut them in slices half 
an inch thick; cut a veal's tongue into slices of 
the same size, truffles done in butter, and boiled 
petit lard ; have sauce atix hatelets verv hot, and put 
in altogether ; mix them well and let them cool, then 
thread them, mixed upon small skewers ; pare them 
that they may be perfectly square ; fill up every void, 
cover them with me sauce, and dip them into crumbs 
of bread in holding them by the ends, then into an 
omelet, and again into the crumbs ; keep them square; 
when ready to serve put them upon a grill over a 
slow fire to give them time without too much colour ; 
grill on all sides till a fine colour, and serve. 

Stoeetbreads in Cases. Ris de Veau en Cause. 

Prepare and cut the sweetbreads in slices, put them 
with a bit of butter, parsley, small onions, mush- 
rooms, salt, and large pepper, (the herbs must be 
minced very fine,) into a stewpan; let them simmer; 
have a paper case, the outside must be oiled, either 
round or square ; put into the bottoms an inch d 
farce cuite; put the case upon a grill or the cover of a 
tartpan that the Jarce may not bum ; the case ouffht 
to have a yellow tint ; put in the sweetbreads andone 
herbs ; sauce with a good espagnole reduced, some 
lemon juice, aud serve. ^^.^^ 

Stoeetbreads in Jelly, Petit Aspic de Ris de Veau» 

Cook those sweetbreads more tnan for the hatddiy 
cut them in the same manner ; and thread them upon 
small silver skewers ; make them square ; they tosf 
be mixed with truffles ; have moulds of silver, or 
white iron, which will admit easily the hatelets gar- 
nished ; run into these moulds a warm aspicf about 
the thickness of two crowns, and let them cool ; any 



VSAL. 67 

device may be made on these moulds, with truffles^ 
gherkins, hard white of eggs, anchovies, or leaves 
of blanched tarragon ; when that is done, put in the 
kafdets, put in the sweetbreads lightly above, but 
more firm in the middle, then pour in the aspic soflly, 
till the moulds are filled ; let them take, if necessary 
put them into ice; when ready to serve, dip the 
moulds in hot water ; turn them, but do not take off 
the moulds till they are arranged upon the dish. 

If there is no aspiCf put more veal into the sauce- 
pan, with the sweetbreads ; clarify, and make an aspic 
of that stock. 

Sweetbreads another tvai/, Ris de Veau ct la Poulette, 

Cook sweetbreads as directed above ; put the ne- 
cessary veloutS into a stewpan ; cut them m slices, do 
not do them too much ; put them into the velotttSy 
with mushrooms, already prepared (sauce atix Cham* 
pignons) ; let it reduce, and thicken with two or three 
yolks of eggs; put in a little blanched minced 
parsley, a little butter, lemon juice may be added, 
and serve. 

Calves' Tail toith Peas. Queues de Veaux aux petit 

Pois, 
Take some calves' tails, cut them through at the 
joints, and make a petit roux; when it is of a fine 
colour, put in the tails, turn them in it ; the fire must 
be moderate, otherwise the roux may burn ; when 
sufficiently come, moisten with stock ; take care that 
the sauce is not too thick ; season with salt, a bunch 
of parsley, and young onions, a clove, and a bay leaf; 
let them simmer till half done ; take out the onions 
and cloves, put in a sufficient quantity of peas for the 
ragout; let them simmer, till the peas are enough ; 
take out the bunch of sweetherbs, shake the ragout^ 
let it boil, skim and serve. 

Calves' Tails with Poulette Sauce.'-^^Queu^ de Veaux 

a la Poulette. 
Prepare the tails as above, degorge them in warm 
water ; blanch, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit 



88 FRENCH COOKERY. 

of butter ; season with parsley, and youn^ onions, 
half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and some onions ; put 
the whole upon the fire, but do not let them brown ; 
dredge them with a little flour, shake, and moisten 
with soup, add salt and pepper; in cooking, stir 
or shake Uiem often, that they may not stick; take 
out the sweetbreads and onions, thicken (see liaison)^ 
put in a little blanched minced parsley, with vinegar, 
or lemon juice, and serve. 

Loin of Veal. Longe de Veau. 
When a large eniree is required, the flank part 
ought to be rolled under, and the large ends of the 
bones chopped off, to make it as square and well-shaped 
as possible, and when properly spitted, wrap it up in 
several folds of white paper, and butter the outer- 
most : the size of the piece, and the fire employed, 
must regulate the time it will take to cook. 

Fillet of Veal and its uses. Cuissot de VeaUy t^ la 

manieres d'en tirer parti. 

Take a fillet of veal, and being accustomed to 
handle it, it will be perceived that it is formed of 
three distinct muscles, which the French name noiXf 
because they are separated, and not in a general mass ; 
the one in the inside is called the nofx, (and it is neces- 
sary to preserve its name, as there is no suitable term 
for it in English ;) this noix is the fattest and most 
tender part of the fillet ; the cook once understand- 
ing what is pointed out, will find the means of sepa^ 
rating it from the other : the second is the sous noix^ 
that is what lays farther down, or under ; the third 
noix is that called the noix patissier^ which is close to 
the tail. 

The noix makes an entree, or a first course dishf 
the sous noix makes the^arce cuite, that is to sayi 
forced meats ; and the notx pBtissier, the godiveauf or 
velout^, which is also sauce toum^e ; and all that rer 
mains when broken, and cut up, may be made into an 
EspagnoU. 



VEAL. 69 

Noix of Veal^^-^^Noix de Vfau h la Bourgeoise. 

Take a noix of veal, with the whole udder attached 
to it ; put it in a clean linen cloth, flatten it, and lard 
it lengthways, with seasoned lard, (see article noix de 
hceufet culotte ct Vecarlate ;) bed a stewpan with some 
parings of veal, and put in the noix ; surround it with 
onions, carrots, parsley, and young onions,' moisten 
with some good stock or soup, cover it with a strong 
buttered paper, and let it boil ; cover, and put it upon 
a paillasse, with fire over and under ; let it cook from 
an hour and a half to two hours ; drain it, and strain 
the stock and reduce it ; glaze the noixy add two 
spoonfuls of espagnole to the glaze, to detach it: 
slum, and finish with a bit of butter. 

If there is no espagnole, a little rotix may be made, 
and when the noix is glazed, mix it well with the re- 
mainder, and put a very little white wine, with some 
stock into it : reduce, skim, and finish with a bit of 
butter. 

The noix may be served upon endive, sorrel, spi- 
nage, a purSe of onions, small turned roots, or the 
stalks ofcardoons. 

Noix of Veal another xjoay, Noix de Veau en 

Bedeau, 
Take a noix of veal as above, prepare it in the 
same manner ; cover the udder with a slice of bacon, 
to preserve it white ; cook it in the same way, with fire 
over and under ; glaze it, and serve it upon chicory, 
cucumbers, or sorrel, either in juice or in beckameUe, 

Larded Veal Noix, Noix de Veau piquSe* 

Beat a noix of veal, take off the udder ; pare, and 
glide a knife over, to unite it ; lard it all over ; marque * 
It in a stewpan as the above ; put the onions under it 
to give it a roundish form, moisten with good soup 
or stock, but do not wet the lard ; when done, glaze 
it, and serve upon an espagnole^ or endive. 

Veal Grenadins.^-'^Grenadins de Veau* 
Take a noix of veal, beat, and split it quite through 

* Marque is to put it in with the proper ingredients. 



70 FRENCH COOKERY, 

then beat both lightly, to flatten them a little ; cut 
each into three or four pieces, taking care to cut 
them in long lozenges; make one piece perfectly 
f oimd ; cut the lard very equal, and lard the whole ; 
tnarque a stewpan with the parings of the veal, two 
carrots, and onions cut in two ; put a grenadin upon 
the largest side of each onion, care must be taken in 
arranging them in the stewpan, that they do not 
touch each other ; season with parsley, young onions, 
a bay leaf, and a clove ; moisten with stock, but take 
care that it does not rise to the lard ; cover it with 
buttered paper, let it boil over a brisk fire, then put 
it to simmer, with some very hot cinders over, to 
make it take a very fine gold colour ; let it cook an 
hour, strain, and glaze it ; put it upon a purie of anj 
sort, either mushrooms, sorrel, endive, &c. dish it 
en rose, with the points towards the middle, where the 
round is placed. 

Manchons d. la Gkrard, 
Prepare a noix as above, and cut it lengthways in 
four or five pieces ; let them be rather more than half 
an inch thick ; beat them with the blade of the hatchet, 
then with the back of a knife, and make the strokes 
very near each other both ways, so as to cut the fibres 
completely; take some quenelles^ into which much 
white of eggs has not been put, and roll it up in three 
pieces of the noixy in the form of rolls, and then cover 
them with a thin layer of the same farce ; cut the re« 
maining slices of the noix into pieces of two fingers' 
breadth, lard them carefully, put them upon the ends 
of the manchons, stitch them on to keep their form, 
cut a small truffle very fine, and powder one with it, 
taking care not to touch the larded part ; mince in the 
same manner pistachios to powder another, and for 
the third sweet almonds ; cover the manchons so as 
that the farce may not be perceptible ; marque them 
in a stewpan with slices of bacon as above, and do 
them in the same way? only taking care not to put so 
much fire over ; drain, and unstitch them ; glaze the 
larded ends, and serve upon a good EspagnolCf or a 
sauce aux truffles. 



VEAL. 71 

H&tereaux, 
Prepare a noix as above, but cut it a little thinner ; 
beat, and cut it in pieces of three inches long, and 
four broad ; lard them with care lengthways, and turn 
the larded side down upon a cloth, and cover them 
with the following farce. Take as much farce cuite 
as will make nine h^tereaux, in mixing witn it a third 
of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms cut in small 
squares ; mix it with a wooden spoon, add two or three 
yolks of eggs, salt, and fine spiceries ; put this farce 
up(m the hatereaux and roll them up in such a man- 
ner that the two ends meet ; fix them with a skewer, 
and fasten them upon the spit, cover them with paper, 
and baste them with butter : dish them under a thick 
Italienne rousse or blanche; serve. 

Popiettes de Veau, 
Take part of a notx ; cut it in very thin slices ; beat 
it well every way, cover with Jarce cuite of fowl or 
veal, roll it up in the same manner as the hatereaux^ 
and tie or stitch it to preserve the form ; cover the 
stewpan with slices of lard, put them in with a small 
ladl^l of stock, a glass of good white wine, a bunch 
of parsley and young onions ; season with a clove, a 
clove of garlic, and a little sweet basil ; cook it three 
quarters of an hour ; pass the stock through a gauze 
search, put in two large spoonfuls of espagnole ; re- 
duce^ skim, and draii^ the popiettes; glaze, and serve. 

Filets Mignons de Veau. 
Take six fillets mignons, lard three, and decorate 
the other three with truffle or ham ; marque them as 
thefricandeaUf cook them in the same manner ; glaze 
and serve them upon a ragout of endive, sorrelt or 
any other. 

FORE QUARTER OF VEAL. 

QuartifT du devant de Veau. 
This piece is divided into the shoulder, the breast, 
and the back ribs ; the French call the breast the 
tendanSf and the back ribs the quarrior square. The 

% 



72 PRENCH COOKERY. 

shoulder may be served roasted, and to make Mon- 
quettes of it ; may also be made into soups, but hot 
with such advantage as the parts generally used ; this 
piece is of great use for the table, as many delicate 
dishes are formed from it ; the noix^ which is bedded 
in fat near the lieck, is particularly esteemed by the 
gourmands. 

Blanquettes de Veau, 
When a shoulder has been served roasted, cut off 
the meat in pieces, and flatten with the blade of tbe 
knife ; pare and take off the brown skin and mince it; 
reduce some veloutS and put in the veal, but do not 
let it boil ; thicken with as many yolks of egffs as are 
necessary ; add verjuice or lemon, and a little bit of 
butter; theic may be added parsley and young onioDS 
minced ; and serve. 

Tendons of Veal.^^^Tendons de Veau d la PouUtU tm 

au Blanc. 
Take a breast of veal, cut out the tendons which 
lie round the front of the breast, from the red bones, 
ever which they lay, and cut them into the fonn 
of oysters; degorge, blanch, and refresh them; 
cover a stewpan with slices of lard, and some parings 
of veal ; put in the tendons,, and season with a bu^di 
of sweet herbs, some slices of lemon, three or four 
carrots, with the same quantity of onions ; moisten 
with stock, make it boif, let it simmer upon SLpaUlaaey 
two or three hours : before taking them up, put in the 
point of the knife, if it enters easily they are enough ; 
drain and serve in every different way. 

Tendons of Veal in Peacocks* Tails.*-'-^ Tendons di 

Veau en Queues de Paon. 
The same procedure as the above article, only that 
the form is to be different ; after flattening the breast, 
it is to be cut in pieces of three or four inches, and 
narrowed at the upper end, to give them a long heart 
shape ; flatten with the blade of the hatchet ; degoive, 
blanch, cook them as above, with the sole exception 
of ing out the lemon. If there is no sauce to serve 



VEAL. 73 

them in, pass the stocK they have been cooked in 
through a gauze search, reduce it and glaze them, 
and put into what remains a little bit of roux; melt of 
mix them over the fire, moisten with stock and a 
quarter of a glass of good white wine, put in ten chips 
of mushrooms or truffles, boil, skim, and strain it ; 
reduce it to the consistence of sauce ; and finish in 
putting a bit of butter into it by shaking and vanning ; 
sauce the tendons, adding small onions, asparagus 
tops, or a ragout of mushrooms. 

Casserole au Riz. 
Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain and put it 
into a stewpan ; moisten it with the top of the stock 
pot by degrees as it swells ; shake it often, to pre- 
vent Its sticking, but in a manner not to break it ; 
take care that it is well nourished, that it may be fat 
enough ; put in a little salt ; when done take a piece 
of bread the size of the dish it is to be served upon, 
and mould the rice round as if it were paste, and fix 
it well upon the dish ; cover the bread with a slice of 
bacon ; put the rice into a mould that has been buttered 
to cover it; close it well, forming it nicely; mark the 
cover where it is to be opened when it is done ; put it 
in a very hot oven, let it take a fine colour ; when ready 
to serve, take off the top with care, and empty it by 
taking out the bread, and fill it with any ragout that 
is suitable, put on the cover and send it to table. 

Tendons de Veau en Macedoine, 
Prepare these tendons as before, in any shape, and 
cook them in the same manner ; dish them upon a 
macedoine^ as indicated at that article.^ 

Tendons de Veau panes et grilles. 
Prepare the tendons as oysters or peacocks' tails, 
do them in crumbs, either in the French or the 
English way, give them a good colour, and serve 
them over sauce {poivrade, pauvre hommey or an Ita^ 
lienne,) 

Tendons de Veau h la Mayonnaise^ 
When the tendons are cooked let them cool aud 






74 FRENCH COOKERY. 

pare them ; then dress them en cordons around the 
dish, make a border of small onions that have been 
cooked in soup or stock, and cardoons intermixing with 
them, but do not garnish till sauced with a mayon' 
naise, and serve. 

Tendons de Veau ^ la Ravigote^, 
'Prepare the tendons in form of oysters ; let them 
cool, and pare them ; border the dish with bat- 
ter; arrange the tendons en cordon^ cover with a 
cold ravigote; but if served hot make the border of 
bread. 

Fried Tendons, Tendons de Veau ^ la Marinade. 

After the tendons are well cooked, put them into 
marinade^ give them a boil, let them cool, drain them 
well, dip them into a light (pdte h fire)^ put them 
carefully into the frying pan, keeping their form ; do 
not let them run together ; let them take a fine co- 
lour ; lay them on a cloth to drain ; dish, and cover 
them with a little fried parsley. 

Tendons de Veau h la ViUeroy. 

Prepare the tendons the same as for the poulktte; 
put in rather more thickening, and some lemon ; let 
them cool, and cover them well with their sauce; 
strew them with crumbs, and dip them into an otndei; 
crumb them a second time, and fry them ; serve them 
either over or under fried parsley. 

Veal Cutlets, CStelettes de Veau. 

Take some ribs of very white veal, cut them of an 
eaual size, taking away the back bone ; pare the 
fillets, take ofi^ the skin and nerves, and flatten them 
and round them at the broad end ; take off a little of 
the flesh at the other end of the bone, and scrape it 
with a knife ; see that the bone will not appear too 
much when done, if so, cut it shorter ; they may, thus 
prepared, be used plain, larded, or any other way. 

Another Way, CStelettes Piquies, 

Prepare the cutlets as above, preserving the skin, 
which must be tied, that it may not shrink from the 



VEAL. 75 

lard ; lard the cutlet ia two rows, cover a stewpan 
with the parings, two onions, some carrots, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, moisten with broth, stock, or 
water ; if water is employed, put in a little salt ; cover 
with a round of butterea paper, and cook them in the 
same manner as granadins ; drain and reduce the 
stock, and use it to glaze the cutlets, and serve upon 
sorrel, endive, cucumbers, young pease, love apples, 
tkpurSe of mushrooms, or a good EspagnoL 

Another Way, Cdtelettes ^ la Chinsara. 

Cut six or seven cutlets thicker than directed in 
the last article ; lard them with finer lard, intermixed 
with ham * ; marque them as above, and cook them in 
the same manner ; 'after they are done let them cool, 
pare them, and cut off the points of the lard, &c. 
which project ; reduce the stock to glaze, and put in 
the cuUets ; take a smoked or reddened neat's tongue, 
cut it in thin slices, shaping them to the cutlets ; 
warm them in soup, and glaze them ; arrange them 
altogether on the dish en cordons, intermixing them ; 
put two large spoonfuls of Espagnol into the stewpan 
to detach vi^ glaze; finish with a little bit of butter, 
and serve. 

The remainder of the neat's tongue may be hashed 
and added to the sauce, which in that case ought not 
to be boiled ; add a little more butter to render it 
smooth: put it into the well of the cutlets, and 
serve. 

Veal Cutlets. Cdtelettes de Veau Saut^es* 

Take seven cutletsy pare and flatten them ; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter, dip in both sides of the 
cutlets, and arrange them in such a manner, that they 
may not lay over one another, put them over a slow 
fire and turn them often ; when they are three fourths 
done pour off the butter, and add the size of two thumbs 
^,glazey and a large spoonful of stock ; put them over 
a brisk fire, turn them often and let them be laid flat 

* Put them in the stewpan with the seoAOoing, at adhe fore- 

^, - 

£ 2 



76 FRENCH COOKERY. 

in the pan, that the ^laze may be able to penetrate , 
when tney are enough and well glazed, dish them en 
cordon ; put a little stock into the sauteuse to detach 
the glaze, reduce and put in a bit of butter and 
lemon juice ; mix all well without boiling by shaking 
the pan ; masque, and serve. 

Veal Cutlets tviih Ham. Cotekttes de Veau au 

Jambon, 
Pare six cutlets as in the preceding article, and 
cook them in the same way ; when they are served, put 
between them slices of the noix of ham, as the topgue 
^ rScarlate was arranged between the cutlets chingar 
or ham. 

Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau au NatureL 

Prepare the cutlets and put them mith butter, as 
above, to grow firm upon the fire : let minced parsley^ 
butter, and put them on the gridiron ; turn them oflen, 
and baste them with melted butter ; let them be ot 
a fine colour ; when they are enough done they will 
remain firm when they are pressed with the finger, 
dish them and sauce with good beef juice or sauce au 
pauvre homme, and serve. . 

Crumbed Veal Cutlets. Cotelettes de Veau Panfes. 

The only difference from the above aiticle is, that 
after the cutlets have been dipt in butter, they must 
be rolled in crumbs and done upon a slower fire. 

Veal Cutlets in Paper. Cotelettes de Veau en 

Papillotes. 
Prepare the cutlets and put them with butter, as 
above, to grow firm upon the fire : let minced parsley, 
mushrooms, and small onions be added in equal Quan- 
tities, a little rasped bacon, with salt, pepper, ana fine 
spices ; let them simmer ; when enough, take out the 
fine herbs and add to them a large spoonful or two of 
Espagnel, or veloutS, and reduce ; taste if it is ffood, 
and thicken with a sufficient quantity of yolks of 
eggs ; let it cool : cut the paper covers in the form 
of kites^nd oil the middles where the cutlets will be 
/placed ; put a very thin slice of bacon upon the 



VEALr 77 

paper, then half a spoonful of fine herbs upon the 
bacon, and lay over it a cutlet, then more herbs, co- 
vering them with another slice of bacon ; wrap up the 
cutlet, tie the joint with a thread, oil the paper or 
papiUotes all over, grill them, taking care that the 
paper does not burn ; let the paper take a fine colour, 
untie, and serve. 

' Breast of Veal larded. CarrS de Veau Pique. 

' Take a fine breast of veal, chop off the ends of the 
chine-bones, cut slightly the skin lengthways that 
covers the fillet, without spoiling it ; take the nerve 
out, and the skin off that covers it, by gliding the knife 
between the skin and the flesh of the fillet ; pare it 
well and beat it lightly ; then lard it (see Art. Ris de 
Veau) and marque it in a stewpan (in the same manner 
as the ndis de veau) ; when it is done, glaze and serve 
it over any ragout. 

Petites Noix d'Epaule de Veau. 
Take fifteen of the small shoulder noix of veal ; 
blanch, refresh, and pare them, leaving the fat which 
generally surrounds them entire ; marque a stewpan 
with onions, carrots, parings of veal, herbs, half a bay 
leaf, and two cloves ; put in the noix, with a little 
stock or broth ; cover with slices of bacon and a 
round of paper ; an hour before serving make them 
boil, let them then simmer with fire under and over ; 
drain, glaze, and serve them upon a puree of mush- 
rooms, or any other. 

Noix de Veau ^ la Gendarme. 
Pare a noix of veal as for SL'bedeauj lard the under 
side with seasoned lard, and ham ; put it into a deep 
dish, and marinade it with onions cut in slices, parsley, 
young onions, bay, garlic, thyme and basil, adding 
salt, pepper, and oil ; leave it in this marinade twenty- 
four hours; spit it with the seasoning; when it is 
enough done, let it take a colour, and serve it with a 
'poivrade sauce* 

E 3 



78 FRENCH COOKERY. 

MUTTON. 

The best mutton is that which has the deepest 
colour, and the finest white, the leg short and thick : 
the male is preferable: it is in season during ten 
months, as it is apt to taste of the wool for some 
weeks after it is shorn.* 

The hind part of Mutton roasted. RSt-de^Bif de 

Mouton d la Broche. 
Take a saddle of mutton, with the haunches ; break 
the bones, beat them several times with the blade of 
a hatchet ; put one of the knuckles through the other, 
break the ribs, and roll the flank under, and skewer 
them into a good form ; take some of the kidney fat 
out ; put a small skewer into the back marrow ; spit 
it, and secure the knuckles well together; put a 
skewer through the noix, or thick part of the legs, 
and another between, that it may be well secured, 
so that it may not turn upon the spit ; cover the whole 
with buttered paper; it will take to cook from an 
hour and half to two hours, which depends upon the 
strength of the fire, and the size of the piece ; serve 
it with juice under or upon (haricots ^ laoretonne). 

Braised leg of Mutton, Gigot Brais^y ou h la Braise. 

Take a good leg of mutton, take out all the bones 
but the shank, lard it with great lard, well seasoned 
with fine spices, salt, basil in powder, pepper, parsley, 
and small onions, minced ; tie it up m its own form ; 
marque a pot with some parings of butchers' meat, 
five or six onions, and as many carrots; put the 
mutton over it, moisten with good broth, and half a 
glass of brandy, two bay leaves, tliree cloves, two 
heads of garlic, and a little thyme ; let it boil, coTer 
it with paper, and simmer with fire over and undtf : 
it will take from four to five hours, drain, gUmCy and 
serve it, with its juice, or on a ragout of endiTei or 
any other. 

* The French mutton is generally much imaller tluMi the 
English, and this ought to be obserred, as where two 
sometimes nnlered, one might do. 



MUTTON. ^9 

Legof Mutton h la Gasconne-^-^ Gigot a la Gasconne, 
Take a leg as above, lard it with a dozen of heads 
of garlic, and a dozen of anchovies in fillets ; cook it 
on the spit, and serve it with a ragout of garlic, pre- ' 
pared as follows ; pick a pint of garlic, blanch it by 
giving it several boils, when nearly done, throw it 
into fi-esh water ; drain and put into a stewpan four 
or five spoonfuls of reducea Espagnol, ana two of 
beef juice ; put in the garlic, reduce, and serve it 
under the mutton. 

Boiled leg of Mutton, Gigot ^ Veau. 

Put a leg of mutton into a pot of boiling water, 
season with carrots, onions, a bunch of parsley, and 
young onions, two cloves, bay, thjrme, basil, and two 
cloves of garlic ; eive it two hours to cook ; drain, 
giojBe it> and serve it over an Espagnol. 

Gigot en ChevreuiL 
Take a leg of mutton that has hung a sufficient 
time ; beat it well, and take off the outer skin ; lard 
it as a veal noix ; put it into an earthen dish, with a 
handful of juniper berries, and a little m^lilot ; pour 
over it a strong marinade^ into which a much greater 
quantity of red vinegar has been put than is generally 
used ; let the leg marinade five or six days, drain, and 
roast it ; send it to table with a good poivrade. 

Roasted saddle of Mutton, SeUe de Mouton ^ la 

Brooke, 
Take a saddle of mutton, and break the ribs ; roll 
the fillets, and skewer them ; spit it, and give it an 
hour and half, and serve it with a clear juice. 

Saddle of Mutton another iioay. SeUe de Mouton ^ 

la Sainte Menehould, 
Take a saddle of mutton, take out the large ribs, 
roll the fillets, take off the skin, spread over it a 
Sainte MenShouldy and strew crumbs over, into which 
about an eighth part of rasped Parmesan has been 
put ; baste the saddle with butter ; put it into the 
oven, give it a fine colour, and serve it upon a clear 
juice. 

£ 4 



80 FRENCH. COOKERY. 

Fillets of Mutton. Petites Selles de Mottton, ou de 

Carbonnades, 
Cut out three carres of mutton between the haunch 
and the ribs, what is called the fillet ; cut each into 
two long hearts, or peacocks' tails ; pare the skin and 
nerves off three of them, and lard, and marque them 
with the others, in the same manner as the saddle ^ 
la Sainte MenShoulde ; when they are done drain them 
upon a cover, take off the skin of those that were not 
larded, and that which remained of the others ; dry 
them a little with a hot poker, glaze the whole, and 
serve them with a ragout of small roots, endive, purie 
of sorrel, or a love apple sauce. 

Fore-quarter of Mutton, Rouchis de Moutoiu 

Take a fore-quarter of mutton ; begin by boning the 
breast and the ribs, then take the side ribs quite out, 
as well as the chine and the neck, that nothing may 
remain but the blade bone; fix it in its form by 
skewers, spit it like a shoulder, paper it> give it near 
an hour, and serve it upon (haricots ^ la bretonney) or 
upon a ragout of celery. 

Shoulder of Mutton in a ball. Epaule de Mouton en 

Ballon, 
Take a large shoulder of mutton without spoiling the 
carre ; bone it entirely ; season great lard with salt, 
pepper, fine spices, parsley, and small onions hashed, 
and powdered aromatics put through a search ; roll 
the lard well in this seasoning, lard the meat without 
piercing the skin, then with a needle and thread 
draw up the skin round the shoulder, and form il as 
a button into a ball ; marque a stewpan with carrots, 
onions, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and the bones of the 
shoulder, which must be broken ; put in the ball upon 
the sewed side, moisten with bouillon^ and cover it 
with some slices of bacon, and a round of paper; 
let it boil, and put it for two or three hours upon 
the paillasse^ with fire under and over, or under a 
furnace ; when ready to send to table glaze it, senre 
it on a purie of sorrel or tomate, (une chicorie blande 



MUTTON. 81 

aujus,) a ragout of small roots, or an espagnole that 
has been mixed with the remainder of the glaze. 

Mutton Cutlet Sm Cotelettes de Mouton an NatureL ^ 

Take the ribs of mutton, which the French call 
carre ; cut the cutlets equally in two ribs, if it is hirgf 
divide them, cut them from side to side, and separate 
them with the hatchet ; take off the back bone, and 
from the fillet side, take off the skin, and the 
nerves that cover them, flatten them a little, and pare 
them anew ; scrape the inside with the back of the 
knife, cut the end of the bone, take off the flesh at 
the point of the bone, and clear it nearly half an inch ; 
melt some butter, dip in the cutlets, and put them 
upon the gridiron ; turn them oflen, that the juice 
may not be lost ; serve them over a clear juice. 

Cutlets xjoith Crumbs, -Cdtelettes de Mouton pannes. 

Prepare as above, dip them in butter, and strew 
crumbs over ; grill with care, and serve without sauce. 

Cutlets in a Minute. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la 

Minute. 

Prepare twelve cutlets as above ; put them into a 
sauteuse with melted butter; put them on the fur- 
nace, turn them oflen ; when they are done drain 
them from the butter ; put in a small piece of glaze 
and a large spoonful of stock ; shake and turn them ; 
let them be well seasoned with their juice ; when they 
are well glazed dish them e;2 core/on; put in another 
spoonful of stock to detach the glaze ; add a small 
bit of good butter ; mix the whole by shaking ; pour 
the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 

Cutlets of Mutton another wau. Cdtelettes de Mouton 

d la Jardiniere. 
Prepare these as above, and dress them in the 
same manner ; make a ragout of every kind of turned 
root, mushrooms, haricots, and green pease, all cooked 
in soup ; the haricots and pease must be very green ; 
put into a stewpan three or four large spoonsful of 
Espagnd; put m the vegetables ; let it simmer, and 
rcMiuce ; skim and finish with a bit of butter and a Little 

£ 5 



82 FRENCH COOKERY. 

grated sugar; put this ragodt in the middle, and 
over it a fine branch or sm^l cauliflower. 

Cutlets mth Endive, Cotelettes de Mouton it la 

Chicoree. 

Qliok and dress these cutlets as the above, putting in 
\tie middle a reduced chicory roux, or blanc. 

Cutlets in Soubise. Cdtelettes h la Soubise. 

Cut these cutlets from between the bones ; pare 
and flatten them a little ; lard them with small lard 
and ham equally ; marque a stewpan with the' parings 
of the cutlets, three or four onions, two carrots, and 
a bunch of parsley and small onions, well seasoned ; 
put in the cutlets, with as much stock as will nearly 
cover them ; cover with slices of bacon, and over aU 
a strong buttered paper ; let them boil, and put them 
on a paillasse, with fire under and over ; wnen done 
drain, pare anew, as also the lard that projects ; put 
the stock through a gauze search ; redluce it nearly 
to a glaze; return the cutlets into it ; turn and ^aze 
them on both sides ; dish en cordon, and put in the 
middle a nice pur6e of onions ; border the dish with 
small onions, which have been cooked in stock ; if 
the onions are well fixed, a branch of raw parsley 
may be stuck in each, and serve. 
Breast of Mutton. Carri de Mouton h la Servante, 

Take two breasts of mutton ; take off the skin, and 
pare the fillets ; lard them as directed at (carb<mnades\ 
one of lard and the other branches of parsley; spit 
them, and give them from half to three-quarters of an 
hour, basting them oflen ; dish them with the fillets 
outward, and send them to table with a clear juice. 

Breast of Mutton in Fricandeau, Carre de Mtmtim 

en Fricandeau. 

Take a carri and lard it with fine lard, and put into 
the stewpan the parings and any other remains cf 
butchers' meat ; lay the carr^ over them ; add two 
carrots, two onions, and a bunch of sweet h^rbi; 
moisten the whole with a ladleful of bouiUon^ nl 
cover with buttered paper ; finish in the same maiiMr 
as the granadins de veau : when done d i it, take 



MUTTON. 8S 

off the skin that covered the sides, and glaze the 
the fillet, -or the whole of the carri ; send it to table 
upon a puree of sorrel, or a ragoUt of chicory. ♦ 

SmaU FiUets of Mutton, Filets mignons de Mouton. 

Take twelve small fillets of mutton ; pare anApard 
them ; marque them in the same manner as the caf^ 
honnades ; glaze^ and serve them upon a ragoUt of 
cucumber, or any other. 

Minced Mutton Hjoith Cucumbers^-^-^Eminc^ de Filets 
de MotUon aux Concombres. 
Take the noix from a cold roasted leg of mutton, 
free it from the skin and fat, cut it in fillets of an inch 
and half square; mince these fillets, and mix them 
into a boiling reduced mince of cucumbers, taking 
care that it does not boil after the mutton is put in ; 
it may also be served with endive. 

Hashed Mu^^, Hachis de Mouton ct la Portugatse* 

Prepare as above, but hash the mutton more ; have 
some E^gnol reduced to half glaze^ put in the 
mince, shake it well over the fire. It must not boil ; 
put in a bit of butter and large pepper : if the hash 
IS not thick enough put in a bit ot glaze ; have a dish 
bordered to serve it up in ; sprinkle it with a little 
reduced Espagnole^ and lay over it eight or ten 
poached eggs. 

Haricot of Mutton. Haricot de Mouton ^ la Bour- 

sreoise. 
Cut a breast of mutton in pieces, put them into 
a saucepan with butter, and let them take a fine 
colour over a brisk fire ; when done drain them, and 
put carrots and turnips which have been prepared 
into the stewpan, and give them a good colour; 
drain them ; have ready a rouxy put in the mutton, set 
it on the fire, and moisten it ; season with pepper, 
salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, one dLove^ 
a bay4eaf ; add the turnips and carrots ; when three- 
fourths done, let it simmer ; skim it ; if the sauce is 
too thin, take out some, and reduce it : dish the 

Iwricoti cover it with the vegetables, and serve. 

v a 



84 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Breasts, of Mutton. Poitrines de Mouton^ 

Take two breasts of mutton, cut off the ends of the 
itanks and the red bones of the breast; nick the 
joints, and put it to cook with a good seasoning, in 
the^tock pot, or in a braziere ; it will be enough 
%hft the ribs come easily out ; take off the upper 
skin, pare again, and round the flanks, strew crumbs 
over it, season with salt and pepper ; grill, and serve 
with sauce (au pauvre homme). 

Necks of Mutton. Collets de Moutons h la Sainte 

Men^hould. 

Take two necks of mutton, pare the ends care- 
fully, cut the points, and marque them in a braize ; if 
there is none, put into a stewpan parings of butchers' 
meat, some chips or slices of bacon, three carrots, 
three onions, one of them stuck with a clove, two 
bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves of garlic, a bunch 
of parsley, young onions, and salt; moi^len with soup 
or water ; cover with buttered paper ; let them boil 
and cook upon a paillasse two or three hours, with 
fire over and under ; when enough pare them, cover 
them with a Sainte Menihould; strew them with 
crumbs, mixed with a little rasped parmesan ; sprinkle 
it again, and put it into an oven to take a colour ; 
dish^ and sauce it with a brown Italienne* 
Necks of Mutton Grilled, Cdllets de Moutons Grille 

Take three half necks of mutton, cut off the bloody 
ends, blanch and cook them in the stock pot ; when 
they are enough, strew crumbs of bread over ; grill 
them nicely ; send them to table with sauce (au pauvre 
homme, or a poivrade). 

Mutton Taus with Endive. Queues de Moutom 

GlacSes d la Chicoree. 

Take five fat mutton tails and degorge them in 
warm water, blanch and cook them in a braise as the 
necks of mutton ; drain, wipe, and joint them, dry than 
with a hot poker, glaze and serve upon endive, spinage, 
a pur^e of sorrel, or any other r^godt. 

Hotch Potch of Mutton Tails, Queues de Moutons 

en Hoche-pot. 

Take six mutton tails, blanch and braise them with 



MUTTON. 85 

nearly half a pound of bacon cut in large dice, on 
which the skin has been left ; carrots and turnips, 
with some celery and small onions ; blanch these, aM 
cook them by themselves in soup ; it is necessary that 
each vegetable should be done to its point, and that 
their stock should be reduced to glaze ; put into a 
stew-pan a sufficient quantity of espagnole, with the 
vegetables, and the lard which has been taken from the 
braise ; skim the vegetables, and let them reduce ; 
dish and put the tails upon them ; if the tails have 
not been glazed, then it will be necessary to dish 
them under the ragout. 

Mutton Tails. Queues de Moutons au SoleiL 

Cook six mutton tails in a braise, let them cool ; 
cover them with a cold sauce ; (aux hatelettes) ; roll them 
in crumbs, and dip them into an omelet; roll them 
again in crmnbs, and fry them of a fine colour ; serve 
them upon a bunch of fried parsley dressed to a point. 

Mutton Tails in Chesnut Soup, Terrine de Queues 

de Moutons, 

Braise six sheeps' tails, add to them a pound of 
the breast of bacon ; prepare, bone, and poele six or 
eight turkeys' pinions : take a hundred chesnuts, shell 
them, put them into a sauce-pan with about the size 
of an egg of butter ; toss them upon the fire tiU the 
inner skin separates ; take them on, put theio^nto a 
stew-pan with broth to cook : when they ^Jfe done 
take tfie blemished ones and pound them.;^^when the 
tails are done, run a part of the braise* through a 
gauze search, and use it to moisten the puree of ches- 
nuts ; rub them through a search as any other j9Mr/e/ 
then reduce in adding a large spoonful of espagnole ; 
skim it ; drain the tails and pinions ; dish in a tureen 
with petit lard, cut into large dice, and the i/vhole 
chesnuts; finish the j^We witl^ a bit of butter; taste 
if it is good, and put it over the meat in the tureen. 

Grtlle3 Kidneys. Rognons de Moutons ^ la Bro" 

chette. 

Take twelve kidneys, give them a slight cut round 



86 FRENCH COOKSRT. 

the middle, that the skin ma^ be taken dF; split 
them, but not entirely, and spit them with wooden 
i^ewers, cross ways, to keep them open ; grill, tam- 
ing 4hem constantly; when they are done, take oat the 
skewers; dish, and put into each a little cold ma^rt' 
dh6id\ warm the dish, and squeeze a little lemon 
juice over. 

Kidneys in Champagne* Rognans de Mautons au 

xnn de Champagne ou a ritalienne. 
Skin fifteen kidneys, and mince them; put them 
into a stew-pan with the size of an egg of butter ; do 
them upon a brisk fire till they are hardened ; drain 
them, and put them into an italtenne sauce, with half a 
glass of Champagne, which has been reduced nearly 
to glaze ; finish by taking them in this sauce without 
allowing them to boil 

AnimeUes de Moutons. 
Skin two pair of those ; cut them in slices, the size 
of the little finger, and about half the thickness. 
Marinade them in lemon juice, salt, pepper, branches 
of parsley, and onions; drain when ready to serve; 
dredge and fry till they are crisp, and serve with or 
without fried parsley. 

Spinal Marrotv.'^-^' Amourettes ou Moelle Ahngt 

de Mouton. 
Proceed in the same manner as directed for veal. 

Mutton Brains. — — Cervelles de Moutons. ' 
These brains, though less delicate than those of 
veal, are dressed in Uie same manner, and often 
served instead of them. 

Mutton Tongues in Paper* ~-« Langues de Mouton 

en papillotes. 
Take a dozen of sneeps* tongues, degorge and 
blanch them a quarter of an hour ; refresh and drain 
them ; take off the skin ; cover a stew-pan with slicef 
of bacon, and marque it with onions, carrots, paniieff 
young onions, a clove of garlic, and a bay lesi*, moif- 
ten with bouillon; make it boil and suumer three 



MUTTON- 87 

hours ; let the tongues cook in the braise; then pre- 
pare little paper bags, such as grocers turn and pmch 
at the bottom, which theFrench call cometsyfrom their 
resemblance to horns ; they must be oiled on the 
outsides; hash two handfuls of mushroom chips, w^ 
half as much parsley and young onions ; put all into 
a stew-pan, with half a pound of butter, salt, pepper, 
fine spices, and a quarter of a pound of rasped lard ; 
pass and let them cook slowly ; shake them that they 
may not stick ; when nearly done put in two large 
spoonfuls of veloute ; let them simmer, thicken with 
three yolks of eggs, and pour it over the tongues; 
put one into each cornet^ and fill them them up with 
fine herbs ; close them firmly, and put them on the 
grill over a slow fire ; turn them carefully that they 
may take a good colour. 

Mutton TongUfU in Forced Meat. ^-^^ Langues de 

Mouton au Gratin, 
Cook in a braise, as in the foregoing article, a suf< 
ficient quantity of sheeps* tongues ; let them cook in 
the same manner that they may taste of the season- 
ing ; take (Jarce cuite) and cover the dish (see gra^ 
tin) ; cut the tongues in two without separating them ; 
put them on ihejarce, and cover them with it in such 
a manner, that they shall keep their form, and garnish 
with the same ; unite all well together, and cover 
lightly with melted butter ; put a border round the 
d^h of bread that has been cut in the form of corks, 
to preserve their shape ; put it into the oven, or with 
fire over and under to gratiner ; take care that it has 
a fine colour, without burning ; when ready to serve, 
take out the bread, and substitute more that has been 
fried in butter, of a fine colour ; sauce with a good 
italienne reduced. 

Mutton Tongues, another way. -^^^'^ Lances de MoU' 

tons ci la Bretonne ou en Criptne, 

Cook eight tongues in a braise as they are done in 

the foregoing articles ; cut fifteen large onions in 

slices ; put into a stew-pan a quarter m a pound q£ 



86 FRENCH COOKERY. 

butter with the onions, and when they brown a little, 
dust in some flour, and let it brown with them ; mois- 
ten with espagnole ; put in a little more flour ; season 
with salt, pepper, and fine spices ; let them reduce to 
the consistence of strong stock, and let them cool : 
take some pig's ^az^e or cauls, soak them in water; 
cut the tongues m two and take off the points ; cut the 
Jraise in pieces ; lay on each a spoonful of bretonne^ 
and over it half a tongue, which is to be covered with 
bretonne; wrap it up so close that nothing may es- 
cape, and give them the form of large flat sausages; 
let them be grilled for a quarter of an hour ; before 
serving, turn and give them a fine colour. 

Mutton Tongues ivith Parmesan, Langues de Mou- 

tons au Parmesan. 
Let the tongues be cooked in a braise with very 
little salt ; cut them in two ; put a lipk espagnole or 
•oeloute in the dish, and cover it with abAil the thick- 
ness of a crown of rasped Parmesan ; arrange the 
tongues over the Parmesan ; wet them with espagnole 
or veloute, and strew crumbs of bread mixed with 
Parmesan, about the same quantity as was put into 
the dish ; baste with butter and put it into the oven, 
or with fire under and over, till they are of a fine 
colour. 

Langues de Moutons ^ la Matelote. 
Braise and mask with a sauce d, la matelote. 

Sheep s Trotters. Pieds de Mouton cL la Pouletle* 

Take the necessary quantity of sheeps* trotters ; pre- 
pare and clean them with great care ; cook them m a 
blanc; when they are enough done, drain and put 
them into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of «f- 
loute ; seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little minced 
blanched parsley; let them stew, and when ready 
to serve, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, and a 
little verjuice or lemon. 

If there is no veloute, make a little white roux; moist- 
en with broth, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, two 
onions, two cloves, a little garlic, a bay leaf, and some 



LAMB. 89 

mushroom chips : let this sauce cook at least three 
quarters of an hour, turning it carefully ; take out the 
onions ; put the sauce through a tammy ; let it reduce, 
and throw in the trotters: finish as above, only in 
this case, it must be finished with a bit of butter. 

Trotters in Sauce. Pieds de Moutons a la Sauce 

Robert, 
Prepare the feet as above ; put them into a sauce 
Robert ; let |^em stew, season them, and finish with a 
little mustard. 

Trotters another Way, Pieds de Moutons h la 

Ravigote. 

Prepare the trotters as above, and masque them 
with 'a cold ravigote. 

M|| LAMB. 

Lamb isinrsdason from the latter end of December 
to the beginning of April, and none is reckoned deli- 
cate but such as have been entirely fed upon milk; 
it ought to be chosen white, fat, and thick. 

Lambs' Heads. — T^tes d'Agneaux ct la Potdette. 

Take two lambs' heads, take out the jaw-bones, lift 
up the skin, and cut out the bone close to the eyes ; 
degorge, blanch, and singe them ; rub them with 
lemon to make them white ; cook them for two hours 
in a blanCy take care that they are not over done; 
drain and take off the skull ; take out the brains ; 
pick off the skin and veins ; skin the tongues ; cut them 
in two ; cut the ears ; dish and sauce them with a good 
poulette. 

They may be served with a green hoUandaise ; the 
pluck or haslet may also be served with the head, cut 
in large scollops, and the feet for garnishing with 
the same sauce. 

T^tes d Agneaux a Vltalienne. 

Do the heads as in the foregoing article, and serve 
with a good italienne. 



90 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Stuffed Lambs* Ears. Oreilles d Agneaux^Jarcies el 

Jriies. 
Take fifleen lambs* ears ; singe, blanch and stew 
them in a blanc; drain and let them cool ; fill them 
with (farce cuite) ; give them a good form ; roll them 
in crumbs of bread; dip them in an omelet; roll them 
again in crumbs, and lay them upon the cover of a 
stew-pan; a few minutes before serving, fry them, 
taking care the pan is not too hot, so that thej^rc^ 
may be done ; but towards finishing, increase the heat 
to give them a good colour ; drain them upon a cloth, 
and serve with tried parsley under and over them. 

Another Way. Oreilles (TAgneauw h la Ravigate. 

Take the same quantity of ears that have been 
prepared in the same manner ; they must be very white; 
drain and serve them under a {ravigate\ hot or cold. 

Oreilles d'Agneaux a VltaUenne. 
Lambs^ ears may be served in the stme manner 
with an italienne. 

Lambs' Feet. Pieds cTAgneaux ^ la PouleUe. 

Lambs' feet h la poulette the same as directed for 
sheeps' trotters. 

Saddle of Roast Lamb. Rosbif d* Agneau* 

Take a saddle of lamb with the haunches ; take the 
skin off the fillets ; take also a little from the middle 
of each haunch, which with the fillets must be larded; 
it is then to be cooked as directed for the rosbif of 
mutton ; when dished, the larded parts are to .be 
glazed, send it to table, with gravy under it. 

Roasted Fore-quarter of Lamb. Quartier dudevant 

d'Agneau ci la Broche. 

Take a quarter of lamb, cover it with thin slices of 
bacon, excepting the shoulder and breast ; wrap it up 
in buttered paper ; when done, lift the shoulder near 
the breast, and put in without its being perceptible, a 
cold maitre d'hotely and send it to table upon a clear 
juice. 

Lamb. — Epigrammes d Agneau, 

Take a fore-quarter of lamb ; take off as small a 



LAMB. 91 

shoulder as possible ; cut the ribs as directed for 
mutton cutlets ; make five or six of the carr^^ and 
as many tendons; cover a stew-pan with slices of 
bacon ; put in the parings of the cutlets, a carrot cut 
in four, an onion, a little parsley, and young onions, 
a clove, half a bay leaf, and a little salt ; put in the 
tendons, cover them with a slice of bacon, moisten 
with soup or stock, and cover them with buttered 
paper; make them boil upon a quick fire, then upon a 
paillasse with fire over and under, and let them simmer 
three-quarters of an hour ; cut the cutlets ; pare and 
dip them in melted butter; dress them into a sauti' 
pan, and cover them with buttered paper: in the mean 
time, the shpulder ought to be either roasted, or 
stewed in a little butter with its own juice, and left to 
cool ; take off the meat, and pick out the sinews ; 
skin, mince, and put into a stew-pan, three large spoon- 
fuls of reduced Delouti^ and a dozen of minced mush- 
rooms ; toss the cutlets ; drain the tendons, and give 
them the shape of a heart : having passed and repassed 
them in two yolks of eggs, which have been mixed with 
melted butter, and a little salt ; grill them of a fine co- 
lour; glaze and dish them en couronne ; in mixing 
them alternately with a tendon, put the mince into 
the sauce ; thicken this hlanguette without letting it 
boil ; finish with a little bit of butter and lemon jmce ; 
put it in the well, and send it to table. 

If there is no sauce to make the blanquette, stew 
the tendons before ; fry a dozen mushrooms in but- 
ter ; dredge a little butter over; moisten with the gravy 
of the tendons, which must be put through a gauze 
search or a cloth ; let it reduce to the consistence of 
sauce ; skim and put it through a tammy ; put in the 
mince, and finish the blanquette as is directed above. 

Tendons of Lamb with Asparagus. Tendons d'Ag- 
neau atix potntes dAsperges, 

Take two breasts of lamb; marque them in a stew- 
pan with parings of veal as the epigrammes ; drain and 
put them between two covers and let them cool \ cvA 



92 FRENCH COOKERY. 

them in hearts ; pass the stock through a gauze search, 
and reduce it in a saut^'pan to half the consistence 
of glaze ; put in the tendons and leave them to sim- 
mer, and glaze : have a bundle of small asparagus ; 
use only what is tender; wash them carefully in 
boiling water and salt; skim, blanch, and retiresh; 
throw them into a drainer ; put into a stew-pan five 
five or six spoonfuls ofespagnole; reduce the sauce; 
skim and put in the asparagus; reduce and finish; 
dress the tendons en couronne ; put a part of the ragout 
of asparagus into the saute-pan to detach the glaze ; 
mix all and finish with a little butter, and pour it into 
the well, and serve. 

Tendons d'Agneau ^ la ViUeroy. 

Prepare the tendons as above, and make a sauce 
a lapoulette, much reduced, and let it be more thick- 
ened than ordinary ; pour it over the tendons ; let it 
cool, and cover them well with it ; pannez them ; give 
them a good form ; dip them into an omelet ; pantiez 
them again ; fry and serve. 

Cutlets of Lamb, Cotelettes d'Agneau au NatureL 

(See article Cotelettes de Moutons au NatureL) 

Crumbed Cutlets. Cotelettes d'Agneau pan4et* 

Take acarrd or ribs of lamb ; cut it in cutlets ; melt a 
little butter in a saui(^'psLn ; put in the cutlets ; strew in 
a little salt ; do them without browning the butter ; 
drain and let the butter cool ; then mix in two yolks 
of eggs; dip in the cutlets on both sides in this 
anglaise ; pannez * them ; put them upon the grill on 
a slow fire ; give them a nice colour ; serve them dry, 
or with gravy and lemon juice ; a little pepper may be 
added. 

Minute Cutlets. Cotelettes d'Agneau cL la Minute. 

These cutlets are prepared as mutton cutlets d h 
minute. 

* Pannex is to strew over or roll any thing in crumbs. 



PORK. 93' 

Shoulders of Lamb Stiffed, Epaide d'Agnedu en 

Musette, 
Take two shoulders of lamb as large as possible ; 
bone them entirely except the knuckles ; spread them 
out ; season the inside with salt, pepper, and fine spi- 
ces ; fill them with a good salpigon ; make them up 
round as a tailor does a button ; lard en rosette * the 
outsides of the shoulders, or instead a small bit of 
farce cuite^ which may be decorated with truffles or 
chardons, &c. Then marque a stew-pan with bones 
and parings of butcher's meat, slices of ham, carrots, 
onions, and a bunch of parsley and young onions ; 
season it; moisten the braise with soup or stock; 
cover with slices of bacon and buttered paper ; let it 
boil ; put it upon a paillasse with fire over and under ; 
give it an hour and half; drain and glaze what has 
been larded; if they have not been larded, glaze round 
where it should have been done ; serve them over an 
Italienne sauce or good espagnole, 

PORK. 

Choose pork young and fat, and take care it is not 
diseased, for in that case, it is very unhealthy. 

Pigs Head, Hure de Cochon, 

Cut the head down half the shoulders, that is, farther 
than they are generally done ; singe very carefully, 
and clean the ears by introducing a poker nearly red 
to burn the hair ; wash it well ; clean it again ; scrape 
and bone it ; be careful not to pierce the skin, parti- 
cularly that over the nose ; the pieces of meat that 
are cut off, must be laid on where there is none, that 
it may be equally thick ; then put it in a large earthen 
vessel ; make salt water ; let it cool ; draw it off clear, 
and pour it over the hure ; let it be entirely covered ; 
put in a handful of juniper berries, bay leaves, five or 
six cloves, two or three cloves of garlic (cut in two), 
half an ounce of powdered salt-petre, thjnne, basil and 
sage ; cover the vessel with a cloth, and put on the co- 
ver as close as possible : let it marinade eight or ten 

* En rosette is to do them in a rose or fanciful figure. 



94 FRENCH COOKERY. 

days ; then drain and make a farce to put in it ; skin, 
and take out the sinews of some pork, and nearly the 
the same quantity of bacon ; season with salt and fine 
spices; hash it very fine, that the lard may not be 
distinguishable ; pound it well, and put in five or six 
eggs, one after the other ; try the^rce by poaching a 
little, and remedy what may be amiss : spread &e 
head upon a clean cloth; pick off all the seasonings; 
take large lard that has been veiy well seasoned 
with salt, pepper, four spicesf aromatics in powder, 
parsley and young onions hashed ; arrange again the 
head properly, lay these lardons along from distance to 
distance well mixed with tiie Jarce to the thickness of 
an inch; ^ut in the tongue which has been pared 
and skinned ; make another bed of lard, and between 
them put in truffles cleaned and cut in stripes, inter- 
mixed with pistaches ; continue in this manner till all 
the ingredients prepared have been put in, then sew 
the head together, in its natural form, wrapt in a new 
cloth; sew it up and tie the two ends with pack 
thread; make a good braise adding three bottles of 
red burgundy, and stock, as it must be covered; let it 
boil, and cover it with several buttered papers ; put on 
the cover and set it upon a, paillasse, with fire over and 
under ; let it do five or six hours, that depends upon 
the size and age ; if a larder enters easily it is enough ; 
take off the hraisiere, and leave the head till almost 
cold ; take it out and let it cool in the cloth ; undo it 
and wipe off all the fat, take off the packthread, and 
pare the neck : serve it upon a napkin. 

Pigs Head.""^^ Hure de Cochon d la Manttre de 

Troyes. 
The only difference is, that instead of filling it with 
forced meat it is filllbd with pork after having taken 
out the sinews: truffles and pistaches may be put 
in ; the cooking is entirely the same. 

Ham. Jamhon au Naturel. 

Take a good Westphalia ham ; pare it, taking away 
what is spoilt ; take out the great bone, and cut the 

* Nutmeg, cloTes, ginger, and allspice. 



PORK. 95 

end off the knuckle; lay it to steep to take out the 
salt ; by putting the larder into the noix, it will be 
known whether it is enough dessalcy viz. whether the 
salt has been sufficiently taken out ; if not, let it re- 
main a little longer ; wrap it in a cloth, put into a pot 
with water, four or five carrots, the same quantity of 
onions, four cloves, three bay leaves, two or three 
cloves of garlic, one or two bunches of parsley, thyme 
and basil ; let it boil, and then let it do on a slow fire ; 
sound it with a larder, if it enters easily, it is enough ; 
take it off and tighten the cloth, leave it till half cold, 
take off the skin; pare and pannez it with crumbs 
passed through a search ; send it to table upon a 
napkin. 

Braised Ham. Jambon Bratsk, 

Take a ham and pare the under part ; cut off the 
knuckle, and pare off the yellow lard ; bone it without 
injuring the ham; dessaUez it, that is to say, steep it 
to take out the salt ; tie it up in a cloth, and put it into 
a braisih'e of a size to fit it ; after having put in the 
braising ingredients as above, moisten with water, and 
when idbout half done, put in a bottle of Madeira or a 
glass of brandy and a bottle of champagne ; leave 
the cover of the hraisih-e off, that the seasoning may 
reduce ; sound to know if it is enough ; drain and 
put it upon a cover ; take off the skin ; glaze with a 
reduction of Veal. If there is none sift a little sugar 
over it, and* glaze in the oven or with a hot poker ; 
give it a good colour ; serve it upon spinage or any 
other vegetable. 

Roasted Ham, Jambon a la Broche. 

Pare the ham on the under side, and cut it quite 
round, so that it may have a good form; steep it 
to take out the salt ; put it into an earthen vessel with 
slices of onions, carrots, and two bruised bay leaves ; 
pour over it a bottle and a half of Malaga or any 
other Spanish wine or champagne; cover it with 
a cloth, and shut it as close as possible ; leave it to 
rnarinade twenty-four hours ; spit it and let it cook^ 



96 FRENCH COOKERY. 

basting it with the seasoning ; when nearly done, take 
off the skin ; glaze with an an^laue (see Anglaise) ; 
pannez it ; let it take a fine colour ; when the ham is 
taken up to take off the skin, pass the marinade 
through a gauze search ; reduce it to the consistence 
of sauce, and serve it under the ham. 

Chine of Pork. Echin4e de Cochon. 

Take a chine of pork, pare it as a carr^ of veal ; 
chop off the back bones, and two hours before spitting 
it powder it all over with salt ; see that it is well done, 
and serve under it a poivrade. 

Pork Cutlets. CStelettes de Cochon, sauce Robert. 

Cut the cutlets from fresh pork like those of veal ; 
flatten, pare, and strew a little salt all over them ; grill 
them ; let them be well done and serve with a sauce 
Robert. 

Pigs* Ears. Oreilles de Cochons en Menu-de'Rou 

Take three porks* ears ; singe them and put into 
them a poker nearly red to singe out all the hairs ; 
scrape them well and wash them in several waters; 
blanch and cook them in a braise; when done let 
them cool ; cut them in equal fillets ; divide six large 
onions ; take off the head, tail, and heart ; cut them 
in fillets or half-rings ; put them into a stew-pan with 
a bit of butter ; pass and let them cook ; don't let them 
take the least colour ; moisten with two or three large 
spoonfuls of espagnole, a spoonful of beef juice, or 
(blond de veau) ; let the onions simmer ; skim, and at 
the moment of serving throw in the menu-de-roi; 
put in salt, if it requires it, with some mustard, and 
a little vinegar ; masque the ears and serve. 

Pigs* Ears. Oreilles de Cochons a la pur^e. 

Prepare four or five pigs' ears as directed above; 
stew them in a braise ; drain and masque them with 
a puree of pease, lentiles, or any other. 

Pigs* Tails. Queues de Cochons h la purie. 

Pigs' tails are cooked and sent to table with pur4e$ 
in the same manner as the ears. 



PORK. 97 

Pigs' Feet. Pieds de Cochons^la Sainte Mehihould. 

Prepare four pigs' feet by cleaning, singing, and 
blanching them; cut them in two, and then bind them 
tc^ther with tapes, sewing them at each end, that 
they may not shrink or open; let them be cooked 
In a braise ; when they are enough drain them, and 
when cold take off the tapes and separate them ; dip 
them in butter scarcely melted ; strew over crumbs, 
and grill them ; send them to table without any sauce* 

Another Viay. Pieds de Cochons aux Truffes. 

ITiey are to be done as the above; when half cold 
:ake off the tapes ; put each upon a bit of caul, as 
arge as will wrap over them ; having boned and filled 
Jiem with a salpifon of volaille and truffles^ wrap 
Jiem up in the form of 2Lpied de sainte menikouU^ and 
prill them over a gentle nre. 

Maniire dejaire 6u preparer le Lard, 
Take the lard off the pig as free of flesh as possible ; 
dry and pound fine salt and rub it with it ; put two 
and two together; then lay them over each other 
upon a plank (in a cool cellar, which must not be 
damp); strew tiiem over with salt, and lay another 
plank over them, on which lay a sufficient quantity of 
Rreights ; leave it in that state at least a month ; skewer 
It, and hang it in an airy place to dry, that it may get 
rery firm, otherwise it will not be fit for lard. 

Salt Pork. Petit SaU. 

Take the breasts of pork and cut them in pieces ; 
rub them with fine salt which has been mixed with a 
little saltpetre ; pack them into an earthen vessel very 
closely to prevent any air from getting in ; cover the 
iressel with a cloth between it and the cover ; it will be 
ready in eight or ten days. 

To melt Lard, Sain Doux. 

Skin a hog's caul ; beat it well with a wooden 
tpatttlay the uiicker it is the better ; put it into a 
Btew pan with a little water, and let it boil long 
over a slow fire that it may be well done; when 
enough it is easily broken with the fingers; let it cool 

F 



98 FRENCH COOKERY. 

nearly, and rub it through a search ; if it is not for im- 
mediate use put it in a cool place or in bladders. 

To make Hams. ^Maniere defoire le Jdmbotu 

According to the quantity of hams let a saumure* be 
made; put into it all sorts of odoriferous herbs, as 
sage, basil, thyme, bay, balm, juniper berries, salt, and 
saltpetre; to tnese add the good lees of wine, with the 
same quantity of water ; leave them some days, and 
then draw off the marinade; * clear from the other ingre- 
dients; put a little water over, and wring out the 
herbs; add it to the other; arrange the hams and 
shoulders into an eaVthen vessel, and pour over the 
saumure; leave them in it for three weeks or a month ; 
take them out ; drain and wipe them ; hang them in 
the smoke; when they are very dry and enough 
smoked preserve them by rubbing with half wine and 
half vinegar, that the flies may not spoil them. 

Smoked Tongues^ Langues de Pores Jkmi€$ et 

JburrSes. 

Take the quantity of pork tongues to be preserved ; 
cut off a part of the throat and the skin ; put them in 
a vessel very closely together as they are rubbed with 
salt and salt-petre ; put in basil, bay, thjone, juniper, 
and shalots if approved ; press them well down, pot 
a weight over them, and cover them very closely mm 
the air; put them in a fresh place for eight days; 
after that time drain them, and put them into hog, bee^ 
or veal puddings ; tie them at each end and smoke them* 

They are cooked in water with a little wine, a 
bunch of parsley and young onions, onions thyme, bay, 
and basil. These tongues are served cold. 
To roast a Pig. Cockon de Lait. 

A pig ought to be young, short, and fat ; nick the nape 
off the neck, and make foui incisions upon the buttock to 
lace up the tail ; pass three «kewers to form it i|s a hare 
in gite; put it into fresh water; drain and leave it to 
dry ; singe it if any hairs remain ; when it has warmed 

used 5!a«murr and marinade, tenm for different pickling liquors 
^ * much by the French. 



PUDDINGS. 99 

the spit baste it with oil with a feather brush, that 
B skin may be crisp ; this must be done often ; when 
is taken from the spit give the skin a nick round the 
roat to keep the skin crisp. 

Stuffed Pig. Cochon deLait en Galatine. 

When the pig has been thoroughly prepared, bone it 
excepting the feet, taking care to preserve the 
in whole; have ready ajarce cuite; spread out the 
I upon a cloth, and put the ^rce over it about the 
Ickness of a finger, and strew large lard ; intermix it 
th fillets of truffle, omelets, ofyolksof eggs, pistaches, 
eet almonds, and the noix or nice part of cooked 
m ; cover this with the same thickness oijarce, and 
ntinue to fill till the skin is full without being too 
ich distended; give it as much as possible the 
iginal form; sew it together; fix the feet as for the 
it; rub it with lemon; cover with lard, and wrap 
in a new towel, which must be sewed ; tie the ends ; 
trque* a braise with the refuse of the pig, some slices of 
m, a knuckle of veal cut in two, two cloves of garlic, 
o bay leaves, carrots, onions, parsley, and young 
ions ; put in the pig ; moisten with a good bauiUon^ 
d a bottle of vin de grave ; let it boil ; draw it to 
3 side of the stove, and let it cook slowly for three 
ors; put a part of the braise through a gauze 
ircfa ; if it is not coloured enough, put in a little 
ef juice reduced ; and clarify it as is directed for 
^ aspic; when cold take off the cloth and dish the 
r With a border of the aspic^ cut in di^onds, 
i dressed round the dish en cordon. 

Blood Pudding, Boudin ordinaire. 

Cook twelve onions in bouillon or consommS with 
rsley, young onions, thyme, basil, and a bay-leaf; 
sh them very fine ; take four pints of blood that 
i been properly taken from the throat of the animal ; 
t in a little vinegar to prevent it from curdling ; cut a 
and and a half of the caul in dices ; put it into the 

^liarguef is to dress ingredients properlj in a stew]^.«— 
vyite, is t0 cpver m&t with sauce, &c. 

r 2 






100 FRENCH COOKERY, 

blood with four pints of rich cream, hashed fine herbs, 
fine spices, salt, and pepper, mix all well together; 
take the puddings of hogs or sheep, which must be 
well scraped and cleaned ; fill them with a filler ; but 
do not make them too full, otherwise they might 
bre^k ; tie them into proper lengths ; put them into a 
pot of warm water, and do them over a slow fire to 
prevent their breaking ; turn them carefully with a 
skimmer ; if they are pricked, and the fat comes out, 
they are sufficiently done ; take them up upon a cloth 
and let them cool ; when they are to be sent to tabic 
slit and grill them. 

Puddings another fjoay, Boudin (i la jfapon de 

Nanterre. 

Take a sufficient quantity of onions, put them in a 
wooden bowl, and with a harness-maker's knife mince 
them ; then put them in a stewpan with some of the 
cauls ; put them upon the fire till the onions are well 
done, without being browned ; let them cool a little 
put in the blood ; and mix seasoning with fine salt, fine 
herbs, and spices ; add cream, and finish as before. 
White Pudding. Boudin Blanc. 

Cook a dozen of onions as directed for boudin ordi' 
naire; make a very dixy panada of cream ; put the onions 
with it into a mortar, adding sweet almonds that have 
been put through a search ; mix altogether ; add some 
raw yolks of eggs, caul cut in dices, white of roasted 
fowls hashed very fine ; pound altogether, and moisten 
with warm rich cream ; season with salt and fine spices; 
taste if h is good, and fill the skins. 

These puddings do not require so much cooking as 
the black ; instead of water use milk ; let them cool and 
prick them, instead of cutting, before they are put 
upon the grill : the best manner of doing them is to put 
them into a white paper case. 

Crato-fish Pudding. Boudin cTEcrivisses. 

Take half a hundred of craw-fish, and boil them in 
houiUon ; let them cool ; take the shells off the claws and 
tails, and suppress that of the bodies ; dry the shells^ 
pound and malce a butter of them (see Beurre ^ijffi^ 



PUDDINGS, 101 

msses)y cut the tails in dice ; put them into a stewpan 
with the spawn ; take the white of a fowl minced nne, 
panada of cream very dry, some roasted onions, some 
fiit livers cut in slices and also in dice ; mix in the 
heurre (Tecrevme some spoonfuls of consommS, fine 
spices and salt ; mix all well together, and fill, tie them^ 
and cook them as the white puddings. 

Rabbit Pudding. Boudin de Lapereau. 

Roast a youn^ rabbit ; take off the flesh and pick out 
the sinews ; hash it with the liver very fine ; break the 
bones, and put them into a stewpan ; moisten with 
consommSy let it boil to draw the flavour, with which a 
panada is to be made ; pound the meat and panada to- 
gether ; add a third of butter, that is to say, put in an 
^ual part of the three ingredients ; add fine minced 
onions that have been cooked in consommS, six raw 
yolks of eggs, reduced cold cream, as much as is neces- 
sary to maJce the whole to the consistence of pudding ; 
add fine spices, salt, and nutmeg, and finish as is £- 
rected above. 

Pheasant Ptidding, — Boudin de Faisan. 

Roast a pheasant, and prepare it as directed in the 
diove receipt ; cook six onions in bouillon, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, two cloves, basil, a bunch of parsley, 
ind small onions ; when the onions are done to a per-'^ 
feet reduction of their seasoning, mince them very 
ine ; mix all together and pound them ; put in rich 
;:ream, six yolks of eggs, and three quarters of a pound 
)f white caul cut in dice, salt, and fine spices ; fill the 
raddings, and cook them as above. 

Smoked Sausages. Cervelas^mes.*' 

Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; 
nix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine 
npices ; fill the puddings and tie them ; hang them in 
he smoke for three days ; then cook them in bouillon 
br three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, 
mjf basil, parsley, and young onions ; when cold serve 
ipon a napkin. 

Sausages. Saucisses. 

Take the flesh of pork between the breast and 

F 3 



102 FRENCH COOKERY. 

the lard, which lays over the tendons, as &t as possi*. 
hie ; mince it very fine ; add salt and fine spices ; fill, 
tie, and grill them over a slow fire. 

Flai Sausages.'''-'-—Saumses Plates, 
Prepare the pork as in the foregoing article ; wrap 
it up in pieces of caul of the size required, ^d grill 
them upon a slow fire. 

AndouiUes de Cochon* 
Cut pork puddings of a proper size ; clean them care- 
fully, and lay them in white wine for five or six hours, 
with thjnne, basil, and two cloves of garlic ; cut some 
fillets of fresh pork, caul, and fraise ; mix all with salt, 
fine spices, and a little powder of anise seed; fill the 
puddings, not too much as they might burst ; tie and 
cook them in a vessel of the same length, with milk 
and water, parsley, young onions, a clove of garlic, 
thyme, basil, baynsalt, pepper, and fraise ; let them 
cool in their seasoning ; wipe them well ; nick them a 
httle ; grill, and serve. 

Andouilles de Couenne. 
Cut in fillets the skin of young pork, tripe, and caul 
and finish as above. 

AndouiUes h la Bichamelle. 
Put a bit of butter into a stewpan, with a slice of 
ham, three shalots, parsley, young onions, a clove of 

farlic, thyme, basil, and bay ; put them upon a slow 
re ; let them sweat a qua]:ter of an hour ; moisten 
with a quart of milk ; let them boil and reduce to the 
half ; pass it through a search ; put in a large handful 
of the crumb of bread, and make it boil until the 
crumb has taken up all the milk ; cut fillets of fresh 
pork, caul, petit lard, and veal fraise ; mix all with the 
bread and six yolks of eggs, fine spices, and salt ; fill 
the puddings ; tie, and cook them in half milk and half 
fat broth, salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley and 
young onions ; serve as directed for the Andotiwes it 
Cochon. 

Andouilles de Veau. 
Take a veal*s fraise and udder ; blanch them a full 



WILD BOAR. 103 

quarter of an hour, and cut them in fillets ; add a pound 
OT petit lard, cut in the same manner ; mix the whole 
inth salt, fine spices, some minced shalots, four large 
spoonfuls of rich cream, and four yolks of eggs ; em- 
ploy pigs' puddings, and cook them in bouillon, a bottle 
of white wine, a clove of garlic, thjrme, basil, bay, and 
I bunch of parsley and young onions ; let them cool in 
their seasoning ; nick and grill them. 

AndouUles de Fraise de Veau. 
Take a fraise and one udder or two (according to 
Jieir size) of the veal, blanch and let them cool, mince 
'hem ; hash some mushrooms, shalots, parsley, and 
Tuffle ; put these fine herbs into a stewpan with a bit 
>f butter ; pass them, and moisten them with a glass 
jf Malvoisie or Madeira ; when that is half reduced, 
3ut in four or five spoonfuls of espagnole^ and reduce 
t ; put in the other ingredients, six yolks of eggs, salt, 
3epper, and fine herbs ; taste if good ; and fill the pud- 
lings, not too full, and tie them ; put them two mi- 
lutes in boiling water, to give them their form ; let 
hem cool ; put into a stewpan slices of veal and ham, 
carrots, and onions ; put in the andouilles ; cover them 
inth slices of bacon ; moisten with bouillon and white 
urine ; let them simmer an hour ; leave them to cool in 
lieir seasoning ; nick and grill them. 

WILD BOAR. Sanglier. 

The wild boar diiSers ¥ery little from the domestic 
log, and consequently very little in the preparation ; 
t is not eatable when old, from the state of nature it 
mjoys. 

Head of the Wild Boar. Hure de Sanglier, 

Is prepared in the same manner as Hutre de Cochon, 

Fillets of WUd Boar. FUets de Sanglier. 

Cut out these fillets as those of beef or veal ; cut 
mions in slices, some shalots, cloves of garlic, cloves, 
>ay, sage, juniper, basil, thyme, and salt, half vinegar 
ma half water; marinade the fiUets, or any other part, 
bur or five days ; drain theni, and put some oil in a 
itewpan, pass the fillets upon both sides over the fire ; 



1(H FAENCa COOKERY. 

put fire over and under, and let them simmer ; the time 
must be according to the size of the pieces, and age of 
the animal ; drain upon a cloth, and serve over sauce 
poivrade. 

These fillets may be cooked upon the spit, and 
served with the same sauce. 

Cutlets of Wild Boar, Cotelettes de Sanglier, 

Pare and lard the cutlets, and do them as in the 
above article. 

Ham of Wild Boar. Jambon de Sanglier. 

This ham is prepared the same as that of pork 

The fjoay to give Pork the taste and appearance of Wild 

Boar. Moyen de donner au Cochon le gout et Tap" 

parence du Sanglier. 

Cut the pork mto cutlets or fillets, &c. &c.; put 
them into the marinade directed for the Jilets de san* 
glier ; add some melilot, balm or mint, and some green 
walnut shells* ; let them marinade eight days, by that 
time It will have taken the colour and taste. To insure 
it, a young animal must be chosen, which is known by 
pulling the skin, which, ifi/oungy is easily torn, 

ROEBUCK. Chevreuil. 

The roebuck is much less than the deer, but resem- 
bles it greatly ; his age is known by the branches of 
his horns, and if he has attained ten, he is past being 
useful in cookery. The best age is from eighteen 
months to three years. 

To skin a Roebuck. Mani^re de depecer un ChevreuiL 

See Sheep. 

To roast a hind quarter. Quartier dederrQre^la 

Broche. 
Prepare it as a leg of lamb ; put it into a raw mari- 
nade, as is directed for the sanglier^ which is to be made 
weaker or stronger, according to the time it is to be 

* These ought to be prepared by salting when they ar« in 



ROEBUCK. 105 

kept ; when sufficiently done, drain and put it upon 
the spit ; wrap it in buttered paper, and serve it with 
a sauce (au pauvre homme) or poivrade ; the roebuck 
may be kept six months, changing the marinade; 
in diat case it requires to steep a day or two to take it 
out. 

Cutlets of Roebuck. Cotelettes de Chevreuil, 

Cut, pare, and flatten the cutlets a little ; they may 
either be larded or not, and put them in the same ma- 
rinade as is directed in the above article ; one day is 
sufficient. Put a little oil into a stewpan, and do the 
cutlets in it over a strong fire ; when enough done, and 
of a fine colour, serve them upon a poivrade or any 
other sauce, such as t ornate ^ &c. 

Epatdes de ChevreuiL 
Take off the flesh of the shoulders in small fillets ; 
skin, nerve ; lard and marinade them as the cutlets ^ 
cook and serve them in the same manner* 

Civet de Chevreuil. 
Take the breast and neck of a roebuck ; cut them in 
pieces, as is directed for haricot of mutton ; put some 
fine lard in a stewpan with a little butter, and pass it 
over the fire ; drain out the lard and make a light roux 
with the butter ; put in the meat, and when it is well 
hardened, moisten with a bottle of good red wine and 
four pints of water ; season it with a bunch of parsley 
and young onions, two cloves of garlic, th3ane, bay, 
salt, and pepper ; stir it often that it may not sticK ; 
put in small onions raw, or done in butter and mush- 
rooms ; let them cook, and skim ; if the sauce is too 
thin reduce it. 

Brains of Roebuck. CerveUes de Chevreuil en Ma* 

rinade. 
Prepare the brains as those of sheep ; cook them in a 
marinade ; drain, and fry them. 

FaUotv Deer. Daim. 

The daim is less than the deer, and comes between 

f5 



106 7RSKCH COOKERY. 

it and ^e roebuck ; it is not much esteemed in France; 
but were it cooked as in England, it would be equally 
esteemed there. I shall only give one receipt, whi<£ 
is the manner the English prepare the haunch* 

Haunch of Venison, Quartier de derrHre du Daimu 

Take out the chump bone ; beat and powder the un- 
der part with fine salt ; make a sufficient quantity of 
paste, which is to be made of flour, six eggs, salt, and 
a very little water, as the paste must be very firm; 
wrap it up in a wet cloth, and leave to repose for an 
hour ; afterwards roll it out equally of the tnickness of 
a crown piece ; spit the venison, and wrap it entirely 
in the paste, which ought to be in one entire sheet ; 
unite it well by wetting the edges, and laying them over ; 
then wrap it up in a buttered paper, which ought to be 
of one entire piece ; let it cook at a very equfd fire for 
three hours ; when done, take ofiP the paper* ; let the 
paste take a good colour, and send it to table with a 
sauce-boat of currant jelly. 

HARE. — Lievre. 

Gateau de Lievre. 
Prepare a hare, preserving the liver and blood; 
take off all the flesh ; pick out the skin and nervesf ; 
mince it and as much veal liver with the liver of the 
hare ; take as much of the noix of ham, mince it 
well, and add to the other ingredients in the mortar, 
and pound them all together into the consistence of 
paste ; add one of third rasped lard ; pound it anew till 
it is a perfect paste ; season with salt, fine spices, 
cooked parsley, and young onions, nutmeg, half a 
glass of brandy, six or eight eggs, one ^er the 
other, the blood of the hare and the juice of a 
clove of garlic: the juice is got by bmithig it 

' * Although Mr. Bouvilliers is not very correct in hk EafUik 
receipts, yet as there is something always to be learnt firom hin, the 
best of them are given. 

f It appears unnecessary to be always repeating " take off the 
akin and nerves,'* when it is so obvious that they ought not to be left* 



HARR 107 

with a little water in a spoon ; mix all well together ; 
cover a stewpan with thick slices of lard ; put in the 

JarcCy the thickness of two fingers ; have readj 
lar^e lard cut in fillets^ with pistaches and truffles, 
which are to be arranged alternately upon, the ^rce/ 
they are then to be covered with the same thick- 
neis oi farce, continue till the mould is full ; cover 
themi with slices of lard and paper ; put a cover over 
it, and place it in a baking-pan in an oven fbr three 
hours, but that according to its size; let it cool, 
heat the mould gently before it is taken out of the 
lard ; make a mark to show where it is to be cut, 
that the lard may be cot across ; serve on a napkin, 

' either as a large or small piece in^ eniremets. (Second 
course.) 

To Roast a Leveret* Levraut d la Broche. 

To choose a leveret, examine its fore-paws, if the 
protuberances are soft it is young ; take off the 
fore-paws at the elbow ; skin and draw it ; put the 
blood in a vessel; cut the hind legs half through; 
put one of them throush the knuckle of the other; 
break the thigh bones m the middle : stiffen it over 
the fire ; wipe and rub off the blood with the hand ; 
lard or barb* it ; put it on the spit and. give it from 
a half to three quarters of an hour to do ; serve it 
with a poivrade, which nmst be thickened with the 
blood without letting it boil. 

Juice of Hare. — Civet de Lievre. 
This civet is made as that of the chevreuil, or roe- 
buck, only that it is thickened with the blood* ^ 

Scollops of Leveret in blood. Escalopes de Eevraui, 

au Sang, 

Take one or two leverets, and afler preparing them 

take off the fillets and the noixf o£ the legs ; cut them 

the thickness and size of crown pieces ; beat them 

with a h^dle of a knife dipt in water ; arrange them 

• Barb, signifies cover it with slices of lard. 
f Tbe MiTscles of the legs. 

F 6 



108 FREWCU COOKERY* 

with the kidneys in a sauti pan, or a deep lilver 
in which butter has been melted ; put in a little lalt 
and large pepper ; baste them with melted butter ; kj 
over a round of white paper, and leave them till reaqr 
to serve; break the bones and the heads, and pot 
them with the parings into a pot with some slices of 
ham, some kidney-fat of veal, two onions stuck each 
with a clove, two or three carrots, bunch of parsley 
and young onions, a bay leaf and half a clove of garlic; 
moisten with bouillon^ and a glass of red burffundy; 
let it stew an hour or more, skim it ; pass it throujg^ 
a tammy, and set it again on the fire ; reduce it more 
than half; add three large spibonfuls of espagnoUf and 
again reduce it to the consistence of half-glaze ; when 
ready to serve, put the scollops upon a brisk firey 
and when firm on one side turn them upon the other ; 
drain them from the butter, retaining tne juice of the 
fillets ; put the whole into the ^met ; thicken with the 
blood and a bit of butter, ad^mg the juice of a lemon. 
If there is no espagnole make a little roiix; thicken 
the fumet with it before rubbing it through ; and to 
make it nearly the same as the above, reduce it again. 

FileU de Levrauts a la Provenfale. 
Take off the fillets, and after preparing them, lard 
them with anchovies (that have been refreshed) and 
lard; put wine into a stewpan with half a clove of 
garlic, some minced shalots, salt, and large pepper ; 
put in the fillets to cook ; drain them hot, and put into 
the stewpan two spoonfuls of coulis and as much con* 
iommey with halt a spoonful of tarragon vinegar; 
reduMthe sauce ; pass it through a tammy ; put it again 
upon tne fire, and skim it anew; taste every thing ; cUfb 
with the fillets over. 

FUeti de LcorauU en SerpenL 
Take the large fillets of three or four large leverets'; 
pare them ; form the large end into the shape of the head 
of a serpent ; lard the rest in two rows ; cover a stewpan 
with slices of lard ; put in tlie fillets, forming them 
into serpents ; season with a bunch of parsley^ young 



109 

a coTot and an onion ; half a glass of white 
and moisten the whole with comommS; cover 
vitk abuttered paper, let them boil, and leave them to 
slew a quarter of an hour with fire over and under 
dwBi; drain them upon a cover, ^Uae and serve upon 
a glooAJiumet (see Scollops ofLevereU). The legs and 
ilMNilders may be made mto a civet ^ or in the following 



Cvisses de LtvrauU en PapiUotet. 

Take the legs of six leverets, bone them to the 
knee, pass them in fine hashed sweet herbs ; let them 
slew nearly half an hour^ and finish them in the same 
■miner as cutlets of veal mpapillotes. 

Take either a hare or the l^s of leverets, pound 
tlie flesh and liver ; and rub them through a quenelle 
search; gather them up and have the same quantity of 
dried panadiL, which has been made of consomtne or 
houillom, as there is of the pounded meat; pound them 
together, and add as much buttor as pamada, that is to 
say, that an equal part of the three articles should be 
employed; then put in the blood, season with salt, 
fioie ^ices, nutm^, fine herbs minced small and done 
in butter; put in three or four yolks of ^gs one after 
the other, and finish with two whipt whites, which 
must be added lightly; poach a little bit, to taste 
it; if properiy made, shake a little flour upon the 
table, and roll it into the size of small bolomete 
utMsages; form then the puddings; strew a little 
flour upaik a (x>ver, boil them in grand bouillon ; let 
them cod, dip them in melted butter, roll them in 
crumbs of bread, grill and serve them upon 
Jumet as directed above. 

CudHs of Leverets. — Coiei p dk Levraut. 
Take the Ulets from three laree e -<>«uire 

and cut them into thi 1 

cutlets ; D ] e uu ; 

leverets ou nesh come m e 
hemes ni m < 
th 4> ] 



108 FBENCU COOKERY. 

with the kidneys in a sautS pan, or a deep silver dish 
in which butter has been melted ; put in a little salt 
and large pepper ; baste them with melted butter ; lay 
over a round of white paper, and leave them till ready 
to serve; break the bones and the heads, and put 
them with the parings into a pot with some slices of 
ham, some kidney-fat of veal, two onions stuck each 
with a clove, two or three carrots, bunch of parsley 
and young onions, a bay leaf and half a clove of garlic; 
moisten with bouillon, and a glass of red burgundy ; 
let it stew an hour or more, skim it ; pass it through 
a tammy, and set it again oa the fire ; reduce it more 
than half; add three large si^onfuls of espagnole^ and 
again reduce it to the consistence of half-glaze ;wlien 
ready to serve, put the scollops upon a brisk fire* 
and when firm on one side turn them upon the other ; 
drain them from the butter, retaining the juice of the 
fillets ; put the whole into thejumet ; thicken with the 
blood and a bit of butter, adding the juice of a lemon^ 
If there is no espagnole make a litUe roiix; thicken 
the Jumet with it before rubbing it through ; and to 
make it nearly the same as the above, reduce it again. 

Filets de Levrauii d la Provenpale. 
Take off the fillets, and afler preparing them, lard 
them with anchovies (that have been refreshed) and 
lard; put wine into a stewpan with half a clove of 
garlic, some minced shalots, salt, and large pepper ; 
put in the fillets to cook ; drain them hot, and put into 
the stewpan two spoonfuls of coulis and as much coii- 
sommSy with halt a spoonful of tarragon vinegar; 
reduM^e sauce ; pass it through a tammy ; put it again 
upon cne fire, and skim it anew; taste every thing ; dish 
with the fillets over. 

Filets de Le^rauts en Serpent. 
Take the large fillets of three or four large leverets'; 
pare them ; form the large end into the shape of the heaA 
of a serpent ; lard the rest in two rows ; cover a stewpan 
with slices of lard ; put in the fillets, forming them 
into serpents ; season with a bunch of parsley, young 



HARE. 109 

onions, a carrot and an onion ; half a glass of white 
wine, and moisten the whole with consommS; cover 
with a buttered paper, let them boil, and leave them to 
9tew a quarter of an hour with fire over and under 
them ; drain them upon a cover, glaze and serve upon 
a goodjumet (see Scollops of Leverets). The legs and 
shoulders may be made mto a cwety or in the following 
manner: 

Cvisses de Levrauts en PapiUotes, 
Take the legs of six leverets, bone them to ^e 
knee, pass them in fine hashed sweet herbs ; let them 
stew nearly half an houriiand finish them in the same 
manner as cutlets of veal in papillotes. 

Take either a hare or the legs of leverets, pound 
the flesh and liver ; and rub them through a quenelle 
search ; gather them up and have the same quantity of 
dried panada^ which nas been made of consomme or 
bouillon^ as there is of the pounded meat; pound them 
together, and add as much butter as panada^ that is to 
say, that an equal part of the three articles should be 
employed; then put in the blood, season with salt, 
fine spices, nutmeg, fine herbs minced small and done 
in butter ; put in three or four yolks of eggs one after 
the other, and finish with two whipt whites, which 
must be added lightly; poach a little bit, to taste 
it; if properly made, shake a little flour upon the 
table, and roll it into the size of small bolonese 
sausages; form then the puddings; strew a little 
flour upon a cover, boil them in grand bouillon ; let 
them cool, dip them in melted butter, roll them in 
crumbs of bread, grill and serve them upon a(||[^od 
fiimet as directed above. 

Cutlpis of Leverets. — CStelettes de Levraui. 
Take the nllets from three large leverets ; prepare 
and cut them into the size and shape of small mutton 
cutlets ; flatten and pare them ; boil the ribs of the 
leverets till the flesh come off easily ; prepare these 
bones nicely to form the cutlets in putting one into 
each; then put into a stewpan butter, rasped lard, 



110 FRENCH COOKERY. 

parsley, young onions, shalots and mushrooms, all 
minced very fine, seasoned with salt, pepper, and half 
a glass of white wine ; put in the cutlets over these 
herbs, let them have five or six minutes, arrange them 
en cordon * in the dish ; keep them warm, skim the 
herbs, and put in a spoonful of reduced consommSy 
with the juice of a large lemon ; mix all well, and 
pour this sauce into the well of the cutlets. 

RABBITS. 

Sautiy ou Escalopes de Lapereaux. 
Take the fillets of two rabbits with the less, small fillets, 
and kidneys ; cut them in small pieces, of an equal size, 
dip the handle of a knife in water to flatten them with, 
^d pare them; melt some butter in a ^au^^-pan, put 
in the scollops carefully, strew in a little salt ana pepper, 
and pour a little melted butter over them ; cover them 
with paper and leave them till ready to serve ; cat up 
the carcases of the rabbits and put them into a pot witn 
a carrot, two onions, one stuck with a clove, a bunch of 
parsley and young onions, a bay leaf, a slice of bacra, 
and some parings or dibris of veal ; moisten with coii- 
sommS and let it boil ; skim and let it cook about an hour ; 
skim and run it through a search ; let it reduce a third, 
add two large spoonsful of reduced espagnole; reduce 
it again, working it to the consistence of hvlf glaze; 
at the moment of serving, toss the scollops, stiffen 
them upon both sides, drain the butter but preserve 
tlie juice ; put them into the sauce, toss them ; put 
in a bit of butter, and dish with a border. (See article 
Bord. de Phi.) 

Iiillthe season, truffles or cucumbers may be cut, 
passed in butter, and added to the scollops. 

Fillets may also be larded with lard and truffle, 
done with fire over and under, glazed and served over 
a goodijumet. 

Filets de Lapereaux h la PurSe de Champignons* 
Take the fillets of six rabbits, prepare and lard 

* En cordon is in a wreath which leaves a well in the ctntic, 
into which the sauce or ragout is put. 



RABBITS. Ill 

them with middling-sized lard, cook them as abovei 

and send them to table with a,purSe of mushrooms ; they 

may be also served upon cucumbers, pease, endive, &c, 

Cuisses de Lapereatuc h la Dauphine. 

Take out the thigh bones of eight legs of rabbits, 
lard and marque them in a stewpan as Jricandeaux / 
cook them half an hour, glaze and serve under a 
reduced endive to the consistency of bechameUe. 
A Leveret Hash.'—--HachU de Lapereaux d la Por- 

tugaise. 

Take off the flesh of three roasted leverets, skin^ 
nerve, hash, and put it in a dish; break the car- 
cases and put them into a stewpan, with five large 
spoonsful of espagnole, two of consomme, and a glass 
of white champagne ; when enough, put it through a 
tammy, reduce it to half glaze, put in the hash 
with pepper and a bit of butter; vannez* without al- 
lowing It to boil, and serve it in a dish with a border 
of fried bread ; lay over eight or nine poached eggs ; 
which ought to be laid between, with a little essence 
^out them ; likewise small fillets may be introduced, 
decorated with truffles or larded. 

Fillets of Leverets, Filets de Lapereaicx ^ la Vopalliere. 

Proceed as above with undressed hares, only 
cut the meat about the thickness of two inches; 
marinade this in good oil, fresh minced truffles, 
shalots, parsley, and young onions minced very fine ; 
season with salt and large pepper, leave them in this 
pickle for two hours, thread them on skewers with 
this seasoning, wrap them in slices of bacon, cover 
them with paper and fix them on the spit; let them 
have a quarter of an hour ; take off the paper, and 
lard and serve them over a good brown Italienne^ 
heightened with lemon juice. 

Fricassee of Leverets* Lapereaux en FricassSe de 

Poulet. 
Take two very tender leverets, cut them in pieces, 

* Vanner is to lift and let fadl from the spoon, to mix thoroughlj 
together. 



112 FRSNCH COOKERY. 

wipe off the blood, put them into a stew-pan, with 
slices of onions, a bay leaf, parsley in branches, young 
onions, and a little salt ; give them a boil ; drain, wipe, 
and pare them anew; put them into another stew- 

Ean with a bit of butter, sautS or toss them ; strew a 
ttle flour over, moisten with the water they were 
blanched in, taking care to shake them, that the flour 
may not get into knots ; let them boil; put in mush- 
rooms or truffles, or both ; let them reduce, and thicken 
with four yolks of eggs, diluted with a little milk or 
cream, or a little of the sauce cooled ; and finish with 
a httle lemon-juice; remember, when that is not to be 
had, to employ verjuice or even white-wine vinegar. 

Giblets of Leverets, Gibelottes de Lapereaux. 

Take half a pound of petit lard or nice bacon, cut 
it in large dice, which fry white in butter, drain and 
put a little flour in the butter to make a rotix ; cut 
two leverets in pieces, and when the roux is of a fine 
white, put in the leverets ; let them harden, and add 
Ihe petit lard; moisten with half a bottle of white 
fine and some bouillon or water ; add salt, pepper, a 
punch of parsley and young onions, a clove, a bay leaf, 
and a clove of garlic ; while cooking put in mushrooms, 
skim, and take out the sweet herbs ; if the sauce is too 
thin, take out some and reduce it. 

Giblets ivith Eels. Gibelotte de Lapereau et 

d'Anguille. 

Proceed as above, adding an eel cut in junks, which 
must be cooked with the leverets, or separately, in the 
same seasoning. 

Rabbit toith Pease, Lapereaux auxpetits Pots, 

Make a little roux, cut the leverets in pieces ; when 
the roux is very white put them in and heat them in 
it ; add some dices of nam, and moisten them very 
much with bouillon ; put in a bunch of parsley and 
young onions, a clove, a bay leaf, and half a clove of 
garlic ; when it is near boiling, put in a quart of pease; 
salt and reduce the whole ; take out the sweet heibi 
before sending it to table. 



RABBITS. 113 

Timhale de Lapereaux. 

Prepare two young rabbits as above ; pass them in 
a stew-pan with butter, salt, pepper, parsley, young 
onions, shalots, mushrooms, and truffles hashea with 
fine spices, and a bay leaf; moisten the whole with a 
glass of white wine, and two large spoonsful of espO" 
gnole ; let them simmer, and when done take out 
the bay leaf and let them cool; then butter a 
mould of sufficient size, line the mould with rolled 
paste (see Pate d Pate) ; begin at the middle of 
the bottom in turning the paste till it arrives at the 
edge; take care that the paste lies firm over each 
other, then have ready a piece of paste for a dou- 
ble bottom ; it ought to be at least an inch larger 
than the mould, and about the thickness of a crown ; 
wet it, and after having rubbed the bands over with 
yolks, put it in, join it well by pressing it with the 
hand that no opening may be lefl ; then make small 
queneUes of godiveau, dress them all round till they 
nearly reach the top, then put in the leverets and 
mushrooms, passed or fried in butter ; make a cover 
for the timbaley wet the edges, put on the cover, join 
it, and dress it round ; let it be in the oven an hour and 
a half: when it has taken a good colour and ready to 
serve, turn it upon a dish, cut it open in the best man- 
ner, and put in a good espagnole. 

If there is not time to make the bands, butter a 
mould and powder it with vermicelli, put in a bottom 

and finish as above. 

■• 

Mayonnaise de Lapereaux, 
Cut two leverets, that have been roasted, in pieces, 
pare and toss them in a mayonnaise. (See Sauce May^ 
onnaise.) 

Lepereaux aiLx fines Herbes. 
Cut two leverets in pieces, pare and put them into 
a stewpan with butter, salt, pepper, parsley, young 
onions, shalots hashed, and mushrooms ; pass them 
over the fire for a quarter of an hour ; when they are 
sufficiently done, add the juice of a large lemon. 



114 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Lapereaitx aux Papillotes. 
Prepare the leverets as above, put them in papilldei 
(See Cuisses de Levrauts en Papillotes.) 

Marinade de Lapereaux, 
Cut two roajsted leverets in pieces, put them in a 
marinade (see article Marinade) ; when they are suf- 
ficiently done, drain and fry them in a pdte aJHre, or 
butter ; give them a fine colouri 

Rabbits in Salad.-^ — Salade de Lapereaux, 
Cut in pieces one or two roasted leverets, pare and 
arrange them in a dish, garnish with fillets of ancho- 
vies, hard eggs cut in quarters, beet-root if in season, 
hearts of lettuces, capers, well cooked onions, and other 
minced ingredients generally served with salads ; send 
oil to table with it. 

Rabbits in Soup.--^^ Terrine de Lapereaux. 

Prepare and cut two young rabbits in pieces, put 
them into a small pot with two or three onions, one 
stuck with a clove, one or two carrots, a bay leaf, a 
bunch of parsley, and small onions, half a clove of gar- 
lic ; moisten with good broth ; have ready half or three 
quarters of a pound of lard cut in dice with the 
skin on, blanched, which must be added to the leve- 
rets ; when sufficiently done, drain and put into a 
tureen, and masque or pour over a purSe of lentiUes 
or pease. (See Puree de LentiUeSy or Purie de Pois,) 

Rabbits roasted. Accolade de Lapereaux ^ la 

Broche, 
Prepare two young leverets, cut the fore-legs close 
to the body, and half from the hind ; put one leg 
through the knuckle of the other ; dress and beat 
them upon the back with the handle of a knife, lard 
one, and barb or wrap in slices of bacon the other; 
spit and baste them while cooking ; serve with a pot- 
vrade in a sauce-boat. 



PHEASANT. 115 



PHEASAN T^^^Faisan. 
Jf the pheasant is young it will still retain the first 
quill in the point of the wing ; the cocks are known by 
their spurs, which are long and pointed when old; 
they ought to be chosen fat and full of flesh. 

To roast a Pheasant ■■■ » Faisan h la Broehe. 
Pluck a pheasant, all except the head and tail, tak- 
ing care not to tear the skin ; having prepared it, barb 
or lard it, wrap up the head and tail in paper : spit it 
and lay the tail up over the back, and wrap the whole 
in paper : when done enough take off the paper and 
dish It. If for an English table send up bread sauce 
with it. (See that article.) 

With Truffles* Faisan aux Truffes, ou ^la Ph%* 

gueux. 
Prepare a young pheasant as for the spit, empty it 
by the craw ; it may be necessary to break the breast- 
bone, but be careful not to break the gall ; pick and 
singe it lightly ; clean a pound and a half of good 
tniffles; pound three quarters of a pound of bacon, 
put it in a stewpan with the truffles, of which the 
smallest have been minced ; set it upon a slow fire, 
with salt, pepper, and fine spices ; when enough 
let them be nearly cold, and stuff the pheasant, sew 
it up, lard it, leave it two or three days or more 
that it may be well perfumed ; spit, wrap it in paper, 
and let it cook an hour. 

Fillets of Pheasants, Filets de Faisan d la Vo- 

paUiere. 
Take off the large and small fillets, beat them 
lightly with the handle of the knife, and pare 
them ; melt butter in a sautS pan, dip in the fil- 
lets and arrange them in such a manner that they 
will not touch one anotlier ; strew a little fine 
salt, some large pepper over, and cover them with a 
round of paper ; prepare the six small fillets by lard- 
ing three and decorating the other three with little 



1 16 FRENCH COOKERY. 

crests of truffle : put them upon a tart-pan with melted 
butter and a little salt #giTe them the form of a half 
circle, and cover them with a round of paper : hav- 
ing roasted the thighs of the pheasants or done them 
in a stewpan with a little butter without moistening, 
let them cool and be prepared, then mince them yery 
small and put them into a covered stewpan; Vijumet 
having been made of the carcases in the same manner 
as the^ume^ de lapereau, run it through a cloth; add 
three large spoonfuls of worked espa^ole ; reduce to 
the consistence of halfglaze^ reserve a little to gl€Lze the 
entrSe ; toss the fillets, see that they are enough done, 
dish them, en couronne ; put the puree and tribes into 
the sauce with a bit of good butter ; shake, but do not 
let it boil, pour it into the middle of the fillets or the 
well, the small fillets having been tossed at the same 
time ; glaze them, and make a second crown upon 
the mince. 

Scollops of Pheasants, Escalopes de Faisans. 

Take off the wings of three pheasants, cut them 
into fillets of an equal size, make them into scollops 
as is directed in Scollops of Leverets, in a preceding 
article, melt a little butter in a saut^-^an and arrange 
the scollops; dust over a little salt and pepper, 
baste them with melted butter ; make Sijumet oi the 
remains of the pheasants as is directed (see Lapereau) ; 
add three large spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce to 
haHf glaze ; toss the scollops, dram off the butter, pre- 
serving the juice ; put them with the juice into the 
sauce ; toss and finish with a pat of butter, truffles 
may be added. 

Salmi of Pheasants. Salmi de Faisans. 

• 

Roast one or two pheasants, cut them up and pare 
them properly, put them into a stewpan and mois- 
ten with a little consommS; heat them upon hot cin- 
ders; put into a stewpan a glass of good red or white 
wine, three or four minced shalots, a bit of bitter 
orange-peel, three large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole, 



PHEASANTS. 117 

about the size of a nutmeg g£ glaze or reduction of 
▼eal ; reduce the whole, pound the skins and parings 
of the pheasants, put them into the reduction, moisten 
without letting them boil ; pass or rub it through a 
tanmiy like a puree; put this puree or salmi into a 
stewpan, and put it into the bain-marie; when 
ready to serve, drain the pheasant, dish it nicely, 
putting the inferior parts undermost, consequently, 
the wings and thighs will be all round ; let them be 
intermingled with hearts of crust or crumb of bread 
fried in butter ; put into the salmi the juice of one or 
two bitter oranges. 

Souffly of Pheasants, Souffle de Faisans, 

The same as Soiiffle de Perdreaux. 

Pheasant toith Sour-crout Faisan ^ la Chou 

Croute, 
Take a large pheasant, prepare and lard it with 
large lard, seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, 
parsley, young onions, and pounaed aromatics ; wash 
and press out a sufficient quantity of sour-croute to 
make a large dish, coctk it with a bit of petit lard and 
a Bolognese sausage, and add the top of a braise to 
nourish it ; give it three or four hours upon a slow fire, 
then put in the pheasant and give it nearly an hour 
more ; dish the pheasant, and with a pierced spoon 
drain the sour-croute and put it round the dish ; cut the 
Bolognese in slices, take off the skin and border the 
dish with it, in intermixing the petit lard cut in slices 
and sausages. 

Pheasants another , Way . Croquettes de Faisans, 

If there is a pheasant {de desserte), that is to say, that 
has remained from a former day, or even a part of it, 
croquettes may be made in the same manner as those of 
lapereau, (art. Farce.) 

Pheasants another Way, — Mayonnaise de Faisans, 
(See Mayonnaise de Lapereau.) 

Pheasant Pudding, — Boudin de Faisan b la Richelieu, 
Take the flesh off the pheasant, pound and rub it 



118 FRENCH COOKERY. 

through a quenelle search ; roast two large potatoes, 
take off the skin, and pound them ; gather them up 
and make balls of them separately, that the quanti- 
ties may be equal ; pound these two well together, add 
the butter, which must also be equal ; and pound 
them again ; season with salt, pepper, fine spices and 
nutmeg, and let nothing^ prevail ; moisten with five or 
SIX yolks one after another ; when theyare weU mixed 
with the^rc^, poach a little bit, to ascertain if it is at 
its proper degree and of a good taste ; whip three 
whites, and mix them well in : strew some flour upon the 
table, and roll up this farce into the size of large pud- 
dings ; put them on a cover and poach them, as is 
directed for the Boudin de Lapereaux ; let them cool, 
pannez them (d VAnglaisc) ; that is, to mix together a 
yolk, some melted butter, and a little salt to dip them 
in: when ready to serve, grill, and serve with a 
fumet^ made of the remains of the pheasant. (See 
Fumet de Gebilre.) 

PARTRIDGES. 

Red Partridges,^— ^Perdrix Rouges, 
The male is known by a protuberance upon the feet 
and the age by the sharp point of the feather at the 
end of the wing. 

Partridges, Perdreaux Rouges cL la Pirigueux, 

Take fliree partridges, draw them by the crops, 
singe them singly without heating the skin, do not truss 
the legs, but cut the point of the claws ; rasp half a 
pound of lard, and prepare a pound of truffles ; if large, 
cut them in halves or quarters, shape them into small 
truffles and mince the parings, pass them in the rasped 
lard, as directed Pheasant (^ la Perigueux) ; stuff the 
partridges with them and sew up the crop ; truss their 
legs outside and form them handsomely, let the stomach 
look flattened ; cover a stewpan with lard that can con* 
tain the partridges easily, with a little ham and flit of 
veal kidneys, a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, half a glass of white wine, a spoonful of con' 
somme, and a littb salt ; lay the partridges over this 



PARTRIDGES. 119 

seasoning upon their breasts, with some slices of lemon, 
cover with slices of bacon, and let them boil; then put 
them upon sl paillasse, with fire over and under, for 
three quarters of an hour ; drain, dish, and serve with 
a sauce ^ la PSrigueiM* 

To roast Partridges* — Perdreaux, ou entree de Brochc 
Prepare three paertridges, truss and skewer them» 
cover the breasts with slices of lemon, and over that 
with lard ; wrap them in paper, fix the ends to the 
skewers with packthread tied to the spit ; give them 
three quarters of an hour ; when ready to serve take 
off the paper, dish, and serve with clear juice in which 
a little large pepper has been put ; squeeze over the 
juice of a bitter orange. 

Perdreaux Grilles, 
Are done as chicken, only they may be stiffened in 
butter in a stewpan on both sides before they are laid 
upon the grille^ and sent to table with a sauce (au 
pauvre Homme). 

Salmi of Partridges. Salmi de Perdreaux. 

Prepare three partridges, barb and roast them, let 
them be under-done ; when cold cut them in pieces, 
take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stewpan, 
with a little consomme; put them upon hot cinders; 
don*t let them boil immediately ; add six shalots and a 
little lemon peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced 
Espagnole^ let it reduce half; pass the sauce through 
a tammy, drain the partridges, dish them with crusts 
of fried bread between ; sauce, and squeeze over them 
a little lemon juice. 

Salmi chaud oujroid. 

Pkiepare the salmi as is directed in the preceding 
article, finishing it a quarter of an hour before serving; 
take tJie partridges up; add to the sauce a large 
spoonful of jelly or aspic ; put the stewpan in ice or in 
cold water, shake it well till it takes, then dip in the 
pieces one after another, dish them, and pour over the 
remainder of the sauce ; garnish this entree with fried 
crusts, as also with jelly cut in diamonds or otherwise. 



120 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Perdreaux, (See Pheasants h la VopaUHre,) 
Salmi de Chasseur* 

Roast three partridges as for the other salmis; put 
into a saucepan three spoonfuls of oil, half a dass of 
red wine, salt, pepper, the zest and juice of a lemon; 
toss the partridges in the sauce in which they are to 
be sent to table. 

Perdreaux d la Monglat, ou Salpifon en Curvette* 
Truss three partridges as fowls, barb and roast them ; 
when cold cut out the stomach in such a manner as to 
leave it like a basin ; cut the flesh in small dice, heat 
the partridges in a little consomme, keeping them warm 
till ready to serve ; put into a stewpan a piece of 
butter, cut six or eight fresh truffles with as many 
mushrooms, pass them in butter, with parsley, young 
onions, and shalots minced : moisten with a glass of 
champagne, and six large spoonfuls of con^omm/ worked ; 
reduce the sauce and skim it ; cut two or three fat 
livers, put them into the sauce with the minced meat, 
salt, and large pepper, give them two or three boils ; 
put in the partridges, heat the whole without boiling ; 
dish, and fill the breasts with the salpigon, serve with a 
sauce ofjumet, (See Fumet in the article LMpereaux*) 

Chartreuse of Partridges with Cabbage. Perdris 

aus Choux et en Chartreuse, 
Take three old partridges, prepare and truss them 
en poule * ; lard with large lard,season with salt, pepper, 
and fine spices, pounded and sifled aromatics, parsley 
and small onions minced ; cover a stewpan witn some 
parings of veal, two carrots, two onions, and half a dove 
of garlic ; put in the partridges, cover with slices of 
laltd,moisten with some good stock, let it boil, and cover 
it with a round of buttered paper and the cover of the 
stewpan ; put it on a paillasse with fire over and under, 
give it about an hour and a quarter ; in the mean time 
prepare the cabbage in the same manner as beef (oti 
choux)y in which cook a Bolognese sausag^and a bit 
of petit lard ; cut thirty red carrots, as many tunup«» 

* En iKuU, as a fowL 



PARTRIDOES. 121 

make them the size of a shilling, their length must be 
that of the mould used ; blanch these roots ; drain and 
cook them in consommd with a little sugar to take off 
the acid ; having allowed the Bolognese and the petit 
lard to cool, butter a mould, put a round of paper in 
the bottom and a band round the sides reaching the 
top; cut the sausage in thin slices and the lard in 
dices of the same thickness ; put in the centre of the 
mould a slice of sausage, then round it the dices of the 
petU lardy and continue to cover it in this manner ; 
then dress the sides of the mould with the formed car- 
rots and turnips alternately very close together; 
press out the cabbage, cover the bottom of the mould 
and the sides strengthening the wall ; leave sufficient 
room in the middle for the partridges ; put the breasts 
down, and fiU up the mould with cabbage ; press it well 
in so that it may be firm, and leave nothing over the 
edge of the mould ; put on a cover, and put it in the 
hairi'marie; pass the seasoning through a gauze search; 
add three large spoonsful of reduced espagnole in the 
following manner : let it reduce, skim, bring it to half 
siaze ; turn out the chartreuse ; take the paper care- 
fully off, and spunge it all over with the corner of a 
dow with the glaze^ and sauce with it. 

Another V/ay^^^-^^ Autre Maniere de dresser les Perdrix 

aux Choux. 
Dish the partridges, squeeze the cabbage in a cloth, 
cut them nicely like sausages, en batons, so that they 
may stand round the partridges ; garnish them with 
BoIfKnese petit lard cut in slices and sausages (i la 
Aipolata ; sauce as above. 

Another Way. Mayonnaise de Perdreaux. * 

Roast three partridges, leave them to cool, cut them 
in pieces, put them in a vessel with four shalots, a lit- 
de tarragon and burnet minced, four spoonsful of oil, 
duree large ones of broken jelly, a little pepper, 
nit, and % large spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; toss all 
well together, dish the partridges, putting the breasts 
and backs at the bottom, and the other pieces round ; 

6 



122 FRENCH COOKEHT 

marque with a good mayonnaue; the dish may be 
garnished with jelly. 

Another Way. Sauti de Filets de Perdreaux. 

Prepare four partridges, Faisans ^ la VopallQre; 
melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute pan, 
dip and arrange the filets one after the other, strew 
oyer a little salt and cover with a round of paper; 
make &Jumet of the carcases (see Fumety article Sizut6 
de Lapereaux) ; add to the reduced Jumet four larse 
spoonfuls of espagnole; reduce, skim, and when ready 
to serve, toss the fillets ; they are done enough when 
they resist the touch ; drain them, dish them en am- 
ronney putting between each a fried heart of bread 
which has been glazed; finish with a pat of butter; 
baste the bread and sauce. This dish may be derved 
with truffles. 

Pur'Se de Perdreaux. (See PurSe de Gibier,) 

Souffiy of Partridges. SouffU de Perdreaux. 

Roast two partridges, take on^the flesh and pound 
them, adding die livers that have been blanchea ; put 
it into a stewpan with four large spoonfuls of reduced 
espagnole, heat it without boiling and rub it through a 
search ; gather what remains on the outside together 
with a knife, and put the whole in a dish ; put in a 
stewpan four large spoonfuls of espagnole and two of 
consomm^ ; break the carcases and put them in ; cook, 
skim, and put it through a search ; reduce, and pat in 
the size of a small walnut of glaze or reduction of veil ; 
take it off the fire and put in the pur^e, mix ahog^fter; 
p\ft in the size of an egg of good butter, a litUe nut- 
meg, and the yolks of four fresh eggs, the white of 
which must be whipt apart as for biscuit ; mix them 
by little and little into the purSe though hot, tnSk all 
well, and pour it into a silver dish or paper mould, 
round or square ; put it in the oven ; when the w^ffU 
is well risen toucn it lightly, if it resist a little it it 
enough ; it must be served immediately, as it ia apt 
to fall 



PARTRIDGES. 123 

Partridges •^"^^Perdrix ci la PurSe, en Terrine ou 

Entree. 
Lard three partridges as directed for Perdrix 
au Choux; cook them in the same seasoning, serve 
them with any pur^e, such as lentilles, &c. ; garnish 
with sausages, petit lard, and croutons or crusts cut in 
rounds and fried in butter. 

Partridge Hash, Hachis de Perdreaux, 

Roast two or three partridges, take off the flesh, 
suppress the skin and nerves, hash it very fine, break 
the bones, put it in a stewpan with four large spoon- 
fuls G£espag7iole and two of consomm^; cook this Jumef, 
pass it through a search, reduce, skim, and bring 
it to half glaze; take it off the fire, and put aside 
a part of the sauce which will be required to glaze the 
hash when it is served ; put into the remamder the 
minced meat with a little common pepper, nutmegs 
and two small pats of butter; mix the hash weU, 
dish, glaze, and garnish with fried bread and poached 
eggs. It may also be garnished with small fillets 
en sautoir between the eggs, or crests of tongue 
d rScarlate. 

Semelles de Perdreauut ^ la Chingara. 
Take the fillets of three partridges, pare them, and 
melt some butter in a stewpan ; turn them in the butter 
and cover with a round of paper; cut a nice-reddened 
veal's tongue into six pieces, making them the same 
sizd md. luiape of the fillets ; warm them in a stewpan 
with aiittle consomm4; take the parings of the tongue^ 
leaving out the skin ; cut them verv fine, having macl0 
a sauce (see Fumet de Lapereaux) ; pass and reduce * 
it, add three spoonsful of^ reduced espagnole, reduce 
to the consistence of half glaze; toss the fillets, dish 
them en couronne with a bit of tongue between 
each ; sauce with part of the sauce, put the hash in 
ivhat remains, mix it well, taste if it is too salt, soften 
it with a bit of butter; serve the hash in the well of 
the fillets. 

OS 



124 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Partridge Cutlets.^-^^CStelettes de Perdreaux* 
Take the fillets of six partridges, beat them a little 
with the handle of a knife ; take the smallest bones off 
the wings, scrape and put them into the fillets in such 
a manner that they shall retain their hold ; melt some 
butter in a savti pan, put in the fillets, strew over a 
little fine salt, and let them stiffen ; drain, and let the 
butter cool a little; put in two yolks of eggs to 
thicken, dip in the cutlets, and grill them over red 
cinders; let them take a good colour, dish en 
couronne, serve with a clear or reduced ^m^^ poured 
over them, which has been made of the carcases ; put 
in some large pepper and the juice of one or two 
oranges. 

Pdt^s Jroids de Perdreaux. (See article P^es.) 

Remark. — There has been no mention made of the 
Greii/ Partridge, as both kinds are cooked in the same 
way. 

WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, &c 

Becasses, Becassinesy Becasseaux. 
The woodcock as well as the snipe is a bird of pas- 
sage, so that it is only to be had during the winter 
months ; it is much esteemed ; these birds are all pre- 
pared in the same manner, and never opened. 

To roast Woodcocks and Snipes. BicasseSf Bieoi' 

sines, SfC. d la Broche. 
Prepare three woodcocks without opening them* 
take off the skin of the head, truss up Uieir feet and 
use their beaks for skewering them; choose the Mbiest 
and lard it ; barb the other two ; pass a skewer be* 
tween the thiehs and fix the ends to the spit; half an 
hour will /in them : baste them and lav three tnasts in 
the drippinff pan to receive their fat ; when ready to 
serve take uiem up, dish the bread, and lay the wood- 
cocks over it. 

Another Way* Autre Manilre de les serxfir 3 la 

Broche. 
Draw or empty the woodcocks by the back, take 



WOODCOCKS. 125 

out the neck, mince, and add about half the quantity of 
rasped lard with the intestines, a little minced parsley, 
young onions and shalots, salt and pepper ; stuff the 
woodcocks, sew them up, cover them with slices of 
bacon, and finish as above. If they are to be served 
to the English, send to table with them a bread sauce. 

Solmi of Woodcocks and Snipes, Salmi de Becasses 

et de Becassines. 
Roast three woodcocks, and let them cool ; cut them 
up and cook as directed for that d, la Perdreauxy ex- 
cept that the intestines of the woodcocks are added to 
the carcases in making the salmi, 

Souffly of ditto, SotiffU de Becasses, (See also 

Souffle des Perdreaux.) 

Roast ditto, Becasses en Entree de Broche. 

Proceed in ,the same manner as for the Perdreaux 
^ VEntrte de Broche^ with the difference that the in- 
testines are taken out and seasoned, as for the wood- 
cocks d. la broche. 

Salmi de Becasses de Chasseur, (See Salmi de Per- 

dreaux de Chasseur^ 

Woodcock stuffed with Truffles and roasted, Becasse 

aux Tryffes, 
Prepare the woodcocks and void them by the back ; 
have ready a sufficient quantity of truffles cooked in 
rasped lard, with salt, pepper and fine spices, minced 
parsley, young onions and shalots ; let them cool a lit- 
tle, mince theintestines well, mix them with the truffle ; 
stuff the woodcocks, sew up the backs and truss them : 
lard and put them on the spit, as directed for wood- 
cocks h. la brochcy or marque them in a stewpan, and do 
them with fire under and over. 

Ditto hashed, Hachis de BScasses en Crustades. 

Roast three woodcocks ; when cold take off the 
meat and hash it very fine ; take out the gizzard, and 
pound the remainder with the intestines; put into a 
stewpan a large glass of champagne, with three or 
four sliced shalots; when this nas had one or two 

G 3 



126 FRENCH COOKERY. 

boils, add four laree spoonfuls of reduced espagndU; 
let it then boil and put in the pounded d(bris from the 
mortar ; mix it without boiling and rub it through a 
search ; in this state it is called a pur^e ; gather it to- 
gether, put it into a stewpan, and then into the ham' 
marie; make seven or nine large hearts or rounds of 
bread nearly three inches thick, fry them in butter, 
and hollow them out according to their shapes ; put 
the hash into the sauce and mix it well ; add a pat of 
butter, taste if it is good, fill the croustades if they are 
heart-shaped, dish them with the points inward, and 
lay a poached e^g upon each. 

PLOVER. Bicasse. 

The Golden Plover is usually roasted in the same 
manner as the woodcock, and is never opened; it b 
however made into different entr^eSf such as the fol- 
lowing : 

Plover, Pluvier au Gratin. 

Prepare and open four plovers, make dL force of their 
intestines, as directed for woodcocks, (article Ana^ 
ther Manner) ; stuff them with it; put in the bottom of 
a dish (Tentr^e nearly an inch of gratin; (see Gratin^ 
article Farce;) lay the plovers over it, fill up the 
spaces between, and bring the force all roun(( but 
leave the stomachs out, which must be covered with 
slices of bacon ; put it in the oven, or if it is cooked, 
lay it on the hearth ; let the fire be hotter above than 
below ; when ready to serve, drain and sauce them with 
a brown italienne. (See Sauce Italienne Rousse,) 

Another Way. Pluvier ct la PSri^ueux. 

Take four plovers and prepare them, put mto a stew- 
pan a dozen of truffles which have been pared, a bundi 
of parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, a clove, a lit- 
tle basil, salt, and a little large pepper ; pass them on the 
fire in butter, moisten with a glass of champagne and 
six large spoonfuls of espagnote ; cook the plovers in 
this sauce ; skim ; put tnem with the truffles into ano- 
ther stewpan ; rub the sauce through a tammy ; dish 
the plovers with a truffle between each, and arrange the 



THRUSHES. 127 

Temainder en rockery that is to say> pile them up over 
the ploTers ; the sauce being reduced, and lemon juice 
added, serve. 

Another Way, Pluviers en EntrSe de Broche. 

Prepare four plovers, open them at the back and 
make a Jarce of the intestines, as directed for wood- 
cocks ; stuff them with this Jarce, sew up the back, 
skewei and wrap them in lard cover with paper and 
tie them to the spit: when they are done, dish them 
and masque with a ragout of trumes. 

To roast Thrushes. Grives ^ la Broche. 

(See Woodcocks d, la Broche,) 

Another Way, Grives a la Flamande, 

Prepare and truss the thrushes without drawing ; 
put (hem into a stewpan with a bit of butter and 
a few juniper berries ; strew over a little salt, toss, and 
give them a good colour ; cover the stewpan and put 
a little fire under and over ; rather keep them under* 
done, and serve them with their seasoning. 

To roast Thrushes, Crrives d VAnglaise, 

Prepare and truss the thrushes without opening ; 
skewer them and fix the skewers upon the spit, and 
wrap them in paper ; when they are half done take 
off the paper and put a bit of bacon on the end of the 
skewers, let it broil and drop upon the thrushes ; pow- 
der them with a little salt and crumbs of bread, give 
them a good colour, and serve with sauce (au pauvre 
^iomme) in e^ sauce-boat. 

Quails roasted, Cailles d la Broche, 

Prepare and draw six or eight fat quails, wrap them 
in vine leaves and slices of bacon, leaving half of the 
claws out ; skewer and spit them. 

Quails toith Bay. CaiUes au Laurier, 

Draw and prepare seven quails, make a Jarce of their 
livers, with the livers of fowls, and raspt lard, a bay 
leaf minced very fine, young onions hashed fine ; season 
with salt and large pepper ; stuff the quails and skewer 
them ; wrap in lard and cover with paper, fix them to 

6 4f 



128 FRENCH COOKERY^ 

the spit, and when sufficiently done, serve them with 
the following sauce : 

Cut some slices of ham, sweat it; when it begins to 
stick, moisten with a glass of good wine, two laree 
spoonfuls of consomm&y and as much reduced espagnwe^ 
add two bay leaves and half a clove of garlic ; let it 
boil and reduce to the consistence of sauce ; pass it 
through a tammy ; have ready seven large bay leaves 
blanched; when the quails are enough, take off the 
lard and dish them with a bay leaf between each ; add 
lemon juice to the sauce, pepper and a little butter; 
pass, vannezy and sauce the quails. 

Quails witk Pease. Cailles au petit Pots. 

Draw and prepare seven or eight quails ; cover the 
bottom of a stewpan with barbs of ham and veal, a 
carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover 
the quails with slices of lard and a round of paper : 
make them boil and put fire under and over; when 
done drain them, and masque with a rago&t of pease 
(See Ragout depetits Pois au lard*) 

Cailles au Gratin. 
Prepare and bone nine quails ; cut a piece of the 
crumb of bread three inches and a half wide and two 
and a half in height ; let it be like a bung, put round 
it a slice of lard ; put it into the middle of a dish, 
cover it with gratiriy slope it to a high point, and 
see that it contmues its sloping to the edge of the dish 
till it comes to the thickness of half an inch ; stuff the 
quails with the same gratin (see article Gratin) ; dress 
the quails upon the gratin^ the claws out, but not be- 
yond the bread ; fill up the intervals between the quails, 
that the stomachs and claws may only be seen ; cover 
the breasts with slices of lard, put them in the 8ven 
upon a little grill, or on the hearth with a little more fire 
above than below ; let them take a good colour; when 
enough take off the lard, and cut out the bread ; drain 
and put in a good brown italienne ; glaze the breasts of 
the quails or not ; add crests of fried bread between 
each quail. 



QUAILStf 129 

Quails and Lettuce* CaiUes aux Laitues* 

Prepare and truss eight quails; cover a stewpan 
with slices of lard and one of ham ; put in the quails, 
pour a poSle over them ; if there is none cut some 
kidney lat of veal in dice, an onion stuck with a clove, 
half a bay-leaf, a sliced carrot, a small bunch of 
parsley and young onions; moisten with consomm^ 
and half a glass of white wine ; cover with slices of 
lard and a round of paper ; half an hour before serving 
make them boil and cook ; when enough, drain and 
dish with lettuces (see Garnitures) ; fried bread of a 
fine colour may be introduced between the quails 
after they have been sauced with a good reckiced es- 
pagnole in which a bit of ^laze has been dissolved. 

If there is no espagnoSs, let the quails be done a 
little earlier ; moisten the seasoning of the quails with 
a little roux; reduce the sauce; pass it through 
tammy ; work it anew, and sauce the quails with it. 

Quails in Crusts. Cailles en Crustades. 

Prepare six or seven quails; bone and stuff 
them with a gratin made of their livers mixed with 
those of fowls (see Gratin, art. Farce); sew up the 
quails and marjue them as in the foregoing receipt ; 
make as many croustades as there are quails, (see 
Hachis des Becasses en Croustades) ; when they are done 
draw out the thread and put them into the croustades ; 
dish and sauce them with a good Italienne, in which 
there is minced truffles done in butter, 

Q^ails mth Truffles Cailles aux Tniffes. 

Draw by the crop si:; quails ; clean and turn nine 
fine truffles into small ones ; mince the parings very 
fine^rith the quails' livers; season with salt and a 
bit of butter; cook the whole lightly; let them 
cool, stuff the quails ; then marque them in a 
stewpan, as directed for those done with let- 
tuce ; when done drain and serve them with a sauce 
a la Perigueux; (see Art. Sauce aux Truffes or ^ la 
Perigueux.) 

Q S ' 



130 FRENCH COOKERY. 

To roast Larks^ Alouettes d la Broche. 

Prepare twenty-four larks without opening them; 
wrap each in a slice of lard, and skewer them as they 
are done on a small skewer ; pass a pack-thread from 
one side to the other lengthways to secure the lard ; 
tie it to the spit ; cook them at a brisk and clear fire , 
put toast in the dripping-pan to receive the fat, and 
serve them upon it. 

Larks another Way. Alouettes au Gratin. 

Prepare fifteen larks ; cut them up the back ; bone 
them and fill them with gratin ; (see Crratin, art. Farce) ; 
cover a ^sh with about half an inch of the gratin ; 
lay the larks over it en pouronne, that there may be 
a well in the middle, as directed for quail^ au 

fratin; fill up with gratin, leaving nothing visible 
ut the breast, which must be covered with slices of 
lard; put them into an oven ; (these small dishes maybe 
cooked in a hearth-oven, or with fire under and over) ; 
let them take a fine colour ; when enough take off the 
lard and bread ; sauce with a brown Itdienne. 

Larks ivith Tniffle, SaiUe de Mauviettes aux 

Tniffes. 
Prepare four dozen of larks and take off the fillets ; 
melt some butter in a saut^-pan; put in the fillets like 
scollops, and put over them truffles cut like farthings ; 
put into a stewpan four spoonfuls of espagnole and 
two of consomtn^y and add the carcases or dShris 
of the larks from which the gizzards have been taken, 
with a glass of champagne ; let it stew half an hour ; 
skim and rub it through a tammy; reduce it to half 

flaze ; the fillets and truffles being cooked, drain off the 
utter, preserving the juice; put the fillets, truffles, 
and juice into the fumet, without allowing it to bbil ; 
toss it well, and finish with half a pat of butter. 

Cold or hot P^b of Larks. Pat^ chaud ei PiU 

Jrotd de Mauviettes. 

(See article Patisserie), 



PIGEONS. 13) 

RougeS'gorgeSi Ortolans^ Muriersy et Becfigues. 

Red'4hroatSy Ortolans^ Becpecker, Sfc. 
They are prepared in the same manner as larks, and 
often roasted. (See Mauviettes.) 

OF PIGEONS IJSr GENERAL* 

Des Pigeons, 
The wood-pigeon differs from the others in colour 
and taste ; the young are the best, which are known by 
their nails being shorter than the old. They are 
eaten for the most part roasted; the old are of no 
use but for the pot. , 

Wood Pigeons in pickle. Ramereaux en Marinade. 

Prepare three young wood-pigeons, cut them in 
two or four, and cook Qiem in a weak marinade (see 
Marinade) ; a little before serving them drain them on 
a cloth ; dip them in pate a frire ; fry them of a 
good colour ; drain and serve them as other marinades. 

Ramereaux Pod4s. 
Prepare and singe lightly three or four young 
pigeons ; truss them with their legs within ; cover a 
stewpan with slices of lard, and a slice of ham, 
a bunch of parsley and young onions, a sprig of 
sweet basil, half a bay-leaf, two onions, one stuck 
with a clove, a carrot cut in four, a small glass of 
red or white wine; put in the pigeons; cover with 
slices of lard; let them boil and put them on a 
paillasse with a moderate fire under and over; give 
them three quarters of an hour ; drain and serve them 
under apoivrade with a very little acid. 

Ramereaux h CEtouffade, 
Prepare the pigeons; prepare small lard; season 
with salt, pepper, parsley and young onions minced, 
fine spices, powder of aromatics ; it is necessary the 
basil should prevail a little; lard the pigeons; marque 
them in a stewpan as directed in the fbregomg 
article ; let them be well done ; dish them ; pass their 
seasoning through a tammy ; sauce and serve. 

6 6 



132 FRENCH COOKERY. 



TURTLE DOVES. 

Des Tourtereaux, 
The turtle dove is more esteemed than the wood- 
pigeon although drier ; the wild are of a better flavour 
than the domestic ; the male is distinguishable by a 
black ring about his neck ; like the others they are ge- 
nerally eaten roasted. 

FOWLS. VOLAILL E. 

Poulets. 
There are four kinds : 1st. the common fowl, which is 
used for fricassees and farces : 2d. the half fat fowls,, 
which are used in raw marinades^ curries, and different 
entrees which do not require large fowls : Sd. the 
small fat fowl, which is more delicate, and serves either 
for an entrSe or roasting: 4th. the large fat fowl which 
is commonly used for tiie spit : it is about the end of 
April that the young fowls become in season ; they 
are easily known by the whiteness of their skin, and 
the young points of their feathers are not easily 
picked out; their claws are more united than those 
of the old, softer to the touch, and of a light slate 
colour. Old poultry are fit for nothing but strength- 
ening broth and stock, the flesh being hard and dry. 

Fricassee of Fowls. Fricassee de Poulets. 

Prepare and truss two fowls; cut the nails; take 
out the craw (once for all) ; cut them up by taking 
off the legs ; cut off the drumsticks ; break the thigh- 
bones about the middle and take out half of the bone ; 
cut the small end off the stump and take off the 
pinions from the wings ; cut off me points ; cut the 
wings at the joint ; take care of the breast in squh 
ratine it from the back ; pare the ends of the sides; 
cut me back in two; pare the rump; cut off the little 
point and the tube ; pare the back and take out the 
intestines ; put into a stewpan two pints of water, a 
sliced onion, four sprigs of parsley, a little salt, with 



FOWLS. 13S 

the fowls; blanch them; let them have a boil in that 
water ; take them out and drain them on a cloth ; pare 
and wipe them; put the water through a gauze search; 
put into a stewpan more than a quarter of a pound 
of butter ; put in the fowls ; let them come softly over 
a gentle fire; throw a little flour over them; toss to 
mix the flour ; moisten little by little with the water ; 
add a bunch of parsley, and young onions, half a 
bay-leaf, a clove, and some cut mushrooms (see art. 
Garniture) ; let it cook, and skim ; if the sauce is too 
thin put a part or the whole into another stew- 
pan ; reduce it, and pour it over the fowls ; make 
a thickening with three yolks and a little cream 
or milk ; boil the Jricassee^ take it from the fire and 
thicken it ; put it on the fire to finish the thickening, 
but do not let it boil ; taste *^ and finish with half a pat 
Q^ butter, and the juice of a lemon or a little verjuice ; 
dish, beginning with putting the legs first, then the 
backs and breasts, and intermix the thighs and wings 
over all, and sauce it. 

Fricassee of f ends may be made hot or cold, as is di- 
rected for Salmi de Perdreaux chauds oujroids ; when the 
fricassee is thickened, which ought to be a little cool, put 
jelly to the sauce, and make it take in the same manner 
as for the partridges, but do not use bread to garnish. 

Frica^s4e of Fonds. Fricassee de Poulets a la 

Chenalihre. 

Prepare two fine fat fowls, and cook them as above, 
putting aside the wings, which ought to be larded with 
small lard; take off the skin and uncover the ends of 
the bones, polishing them ; if there is fresh truffle, gar- 
nish two wings with it ; melt some butter in a tartpan, 
put in the four wings, strew a little salt over, cover 
with buttered paper, and put them into an oven : the 
fricassee being prepared as in the last article, dish and 
sauce it, putting the wings over in the form of a cross ; 
after glazing them, between each lay a large craw-fish, 
and a large truffle upon the top to crown the entrSe, 

* Eyeiy sauce ought to be tasted. 



134 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Potdets en EntrSe de Broche, 
Prepare two fat white fowls of an .equal size ; singe 
^em carefully, open them by the craw and draw out 
die intestines with the hook of a skimming-spoon, 
taking care not to break the gall ; put into a stewpan 
about three quarters of a pound of butter, salt, lemon- 
juice and nutmeg ; mix all cold together with a wooden 
q^oon ; stuff the fowls equally with it, and truss them for 
an entrie^ that is, with the fec^t out ; tie the wings with a 
pack-thread so that the skin of the breasts may cross 
the back ; take the skin off a lemon quite close, cut it in 
two, and rub the stomach and front parts well to 
make them white, and squeeze the remaining part of 
the juice over them ; cover a stewpan with shoes of 
lard, put in the fowls, an onion stuck with two cloves, 
a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a bay-leaf, 
half a clove of garlic, a slice of ham, and some parings 
of veal ; rub again with lemon, take out the seeds, cut 
it in slices, with which cover the breasts of the fowls, 
and over this lay slices of bacon ; moisten with a ladle- 
ful of bouUloTif or poSle ; if there is no po£le^ add a 
glass of white wine with die bouillon ; cover with paper 
and a cover ; let them boil, put them upon a patUasse^ 
and let moderate fire be put under and over ; when 
enough, drain and unlace them, let the butter run oat ; 
dish and serve under them a truffle sauce, a high w&i^" 
soned£5j9a^o/e, love-apple, ^arragoTi, aspic, mushroom, 
or a mixed ragouty &c. 

Potdets ^ I* /voire. 
Prepare and po(le two fowls as is directed above, 
except that the feet must be cut off, and polish the 
ends of the stumps ; when enough drain and sauce them 
with a sauce ^ Vivoire (see that article). 

FavoUmth Oi/ster Sauce. Poulets Sauce aux Huiirm* 

Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche^ or roast- 
ing ; cook them in the same manner, drain and dish ; 
put six dozen of oysters into a stewpan with their own 
mice, let them stiffen ; put into another stewpan four 
large spoonful* of reduced veloutif drain the oysters 



FOWLS. 135 

and throw them into the veloide; give them a boil, put 
in a little blanched minced parsley, a pat of butter, and a 
little large pepper ; when ready to serve, squeeze in a lit- 
tle lemon-juice, taste, and pour it over the fowls. 

FofwU xmth Truffle^-'-''^^Poulets Sauce aux Truffes* 
As directed above with Truffle Sauce. 

FcyuoU with Love Apple. Poukts aux Sauce Tomate. 

The same with love-apple sauce. 

Fotols with Tarragon. Poidets ^ VEstragon. 

The; same with VEstragon Sauce. 

Fowls as Lizards. Poulets en Lezard. 

Prepare two fine fowls ; cut off the legs and pinions, 
keeping the skin entire, even that of the throat; open 
them by the back-bone entirely, spread them upon a 
dean cloth, farce them with a Jarce cuite de votaille ; 
strip them, giving them the form of a lizard ; make the 
stuffed neck the tail, the thighs the hind legs, and the 
ends of the wings the fore legs, the breast the back, 
and for the head a truffle cut into the shape, or a tur- 
nip, which must be introduced into the body ; soften 
some of the Jarce cuite with a little veloute, spread it 
thinly over the back of the lizard, decorate it with dif- 
ferent coloured omelets, white, green, red, and yellow ; 
imitate the rich colours of the animal (see petites ome" 
lettes) ; cover an oval stewpan with barbs of lard, put 
in the lizards, taking care to preserve their form; 
poele them as fowls ^ V entree de broche ; cover with 
strong paper and a cover ; let them boil, and then sim- 
mer wifli very little fire over, as it would alter the co- 
lour ; when done drain them, and serve them upon a 
ravigote or Hollandaise verte. (See these articles.) 

Fowls with Pease. Poulets aux Pois. ^^ 

Take half a pound of the breast lard, cut it in large 
dice, take off the skin and blanch it ; drain and put it 
into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; 
make a roux (see that article) ; pass the lard in it, 
letting it brown a little ; when it is a fine white, put 
in two young fowls, cut up as for a.Jricassee; moisten 
with a ladle-full of bouiUon, mix it well ; season with 



136 VRENCH COOKERY. 

parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, and a clove ; let 
It boil, put in a quart of young pease, cook it over a 
strong fire, without a cover ; skim it ; when done, dish 
the fowls, and reduce the sauce if too thin ; taste, 
masque the fowls, and send to table. 

Another Way, Autre Fa^on dejricasser des Potdets 

aux Pots et au Blanc, 
Prepare two young fowls as for the Jricassie ; put a 
piece of butter m a stewpan with them, parsley, young 
onions, salt, two small onions, toss them and let them 
boil ; cover and cook them slowly, with fire under and 
over them ; when half done put in a quart of young 
pease which have been handled in water, and a smaU 
bit of butter ; drain them in a cullender, let them sweat 
and cook together, tossing them from time to time; 
when enough, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and 
the onions ; thicken with a large spoonful of good re- 
duced veloute ; if there is no velouiSy mix a little butter 
with flour, and thicken with it ; serve thisjricass^ as 
the foregoing. 

Foiu)ls mth Craw-Fish Sauce. Potdets au Beurre 

d'Ecrivisse. 

Prepare and cook the fowls as is directed (Poulets 

en entrSe de broche); put into a stewpan four spoonfuU 

of reduced veloutSy and about the size of an egg of 

beurre d'ecrivisse ; pass it over the fire, and work it; 

put it into the dish, and lay the fowls over it. 

To roast Fowls. Poulets ^ la Broche pour R6t. 

Take two large fine fat fowls or three small ones (J 
la reine *) ; lard one of the large ; if they are small, one 
or two ; cover with barbs of lardf , wrap them in paper 
and roast them ; when they are three-fourths done, 
take off the paper, and let them finish drying the lardr 
let them take a nice brown, and if there is Buy glaze^ do 
the lard gently with a brush ; dish them upon cresset 
seasoned with salt and vinegar. 

• The name given to fine small white fat fowls, 
t Barbs of lard, is bacon cut over in large thin slices, so that any 
thing may be wrapt in or covered with it. 



•, 



FOWLS* 137 

Foods xxtiih Green Sauce, Poulets ^ la HoUandaUe. 

Prepare and cook two fowls as for an entree de 
hroche; drain and put them into a stewpan, take four 
large spoonfuls of reduced veloutSy with a bit of glaze 
the size of a thumb, or veal stock, and as much green 
of spinnage ; toss and vannez the sauce; when ready to 
serve, add some lemon-juice ; put the sauce in the dish, 
and serve the fowls over it. It is necessary that they 
should be very white. 

Grilled Fotvls. Poulets ^ la Tartare* 

Prepare two fowls, truss them en poule, that is, the 
1^ as for boiling ; open them down the back, flatten, 
break the thigh-bones ; put a bit of butter into a stew- 
pan, with salt and large pepper ; let them boil, and 
cook them with fire under and over ; a quarter of an 
hour before serving, pass them*, and put them upon the 
gridiron over a moderate fire, taking care to turn them 
two or three times to give them a fine colour, and serye 
onder a sauce {a la Tartare), 

Fovds another Way. Poulets Sauce au pauvre 

Homme, et diverses autres. 

Prepare the fowls as is directed above, taking off the 
necks and legs ; cut them down the backs and flatten 
them ; cook them half in butter with salt and pepper ; 
finish (without passing them) upon the gridu'on, 
and .serve under a sauce au pauvre hommcy tarragon, 
love-apple, or any other. 

Foius xoitk Truffles. Poulets a la Perigueux, 

Pirepare two fine white fat fowls, they must be drawn 
by the craw ; clean two pounds of truffle, make the 
small ones as equal as possible ; put a pound of ra^ed 
lard into a stewpan ; put in the truffles with their 
parings which have been minced, salt, lai:ge pepper, 
fine spices, nutmeg, and a bay-leaf, which must be 
taken out afterwards ; let them simmer half an hour 
upoa a slow fire, shaking them carefully ; take them 
off the fire, and let them cool ; put the fowls upon a 
cloth, and stuff them equally at the breast with the 

* Pass tbem, signifies to do them over the fire in a little 
butter to prepare them for grilling. 



138 FRENCH COOKERY. 

truffles, truss them en poulets (Tenirfe; skewer them; 
cover them with slices of lard and two or three sheets 
of paper; tie them upon the spit, and give them nearly 
five quarters of an hour ; take off the paper, dish them, 
and serve upon a sauce d la PSrigueux. 

Poulet d la Mayonnaise. 
Take a roasted fowl, and do it in the same manner 
as directed for the perdreaux h la mayonnaise. 

Salad of Folds. Salade de Poulets, 

Take two cold roasted fowls, (or dessert, that is to 
say, what has been left from a former day,) cut them 
up as for a mayonnaise ; put them into an earthen 
dish, season them in the same manner as a salad, add 
whole capers, gherkins cut in fillets, and other minced 
materials of that kind ; mix altogether ; dish it as a 
JHcass^e de poidets ; garnish the border of he dish with 
fresh lettuce cut in quarters, hard eggs cut in the 
same manner ; strew over the pickles, anchovies, ca- 
pers and gherkins, which were kept out on purpose ; 
sauce with the seasoning. 

Foxiols in Cream. Poidets ^ la Crime. 

Take two cold roasted fowls, cut out the breasts wid* 
the bones close to the thighs, take out the intestines, 
make a mince of the breasts of the fowls in the follow- 
ing manner : take off the white, skinning it, mince it 
very fine ; pare and pound nicely a veal's udder that 
has been cooked in the stock pot ; if there is none, use 
rasped lard or butter ; take the crumb of a penny roll, 
steep and dry it in rich cream ; put in an equal 
quantity of these three ingredients, pound altose- 
Uier; aad five yolks of eggs, salt, and nutmeg; try m 
Jarce ; add three whites well whipt lightly with 
a spoon, and two shalots minced very fine, washed 
and wrung in a cloth ; minced parsley may also be 
added ; mix altogether ; put two slices of lard upon a 
tart-pan ; fill the fowls with the^rce, unite it with a 
knife dipt in omelet; let the fowls have their original 
shape ; glaze them with yolk, and carve any design 
upon them ; cover them with buttered papei\ ^x it 



FOWLS. * 139 

round with a thread ; put them upon the tart-pan, and 
three quarters of an hour before serving them, put them 
into the oven ; let them take a fine colour ; dish, and 
serve under them a white Italienney or a sauce au su* 
primcy or one h Vivoire, All these will be found at 
their articles. 

Poulets en Friteau. 
Cut up two fowls as for a fricass^e^ put them into an 
earthen dish with slices of onions, branches of parsley, 
salt, large pepper, and the juice of two or three le- 
mons ; leave them to marinade an hour ; drain and put 
them into a cloth, with a handful of flour ; shake|[^em 
in it, and lay them upon a cover ; when ihejriture has 
come to its degree, put in first the legs, a little after 
the breasts, and then the wings, the back, and so on 
till it is all in ; when cooked of a fine colour, it may be 
served with six fresh fried eggs laid over, and a poiv' 
rode under it. 

Marinade de Potdets, 
Cut up two roasted fowls, marinade them half an hour, 
(see Marinade cuite) drain and dip them into ( p&te ^ 
frire) batter, which has been made with whites only ; 
fry the marinade as directed above ; when it is enougn, 
and of a fine colour, drain upon a cloth ; dish upon 
fried parsley, or only with a bouquety or small bunch 
on the top. 

Ditto forced Meat in Paste. Rissoles de VolaiUe. 

Take some parings of pufl paste, roll it out long* 
the thickness of a crown-piece, and thinner if possible ; 
wet the borders with a brush dipt in water ; lay upon 
the paste ( force cuite de volaille) in small balls from 
distance to distance ; turn over the paste upon them, 
and cut them with a paste cutter in crescents or rounds ; 
unite the paste well ; flour a cover, and arrange the 
rissoles upon it ; when ready to serve fry them of a 
fine colour. 

Ditto, Poulet en Capilotade. 

Cut up a roasted fowl; put into a stewpan three 
large spoonfuls of Italienne ; if there is none em^Uyj 



« 



140 FRENCH t;OOKERY. 

a sauce hacheey and in de&ult of that a pauvre homme) 
let the fowl simmer in one of these sauces a Quarter of 
an hour before serving ; dish and add to tne sauce 
gherkins cut in small rounds and fillets. 

Poidets ^ la SainUCloud. 

Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche ; take 
two or three very black truffles ; make little nails of 
them ; decorate the fowls with them, which is done by 
putting one into each hole made in the breast with a 
small larder ; it is necessary to make the holes at 
equal distances ; cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, 
an onion stuck with a clove, a turned carrot, a bunch 
of parsley and young onions ; strew over liie breast 
a little fine salt and a squeeze of a lemon ; cover 
with lard and a round of paper ; moisten with a poiUy 
or a glass of consomme^ or bouillon, with a glass of 
white wine, half a bay -leaf, and a slice of ham : three 
quarters of an hour before serving make them boil, 
put them on a paillasse, with fire under and over; 
when enough drain, dish and serve with a truffle 
sauce; if there is no veloute, pass the stock of the 
fowls ; put in a pat of butter, mixed with half a spoon- 
ful of fiour ; let it boil, and skim it ; reduce and pass 
it through a tammy ; put in the small dice of truffle, 
(as for the sauce en petit-deuil) passed in butter ; finish 
with half a pat of butter. 

Poidets ^ la Ravigote. 

Prepare two fowls as for an entree de broche^ or 
roasting ; serve them with a sauce ^ la ravigote. 

Ditto. Poidets d la Paysanne ou^la Demidoff, 

Cut up two fowls as for a Jricass^e ; put about the 
size of an egg of butter into a stewpan, and four 
spoonfuls of olive-oil ; pass it over a quick fire ; give 
them a good colour ; season with salt and large pep- 
per ; when half done, add two sliced carrots, four 
onions cut in rings, and a few branches of parsley ; pals 
them altogether ; and when the roots are coloured, 
moisten ihQpaysannewiih six large spoonfuls of Espa^ 
gnole ; shake it ; let it simmer softly over cinders for a 
quarter of an hour ; take care it does not stick. 



FOWLS. 141 

Potdets h la Reine, Sauce ^ la Pluche verte. 
Prepare and poSle three of these fowls, and masque 
them with 2l pluche verte. 

Ditto,'-'—^ Potdets ^ la Provengale. 
Prepare two fowls as for ?Ljricassie ; take a dozen of 
white onions, and cut them in half rings with a little 
parsley ; put the onions in a stew or saute-jpaxiy laying 
in a bed of onions and parsley, and one of fowl, till all 
are in ; add a glass of oil ; one or two bay leaves, and 
salt ; when they have boiled, leave them tp sinmier 
slowly ; dish and glaze them, putting the onions in the 
middle ; sauce them with a little Espagnole. « 

Boiled Capon. Chapon au gros Sel. 

Prepare a capon ; truss the legs within, barb and 
cook it in the stock-pot or bouillon ; try if enough 
done by pinching the pinion ; drain, dish, and put a 
little large salt upon the breast, and sauce it with re- 
duced gravy of beef. 

Capon with Rice. Chapon au Riz. 

Prepare the capon as above ; blanch three quarters 
of a pound of rice ; drain, and put it into a pot that is 
capable of containing the capon also ; lay it in upon 
the breast ; moisten with two large spoonfuls of con- 
tommS or bouillon ; let it boil and simmer upon a 
paillasse; take care to stir the rice from time to time ; 
try if the capon is enough done ; dish and skim the 
rice ; finish with a bit of butter, salt, large pepper, 
and a little reduction, if there is any ; masque the 
capon ; if the rice is too thick, put in a httle bouillon. 

Capon stuffed withTniffle. Chapon aux Tntffes* 

Irepare a capon as above; empty it by the craw ; 
use the hook of a skimming-spoon, and take care not 
to break the gall ; prepare two pounds of nice tru£9e, 
hash tne broken or miseenuy ones, cut m dice, and 
pound nearly a pound of fat bacon ; put it into a stew- 
pan with the truffle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and fine 
spices ; sinmier upon a slow nre about half an hour ; 
let them cool ; stuff the capon; sew and truss the legs 



142 FRENCH COOKERY. 

en long, that is to say, stretched out ; hang it if pos- 
sible two or three days ; barb, that is to say, cover 
them with lard; spit and cover them with paper; 
give it nearly an hour and half; if used for a remove, 
take off the lard, and serve it with pig's skin over a 
truffle sauce. 

Fowl roasted, — Poularde en Entrie de Broche, 

Pluck the wings and the head of a pullet ; truss up 
the legs, taking care not to hurt the skin ; pick it, take 
out the G^al, draw it by the crop, taking care not to 
break the gall ; mix a little butter with some lemon- 
juice %nd salt, with a wooden spoon, and stuff the 
pullet; truss the legs without; bind the wings; 
skewer, and rub the breast with lemon ; strew on a 
little salt, and cover with slices of lemon ; cover it 
with barbs of lard, and over these put several sheets 
of paper, tied to the skewers at both ends ; fix it on 
the spit ; let it cook an hour ; take off the paper ; drain 
and serve it with any sauce. 

Poularde aux Truffes, 
See Capon aux Truffes. 

Poularde ^ la Marechale, 
Pick and singe a fine pullet; empty it by the 
breast ; fill it with butter worked with a little salt and 
lemon-juice ; truss the legs out ; take out the canal ; 
lard the breast with small lard ; make it look as large 
as possible, and of a good form; marque it in a stew- 
pan as the potUets (en entree de broche), except that it 
IS only to be covered with a round of buttered paper ; 
let it boil, and then cook it with fire under and over: 
when enough, drain, and serve under it a ragoit h 
IdJinancQre. 

Poularde d la Saint- Cloud 
Only differs from the foregoing, by being stuck 
with cloves of truffle instead of being larded. 

Fotds. Potdardes d la Bigarrure* 

Take two small pullets, pick and singe thenif tike 
off the wings, the smaU fillets, and nervous skm off dit 



FOWLS, 143 

wings and pinions ; lard two of the wings with lard, 
and the other two with truffle half cooked ; marque 
these four wings in a stewpan covered with lard, a 
carrot, parsley, young onions, and two small oniona 
stuck with two cloves; moisten with a little con- 
sommi ; take care that the consomme does not reach 
the lard of the wings; cover with a round of paper; 
a quarter of an hour before serving, make them boil, 
and finish with fire under and over ; bone the thighs, 
and fill them with a salpigon made of tuiffle and fat 
livers ; sew them up, giving them the sAipe of a flat- 
tened fig ; cut the leg in two, and stuff the lower half 
into the thigh, that only a little bit m^y appear as a 
stalk ; lard two with nails of truffle in form of roses, 
and leave the other two white, to that end rub them 
with lemon ; marque them in a stewpan between 
slices of lard ; season them in the same manner as the 
wings; let them cook on a slow fire about three 
quarters of an hour ; when ready to serve, drain, take 
out the threads ; drain also the wings, and take the 
nerves out of the small fillets ; dish them without touch- 
ing one another from distance to distance, and put in 
crites of truffles the size of the small fillets ; sauce 
this entrSe with a worked reduced espagnole^ and 
the consomme that was made of the carcases of the 
fowls. 

FonxiUy Love-apple Sauce. ■ Poularde Sauce Tomate. 
Prepare a pullet as is directed for Poulardes en 
entree de broche^ and serve under it a love-apple 
sauce. 

Roasted ditto, —^ — Poularde a la Brochepour Rot, 
Pirepare a fine pullet, leaving its legs en long; barb 
or lard and spit it ; wrap it in paper ; and let it cook 
three quarters of an hour ; undo, and let it take a fine 
colour; cover the dish with cresses; season with 
salt and vinegar.' 

Ditto, — La mime avec une Hollandaise, 
The same as entrie de broche, and sent to table upon 
a hot Hollandaise, 



144 FRENCH COOXERT. 

Poularde en Entree de Broche. 
Poelez or roast a pullet, and serve with sauce au 
heurre (Tecrevisses. 

Poularde en Entrie de Broche h la Ravigote, 
The same as pullets ^ la ravigote. 

Poularde d VIvoire. 
The same as pullets a Vivoire, 

Poularde aux Huztres. 
The same as pullets aux huztres. 

Poularde Sauce ^ VEstragon. 
Prepare the pullet either in a.poeley or roasted, and 
«erve it with m tarragon sauce, clear or thii^k. 

Poularde au Beurre d'Ecrevisse. 
The same as pullets au beurre tecrevisses. 

Poularde h la Tartare. 
The same as pullets h la tartare, 

Poularde Sauce au pauvre Homme. 
The same as pullets sauce au pauvre homme. 

Poularde h la Perigueux. 
(See Pullets ^ la Perigueux,) 

Mayonnaise de Poularde. 
(See Mayonnaise de Poulets.) 

Poularde ^ la Crime. 
(See article Povlets h la Crime,) 

Marinade de Poulardes. 
(See article Marinade de Poulets,) 

Fillets ofFotds, Fillets de Poularde au SuprSme, 

Take off the fillets of three small pullets, skin them 
as nicely as possible, beat and pare them lightly; 
melt in a saute-pan some butter, dip the fillets enturdy 
in it, arrange them in the pan, strew over a little sdt, 
and cover with a round of paper :, take off the mx 
legs to make an entree either for that or the foUowing 
day ; make a consommS of the carcases ; reduce it neariy 
to glazCy without giving it any colour : put in six large 
spoonfuls of reduced vdoutSf and rather a laige 



FOWLS. 14*5 

of butter; salt vannez; toss the fillets and turn them; 
they must be kept very white ; take care that they be 
well done; cut six pieces of crumb the size and 
shape of the fillets, and pass them in butter ; dish the 
fillets en couronne^ putting a toast between each ; work 
the sauce and masque the entrSe ; if truffle is required, 
cut some in small rounds, like sixpences, and do them 
in a little butter and salt ; put them into a part of the 
sauce, and pour them into the well of the entrSe. 

Minced Fotvl xmth Cucumbers. Eminn^e de Filets 

de Poulardes aux Concombres. 
Take the breasts off one or two cold roasted fowls ; 
mince them; make a ragout of cucumber^ either 
white or brown ; when it is reduced and ready to serve, 
put in the mince without letting it boil ; if it is white, 
add two yolks to thicken it, with the size of a walnut 
of butter, and a little nutmeg. 

i 

Wings of Fovols tviih Endive. — Ailes de Poulardes 

^ la Marechale. 
Take three fine pullets, cut off the wings, and sup- 
press the pinions ; take off the skin with a knife, in the 
same manner as a slice of bacon is taken off; take care 
not to hurt the flesh ; lard them double and marque 
them in a stewpan, as is directed, Poulardes en bigar- 
rures ; when enough, drain them upon a cover ; glaze 
them of a fine white ; dish upon a nice reduced white 
endive ; form a rose of the wings upon the centre of 
the dish, and put a fine truffle on the top. 

Fofool. Poularde en Galantine. 

Open and bone a fine pullet by the back, lay, it 
on a cloth, cover it with Jarce cuite a la volaiUe^ 
about the thickness of a finger ; cut large lard, season 
it with salt, pepper, fine spices, pounded and sifted 
aromatics, parsley and young onions minced; also 
Urdons of some ^^oked ham, the same size as the 
other ; if it is the season for fresh truffles, cut some 
•bo of the same size, and dispose these lardons upon 
^/arce in such manner as to marble it ; cover over 
yn&tyarce; marble again with the lardons^ and coiv- 

K 



14«6 FRENCH COOKERY. ' 

tinue till it is finished ; then sew up the £owl aad give 
it as much as possible its own form; cover it with slices 
of bacon, and sew it up in a new cloth, and tie the 
two ends with a thread; cover a stewpan with carrots, 
onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, two or three slices 
of ham, a knuckle of veal, and l^e carcase of the 
fowl cut in pieces; put in the fowl upon the back; 
press the breast with the hand to flatten it a little ; 
cover the galantine with slices of lard; put in hotaUomy 
which must rover it ; cover with paper, and let it 
boil ; put onohe cover and set it upon a paillassey with 
fire over and under ; give it an hour and a half, or two 
hours; when enough, take it from the fire, leave it in 
the seasoning half an hour, then take it off and press 
it lightly ; flatten again the stomach as much as pos- 
sible, that a jell^ garnishing may lie better upon it ; 
pass the seasonmg of the galantine through a wet 
cloth; if the colour is not strong enough, reduce it; 
break two eggs, yolks, whites, and shells ; put them 
into the jelly, whip it, and put it on the fire, keep 
stirring it; when it begins to boil, draw it to the comer 
of the stove and cover ; lay over it some very hot cin- 
ders ; leave it to clarify from a half to three quarters of 
an hour ; run it through a cloth (see grand Aspic) ; let 
it cool ; untie the galantine ; take off the fat ; dish it 
upon a napkin, garnish with the jelly in any mamer 
that is most convenient. 

Fillets of Fold. FUets de Poulardes ^ la Beck- 

amelle. 
Take the breasts of two roasted pullets ; mince them 
very equally ; put into a stewpan nve large spoonfuls 
of oichamelley two of consommSy and a little nutmeg; 
mdke it boil, and work the sauce well that it may not 
stick ; when ready to serve, throw in the mince, and 
mix it carefully ; put it into a bordered dish ; if there 
is none ready, garnish with fried bread, or flowers, or 
leaves of pastry ; or send it to table in a vo/-a«-v«irfi 

Suffiy of Fo'wl SouffiS de Poularde. 






See SouffU de Perdreaux, 



FOWLS. 14f7 

Hiish qf Fotol. — - Hachis de Poularde h la Heine. 

Proceed as above, only make the mince much finer ; 
put bSchameUe and consomme into a stewpan; let it 
boil and work the sauce ; when ready to serve, put in 
die mince ; do not let it boil ; finish with a little butter 
and nutmeg; it must neither be too thick nor too 
thin. This hash may be served either as a great or 
small voUau-vent. 

Croquettes of Ffftd. Croquettes de Poulardes. 

Take the white part of a roasted pullet ; cut it in 
dice ; also some fat livers, mushrooms, and truffles, all 
of the same size ; put them into a saucepan wilij^ suffi- 
cient quantity of veloutSy and reduce to half glaze; 
thicken with three yolks, and add a little nice butter ; 
mix it well, and put it upon a well-tinned cover to 
cool ; then divide it into the size of croquettes, and 
give diem any form ; strew crumbs of bread upon the 
table, roll them in it, then dip them in an omelet, and 
again roll them in the crumbs, completing their form ; 
when ready to serve fry in a hot pan that they may 
not break ; drain them on a cloth ; serve hot upon fried 
parsley. 

Cutlets of Fotcls. — Cotelettes de Poulardes ou de 

Poulets. 

See Cutlets de Perdreaux. 

• . 

JBlanquette of FotuL *-— Blanquette de Poularde, 
Take the flesh of a cold roasted fowl, or remainder, 
and mince it ; put into a stewpan some veloute, reduce 
and skim it ; when ready to serve, put in the mince ; 
do not let it boil ; cook it with a little cream or milk, 
and put in a bit of butter; it must neither be too 
dNiek nor too thin. 

PiUets qf Foud. ^^ — Filets de Poularde h la Chingara, 
Take the fillets from three pullets as is directed 
^Filets de Poulardes) ; melt some butter in a saute-pan, 
9nd arrange them in it ; strew over a little fine salt, and 
cover with a round of paper; cut six pieces from a 
redded tongue, the same size of the fillets \ ^m\. \)ci.^TEk 

H 2 



148 FRENCH COOKERY. 

into a stewpsui with a little houiUon ; keep them waim 
without letting tliemboil; toss the fillets as directed 
au supreme ; when done, drain them ; dish them with 
a slice of tongue between ; if it is necessary that the 
entree should be larger, mix fried bread of the same 
shape and sauce, with a sauce au suprSme. 

Legs of Fotvls mth small Onions^ or as Stvans. — 
Cuisses de Poulardes en Canetonsy ou en petits Oignons, 
Take the fillets of three fine cold roasted pullets, 
taking care not to hurt the skin of the legs, which 
must be partly boned, leaving a part of the leg-bone 
which kpiext the claw ; fill the legs with a salpigon made 
of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms ; give them the 
shape of a swan's neck, the claw forming the beak ; 
fix it with a thread to keep its form ; make two in- 
cisions, one to form the height on the beak, the other 
upon the back of the claw, which represents the head ; 
take six fine large craw-fish with equal claws; boil 
them in stock ; take off the large claws ; make of them 
the wings of a swan by sticking them into the sides ; 
cover the bottom of a stewpan with barbs of lard; 
put in the cygnets as if they were swimming; lay 
upon each a slice of lemon, that they may be very 
white ; moisten with a poile; cover wiUi barbs of lard 
and paper ; three quarters of an hour before serving 
make it boil, and put it on 2l paillasse with a little fire 
over ; when done drain and unlace them ; serve them 
upon a green sauce (Hollandaise vert)y or beurre 
d'ecremsses. 

Legs of Folds another Way. Cuisses de Poulardes 

en Ballon, 
Bone six or eight pullets* legs, as in the foregoing 
article ; put them upon a cloth and stuff them with a 
salpigon; sew them up as poulardes en bigamtref 
marque them in a stewpan covered with barbs of laid; 
moisten with a. voile; cook them about three quarten 
of an hour ; wnen ready to dish, drain, rnd serr^ 
iunder them a good Italienne rousse. 



( 



FOWLS. 149 

^g* ofF&ods another Way, Cuisses de Poulardes 4 

la Bayonnaise. 
Take the hinder parts of two fowls ; keep the legs 
attached to the skin ; bone them entirely but the bit 
next the claw ; put them into a marinade of lemon- 
juice, salt, large pepper, and a bruised bay-leaf; let 
them be two or three hours in it ; when ready to serve 
drain, flour, and fry them in rasped lard ; cut four onions 
in rings; take out the hearts; fry; take care they 
are all of a good colour ; dish upon a poivrade sauce, 
and arrange the onions over. 

Legs ofFotvls another Way, Cuisses de Poulardes 

h la Livoumois, < 

Take six pullets' legs, and bone as above; pare; 
cover a stewpan with barbs * of carrots, two onions, 
parsl^j and young onions seasoned with aromatics and 
a harh of ham ; put in the legs ; moisten with a ladleful 
of stock ; cover it with some of barbs of lard and a 
round of paper ; turn some carrots into shapes ; blanch^ 
drain, and do them in stock till they fall into glaze; 
tdd a little bit of sugar to take off the bitter; put into 
a saucepan five or six large spoonfuls of Espagnole; 
add the carrots ; boil, skim, and drain the legs ; add 
a bit of butter to the ragout; toss it, and masque the 
entrSe. 

Legs of Fo/ods tvith Tniffle, Cuisses de Poulardes 

aux Tniffes. 
Bone six pullets* legs as is directed, (see Cuisses en 
ballon ;) stuff them with a salpigon made of truffles and 
fat livers; sew them up; marque them in a stewpan 
as is directed in the foregoing receipt ; finish in the 
same manner; drain, imlace, and serve upon a ragoid 
of truffles. (Ragout aux Tniffes^ 

Quenelles de Poulardes. 
(See Quenelles de Volailles.) 
Wings of Fowls ivith Haricots. Ailerons de Pou- 
lardes en Haricot Vierges. 
Take twenty pullets' wings, bone tnem to the half of 

* That is, cut in thin slices. 
H 3 



150 FRENCH COOKERY. 

the first joint ; singe, pare, and wipe them with a cloth; 
marque a stewpan with barbs of lard; put in the wings ; 
moisten with poUe or white bouillon; if there is no 
poSle put in some slices oi lemon without peel or 
seeds, with a bunch of parsley and young onions^ a 
cut carrot, two onions, one stuck with a clove, and 
half a bay-leaf; cover with harbs oi lard and a round 
of paper ; let it boil and cook upon a paillasse with 
fire under and over ; turn some turnips m the form of 
small corks, cloves oi shalotSy or in mushrooms; blanch 
and put tiiem in a stewpan with white bouillon and 
a little bit of sugar ; let Uiem be done on a slow fire ; 
put into another stewpan four large spoonfuls of 
velotUS; reduce it; let a quart of cream be boiled, and 
put it by degrees into the sauce, turning it con- 
stantly until it has acquired the consistence of a clear 
broth ; drain the turnips and put them into the sauce ; 
add a little nutmeg and a bit of butter, and toss 
them; drain the win^s; dish and masque them with 
the turnips, and garmsh round with slices of ham. 

Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes en Haricots. 

Prepare the wings as directed in the last receipt; 
turn the turnips in the same way, and fiy them a mic 
brown; drain and put them into a stewpan with a 
ladleful of Espagnole; let it boil, and throw in the 
turnips ; let them simmer and cook ; dish the wings and 
masque them with the turnips ; if there is no Espagnole, 
when the turnips have been fried, drain them, and 
put into the butter a spoonful of flour, and make a 
little roux ; moisten it with the stock of the wings ; boil 
this sauce ; pass it through a tammy into a stewpan ; 
add the turnips ; let them cook ; skim, and put in a Mxt 
of sugar; taste, and masque the wings with it. 

Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes h la Purie. 

Cook the wings as above, and marque them with any 
purSes d entrees. 

Another Way. — — Ailerons de Poulardes au SoUiL 
Prepare these wings as above, and dip them into a 



FO^LS. 151 

light batter {pdte a Jrire) ; fry them of a fine coIoufi 
and serve with a tuft of fried parsley over. 

Another Way. Terrine cT Ailerons de Potdarde^ 

Prepare a sufficient quantity of wings as above^ 
cook as much ^it lard as is necessary for them, and 
finisb in the manner directed in the article Mouton dit 
Terrine. 

Another Wau. AUerons de Poulardes pique et glacee. 

Take twelve or fifteen wings ; after preparing and 
bonmg them, lard them double; put into the bottom of 
a stewpan a little veal-kidney fat, one or two slices of 
ham, an onion stuck with a clove, a cut, carrot, a 
bunch of parsley and youtig onions ; arrange the wings 
with the larded sides up, that they may not touch the 
seasoning ; moisten with good broth, and cover with a 
round of paper ; let them boil, and cook upon a paillasse 
with a quick fire under and over, that they may take 
a fine colour ; when enough, pass their stock through a 
gauze search ; let it fall almost to glaze in a saut^-^axiy 
which ought to be large enough to contain the wings 
without being placed one upon another; turn the 
larded sides under into the glaze, that they may be 
wet with it ; put the pan upon hot cinders ; when they 
are glazed dish them with a fork, the larded sides 
upward; put to the remainder of the glaze a large 
spoonful oiEspagnole and one of consomme; let it boil ; 
detach the glaze, and sauce the wings with it 

Another Way.-— ^ Ailerons de Poulardes d la Chicoree, 
Prepare these pullets' wings as above ; cook theix^ 
in the same manner, and send them to table over a 
good chicoree blanche. » 

Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes ^ la pluche 

Verfe. 
Prepare fifteen wings of pullets as above ; cover a 
stewpan with slices of veal and ham, a dozen mush- 
room stalks, half a shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a little 
basil ; put in the wings; cut two carrots and two onions 
in slices ; cover the wings with them ; moisten with. 

H 4< 



152 7RENCH COOKERY. 

tonsomme or bouillon ; let them boil, and put them upon 
a paillasse with fire under and over ; when enoD^, 
pass the stock through a silk search; add a little 
bit of butter worked in floor; thicken by turning 
and shaking; reduce it to the consistence of sauce; 
add a few parsley leaves that have been blanched; 
a little lemon-juice and large pepper; dish the wings, 
and masque them with the sauce. 

Another Way. Ailerons de Poulardes h la ViUe RoL 

Prepare twelve or fifteen wings of pullets; bone 
them to the first joint, and stuff diem with farce cuiU 
de vokdUes ; marque ihem in a stewpan as the wings 
larded and glazed, and do them in the same manner; 
when done, drain and put them on a tart-pan ; cover 
them with a sairUe-menekould ; strew them with crumbs 
of bread mixed with the same quanti^ of rasped 
parmesan; give them a good colour in the oven, and 
serve them dry* 

Cocks* Combs and Kidneys. Crkes et Rognont au 

veJoute. 
Prepare and do them in a hlanc ; drain, and put them 
to a sufficient quantity of reduced veloute; let them 
simmer some minutes ; thicken ; add a Httle butter and 
lemon-juice. 

Grand Aspic de CrStes et de Rognons* 
Take an aspic mould ; if there is none of the sixe 
use a stewpan; put it within another vessel filled 
with broken ice ; run into the mould the depth of an 
inch of aspic; decorate it fancifully with truffles, lard, 
yolks, gherkins, tails, spawn of craw-fish, cocks* combs 
and kidneys ; then run in more aspicy taking care not 
to derange the decorations ; when it has again taken, 
fill up the mould with the combs and kidnejrs, leavinc 
two inches all round clear, which must be filled wi£ 
aspicy as well as the mould entirely, so that it may 
come out in one piece; when ready to serve, d^ 
die mould into warm water; turn it over upon a 
cover, leaving the mould; when* it is well placed, run it 
carefully on a dish, and take the mould off; remove 



YOWLS. 15S 

1 

the jelly which has run with a straw ; wipe the dish, 
and serve. 

There may also be made in the same manner aspics 
of the white of fowls, fillets of hare or partridges ; if 
the mould is formed with a well, it ^lay be filled with 
a mayonnaisCy or a ravigote h la geUe* 

Kidneys and Combs in Jelly. PetiU Aspics de Crita 

et de nognons. 
Proceed as the above, making what quantity may be 
sufficient for the dish. 

Fat Livers, — Foies gras h la Periguetuc. 
Take seven fat livers of pullets; lard them with 
truffle nails*: marque them in a stewpan over barbs of 
lard ; moisten with a good mirepois ; if there is no mi' 
repois put equal quantities of white wine and consommi, 
8ut, a sliced carrot, a clove stuck in one or two small 
onions, a bunch of parsley and young onions, half a bay 
leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; cover with slices of 
bacon and around of paper ; let them simmer rather more 
than twenty minutes, upon z. paillasse, with fire under 
and over ; when done, drain, dish, and sauce them with a 
Perigueux; a crust of fried bread maybe put between 
each, and a fine truffle in the middle. 

Another Way. Foies gras au Gratin. 

Take a silver dish, or any other that will stand the 
oven, and can be presented at table ; cover the bottom 
with about an inch of gratin ; have ready, as in the 
foregoing article, six or seven nice fat white livers, ar- 
range them upon the gratin, leaving a well in the mid- 
dle ; fill up all the intervals between the livers in such 
a manner that they form but one piece, having united 
it all nicely with the blade of a knife ; cover it with 
buttered paper, put it in the oven ; when done, take 
off the paper, open the well, and pour in a reduced 
Espagnole or brown Italienne. See Mauviettes au Gratin* 

Another Way. Foies grae en Matelote. 

Prepare six fat pullets' livers as directed above ; 

* Wfaich are cut firom truffles. 
H 5 



154* TRENCH COOKERY. 

Uanch and cook them as fbr a PSrigueux; drain ft&d 
dish them, and sauce with a matelote : the entr^ majr 
be enlarged or enriched by the addition of fried bread 
and truffles, or either. 

Another Way, Foies gras en Cais»e, 

Make a round or square case, two inches and a half 
high, and of a suitable size for the dish it is intended 
to serve it on ; oil it on the outside, cover the bottom 
with about an inch of gratin ; having i^x fat livers pre- 
pared, put them into a stewpan wiQi a bit of butter, 
minced parsley, young, onions, and mushrooms, salt, 
pepp^ and fine spices ; pass them over the fire ; put 
the case upon the grill, and put in the livers with the 
herbs ;. let them do over a slow fire ; when done, put 
the case upon a dish ; sauce with a eood reduced Es- 
pagnole and a little lemon-juice ; if mere i^pears any 
butter swimming, skim it off. 

Another Way, Hatelettes de Foies grat. 

See Hatelettes de Ris de Veau, 

Another Way, Coquilles de Foies gras. 

Prepare the necessary livers, cut them in slices, add 
minced mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and small onions, 
salt, pepper, fine spices, and a bit of butter ; put the 
whole into a stewpan, and pass them over the fire; 
moisten with a little Espa^ole and champagne ; reduce 
to a thick sauce, and fill the scollop shells ; strew over 
crumbs of bread, and give them a fine colour in the 
oven. 

TURKIES Dindes, 

Turkey roasted xvith Tniffle, Dinde aux Truffts et 

cL la Broche. 
Take a white fat turkey hen ; prepare and open it al 
the craw ; take care not to break the gall ; if that should 
happen, it will be necessary to wash it, by putting se- 
veral waters through the body ; take tnree or four 
pounds of truffle, clean it with care ; take out any musty 
ones, and hash those that are defective ; pound a pound 
of fat lard, put it into a stewpan with the minced 
truffles, as also the whde ones ; season with salt, large 



TURRISS. 155 

pepper, fine spices, and a bay leaf; pass the whole 
upon a slow nre, and let them simmer from a half to 
three quarters of an hour, take them off the fire and 
shake them well ; let them be nearly cold when the tur- 
key is stuffed with them, which must be to the throat ; 
sew it up ; truss and cover it with slices of bacon ; 
leave it three or four days to take the perfume ; spit it; 
wrap it in strong paper ; give it two hours ; take the 
paper off, and let it take a good colour. 

Another Way, Dinde en Galantine, 

The same as Pomardes en Galantine, 

Another Way, Dinde en Daube, * 

Take an old turkey ; prepare and blancN the legs ; 
truss it enpoidey that is, with the legs within ; cut large 
lard; season with salt, pepper, fine spices, aromatics 
pounded and sifted, parsley and young onions minced 
small ; roll the lard well in this seasoning, then lard the 
turkey crossways all over ; truss it and wrap it in a 
cloth*, sew and tie the two ends ; cover a stewpan with 
sliced lard, and parings of veal, some slices of ham, 
and any remainders of the seasoned lard ; if con- 
venient, it would not be the worse if a knuckle of 
veal ; lay the turkey over this bottom arjbnd, and add 
salt, a large bunch of parsley and onions, two cloves 
of garlic, two bay leaves, two or three carrots, and 
four or five onions, one of which must be stuck with 
three cloves ;v moisten with bouillon and a glass of 
good brandy ; the turkey must be covered in the 
liquor ; cover with some slices of bacon and buttered 
paper-; let it boil, and put it upon a paillasse with fire 
under and over ; surround it with red cinders ; let it 
»mmer in this manner four hours ; when half done, 
turn the turkey, and taste if properly salted ; when 
enough, take it from the fire, let it nearly cool in the 
£easoning ; drain ; pass the seasoning through a gauze 
search ; clarify in the same manner as the grand aspic, 
let it cool ; unlace, dish, and garnish with the jelly. 

* Cloths for this purpose ought never to be washed with soap, 
but letsived with wood ashes. 

H 6 



156 7RENCH COOKERY. 

This turkey may also be served hot with part of 
the stock reduced. 

TurUes* Wings done in the same manner as those of 

Fou)ls. Ailerons de Dindons accommodes de toutes 

Jagons. 
See Ailerons de Poulardes. 

PIGEONS. 

House Pigeons tvithPease, — Pigeons aux Petits Pois* 
Take three or four pigeons and prepare them, re- 
turning the livers into their bodies ; truss them with 
legs within; pick, and singe, and put a bit of butter 
into a stewpan; let them stLflFen, and take them out; 
cut some petit lard in large dice; put it to steep 
half an hour; pass it in the butter to give it a fine 
colour ; drain it, and put into the butter a spoonful of 
flour; make a littf^ roux ; let it be very white ; put in 
die piseons and lard ; turn them in the roux; moisten 
Dy little and little with bouillon^ and bring it to the 
consistence of sauce ; turn it till it boils ; season with 
parsley and |roung onions, half a bay leaf, half a clove 
of garlic, ^d a clove ; draw the stewpan to the cor- 
ner of the stove to simmer ; when they are half done, 
put in a quart of young pease ; take care to shake 
them dflen ; when done, if the sauce is too thin, drain 
them, and reduce it ; if required, add a little salt ; 
skim, dish ; dress the pigeons, and masque them with 
the ragodt of pease and petit lard. 

Another Method, 
Take three pigeons, and prepare them as in the 
foregoing article ; cover a stewpan with barbs of Uurd, 
and put in the pigeons, with two sHced carrots, two 
onions, one of them stuck with a clove, some parinst 
or debris of butchers* meat, a slice of ham, a litUe 
salt, and sweet herbs, as in the foregoing receipt: 
moisten with a ladleful of bouillon ; cover with barbs 
of lard ; let them boil, and cover close with a round of 
paper, and the lid of the stewpan ; when sufficiently 



PIGEONS. 157 

done, drain them, and serve them masqued with a 
ragout of pease. (See Ragout de Pois) 

A Compot of Pigeons. Compote de Pigeons, 

Take three pigeons, and more if small ; prepare as 
above ; put a quarter of a pound of butter injto a 
stewpan, as much petit lard cut in dice, which has 
been steeped; make a little roux; let the pigeons 
come in it ; moisten with a glass of wine and bouillon or 
water, also a bunch of sweet herbs, garnished with half 
a clove of garlic, a clove, two large handfuls of turned 
mushrooms, and twenty small onions of an equal size, 
which have been cooked in butter and very white ; 
season with salt and large pepper ; whe|l done skim 
them, and if the sauce is thin, keep the pigeons hot 
and reduce it, sauce and serve. 

Another Way, Pigeons au Blanc. 

Prepare the pigeons as above ; let them degorge 
half an hour ; blanch, drain, wipe, and put them in a 
stewpan with a bit of butter ; let them come upon a 
slow fire without browning ; dredge them with a little 
flour, moisten with bouillon^ and season as above with 
sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; let them simmer a 
quarter of an hour ; add also two handfuls of turned* 
mushrooms, with onions as above ; when it is done 
skim it ; keep the pigeons hot, and reduce the sauce ; 
put in the pigeons, thicken with three yolks mixed in a 
little milk or cream, and a little nutmeg ; thicken the 
sauce without allowing it to boil ; if approved of, a 
little blanched minced parsley may be added ; taste, 
and serve the pigeons masqued with the ragout. 

Pigeons in Batter.^-~~^Marinade de Pigeons au Soleii. 
Take three cold roasted pigeons, cut them in two, 
and let them simmer twenty minutes in a marinade 
cuite; drain, and when ready to serve, dip them into 
a light batter (see Pate a Frire) ; when they have got 
a fine colour, dish them with a tuft of fried parsley on 
the top. 

* Turned means to cut any thing nicely round with a knife or 
cmtter. 



158 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Another Way." Pigeons d la Crapandine. 

Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the 
flesh off the breast hy sliding in the knife at the side 
of the leg, and runnmg it up to the joint of the wing ; 
turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the 
handle of a knife ; take a stewpan large enough to 
contain them in the flattened $tate; melt a bit of 
butter in it; add salt and large pepper; put in the 
pigeons with their breasts down ; turn them, and when 
three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the 
grill over a slow fire ; give them a fine colour, and serve 
mem imder sauce aupauvre komme, 

SmaU Pigeons. Pigeons h la Gautier. 

Take six or seven of these small pigeons, singe 
them very carefully ; they ought only to be seven or 
dght days old ; cut their nails ; warm three quarters 
of a pound of very nice butter, with the juice of two 
or three lemons and a little fine salt ; put in the pi- 
geons; let them come lightly* ; do not pass them over 
charcoal, as it would harden the skin; take them off 
the fire and cover another stewpan with barbs of 
lard ; put in the pigeons, that the feet may be in the 
middle of the stewpan ; baste them over with the 
whole of the butter, and moisten with a poSle: if there 
is none, put in a glass of white wine, and a ladleful 
oiconsommi, a quarter of raspt lard, and a seasoned 
bunch of sweet herbs ; cover the pigeons with barbs of 
lard, and a round of paper ; a quarter of an hour 
before serving, make them boil and put them upon a 
paillasse; dish them with a nice crawfish between 
each, and a fine truffle on the top ; sauce them either 
with a sauce vert beurre d'ecrevisses, or an aspic. 
Another Way. Pigeons au Basilic. 

If there are as many of these small pigeons left, or of 
dessert^ (the French call any thing left dessert^) to 
make an entreey take a farce cuitede volaillet and put into 
it a small quantity of minced basil if it is green ; if 
dry, pound and sift it : cut off the feet of the pigeons, 

* Let them come, that is, let them itifien ; let them come lightly, 
is to let them stiffen less. 



GXESS. 159 

and cover them entirelj with farce; dip them in a 
well beaten omelet, in which some crumbs of bread 
and salt have been mixed; roll them in crumbs of 
bread ; a quarter of an hour before serving them, put 
them into uiejriture* not very hot, that they may take ; 
let them have a fine colour ; serve without sauce. 

Pigeon Cutlets. CStelettes de Pigeons, 

Take the fillets of six pigeons ; take off the thin 
skin, and beat them very httle ; take the pinion bones, 
dean them, and run them into each of the fillets, 
giving it the form of a cutlet ; dip them into an anglaiscy 
diat is, two yolks mixed with a Ijttle butter ; dip them 
in crumbs, and put them upon the grill ; give them a 
good colour; when they are suflSciently done, dish 
diem en couronne; sauce them with beef juice or a 
thick blond de veau ; add to the last a little large pep- 
per, and the juice of a lemon or two. 

These cutlets or fillets may be made an entree of, as 
a timbale,sij)die chaude, or en papilottes. (See these ar- 
ticles. If for the last, the cutlets must be cut in two.) 

To roast Pigeons*— ^Pigeons d, la Broche. 
Take five pigeons; prepare and truss them with 
their legs en long, barb them with lard, if it is the 
season, put a vine leaf between the pigeons and the 
lard, by which they must be well covered ; skewer, and 
tie them to the spit ; they should not be too much done. 

Roasted Pigeons as Ortolans. Pigeons en Ortolans 

pour Rot, 
Take six pigeons, ^ la gautier ; prepare and truss 
them as quails, not allowmg much of the feet to be 
seen ; skewer them, and put them on the spit ; have a 
very clear fire, and do .them very little. 

GEESE. Oies. 

Wild Geese. — —Oies Sauvage. . 
The passage of wild geese continues about two 

* Friture, frying-pan. A cook ought to accustom himself as 
much as possible to French terms, as many of them are more ap. 
propriate than ours. 



160 FRENCH COOKBRt: 

months, unless the winter is very moderate ; the young 
are good, resembling much the domestic, which an, 
ci the same family, and are all served in the same 
manner ; they are difficult of digestion, but very use- 
ful in domestic economy. 

Green Goose roasted. Oison ^ la Broche. 

Take a fine, plump, fat, green goose, the&t of which 
must be very white ; if the upper part of the back 
breaks easily, the fowl is young ; cut off the pinimis, 
and prepare it; blanch the legs, and cut the nails; wipe 
it well with a cloth ; truss it, leaving its legs en loigy 
that is to say, stretched out ; spit it, and take care that 
it is not over-done, which will be known by touching 
the fillet with a knife, the juice will flow. 

Goose mth ChesntUs* Oie aux Marram. 

Prepare a goose exactly as in the foregoing article ; 
mince the liver ; cut an onion in small pieces, and pass 
it in raspt lard ; prepare fifty chesnuts as is directed, 
i^au Potage h la Puree de MarronSy) let them simmer in 
the sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and fine spices ; 
when the chesnuts are ready, turn in the rump of the 
goose, and sew it up ; stuff it by the craw, and sew it 
up ; spit it, and let it have an hour and a quarter. 
Another Way. Oie h la ChivoCata. 

Prepare a fine young fat goose, with tne legs tniRsed 
within ; cover it with slices of lard, and tie it up ; cover 
a braisiere with barbs, put over it some trinunings of 
butcher's meat, two slices of bacon with the goose 
giblets, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, three 
turned carrots, two or three onions stuck with cloves^ 
a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, and salt ; put in the 
goose, moisten with a glass of Madeira, or if any other 
white wine, more of it, and bouillon, as much as covers 
the goose ; let it boil ; put over buttered paper ; cover 
it, and put it on a paHtasse, with fire under and over ; 
leave it an hour and half; when enough drain it; dish 
and masque it with a Chipolata. 

Legs ana Wings of Geese. Cuisses et AUa d^Oiu i 

ta Fagon de Baionne. 

Take the quantity of geese that is required and cut 



GEESE. 161 

off the wings and legs in such a manner as to take off 
all the flesh with them ; bone the legs partly with the 
hand ; mix half an ounce of saltpetre with fine salt for 
five geese, and rub the legs and wings well with it ; 
put them into an earthen pan ; throw amongst them 
bay, thyme, and basil ; cover them closely with a cloth, 
leave tnem twenty-four hours in the seasoning ; when 
they are taken out they are to be passed quickly 
through fresh water, and lefl to drain; in the mean 
time all the fat having been collected from the bodies 
and intestines of the geese, and prepared as directed 
for the sain-doux (Sain-doux, article Cochon) : put in 
the prepared geese, and let it be put upon a very ^ 
moderate fire, that the sain-doux or goose fat may 
only shake, not boil : it is sufficiently done when the 
flesh can be pierced with a straw ; tau^e them out, and 
when they are cold pack them nicely into jars, pressing 
them down: when ijie fat is three fourths cooled, pour 
it into the jars ; let it cool and remain uncovered for 
twenty-four hours ; then cover the pots, first with paper 
and then with parchment ; keep it in a dry fresh cellar 
for use. 

The translator has witnessed the above preparation 
in Languedoc, where little else is used in die kitchen, 
as the rag6uts and soups are generally made of it. 
It is almost surpassing belief, the high state to which 
these animals are fed, by cramming with Indian com 
three times a day ; and according to the situations of 
families, from two to thirty geese are often so fed: 
turkies and ducks are oflen mixed with them, and the 
economy of that careful people is very conspicuous 
in the preparation ; they are not all killed at the same 
time, but from day to day, as the business and the 
wants of the family permit ; preserving the blood, 
which they make a pudding of in the skin of the neck ; 
cutting the goose up in the common manner of carving 
into ten, twelve, or fourteen pieces : the whole carcase 
is as &t as a pig, the thighs are b'ke small pork hams ; 
these pieces are all salted as directed in the foregoing 
receipt, and the &t^ which is enormous in quantity, is 



162 FRENCH COOKERY. 

prepared as is also directed : the jars into which they 
are put contain six or eight gallons^ and upwards * 
and it will no doubt appear incredible to say, l^at fo«ff 
or five of these are filled for the use of one fantlj, 
with the carcases and fat of these different fbwk : 
Chej were distributed in such a manner that two 
should be opened at the same time^ the best pieces in 
one and the worst in another, so that there should 
be no digging to expose a greater surface than is 
necessary to tibe air ; thus a leg or a wing, with a spoon- 
ful of the fat, made a rasouty a neck and pinion^ or 
a back, with a spoonful of lat, made a soup ; the relish of 
these meats is extremely high, and with sweet herbs and 
vegetables would be by some called beautiful, by others 
good, but by the French delicious ; it would be dis- 
ingenuous in a book of this kind, not to recommend 
it highly, as there is so much waste of that sort of 
fat ; the side bones and aprons are very nice, drained 
hot from it ; the livers of the ducks fed in thie ws^ 
are as large sometimes as those of lambs, and are of a 
bright shining gold colour ; they are generally baked 
in high seasoned pies, and sent in presents, which 
pay a tax on entering JParis. 

When geese are scarce and dear, a pig is substituted, 
and after having been cut in small pieces, is accom- 
modated in the same manner. The introduction of 
these articles into English cookery would be both 
economical and healthy, as vegetables of all sorts 
would be more eagerly sought after as food, if they 
were made more palatable with little expense. . 

Ducks in general, Des Canards en geniroL 

Ducks are of easier digestion than geese ; there are 
different sorts of them ; the domestic is larger than the^ 
wild, and those of Barbary still larger, but less delicate, 
and are often musky ; the breed between the Barbary 
and domestic are freed from the inconveniency of the 
one, are larger than the other, and are the can€Um$ dt 
Roueny which are so much esteemed for their site 



DUCKS. 163 

und quality. The wild duck is generally roasted ; 
there are, however, entrees made of them, which are 
as follows : 

To roast Wild Ducks. Canards Sauvage d la 

Broche, 

Choose a fat duck or two ; look that the webbs of 
die feet are of a fine colour, and not dry ; to know if 
they are stale, open the beak and smell them ; feel that 
'the belly and rump are firm, and the ducks heavy, 
which are signs that they are fat and fresh ; the hen 
is more delicate than the cock, though in general the 
cock brings a higher price ; prepare two of these 
ducks, pick off the down, cut off the pinions close to 
the body and the necks ; truss the feet up, which must 
be blanched and pared; rub them with their liver; spit 
th^m ; let them be underdone, and send them to table 
with two uncut lemons. 

Fillets of Wild Ducks with Orange Sauce. Filets 

de Canards Sauvages ^T Orange, 
Cut out the fillets of three ducks, give them a few 
slight cuts ^ the skin side ; marinade them in oil, 
with young onions broken in two, branches of parsley, 
salt, large pepper, and the juice of mushrooms ; 
leave them in Uie marinade for an hour ; when ready 
to serve, put two spoonfuls of oil into a sautS pan, put 
on the fillets, set them over a good fire, turn them two 
or three times, drain and dress them en couronne, 
and serve under them a sauce d'orangc. 

Salmi of Wild Ducks. Salmi de Canards. 

Take two cold roasted ducks, cut them in pieces, 
pare them and pound the parings or debris ; rub them 
through a tammy^ and finish as directed (article Salmi 
de Perdreaux). 

Another Way. Salmi de Canards Sauvages au 

Chasseur. 
Cut the fillets off two cold roasted ducks in stripes, 
take off the legs and separate the carcases into pieces, 



164 FRENCH COOKERY. 

add salt and large pepper, and sprinkle with four 
spoonfuls of oil of olives, and half a glass of claret; 
cut two hitter oranges, and squeeze die juice over; 
shake all well together, and serve. 

Dticks xjoith Orange Sauce, Caneton de Rouen^ Sauce 

a r Orange. 

Take a good fat caneton ; be particular that it is 
white; prepare it carefully without hurting the skin; 
blanch the feet, cut the small points, and truss them 
without ; turn in the rump ; cut the wings close to 
the body, and take off the neck ; mix in a stewpan 
a sufficient quantity of butter, the juice of a lonon, 
and salt ; fill the duck with this butter ; truss it up 
into a good form; cover a stewpan with barbs of 
lard ; put in the duck or ducks, cover with slices of 
lemon, over them barbs of lard ; season with a sliced 
carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of murdey 
and young onions; consommSy and half a glass of i^te 
wine ; cover with a round of paper : three quarters of 
an hour before serving, boil, cover, and put them 
upon & paillasse with fire under and over ; when done^ 
drain, unlace, and dish ; serve under them, a sauce 
'd r orange; instead of using the juice of beef, take a 
little aspic or consomme reduced; if there are nc 
oranges, use lemons. 
Ducks tvith Olive Sauce, Canetons^ Sauce aux Olives, 

Prepare as above, and masque with a ragout cTo&vit 
JDuck and Pease. Caneton aupettts Pots. 

As the above, and masque with a ragout de petiL 
pois. 

Duck and Haricots. Caneton en Haricots Vierges* 

Prepare as above, and masque with en haricot vierge* 

Duck and Turnips. Caneton aux Navets. 

Prepare as above, and masque with a ragout de 
navets. 

Duck Xttith Batter of Craxvfish. Caneton^ Sauce Mu 

Beurre d*Ecrevisses. 
As above, and masque with a sauce au bewrrt 
d^cremsesn 



DUCKS. 165 

Jhuk toith Green Sau4;e. Canetotij Sauce au vert 

prS, 
As above, masquing with the sauce au vert pre. 

" Duck toith Roots. Caneton auxpetites Radnes. 

As above, masque with sauce au petites radnes. 

Ducks toith Cucumbers.^-^^Canetons aux Concombres. 

Proceed as above, and masque with a ragout aux 
eoncomores. 

Duck voith Onions. Caneton auxpetits Oignons. 

As above, masque with a ragout aux petits oignons. 

Ducks another Way. Canetons au Macedoine. 

Aft above, masque with a macSdoine. 

Ducks toith Verjuice. Canetons au Verjus* 

Prepare as above ; take some verjuice, if it is the 
season; take off the stalks, blanch and drain them; 
pat three spoonfuls of reduced espagnole into a stew- 
pan with the verjuice; reduce it; thicken with butter 
and nuuque the ducks. 

Ducks toith green Sauce.-^-^ Canards d la Purie verte. 
Prepare and masque with puree verte. 

Ducks and Turnips. Canards h la Bourgeoise. 

Prepare the ducks as above, trussing the feet 
within, or en poule ; put butter in a stewpan, and 
brown the ducks all over; drain them, and put into 
the pan sufficient quantity of turned turnips ; brown 
them nicely ; drain, and make a little roux of the 
butter ; moisten with bouillon, if there is none, 
with water ; don't let the sauce get into knots ; add 
salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley and young onions, 
half a clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf; put in the 
ducks and stew them; when half done, add the tur- 
nips, and let them simmer ; turn the ducks from time 
to time without breaking the turnips; when done, 
skim, dish and masque wiw the ragout. 

Roast Duck. Caneton de Rouen pour Rot. 

Take one or two and prepare them, trussing their 



166 FRENCH COOKERY. 

legs en long; spit and wrap them in pi^er ; ^ve iJiem 
three quarters of an hour ; serve them as wild ducks 
with lemon. 

Small River Wild Ducks. --'-* Oueaux de Rivieres et 

Sarcelles, 
These ducks may all be served in the manner di- 
rected above for the domestic ones. 

MAIGRE. 

Clear Pease Soup. Maigre Bouillon de Pais, 

Take a quart or two of pease that are without 
shoots, wash them, and if there is time let them steep 
some hours ; put them into a stewpan, with two car- 
rots and two onions ; let them boil, as it is of no con- 
sequence if they should fall into a puree ; take it off 
and run it through a search; leave it to repose; pour 
it off clear, when it is fit for use. 

Soup Maigre.' Bouillon pour les Potages ei les 

Sauces, 
Take twelve carrots, the same of tureips and onions, 
and a bunch of leeks, two parsnips, four heads d 
celery, and a cabbage cut in four, blanch the whole, 
refresh them in cold water ; tie the cabbage ; put the 
whole in a pot, and moisten with the houiUam of pease ; 
add some parsley roots, a little mace, ginger, two 
cloves, and a clove of garlic, wrapt in a cloth ; let all 
boil sufficiently ; to give it a good colour, put into 
a stewpan a bit of butter with two or three carrots, 
the same quantity of turnips and onions cut in slices, 
and a head of celery ; brown these roots well« and 
moisten with a little bouillon of pease, and let it &11 
into a glaze; when near sticking, moisten it anew, to 
detach it; pour it iiUo the bouillon and let it simmer 
five or six hours constantly ; pass it through a cloth 
and use it for potages and sauces. 

Fi^ Soup,^^-^^BouiUon de Poissofu 
Put some butter into a stewpan, and into it onioM 
cut in two ; mince, but in less quantity, the vegetables 
that are directed in the above receipt^ and laj them 



SOUPS. 167 

over die onions; take two carp, and prepare them; 
cut open their heads, and take out the yellow stone 
called the gall of the head, and which is found behind 
the ears ; cut the carps in pieces, and add any other 
kind of fish ; put them over the vegetablei^ ; put in a 
spoonful of bouillon maigre^ let them sweat, and when 
they fall into glaze, moisten them entirely ; put in salt, 
pepper, the trimmings of mushrooms, sweet herbs, a 
clove of garlic, a little mace, bay and two cloves ; this 
hoiuUon answers instead of consomme and blond de 
veaU) for potages, grandesetpetites sauces. 

Juice Maigre. Jus Maigre, 

Cover the bottom of a stewpan with butter ; lay 
over onions cut in two, and roots in slices; sweat 
them over a moderate fire for three quarters of an 
hour, then put them on a stronger fire, and let them 
fall into glaze until they are of a deep colour ; moisten 
with the bouillon ofpotages ; detach it carefully ; add 
some stalks or trimmings of mushrooms, half a clove 
of garlic, sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves and salt; 
let it cook three quarters of an hour ; pass it through 
a cloth when it is ready for sauce. 

Espagnole Maigre, 
Butter a stewpan ; cover it with onions cut in two, 
turned carrots, a bay-leaf, one or two carp, or any 
other fish, even sturgeon if there is any ; sweat it over 
a slow fire ; heighten the fire that it may fall into glaze; 
then moisten with half juice and half bouiUon, as is 
directed for potage; let it boil to detach the glaze; 
thicken with roux, as the espagnole grasse (see that 
article ; add half a bottle of white wine, either Cham- 
pagne or Burgundy ; a clove of garlic and mushrooms ; 
let it simmer an hour on a slow fire ; skim and run it 
through a cloth, and make the same uses of it as for 
espagnole grasse for small sauces. 

Bread Soup.^-^^^Potage au Pain. 
Raap a loaf, and afler taking out the crumb pare 
the crust nicely ; put it into a stewpan with a ladleful 
of bouillon d potage\ let it simmer and put it into a 



168 TRENCH COOKERY. 

deep dish, and serve it under any vegetable or fwrie 
maigre that is convenient ; it would be useless to enter 
into a detail of these purSes, as there is no difference 
in composing ^them, but by moistening them widi 
bouillon maigre or gras. 

Maigre QjueerCs Soup. Potage ^ la Heine en 

Maigre. 
Take two small pike that do not smell of the pond ; 
prepare them ; lay them upon a table and skin them ; 
cut the flesh in large dice; put them into a stew- 
pan with a bit of butter ; cook without burning ; let 
them cool ; pound twenty sweet almonds ; soak a roll in 
cream, and dry it as is directed at the article Panade ; 
pound tins panade ; take it out of the mortar and 
pound the nsh, then pound them altogether ; spread 
some butter into a stewpan ; put in onions cut in two, 
and slices of roots, such as carrots, turnips, half a 
clove of garlic, half a bay-leaf, a little mace, a bunch 
of parsley, young onions, a clove, two carp cut in 
pieces, and die refuse of liie pike ; moisten this with a 
little bouillon de pois ; let it sweat over a slow fire ; 
when done pass it through ajiapkin, and use it to 
moisten the farce that has been already prepared, 
which must be rubbed through a tammy and have the 
consistence of a couUs ; set it in the bain-marie till 
ready to serve ; put into the stock-pot some bread cut 
in dice, fry it in butter, and pour the purSe over it. 

Almond Soup. Potage au Lait d^Amande$. 

Take a pound and half of sweet almonds and twelve 
bitter ones ; skin them as usual, by putting them in 
water over the fire ; pound them, puttmg in from time 
to time a drop of water to prevent their oiling; 
when they are quite smooth they are sufficiently done : 
put into a stewpan six pints of water ; when it boib 
infuse half an ounce of coriander and half a lemon, 
keeping out the skin and seeds ; moisten the almonds 
with this infusion; rub it several times through t 
napkin or tammy till it takes the appearance of milk; 
salt and sugar it properly; put it into the hain-marii\ 



SOUP 169 

take very thin slices of bread, glaze them in the oven 
and throw them into the ahnond soup when it is going 
to table. 

Another Method. — ^ Autre Maniere. 
Take half a pound of sweet almonds and five or six 
bitter ; pound as in the above article ; take six pints of 
milk ; make it boil and use a part of it to pass the 
almonds several times through a cloth, as in the fore- 
going article; steep in the other part of the milk half a 
roll of vanUley which must be taken out when they are 
mixed together ; season with sugar and salt, and add 
about the size of half an egg of good butter ; put 
it in the bain-marie till ready, serve with glazed 
bread as above. 

Another Method, quicker and more economical, Autre 

Maniere plus prompie etplus Sconomique. 
Boil six pints of milk ; put into a stewpan eight 
very fresh yolks, from which the whites and germs 
must be carefully separated ; bruise with the rolling- 
pin twenty-four masse-pains or macaroons, half sweet 
and half bitter, and sugar the milk sufficiently ; add 
a little salt and a table spoonful of orange flower 
water ; moisten these ingredients with a little hot milk, 
but not boiling ; in such a manner that the macaroons, 
eggs, and sugar may be well mixed ; reserve half of the 
miJk to mix with the potage; cut some slices of bread; 
lay them upon a board ; sifl fine sugar over and glaze 
them in the oven ; put them in a deep dish or tureen ; 
when ready to serve put in the milk that was re- 
served, and stir it with a new wooden spoon ; finish the 
thickening by putting it upon the fire ; stir it with- 
out allowing it to boil; taste that it is properly 
seasoned ; pour it over the glazed bread, and serve 
immediately. If there are no macaroons make use of 
pralinSsf which answer nearly the same. 

Maigre Soup. -"■-•^ Potage ^ la Julienne maigre. 
Prepare the roots in the same manner as tor the 
potage ^ la Julienne grasse ; when thus prepared, pass 
them with a bit of butter in a stewpan till they brown 



170 ^ TRENCH COOKERY. 

a little ; moisten with bouUlan maigre as would be 
done with the gms; if there is no bouUlan maigre^ 
use the soup of haricots or lentils; let the potage 
simmer, and salt it properly. 

Herb maigre Soup. Potage maigre aux Herbes. 

Take a large hanctful of sorrel, two lettuces, a little 
chervil and love-apples; wash them well in a great 
quantity of water; drain and mince the herbs very 
fine ; put them in a pot with a bit of butter, and pass 
them; leave them upon a slow fire, moisten tnem 
sufficiently fbr the potage with grand bouillon maigre; 
if there is none, with one of haricots or lentils ; taste 
if properly salted. 

Rice and MUk. Potage au Rix et cm Lait. 

Take a quarter of a pound of rice ; pick and wash it 
several times ; blanch it with a boil or two ; drain and 
put it into a stawpan with two ounces of butt^, a 
little lemon zest, and a peach or almond leaf; swell 
the rice with water ; when nearly done moisten with 
good milk, and dont make it too thick, also avoiding 
its being too thin ; put in sugar and salt in due pro- 
portion ; before servmg, take out the leaf and lemon 
zest 

VermiceUe and Milk,—, — VermiceUe au LaU. 
Take a quarter of a pound of vermiceUe; sift out the 
dust ; boil six pints of milk ; add the 'oermiceUe by 
little and little, that it may not ball ; put it on the 
edge of the stove until it is enough ; season with sugar 
and salt ; there may be added macaroons and a little 
vanHley or either. 

nSH. Poissom. 

Braise maigre for boiling Fish in. 
Take a kettle of a sufficient size ; put into k i bit 
of butter with a little vegetable soup, a litde ittfrne^ 
swett basil, garlic, parsley, and scsdlions, cloves, some 
slices of onions and carrots, salt, pepper, with wHite 
Vine sufficient ; tie the head of Uie fuh up propei^ «r 
any other part, ahd put it iiito the kettle in i dme ib* 



9I8H. 171 

gredients ; take care that it does not swim ; put it upon a 
slow fire ; cover it with a buttered paper, taking care to 
wet or baste it from time to time with its own sauce ; 
taste if it is properly seasoned ; when the fish is suf- 
ficiently done, take part of the sauce, run it through a 
gauze search, reduce it to a jeUy to g/ate the fish. 

Fish Jelly, Glace de Poison, 

Rub lightly the bottom of a saucepan with butter ; 
cdver it with sliced onions and carrots ; then add the 
remains and carcasses of fish, a little parsley and seal- 
lions, a bay-leaf, thyme, sweet basil, and a clove of 
garlic ; to these ingredients add a ladleful of fish soup ; 
let it boil, put it upon a hot hearth or table ; let it sim- 
mer till it becomes a jelly ; again add to it some fish 
soup, and pour it clear on into a clean saucepan, and 
let It simmer another hour ; run it through a napkin ; 
reduce it to a jelly, and use it for glazing. 

CARP. 

Carp. Be la Carpe en genSral. 

Carp of lakes and ponds are never good. It is ne- 
cessary to be able to distinguish this fish from the 
bream, which is much larger and flatter, the head 
smaller, the flesh less firm, and not so delicate. 

Carpe ^ la Ckambor. 
Take a fine carp, scale it, and raise the skin, as is 
indicated for making Quenelles de Carpe (see article 
Farces); gut it without opening all the belly; take 
out the ears without spoiling the tongue, the skin 
being raised without touching the flesh ; take out the 
strings or nerves of the tail, and lard it entirely with 
eel cut small, or half with truffles and carrots cut in the 
same manner ; if it is not for maigre^ lard it with lard 
truffles and carrots ; put it into a propernsized fish 
kettle with a little > hraise-maigre (or vegetable soup, 
as indicated in the first recipe\ and set it upon a 
moderate fire; put into a saucepan three basting 
spoonsful of espagnole-maigrey and half a bottle of 
wtike okamp&gne; reduce and skim off all tlv« i^X.% 

I 2 



J72 FRENCH COOKERY. 

put into it small mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, or 
truffles, the roes of carps, (Quenelles), eels cut in 
pieces, as indicated in Matelote cTAnguille et de Carpe; 
let it simmer a quarter of an hour, and finish it with 
anchovy butter sauce ; drain and dish ; dress round 
the ingredients, to which add crawfish; put the 
sauce into the dish ; glaze it and send it to table ; if 
not maigre, larded veal, sweetbreads. Pigeons cL la 
Gautier. Quails, if in season, or combs and Kidneys of 
cocks may be added. 

Stitffed Carp. Carpe Jarcie, 

Take a fine carp ; take off the skin and flesh, as is di- 
rected for Quenelles des Carpe, preserving the head and 
the tail, with three inches of the bone of the carp to each ; 
take the flesh off the carp, and add to it the flesh of two 
smaller ones to make forced meat, the same as for Que- 
nelles des Carpe ; take a dish of the necessary length, 
spread the forced meat in the bottom nearly an inch 
thick ; put the head and tail into their places ; make 
a salpigon maigre or fat, with which fill the belly, or a 
ragout of the roes of carp, all cold ; cover the salpigon 
or ragout with forced meat, and give the whole the 
appearance of a carp larger than that made use of; 
incorporate well the head and tail into the forced 
meat, and that the salpigon does not appear ; unite the 
forced meat well with a knife dipped in egg ; glaze it 
with two eggs well beaten ; and with a table spoon 
dipped in the egg, form the scales of the carp ; wrap 
up the head and tail in buttered paper ; an hour before 
it is to be served, put it into a moderate oven ; let it 
take a fine colour; take off the paper; wipe the 
dish ; the sauce may be a good espagnole either frrasse 
or maigre, or a ragout of the roes, or mushrooms and 
artichokes ; pour the sauce into the dish, and serve. 

Carpe au bleu, ou au Court-bouillon. 

Gut a carp without opening much of the belly, 

taking cafe not to break tiie gall, and without spoiling 

the scales ; take out the ears without touching the 

tongue; put it into a fish kettle of a proper size ; ooil a 



FISH. 173 

little red vinegar ; rub it boiling hot equally over it, 
to give a blue colour ; put to it a little braise grasse or 
maigre ; cover it with a buttered paper, and set it upon 
a slow fire ; when enough, drain and send it to table 
upon a napkin garnished with parsley. 

Fried Carp, Carjpejrite* 

Take off the scales and cut the fins, raise the 
skin, open it by the back ; divide the head ; take 
out the ears and the yellow stones that are found in 
the head ; put it into a little milk ; flour and fry it ; 
when half done, flour the roes and put them in; 
fry the carp Arm and of a flne colour ; drain and serve 
it upon a napkin garnished with the roes. 

Grilled Carp. Carpe grillie* 

Scale and wash the carp ; cut the fins and the point 
of the tail ; take out the ears ; gut it without opening 
the belly much ; taking care not to break the gall ; 
raise the skin ; dip the roe into b«"^ter and fine herbs, 
such as parsley and scallions hai t:d, seasoned with 
salt and pepper ; put it into the beily of the carp, and 
sew it up ; put it upon a dish ; pour over it a little 
oil, hashed herbs, and fine salt ; grill it ; draw out the 
threads, and serve with a white sauce and capers, or 'a 
Mattre d'hotel chaud, (See Mattre^d! hotel li^e, article 
Sauces.) 

Another Way, Matelote de Carpes et d*Anguilles. 

Take a male and female carp ; scale, clean, and gut 
them ; dress the roe and melt separate ; cut the fins 
and the points of the tails ; take the ears and the yel- 
low stones from their heads; cut them in equal junks ; 
skin an eel ; pass it over the fire to stiffen it ; take 
off the head and the end of the tail ; gut and cut it in 
pieces ; put it into a saucepan with sliced onions, carrots> 
branches of parsley, some scallions, a clove of garlic^ 
two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, a little fine 
spicery, salt, pepper, and two bottles of white cham- 
pagne ; let the eel be half done, then add the pickerel, 
and when it is half done, put in the carp ; let it boil 
upon a strong fire ; cover the saucepan ; the carp takes 

i3 



174 FRENCH COOKERY. 

very little time ; brown about thirty ramll onions in 
butter; have prepared turned muthroonis and arti- 
choke bottonn (see article Cramitking); make a rouM 
of the butter in which the onions were fiiedy^ mix it 
with the sauce of the fidi, boil it sufficiently and Mt 
it through a seardi into another saucepan, and add to 
it the onions and mushrooms ; put all these ingredi^ts 
upon the fire and reduce ; skim off the fat, keeping 
the fish hot ; drain it well, and dish it with the hea£ 
in the middle^ and the fish intermingled ; garnish with 
bread cut in the shape of peacocks' tails firied in butr 
ter ; lay over the roe and melt ; put the artichoke 
bottoms into the sauce ; give them a boil ; taste if it is 
properly salted ; pour it over the Matelote ; crawfish 
may be added, as it is often done ; a Matelote may be 
made larger by taking the hollow crust of a small fine 
loaf, and putting into it an omelet (au naturel)f and 
placing it m the middle. 

Another Waif. — • — Matelote d la i^tfrmi^. 
Ti^e carps, small pike, barbel, and eels ; prepare 
them as in the foregoing article; take care of the 
blood ; parboil thirty small onions oi an equal size ; 
put a sufficient quantity ef red wine into a proper 
stewpan that the fish may swim in it; a bit of 
butter, onions, a bunch of parsley, chives, a bay- 
lea£^ some cloves^ salt» pepper, fine spicery and 
sweet basil ; put in the fish ; make it boil quickly over 
a fiaming fire of wood ; when done, thicken with a 
little butter rubbed in flour and broken into little bits, 
and a little anchovy butter ; shake with care (that 
they may not break), that the sauce may be equally 
thickened % dii^ as in the foregoing article ; boil the 
sauce, a^ tf too thin, reduce it ; when ready, add the 
blood of the fish, but don't boil it after ; garnish with 
fried bread and the roes or melts ; pour the sauce over 
and serve. 

Fncandetm de Carpes. 
Clean and! ^in the carp ; take off the flesh, onljr 
leavingr tile middle bane; lard it with lard; cut tl 



Fisfib 175 

into granadinSy and dress it m the same manner as 
granadins. de veauy if it is not for maigre; but if for 
maigrej lard It with eel, and instead of iard for 
laying in the bottom of the saucepan, use butter ; put 
in slices of onions and carrots, white wine, and soup 
maigre of fish; then put in the fish; cover it with 
buttered paper ; make it boil, and do it in the manner 
of ajricandeau with fire under and over ; when ready, 
drain, and draw out the thick ends of the sides of the 
carp, in such manner that none remaia; glaze said 
serve them upon a sauce or puree of mushrooms, 
sorrel, or onions. 

i£ there is no glaze reduce the sauce and use it. 

Fried Carps Melts'* Laitances de Carpesjntes. 

Take fifteen or eighteen soft roes of carps ; their 
^ze will determine t^e quantity necessary ; clean them 
well and lay them in fresh water, which must be 
changed several times; when perfectly clean and 
white, put some water into a saucepan with a small 
quantity of vinegar and a Sttle salt ; put it on the fire, 
and when it boil6 throw in the roes ; give them a boil ; 
drain, and when, ready to serve, dip them in a light 
paste ; fry them of a fine colour ; dish them nicely • 
garnish with fried parsley and serve them. 

Another Way, Caisse de Laitances de Carpes. 

The same as is used in Caisse de Laitance de Ha- 
rengs. 

Ragout(yf Carp Roes. Ragout de Laitancede Carpes. 

(See article Ragout^ 

Roes in Jelly. Aspic de Laitances de Carpes. 

Prepare an aspic as it is directed for that or combs 
of cocks, (art. Potdtry)^ only using the roes, which 
have been cooked in a proper seasoning instead of the 
others. ^ 

To choose Lobsters and Cratio Fish. Ecrevisses, 

Homardsj Cr&oetteset Chevrettes. 
The manner to choose lobsters and crawfish, and all 
the shell-fish of tbpse kinds, is by their weight and 

I 4 



176 FRENCH COOKERY. 

fresh smell ; likewise when they are taken by the head 
and tail and distended, if they immediately return 
into a curve, they are fresh. 

The Manner of cooking Crava-fish for small and large 

Dishes and Garnishing, Ecrevissesy et Maniere 

deUs Jaire cuire, soit pour gros, moyensy petits Enter' 
mets ou Garnitures* 

Take the quantity of crawfish you mean to cook ; 
put them into a saucepan and throw water upon them ; 
toss them up several times, and put them into a 
cullender ; wipe the saucepan and return them into 
it ; add about half the quantity of white wine there is 
of fish ; put in some slices of carrots, onions, parsley, 
scallions, one or two bay-leaves, sweet basil, cloves, 
salt, pepper, and a good bit of nice butter; put 
them on a good fire; covep them; toss, so that those 
undermost may come up; cover them after eveiy 
tossing, and toss always when the seasoning boils 
up ; take them off the fire and leave them covered to 
finish their cooking. If not for immediate use, leave 
them covered in their seasoning, and when used warm 
them in it; drain; serve them in a p3aramid upon a 
napkin garnished with parsley. 

Another Way, Ecrevisses ^ la Poulette. 

Boil the crawfish in a little salt and water ; dnhu 
take off the small legs and the shell of the tail ; cut off 
the ends of their noses and the points of their claws ; 
put into a stewpan a little strong veal-stock, hashed 
parsley, and shallots ; make it boil and throw them in ; 
thicken it with two yolks of eggs ; add a few small 
pieces of nice butter ; toss it up and season with lemon- 
juice ; dish them nicely ; sauce and serve. 

Another Way, Ecrevisses en Matelote, 

Cook the crawfish in wine as directed in the first 
recipe, and dress their shells in the same manner as 
done for thepoulette; put them in a sauce d la matelote; 
dish nicely, sauce, garnish with bread fried in butter, 
and serve. 



PISH. 177 

Lobster, Homards. 

Take a lobster and break the shells of the claws ; 
cut it down the back from head to tail ; take out 
with a spoon all the body; put it into a china dishv 
and add to it a table spoonful of made mustard, .with 
some parsley and shallots minced ; after Jbeing washed 
and pressed in a linen cloth, add salt> Jamaica pepper, 
and the spawn, if there is any ; ^so oil and vinegar 
sufficient ; mix it well together ; taste if it is properly 
seasoned, and send it to table in a sauce tureen. 

Praxms.^^CreveUes. 
Take a pound and half of prawns ; cover the dish 
with some herbage, or turn down a hollow dish so as 
to raise a napkin in the form of an octagon upon it ; 
cover this with parsley, and dress the prawns upon it, 
ft>rming a p3nramid ; they require no sauce. 

Muscles. Monies au naturel 6u hla Flamande. 

Take a sufficient quantity of muscles, and rub one 
after another till nothing remain on their shells ; put 
them into a large pan with water, where they can be 
well shaken about and washed, changing the water till 
they are perfectly clean ; drain and put them with 
minced parsley, covered on the fire ; toss them from 
time to time; when they open take them from the 
fire ; take one shell off each, and of some both shells ; 
look carefully that there are no crabs in them ; put 
them into their own liquor with a little pepper and the 
juice of a lemon ; toss and serve. 

Muscles another Way. Monies a la Poulette. 

Prepare muscles as above ; take off' all the shells and 
be careful there are no crabs ; preserve their liquor ; 
put a bit of butter in a saucepan with a little flour ; 
mix them with a wooden spoon ; put in the liquor, 
shake round the sauce and let it simmer ; put in the 
muscles, a little whole pepper, and minced parsley ; 
thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; add the juice of a 
lemon or a little verjuice, and serve. 

I 5 



178 7REKCK COOKERY. 

Ag fresh and pickled are both employed in the 
kitchen^ they ought to be chosen large^ and gocnL 

Oysters m ScoUtm SkeUs^-^^-Huitres en CoqutUes. 

Take as many aozen of large oysters as diere are 
sliells, called pSlerines ; let them remain in their 
liquor; if the beard and the nut are taken oS, a double 
quantity will be required ; put into a saucepan a bit 
of butter, mushrooms^ p»*iNey, and shallots, minced, 
and a little whole pepper ; put them on the fire and 
brown them, dusting in a little flour ; put in the liquor 
of the oysters and a. little stock ; cook all together till 
they come to the consistence of sauce ; take it from 
the fire and put in the oysters ; toss ; add the juice of 
a lemon ; taste, and put them into the shells ; strew 
grat^ bread over, on which stick small bits of butter; 
place the shells in a deep dish and put them into the 
oven, or under a small oven with fire under and over, 
till they are of a fine colour ; dish and serve. 

If there are no pelerines use their own shells, which 
will require to be well washed, and more of them, as 
they wdl not contain so many. 

Grilled Oysters, Huttres sur le GriL 

Shell two or tnree dozen of oysters ; put them into 
a stewpan, and leave them to blan$h in their juice; 
then pour it ofi*, and add a little bit of butter, pepper, 
some minced parsley, and shallots ; toss them ; do not 
let them boil ; put them into their shells, and finish as 
in the foregoing receipt; put them .on the gridiron; 
when they boil take them off and serve. 

Ragout of Oysters, Ragout d^ Huttres. 

See the article Sauce aux Huttres, 

PIKE. 

Brocket d la chambor, to be done in the same way 
as Carpe (X la chambor. 

Pike, — - Brocket au Bleu* 
See article Carpe au Bleu, 



PIKE. 179 

Another Way^^^-^ Brodiet en Dauphin, 
Take a large pike ; scale, ^ut it by th^ ears ; turn 
round its tail, which must be done by putting a skewer 
^irough the eyefr and tying the tail to each side of 
it ; place the fish upon its belly, and make it rest in 
that position; put it into a braise maigre, or into a good 
nwmois; put it into the oven ; take it out from time 
to time to baste it with its liquor ; when it is enough 
drain and serve it with Bn^Jtalienne grasse, or maigre. 
(See article Sauce.) 

JPike another Way. ■ Brochet h V Arliquine. 
Take a large pike that has been kept a proper time ; 
scale and gut it by the ears ; raise the skin upon one 
side without spoiling the flesh ; lard one quarter of it 
with anchovies, another quarter with gherkins, the 
third qiuitter with carrots, and the fourth with truffles ; 
stuff it fo^ maigre with stuffing of fish ; if grasy a 
cooked stuffing of fowl or veal ; put it into a fish-ket- 
tle, and add SLuraise, taking care that the larded side 
does not touch it ; put it on the fire, and baste it oflen 
with the braise ; cover, and put fire over ; drain and 
pour over it a sauce ^ Varliquine. (See article Sauce.) 

Amother^ Way. Gramadins de Brochet. 

'Do tjiem as ^anadins ck carpe; if for gras they 
must he larded with lai4 ; if maigre^ with eels and an- 
chovies ; serve th^m pibr a sattiQ^ de tomate, mush- 
rooms, or any other vegetable sauce. 

Another l^y. C6telottes de Brochet. 

Clean and take off the fiesh of a pike ; take off the 
skin and cut the fiesh in cutlets ; make it ready in 
fine herbs hashed, as veal cutlets are done in paper. 
(See article CStelottes de Veau in Papilottes.) 

Another Way. Filets de Brofh^ a (a BSchamelle. 

Take a cold pike ; cut it in ^llfits ; put it into a 
bechameUe reduced ; arrange it upon a dish ; strew 
crumbs over, and wet it with butter; garnish with 
bread cut in form of corks steeped in omelette ; give 
it a fine colour in the oven. 

I 6 



180 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Pike Salad, Salade de Brocket. 

See Salade de Poulet, 

BARBILLON 

Is of the same nature, but less esteemed than the 
carp, and is cooked exactly in the same way* 
EEL. AnguiUe ^ la Broche. 

A fine eel has its belfy silvery and its back slate- 
coloured ; kill it, and turn it upon hot cinders till the 
skin is completely grilled ; wipe and scrape it ; cut 
off the fins and skin it ; take off the head and the end 
of the tail ; to gut it open the top of the throat and a 
little at the naval ; then with the large end of a lar- 
der push the entrails through the throat, so that no- 
thing may remain in the stomach ; wash it and turn it 
round ; fix it with small silver skewers, and tie it up : 
put it into a stewpan and pour over it a good mirepois 
(see Mirepois, article Sauce); let it be half done; 
drain, fix it to the spit, and cover it ; when done unco- 
ver it ; let it dry, glaze and dish ; take out the skewers, 
and jserve under it an Italienne rousse or a ravigoU. 
Another Way. AnguiUe d la Sdinte Menenould. 

Prepare an eel as above ; put it in a tartpan, co- 
vered entirely with a Sainte Menehould ; take it out 
of th^tt sauce when nearly done ; strew crumbs over, 
and f)ut it into an oven till it takes a fine colour"; un- 
lacf and put into the well a thick, white, Italian 
sauce, or a white ravigote. (See article Sauce Italienne 
blanche, Ravigote blanche.) 

Another Way AnguiUe h la Poulette. 

Take an eel and order it as in the foregoing re- 
ceipts ; cut it in equal Junks, wash it and leave it to 
blanch ; scrape and clean the blood well out ; put into 
a stewpan a bit of butter, the eel, and some mush- 
rooms ; set them for a moment upon the fire ; dust 
with flour ; add a little stock, gras or maigre, and half a 
bottle of white wine, taking care to stir with a wooden 
spoon till it boils; add a little parsley and shallots, 
half a bay leaf, one clove, salt and pepper, twenty or 
thirty small onions; let it simmer and reduce ; take off 
the fat, and take out the bunch of herbs ; Uiicken it 



LAMPRET. 181 

with two or three yolks of eggs, and the juice of a 
lemon ; dish, sauce, and serve. 

Another Way, AnguiUe cL la Tartare. 

Having cleaned, skinned, and arranged an eel as 
above, cut it in pieces of five or six inches ; take the 
blood from the back; put it into a stewpan, with 
slices of onions, carrots, parsley, two or three seal- 
lions cut in two, white wine, salt, a bay leaf, one or 
two cloves, and a little thyme ; put it on the fire, and 
when done enough drain; roll them in crumbs of 
bread and steep them in an Anglaise (see Anglaise, 
article Cotelettes de Pigeons) ; roll them again in 
crumbs ; grill of a fine colour ; dish with a sauce ^ la 
TartarCy and serve. 

Another Way, Matelote a r AnguiUe, 

See Matelote ae Carpe, 

Lamprei/, Lamproie, 

Is another kina of eel, called also seven eyes^ 
having seven eyes or holes on each side, and is gene- 
rally larger than the eel ; choose them fat, and of a 
pcder colour. 

, Lamprey, Lamproie en Matelote, 

Put one or two into nearly boiling water ; gut them, 
and cut them into junks, taking care of the blood ; 
cut off the head, and the end of the tail ; put them 
into a stewpan with a little roux (see article Roux) ; 
and put it over the fire; add some red wine, and 
stock, or water, in equal quantities, some small 
onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions ; salt, 
pepper, a bay leaf, and a little fine spicery ; cook it, 
and take off the fat ; when ready to serve, thicken 
with the blood of the lampreys ; taste it ; dish, and 
serve. 

Another Way, '■"^^ Lamproie h la Tartare, 
Is done in the same manner as the eel. 

Perch, Perche au Beurre, 

Must b^ chosen large and fat ; gut and take out the 
ears; tie up the head, and put it mtp a stewpaiv^^xVv 



182 FRENCH COOKERY. 

slices of oaionB, carrots, a bay leaf, sprigs <^ po^ 
ley, salt, and a little wat;er ; cook, drain, and strain 
the liquor into a saucepan ; take off the skin and fins, 
to stick over it for garnishing ; when ready to serve, 
drain, and pour over a butter sauce (sauce blanche au 
beurre). 

Perch fjoith Green Sauce. Perche ct la Pluche verte. 

As the foregoing; and sauce it with a (jiluche 
vertej. 

Perch another Way. — r~ Perche ^ la HoUandaise. 
As above with a (sauce HoUandaise). 

Perch another Way. — — Perche en Matelote. 
Cut it in pieces^ andf do it as Matelote of Carp. 

Fried Perch. Perches Jrites^ 

Scale and prepare a perch ; take out the ears ; wash 
it, and nick it across upon both odes ; let it lie 
some time in a little salt, oil, sprigs ot parsley, some 
slices of onion, and the juice of a lemon ; drain, flour, 
and fry it till it is firm, and of a fine broWh colour, and 
serve. 

Perch in Wine. Perches te Vin. 

Having perch prepared ; put it into m stewpan, with 
equal quantities of white wine and sobp, a bay leaf, a 
clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley Jftd scallions, two 
cloves and salt ; cook them ; pass a little of the soup 
through a search ; mix a little flour and butter, and put 
it into the sauce ; put it upon the fire till thickened 
and cooked ; add some pepper and nutmeg, with a 
small quantity of anchovy butter ; drain, dish, pour 
the sauce over, and serve. 

Perch another Way. Perches^ la Vats^cke, 

Gut three perch by the ears, and take out the 
roes; wash them ; bind their heads; put them into a 
stewpan, with a little salt and water, parsley roots cut 
in threads, a carrot cut in the same manner, a few 
sprigs of parsley, and a bay leaf; cook them; take 
off Uie skin, that the fish may be very white ; take 
out the fins, and stick them all over as garnishing \ 



T£^CH, 183 

put them lAto another saucep^, and strain over 
them, through a gauze search^ ilhk liquor they were 
cooked in ; put two spoonsful of stock (see veloutS) 
in a saucepan, with sufficient butter, a lemon cut in 
slices without the skin and seeds, salt and pepper ; tp 
which add the carrots, and roots of the parsley with 
which the perch was cooked, and set it on the nre till 
sufficiently thickened; dish and pour over it this 
sauce ; if there is no velotU^y use a butter sauce 
(sauce blanche au beurre). 

Tench. -*-«— Tenches en Matelote. 
Take three or four tench ; kill and throw them into 
a saucepan of boiling water ; take them out immedi- 
ately and scrape them, cut off the fins, take out the 
ears, gut and cut them in junks ; season and cook 
them in the same manner as Matelote de Carpe et 
ifAnguUle. 4fep article Matelote.) 

Tench another Waif. Tenches d, la Poulette, 

Prepare m above ; and do them as VanguiUe a la 
poulette. 

AnothajkfVai/. Tenches d VRalienne. 

Prepare t^i large tench; as in the foregoing re- 
cipes ; pat thenoLinto a saucepan with cut onions, car- 
rots, a bunch ■ parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, a 
little thyme and^eet basil, a clove, a Httle bit of le- 
naon (no peel), salt, pepper^ fine spicery, with a suffi- 
cient quantity of white wine to cover ; cook them ; 
when ready to serve, drain, dish, and pour over them 
a good Italienne romse. 

Fried Tench. — ^ — Tenches /rites. 
Clean two tench ; cut off the fins ; raise the skin on 
both sides ; open them by the back, from the head to 
the tail; gut and arrange them; take out the ears, fry, 
dish upon a napkin, and serve. 

Lotte. 
The lotte^ or eel pout^ is a fresh water fish, (the liver 



• 



184 FRENCH COOKERY. 

is esteemed for its delicacy :) it must be scraped, as it 
does not bear skinning, 

Salmon, Saumon au Bleu, ou h court Bouillon, 

It may be used whole or cut, according to the quan- 
tity required, or the manner of serving it. (See the 
article Carpe au bleu, ou au court BoutUon,) 

Crrilled Salmon, — Darde de Saumon grUUe, 
, Take a cut of salmon ; put it into a dish, and pour 
oyer it a little good oil, fine salt, a bay leaf, parsley, 
and scallions cut in two ; turn it, and let it soak for 
some time; put it on the gridiron ; turn and baste from 
time to time with the seasoning ; lifl with a knife a lit- 
tle of the flesh, at the thickest part of the back ; if 
still red, let it continue cooking ; turn it on a cover, 
and take off the skin; pour over butter sauce, and 
strew capers upon it. 

Salmon with Italian Sauce. Saumdn d VltaUenne 

au gras ou au maigre. 
Do it as above ; giving it a sauce ^ras^ or maigre ^ 
ritalienne, mattre dhotety or any other. 

Salmon another Way^ Saumon ^ la Genevoise, 

Take the head, or any piece of salm(ni ; arrange and 
tie it up ; put it into a nsh-kettle of a convenient size, 
with sliced onions, carrots, parsley, scallions, a bay 
leaf, one or two cloves, salt, and fine spicery; put to 
it a sufficient quantity of claret, or any other red 
wine ; cook it in these ingredients ; when done, take 
a portion of the liquor, and run it through a gauie 
search ; add to it as much espagnole grasse or maigre; 
reduce it to the consistence of sauce; add a little 
anchovy butter, and a bit of good fresh butter; set it 
again upon the fire to thicken; drain, dish, and 
serve. 

Another Way, Saumon d la Hollandaise* 

Cook a piece of salmon in salt and water; when 
done, drain; garnish it with potatoes boiled in water, 
and serve it with sauce in a sauce-tureen, d, la HoUoM' 
daisey or melted butter. 



SALMON. 185 

Another Way, Saumon ^ la BichameUcy en gras 

ou en maigre. 
Boil what salmon may be necessary in salt and wa- 
ter ; or if any remains from a former day, skin and 
separate it into flakes ; draw out the small bones that 
are along the back ; put some b^ckamelle, maigre or 
grasscy in a stewpan, and put in the salmon ; heat the 
whole without letting it boil ; arrange it upon the dish ; 
unite it together with the blade of a knife ; surround 
it with bread cut into forms, upon which has been 
grated a little Parmasan cheese; melt some butter, 
and with a small brush of feathers, baste it hdlf^an 
hour before serving ; put it in the oven till it takes a 
fine colour. 

Another Way, Saute de Saumon^ ou EscalopeSy ^ 

la Maitre-d Hotel, ou ^ VEspagnole, 
Skin a piece of raw salmon, and cut it into scol- 
lops about the size of a crown-piece, and the thickness 
of two ; flatten and round them, having butter ready in 
a frying-nan ; put them in ; taking care not to lay one 
piece over another ; strew a little fine salt and pepper 
over ; put into another stewpan, if for gras, three large 
Sipoon£v\&Q£yeloutereduite ; ii maigre, espagnole maigre, 
with three or four ounces of butter ; warm and thicken 
it; toss the scollops, and turn them ; when enough 
done, drain and pile them on a dish with a border ; 
take a part of the butter in which they have been 
cooked with the stock it has given, and add it to the 
sauce with minced parsley*, nutmeg, and the juice of 
a lemon ; toss it again, dish, sauce, and serve. 

Another Way. Saumon au court Bouillon, pour 

servir comme Plat de Rot, 
Prepare salmon as for bleu, but do not use vinegar ; 
when cooked, drain, and serve it upon a napkin, gar- 
nished with parsley ; serve with it a cruet of oil. 

Salad of Salmon, Salade de Saumon, 

Cook some salmon au court-bouillon; or if there are 

Minced parsley is always understood to have been blanched. 



186 FRENCH COOKERY. 

any remainfly cul it in equal jHeces, so that it may 
look nice ; garnish it properly, and pour into the dish 
the same seasoning as for potdets en salade, gvnish 
the borders with butter, if agreeable. 

Smoked Salmon, —. — SaumonJumS, 
Take a smoked salmon, and cut it in pieces ; lay it in 
a little oil upon a silver plate ; toss, drain, and sque^se 
a little lemon-juice over, and serve. 

Salted Salmon, Saumon soli. 

Steep the salmon sufficiently to take out Ae salt; 
put it upon the fire in fresh water, and let it coipe 
nearly to a boil ; skim it and take it ofiP the fire ; put 
a cloth over, and leave it for five minutes in the water; 
drain and serve it as a salad, or in any other way. 

Trout. Trmiu 

Trout resembles the salmon so much, (but more 
delicate,) that it is cooked in the same way. 

Shad, ^Alose, 

Shad is a fiat river fish, and is known by its beaudfal 
silvery scales ; it is but six weeks hi seaapn. There 
are but few ways of cooking it. 

Shad mth Sorrel, Alose (i VOteUie, 

Choose one fresh and fat ; gut it by the ears ; scale 
and clean it ; put it to steep in oil, fine salt, a bay 
leaf, parsley, and scallions cut in two ; turn it, and kt 
it lie some time in this seasoning ; according to its siie» 
give it three quarters or an hour upon the gridiron; 
baste it with the seasoning, and turn it that it may be 
done on both sides ; serve it upon a nice sorrel sauce. 
(Purine d'OseiUe.) 

Shad grilled mth Caper Sauce, Alose grilUe Sauce 

aux Cypres. 
To be done in the same manner as in the last recipe, 
and served with butter sauce and capers; or boiled is 
^ait and water, and served with any sauce. 



STUR63&OK, 187 

ShacL^'^'^Alose au court Bouillon. 
Prepare and cook it in a court 'bouillon j take it up, 
and pass the court-bouillon through a gauz€; search ; 
mix a quarter of a pound of butter with a little flour, 
put it into the sauce, thicken and make it ready by 
diaking it round over the fire ; add to it a little an- 
chovy butter ; dish, garnish, and send the sauce to 
table in a sauce-boat. 

Alose, 
As above, sauce d la HoUandaise* 

Sturgeon. Esturgeon, 

Sturgeon has several kinds of flesh, particularly that 
which resembles veal, and some that is like beef; the 
Russians are particularly fond of the spawn ; the 
Tartars sell it to them ; being the famous dish which 
they call Kavia. 

, Sturgeon. — Esturgeon entree au court Bouillon* 

Take a small sturgeon, and gut it by the throat and 
fondament ; take out the ears, wash, drain, skin, and 
take off the flat bones ; put it into a fish-kettle with 
a ^ood court' bouillon, and a good deal of rasped lard, 
if It is au gras; if maigre, butter: season it more than 
any otherllsh with aromatics and salt ; cook it with a 
fire under and over ; baste it often, and serve it with 
an Italienne sauce grasse ou maigre. ' 

To roast Sturgeon Esturgeon a la brocke* 

Prepare and clean any quantity of sturgeon as al"* 
ready indicated ; skin and take off the bones ; lard it 
as veal kernels, with lard, or .eel and ancliovies ; fix k 
upan the spit ; make a seasoning (marinade^^ but in* 
stead of vinegar, use white wine and a great deri af 
butter: baste it often during its cooking with this 
seasoning afler it has been passed through a hair 
search ; serve it with [a poivrade sauce). 

Cutlets of Sturgeon in Paper. -*- — CSielettes 
d*Esturgeon en Pajn^ates. 
Cut it inta cutlets about the thickness of a fmger; 
put a bit of butter in a stewpan, and turn them ^N^Wck 



188 FRENCH COOKERY. 

they become white ; finish them in the same manner 
as if they were veal ; if for grasy put thin slices of 
lard ; if maigre, none at all. 

Another Way. Esturgeon en Fricandeau, 

Take a piece of sturgeon and beat it lightly ; lard 
it with small lard ; cover the bottom of the stewpan 
with slices of veal and ham, carrots and onions; finish 
in the same way as (Grenadins de Veau), 

Sturgeon, Esturgeon, 

Where sturgeon is plenty, it is the best fish for 
sauces, which may be made in the same manner as 
stock from veal. Employ it for all maigre sauces. 

Kavier, Kavia, 

Kavia, the spawn of the sturgeon, is held in great 
estimation, particularly by the Russians, who buy it 
from the Tartars at a great price. To prepare it, take 
the roes of several sturgeon, which ought to be full 
grown, which a little white point will indicate; put 
them in a pail of water ; take away all the fibres, as 
is done from the brains of a calf; whisk the spawn in 
water, to separate the fibres from the grains, which 
must be taken off the whisk ; put them into a search, 
and change the water ; return the spawn, and continue 
to whisk it, taking out the fibres, and changing the 
water till there are no more, and the water remains 
pure ; run the water from them through a search, and 
mix and season them well with fine salt and pepper ; 
tie them up in a bit of canvass in the form of a ball, 
and let them drip ; next day, they may be used with 
toast and butter, with chopped onions or shalots 
Btrewed over them, all raw: if to be preserved for 
future use, they must be more salted. 

CW. Cabillaud ou Morue fratche ^ la Hoilandaise, 

The best cod are those which have yellow spots 
upon a very white skin ; cook it in a pretty strong 
salt water ; it should not boil ; five minutes before 
serving it, take it out, and leave it to drain upon its 
drainer ; slip it from that upon a dish, ana send 



COD. 189 

melted butter to table with it, oyster sauce, white 
sauce with capers, or (sauce a la bonne morue). 

Another Way, Cabillaud en Dauphin. 

Done in the same way as Brochet en dauphin. 

Another Way, Cabillaud h la Saint Menehould, 

When it is properly prepared, stuff it with forced 
meat of fish or fowl ; put it upon the dish it is to go to 
table in, which ought to be deep ; wet it with a braise 
grasse or maigre ; put it into the oven; when done, 
pour off the braise, and put over it a (Menihould 
sauce) ; strew it over with crumbs of bread and grated 
Parmesan; baste it with melted butter; let it take 
again a fine colour ; drain ; wipe the edges, and finish 
it with a sauce Italienne blanche. 

Another Way, Cabillaud augratin ethla BechameUe, 

If there are any remains from a former day, take off 
the skin and small bones; dress, and put it into a 
bechamelle; make it hot in the sauce, without allow- 
ing it to boil ; dish ; spread it equally with the blade 
of a knife ; strew crumbs of bread, and, if approved, a 
li^e grated Parmesan ; baste it with melted butter ; 
.garnish entirely with bread, cut in the form of corks ; 
put it in the oven to colour ; take away the bread, and 
replace it in the same manner with others fried in but* 
ter, and serve. 

SaUed Cod another Way, — Morue h la Mattre-d' Hdtel, 
If the fish is too salt, put it for some time into milk 
and water, which draws the salt quickly out ; throw it 
then into hot water ; scrape off the scales ; put it into 
fresh water in a saucepan; when it boils, skim it; 
cover it for an instant ; drain and dish it with a maltre 
d'hatel ; a little lemon or verjuice maybe added; it 
may be skinned and drawn in flakes, and tossed in 
a mattre dhotel; with the juice of a lemon, or a little 
reijuice. 

Another Way, Morue d la Proven^ale, 

Prepare and cook the fish as in the last article; 
drain, take off the skin, and divide it into flakes ; 



190 FRENCH eOOKERY. 

put some oil into a stewpan with it, and two cloves of 
garlic, bruised with a knife; turn it well round (^ 
force de bras) with all your force; making the fish 
swim till it incorporates with the oil ; add the juice of 
a lemon and large pepper ; dish in any form, and serve. 

Another Way. Morue au Beurre noir. 

Prepare the fisn as for maitre^dhotel ; drain it, and 
make a beurre noir; add vinegar, but no salt; dish, 
sauce, and serve. 

Cod in Cream. — Morue d la Crimey ou bonne 

Morue. 
Prepare the fish as above; drain, dish, and stuce it 
with sauce (bonne morue). 

Salt Cod. Morue au Gratin. 

See Cabillaud au Gratin. 

Morue h la HoUandaise. 
See Cabillaud ^ la HoUandaise. 

Cod. Morue ^ la Bourguignoie* 

Take five or six large onions ; slice ; fty ftnd 
brown them ; brown a little butter ; draw off the clear, 
and add it to the onions, with salt, pepper, and 
vinegar ; the fish being cooked as directed at the art 
Morue ^ la Maitre d^ Hotel \ drain, dish, sauce, and 
serve. 

TURBOT. 
A Turbot for first or second Course. -^--^^ Turbid entier 
pour premier ou second Service. 
Choose a fine fat turbot; let it be as sound and fireth 
as possible; gut, wash, and be particular in cleaning the 
inside ; open it to the middle of the back, nearer the head 
than the tail, from three to four inches, more or kM) 
according to its size ; raise up the flesh on both sides ; 
cut the fins the length of the opening ; arrange ittt 
head with a packing needle, passing the thread lie- 
tween the ei^e and the bone of the first fin ; rub it 
with lemon; put it upon a drainer into a turiK>t 
kettle of a proper size; put in two pints of salt watir 



TURBOT. 191 

« 

and two pints of milk ; add two or three lemons cut in 
pieces, without the skins and seeds ; make it boil 
upon a quick fire, if in summer, as it might spoil 
upon a slow one ; when it begins to boil, cover the 
fire, and let it cook quietly, without letting it boil ; 
cover it with buttered paper; when done leave it 
in the seasoning till ready to serve ; take it up and 
drain it ; arrange a napkin upon a dish, which may be 
raised by some herbs, that it may look handsome ; slip 
it from the drainer upon the msh ; cut off any fins 
that are deranged, and the end of the tail ; garnish it 
with parslev, and if there are any cracks, cover them ; 
serve with it a white sauce with capers, melted butter 
d la HoUandaisCy or with lobster sauce (aux homards) ; 
if it is for the second course, send no sauce to table, 
but oil. 

Turhot au Gratin. 

See art. Cabillatid, 

Turbot Salad, FUets de Turbot en Salade, 

Take turbot that has remained from a former day 
and skin it; cut it in any form, round, long, or fiui 
ahaped ; dish it as a crown ; garnish it with stripes of 
andiovies, capers, truffles, and beet root ; fill up the 
interstices wim lettuce, and every other sallad in their 
season; mske a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, 
and serve it. 

SmaU Turbois, Turbotins sur h Plat. 

Take one or two turbotins (or small turbot); gut, 
clean, and drain them ; cut them down the back ; put 
some butter in the bottom of a dish ; cover it with fine 
herbs minced and a little salt ; put them into the dish, 
and strew crumbs of bread over them, with fine herbs, 
salt, and fine spiceries ; baste them lightly with melted 
butter, and add a sufficient quantity of white wine ; 
let it boil ; put it into the oven : when they do not 
resist the touch they are enough; serve them in 
their own sauce, or drain; and pour over an 
baUenne. 



102 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Another Way, Turhotiuy sauce Tomate. 

Arrange one as above, and cook it as turbot ; drain 
dish on a napkin, and serve with a sauce tomate in 
a sauce-boat, or pour the sauce over it. 

Dab, Barbue, 

The dab is a fish that resembles the turbot, onlv 
it is longer and is covered with little scales ; the flesh 
is whiter than the turbot and more delicate; it is 
cooked in general as the turbot ; they fry, and cook it 
also (au court'bouUlon), 

Flotte ou Flotton. 
This is also of the turbot species, and is still longer 
in its form, with a much smaller head and thicker 
body ; when it is cut, it resembles the turbot so much, 
that it is often sold for it ; the flesh is softer ; it is eaten 
with onions, (et au beurre noir et h la bourguignote), 

SOLE. 

The most delicate are those which have dieir 
backs of a gilded yellow colour, their breasts very 
white, with a blush of rose ; the smallest are the most 
delicate. 

Soles pour Rot, 

Take what soles are necessary; gut and skin them; 
cut them down the back ; draw the blade of the knife 
along the fins to separate the flesh : when ready to 
serve dip them in milk ; shake a little flour over, and 
fry them over a good fire; when done and of a 
fine colour drain them upon a clean cloth ; dish upon a 
napkin ; send whole lemons to table with them. 

Soles h la Flamande, 
Cook them in a small fish kettle with salt and water 
drain ; dish upon a napkin, and serve with melted but* 
ter, (maitre'd'hdterjy or an oyster sauce (aux huUresy 

Soles sur le Plat ou au Four, 
Having arranged the soles as directed before, cut 
apen their backs, and lift up the fledi upon both sides 
stuff the back with fine herbs minced ; fry them in 



SOLES. 193 

butter and let them cool ; put a little butter in a dish 
and lay in the fish upon their backs; baste with 
melted butter ; strew over salt, fine spices, and crumbs 
of bread ; add an equal quantity of stock and white 
wine : put them into the oven, and when of a fine co- 
Jour serve them. 

Filets de Soles cL la Horly. 
After cleaning the soles cut them entirely open 
by the back from head to tail ; cut each into four 
mce fillets, and steep them in lemon juice, salt, 
parsley, and sliced omons ; shake them in this sea- 
soning, where they ought to remain nearly an hour ; 
when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry Uiem ; they 
must be firm and of a good colour ; dish, and serve 
under them an Italienne or tomate sauce. 

Sautide Filets de Soles ^ la Maitremd' Hotel, 
Take of the fillets as above ; the skin having been 
previously taken ofi*, have some melted butter in a 
saifcepan, into which put the fillets ; shake a little 
fine salt over them; when done upon one side, turn 
them; drain, dish, and sauce, widi a good mattre 
d^hdtely to which some veloutSe reduke has been 
added and heightened with a little lemon sauce, and 
serve. 

Soles au Gratin, 
Cut the fillets as above ; spread upon these fillets 
cooked forced meat, gras ou maigre, about the thick- 
ness of a crown piece ; roll it equally on, all over ; 
cover the bottom of a dish with forced meat about half 
an inch thick ; form a crown of the fillets upon the 
dish, so that there will be a well in the middle ; put a 
little of the forced meat into the intervals within 
and without, that the fillets may form one mass ; 
unite the whole with the blade of a knife dipt in hot 
watery strew crumbs of bread over; baste it with 
butter^ and send it to the oven ; when done, put into 
the hollow or well 9l provengaUy or an Italienne. 



194^ FRENCH COOKERY. 

Filets de Soles a Vlialienne. 
Take fried or cold soles ; take off the fillets nicely ; 
put a little stock into a saucepan, and put them in ; 
heat them upon hot cinders, taking care they do 
not boil ; when ready to serve, drain them upon a 
cloth ; dish one over the other like scales ; and 
sauce them with an Italienne. 

Filets de Soles en Mayonnaise. 
Follow the same procedure as in the foregoing 
article, cutting the fillets two inches long, dishing 
in the form of a crown, and pouring over them a 
mayonnaise. 

Filets de Soles en Salade. 
Prepare the filets as above, and finish in the same 
manner as indicated for salade de volaille* 

PlaicCy Flounder^ and Bret. Limande^ Carrdet^ et 

Flaye. 
These are sea-fish ; flat like the soles ; the bret- 
fish, which is the most delicate of the three»^ re- 
sembles the sole ; the head is more pointed and not 
so long ; the flounder more delicate than the plaice, 
has small red spots upon the scales, which distinguish 
this fish from the bret-fish ; the red spots of tibe 
plaice, the skin of which is darker and more slaty, are 
much smaller than those of the flounder ; these fish 
are to be large of their kinds, with the flesh white 
and firm ; they are all cooked as the soles. 

Fried Whitings. Merlansjrlts. 

Scale, fin, gut, and wash the whitingi ; put the livers 
back into tiieir stomachs ; nick them on both sides : 
flour, and fry them till they are firm and of a fine 
colour ; drain, strew a little salt over, and serve then 
upon a napkin. 

Whiting may be done as soles ci la HoUandaiu^ or i 
la Flamande, or sur le plat. 

Grilled Whitings. Merlam g &. 

Having prepared whitings as above, lick tbca 
across, and lay them on the gridiron ; do hem oft a 
slow fire ; when ready to turn, lay softly over then 



WHITING. 195 

the cover of a stewpan, and turn them over ; and if 
any stick, disengage them with the back of a knife; 
then slide them a^ain gently upon the gridiron, using 
the same precaution to take them up ; masque wi^ 
white sauce and capers. 

Another Way, Merlans aux fines Herhes* 

Prepare the whiting as for frymg; put butter, 
parsley, and scallions finely hashed, ssJt and nutmeg, 
mto a deep dish, and lay them in ; baste with melted 
butter, and put some stock and white wine to 
them ; turn Uiem when half done ; when they are 
cooked, put their seasoning into a stewpan, with- 
out taking them out of the dish ; add a little butter 
rubbed in flour ; cook, and thicken it ; add lemon- 
juice, and a little pepper ; sauce, and serve. 

Another Way, Filets de Merlans ^ la Horly, 

Take six or eight small whiting ; prepare them ; 
take off the fillets nicely ; steep them in lemon-juice, 
a little salt, sprigs of parsley, and slices of onion; 
when they are to be served, drain, and flour them, by 
putting them into a cloth with a little flour, take 
them out and fry them ; drain, dish, and sauce with 
an lialienne or a toniate^ and serve. 

Another Way, Hatelettes de Filets de Merlans. 

Take off the fillets of twelve whitings, as indicated 
above ; m<rtt some butter ; put into it the yolk of an 
^SS9 ^^^ som^ salt ; mix it well, and dip the fillets 
into it ; roll them up, and skewer them ; put five or 
six fillets on each skewer ; heat again slightly the but- 
ter in which the fillets had been already passed; 
dip them into it ; strew the table with crumbs, roll 
them lightly in them ; put them carefully upon the 
gridiron ; and three quarters of. an hour before 
serving tJiem, put them over red cinders; renew the 
cinders often ; turn them on all sides ; put over them 
^ ff^^ gr^ ^^ mafgre well seasoned^ adding the 
jwce of a l^rge lemon, and serve* 

k2 



196 FREliCH COOKERY. 

Filets de Merlans en Turban, 
Take fifteen or eighteen whitings ; cut the fillets 
from five or six of the largest, and prepare the remainder 
for forced meat (^ la quenelles des merlans ;) this done, 
make a large cork of bread, set it on the smallest 
end in the middle of a dish ; put round it very thin 
slices of lard, and also forced meat, as it were, in 
steps to form the turban ; surround it with fillets in 
form of muslin bands to make a turban ; if it is the 
season, garnish it with white truffles, cut in the form 
of large pearls, or any thing that may be turned to 
have that appearance; baste with melted butter, 
cover with thin slices of lard, and over them, buttered 
paper; cook it in the oven with a light braise under 
It ; when enough done, take out the cork and all the 
lard ; drain it ; put into the hollow or well a good 
Italienney and serve ; or ragout may be used. 

Filet de Merlans au Gratin, ^ 

Having the fillets ready, spread them upon a table ; 
cover them entirely with a cooked forced meat ; if for t 
maigre, one of whitings, and roll it equally ; spread J 
Upon the bottom of a dish, rather more than half an 
ftich thick oi farce; lay the fillets upon it in the form 
of a crown ; cover and fill it up entirely with farce, 
and unite it together with the blade of a knife dipt in 
hot water, giving it a regular form; strew grated 
crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter ; 
put it into the oven till it takes a fine colour ; sauce it 
with an Italienne rousse, or an Espagnhle reduite; and 
serve. 

Smelts, Eperlans, 

8melt is a small fish much esteemed ; but only a 
short time in season during the spring ; has a betM- 
tiful green, silvery, shining colour ; and a strong odour 
of violets, or cucumbers. 

To fry Smelts, Eperlans frits. 

Scale, gut, and wipe a sufficient quantity ; if very 
small, pass a skewer through the eyes ( dip them in 
jtniik; and flour them ; fry, and serve upon a napkin* 



ORONDIJfS. 197 

Smelts. Eperlans (i PAnglaise, 

Put two spoonsful of oil into a stew-pan; salt, and 
pepper ; the half of a lemon cut in pieces ; having 
taken off the skin, and seeds, with two glasses of white 
wine ; let this seasoning boil a quarter of an hour ; 
put in the smelts ; let them cook, drain, and pour over 
them the following sauce : put a smaJl clove of gar- 
lic into boiling water to blanch; bruise it with the 
blade of a knife, and put it into a stewpan with pars- 
ley and small onions hashed, and two glasses of Cham- 
pagne ; let it boil ^ye minutes ; put in a pat of butter, 
rubbed in flour ; and another pat without flour, salt, 
and pepper ; thicken the sauce, and add the juice of a 
lemon. 

Grondin, 
Grondin, a sea-fish, has a red skin, very white 
flesh, and is much esteemed ; it is served in different 
forms, and with various sauces. 

Grondins ^ la Maitre'd' HSteL 

Take four or five grondins ; gut, clean, and tie up 
their heads ; cook them in salt and water seasoned, on 
a slow fire, that they may not crack ; when enough, 
drain, dish, and serve them with a high seasoned 
maitre d*h6tel; they may be served with any othei 
sauce, either gras or maigre, 

Grondins in Paper, Grondins en Comets et aiui 

fines Herbes. 

Take seven or eight grondins ; gut, wash, drain, 
and roll them in fine herbs, as the cutlets in paper, 
only give them a little more butter ; put them to sim- 
mer m this seasoning ; when they are a .little more 
than half done, let them nearly cool ; make as many 
comets, or turned bags of strong white paper, as there 
are fish ; put them into the bags, tail foremost ; fill 
them with fine herbs ; shut them up as close as possi- 
ble ; put them on the gridiron, and finish over a slow 
fire ; let the paper be of a fine colour, and serve. 

K 3 



198 TRENCH COOKERY. 

Another Way. Grondins ci lapluche verte. 

Put the quantilT to be cooked into a stewpan, and 
pour over them, if gras^ a mirepoU; ifmaigret a court 
oouillon ; when done, drain and serve with a plucke 
verte. 

Bearded Roach. Rouget harbet. 

Steep them in oil ; grill, and serve with plain but- 
ter or caper sauce. 

St. Peter. St. Pierre ^ ou Pouk de Mer. 

This fish, which is very flat and delicate, is dressed 
in the same manner as the roach. 

Ling. Eelejin. 

This fish resembles the cod ; its scales are finer, 
and of a light slate colour ; it is cooked generally 
in the same manner as cod, and is much esteemed. 

Barbel. 
This fish also resembles the ^glefin ; it is still red- 
der in the body than the last, and has larger scales ; 
there are some of them very large, and serve for 
grosses pieces, or in dardes (pour entrees); it is 
cooked au court bouillon when it is large ; and may 
be served with almost any sauce. Mons. Beauvilliers 
thinks those that are acidulated the best. The smell 
ones answer well grilled with white caper sauce. 

Grey and Red Mullet, Mulct et Sur-muleL 

These fish difier little ; they are not so large as 
the barbel, their bodies and heads are round ; they 
are very delicate, and are generally cooked in salt 
and water, or grilled. According to Monsieur B^ 
the best manner, after the sauce blanche au beurre, is 
to put them into a raw ravigote. 

Sea Dragon, Vive, 

Is a round long fish, with yellow spots beautifully 
rayed ; it has at each ear and upon the back dan* 
gerous prickles, and great care is necessary to avoid 
them ; if wounded, allow it to bleed a long time, and 
rub it with the bruised liver of the fish, or bruise an 



MACKEREL. 199 

onion with salt, and wet it with spirits of wine, which 
must be applied to the wound till it is cured. 

Sea-Dragon tvitk Caper- Sauce, Vives^ Sauce aux 

Capres, 

Cut off the prickles from four or five, gut, wash, 
and slash them on both sides; put them to steep in 
oil, parsley, and salt ; a quarter of an hour before 
serving, grill, and baste them with the seasoning ; dish 
and serve them with a sauce blanche au beurre, to 
which capres may be added. 

Prepare the vives as above^ and serve them with a 
mattre'cThSteL 

Vives hVltalienne, 
Having prepared five or six sea^dragons, take off 
the heads and tails ; put them into a stewpan with 
half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions and 
carrots, sprigs of parsley, half a bay leaf, and salt; 
cook, drain, dish ; sauce with an ItaliennCy and serve. 

Vive d VAUemande, 
Prepare five or six as above ; lard them with an- 
chovies and eels; put them into a saucepan with a bit 
of butter, half a bottle of white wine, a little sweet 
basil, half a bay leaf, a clove, some sprigs of parsley, 
slices of onions and carrots ; cook them, and pass the 
greater part of their seasoning through a search into 
a saucepan ; add a pat of butter rubbed in flour ; put 
it on the fire and reduce it to sauce ; at the moment 
of serving, add the juice of a lemon ; drain, dish, 
sauce, and serve. 

Mackerel. — Maquereaux ^ la Maitre'dHStel* 
Take three or four mackerel ; see that they are 
very fresh and of an equal size^, that they may cook 
equally ; gut them by one of the ears, and take out 
with a knife the puddings at the navel ; wipe them ; 
open the back and head ; cut off the nose and tail ; 
powder them with a little salt ; marinade them with 
oil, parsley, and small onions cut in two ; turn them in 

* This remark ougbt to be attended to in cooking of erery thing. 

K 4 



200. TRENCH COOKERY. 

this seasoning : if large they will take three quarters 
of an hour on the gridiron ; if small, half an hour 
will suffice ; take care their belly does not open, that 
they may not lose their juice ; cook them upon red 
cinders ; after they have been done sufficiently on both 
sides, put them on their back that they may be 
thoroughly done ; dish, and with a wooden spoon put 
a little cold maitre (Thotel into their backs, with the 
juice of lemon, or sauce with it thickened, and serve. 

Mackerel in the English Way.^^^MaquereaiLx d 

FAnglaise. 

Take three or four fresh mackerel ; gut them by 
the ears, draw out the stomach, tie up the head, and 
cut the ends of the tails ; put a large handful of fennel, 
and salt and water with the fish into a kettle ; set 
&em on a slow fire ; drain, dish, and serve with a 
fennel or gooseberry sauce. . 

Another Way, Maquereaux h la Flamande. 

Prepare mackerel as in the last recipe; mix a bit 
of butter with shalots, parsley, ^small minced onions, 
salt, and the juice of a lemon; and stufi* them: roll 
each in a buttered sheet of strong white paper ; tie 
them up tightly at the ends, and oil them ; cook them 
upon a slow equal fire for three quarters of an hour ; 
wnen ready, take them out of the paper; dish ; drip 
the oil out upon the fish, and serve. 

Mackerel, Maquereaux d, Vltalienne, 

Cook the mackerel as mdicated for sea-dragons J 
ritalienney and sauce with an Italienne mixed with a 
bit of butter. 

Mackerel, Filets de Maquereaux h la Maitre^ 

d*H6teL 
Take off the fillets of three mackerels, cut them in 
two, melt some butter in a frying pan, put them in, 
the skin side downward ; strew a little salt, and baste 
them lightly with butter ; cover them with paper, and 
put them in a cool place, till ready to serve. Prepare 
the following sauce : put two spoonfuls of vdouti re- 



MACKEREL. 201 

duced in a saucepan; minced parsley and shalots; 
boil the sauce ; put in a large bit of excellent butter, 
and the juice of a large lemon ; clean the roes, and 
cook them in salt and water ; when ready to serve, 
put the fillets upon the fire ; make them froth, and 
turn them ; when done enough, drain ; dish them en 
couronney and garnish with bread fried in butter or 
oil ; sauce, and serve. 

Maquereaux au Beurre noir. 
Prepare as the foregoing, and sauce with a beurre 
noiry adding salt, vinegar, and fried parsley. 

Skate, ^— Rate, 
There are several sorts of this fish, the Ray houcUe 
is the best and most esteemed of all ; the gentle ray, 
which is without prickles, and the grand ray, called 
tyry and the long ray ; there are also raytonSy all of 
which will be spoken of in their order. 

Skatey with Caper Satice. Raie Boudicy Sauce aux 

Capres. 
Take a middling sized one ; cut off. the wings as 
near to the back as possible ; put them into a bucket 
of fresh water ; wash and rub them with a brush, to 
take away the slime ; avoid the prickles, which are 
dangerous ; drain and put it into a large kettle with 
a handful of salt, slices of onions, sprigs of parsley, 
twd bay leaves, a clove of garlic, a sprig of sweet 
basil, and a little white wine vinegar ; put it on the fire, 
jUtti^ it boil, take it off, put in the liver, cover the 
"IHStle with a cloth, leave it ten minutes ; take out the 
liver and put it into a small saucepan, with part of 
the seasonmg ; take out a wing, put it upon the cover 
of the saucepan, take off the skin and prickles, and 
all the black flesh, and put it into a saucepan ; do the 
other wing in the same manner ; run a part of the 
seasoning through a search over the fish ; about half 
an hour before serving, warm the skate without letting 
it boil ; drain it upon a clean cloth ; dish it with the 
liver ; garnish ; sauce with a sauce blanche au beurre; 
strew over it capers or cucumbers cut in squares. 

k5 



^D2 frekch cookery. 

Skate. — ^ Raie ^ VEspagncle. 

Prepare, clean, and cook the skate ; dish and garnish 
as the foregoing; put into a stewpan three or four 
spoonfuls aEspagnole ; boil it, and at the moment of 
serving, add two or three ounces of good butter; 
shake it well ; if too thick, add a little stock ; strew 
capers or cucumbers cut round or square, and serve. 

Skate mth Black Buiter'Sauce^''-^»*-^Raie Sauce au 

Beurre noir. 
Prepare and cook the skate ; cut the wings in square 
pieces rather long, dish them in a crown; sauce 
them with a beurre noir, seasoned with salt and 
vinegar; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

'^^fiy Skate. Ratejrite ou en Marinade. 

Prepare, cook, and dress, as for sauce aux cSpres^ 
but cut them like those for beurre noir ; steep them 
in salt and vinegar ; when ready to 4Berve, dnun, and 
dip them into a light butter ; fry them of a fine 
colour; drain, dish, and serve under them a sauce 
poivrade* If there is any skate remaining from a for- 
mer day, do it in this way, or what is not so fresh. 

To fry Raw Skate. Raiejrite d, cru. 

Take several sdiaU wings, skin both sides, marinade 
them in salt, vinegar, onions, and branches of parsley; 
when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them of a 
fine colour ; drain, and serve with any sauge. 




Herring. — Hareng, 
The herring is a fish generally esteemed, which are 
used fresh, salted, and smoked ; the first wh^i fresh 
have the ears red, the scales brilliant, milky, and fiit, 
very thick in the back ; there is also a distinct sort 
called the pilchard, which is more delicate. 

Fresh Herrings mth Mustard Sauce, — Harengs 

Sauce ^ la Moutarde, 
Take twelve or fifteen herrings, gut them bythf 
gills, scale and wipe them with a cloth ; lay them on • 



HERRINGS* 203 

china or earthen dish ; strew over them some salt, oil, 
and parsley, and turn them in this seasoning ; a quar- 
ter of an hour before serving put them to grill ; dress 
them upon a dish, and sauce them with a sauce, 
(blanche au beurre,) mixed with a spoonful of mustard ; 
do not let it boil, or serve them with a sauce grasse ; or 
if cold, sauce them with a sauce ct VhuUey or any one 
convenient. 

Herring Roes in a Case. — Caisse de Laitances de 

Hdrengs. 
Take thirty fine fat herrings, take out the roes; 
dean and drain them ; put a bit of butter into a 
saucepan with mushrooms, parsley, shalots, small on- 
ions hashed very fine, salt, pepper, and fine spices ; 
pass the fine herbs lightly over the fire, taking care 
they do not brown ; put in the roes ; make them sim- 
mer a moment in this seasoning ; having made a round 
or square case, spread in it a gratin gras or maigre^ 
about half an inch thick ; oil the outside of the case, 
put it on the gridiron over hot cinders to cook thej^ra- 
tin^ before serving put the roes into the case, and put 
it into a slow oven : when done enough take off the fat, 
arrange it on a dish, and sauce wi& an Espagnole re- 
duced ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into it, and serve. 

Pickled Herring, Harengs Pecs. 

They are generally used in hors d'ceuvres at good 
les ; during Lent they are grilled and served on a 
de poky a sauce blanche^ or any other. 



t§^le> 



Red Herring. Harengs Saurets. 

Take five or six, wash them' and take off their heads, 
and the ends of their tails ; divide thei» from head to 
tail ; open them ; put them on a china 0f an earthen 
dish ; baste them with oil ; when ready to serve, turn 
them a moment on the gridiron, and send them im- 
mediately to table. 

Pickled Herring another Way. — Harengs Pecs. 
Take five or six salt herrings; wash, take off their 
heads and the tips (€ their tails ; skin and cut off their 

K 6 ^ 



204 FRENCH COOKERY. 

fins ; put them to steep in milk and water.; drain, gr 
and dish with slices of onions, and apples of the re 
net kind; serve oil with them. 

FORCED MEATS. 

Farce en G^SraL — Godiveau. 

Take a noix* of veal ; skin and nerve it we 
mince it fine ; beat it in the mortar till it t 
comes a paste; mince a double quantity of b( 
suet, which must be dry and grainy, for if it is grea 
the godiveau will neither look well nor be good ; pi 
off aS the skin, and beat the whole together in a m< 
iar till they are perfectly mixed ; put in salt, pepp 
and fine spicery ; mix and beat all well together ; ta 
an entire egg, which must be perfectly fresh, and n 
it well in ; men another, which must be also perfect 
incorporated ; aflter this^ a third, which will be su 
cient for two pounds of godiveau ; put in a spooni 
of water ; continue to add another every time t 
water is incorporated: let this operation have tii 
that it may not be drowned ; when sufficiently wett 
as for a paste, strew a table with fiour, and make 
little ball for trial, and throw it into boiling sou 
when done enough, it will yield under the finger ; c 
and taste. if it be light and good ; if not firm enoug 
add another egg to give it more consistence ; if t 
firm, a little water ; dust the table with flour, and n 
the sodiveau into any convenient size ; poach, drai 
and keep it in readiness for such ragouts as requiraJ 
Chairs h petits Pates et PMe ^ la Ciboulette, m 

Take the quarter of a pound of a fillet of veal, fS 
as much beef, and a pound of beef-kidney fat ; min< 
the veal and beef together as small as possible ; htt 
the suet ; mix all well together, and continue hashii 
it with a hashing knife, seasoning with salt, pe| 
per, and fine spiceries: put in two eggs, one aft< 
the other, and continue to beat them; when con 
pletely mixed add a little water, and continue to c 

* A notx it the large fine muscle found in the fillet, which e 
be taken out whole. 



GP.ATIN. 205 

SO by little and little, till it is brought to a proper oon-. 
sistence of forced meat; finish by adding parsley and 
scallions minced very fine ; put it into a proper pot, so 
that it may be in readiness for petits pates or pdt^s i la 
ciboulette, ^ 

GRATIN. 

Take half a pound of fillet of veal, cut it in small 
dice; put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a little 
fine herbs minced, such as mushrooms, parsley, scal- 
lions, with salt, fine spiceiy and pepper; put it 
upon the fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon ; let 
it cook a quarter of an hour, drain off the butter,, 
mince it fine, and put it into the mortar; take fifteen 
livers of fowls or game, wash and parboil them ; throw 
them into cold water ; drain and put them into the 
mortar with thq other ingredients; beat them all well 
together ; add as much panade as meat ; have ready 
cooked and cold some veal's udder ; be careful to take 
off the skin, and put in as much of the udder as of 
each of the other mgredients, so that each may be a 
third ; if there is no tetines, that is, veal's udder, butter 
may be used ; season with salt, and put in three esgs^ 
one afler the other in beating, and also three yolks ; 
when all is sufficiently beaten, take it out of the mortar 
with a wooden spoon ; make a trial by poaching ; if 
not firm enough, add some yolks of eggs; when come 
to perfection, whip the whites of three eggs very well> 
ana mix it in by degrees, breaking them as little as 
Mssible ; truffles may be added well minced : put it 
Of for use. 

N.B. This gratin may be made entirely of raw 
livers, either of poultry or game, without using nny 
other sort of flesh meat, keeping in view always the 
proportion of thirds, that is to say, one third of pa- 
na^ one of liver, and one of butter. 

Panada, Panade, 

Take a sufficient quantity of crumb of bread, cut 
it in small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with 
reduced cream ; let it soak, and when it has absorbed 
the cream, put it on the fire, and cook in such a man'* 



206 FRENCH COOKERY. 

ner that it will have the consistence of a firm paste, 
(or it may be made of stock) ; incorporate into it two 
yolks of eggs. 

Bread Crumbs, Mie de Pain, 

Take some crumbs of very white bread ; put it to 
dry in a very slow oven, and beat it in a mortar ; put it 
tlirough a search and use it ; every thing looks better 
done with it. 

Cooked forced Meat.* Farces Cuites. 

Take the quantity of fowl necessary, or of veal ; 
cut it in small dice, and do it with fine herbs, as is indi- 
cated for the gratin ; take and cut the meat, skin and 
nerve it, hash and beat it ; add as much panada as 
flesh, and the same of udder, that is to say, that these 
three materials consist of equal parts, and are all 
first beaten separately ; put m as many eggs as is 
sufiicient, taking care it is not too liquid ; season with 
salt, fine spiceries, and fine herbs, cooked in butter ; 
try a bit of it, and when properly done, add die 
whites of some eggs well beaten with care as directed 
in the gratin. 

Forced Meat of Fovol, Quenelles de VolaiUe, 

Take off all the flesh of two fowls ; skin and nerve 
it carefully ; beat it in a mortar till it passes through a 
search [de quenelles) with the back of a wooden spoon ; 
take as much panada as of fowl, and the same of 
butter, or udder of veal : having beaten them all se- 
parately, mix and beat them altogether, adding one 
after another till all is well incorporated; in die 
same manner put in three eggs and three yolks, one 
after another ; season with salt and nutmeg ; beat them 
well in ; gather it together in the mortar, and throw 
a little bit into boiling water ; taste if good, and if not 
firm, put in one or two entire eggs ; when it has ar- 
rived at its point, whip well the whites of three eggs, 
and add them by degrees. Observe the follow- 
ing directions: — If to garnish a large dish, take a 

* If the cook takes a little pains she will soon undenlMid ferad 
meats, as it is of the utmost professional consequence. 



GRATIN. 207 

fikimming spoon, and fill it with the quenelle; then, with 
a knife dipt in warm water, give it the same form as 
that in the spoon, which will be like an egg ; detach 
it from the spoon, and put it into a buttereid saucepan, 
and in this manner make as many as is necessary; put 
over them some very hot soup when you poach them, 
taking care that tney swim without touching one 
another : let them boil softly, and turn them ; when 
sufficiently done drain upon a cloth, and ^ dress them 
cm their cUsh. If the quenelles are for a vol-au-vent, 
use two table-spoons to form them ; and if still for 
smaller dishes, use tea-spoons, or any other shape, to 
make them in. 

Forced Meat of Rabbits, Quenelles de Lapereaux. 

Take one or two young rabbits, and proceed in every 
way as in the above article. 

JDitto of Partridges* Quenelles de Perdreaux, 

The same manner as in the foregoing article. 

Ditto of Pheasants, Quenelles de Faisans, 

The same. 

Pudding of Rabbits, Boudin de Lapereaux d la 

Richelieu, 
Take the flesh of a rabbit, and cook it in the same 
manner as is indicated in quenelle de volaille, except 
that potatoes are used instead of panade; roast six or 
eight ffood potatoes in the ashes ; peel them, and put 
them into a mortar ; beat them very well ; take the 
proper quantity, and put into the Jarce instead of 
panada ; spread upon the cover of a stewpan, the 
thickness of half an inch o^Jarce^ five inches long and 
three broad; put along the middle of it dLsafpi^on 
with a knife, dipt in warm water, raise the sides and 
the end of the Jarce over the salpigon till it is formed 
into the appearance of a white pudding; butter 
the bottom of a saucepan large enough that the 
cover on which the pudding has been made can go 
into it; heat the cover slightly, and slip the pud- 
ding into the bottom of the stewpan ; take the same 
precaution to poach it as is indicated for queneUes 



208 FRENCH COOKERT. 

de volailles ; when done, drain, and let them cool ; 
they may be grilled, after wetting them with the 
yolks of eggs, and rolling them lightly in crumbs of 
bread ; let them be done on hot cinders ; when enough, 
dfish, either upon a good Italienne blanche or rousse^ 
or upon a Perigueux, and serve. 

Pudding of Cram-fish. Boudin (TEcrevisse. 

Make a, Jarce ^ quenelle of fowls; make use of it 
in the same manner as of the rabbits, or lapereaux de 
Richelieu ; make a salpigon of the tails of craw-fish, 
mushrooms, and truffles ; make it up into a pudding, 
as is directed in the foregoing article ; in the mean 
time, wash and dry the shells, and make a butter 
sauce of them ; when the puddings are poached, dip 
them into the butter; strew crumbs over them, and 
baste them with it ; put them into the oveiiy and 
when they have taken a fine colour, send them to table 
covered with a good veloutS, mixed with the craw-fish 
butter sauce, so that it may be of a find red colour. 

Pudding of Whitings. Boudin de Merlans. . 

This pudding is made in the same manner as thftt 
of young rabbits, except that of the forced meat 
Jarce d quenelles) which is made of whitings ; if for 
maigre, the salpifon is made of the livers of whitings, 
musnrooms, truffles, and Espagnole maigre; it is dipped 
in egg, or rubbed with it ; rolled in crumbs, and basted 
with butter ; put it into the oven, and serve it with an 
Espagnole, or an Italienne maigre. 

Boudins en gSnSral. 
They may be made of pheasants, partridges, fowls, 
salmon, &c. the manner of doing them is the same 
throughout. 

Rabbits. Croquettes de Lapereaux. 

Roast a rabbit, let it cool ; take off all the flesh, and 
separate it from the skin and nerves ; cut it in small 
dice, with mushrooms, truffles, and some fat livers; 
reduce a soup-ladle full of veloutS to hailf giaxe^ to 
which add hashed parsley and scallions; put it on 
the fire five or six minutes ; add the other ingredients, 



PASTRY. 209 

but tlo not let it boil ; thicken it with the yolks of 
eggs, having care to stir it with a wooden spoon; 
pour it out upon a slab ; spread it with a knife, and 
let it cool ; divide it in equal parts about the size of 
half an egg ; form them mto any shape ; roll them in 
crumbs of bread, dip them into an omelettCy with a 
little salt; roll them again in crumbs, preserving 
their form ; fry in a hottish frying-pan, till of a fine 
colour ; drain, and serve with fried parsley. 

Whitings* — Quenelle de Merlans. 
Take the flesn of five or six whitings; skin, and 
put it into a mortar ; beat it, and force it through a 
cullender ; beat somepanada, and force it through also ; 
take butter in proportion, that these three ingredients 
may be equal* ; beat them up well together ; add to it 
salt, fine spiceries, a table-spoonful of fine herbs, 
minced and cooked in butter, and a sufficient quantity 
of egsB ; finish in the same manner as indicated for 
all omer^rce^; make trial if it is good, and finish 
with Ae white of eggs. 

Salmon. — — Quenelles de Saumon 
Is made in the same manner ; but rather less butter, 
particularly if the salmon is very rich. 

Pike. Quenelles de Brocket 

Is done as whiting, adding some anchovies. 

Carp. Quenelles de Carpes. 

Take two small carp ; scale, skin, and take out the 
nerves of the tail ; hash them well with a little salt ; 
beat them in a mortar ; add two anchovies and fine 
herbs cooked in butter, and put every thing in, in the 
same proportion as in other quenelles; season with 
fine herbs ; try a little bit of it, and finish with whites 
of eggs. 

PASTRY. 

Pate h dresser. 
Take a quart of flour, (called by the bakers gruau\ 

* If the three different ingredients are made into balls, the 
quantities will be easily ascertained. 



210 FRENCH COOKERY. 

put it on a paste slab ; form a well in the middle of the 
flour to contain water ; work a pound of butter, and 
put into it ; add an ounce of fine salf*^, and some water ; 
work the butter well in and beat the paste till it is 
very firm ; work it well together, and break it two 
or three times with the palm of the hand, and gather 
it into one mass, and put it to repose half an hour in a 
wet cloth before it is used. It may be made five or six 
pounds to a bushel ; that of four pounds serves ge- 
nerally for large cold pdtSs and cold timbales ; those 
of five or six pounds, (and by adding an egg to 
the pound), serve for hot pateSy timbales of mtica' 
roniy and others. 

Observe, that half a pound of butter to the pound of 
flour for cold pateSy and three quarters, with an eggy to 
the pound of flour for the hot patcsy iimbaleSy &c* 

Pate brisk. 

Take a quart of flour, more or less, as may be 
necessary ; pass it through a search, and put it on a 
paste table ; add an ounce of salt, a pound and a 
half of butter, and as much water as will suffice to 
make a firm paste ; work it well, that it may be mixed 
without dividing the butter too much ; put it firmly 
together, and if too dry, add a little water ; make it 
into a mass ; strew the board with flour ; put the paste 
upon it, sprinkle a little water over it, and cover it 
with a wet cloth ; let it repose half an hour, and use 
it for cakes de pate brisk for the foundation of many 
entremits ; for that purpose give it three or four turns 
as long as the butter appears divided. Here Monsieur 
Beauvillier enters into the rolling and flouring the 
paste, and the manner of handling the rolling pin; 
but as it is not to be suspected that any one will think 
of following French cookery in this country, without 
being an adept in these things, they are left out, ai 
rather confusing the work without being useful; 
wherever he seems to excel, all is particularly noticed 
he desires that care should be taken not to strew too 

* As salt butter is never used in France, if used, care must be 
taken to wash it out rather than use more. 



PASTRY. 21 1 

much flour over the paste when rolling it out, as it 
makes it heavy and dull-looking ; and likewise if it 
should be done, to dust it off with a bunch of feathers, 
and pass it lightly over afterwards with a wet one ; 
having finished it, put it under a wet cloth, that it may 
not dry till it is used ; afler it has lain half an hour, 
^ive it another turn, and make it into any form that 
IS required. 

Paste, P6te ct Nouilles. 

Put a pound of flour upon the table, break into it 
three or four eggs ; add a little salt, a little water, 
melt about the size of a walnut of butter, and make 
of these materials the paste ; beat it with the palms 
of the hands ; gather it together, and let it repose 
some time ; give it a turn or two ; separate it in four, 
which make as thin as possible ; cut it in stripes of an 
inch and a half in breadth ; dust them lightly with 
flour, and cut them the thickness of a large vermiceUe, 
and as equal as possible ; spread them on paper, and 
leave them an hour or two in the air, during which 
time, lift them lightly, that they may dry ; poach them 
in boiling salt and water ; let them boil a quarter of an 
hour; skim and drain them ; serve them mpotage, or 
clear soup ; let them have two or three boils in it ; 
skim and serve. 

Ptift Paste, Feuilletage. 

Take a quart, or two pounds, of flour; pass it 
through a search upon the table ; put in an ounce of 
saky some water, and some yolks of eggs, if approved 
of; when the salt is melted, mix the water and flour, 
without allowing it to break through, till the paste 
has been gathered into a mass ; then beat it well till 
it is quite smooth, and bring it as near as possible to 
the consistence of the butter ; avoid, if possible, adding 
water at different times, as it prevents the paste 
from working easily, and spoils the look of it; let 
it repose ; work two pounds of butter into a consis- 
tence, wash and press it in a napkin; roll out the 
paste, put the butter in a mass in the middle, and press 
It out upon the paste, folding it up over the but- 



212 FRENCH COOKERY. 

ter upon all sides, and flatten the mass with the palm 
of the hand; let it rest a quarter of an hour; for eight 
pounds, which is the above proportion, give it five 
turns, or five and a half, but that depends upon the 
measure; to ten pounds of butter to the bushel of 
flour, (that is, a pound and quarter to the pound of 
flour), give six turns or six and a half. Use this paste for 
(volau vent) tarts for entremets, petitspMSs au naturel ; 
tartlets, all sorts of light pastry, and for sweetmeats. 

Petits Pates au Naturel, 

Roll out the paste for the bottom of the pates, and 
cut them the size necessary, either of a Jeutlletage, or 
o^dipdttbns'e ; put them upon an oven leaf, and put 
upon each, the size of a walnut, of the farce called 
ciboidette or godiveau; if for maigre, use the farce 
de carpes; make the covers three times the thicJc- 
ness ot the bottoms, and of the same size ; press them 
lightlv down and glaze them ; a quarter of an hour is 
sufficient in the oven ; they ought to be served im- 
mediately. 

Petits Pates au Jus, 

Roll out a piece of pate bris^e, and cover little 
moulds with it ; fill them with the Jarce cihouUette, or 
godiveau ; if for maigre, fill them with 9l farce of carp, 
and a maigre sauce; cut the covers much thicker of 
puffed paste or feuiUetage ; glaze and put them into 
the oven ; when enough, take off their covers, cut the 
furce, and take them out of the moulds ; dish, and 
sauce them with a good espagnole reduite and serve. 

Petits Pdtes h la B^chamelle, 

Roll out a piece of feuiUetage (puff paste) pretty 

thick, and such as has had five* turns; cut thebottomi 

with a small paste cutter of an inch and half over ; 

put them upon a leaf; turn and glaze them; mark 

* Paste that has had a pound and a quarter of butter to the 
pound of flour. To give paste one turn is to roll it at fiwt out » 
long as it will bear without the butter coming through ; then ibid 
in three, and roll it out as before. Hi is operation, thotfbre, 
must be continued as is necessary, four, five, or six times; bslf • 
turn is made by folding it in two. 



PASTHY. 213 

them with a small paste cutter near the edge, to form 
a cover for them when they come out of the oven ; 
raise the covers and scoop out the soft paste ; have 
fowl cut in small dice, or well minced; at the mo- 
ment of serving have a hSchamelle reduced, and 
highly seasoned ; put the fowl into it : warm the whole 
without letting it boil ; fill the pates and serve ; or 
they may be filled with livers, salpi^on, or carp-roes. 
Petits Pates BouchSs d la Reine. 

Roll the paste thinner than in the last article ; cut 
them very small, and mark them for the covers, glaze^ 
and send them to the oven ; when enough, take off 
their covers ; take out the heart, and fill them with 
the ragout aftermentioned ; mince very fine some 
white of fowls, and put it into a good boiling hScha- 
tnelle ; mix it well together, fill the pates, and serve. 
Petits Pates d la ManceUe, 

Make cases as for pates aujus; take a roasted par- 
tridge ; cut the flesh in small dice, and beat the car- 
casses in a mortar, put into a stewpan half a glass of 
white wine, twoshalots, and three spoonfuls of espagnole; 
reduce, skim, and take out the shalots ; put in the 
carcasses ; mix it without letting it boil, by simmering ; 
force it through the cullender ; keep it hot, and at the 
moment of serving, add the meat of the partridge, 
the juice of a bitter orange, and half a pat of butter ; 
fill the crustades or pat^s with this ragoutt and serve. 

Petits Pdtis au Salpigon, 

Make cases for these pates^ as is indicated for those 
aujus; when they are enough, take out the godiveau 
or ciboullettej cut it in small dice ; add cooked mush- 
rooms, truffles, livers of fowl, bottoms of artichokes, 
all cut an equal size ; put all these into an espagnole 
reduced; boil them once up, taste if it is good; 
skim, fill the pate, and serve. 

Tourie d*EntrSe de Godiveau. 

Make a bottom the size of an entree, put it in a tart- 
pan, put a little godiveau in the middle of it, and strew 
over a good pinch of mushrooms which have been 
cck^ed in butter, imd drained; add a few artichoke 



214< FRENCH COOKERY. 

bottoms cut in five or six pieces ; take godiveauy roll it 
out in andouillettesy the size most convenient for the 
dish, dress them over and round these ingredients in 
such a manner that they form a flattened dome ; make 
a cover a little larger than the bottom ; wet the bor- 
der of the first, put it over to form a cover, and ^x it 
to the under one ; dress it properly round the edge ; 
glaze it, and put it into the oven ; when done, raise 
the cover, sauce it with a good espagnolcy and serve it; 
or put the ragout into a stewpan, and give it a boil in 
the espagnolcy which you must skim ; dish the tart, fill 
it witn the ragouty and serve ; all ragout tarts may 
be done in the same way. 

Paies ci la Cibotdette, 
Take some j^^^e d dresser; work and form it as di- 
rected au fian de nouUles ; fill it with a farce h la 
dhovdette ; cut out a cover of paste ; cover the farct 
with it, and unite it firmly to the bottom, which must 
be cut and pinched ; make another cover of pufied 
paste or Jeuilletagey and put upon it; check it across, 
glaze it, and put it into the oven ; when enough, take 
off the cover, and the fat from the pate ; cut the 
Jarce in pieces without taking it out ; sauce it with a 
good espagnole reduite ; add, if it is liked, the juice of 
a lemon ; cover, and send it to table. 

Pate chaud de Godiveau, 
Take some pate ^ dresser, and form a p^tS as in tbft 
last article ; make it higher, (as the French cooks say,) 
to have more grace ; spread upon the bottom a little 
godiveau; follow what is directed for the tourie de 
godiveau, and finish in the same manner. 

Pate d la Financiire. 
Make a pate, and fill it with meat to be cooked for 
other purposes ; or in default of that, fill it with soup^ 
meat, or flour ; when the case is baked, and of a fine 
colour, take out the flour or meat, as well as the soft 
paste, and fill it with a bonne Jinanciere, 

PMe chaud, Maigre de Carpe et d'AnguiUe. 
Make a case (depdte), spread over the bottom a littit 



PAST AY. 215 

quenelle' tie carpe^ mushrooms, artichokes, and junks 
of eel, which ought to be cooked in a good seasoning; 
finish by filling with quenelles tie carpe, rolled in flour, 
and formed into andouillettes ; cover the ptit£ and lay 
over another o^ feuilletage^ put it in the oven, and 
when three-fourths done, cut the top ; when enough 
take it up and sauce it with a good Espagnole maigre 
reduced, and mixed with soft carp roes. 

Vol-aU' Vent. 

Make any quantity of Jeuilletage in the propor- 
tion of a pound and a quarter of butter to a pound 
of flour ; give it five turns ; cut to the size of the 
dish, and lay it upon an oven leaf; glaze it, and 
mark it with a smaller paste cutter, an inch and 
half from the edge, and make any design or figures 
witlL a knife upon the cover and border ; put it 
into the oven, and when cooked take off the cover 
and scrape out the soft ; serve the vol-aux-vents for en- 
tries ana entremets ; if for entrees with ragouts either 
offish or meat; if for entremetSy vegetables, sweetmeats, 
or sowjJUs. 

Patejroid de Veau. 

Take two veal noix*, beat them, take off the skin 
and nerves ; lard them with large lard, seasoned with 
pepper, fine spiceries, parsley, and some aromatics 
beaten and sifted; make a farce of the underf noix 
de veau with an equal quantity of lard minced very 
&A ; season this farce with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, 
aromatics, and, if agreeable, a small clove of garlic ; 
beat this Jarce in the mortar ; add some entire ^gs, 
one afler the other, and a little water from tune to time, 
but in such proportion that there shall be more water 
tha|^ eggs : cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin 
slices of lard; put upon it a little o£ the Jarce; season 
the veal with salt, pepper, and fine spices ; put it into 
ihe stewpan over tiie farce, fill it up to the top, and 
see that there are no voids ; then cover the stewpan, 

* The large fleshy muscles found in the fillets, 
f The smaller muscle. 



216 FRENCH COOKERY. 

and let it bake an hour : take it out and let it codi ; 

in the meantime take some pate h dresser y wet and roll 

it to about an inch in thickness ; make it round, put it 

upon two sheets of paper pasted together and buttered; 

put a little farce upon it which has been kept for that 

purpose, spread that^rce the size of the stewpan in 

-which the meat has been baked ; warm the stewpan 

lightly to detach, turn it out upon a cover, from wmcfa 

slide it into the middle of the paste, work some butter, 

strew flour upon the board, and roll it out half an 

inch thick ; form a crown to the pati of it, putting 

some pieces above with four or five half laurel leaves; 

then cut another cover of paste half an inch thick ; it 

will be necessary that it is large enough to cover the 

meat, and fall down to the bottom ; wet the paste at the 

edge of the meat, and unite the cover to tne bottom ; 

should there be too much paste, take it away ; gjtaze it 

over, bring up the under paste to the top, and form the 

bottom of the pate : roll out some more paste to make 

another cover : wet the top of the pate and fix die 

ed^es nicely round ; clear off all the useless paste, and 

fimsh the pati by bringing up the under paste to Uie 

top handsomely ; make another cover ofjeuilletage ; 

put it on, making a hole in the middle : glaze it, put 

It into a very hot oven, that has fallen a little, and 

give it a fine colour ; but should it appear to take too 

much, cover it with paper ; let it bake three or four 

hours ; take it up and sound jt with a wooden larder^ if 

it enters easily, it is enough ; put in a class of bran^ ; 

shake it, and add a little stock ; when it is nearly cold, 

cork the chimney or hole on the top, and turn it up, 

that the brandy and stock may penetrate throughout: 

when served take off the paper ; scrape the bottom, put a 

napkin upon a dish, and serve as d^grosse or large piece. 

Pate en Timbale, 
Prepare the meat as indicated in the foregoiB§ 
article : take a well-tinned stewpan ; having made a^;iii« 
in it with the same paste that the patS is to be made 
of; roll some paste half an inch thick and put it intc 
the stewpan in such a manner that it shall remain hall 



PASTRY. 217 

an inch over the edge ; put into it some thin slices of 
bacon, and lay a little^rce over it; put in the meat, 
nourish it with a little butter, and season it as for tlie 
pMiJroid; wet the paste which is over the edge ; roll 
out another piece to make a cover, and put it over the 
meat ; form and unite the edges ; make a hole in the 
9iiddle, put the mould upon an oven leaf to prevent it 
taking too fast, and put it into a quick oven that has 
fallen a little ; bake it three or four hours ; sound it 
with a wooden larder ; if it yields readily it is done 
enough ; put into it brandy and stock ; shake it well ; 
let it stand in its mould till nearly cold ; cork it and 
turn it up ; put the mould to heat slightly on a 
stove or hot table ; turn it out, and serve. 

Pdtejroid h la Deforge, 
Take one of Deforge's moulds of white iron ; put it 
on an oven leaf; roll out paste as above, and put it into 
the mould, taking care to put the paste well into the 
design of the mould ; put into it st)me thin slices of 
bacon, also forced meat, &c., finish it exactly as the 
timhales. 

Ham Pie. P^e de Jambon. 

Take a gopd Westphalia or Bayonne ham ; pare, 
6one, and trim it nicely; put it to steep for eignt or 
ten hours ; drain, wipe, wrap it in a cloth, and put it 
to cook in a pot nearly of the same size, with three 
pounds of sliced beef, a pound of sain^oux, of rasped 
tarfl, and a pound and half of good butter ; season it 
with carrots, parsley, onions, stuck with two or three 
cloves, laurel, th3n[ne, sweet basil, and a cloVe of garlic ; 
cook it three fourths. Take it from the fire, skim it, 
^let it cool, and trim it anew ; take the ingredients it 
was cooked with, hash them very small with a pound 
of lard ; beat the whole in a mortar, add two or three 
eggs one ai^r the other and fine herbs hashed. Take 
some pStS d dresser, wet it, roll it out till it is nearly an 
inch tnick, put it upon two sheets of buttered paper ; 
mark in the middle the place for the ham; dimmish 
the thickness a half by pressing it with the fist, then 

L 



218 FRENCH COOKERY. 

raise the paste to form the patSy in making the paste 
to re-enter into itself without folds ; also forming the 
bottom nicely at the same time. Observe not to make 
this paste richer than four pounds to the bushel ; half a 
pound of butter to the pound of flour. Spread a little 
of the^rce over the bottom, and layover it the ham; 
fill it up with the farce; cover the 'pati^ and solder it 
well ; put on an upper cover of puft ipSistBy Jetulleiagei 
or pate hris^e ; make a hole or chimney in the midme, 
set it to bake in a hot oven ; let it take a fine colour; 
when nearly done run the stock it was cooked in 
through a hair search; season without skimming; fill < 
the pdti with it, taking care to shake it well ; put it 
into the oven, and let it simmer half an hour; take it 
up, fill it again and let it cool ; cork it, turn it upside 
down, and leave it all night in that position; take off 
the paper, scrape the bottom, and send it to table on a 
napkin. ' 

Partridge Pye. Pati de Perdreaux. , 

Take three or four partridges, truss them as fowls 
for boiling, singe, wipe, and lard Uiem with large lard; 
season them with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, and aro- 
matics, hashed parsley, and young onions; make a ' 
force of their livers, adding those of fowls, a bit of 
veal tetine* parboiled, if there is anj ; if not, a bit of 
lard; hash the whole, and season it as the lard fot r 
larding ; put it into a mortar and beat it ; wet it with | 
eggs, one after another, and a little water, as directed j 
in other forces ; cut open the partridges at the back, 
and put in a little of the^rce ; roll out the paste and • 
raise it, as directed for patSde jambon; spread some i 
force on the bottom, and lay in the partridges; fiU up |^ 
the intervals with ^rce, cover it with slices of lard ; .^ 
lay over worked butter, and finish as directed for 
(Pate de veau^ 

Partridge Pie* P&t& de Perdreaux rouges ith 

Perigueux. ,iK 

Have five or six partridges, and two pounds and * 'r 

• Veal's udder. ft < 

I 



PASTRY. 219 

half of truffle; prepare the partridges as directed in 
the foregoing article; brush, wash, and skin the 
truffle ; hash the small ones, make a farce of the 
livers and other ingredients, as is indicated above, with 
the addition of the truffles ; stuff the partridges with 
the farccy and add some whole truffles ; do it m every 
respect as the pati de veau. It may be formed into 
any shape, round, oval, or en bastion. 

Fowl Pies* PatSs de Poulardes et toute VolaiUe^ 

comme Dindon, Poulety Sfc. 
These p^es are all made in the same manner; 
after preparing the fowls, cut them open at the back, 
take out the bones, lard and season them as directed 
in other j9^^; if they are not entirely boned, take out 
the back bones and break the others ; cook diem in a 
stewpan either in the oven or on a furnace ; let them 
cool, and make 9,Jarce as for the veal pates ; finish as 
in the foregoing article, whether for a timbale or apdtS. 

Lark Pie. Patede Pithixfiers, 

Take eight dozen of larks ; and having prepared, 
open them at the back ; take out all that is m the 
body, and after taking out the gizzards, hash the 
intestines; add rasped lard and fine herbs, beat the 
whole into a farce; fill the larks with it ; roll out a 
paste, put a little^rce upon it, and arrange the birds ; 
season them properly ; they may be either wrapt or 
not in lard ; put over it a crown of butter, two or 
three half bay leaves, and fine spiceries ; cover the 
iHiole with paste, forming the pAt^ round, oval, or 
square; bake it two hours and a half; let it cool, and 
serve. • All small birds are done in the same manner, 
and the quantity and quality of ^rc^ depends on 
those who make it. 

Pflw^e.— P^e ^ Brioche* 
Take a quarter of a bushel of flour, more or less, to 
make this pAte ; take to a quarter of a bushel twelve 
or thirteen eggs, and two pounds of butter, which 
makes it eight pounds to the bushel, or half and half; 
an ounce of beer yeast, and an ounce of fine salt. To 

•• l2 



220 FRENCH COOKERY. 

make thisjs^e, pass a quart of flour through a sieve; 
separate a fourth part ; make two holes in tlie flour, 
the least to put the yeast in ; heat some water more 
than milk warm, take care that it is not too hot ; mix 
the yeast with the hot water, and when there are no 
more knots, mix the flour into it ; work and gather 
the whole into a mass ; shake a little flour on the 
board, and form the paste as a baker forms a loaf; 
slash the paste lightly across ; dry the vessel in which 
the water was warmed, strew it with flour, and put in 
leaven ; cover it with a cloth, and put it in a warm 
place ; while it is rising, put into the large foimtain 
the salt melted in water; break the eggs in a dish, 
take care they are fresh, add and mix them well with 
the butter and a little sugar ; mix all well with the flour, 
beat it with the hands ; if the leaven is risen, which is 
easily known by the cross being enlarged, it will be 
like lace; pour it on the paste, and break it with the 
hands, always putting upon the paste what is broken; 
do it lightly again; let the leaven be well incorporated, 
gather it together, and put a cloth in a dish ; strew it 
with flour, and put in the paste, folding it tight ; leave 
it to rise four or five hours in summer, and seven 
or eight in winter ; if the paste be spoilt, it will form eyes, 
and become tough, which may be known by pressing ' 
it with the hand ; if it resists, then it is properly made. I 
ieep it in a cooJ place for use. Haif a pound oi ' 
more butter may be added to the quart. 

Paste. Pate d'echaudes. 

Take a quarter of a bushel of fine flour; put it i 
through a search, make a hole in the middle, put ; 
in two ounces of salt with a little water ; break into a , i 
dish twenty or twenty-two eggs, put them to the salt 
and water, and add a pound of butter ; the paste 
ought to have a good booy, and it is not necessary that 
it should be very fine ; work the eggs into the flour hj 
little and little, till it is gotten into a mass ; cut it 
in pieces, and throw it with force upon the table; dxvr ,; 
it near, turn it over with the points of the fingers, give | - 



PASTRY. 221 

it a turn by gathering it together, cut it again, and go 
through the same operation five or six times ; gathering 
it together, strew nour upon the board, and flatten it ; 
leave it all night ; next day cut it in bands ; dust the 
table with flour, roll upon it these bands, and cut the 
echaudes any size ; dust a board with flour, arrange 
them upon it ; heat some water ; let them simmer with- 
out boiling, or rather let the water be always ready to 
boil, which must be prevented by throwing from time 
to time cold water into it ; when they are firm under 
the finger, take them out of the water and throw them 
into fresh water ; change it, and take them out in two 
hours ; lay them separate upon a leaf, and put them in 
the oven. 
Paste for common Biscuit, P^te d Biscuit ordinaire. 

Take twenty eggs, separate the whites from the 
yolks very carefully ; put the last in a deep dish with 
a pound of sifted sugar, and two or three drops of 
the spirit of lemon or jessamine ; in default of both, 
mb a bit of sugar upon the skin of a lemon, from which 
It will extract the oil ; rasp this sugar into the other 
ingredients, and beat them well : the more it is beaten 
the firmer it will be, which is indispensable to make fine 
biscuits ; mix into it six ounces of flour ; the half of 
it may be that of potatoe; put the whites into a copper 
vessel not tinned ; if there is no basin of this sort, take 
one of the copper or brass sweetmeat pans ; see that 
it is perfectly clean ; beat the whites in the beginning 
softly, increasing in quickness till they are so strong as 
to bear the weight of half-a-crown: mix them in with a 
wooden spoon, do it in a manner not to break the 
whites, and make use of this pate for savoy and com- 
mon biscuits. 

(Fine biscuits, article Biscuits d* Office.) 
Paste Royal, Pdte Royale. 

Put into a stewpan a wine glass of water, two ounces 
of butter, a little salt, and the skin of a green lemon, 
.with some essence of orange-flower ; put them upon 
the fire, and take it ofi* when it begins to boil ; put in 
as much flour as it will take, mix it well ; put it again 



222 FRENCH COOKERY. 

upon the fire ; stir it round ; dry it till it separates from 
the pan, and does not stick to the fingers : change the 
pan, and leave it to cool a little ; put in two eggs ; 
afterwards add egg after egg until it sticks to die 
fingers ; use it for des choux, des pains d la duchesscy des 
pains ^ la mecque, and with all small entremets. 

Queen*s Paste, Pate de Choux ^ la Reine. 

Put upon the fire a stewpan, with half a pint of 
milk or cream, and a little salt ; when ready to boil, 
draw it to the side, and mix as much flour as it will 
take ; finish as above ; only adding with the eggs a 
quarter of a pound of siflea sugar : make these petits 
choux, which are in general no larger than a nut, any 
size or form ; give them a slow oven. 

Pouplin, 
Make a pate royalcy but with less 'butter, dry it, 
and give it as many eggs as it will take, without being 
liquid ; brush over a stewpan or pouplintereynih clarified 
butter, drain it, fill it only a third, and put it in an 
oven less heated than for pufl paste; give it two 
hours, or more, according to its size : take off the top 
in the manner of a pate^ cut out all the sofl paste, and 
butter the inside lightly ; put it into the oven to dry; 
dust fine sugar over, and glaze it with a hot poker ; 
glaze it within, fill it with any sweetmeat ; serve it upon 
a napkin as a large dish. 

Ramakins, — Pate ^ Ramecain. 
Put upon the fire the quantity of water necessary, 
and add m equal quantities Gruyere cheese and butter; 
when it boils, take it off the fire and mix in flour, and 
finish as in the above articles : dress these ramecaiMS as 
the petits choux; give them a slow oven. 

Ramakins another Way. Pctte h Ratnecain d^une 

autre Mantle. 
Make a pate royale, and when dried put in eggs to 
make it rather wet; add a large handful of Parmesan 
and Gruyere cheese, mixed in equal quantities, and as 
much Gruyere cut in small dice ; nux them well to- j 
gether ; make them of any size ; glaze them, and put 

I 



PASTRY. 223 

them into a slow oven a quarter of an hour before 
serving : if for a buisson* serve them upon a napkin. ' 

Ramahins tvithout Cheese. Talmouse sans Frontage. 

Make a pate royale ordinaire, wet it with e^gs, but 
not too moist ; roll out a pufl paste of the thickness of 
half a crown, cut it in rounds of three inches and half, 
dress the, ingredients upon them, and turn up three 
sides like a cocked hat ; glaze them lightly, and put 
them into a hot oven ; serve as hot as possible. 

RamaJdns of S&ini Denis. Talmouses h la Saint 

Denis. 
Take a pound and a half of cheese ^ la pie, and a 
quarter of cheese de Brie, well cleaned, with a little 
salt ; mix them well together ; add a haiidful of flour 
passed through a search ; a quarter of a pound of melted 
butter ; work altogether, and dress it upon paste, as in 
the above article ; put it in the oven, and serve it either 
for buisson or entremets. 

Ramahins. Fondus. 

Take raspt Gruyere and Parmesan cheese in equal 
quantities, wet them with yolks of eggs, add a little 
melted butter ; mix all well together ; beat the whites 
very well ; add them by degrees, stirring them lightly 
witn a wooden spoon ; have cases ready, and fill them 
only half ; bake diem in an oven heated as for biscult|^. 
and serve hot. 

A Cheese Cake, G^eau au Fromave. • 

Take the quarter of a fine fat cheese cfe Bne, beaten 
and sifted ; have a pound and a half of flour, make a 
hole, put in three quarters of a pound of butter which 
has been workedf ; add the cheese and five or six eggs; 
work the paste; beat it well with the hand, as done in 
pate a dresser; roll and work it as a baker makes bread; . 
leave it to rest half an hour ; roll it out, and make 
a cake of about three inches thick ; nick it round, 
glaze, and ray it ; that is, to mark it with rays diverging 

* Btassofif is a high standing remoye, for a centre, 
f Butter which hi^ been w^ed and well worked in the hands. 

ju4 



*\. 



224* FRENCH COOKERY. 

^rom the centre ; bake it in an ordinary hot oven^ and 
lerve. 

Brioche Cheese. Brioche au Frontage. 

Make a quarter of pdte d brioche, leave it to come 
(see that article) ; put in a pound, or a pound and a half 
of good Gruyfre cut in dice ; take off a quarter of the 
paste, work them separately, put the largest upon 
strong buttered paper, shaped like a loaf; flatten it in 
the middle with tifie palm of the hand ; work the smaller 
part rounder, and dress it upon the large ; beali two 
eggs; glaze the brioche; cut some Gruyere cheeaein 
leaves or hearts, and m^e a rose upon the top : put it 
into a hot oven, where it will take nearly three hours: 
take it from the paper, put it on a napkin, and serve it 
as a large dish. 

Lard Cake. — Gateau au Lard. 
Take lard cut in thin slices; steep it a little in 
water ; have ready dijpdte bris&Sy with little salt ; form 
a cake ; dress the edges, and put it on a leaf; glaze 
and cover with the lard, of which the skin has been 
taken off. 

Another Cake. Gateau de Campiigne. 

Sifl a quarter of flour ; make in it two holes, as 
in pate h brioche ; take a full quarter of the flour to 
make a leaven, which must be raised with a little 
yeast; make this leaven more liquid than for the 
paste ; put it to rise ; put into the flour for the paste 
an ounce of salt, a large glass of water, a handful of 
fine sugar, the zests of two lemons minced very fine, 
confected citron cut small ; make the paste as directed 
at the article pate d brioche, only less firm ; if neces- 
sary add a little water; butter a mould as for the 
pouplin, and put it in ; let it rise five or six hours ; 
.• let the oven be well heated ; give it two hours ; torn 
it out of the mould, and serve it cold as a centre 
dish. 

Pastry Cream. Creme PMssiere* 

Break two eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt and 
as much sifted flour as it will take ; mix in a pint of 



, PASTRY. 2^25 

milk; put it on the fire ; stir this cream not to let it 
stick till you do not smell the flour ; add the size of 
a large walnut of butter; put it into a dish, and rub 
a little butter over it that it may not gather a skin. 

# Creme Frangipane, 

Take cream patisstere ; season it with a lil^l 
sugar, orange-flower water, with broken macaroci^ti 
mix all well together till there are no knots ; add ^jgi*^:^ 
it some eggs one after another, till it has the consisttT^^'i^^ 
ence .of a thick soup ; make use of it for tarts or 
tamrtes dejrangipane, cream tartlets, fritters, &c. &c, 

Baba, 
Take a quarter of flour, prepare it as for pate ^ 
brioche, but add to it twenty entire eggs, a quarter 
of a pound of currants washed, a pound of case 
raisins, which must be stoned, washed, and drained ; 
put these raisins round the fountain ; put in a suffi- 
cient quantity of safiron-water, two pounds of good 
butter, lialf a bottle of Malaga, and a handful of 
sifled sugar ; work the whole as pate h brioche; when 
the leaven is ready, pour it over the paste ; cut it, 
beat it with the palms, give it two turns, gather it 
together, and put in a mould ; let it rise five or six 
hours, and more in winter ; when risen, put it in an 
oven a little hotter than that for g(iteau de compiegne, 
and serve it in the same manner. 

Biscuits, Biscuits de Niai^es, 

Take half a pound of puft paste ; give it a turn 
or two more than ordinary, and form two squares of 
it, of the thickness of half a crown ; cover a Jhiille 
dcffice with one, and spread upon it the thickness of 
three crowns of creme p&tissterey in which there has 
been mixed a handful or beaten pistachios, two bitter, 
. almonds, and a handful of sweet ; a little beaten spiw 
nage that has been passed in butter, and rubbed 
through a hair search ; add a large handful of sifled 
sugar, a little orange-flower water, and one or two 
eggs, which must be mixed well with the cream; spread 
it over the paste; co^er it ; gfuze it with milk ; prick 

l5 



226 FRENCH COOKERY. if 

and ray it in forming squares three inches lone and 
two broad ; glaze it with milk a second time ; sin su-, 
gar over it, and sprinkle it with confected hashed 
orange flowers, and let the sugar melt a little ; put 
the niauffes into an oven a little hotter than for ois- 
cuits, and where a fire has been lighted, to brown 
them ; when done enough take them out of the oven, 
cut them in squares, and serve them for entremets. 

Tart, Tourte de Frangvpane. 

Take a tart-paii, the size wanted ; cover it with 
paste lightly puffed ; put injrangipane an inch thick, 
and leave round it paste that will make a band of the 
thickness of an inch, to suit the size of the tart for a 
border ; lay the band round ; make the ends meet as 
nicely as possible; glaze it, and form any design 
upon it ; give it rather a hot oven ; when done, 
dust fine sugar over it, glaze, and serve it hot or cold. 

Marrono Pasty. Tourte h la MoeUe* 

Take about a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; 
pick it, and put it upon the fire ; when it is a little hot, 
break it, and put it into Jrangipane ; proceed as in 
the last article ; but this tart is only served hot. 

Kidney Pasty, Tourte au Rognons de Veau* 

Take a veal kidney that has been roasted, with a 
part of the fat ; hash part, or the whole, according to 
the size of the tart, and mix it in a. Jrangipane, Bi 
above. 

Sweet Meat Pasty. — Tourte de Confitures. 
Roll out some pate brisSe of the size that you would 
make your tart ; put it in a tart-pan ; fill it with any 
kind of jam or confection, leaving an inch and a hau 
of border; wet it; make small twisted bands, and 
■cross the tart, or leave it open, and put a band entirely 
round the border as ihe Jrangipane ; bake and ^axt 
them in the same manner. 

Peach Pasty Tourte de Piches. 

Cover a tart-pan with paste ; wet the edges ; put a 



^ PASTRY. 227 

band round ; glaze the band ; bake it and glaze it 
again; put in a compSte depeches; reduce the syrup, 
and at the moment of serving, pour it over. In all 
seasons, make all fruit tarts and tartlets in thig 
manner. 

Rice Cake, Gateau au Riz. 

Pick, wash, and boil half a pound of rice ; make it 
burst with a little milk, in which there has been boiled 
lemon peel ; wet the rice little by little, till it is bro- 
ken thoroughly ; let it cool ; incorporate a dozen ma- 
caroons ; let the half be bitter ; a little salt, six ounces 
of sugar, four whole eggs, and four yolks ; butter a stew- 
pan with clarified butter ; drain it, and powder it with 
crumbs of bread ; whip the whites ; mix them lightly 
with the rice ; pour the whole into a stewpan, which 
must serve for a mould ; put it into the oven, half oT 
three quarters of an hour before serving ; turn it out, 
and serve. 

One may be made of vermicelli in the same man- 
ner. If to be served as a pudding, pour over it a sauce 
made in the following manner. 

Put into a pan half a spoonful of flour, and mix it 
with cream, a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, a 
little salt, a spoonful of sifted sugar, and the size of a 
walnut of butter; cook it, and pour it over the 
puddings. This sauce will serve for either of the above, 
when served as pudding. 

Carrot Calces, Gateaux de Carottes. 

Take twelve large carrots, the reddest possible, boil 
them in water with a little salt ; take out the hearts 
and drain them ; put them through the cullender into 
a stewpan ; dry diem upon the fire, as pate royale ; 
make a cream patissiere ; put in as much flour as it will 
take; add the carrots, with a little confected orange- 
flowers minced, three quarters of a pound qf sifted 
sugar, four eggs one after another, six yolks, and a 
quarter of a pound of melted butter ; mix all well ; 
whip the whites ; mix them in lightly ; prepare a stew- 
pan as for the gateau de riz, three quarters o£^ hour 
before serving put it into tJie oven. > 

L 6 



228 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Pistache Cake. Gateau aux Pistaches. 

Make a cream patissiire, prepare a quarter of a 
pound of pistachios and of sweet almonds ; beat them 
together; from time to time add a drop of water to pre- 
vent oiling ; when smooth take them out of the mor- 
tar ; have a spoonful of spinage, blanched and passed 
in butter ; beat them and put them through a cullen- 
der;, and put all the ingredients into the cream ; finish 
as for the gateau de carottes, but instead of confected 
orange-flower, let it be orange-flower water ; a tea- 
spoonful will b6 sufficient. 

Flanc de Nouilles meringu^es. 

Take a bit of p^te ^ dresser^ turn and roll it to the 
thickness of three or four lines ; make a flattened 
i^ound in the middle of the paste with the palm of the 
hand, to form the bottom of the Jlanc; raise the sides 
of it, by making the paste go into itself without 
forming any folds ; form the bottom of the pati; fill it 
with flour till within half an inch of the top ; make a 
top for it of pate moulee ; roll it out, and make it round 
of the size of the^awc ; cover and solder it well ; take 
away the superfluous paste, dress it tastefully, and 
bake it as a pate; when enough, take out the flour and 
scrape the crust well ; have nouilles sufficient ; poach 
them in milk, drain them, put in some yolks of eggs, 
sugar, orange-flowers, or green citron, minced maca- 
roons, and massepains bruised; add salt and some 
good melted butter; mix altogether; whip the half of 
the whites of the eggs, and incorporate them lightly; 
put the nouilles th\is prepared into the ^nc; put it 
into a slow oven, give it three quarters of an hour; 
when it has risen well, beat the rest of the whites, sea- 
son them as for meringues ; cover the Jlanc with it ; 
glaze With sugar, sifted through a hair search ; bake it 
* of a fine colour, and serve. 

Flanc de Vermicelle. 
Poa^ the vermicellej drain it, and proceed in the 
9fKne manner as Jlanc de nouilles. ^ 



PASTRY. 229 

Fkmc Suisse, 
Make a Jlanc as directed in the preceding articles ; 
while it is baking boil a chopin of cream with a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, of which make a fine pate 
royale ; flour of wheat or potatoes may b^ used put 
into a dish grated gruy^rey with some cheese ^ la pie^ 
and cheese de brie, which have been beaten fine, and 
mixed with melted butter, all of equal quantities ; add 
pepper, and wet it with the yolks of eggs; mix it with a 
wooiien spoon, and give it more body than for biscuit; 
take half of the whites, beat them well till they are 
firm, and mix them lightly with the paste ; pour it into 
the Jlanc; only fill it half, or a little more ; put it in a 
moderate oven, when baked serve immediately. , 

Croque-en-Bouche. 
Make a pate royale ; into which put very little but- 
ter, %nd rather more flour; wet it with eggs; make it 
rather firm ; separate it equally in little bits no larger 
than the point of the little finger, having a sufficient 
quantity to fill the mould ; glaze them and put them 
into the oven till they are of a fine colour ; oil the 
mould ; clarify and boil some sugar to that called 
bmdet (see Sucre au Boulet); take a twig or wire 
and lift every chou separately; dip them into the sugar 
one by one, putting them into the mould, beginning at 
the middle, and continuing all round till brought to 
the top, placing them to support one another ; turn it 
out, but if it sticks heat it a little and it will come out; 
dress it upon a napkin, and serve. 

Cake of a hundred Leaves, Gateau de MiUe^ 

FeuiUes, 

Make a quarter of Jeuilletagey when finished cut it' 
in five pieces, one of them must be double the size 
of the others; roll out the four smaller ones ttin; put 
each on a leaf or paper ; take the fiflh, which ought t» 
be much thicker, to form the i^>permost ; glaze and 
bake them ; let them cool ; put the bottom upon a dish, 
and cover it lightly with currant jelly ; then lay on an- 
other, upon which put apricot marmalade; on %& 



230 FREKCH COOKERY. ^ 

third, confection of verjuice, and the fourth garnish 
with cherries ; put on the cover ; cut it upon the model 
of an octagon or figure of eight sides ; serve it upon 
a napkin, as grosse piece d' entremets. 

Almond Paste, Pate d'Amandes* 

Take a pound of sweet almonds and a quarter of a 
pound of butter ; blanch and beat them in a mortar, 
putting in from time to time a drop of water, and 
alternately a 'drop of white of egg, which can be 
done by making a small hole in the end, from 
which it will come drop by drop : to whiten them pat 
in a little lemon juice: when it is properly reduced 
into a very smooUi p^e, put in three quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar* royal; take the j^J^e out of the 
mortar and put it into a sweetmeat-pan; put it upon a 
slow fire ; dry it, taking great care to stir it, till it does 
not stick to the fingers; strew the table with ^fted 
sugar, and roll the pate upon it ; when cold, wrap it 
in white paper, and so keep it for use. 

Pdte d' Office. * 

Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, butter the size of a walnut, a little salt, a tea- 
spoonful oF1>range-flower water, and two whole eggs; 
knead the whole well ; as it must be very firm, gather it 
in a mass, and beat it well with the rolling-pin; if 
too firm put in a little white of egg and turn it; use 
this paste to make the foundation of rocks, small 
houses, huts, &c. &c., and open croqicants; take care 
to butter lightly the mould for croquants, and bake 
them at the mouth of a slow oven. 

Genoese Paste, Pate ^ VGSnoise. 

Take a pound of flour, three quarters of sugar, and 
half a pound of butter; rub lemon on the sugar to get 
the zest, and bruise it with the rolling-pin ; two egss, 
two yolks, and salt; mix all together; work it iml; 
gather it together and leave it to repose ; ffive it one 
or two turns ; cut it in thin bands about the breadth of 
an inch, and of an equal length ; turn them into the 

* Double or triple refined. 



PASTRY, 2S1 

form of an S or horse-shoe, leaves, &c. &c. ; arrange 
^them upon an oven leaf; glaze, and bake them in a 
^ihotter oven than for biscuit ; serve them as little 
i^if rnnci'T 

'■' Cake Madeleine, Gateau it la Madeleine. 

^^Break ten e^gs ; keep the whites and yolks separate ; 
mm to^tihe yollS three quarters of a pound of sifled 
iii||ar ; a little minced citron and salt : beat the whole 
lij|Mffher as for biscuit ; put in half a pound of flour, 
ara 4M3C ; add half a pound of clarified butter ; whip 
'mx whites of e^gs, till they are firm; mix them lightly 
in;^tter smfm moulds ^ la madeleine or any other; 
Stt jifem with the paste ; bake them in a slow oven ; 
they^l^ake more baking than biscuit: in default of 
smafttnioulds make it a cake in a paper case; cut it 
down, and serve. 

Tartlets, " Tartelettes d, la ChantHh- 
Tate almond paste ; strew the table wit;h fine siflted 
sugar, and roll it out, using sugar instead of flour ; the 
paste for the li^ttoms of the tartlets must be as thin 
as a thick sheet of paper ; cut them the ordinary size 
of petits pM&s'y make the bands of the same paste, 
which must be three quarters of an jach broad 
and high; wet the edges of the tartlet? with the 
white of egg a little beaten, and fix on the bands to 
give them the form of goblets; take care that the 
, bands are so nicely put on as not to show the joining ; 
put them upon white paper, and let them dry in the 
air ; afterwards put them into the mouth of an oven 
that they may dry without taking any colour, or very 
little ; fill them with whipt cream h la chantUly : season 
with sugar and orange-flower water ; in summer they 
may be served with strawberries ; serve them for little 
entremets. 

Little Genoeses, Petites Genoises, 

Make with almond paste, as indicated above, little 
tartlets the size of half a crown ; let them be a little 
thicker than the chantilly; make a bottom of this paste 
nearly the size of the msh they are to be served on ; 
give this bottom any shape, or one conforming t^ ^^ 




2Si FBEKCH COOKERY. 

design of the tartlets or shape of the disli ; adc 
bocder the sanie height; put them to dry, and bake 
the above : when ready to serve, fill them with 
coloured sweetmeats. 

Ladies' Lips. BoucMes de Dames. 

Take six eggs; put them into a dish with 
of a pound of gifted sugar, and three ounces 
flour; beat them as for biscuit; then butt 
upon which spread it lightly; bake it for a. qu 
an hour in a slow oven; when enough cut il .^_^ _ 
round paste cutter the size of half a crown, and'g^ze* 
them either white or chocolate: for this purpose, put 
into a dish some sugar sifled through a guuite ^ pc h, 
with the white of an egg ; beat this with a t^wen 
spoon, adding belittle and little th« juice of a l^oii, 
tdl it is very white; if the glazing is to be chocolate, 
instead of lemon put a sufficiency of chocolate in 
powder; with either of these cover the bmicfu'eti dry 
them at the mouth of the oven ; dress and serve. 
Pistache Cakes. Gauffres de Pislacha. 

Take haif a pound oipate de brioche ; wet it with 
half a glass of Madeira; add three ounces of sifled 
sugar and .two ounces of currants ; spread this upon a 
buttered oven leaf, about the thickness of half an mch; 
bake it a quarter of an hour in a quick oven; cul 
it into two mches square; glaze them with sucreaucaft, 
strew them with pistaches cut small; or serve them 
without any glazing, which the French call au natani. 

Glazed Biscuits. Genoises glacees i VIlalienM. 

Put into a sweetmeat-pan five ounces of sugar >M 
five eggs; mix as for biscuit; add aauarterof a pouDd 
of flour, and as many sweet almonas beaten; butter 
a leaf, and roll the paste the thickness of a crowi) 
piece; bake it in a quick oveu; let it have a Gut 
colour; when done cut it into any form; clarify! 
pound of sugar (au souffU); put the pan into cold 
water, bnd gather the sugar, having whipt five whitd 
of eggs, mix them gradually into it ; cover the gintM* 
with this glazing ; put them to dry a quarter of an hour 
in a stove, and serve. 




233 

Mirlitons de Rouen. 

CTake half a pound of pad paste ; roll it out as thin 

i shilling; cut it into forma, and put them into 

1 pans ; put into a bason a quarter of a pound 

Ine sugar, and an egg ; work them ; add a 

Beat quanijiy of melted butter; work tjie whole 

' ' J in another egg ; add a little orange flower, 

e moulds with this paste; sift sugar over them, 

f them in a slow oven; dress and serve them. 

■ . ^ ,in»^^,. ^' Caie. Gateau i la Heine. 

-Beat 4 pound of sweet almonds; add a pound of 
sifted sugar, a.nd four whites of egga by degrees ; when 
«#klt prepared it may be made into different shapes, 
And decorated according to fancy ; put it in a slow 
#iten; gla:e h M the g6ioUes. 

Mirlitons a la Parisienne. 

Put iirto a bason two eggs and a quarter of a pound 

of sugar sifted ; whip it and add a little flour and orange 

llowera ; have moulds prepared as for the mirlitont at 

Rouen i fill them and finish in the same manner. 

Almond Cake. Gateau tTAmandes. 

Beat a jiound of almonds ; add a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, a little confected orange flowers, and hah 
a gtosa of cream ; have puft paste sufficient for a cake; 
pTE it a half turn more ; roll it to the thickness 
rf a crown; cut it round of the proper size; put the 
paste on it, and cover it with another round of 
puft paste ; nick it across ; finish the edge of the 
cover, put it into a quick oven ; wheu baked ; sift sugar 
orer and serve. 

Another Almond Cake. Gateau Pitknierj. 

Prepare the almonds as in the foregoing recipe 
add a pound ofsifted sugar, a little lemon peel minced, 
half a pound of butter ; put in by degrees six eggs, 
have [luft paste as in the above article ; proceed wd 
finish in the same maimer, — It may be made into small 
oaea. * 

Orar^ Cake. GSteaa h la Portugaise. 

Take half a pound of beaten almonds; put in 



234 FRENCH COOKERY. ^ 

the juice of three oranges with their skins hashed ; add 
half a pound of sugar, two ounces of potatoe flour, aii|U 
six yolks; beat the whites and mix tnem also ; makevf 
long paper case; butter, fill, and bake it in a slow oif9m; 
when done, cover it with a glace royale about '1l|b 
thickness of a shilling ; serve this cake whole, or c|fLit. 

Biscuit manaue. 

Put into a basin half a pound of sugar, ajgrjxABiOi 
eggs, and a few orange flowers ; beat themnwl; wH 
a handful of almonds properly beaten, six ounces cf idj 
butter, and four ounces of flour which hasbe^ndriedtiid '" 
sifted ; whip six whites and add them liglidy; mtke 
a paper case, put in the ingredient^ and^ bake it in 
an oven heated as for biscuit : while it is in the Ofvoi 
cut almonds in little dice ; put to them about a tfairdff 
sugar; wet them with water or the white of an egg 
beaten ; when the manque is three-fourths baked, elaze 
and cover it with the almonds ; finish its bdcing 
by making it take a fine colour ; cut it in any form, ana 
serve it. 

Aggyzinas, Fanchonnettes. 

Put in a stewpan two ounces of flour, three of sugar, 
some green citron, two yolks of eggs, a whole egg, and 
two oun9es of beaten almonds; add a pint of milk; 
put these ingredients upon the fire, and make it come 
to a cream; have pun paste; roll it out thin; cut 
it with a pastecutter the size of crown pieces; put 
them into moulds of the same size ; put in the cream ; 
and put it into a brisk oven : when three fourths baked, 
take them out, meringue them, dust them with sugar, 
and put them again mto the oven to take a fine co- 
lour. 

Small Cakes* Petits Gateaux Polonais. 

Have puil paste sufficient for the quantity wanted, 
give it another turn or a turn and half niiore ; roll it thin, 
cut it in squares of three inches ; wet them slightly, 
take up the four corners to the centre; dress them on a 
leaf; glaze f and put them in the oven : when ready to 
serve, put into each a cherry or a little verjuice ; they 
may be served in gros buisson, or as little entremets. i 



I 

\ 



PASTRT. 235 

Cannelons. 
4h'-' Roll out some puft paste ; give it another turn ; cut it 

t ribbons the breadth of half an inch ; have turned 
ulds, upon which you can roll them along, leaving 
tlH^n a little open at the ends, where they can be fixed; 
put them on a leaf; glaze, and put them into the oven ; 
- wlieii nearly done, draw out the moulds; put them 
together; powder them with sugar; glaze them in the 
oven ; fill tiiem with confections ; dress and serve. 

Putts d* Amour. 
Take pufl paste, and roll it out as above ; cut it 
with figured paste-cutters of different sizes; cut 
them equal in number, the large and small ; put the 
large upon a leaf; wet them with water, and put on 
the small ones ; glaze them ; and with the point of a 
knife^ cut them in the middle, the size of a thimble ; 
put them into the oven ; and when nearly done, pow- 
der them with sugar ; glaze them, take out the heart, 
replace it with sweetmeats, and serve. 

Banded Tarts. — - Petites Tartelettes bandtes. 

Take tart-pans, and cover them with pate bris^ 
very thin; put into them cream patissief^ or any 
confection ; roll little bands of paste, and band them 
cross, or any other design; cut little banos of paste 
wet the edges of the tartlets, and put them round 
them ; put them in the oven, and when nearly ready, 
sift sugar over, glaze, dress, and serve. 

Small Lozenge Cakes. Gdteaua: en Lozange. 

Roll out pufl paste, cut it in strips, and then into 
lozenges ; glaze, and put them into the oven : when 
they are baked, glaze ttiem, if convenient, and serve ; 
or au naturel.* 

Darioles. 

Make a bottom of a pdte brisSe very thin ; cut it 
with a paste-cutter, large enough that the paste fall 
over the edges of the moulds; give them the form 
they ought to have upon the point of a knife ; and put 
them in that manner into their moulds, which have 

* WiHiout glazing* 



236 VRBNCH COOKERY. 

been buttered ; finish forming them by putting in a 
bit of paste, which must be floured; take away the 
paste from the edge of the moulds. For a do2en dl 
darioles, take a spoonful of flour, six or eight bitter 
macaroons or mass&pains bruised, a little salt, orange 
flowers, and six yolks of eggs ; liquify with three quar- 
ters of a pint of milk; three quarters of an hour be- 
fore serving them, shake or stir these ingredients well 
together, and fill tlie moulds, putting a little nice but* 
ter over them ; put them again into the oven ; take 
them out of theu: moulds, and serve as hot as possi- 
ble, having dusted them with fine sugar. 

Omelet. Omelette Souffiee. 

Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, take care 
the speck is not in the yolks ; put to them two spoons- 
ful of sugar, a little orange-flower water, or spirit of 
lemons; work these well together, as for biscuit; 
whip the whites till they are very firm ; mix them with 
the others; put into the frying-pan a small bit of 
butter; let it melt, that the pan may be buttered 
throughout ; put in the omelet, set it upon a slow fire, 
and takeicare that it does not burn; turn it out upon 
the dish it is to be served in ; glaze it, by throwing su- 
gar o^r it ; put it into the oven ; when it has risen, glaxe 
and serve. 

Omelette Soiifflee et MoulSe, 
Break six eggs ; separate them, and put them in dif- 
ferent basons; add to the yolks two spoonfuls of sugar 
sifted, four massepains in powder, a spoonful of flour, a 
little salt, a little lemon-peel cut fine, and some drops 
of orange-flower water ; stir the whole well ; butter 
and crumb a saucepan as for gateau au riz; when 
ready to serve the entrees^ whip the whites, and when 
they have taken, mix them with the other ingredients; 
put them into the mould, but do not fill it full ; put the 
omelet into a slow oven ; if there is none empty, a fur- 
nace, and set it on the gridiron with a hot poker held 
over it ; when it is well risen, and baked ; turn it out 
upon the dish, and serve : it ought to be of a fine co- 



PASTRY* 237 

lour, and not trembling; it is a beautiful and good 
ttntremet. 

Soiiffle de F^cule de Pommes^de-terre, 
Put into a saucepan a spoonful of the flour of po- 
tatoes with a little water, two spoonfuls and a half of 
sugar, and a little salt ; work and dry them aspdfe roy- 
ale, only a little thinner ; let it work, and add six yoIks 
of eggs, and two more, some drops of orange-flower 
water, rose, or any other perfume ; mix all well toge- 
ther ; whip the whites till they are firm, and mix them 
in carefully ; dress the omelet as a pyramid upon the 
dish it is to be served on, and put it in the oven ; when 
it begins to brown, glaze it with sugar ; this omelet may 
be made ^ la vanille, au ckocolat, or ct la rose; the last 
in adding a tint of cochineal. 

Riz SouffiS, 
Prepare an ounce or two of rice ; let it break in 
milk with a little fresh lemon peel ; salt the size of a 
nut of butter ; wet it by little and little, that it may 
be kept firm ; add two spoonsful of sugar : when the 
rice IS broken and reduced, put in the ]aiks one 
after another ; put them a little upon the fire, but not 
to do too much ; whip the whites ; put tliem i|i gra- 
dually ; dress the souffle upon a dish, ana follow the 
directions given for souffle defecvle. 

Charlotte of Apples, Charlotte de Pommes au Cori' 

Jitures ou sans Confitures* 
Take fifteen fine rennets ; cut them in quarters ; pare 
them ; take out the hearts ; mince them as fine as 
possible ; put them into a sweetmeat-pan with sifted 
sugar in sufficient quantity, cinnamon, some lemon 
peel, and a little water ; set it over a quick fire ; .stir 
them without breaking, and when done let them stick 
a little to give them a grilled taste, and put in about 
the size of an egg of nice butter : take out the cinna^ 
mon and lemon peel ; take a niould the size proper 
for the charlotte ; cut some slices of bread, about the 
daEe of two fingers, and long enough to reach from 



258 FRENCH COOKERY^ 

the centre to the edge of the mould ; steep them in 
melted butter ; put them into the mould like a fan 
brought round ; fill up the mould with the apple mar- 
malade : marmalade (Tahricots may be added, or any 
other confection ; finish the charlotte by covering it 
with strips of bread buttered as at the bottom ; put it 
apon a furnace ; take care it does not burn, and af- 
terwards into the oven ; when it is well coloured turn 
it out upon a dish, and serve. 

Buttered Apples, Pommes au Beurre. 

Core twenty apples; pare nine or ten^ and make 
them nearly ready in a light sugar ; drain them ; make 
a marmalade of the remainder, as for the charlotte; 
cover a dish with a little of this marmalade, to which 
any other may be added ; arrange the apples, and fill 
their hearts with butter, and put the remains of the 
marmalade to fill up the intervals of the apples; 
glaze them with sifted sugar, and put them into the 
oven ; give them a fine colour. Cherries or any other 
preserved fruit may be stuck on the apples, and 
serve. 

Apples. Chartreuse de Pommes (Entremets^ 

TaKe a score of rennets ; peel them, and with a 
very small corer take off all the pulp about the heart ; 
when there is enough of those to fill the chartreuse 
mould, mince the rest of the apples to make a mar« 
malade ; equalise all the little apples, or pieces that 
have been cut out with the apple-corer ; make a little 
safiron water ; put a little sugar to it ; throw in a third 
of the small apples; give them a slight boil^ take 
them off, and drain ; do another third in cochineal, 
and the last in a S3rrup of white su^r, with an equal 
quantity of angelica as of each of the apples ; cover the 
mould with white paper ; make any design in the bo^ 
torn with red, green, yellow, and white ; mix them taate* 
fully all round the mould to the top, and fill it yp 
with marmalade, which ought to be nrm and withMl 
any void. When ready to serve, turn up the mould 



PASTRY. 239 

upon the dish, and take off the paper. If the char- 
treuse is to be white, throw the apples into water, 
as they are formed with lemon juice. 

Apples in Rice, Pommes au Riz, 

Take nine or ten fine apples ; pare ; take out the 
hearts, and cook them in a light syrup ; scald a quar- 
ter of a pound of rice, and break it in milk; in wet- 
ting it, little by little, add a small bit of citron, a 
little salt, and sufficient sugar ; the rice ought to be 
firm ; take out the lemon peel, spread the rice upon a 
dish, put in the apples, and fill up the intervals with 
rice ; bake it in the oven till it is of a fine colour, and 
serve. 

Apples in Apricot-jam, Pommes ^ la Polonaise. 

Take a score of small rennets ; core without break- 
ing them ; do not force the apple-scoop but half way 
down, and then by the other end : pare and cut them 
in slices like halfpennies ; cover a dish with apricot 
marmalade ; then with the apples, and lay on more 
marmalade, and so on till it rises into a dome ; glaze 
it with sifted sugar ; put it into an oven ; when done, 
wipe the edge of the dish, and serve. 

Cotelettes en Surprise, 
Take some puft paste ; roll it out thin ; cut it in the 
fprm of hearts, as for cutlets of mutton in papillotes; 
put into that paste marmalade of apricots : solder the 
ed|H3s ; give them the form of cutlets ; put them on a 
lei^ and bake them ; take a little j^^^e d'office^ cut it 
in little bands, as bones of mutton; bake them with- 
out their taking any colour, which can be done in the 
mouth of the oven; when these cutlets are cooked, 
glaze them with the white of an ^^g^ beaten ; bruise 
' some macaroons, and roll them in it ; heat a skewer, 
and press it across the cutlets, to make them look^ai 
if they had been grilled ; fix into them the bones of 
the paie d^ office : dress these cutlets in a crown on a 
dish, and serve ; having first melted some red-currant 
jelly, which put to the cutlets as if it were gravy. 



240 FRENCH COOKERY. 

ENTREMETS. 

Apple Fritters, Beignets de Pommes, 

Take eight rennets ; cut them in (]^uarters ; take 
the hearts ; put them to steep in a httle brandy, 
the peel of a green lemon, and a bit of whole ci 
mon : when ready to serve, drain and dip them ii 
light paste (p^e ^ frire) ; put them into the fr) 
pan; when they are of a fine colour, drain them up 
cloth, put them upon a leaf, and dust sifted sugar 
them; glaze them either in the oven or with a 
poker ; dish, and serve. 

Fritters. Beignets Souffles. 

Put into a saucepan a little water, about the sis 
a walnut of butter, salt, and a bit of lemon i 
put it on the fire, and when ready to boil, take r 
and add half a quarter of sifted flour ; work it i 
put it on the fire, and let it dry till it will no lo 
stick to the fingers : change it into another pan ; 
three eggs, one aUcr the other ; turn the paste i 
the cover; powder it with flour, and make it o 
equal thickness ; heat a frying-pan, and form the 
ters with the crooked end of a skimming-spoon ; y 
they are all formed, put the pan again on the fire, 
let them take a good colour ; drain them in a c< 
der ; sift sugar over them, and, serve. 

Blanc-mange Fritters* Beignets de Blanc-ma^ 

Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of gr< 
rice, a little salt, a zest of lemon, minced very 
two quarts of cream ; let it simmer two hours a 
half or three hours, taking care to stir it often ; i 
it is nearly done, add sufiicient sugar, massepaii 
powder, and a little orange-flower water; wnen 
xectly done it ought to be firm ; add three eggs^ 
after another ; work them into the paste ; flour a c( 
and put it upon it, of an equal thickness ; flour it, 
let it cool ; cut it in little squares, and form them 
balls not larger than those used in small arms ; i 
ready to serve, put them into a colander ; hea 
the frying-pan, and put the colander into it, witl 



ENTREMETS. 241 

fritters, having care to shake it; take it off when the 
fritters have a blackish taint; drain, dress, and sift 
sugar over them, and serve. — The white of roasted 
fowls, minced very fine, may be introduced* 

Surprised Fritters. Beignets de Surprise, 

Take eight or ten small rennets, leave their stalks, 
and cut them over about a quarter from the stalk, in 
the form of a top, and take out the heart with a round* 
pointed knife, that they may be kept whole ; pare, 
and put them to steep in a little brandy, with some 
lemon peel and whole cinnamon ; drain, and fill them 
very full with apricot marmalade, or cream pattis- 
stere ; mix the yolk of an egg with a little flour ; fix 
the tops of the apples well on ; dip these apples in 
pate d frire^ and fry them ; ^aze and send them to 
table. 

Apricot Fritters. Beignets d*Abricots. 

Take twelve or fifteen fine apricots, that are not 
too ripe ; cut them in two : take out the stone ; pare, 
and put them into brandy for an hour with a little 
water, sugar, and lemon peel ; a little before serving 
drain them and dip them into pdte d frire ; finish and 
serve as the foregoing. 

Peach Fritters. Beignets de P&ches. 

These fritters are made in the same manner as those 
of apricots, only being larger they are cut in quarters. 

Orange Fritters.'-—^ Beignets d^ Oranges. 
Take off Uie thin yellow skin that contains the spirit 
of tike orange, what is called the zest, but leave the 
white of as many oranges as will fill the dish; cut 
them in quarters, put them in water for half an hour; 
drain and take out the seeds: put them into a weak 
syrup ; make them simmer and reduce them to a sort 
of lozenge; take them off the fire, and let them cool ; 
'fill them with the S3rrup, and dip them into^^^ h frire ^ 
wet with white wine ; finish as the others and serve. 

Cherry Fritters. — — Beignets de CSrises. 
Take wafer paper, and cut it to such a size that 
a cherry may be wrapt up in it (a confected one), 

M 



242 FRENCH COOKERY. 

drain the cherries well, wet the paper slightly, 
and wrap up every one separately ; put on another 
envelop reversed, and solder them wdl on all sides ; 
put them into a search without allowing them to 
touch one another, and leave them to dry ; have ready 
a light pate kfrire into which put brandy, Spanish wine, 
and melted butter; dip the cherries in this fcAe^ 
drain them with care ; fry them in a pan not very not ; 
£nish and serve. 

Rice Fritters. '"-'^ Beignets ou Croquettes de Riz, 

Pick, wash, and blanch a quarter of a pound of rice, 
break it with milk by little and little ; season it with 
the zest of lemon, hashed fine, five or six masseptdnt 
bruised, salt, some orange flower water, and about the 
size of a walnut of butter : the rice being broken, 
thicken it with the yolks of eggs without blowing it 
to boil, pour it upon a leaf, and give it an equal thick- 
ness ; let it cool ; divide into little equal parts ; roll 
them into balls, dip them into an omelet^ roll them in 
crumbs, put them on a cover, and just before serving 
fry them in a hot pan. 

Cream Fritters. Crime Frite. 

Take half a pint of milk, boil it with a little zest of 
lemon, and put two eggs into as much flour as they 
will take ; add four eggs one after the other, and then 
the warm milk ; take out the lemon peel and stir all 
well till it is smooth ; put it on the fire, turn and cook 
it as a bouillie. After a quarter of an hour's codking 
add salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, about an ounce 
of butter, and orange flower water: put it for seven 
or eight minutes on the fire ; then put in four yolks of 
eggs, put it on a board you have buttered or floured; 
spread it equally about the thickness of the finger, cut 
it in lozenges, or with a paste cutter as petits p&tes; 
flour or crumb, and fry them ; drain, glaze with sugar 
either in the oven or with a hot poker, and terve. 

This cream may be made au chocolat in changing 
the macaroons. 



ENTREMETS* 24S 

Celery Fritters, Beigneis de Cileri. 

Take a dozen of fine heads of celery ; clean and cut 
off the tops, six inches from the roots ; dress them 
without taking them asunder; wash them well and 
scald them for about a quarter of an hour; take them 
out of the hot water and put them in cold, drain them 
and tie them up in four parcels ; cover the bottom of a 
stewpan with slices of bacon cut thin; put in the 
celery; season it with parsley, scallions, salt, and 
wet with soup or top pot : cover with slices of bacon 
and a round of buttered paper; make them boil, and 
leave to simmer till done ; drain them and fry them in 
butter, as in the foregoing article. 

Fritters of Salsify or Scorzonera, Beignets de Sal^ 

sifi et de Scorsofiere. 
Take of one of these a sufficient quantity, and cut 
them about three inches long; put in a stew-pan a 
little water and vinegar ; throw them in as they are 
scraped ; wash and cut them ; put upon the fire a pot 
with water, salt, vinegar, and a bit of butter rubbed 
in fiouir; when they are done enough drain and 
marinade them in salt, pepper, and vinegar; when 
ready to serve, follow the directions given for other 
fritters. 

White Coffee Cream, Crime au Cafe Blanc, 

Take a pint and a half of cream ; add to it the zest 
of a lemon and some sugar ; roast two ounces off 
coffee ; throw it into your boiling cream ; cover, and 
let it infuse for half an hour ; take out the coffee ; put 
into a search three inner skins of gizzards ; dry and 
bruised ; when half cold put the cream three times 
through the search, bruising at the same time with the 
back of a wooden spoon the gizzards ; that done, fill 
the cream quickly into pots, having care to stir it; 
put them into hot water ; leave them to take in the 
bain-marie without allowing it to boil ; put a cover on 
the pot and lay fire upon it; when it has taken, take 
out the pots, and put them into cold water without. 
' covering them : when ready wipe, and serve, 

M 2 



244 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Chocolate Cream, Creme au CkocolaU 

Take two or three squares of chocolate ; boil 
and a half of cream ; put in nearly two ounces < 
gar, reduce it to two-thirds ; melt the chocolat( 
Uie fire in a little water ; mix it with the cream 
it through a search a little colder than that a 
blanc, and in every respect follow the same pn 
ing. 

Orange^flotver Cream. — — Creme ^ la Fleurs 

range. 
Reduce a pint and half of cream ; put in som< 
fected orange-flowers, and a sufficient quantity 
gar ; put it through a search with the gizzai 
indicated above ; finish in the same manner and 
Instead of orange-flower, it may be made of \ 
by boiling it in the cream. 

Almond Cream, Cr^me Vierge, 

Take two ounces of sweet almonds, ana one < 
bitter; beat them as for almond paste, only 
water ; reduce a pint and a half of cream one-thir( 
the almonds into a search, and the cream over 
pass it twice through, keeping back the aim 
sugar it, and pass it over the gizzards, as direc 
the three foregoing articles, and finish in the 
manner. 

Coffee Cream mthout Gizzards, Crime au 

sans Gesier. 
Proceed for this cream as for cqf^ blanc, € 
thickening it with six yolks of eggs instead o 
zards, and make it take with boiling water, an 
over, whether it is put in a dish or little pots ; an 
ceed in the same manner with all the creams 
out gizzards. 

Eggs in mite Coffee. (Eufs au Cafe Bla 

Reduce a chopine of cream; toast two oum 
coffee ; throw it m, and leave it to infuse for hi 
hour; run the cream through a search, to tak 



ENTREMETS. 245 

the coffee ; sweeten it ; add three yolks of eggs, and 
two whole ; mix all well together ; pass it through a 
search, and stir it*; hutter some small moulds, such 
as those ^ la Madeleine or Darioles; let them drain 
and cool; hoil some water in a stewpan; take it oft' 
the fire, and put in the moulds after it has been stir- 
red ; when they have properly taken, turn them with 
care out upon a dish. Have ready hot a dish of good 
cq/e cL r^au ; sweeten it, put it in the dish for sauce, 
and serve. 

Eg^s in Tec, CEiifs au TM, 

Infuse in a little boiling water some good tea ; re- 
duce a quart of cream to half ; put in the tea, three 
yolks of very fresh eggs, and two whole, with suffi- 
cient sugar; shake, stir, and wring them through a 
tanuny ; stir them again, and fill the moulds, as in the 
preceding article: when enough, turn them out of 
the moulds, sauce them with thickened cream ; take 
for that purpose two or three spoonfuls of cream; 
sweeten and thicken it with the yolk of an egg, 
without letting it boil, and sauce them. 

Eggs in Gravy. CEufs au Bouillon. 

Put into a stewpan four yolks of fresh eggs, and two 
whole ones, with six spoonsful of good stock ; mix all 
well together, and pass it through a search ; butter the 
moulds as indicated before, make them take in the 
hot water, turn them out, and sauce them with gravy; 
or serve die eggs in little pots, as the cream. 

Esgs en Fumet, — (Eiifs au Fumet de Gibier, 
FoDow the directions given in the last article, ex- 
cept that instead of bouillon, you use fumet de gibier. 
{See art. Fumet de Gibier.) 

Surprised Eggs. (Eujs en Surprise. 

Take twelve eggs, make a small hole at both ends 
of each ; put into one of these holes a straw to break 
the yolks ; empty the eggs by blowing in at one end ; 
put the shells into water, rince and clean them ; put 

Coffee without cream or milk, 

M S 



246' FRENCH COOKEBT. 

them to dry into the air, work a little flour with yolk to 
fill up one of the hdes in each shell ; when filled up^ 
let them dry, and fill six with chocolate cream, into 
which, instead of gizzards, put yolks of eggs : for this 
purpose use a very small fiumel ; fill the other six 
shells with any other cream of a different colour ; au 
cckfi blancy d la Jleure d^orange^ ou de vierge, all of 
which thickened with yolks of eggs : seal up the holes ; 
cook them in hot water without letting them boil; 
take off the paste from both ends of these eggs, wipe 
them, and serve them in a folded napkin for entree 
mets* 

Eggs in Sn(ytv, — (Eujs ^ la Neige* 
Take a pint and half of cream, or of mSk, reduce 
it ; put in a little salt, three ounces of sugar, and the 
zest of a lemon, with a little orange-flower water ; take 
six whites of eggs, and whip them well ; put in a little 
salt, an ounce of sugar, and some drops of orange- 
flower-water ; mix them well together with a whisJc ; 
take a spoonful of these whites in a ragout spoon ; 
poach them in the cream ; turn them that uiey may be 
equally done ; when enough, take them out and put 
them upon a search ; arrange them as if they were 
poached eggs ; dilute four yolks with a little cream 
which has cooled; thicken it over the fire without 
letting it boil, stirring it constantly ; pass it through 
a search kept for creams ; sauce, and send up. 

Eggs in Sunshine. (Eufs h tAurort* 

Boil a dozen of eggs hard, and let them cool ; shell 
them and cut them in two ; take out the yolks, and put 
them in the mortar, add a quarter of a pound of nice 
butter, salt, nutmeg, fine spices, and three raw 
yolks ; beat the whole well, as if it was ' a Jane; 
mince the whites, and put them in a hot hkka- 
melle reduced, whether grasse or maigre; toea them 
without letting them boil ; let them have a consistence ; 
dress them upon the dish they are to be served on; 
take the yolks out of the mortar, put them upon the 
bottom of a large search; put this search over the 



■'I--. 



\ 



ENTREMETS. 247 

dish, and pass them through equally upon it : do it 
tinth a wooden spoon ; when that is done, garnish it 
with corks of bread dipt in omelet; put it into the 
oven ; make it take an aurora colour : wipe the dish, 
and serve. 

JEggs. (Etifs ^ la Polonaise. 

Prepare the eggs as in the foregoing article, and 
when ihejarce is made, put in a little parsley, hashed 
fine ; mix in two or three whites of eggs whipt ; take 
the dish that they are to be served on, and spread a 
little of the^rce upon it; then fill the whites with the 
JhrcCf and give them the form of an entire egg ; dress 
them handsomely upon the dish, glaze, put them in 
the oven, and when they are of a fine colour, wipe the 
dish, and serve. 

Eggs. (Eiifs ct la Tripe. 

Take six large onions; skin, wash, and take out the 
hearts ; cut them in rounds ; put them into a stewpan, 
with a little bit of very nice butter, on a slow fire, do 
not brown them, let them simmer: when done enough 
flour them ; put in a little milk or cream, let them 
cook and reduce ; season with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg; when ready to serve, cut a dozen of hard 
^gjs in rounds, put them into the pluche d'oignons, mix 
aQ well together without breaking them, or letting 
them boil ; put in a little more butter, and, if liked, a 
little fine hashed parsley ; arrange it, and send it to 
table. 

Eggs* (Eufs ^ la BSchamelle. 

Put into a saucepan four or five spoonsful of b^cha- 
meUey grasse or maigre, and fiHeeu hard eggs, as is di- 
rected in the before-mentioned article ; let the b^cha- 
meUe be very hot, without letting it boil ; finish with 
a bit of butter and nutmeg ; taste if properly sea- 
soned ; arrange, and garnish it with corks of bread 
fried in butter. 

Eggs. (Eufs d la Sauce Robert. 

Arrange six large omons, as is directed for eggs ^ la 

M4 ^ 



248 FRENCH COOKERY. 

tripe, but instead of frying them white in butter, 
they are to be browned upon a qiiick fire ; flour them, 
and put in a little soup or water ; season them with 
salt and pepper, and let it thicken; when ready to. 
serve cut in rounds a dozen of hard eggs ; put them 
into the sauce ; mix them well ; add a table spoonful 
of mustard, dish and send them to table. 

Poached Eggs in Gravy, (Etifs PochSs au Jus, ' 

Put into a stewpan a pint of water, a ^lass of 
white vinegar, and a little salt ; boil it, and put It 
aside; take twelve fresh eggs, break six, one after 
the other, on the side of the pan, and let them fall as 
whole as possible into the water ; leave them a mo- 
ment without touching them, to give them time to 
take ; when they have taken give them a light boil ; 
take out the first one that was put in, and if enough 
done, put it into cold water, and continue tiU you 
have put in the whole ; when they are cooled a little, 
pare them and return them into the water, and when 
you wish to serve them, heat them with care ; take them 
out with a pierced spoon ; drain them on a cloth ; 
sauce them with a nice (bon blond de veau reduit); 
put upon each egg a little pepper and serve. 

Poached Eggs for all sorts of Ragouts^ such as Sorrd, 
SpinnagCy Chicoroj/, Cucumbers, PurSe of PeaSf 
Lentilsy Love-apple Sauce, and Ravigotes. 

Prepare eggs as in the above article, to be served 
in these different ragouts and sauces, which will be 
found in their proper places. . (See articles SauceSt 
Ragouts, and Garnitures^ 

Eggs in Black Butter, (Eujs en Beurre Noire* 

Break twelve eggs into a dish without breaking the 
yolks, and season them with salt ; put into a frying* 
pan with a short handle, commonly called the aevu, 
a large quarter of a pound of butter ; brown it with- 
out letting it burn ; skim it, and pour it off clear into 
another vessel ; wipe the pan and return the butter 
into it ; heat it, and baste the eggs ; slip them care* 



I 



ICNTREMETS. $49 

fully into the pan, and set them over red cindcrsi 
faolding a red hot poker over them ; when enough, 
slide them upon a dish; put a Httle vinegar into the 
pan, let it boil, pour it over, and serve. 

Egs^ in a Mirror. (Eufssur lePlat, dit au Miroir. 

opread a little butter upon the dish, and strew- 
over a little salt; break the eggs into it without 
breaking the yolks ; baste them with milk or cream, 
and put a few bits of butter over them ; season with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; set it upon hot cinders^ 
hold a hot poker over, but let the yolks remain soft; 
wipe the dish and serve. 

Eggs in Moonshine^ six different Ways. CEufi 

BrouilleSi en six Manieres. 
Break twelve fresh eggs, and keep back six of the 
whites ; beat the eggs ; put a search over a sauce- 
pan, and pass them through ; season them with salt, 
nutmeg, a little stock or soup, and a bit of 
butter, the size of an egg; with pepper, or npt; 
put them upon a slow fire, and stir them with a 
wooden spoon or a whisk. When they begin to take, 
remove them from the furnace, and work them well ; 
put them again on the fire till they are done, but 
do not do them too much ; put in about the size 
of a walnut of butter ; dress them on a cold plate ; 
garnish them with fried bread : first, employ the 
same manner to make eggs brouilles aux triiffles, by 
putting in minced truffles that have been cooked in 
butter, and a little espagnole instead of soup : second, 
for mushrooms also they must be hashed and cooked 
in butter : third, the points of asparagus cooked : 
fourth, grated cheese, Gruyere or Parmesan to be 
strewed in when the eggs are put a second time on 
the fire : fifth, with ham, which must be also cooked 
and hashed very small : sixth, cardoons ought to be 
simmered and cut in small dice. 

« 

Plain Omelet. Omelette au NatureL 

Break twelve eggs into a basin ; add salt, and a lit- 

M 5 



250 FREIfCH COOKSRT. 

tie water; beat the eggs with a whisk or two forks; 
they must be well beaten ; put into a firying-pan, the 
size of an egg of butter ; melt it without browning ; 
pour in the omelet^ continuing to beat it ; put it on a 
clear quick fire; beat principally the side next the 
handle; shake the omelet well, and do not let it bum; 
when it is nearly done, slip under it a bit of butter the 
size of a walnut ; when melted, roll it over, to see if it is 
of a good colour; turn it out on a dish, and serve. -If 
it is to be seasoned, with herbs ; put in parsley and 
small onions hashed fine, and a little pepper. 

Omelet ci FAggyzina, Omelette a la C4lestine* 

Make four omelets each of three eggs, the thinnest 
possible : slide them upon a table, and cover two of 
them with confections, and the other two with j^ngi- 
pain: roll them up, dress them upon a dish, dust 
them with sugar; glaze them with a hot poker and 
serve. 

Omelet toith Preserves,'-'— ^Omelette au Confitures* 
Make an omelette au naturel of nine fresh eggs; when 

it is done, cover it with some preserve and roll it up ; 

put it upon a dish, strew sugar over ; heat a skewer, 

mark it in squares and serve. 

Omelet of Veal Kidney.— — Omelette au Rognon de 

Veau. 
Take a veal kidney that has been roasted, have a 
little fat with it, cut it in small dice, or slices; put it 
in a stewpan with a little fine herbs hashed wim salt 
and pepper ; set it over the fire, put into it two spoons- 
ful of Espagnole reduite ; boil the ragout : make an 
omelette au naturel of a dozen eggs : before taking the 
omelet out of the fryingpan, put the ragout upon it ; 
roll it round, dress it upon a dish, and serve. It may 
be sauced with a reduced espagnole. 

Omelet of Mushrooms, Omelette aux Champigmms, i 

This omelet is made as the former one, except that | 

mushrooms are used instead of kidneys ; mince and do I 

them in butter, and finish them exactly aa the kidaey« 1 



ENTREMETS. 251 

Omdet toitk SorreL^^^-Oinelette ^ VOseiUe. 
Make an omelette au naturely and put into it a purfe 
of sorrel. 

Omelet tvith Bacon, Omelette au Lard. 

Take half a pound of thin lard, cut off the skin and 
cut it in dice, put it into hot water : to infresh it a« 
little, put a bit of butter into the pan with the lard, and 
let it brown ; beat a dozen of fresh eggs, add some 
pepper, and very little salt; pour it in upon the bacon, 
mix it well, and take care it does' not bum: when readj 
roll it ; give it a fine colour, and serve. 

Omelet with Truffle. Omelette aux Tribes. 

Make an omelette au naturely and put in a ragout of 
truffles very nicely done. 

Pancakes. Panequets. 

Put into a dislf two spoonsful ot flour, three yolks, 
and two entire eggs, a little salt, and some orange 
flower-water; add as much milk as will make it clear; 
take a small round fryingpan, heat and wipe it, put a 
bit of butter in several folds of paper, like a little bag, 
and rub it with it : put a large spoonful of paste, and 
turn it round in the pan so that it may cover it en- 
tirely of the same thickness ; when it is aone turn it out 
upon a dish, sifl sugar over it, and so continue in the 
same manner till the paste is finished. 

'Orange Jelly. Jelee iT Orange. 

Take the proper quantity of isinglass, beat it in a 
doth and pull it in pieces; take a very small sauce- 
pan, well tinned, put into it on the fire a gill of 
water; let it boil, then cover it, and leave it on the 
side of the stove till it is reduced one-half: clarify half 
a pound of sugar, bring it au petit perle ; take mne or 
ten middling sized oranges; it in the beginning of the 
season they will be acid enough, but if in the end, add 
the juice of two lemons ; take off the zest as thin as 
possible of three oranges, put it to infuse in the sugar, 
cover it up, cut the oranges, put a double tammy over 
a bason, squeeze the fruit over it, and express the 
juice, mix it with the sugar : if the isinglass is ready, 

M 6 



35i FRENCH COORfiRY. 

it will stick between the fingers strongly : mix it with 
the oranges, and shake it dil w-ell together: pass ft a 
little warm through a tammy which has been well 
washed, and wrung in a cloth; beat three pounds of 
ice, and put it into a convenient cover that will hold 
seven or nine small pots in it, having first powdered it 
with great salt; fill them with the jelly, taking care ta 
stir them; cover them with a sheet of paper and leave 
them to take ; when ready, take them up, wipe and 
dish them : the jelly should not be too firm ; it ought 
to be delicate and shaking : if it is wanted to turn out 
of the mould, as an aspicy more isinglass must be put 
in : you may also use the skins of the oranges instead 
of cups or pots for the jelly, after they have been 
properly prepared. In that case care must be taken 
to have no salt in the ice. 

Lemo7i Jelly, Gelte de Citron, 

The same procedure as above, only a little more 
sugar. 

Jelly of Red Fruits, GelSe de Fruits Rouges* 

Take a pound of red currants, and a handful of 
raspberries ; pick them, set them to fall in a sweet- 
meat-pan, with a little water ; when done, throw them 
into a search to pass the juice ; clarify the juice, by 
passing it through a bag till it clears, as directea 
above ; put isinglass sufficient, and reduce the jelly in 
the same manner as for the orange ; mix all togetner, 
and finish it as the orange jelly. 

Jelly of Orange^otvers and Champagne, GeUe de 

Fleurs d'Orange au Vin de Champagne, 
Take a handful of orange flowers; take out the 
hearts, and put the leaves in fresh water ; put water 
upon the fire ; throw in the flowers, and give them one 
boil ; drain them, and put them into syrup (au petit perU) ; 
when done enough, and nearly cold, add five or six 
small pots or glasses of Champagne^ and as much isin- 
glass as is prescribed for the orange jelly, and the juice 
of two lemons ; mix all together, and pass it through A 



SNTREMETS. 253 

double tammy; shake it well; arrange little potS|||[pr 
cups as before directed, make them take and senr^ 

Jelly of Pine Apples. GeUe (T Ananas. 

Take one or two small pine apples ; pare, cut them 
in thin slices ; put them in a vessel ; pour over them 
a little boiling water ; leave them to infuse an hour ; 
put the juice through a new gauze search, or what 
has been used only for sugar ; have isinglass ready, 
and sugar [au petit perle) ; add the juice of two lemons ; 
pass the whole through a double tammy, and finish 
as in the foregoing articles for jellies. 

Pine Jelly in the Pine Apple. GeUe d* Ananas dans 

r Ananas mime. 

Take a beautiful pine apple ; cut off the crown an 
inch below, and leave the stalk an inch and half long ; 
take out the pulp by the top, taking care neither to 
cut nor hurt the skin, nor its appearance ; use a silver 
knife and spoon ; take out the whole apple, prepare ll 
exactly as in the above article : fill the pine-apple 
with the jelly, and make it take in the ice without salt, 
as it would spoil its appearance ; make a cake il la Ma* 
deleine^ of the thickness of two or three inches, or any 
other cakes the size of the dish d'entremets ; let it cool; 
when ready to serve, cut out a piece from the mid- 
dle, and place the pine-apple in it ; cover it with its 
crown, and serve. 

Jelly ofMarasquin. — GeUe de Marasquin. 

Prepare every thing as before directed ; it requires, 
instead of half a pound of sugar, a quart and a half 
au perle, five little pots of marasquin, and one of 
kirchxvaser*; pass them all through a tammy, fill and 
make the little pots take, and serve. 

JeUy of Rum, and others. — Gelee au Rum et aux Tins. 
Prepare the materials with half a pound of sugar, 
and five little pots of rum, the juice of two lemons, 
and finish as before. Follow the same procedure with 
jellies ; Madeira, Malaga, Muscat, and all other sorts 
of wines and liquors that are made into jelly ; the 

* JRrchwtuerf or cherry-water, an ardent spirit, xn&dA C\^\sl 
cherried. 



254 FRENCH COOKERY. 

qmly difference is, that there is more or less sugar 
^^essary, and to add the juice of a lemon when 
it is requisite. In this manner, make any jelly, whe- 
ther of fruit or flowers ; by infusing them as is an- 
nounced in the receipts given for jellies in general. 
Mons. Beauvilliers says, it has always answered .yery 
well with him. 

Blanc-Manger. 
Take two calves feet, cleave them in two ; take 
out the large bones ; steep and blanch ; put them in 
a pot with three quarts of water; make them boil; 
skim them; leave them to cook two or three hours; 
take off the fat, and pass the stock through a wet 
cloth ; take a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, 
and two bitter, well beaten ; put in a pan six ounces 
of sugar, a little water, half a zest of lemon, and a 

food pinch of coriander seed: leave all to infu^ 
alf an hour ; take out the coriander and lemon, mix 
the sugar with the almonds, put them several times 
through a cloth ; add as much as is necessary of the 
stock, which ought to be as delicate as possible. 
This can be ascertained by trying a little : when it is 
sufficiently firm and of a good taste, pour it into little 
pots, a mould, or skins of lemons or oranges, putting 
no salt into the ice for the two last. Blancmanger, 
and all other jellies, may be made with fish stock, 
hartshorn shavings, the feet of poultry, skins, and 
Iceland moss. 

Peas for the Second Course, Pots dEntremeU h la 

Francaise, 
Take a pint of very fine peas; put them in a vessel 
with the size of a walnut of butter ; rub and mix them 
well with the hands, pour water over them, leave them 
a few minutes to become tender ; drain and put them 
into a stewpan, sweat them, shaking them often ; when 
tliev are very* green, add parsley and scallions at 
will ; cover them, and put them upon a very slow 
fire, or upon the grate of a furnace ; toss them from 
time to time ; when enough, mix a pat of butter with 



ENTREMETS. 255 

half a spoonful of flour and a spoonful of rasped 
idieese ; add these with a knob of sugar to the pf^f 
set them again on the furnace, and let the flour be 
enough done ; dress them high upon the dish ; if they 
are too thick put in a little water, and serve. If any 
of the ingredients are disliked, they can be kept out. 

Peas ijoith Ham or Bacon. Pots au Lard ou au 

Jambon* 
See article Ragodtsy and follow that direction. 

French Beans, Haricots verts h la Povlette, 

Take the haricots necessary to make a dish d'entre* 
metSy choose them small and tender ; clean them, and 
take out the fibres or threads, and throw them into 
fresh water ; if any are larger cut them to the general 
size of the whole ; put them upon a strong fire, in a 
pot or stewpan, with a quantity of water, and a hand- 
ful of salt ; let them be well done and very green ; re- 
fireshf drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of 
butter; cut onions in little dice, do them white in 
butter, dust in a little flower, let them cook a little 
without browning ; add a spoonful of soup ; mix it 
well with hashed parsley and scallions ; salt and pep- 
per; when done enough put in the haricots; give 
them a boil; thicken the sauce with two or three 
yolks of eggs ; finish with the juice of a lemon and a 
pat of butter. 

French Beans another JVai/.'-'-^ Haricots verts h la 

Bretonne* 
Cut in small dice one or two onions ; put them in a 
stewpan with a little butter ; set them upon a furnace ; 
let them cook, and when they begin to brown put in a 
little espagnole ; flour them ; give them and the flour 
a fine brown colour : if espagnole is not used, put in a 
spoonful of soup, season it with salt and pepper ; re- 
duce this sauce ; put in the haricots which have been 
already cooked; let them simmer till all is done 
enough ; dish, and serve. 

* Is to throw them into cold water* 



ass FRENCH COOCtRT. 

KMney Beans another Way, Haricots . 'oerts h la 

* Lyonnaise* 

Cut one or two onions in half rings, and put them 
into a fryingpan with oil ; when they begin to brown, 
put in the haricots which have been cooked ; let them 
fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scalHonSy 
salt and pepper ; give a turn or two more, and dish : 
boil a little vinegar in the pan,'iind pour over them. 

Kidney Beans in Salad. Haricots verts en Salade. 

Take haricots already cooked, put them in a salad- 
dish; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, 
roasted in the ashes, beet root, or any thing properly 
hashed ; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, 
and serve. 

Caulifioxver xvitk Butter Sauce. Chouxfleurs^ Sauce 

au Beurre. 
Take two heads of cauliflowers ; arrange them ; leave 
not the smallest leaf; throw them into fresh water ; wash 
them well ; take care there are po small worms ; put 
them into a pot with a little salt, worked buttep$ and 
juice of lemon ; put a round of buttered paper, and 
set them to simmer upon the corner of the furnace, 
stove or grate ; take care not to do them too mi^ch ; 
drain, and dish them; pour over them a sauce as 
beurre, and serve them, with a sauce-boat of the 
same sauce. 

Caulifiotoer in Gravy, Choufleur au Jus. 

Having cauliflowers ready prepared, put into a 
saucepan a half sauce blancncy and a half espagnole^ 
with a bit of portable soup or reduction, and somenut>> 
meg ; shake and finish the sauce ; dish and sauce it as 
above : to heighten the taste, when they are three- 
fourths cooked, they might be put into the sauce to 
simmer : dress and serve in the same manner. 

Cauliflotvers with Parmesan, Chouxfieurs au Par- 
mesan, 
Having your cauliflowers ready, put into a stewpaa 
a sauce au beurrCy and a hundfui or two of rasped Par* 
mesau; mix it well with the sauce; put some into the 



ENTREMETS. 257 

dish ; arrange the cauliflowers, and before the Ittt 
bits are put on, pour some of the sauce in amount 
them ; continue to arrange the remainder, and pour 
over the rest of the sauce : powder with Parmesan > 
put it in the oven, and let it take a fine colour : when 
done, drain and wipe the edge of the dish, and serve. 

Cauliflowers Jried in Batter, Chouxfleurs Frites, 

Put the cauliflower into a deep dish, with vinegar, 
salt, and pepper ; leave them in it half an hour; drain 
and dip them in a light paste ; fry them of a fine co- 
lour, and serve* 

Artichokes in White Sauce, Artichauts d Ic^ Sauce 

Blanche, 

Take three or four artichokes ; pare the bottoms, 
and take off the points of the leaves ; put a pot with 
a great deal of water on the fire, and a handful of salt{ 
when it boils put in the artichokes; let them he 
enough done, and very green ; throw them into fresh 
water ; take away the small leaves with care, and the 
choke ; replace the leaves ; put them again into hot 
water; drain and serve them with a sauce an beurre, 
or butter sauce. 

Artichokes with Forced Meat, Artichauts h la 

Barigoule, 

Prepare artichokes as above, and make the follow- 
ing forced meat : put into a stewpan a quarter cf a 
pound of rasped lard, and as much butter, mushrooms, 
parsley, seal lions, shalots hashed, salt, pepper, and 
fine spiceries ; mix all well with a spoon ; fill the 
artichokes with this^arce, and tie them up ; cover the 
bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon ; put them 
in, and a little soup, with a bay leaf and some thyme ; 
make them boil upon a good nre, cover them, and set 
them on a range or hot cinders, with fire over them; 
let the fire be strong ; surround them with it : when 
half done put a little white wine into each : when they 
are enough done, and their leaves of a fine colour, 
dish and untie them ; put into each a spoonful of €$• 
pagnole reduced, witJi lemon juice, and serve. 



258 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Apichokes another Wa^.'"'^ Autre ManQre (TArH- 

' cliauts ^ la Bariguole, 

Take three artichokes^ prepare them and blanch 
ihem enough to be able to take out the choke, which 
may be done with a spoon ; put some oil into a frying 
pan; heat it; put them in upon the leaves, not the 
bottom ; let them take a fine colour ; drain them and 
put them into a stewpan ; season them as the fore- 
going, and finish them in the same way 

Artichokes another Way. — — > Artkihauts h ritalienne. 
Take three raw artichokes ; cut them in four or ox 
equal parts ; take out the choke with a knife, dress 
and cut the points, wash them ; spread a little butter 
in a stewpan, arrange them in it; put in the juice of a 
lemon, a glass of white wine, and a little soup ; make 
them boil, and let them simmer; drain, dress, and 
sauce them with an Italienne blanche, and serve. 

Artichokes Fried. Artichauts Frits, 

Take three young artichokes, dress them as the 
foregoing, only leave fewer leaves, and cut them in 
little bits, wash them in water and vinegar ; put them 
in a deep dish with salt, pepper, two or three egg^ 
a small quantity of vinegar, a handful of flour, and a 
spoonful of fine oil ; mix them that they may be well 
incorporated with the paste ; heat a fryingpan, take it 
off the fire, put in the artichokes, the one aher the 
other ; take care they do not mix ; turn them, and put 
them upon the fire ; let them cook, shaking them often ; 
when done and of a fine colour, drain ; have parsley 
ready, put it in a colander, into the frying pan, turn it 
with the point of a skewer ; as soon as it dries take it 
out, drain it upon a cloth ; dress the artichokes with 
parsley under and over, and serve. 

Artichokes braised. Artichauts hraisis. 

Take three or four artichokes; dress, wash, and 
and blanch them ; take out the chokes ; cover a stew- 
pan with slices of bacon, veal, ham, and sweet herbs, 
put in the artichokes, with a little stock ; put a round 



XNTRSMSTS. 259 

of paper ov^ them, let them boil, and leave them to 
finish over a slow fire : when enough, drain, dish ; 
saace with an espagnole reduced, a bit of butter, tlie 
juice of a lemon, and serve. 

Artuhoke Bottoms tmth Ravigote Sauce^ Cids (TAr- 

tichauts d la Ravigote* 
Pk^pare the bottoms as in article Garnitures, that 
they may be very white; put a cold ravigote into 
a dish ; dress the bottoms, and serve. Bottoms of ar- 
tichbkes may be used in all sauces, such as the Italienne^ 
espagnohy sauce au beurre, 8^c. 8^c. 

Aftichokes in White Italienne. Artichauts ^ la Bre- 

tonne. 
Take four artichokes, cut them in six, and prepare 
them as the others ; boil some water, and throw them 
in for two minutes ; refresh them in cold water, drain 
upon a cloth, put them into a saucepan with clarified 
butter ; make it boil and let it simmer ; when enough, 
drain, dress, and glaze them ; sauce with a light Ifalienfit 
Handle. 

Asparagus in Butter, Asperges au Beurre, 

Take some nice asparagus ; clean them and cut off 
the points; scrape them and throw them into water; 
make them into little parcels; cut them equal, and 
throw them into boiling water and salt, a quarter of an 
hour is sufficient ; drain and dress, when ready to serve, 
send them to table with butter sauce in a boat. 

Asparagus in Gravy^ — — Asperges au Jus, 
Prepare and cook your asparagus, as in the fore- 
going article ; dress them the same within, across one 
another, or in bunches, and serve them in a dish full 
of sauce half espagnole and half au beurre^ properly 
prepared. 

Asparagus as small Peas, — Asperges auxpetits Pots, 
Take a bundle of asparagus, dite aux petits pois; cut 
off the points, which may be employed for soups or 
gamishings ; cut them then together the size of little 
peas, take care to cut none but such as are tender ; 



260 FRENCH COOKERY. 

throw them into water ; when all cut, set them on 
the fire to blanch in a great deal of water, with a 
small* handful of salt; drain them; put a bit of butter 
into a stewpan, put them in with a bunch of parsley 
and small onions ; flour, a little water, salt, pepper, 
and half a spoonful of sugar; let them simmer and 
reduce ; when done, draw them to the side of the 
furnace ; thicken with yolks of eggs ; put them an 
instant on the fire, and toss them ; taste if they are 
properly seasoned, and serve. The sauce ought to be 
thick, and they may be dressed en rocker or high 
upon the dish. 

Asparagus as small Peas, Asperges aux petits Pots 

au roux. 
Prepare asparagus as above, put them in a stewpan 
with a bit of butter, the size of an egff, with some 
parsley and scallions ; toss them ; when tney are com- 
pletely tossed and heated, add three or four spoonsful 
of espagnoles ; let it reduce and take off the fat; press 
out the sweet herbs ; finish with a small pat of butter, 
dress, and serve. 

Small Beans. Feves de Marais. 

Take a sufficient quantity of small beans newly 
shelled, and put them upon the fire with a great deal 
of salt and water ; drain them ; put them into a stew- 
pan with a little butter ; toss, flour, and add a little 
water ; or, instead of it^ put in three or four spoonsful 
of sauce tottmee. Should they not be used immediately, 
put them into fresh water, season with salt, pepper, a 
little savory hashed, and half a spoonful of rasped 
sugar; let them simmer and reduce, thicken with 
three yolks of eggs, and a little cream or milk ; dre« 
them as a rock and serve. 

Small Beans in Gravy, Feves de Marais au Jus, 

Blanch and cook the beans as in the foregoing arti- 
cle ; put a bit of butter in a stewpan, with parsley aud 
scallions; toss them \vell in the butter; add three 
spoonsful of cspagnole; let tliem simmer ; take off the 
fat; reduce them; dish, and serve. 



ENTREMETS* 201 

White Kidney Beans. Haricots blancs h la Maitre* 

cTHotel. 
Take as many ripe white kidney beans as is neces- 
sary, newly shelled ; pick, clean, and put them in a 
stewpan with fresh water, and a bit of butter the size 
of half an egg; let them boil; skim, and put them upon 
the side of die furnace to simmer ; when half done, 
add a little fresh water ; let them cook, and when 
enough, put into a stewpan three quarters of a 
pound of butter, with hashed parsley, scallions, salt, 
and pepper; drain; put them into the sauce; toss 
them; if they do not thicken, put in a little water; 
finish with some verjuice or juice of lemon, and serve. 
If in season, put the verjuice in whole, which must be 
blanched. 

White French Beans in Gravy, Haricots au Jus, 

See article Ragouts, 

French Beans, or Haricots a la Bretonne, 
See article Ragouts. 

Stuffed Cucumbers, Concombres Farcis, ' 

Take three or four cucumbers; pare or trim them 
with care ; take off the end at the stalk, take out the 
seeds and heart with a large larding pin, put them into 
water, with a gill of vinegar ; rince them well, 'and 
blanch them two or three minutes in quick boiling 
water ; refresh and drain them ; stuff them with force 
cuite of fowl; take a stewpan, from which they can 
be taktn without breaking; cover it with slices of 
bacon ; put in the cucumbers ; season them with salt, 
parsley, scallions, a glass of white wine, half a bay 
leaf, and two cloves ; add a spoonful of top-pot ; cover 
them with a round of paper ; let them boil, and set 
them to simmer upon hot cinders ; when done, drain, 
dish, giaze^ sauce with an espagnole reduced, and 
iserve. 

; Cucumbers in Gravy, Concombres au Jus. 

See the article Concombers au Brun* .. 



£62 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Dresi Cucumbers. Concombres ^ la PtmUtU* 

Prepare these cucumbers as cucumbers au hlane. 
Article Ragouts. When well blanched put them in a 
atewpan with a bit of butter ; flour ; toss, and put in 
a little water, salt, and pepper ; reduce, -and let diem 
simmer : at the moment they are to be served, put in 
a little m need parsley and rasped nutmeg ; thicken 
them with the yolks of eggs and cream : cook these 
Ingredients without allowing them to boil ; dish, and 
serve. 

Cucumbers another Way* Concombres h la Be^ 

chamelle. 
Having the cucumbers prepared put them into a 
stewpan with a bichameUe grasse or maigre; simmer 
and reduce ; when ready to serve put in a bit of fresh 
butter and a little nutmeg ; toss, and serve. 

Spanish Cardoons. Cardans d^Espagne, d la McSle 

et h VEM)agnole. 

Take two or three heads, cut them near the bot- 
toms ; only use the solid part ; cut those that are 
full and entire equally about five or six inches long; 
pare the edges and blanch them till they are in a 
state to be peeled; refresh, peel, and tnrow them 
again into fresh water ; put them in a blanc with two 
lemons in slices, from which the peel and seeds have 
been taken : see Blanc in the article Sauce : make them 
boil ; cover them with a round of buttered paper ; put 
them to simmer upon a paillasse three or four hours; 
when done, drain and put them into a stewpa% with a 
little stock ; make them simmer, and nearly fall into 
jelly; dress and sauce tliem with a gooa reduced 
espagnolCf to which has been added a pat of butter 
and a small bit of portable soup ; garnish with small 
sippets fried in butter, covered with marrow, and 
serve. 

With respect to the tops of the cardoons, take off the 
skin, and pare them as a great carrot; blanch and 
cook them with the cardoons, and use them with them; 
or to garnish entrSes, as well as in eggs brouUUes* 



ENTREMETS. 263 

Cardoons mth Parmesan. — Cardons au Parmesan, 
When cardoons are left from a former day strew 
cheese in a dish and dress them on it, sifting grated 
cheese over ; baste the whole with melted butter ; 
put them into the oven till they take a good colour ; 
drain ; wipe the dish, and serve. 

Cardoons in Butter. Cardons Sauce au Beurre* 

When cardoons have been dressed in a blanc^ such 
as has been directed before, put them to simmer in 
stock ; let them reduce and fall into jelly ; when ready 
txi serve, dress with a sauce au beurre. 

Cardoons another Way. Cardes Poir^es. 

Cut them any length; clean and take out the 
threads ; blanch them ; dress and put them into a pot 
of water with a bit of worked butter and salt ; boil 
them well ; drain ; put them in a butter sauce ; let 
them simmer ; adding some nutmeg, a little vinegar, 
and serve. 

Cardoons another Way. Cardons a la BechameUe. 

Prepare two cardoons as is directed above; when 
they are reduced and fallen into jelly, dish and sauce 
them with a good bechameUe^ grasse^ or maigre, that is 
not too thick, and serve. 

Turnips toith Sugar. Ndvets au Sucre. 

Choose twelve or fifteen turnips of an equal size, 
proper to form into pears ; blanch, drain, and butter 
the bottom of a stewpan that will hold them separat- 
ed ; arrange them ; add a little good soup, a little 
sugar, salt, and a bit of cinnamon; let them boil; 
cover them with buttered paper ; put them upon the 
paillasse of the furnace, with fire under and over; 
when enough, uncover them and let them come to a 
jelly ; dress them upon a dish with a fork, and put in 
little twigs for stalks ; a little good soup into a stew- 
pan to detach the jelly ; take out the cinnamon ; sauce 
them as if it were a compote. Turnips may be cut 
jnto any form, such as apples, peaches, plumbs, squares^ 
and rounds, &c. &c. 



^4* FRENCH COOKERY. 

Turnips another Way. Navefs a VEspagndU 
Take long turnips of five or six inches ; cut off 
ends, cut them in two ; turn each half to give it 
appearance of a cardoon ; blanch^ and put them 
fitewpan as above; proceeding in the same roan 
only withholding the cinnamon ; when enough d 
put them into a stewpan with a little espagnoU 
detach the jelly; add a little butter, sauce, and se 

Turnips in White Sauce. Navets ^ la Sat 

• Blanche. 

Turn them into any form ; put them into a pot ' 
water, salt, and a little butter ; let them cook, di 
make a good white sauce a little thickened ; put t 
in, let them simmer a little ; put in some nutmeg 
a little pepper; dress and serve: mustard maji 
added. 

Stock-Cabbage. Choux- Raves et Choux^Navei 

It is a particular kind of cabbage, of which the st 
only are eaten, which grow to a prodigious size ; t 
being stript of the leaves and skin, they may be 
into cardoons, or any other shape ; blanch them 
good deal of salt and water ; when cooked, put t 
into a stewpan, with a good bit of butter, salt, 
pepper ; shake them well, and put in as much vel 
rcduit as will thicken the sauce: recipes only 
lay down the proper articles for a dish ; but it beh 
to the good sense, as well as the good taste of the c 
to substitute one thing for another, to arrange in i 
a manner as not to change the nature of the dish. 

Brussels Cabbagc^-^—^Chou de BruxeUes, 
These small cabbages, which are no larger than ' 
nuts, are prepared exactly as the foregoing, arrac 
upon the dish as asparagus ; a sauce blanche is sei 
with them, and a cruet of oil ; small off-sets are sei 
in the same way. 

Red Cabbages. Choux h la Flamande. 

Take one or two of thsee cabbages, cut each in f 
take out all the large stalks and threads ; mine 
small; (see article Chou-croute ;) blanch, rtt 



ENTREMETS. 26^ 

put it into a stewpan with sufficient butter, a bay 
leaf, an onion, two cloves stuck in it, salt and pep 
per; make them boil ; turn them that they mix with 
the butter ; put them upon the paillasse with a slow 
fire over and under ; let them simmer three or four 
hours; turn them from time to time, and take care 
that they do not bum : when they are done, take out 
the bay leaf and onion ; finish them with a little bit of 
butter, and serve. 

Carrots. Carottes ^ la Flamande. 

Tarn these carrots as in the article Garniture; blanch, 
drain, cook them in water, with a little butter and 
salt ; when enough, drain and set them again upon the 
fire, with a good piece of butter, parsley, hashed seal- 
lions, salt, and pepper ; toss them as you do haricots, 
^ la mattre^d hotel : do not let them boil ; dress and 
serve. 

Carrots another Way, Carottes h F Orleans* 

Take six or eight fine carrots; scrape, wash, and 
cut them the length of two or three inches ; take out 
the heart ; cut the top in sprigs of equal thickness ; 
blanchy refresh, drain, and put them in a stewpan with 
B piece of butter, a little sugar, salt, and pepper, with 
as much stock as will make them swim ; let it come 
to a jelly, and finish it with a spoonful of veloutiy a 
little butter, and some parsley, blanched and minced. 

Small Roots. Petites Racines. 

See every thing concerning them at their articles. 
Garnitures or Ragouts, 

Mushrooms in Crust, Croutes aux Champignons* 

Turn and prepare the mushrooms as is indicated at 
article Garnitures ; put them in a stewpan, with- a bit 
of butter, and a bunch of parsley and scallions, and 
put them on a furnace ; toss, flour, and add a little 
good soup ; make them boil, and let them simmer ; 
neason with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; take the top 
crusts of rasped rolls ; butter them inside and out; put 
them on a gridiron, over red cinders, and let them dry 

N 



266 FRENCH COOKERY. 

and brown : when ready to serve, take out the herbs, 
thicken with yolks of eggs, mixed with a little cream; 
put a little 01 the sauce into the crusts ; put them on a 
dish ; put in the ragout, and serve : the crusts may be 
any size. 

Mushrooms another Way, Champignons h la Bcr» 

delaise. 
Take large mushrooms, let them be thick and firm ; 
take off the skin lightlv, and cut them in lozenges 
slightly on the under side ; put them in an earthen 
dish ; baste them with fine oU ; strew salt and pepper 
over them, and let them marinade* an hour or two; 
grill them on both sides ; when they are flexible, they 
are enough ; dress them on a dish, and send them to 
table with the following sauces : Put into a stewpan 
sufficient quantity of oil to sauce them, with parsley 
and scallions hashed very fine, and a clove of garlic ; 
heat the whole ; pour it over with the juice of one or 
two lemons, or a little verjuice^ which is better ; and 
serve. 

Mushrooms another Way, Chan^tignons ila Bar* 

delaise sur la Tourtiere. 
Prepare them as above, only add a little garlic with 
the oil, salt, and pepper they are marinaded in ; mince 
the stalks and parings ; press them in a cloth to take 
out the water; put them in a stewpan with salt^ 
pepper, parsley, scallions, and garlic, hashed ; pass 
these fine herbs for a moment over the fire, lay the 
mushrooms upon a tart-pan, putting into each a little 
fine herbs ; put them into the oven ; when enough, 
dress ; sauce with their own sauce ; squeeze over them 
the juice of one or two lemons, or a little verjuice, and 
serve. 

Mushrooms another Way. ■ . Champignons ^ la 

Tourtiere, 
Prepare them as for the Bordelaise ; put them in a 
tartpan; season them with salt and pepper; do the 

* Marmade is to pickle. 



ENTREMETS. 267 

isweet herbs in butter, not in oil ; put them with the 
mushrooms into the oven ; dress them upon the dish, 
and pour over them the se^oning in which they were 
cooked; the juice of a lemon may be added, and 
serve. 

Croutes aux MoriUes. 
Clean and cut in two the moriUesy wash them in se- 
veral waters and blanch them; drain and put them 
into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, and a bunch of 
parsley ; pass them over the fire, toss, flour, and add a 
litde good soup to them ; boil, simmer, and reduce : 
when enough, take out the herbs; thicken the sauce 
with yolks of eggs and a little cream ; add a little 
sugar, and serve them in a crust, as is directed at 
Mushrooms. 

Mousserons, 
Mousserons being of the same species as morUlei 
and mushrooms, they are cooked in the same manner. 

Truffes au Vin de ChampagnCy h la Serviette. 
Take ten or twelve fine truffles^ put them in water a 
little warm ; brush them clean, and throw them into 
fresh water ; brush them again so that they may be 
perfectly clean, and still wash them in another water ; 
drain, cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of 
foacon, and put in your truffles ; season with salt, bay- 
leaf, parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, rasped lard, and 
a litde good stock ; if you have none, put in some 
soup, one or two slices of ham,* and half a bottle of 
Champagne ; make them boil ; cover them with paper, 
and put them upon a paiUassej with fire under and 
over: leave them to cook an hour; that done, (which 
you will know by pressing them,) drain them in a cloth, 
and serve in a folded napkin. 

Trvffes en Croustade, 
Line a tartpan with pMe brisScy cover it with slices 
of bacon ; put the truffles upon it, afler having been 
Ttiy well cleaned ; season with salt, pepper, a bay- 
lea^ butter, and rasped lard ; cover it with slices of 

N 2 



268 FRENCH COOKERY. 

bacon ; make a second layer of paste ; cover it in 
a manner as to leave an open space under ; make anc 
cover of puffed paste, and lay it upon the sec* 
after it has been wet, glaTte^ and put it in the o 
it will take an hour or an hour and quarter : let it 
a fine colour, and serve it without opening. 

Truffes h la Cendre. 

Prepare the truffles, in the manner directed oi 
de Champagne; take as many slices of bacon as 
fles ; wrap each truffle in one ; cover it with ^ 
paper, after having seasoned them with salt, and 
per; wrapt up each in four papers in such a ; 
ner as shall prevent them from .losing their 
soning: an hour before serving, dip each light) 
fresh water, and put them under rea cinders, as < 
nuts are done ; when they are done, take off the 
outer papers, and cut the ends of those that ren 
that may have been touched by the cinders or a 
and serve. Attention ought to be paid to the fir 
the French cook with wood. 

For Trvffes h VEipagnole^ cL la Pi&montaise^ 
PSrigiLeuXj see article Ragouts. 

Potatoes. Pommes de Terre h la Mattre-dHi 

Wash, and very carefully put them into a p( 
boiling water ; when they are enough put I 
into a drainer ; peel and cut them in small ro 
like farthings ; put into a stewpan butter, ha 
parsley, scallions, pepper, and salt; add the | 
toes, and put it upon the fire ; toss them, to 
the butter, and if not properly thickened, put in < 
tie soup or water : when ready to serve, put the j 
of a lemon, or a little verjuice over, and send thei 
table. 

Potatoes. — Pommes de Terre au Jus^ ou h la BreU 
Prepare them as the Haricots h la Bretonne. 

Potatoes. Pommes de Terre d la Lyonnaise 

Wash and turn them : cut them all into 8 
oundsy as indicated above, and of the thickness 



ENTREMETS. 269 

halfjpeimy ; flour them ; heat some oil in a fryingpan ; 
put them in ; take care they do not stick ; fry them 
of a fine colour, that they may be crisp; drain^ 
shake a little salt over, and serve. 

Potates aux Beurre. 
Take that kind of potatoes if they are to be found ; 
wash, and cook them in steam ; take off their skins, and 
cut them in form and size of farthings, only a little 
thicker ; put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter 
and salt ; toss, and serve. 

Potates en Beignets. 

Take these potatoes, wash and scrape them ; cut 
them in pieces in the manner of salsify; marinade 
them half an hour in brandy, with a bit of lemon 
peel ; when ready to serve, drain, and dip them into a 
light paste ; fry them of a fine colour ; dram, dress, dust 
sugar over them, and serve. 

Frangipane de Potates. 

Cook them in steam ; take off the skin ; beat them 
well in a mortar ; put them into a basin ; add some 
eggs, a little butter, salt, rasped citron, some bitter ma- 
caroons, sugar or not, and use it as Sijrangipane for 
all sorts of entremets of pastry. 

Vegetable Marro^ah-^-^ Aubergines% 
The Aubergine is from the south and east, and has 
made little progress in this country ; but they are an 
excellent herb, and must, as soon as known, be held in 
great estimation : they are of different sizes and co- 
lours ; and are in appearance between the small gourd 
and cucumber. 

Aubergines sur la Grille. 
Cut them in halves lengthways ; do not take off the 
skin, but take off the stalk ; put them in a dish ; pow- 
der them with salt and pepper ; baste them with a lit- 
tle oil ; leave them to steep or marinade hadf an hour ; 
put them on the grill ; take care to baste them with 
their seasoning : when enough, serve. 4 

Aubergines d la Tourtiere* 
Cut them in two ; take out the hearts as they do 

N 3 



270 FRSNCH GOOKXRT. 

cucumbers ; hash these hearts very fine ; add panlet 
and shalots hashed ; put all into a saucepan with a bit 
of butter : let it cook ; put the Auhergines upon a tart> 
pan ; fill them with the ragoit; put them into the oven^ 
and when done, serve. 

Potatoes, ' Topinambouriy 
Are of the same species with the potatoe, and are 
cooked in steam ; peeled, cut in slices, and put into 
butter, sauce a little high-seasoned, with mustard, if 
agreeable, and serve. 

Hops, — HouhUmy 

Are used in the spring instead of aspsragus, and are 
cooked in the same manner, and eaten either with a 
white sauce, or oil. • 

Pumpkin. — Giromon. 

Take a giromon, cut it in several pieces, pare it, and 
take out the seed ; cut it equally in small squares 
about the size of an inch ; blanch and cook it m salt 
and water ; drain ; put into a stewpan a bit of butter, 
parsley, and scallions hashed, salt and pepper; toss 
and serve. 

Another Way, TJne autre Mantle, 

Work a piece of butter as for a white sauce ; wet 
it with a little milk, or cream ; season it with salt, 
pepper, parsley, and scallions, hashed ; cook the sauce, 
turning it like a bSchameUe : when enough, put in the 
giromon, /w\i\cY% has been cooked and drained; let it 
simmer ; add a little nutmeg, and serve. 

TurJes Cap. Bonnet de Turk et Artichaut de Bar- 

barie. 
It is cooked in the same manner with the other 
pumpkins, being of the same species. 

STORE-ROOM. Office. 

To clarify Sugars. Clarification du Sucre. 

Put the whites of two eggs into four pints of water ; 
fr«th the water by whipping it with a whisk ; put into 
a proper pan a loaf ot sugar of twelve or fourteen 
pounds, broken in pieces ; wet it, and make it fall by 



STORK-ROOM. 271 

adding two-thirds of the blanched water * ; set it upon 
the fire ; take care when it rises ; throw in a little cold 
water, and take it ofi^, to let it fall and throw up the 
scum ; in five or six minutes put it again on the fire, 
and continue to skim it as it rises, throwing in a little 
water sufficient to keep it from flying over : when it is 
very pure, it will rise no more ; take it off, an<Lpass it 
through a wet bag, or napkin. The first degree is the 
petit ImSf ; for which it must again be put upon the 
fire ; let it boil, till dipping the finger into it, and 
pressing it against the thumb, which on opening forms 
a thread and breaks, and runs back into a drop upon 
the finger. 

Grand LissL J 

It is known in the same way, with this difference, 
that with a boil more, it extends further in the thread 
between the fingers, and does not break so easily. 

For the petit % or the grand perUy continue boiling, 
and make the same trial with the fingers ; if it threads 
upon the finders without breaking, that is the little 
peris ; and when the fingers are opened at full length 
without the thread breaking, or that it forms round 
perles, that is the grand perli, || 

Between the grand perle&nd the souffle is the grande 
queue de cochon^^ which is known bv lifting the skim- 
mer; if the sugar falls in little bottles, which form a 
kind of pig's tail, more boiling brings it to the souffle:^'*' 
continue to give it a few more boils, and you will know 
by drawing the skimmer from the pan, which must be 
held over the sugar ; blowing first the one side and 
then the other, through the holes there will fly off 
little flakes of sugar. 

To bring it h la petite plume "ff, continue to boil a lit- 
tle longer, make the same trial as above, when it 

* The blanched or white water that the egg has b^to mixed in. 
f Petit lissiy short thread. \ Grand IM, long thread. 

§ Petit perUj small pearl. |) Grand perU, large pearL# 

^ Queue de chocoTt, ptg*8 tail, •• S(niffld, flakes. ^ * 

ff Small feather. ^ 

N 4 



272 FRENCH COOKERY* 

ouffht to fly off in larger flakes ; continue to boil it a 
litUe longer, it will become la grande plume *, which 
you will know by reversing the skimmer upon the 
sugar; if there rise in the air large balls and long 
flakes, which hold together, it is between la grande 
plume and le petit botdet, 

^ Petit et gros Boulet. f 

You will know the interval between them when they 
form, in dipping the second finger first into fresn 
water, and then quickly into the sugar, and put it 
again into the fresh water to prevent being burnt by 
the sugar ; then roll the sugar between the finger and 
thumb, to make a little ba^l ; when the sugar gathers 
easily, and can be rolled, it has gained the point ; the 
only difference between the petit and ^os boulet is, 
that the petit is sofl, and the gros is har^ when cold. 

Sucre au Casse, 

Continue to reduce the sugar, and make the same 
trial for it as for the botdet, except that after it h|u been 
put in cold water, it breaks between the fingers, 
and in breaking it with the teeth, it bruises witnout 
sticking. 

The difference between le sucre cassS and the caro' 
mel is not known. These are the principal degrees of 
boiling sugar ; as it continues to boil, it acquires ano- 
ther degree, which must be attended to in the use that 
is to be made of it. 

To clarify Honey • Clarification du MieL 

To clarify twenty-five pounds of honey, put three 
quarts of water into a sweetmeat-pan that will hold 
fifty pounds ; put in the honey, and set it on the fire ; 
when it is melted, add five pounds of Spanish whiting, 
beaten very fine ; add the zest of three lemons ; stir ^I 
well together with a skimmer, that the whiting may not 
stick to the bottom ; when they are well mixed, put 
two pounds of charcoal and a half to clarify, and con- 
tinue to stir ; beat six eggs well,, and add six quarts 
of water to them ; when the honey is ready to boil, 
sprinkle it with this water, till it become like a spunge ; 
^ The great feather. \ Small and large buUet. 



STORE-ROOM. 27S 

afterwards put it through a bag ; return and pass it till 
clear and hmpid. 

Great care ought to be taken, a day or two before cla- 
rifying more, to clean the bag very well, by the meant 
of two or three eggs and some water heated to the tenth 
degree ; use may be made of that sweet water to clarify 
more honey : there will only be required in addition six 
eggs in a little water to clarify the above quantity. 

Compotes of Fruit, Compotes et Fruits Confits. 

Green Apricots. Abricots verts. 

Take half a pound of the grit of wood-ashes ; put 
it in four pints of water upon the fire ; throw in the 
firuit, stimng them constantly, until the down comes 
easily off; take them out , and throw them into fresh 
water; half a pound of wood-ashes ought to les- 
sive three pints of apricots ; after being well washed, 
prick them with a pin, and put them again two hours 
upon the fire, in five or six pints of water, until they 
are blanched and returned to their green: they are 
enough when a pin pierches them easily : take them 
from the fire, and throw them again into fresh water ; 
take a poimd and a half of sugar, which must be cla- 
rified in a pint of water ; put in the fruit upon the fire ; 
leave them an hour nearly, but do not let them boil : leave 
them in the sugar till next day ; drain, and give the 
sugar a few boils ; pour it over the fruit, and serve. 

Preserved early Cherries, Compote de Cerises 

precoses. 

Take a pound of cherries, and cut off half the stalks ; 
clarify half a pound of sugar ; put in the cherries, cover 
them, and give them a boil ; skim them well and serve. 

Preserved Cherries without Stones, Compote de 

Cerises sans Noyaux* 
Take two pound of cherries to make one or two com- 
potes; take out the stones and stalks; clarify a pound 
of sugar in a pint of water, with the quarter of the 
white of an e^^ ; skim it, and run it through a cloth or 
gauze search; put the cherries in the sugar; cover 
and give them a boil ; skim and serve. 

N 5 



'274 yrkuch cookxry 

Red Currant Jetty. GeUe de GroseUles. 

Take four pounds of sugar ; break it, and put it 
into a sweetmeat-pan ; take six pounds of red cur- 
rants, of which two ought to be white, to make the 
jelly more beautiful ; after they have been rubbed to- 
gether, put them into a pan, with half a pint of water, 
upon the fire ; stir them from time to time, that they 
may not stick ; add a ' few rasps : when all is well 
boiled, throw it into a search ; take the juice and put 
it to the sugar ; put all upon the fire ; let it take a 
dozen of boils, wnich will be enough ; but to assure 
it, put out a spoonful upon a plate ; if it jellies, pot it ; 
if it does not, it requires a boil or two more. 

Take raspberries and prick them; take out their 
hearts; put a little gooseberry jelly upon the bottom 
of a compote dish and dress them upon it ; put some of 
the same jelly carefully over them, and serve. 

Raspberry Jfim. Confitures de Framboises* 

Take five pounds of raspberries, pick and take out 
the hearts ; clarify four pounds of sugar in a sweetmeat- 
pan ; let it come to the first soiifiS (which you will 
know by blowing through the holes of the skimmer, if 
it fiies off in feathers) ; put in the fruit ; cover it and 
give it a boil ; skim, and pot it. 

Apricots in Sugar, Compote cTAbricots, 

Take apricots nearly ripe ; take out the stones with- 
out breaking them ; put them on the fire to blanch^ but 
do not let them boil, let the water only move ; then 
put them in clarified sugar on a very slow fire, so that 
the sugar may incorporate: for twenty -five apricots 
a pound of sugar is necessary. If they are to be pre- 
served for future use, drain them next day, and give 
the syrup a dozen of boils, adding every day a little 
sugar, as it is necessary that the fruit should be always 
covered ; continue for five days to boil the 83rrup, and 
pour it when cold over the fruit ; on the last day you 
put the fruit into the boiling sugar ; give it a very littJc 
boil ; skim it well, and pot it 



STORE-ROOItf. 275 

White Apricots* Abricots ^ OreiUes* 

Take white apricots from an espalier which are not 
quite ripe ; cut them in two ; talce out the stones ; 
peel them very thin ; throw them into boiling water, 
but take care they do not boil ; take them out of the 
water and drain ; ^ive them a good boil in clarified 
sugar ; leave them m a dish till next day ; drain them 
again and boil the syrup ; when cold pour it over the 
fruit, and the third day it may be finished as the 
apricots for provision. Fot and cover them for future 
use. 

Apricot Marmalade,'-^''—' Marmalade d* Abricots. 

Take some fine apricots from standards ; take out 
the stones and the spots of the skin; cut them in 
pieces : for six pounds of apricots take four pounds 
and half of sugar ; if it is loaf you must break it in a 
mortar, and you may put it on the fire with the 
apricots; take a wooden spatula; do not quit the 
marmalade till it is finished, or it will burn ; and to 
know when it is done, dip the finger into it, and if it 
forms a thread in being pressed against the thumb, it 
has arrived at the proper point ; take it ofi' and pot it. 
To make it half sugar, it is necessary to observe, as 
it requires more boiling, that there is less confection. 

Apricot Paste. Pate d* Abricots. 

Take what quantity of ripe apricots you intend to 
make, and take out the stones ; put them upon the fire 
to break ; rub them through a search ; dry and weigh 
the paste ; take as much clarified sugar (to the height 
of petit boidet) as fruit ; mix all well together ; put it 
again upon the fire ; it must be much more done than 
the marmalade; put it into moulds; dry them in the 
stove or oven, and paper them for use. 

Apricots in Brandy. Abricots ^ VEau-de-me. 

Choose the quantity wanted of the finest fruit with- 
out blemish from espaliers \ prick each of them several 
times with the point of a knife ; throw them into water ; 
blanch them, stirring them from time to time ; when 
the fruit begins to soften, take them off quickly and 

N 6 



^6 FRENCH COOKERY. 

put them into iresh water; drain and make the 
syrup. 

For an hundred apricots clarify four pounds of 
sugar in two pints of water ; put in the apricots ; 
give them a boil, and leave them in the syrup till next 
day ; then drain them, and reduce the syrup to one- 
hdf, and let it fall for a moment, so that the fruit 
may be put in to get a little movement, as it must 
not boil ; when cold fill the bottles ; reduce the syrup, 
and distribute it in sufficient quantity into them, and 
fill them up with brandy ; shake them well to mix, or 
mix it before it is added to the fruit. 

Pears in Sugar. Compote de Poires (TEtS, 

Take some fine pears ; put a small clove into the 
eye of each ; throw them into water to blanch them ; 
when they are soft under the finger take them out and 
pare them, s^d throw them again into fresh water 
with the juice of a lemon to retain their white colour. 
For an ordinary compote take half a pound of sugar, 
in which give them a good boil, adding the juice of 
half a lemon, and sufficient water that they may swim. 
In this manner they may be finished for keepmg, by 
boiling and adding sugar for five days, and boiling 
them on the last : pot, and preserve them. 

Pears another Wa^.^^-^Compote de Poires de Martin 

sec. 

The compote of Martin sec is generally made with 
the skin ; loosen the skin about the stalk, and a little 
further, without hurting either ; take out a little at the 
eye ; blanch and drain them, and put them into a weak 
syrup that they may do more easily. 

They may be done also without boiling, by cutting 
them into the form of an orange, putting them inune- 
diately into the sugar, without blanching them ; leave 
them in it till they are enough done, or soaked» which 
makes an excellent compote. 

Bon-chretien Pears in Sugar. — Compote de Bon- 

Chretien Blanch. 
Take four fine pears, cut them in two and take out 



STORE-ROOM. 277 

the hearts ; blanch them ; add half th^ juice of a 
lemon to preserve their colour; pare, and throw 
them into fresh water; drain, and put them into a 
a light syrup ; give them a dozen of boils ; dress, and 
serve. 

Grilled Pears, Bon-chretiens grilles. 

Have a strong fire of charcoal, and grill them 
equally ; when they are enough throw them into fresh 
water; the skin ought to fall off; wanh them in 
three or four waters, until they are perfectly free 
from every speck; take out the eye, and put them 
in a light syrup with a little cinnamon ; let them boil 
until they are perfectly done; and their syrup has 
acquired a consistence. Compotes may be made of 
every kmd of pear, in summer or winter, by following 
the above directions. 

Apple's in Sugar. Compote de Pommes blanches. 

Take some fine rennets that are not blemished ; 
pare them, (do them whole, or in halves ;) put them as 
ihey are dressed into fresh water ; drain ; and to four 
if^ee rennets give six ounces of clarified sugar, and 
hall tfie juice of a lemon ; turn them with a fork that 
they may be equally done ; put them into a compote 
dish ; reduce the syrup into jelly, and pour over it ; 
or if more jelly is wanted, apples cut in pieces may 
be done with it; pass the syrup through a gauze 
search; reduce it to jelly, and pour it gently over the 
fruit. 

Apples another Way. Compote de Pommes h la 

Portugaise. 
This compote is made generally of the white, or 
large rennet ; the fruit is not pared, but is cored 
by an apple corer; prick it with a knife and boil 
in a light syrup ; when half done take it out of the 
syrup, place it upon a leaf or earthen dish, and put 
it under a small oven to take a fine colour; baste 
it from time to time with the S3rrup that it was 
boiled in. 



S78 FRENCH ' COO KER Y. 

Apple Jelly. — JeUe de Pommes. 
Take any quantity of fine rennets ; pare and cu 
them in pieces ; wash and rub them with the hands ii 
hot water, to make them thoroughly clean ; drain ani 
put them in a pan with as much water as they wii 
swim in, but no more ; give them a boil so that the] 
may be enough without being broken ; put them int< 
a search to drain ; have sugar ready at the first lissi: 
and for every two spoonsful of sugar put three o 
juice, if it ismrong, and four if it is weak; the suga 
may be done to the first sotiffle; put in the juice, ani 
do it over a strong fire, until i^ lalb in bits ; add th( 
juice of a lemon, and put it in pots or shapes. 

Plumbs in Sugar, Prunes de Reine Claude. 

Take a hundred fine plumbs, not ripe, but coxim 
to their full size ; prick them with a nail, put then 
into fresh water, and blanch them; stir firdtan ttm< 
to time ; when they begin to rise in the water taki 
them ofi* the fire, and put in the juice of two or thre< 
lemons, to assist them m regaining their colour ; lei0p| 
them in it at night; put them again on the fire, wii* 
allowing them to boil; clarify five pounds of 
take out the half and put in the plumbs ; give 
iive or six boils ; take them out, and put them into i 
basin till next day ; drain them out, and boil up the 
sugar, adding a little of that in reserve ; put then 
again into a basin, and go on boiling and adding the 
sugar till the fifth day, and finish them, observing 
the directions before given on this head. 

Plumbs in Brandy, — — Prunes a FEau- de- Vie, 
Plumbs in brandy are done in the same manner; 
give them two or three boils in sugar, they are then 
drained, and the sugar boiled up and mixed with the 
brandy, and poured over them ; or put the clarified 
sugar to the brandy; bottle the fruit, and add the syrup. 

Blanching Plumbs, 'Le Blanchissage de Prunes. 
There are none but green plumbs that can bcai 
double blanching, as the Reine-Claude and the Uf 
verte ; all the yellow plumbs blanch immediately, and 




STORE-ROOM. 279 

are done in the same manner, beginning always with 
a light syrup, and go on till the fruit has taken a suf- 
ficient quantity of sugar to make it keep throughout 
the year. 

Small Yelloxo Plumbs in Sugar, Prunes de Mira- 

6eue, 
These are small yellow plumbs that resemble the 
mirabeUe ; the mirabelle is known by the stone being 
quite detached from the fruit ; they must neither be 
too green or too ripe, their stalk must hllld ; when the 
water is ready, prick them with a pin and put them 
in ; when they rise take them out and throw them into 
cold water ; drain them immediately, and put them 
into a light syrup ; give them a little boil, and finish 
as the foregoing. Tney may also be put into brandy. 

Peaches in Sugar, Compotes de Peches Mignonnes, 

Take the quantity of peaches necessary for a com^ 
put them into boiling water to take off the skin, 
then into a light sugar ; give them a boil ; skim 
.pHt them in a compote dish and serve. 

ies another Way, Peches grosses Mignonnes, 

ride the peaches, take out the stones ; pare and 
Tt thdm in sugar, give them a boil, dress, and serve. 
In making these compotes^ it is" necessary that the 
fruit be ripe, without bemg too much so. 

Peach Marmalade, Marmalade de Peches, 

Take ripe peaches, pare theifn, and cut them in 
pieces ; for six pounds of fruit, put four pounds and a 
half of sugar, which must be clarified and brought to 
the Jbrt perle ; put the fruit into the sugar, and while 
it is doing do not quit it : stir it always with a wooden 
spatula till it is enough, that is, when it has arrived at 
the same point as directed for the apricot marmalade. 

Peaches in Brandy, PSches ci VEau-de- Vie, 

If the peaches to be put into brandy are not quite 
ripe they must be blanched ; but otherwise only 
pricked ; put them into clarified sugar, making them 
boil slowly ; turn them from time to time ; take them 



$80 FRENCH COOKERY. 

out ; when they have cooled, return them into the 
8yrup upon a very slow fire, that they may only trem- 
ble, not boil ; then let them cool m the pan ; after- 
wards they may be well drained ; boil up the sugar to 
mix with the brandy ; put the peaches into bottles, 
and fill them up 

GriUed Peaches in Sugar. Compote de Peches 

grillSes, 

Take peadies that are not ripe, otherwise they 
would burst ^er the fire, and follow the same direc- 
tions that are given for the pears, (bons chrStiens) ; after 
having washed them in several waters, put them in 
the sugar. 

Quinces in Sugar. Compote de Coins. 

Take very ripe quinces ; divide them in three or 
four pieces, pare them, and take out the heart; blanch 
tliem; put them into a light sugar; cover them, and 
give them a good boil : next day give them another, 
when they are ready for use. If they are to be pi 
served for the year, finish them like the others u] 
the fifth day. And if to be of a red colour, when 
are blanching leave them in the same water, and' 
the sugar to it ; do it upon a very slow fire that 
may boil softly ; keep them covered, and they will b^^ 
come very red: they are finished when their syrup 
comes to jelly : five hours are sufficient to do them in 
this way. 

Quince Jelly- Gelee de Coins, 

Cut in pieces a sufncient quantity of quinces ; draw 
off the juice by boiling them in water, in which they 
ought only to swim, no more. When fully done, drain 
and have ready clarified sugar, to which put one 
spoonful to two of the juice; bring the sugar to the 
soiifflS; add the juice, and finish. When it drops from 
the skimmer it is enough ; take it off, and pot it. 

S^rup of Barberries, Sirop d'Evine-vinette. 

Bruise a pound of very ripe fine rea barberries, put 
into a sweetmeat-pan a pint of water; when it boils, 
throw in the fruit and give it a dozen boils ; take it off 




STORE-ROOM. 281 

the fire and put it into a basin till next day ; clarify 
two pounds and half of sugar, for the fort perle; 
put the barberries upon the fire, and give them a boil ; 
press the juice through a search, and add it to the 
sugar ; give it some boils ; to know if it is enough, put 
a little upon a plate, and if it has sufficient consistence, 
skim it and put it in bottles ; this syrup is not subject 
to ferment, and keeps long, 

Confitures de Ver-jus* 
Take verjuice, neither too green nor too ripe, that 
is to say, if, by opening, the seeds can be taken out 
with a pin, throw them as they are done into ^esh 
water; afterwards put them into a pan and blanch 
them ; take care not to give them too strong a boil, 
because they would melt immediately ; they must be 
taken off the moment they come to the surface of the 
water ; let them cool in that water ; when they are 
CK>ldy they are again to be put upon a very slow fire 
*^ recover their colour, after which, put them in fresh 
jr; take the quantity of sugar necessray; cla- 
id let it be brought to the petit lisse ; strain and 
the verjuice. Next day strain it again and boil 
the sugar; then put in the verjuice ; in this manner 
continue till the fifth day, when it ought to be brought 
to the Jbrt perle ; give the verjuice a boil; skim, and 
put it in pots. 

Ver-jus Skinned. Ver-jus Perle^ 

Take some verjuice, riper than those used for the 
last article, but very green ; take ofi* the skin and the 
seeds with a little pointed skewer ; for two pounds of 
verjuice prepared in this manner, boil two pounds of 
sugar au hotdet ; put in the verjuice, and give them a 
dozen of boils ; afterwards take them off the fire ; 
skim, and put them in pots. 

Paste of Ver-juice. Pate de Ver-jus. 

Take verjuice almost ripe, and let it break upon the 
fire, stirring it with a spatula ; add some pared apples 
cut in pieces ; the whole being mashed, put it through 
a close hair search in such a manner that there 




282 FRENCH COOKERY. 

rcimains nothing but the skin and seeds ; put it upon 
the fire to dry until it has a consistence ; weigh it, and 
take as much sugar as fruit ; bring the sugar to the 
souffle^ and put in the fruit, stirring it constantly with 
a spatula, without quitting it; when the pdte rises 
easily from the bottom, it is enough ; put it into moulds 
or cases of paper ; put it in the stove, strewing it with 
sifled sugar. 

Oranges in Sugar, Compote (T Oranges. 

Take four or six fine oranges ; take off the skin, 
find with the point of a knife take off all the threads; 
have half a pound of sugar hot in a basin ; cut them into 
slices, and put them in the sugar; dress them in a 
compote dish, and serve with the syrup poured over. 

Chesnuts in Sugar, Compote de Marrons. 

Take a hundred beautiful cnesnuts ; take off the 
outer skin ; put them into a pan with water, a lemon 
cut in bits, and three handfuls of bran : give them 
enough of water to cover them ; let them blanch with* 
out much fire ; when they are enough, a needle will 
penetrate easily ; take them out of the water with a 
skimmer, peel and throw them into fresh water and 
lemon juice ; clarify a pound and half of sugar, and 
bring it to the petit lisse; drain the chesnuts and 
put them in the sugar, with the juice of a lemon, and a 
quarter of a glass of orange flower-water ; put all upon 
the fire without allowing it to boil ; take it off, and 
next day drain and boil the syrup ; at the fourth boil- 
ing augment the sugar, and bring it to the sotM; 
put in the chesnuts ; an instant after the sugar whitens, 
which must be done with a fork or spoon against 
the pan, take out, and put them to drain upon 9^ grille 
d tirade; as soon as they are cold they are dry, and 
that IS what is called chesnuts glazed. There is no 
other manner to make them. 

Chesnuts another Way, Compote de Marrons a 

Titalienne. 
Take fifty fine chesnuts, grill, skin, and flatten them 
lay them upon a silver dish, or a tart-pan ; add foui 



STORE-ROOM. 28S 

ounces of very light clarified sugar ; boil them a little ; 
heat a poker ; when they are taken off, strew sugar 
over, and glaze them ; arrange them in a compote dish, 
and make the syrup with the juice of a Seville 
orange, and half the juice of a lemon in a little cla- 
rified sugar. 

Marmalade of Quinces. —^^^ Marmalade de Coins, 
Take them very ripe and blanch them whole : when 
they are soft, take them out ; peel and cut them in 
little bits; beat them in a mortar, and pass them 
through a search ; take the same quantity of clarified 
sugar brought to the soiiffle, as there is of fruit, uid 
fimsh as the others. 

Cherry Marmalade. Marmalade de CSrises. 

Take some very ripe cherries ; take off the stalks 
and stone them ; break them, and give them a strong 
boil; then put them into a search, and force them 
through with a spatula or a wooden spoon, till no- 
thing remains but the skin; put it again upon the 
fire to dry it ; when it hfts reduced a half, weigh it, 
** and put the same quantity of sugar ; bring it to its 
' point; try if it threads between the fingers; if it does^ 
then it is finished. Gooseberry or currant marmalade 
is made in the same manner. 

Grape Marmalade. Marmalade de Ver-jus. 

Take them nearly ripe ; break them, and put them 
on the fire ; give them several boils, and pass them 
through a search, till nothing is left but the seeds and 
skins ; reduce them upon the fire ; weigh, and give the 
same quantity of sugar; bring it to the sot^ffU^ and 
finish as the marmalade of cherries. 

Orange Marmalade. Marmalade d' Orange. 

Take fifteen or twenty fine oranges of a thick skin ; 
take off the skin, as nothing else is used ; blanch^ re- 
fresh, drain, and beat them strongly in a mortar, and 
pass them through a hair search with a spatula-; weigh, 
and give a pound and a half of sugar to every pound 
of fruit; clarify it to fort perU; put in the fruit, and 
give it several boils, stirrmg it always with the spa- 



^84 FRENCH COOKERY. 

tula. When it threads, it is at the point; pot it. All 
marmalades of yellow fruits are done in the same 
manner. 

Orange Flower Marmalade,- Marmalade de Fleun 

d'Oranges, 

Take two pounds of orange flowers, fresh gathered ; 
and very white; pick and throw them into fresh 
water ; two pounds, when well picked, will not give 
more than one pound ; drain, and put them into boil- 
ing water ; give them one boil only ; take them imme- 
diately off the fire ; drain and throw them into fresh 
boiling water, with the juice of two or three lemons 
over a very brisk fire : when the flowers break easily 
with the fingers, take them out ; put them into cold 
water, with the juice of a lemon; drain, and press them 
in a new cloth to take out the water; beat them very 
well in a marble mortar, wetting it with lemon juice; 
when it is enough beaten, put it in a small pan, and 
clarify two pounds and a half of the finest sugar; 
bring it to the perUy and put it by degrees to the flowers, 
and mix it with a spatula: when the half of the 
sugar has been put in, put the other half upon the fire 
to bring it to the petit souffle^ and add it to the mar- 
malade, stirring it always with a spatula ; put it again 
upon the fire ; heat it well without letting it boil, and 
pot it- 

Orange Chips in Sugar, Compote de Tailladins 

d'Oranges. 

After grating the oranges, cut them in small chips; 
boil them in water till they are enough ; put them in 
fresh water, drain and put them in a light sugar; give 
them several boils ; next day give them another, and 
serve. 

Confected Oranges, Oranges Confites au Sucre, 

Grate a dozen fine oranges, cut them in quarters 
and tie them together ; boil them in a great quantity of 
water, for at least three or four hours, on a continued 
boil : when enough done, a pin will easily pierce the 
skin; put them into fresh water; cut them into smaller 
pieces, leaving always the orange attached to the 



STORE-ROOM* 285 

skin ; clarify three pounds of sugar, of which keep 
back the half; drain, and put in the fruit ; every day 
boil the syrup, adding some of that in reserve : some 
do only tne skin, or the orange whole. 

Conserve of Violets* Conserve MoeUeuse ^ la 

Violette, 
Take some violets and pick them, taking nothing 
but the leaves of the flower; a handful will make 
three quarters of a pound of conserve : beat them well 
in a marble mortar, to obtain tlie juice; clarify three 
quarters or a pound of sugar, which must be brought 
to the first souffle; take it off the fire, and let it cool ; 
add the juice with a few drops of lemon, that the 
colour may be as bright as possible ; work it well to« 
gether with a silver spoon till it begins to whiten and 
dry ; put it immediately into cases of any size, but the 
conserve must be only the sixth part of an inch thick } 
when cold, mark it lightly with a knife the size it is to 
be of; handle it tenderly in the moulds. 

Conserve of Lemons, Conserve de Citrons* 

Take the zest of a lemon and^queese the juice over 
it ; leave it some time to infuse ; boil half a pound of 
sugar to the first joer/e; run the lemon juice through 
a cloth or gauze search to take out the zest ; put me 
juice to the sugar, and work it with a spoon till it is 
very white, and put it into moulds. 

Conserve of Strawberries, Conserve de Praises, 

Put a handful of fresh ripe strawberries through a 
gauze search, with the back of a spoon; to every 
spoonful of expressed juice put six ounces of sugar au 
Jbfi perle ; take it off the fire and put in the juice ; 
whiten your sugar as directed for the lemon ; if the* 
conserve is too white, you may put a little carmine 
into a drop of clarified sugar, and mix it very well ; 
work it into the conserve, which will give it a nne co- 
lour ; put it in moulds. ^ 

Conserve of Citron^— Conserve de Cedrat, 
Take a nice high-flavoured citron, rub it with a piece 
0f sugar to obtain the zest and the perfume; scrape 



286 FRENCH COOKERY. 

the zest of the sugar with a knife, and squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over to melt it: one done in this 
manner will require a pound of sugar to thejort perU; 
put in the juice, and work it as directed for the others: 
as citron is not always to he had fresh, the confected 
citron may be used, which can be had at all times; a 
half or a quarter is well beaten in a mortar, and put 
through a search, and mixed in proportion with sugar 
brought to the ^rst perle; the juice of lemon must not 
be forgotten. 

Conserve of Roses, Conserve de Roses. 

Boil half a pound of sugar to the first souffU^ take 
the best double rose water and put in as much as will 
bring the sugar back to the fort perlS: to give it a fine 
colour add a few drops of cochineal ; mix it perfectly, 
and put it in moulds. 

Conserve of Chocolate. Conserve de Chocalat, 

Boil down two ounces of chocolate de sant^ or of 
vanille, in a quarter of a glass of water ; have readjr 
half a pound of sugar auperlS; mix it with the sugar, 
and work as the other : for all sorts of wet conserves, 
follow the directions given for cherries, currants, 
gooseberries, raspberries, oranges, lemons, &c. &c. 

Conserve of Coffee, Conserve de Cafe, 

Make some very clear strong coffee, have ready a 
pound of sugar clarified, and brought au boulet or an 
petit cassS; take it ofi* the fire, and put in a cup of 
coffee to bring it to its point ; work it as in the fore- 
going article, and mould it. 

Saffron, Conserve sonfflie au Sqfran, 

This conserve is made exactly as that of the rose: 
the sugar is prepared in the same manner ; to give ii 
the taste and colour, a small pinch is sufiicient ; put it 
into a quarter of a glass of water, let it boil an instant 
and infuse ; pass it through a cloth ; put it into the 
sugar without taking it off the fire : work it, and mould 
it as the other. 

Oran^e-floxioer Cakes, Gateaux de Fleur d^Oran&ts, 

Take half a pound of fresh orange-flowers, and pick 



STORE-ROOM. 287 

them ; clarify three pounds of sugar, and boil it au 
petit cassS ; put in the flowers, and give them some 
boils ; prepare icing in the following manner : Take 
half of the white of an e^g, and two ounces of sugar ; 
put through a gauze search, mixed well together with 
a silver spoon, until the icing is perfectly white ; a 
few drops of lemon juice mav be added to finish it ; it 
ought to have a certain consistence, neither too thick 
nor too thin ; put the sugar again upon the fire, and 
let it come au casse; take it off, and add a large 
spoonful of icing ; stir it quickly into the sugar with 
a spatula, until it rises ; it must be poured quickly into 
the moulds. 

Rose soiiffly Cakes. Gateau soiiffU ^ la Rose. 

Take a handful or two of rose-leaves, according to 
the quantity you intend to make ; a handful of picked 
leaves is sufficient for a pound of sugar ; boil the sugar 
(au boulety or petit casse) ; put the rose-leaves into the 
sugar, and follow the same directions as for the orange 
flowers ; adding cochineal in the icing, that it may be 
of a fine colour. 

OrarisC'fiovoer Sugar Candy. Bu^re Candi en 

Terrine ^ la Meur d" Orangey ou gros Candi. 

Prepare half a pound of very white orange-flowers ; 
boil wree pounds of sugar au souffle ; put in the 
orange flowers, and give them a dozen of boils ; run it 
through a hair search to take out the flowers ; return 
the sugar into the pan, and bring it to the sovffii; 
Bkim, and take it off the fire ; add a quarter of a glass 
of the spirit of roses : pour it into a basin ; cover it, 
and put it into the stove for eight days, taking care to 
keep it of an equal heat ; drain off the syrup, as the 
candy remains fixed ; heat the basin ; it will fall off. 
Not to lose the flower, rub them well in sifted sugar, 
till they are dry with the hands ; sift, and put them to 
dry in the stove. 

Large Rose Candy. — — Gros Candi d la Rose, 

Is made in the same manner, in adding the proper 
colouts; and the spirit of roses is preferable to rose 



288 FRENCH COOKE&T. 

water ; above all, the flowers ought to be very odo 
ferous ; for it will be observed, if the odours were p 
in with the sugar, they would fly off in boiling, a 
ought not to be put in till after the sugar has be 
brought to its point : in giving the colour for the ro 
the cochineal is prepared, or the carmine is put intc 
little clarified sugar; and care must be had not 
put too much, that the colour may be fine. 

Large 1/elloiv Candy. Gros Candijaune. 

The same preparation as the foregoing, colour 
with the tincture of safiron. 

Candy of Violets, Candi de Violettes. 

Take half a pound of picked violets ; have a pou 
of sugar at the fort perl4; when it is half cold, put 
the flowers, and set the pan upon hot cinders for ti 
hours, that the flower may give all its colour ; put 
through a search ; rub the flowers in sifted sugar 
dry them ; put them into the stove till next day ; th* 
search them to take out the superfluous sugar; p 
the candy into moulds, and cover the surface wi 
flowers, without making them too thick in presni 
them in with a fork, that the flowers may attach to tl 
sugar, and that they should be well covered ; put i 
moulds into the stove for five hours without heating 
too much ; drain them to take off the syrup : whi 
cold, take them out of the moulds, put a sheet 
paper upon the table, and turn them quickly over 
with a stroke, to make the candy falL 

Candy of Jessamine. — Petit Candi de Jasmin* 
Pick two handsful of jessamin ; put it in sugar 
directed in the foregoing receipt ; rub it in sifted sugi 
and dry it in the stove ; after moulding the sugi 
finish as above. 

Candy ofJonquUle. Petit Candi de Jonquilk* 

Follow tne directions given above. 

Candied Jonquille Motvers. Jonquille enHtrt* 

Take the double jonquille ; cut the stalk withm 
quarter of an inch of the flower ; boil them in prepait 



STORE-ROOM. 289 

sugar : take them off the fire, and leave them a quarter 
of an hour in it ; throw them into sifted sugar ; in mix- 
ing them lightly, care must be taken that the leaves 
are kept in Sieir places, that the flower retains its form, 
and that it is equally covered with sugar ; put paper 
into a search, and sin sugar over it, and lay in the 
flowers ; put them into a stove to dry, and keep them 
in a box m a dry place. 

Flowers done in this way could be put into candy 
in having little grills made for the moulds, upon which 
they might be put ; and one above with a weight suffi- 
cient to keep them in the sugar. This might be 
done with all the flowers that are preserved, whether 
in leaves or entire ; and the candies could be had at 
all seasons. 

Confeded Orange Flowers,—^— Fleur d* Orange pra- 

linee* 

Choose the orange-flowers fresh and white; pici^ 
them, and throw them into water : for one pound ol 
the flowers, take two pounds of clarified sugar, brought 
to the souffle ; afler having worked the flowers well in 
the water, drain and put them to the sugar ; stir it 
well till it comes again to the same height it was be- 
fore ; then take off the sugar from the fire, and work 
it with a spatula, until the sugar separates and be- 
comes a powder ; put the flowers and sugar to dry in 
the stove, and afterwards sift out the superfluous 
sugar ; box or bottle the flowers. 

The flowers might be done in sifted sugar, as indi- 
cated for the sros candi deAeur d*orange, in observing 
always to wash them well m water, that the form may 
be preserved, before they are put into the sugar. 
With the orange-flower j^ralinee in either manner; 
ihepetfts candis are made as in the articles vto^e and 
jonquiUe. 

Conserve of Orange Flotoers. Conserve de Fleur 

^ d^ Orange, 

...Take a little orange-flower ; pick and hash it upon 
wUte paper, putting in some drops of lemon juice ; 

o 



290 FRENCH COOKERY. 

have ready four ounces of sugar au souffle; add the 
flowers, and give them a little boil, to work it ; mould 
it in paper cases. 

Almond Candy. Petit Candi d*Amandes. . 

Take a pound of sweet almonds ; skin them ; cut 
them in narrow long chips ; have a pound of clarified 
sugar ; put them into praliner; work them upon the 
fire with a wooden spatula, till the sugar begins to 
grain ; take it off and work it till it grains ; sift out 
Qie sugar, and divide the almonds into iour parts, to 
give them separate colours ; one white, one red, with 
carmine, another yellow in saffron, and spinnage for 
the green : dry them in the stove, mix them toge- 
ther : afterwards boil as much sugar as your mould 
will hold, au souffle ; strew the top lightly with these 
almonds ; make them sink into the sugar a little with 
a fork, put them into a quickish stove ; five hours is suf- 
ficient ; drain well, and two hours after they may be 
taken out of the mould. 

Small Rose Candy, Petit Candi h la Rote. 

Pralinez two handsful of rose leaves in clarified 
sugar, boiling them to the souMe, then take them 
ofi* the fire, and work them till the sifgar grains; 
search them in an open hair search to get out the su- 
perfluous sugar; rub the flowers with the hands, 
and put them into the stove to dry ; prepare sugar as 
for the other candies, and put it into a mould ; the su- 
gar for the mould ought to be coloured a little with 
cochineal : cover as directed above with the rose 
leaves. 

Conjected Almonds. Amandes pralinSes. 

Take a pound of fresh new almonds, which must be 
well rubbed with a cloth^ put a pound of sugar, 
with a little water, into a proper sized pan, and add 
a little more water when the sugar is melted; put 
them in, work them well with the spatula till they 
sparkle ; take them off the fire, and work them well 
till the sugar grains and falls off the almonds ; take 
out a part of the sugar, and put the almonds again 



I 



STORE-ROOM. 291 

upon the fire till they take the sugar, which will be 
done by stirring ; take care the fire is not too strong ; 
when they have taken the sugar, put in what was 
taken out, and continue the work till the almonds 
have taken the whole sugar ; put them upon a search, 
and separate such as are stuck together. 

Connected Filberts. Avelines PralinSes, 

Take of the finest and best filberts a pound, when 
shelled they will only give six ounces ; clarify six ounces 
of sugar, and put them to praliner: follow exactly 
the directions given in the preceding article. Do also 
pistaches in the same manner. 

CrriUed Almonds.-'—^^rillage d'Amandes, 
Blanch half a pound of almonds, and cut them 
length ways, in five or six pieces; pralinez them 
in l£ree-quarters of a pound of sugar ; granulate them 
when they begin to move quick, and put them again 
upon the fire, stirring them constantly until the al- 
monds are well mixed together in a mass; oil a 
leaf and put it upon it ; flatten, and strew over it cin- 
namon or white nonpareil confits ; cut it quickly in 
pieces. • 

Cherries en Chemise, Cerises blanchies, ou en 

Chemise, 
Take large fine ripe cherries and cut off half the 
stalks ; beat the white of an egg with a fork to froth ; 

Sthe cherries into it, and roll them entirely in 
ed sugar: if any are overcharged,' blow it off; put 
a sheet of paper in a search and dress them in it ; put 
them in a stove, leave them till ready to serve. 

Bunches of Currants en Chemise. Grosseilles en 

Grappe, en Chtmise, ou blanchies. 
Take some fine currants ; dip them them into the 
white of an egg ; roll them in sifted sugar, and finish 
them as directed for the cherries. Strawberries are 
done in the same manner, taking off the small leaves 
firom the stalk. 

Grapes also, or any small fruit. 

o 2 



292 F&BNCH COOKERY. 

Cherries. CSrises au CdrameL 

Take cherries with their stalks; put into a pan 
nearly the clarified sugar that the cherries would re- 
quire, or any other fruit ; when at the height of cassS^ 
take it off the fire, and dip in the fruit, one by one, 
holding them by the stalk, imd put them on a copper 
leaf that has been slightly oiled; cut off haLTthe 
stalk, dish and serve. 

All sorts of fruit in their season are done au cara- 
mel; and in winter those that have been preserved, 
such as the reme-claudey mirabeUey and apricots in 
brandy, and all small preserved fruits, only precau- 
tion must be had to wash them in warm water ; wipe 
and dry them in the stove, which makes the caramA 
remain longer dry. A griUe d tirage, slightly oiled, 
is better than the copper leaf, as it allows the super- 
fluous sugar to drop off: they maybe dried in a h'^ 
sun. 

Different Fruits in Caramel, Caramel cTOrangeSi i 

Marrons, Sfc, 

Take off the skin nicely from three or fdur oranses 
clean them of all the threads, and open them caremllj 
without breaking them into their divisions; take a 
small pointed bodkin of wood and prick them, having 
brought the sugar au caramel; dip in the divisions 
one after another ; drain them on a grille tl tirage, and 
fix them that they may dry in the open air. 

Chesnuts au caramel are first grilled, as they are 
done to serve in a cloth ; they are afterwards skinned 
and pricked with a bodkin, and dipt into the caramel 
one after another ; put to drain upon a grille h tirage 
and dried in the air. 

Grapes in Caramel, Raisin au Caramd, 

Take a bunch of grapes which are not very closely 
set; cut them into small bunches of seven or eight 
grapes together ; have a copper leaf slightly oiled, and 
dip them into the caramel which has been previously 
prepared ; drain them a little and put them upon the 



STORE-ROOM. . 293 

oiled leaf; leave the stalks that they may be tied 
together into large bunches if wanted. 

Pomegranates in Caramel, Caramel de Grenades, 

Take off the skin, leaving nothing but the grains ; 
prick them with a bodkin ; dip them in the caramel^ 
and finish as the others. 

To prepare Cochineal, CochenUle preparee. 

Take an ounce of cochineal, and beat it in a marble 
mortar into a fine powder ; beat an ounce of cream of 
tartar and two grains of alum ; put half a pint of water 
into a small pan, when it boils put in the cochineal 
to boil ten minutes, then add the cream of tartar and 
alum ; give it a few more boils ; take it from the fire, 
.eave it to clear and bottle it. 

Yellow Colour. Cotdeur Jaime, 

Take gambouge, and rub it down in hot water ; 
use it for all shades of yellow ; safiron is preferable for 
confitures and liqueurs, A small bit is to be boiled. 

Green Colour, — Couleur verte. *• 

Take twt» or three l^rge handsful of spinnage, pick 
and wash it well, beat it in a marble mortar ; then 
express the juice through a cloth ; put it upon the 
fire and keep stirring it ; when it is enough put it into 
a gauze search, that the water may run off; take it out 
of the search and rub it again in the mortar with a 
little clarified sugar; put it through a gauze search 
and use it. For green, mix safiron or gumbouche with 
indigo. 

_^ Voilet Colour, Couleur Violette, 

Mix some of the mixture «f cochindal with indigo 
in equal parts, which will give a fine violet colour. 
All of these colours may b$ mixed in different shades. 

4 "*^ Spoon Biscuit, — r— Biscuit ^ la Cuiller, 

Weigh'^eight eggs with as much sugar ; put it into a 
bason ; break the eggs over it, keeping out the whites ; 
oeat them well together ; add lemon zest ; beat the 
whites to a froth and mix with the other ingredients ; 
add the weight of ^\\ eggs of searched flour, stirring 

o 3 



294* 7&ENCH COOKERY. 

it lightly in till it is well mixed; drop the 
with a spoon of a long form upon white paper; and 
sift sugar over to glaze them ; put them into a mode- 
rate oven. To make them lighter, keep out one^flh 
of the flour. 

Light Lemon Biscuits. Biscuits Legers en Caisse au 

Citron, 
For eight eggs put eight spoonsful of sugar in a 
basin, and a little rasped lemon ; put six yolks into the 
sugar, and beat them well; then beat uie whites to 
snow, and add them ; mix in well and lightly three 
spoonsful of flour ; drop these biscuits into paper cases, 
and sift sugar over : let the oven be still slower than 
that directed for the spoon biscuit. 

Pistaches Biscuits. Biscuits de Pistaches. 

Take a quarter of a pound of pistaches, which must 
be put into boiling water to take off the skins; let them 
be new and fresh ; rub them in a cloth ; beat them well 
in a mortar with the white of an egg, and the quarter 
of a confected citron or lemon ; ada a little prepared 
spinnage, that the biscuit may be of a fine green; 
take eight eggs, break them, keeping back two yolks, 
and beat the six yolks with eight spoonsful of sugar ; 
when they are well beaten, add the pistaches ; tnen 
whip the eighth whites very well, and mix altogether ; 
mix three spoonsful of flour lightly with a spatula; 
put them into pap^r cases ; sift sugar over, and put 
them into a slow oveii» 

Chocolate Biscuits^'-^-^Biscuits au Chocolate 

Are made exactly as those of pistaches, putting in 
three ounces of chocolifke or vanule rasped, instead of 
the pistaches, and finish them in the same manner. 

Light Hazel Nut Biscuit, Biscuits legers au^Avelines. 

Take two small handsful of shelled filberts, roast 
them as you do coffee, turning them continually till 
the skin comes easily off; rub them in a cloth, and rasp 
them take six yolks and eight spoonsful of sugar, and 
prepare a paste ; put in two-thirds of the rasped nuts 
with eight whites beaten to snow, adding three spoons 



STORE-ROOM. 995 

fill of flour, as directed above; put them in cases; 
strew over them the remainder of the nuts ; sift sugar 
over, and put them into a slow oven. 

Cream Biscuits.'^^^Biscuits d la Creme. 
For ten eggs take ten spoonsful of sugar, and six 
spoonsful of flour ; beat the yolks with the sugar, and 
the others separately ; then unite them ; take some 
good cream, which must be whipt as for the Fromage 
de ChantiUy; mix it with the pate, add the flour, and 
finish as above. 

Orange^omer Biscuits. — Biscuits ^ la Fleur d* Orange, 
Take six eggs, put the yolks in a basin with me 
weight of four eggs of sugar; bruise an ounce of orange 
flower« pralinies ; add them to the yolks, and beat 
them well together with a spatula ; whip the whites to 
mix with the pate; add the weight of three eggs of 
flour ; put them into paper cases ; sift sugar over ; let 
the oven be slow ; give them only half the time of other 
biscuits that they may be soft ; serve immediately. 

Biscuits soiiffly of Orange^ Flotjoers, Biscuits souJlSs 

^ la Fleur d* Orange. 
Take the white of a fresh egg, mix it with sifted 
sugar, to make an icing, that shall neither be too wet 
nor too dry ; when it is ready, put in two pinches of 
orange ^owf^rs pralinees; put these biscuits in. very small 
paper cases, only a fourth part of df e size of ordinary 
biscuits ; the cases must only I9 naif filled, because 
they rise a great deal in the oven and fall over the 
cases : the oven ought to be slow, though hot enough 
to give them colour ; leave flkem in till there is no 
chance of their falling ; this will be known by touching 
them lightly ; if they remain firm, it is time to take 
them out. 

Biscuits souffly of Chocolate. Biscuits souffits au 

Chocolat, 
Make the icing of one or two whites of eggs, as 
before directed ; rasp two ounces of chocolate, mix it 
in the icing of a proper consistence ; half fill the cases: 

o 4 



4 



296 FRENCH COOKERY. 

they take the same time to bake as those of the or 
flowers. 

Small souffiy Biscuits, Petits Biscuits souffl 

With the royal icing all sorts of small biscu 
every colour and odour can be made in cases, sui 
lemon and orange, by the raspings, with saffrc 
powder or strong tincture ; rose with carmine O] 
chineal, and adding the spirit of rose for the o 
Of this icing may be made small buttons abou 
size of a filbert, which may be formed upon the 
of one knife by another ; put them on sheets of p 
and then on an oven leaf, into a very slow oven, 
they may retain their colour ; these buttons mi 
made white, safiron, lemon, chocolate, and rose, 
are a beautiful garnish for small dishes where r 
toons cannot be put. 

Bitter Macaroons. Macarons (TAmandes am 

Take a pound of bitter almonds, which mu 
/Kinned, and put into the stove ; when they are 
oeat them in a mortar with three whites of ( 
beat them very fine; if the three whites arc 
enough, add a fourth that they may not oil: 
they are finely beaten, mix them in a basin witJ 
pounds and a half of sifted sugar ; if it should b 
dry add another white, for it must be neither to< 
nor too dry ; drop it from the point of a knife b 
assistance of another, of the size of nuts upon p; 
put them into a very glow oven. 

Sweet Macaroons, Macarons tTAmandes do. 

Take a pound of blanched sweet almonds, and 
in the oven ; beat them and follow exactly the 
directions as are given for the macaroons of bitt 
monds; drop them in the same manner, and put 
in a slow oven. 

Massepains. Massepains Rouaux, 

Take a pound of sweet almonds, and throw 
into fresh water ; drain and beat them in a ra 
mortar, wetting them with water, and also a 
orange flower water : take care not to wet thei 



STORE-ROOM. . 297 

Qiuch in the beginning ; put it in by little and little ; 
when they are enough put them into a pan with half 
a pound of sifted sugar upon a furnace, with very lit- 
tle fire to dry it : to know when it is enough, apply 
the back of the hand over it; if it does not stick, it 
may be taken out and put upon a leaf, dusted with 
fine sugar, and leave it to cool ; cut several pieces 
upon a table, which ought to be rolled out as equally 
as possible to the size of a little finger; cut and form 
it into rings, and arrange them upon a grill of brass 
wire, which put upon a basin. This paste may be 
rolled out and covered slightly with apricot marma- 
lade, or any other, and put on a cover of the same 
paste ; cut it into lozenges or any other form; put it 
on the grill, and ice it with ice made of whites of eggs 
and sugar ; they must be iced with a spoon : let them 
drain ; arrange them upon paper, and put them into a 
quick oven. 

Almond Tours.'-— Tourons (TAmandes. 

Skin one or two handsful of almonds, some pistaches 
or filberts, which will require to be roasted as coffee, 
10 make them part with their skin; pralinez the 
whole together in half a pound of sugar ; let them 
cool; beat two whites of eggs, and mix them well 
with a spatula, until they form a paste that can be 
handled ; work into it a good pinch of pralinee * of 
orange-flowers ; there ought to be more sugar and more 
white of egg if necessary : dress them the size of a nut 
upon white paper, rounding them with the hand; 
place them not to touch one another ; do them in a 
slow oven. 

Biscuit of Orange Flowers. — Biscuits Manques a la 

Fleur d* Orange. 

Take two whites of eggs, and beat them ; put four 
^oonsful of sifted sugar, two of flour, and an ounce 

♦ Praliner is to boil in sugar till it sticks rough upon whatever 
is done in it. 

O 5 



298 FRENCH COOKERY 

of orange flower praUnfe^ which must be dried and 
reduced to powder; mix all together; the paste 
should be rather liquid; take a teaspoonful of paste, 
and put it upon a sheet of white paper ;] dress them 
round to the size of a crown-piece, taking care that 
they do not touch one another ; put them into the oven ; 
when they have taken a fine colour, take them out ; 
when cold take them off the paper ; wet the underside 
with a sponge, and put them upon searches to dry 
in a stove : these will serve immediately, or keep for 
provision. 

Fan Biscuit. Petits Biscuits en Evavitail ou Dents 

de Loup. 
Take two sheets of paper, cut it lengthways, and 
fold it like a fan ; when the folds are well made, dou- 
ble it round, so as to lay firm upon an oven 1^; at 
the same time the folds must be wide enough to hold 
the biscuit ; t^e two eggs, four spoonsful of sugar, 
two of flour, and a few lemon raspings; mix the 
whole with about two pats of butter, which must be 
melted, but not boiled ; dress the biscuit into the pa- 
per mould ; lift the paste with a spoon, and conduct 
it along the folds, take care they do not touch ; put 
them into an oven a little hot, without being too much 
so ; take them out when they have obtained a fine 
colour ; take the paper by the ends, and open it, and 
the biscuits will separate ; but take care in lifting not 
to break them. 

SmaU Turin Biscuit, Petits Pains de Turin. 

Put into a basin twelve spoonsful of flour, and six 
of sifted sugar, two eggs, a little grated lemon, and a 
quarter of a pound of fine fresh butter ; with a spatula 
mix the whole into a firm paste ; if another eg^ is ne- 
cessary, add it ; on the other hand, if too soft, add 
flour ; but always remember to make the sugar the 
half of the quantity of the flour ; put the paste upon a 
table, and work it till it rolls easily under the hands, oi 
uhich all sorts of little biscuits of any design niav 
be formed, long as the little finger, but much Uiinner 



STORE-ROOM. 299 

butter sheets of paper ; put them upon leaves ; take 
the yolks of two eggs to slaze them ; put them into an 
OYen, rather hotter than for ordinary biscuits. 

Chesnut Cakes. Pain de Matrons, 

Take a hundred chesnuts ; grill them till they are 
done enough without burning ; when they are shelled, 
beat them in a marble mortar, with two pats of butter, 
and some good double cream ; put them through a 
hair search; take care they are not too wet; what 
does not go through must be put into the mortar, and 
re-beaten with a little cream ; weigh the paste, and 
put half of its weight of sifted sugar to it, with a little 
'oanille, mixed well together ; take the size of a large 
chesnut of paste, and form it with a knife ; give it a 
slight gash, and go on forming till the paste is worked 
ap, putting them upon a buttered paper ; glaze them 
with yolk of egg ; put them into a very hot oven, that 
they may have a fine colour ; take diem off with a 
icnife when taken from the oven. 

^fringed Massepains. — Massepains SeringuSs. 

Take a pound of sweet almonds ; skin and dry them 
well; beat them in a marble mortar with the whites 
of eggs, always remembering to add more whites 
should it be too dry ; being well beaten, add a little 
grated lemon, with a pound and a half of sifted sugar; 
beat it together into a paste ; put it into a star syringe, 
and squirt it upon paper which has been cut into 
convenient lengths to form rings, which must be ar- 
ranged on the paper and put into a slow oven. 

Pistaches Massepains* Massepains de Pistaches. 

Shell half a pound of pistaches, and beat them well 
in a mortar, wetting them with orange-flower water, 
that they may not oil ; when they are beaten very fine, 
put them into a pan with four ounces of sifted sugar, 
to dry them over a slow fire : they are enough, if in 
touching them with the finger they do not run ; strew 
a leaf with sifted sugar, and lay the paste on it to 
cool ; when cold, beat them with a roller upon a table 

o 6 



900 FRENCH COOKKHY. 

« 

covered with sugar the thickness of a crown piece, 
that the paste may not stick ; cut them into any form, 
round, long, &c. ; and put them into a very slow 
oven, that they may hardly take any colour ; glaze 
them with a sugar icing, into which there has been 
put some lemon juice ; dry them in the stove. 

The Twins. Meringties Jumeaux. 

Take six whites of eggs, and whip them to snow ; 
put in six spoonsful of sugar with a little grated 
lemon ; mix all well lightly together ; put sheets oi 
paper upon a board or two, according to the quantity 
you are making, and the size of the oven ; form the 
mSringales with a spoon, lifting no more paste at a 
time than is necessary to make one, and form it like 
ftie half of an egg cut lengthways as equally as pos- 
sible ; glaze them immediately with sifled sugars, and 
out them into a slow oven ; when they have taken a 
nne colour, take them out ; put two together with a 
confected cherry or currant jelly between them, or 
ahy other confection ; put them into searches till 
ready to dress them upon the dishes ; they are baked 
upon boards, that the underpart may be colourless, 
and soft that they may stick together. 

^feringues a T Italienne. 
To six whites of eggs, whipt, take half a pound of 
loigar au souffle: when the eggs have been well 
6eaten, put them into the sugar, mixing it quickly 
with a spatula. Any taste or flavour may be given to 
them if it is marasqum ; mix half a glass well in; 
dress them as directed in the preceding article, ex- 
cept that they are made much smaller ; put them in 
the oven as before directed, and double them in the 
same manner. 

Italian Meringales xvith Orange Flowers. -^M&ingues 

d ritalienne, a la Fleur (T Orange. 

Take eight whites of eggs and whip them to snow ; 

have ready ten ounces of sugar au souffle, mix them 

quickly together; add an ounce of orange flower /7ra- 

linee which had been dried and ready in powder; mix 



STORE-ROOM. 3()i 

it with the other ingredients ; dress the meringues as 
the former, doubling them when they have taken a 
fine colour. 

Dry Orange Flower Merinsah. M&ingues, sec 

d la Fleur a'Orange. 
To ten whites of eggs well beaten, put ten ounces 
or spoonsful of sugar, and two ounces of orange flowers 
pralinees well minced or bruised ; mix all well together ; 
whisk them ; dress them upon white paper ; this kind 
are not drest like the others ; take a spoonful of paste 
and make it round by turning the spoon, tower it 
like a rock : they are glazed by sifting sugar through 
a gauze search over them ; put them into a very slow 
oven upon copper leaves: when they have taken a 
fine colour, enough baked and dry, take them out 
imd put them upon a stove on a search. 

Large Cutting Biscuits, Gros Biscuits d, couper. 

For ten eggs put a pound of sifted sugar into a bason, 
with the yolks, and a little lemon grated ; beat them ; 
whip the whites to a snow and put it to the yolks ; 
put twelve ounces of flour into a hair search, pass 
it over the paste, stirring it lightly in; put the 
biscuits in large paper cases, of half a sheet ; glaze and 
put them into a slow oven ; they will take at least a 
full hour to bake ; draw them to the mouth of the oven 
and if they are firm they are enough : these biscuits 
are to be cut and served in different ways, with diff*erent 
tastes and colours : if you would have biscuits de bi- 
garade, take a fresh Seville orange, and rub it with a 
bit of sugar; grate that sugar with the zest upon a dish, 
and squeeze the juice over it^ adding the juice of a 
lemon with some sifted sugar; make a proper icing, 
take out the biscuits from their cases ; cut a biscuit 
across in seven or eight pieces, and ice both sides, 
spreading it equally with a spoon ; ' puts* them upon a 
grille de tirage, over a search or bason, and set into 
the stove. Make them also with strawberries, rasp- 
berries, currants, &c. by expressing l|he juice; in 
icing, colour them with any of the colours di- 



302 FRENCH COOKERY. 

rected above : they may also be iced with sugar au 
sotiffl^, and whiten them as the conserves moelceuses ; 
dip the cut biscuits into the conserve, and put them 
to drain upon a grille de tirage, 

Manheim Bread, Pain de Manheim. 

Take six ounces of flour, and put two eggs into 
the middle of it upon a table with three spoonsful of 
sifted sugar ; mix all together to make a firm paste ; 
add half an ounce in fine powder of fresh anise ; if the 
paste is too wet, put in more flour, but in doing so 
add a due proportion of sugar : make this paste into 
three or four rolls, about a foot long, and a litde thicker 
than the thumb ; put it upon a buttered copper leaf, 
and glaze it with the yolk of an eg^ : give them a 
small cut with a knife lengthways, and put them into 
a hot oven : when they are baked, cut them into the 
size of the third of an inch, to be ready for use. 

Sea Biscuit, Biscuit de Mer, 

Take half a pound of sugar and half a pound of 
flour, mix it in a bason with a little lemon grate and 
four eggs ; mix them with a spatula to make rather a 
liquid paste, but if too much so add flour and sugar, 
or if too firm, add an e^^ ; the cases must be the size of 
half a sheet of paper folded in, with the sides lower than 
those made for the gros biscuit ^ couper: put the pate 
into these cases, and set them in a hotter oven than 
for ordinary biscuit; when enough, take them out, 
and cut them in pieces the length and thickness of 
the little finger, and put them upon a copper leaf, 
on the side that has been cut, that all sides may be 
equally coloured. 

Vanille Rolls, Batons de Vanille, 

Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, re- 
member the directions on that head ; add two ounces 
of sifled sugap; put them upon a slow fire to dry ; they 
are nearly ready when they do not run, which will 
be known by touching them ; sift sugar upon a dish 
or paper, and'put the paste upon it ; rasp two ounces 
of chocolate and mix it with a little vanille, that it 



STORE-ROOM. SOS 

should be well incorporated, sive it a few beats in the 
mortar ; make them up in the size of rolls of vaniUe, and 
put them upon paper into a very slow oven to dry. 

Butter Wafers. Gavffres au Beurre. 

Put into a bason three spoonsful of sugar and three 
of flour, a little orange-flower water and a little lemon 
grate ; melt two ounces of fine butter in half a pint of 
water and wet the paste with it ; mix the flour well 
and let the paste be thin ; that is to say, neither too 
clear nor too firm; heat the irons equally on both 
sides; butter them all over but slightly; put in a 
spoonful of paste, and fire by turning it on both sides ; 
take out the gaiffre when it is of a fine gilded colour, 
and roll it upon a roll, and hold it till it takes the 
form; then put in another, and as they are finished 
put them in a search into the stove to dry till ready to 
serve. 

Cream Wafers. Gauffres d la Crime. 

Take three spoonsful of sugar, three of flour, two 
eggs, a little orange-flower water, and liquify it with 
sweet cream ; let the paste be thin and very smooth ; 
heat the irons on both sides and butter them, and do 
the wafers as in the article above : to give them an- 
other form, take a bit of very smooth wood about a 
foot long and the thickness of a small cane : when the 
wafer is ready lay the wood upon the iron and roll 
it up : throw it off and put it into the stove. 

Spanish Wine Wafers Gat^ffre au Vin (TEspagne. 

Put into a bason four ounces of sugar and four 
ounces of flour, with two fresh eggs, and liquify the 
whole with good Malaga : make the paste about the 
consistency of other wafers. 

To ice all Sorts of Fruits. Pourglacer toutes Sortes 

de Fruits. 
Take a sufficient quantity of ice and4beat it to snow : 
mix along with it some salt and saltpetre ; put it into 
a bucket made on purpose ; put in moulds filled with 
the prepared fruits ; shake the bucket Without ceasing, 
in the hand, for seven or eight minutes ; open and 



$04 FRENCH COOKERY. 

detach from the sides of the moulds the flakes that 
have taken, which must be done from time to time, 
shaking the bucket; when they have taken, dress 
them quickly into their goblets; as it must not be 
taken out of the ice till quite ready to serve ; con- 
tinue to turn and work it till taken out. All ices 
that are intended to be firm ought to have a great 
deal of sugar and fruit, as the icing diminishes the 
strength ; those intended to drink may have less. 

Cherry Ice. — « Gla,c^ de Chrises, 
Take two pounds of very ripe cherries ; take out 
the stones and stalks ; put diem upon the fire with a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and give them a covered 
boil; throw them into a hair search and press all 
through but the skin ; break a handful of the cherr}'- 
stones ; infuse them for an hour in a little water, with 
Jtie juice of a lemon ; add to it three quarters of a 
*>ound of clarified sugar, au petit lisse, and put in the 
infusion of the stones ; mix all well together with a 
spatula, and do not put it into the icing pails or moulds 
till ready to put them into the ice. 

Stravoherry Ice. Glace de Praises. 

Take fresh ripe strawberries of a fine perfume; 
pick and put them through a close hair search : to a 
pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of 
clarified sugar au petit lisse; mix all well together, and 
leave them till ready to put them into the ice. 
Raspberry Ice. Glace de Framboises. 

Pick some fine rasps ; break and put them through 
a fine hair search, and accommodate the quantity 
of sugar to the fruit, to be enough without being 
over sweetened, and put it into the ice as directed 
above, working it in the same manner : if the fruit 
and sugar are too thick add a little water, which must 
be well mixed, and more sugar if necessary. 

Currant Ice. Glace de Groseilles. 

Take two pounds of red currants and one of rasps ; 
put them upon the fire with half a pint of water to 
breaks and pass them through a hair search as the 



STORE-ROOM. . 305 

Others ; melt a pound of sugar and mix in the fruit*; if 
too acid, put in more sugar ; if too thick, a' little water, 
and finish as before. 

When there is no fresh fruit, currant jelly may be 
used : liquify it with hot water: if two pots are em- 
ployed, put in a chopine of water, and use sugar, if ne- 
cessary ; rub them through a search with a spatula ; 
put it then into the icing pails as above. 

Iced Orange-floiver Water, Glace de Fleur d' Orange 

Put two handfuls of' orange flowers picked, into an 
icing pail with a poand of sugar and four pints of 
boiling water ; cover it for two hours ; pass it through 
a gauze search, fill it into the icing pails, and put 
k into the ice. 

Apricot Ice. Glace d'Abricots. 

Take thirty very ripe apricots from a standard; 
take out the stones ; put them on the fire in four pints 
of water, that they may fall in a marmalade ; put them 
through a fine hair search, with a spatula, and put in 
clarified sugar sufficient ; as the ice reduces the forct, 
add a dozen of apricot kernels well beaten, infused in 
the third of a glass of water with the juice of a lemon ; 
put this decoction through a gauze search, and mix it 
well with the apricots. 

Peach Ice, Glace de Peches. 

Take a sufficient quantity of ripe peaches; break 
them through a fine hair search with a spatula, or 
wooden spoon ; if they are not ripe enough to go 
through a search, cut tnem in pieces and give them a 
boil with a little water and sugar ; pass them through 
a search, and sweeten with clarified sugar ; it is then 
ready for icing. 

Barberry Ice, Glace d^Epine-wnette, 

Take half a pound of barberries, pick them and boil 

* them in four pints of water, and half a pound of sugar, 

for a quarter of an hour, and pass them tlirough a fine 

hair search until nothing remains but the skin ; sweeten 

it with clarified sugar ; put them to ice. 



306 FRBKCH COOKXRY. 

Ice of Pears. Glace de Poires. 

Ice may be made of all sorts of pears ; there are, 
however, some better than others, such as the but- 
ter pear, the St. Germain, the crensanne, and the 
rousselet; take as many of any of these pears as is 
necessary; peel and cut them in pieces; put them 
upon the fire, with as much water as is sufficient to 
make them fall; add the requisite quantity oi sugar; 
rub it through a search with a spatula; add the juice 
of two lemons; put it to ice. 

Lemon Ice. — Ghee de Citron, 
For fifteen lemons, clarify a pound and half of sugar; 
put two thirds of it into a basin ; put in two or three 
zests; cut the lemons in bits, press the juice through a 
search into the sugar ; let them infuse an hour, and 
put in the remainder of the sugar ; taste that it is not 
too strong of the lemon, and take care for all ices 
that the sugar has only obtained the height of the 
lissS ; finish it as the omer ices. 

Orange Ice. Glace d* Oranges de PortugaL 

For twelve oranges, have a pound of clarified sugar, 
into which throw the zests of three or four of them, 
and take care that the sugar is more boiled than for 
the lemon : as the oranges give more juice, the ice will 
be too liquid ; which will be avoided by boiling the 
sugar to a higher degree; pass it through a gauze 
search, and add oranges or sugar, as may be necessary ; 
and when finished, put it to ice. 

Seville Orange Ice. Glace de Begarades. 

Take a pound and quarter of sugar ; clarify it in 
four pints of water with the white of an e^g ; take eight 
juicy Seville oranges, put in the zests of two, and pass 
the whole through a search, with the juice of four 
lemons; leave them to infuse a full hour; then put 
them through a gauze search, fill the ice moulds, and 
put them to ice. 

Ice Cream of Roses* — Glace de Crime ^ la Rose* 
Take two handsful of fresh picked roses ; boil a 
pint of rich cream ; then put in the roses and cover 



STORE-ROOM. 307 

them ; leave them two hours to infuse : when the cream 
IS cold pass it through a search ; take the yolks of eight 
eggs ; beat and mix them with the cream ; put in half 
a pound of sifled sugar ; set the cream upon a very 
slow fire ; stir it without leaving it until it thickens, 
but beware of its boiling ; pass it again through a 
gauze search, and when cold put it into an icing pail, 
and ice it. 

Ice Cream of Orange Flowers. Glace de Crime h 

la Fleur d^ Orange. 
To four pints of good cream, put the yolks of eight 
eggs, and half a pound of sugar, sifted or in lumps, 
with a small hancuul of orange flower praltnee, which 
has been well minced : do it over a slow fire, stirring it 
till it is enough, as is directed above : ice it. 

GriUed Cream of Orange Flowers. Crime grillee 

^ la Fleur d' Orange. 
Follow exactly the same directions as in the pre- 
ceding articles, in diminishing only the quantity of 
sugar; reserving a part of the half pound of sugar to 
bring it to the caramel, to give the cream the colour 
and taste of the grille. 

Pistache Ice Cream. Glace de Crime aux Pistaches. 

To six pints of good cream, take a pound of pis- 
taches ; shell and put them into fresh water ; dry 
them in a cloth, and beat them as fine as is possible in 
a mortar with a little cream, and some lemon grate ; 
add the yolks of six fresh eggs, and three quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar, which must be well mixed ; 
mix by little and little into the cream ; put it on a 
slow fire : when it is finished, put in a little green of 
spinage to give it a fine colour; pass it through a 
search ; when cold ice it. 

Ice Cream of Chocolate. Glace de Chocolat h la 

Crime. 
Take four pints of rich cream to the yolks of eight 
eggs, mix them with half a pound of sugar, in lumps 
or sifted; and put it upon a slow fire, taking care not 



308 FRENCH COOKERY. 

to let it boil ; dissolve half )a pound of good chocolak 
de santS or of vanille^ and mix it with the cream : pass 
it through a gauze search, and ice it. 

White Coffee Cream. Crime blanche au Cafe, ^ 

Vltalienne, 
Boil four pints of rich cream, and keep it hot on the 
side of the furnace ; add two small handsful of good 
burnt coffee ; cover, and let it infuse two hours; take 
the whites of eight eggs, and half beat them; 
search out the coffee, and mix it well with the eggs ; 
put in half a pound of sugar, and thicken it on a 
very slow fire ; pass it again through a search, and 
ce it. 

Citron Cream. Glace de Cedrats. 

Take two very fresh citrons, put the zests into a 
pound of sugar brought to the lisse; the sugar must 
be hot when the zests are put in, and if there is any 
juice, squeeze it also into the sugar; if necessary put 
m the juice of six lemons, and let them infuse two 
hours before passing them through the search, and ice 
it. All ices require a time to liquify them properly. 

Hazel Nut Ice. Glace d*Avelines. 

Take a pound of filberts, shell them, and pralinez 
them with half a pound of sugar; grill and put them 
on a leaf to cool ; break them in a mortar, and put 
them into eight yolks of eggs, and four pints of rich 
cream ; thicken them as the other cream ices ; if they are 
not praliniCy toast them to take off the skin; rasp them 
and put them into the cream ; let them cook together 
with the eggs ; rub them through a search, and ice 
them. 

Pine-apple Cream. Glace ^Ananas. 

Put into a basin a pound of clarified sugar au petit 
lisse ; take a fresh pine-apple, which rasp and put 
into the sugar to infuse for three or four hours, that 
the taste and perfume may have been well impreg- 
nated; pass it through the search, rubbing it well 
with the back of a wooden spoon ; if it is not acid 



STORE-ROOM. 309 

enough, put in the juice of one or two lemons with a 
glass of water ; mix it well, and send it to ice. 

Iced Cheese, Fromage slace. 

All that has been said upon the different compo- 
sitions of ice, whether of flowers, fruit, or cream, it is 
always the same preparation for them in moulds, 
canndonSf and cheese ; m observing that fruit in moulds, 
as apricots, peaches, pears, oranges, lemons, cedratSy 
&c., it is not necessary that they should be as thick as 
for ices, which is served as snow in goblets, that they 
may be able when taken out of their moulds to retain 
their form : dip the cases quickly into warm water ; 
wipe them and turn a knife round the mouth of the 
mould ; they will come out easily. 

Iced' Water Coffee. Glace au C(tfe a VEau. 

Take.two pints of well made clear coffee, mix two 
yolks with four pints of good cream ; put in the coffee 
with a little more than half a pound of sugar to weakeu 
the strength of it ; taste it ; when it is ready, it may re- 
quire more : let it cool, put it to ice. 

Whipt Cream, Mousse ^ la Crime, jj 

Put four pints of rich cream into a basin, with hal. 
a pound of sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, 
and three drops of the essence of citron : when the 
sugar is melted, beat three or four pounds of ice and 
put into a large basin ; put the cream into it, which 
will make it froth up sooner ; beat it with a whisk, and 
as it rises take off the froth with a pierced spoon or 
skimmer, and put it into a search over a dish : if it 
does not rise put in some whites of eggs to assist it ; 
if there is not enough take the cream that has run 
through the search, whip it, and add to the other. 
Mousses are generally served in large silver goblets, 
made on purpose to contain them ; ice beaten with 
salt, or sdtpetre, is put under and over, upon the top 
of the cases: in this way they may remain two or 
three hours before serving them. 

Whipt Coffee Cfeam, Mousse de Cafi, 

' Make four ounces of coffee> the strongest possible; 



SIO FRENCH COOKERl. 

and clarify it ; mix six yolks of eggs with four pints 
of rich cream and three quarters of a pound of sugar; 
put in the coffee, but do not weaken the cream too 
much ; the coffee must not surpass three cups, but it 
must be very strong : finish it as the foregoing. 

Whipt Chocolate Cream, M ousse au ChocoUU. 

Beat half a pound of chocolate down in two pints 
of water, upon a slow of fire ; stir it with a spatula ; 
when it is well dissolved and reduced, take it off the 
fire, and put in six yolks of fresh eggs, four pints of 
rich cream, and three quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
put the whole in a basin, and when cold finish it, as 
the others. 

Whipt Marasquin Cream. Mousse au Marasauin* 

Put into a pmt of rich cream half a pound oi sifted 
sugar, mix it, and put in glass of marasquin ; all be- 
ing well mixedywnip the mousscy and finish it as 
the foregoing. 

SYRUPS. 

Syrup of Violets. Sir op de VioUUes. 

Take Jiali a pound of field violet flowers ; put them 
into such a vessel as can be corked ; boil three quarts 
of water ; let it stand ten minutes before it is put 
over the violets, otherwise the infusion will be green, 
which ought to be of a fine violet ; put the infu- 
sion into the stove, that it may remain hot till the 
next day ; squeeze it then well through a towel that 
it may give all the colour ; put it into another vessel 
with three pounds of sifted sugar, which must be dis- 
solved in it, and put it into the stove for twenty-four 
hours ; stir it from time to time ; let the stove be kept 
hot as for candy : this will make two bottles of syrup ; 
and attention must be paid to putting it into bottles 
that will endure the Jbrt lissSy that it may not fer- 
ment. This is the only syrup that is made without 
being put upon the fire. 

Capillaire. Strop de CapiUaire. 

Take a good handful of Canadian capiliniref which 



SYRUPS. 311 

is to be had at the druggists ; boil it in four pints of 
river water for a quarter of an hour ; drain off all the 
decoction, and pour it over four pounds of cassonade 
to dissolve it ; have ready an entire egg, beaten in a 
little water, to clarify the sugar ; skim it, and throw 
In from time to time a little white water *, till there 
rises no more scum ; when it is enough, which is the 
lis^Sy add as it comes off the fire a little orange-flower 
water, and put it through a bag or napkin : bottle it 
when nearly cold. 

Syrup of Lemon. Strop de Lemon, 

Take twenty-four fine juicy lemons, and zest three 
of them into a basin, over which place a search ; cut 
the lemons, and express the juice upon the zests : if 
liie juice is very thick it may be filtered through 
paper ; clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to the 
Jbrt botdet; grain it and put it in a basin ; mix the 
lemon juice with a little water to bring it to the de- 
gree it ought to have ; fill a large flat pan half full of 
water ; put it upon a furnace, and put the syrup au 
bain marie f, and stir it from time to time to dissolve 
the sugar : when all is dissolved and the sugar hot 
and clear, take it off the fire, and put it, when cold, 
into bottles. As every one knows the effect of acid 
upon brass or copper, they will see the propriety of 
finishing this syrup au bain marie in an earthen vessel, 
being sure by this method of avoiding the evil. 

Orgeat, Sirop d" Orgeat. 

Take a pound and half of sweet almonds and half 
a pound of bitter ; beat them together in a mortar as 
fine as possible ; heat about ten pints of water, which 
mix by little and Httle into the pate; rub the almonds 
through a napkin, and wring it well to take out all the 
milk ; clarify four pounds and a half of sugar ; bring 

* White water is mode by whisking a little white of egg, and 
mixing it in water. 

f The bain marie is wat«r kept constantly at the same degree 
of heat, where saucepans, or any vessel, may be put to cook or 
keep warm. 



312 FRENCH COOKERY. 

it to the fort boulety and when it has arrived at that 
point, put in the milk of almonds ; leave it on the 
fire, stir and skim it until it rises ; take it off, and put 
in half a glass of orange-flower water, and pour it 
into a basin; when cold put it into bottles: two 
ounces of the quatre semences froidesy or four seeds, 
may be pounded with the atmonds; it makes the 
syrup more refreshing. 

Syrup ofMalUms. Sirtyp de Guimauve, 

Take half a pound of the root of mallows ; scrape, 
wash, and cut it in small pieces ; put it on the fire with 
three chopines of water : when die water is gummy, 
pass it through a search ; put the decoction into firar 
pounds of sugar, or white cassonade, and finish widi 
the white water, skimming it till clear ; then boil it 
to theybr^ lisse, or the petit perle ; pass it throu^ a 
strainer, and when cold bottle it. 

Syrup of Verjuice. Sirop de Verpu. 

Take three pounds of verjuice, very green, whidk 
must be peeled, and passed to obtain the juice ; paaf 
it two or three times through a bag, tiU it is verj 
clear ; clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to the 
fort souffle, or au petit houlet ; put in four pints of ver 
juice, and give it a boil : the height of the sugar is the 
same for all syrups, from ihefort lisse\ to the petit perlt 

Syrup of Mulberries, Sirop de Mures, 

Take six pints of mulberry jmce; put it upon 
the fire with the same quantity of water, and 
give it several boils, until it is altogether reduced 
into four pints ; clarify three pounds of sugar, and 
bring it to the boulet ; then put in the juice, give it u 
boil, and skim it ; bring it to its height, which is the 
petit perU ; but should it be more, put in a little water 
to bring it back to its degree ; cool it in a basin, and 
bottle it. 

Rasp Syrup of Vinegar. Sirop de Vinaigre 

framboisL 
Take three or four pounds of ripe rasps ; pick* and 
put them in a basin ; pour over them twelve pints of 



SYRUPS. SIS 

fine red vinegar, otherwise use white; add two 
pounds of currants ; let the whole infuse eight days, 
in shaking and stirring it every day with a spatula ; 
pass it through a search ; when it is well drained 
clarify nine pounds of sugar and bring it to the^r^ 
soiiffle^ or to the petit boulet : when at that point put 
in the vinegar which has been passed through a bag, 
and at the ^ first boil be careful to take it from the 
fire; skim it and put it immediately into a vessel, 
that it may not remain in the pan : when cold bottle it. 

Currant Syrup, Strop de Groseilles. 

Break in a search five or six pounds of red currants 
andl' two pounds of cherries ; put this juice into the 
cellar to ferment for eight days ; at the end of that 
time pass it through a bag ; put it into four pounds 
of sugar au petit perU^ and at the first boil take it off 
the fire and skim it The fruit is fermented to prevent 
its becoming jelly in the bottles. 
Orange Flovoer Syrup, Sirop de Fleur d'Orange. 

For three quarters of a pound of orange fiowers 
fresh picked, take four pounds of clarified sugar au 
perle, throw in the flowers, »id give them a strong 
boil; take them off the fire, and leave them to infuse 
two hours ; put the syrup again on the fire, and give 
it a dozen of boils ; have a search put over a dish, 
and pour it in to take out the flowers ; put it again 
on the fire to finish, and bring it to its proper degree ; 
let it cool in a basin ; bottle it. Not to lose the 
orange flowers put them in sifled sugar, rub them 
well, and dry them in a stove. 

Syrup of Pomegranates. Sirop de Grenades, 

Take a sufficient quantity of fine ripe pomegranates, 
of which the grains are very red ; five fine ones ought 
to give four pints of S3rrup ; break the grains ; put 
them on the fire with two pints of water, and let them 
boil seven or eight minutes ; put it then through a 
cloth, wringing it well to express all the juice ; have 
a pound and a half of sugar au souffle^ and put in the 
jmce ; boil it till it arrives at its proper point ; finish 
it as tlie other. 



314 FRENCH COOKERY. 

MiLScated Syrup of Vinegar. ^-^--"^ Sirop de Vinaigre au 

Muscat. 
Take four pints of fine sugar vinegar, and have 
ready four pounds of sugar aufort souffle ; put it in, 
and bring it to its point : at the first boil take it off; 
skim when cold, and bottle it. 

LIQUEURS BY INFUSION. Liqueurs par Infu- 
sion. 

Ratifia de Fleur d^ Orange. 
With twelve quarts of brandy of twenty-two degrees, 
put twelve ounces of orange-nowers into a stone bet- 
tie ; cork it well, and leave it to mfuse for two days ; 
take three pounds and a half of sugar, dissolve it in 
two pints and a half of water; drain the orange- 
fiowers from tlie brandy, and mix the infusion with ttie 
sugar ; pass it through a bag, or filter it through paper, 
and bottle it. 

Ratifia de Noyaux. 
Take three quarters of a pound of kernels of iq)ri- 
cots, cut them in pieces, and infuse them in twelve 
quarts of brandy for three weeks, shaking the jar firom 
time to time ; dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar 
in five quarts of water; mix, and filter as directed 
above. 

Ratifia d* Oranges de Portugal. 
Zest twelve fine oranges ; choose them thick skin- 
ned ; put them with eight quarts of brandy into ajar; 
dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of the 
oranges; put all together; cork the jar well, and 
leave it to infuse for a month ; then strain it properly 
and bottle. 

Citronnelle. 
To the zest of twelve lemons put eight quarts of 
brandy in the manner above-mentioned; add two 
pieces of cinnamon broken, and an ounce of coriander, 
with two pounds of sugar, which must be dissolved in 
three quarts of water during a month ; clarify by a 
bag, and, if necessary, the paper filter, and bottle. 



LraUEURS BY INFUSION. 315 

Ratifia des guatre Fruits. 

Take five pounds of merisses, five of griottes, both 
cherries, five of currants, and five of rasps ; all ripe, 
particularlv the merisses and griottes, as it is these 
that give tne fine colour ; take the stalks off the cher- 
ries, pick the currants and raspberries ; break them all 
separately, and mix them in an earthen pan for five 
hours ; atler that, wring them out through a new cloth, 
or press them ; allow half a pint of brandy, and a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, broken in pieces, to half 
a pint of juice ; being mixed well, put it into a stone 
bottle, or a small barrel, for a month ; let it clear, and 
draw it off gently while it runs clear ; let the remainder 
be passed uirough a bag, till it become clear also ; put 
all together, and bottle it. 

Observations. — To aromatize it, put in the following 
spiceries : i, e. half an ounce of fine cinnamon, two 
drachms of mace, twenty cloves ; break and tie them 
in a bit of linen, and ^m them by a thread to the stone 
bottle, of the bung of the cask, that it may be taken 
out at will. This ratvfia retains the flavour of the 
fruit so well, that it is often preferred without the 
spiceries. 

Ratifia de Framboises, 

Take six pounds of rasps ; pick them ; put them into 
a jar with twelve quarts of brandy, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and one of mace bruised ; dissolve three 
pounds of sugar in three quarts of water, which must 
be added to the other ingredients ; mix it, and leave ip 
for fifteen days to infuse, shaking it from time to time ; 
pass it through a bag, and bottle it. 

Ratifia of Quinces, Ratifia de Coins. 

Tliirty large quinces will be necessary to make 
eight quarts of juice; choose the smoothest, ripest, 
and yellowest ; wipe them to take off the down, and 
rasp them to the heart ; keep out the seeds ; leave 
them in a vessel three days; at that time express 
the juice through a new cloth, wringing it strongly ; 
measure it; if eight quarts, more or less, put in 
as much water; dissolve in tlie juice twelve ounces 

p 2 



31t> FRENXH COOKERY. 

of sugar to every four pints of fruit; then put in the 
brandy ; break some cinnamon, six cloves, and some 
mace ; tie it up in a bit of linen, and suspend it in the 
vessel ; this liqueur must not be used too new ; it re- 
quires two months in the jar well corked, before it 
can be bottled. 

Angelica. Ratifia d'Angelique. 

Take a handful of the angelica stems ; take off the 
leaves, and pick out the threads ; cut them in Httle 
bits ; to a pound, give twenty-four pints of brandy, 
two drachms of cinnamon, and one of mace, with 
twelve cloves ; dissolve four pounds of sugar in eight 
pints of water, and mix the whole in a jar that must be 
well corked; leave them to infuse six weeks; .after- 
wards filter it, or put it through a bag, and bottle it. 

Eau d*Anis par Infusion, 
For sixteen pints of brandy, take six ounces of 
Spanish or Verdun anise, which must be rubbed in a 
search to take the dust from it; put it in the brandy with 
two drachms of cinnamon, and the zests of two large 
lemons, or three small ones ; cork it well, and leave it 
to infuse fifteen days ; dissolve two pounds of sugar 
in eight pints of water ; put the sugar to the infusion ; 
pass it through a bag, or filter, and bottle it. 

Ratifia de Raisin Muscat. 

Take these grapes very ripe, and pick them from their 
stalks; put them through a search to obtain the juice; 
put equal quantities of juice and of brandy mto a 
jar, with two ounces of sugar to each pint, and two 
drachms of broken cinnamon : these are all infused 
together with the brandy for fifteen days; pass it 
through a bag, and bottle it. 

This liqueur may be made of the black muscat : let 
them be very ripe. 

Gillifloxver. Ratifia d'CEUlets. 

For twenty-four pints of brandy, take a pound o( 
carnation fiowers, called ratijia pinks; take nothing 
but the red of the flowers, which is put into the brandy, 
with a drachm of bruised cloves ; observe that it is a 



LIQUEURS BY INFUSION. 31T 

pound of the red leaves of the flowers ; leave them a 
month in infusion ; drain, and press the flowers well ; 
dissolve two pounds of sugar in eight pints of water ; 
mix it well with it ; strain and bottle. 

Orange Flotver Water. Eau de Fleur d* Orange. 

Put into an alembic, two pounds of fresh orange 
flowers that have not been heated, with twentv-four 
pints of river water ; cover the alembic, and lute it 
well (that it may not evaporate) with strips of paper* 
and paste ; put it upon the side of a furnace with a slow 
fire, that it may not run but in a small thread or 
quick drop ; refresh it often, or at least when the 
water in the cooler gets warm, change it, as the qua- 
lity of the water depends much upon that ; draw off 
twelve pints, which will be excellent orange-flower 
water. Continue to draw off four pints more, and keep 
it to put into another distillation of the same kind, in- 
stead of as much water. 

Double Orange Flower Water. Eau de Fleur 

d* Orange double. 

Repeat the same distillation, from which is drawn 
off sixteen pints, and put them upon a pound of fresh 
flowers, and draw off twelve pints, or if to be very 
good, only ten pints; continue and take off four pints, 
which may be added to the simple orange-flower 
water, taking care not to have too much fire, particu- 
larly towards the end; as the flowers being then 
nearly dry, they may burn and spoil all the rest: 
changing the receivers often may prevent disap- 
pointment. * 
Rose Water. Eau de Rose Simple. 

The single rose is that which is employed whether 
for liqueurs or rose water ; they have much more per- 
fume than those of the cent^euilles ; the roses must be 
gathered in dry weather, and picked, nothing but the 
leaves being used : take four pounds of flowers to 
four pints of water ; put them into a vessel that can 
be stopt, with some handsful of common salt ; mix 
them well and leave them three days ; stir them often 

p 3 



318 VBENCH COOKSRT. 

with a spatula, then distil them upon an' open fire; 
put into Uie bottom of the alembic, a little new straw 
to prevent the roses from burning, as the distillation 
is lost if this happen ; . take care not to fill the alem- 
bic more tlian two-thirds, that in boiling the flowers 
may not rise too high, as that spoils the quality of the 
water ; for twelve pounds of prepared roses, take 
twenty-four pints of water ; when six have been drawn 
off, stop ; four more may be drawn off separately, 
which will assist in another distillation of roses. 

Double Rose Water. -^— Eau de Rose DotMe. 
To make double rose water, put into the alembic 
the same quantity of roses, prepared in the same man- 
ner, having always care to change the refreshing wa- 
ter often : instead of river water for drawing it oS, 
use simple rose water ; but should there not be enough, 
add a sufficient quantity of simple water, or more, 
that there may be enough in the bottom to prevent the 
leaves from sticking. If there is a bain marie then the 
distillation can be carried on with a quick fire, with- 
out any fear of accident ; if the alembic is well luted, 
there may be drawn off as much at first as the quan- 
tity of rose water used in the distillation, that is to 
say, the quantity put in ; by this means it will be very 
strong of the roses. If the bain marie is used, there 
will be no necessity to put in the straw; after the 
quantity of any distillation is drawn off, still four pints 
of a weaker quality may be procured, which is not 
worth the trouble where the flowers are plenty. 

Very strong Rose Water. Eau ardente de Rote. 

Take thirty pounds of picked roses ; beat them in 
a marble mortar, and put them in an earthen vessel : 
beat four pounds of common salt, and lay in the roses 
in layers, upon which strew the salt, press than well 
down, and stop them quite close ; leave them for ten 
or twelve days, and distil them in the bain marie as 
the others, with a very quick fire ; do not be anxious 
for a great quantity, but that it should be strong and 
have a fine perfume, and six drops in half a glass 



LIQUEURS DISTILLBES. 319 

r 

of water will be as strong as the same quantity of sim- 
ple rose water. 

LIQUEURS DISTILLEES. 

Citron Cream, Crime de CSdrats distillSe. 

For twentv-four pints of brandy at twenty-two de- 

frees, take four fine large, or six smaller citrons, very 
esh, and of a fine perfume, zest and put into the 
brandy with four pints of water in a jar well corked ; 
let them infuse seyeral days, and then distil in the bain 
marie ; it ought to give eighteen pints ; dissolve three 
pounds and a half of sugar in fourteen pints of water ; 
put it in the spirit, pass it through a bag, or filter it. 

It would be advisable, that those who distil would 
attend to the first drops that come over the alembic, 
which are nothing but phlegm, and ought not to be 
mixed with the spirit; therefore take off a small 
quantity before the receiving bottle is placed. 

Oil of Citron, HuHe de CSdrats. 

There is no difierence between this and the cream 
of citrons but in the sugar, which instead of three 
pounds and a half must be five : thus thickening, and 
making it more oily. 

Parfaii' Amour. 
Citron is the base of this liqueur; there are only 
some other ingredients added, and the red colour that 
makes it, differ from the white ; half an ounce of fine 
cinnamon, four ounces of coriander, bruised and in- 
fused with the citrons, and distilled as for the cream: 
the colour is made by two drachms of cochineal, two 
drachms of cream of tartar, one drachm of alum, all in 
fine powder, boiled in a small quantity of water ; put it 
through a linen cloth, and add; filter the liqueur 
and bottle it. 

Liqueurs des quatre Fruits Jaunes. 
To twenty-four pints of brandy take two citrons, 
four lemons, one fijie bergamot, or two small ones, 
two large Portugal oranges ; zest all these fruits as 

p 4 



320 FRENCH COOKERY. 

fine as possible ; put them to infuse for several days 
in the brandy ; put in four pints of water into this m- 
fusion, and tour pints into the distillation, and dissolve 
three pounds and half of sugar in fourteen pints ot 
water ; mix it with the spirit, and pass it through a 
bag, or filter it. 

Citronelle de Venue. 
For sixteen pints of brandy zest twelve fine lemons, 
which put to infuse as has been directed often, and 
distil in the same manner : never forget in distilling 
for twenty-four pints of brandy to add four pints m 
water, and for twelve pints, two pints of water, and 
ten pints of water for the syrup, with two pounds of 
sugar ; the whole is conducted as directed above. 

Fine Orange, 
For twenty-four pints of brandy zest twelve fine 
Portugal oranges, and leave them to infuse some days; 
then mstil them ; attend to what has been said of the 
syrup ; for twenty-four pints of brandy, three pounds 
of sugar for the hard liqueurs, three and half for the 
more smooth, and from four to five for the oily ; fol- 
low the directions for the quantity of water as already 
oflen given, and filter or put through a bag as may be 
requisite. 

Fine Cinnamon. CanneUeJine* 

To sixteen pints of brandy add two pints of water ; 
break two ounces of cinnamon, and put to infuse in 
the spirits, also the zests of two lemons, and an ounce 
of liquorice root ; leave them to infuse some days, and 
distil them ; make the syrup with two pounds of sugar 
and eight pints of water; finish as indicated before. 

Cinnamon. Cinnamomum^ 

For twenty-four pints of brandy take four ounces 
of cinnamon, two drams of mace, an ounce of li- 
quorice root beaten ; put them with two zests of le- 
mon to infuse in the brandy for some days before dis- 
tilling; make the syrup of four pounds of sugar with 
fourteen pints of water, finished as the preceding 



LIQUEURS DISTILLEES. S2I 

ones ; this is an excellent liqueur, and which might 
be called oil of cinnamon. 

Oil of Cloves, Huile de Girojle. 

For twenty-four pints of brandy pound in a mortar 
an ounce of cloves, and infuse it in the spirits ; distil 
it as the foregoing ; if for the liqueur, make the S3rrup 
of three pounds of sugar, and fourteen pints and hafr 
of water, and for oil, four pounds of sugar with the 
same quantity of water, and finish the same. 

Anise Water. Eau d'Anisy ou Anisette de Bar" 

deaux. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy take eight ounces 
of new anise-seed of Verdun, if possible ; when old it is 
yellow and light, when new green and heavy : it is by 
having every thing the best of their kind that these 
compounds can obtain that excellence which every 
professional person would wish to arrive at in his com- 
positions : rub them in a search to take out the dust ; 
put them with the spirits to infuse in a jar with three 
zests of oranges, and half an ounce of bruised cinna- 
mon ; let it infuse for some days, and distil it widi a 
moderate fire, never forgetting four pints of water, 
and drawing off the phlegm as is before directed, 
which is contained in the first half glassful that comes 
over the alembic : make some syrup upon the fire ; but 
as the anise contains a bitter salt, which often makes 
the liquor milky, and consequently difficult to clear, 
put in the spirits to the hot syrup, which ought to be 
made with a quart less water that can blanche may 
be made of it with three or four whites of eggs : when 
the sugar is dissolved and hot, put in the spirits and 
white water ; stir it upon the fire till it is hot without 
boiling; put it into the jar, and leave it till the next 
day well stopped ; filter or pass it through a bag. 
Tlie oil requires only another pound of sugar to be 
added to the syrup. 

Badiane. Anis eloile, ou Ants des Indes, 

This liquor is called Badiane des ludes.. For ibrty^ 

p 5 



S22 VRSICCH COOKSRY. 

eight pints of brandy take a pound of anis AoUS; 
bruise and put it into the brandy, and leave it eight 
dajTS ; distil it, putting into the alembic with it six 
pints of water; dis^lve seven pounds and half of su- 
gar in twenty-eiglR pints of water ; mix it ; this li- 
3uor is often made red, and it is called HuUe de Bo' 
ianey and in white Cr^me de Badiane: the red is 
made by adding the cochineal, prepared as in one of 
the foregoing articles : when it is coloured, filter or 
pass it through a bag, and bottle it. 

Cordial Water^ Eau Cordiaie. 

To twenty-four pints of brandy add four of water, 
and the zests of fifteen lemons fresh and of a fine 
perfume ; half an ounce of fine cinnamon, four ounces 
. of coriander bruised ; put all to infuse eight days; 
then distil ; dissolve three pounds and halt of sugar 
in twelve pints of water ; mix, filter, and bottle it. 

Barbadoes Cream. Crime de Barhade. 

For twenty-four pints of brandy and one of water 
take two fine citrons, the zests of six lemons and four ^j 
oranges, a dram of mace, two of cinnamon, and twelve 
cloves ; break all these ingredients and put the in- 
fusion in spirits for eight days ; then distil and finish 
as the above. 

Crime de Noyaux, 
To twenty-four pints of brandy add four of water, 
half a pound of sliced kernels of apricots infused 
in the spirits for some days ; distil it ; add two pints of 
orange-flower water, three pounds of sugar, and 
twelve pints of water ; filter or pass through a bag. 

Oil of Roses, HuUe de Roses, 

For twenty-four pints of brandy take six pounds of 
rose leaves, the single rose, if possible, put them to 
infuse for some time in a jar, adding four pints of 
water, and distil it au bain-marie; put four pounds of 
sugar and twelve pints of water for the syrup ; colour 
it with the cochineal infusion, and pass it through 
a bag. 



1 



LIQUEURS DtSTtLLBES. 323 

Crime de Moca. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy take six ounces 
of burnt mocha coffee, grind it as usual, take care not 
to do it too much ; infuse it some days in the brandy, 
and distil it au hain'marie over a slow fire, because 
the coffee rises, and should it do so it is lost ; take off 
the phlegm ; for the syrup take three pounds and half 
of sugar and fourteen pints of water ; mix the spirits 
and filter. 

Liqueur d^Angilique. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy and one of water, 
take twelve ounces of fresh Angelica cut small; if 
there is none fresh, get six ounces from a druggist 
of Bohemian Angelica; cut it in pieces and infuse it 
eight days in the spirits, with a dram of mace, two 
of cinnamon, and twelve cloves, tliree pounds of 
sugar, fourteen pints of water ; and proceed as above. 

Scuhac, . 
For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of 
water, infuse an ounce of safiron in a pint and half of 
the brandy to obtain the colour ; put the remainder 
into a jar and add the zest of four lemons, two ounces 
of conander, two drams of cinnamon, one dram of 
mace, twelve cloves, and an ounce of bitter almonds ; 
bruise all these and put them into the brandy for 
eight days ; distil it ; pour bff the brandy from the 
safiron, and keep it to mix afterwards, and put in the 
grounds to be distilled along with the other; distil it 
as usual; this liquor being more unctious than the 
other liquors, put four pounds of sugar and fourteen 
pints of water for the syrup ; mix in the saffroned 
and the distilled spirits ; mix all well and pass tliem 
through a bag. Observe that all these receipts 
require the brandy to be at the twenty second degree. 

Huile de Venus. 

For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of 

water, take half an ounce of cinnamon, one drachm of 

mace, the zest of four citrons, half an ounce of 

cannine,half an ounce of anise, one ounce of coriander, 

p 6 



S24 FRENCH COOKERY. 

half an ounce of benzoin, half ah ounce of florax, and 
a little pinch of walnut leaves ; bruise all these ingre- 
dients, and leave them to infuse for some days ; before 
distilling, take for the syrup four pounds and half of 
sugar, and fourteen pints of water: to give an oily 
colour boil a pinch of saffiron in a gill of water, with 
which colour the liqueur ; strain or iSter, and bottle it. 

Crime de Cocoa. 
Take a pound of cocoa, ready for use ; piit it into 
twenty-four pints of brandy, with half an ounce of 
vanilla ; let it infuse for some days and then distil it ; 
dissolve three pounds and half of sugar in fourteen 
pints of water, mix ; filter or strain, and bottle. 

CrSme d* Absinthe. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy, and four of water, 
take a small handful of fresh wormwood, but if dry an 
ounce is sufficient, with half an ounce of cinnamon 
and two drachms of mace; infuse and distil ; mix with 
itie common S3rrup, which is three pounds and half 
of sugar with fourteen pints of water. 

Crime de Framboises. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy and four pints of 
water, put in four pounds of rasps, and let them in- 
fuse twenty-four hours ; /listil ; make the mixtures as 
before directed, and filter, or strain. 

Curagotty que Von nomme le plus ordinairement 

Cuirasseau, 

Cuirasseauy or bigarade, is nearly allied to the bit- 
ter orange, the dry skin of which is only used, it may 
be bought at the druggists ; take a pound, wash it 
well in warm water ; drain, and put it in a jar with 
thirty-two pints of brandy and two of water ; let it in- 
fuse fifteen days, shaking it from time to time ; strain 
it, and make a S3Tup of five pounds and half of sugar 
and twelve pints of water ; if the brandy is lower than 
twenty-two degrees, it will be necessary to keep 
some of the water out of the syrup, otherwise the 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 325 

liqueur will be too weak ; and all the foregoing re- 
ceipts are given for spirits of that gauge. 

Liqueur de Menthe distillee. 
For twenty-four pints of brandy and four of water, 
take two small handsful of fresh garden mint ; infuse 
it some days in the brandy, then distil; put it 
into a syrup of three pounds and half of sugar 
and fourteen pints of water, and filter or strain, as 
usual. 

Eau des sept Graines, 
For twenty-four pints of brandy take an oimce of 
green anise, an ounce of fennel, an ounce of carrot, 
an ounce of carraway, half an ounce of angelica, an 
ounce and half of coriander, and a drachm of mace; 
bruise and put them all to infuse in the spirits, with a 
pint of water, for some days ; distil ; make the syrup 
as above ; mix, and filter. 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Cucumhers^^^Manitre defaire les Comichons. 
Take gherkins, very green, and rub them well to 
take o£P the down, either with a brush or the hand^ 
in fresh water, until they are perfectly clean; put 
them then into an earthen pot with a little garlic, a 
small handful of sea fennel, as much of tarragon, and 
a little long pepper : these different seasonings must 
be in proportion to the quantity and strength re- 
quired ; heat the vinegar without letting, it boil, and 
put it over the gherkins ; cover them well up ; leave 
them well stopped two or three days ; after that time 
pour it off; boil and skim it well, and pour it again 
over them; three days after repeat the same oper- 
ation ; the third time, when the vinegar is boiled and 
well skimmed, throw in the gherkins, and leave them 
upon the fire till they begm to tremble, but not to 
boil ; take them off quickly, and put them into pots. 

Bitter Oranges Pickled. Bigaraux au Vinaig^e, 

Take the quantity of ripe bigaraux ^ or bitter 



326 VRENCH COOKSRT. 

oranges, that' is to be pickled ; take off the ends of 
the stalk and put them into a jar ; pour good vine- 
gar over them ; add to them a small handful of cori- 
ander and a little cinnamon, beaten together, and 
tied in a cloth, eight days ; after pour off the vinegar 
and give it a few boils ; put it to cool in a basin, and 
then pour it over the oranges : it is necessary to bung 
the jar well. 

Turkey Wheat. BU de Turquie au Vinaigrey que 

ton sert pour Hors-cTCEuvre. 
Take the quantity of Turkey com that is to be pre- 
served, when it is well formed ; t. e, when it is about 
the size of a small cucumber ; strip off the lelftves that 
are wrapt round it, take off the beard, wipe it well, and 
put it into a bottle, with a little salt, and some cloves, 
and fill it with fine white vinegar ; leave it for some 
days ; then drain it, and give the vinegar a dozen of 
boils ; let it cool, and pour it over the com ; in a few 
days after, repeat the same operation ; it must be well 
corlked. 

Canapes pour Horsed* CEutlre. 
Take the crumb of a large loaf, cut it in slices the 
thickness of three quarters of an inch ; afterwards cut 
them into any form, and fry them of a nice colour in 
oil or butter; mince separately the hard yolks of eggs, 
whites ; cucumbers, capers, anchovies in strips, differ- 
ent fine sweet herbs, small salad, &c^ and put them in 
a little oil ; season the canapes (fried bread) with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar ; dress it handsomely, and garnish 
It tastefully with hard eggs, ham, beet -root small 
herbs, anchovies, capers, &c. &c^ and serve upon 
dishes for hors^oeuvre* 

Dressed Cucumbers, Concombres Marines. 

Skin some cucumbers and cut them very small, put 
them in a dish, and season them with salt, pepper, and 
vinegar ; leave them in it for «ome hours ; when ready 
to serve, put them into a cloth and express all the vine- 
gar from them; dish, and put over them a little oil and 
pepper, and serve for salad or hors-d'ctuvre. 



WINES. 327 

To make Coffee. CafS <i VEau. 

Take the best coffee, the Mocha is always preferred^ 
and burn it a fine equal deep brown, which should be 
done in a coffee roaster, and used immediately. The 
method to make it : For six cups of coffee, measure 
six cups of water into a coffee pot, and let it boil ; put 
then in a little isinglass and six table spoonsful of cof- 
fee ; stir it well to allay the boiling ; put it upon the 
fire, give it two or three boils, stirring it constantly 
with a spoon ; take it off, put in a cup of cold water, 
and leave it to clear half an hour ; after which it may 
be poured off clear. 

Cream Coffee. Cafe h la Crime. 

It is made in the same manner as coffee h Veau, in 
adding half a spoonful of coffee to every cup of water : 
while the coffee is clearing, boil the cream and add the 
coffee as taste directs. 

Drinking Chocolate. Chocolat en Boisson. 

Take good chocolate de sante, or vanilla ; the proper 
chocolate cups are marked for the quantity to be 
used, which is .generally twelve and sixteen cups to 
the pound ; if it is for chocolat a Veau^ that is to be 
used with water, make twelve cups ; if it is cream, 
sixteen ; put into a chocolate pot as many cups of 
water as is necessary ; and when it is nearly boiling, 
put in the proportion of chocolate in pieces, and mill 
It well ; give it some boils, and put it to simmer upon 
hot cinders ; when ready to serve, mill it again till 
it froths ; serve it then in chocolate cups. 

WINES. Vins. 

Choice of Wines. Choix desVins* 

Examine it well in the glass ; it ought to be beauti- 
fully clear and of a ruby colour, of a fine flavour, free 
from particular taste, not clammy, strong without 
being pungent, a good body without harshness ; these 
qualities constitute good wine, and are the only cha- 
racteristic signs that can be given ; all the rest depends 
on delicacy of taste. 



S28 TRENCH COOKERY. 

Wine is not good till it has acquired its maturity, 
and till it loses its phlegm: when new, it ferments upon 
the stomach and goes to the head ; and when too old, 
by the loss of its qualities, it attacks the nerves ; yet 
we are not able to give a decided judgment on 
this point, as so much depends upon the seasons ; some 
Reasons giving wine that may be driink in two or thres 
years ; and others which cannot be drunk till four or 
five, which depends upon the vintage ; it is not possible 
for those who depend alone upon taste to determine. 

The French wines merit the reputation they hold, 
particularly among strangers, llie amateurs prefer 
those of Burgundy, because they have the advantage 
of being high flavoured and light. 

Every vintage has its particular mark, in what is 
called high Burgundy. The wines of Auxerre and 
Tonn^rre are in high estimation ; but as the limits 
of such a publication as this will not permit of a very 
extensive aescription, those wines will only be men- 
tioned which are used at grand entertainments. The 
wines of Beaune in good years rival the best vintages ; 
this wine is of a fine red colour, and possesses the best 
qualities ; it bears water, and keeps a long time with- 
out any alteration ; it is always better to drink it in its 
fourth or fifth year. After it come the wines of 
Pomard, Volnay, Nuit, Chassagne, St. Georges, de 
Vonne, du Chambertin, Clos de Vougeot, and Ro- 
mance. The Romanne6-Conty is the best of all the 
Burgundy wines. 

White Wines. Those of Chablis are very agree- 
able ; those of Meursault are better, but the Chevalier 
Morachet surpasses them in general ; there are few 
white wines made in that district. 

Champagne. 
After the Burgundy comes the Champagnes ; their 
chief quality is that of raising the spirits ; they are 
almost all white, although they cultivate nothing but 
black grapes, but from the manner of manufacturing 
them, they give them the partridge eye which distin- 



WINES. $29 

guishes them ; the red is not much esteemed, except 
those of Bouzy, Verzai, and Vergenai ; they are warm 
in the mouth, although light and of an agreeable 
flavour. This wine is aperient, does not bear water, 
and intoxicates easily. Those that are most esteemed, 
grow near Reims, as Ay, Sillery, and Espemay ; those 
wines keep better since they have been made of black 
grapes ; Uiey seldom came formerly sound till three 
years ; few wines are as susceptible as these are ; they 
become thick, and afterwards depose a sediment in the 
bottle, and threads in it that render it nauseous ; much 
should not be bought at a time, unless it is of an un- 
common fine vintage, and low price. 

Bourdeaux Wines* 

These wines are as highly esteemed as Burgundy. 
In the first class, the most renowned vineyards for red 
wines are Lafitte-du-Chateau, Tours, Chateau-Mar- 
gau ; Aubrion-du-Chateau ; Premier Grave, and Segur- 
M^doc. 

Second class : Mouton-Canon, M^doc-Canon, Saint 
Emilion, Rosans, Margau, la Rose-M6doc, Hchon- 
Longueville, Medoc-Potelet, Saint Julien-les-ville, and. 
Saint Julien; vin de Pape (Grave rouge), vin de la 
Mission, (Grave rouge), and all the haut Pesac ; as to 
the rest, there are little distinctions. 

Third class : these wines are generally served at 
the second course. The numerous wines of Pouillac 
are of an excellent quality : the most appreciated are 
those of de Gescourt, Saint Esteve-Catanac, and a great 
many others ; it is only meant to be remarked here, 
that all who possess those wines, must let them be 
five or six months in bottle before they drink them, as 
they always sicken during the first two or three 
months, and taste worse than from the wx>od. 

JVhite Wines, Vins Blancs. 

The Haut-Barsac, and the Haut-Preignac, which is 
called M. Duroy, is of the first quality, the Sauterne ; 
and the second, the Barsac, Langon, Carbonieux, and 
Podecilac. After the wines of Bourdeaux, come those 



SSO 9RENCR COOKERY. 

of Languedoc, rHennitage, de la C6te R6tiey du 
Dauphii^ and of Provence. The most known are the 
hermitage of a fine red and high flavour ; they must 
be kept some years^ as otherwise they are harsh, but de- 
licious when of a proper ase. The white wines are 
more heady, and verge to the yellow. Those of Rou- 
sillon are stronger and thicker ; it is necessary to keep 
them a lone time, and not to bottle them till they are 
fine, which happens in consequence of proper treat- 
ment, sooner or later ; this wine keeps thirty years, 
and often much longer; at that age, it acquires the 
taste of Alicante ; it ought always to be decanted with 
care, as it deposes a sediment in bottle ; the white 
is not subject to this inconvenience. 

The wmes of Languedoc are all very eood, and 
favourites of the fair sex : the most esteemed are those 
of Frontignac, of which there are both red and white. 
This wine unfortunately crows thick and is heady. 
Then comes the Lunel, red and white : there are yean 
in which it is as good as the Frontignac. 

The Juran^on of Beam, Basses j^ennees, is an ex- 
cellent white wine ; it is principally distinguished by a 
flavour of truffl^y and has the advantage of keepioff 
long. — The wines of Provence are good, but the red 
are rather strong; the white for the most part are mus- 
ky ; those in chief repute are the gemenosy which are 
called the wines of Toulon ; the marque of Barbau- 
tan, and many others which are drunk at desserts or 
collations. — The wines of Tavelle are heady, but ex- 
cellent ; those of C6te-R6tie, Saint Peyret, and Con- 
drieux are most esteemed : formerly they were served 
at the best tables with entremets; they are now 
replaced by those of Bourdeaux. — Those of Barre, 
Moselle, and the Rhine, are highly esteemed. — The 
wines of Barre are agreeable and light, but do not bear 
transportation. The Moselle are white, light, aperient, 
and very good. The most esteemed of me Rhine are 
white : of the Hungarian wines the St. George's is that 
which is sold at a high rate for tokai : it resembles it 
very much, but the great diflference is known to the 



WINES. 331 

connoisseurs and gourmands ; at St. George two kinds 
are made ; those that are destined to carry the name 
of Wermoute are made by adding a thimble-full of the 
extract of wormwood to a half bottle, corking it welly 
which gives it that bitter taste, and excellent quality 
of fortifying the stomach and facilitating the digestion. 
There is no vineyard of that name, nor any grape that 
has the taste. The tokai is well known by name, but 
few know the quality from drinking it. It is an excel- 
lent wine, but cannot be bought, as the Emperor of 
Germany is the sole possessor of the territory in which 
it is cultivated. The Emperor of Russia possesses i 
small portion of this territory as a gift from the Em- 
peror of Austria, so that these two sovereigns are at 
present the possessors of this invaluable wine, of which 
they make presents to the ambassadors of different 
courts, &c. &c. and sometimes, though rarely, finds its 
way from sales into the market. This wine, excellent 
as it is, does not easily bear fermentation or clearing : 
should a bottle not completely filled be left, in a few 
days it will be hardly recognizable. It is said that 
the wines grown on the higher vineyards are not sub- 
ject to this inconvenience. 

The wines of Greece most esteemed are those of 
Cyprus; they keep fifty years, and even more, and have 
always been in great repute. They are very pleasant 
and agreeable ; but extremely dear, and very often 
adulterated : they are nourishing and balsamic, smell a 
little of the skin or outre in which they are kept ; and 
although disagreeable to some, it is perhaps the surest 
mark of their genuineness. 

After this wine comes that of Stan9on ; it is stronger 
than that of Cyprus, and has a very agreeaole Sa- 
vour* There is another of the same isle, which passes 
for nectar ; it is called Chio, The ancients sought this 
wine for libations and sacred purposes : little of it 
comes to Europe. There is also the Malvoisie of Cy- 
prus ; it is a muscated wine, that is much esteemed : 
it is often sold for that of Syracuse. 

Madeira is well known* This wine to be good ought 



332 FRENCH COOKERY. 

to be hard with a little bitter, an agreeable and resin- 
ous flavour, which it acquires from the cask. The 
Malvoisie of the same vineyard is also excellent, and is 
much sought after by gourmands ; it is soft, pleasant, 
and healthy. Of the Spanish wines the best and the 
most known are those of Malaga; they arc of different 
qualities : they ought to be chosen oily, without being 
thick, of a fine taste and nearly of a golden colour ; 
there are some red, which are excellent ; they keep 
very well, and preserve their fine flavour. They are 
drunk in France at desserts, and given as restoratives ; 
but if taken to excess become dangerous. As to port 
wine, suffice it to say, that its good qualities are known. 
It ought to be kept three or four years. The British 
isles consume a great quantity of it : there are both 
white and red; but the white is not very common. 
Among the Spanish wines that of Alicant is distin- 
guished, which possesses the same virtues, though less 
agreeable to drink, which comes from its beine thick ; 
it is of a deep red colour, bordering upon t£e black 
when new. It is necessary to keep it a long time, that 
it may depose, and to change it often in the wood ; 
when it is bottled, though drawn off perfectly clear, 
it still deposes a sediment ; it must ^erefore be de- 
canted. When it is old, it acquires more quality, and 
its colour is then that of the skin of an onion ; then it is 
truly good and beneficial ; it repairs the debility of the 
human frame from whatever cause, and gives a tone 
to the stomach ; but it must be used in moderation, as 
it is very heating. 

Those of Rota have the same qualities and colour, 
but a more agreeable flavour. That of Xeres is 
white, hard, and bitterish : it is one of the best of the 
Spanish wines, and is drunk at desserts. That of the 
Canaries is preferred to all the wines of the Malvoisie 
by real connoisseurs, because it is light and keeps long. 
It is a made wine, of muscatel raisins ; it has excellent 
qualities for the stomach, but must be avoided by the 
bilious. 

The Packarets are hard and very pleasant. Those 



WINES. 3dS 

of B^nicarlos are sweet. There are also throughout 
Italy very fine wines, the most esteemed are those of 
Falerno, so vaunted by Horace. That of Albano, or 
primitive Rome, was the first wine made by the Ro- 
mans, and drunk at their solemn festivals ; it is still in 
estimation ; this wine is light, pleasant, and seldom 
goes to the head ; there are both white and red ; it is 
given to the sick. 

There are also Tuscan wines, that do not cede to 
any of the above, which are those of MonteFiascone, 
which the Tuscans esteem above all others, but that 
is perhaps an error, as it is in no way superior to the 
others ; but in that of intoxicating sooner. That of 
the territory of Venice is excellent and piquant. The 
Neapolitan wines the most known are those of Lacry- 
ma-Christi and Gaete ; they are red, light, and of a 
pleasant flavour. 

ManQgement qf^ Wines, 

The first racking or change of the wines ought to take 
place the middle of March, after the first vintage ; for 
this purpose casks ought to be taken that have been 
lately emptied ; rince them with the greatest care, and 
scrape out all the tartar that may be attached to them, 
as it is hurtful to the quality, delicacy, and perfume 
of the wine ; they should be equally cleaned on the 
outsides, and the bottoms must be freed from the moss 
and mushrooms that may have grown on them : no- 
thing must be lefl dirty to the hoops ; all must be 
cleaned with the greatest care : after these precautions 
the casks must be sulphured by a long match, narrower 
at one end than the other ; it ought to be done wh^n 
the weather is clear and dry ; when ready to fill rince 
it with half a bottle of Cogniac brandy, drain it out 
well, and draw off the wines from the lees, with a 
bellows or pump ; then cork the wine with a new bung, 
wrapt round with lessived linen, that is, washed with 
the lees of wood ashes, not soap ; as the casks are filled, 
arrange them upon their stands ; great care must be 
taken to keep them full ; every month they ought to be 
filled up, as they are contmually losing: attention 



554 FRENCH COOKERY. 

must also be given to have some of the same wine in 
reserve for that purpose, for if an inferior wine is put 
in, it will spoil it. In the September following, or in 
six months from the first drawing off, it must be racked 
again in the same manner. It is in the repetition of 
this operation several times, that the wine acquires 
that quality and fineness that brings it to maturity, 
which prepares it for fining. For all sorts of red wine 
whisk five whites of eggs, and mix them with fourpints 
of river water ; draw off from the cask, to be nned, 
three bottles of wine : take a stick the size of a sweep- 
ing-broom-handle, and cut it at one end in four, so 
that it will distend like a claw-foot ; these being hdd 
together can be introduced into the bun^hole ; after 
the whites of the eggs have been put in, with this stick 
agitate the wine so that it may be entirely mixed with 
it ; but do not descend so low as the bottom of the 
cask ; when it is well mixed the ends of the cask are 
beaten to shake the wine, and giving a tremendous 
stroke to the top, bung the cask : this operation 
ought to take place in fine calm weather^ and it ought 
to be left eight or ten days. All these directions and 
remarks are equally applicable to red and white wines; 
the only difference is that of the materials used for 
fining. Therefore, when there is white wine to be 
fined, employ isinglass, a piece o£ which, beaten and 
incorporated in twelve pints of water, is sufficient to 
fine three pieces of wine ; take the necessary quan- 
tity, and prepare it, as for fining jellies, with river 
or spring water, which ought to measure about 
four pints when put into the cask, that it may be 
the more easily spread throughout the mass; when 
it has been all well worked with the stick as before 
indicated, beat and stop it : it ought to be pierced to 
give it air, as it facilitates the fining. If however, 
after every care, the wine is still thick, boil four 
English pints of milk or cream, and when cold, take 
off the cream ; put it into the cask : it will then 
not be long in clearing : on the contrary, if it is red 
wine that is thick, take grey paper, without smell. 



WINES. ' S$5 

and roll it up sheet by sheet, introducing them at 
the bunghole, and allowing each as it goes in to dis- 
tend before another is introduced : let them fall to the 
bottom, and do not draw off the wine till it is clear. 

There are many other ways of fining wine; but as 
these are simple, both in application and effect, 
Monsieur Beauvilliers does not reveal his knowledge 
on that head. 

The thickness of wines arises from known and un- 
known causes ; the known are the want of attention 
to the proper times of racking, the not filling up of 
the casks, their being put into hot cellars in summer, 
and drawing from them for use ; these causes depend 
entirely upon proper management; but there are 
others which cannot be so well accounted for, such 
as the consequences which follow hot and dry sum- 
mers, or cold and wet ones ; when the natural com- 
binations are obstructed, and the active powers lan- 
guish ; but care and judicious treatment will in the end 
succeed : the malady once fixed there may be dan- 
ger of a relapse ; and all wines that have given much 
trouble in fining, ought to be used as soon as possible. 
If in piercing the wine does not spring out clear, 
as it ought to do, but comes sickly, drop by drop, 
then, besides what has been indicated above, beat an 
ounce of cream of tartar, put it into a bottle nearly 
filled with wine that has been racked, shake it well 
till it dissolves ; put in two pints of brandy, and 
twelve bottles, less or more, of wine of the same year : 
this operation ought to be successful in clearing the 
wine. 

Observations upon the Manner of bottling Wines. 

When a piece has been fined, it ought to be raised 
a little behind, so that it may incline to the fosset ; 
this inclination should not be more than two inches ; 
this precaution is necessary to prevent the necessity 
of troubling the wine when it becomes clear. It is 
not necessary to give a detail of piercing casks, as no 
one unaccustomed to such work would attempt to re- 
fine and bottle wines. 



S36 FRENCH COOKERY. 

Remark, — Shot lead is often used in cleaning bot- 
tles, is very dangerous, and as it has happened that 
some of the grains have remained, the custom ought 
to be entirely given up, as it is a certain poison. 

Manner of preparing Wax Jbr Bottles Maniere 

dejpreparer te Goudron pour goudronner les BouteiUes. 

Take a pound of rosin, and an equal quantity of 
arcanson, half or three-quarters of a pound of tallow ; 
mix them in a small varnished earthen pot ; let these 
ingredients melt over a moderate fire ; stir till they 
are perfectly mixed ; watch it well, and take it off 
the nre before it boils, to prevent the consequences 
of its flying over into the fire, which may endanger 
the house. 

Mix this preparation with red or yellow ocre, Spa- 
nish whitening, or soot ; if soot is used it is recom- 
mended to put in rather more tallow, which for eco- 
nomy is to be such as is considered in families useless, 
as the ends of candles, or the scrapings from candle- 
sticks. This is by no means nasty, because nothing 
is so easily purified as tallow and sul unctious matters, 
but such economy is little understood in England. 

Note. — The wax ought to be made of di&rent co- 
Tours, as where there are great varieties of wine 
used, it is an easy way of preventing mistakes. 

SUPPLEMENT. 

Different Ways of making Vinegar, Diff'irenies 

Manieres dejaire la Vinaigre; le premiere Maniere 
est d'Orlians, 

Take such a cask of wine, white or red, as is ne- 
cessary ; fine it as directed in the article that treats 
of wines ; When it is clear put in a wooden fosset, as 
a brass cock is dangerous ; draw off a third of it, bot- 
tle and cork it well ; then fill up the vinegar with 
good wine of the same colour ; stop it lightly with 
a cork, wrapt round with paper or linen, and set 
it in a temperate place, rather cold than hot, and let 



VINEGARS. 337 

it be a foot and a half from the ground ; at the end of 
another month take off another third, and again fill it 
up, and go on doing so. 

This method may serve for twenty-five or thirty 
years, if the cask is bound with iron, and that no 
thick or musty wine is put into it. 

Second Way. Deuxicme Mantere, 

According to the quantity of vinegar, procure 
some yew timber, reduce it into shavings ; put it into 
a cask of wine that can be lifted in the hands : this 
will give good vinegar. 

Third Way. Troisihne Maniere. 

For very strong vinegar put into a cask of wine 
thirty pods of ripe long pepper, which ought to be of 
a fine red, and a quarter of a pound of ginger ; leave 
it fifteen days, then draw out the pepper, which has 
been suspended by a thread in the cask on purpose, 
and the bag of gmger; dry them that they may be 
in readiness to be used again for the same purpose. 
'-^Note this attention. 

Fourth Way, Quatriime Maniere, 

To make vinegar in a very short time, and make it 
return again to wine, (used by vinegar merchants 
when vinegar paid less duty than wine.) A day or 
two before they sent their wine into Paris, they put 
into each piece a handful of beet-roots, by which 
they were soured in a very short time ; when housed 
they drew these out, and replaced them by a handful 
or the same quantity of cabbage-roots. 

Fifth Way, Cinquieme Maniere (Excellent.) 

To a barrel of wine, put in an ounce cf cinna- 
mon, two ounces of long pepper, one ounce of ginger, 
two ounces of black pepper in grains, and three or 
four nutmegs grated to powder; when all these 
spices are prepared, put them into a hair bag, boil 
them two or three times in about twelve pints of good 
vinegar, then boil the same quantity of good wine ; 
put it into a barrel half filled, which may be .filled up 



338 VRENCH COOKERY. 

with wine a little turned, if there is any ; stop it, and 
leave the wine to make. 

Another simple Manner to make Vinegar in the Country. 
"-^Simple Mantle dejaire du Vinatgre ct la Campagne. 
Take brambles, or wild blackberries, gather them 
before they are ripe, but when they have attained a 
fine red colour; put them into a pot with red wine; 
give them a boil ; put the whole into a cask and fill it 
up with wine ; add a handful of salt, and some whole 
long or black pepper ; stop the cask, and in a month 
it will be good vinegar. 

Another Manner. ^^-^ Autre ManOre* 
Take a pint of rye flour, and mix it in good vinegar 
of any kind : work it into a finn paste, as if for bn»d, 
and put it into the oven after the bread is drawn ; let 
it dry well so that it may be reduced asain into flour; 
mix It again in the same manner, and dry and reduce 
it; and again a third time, when it may be put into the 
barrel ; which, in a very short time, will produce an 
excellent vinegar. 

Rose Vinemr. 

Take a quarter of a pound of the leaves of wild 
roses, and brambles, that are not fully ripe, with an 
ounce of very ripe barberries, dry them all in the shade; 
when they are sufficiently dry, reduce them to very fine 
powder ; put half an ounce of this powder into half a 
pint of good red or white wine ; shake it and leave it 
to repose ; put it through a linen cloth. This is Rosat 
Vinegar. 

It IS said, the same result may be obtained by put- 
ting a drachm of the marrow of a hare into two pints 
of wine. 

Vinaigre du ConnStable, 

Put into a well varnished earthen jar, capable of 
containing twelve pints, eight pints of rosat vinegar, 
with a pound of new Alexandrian raisins, stoned ; put 
the jar upon red cinders for ten hours, after which 
give it some little boils ; when half cold, pass it through 
a linen cloth, bottle and cork it well. 



VINEGARS. SS9 

Vinegar of Lavender ^or the Toilet, 
Prepare a jar of a proper size, and to every pint of 
vinegar add half an ounce of fresh lavender flowers,and 
some zests of lemon; leave them to infuse twenty-four 
hours : put the jar, well luted, upon hot cinders for 
eight or ten hours without boiling ; pass it through a 
bag, or filter ; bottle, and keep it closely waxed. 

Thieves' Vinegar. Vinaigre des quatre Voleurs. 

Take an ounce of the tops or wormwood ; rosemary, 
sage, mint, and rue, of each half an ounce ; flowers of 
lavender, two ounces ; aromatic gum, cinnamon, cloves, 
nutmegs, and fresh garlic, two drams of each ; half an 
ounce of camphor, and eight pounds of red vinegar ; 
beat all these ingredients well, and put them into a 
proper earthen jar, and pour the vinegar upon them^ ; 
the garlic ought to be sliced ; and after stopping the' 
jar, put it in the sun or in a hot place, such as a sand; 
bath, for three or four weeks ; wring out the ingre- 
dients, and filter it through grey paper ; the camphor 
must be dissolved in a little spints of wine. This vine- 
gar ought to be kept closely corked. 

Tarragon Vinegar, 
Put into a proper jar twenty-four pints of good 
white vinegar ; take a pound and half of fresh tarragon 
leaves, which must have been dried in the shade ; take 
care that they do not heat; when it is ready, put it int^ 
the vinegar, adding a small bunch of cloves, and the 
zests of two lemons ; then stop the jar well, and set it 
in the sun fifiteen da3rs, or it may be put two or three 
times in a cool oven, when it will be ready for use. 
It has been usual to put in salt, but that is not neces- 
sary; pour off the vinegar, express flie leaves, and 
filter it through grey papel-, a fustian bag, or take 
a large hair search, cover it completely wiUi double 
filtering paper, put in the vinegar softhr by degrees; 
and when it runs clear, bottle and cork it well. 

Vinaigre Surard 
Is made as in the last receipt, in putting in a third 
less of the elder flowers than of the tarragon, 

q2 



340 FRENCH COOKBRY. 

Rose Vinegar Jbr the Toilet or Salads. — Vinaigre 
d Ez Rose pour la Toilette ou les Stdades 
Is made by putting in the same quantity, that is to 
say, a pound and a half of dried rose leaves, into 
twenty-four pints of vinegar, and instead of cloves and 
lemon-zest, a bunch of the roots of Florence lilies, 
well dried ; when the vinegar is made, preserve the 
iris roots * by draining them for the same purpose, as 
they will do several times. 

Ravigote Vinegar, Vinaigre cL la Ravigote. 

Take tarragon leaves prepared as above ; pimpernel 
leaves, chives, and shalots, of each two ounces ; fresh 
garlic and flowers of elder, an ounce and half, the zest 
of two lemons, and a dozen of cloves bruised ; put all 
into a jar, and pour over them twenty-four pints of good 
white vinegar, it must be very strong, as the other in- 
gredients tend, from their viscous nature, to reduce 
the strength ; when it is finished put in two ounces 
and a half of spirits of wine, which will give an ex- 
cellent vinegar, that may be preserved a long time. 
It ought to have a full month to make. 

Note. — In proportioning the ingredients, smaller 
quantities may be made. 

Cider Vinegar, Vinaigre de Cidre, 

To a barrel of cider prepare a pound and a half of 
leaven of rye, flour, and if vinegar is not employed in 
making, it may be allowed to sour of itself, and when 
it has sufficiently taken, mix it with warm water and 
put it into the cider ; shake it well and mix it with a 
stick as is recommended in the fining of wines ; put 
the cask in a warm place, which retains almost always 
the same temperature, and in ten or twelve days tne 
vinegar will be fit for use ; when it is made, put it in 
bottles. If the vinegar is made of Perry it will be 
much better, and have a finer appearance. 

Beer Vinegar 

Is made in the same manner as that of Cider. 

• Note this. 



PRESERVES. 341 

Mustards. 
No receipts are given, as it is less expensive to 
purchase than make them ; the best flour of mustard 
may be bought, and on the evening before, or the day 
it is to be used, mix it either with warm water, soup, 
or vinegar, and a little salt. 

A Way to give to Veal the Taste and Appearance of 

Pickled Tunny. Maniere de donner au Veau 

VApparence et la Gout de Marine de Thon. 

Take a fresh noix ; it must be rich and white ; if 
in winter, let it hang three or four days ; if in ^ 
summer, only one; take off the skin and cut it in 
four, taking out the nerves with the fat ; have a quar- 
ter of a pound of dry salt well beaten, and rub it com- 
pletely with it ; put it into a vessel with some slices of 
onion, parsley branches, a little thyme, a bay leaf, 
some ginger, a clove of garlic, a dozen of juniper ber- 
ries, some bruised black pepper, and three anchovies 
beaten ; mix all well in the vessel ; cover it with a les- 
sived cloth tied tightly over ; after four days, turn it, 
and leave it again four days; then take away two- 
thirds of the juice that has come from the veal, and 
put the remainder with the veal and other ingredients 
into a stewpan ; add a bottle of good white wine, and 
give it a boil ; then cover the fire and let it simmer ; 
when ready, put it into the vessel where it was sea- 
soned, and let it cool in the liquor ; next day, drain it 
well, and put it into a pot or glass bottle, covering it 
with fresh olive oil, then with parchment, and serve it 
as Tunny. 

ChoU'Croitte. 

Wash and prepare the quantity of cabbage to be 
preserved, and take out the stock with a piercer made 
on purpose ; put them in a heap to sweat for a day or 
two ; have a cask or casks well cleaned, choosing those 
that have been used for white wine in preference to 
any other ; and take care always to cover the sides of the 
cask, as th,e croute is packed, with the large outer leaves ; 

Q 3 



542 FRENCH COOKBRY. 

when it has undergone a fermentation, it is one of the 
most healthy viands, easy of digestion, and an excel- 
lent antiscorbutic. It is cut in thin slices to appear 
like narrow ribbons; some lay them to sweat upm 
cloths in the shade before they pack ; others cut them 
over the cask and pack them immediately ; they must 
be spread equally with the hand in layers of three or 
four inches, the cask1l)eing first covered with commoa 
salt ; upon every layer, a sufficient quantity of salt is 
strewed, with a few juniper berries or carraway seeds 
to aromatize it ; it must be well arranged, either by 
the hand, a wooden pestle, or a man booted to tread 
it down ; the work is continued from layer to layer, 
till the cask is filled, when another layer of salt covers 
the whole ; the proper quantity of salt to be used is a 
pound to fifty or sixty of cabbage ; over the last salt- 
mg is spread the outer leaves of the cabbage, and over 
them a wet cloth ; the head of the cask is then put in, 
and a considerable weight is laid upon it to prevent the 
cabbage from rising during the fermentation. 

Four or five inches ought to remain empty above the 
head of the cask, into which a wooden spicket should 
be introduced, by which to allow the cabbage water 
to run off, which is extremely foetid and thick. This 
water must be replaced by introducing or filling it 
with salt water or pickle, and this must be done every 
three or four days, till it runs off clear, and has no bad 
smell ; this takes place generally in about fifteen davs, 
when the cask is in a cool place. The cask ought tol)e 
filled up every month with pickle, and the cloth changed 
every two : it is necessary that the pickle should al- 
ways be an inch or two above the croute^ and care 
must be taken that there is no space left between the 
croute and the cask, so that it is necessary to pack it 
well. 

Prepared in this manner, and kept in a cool place, 
the croute keeps throughout the winter. It tastes acid, 
and most people come to like it, but those who do not, 
bave only to steep it longer in hot water before it is 
cooked. 



PRESERVES. 345 

Added to the facility of digestion, which is of great 
importance for flatulent stomachs, its antiscorbutic 

aualities, which Captain Cook was so well aware of, 
lat he preserved his men three years in health at sea, 
by the use of it two or three times a week. 

Preserved SorreL ~~ OseiUe pour Conserve. 
Clean and pick the quantity of sorrel to be pre- 
served ; let it be well washed and drained ; throw it 
into boiling water, and let it be three-fourtlis done ; 
put it into a drainer, leave it there twenty-four hours, 
then hash it ; put it into a brass pan, and set it on the 
fire with a little salt, and reduce it, turning it con- 
stantly with a wooded spatula, that it may not stick 
or bum, till it is of a proper consistence, such as that 
of sain-doux froid* Let it cool a little, and fill the 
pots ; put it in a cool place ; two days after, cover it 
unth clarified butter ; some days after this, cover it 
with strong paper, and over it parchment or leather ; 
keep it in a cool dry place. 

Preserved Endive.^— ^ Chicoriepour Creserve. 
Take the quantity of endive necessary ; pick away 
all the green and coarse leaves ; cut off the points, and 
dress the roots in such a manner that they continue 
whole ; wash them in several waters ; throw them into 
boiling water ; give them two boils ; take them up, and 
put them into fresh cold water ; put a cloth into a 
drainer, and put them in to dram ; leave them all 
night, press out all the water by squeezing them ; ar- 
range Uiem into pots, pressing them well down; make 
a strong pickle of salt and water (article Salt Water\ 
let it cool ; fill the pots with it till within an inch 
and a half of the top ; two days afler put in an inch of 
good oil, and cover them as directed m the foregoing 
receipt. When they are to be used, steep them for 
six or eight hours in fresh water ; from that throw 
them into boiling water, and proceed to cook them 
as if they were m their season. 

* Cooled hogs-lard. 

a 4 



^44 FRENCH COOKERY. 

To preserve Kidney Beans. Haricots verts pour 

Conserve. 
Prepare the beans, which ought to be youne and 
tender, by taking ofF the two ends, throwing aside all 
that are hard or blemished ; put them into fresh water; 
have water with a handful of salt boiling on a quick 
fire ; put them in, give them two boils, and put them 
into cold water ; drain well, and arrange them in proper 
lessived jars ; fill them up with a strong pickle ; cover 
them with good oil, and stop them with corks ; tie 
paper and parchment over, and put them jn a cool dry 
place ; serve them as new beans ; freshen, blanch, and 
cook them in a brass pan. 

To preserve Cucumbers. — Concombres pour Con' 

serve. 
Take them well grown, but not quite ripe ; cut off 
the ends as is done for garnishing (article Garnishing: 
pare them and cut them in four; take out the seedis; 
take new earthen jars and wash them, for on that de- 
pends their preservation. Strew the jars with salt, and 
pack in the cucumbers, strewing salt upon every layer 
till they are full, covering the whole with it ; cover 
them as above, without however putting either butter 
or oil, or any other fat substance ; put them in fresh 
water the evening before using them ; dress them as 
if fresh. 

To preserve Beans. Feves de Marais pour Con* 

serve. 
Choose the smallest, tender, and freshly shelled; 
put them into very nicely cleaned bottles ; do not press 
them together, but rather leave a little space; stop 
them with good new corks ; fix them down with wire 
before you put them into the water ; put them into a 
boiler of fresh cold water ; put to it a moderate fire, 
and let them remain till the water boils ; leave them 
then an hour to cook ; take the boiler off the fire, and 
let them cool in the water ; take them out, and rosin 
them as directed for wine ; turn the bottles down in a 
bot%-rack, or stick their necks down in the ground, 

# 



PRESERVES. 34S 

and cover them with earth. When used, blanch and 
cook them as new beans, adding a little savory, which 
ought to be prepared in the following manner in its 
season. 

Preserved Savory. 
Clean and hash it ; mix it in a sufficient quantity of 
clarified sugar, and reduce to a consistence of a pre- 
jserve ; cover the pots with paper wet with spirits, and 
cover the whole carefully. When the beans are ready 
to serve, mix in a little of this preserve. 

To preserve Pease. 
Take the smallest and best ; do them in bottles ex- 
actly as is directed for the Jeves de marais, and put 
them up and keep them in the same manner ; when 
used, cook them as fresh pease. 

— "^ To preserve Asparagus. 

Take the finest to be had in the height of the sea- 
son, scrape and clean them, wash and tie them in bun- 
ches, cut them of an equal length ; put a pot upon 
the fire filled three parts with water, with a little salt, 
vinegar, pepper, and a few cloves ; when it boils, blanch 
them ; take them out, arrange them in stone jars, and 
fill them up with a strong pickle of salt and water ; 
in some days pour off that pickle ; boil and skim it, 
and pour it again into the jars; in two or three days 
cover them two inches with oil,, and then with paper 
and parchment ; put them in a dry cool place ; three 
months afler, make a new pickle ; clarify it and let it 
cool ; drain and put them anew in the fresh pickle, and 
also fresh oil ; cover the pots as before, and use them 
as new when there is occasion. 

To preserve Artichokes. Artichauts pour Conserve* 

Prepare them as if intended to cook them whole ; 
give them a quick boil ; take them off, and take out 
the choke with a spoon ; let them drain, and arrange 
them in pots ; have a very strong salt pickle, pour it 
over, and let them be well covered ; then put melted 
butter over ; cover them as in the preceding ailicles. 

QS • ^ - 



346 FRENCH COOKSRY. 

To preserve Artichokes. —-^ Artichauts i ritaUenne. 
Tfuce artichokes and cut them in four or six pieces, 
according to their size ; take out the choke ; put them 
into boihng water, and let them boil five minutes 
put them into a salt pickle, and preserve them as the 
others. 

To preserve Artichoke Bottoms. Culs d^ ArtiehauU, 

Boil the artichokes till the choke comes easily out, 
but take care that they do not become too soft, as 
that would prevent them from preserving ; when diey 
are prepared, rub them with a lemon, put them in 
jars, and follow the same process as for artichokes. 

To preserve Tomates* Tomatespour Conserve* 

Take the quantity to be preserved, let them be 
ripe, and of a fine colour ; cut them in two ; express 
the juice, and take out the seeds; then put them into 
a sweet-meat-pan that is untinned; put in a good 
mirepoix (article Sauce) highly seasoned without any 
other liquid, and a sufficient quantity of salt : reduce 
them to the thickness of a. puree, stirring it constantly 
with a spatula; rub it through a search; return it 
into an untinned or brass pan, and reduce it to the 
consistence of apple marmalade; put it in pots, 
and in two days cover it with clarified butter and 
oil-paper ; parchment it, and keep as other preserves. 

To preserve Verjuice. 
Choose the quantity of verjuice that will be neces- 
sary to fill the bottles ; let it be green and hard ; rub 
off the raffles and stalks ; put them into a mortar with 
a little salt (or without it, if you intend to make 
lemonade with it, or to drink in ahy way) ; take it out 
of the mortar; wring the juice out well over a search; 
beat them anew, or put them in a press, if not, wring 
them in a new cloth ; take a fustian bag, wet it, and 
flour it in the inside where it is woolly ; hang it up ; 
pour in the juice ; put under it an earthen vessel, and 
return it into the bag, till it becomes clear as rock- 
water, and for that, two vessels are required; when 



PRESERVES. 347 

that is doAe, have bottles either new or very nicely 
cleaned, into which put lighted matches, to insure the 
preservation of the juice ; this may be done by fitting 
a cork (by having it much pointed), to all the bottles, 
and passing a wire through it which, may be hooked 
at the end, to which the lighted match is fixed ; put 
it into one of the bottles, and when filled with the gas, 
or smoke of the match, take it out, and put it into 
another, but first* cork the one that is filled with the 
gas, widi the cork that had before been fitted to it; 
in this way proceed till the whole are filled ; then fill 
the bottles, beginning with that which was at first 
sulphured, and stopping them very closely, set them 
upright upon a shelf, and when they are to be used, 
take off the little scurf that forms upon the top. Use 
this verjuice in all made-dishes, instead of lemon ; 
there is no difference ; it may also be used to make le- 
monade and punch with adding a little spirit of lemon. 
It has been kept three years without alteration. 

Note, — Some receipts for the preservation of truf- 
fle, making potatoe and chesnut flour, &c. have been 
withheld, either from our having better methods our- 
selves, or that the materials are not indigenous with 
us. — It is recommended to such as would really be- 
nefit from this work, to read it over with attention, as 
knowledge is not to be attained by flying from receipt 
to receipt ; arrangement is as necessary to a cook as 
to any other profession ; besides one receipt throws 
light upon another, as it is only by searching that 
knowledge is attained. 

* It is generally to minutia that a cook owes superiority. 



Q 6 






r-. 



■\ 



i I 






t < 






TWO SERVICES FROM SIX TO EIGHT COVERS. 



FIRST COURSE. 

Crawfish 
Soup. Potage d la Bisque 
tTEcrevisses. 





Remove Salxn 
Saumon. 


on. 






Lobster Sauce 
Homards. 




Beef Palates with 








Sweetbreads. 

BisdeFeauala 

DaujAine. 


Cucumbers. 

Hattelets de Palais de 

"Bav^ atu Concombres. 




^ 




TATTib Kidneys. 
'Sognons de PJgneaiut. 




1 




Mutton Cutlets. 
Cetelettes a la Soubise. 




Pa 


Soup. 
tage d laRi 


Hne, 





Remove 
PouUtrdes d la Turque. 
Roasted Fowls with Kice. 



SECOND COURSE, 

Woodcocks. 
Remove Rice S(n(fflS. 



Small Biscuits. 
Paint a la Duehesse, 



Veijuice JeUy. 
QeUedeVer.jut, 




Calves' Feet Jelly. 
Gelie de Pieds de Vcau, 



MeringalsL 
Mirmgues, 



Apple or Gooseberry Sauce. 

Oreen Goose. 
Oitond la Brooke. 



Apple-tart 
TofHtte des Pommes. 

A cook should never think of implicitly following any bill of fare, it 
would be quite impossible ; they only serve to shew the proper arrangement of 
the table, and the relative situation of dishes, which, after the knowledge of 
cooking, is of greatest importance, thousands of di£R}rrat combinations may be 
made nom the foregoing pages. 



TWO SERVICES FROM SIX TO EIGHT COVERS 





FIRST COURSE. 






Soap. 
Potage au Vermkette. 




Bemore Caip. C&rpe em Bleu 






Sauce 






aaut Capres, 




FineUofBeef glA»ed. 








Cahres* Brains 

OtrveOes de Veau 

en Marinade. 


Fueitde Boevff 
tanuU dans tear Glace. 








Mutton Tailf. 

Queues de Moutons 

giac^ d la Ckkorfe. 




1* 




Jpork Cutlets. 

Cfitetettes de Cockou, 

Sauce Robert. 






Flddet. 






■ 


Roast Beef. 
RosbifdlaBroche. 





SECOND COURSE. 



Snipes. 
Bfcdsses d la Broche, 

Remove Nomlles scn^fflis 
etMeringuis. 



Apple Fritters. 
ReignetsdePommes. 



Truffles in Wine. 
THffes auVrnde Champagne. 



Bread Sauce 


• 










Spinaire in Cream. 




1 




Bptnard* d la Crewse, 








^ 




SduU Pastry. 
Darioles, 


Bread Sauce. 




Fak 


Pheasant 
ondlaBroi 


^. 





A DINNER FROM EIGHT TO TEN COVERS. 



FIRST COURSE. 

Cabbage Souit 
Potage aux Chowe d la 
Pagsanne. 

Remove boiled Turkey. 
Reievi Dkidon bouiUi. 



Salmon. 
Dalle de Saunum 
bouilliy Sauce atut 
Cdpres, Purie de 

Novels. 



Sauce aux Huitres ou 
auCHeri. 



Partridgec 

Perdreaux 

brede Sauce, 



Two Rabbits. 

Deux LapereauXf 

Sauce aux OignonSt 

Choitfleurs sans Sauce. 



Two Fowls. 
Deux Poulets, Sauce 
au Persilf Puree de 
Pommes de Terre. 



Veal Scollops. 

Quatre Escalopes 

de Veau. 



S ^uce au Beurre, 
Melted Butter. 



Roast Beef with Potatoes. 

Ros-btfaux Pommes de Terre. 

Rfilevi ^un Jambon gfad. 



Hackcfel 

Maquereaux bouilUs, 

Sauce aux FenouUs^ 

Epinards bouUUs 

d VAr^aise. 



SECOKD COURSE. 

Roasted Venison. 
Quartier de DerrHre de Daim' 
dlaBroche. 

Sauce. 
GeUe de Groteilles. Red Currant JeDy. 



Made'ra Jellv. 
Getie de Vin de Madire. 



Lemons. 
CUroiUi 



Welch Rabbits. 
Wofches Rabettes. 



Flumb Pudding. 

Boudins atut Raisins^ 

Sauce au Vin 

de Malaga. 



Rice Pudding. 
BoudindeRlx. 



Tart 
Tomrte de Coi^ilture, 



Salade 
(fHerba. 



Roman Jdly. 
GaUedeRome. 



Roasted Chickens. 



A DINNER FROM EIGHT TO TEN COVERS, 



FIRST COURSE, 

Mock Turtle. 
Potagejn Tortue, 

Remove Trout 
JhftUes d la genoUe, 



Cutlets. 

.CStelettes de 

Pigeons, 



Chictoi. , 
Poularde ' 
ilaSainte-Ooud, 



Bablnts. 

SauUde 

LapereoMx auM 

Concombres, 



I 






& 

< 



Hot 

PaU ckaud 3 ia 

Fkumciere, 



Chicken. 
Suprhme de Poularde 
ilaCkingara, 



Lamb with Mushroomi. 
CdtdeUes d'Agnem 
i la Puree 



Rice Soup with Peaa. 
Paiage de Riza la Puree de Pois, 

Remove redded Beef. 

ROetfi 

Piece de Bantf d PEcarlate, 



SECOND COURSE, 

Koastcd Pigeons. 
R6t de Tourtereaux. 



Lemon Jdly. 
OelSe de Citrons, 



Cake. 
Gateau d 
Vitalietine, 



>inaffc. 
Emnaras au 




Peas. 
PetUsPois, 



Fritters. 
Bcignett de Bianc- 
manger. 



Asparagus. 

dsferges am 

jSeurre. 



Two Fowls, one larded. 

J)euje Poulets, un 

Piqui. 



Sweetbread larded upon 
SorreL 
Ris de Veau piquS d la 
Furied'Oseille. 



DINNER OF TWELVE COVERS. 

FIRST COURSE. , 

Onion Soup. 
Potage auxpeUU OgntorUf 

Remove Turbot 
2d. Curry of Chickens. 



Kari de Poulets, 
Oyster Sauce. Butter Sauce. 



Palates. 
Pdlttii de Bm^, 



Fillets of Sole. 
FiUtt de Soles d la Horly. 



..^l 

l^^ 



Sauce aux 
HOitres. 




Sauce de 
bon Beurre. 
Rice. 
Rix. 



VeaL 
Nmx de Veau en Bedaine 



Cutlets of Mutton. 
CStelettes i la Soubise. 



Fillets of Beef. 
Filets de Bcettfen Serpent. 





Rix Sctfranh 



Rabbits and Eels. 



Concombresen Oeni(msenGib<^iotUdeLajoereauxet 



Marinade. Marinade. 



Sago and Turnip Soup. 
Pciage de Sagot d la Pur4e 

de Navels. 
Roast of Welsh Mutton. 
Bo^de Mouton des 
Ardennes.* 

* Small Mountain Mutton. 



d'Angmles. 



Pigeons a la 
Serisson. 



Young Peas.' 
PetUs Pais d la-Franeake, 

Biscuit deNiqfft 



SECOND COURSE. 

Capon 

in the English Manner. 

Chapon pani ct PAnglaise. 

Remove hundred-leaf 

Cake. 



^'t 





Anchovies et Capres Sauces. 



Fist ache Creme in Moulds. 



Stewed Lettuce.' 
LaUues d rEspe^gnote* 

Apricot Fritters. 
Bdgnets (TAbricots, 

nil 

Cake. 
Gdteau de VermiceUe. 



Cauliflowers in Butter. 
Chot^eur au Beurre. 



Young Carp. 
Carpeau au bleu. 

Remove larded roasted 
Lamb. 

Relevi ros^d*Agneau 
piqu€. 



Artichokes. 
ArUchauls d VlttUienne. 



SERVICE OF EIGHTEEN COVERS TO TWENTY, 



fttUi Patis d'une BoucMe 

auHa$Mthla 

Reine. 

Veal with Mufhrooms. 

PetUet Noix tPEpaule 

de Veau d la Purie de 

ChampigMU. 



Wild Ducks with Orange 

Sauce. 

Cttnarda Mttuvages, Samx 

Utaraae. 



FIRST COURSE. 

Soup, Potage de RavMet, 

Remove Turker ituflbd 

withiyumec 

Dimk aug Tr%ffi$. 

Sauce. 



Biiat 




Two Squares of Mutton, 

one larded with Parsley, 

the other with Bacon. 

Detu Carres de MouUm, 

mn piqui de PersUf Vautre 

de Lard. 



Croquettes aua TnfjSh e% 
CStelettes. 




Beef Scollo|M with. 
Potatoes. 
E$ealope$deFUetdeJScn^ 
atuPom$me$ deTtrrt. 



Two Fowls. 

Deux PouleU^Sanee 

drimrire. 




Chartreuse of Tendons of 

Veal with Ovsters. 

Chartreuse de Tendons 4r 

Veau aux Huitm, 



Leverets in their Blood. 

Sauti de Levrauts 

auSang. 



Pickles. 
Mango en Marinade. 



Calves Ears. 
OreiUes de Veaud la 
Ravigote. 



Sweetbreads. 

HtUelets derisde 

Veau. 



Crust Soup. 
Potage CroiUes au Pai. 

Mock Turtle. 
Tite de Veau en 
Tortne. 



Puddinir 

Boudm d ta Richelieu, 

ritalienne hianche. 

Sauced Pltaiiemm: 



The English name of every dteh that has |p>t one U plaetd abet* the Pranrh, to givt eooto 
at little trouble as poMible: as Airther assistance, a page of black linn is sul^Jotead, «b vhtdi 
thcT may find it utcAil to lay the paper in making out their bills. 

To the above coune. two fishes mav be Introdnccd between the Mmps and the removal mA 
^mdui of game or fcwi, ramikins, •mall birds cooked in dlifhrent way*» and what ai* In gwirel 
ettlled Plata d* WW, are all proper te removes. PnAMad cooks will aioise these lemaik^ wfeick 
•M now oOVred to tbam 



SERVICE OF EIGHTEEN COVERS TO TWENTY. 



SECOND COURSE. 



Boasted Fartridgefl. 
PerdreoMJi. 



Apples in Rioe. 
Pommes au Bix. 



Remove a Rock. 
Bdev6Rodier. 



JeUy. GeUe 
de Marasquin. 



Fruit Tart. 
TourteauxConfitures. 



Sauce. 



^gs in Tea. 
(Eitfsau Thi. 



Salad. 



Lemon. 
Citron. 



Cardoons in Marrow. 
Cardes d la Mo&le. 



.^ 



Oi-S ft) *■ 






'S 



Fried Salsify. 
Sal^fiaFrUi. 



Blanc-manger 

in small pots. 

en petiUpott. 




Truffle in a Kapkiii. 
Tr%ffts d la Serviette, 



III 



Cauliflower in Butter. 
Cho^fieur8 au Beurre. 



Burnt Cream. 
Creme bruUe. 



Olives. 



Saladet. 



Chocolate Fritters. 
Pagnetsde Chocolai, 



Small Tarts. 
TiirUettet i la ChanHO^, 



Sauce. 

Roasted Fowl. 
PoulardedeRdt, 

Remove small Pig. 
CoekondeLaUen 
gakmterie. 



naST C0UB5E, FROM TWEMTY-FIVE TO THIRTY COVEI 



Fowl with 
Sauce. 
Poularde i la 
Ravigate. 

Salt 

Fillets of Ducks. 
FOett de Canetom 
i la Frovengale. 

Mdon. 

Mutton. 

DeuxiMrr^sde 
Mouton i la Servant, 



Salt 

L^ of a Ooose. Lemon 
Cuissesd'Oie Pickle, 
d la Puree de Citron 
PoU. en 

Marinade. 



Spring 
soup . 
PrkUenier, 

Reniov& 
CalTsHead. 

BOevf TStedeVeau 
en Tortue. 

Sauce. Sauce. 



f 
& 



O 







Pigeons 

dlaHe- 

risson. 

Salt 



Mango 

en 

Marinade. 



Mixed Ragout 
llagoiit 
fnel6. 



Fillets of Mackerel. 

Maquereaux Salade. 
d la Maitre^ 
d'HdteL 



HotTegeCable 

P&ti chaudde 
Legumes 

Salt 

Stufl%d Lamb's F 
Pieds d'AgneauJti 
cilaFiUeni. 
Salade. 



PeiitspaU. 

OH 

SalpifOtt. 



Bitter 

Oranges. 

Bigarade$ 

en 
Marinade. 



Salt 

Hateret 

deBau)^ 

note. 



Cauliflower, 
Chotifleur 

en 
Marinade. 




Chickens. 
duentlles 
VotaiUeau Vek 

Si 



Beef Palate 

Palais dr Bat 

au Gratin, 



Melon. ^T^;g^ 
Oct Otoier. 



Salt 

Veal. 
Noix de Veau 
d la Dauphin. 



Sauce. Lobster Sauce 
awe Cdpres. aux Homards. 

Cabbage Soup. 

Potaee aux Choux 
Nouvcaux. 

Remove Turbot 



Salt 

Fricaser. 

Chickens and Peaa 
De Pou/t'ts 
aux petUs Poix 



SECOND COURSE OF FROM TWENTY-FIVE TO THIRTY COVERS. 



Cardoons in Essence 
of Marrow. 
Cardes d r Essence 
etdla Motile. 



Small Pigeons as 

Ortolans. 
PeHts Pigeons en 

Ortolans. 



Darioles 
m Masscpam. 



Cauliflower with 

Parmesan. 
Chomfleurou 
^Parmesan.', 



"8 



« aj c 7^5 

111- 

TruflBes. 

Tn^es 

d riialienne. 



Roasted Wild Ducks. 
Plongeons d la Broche. 

Bdetf^ SoffflS 
de F2eur d'Orange. 

Orange Sauce. 
Sauce au Bigarreaua. 

Herbes. Olives. 




Salsify in Butter. 
Salsifis au Beurre, 



Fried Soles. 
Soles /rites. 



Rice Fritters. 
Beignets de Biz. 



IVufflesinaNapkin. 
Trvffessous la Serviette 
au Fin de Champagne. 



I I 

as 

s- 



I5a 

S "I 



Mushrooms. 
CroHtes aux 
Champignons. 



jple Fritters. Beignets 
r Pommes en quartier. 



Fried Smelts. 
Eperlans. 



Stewed Cucumbers. 
"ikmcombresen Cardes. 



Olives. Herbes. 



Small Omelets. 
Petites Omelettes 
A la Celestine. 



Butter and Bread. / Roast Quails. 
Sauces. 



Asparagus. 
Asperge en Bdtons, 



Partridges. 

Perdreaux. 

Belevf Talmouses. 



FIRST course; from thirty-five to fortt covers. 



W««thi*extaMledtodoiuUethentunbcr»tlMdUiMai«tobecxtaidfidliitfae MnM mamcr, and 
laige Joints introdooed acooniingly; iind the centres nuurked bj te ttm may have another 
ramove acoordlnc to circumstances, and dlfltecnt sauces maj be fl^idr Ttiisoii^tobest- 
tondad to tbrounnoiit the oouxsss. 



Hot pre. 

PdUchaud 

4 la Fhumciire. 

Sweetbreadi. 
Hateiettei de 
Bisde Feau. 

Vegetable pye. 
*-PdUi de 
Legumes. 

Ox Palates. 
Paropiettes de 
Palais de Sceitf 
engratin. 

Fillets of Chicken. 

Escalopes de Filets 

de Pottlardes aux 

Tn^ffex 

VeaL 
Carri de Veau 
d la Servante. 



RiceSoua 
PotagedelU% 

relevi 
*d^imeTurbaL 

Sauce d PEcri. 
visse. 

Cold ham vye. 

PdtiJMd 

deJauAoH. 




Filets de 3oles 
Saute d la ravigote. 



Filets de Pigeons. 



Mutton. 
CStelettesdlaSubise. 

Fowl. 

« SuprAne de 

VolaiUe aux Tn^ffes. 

FiUeU of Partridges. 

Fitets de Perdreawt 

d la Portugaise. 




Cold Chicken Pyc. 

Patide 

petHs Poulets. 

Capre and Currant Jdly 
Sauces. 

Cabbage Soup. 
Potage de Chou. 



Fftt£ of Oysters. 
Pat6 aux 
Huitres. 

Partridge Cutlets. 

CdtelettesdeFUets 

de Perdreaut au Jus. 

Fowl 

Chartreuse d'un * 

SalpifOH de Folaiile. 

Thiflles. 

Croquettes aux 7Vh^ 

en Cdtelettes. 

Chicken. 
Slanquette dePoularde 
aux ConconUfres gamis 
de Filets mignoMS. 

Fillets of Mackerel 
Filets de Maquereaux 
dlaUaitred'lUteL 




o 
< 



I 



Mutton. 

Carri de Mautom 

d le Ste. MenHkomld. 

Duck. 
Filets de Caneton i la 
Uarloquime. 

Pork Cutlets. 

Cdtelettes de Pore 

dPespagnole. 

Mixed. 
JRagoAt Meli.0 

Puddings. 
Boudins de RtcMieu 
au Vehmti. 



Petits Path en 
Crou^ades. 



Relevi de Saumon ; 
relevid'une 
Hanche de Venaison. 
Removes Salmon and Venison. 



Vol au Vent de 
Mauxiettes. 



In airanicinf thirteen dishes upon one side, attention most be had to centres, which OMV be 
fgrmcd by larger or diffteent shaped dishes, as well as with reBud to Ofllr 4 



SECOND COURSE, FROM THIRTY-FIVE TO FORTY COVERS. 



Sirinage In Cnut. 
Croustadt. 



Chlckott 
with Queen't Sauot. 

ilaRtim. 



Psrt^BPje. 

dt 
Ptrdmaue. 

RcmorMl by a Cake. 



ScomMtn 



Cherry firitten. 
Ciritm. 



Banded Tarts. 
TartiMfef 



Rabbits. 



Stewed Lettuce. 
FEtpagnoU. 



>>4 i 



# I ^■ 



S 



Small Beans. 
Five$ 

de 
Marmi 
i la P«nddU. 

SmelU. 
BperUmi' 

Small Biscuit. 
Chotui 

de 
Riina. 



JitUnuie$, 



OUtn. 



Herba. 



.1 



Orange Jelly 
GeM 

datu 
tBeorci. 

Smoked Tongue. 

Langutdi 

Bm^fjymdt» 

Rabbit. 

Aeeolada 

dt 

La f t n a m m- 



Hota. 



Poached Eggs 

In Gravy. 

dEii/k 

fwdkA 

Fried Soles. 

SolM 

/VitM. 

Small Peas. 

Pern 

P^ 

ilaPa^iamm. 




HarieaU 



Small 

PiKeons. 

m OrMoiit. 

Ramtkin. 

Fomdm 

CMmc* 



OUveb 



StoflM Cttcnmbeni 
CoNeomftrs* 



Cauliflower trltli 
Batter. 

ewBewrr*. 



Blamanf{e. 
BfamC'maNg«r 

•n 
PtHitPati. 



Amarasus 

witnBatiK. 

iUjMrfSf 



Olaied Ham. 

ttdnd. 
Remove. 



Rice Fritters. 



ArUchoke Bottoms. 

en 
Cmaff* 



^* 



INDEX. 



■■% 



A. 
Absinthe, creme d*, 324 
Aggysinas, fanchonettes, 234 
Almond paste, 230 

cake, 230 

, g&teaupit]iivicrs,233 

soup, potage au lait 

d'amandes, 168 

Tours, 297 

candy, 290 

confected, 290 

grilled, 291 

Andouilles de cochon, 102 

, de Couenne, 102 

fl la Bechamelle,102 

deveau, 102 

de fraise deveau, 103 

Angelique, liqueur de, 323 
Anise water, 321 
A])})ies, Charlotte de pommes 
i aux confitures ou sans con^- 
r lures, 237 

, buttered, pommes au 

K beurre, 238 

, diartreusede pornmes, 

238 
in rice, pommes an 

riz, 239 
in apricot jam, pommes 

k la polonaise, 239. 
fritters, beignets de 

pommes, 240 
, compotes of, 277 

, jelly, 278 

Ajnicot fritters, 241 

Apricots green, compote of, 273 

in sugar, 274 

white, various ways, 275 

Artichokes, in white sauce, 257 

with forced meat, 257 

i ritalienne, 258 

fried, 258 



R 



Artichokes braised,. 258 
bottoms with ravigote 

sauce, 259 

4 la Br^tonne, 259 

., to preserve, 345, 346 

Afparagus, in butter, 259 

in gravy, 259 

as small peas, 259 

to preserve, 345 

Aubergines, 269 

^ , sur la grille, 269 

, k la tourtiere, 269 

B 
Baba, 225 
Badiane, 321 
Banded tarts, petites tartelettet 

banders, 235 
Barbadoes cream, 322 
Barhei, 198 

Barberries, syrup of, 280 
Barbillon, 180 

Batter for frying, p&te a firixv^Sd 
Beans, in various ways» 260 
•h*'"f* ^ preserve, 344 
0if^i* Boeuf : 

, bouUli ordinaire, 46 

M.... and cabbage, boeuf garni 
e cboux, 47 

piece, au pain perdu, 47 

, k r^carlate, 47 

, rump of, in jelly ; culotte, 

a la gel^ ou a la royale, 48 
, round, rosbif^ rond-bif 

ou come-bif, 49 
, smoked or hung, boeuf 

fum^, ou de Hamhourg, 49 
, roasted sirloin, aloyau k 

la brocbe, 50 
, sirloin, aloyau ^ la Go- 
dart, 50 
, braised, noiz de boeuf 

brais^e, 50 



362 INDEX. 

Beef, ribs, with roots, cAtes, cou- Biscuits, small Turin, 29ft 

vertes aux racines, 51 , la^lge cutting, 901 

, ribs, under the shoulder, , sea btaniy 302 

entrecote, 51 Blanc-manger^Sf 
iiUet, iilet piqu^ k la fritters, 240 

broche, 51 Bread, of Manheim, 302 
, fillet with Madeira, au Tin soup, potage au pain, 167 

de Mad^, 52, Bret, flaye, 194 
, of the loin with cu- Brioche, p&te &, 319 

cumbers, filet d'aloyau aux cheese, brioche au firo- 

concombres, 52 mage, 224 
, wiUi endive, ^ la chi» BiUter vrafen, SOS ' 

cor^e, 53 thickened, 33 

, with love-^ple sauce, 

k la sauce tomate, 53 
in their juice, saut^ C. 

dans leur glace/ 53 Cabbage, stock cabbage, 264 

steaks, bif-teck, 53 , Brussels, 264 

\oikga%s, {see Tongues). , red, 264 

palates, a Tltalienne, 56 CoArey, of various kinds, ^ «7. 

, It la poulette, 57 Candy, orange flower, 287 

.*, d la ravigote, 57 •••> large rose, 287 

, croquettes de pa- , large yellow, 288 

lais, 57 , violets, 288 

, en Cracovie, 58 •• , jessamine, 288 

, i laLyonnaise, 58 •......., jonquil, 288 

suet, manner of preparing, , almoni^ 290 

30 , small rose, 290 

Beer, vinegar, 340 Calfs ears stuffed, oreilles de 
Biscuits, paste for, 221 veau farcies, 60 

, deniauffes, 225 fried, en marinade, 60 

glazed, g^oises, glac^ , k Tltalienne, 

a ritalienne, 232 61 

> manqu^, 234 , ^ la ravigote, 

, spoon biscuit, 293 61 

, light lemon, 294 Calf's tongues, 6 1 

, pistaches, 294 feet, pieds de veau, 61 

> chocolate, 294 brains, cervelles de tetu 

) light hazel nut, 294 a I'allemande, 61 

, cream, 295 en mate- 

, orange flower, 295 lotte, 62 

, souffle, of orange flow- with peas sauce, a 

ers, 291 la pur^ de pois, 62 

, of chocolate, 295 in black butter, au 

-, #mall soufil^, 296 beiure noir, 62 

manqu^ k la fleur , 4 la ravigote, 6S 

d'orange, 297 ....... liver, foie de veau i ^ 

, &n, 298 po«le, 63 



INDEX. 36S 

CalfU liver larded, k la hour- Carrot cake> giteau de carottet, 

geoise ou k T^ufiade, 63 227 
witli'Italian sauce, k k la Flamande, 265 

ritalienne, 64 k TOrleans, 265 

roasted, k la broche, CaiUjflowerfWith butter sauce, 256 

Calf*s lights, mou de veau k la ..—> ^^ ff^V^i 256 

poulette, 64 .K ..., with Parmesan, 256 

, in brown sauce, au , fried in butter, 256 

roux, 65 Caviare, or JTaviar, 188 

Calf's tail, with peaS) queues de Cayenne pepper, to make, 36 

veau aux petits pois, 67 Celery fritters, 243 
, with poulette sauce, CAar/o^to of apples, charlotte de 

a la poulette, 67 pommes aux confitures ou sans 

Calf*s head, t^te de veau au na- confitures, 237 

turel, 59 Cheese cake , g&teau au fromage, 

, stuffed, fercie, 59 223 

... , mock turtle, en tor- Cherries, compote of, 273 

tue, 60 ., marmalade of, 283 

Cannehns, 235 , en chemise, 291 . 

Casserole au Riz, 73 ••..., au caramel, 292 

Captms boiled, chapon au gros , fritters, 241 

tie], 141 Chesnuts in sugar, 282 

, with rice, au riz, 141 cakm, 299 

, with truffles, aux trui&s, Chocolate, conserve of, 286 

141 , for drinldiig, 327 

CaraTne/, how distinguished from Chou^^rotUtf 341 

Micre cass^ 272 Cider vinegar, 340 

...... ..., different fruit, 292 Cloves, oil of, 321 

Cardoons, Spanish, 262 Cinnamon, liqueur, 320 

., with Parmesan^ 263 Citron, conserve of, 285 

, in butter, 263 ' cream, 319 

, poir^es, 263 oil of, 319 

, a lab^hamelle, 263 Citronelle de Venise, 320 

Carj}, 171 Cochineal, to prepare, 293 

, k la chambor, 171 Cocoa, creme de, 324 

, stuffed, farcie, 172 CbcArscom^s and kidneys, au ve- 

....... au bleu, ou au court lout^, 152 

bouillon, 172 »giand 

fried, frite, 173 aspic, 152 

, grilled, grille, 173 •«...• , injel- 

, matelote decarpe eid*an- ly, petits aspics, 153 

guilles, 173 Cod, cabillaudoumorue, fraiche 

, k la marini^, 174 k la Hollandaiae, 188 

, fricandeau, 174 ....», en dauphin, 189 . ^ 

, melts, fried, laitancesfrites, , au gratin et k la Becha- 

175 melle, 189 
, roes in jelly, aspic de lai- , morue k la maltre^*h6tely 

tances, 175 189 

R 2 



364 



INDEX. 



Codf monie alaproven^ale, 189 
various other recipw, 

190 
Coffee, to make, 327 

consenre.of, 286 

Colours ia confectionery, 293 
Compi^gne, gkte&u de, 224 
Cordial water, 322 
C6telettes en surprise, 239. (See 

CtUlets,) 
Crawfish, ^revisses, how to 

choose, 175 
how to cook for large 

and small dishes, and garnish - 

ings, 176 

pudding of, 208 

Cream, (see Iced Cream*) 

, whipt cream, 209 

, coffee, 309 

, chocolate, 310 

, marasquin, 310 

fritters, 242 

Creams', white coffee cream, 

S43 

...., chocolate, 244 

, orange flower, 244 

, almond, 244 

, coffee cream without 

gizzards, 244, (see Liqueurs,) 
Crime patissifere, 224 

, frangipane, 225 

Croque-en boucke, 229 
Cttcumbers, Concombres au 

blanc, 36 
, browned, au brun, 

37 

, stuffed, 261 

, in gravy, 261 

, k la poulette, 262 

.,k la Bechamelle, 

262 

, pickled, 325 

, dressed, 326 

, to preserve, 244 

Curaqon, liqueur, 324 
Currant jelly, red, 274 
Currants, bunches of, en che- 
» j^ Miise, 291 



Cutlets, cdtelettes de veau, 74. 

(See Veal.) 
, c6telettes de mouton, 81. 

(See MtUton.) 
••• d*agneau, 92 

(See JLamb.) 
roe-buck, cotelettes de 

chevreuil, 105 

leveret, de levraut, 109 

•• of partridge, de pei» 

dreaux, 124 
of fowls, de poularde% 

147 
of pigeons, de pigeons, 

159 
of sturgeon, d*esturgeon, 

187 

D. 

Dab, barbue, 192 

Darioles, 235 

Ducelle, 32 

2>iicA:<, canards, 162. (See also 

Wild Ducks.) 
, canetons de Rouen, 

sauce k Torange, 164 
, with olive sauce, satfce 

aux olives, 164 
, in various other ways, 

165. 

E. 

Eau des sept graines, 325 
Eels, anguilles k la broche, s Is 

St. Menehould, k la poulette, 

180 
.... i la tartare, 181, matelote,! 81 
Eggs in white coffee, 244 

in tea, 245 

in gravy, 245 

...... au fumet de gibier, 245 

en surprise, 245 

in snow, 246 

...... in sunshine, 246 

k la polonaise, 247 

k la tripe, 247 

4 la Bechamelle, 247 

i la sauce Robert, 247 



INDLX. 



365 



JEggs poached in gravy, 248 

for all sorts of ra- 
gouts, 243 

«.... in black butter, 248 

in a mirror, 249 

in moonshine, 249. (See 

Omelets.) 

'ISfidive, to have when out of, 
season, 42 

EntremetSf 240. See FaiTTERS. 

....'.., creams of various 
kinds, 243. See Cream. 

.;...., eggs in various ways,, 
244. See Eggs. 

, omelettes, 249 

, jellies, 251 

, blanc manger, 254 

....... peas for the second 

course. Pois d'entremets k 
la Frangaise, 254 

, , French beans. Hari- 
cots verts, 255 

, cauliflowers with but- 
ter sauce, 

^ , choux fleurs. Sauce 

au beurre, 256 

cauliflowers in gravy, 

au jus, 256 

, with Par- 
mesan, 256 

, fried in bat- 
ter, 257 

, artichokes in various 

ways, 257 

• , asparagus in various 

wajrs, 259 

r , small beans, 261 

: , kidney and French 

beans, 261 

I , cucumbers in various 

ways, 262 

, cardoons in various 

ways, 262 

, turnips, 263 

, cabbages, 264 

....... carrots, 264 

, mushrooms, 265 

, truffles, 267 

R 



Entremets, potatoes, 268 

, aubergines, 269 ■~- 

, hops, 270 

, pumpkin, 270 

, Turk's cap, 270 

Fallow Deer, Daim, 105 
, haunch of venison. 

quartier de derriere du daim, 

106 
Filberts, confected, 291 
Fish, braise* maigre for boiling 

fish in, 170 
. . ., fish jelly, glace de pois- 

son, 171 

(See the different kinds, as 
Carp, Lampreys, &c.) 
Fkme denouillesmeringu^,22& 
. . . ., de vermicelle, 228 
. . . ., Suisse, 228 
FloUe, ou Flotton, 192 
Flounder, carrelet, 194 
Forced meats, farce en general,. 

204 ll 

, chaM i petite 

pat^s, et pate k la ciboidette, 
204 

, gratin, 205 

, panada, 205 

, bread crumbs, 

mie de pain, 206 

, cooked ; farces 

cuites, 206 

, of fowl *y quenelles 

de volaille, 206 

, of rabbits ; par- 
tridges and pheasants, 207 

, pudding of rab- 
bits, 207 

Fowls, volaille, 132 

. . . ., Fricass^ de poulets, 1S2 

. . . ., i la chevaliere, 

ISS 

.... poulets en entr^ de 
broche, 134 

a I'ivoire, 134 

.... with oyster sauce, sauift 
aux hultres, 134 ^* 



S 



366 



INDEX. 



Fotols, with truffles, aux truffes, 

134 

. ., as lizards, en lizard, 135 
. ., with peas, aux pois, 135, 

136 

. ., with crawfish sauce, au 

beurre d'^crensse, 136 
. ., roast, 2l la broche pour 

rot, 136 
. ., with green sauce, k la 

Hollandaise, 137 
. ., grilled, poulets i la Tar- 
tare, 137 
. ., sauce au pauvre homme 

et divers autres, 137 
. ., i la Perigueux, 137 
. ., tl la Mayonnaise, 138 
. ., salade de poulets, 138 
. ., in cream, k la creme, 138 
. ., en friteau, 139, 
. ., marinade, 139 
. ., forced meat in paste, 

r%K>lesde volaille, 139 
. ., &i capilotade, 139 
. ., a la Saint Cloud, 140 
. ., 4 la ravigote, 140 
. ., a la paysanne, 140 
. ., a la reine, sauce a la 

pluche verte, 41 
. ,, a la provengale, 141 
. ., boiled capon, 141 (See 
Capon. ) 
. ., roasted; en entree ^ la 

broclie, 142 

. ., a la mar^chale, 142 
, ., k la St. Cloud, 142 
. .,witli loveapple sauce, sauce 

tomate, 143 
. ., roast, k la broche pour 

r6t, 143 

. ., en di verses roanieres, 144 
. ., fillets, filets au supreme, 
144 

. .,fillets minced with cucum- 
bers, emincees aux con- 

combres, 145 
. ., wings of, with endives, 

ailes de poulardes k la mar^- 

chale, 145 



Fowls, a la galantine, 145 

. . ., filets ]i la Bechamelle, 146 

. . ., souffle, 146 

. . ., hash, hachi, 147 

. . .,croquettes,coteletteSyblan- 

quet^es, 147 

. . ., legs with small onions, or 

as swans, cuisses aux petits 

oignons ou en canetons, 148 

. . ., legs en ballon, 148 

. • ., a la Bayonnaise, d la Li- 

vournois, 149 

. . ., quenelles, 149 

. . ., wings, ailerons, en haricots 

vierges, 149 

. . ., wings, ailerons in various 

.other ways, 150, 151 

. . ., cockscom{>s and kidneys, 
152 

. . ., fat livers, foies gras k la 
Perigueux, 153 

in various other 

ways, 154 
Fowlpie&y 219 
FramJboises, creme d^ 324 
French beans, k la poulette, 255 

, d la Br^tonne, 255 

Fritters, apple, beignets de 
pommes, 240 

, beignets souffl^240 

, blanc mange, de blanc 

manger, 240 

, surprised, de surprise, 

241 

, apricot, d*abricots, 241 

, peach, de pcches, 241 

, orange, d'orange, 241 

, cherry, de cerises, 241 

, rice, au riz, 242 

, cream, cr^rae frite, 242 

, celery beignets de celen'i 

243 

, salsify or scorsonera,243 

Fruits, compotes of, 273 

G, 

Gamishings for dishes, garni- 
tures bords dc plats, 33 



INDEX. 



367 



Gamishings, cockscombs, crates 

de coqs, 34 
, cocks' kidncTS, rogn- 

ons de coqs, 34 
, fat livers, foies gras 

et demi-gras, 34 

, carrots, carottes, 34 

, turnips, navets, 35 

, mushrooms, cham- 
pignons, 35 
, small onions, petits 

oignons, 35 

, lettuce, laitues, 35 

, green of spinage, 

vert d'^epinards, 35 
, artichoke bottoms, 

culs d*artichaux toum^s, 36 
, of celery, dc celeri 

aux entremets, 44 
GeesCf oies, 159. See also Wild 

Geese. 
. . . ., roast, a la broche, 160 
... ., with chesnuts, aux mar- 

rons, 160 
. • . ., a la chipolata, 160 
. . . ., legs and wings of, cuisses 

et ailes k la Bayonne, 160 
Genoese paste, 230 
.... tartlets, 231 
Grajye marmalade, 283 
Grajxs, en chemise, 291 

, au caramel, 292 

Gratin, 205 

Green colour, in confectionery, 

293 
GrondinSf 197 

H. 

Ham, plain, jambon au naturel, 

94 
. . . ., braised, brais^, 95 
. • . ., roasted, a la broche, 95 
. . . ., to make, raani^ de 

faire le jambon, 98 
. . . ., of wild boar, jambon de 

sahgller, 104 

. . . ., pye, 217 

B 



Hare, lievre, 106, g&teau ^e 

lievre, 217 
.... juice of, civet de lievre, 

107 
Hatdets de ris de veau, 66 
Htitereavx, 71 
Herb soup maigre, 170 
Herring, hareng, various ways, 

202, 203 
Honey, to clarify, 271 
Hops, 270 

I. 
Iced Cream, of roses, 306 

, of orange flowers, 

307 

, grilled flowers of 

orange, 307 

, pistache, 307 

, chocolate, 307 

, white coffee, 308 

, citron, 308 

, pine apple, 308 

, cheese, 309 

Ices: general directions, 303 

. ., cherry ice, 304 

. ., strawberry, 304 

. •, raspberry, 304 

. ., currant, 304 

. ., iced orange-flower water, 
305 

. ., apricot, 305 

. ., peach, 305 

. ., barberry, 305 

. ., pears, 306 

. ., lemon, 306 

. ., orange, 306 

. ., Seville orange, 306 

. ., hazel nut, 308 

. ., iced water coffee, 309 
Jelly, orange, 251 

. ., lemon, 252 

, ., red fruits, 252 • 

. ,, orange flowers and cham- 
pagne, 253 

. ., pine apples, 253 , 

. ., mar&squin, 253 

. ., rum, and various wines, 

253 
4 



368 INDEX. 

Xaviar, or caTiare, 188 Larksy roast, alouettes & la 

Ketchup, 31 broche, ISO 

Kidney Seam, h. la Lyonnaiie, » with tniflSes, 

256 aux truffes, 150 

, in salad, 256 • . . .» p4t^ cold or hot, firoid ou 

, to preserve, S44 chaud, 130. 

Kidney Pasty, tourte auxrogn- Lavender, vinegar of, for the 

ons de veau, 226 ' toilette, 339 

Kidneys, mutton, 85. See MtU* Xjemons, conserve of, 285 

ton* Leveret, roast, levraut k la 

broche, 107 

L. , scollops, in blood, es- 

calopes au sang, 107 

Ladies* Lips, bouch^ de , filets ^ la proven^ale, 

dunes, 232 108 

Lamb, when in season, 89 . . ; ^ . . . . , en serpent, 108 

Lamb*s HeadSt tStes d*agn- ..... legs, cuisses, en pi^il- 

eaux k la poulette, 89 lottes, 109 

, k rita]ienne,89 , cutlets, cotelettes, 109 

Ears, oreilles farcies , fricassee, en fricassee 

et frites, 90 de poulet, 111 

• • ...., klara- Lir^, englefin, 198 

vigote, 90 LiQUBURs by infusion, 314. (See 
,^ rita- MaHfia), 

lienne, 90 ....... eau d'anis, 316 

.... Feet, pieds k la pou- , orange flower water, 

lette, 90 317 
. . . ., saddle of roast lamb , rose water, 318 

Rosbif d'agneau, 90 , very strong rose water, 

. . . ., forequarter roast. Quar- 318 

tier du devant, k la broche, 90 ....... by distillation. 

. . . ., epigrammes d'agneau, , citron cream, 319 

90 , oil of citron, 319 

. . . ., tendons with asparagus, , des quatre fruits 

aux points d*asperges, 91 jaunes, 319 

. . . ., tendon k la Villeroy, 92 , citronelle de Venise, 

. . . ., cutlets, crumbed,^ pa- 320 

n^s, 92 , fine orange, 320 

, at a minute, k , fine cinnamon, 320 

la minute, 92 , oil of clove, 321 

. . . ., shoulders stuffed, en , anise water, 321 

maset|», 93 , badiane, 321 

Lamjyrey, lamproie, en ma- , cordial water, 323 

telote ^ la Tartare, 181 , Barbadoes cream, 3SS 

Lard, to prepare, 97 ....... cr^me denoyaux, 322 

. . . ., to melt, (sain doux), 97 , oil of roses, 322 

Lard cake, gAteau au lard, 224 , cr^me de Moca, 323 

Lark pict pat^ de pithiviers, , liqueur d* Ang^Uque, 

219 323 



INDEX. 3r.9 

LiQUxuRs, Scubac, 323 Meringali, /lo/tan, with orange 

.»...., huile de Venus, 323 flowers, 300 

, crdme de cocoa, 324 4k . . . ., dry orange flower, 

, d'absinthe, 324 301 

, de framboises, WrUtons de Rouen, 233 

324 MoriUeSf croCltes au, 267 
, Cura9oa, 324 MousserMU, 267 

, de menthe disdllde, Mullet, grey and red. Mulet tt 

325 sur-mulet, 198 

, eau de sept graines, Muscated syrup of vinegar, 314 

325 ^ Muscles, monies, au nature!, et d 

Lwers, fat, foies gras, )llape> la poulette, 177 

rigueux, 153 ..r- Mushrooms, observations on, 40 
, au gra- , in crust, 265 

tin, 153 , k la Bordelaise, 266 

en mate* , sur la tour- 

lote, 153 ti^, 266 
, en caisse, , k la tourti^rc, 266 

154 Mustard, 341 
, batelet- Afu^/on, directions for the choice 

tes, coquilles, 154 of, 78 
Lobsters, (hpmards), how to , hind part, roasted, rot- 
choose, 175 de-bif de mouton, k la broche^ 
Lotte, or eel pout, 183 78 
Lozenge cakes, small, gAteaux , Braised leg of, gigot 

en lozenge, 235 brais^, 78 

, leg, gigot, d la Gat- 

M. conne, 79 

Macaroons, bitter, 296 , leg, boiled, gigot A, 

, sweet, 296 Teau, 79 

Mackardi maquereaux, k la mai- . • . • ., en chev- 

tre-d'h6tel, 199 reuil, 79 
., in the English way; . . . ,,, saddle, roasted, 79. 

k r Anglaise, 200 . . . /., fillets, petites selles, 
, various other ways, 80 

200, 201 , forequarter, ronchis, 

Sfadeleine cake, 231 80 

Manheim bread, 302 • , shoulder in a ball, 

Marrow j)aj<f^,tourte k la moelle, ^paule en ballon, 80 

226 cutlets, c^telettes au na- 

Massepains, 296 turel, 81 

, syringed, 299 witli dumbs, pa- 

, pistadies, 299 n^ 81 

Menthe distiuie, liqueur de, 325 in a minute, ii la 

Mervngals, the twins, 300 minute, 81 

Italian, 300 »iLla jardwre,8^l 

KS. • 



S70 INDEX. 

MuU(m cutlets, with endiTe^ k la Mutton tongues, with Parmesao, 
chicor^e, 82 88 



, in soubise, k H flla matelotte, 88 

soubise, «2 trotters. {SeeSheep*s Trot- 

...... breast of, carr^, k la ters). 

sei'vante, 82 ig- 

en fricandeau, jvbir de veau, 77 



82 



, small fiUets of, filets mig- -^'^«'^' ^^""^^ ^' ^^2 

nons, 83 O, 

, minced, with cucum- Omelets, plain 249 

bers, 88 > a 1* ceiestine, 250 

, hashed, hachis.i la For- » »"* confitures, 250 

tugaise, 83 , of veal kidney, 250 

, haricot, k la Bourgeoise, » of mushrooms, 250 

83 » with sorrel, 251 

, breasts of, poitrines, 84 > with bacon, 251 

, necks of, cojlets, fl la , with truffles, 251 

Sainte M^nehould, 84 j souffl^e, 236 

, necks grilled, collets .., souffle et moul^ 236 

grilles, 84 Onions, brown and white, 

, tails, with endive, queues pluche d*oignons, blanche ei 

demouton glacis ^ la chicor^e, • rousse, 37 

84 Orange cake, gateau k la Portu- 
, hotchpotch, queues - gsise, 233 



en hochepot, 84 , chips In sugar, 284 

, au soleil, 85 » confected, 284 



, in chesnut soup, •• » flower cakes, 287 

terrine de queues de mouton, > sugar candy, 287 

85 , flower-water, 317 

, kidneys grilled, rognons ,double,317 



a la brochette, 85 » fritters, 241 

,, kidneys in Champagne, » flowers confected, 289 



rognons au vin de Cham-^ • , conserve of, 289 

pagne, ou k I'ltalienne, 86 > in sugar, 282 

, animelles de moutons, » marmalade of, 283 

86 , flower marmalade, ^84 

, spinal marrow, amou- bitter, pickled, 325 

rettes, ou moelle along^ede Orgeat, 311 

mouton, 86 Ox-palates. (See Beef Palates.) 

, brains, cervellse, 86 ..•• tails, hotch-potch of, 54 

tongues, langucs en pa- with peas, 54 

pillottc, 86 Oysters, huitres, scolloped, en 
, in forced meat, coquilles. 178 

au|patin, 87 grilled, huitres sur le 

, k la Bretonne, gril, 178 

87 » ragoikt, 178 



INDEX. 371 

P. JPastry, ch^ud, maigre, de carpe 

Palates, 56. (See Beef,) ^ et d'anguille, 214 

Panada, 205. , vol-au-vent, 215 

Pancakes, panequets, 251 p^t^ froid de veau, 215 

ParfaU^amour, 319 en timbale, 216 

J^artridges, red, perdrix rouges, froid k la Dsforge, 

118 ^ 217 

, H la perigueux, 118 de jambon, 217 

, roast, perdreaux, ou de perdrix, 218 

entree de broche, 119 de perdrix rouges, 

, grilled, grill^ 119 4 la perigueux, 213 

, salmi, 119 , fowl pyes, p^t6s de 

, de chasseur, poularde, &c. 219 

120 , larkpye, depithiviers,219 

, a la monglat^ 120 ...; paste, p&te k brioche, 

, with cabbage, aux 219 

choux, 120 , d*^haud^s, 220 



., mayonnaise, 121 ■• , for common his- 

, saut^de filets deper- cuit, 221 

dreaux, 122 " , royal, pate royal, 

, souffly, souffle, 122 221. 

, alapur^e, en terrine , queen's paste, pite de 

ou entree, 123 choux k la reine, 222 

, hash, hachis, 123 , ramakins, p4te k rame- 

, semelles de perdreaux cain, 222 

a la chingara, 123 , talmousesi 223 

, cutlets, cdtelettes, 124 , cheese cake, giteau au 

, p&t^s froids de per- fromage, 223 

dreaux, 124 lard» cake, giteau au 

Pasties, various, 226, 227 lard, 224 

Pastry, p4te k dresser, 209 , pastry cream,cr6me \^.' 

bris^e, 210 tissi^re, 224 

a nouilles, 211 , creme frangipane, 225 

, puffed paste, feuilletage, , baba, 225 

211 , biscuit, 225. (See Bis- 

, petits p^lt^ au nature], cuUs.) 

212 , tart, tourte de frangi- 

, aujus, 212 pane, 226 

,a la b^hamelle, 212 , pasties, yarious,226, 227 

, bouch^s a la reine, 213 , cakes, various, 227, 228 

, II la mancelle, 213 , flanc de nouilles me- 

, au salpi9on, 213 ringu^s, 228 

, tourte d'entr^e de godi- , flanc de vermicelle, 228 

veau, 213 .., flanc suisse, 229 

, pat^s a la ciboulette, 214 , croque-en-boud(|^ 229 

, pit^ chaud de godi- , cake of 100 leaves ; g^. 

veau, 214 teau de mille feuillea, S29 
' ^ ^ financi^re, 214 , almond paste, 2S6 ^ 



872 INDEX. 

Pastry, p&te d*office, 230 Peach fritters, 241 

., Genoese paste, 230 ^ ....*.. pasty, tourte de p^cfaes, 

, cake madeleine, 231 226 

, tartlets, k la chantilly. Peaches, in sugar, 279 

231 , marmalade of, 279 

, little Genoese, petites , in brandy, 279 

G^oises, 231 , galled in sugar, 2flO 

., ladies* lips, bouch^ de Pears, in sugar, compote of, 280 

dames, 232 , de martin sec, 276 

, pistache cakes, gaufl[res ........ de bon-chrdtien, 276 

de pistaches, 232 , bon-chrdtiensgrill^ 277 

, glazed biscuits, Gdnmses Peas for second course, i It 

glac^ k ritalienne, 232 Frangaise, 254 

, mirletonsde Rouen,233 , with ham or bacon, 255 

queen's cake, giteau i , to preserve, 345 

la Reine, 233 Perch, perche, in Tarious ways, 
almond cake, g&teau 181,182 

d*amandes, 233 Pheeuant, faisan, 115 
, g&teau roast, k la broche, 115 

pithiviers, 233 with truffles, aux 



., orange cake, gateau k trufTes ou k la pdregueux, 
la Portugaise, 233 115 
, biscuit manqud, 234 , fillets, filets ii la Vo- 

* aggyzinas, fanchonettes, palli^re, 115 



234 •,. , scollops, escalopes, 

,, small cakes, petits g^ 116 



teaux polonais, 234 , salmi, 116 

, cannelons, 235 ..., souffly, souffle, 117 

, puits d'armour, 235 , with sour crout, i U 

, banded tarts, petites chou croute, 117 



tartelettes bandies, 235 , croquettes, 117 

small lozenge cake, gk" , mayonnaise, 117 

teau en lozenge, 235 ,pudding,boudin, 117 



., darioles, 235 Pickling, directions for, 325, d 

, omelette, souffl^e, 236 seq. 

, souffl^e et 1^*< head, hure de cocbon, 93 

moul^e, 236 , k la mani^ de Trojes, 



., souffle^ de f^cule de 94 
pommes de terre, 237 , ears, oreilles de cochon, en 



., riz souffle, 237 menu de roi, 96 

........ Charlotte of apples, , i 

Charlotte de pommes aux la pur^e, 96 

confitures ou sans confitures. Pig roast, cochon de lait, 98 

237 .... stuffed, »enga- 

.-.«<(, apples in various ways, latnine, 99 

23^, 239 Pig*s tails, queues de cochon, i 

••«-! c^otelettes en surprise, la pur^e, 96 
2ft 



INDEX. 97J 

pig*s feet, pieds It la Sainte Pork cutlets, cotelettes, sauce 

Mendhould, 97 Robert, 96 

..... tongues, smoked, langues , salt pork, petit sal^, 97 

de pore fum^s et fourries, 98 , blood pudding, boudin 

Pigeons, 131. ordinaire, 99 

, wood-pigeons in pickle, , white, 

raxnereaux en marinade, 131 boudin blanc, 100 

...., po^i^s, 131 , sausages, 101 

, kTetouffade, ,andouilles, 102 

131 , to dress as wild boar, com- 

, house-pigeons with peas, me sanglier, 104 

I 156 Potatoes, ^ la mutre_ d*h6tel, 
,coropotof, compote de 268 

pigeons, 157 au jus^ oua la Bretonne, 

,au blanc, 157 268 

, in batter, marinade au ........... k la Lyonnaise, 268 

soleil, 157 . , au beurre, 269 

, ^ la crapaudine, 158 , en beignets, 269 

, small, k la gautier, 158 , frangipane de, 269 

m , au basilic, 158 ^..., topinambours, 270 

,......, cutlets, cotelettes, 159 PoujTUn, 222 

, roast, k la broche, 15 Pravms, crevettes, 177 

, as ortolans, en ortolans Preja^ve^ artichokes, 346 

pour rot, 159 ...., artichoke bottoms, 

Pikef brochet, in various ways, 346 

178 , tomates, 346 

pistadie cake, gateau aux pis- , verjuice, 346 

taches, 228 , chou-croute, 341 

gauffi-es de pistaches, .., sorrel, 343 

232 , endive, 343 

P/atce, limande, 194 , kidney beans, S44 

Plover, 126 cucumbers, 344 

......... pluvier au gratin, 126 > beans, 344 

, ^ la pirigueux, , savory,S45 

126 , peas, 345 

...., en entree de , asparagus, 345 

broche, 127 > artichokes, 345, S4& 

Plumbs, in sugar, 278 Pudding, blood, boudin ordi- 

, in brandy, 278 naire, 99 

, blanching of plumbs, , k la fa9on de 

278 Nanterre, 100 

, small yellow, in sugar, .* , crawfish, boudin d'^ 

279 crevisse, 100 

Pomegrano/e^ in caramel, 293 ....« , rabbit, de lapereau. 

Pork, how to chodse, 93. (See 101 

Pig^s Head, Ham, &^c») , pheasant, defaisw, 101 



chine, ^chin^e de cochon, ,..., ilaRiche- 

96 lieu, 117 ^' • % 



;>.4 INDEX. 



c 



PHttdin^^ of rabbits, I)oiulin Rabbits^ timbalc de lapereaux, 

lie Inpcrcaux a la lliciiclicu, 113 

207 t mayonnaise, 113 

Puits irainour, 235 > lapereaux aux fines 

Pumpkin, 270 herbes, 113 

, aux papillotes, 114 

Q. , marinade, 114 

Quailsy roasted, cailles ^ la bro- , in sallad, salade dc 

die, 127 lapereaux, 114 

, with bay, au lauricr, 127 , in soup, terrine de la- 

, \v i til peas, aux pctits pois, pcreaux, 114 

128 , roasted, accolade, i It 

, au gr.uin, 128 brocbe, 114 

, w-itli lettuce, aux laitues, , pudding of, 207 

129 Ragoots : salpi9on ordinaire, 37 
, in crusts, en croustades, of sweet breads, de 

129 ris dc veau, 38 
, witJi trufHcs, aux trufTes, of cockscombs and kid- 

1 29 neys, dc cr(^tes et rognons de 

Queen s cake, g&teau a la reine, coq en financi^re, 38 

233 , soft roes of carp, lai- 

, paste, 222 tances dc carpcs, 39 

Quenelles de volaille, forced , carps* tongues, lan- 

mcat of fowls, 206 gues de carpes, 39 
, do lapereaux, per- , truffles, aux tnifies, 

dreaux et faisans, 207 39 
, de mcrlan, dc sau- , aux trufies a Tespag- 

mon, &c., 209 nole, 40 

Quince jelly, 280 , kla Pied- 

Quinces, mannaladc of, 283 montaise, 40 

, A la Peri- 

R. gueux, 40 

JRa^6i/5, lapereaux, 110 , of muslirooms, aux 

, saut^ ou e«icaloi)es de, champignons, 41 

110 , white, au blanc, 41 

, fillets, (i lets, 110 , de mnrilles, 41 

, legs, cuisses a la dau- , dc mousserons, 42 

phine, 111 , of endive, de diicorce 

, hash, hachis a la Portu- au brun, 42 

gaise, 111 , of spinach, d'e^i- 

, fillets, filets a Li vo- nards, 43 

palliere, 111 , of French beans, C.c 

, giblets, gibelottes, 1 12 haricots a la Br^tonne, 43 

, giblets with eels, gibe- , of French beans in 

lottes dc lapercau et d'an- juice, de liaricots au jus, 

guiUes, 112 43 

....Y*..) rabbit with peas, aux ••• , white, of cucumber^ 

^ctits^isy 112 blanc aux concombrcs, 44 



M\ 



INDEX. 375 

RagoiltSyk Uchipolata, 44 Mose vinegar, for the toilet or 
, of peas and bacon; de salads, 340 

pois au lard, 44 ...., oil of, 322 

, of olives, 45 , conserve of, 286 

, de navets en haricots souffle cakes, 287 

vierges, 45 , large rose candy> 287 

, de petites racines, 45 

, aux petits oignons, S. 

45 Saffron, conserve of, 286 

, i la Macedoine, 46 St. Peter, St. Pierre, ou poule 

, a la Godiveau, 46 de mer, 198 

Ramakins, pate a ramecain, 222 Salmon, saumon 'X court bouil- 

, other ways, 223 Ion, 184 

Raspberry jam, 274 , grilled, dard de sau- 

Ratifia, de fleur d'orange, 314 mon grille, 184 

, de noyaux, 416 , in various other ways. 



, d'orange de Portugal, 184 — 186 

314 Salsify, or scorzonera fritters, 



., citronelle, 314 243 

, des quatre fruits, 315 Stdt water, eau de sel, 32 

, de framboises, 315 Savory, to preserve, 345 

, de corns, 315 Sauces, 12 

, d'Ang^lique, 316 , beef juice, jus de boeuf, 

, eau d'anis par infusion, 12 

316 ......... grande sa^ce, 12 

) de raisin muscat, 316 ......••, espagnole, 13 — -* ' " 

., gilly-flower, 316 , espagnole travaill^, 13 



Ravigote vinegar, 340 , velout^ ou coulis blanc. 

Rice and milk, 170 14 

cake, gateau au riz, 227 , vclout^ travaill^, 14 

fritters,- 242 , savoury jelly, grand as- 



Riz souffle, 237 pic 

Roach, bearded, rouget barb^, , white butter, blanche au 

198 beurre, 15 A — 

Roebuck, chevreuil, 104 , d la bechamelle, 15 

, to skin, maniere de ., k la Sainte Menehould, 

d^pecftr, 104 16 
, hind quarter roast, quar- , a la bonne morue, 16 

tier de derriere k la broche, , k la poulette, 16 

104 , Italienne rousse, 16 

, cutlets, c6telettes, 105 , Italienne blanche, 17 

, shoulders, ^paules, 105 , a la maitre - d'hdtel, 

, civet de chevreuil, 135 ^2.,^ 

•..., brains, cervellesen ma- ^ la maitre-d*hdtel Ht'e, 

rinade, 105 17 

Rose-vfaX&r, 317 ..» au supreme, 17 

vinegar, 338 , ^ la matelote, 17 * « 



% 



376 INDEX. 

Saccks, poivrade, 17 Sauco, game^ au fUmet de gi« 

» hach^ 18 bier, 26 

} piquante, 18 , au beurre d*ai1, 27 

k la nonpareille) ou i , anchovy butter, au 

rArliquine, 18 beuire d'anchois, 27 

.......... a la pluche, 19 i au beurre de proTenee, 

, aux truflE^ ou ^ la 27 

Perigueux, 19 , ii U Tartare, 27 

, en tortue, 19 » fennel, au fenouU, 28 

, curry, ou i rindienne, » tarragon, clear, daire 

20 k TEstragon, 28 

, tomate, 20 , mayonnaise, 28 

, lYoire, 20 ...m...., rouz, 28 

»,^ , ravigote blanche, 20 , roux blanc, 29 

, cold rayigote, firmdeet , aux hatelettes, 30 ^^ 

crue, 21 • bread, SO 

, drest ravigote, cuite, , truffles, aux tni£Fei k U 

21 St Cloud, 31 

, green, verte, 21 , k la pluche verte, 31 

, Robert, 21 , court bouillon, 31 

, crawfish, beurre d'^cre- , ketchup, 31 

visses, 22 , La Ducelle, 32 

, lobster, aux homards, , au vert prd, 32 

22 ' .......... orange, 2^ Torange^ S3 

, sorrel, i la pur^e d*o- , salt-water, eau de lel, 

seille, 23 32 
,onion,a la pur^ d'oignons , thickened butter, beurre 

blancs, 23 li^, 33 
, brown onions, a la piir^ SausageSf saucisses, 1 01 

d*oignons rousses, dite Br^- , smoked, fum^ 101 

tonne, 23 , flat, 101 

, a la pur^e de pois, 23 Scubac, liqueur, 323 

..., pois verts, pour entr^ &a-dragon, vive, 198* 

et entreaiets, 24 caper sauce, vives 

, peas, pois sees, 24 ^ aux cApres, 199 

lentil, ^ la pur^de len- , k ritalienne,k Tal* 

tilles, k la reinc, 24 "^ lemande, 199 

, pur^e de gibier, 24 Shady alose, in varioua ways* 

, poor man's, au pauvre 186 

homme, 25 Sheq)'* tails, 84. (See Muttotu) 
, veal stock, consomm^ , tongues, 86. (See i/a/* 

reduit, 25 ton.) 
, boiled pickle, marinade , trotters, pieds, 88—89 

cuite, 25 Skate f raie, 201 

.'.., po^e, 25 , with caper sauce, 901 

, II la mirepoix, 26 , various other ways, SO?. 

r... , blanc, 26 SmaU cakes, petits gateaux pelo- 
id I petite, a Taspic, 26 nais, 234 



INDEX. 577 

Small roots, 265 Scups, &c. chicken bro'Ji, pccto- 
SmeitSf epcrlans, in various ways, ral, 1 1 

196 , vea], de veau, 1 1 

SoleSf in various vrays, 192— , cairs lights, mou dc veau, 

194 11 

Souffle de ft^ules de pommes de . . . ., maigre, bouillon dc pois, 

terre, 237 166. 

Soups, &c. 1 to 12 and 166 to . . . ., bouillon pour les potagcs 
,170 et les sauces, 166. 

, potages, grand bouillon, 1 . . . ., bouillon de poisson, 166 

., stock, empotage consom^ . • . ., jus maigre, 167 



m^ 1 . . . ., espagnole maigre, 167 

., strong stock, grand con- . . . ., bread soup, 167 



somm^, 2 . . . ., maigre queen's soup, 168 

,, white soup, blond de . . . ., almond, 168, 169 



veau, 2 . . . ., ^ la Julienne maigre, 
, crust soup, mitonnage, S 169 



., spring soup, potage pri- • • . ., maigre aux herbes, 170 

tanier, 3 • • • ., rice and milk, 170 

...... cressy soup, 3 . . . ., vermicelli and milk, 170 

, green peas, k la pur^e de Sofiir-krout, 341 

pois, 6 Store-room. Directions for cla- 

, lentils, k la pur^ de len- rifyiqg sugar, 270, and pre- 

tilles, 6 serving fruits, 273, with other 

carrots, k la pur^ de , details of confectionery; for 

carottes, 6 which see the various articles ; 

, turnips, k la pur^ de asApricots, Cherries, Candy, &^, 

navets, 6 Strawberries, conserve of, 285 



,, lettuce, aux laitues, 6 Sturgeon, in various ways, 187 

, chesnuts. It la purine de , kaviar, 188 

Tiiarrons, 7 Sugar, to clarify, 271 

, mock turtle, en tortue, 7 Surard, vinaigre, 339 

, cabbage, aux choux, 8 Sweetbreads, ris de .peau, 65, 

..., sago and turnip, ausagon See Veal. ^ 

et ii la pur^ de navets, 8 Sweetmeat pasty, tourte de con- 
...... cond6, k la condd, 8 fitures, 226 

, crawfish, k la bisque d'^- Syrups : violet, 310 

crevisse, 9 > capillaire, 310 

.... , queens, k la reine, 9, 10 , lemon, 31 1 

, macaroni, 10 , orgeat, 311 

, Genoa, ^ la Genoise, aux , mallows (guimauve), 

raviolis, 10 312 

, Italian paste, aux piLtes , verjuice, 312 

d'ltaUe, 11. , mulberries, 312 , 

, k la se- , vinegar, 312 

moule, 11 1 currants, 313 

, chicken broth, bouillon , orange flower, 313 

de poulet, 11 i pomegranates, 313 4 



S78 



INDEX. 



SyrupSy muscated syrup of vi- 
negar, 314 

T. 

Tarragon, vinegar, 339 

Tart, tourte de frangipane, 226 

Tartlets, k la Chantilly, 231 

, petites G^oises, 231 

Tench, tencfae, in various ways, 

183 
Tendons de veau, 73. See VeaL 
Tendons tfagneau, 91. See 

Lamb. 
Thickened bvutter, beurre li^, 33 
Thieves* vinegar, 339 
Thrushes, roast, 127 
Tomates, to preserve, 346 
Tongues, smoked, langue fum^e,^ 

54 
, hung beef, lang^ue de 

bceuf fourr^, 55 

, braised, k la braise, 55 

, with Parmesan, au 

Parmesan, 55 
Tripe, gras-double, 58 
Trout, truite, 186. 
Truffles, trufFes, au vin de 

champagne, 267 
...... en croustade, 267 

, k la cendre, 267. See 

Ragouts, 
TuRBOT, for first or second 

course i turbot entier pour 

premieret second service, 190 
, au gratin, 191, en sa- 

lade, 190 
, small, turbotins sur 

le plat, ] 91 

, sauce tomate, 192 

Turk's cap, 270 
Turkey wheat, au vinaigre, 326 
Turkies, dindes, 154 
, roast with truffles, aux 

trufFes, k la broche, 154 
, en galantine; endaube,y 

155 
Turnips, with sugar, 263 



Turnips, k Tespagnole, 264 

, in white sauce, 264 

Turtle doves, tourtereaux, 132. 
See Pigeons, 

V. 

Vanille roUs, 302 
Veal, directions for choosing, 5^ 
. ., see calTs head, &c. 
. ., fraise, G5 

, i la brisac, S5 

. ., sweetbreads, ris de veau, 

k la dauphin, 65 
, with espagnole sauce, 

^Jjespagnole, 65 

hatelets de ris de 

veau,^ 

, in cases, en caisse, 66 
, in jelly, petit aspic 

de ris de veau, 66 
, risde veau a la poa- 

lette, 67 

. ., loin, and its uses, cuis^ot, 

et la mani^re d*en tirer parti, 

68 
. ., noix de veau a la hour- 

geoise, 69 
. ., en bedeau, 69. 
. . , noix de veau piqu^ (lard- 
ed), 69 

. ., grenadins, 69 
. ., manchons ^ la G6rard, 70 
. ., hAtereaux, 71 
. . , popiettes de veau, 7 1 
. ., filets mignons, 71 
. ., forequarter, quartier de 

devant, 71 
. ., blanquettes, 72 
. ., tendons a la poulette, ou 

au blanc, 72 
. . , tendons in peacock's tails, 

en queues de paon, 72 
^., casserole de riz, 72 ^ - 
. ., tendons dc veau en Mace- 

doine, 73 
: . . ., panes ct 

griU6s, 73 



INDEX. 



379 



Veaif tendons de veau d la May- 
onnaise, 73 

d la rayi- 

gote, 74 

/ , a la ma- 

lade, 74 

, a la Vil- 

\74 
"^tSy cotelettes de veau. 



^ad 



. ., piqu^es, 74 

, k la chingara, 75 

, saut^, 75 

, with ham, au jam- 

bon, 76 

, plain, au naturel, 

76 

, crumbed, pan^, 

76 

, in paper, en pa- 

pillotes, 76 
. . ., breast, larded, carr^ de 
veau piqu6, 77 

• • ., petites noix d*^paules de 

veau, 77 

• . ., noix a la Gendarme, 77 

. . ., how to give to veal the 
taste and appearance of pickled 
tongue, 341 
Venison, haunch of, quartier de 

derriere du daim, 106 
VenuSy huile de, 323 
Verjuice, made to keep, 33 

, confitures de verjus, 

28J 

, skinned, 281 

, paste of, 281 

, to preserve, 346 

Vermicelli and milk, soup, 170 
Vinegar, different ways of mak- 
ing, 836 

>, vinaigre ilacampagne, 

. ' rose vinegar, 338 

. , vinaigredu Conn^table, 



338 



338 

. . . ., of lavender, for the 
toilet, 339 



Vinegar, tarragon, 339 

, ravigote, 340 

, cider, 340 

, beer,-340 

Violets, conserve of, 285 

Violet colour, in confectionery, 

293 
Vol au'Vent, 215 



W. 

Wafers, gaufires, au beurre, 303 
. . . ., Ala cr^me, 303 
. . . ., with Spanish wine, 303 
Whilings, merlans, in various 

ways, 195, 196 

, pudding of, 208 

WUdboof, sanglier, 103 
, head, hure de 

sanglier, 103 

, fillets, filets, 103 

, cutlets, cotelettes, 

103 
, ham, jambon de 

sanglier, 104 
Wild ducks, canards sauvagcs, 

163 
, roast, sk la broche, 

164 
, fillets, with orange 

sauce, d Torange, 163 

, salmi, 163. 

Wild geese, 159 

Wines, on the choice of, 327 

. . . ., champagne, 328, 

. . . ., Bourdeaux, 329 

. . . ., white, 329 

. . . ., of Greece, 331 

. . . . , of Spain, 332 

. . . ., of Tuscany, 333 

. . . ., management of wines, 

333 
, . . ., manner of bottling, 335 
. . . ., wax for bottles, 336 
Woodcocks and snipes, 124 

, roast, .i la broche, 124 

, salmi, 1^5 



S80 INDEX. 

Woodcockt, flowiH^ 125 

....... roast with truflltB, auz Y. 

tniffei, 125 Yellow colour, in confectionery 

, hashed, 125 293. 

fToodjrigeons, ISl. See^^|«oiu. 



¥ 



THE END. 



Landon: 
Printed by A. A R. SpotUtwoode, 
New StreeUSquarc. 



U 



Na^ 



I 

'f 
I 






r 
t 



> / 



■ 


^^^H 


"HB NBW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 1 

HHVBRBNCB OSPARTMBNT H 


b bMk b under no ojroumitancei to be H 
taken Ir^m tlia Bnildini ■ 






























































































^ 


mS 



