Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



iy 




liiiiimiii 

600011436L 




./^-,^ 



TREATISE 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 

WHEREIN ARE ESTABLISHED ON PRACTICAL GROUNDS. 

RULES, 

FOR THE PREVENTION, AND CURE OF DISEASES INCIDENT TO 

A DISORDERED STATE OF THE DIGESTITB ORGANS, 

AND OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 




JAMES RYMER, 



" Ratimaltm qyMan y%U lUiili 

LONDON: 
PRINTED FOR LONQMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN. & GREEN. 

PATERNOSTEK ROW. 

1828. 



Printed by J, A/* Oowan and Sun , 
Great JflndmiU Street, 



1 



I 



I 



To John Abernethy Esquire, F. R. S. 
Sfc, Sfc. Sfc. 



The character which you justly 
sustain in the hterary world, your laud- 
able and successful endeavours to ex- 
tend and improve the art of medicine, 
and the confidence reposed in your skill 
by the public, all conspire to point you 
out as the most proper patron of a per- 
formance which has for its object the 
prevention of diseases, and recovery of 
health. 

These, Sir, are the motives which in- 
duce me to dedicate to you the following 
sheets. I wish they were more worthy 
of your acceptance; but, such as they are; 
I freely submit them to your candour, 
and make no doubt of meeting with that 




I 

at I 



IV DEDICATION. 

indulgence which is inseparable from 
eminent abilities. 

That you may long continue an orna- 
ment to society, and an honour to the 
medical profession, is the sincere wish of 

Sir, 

Your most obedient. 

Humble Servant, 

JAMES RYMER. 

UamsQcUe, hm/t \9i 1828. 



I ■• . 



V : 




1 



I 



PREFACE. 



As it is generally expected of an 
author to give some reason for what he 
ventures to publish, mine, for the appear- 
ance of this volume, shall be explicitly 
stated : to examine and reject such cus- 
toms and vulgar errors as tend to pre- 
judice the understanding and injure 
health ; and to afford a competent idea 
of diseases incident to a disordered state 
of the digestive organs, and of the ner- 
vous system ; as well as the most gentle 
and effectual methods of treating them, 
is the intention of the following medi- 
cal instructions. 

The Spectator remarks " it is one of 
"the greatest beauties of poetry to make 
" hard things intelligible, and to deliver 




I 



i 




I 



" what is abstruse of itself, in such easy 
" language as may be understood by 
" ordinary readers." If this is a merit in 
poetry, surely it is much more so in me- 
dical writings, where the reader is in 
pursuit of useful instruction, rather than 
amusement. 

I should be among the most ungrate- 
ful men, if I did not feelingly acknow- 
ledge the gracious condescension which 
has placed it in my power to prefix the 
Illustrious names of Their Royal High- 
nesses the Dukes of Clarence and Glou- 
cester, His Royal Highness the Prince 
Leopold, and Her Koyal Highness the 
Duchess of Kent as patrons of my publi- 
cation. To the subscribers, individually 
I beg leave to return thanks ; and, to 
those friends who have caused this book 
to circulate far beyond any expectation 
I had formed, I can only return my 

irmest thanks ; accompanied by the 
mce, that this act of their friend- 
vill never be forgotten. 




CONTENTS. 



IntroducUon . . , , Page i%. 

Section I. 

Of the general functions, of the Stomach, and natural quali- 
ties of Saliva, Bile, and Pancreatic Juic^, ^ubseirvient to its 
use ; and of the Disorders proceeding from depravity^ re- 
dundance, or defect of those fluids . Fftge. 1 

Section II. 
Of Animal Digestion, or the Conversion, &c. &c. . 14 

Section III. 
The Sympathy, &c. . • .18 

Section IV. 
The Nature, Treatment, and Cure &c. 24 

Section V. 
Of Symptomatic &c. . . .6^ 

Section VI. 
Of Morbib Affections of the Liver . 66 

Section VII. 
Of Nervous Disorders &c. &c. . 84 



VIU CONTENTS. 

Appendix. Page 

An account of the natural history and qualities of Opium ; 

with practical &c. &c. . . 119 

The natural history and qualities of Peruvian Bark 123 

Weights ..... 129 

Measures . • . . ib. 

An Explanation of Terms . 130 

Posological Table or Medicine Chest Directory . 131 
A Table intended to shew the doses of Medicines proper for 

persons of different ages 133 

Select Prescriptions. 

Mild Aperient Pill .... 134 

Aperient Wine, formerly called the Sacred Elixir ib. 

Stomachic Aperient Tincture . . 135 

Stomachic Pill ..... 136 

Stomachic Wine .... ib. 

Chalybeate or Steel mixture . • . 137 

Decoction of Peruvian Bark . . . ib. 

Antiseptic Mixture .... 138 
The Camphorated Mixture of the London Dispensatory ib. 
The Camphorated Mixture with the Tincture of Opium ib. 

The Mercurial Pill . . . . 139 

Decoction of Sarsaparilla ... ib. 

Compound Decoction of Sarsaparilla . I^jO 

Lixiviated Whey .... ib. 

Decoction of Taraxacum or Dandelion . . 141 

Mindererus's Spirit . . . . ib. 

Diaphoretic Draught . . • ib. 

Compound Powder of Ipecacuanha . . 142 
Common Saline Draught . • .143 

Asthmatic Elixir . . . . ib. 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 



HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF CLARENCE. 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF SAXE-COBURG« SAALFELD, 

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUCHESS OF KENT. 



Rev, W, AUen^ Nether Stowey, Somerset. 

Richard Anstice, Esq., Bridgewater, Somerset. 

N. A. Austin, Esq., Ramsgate. 

Mr. Ash, Canterbury. 

Mrs. Allison, Finch Lane, Comhill. 

Mr. W. Adley, Ramsgate. 

Mr. Israel Abraham, Ramsgate. 



Rev. W. Buller, Over Stowey, Somerset. 

John Bent, Esq. M. P. 

T. Bent, Esq. 

G. F. Barlow, Esq., Ribston Hall, Wetherby. 

Mrs. Barnard, Fulham House, Fulham, Middlesex. 

b 



% LI8T OF SUBSCRIBERSl 

Joint 11. Hlttck, Lieut. R. N. Ramsgate. 

lA^ul W. Deckett, R. N. EllingUm, new Ramsgate. 

,1, H. Uniwnc, Esq., Canterbury. 

iloltit Doiirn, Kiq.i Ramsgate, 

TlininNN Hiirtt Ksq., Reigate. 

V, lli>y», KiM|., Bridgewater, Somerset. 

IVfiM. IMir, Hiimdgate. 

Mis I'^. llMrrow^ Ramsgate. 

MiN li}, HInli RnmsgQte. 

Mm. Ilwk^r, Tooting. Two Copies. 



'V\w Viicount Clermont 
'V\w Right Rev. the Bishop of Carlisle. 
Hir John Conroy, Kensington Palace. 
Mnjor Cockbum, Havyott Lodge, Somerset 
V» II » Cockbum^ Esq., Court House, Nether Stowey. 
B^njMOiin Coates, Esq., North End Fulham. 
JOi»eph Coombe, Esq., Shurton Court, Somerset 
H. Crofts, Esq., Dumpton near Ramsgate. 
John Cuttler, Esq., Ramsgate. 
— Cater, Esq., Hoxton. 
W. Chandler, Esq., Ramsgate. 
Mn> Ann Cramp, Ramsgate. 
Mr. James Crisford, Ramsgate. 
Mr* John Cunningham, Ramsgate. 
Mr. ¥iOdtU Jun.» Ramsgate. 
c nMttM Cramp, Canterbury. 



XJST OF SUBSCRIBERS. xi 



Mr. George Culverhouse^ Ramsgate. 



Captain Dewell, Royal Artillery. 
Henry Dawson, 'Esq., Ramsgate. 
Charles Davies, Esq., Ramsgate. 
Mrs. Deacon, Ramsgate. 
Mr. J. Denne, Margate. 
A. Degas, Esq., Roselands. 

Major Fawssett, Ramsgate. 

James Fisher, Esq., Duke Street, St. James's. Two 

Copies. 
Mrs. Fisher, Duke Street, St. James's. Two Copies. 
Mr. Charles Fisher, Ramsgate. 
Mr. John Fraser, Ramsgate. 



Sir Thomas Grey, M. D. Ramsgate. 

Sir Harry Goodriche, Bart. 

Mrs. Grant, Ramsgate. 

John Green, Esq., firompton. Two Copies. 

Mrs. Gold, Ramsgate. 

M. Goodwin, Esq., Ramsgate. 

Francis Gosling, Esq., Arlington Street. 

Thomas Hillson Giles, Esq., Flaistow, Essex. 

Mr. Arch. Green, Mount Street, Grosygnor Square. 

Mr. T. Goldsmith, Ramsgate. 



XU LIST OF SUJB6GRIBERS. 



Rev. W. H. H. Hartley, Bucklebury House. 

Rev. J. E. Hemus, Roselands. 

J. E. Hamoir, Esq., Roselands. 

Rev. W. Harvey, Langley Park. Two Copies. 

Rev. R. Harvey Jun.» Ramsgate. 

George Harvey, Esq., Langley Park. Two Copies. 

D. Hodgson, Esq., Sandwich. 

John Howell, Esq., Margate. 

Mr. W. A. Howell, Ramsgate. 

Mrs. Harrison, Canterbury, 



Mrs. Ireland, Hornsey. 



John Jackson, Esq., Ramsgate. 
Mr. R. Jarman, Ramsgate. 
Mr. D. W. Jarman, Ramsgate. 
Mr. J. Jarman, Ramsgate. 
Mr. W. Jarman, Sandwich. 
Mr. J. M. Johnson, Ramsgate. 
Mr. R. G. Johnson, London. 
Mrs. Jephson, Mallow, Ireland. 



Dr. Kent, Ramsgate. 

H. King, Esq., Nether Stowey, Somerset * 

Mr. John Kennett, Ramsgate. 



• •• 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBBaa Xltl 



Mr* Richard Kempley, Ramsgate. 



T. S. Lomax^ Esq., Bernshaw Tower^ Lancashire* 
Mrs. Lee^ Ramsgate. 



Captsun T. B. Martin^ Deputy Harbour Master, 

Ramsgate. 
Mr. Minter, Canterbury. 
A. Montz, Esq., Roselands. 



Mr. Charles Newbolt, St. Peters, Isle of Thanet. 



Rev. B. Pope, Vicar of Nether Stowey, Somerset. 

Dr. Plenderleath, Ramsgate. 

Powell, Esq. Quex Park, Isle of Thanet. 

Thomas Poole, Esq., Nether Stowey, Somerset 

T, E. Poole, Esq., Nether Stowey, Somerset. 

Mrs. Percival, Arundel Street, Strand. 

A. S. Peake, Esq., Ramsgate. 

Robert Page, Esq., Ramsgate. 

Mrs. Phipps, Ramsgate. Two Copies. 

Mr. J. P. Ramsgate. 
Mr. W. Perry, Ramsgate, 

W, Willoughby Prescott, Esq., Threadneedle St 



r 

^ Xl\ 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 



SkefHngton Robinson, Esq., Sidmoutli Street, i^ 

Henry Tritton Heaks, Esq., Ramsgate. 

W. H. Rolfe, Esq., Sandwich. 

Mrs. Righton, Ramsgate. 

James Rymer, Sen. Surgeon, R. N. Reigate- 

Baron de Stockmar, Claremont. Tivo Copies. 

The Hon. Horace Seymour, Bruton St. Berkeley Sq. 

Rev. R. F. Snelson, Reigate. 

Edward Sealy, Esq., Castle Hill, Nether Stowey, 

^ Somerset. 

Henry Sealy, Esq., Nether Stowey, Somerset. f_- 

George Sealy, Esq., Nether Stowey, Somerset. 

W. Story, Esq., Mount Street, Berkeley Square. 

C. H. Storey, Esq., Mount Street, Berkeley Square. 

James Story, Esq., Regent Street. 

Samuel Sharwood, Esq., Ramsgate. 

Thomas F. Savory, Esq., New Bond Street. 

John Savory, Esq., New Bond Street. 

George R. Smith Esq-, Gough Square. 

Mr, Samuel Sackett, Ramsgate. 

Mr. T. Spurgen, Ramsgate. 

Mr. T. Sawyer, Ramsgate. 

Mr. Stevens, Ramsgate. 

Mr, J. Singer, Ramsgate. 

Robt. Spiller, Esq., 35, Guildford Street. 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. ' XV 



Sir W. Tuysden, Bart. Royston Hall. 
Rev. George Townsend, Ratnsgate. 
Miss Tew, Grafton Street, Bond Street. 
Mrs. Townley, Ramsgate. 
R. Townley, Esq., Ramsgate. 
T. Templeman, Esq., Ramsgate. 
R. Tomson, Esq., Ramsgate. 



Mrs. Monier Williams, Russell Square. 

E. Warre, Esq., West Cliflf House, Ramsgate. "" 

T. Ward, Esq. Nether Stowey, Somerset. ^ 

Mrs. Wheatley, Ramsgate. 

Mrs. S. Weston, Ramsgate. 

H. Wells, Esq., Ramsgate. Two Copies. 

Mrs. James Wood, Sandwich. 

Mr. T. Weller, Ramsgate. 

Mr. G. Witherden, Margate. 

Captain Watson, Jamaica Street, Commercial Road . 



Captain ZuidhofF, Amsterdam. 



h'hr I 



INTRODUCTION. 



I 



Medicine being, as far as we can trace it, in all 
countries, in its first beginnings in the bands of men, 
infected witb superstition, every part of its doctrine 
has constantly been affected witb tliat weed, and the 
dietetic part perhaps more so than any other. We 
find always in the mouths of those tainted with this 
original sin, that man is to live naturally, and, on 
such food as is presented to him by nature. Little 
men ! and forgetful of the Almighty's decree, that 
man shall earn bis bread by the sweat of his brow, 
and of course find out all kinds of substances 
whence he is to procure subsistence ; and if he can- 
not by his industry find out vegetables, or animals 
which may serve him for subsistence, he must culti- 
vate and alter them from their natural state. Ac- 
cordingly, men live, in as far as they live on veget- 
ables, on such as are no where to be found growing 
naturally. Wheat, rice, rye, barley, or even oats, 
are not found wild ; that is to say, growing 
naturally in any part of the earth, but have been al- 
tered by cultivation ; that is, by the industry of 
mankind, from plants not now resembling them even 
in such a degree as that we can trace whence they 
drew their origin ; and not only these, but most of 
the other vegetables that we employ. A plant of 




XVllI INTRODUCTION. 

scanty leaves, and a small spike of flowers, not weigh- 
ing altogether half an ounce, is improved into a cab- 
bage, whose leaves alone weigh many pounds, with- 
out counting those which are expanded ; — or into a 
cauliflower of many pounds weight, being only the 
embryo of a few buds, which in their natural state 
would not have weighed so many grains; the plant 
itself, in its natural state, not only being nothing 
in its bulk, but in its quality, the reverse of nutri- 
tious. 

Modem times are those of experiment. It is true 
that all our knowledge of every thing whatever, 
must arise from experiment only, that is, from the 
evidence our senses give us of what appearances 
nature, in other words, thecreatures of the Almighty, 
give impressions of. Some of these impressions are 
received from the ideas that arise from things not at 
all under our dominion, or from circumstances which 
he governs himself; thus, for example, a man sees a 
tree lose its leaves in the autumn, sees tliem renewed 
in the spring, and a new growth take place during 
the summer; he sees the blossoms open in the spring, 
these he finds followed by fruit, which if it falls into 
the earth, he finds capable of producing new trees 
of the same species, or he sees it gathered by ani- 
mals and aflbrdiug nourishment In this mode of 
acquiring knowledge man is totally passive; he 
did not contrive to make leaves fall in the autumn, 
and be reproduced in the spring ; he did not con- 
trive to make new wood grow in the summer, nor 
that blossoms should open that the seeds should be 
impregnated with the embryo ; he did not contrive 




INTRODUCTION. XIX 

that the fruit should grow, nor did he teach animals 
that it was fit for iheir nourishment. What know, 
ledge is acquired by attention to these natural cir- 
cumstances has been called observation. It is indeed 
a contemplation of the benevolenceof the Almighty 
to give nourishment and happiness to all the in- 
habitants of the earth. 

The minds of mankind, not satisfied with their 
powers of observation of what passes in tliis earth, 
but being forced even for their own subsistence, to 
exert themselves far beyond the brute creation, are 
necessitated to make a farther enquiry, and that 
with a labour beyond the contemplation of the bene- 
volence of the Almighty. To those creatures who 
have only this earth to exist in, food, and raiment 
are provided without labour or attention during the 
short period of their lives. It is not sufficient for 
the farmer to look where grain grows naturally; it 
is necessary to try, uith an infinite variety of appli- 
cations that may be made to the ground, to produce 
crops superior to those which would arise in it with- 
out any cultivation. It is necessary for the hunter 
not only to observe the natural history of wild beasts, 
but also to try by what means lie can engage them 
to fall into his toils. It is necessary for the fisher- 
man, besides admiring the multiplicity of fish, to 
be able to contrive either to entangle them or sur- 
prise them into his nets. It is necessary for the 
shepherd to try by what means he can increase his 
flocks, so as to produce greater numbers than would 
naturally be propagated. It is necessary that man 
should try to procure better defence from tlie in- 



XX INTRODCCTIDN. 

clemency of tlie weather, iban the caverns and otliei- 
lioliows of the ground which naturally offer them- 
selves. So, and in many other cases it is necessary 
for mankind, not only to contemplate those things 
which happen naturally, but likewise he is constrain- 
ed to form projects of his own, and to contrive means 
of putting both mind and matter in circumstances 
foreign to what would naturally arise in them, and 
contemplate the effects; and this we call experiment. 

ObservaticH) then, and experiment are the sources 
of all the knowledge of mankind. 

Man seems to have a degree of pride implaBtcd 
in his nature, which prompts him constantly to con- 
sider himself as being far superior to what he actual- 
ly is; and which instinct is the surest proof, that be 
is to be very superior indeed. But, as all the vir* 
tues of mankind are balanced by opposite imperfec- 
tions, the pride of experiment, has In many instances 
thrown science into confusion, instead of fom-arding 
it. An experiment, to prove a thing otherwise de^ 
monstrable, is totally superfluous ; and not only 
superfluous, but, fallacious. 

Whatever is too subtile for the comprehensioti of 
moderate understandings, or minute for the eye of 
common sense, promises but little advantage in the 
attainment ; for it may be asserted as a general 
truth, that the most useful part of every science, is 
obvious and striking, at first view. Many of those 
which formerly were mysterious and abstruse, when 
stripped of their pedantic buckram, and foppish 
parade, became intelligible to common capacities. 

The general interest of the medical art can never 



J 



I ^ 



I 



INTRODUCTION. XSI 

fiufTer from such proceedings; for, by informing the 
minds of men with just ideas of its true nature, many 
unreasonable prejudices would be obviated, or re- 
moved. Besides, a competent idea of this subject, 
\irould enable them to distinguish modest merit, 
A'om presuming ignorance, and to form a proper 
judgment of such as are fittest to be entrusted with 
the care of their health, independent of mere name* 
in vogue, to which accident, or more exceptionable 
causes have often contributed not a little. In a word, 
the credit of medical science, and the interest and 
honour of those who profess it, can never be more 
properly supported, than by such liberal and direct 
proceedings, as tend to the immediate relief of those 
■ who employ them, whether that is to he done by the 
administration of medicines, the use of air, diet, ind 
exercise, or the united powers of the whole. 

If, in the following sheets, I have laid much stress 
on the salutary power of regimen and simple medi* 
cines, it was from a thorough conviction of their 
efficacy ; and because experience assured me they 
afibrd the most gentle and natural means of curing 
chronic diseases. 

They have a slender title to medical knowledge 
who limit tlie treatment of such maladies to the sole 
use of medicines ; and it ought to be remarked, that 
there is not any thing to be considered properly such, 
which does not relieve or cure, liowever dignified 
by particular names importing its superior efficacy ; 
and on the contrary, if the disease is removed, by 
air, diet, and exercise, or the most innocent veget- 



XXii INTRODUCTION. 

able simples, they are then to be looked upon as me- 
dicines to all intents and purposes. 

Should the undertaking appear exceptionable to 
some, from the simplicity of its plan, which adapts 
it to general comprehension, on the principles of 
common sense; I trust there are many of discerning 
minds and disinterested views, who will distinguish 
better, and readily approve a design, the great objects 
of which are, the prevention of diseases and recovery 
of health. 

Were women as attentive to the inestimable bless- 
ings of health, as tlie capricious extremes of novelty 
and fashion, it would be fortunate for themselves 
and their offspring; but as this is rather to be wish- 
ed than expected, it may be necessary to put them 
in mind, that althougli health does not altogether 
constitute beauty, beauty is the child of health, and 
cannot long exist without her parental influence: in 
vain they would strive to preserve one, without due 
regard to the other; the great secret of improving 
beauty consists in the art of preserving health — t'is 
that which animates, and lights up the countenance 
with expressive smiles, which touches the lip with 
vermilion, and diffuses o'er the cheeks a freshness 
and vivid glow, surpassing Circassian bloom. It 
gives sweetness to the breath, and lustre to the eye; 
but let sickness and disease overshadow the beaute- 
ous form, and its appearance is no longer retained i 
the snowy whiteness of t!ie skin is exchanged for a 
sallow hue; the lustre of the eye is tarnished, and 
the blooming cheek will fade ! Is it not then to be 
lamented, that the true value of health is seldom 




INTRODUCTION. 



sufficiently regarded, 'till it is either impaired, or ir- 
retrievably lost ? 

AVas it further necessary to shew the importance 
«f health, and its estimation, among the wisest peo- 
ple in all ages, we need only take a view of the 
means they devised to attain it. In the infancy of 
physic the Ejryptians and Chaldeans first introduced 
the method of placing the sick in public streets and 
highways, in order to receive information from 
travellers passing by, in what manner they had been 
eured of the like diseases. — Herodotus tells us the 
Babylonians obliged themselves by a law to observe 
the same wise custom. In Greece it also prevailed, 
■where offerings on f^otive-tables were hung up in 
the temple of ^sadaphts, the god of physic, where- 
on, the name of the disease, and medicines which 
cured it, were engraved, and recorded, for the public 
good. From these rude outlines, the venerable 
Hippocrates collected his aphorisms, so justly ad- 
mired for ages, and delivered down to posterity, as 
the very basis of true medical knowledge. 

When we look back on the slender causes which 
gave rise to the noblest productions of nature and 
art, we need not be surprised, th:it by such informa- 
tion, great advances were made in the method of 
Curing diseases. Those who practised in this simple 
manner, were not deluded by theory, or hypothesis, 
tut judged from the evidence of their own eyes, 
taking it for granted, that what had cured one, might 
prove equally beneficial to another under the like 
circumstances; and it may be again remarked, that 
knowledge thus experimentally acquired, is more 



1 



J 



B iiiri 



INTRODUCTION, 



genuine, and less fallacious, than what we obtain by 
more elaborate means. 

It ought not therefore to be slighted because it 
springs from humble sources; but rather should be 
considered like gold in the mine, which lies buried 
with baser metals, and often is brought to light by 
mere chance, after, human industry had sought for 
it in vain. 

In this manner the Lord of the creation with all 
his boasted reason, has often been obliged to borrow 
information from the beasts of the field, and the 
birds of the air, according to the elegant poet of the 
following lines 

" Thue tlien to man, tho vuice of nature Epnke, 

" Go, from the creatures tby iiistriintion tuke : 

" Lenm from tlie birds, whiit food tlie Uiipfceta yield, 

" Learn from the beasts, the physic of the field: 

" Thy arts of building from the bee receive, 

" Learn of the mole to plough, the worm to weave; 

" Lenrn of the little Nautilus to sail, 

" Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale." 

Pope. 

After the discovery of a new world in America, 
the virtues of many vegetables were made known 
by the native Savages, to the Europeans, who by 
their superior skill in physic, greatly extended and 
improved the use of those salutary medicines: but 
as we have not a specific for every disease, like the 
Peruvian bark for the cure of intermittent fevers, 
'tis evident that great judgment is necessary to make 
one and the same medicine answer many different 
intentions of cure. 

The element of fire, if used with discretion, will 



J 




INTRODUCTION. 



I 

I 

I 



warm and cherish the body ; but immoderately ap- 
plied, it becomes destructive : and wine, the most 
generous of cordials, which exhilirates, and makes 
the heart glad, if taken in excess, will benumb the 
senses, and turn the man to beast. 
, Like those peryerted blessings, are powerful me- 
dicines, when mis-applied; for, that sovereign re- 
medy, the Peruvian bark, and the almost divine 
powers of opium, are in their own nature the same, 
whether in the hands of tlie ignorant or skilful, al- 
though the difference of their effect will be very 
great, according to their proper, or improper use. 
It is not therefore only the thing itself, but also its 
use or abuse which constitutes the remedy or poison. 
That sagacious and incomparable physician Syden- 
ham, whose skill was equalled by nothing so much, 
as his exceeding honesty, by diligent and repeated 
observation, he discovered what his envious con- 
temporaries could not before find out, with all their 
pretended subtlety, and acuteness of reasoning, name- 
ly, that the free, and unlimited use of fresh air, and 
cold fluids were indispensably necessary in the small 
pox; and that the contrary method, was the sure 
way to kill the patient, although in his time, it was 
the prevaihng practice. This I mention to shew 
the superiority of practical knowledge, and the fal- 
lacy of those who expect to cure diseases without it ; 
as well as to demonstrate the power of cooling regi- 
men, which did more in subduing that destructive 
disease, than all the Materia-Medica put togetlier. 

If the efficacy of regimen is so very apparent in: 
acute diseases, the propriety of its use in maladies of 
d 



1 

■ 
1 



^ 



I 



XXVI INTRODUCTION. 

the chronic kind, must still be more evident ; for as 
they are attended with less immediate danger, it may 
be longer continued, and varied, according to the 
nature of particular circumstances, in such a manner 
as to produce a gradual, lasting, and salutary change 
in the bodily system ; especially when assisted with 
mild and simple medicines. 

Instead of this rational method of proceeding, a 
faiTago, or unnatural hodgepodge is often directed 
for the patient, where many ingredients of contrary 
qualities, are jumbled together, in spite of their own 
enmity to each other. The jarring elements of fire 
and water, might as well be expected to agree. But, 
even admitting the efficacy of the several ingredients, 
when separately considered, according to such modes 
of prescription, there is generally too small a quanti- 
ty of any one of them, to make it act with sufficient 
power. 

What then is to be expected from those composi- 
tions, which, either considered in whole, or in part, 
exclude every idea of answering their proposed end ? 
But should the event prove favourable, it would be 
impossible to determine, which of those several in- 
gredients was most conducive to the cure ; conse- 
quently, no improvement could thence be made in 
the art of healing. Such mixtures are well calcu- 
lated to keep both patient and prescriber in profound 
ignorance of what is productive of good, if fortunate- 
ly, such should be their effect : they may indeed, as 
usual, be said to be made according to art, for nature 
has nothing to do with them. 

Whence this extraordinary fondness for com-- 




INTRODUCTION. 



I 



cvii I 



pound medicines could proceed, is not easy to dis- 
cover, witiiout it was from our ignorance of the true 
qualities of simples. Why should we attempt to 
do that which nature with her own salutary hand, 
and more than chymical exactness, has done much 
better? for every plant is in reality, a compound of 
oil, spirit, and essential salt, differing in specific 
quality, according to the proportions of those prin- 
ciples. 

Such substances then, are already prepared for the 
purposes of medicine ; but if we torture, and disjoin 
their parts, we defeat the intention of nature, by 
niaking them what they were not before; and thus 
convert natural medicinal substances, into danger- 
ous artificial poisons. 

The bitter almond for example, contains both a 
poison, and its antidote; for in its natural state, it 
may be taken as nourishment, with the greatest 
safety ; but only separate from it, the two sorts of 
oil, of which it is possessed, the one from its husk or 
membrane by distillation, the other from its white 
or mealy part, by pressure, and we shall find, that 
ten drops of the former in an ounce of water will 
kill a dog in half an hour ; whilst on the contrary, 
the other is friendly to the constitution and affords 
wholesome nourishment. 

Surely there is a nearer road to tlie cure of chronic 
diseases,i\\^n by the stomach and bowels, from what 
are called medicines : but the wide extended path of 
nature is often deserted, whilst men are ridiculously 
employed in making their way through narrow 
avenues, beset vvith briars and thorns ; and so long 



\ 



L 



XXVm INTRODUCTION. 

as they profit largely by this kind of labour, 'tis no 
wonder, that now and then, they sliould be tempted 
lo go a little about. 

Whatever benefit is suddenly produced by tlie 
effects of strong medicines, is generally done with 
some degree of violence to the constitution, and is 
seldom lasting ; whereas air, diet, and exercise, do 
not like the former aflfect particular parts of the body, 
and for a short time only ; but are always acting 
upon the general habit, in a natural, uniform, and 
gentle manner. Those remedies do not pall the 
stomach, and subject the patient to any severe pen- 
ance; but on the contrary, increase the appetite, 
strengthen, invigorate, and cheer the spirits, promote 
a free, and equal distribution of the blood through 
its vessels, as well as the several discharges, depend- 
ing upon a due circulation. 

Diseases which are slowly produced, can only^ 
with safety, be slowly taken away ; and few I be- 
lieve will oppose a truth so manifest, or deny that 
this purpose is best effected by air, exercise, and a 
medicated diet : those are the grand alteratives in 
Nature's dispensatory, those the mild, but powerful 
simples which in due time will produce a salutary 
and lasting change, attended with circumstances 
which cannot fail to recommend them, namely, they 
may be beneficial to all, and can be hurtful to none. 

In general, chronic diseases are the offspring of 
intemperance, and irregularity of the passions, which, 
by weakening the nervous influence, impair both 
appetite and digestion, and render the natural dis- 
charges of the body, irregular and defective. To 



J 



INTRODUCTION. 



V 



I 



I 



those causes may be added some others arising from 
an hereditary taint, or acute diseases terminated by 
an imperfect crisis. The too frequent and unseason- 
able loss of blood, by the lancet, or preposterous 
use of strong medicines, as vomits, purges, mercury 
and the like, may also lay the foundation of such 
diseases. 

Diseases peculiar to certain places, which are there- 
fore called endemial, as well as those prevailing in 
diflferent nations and climates, or according to the 
nature of people's various employments, and manner 
of living, all evidently shew, how much the health 
may suffer, from causes always present to the body, 
and insensibly acting on the constitution. 

From this obvious and self-evident principle, we 
may expect to prevent or cure the most obstinate 
chronic diseases, by the long continued use of regi- 
men, and simple medicines ; which, being regularly 
continued, without violence to the constitution, have 
the power to produce in the body, a gradual, and as 
it were, a mechanical change. 

In short, if the damp unwholesome air of particu- 
lar places has been found to occasion agues, and 
dropsies peculiar to such situations, as in the fens of 
Essex and Lincolnshire ; if a total abstinence from 
fresh vegetables, and the excessive use of salt and 
smoke-dried animal food, or living in low marshy 
places contiguous to the sea, have in a thousand in- 
stances, been known to produce the scurvy ; and if 
3 sedentary, inactive life, has been observed to ener- 
vate the body, bring on indigestion, paralytic numb- 
ness and wasting of the limbs, hysterics and melan- 



4 



I 



SXX INTRODUCTION. 

clioly ; it will then follow, from the principles of 
common sense, that the use of dry clear air, simple 
vegetable food, and moderate exercise, will not only 
prevent, but also powerfully contribute to cure such 
diseases ; since tliose may be all uniformly applied 
to the body, and will constantly act on every part of 
the whole, in a manner directly opposite to the mor- 
bid causes. 

Those are the great and universal remedies which 
nature calls to her aid in the cure of diseases : they 
are not like particular substances, taken from a 
changeable Materhi-Medica, the medicines of to day, 
and to-morrow, but will permanently continue to 
exert their sovereign power, to the end of the world. 
How different is the fate of many things which igno- 
ance and superstition, or the excessive caprice of 
mankind, had, for a season, stamped as genuine and 
infallible? for as the hand of time shall shift the 
scene, and tyrant custom prevail ; many of those 
very medicines and modes of practice, which have so 
much captivated their enamoured votaries, like others 
which went before them, will be viewed by poste- 
rity as airy nothings, the very baubles and bagatelles 
of the science. 

I would not hence be understood to mean that 
regimen should entirely supersede the use of medi- 
cines ; on the contrary, I know they are often ab- 
solutely necessai-y and highly beneficial. But it is 
much to be regretted, that many insignificant trifles 
have been introduced into practice, and were much 
confided in, whilst regimen was neglected and set 
aside. The preservation and recovery of health 



J 



^H INTRODUCTION. XXXi M 



I 



rather depend on temperance and the regulation of 
the passions ; the proper choice of medicated ali- 
ment, tlie common benefits of fresh air, and exercise, 
than the frequent administration of medicines. 

The medical science, as to its proposed end, is the 
most noble and useful of all others, having nothing 
less for its object than the preservation and recovery 
of health, which is the very basis of human happi- 
ness ; for sickness and disease not only rob us of all 
enjoyment, but, at last, of life itself. 

Much pains have been taken to cure diseases, but 
very little to prevent them ; although the last inten- 
tion depends as much upon rational and certain 
principles, and may be as properly reduced to an 
art, as tiie former. 

If the cure of diseases, is a thing of great import- 
ance to the general good ; the art of preserving 
health is matter of still greater moment; for many 
diseases, especially those of long continuance, do not 
always admit of cure : they may not indeed prove 
suddenly destructive, but the constitution receives a 
shock from every attack which weakens llie springs 
of life, and takes something from its length of days. 

Although it is not so much the interest of the 
profession to prevent diseases, as to cure them, it is 
equally their province and duty ; and if attention 
were paid to this branch, by means proportioned to 
the end, they would probably be more successful in 
the first than last ; yet such is the fatality of medical 
science in what concerns the prophylaxis or preven- 
tion of diseases, that many salutary rules and cautions, 
tending to the preservation of health, are either 



XXXll INTRODUCTION. 

blindly overlooked, or neglected : and many pernici- 
ous customs still retained, to its manifest injury. 

The source of this evil seems to arise from people 
not being duly sensible of the value of health, till 
they have lost it ; and the evils they might certainly 
avoid on this occasion ; for, in general, medical advice, 
and the services that might result from it, are under- 
valued and disregarded, on the mere presumption 
that the diseaises they are said to have prevented 
would probably never have happened. But if in* 
temperance and neglect are known to destroy health ; 
temperance and prudent caution will as certainly 
preserve it Valetudinarians would therefore act a 
friendly part to themselves in supposing a physician 
as much entitled to reasonable gain« for laying down 
rules towards the preservation of health, as he who 
should prescribe medicines with a view to restore iU 



TREATISE 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 






SECTION I. 

' Of the general functions of the Stomachy and natural 
qualities of Saliva^ Bile, and Pancreatic Juice, 
subordinate to its use ; and of 'the Disorders pro- 
ceeding from depravity^ redundance, or defect of 
those fluids. 

Living beings, both of the vegetable and animal 
creation, constantly e^^pend some part of their fluids 
or solids, or both, when they are exerting any action, 
or performing any function of life. They may per- 
haps remsun in a dormant state for some time with- 
out loss. It is necessary when a loss is sustained, 
that it should be supplied by the addition of some 
Tiew matter ; and this new matter is called their food% 
If this matter has not the same qualities with the 
matter of the parts of the body which are lost, then 
it is evident that it must undergo a change, and be 
converted into a substance, possessing the same 

B 



H t 

H 

H thet 



2 A TREATISE ON 

qualities, and consequently being of tbe same species 
with tliat whicii was lost. 

Without considering the constant loss which I 
have stated, animalsj during a certain period of their 
lives, are acquiring new partSj and increasing in 
bulk; and vegetables are continually forming new 
parts. It is necessary, therefore, that food should 
be employed to supply matter for this formation and 
increase. 

There are organs in animals for receiving the food, 
and retaining it for a certain length of time before 
it passes into the general system of vessels, which 
we call the organs of digestion. 

In vegetables, although the food differs from the 
solids or fluids that it is to be formed into, yet it ap- 
pears to be absorbed by the ends of the fibres of the 
roots principally, and propelled, by some organ sub- 
sisting there, immediately into the general system of 
vessels without any previous alteration. 

One great distinction between animals and vege- 
tables therefore is, that animals have organs of diges- 
tion, in which the food remains for some time before 
it gets into the general system ; and in vegetables 
the food passes directly into the general system, 
without being detained, or suffering any previous 
alteration. 

' It is to be presumed that there is some object to 
be attained by the food being stopped for some time 
in the organs of digestion of animals. The most ob- 
vious one is, that the food undergoes some change 
there. 

In different animals, the organs of digestion are 



4 

I 



r 



niET AND REGIMEN. 



I 
I 



i 



various ; and therefore, it is most probable, that the 
changes which take place in different animals, are 
different. Or that the mode of life, or some other 
accident, renders a different apparatus necessary for 
this process. 

There are other substances beside the food which 
are poured into the cavities of the organs of diges- 
tion from the vessels of the animal, which serve either 
for assisting the change, or enter into the substances 
formed. 

One principal organ of digestion in the human 
body, is the stomach. It is the business of Anato- 
my to show minutely the exterior figure, the internal 
structure, the situation with regard to the other parts 
of tlie body, the blood-vessels, the nerves &c. which 
supply the part to be described : but it is not neces- 
sary for understanding the functions, or the diseases 
incident to it, that all these things should be minutely 
attended to. 

The stomach is a kind of sack or bag with two 
openings into it. One of these openings is the ter- 
mination of a tube which we call the oesophagus, 
which rises up through the thorax, behind the lungs 
to the throat, where it is wider, and called pharynx, 
and communicates with the mouth, so that substances 
put into the mouth may be forced through the pha- 
rynx and oesophagus into the stomach, even when 
they do not tend to be carried into it by their own 
weight. The muscles which force the food into the 
pharynx, and from the pharynx through the oesopha- 
gus into the stomach, it is unnecessary to inquire 
into. 



4 A TREATISE ON 

' In a livihg animal, if there be nothing in tb^ 
stomach, there is no cavity ; nor do the sides fall flab 
upon one another, as they would do by their own^ 
wei^t, or by the pressure of surrounding substances; 
but it contracts so as to retain its proper form, and 
so as that the inner surfaces are every where brought 
into contact; and when any substance gets into it, 
jx distends and enlarges the whole of it in equal pro^ 
portion. But there is some doubt if this be the case 
when vapours are contained in it ; for as far as we 
can judge by our feelings, vapours distend the stomach 
unequally in some cases. — It is to be observed, that 
vapour in the stomach, or indeed in any part oi the 
intestinal canal, is always a morbid affection. 

No diseases incident to the human body, are more 
frequent than those of the stomach and bowels ; ot 
toore fatal in their event, when neglected, or im* 
properly treated; for, then they frequently termi- 
nate in obstinate, or incurable maladies of the chronic 
kind ; and, on the contrary, there are few diseases, 
whether acute or dironic, which do not in some de^ 
gree affect the stomacii and viscera. 

Before \ proceed to consider the particular dis- 
orders of the stomach and bowels, with the most 
effectual methods of their cure, it will be necei$sary 
to describe the properties of the saliva, as well as 
those of the bile, two animal fluids which principally 
Contribute to digestio^. 

The saliva is a penetrating soapy liquid, prepared 
by the glands of the mouth, as the proper solvent 
Hvhicfa nature employs, to soften and macerate our 
food, the better to assist digestion, as well as to creale 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 5 

appetite; for it lias been observed that those who 
discbarge it too profusdy by frequent spitting, have 
generally little appetite^ and bad digestion. 

After long abstinence from food, or ia scorbutic 
habits, where the blood is vitiated, it is rendered 
somewhat putrid. 

By changing its nature, it becomes extremely 
hurtful, and may be converted into a mortal poi- 
son, of which we have the most striking, and melan- 
choly instance in the bite of a *mad Dog, where the 
Ve^om is chiefly lodged in the saliva. 

— ^iMi^^— i^i— i— .» I« ■» ■ I 11 I II I. .■■■i*l»l.| 

* The terrible effects of the Poison from the bite of a mad Dog ap« 
pear after so different a manner in different subjects, that the accounts 
given of them by authors^ being generally taken from single cases, are 
rety differoot, and hardly consistent with cme another. The main 83nsip- 
tom indeed they all agree in, that is, what they call the Hydrophobia^ 
or dread of water. 

The wound from the bite of a mad Dog differs not at all from that 
snade by a common bite, and is as easily healed ; and it is usually a 
considerable time before any bad consequences of it appear. There are 
/ instances where these have been deferred to three, four, or six months, 
ju^y, some authors say, to a year, and longer. Oalen himsdf saw one 
ease after a year. 

The first approaches of the distemper generally discover themselves 
after this manner : — a pain is felt in the part which was wounded, which 
by djBgrees spreads itself to the neighbouiing parts ; a lasitude follows, 
with uneasiness in all the Umbs ; then the patient grows pensive and 
sad, with disturbed and unquiet sleeps ; complains of an oppression at 
his breast ; his pulse intermits ; his nerves tremble ; he has odd sweaty 
a great nausea, sickness at^ltomach, and loathes food ; and though he has 
an inward heat and thirst, and desires to drinks yet he swallows liquids 
with the greatest difficulty. These symptoms increase, and the next 
day, from the great uneasiness and pain which he finds in swallowing!, 
•he ooneeives such an aversion to liquids, that at the first aight of them 
Im fedls into convulsions and agonies, and cannot get down the least 
drop- This Hydrophobia, or fear of Water, has always been accounted 
the surest sign and mark of this poison, by which it is distinguished fnmi 
all other diseases. 



6 A TREATISE ON" 

The health of Nuns, and Monastics who rigorous^ 
ly enjoin themselves the penance of long fasting, 
suffers much on that account. They are observed 
to have an offensive breath, attended with looseness 



At this time a fever usually appears^ with a quick hut low pulse^ with- 
out the least sleep ; a hoarse roice ; a gathering of froth in the mouthy 
and spitting out of this upon the by-standers ; universal convulsioDj^ 
particularly about the throat. During this tragical scene^ which has 
hitherto generally proved fatal in about two days^ a delirium comes on, 
sometimes with most terrible symptoms of rage and fiiry^ and attempts 
of doing all possible mischief^ even to the most beloved friends and re« 
lations ; but more commonly, without any furoTy it is of the meXamchohi 
kind ; and the wretched sufferer resigns to death, and prepares for it ; 
bids those about him take care of themselves lest he should do them 
mischief, and begs that they would trouble him no more; and his breatlf 
growing shorter and shorter, he expires in convulsive fits. 

As to the Hydrophobia, the patient at first has no dread of water^ 
|ior any aversion to liquors ; on the contrary, he sees them with plea* 
sure ; being thirsty he desires drink, but then soon wonders what should 
be the reason that he is not able to take it : — ^he contrives ways to do 
it by endeavouring to suck through a quill, &c, but soon cries out, t^ 
is impossible I When asked why, he answers ^' it will not go down, it 
'' strangles me," and begs to be excused trying any more. 

In the early stage of Hydrophobia, the treatment which I suggested 
in a paper published about seven years ago, might probably effect a cure, 
viz, the introduction of a flexible tube into the stomach and injection of 
water by means of a Syringe. I also recommended the patient to be 
immersed in the cold or tepid bath. Celsus who flourished in the first 
century, says ^'T'is the only remedy ;" advises if the patient cannot 
swim, to let him be kept under water, that he may swallow it, and then 
at times be lifted out of it :— if he can swim, to hold him under by force, 
that he may drink whether he will or not. This practice was grounded 
t)n the authority of the Greek physicians, from whose rich stores, this 
Latin author has extracted, and digested into a small compass, the best 
system that ever was composed of Medicine. 

Unicum remedium est, nee opinantem in piscinam non ante ei provi* 
sam projicere, et, si natandi scientiam hon habet, modo mersum bibere 
pati, modo attollere ; si habet, interdum deprimere, ut invitus quoque 
aqnk satietur ; sic enim simul, et sitis, et aqusB metus, tollitur. — Celsus, 
iter V. caput 27. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 

of the teeth, sickness at stomach, and giddinesa of 
the head. Those effects manifestly arise from a 
partial corruption of the animal fluids ; and from the 
same cause, the milk of nurses, after long fasting, is 
rendered yellowish, salt, and nauseous to the infant, 
insomuch that it either refuses to suck, or having 
taken it into its stomach, is thence thrown into purg- 
ing, or convulsions. The urine is also rendered high 
coloured and foetid, sometimes creating a strangury 
or difficulty of making water. 

All those disagreeable symptoms are occasioned by 
the sharp salts and rancid oils which at other times 
are carried off by urine ; but which, being now too 
long retained, powerfully dispose the animal juices 
to a state of putrefaction. Animals, therefore, which 
I i^ie of hunger, seem rather to perish by a corruption 
[ of the blood, or change of its quality, than from a 
[ diminution of its quantity; for in deep consump- 
tions, where the wasting of body is much greater 
/than in those who die of hunger, the patient sustains 
I !life for many months, though apparently exhausted. 
From what has been said a circumstance though 
I "iStrange, becomes perfectly consistent and intelligible ; 
I namely, why animals will so long survive, even 
, :twenty days, or more, by the use of water only ; for 
I this fluid refreshes and purifies the blood, by dis- 
solving the sharp salts, and corrupted oils, which 
being conveyed off by urine, the body is thence pre- 
I served. 

It has been observed by the assistance of a micro- 

L 'scope, that the pale Huid circulating in the transpa- 

lent vessels of a languid frog, soon acquires a more 



^ A TREATISE ONT 

.florid colour, and brisker nibtion, after that reptile 
.has been supplied with its proper. nourishment. > This 
experiment evidently shews the great advcmtage^bf 
eating often, and in small quantities^ a cautidki of 
<much more consequence to- those of weak stomachs, 
than is generally imagined ; for^ by long fasting, they 
often become £iint, with sickness at stomach, and 
universal languor, not only from want of circulating 
power in the bloody and its tendency to putliefac- 
tion ; but also from its emptiness or excessive coUap- 
sion; When the stomach is moderately full> it uni- 
formly sustains, or bolsters up, the liver and spleen ; 
*but when empty, the liver descends by its own weight, 
^nd pulling down the diaphragm, with which it is 
connected, excites a painful sickly sen9ation, which in 
some degree may be removed by gentle pressure on 
^he abdomen, but more effectually by replenishing 
the stomach with food. 

From this circumstance also may be inferred, that 
the vast recruit of strength after eating, is owing to 
the introduction of fresh chyle into the system, and 
that an animal body,* like a vegetable, cannot long 
survive with vigour, without the reficient power of 
new juices, to supply the loss of those which were 
wasted, and carried off by the acticm of the body>; 
TOr as oil is the pabulum of flame, so that vital fluid 
blood, in purity and due quantity, is indispensably 
necessary to feed the lamp of. life ; and this chiefly 
depends upon the digestive faculty of the stomachy 
rather than the quantity, or quality of its alim^it ; 
isince daily observation informs us, that plenty of 
the most nutritive aliment will be insuflicient^^o 




I 



DIET AND HEGIMEN. 9 

sustain the infirm, whilst those of strong constitu- 
tions, and good digestion, will gain strength, though 
living sparingly upon the hardest fare. 

Hence also may be seen the great advantage of 
taking fluid acescent nourishment often, with a view 
to preserve it in a state of purity, especially in scor- 
butic, or consumptive habits, where it evidently 
tends to putrefaction. 

* From the irritation of saliva on the spongy nervous 
lining of the stomach, seems principally to arise that 
sensation we call hunger; but, when this delicate 
membrane is shrunk up, and destroyed, by the im- 
moderate use of spirituous liquors, or the no less 
jliernicious effects of harsh astringent medicines ; loss 
I of appetite will necessarily follow, which never can 
I be restored. 

Thus it will also appear how both appetite, and 

I digestion, may vary according to the different quan- 

fity and quality of the saliva ; as well as the different 

degree of natural feeling in the nervous coat of the 

\ stomach ; and, why bitters, steel, and mineral acids, 

I may quicken a languid appetite for a time, although 

their long continued use will afterwards destroy it. 

The wonderful influence of the stomach and 
bowels, in subduing and changing the property of 
alimentary substances, still appears more evident, by 
observing that some poisons may be divested of their 
malignant power when swallowed, which, when ap- 
plied to the open vessels of an ulcer, or fresh wound 
suddenly have proved mortal. 

The German mountebank, who caused an enraged 
viper to bite a piece of bread, which he eat be- 
I C 



d 



10 A TREATISE ON 

fore the multitude^ seems to have been, aoquaintec^ 
with this circumstance; for after being apparently 
taken ill» and mimicking convulsions^ with oth^ 
grievous eSidct$ of the poison^ he had recourse to a 
dose of his antidote, and, in con3equence of its pre^ 
tended efficacy, suddenly recovered. 

As the saliva irritates the stomach, crc^t^ appe* 
tite, and helps to dissolve the food ; so bile in the 
small intestines is conducive to the same end, and 
, still further assists in perfecting digestion. 

Bile is an animal soap, of a yellowish colour, pre- 
pared in the liver, as by a large gland* and serves to 
mix, and incorporate the oily and watery parts of our 
food, so as to form a smooth emulsion, which could 
not otherwise have been so well effected ; for oil, and 
water, repel each other, and will not mix without the 
interposition of lixivial salt, which, by the power of 
heat, forms that concrete called soap. 

That bile possesses a soapy quality is evident, by 
its use among fullers and silk-dyers, who employ it 
with success in discharging oily spots or stains. It 
is also endowed with so strong a dissolving power^ 
that curdled milk in the stomach of a calf iS thence 
rendered fluid, as soon as it passes into the small in- 
testines, which seem to answer the purposes of a se4 
wnd stomach. This saponaceous fluid may there^ 
fore ]i)e considered as a liquid soap, and natural pur-« 
gative, which stimulates the bowels, and quickens 
thei^ motion, in expelling the foeces or grosser part 
of our food. 

It may be proper to observe, that, as want of saliva 
lessens appetite, an4 impairs digestion, $0 the bad 




DIET AND REGIMEN. 



a 



qualities, redundance, or defect of bile, produce vari- 
ous disorders of the stomach and bowels, and render 
the body preternatu rally costive or laxative. Where 
the bile is rancid, and corrupted, or abounds too 
much, it occasions sickness at stomach, and vomit- 
ing, head-ache, colic pains, and diarrhoea with stools 
of a deep yellow colour ; but they are green, per- 
raceous, and frothy, where redundant acid prevails. 
■ Whether bile offends in quantity, or quality, no- 
thing will so much correct it as plentiful dilution, 
and the liberal use of vegetable acids ; since these 
two fluids have been experimentally found to neu- 
tralize or destroy each other. 

In such cases the patient should totally abstain 
from fermented liquors (rough cider, or Rhenish 
wine excepted). Spare vegetable diet of the aces- 
cent kind, and the plentiful use of pure water, with 
lemon, or orange juice, will afford relief: but a solu- 
tion of crystals of tartar in pure water, with currant 
jelly, which will impart to it a saponaceous quality, 
is preferable to all the rest: it not only resists pu- 
trefaction, and promotes the secretion of urine, but 
also keeps the body gently laxative. 

When bile is deficient in quantity, or too mild 
^and inactive, or so thick and tenaceous, as to obstruct 
its canals, habitual costiveness will follow ; and if 
-such depravities, to which those of a sedentary life 
are most subject, be not removed by proper medi 
cines, gall-stones will often be formed in the gall, 
bladder or its duet ; from which, obstructions of the 
liver, a jaundice, dropsy, or other chronic diseases, 
^lare frequently the consequence. 




i 



I 



i 



12 A TREATISE ON 

Pills compounded of soap and aloes, with fresh 
whey, and nitre, or a small portion of Alkaline salt^ 
and exercise on horseback, will exalt and attenuate 
the bile, and render it more active and detersive. 

That the bile is a fluid of great use in the animal 
ceconomy, is manifest, seeing, that for its prepara- 
tion, nature has appointed so large and complicated 
an organ as the liver. 

The Pancreas is a large gland, similar in structure 
to those which secrete the saliva ; of a flattish, ob- 
long form, and extends across the abdomen, behind 
the stomach liver and spleen : by its blood-vessels it 
communicates with the spleen and mesentery ; and 
by its nerves, with the stomach and Uver. 

The bile, especially th^t proceeding from the gall- 
bladder, is somewhat glutinous, insomuch that al- 
though it is a saponaceous fluid, it requires dilution^ 
to make it mix more readily with the chyle, as well 
as to attenuate, and render that nutritious emulsion 
thinner and more fit to enter the lacteals. 

For this purpose, the pancreatic juice is plainly in 
tended ; because, in quality and consistence, it exactly 
resembles saUva, and seems to answer the same pur^- 
pose in the aUmentary tube, as saliva in the stomach, 
namely, farther to macerate the aliment, to exalt the 
nature of chyle, and render it less heterogeneous, 
and dissimilar to the blood, after being thus diluted, 
and incorporated with a fine animal lymph, strained 
off from the blood itself. 

That the pancreatic juice should also more efiec- 
tually mix with and dilute the bile, its excretory 
duct unites with that of the last fluid, and forming 



\ 



DUST AND R£GIM£N. 19 

one common canal, empties itself into that part of 
the alimentary tube, nearest the stomach, called Duo- 
denum. 

From the magnitude of the pancreas, the quanti- 
ty of its secreted juice, must be very cionsiderable ; 
and if it is affected by the exhibition of mercury, in 
the same manner as the salivary glands, to which it 
is similar in structure, it can then be no wonder that 
the waste of that fine, nutritious fli|id, by a mercu- 
rial salivation, should exhaust the body, and occasion 
an incurable consumption. . 

As the pancreatic juice is neces^a^y for the dilur 
tion of chyle, towards its free passage through the 
lacteal vessels into the blood, without which the anir 
mal system could not be nourished or sustained ; it 
will follow, that its defect, or preternatural teitacity 
will produce obstructions of the lymphatic vessels 
and mesenteric glands, and occasion that particul{(r 
species of consumption or wasting of the body called 
marasmus. 



r 



r 



14 A TREATISE ON 



SECTION II. 

• ... 

Of Animal Digesfioriy or the Conversion of Ali- 
' ment into Nourishment^ or Chyle ; and of Nutri* 
tion.j or the change of Chyle into Blood. 

Having pointed out the qualities of saliva, bile, 
and pancreatic juice, as subservient to the office of 
the stomach and bowels ; and also the general dis- 
orders arising from a vitiated state of these fluids, I 
shall now consider the nature of animal digestion, 
and the various diseases proceeding from a defect of 
that extraordinafy faculty. 

The stomach is the great source from which the 
animal body derives its nourishment and support. 
'Here the first process of preparing that vital fluid, 
called blood, is begun, and as its digestive faculty is 
duly, or imperfectly exerted on the aliment, so the 
blood will be rich, balmy, and pure; or crude, watery, 
and depraved: the first of these qualities will contri- 
bute to health ; the last will render it unfit for cir- 
culation, and the purposes of life ; and, consequent- 
ly, lay the foundation of various diseases. 

The stomach may be considered as a vessel, or 
refectory placed in the centre of the body, for con- 
cocting, and digesting the food daily taken into it 
for sustenance. By the action of mastication or 
chewing, the aliment is comminuted or broken down, 
and, by mixing with the saliva, is macerated and re- 
duced into a pulp : thus prepared, it descends into 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 

the stomacli, where, assisted by heat and a supply of 
gastric juice, similar to the saliva, it is supposed to 
undergo a slight degree of fermentation, by which 
the included air is rarefied and expanded ; and burst- 
^ig from its confinement, destroys the solid, compact 
texture of the aliment, rendering it one degree fitter 
for nourishment. 

This will be more easily eifected, as all animal and 
vegetable substances lose their cohesion, and natural- 
ly tend to dissolution so soon as circulation through 
their vessels ceases, and when thus deprived of their 
contained air ; which has been experimentally found 
to be the very vinculum or bond of union which 
holds their parts together. 

The mass being sufficiently digested, is expelled 
^om the stomach into the alimentary tube proceed- 
ing from it, where, its most nutritious parts, like a 
fine emulsion, which is called chi/le, are strained oflF 
and absorbed by the lacteals or milky vessels, and 
discharged into the receptacle of chyle ; whence, by 
the thoracic duct, it is conveyed into the blood, 
and, by agitation in the lungs, and repeated circula- 
tions with the general mass, at last acquires the same 
colour, quality, and consistence, as that fluid ; or, 
in other words, is elaborated and ripened into blood. 
But although this appears to be the most simple 
and rational theory of accounting for digestion, it is 
rot unexceptionable, and, far from being universally 
adopted ; for some physiologists have ascribed it 
to animal heat ; others to a dissolving ferment in 
the stomach ; and others to its action, or muscular 
force on the contained aliment; but, indeed, it seems 




d 




Ifi.' A TREATISE ON 



ratlier to be eflPecf ed by a combination of the whole, 
namely, by heat, moisture, and motion. 

Putrid substances taken into the stomach of car- 
nivorous animals, have been found sweet, and in- 
oflFensive to the smell, soon after being swallowed ; 
and, in those living solely on herbage, no signs of 
fermentation could be discovered when examined in 
the same manner : hence there is reason to think 
that digestion is neither performed by a putrid, nor 
an acescent ferment ; and that, when either of these 
qualities prevails in the stomach, they are not natural, 
but morbid appearances, and certain signs of a bad 
digestion. 

We see, therefore, that this obscure animal process 
is still a secret in nature, having, for many ages, di- 
vided the opinions of physicians and physiologists, 
several of whose doctrines, though directly opposite 
to each other, have notwithstanding been strenuous- 
ly supported by their advocates as right: this plain- 
ly shews, that instead of real and substantial know- 
ledge, we have only been presented with vague and 
often inconsistent surmises, which, without doubt, 
some have advanced from a conviction of their truth, 
others from a desire to advance something that might 
appear new, and others from personal enmity and the 
spirit of contradiction, contending for superiority M 
rather than truth. I 

From what has preceded, it will evidently appear, ' 
how that vital stream, blood, is continually suppUed 
and replenished with fresh chyle passing into it by 
■ the milky vessels, like so many little currents which ■ 

H keep up the circulation, and repair the daily waste I 



DIKT AND IIEGIMIIN. 1 7 

made by exercise and the natural discharges of the 
body; and howr indigestion^ or a fault in tlie vital 
functions of the stonoach and bowels, and their want 
of power to elaborate and prepare those nutritious 
juices^ may at last, vitiate the solids, and produce ill 
Jbealth ; ibr^ by a kind of real transub^ntiation, 
they are converted into the very substance of animal 
body ; all its constituent parts, even the bones them- 
jteives, being originally in a fluid state. 

Under, such circumstances the constitution may 
not improperly be compared to the fabric of at) <9di- 
.fice, the superstructure of which will frequently want 
repairs, when its foundation is bad and infirm* ; 
. .However opinionis may differ respecting the pr^e- 
dse manner by which digestion is brought about, it 
is certain that th^ stomach. Like the hea/t and othf^r 
vitai parts, derives its principal power and energy 
from the nerves; for, when those with which it ^ 
supplied are cut or injured^ both appetite and diges- 
tion are suddenly destroyed. 



D 



18 A TREATISE ON 



SECTION III. 

The Sympathy and Communication of the Stomach 
with other parts of the hody^ and their mutual 
(iffections thence arising. 

The stomach, as already observed, being the great 
source of nutriment, and amply supplied with nerves, 
the instruments of all sensation, holds a two-fold in- 
tercourse with every part of the body ; first, by the 
conveyance of chyle into the blood ; secondly, by 
nervous sympathy, from which its impressions are 
communicated to the brain and other parts, giving 
it extensive, and extraordinary influence over the 
whole corporeal system ; insomuch that there are 
'few diseases, in which the stomach and bowels are 
^not affected. Accordingly we find, that whenever 
the body is invaded by any morbid cause, or the 
mind oppressed with sorrow, the stomach immediate* 
ly feels their malignant power. It then neither 
craves nor can dispense with its usual food ; both 
appetite and digestion suddenly cease ; nausea and 
sickness succeed, and its contents are rejected ; and, 
as it is thus affected at the attack of a disease, so the 
first signs of convalescence are usually attended with 
a return of appetite and digestion. 

Upon the state and condition of this organ, there- 
fore, in a great measure depends the health and well 
being of the animal body, and also the efficacy of 
such medicinal substances as may be found necessary 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



^ 



I 



to relieve its maladies ; for, here their power is first 
exerted; and, although some of those may pervade 
the system, as alteratives, and act in a manner pe- 
culiar to their own nature, their operation will be 
considerably diversified, according to the degree of 
sensibility, and irritability existing in the stomach, 
as intimately connected with the general habit 
circumstance, which, in the treatment of diseases, 
has not always been sufficiently attended to. 

The strength and weakness of tbe animal body, 
and the regularity of its functions, particularly those 
of the stomach, seem principally to depend upon the 
nervous pmcer, which is increased, or diminished, 
from various accidental causes : thus, pure, fresh air, 
the chalybeate waters, and the cold bath, which brace 
the solids, add greatly to bodily strength ; and wine, 
or warm cordial liquors, by invigorating the stomach 
for a time, not only communicate strength to the 
body, but fortitude to the mind, by increasing the 
nervous power. On the contrary, a putrid, inelas- 
tic, moist air; long fasting, grief, or intense study, 
are found to diminish bodily strength, to impair di- 
gestion, and lay the foundation of chronic diseases. 

For a particular proof of the more general and im- 
mediate communication of the stomach with other 
parts, may be mentioned that tormenting pain the 
tooth-ache, which has frequently been relieved by a 
large dose of opium, taken into the stomach, before 
it could enter the blood, or arrive at the part aiFected 
by the common road of circulation. The trembling 
hand of a hard drinker presently becomes more steady 
for a time, after taking a cordial dram, merely by 



d 



ZD: a tr£at]S£ on 






touching and invigomtiDg the mrves of the stomach 
and> on the contrary, the subtle and insidious pdwer> 
of some poisons, id destructive to animal life iii aS&m 
moments! As violent affections of the miitd ivilb 
dis(k*der the stomachs so a morbid state of that orgsm 
will mutually affect the mind^ and occasion lan^orj^ 
bypoehondriacal complaints^ low spirits, and meiam^ 
eholy. '> 

The brain and m^ital faculties are obserted ; td 
sulfer from injuries of the stomach, and vice versa ; 
for, a violent blow on ihe bead, or concussion i]f the 
brain, will excite that convulsive motion of the 
stomach called vomiting ; and a profusion of bile^ oit 
othen offending gross humours in the stomadiwilt 
occasion giddiness and head-ache. l 

So great is the sympathy between the head and 
stomach, that it is dilBcult to know which was oi^^ 
girially affected, although an improper distinction oil 
such occasions, might be attended with the most 
dangerous consequences ; for example^ should a 
blister be applied to the head when only affected hf 
sympathy from bile at the stomach ; or^ should an 
emetic be administered when the patient is sei2c4 
with vomiting from inflammation of the Inrain } the 
first would occasion unnecessary pain, and the la^ 
by straining the body and overcharging the inflame^ 
vessels of the head, might produce delirium^ apo^ 
plexy, and deaths 

The better to make a true distincticm in such 
cases, it will be ptoper to observe whether the hefdl 
or stomach was first affected ; for^ thence may besi 
be known the original seat of the disease* 




DIET AND REGIMEN. 21 

~ There is also a manifest consent between tlie 
stomacli aud skin ; for, an eruption on its surface^ 

tWte the nettle-rash, after eating muscles, mushrooms, 
er other noxious substances, has often been observed 
to terminate their bad effect. Besides, when the 
pores of the skin have been obstructed, or in other 
words, when the patient has taken cold ; the perspir. 
able vapour, which ought to have been carried off 
from the surface of the body, by falling upon the in- 
ternal parts, occasions flatulence, pinchings in the 
bowels, colic pains, or a diarrhcea ; and the same bad 
effect is the consequence of exposing the body to 

I easterly winds, or a stream of cold, damp air. 
Such sympathetic disorders of the stomach and 
bowels from obstructed perspiration, are most eiFec- 
tually relieved by external application, namely, the 
warm hath, flesh-brush, plentiful dilution, opiates, 
and wearing ilannels next the skin. 

The stomach also communicates with the liver and 
kidnies ; for, the stone and gravel frequently pro- 
duce vomiting, and a profusion of bite, which can 
only be removed by attending to their cause. 

From what has been said, it follows, that such is 
the intercourse between the body and mind, and so 
great the sympathy of the stomach with different 
parts of the corporeal system, that they alternately 
communicate their sensations to each other. Thus, 
local disorders of that organ, will at length affect the ^^^^ 
whole constitution, and produce chronic diseases, in ^^^^| 
consequence of indigestion, and crude chyle, by ^^^^| 
■ which the blood is impoverished and rendered unfit ^^^B 



k 



22 A TREATISE ON 

for nourishment; hence, the gout and scurry, a 
dropsy, or consumption. 

On the contrary, although the stomach had pre- 
viously been in a sound state; should the mind be- 
come deeply impressed with grief, or the vital parts 
attacked by gov tt/, or other morbid matter, both ap- 
petite and digestion fail ; pain, sickness and vomit* 
ing are brought on, and oftentimes confusion of ideas, 
loss of memory, dejection of spirits, melancholy, and 
despair. 

Such is the extreme sensibility of the stomach, 
especially when disordered or inflamed, that the skin 
when excoriated by a blister, is not more exquisitely 
tender ; so that harsh irritating food, scarcely affect- 
ing the palate, ■will then produce violent pain, sick- 
ness and vomiting. 

By the same exquisite sensibility it is endowed with 
elective or instinctive power of choosing whatever 
is grateful and beneficial to itself, or refusing what 
is injurious to the constitution ; and therefore, by 
some it is not improperly called the conscience of the 
body: when the stomach says no, every morsel would 
prove injurious instead of being converted into 
nourishment ; but if it consents, or asks for more, 
more may be safely taken. There are very few who 
have not some particular propensity or aversion to 
certain kinds of food; cheese, honey, or other tilings 
of the like nature, which are agreeable to some, act 
on others with the violence of poisons. 

Thus, like a watchful centinel, the stomach gives 
warning, and denies admittance to what would be 
injurious, and often craves with avidity such things 



I 



I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 29 

as prove salutary. Hence the eager thirst for cold 
water in the height of a burning. fever, which, being 
drank, has been known to terminate the disease, and 
save the patient's life, after the power of medicine 
bad been tried in vain. 

Perhaps it may be objected, that the stomach is 
ndt its own sufficient guide, because it does not al- 
ways discover the insidious and deadly power of 
some poisons, till too late ; but we might as well 
complain of dim and defective eyes, because they do 
not as easily perceive a mote as a mountain ; or since 
'ininute objects are more distinctly seen by the as- 
sistance of a microscope than the naked eye. 



^S4 A TREATISE ON 



• t 



SECTICm IV. 

* 

The nature^ treatment^ and cure, of idiopathic a^ 
prinian/ Diseases of the Stomach and Bowels pro- 
ceeding from Intemperance^ Culinary Poisons^ tke^ 
abuse of Medicines^ and other causes : with the 
neeefssarjf distinction between those primary affee^ 
tions, and such as are symjptomatic or secondary * 

i 

In the preceding section of this essay^ the nature 
of animal digestion, and sympathy of the stoomeh 
with other parts of the body, have been amply con- 
sidered, as an introduction to the treatment and cure 
of diseases incident to a disordered state of the diges- 
tive organs ; among the first of which, those pre- 
vailing maladies, loss of appetite, and indigestion, 
claim the first attention; for, whether they are simply 
idiopathic, and originally seated in the stomach itself, 
or symptomatically produced by a translation of 
gouty matter, profusion of bile, or other accessary 
causes, they will occasion chronic diseases, which 
cannot be effectually cured, till these complaints in 
the first passages, are previously taken away. 

It would prevent many dangerous errors in medi- 
cal practice if such diseases of the viscera as are sim- 
ply organical or primary, were truly distinguished 
from others which are symptomatic, or secondary, 
and arise from a morbid state of the constitution ; 
for, it is evident that they must all originate from 
one of these two causes ; which, though perfectly 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 25 

tinct in their nature, have notwithstanding, been 
frequently confounded with each other, or slightly 
passed over, without discrimination, as maladies re- 
quiring nearly the same metliod of treatment. 

I know it has been suggested by some authors, 
that the distinction here mentioned, is not absolutely 
necessary ; because, as indigestion may be owing to 
want of tone in the general habit, and communicated 
to the stomacli ; so the tone of the stomach restored, 
may be returned to the habit. 

This seems a vague and exceptionable opinion, 
and ought to be adopted with great reserve ; for, it 
iftan only apply in cases, where the solids are simply 
affected ; and not in diseases proceeding from a 
vitiated state of the fluids, which of all others are 
■the most dangerous, and difficult of cure. 

Indigestion arising from simple weakness or relaxa- 
tion, cannot, with propriety, be treated in the same 
manner as when it proceeds from a distempered 
blood, and a translation of scrophuious, or other mor- 
bid matter to the Viscera. In the first case, the 
disease might be relieved by tonics, which brace the 
fibres, and give strength to the vascular system; but 
the last would require such medicines as tend to sub- 
due and evacuate the morbid juices from the consti- 
tution : consequently, should tonics be directed in 
their stead, they would concentrate and lock up the 
offending matter, and probably destroy the patient : 
on the contrary, in the first case, the solid system, 
which was too weak before, would still become more 
relaxed and debilitated by a course of evacuating 
medicines. 

E 



d 



2b A TREATISE ON 

By close attention to the morbid changes pro- 
duced in the living body, and what will be hereafter 
advanced on the present subject; I think it will be- 
come apparent, that, few diseases of the stomach are 
originally local, or inherent in that part, as generally 
supposed ; those only excepted, which are occasioned 
by intemperance,unwholesome diet, culinary poisons, 
or the abuse of strong drastic medicines ; more parti- 
cularly the immoderate use of mercury, where the 
injury is immediately impressed upon the stomach 
itself. 

It appears still more evident, that local imbecility 
of the stomach, considered as simply such, is seldom 
the sole cause of its morbid affection ; when we ob- 
serve the instant loss of strength, appetite, and diges- 
tion, from any sudden shock of the mind, as the ar- 
rival of bad news, or other circumstances of poignant 
and deep distress; when it is no sooner struck by 
the impression, than it instantly becomes atonic. 

In farther support of this opinion maybe adduced 
the effects of sea-sickness, which, by mere motion 
disagreeably impressed upon the brain and nerves, 
and without any other previous change in the solids 
or fluids ; at once deprives the stomach of its natural 
power, and produces intolerable sickness and vomit- 
ing, with universal loss of bodily strength. 

Those two evident causes of morbid sympathetic 
affection, the one resulting from the body, the other 
from the mind, and where both are suddenly and 
manifestly produced, can be accounted for upon no 
other principle than nervous influence, from the want 




DIET AND REGIMUN. 



I 



of which, the stomach as well as the whole corporeal 
sytsetn are deprived of their natural energy. 

"Excessiye Jlatulence, or immense quantities of air 
discharged from the stomach, in those of had digestion, 
particularly after obstructed perspiration, or previous 
to a fit of the gout, though a common and very op- 
pressive complaint, lias not, as far as I know, been 
accounted for in a rational and satisfactory manner : 
this symptom is not void of danger, as generally 
supposed, being frequently the fore-runner of a tym- 
panites, or dropsy, as I have in two or three instances 
observed. The air thus discharged, being much 
greater in quantity than what could possibly be con- 
tained in the aliment of the stomach, inclines me to 
think it may also proceed from another cause. 

The human body has two sorts of vessels opening 
■into all its cavities; the first pour out a fluid to 
moisten their contained parts, and are called exka- 
lents ; the other imbibe superfluous moisture, and 
are called absorbents. 

Fluids injected into the alimentary tube by clys- 
ters, are soon so perfectly absorbed, that not the 
least part of them is afterwards evacuated; from 
which it may reasonably be concluded, that in cases 
of excessive flatulence, the air chiefly escapes from 
1 the orifices of the exhalent vessels ; especially when 
I rarefied by febrile heat, or set at liberty by a putrid 
B dissolution of the blood. 

I ' It appears by experiment, that animals in the ex- 
I hausted receiver of the air-pump, are sensibly re- 
B lieved by voiding particles of air from the surface of 
I their bodies. In order, therefore, to restore the ba- 



1 



a 

2 



2& A TREATISE ON 

lanoe between the external and internal air, so es- 
sential to the well being^of all animals, it is extremely 
probable there is a free communication between 
them; and that, when the external air is :tighty 
a due quantity of : internal air escapes «*through the 
cutaneous pores, lest it should burst its vessels, for 
want of sufficient counter-pressure: on the contrary^^ 
when the external air suddenly becomes heavy, part 
of it finds admission into the blood, by the lungs> to^ 
preserve a due balance; and lest the body, by sqck 
taining too much externa) pressure, should be de-^ 
stroyed. 

The property of discharging air from vegetaiblesj 
and again absorbing it, has been demonstrated by 
experiment ; and however new the opinion, if such 
it be, I see no reason why the same law of nature 
may not also obtain in animal bodies; for, if air was 
not discharged from^ the body, as well as ^admitted 
into it» the balance, between the internal and exter- 
nal air, could not be restored 

That air enters the blood' in the ^lungs, that it 

* TheXuDgs are two delieate spungy bodies placed pn each side tlie 
heart in the cavity of the breast: they are chiefly made up of air-^ves^b, 
and blodd-vessels, intended by natui'e to answer ^he double purpose of 
respiration or breathings and of mixing fresh chyk witL the blood. 

Before the act of re^iration commences^ as in the infant during its 
nine months abode in the womb, only a third part of its blood qan cir- 
culate through the compressed hmgs j but as toon as it is bomy they are 
blown up with air, and then the whole mass passes freely through their 
numerous blood-vessels. Hence it follows^ that whatever interrupts 
respiration, and hinders the free play of the lungs, will occasion an ac- 
cumulation of blood in their substance, and dispose the patient to con« 
sumption, by creating infiammation, ulceraiiony or spitting ofbJoed, 

Although breathing, under certain circumstances, is not essential to 
life, because the infant before birth dispenses with the want of it / yet 



^^^^^ DIET AND REGIMEN. 29 ■ 

combines with, and imparts to it a florid colour, is I 

not matter of surmise or mere conjecture, but has ' " 



lately been demonstrated in a satisfactory manner 
and, in proportion to the purity of that fluid ad- 
mitted into the blood, the countenance has been ob- 
served more or less florid ; for, those of a pale and 
sickly aspect, from residing in the confined air of 
large, unwholesome cities, become fresh coloured and 
niddy by removing into the country, where they 
breathe a more pure, dephlogisticated atmosphere. 

Air, thus absorbed by the lungs, seems to be tlie 
vivifying principle which gives colour to the blood, 
as well as life and animation to the whole system, 
and is probably also the principal cause which pre- 
serves it from putrefaction ; for, it has been proved, 
that pure air not only enters the blood by the act of 
inspiration, but that impure or mephitic air is dis- 
charged or expired ; to which may be added, that 
contaminated vapour which escapes from the body 
with perspiration, urine, and stool, still farther tend- 
ing to accomplish the great purpose of nature, in 
preventing that corruption of the blood and juices 
L «Mrhich otherwise must have happened. So that when 
H^e consider the vast quantity of vapour, or perspir- 
y able matter, continually breathed out by the lungs, 
we shall have less occasion to think the opinion of 
the antients exceptionable, who termed the lungs the 
chimney of the body. 

being once begun, its continuqnce is abBolutely neoeBsary. Tbui the 
heart aiid lungs unite their power, and labour with incesaant and un- 
wearied efforts to kee)! the humau body alive ; even eometimcs for the 
tedious period of a, liundred yeai'B. 



a 



■ w 



30 A TREATISE ON 

Indeed it appears perfectly reasonable and con- 
sistent to suppose, that nothing passes into the ani- 
mal body, but what, in due time, may pass out of it 
again ; and thus, by a continual accession of new 
matter and the discharge of what was become use- 
less, that renovation and purity of the blood is pre- 
served, so necessary to its well being. 

"Whenever flatulence prevails in a very high de- 
gree, joined with loss of appetite and indigestion, 
there is reason to apprehend some morbid cause ; 
either gouty matter prevails in the habit, putrid ten- 
dency in the blood, or there is defect in the natural 
secretions or excretions, which, suffered to continue, 
might endanger the constitution. 

The medicine, from which I have observed the 
most immediate good effects, in such cases, is the 
camphorated mixture, with Hoffman's anodyne 
liquor, and tincture of opium (vide appendix) ; but 
the relief given in this manner is only temporary: 
to render it permanent, regard must be had to the 
causes of the disease already assigned. 

It will be right, at all events, to keep the pores 
open, and the bowels gently laxative by the aloetic 
pill ; lest the confined air expanded by heat, over- 
strain their fibres and produce a tympanites. If per- 
spiration be obstructed, as it generally is, twenty 
drops of antimonial wine, added to each dose of the 
camphorated mixture, will always be found of ser- 
vice; and, even should the ease be gouty, will con- 
tribute to the patient's relief 

Where putridity is supposed to prevail, the decoc- 
tion of Peruvian bark with mineral acid ; also spiced 



I 

I 

I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 31 

claret, or port wine may be liberally administered as 
an antiseptic, to strengthen the solids, and confirm 
the texture of the blood. 

That species of flatulence occasioned simply by ef- 
fervescence, and the expansion of air in food at the 
stomach, may be much relieved by abstaining from 
fluids, and crude fermenting substances, especially 
such vegetables as largely contain it, of wliich kind 
are turnips, peas, beans, and other leguminous grain 
of the viscid, tenacious kind, leavened or fermented 
bread, &c., instead of which sea-biscuit may be 
used; and wine, as well as all fermented liquors, 
should be superseded by toast and water with a small 
portion of French brandy. The Peruvian bark with 
mineral acid, will lessen the tendency to fermenta- 
tion at the stomach, and increase its tonic power. 

Nothing will so mucli accelerate fermentation and 
increase flatulent swelling of the stomach, as air, and 
moisture put in motion by febrile heat, especially 
when the body is costive ; tlierefore, those who 
are affected with that oppressive disorder, should en- 
deavour to avoid this combination of causes by which 
_ -it is chiefly produced. 

■n From the preceding observations, on the distinc- 
^^tion between organical diseases, and those which are 
symptomatic ; the method of cure will become obvi- 
ous ; namely, to remove, if possible, the immediate 
cause locally impressed on the stomach ; or those 
more remote, which universally affect the constitu- 
tion ; and wliich are communicated to it by sympathy, 
tax the mediation of tlie nerves. 
i The first of those intentions is often as much in 



32 A TREATISE ON 

the patient's power, as that of the most skilful physi- 
cian; at least, without his concurrence and pnid^fiht 
caution, the best advice will little avail : but/ in the 
last, when the blood is contaminated by a morbid 
cause, and the general habit affected ; almost every 
thing depends upon the judicious administration of 
etfectual remedies. In this and the following section, 
therefore, the nature, treatment and cure of those 
maladies will be more particularly specified and 
explained. 

The stomach and bowels, being endowed with 
exquisite sensibility, are liable to many disorders 
from the very nature of their o£Sce, by intemperance 
or errors in diet ; for, the aliment constantly passing 
through them may offend, either by its excess of 
quantity, or bad quality ; the first will overstrain 
their fibres, and create pain and oppression; the last 
may wound or corrode their tender nervous lining, 
and occasion colic pains, inflammation, convulsions, 
a mortification, and sometimes death itself. 

Indigestion is so frequent a malady in this country, 
particularly in great cities, that it may be deemed 
endemial in Britain; whose inhabitants, from its iti- 
^ular situation, are exposed to all the vicissitudes of 
heat and cold, moisture and dryness, in a short period 
of time. But it may also be owing to other adveiDiti- 
tious causes common to all places, namely, to etirdrs 
in diet ; the unwholesome occupations of some ; the 
sedentary life of others; and anxiety of mind attend^ 
ing the eager pursuits of business. 

There is a kind of constitution in the mind as 
well as the body ; nor can either sustain violence. 




DIET AND REOIMEN. 



33 f 



'beyond a certain degree, without injury, according 
to the natural sensibility existing in theoneorother; 
those moving in a high and public sphere of life, 
•who are plagued with honours and persecuted with 
solicitations; who are obliged to dissemble their feel- 
ings and live as it were at variance with themselves; 
also experience in their health the bad consequence 
of disappointed ambition, and such vexations and 
■vicissitudes as are inseparable from human affairs. 

Loss of appetite and indigestion sometimes arise 
from relaxation or local imbecility of the stomach, 
and none are more subject to such complaints than 
those who lead a sedentary, monastic life, and are 
intemperate in eating and drinking. Under such 
circumstances the ingesta will be imperfectly sub- 
'diied, and, the quantity taken into the body being 
more than equal to its consumption ; a bloated, 
tmasarcous habit will ensue; particularly, as the 
natural excretions, for want of sufficient exercise, 
•will be unduly performed ; hence the solids being 
daily more distended by the weight of the redundant 
fluids; the balance, which ought to be preserved 
between those two powers, will be destroyed, and 
the body daily decline from its usual strength and 
Vigour. 

* When the stomach is repeatedly overcharged 
with full meals of animal food, it will lose its natural 
tone by such frequent plenitude and over distension, 
and its contents being indigested, the chyle obtained 
from it will be crude, impure, and insufficiently ela- 
borated. The several secretions being also unduly 
performed, a foundation will be laid for vhronk dis- 
F 



d 



.34 A TREATISE ON 

eases, especially the gout and scurvy^ a di:opsy» and 
hypochondriacal disorders ; so that one train of evils 
leads on to another ; but if they are not the effect qf 
a bad constitution but of that indiscretion which 
tends to make it so ; their cure is not to he sought 
for in the use of medicines, but in moderation and 
temperance. Let the patient take less food and 
more exercise, and he will not want a physician. 

From whatever cause the stomach is deprived qf 
.its natural^ digestive faculty, it may be laid down as 
a general rule, that spare diet, and abstinence from 
solid, animal food, will afford relief* By such means, 
the patient will avoid the inconvenience of sleepi- 
ness, palpitations of the heart, flushings^ in the face, 
with hectic fever and other symptoms after eating, 
so oppressive to the weak and infirm. But ther^ 
will be less occasion to enforce the necessity of such 
regimen, as the stomach is its own sufficient guide^ 
and. at such times, nauseates all animal substances. . 

The propriety of spare diet will appear more par- 
ticularly necessary for such invalids, as they gene- 
rally use less exercise, and perspire less than others. 
Their solids are also more lax, and consequently 
their digestion is weaker. 

How far the qualities of aliment are of consequence 
to health, may be evidently seen in the most dread- 
ful of all human calamities, a famine, which is fre^- 
quently followed by the plague^ from the extreme 
scarcity of wholesome food which then unfortunately 
happens. 

- As the animal juices are accumulated by nourish* 
(nent and rest, and consumed by abstinence and 



r 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 35 ; 



motion ; it is a circumstance of the iiighest impor- 
ance, to proportion them duly, that a just and natural, 
balance may be preserved between the solids and. 
fluids. 

Intemperance impairs the memory, destroys the 
distinct exercise of the reasoning faculties, and ren- 
ders the mind less fit for study or deep meditation. 
When the quantity of food is too great, the vessels 
will be overloaded, and the body oppressed ; if too 
small, it will waste and decline ; so that either very 
high or low living will injure health ; but of the two 
extremes, the first is much more common and pro- 
ductive of greatest injury; since many wlio live 
intemperately, are prematurely cut off by apoplexies^ 
or other violent diseases ; and on the contrary, the 
several instances of longevity are chiefly to be found 
9mong those who live on spare and simple diet. 

In fixing a standard for temperance, our own feel- 
ings, or even the customs of certain places, would 
be very insufficient guides: we should rather observe 
in what degree of vigour and perfection, animal life 
is supported among the poor, who use simple fare, 
and live in a manner conformable to nature. 

If many of the Irish, with only milk and potatoes 
for their food, perfectly exercise all the faculties of 
the body and mind ; and whole nations in the east 
subsist wholly on rice and vegetables, yet live long 
and healthy, it will thence appear, that in this 
country, we might subtract largely from our full 
animal diet with great advantages to the constitution. 
I The regimen of diet should not only be adapted 
to particular sexes, and ages, but also to the nature 



3G A TREATISE ON 

of dimate and degree of the patient's exercise : gene- 
ral rules must therefore have their particular excep- 
tions, according to the different constitutions for 
wliich they were directed. 

Vegetable food is less nourishing and more flatu- 
lent than that of the animal kind; but it resists 
putrefaction, and is most proper during the summer 
months, especially for those of strong fibres, and scor- 
butic, bilious habits. 

Quadrupeds living on flesli, are generally fierce in 
their nature, and the exhalation of their bodies is 
rank and offensive ; whereas animals feeding on 
herbage are much more gentle, their breath is sweet, 
and their excrement almoiit inodorous. 

Hence it appears, tiiat much animal food is un- 
wholesome, especially towards autumn, in warm, 
moist weather, when the fluids tend to putrefaction ; 
for it will load the body with rancid humours, and 
taint the sweetness of the breath, render the several 
discharges more offensive, and dispose it to diseases 
of the putrid kind ; which may best be prevented or 
cured by vegetable, acescent diet, abstinence from 
fermented liquors, and the liberal use of pure water, 
with fresh orange-juice; or a solution of the crystals 
of tartar, with lemon-juice, called imperial water. 

How far the human constitution may be changed 
for the better by vegetable diet, is evident in those 
who have been cured of inveterate scurvies by the 
plentiful use of fresh vegetables and pure water with- 
out any other assistance; and instances are not want- 



Ling, where even the irascible passions have been, in ■ 
a great measure, subdued by the same means- I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 37 

Aretwiis mentions the cure of leprosy by total ab- 
stinence from animal food, and the constant use of 
vegetables, in those afflicted with that loathsome 
disease; who, from fear of infection,' had been aban- 
doned by society, and driven out into a desert. — 

He who means to be a rations! epicure, and to 
exalt the pleasure of eating beyond the reach of a 
sensualist, should eat with simplicity, and modera* 
tion ; for then only, he will taste with the palate of 
nature. If rich sauces and high seasoned dishes are 
grateful to some ; they do not possess a natural appe- 
tite, but that which is depraved ; for, children and 
young people disrelish all such aliment, and never 
^ow fond of it, till their taste is vitiated by habit 
and bad example. 

Thus, when the food and palate are both in their 
natural state, the relish is high, and the body 
duly nourished ; but when, by the arts of compound 
cookery, the first is deprived of its soft, balmy quali- 
ty, and rendered almost caustic by salt, cayenne pep- 
})er, and otlier high seasoning ; they stimulate the 
languid appetite, turn round the wheels of life too 
rapidly, and wear out the body before its time. 
Whereas, those who abstain from much wine, spiritu- 
ous liquors, or hot spicy aliment, acquire an exqui- 
site degree of delicacy in the sense of tasting ; their 
spirits are more equal, their feelings more pleasura* 
ble, and in general they are much longer lived. 

If the quahties which things naturally possess are 
right, and good in themselves, those communicated 
to them by the too officious hand of art, must surely 
be wrong. The cool, refreshing melon, a native of 



J 



I 

■ tlie 

■ till 



38 A TIIEATISE tiN 

scorching climates, intended to quench thirst, and 
abate heat, is often robbed of its genuine properties, 
by a profusion of pepper ; and acid fruits, which 
would strengthen the stomach, and resist animal 
putrefaction, are lost in the taste of sugar. 

Thus the beneficent simplicity of nature is super- 
seded by custom, which luxury, not propriety, has 
introduced ; for it must be confessed with regrety 
that in the affairs of human life, many are more 
guided by their passions, and the example of others, 
than by reason, or their own understanding. — The 
good effects of temperance are acknowledged by all, 
but duly regarded by few. — 

The state and condition of the stomach may best 
be known, from the appearance of the tongue; for, 
both are invested with the same fine mucous mem- 
brane; so that when the last is fresh, florid and moist ; 
appetite and digestion remain unimpaired; but, on 
the contrary, when the tongue becomes dry, dis* 
coloured, and coated with mucus, attended with 
thirst, and a feverish breath ; the stomach, as well as 
the lungs are then disordered. 

As loss of appetite is usually attended with nausea 
or loathing of food; so indigestion is accompanied with 
flatulence and oppression, a bitter and disagreeable, 
rancid taste in the mouth partaking of the food ; sour 
eructation with heartburn, flushing in the face; and 
a slow hectic fever. 

In those of weak appetite and bad digestion, who 
live chiefly on vegetable diet ; a redundant acid at 
the stomach frequently prevails, with excessive f 
tulence, cardialgia or heartburn. To remedy this in- 



w 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 39 



convenience, it will be proper for the patient to in- 
crease tiie quantity of aninnal food, and to indulge 
jmoderately with things of a warm, alkalescent nature, 
^Such as horse-radish, mustard 4ic. Instead of wine 
[Or malt-liquors; pure water, with a small portion of 
■brandy, without sugar, will be less apt to ferment 
and occasion wind. This regimen, however, should 
be pursued with caution ; for, a total abstinence from 
^vegetables, and the too liberal use of animal food, 
.would dispose the fluids tea dangerous state of putre- 
^faction ; therefore, the most wholesome diet will be 
Jbund in a due proportion of animal and vegetable 
^bstances which may be varied occasionally, accord- 
^g to the nature of circumstances. 
. A moderate quantity of salt, taken with our food, 
^ems necessary to promote digestion ; for, although, 
according to experiments which have been made, one 
■dram of salt in two ounces of water preserved flesh 
^weet twenty hours longer than pure water; it has 
been found, that flesh, with from five to ten grains 
fif sea salt, putrefied sooner than the same quantity 
infused in water only ; consequently, as salt is never 
Jtaken with food, beyond the corrupting quantity 
jinentioned in the experiments ; it appears necessary 
to digestion ; for then, it manifestly acts by its septic 
power, and will hasten the dissolution of animal sub- 
Stances. 

A fresh supply of food, before the last meal is 
evacuated from the stomach, or whilst any of its in- 
digested sour leaven there remains, is highly perni- 
cious; since it would soon excite fermentation in the 



m 



A TREATISE ON 



I ' 



next aliment and convert it into its own acid nature, 
creating flatulence and liearlburn. 

There are three articles by which the stomach and 
bowels may be materially affected, namely, tea, 
coifee, and tobacco ; the properties of which I shall 
therefore consider, especially the two first, as they 
make a considerable part of our daily sustenance. 

About a century ago, Bentikoe, a Dutch physician, 
bestowed extravagant encomiums on the use of tea, 
but like a true medical enthusiast, he erred in the 
'extreme; for with him, it was good for every thing, 
although daily experience shews it pernicious to peo- 
ple of lax solids and weak nerves. Tlie internal 
tremor which it often occasions, especially gunpowder 
tea, and the high-flavoured green ; with its remark- 
■able effect of preventing sleep, shew that it makes 
some peculiar impression on the nervous system, by 
its fragrant odour, in which its pernicious quality 
'seems to reside, for, when that is dissipated by a 
■boiling heat, no such effect is found to follow. 

For this reason, probably, the Chinese prefer & 
decoction to an infusion of tea; and that they avoid 
its use till it has been kept one year. We are in- 
formed, that, in its recent state, it is endowed with 
a narcotic or intoxicating quality. This is verified . 
by the experience of those who are empioyed in 
mixing large quantities of tea, in close rooms, where 
the air is confined; being often seized with faintness, 
-giddiness, and headache. 

Boerhaave and some others, supposed that the ' 
bad effects of green tea were owing to its having 
been dried on hot plates of copper ; for, as all metals, 



1 



I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 41 

heated to a certain degree, throw off their metallic 
effluvia, it was reasonable to suppose, tea, thus manu- 
factured, would be strongly impregnated with copper, 
the effects of which are known to be highly pernici- 
ous to the human body. Some even went so tac 
as to imgaine its fine colour was occasioned by ver- 
digrease, a preparation from copper ; but, by experi- 
ments made on fine bloom teas with volatile alkali, 
not the least sign of such poisonous adulteration 
appeared. 

All nervous disorders are certainly aggravated by 
the'use of tea; and it is equally unfit for children 
and those of lax fibres, especially the first, whose 
fluids bear a much larger proportion to the solids of 
the body than in adults, for whom it is more pro- 
per ; especially those of a warm, sanguineous tem- 
perament. Green tea is mildly astringent, by which 
the relaxing power of warm water is corrected ; con- 
sequently, weak tea drank too hot, will enervate; 
and, if very strong, it may prove equally pernicious 
by affecting the head or stomach. 

There are some apparent inconsistences advanced 
by authors who have written on this subject : by 
one we are told, that green tea is mildly astringent; 
by another that it is relaxing. Some say it is nar- 
cotic, and procures sleep ; others contend, that, taken 
before bed-time, it assuredly prevents it. This last 
effect I think may be accounted for ; since I Iiave 
frequently observed very small doses of opium act 
in the same manner; neither can it appear strange 
that the same thing should operate differently upon 
G 



■ no 



42 A TREATISE ON 

diflferent bodies, as their nerves are strung to different 
sensations. 

Upon the whole, tea, like other things, derives its 
value from its proper use, and is good or bad accord- 
ing to the slate and condition of the patient's consti- 
tution ; and, to determine this, he should rather con- 
sult the feelings of his stomach, than the opinion of 
a physician ; for that will best inform liim, whether 
it be right to take it, or let it alone. 

When it is drank in moderation and not too warm, 
with a large addition of milk, and little sugar, I 
believe, it will seldom prove hurtful ; but, on the 
contrary, salutary : after study or fatigue, it is a 
most refreshing, and grateful repast; it quenches 
thirst, and cliears the spirits, without heating the 
blood ; and, ihe pleasing society, in which we so 
often partake of it, is no inconsiderable addition to 
its value ; for, whatever affords rational pleasure to 
the mind, will always contribute to bodily health. 

Coffee is the fruit or berry of a small ever-green 
tree, growing spontaneously in Arabia, but is now 
cultivated in the East and West Indies: the first 
sort is the best, and may be distinguished from the 
other, being smaller, and of a darker, yellow colour. 
The flower is exquisitely fragrant, like that of the 
Arabian jessamine, of which it seems a species, and 
the fruit is like a cherry including the berry in a 
pulpy substance. 

The opinion of a late author, that coffee and tea 
are of the same quality, has no just foundation ; being 
not a little dissimilar in their nature and effects. 

In those of lax fibres and cold phlegmatic consti- 




DIET AND REGIMEN. 43 

tutions, coffee will certainly be found more benefi- 
cial than tea, being more warm and aromatic. It 
strengthens the stomach, assists digestion, and being 
grateful to the brain and nerves, is therefore called 
cephalic ; but, on the contrary, with such as are of 
a dry, sanguineous habit of body, it is less proper : 
being usually taken in smaller quantities than tea, it 
does not like that relax the solids, dilute tlie fluids, 
or promote perspiration and urine; but excites thirst, 
heats the blood, and renders the body costive. So 
great and essential is the difference between coffee 
and tea, of which daily experience, from our own 
feelings, affords the most ample testimony. 

The prejudices however, of Simon Pauli, against 
the use of coffee, are not more to be regarded than 
his erroneous opinion of tea ; for, he strenuously 
contended, that this oriental vegetable was precisely 
of the same species as the myrtus brabantlca, indi- 
genous in Brabant, and hy some called Dutch myrtle. 

We are next to specify the qualities of that nar- 
cotic weed tobacco, originally used by the Indian 
savages in smoking, to procure sleep, and abate the 
sense of toil. We are informed, that the Indian 
priests used the fumes of tobacco until they became 
intoxicated, and as it were in an extasy. The Indians 
poison their arrows with the oil of tobacco which in- 
fused into a fresh wound, occasions sickness and 
vomiting, or convulsions and death. 

We have been told, that tobacco when chewed, is 
a preservative against hunger; but, this is a vulgar 
error ; for, in reality, it may more properly be said 
to destroy appetite by the profuse discharge of saliva. 



41 A TREATISE ON 

which has already been considered as a powerful dis- 
solving tiiiid essential both to appetite and digestion. 

In smoking, the fumes of tobacco induce a kind of 
pleasing insensibility not easily described. Its nar- 
cotic odour, thus administered, equally infatuates the 
ignorant savage and the intelligent philosopher ; but 
by the large expense of saliva thereby occasioned, it 
is productive of many disorders of the head and 
stomach, particularly the last. 

In describing the qualities of saliva and bile, I 
remarked, that these fluids have been experimentally 
found to correct acidity in the stomach and to retard 
fermentation ; consequently, they prevent cardialgia 
or heartburn, and flatulency. If therefore a certain 
quantity of saliva be necessary to increase appetite 
and promote digestion, surely, the want of it nmst 
be detrimental to both. 

Many years ago Dr. Robinson published a pam- 
phlet whimsically entitled a treatise on the virtues of 
a crust ofh-ead; but with more propriety he might 
have called it a treatise on the nature and qualities 
of saliva ; for, in it he has satisfactorily proved, that 
the large quantity of that saponaceous, dissolving 
vienstruum secreted in the mouth, by chewing a hard 
crust of bread before dinner, and swallowed into the 
stomach, will certainly create appetite and promote 
digestion. The diminution of those faculties, are 
not the only injuries brought on by smoking tobac- 
co ; its narcotic fumes will stupify the brain, and 
deaden the invigorating power of the nerves upon 
the whole bodily system. 

From these preceding iacts, this practical inference 



DIET AND REGIHEN. 45 

wili follow, namely, that the injury sustained by the 
ijae of tobacco, will always be proportionate to the 
loss of saliva, and its narcotic power upon the nerves ; 
A)nsequeutly,cliewing this vegetable, as it is the most 
sordid, so it is the most injurious method of using 
H ; for, by its pungency in the mouth, much saliva 
will be secreted, part of which will be rejected by 
l^itting, and the rest, strongly impregnated with its 
pernicious qualities, will be swallowed into the 
Btomaoh; where, like all other narcotics, it will im- 
pair the tone and suspend the digestive power of that 
organ. But as this custom chiefly prevails among 
the vulgar, upon whom friendly admonitions are too 
frequently thrown away ; I shall say little more on 
the subject ; well knowing the great difficulty of 
eradicating prejudice from ignorant minds, though 
a circumstance much to be regretted. 

Tobacco smoke will kill flies, and other insects; 
and when applied to a naked nerve in the tooth-ache, 
though it also acts by its pungency, chiefly removes 
pain by its narcotic power. 

The desire of tobacco, in those accustomed to it, 
is so insuperable, that rather that forego its use, they 
would part with half their food. Their propensity 
to it is equally prevalent with that of dram drinkers 
to spirituous liquors, without which, however perni- 
cious, they become languid and debilitated, and are 
affected with nervous tremor. 

To adopt what is pleasurable to our feelings, or 
subservient to use, cannot be thought strange; but; 
that a rank weed, at first hateful to the taste, and 
hurtful to the constitution, should, by habit become 



46 A TREATISE ON 

desirable.and universally prevail throughout Europe, 
is a circumstance the most extraordinary, affording 
one striking instance among many, of the folly and 
infatuation of the human mind ; and the force and 
prevalence of custom opposed to sense and nature. 

Indeed, there is nothing so completely absurd, to 
■which fashion will not lend its temporary sanction, 
and stamp with the idea of excellence. Was this'Pro- 
teus like being only regulated by elegance, or utility, 
it might be worth imitation ; but often it is uncon- 
nected with either, and ever capriciously shifting 
from one extreme to another. It prevails for a time 
with epidemic rage, and governs both the rich and 
poor; 'tis nevertheless a phantom, — the idol of fools! a 
creature of to-day and to-morrow, having no perma- 
nent existence, and seldom any value, but what it 
accidentally borrows from time and place: the weak 
minded obsequiously follow its fantastic extremes, 
and worship it as their chiefest good ; but those who 
distinguish better, adopt it with moderation, to 
avoid the inconvenience of being singular. 

But, of all the evils which exert their baneful in- 
fluence over the stomach, none is so pernicious in 
its consequences, as the use of drams. Like liguid 
fire, they will harden and contract its fibres, and as 
it were cauterize and crisp up, its tender, nervous 
lining, at once destroying both feeling and appetite. 

For this reason, those addicted to the pernicious 
habit of dram-drinking, are always complaining of a 
told stomach, which, in fact, is sendered such by the 
^ very means they preposterously make use of, to re^ M 




I 



DIRT AND REGIMEN, 47 

lieve it, and constantly repeat, to the slow, but sure 
destruction of their constitution. 

Besides those bad effects of spirituous liquors, they 
harden animal food,and render it indigestible. From 
the same heating power, they contract the glands, 
jeoagulate their juices, and rob the stomach of that 
natural moisture which is essentially necessary to 
iligestioD. 

. By such means, the mental faculties as well as 
-those of the body, are injured and impaired; for those 
who debase themselves by this sordid gratification, 
are constantly troubled with sickness at stomach, 
and sinking of spirits, a stupor, confusion of ideas, 
loss of memory, and nervous tremor : the finer feel- 
ings are thus insensibly weakened and subdued ; 
every moral virtue loses its power, every relative 
duty is neglected, or forgotten ; and at last, so great 
are the inroads of this destructive habit upon the 
mind, that with it, every vice may enter. 

As scarcely one can be found who has been re- 
fortned of this pernicious custom, how cautiously 
ought it to be avoided? spirituous liquors, though 
pleasing to the taste, in their final effect, will be found 
more bitter than gall! they will prey on the vitals, 
and like the fascinating cup of Circe, transform the 
liuman shape. 

In those who have died from the abuse of 
spirituous liquors ; the Hver, spleen, and abdomi- 



spirituous liquors ; the liver, spleen, anu aodomi- ^^^h 

nal viscera in general were found preternatu rally ^^^H 

hardened, and rendered as it were coriaceous, like ^^^^| 

L .leather. Excessive dram-drinkers are prematurely ^^^H 



^9» A TREATISE ON 

cut ofF by consumptions, dropsy, asthma, or apo- 
plexy-* 

As many diseases of the stomach and bowels ori- 
■ginate from obscure and unsuspected causes, so they 
are frequently overlooked, or imputed to some fault 
of the constitution ; such are those proceeding from 
-culinary poisons; the adulteration of aliment, or the 
abuse of drastic, violent medicines; and, indeed, con- 
sidering the innumerable and invisible avenues to the 
■approacli of diseases and death ; with the infinite 
number and complex structure of those parts which 
form the human body ; instead of sometimes ex- 
tending our existence to a hundred years, it is mat- 
ter of astonishment, that we continue to survive be- 
yond the short period of a single day. 

Copper vessels have been attended with so many 
fatal consequences in the preparation of food, that 
none but those made of iron should be used. 

Copper is easily dissolved by acids, and, from its 
solution, that poisonous substance called verdigrease, 
ifi produced. Vinegar and salt, things in common 



* Human bodies, like iiorticulnr edificea, nrc formed to endure a Ion* 
per, or shorter time according to their manner of construction, and the 
materisJa of which they are made up : in Bumc, tfie organs are naturally 
firm and strong, in others, they are compoaed of perishable stamina de- 
rived from the parent, and therefore liable to wear out, before the usual 
period of life is completed. 

Agreeable to this observation, I have often remarked from the pubUe 
papers, as well as those solemn monitors the tomb slones, that many of 
the same name and family were carried off nearly in the same term of 
years ; and 1 have no doubt, hut the correspondence would still have been 

ktnore exact, was not theduration of human Ufe lengthened or shortened, H 
from temperance, excess, or other accidental circumstances inseparable H 
from each individual. ^M 




DIRT AND REGIMEN. 49 

use with our food, also strongly corrode it ; and as 
all metals acted upon by fire, largely throw off their 
^ffiuvia ; from both these causes, a considerable 
quantity of cupreous poison, of the most dangerous 
and subtle kind, may thus impregnate the aliment 
during its preparation, which being taken into the 
body, and as it were transfused through the blood, 
will pervade the vascular system and have the same 
slow and baneful effect, as that said to be produced 
by Indian poison, viz. the patient will gradually 
waste and decline; and there is reason to believe, 
that the frequencies of palsies, nervous disorders, 
and complaints of the stomach, are in part owing to 
this, and such like causes. 

Five Monastics out of thirteen, upon the conti- 
nent, who eat soup prepared in an unclean copper 
vessel, several years ago, after suffering the most ex- 
cruciating pain in the stomach and bowels, died by 
the effect of the cupreous poison. The melancholy 
accident which happened to several gentlemen who 
dined at the inn at Salt Hill, though supposed to 
arise from adulteration of their wine, was probably 
Owing to the same cause. Some of them were sud- 
denly taken ill and died soon after ; others, who 
survived for a time, were affected with pain in the 
bowels, and at last carried off by lingering illness. 

The common earthenware in constant use, and 
not suspected of any bad consequence, becomes per- 
nicious, when it contains acids, which is frequently^ 
the case in pickling &c., being glazed with lead,! 
another mortal poison ; for, though it appears tohavtf. 
a fine glassy surface, this thin covering may easily^ 
H 




H Kind. 

■ injudi 



50 A TREATISE ON 

be dissolved by hot, acid liquors, such as vinegar, 
or lemon juice. From these, the salt or sugar of 
lead may afterwards be obtained, which taken in- 
wardly in any considerable quantity, has been found 
to produce spasms, and excruciating pains of the 
stomach, with costiveness and contraction of the 
bowels. 

China, or Staffordshire ware, are most proper for 
all those pickles and preserves, in which vinegar or 
other acids are principal ingredients. 

Mushrooms, and the tauro-cerasus or common 
laurel, with berries like a black cherry, have been 
deemed noxious, though often used in food ; the 
first in ketchups and ragouts, and the leaves or dis- 
tilled water of the last, to give a high flavour 
to custards, creams &c. Taken in moderation, 
mushrooms will seldom prove injurious ; but laurel 
water, according to experiments which have been 
made, is perhaps the most subtle and insidious poison 
in nature; for it seems immediately to extinguish 
the vital principle, and suddenly destroys without 
pain, or other previous signs of its mortal effects. 

The adulteration of bread, beer, and wine, a griev- 
ance long and justly complained of, is another source 
of morbid affection in the human body, which has 
been fatal to some, and prejudicial to thousands. 

As the rational practice of physic redounds to the 
public good, so nothing can be more dangerous, or 
destructive to health, and even life itself, than the 
abjise of medicines, especially those of the powerful 
kind. This observation is every day verified by the 
injudicious use of me/'CM»T/, in particular, from which 



DIET AND REGIMEN. HI 

many constitutions have suffered more than by the 
very disease it was intended to cure. 

The preposterous use of strong emetics and cathar- 
tics ; the long continued use of opiates, and of warm 
stimulating bitters; the unseasonable use of the cold 
bath, and profuse loss of blood by the lancet, have 
all had their share in aggravating some diseases, and 
producing others, especially those of the stomach 
and bowels. 



5*2 A TR£AT1S£ ON 



. f 



SECTION V. 



■ • t 



Of Symptomatic or Secondary Diseases of the' . 

Stomach. . 

If the distinction between primary and secondary 
diseases of the stomach in this and the preceding 
section, be not critically just, it will at least afford 
the reader such a competent idea of their difference, 
as may be useful ; and indeed* so great is the diffi- 
culty of tracing effects to their source, that what is 
supposed the original, or proximate cause of certain 
diseases, is oflen secondary, or the effect of some 
other cause too remote for human discovery. In this 
essay, having nothing so much in view as utility, I 
have been less attentive to nice distinctions or 
systematic arrangement. 

Scrophulous, scorbutic, or other morbid matter, 
by falling on the viscera, will interrupt, or destroy 
their natural functions, and produce symptoms of 
great violence, which, by long continuance, al- 
ways injure health, and endanger the patient's life* 
To such affections, may be added others of the like 
symptomatic kind, proceeding from irregular gout, 
redundant bile, or violent passions of the mind, all 
which diminish the energy of the visceral organs, 
which cannot be restored until those morbid causes 
are removed, which thus contaminate the blood. 

It is not here necessary to enter into a minute dis- 
cussion respecting the difference of opinion whether 



t 



I 



DLET AND REGIMEK. 53 

the causes of chronic diseases are seated in the solids, 
or fluids of the animal body ; but it may be proper 
to remark, that those causes when duly examined, 
are not so remote from each other, as they at first 
appear from a superficial view. 

, In infancy and youth, during bodily growth, the 
fluids are converted into solids ; and in more ad- 
jraneed age, there is a constant supply of juices, sent 
to the solids, for their renovation and repair ; conse- 
quently, diseases originally existing in the fluids, 
will at length be transmitted to the solids, and com- 
pletely disseminated through their several parts : 
therefore whether medicinal substances act on the 
one or other, or on both, it does not seem necessary 
to determine ; since, either way, their effect may 
iprove salutary. 

The sa-opfiuta Is a disease of the lymphatic glands^ 
confessedly hereditary, as may be proved from in- 
numerable, and inconlestible instances ; but it may 
also be acquired, and is most frequent in young sub- 
jects of fair complexions, and lax solids. 

Some authors have supposed that the proximate 
cause of this disease arises from a vitiated conforma- 
tion of the lymphatic system; but others, with more 
Apparent reason, imagine it proceeds from a particu- 
lar species of acrimony existing in the blood, and dif- 
fused through the lymphatic system. 
^'The last opinion appears the most probable and 
consistent ; because, the disease is found to prevail 
most in infancy and youth, when the quantity of 
fluids is largest in proportion to the rest of the body ; 
and abates in more advanced age, when those fluids 



^ 



Li 



Si A TKEATISE ON 

gradually become less, and the solids more firm, 
about the age of puberty in both sexes ; and there- 
fore, this is the proper season to assist the efforts of 
nature, by the power of art, or in other words, to ad- 
minister medicines to the best advantage. 

But, although the scrophula is generally hereditary, 
it may also be adventitious, from all such causes as 
weaken the bodily habit: consequently, children 
badly nursed or improperly fed, or who from preced- 
ing illness, are unable to use sufficient exercise, are 
of all others, the most liable to this chronic weakness. 

After the small pox, measles, or hooping cough, 
especially when those acute diseases have been ter- 
minated by an imperfect crisis ; children are ex- 
tremely apt to become ricketty, or affected with 
scrophulous symptoms, which then, if duly attended 
to, would generally admit of cure. 

The same soft spungy habit of body disposes it to 
rickets and scrophula. The last is often the effect 
of the first ; but, even when the scrophula is heredi- 
tary, a ricketty disposition may prove the exciting 
cause, and anticipate the disease. 

I have indeed observed that the two maladies are 
frequently complicated, and their morbid appearances 
after death nearly the same ; for, in both, the mesen- 
teric glands have been found inflamed, enlarged, and 
ulcerated ; and the lungs affected with inflammation 
and tubercles ; particularly in scrophula, which if 
not removed in the beginning, often unfortunately 
produce an incurable pulmonary consumption; 
nniversal wasting of the body called marastnus. 

decoction of taraxacum (dandelion root) or of 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



.1 



t 



I 



Sarsaparilla (vide appendix) may be given two or 
three times a day ; lixiviated whey, with honey ; and 
also the whites of fresh eggs may be taken with good 
effect, if continued for a long time; but a more 
powerful deobstruent may be found in very small 
portions of crude mercury minutely divided as in the 
blue pill, of which, five grains may be taken every 
second night, at bed-time, and the same dose, at siicli 
intervals, may be continued for a fortnight, or three 
weeks. A vegetable regimen of ripe fruits, and 
such roots as abound with a saponaceous quality, 
will be proper, as endive, lettuce &c. In the con- 
clusion, Peruvian bark, to an infusion of which the 
neutral salts may be added, will be necessary to 
'Strengthen the habit ; and where the lungs and vis- 
cera are sound, sea bathing, which is a remedy of 
great efficacy. 

• Whoever doubts the efficacy of such vegetable 
alteratives, from their want of gravity, with which 
mercury is endowed, need only attend to a curious 
experiment to remove such groundless surmises : 
namely, the bones of animals who have for some time 
eaten their food with a mixture of madder root, ac- 
quire a florid, red colour, even in their most solid 
and compact parts: this circumstance is remarked 
by the late professor Monro, in the following man- 
ner. " The clearest demonstration of the intimate 
" distribution of small arteries, is toobserve the effect 
*.' of such a tinging substance, as can retain its colour, 
" when swallowed, digested, and mixed with the 
" blood of any living animal, and at the same time 
" has particles small enough to be conveyed into 



e time I 

ito the I 



fl6 A TREATISE ON 

^ vessels of the bones} such is rubia imctorum, madU 
** der root ; for we see the gradual advaaees whidt 
^ this tincture makes from the periosteum into the 
** more internal parts of the bones, and how uiliver'* 
^ sally the distribution of liquors is made, the wh(d0 
** bony substance being tanged.*^ 

Hence it is evident that all parts of the body, even 
the bones themselves, abound with vessels infinitely 
small, and are pervious to the subtle partidea- ^ of 
medicinal substances, which, with the biood strongly 
impregnated by their virtues, may be transmitted to 
the diseased parts, in such manner as to^effect a per^ 
&ct cure, without injury to the constitution. •> 

The cause of gout and scrophula has. long .been 
supposed to reside in the blood -and juices; but^ 
late^ this opinion has by some few> been set asdej 
and another adopted ; namely, that it originates fironi 
vitiated stamina, and not from a morbid state of the 
fluids* *> - « . ., . .^ 

In support of this new theory, we are told^ thai 
the scrophula is not an infectious disease ; its niorHA 
matter not being exhaled by perspirable fluid <m tbtf 
surface of the body, a presumption,- that it did not 
reside in the fluids, but in the solid systenn ' 

It has also been asserted, that there is no proof of 
morbid matter in the fluids being the cause of gout ? 
or that such cause is always present in the consti- 
tution. 

That the cause of gout is always present in the 
constitution, is incontestibly proved from the follow- 
ing well known fact ; namely, that hereditary gout' 




I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 

is transmitted from tlie father to his offspring, and 
thence to succeeding generations. 
< But although the cause of those diseases should 
exist in the solids ; seeing that the different qualities 
of our fluids chiefly depend on the peculiar disposi- 
tions of their strainers, they would thence, like the 
■olids, soon hecome vitiated, and concur with the 
former cause in aggravating the disease ; as I have 
observed, that the fluids of the body are constantly 
converted into solids. 

But general, and accurate observations, established 
upon repeated, practical facts, need little argument for 
their support, when opposed to specious conjectures, 
fltnd surmises resting upon individual authority : the 
fcudden relief produced by critical eruptions, and the 
bad consequences of repelling them; the copious sedi- 
ment in the urine of arthritics, and the chalk-stones 
frequently deposited in their joints, all incontestibly 
prove, that the gouty matter, whatever it is, resides 
in the fluids and not in the solids of the body. Re- 
ipecting the scrophuta, the enlargement and ulcerai 
tion of the glands, the discharge of sharp, corroding 
humour from the sores, attended with inflammation 
of the eyes, and excoriation of the cheeks, clearly 
indicate the existence of acrimony in the blood and 
juices, and are so many effects of that evident cause. 

The limits of this essay will not permit me to 
enter into a minute discussion of the various opinions 
which have prevailed respecting the cause or essence 
©f gout ; it will only be necessary to speak of the 
disease in its irregular state, which happens more 
frequently than that terminated by regular fits; and 
I 



1 



58 A TREATISE ON 

wlien severe, is attended with much greater danger; 
for, instead of fixing like the former, upon the ex- 
tremities of the body, it often retreats to the vital 
parts, particularly, the stomach and bowels, where, 
if neglected, or improperly treated, it frequently be- 
comes fatal. However, before I proceed to lay down 
rules and cautions for the observance of those who 
are subject to this irregular malady; if I may 
hazard a conjecture, the most probable cause of gout 
seems to be, the retention of rigid, earthy particles 
taken into the body with aliment, which it is some- 
times unable either to expel by the excretions, or 
subdue by its circulating power. 

The asperity of those particles may easily be con- 
ceived to occasion exquisite pain, by vellicating and 
wounding the tender solids where they are deposited. 
When collected in the joints of arthritlcs, in form 
of chalk-stones, they appear to be of the same nature 
with those found in the bladder; so that a disposi- 
tion to form gravel in the kidnies, seems nearly 
allied to a gouty constitution ; for gouty patients, in 
the decline of life, are observed to be extremely 
subject to the stone and gravel 

Water contains a considerable quantity of this 
sabulous, earthy matter, as appears by the stony in- 
crustation adhering to the inside of old water pipes, 
tea-kettles, and other utensils long used in boiling 
water. 

Most wines abound witli tartar, difficult of solu- 
tion in water; but whether this saline concrete taken 
into the human body, and there remaining unalter- 
ed by its assimilating power, be the cause of gout. 



^^ DIET AND KEGIMEN. 59 V 

as many have supposed, it is not easy to determine; 
although the fact is certain, that those addicted to 
the immoderate use of wine, are of all others most 
subject to that disease ; and, on the contrary, others 
who have confined themselves to water drinking, or 
malt liquors, are seldom affected with it. 
„ O/prianus, the celebrated litholomist, asserts, that 
among many hundreds he had cut for the stone in the 
bladder, he never met with one who had constantly 
^rank ale or beer ; and indeed, such as abstain from 
wine, and drink those liquors, are seldom afflicted 
with gout 

The irregular or anomalous gout diffused over the 
habit, by some also called atonic, suspended, or inter- 
nal gout, is difficult to be distinguished from other 
diseases, as it often resembles those peculiar to cer- 
tain parts of the body ; but of all others, it is most 
apt to visit the stomach and viscera, where it occa- 
sions loss of appetite, indigestion, with excessive 
flatulence, and sometimes vomiting ; also colic pains, 
diarrhcea, and profusion of bile. When it attacks 
the head, it is attended with pain, giddiness, loss of 
memory, and even apoplexy, especially in the decline 
of life. If it falls upon the lungs, it produces diffi- 
culty of breathing resembling asthma ; if on the 
brain and nerves, it is followed by dejection of spirits, 
or melancholy. 

Those who are subject to gout, whether regular, 
or irregular, are commonly visited by it in the 
autumn, or spring which is the more favourable sea- 
son; for, that being succeeded by a warm summer. 



R sor 



P *tO A TREATISE ON ^ 

which Opens tlie pores, and allows the gouty matter 
to transpire, the disease is rendered less violent. 

When the powers of nature languish, and are 
either insufficient to produce a regular fit, or where, 
from the effect of age, there is not strength of con- 
stitution to throw gouty matter upon the extremi- 
ties of the body ; then there is great danger of its 
retreating to the internal, vital parts, where it pro- M 
duces nausea and sickness, loss of strength, attended I 
Tvitli darting pains, uncommon tenderness of the ^ 
feet, and irksome, unpleasurable feelings; the patient 
is low spirited, peevish, impatient, and disturbed by 
the most trifling, accidental causes. 

In this situation he is also frequently troubled with 
the arthritic colic or gouty twinges in the bowels; 
sometimes with weight and oppression of the breast; 
particularly, after anxiety of mind, or exposing his 
body to easterly winds, or night air. Such symptoms 
of irregular gout are always attended with great 
danger ; especially, in broken constitutions which 
have suffered from intemperance or other causes. 

This gouty aifection of the bowels is often attend- 
ed with adiarrhcea,which, if moderate and succeeded 
by abatement of pain, with a return of appetite, and 
natural rest, is a critical discharge, and ought not 
to be stopped. On the contrary, where the syrnp* 
toms are violent, with pain, sickness and bilious 
vomiting accompanied by fever; opiates, aromatics, 
and cordials should immediately be administered, or 
the disease may put a period to the patient's life. 
A strong infusion of mint in warm port wine will 
be proper ; aromatic fomentations should be applied 



■ A stroi 

H be prop 




DIET AND REGr>rEN. 



I 



to tlie stomach, and warm opiate clysters injected 
but above all things, the camphorated mixture with 
tincture of opium should he liberally administered, 

The arthritic vertigo or swimming in the head, 
with which the stomach holds sympathy, is equally 
dangerous, and one of the most alarming symptoms 
of irregular gout ; for, if it is not speedily relieved 
by proper means, or by a regular fit, it frequently 
terminates fatally in apnplex^y. The following symp- 
toms denote this dangerous malady: the face is tur- 
gid, and of a more livid hue than usual ; the eyes 
are blood-shot, the tongue falters, the memory fails, 
the st^ps are unequal and staggering ; and the pa- 
tient cannot hold down his head, or quickly turn 
round, without the danger of falling on the ground. 
■ In irregular gout, the intention of cure will be, to 
expel the gouty matter from the internal vital parts, 
and to invigorate and fortify the stomach and bowela 
in particular. For this purpose, the camphorated 
mixture, with the addition of Hoffman's anodyne 
liquor, and occasionally the tincture of opium and 
tntimonial wine, are superior to all other medicines, 
and properly directed, will, in a manner, render the 
rest unnecessary. 

Where the stomach becomes torpid and insensi- 
ble, from a gouty attack, and affected with symp- 
toms of great violence ; warm Madeira wine, or the 
Bpirit of sal-volatile in ginger or pimento tea will 
be proper. Bottles of warm water wrapped in flan^t 
nel, should be put to the soles of the feet, and carded 
wool, or fleecy hosiery applied warm to the pit of 
the stomach and abdomen. 



1 



1 



I 



02 A TREATISE ON 

In such urgent cases, I have directed the follow- 
ing medicine, and frequently with very speedy and 
extraordinary rehef to the patient : 

Take of the camphorated mixture of the liondon 
Dispensatory, eight ounces, Hoffman's anodyne 
liquor, two drams, tincture of opium one dram. 

This mixture may be taken in the quantity of a 
tea cup full, every three or four hours, or as often as 
the nature of the symptoms require ; it will warm 
and invigorate the nerves of the stomach, expel wind, 
and abate pain. 

If the body be costive, ten grains of turkey rhu- 
barb in powder may be occasionally given, with half 
a dram of aromatic confection, till it gently opens the 
bowels : and when the stomach is greatly oppressed 
with bile, flatulence, or a load of crude humours ; 
an infusion of horse-raddish or mustard-seed may be 
drunk copiously, tilt the stomach rejects it and is 
thoroughly cleansed. 

When cramps or spasms affect the legs, or should 
an inflammatory swelling on the feet supervene 
the symptoms of irregular gout, with abatement of 
the disease; it is a good sign, and foretels a favour- 
able event. It will then be proper to invite the 
gouty matter to the extremities by putting the feet 
in warm water, which will relax the skin and open 
the pores. If the inflamed part is attended with 
much pain, or a considerable degree of fever ; leeches 
may be applied ; the camphorated mixture, with the 
addition of manna, may be occasionally taken, to 
render the body laxative ; and the patient should 




DIET AND REGIMEN, 



1 



I 



be kept in a gentle perspiration, by remaining still 
and quiet in bed, leaving the rest to nature. 
■ Wiiatever causes weaken the vital powers of the 
body, or suspend its natural secretions, or excretions, 
"will subject the patient to this fluctuating disease ; 
end therefore, it is often the consequence of long 
continued chronic ailments, anxiety of mind, or much 
bodily fatigue ; intense study, intemperance, or a 
sedentary life. 

• Studious persons, who are usually inactive, by'too 
much rest of the body, and intense exercise of mind, 
become weak, enervated, and hypochondriacal : the 
stomach loses its digestive faculty, and the head is 
afflicted with a giddiness and stupor. By the seden- 
tary state of the body, compression of the viscera, 
and want of perspiration ; many disorders of the 
Stomach and bowels are brought on. The secretion 
of bile in the liver is thus prevented, and its passage 
into the intestines retarded ; whence proceed costive- 
hess, and piles; the formation of calculous concre- 
tions or gallstones. 

Those in particular, employed in counting houses' 
contract the pernicious habit of resting the weight 
of their breast against a table or writing desk, the 
body being at the s.ime time half double. This ex- 
ternal violence, with the impure air they breathe in 
such confined places, has in a thousand instances, 
been the evident cause of *consumption, and visce- 



* Our ulimnte ia Britain, from its situation as on Maud, isextremeljl 
nnfaTouiable to consamptive habits. The quick transitions from heat tot 
cold, and sudden changes in tlie temperature of air, as to its 



1 

I 



64 «T&XATISBQIf 

ral diseases^ especially of tbe lunga^ the stomadi, and 
liver, whidi no medicine covdd remove, whilfit thek 
eause continued^ and 'wliich therefore have frequently 
had a fatal termination* 

Weak sedentary people have generally a slender 
appetite, and bad dige8ti<», attended with flatn^ 
lence, hectic heaits, and nervous aflfections; and*OD 
the contrary, when bodily strei^th is good, so aM 
appetite and digestion : the circulation of Uood » 
then brisk and free, the spirits lively, and all the 
natural discharges being r^ular, no gross httmonn 
or unsound juices are retained to injure tfaeconsti«- 
tution. •; 

These things premised, it is evident, that sueh as 
mean to remain free from chronic diseases, ifaould 
avoid, as much as possible, the general causes which 
destroy appetite, and weaken the digestive powM 



and dryness^ are not to be endured hy delicate constitutions without 
very sensible injury, 

Cold^ moist air which generally prevails in this cocmtry duriilg^QtnDa 
and winter^ is extremely pernicious to such as have tender lungs : in 
those inclement seasons blood will be repelled from the bodily suiface, 
to the weak internal parts ; the cutaneous pores become obstructed^ and 
tbat perspirable fluid which ought to pass <^, being turned upon tlie 
throat and lungs^ will there produce defluxion of rheum, attended with 
hoarseness^ tickling cough^ or oppression at the breast^ and at last, ulcer* 
ation and spitting of blood. 

Under soxh symptoms the patient is said to have got oold^ wludh 
being too generally neglected as a disorder of little consequence^ often^ 
lays the foundation of a consumption, particularly in the winter season. 

The best means of counteracting the severity of our own climate 
may be expected from all such causes as gently promote a free distribu- 
tion of blood to the bodily surface ; the most effectual of which are 
moderate exercise^ wearing flannels next the skin and the frequent use 
of the flesh brush. 



I 



DIET AND BEGIMEN. 

of the stomach where the first foundation is laid. 
Whatever remedies have been found most eflfectual 
in repairing tlie constitution, and increasing bodily 
strength, such will always most powerfully and per- 
manently assist digestion ; consequently, cool, dry, 
pure air, and moderate exercise, are the best of all 
stomachics : they will increase animal heat, and pro- 
mote that circulation of the blood which regulates 
and supports the several secretions and excretions, 
upon which the health and well being of the body 
entirely depend. 

The great difference experienced by invalids, 
in their strength, spirits, and appetite, when they 
use exercise, in a bracing, frosty air; compared with 
that sickly languor which they feel in warm, damp 
weather, when they indolently sit still in their cham-^ 
bers, and breathe a confined, inelastic air, will suffi- 
ciently prove the truth of this assertion; for, although 
Peruvian bark, steel, bitters, and the cold bath, are 
ftU excellent remedies when properly directed ; their 
efiects will be greatly increased, and their efficacy 
rendered much more permanent, by the assistance 
of those natural benefits. 



I 



66 .; A TREATISE ON 



SECTION VI. 

Of Morhid Affections of the Liver. 

The following observations are chiefly: confined to 
chronic diseases of the liver, which are much more 
frequent, in this climate, than those of the acute hind. 

Diseases of the liver are often the consequence of 
intemperance, and excessive heat, joined to mois- 
ture ; and therefore, are most common in the Ekist 
Indies, and other hot climates, especially after the 
monsoons, or rainy seasons. In this country, how« 
ever, those of a bilious habit, who are addicted to 
the immoderate use of spirituous liquors, which may 
be justly named hepatic poisons, are likewise subject 
to diseases of this organ : also, such as reside in low, 
unhealthy situations, during the damp, autumnal 
seasons; more especially, if they are inactive and 
labour under anxiety of mind. 

As a minute description of the liver would not 
only be unnecessary, but imperfectly understood by 
the generality of readers, it can only be requisite to 
afford a competent idea of its structure and use. 

The liver appears to be the most complex organ 
in the human system, being composed of a pulpy, 
tender substance, and a congeries of various vessels 
of different orders ; chiefly, for the purpose of pre- 
paring bile, and transmitting it into the intestinal 
canal ; although, by the Antients, it was erroneously 
supposed the principal organ of sanguification. 



I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 67 

It may be considered as a large gland consisting 
of two lobes, the largest of which is situated on the 
right side, above the short ribs, immediately under 
the arch of the diaphragm, a part which divides the 
breast from the beJly; and its small lobe on the left, 
above the stomach, upon which a part of it lies in 
contract, and is extended. 

The liver chiefly receives its blood by a large vein 
named iwna portarum ; and that its distribution may 
be better understood, it may be compared to a shrub, 
or small tree, having its trunk in the centre, its 
branches in the circumference of the liver, and its 
root in the whole abdominal viscera, from all which 
it brings refluent blood, for the secretion of bile, 
the use of which has been already specified in the 
first section. 

It is here necessary to remark a certain peculiarity, 
in the distribution of its blood Vessels ; for, instead 
of receiving blood by an artery, that fluid is sent to 
the liver by a vein, as already mentioned ; so that 
the order of circulation is here inverted, for purposes 
agreeable to the intention of nature, but which, it 
is not necessary to enlarge upon, because it could 
not be useful to the reader. 

Notwithstanding the several vascular systems of 
the liver are manifestly distinct ; we know by in- 
jections, they communicate with each other; and 
although they are so intricately disposed as to ren- 
der its functions somewhat obscure ; it is obvious 
that the bile is prepared and strained off from th& 
blood, by the extreme branches of the venn 
rum : thence it is taken up by a second order of 



I 



f 68 



68 A TRKATISE ON 

vessels named pori hiliarii, which, by uniting and 
reuniting, from one duct discharging a part of it im* 
mediately into the intestinal canal ; the rest being 
conveyed into the gall bladder, where, by stagnation, 
it becomes more thick, bitter, and. exalted in quality, 
than that flowing from the liver. 

The gall bladder, in shape and size, resembles a 
small pear, and is placed on the right side, in the 
concave part of the great lobe of the liver : from it 
proceeds the cystic duct, which joios the hepatic duct 
or trunk of the pori biliarii coming from the liver : 
by the union of those two small canals, the ductus 
choledockus is formed, which discharges bile into 
the intestines, as already mentioned. 

The hepatic bile proceeding immediately from the 
liver, flows constantly into that part of the intestinal 
canal called duode?tum ; but the cystic bile from the 
gall bladder, is only discharged at certain times, by 
the irritation, or pressure of a full stomach, when the 
bladder is most turgid with bile. 

The blood brought by the vena portarum from the 
whole abdominal viscera, having thus parted with its 
bile, is taken up by a third order of vessels, which 
by uniting constitute one large trunk called veiia cava 
carrying it directly to the heart, the main instru- 
ment of life and circulation. 

The hepatic artery is another vessel supplying the 
liver with blood, which seems intended for nourish- 
ment only ; its branches accompany those of the 
vena portarum, with which, and its own correspond- 
ing vein, it also communicates, in common with the 
other vascular systems of the liver. 



I 



J 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



I 



I 



From this distribution of the vena portarum 
through the substance of the liver above, and the 
abdominal viscera below, it may more easily be com- 
prehended wliy those parts sympathize with each 
other, and are alternately or mutually affected by 
every cause which obstructs the course of their blood, 
and hinders it from being freely transmitted through 
their several parts. Should the Uver, for instance, 
be affected with inflammation, abscess, or schirrus ; 
the intestines, mesentery, and abdominal contents 
which supply it with blood, must become obstructed^ 
overcharged, and distended; hence a sense of weighty 
oppression, and indolent pain through the whole ab- 
dominal region. To this cause also the hcemorrhoids 
or piles are frequently owing, varicose swellings in 
the veins of the legs; hypochondriac affections ; and 
a bloated habit of body, ending in jaundice, dropsy, 
or some other chronic disease. 

The most obvious and common causes of such 
obstruction, are external violence, and an unfavour- 
able, bending position of the patient's body; whence 
the several vital parts remain in a state of long, and 
violent compression, by which the course of their 
blood is not only obstructed, but their vital functions 
are impaired, or destroyed ; the pernicious conse- 
quences of which I have already pointed out, in 
speaking of diseases peculiar to certain occupations. 

Want of sufficient exercise, and full diet, may 
likewise be assigned as manifest causes of plenitude 
and obstruction ; especially the immoderate use of 
such high seasoned, tenaceous aliment as cannot 
easily be subdued by the stomacli, or assimilating 



1 

1 



J 



70 A TREATISE ON ^ 

powers of the body ; and to this cause of visceral 
congestion, as well as the production of gall stones, 
none are more subject than those of a studious dis- 
position who lead an indolent lifa 

From the slow and sluggish motion of the blood 
through the liver, and its being endowed with less 
sensibility than is common to other parts of the body,^ 
especially in its interior, pulpy substance ; it is seldom 
subject to acute inflammation, except from powerful 
causes ; but for the same reason, it is often affected 
by chronic inflammation, land obstruction, ending in 
schirrus. 

Diseases of the liver are most frequent . in the 
autumnal season, or near the vernal, and autumnal 
equinox when the weather is changeable, and exces* 
sive beat is succeeded by severe cold. The blood 
and juices are then rarefied and expanded, and as 
suddenly chilled and condensed; by which,. toge- 
ther with that violent contraction of the solids which 
must then necessarily happen, they will be locked up, 
and impacted in their vessels, so as frequently to oc- 
casion a schirrus or preternatural induration and en- 
largement of the liver, or other glands. 

This observation being verified by repeated ex- 
perience, should be a caution to those who inadver- 
tently expose themselves to falling dews, or night- 
air at those seasons ; or who imprudently take large 
draughts of cold fluids, when the body is violently 
heated by exercise; or other causes. 

In this climate, the liver is more frequently affect- 
ed with diseases of the slow, chronic kind, tending, 
to produce a schirrus which is often the consequence 



w 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



of hard drinking, or an intemperate sedentary life ; 
especially in those of a bilious habit of body, and 
- hypochondriacal temperament. 

A schirrus of the liver, like a treacherous adver- 

■ sary, makes its approaches by such slow, insensible 
degrees, and with so little pain, that the patient often 

■ becomes incurable, before he is aware of danger; but 
a pale, livid aspect, and bloated habit, indicate a 

■ visible decline in his health ; and as the various 
functions of the whole abdominal viscera chiefly de- 
pend upon the sound state of this organ ; and since 
a confirmed schirrus, instead of diminishing, has 
been found slowly to increase; it can be no wonder, 
that it generally proves incurable, and terminates 
^tally in dropsy or consumption. 

■ A schirrus of the liver is more certainly indicated 
by a sallow, olive coloured complexion, than a yel- 
low colour of the skin, which rather denotes an ob- 
struction of bile, or the presence of gall stones. 

In the inferior concave part of the liver it is diffi- 
cult to be perceived ; but in its convex part, on the 
right side, which is usually the seat of this disease; 
the hardness and enlargement, in thin subjects, is 
manifest to the touch : in this case, the patient is 
generally affected with nausea and sickness after 
eating, when the stomach is replenished with food, 
from the enlargement and pressure of the diseased 
liver, by wliich its natural function is disturbed ; 
and on the contrary, the fulness of the stomach will 
occasion pain and oppression about the region of 
the. liver, attended with dlfl^culty of breathing and 
a cough. 



^ 



L 



72 A TIIEATISE ON" 

Various and almost iBDumerable have been the 
meclicines recommended for removing obstructions 
of the viscera ; many of tliem possessed of efficacy ; 
and others so inert and void of power, that it might 
be said with truth, their greatest excellejice consisted 
in not being able to do harm. 

As it is matter of real consequence to ascertain 
the effects of those medicines which, upon trial, have 
been found most efficacious ; I shall mention such 
only ; and endeavour to point out, under what cir- 
cumstances, benefit may be expected from them ; 
and upon what principles they are supposed to act. 

Although mercury is a medicine of acknowledged 
efficacy in local affections of the liver, when season- 
ably administered in the beginning; there are cases 
where its use would be exceptionable and improper: 
fbr instance, when the patient is of a weakly con- 
sumptive habit, and labours under hectic fever pro- 
ceeding from a decay of the vital parts, it has been 
found prejudicial ; also in tedious affections of the 
viscera occasioned by a long course of intemperance, 
or hard drinking, tending to produce a confirmed 
schirrus. 

In such chronic maladies, alteratives of a more 
gentle kind, as those of vegetables which act by their 
saponaceous, attenuating quality, are more safe and 
beneficial : of this sort are taraxacum, succory, and 
such as abound with a milky juice, which, taken in 
fresh runnet whey, during spring and autumn, are 
of greater efficacy than is generally imagined; espe- 
cially when duly and long continued, as all alterative 




DIET AND TIEGIMEN 73 

medicines ought, the more effectually to produce a 
gradual and lasling change in the constitution. 

Milk is chiefly composed of three parts, namely, 
of cream or animal oil ; curd or cheesy part ; and 
whey or watery part; the last of which may be con- 
sidered as a fine animal fluid or serum separated from 
the grosser parts of milk, which easily mixes with 
the blood ; and when rendered more aperient by the 
addition of lixivial salt, or impregnated with the at- 
tenuating juices of vegetables, is a safe, and efficaci- 
ous deobstruent, in obstinate obstructions of the 
liver and viscera. 

Whey contains a sweet, saccharine part, and also 
an oily, saponaceous mucilage, from wliich it also 
possesses solutive, and attenuating qualities; and 
being friendly to the stomach and bowels, is proper 
lo keep the body laxative, when they are in a ten- 
der, excoriated state ; and where harsh purgatives 
would be hurtful, or even dangerous. Whey will 
also be found extremely beneficial when the bladder, 
or urinary passages have been irritated and fretted 
by gravel or sabulous matter. 

Albumen ovi, or white of fresh raw eggs, is also a 
saponaceous animal fluid of exquisite fineness, and 
similar to the lymphatic part of the blood ; diluted 
with distilled water, or fresh whey, when liberally 
taken, it will generally cure the jaundice ; and in 
weakly constitutions, has frequently succeeded in 
that disease when other means failed. 

It has been observed, that when warm fluids had 
been injected into the intestines, or even into the 
abdominal cavity of living animals, not a drop could 
L 




'^ 



A TREATISE ON 



be found after death ; the whole being absorbed by 
the lymphatic vessels. From this known fact, and 
by attention to the structure of the liver, already 
described, this practical inference will follow, viz. 
that in all diseases of that organ, or those of the ab- 
dominal viscera in general ; such medicinal sub- 
stances as are appropriated to their cure, may be 
more immediately conveyed to the affected parts, by 
clysters, than any other means ; for, being absorbed 
by the lacteals, and mesenteric veins, they are carried 
directly through the liver by the vena porta, and 
with this peculiar advantage, that, not being altered 
by undergoing the digestive force of the stomach, 
like medicines taken by the mouth, they will be 
transmitted to the seat of the disease, possessed of 
their whole medicinal properties. 

Saponaceous clysters, therefore, or lixiviated whey 
(vide appeTidix), being injected into the intestinal 
canal, will there be absorbed, and immediately con- 
veyed to the liver with the refluent blood which, as 
repeatedly observed, it receives from the abdominal 
contents. In this manner the deobstruent power of 
medicines will not only act with their full force upon 
the obstructed glands of the viscera, but by mixing 
with the blood and juices, will render them more 
fluid and fit to pass through their finest strainers. 

The use of clysters in this country, is not so com- 
mon as in many parts of Europe, where they are 
frequently administered for refreshing the body, as 
well as in the cure of diseases ; they have indeed, 
been mentioned among other remedies, in a general 
way ; but their extraordinary efficacy has not beea 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



1 



particularly insisted upon, nor have reasons been 
assigned drawn from the structure, and functions of 
the affected parts, why, particularly, in diseases of 
the viscera, they will be found more powerful than 
other remedies. 

Absorption of fluids by the lymphatic vessels of 
the skin, being also found very considerable, and a 
fact no longer to be doubted, may suggest the use 
of a ivann hutJt,as another powerful remedy in schir- 
rous affections of the liver and glandular obstructions 
of the viscera. 

•Hippocrates taught that an inhalation of vapour 

■ Hipjjocrates, the father of physic and prince of phyaiciana, was bom 
ia the island of Cos in the 80th Olympiad, and flourished at the time of 
the Peloponesian war. He was the (irat man we know of, who laid down 
precepts concerning physic; and, if we may believe the author of hia 
Jiie, who goes under the name of Soranus, drew his original from Her- 
cules and ^sculapiua. He was first a pupil of hia own father Hera- 
clides, then of Herodicus, then of Gor^as of Leontinum, the orator, 
and, according' to some of Democritus of Abdera. After being instructed 
in physic, and all the liberal arts,' and losing his parents, he left his own 
country ; but what were hia motives, authors are not agreed. Some 
say, that he was obliged to fiy for burning the library in CniduE, of 
which he had been appointed the keeper. This Pliny relates from Varro, 
and assigns also the motive which induced him to commit so atrocious 
an act ; viz. that " having transcribed from ancient books, every thing 
" relating to his own art, he might, by destroying them afterwards, pass 
"the better for an original himaelf." Soranus in the mean time tells 
us, that he was divinely admonished in a dream, to go and settle in 
Thessaly ; as Galen, we know, pretended since to be put upon the study 
of physic by a dream which his father had. Be that as it may, it is cer- 
tain that he left Cos, and practised physic all over Greece; where he 
wa« so much admired for his skill, as to be sent for publicly, with Eury- 
phon, a man superior to him in years, to Perdiccas king of Macedonia, 
who was then thought to be consumptive. But Hippocrates, aa soon as 
he arrived, pronounced the disorder to be entirely mental, as it really 
was found to he. For upon the death of his father Alexander, Perdic 
cu fell in love with Philas^ his father's mistress ; and this, Hippocrates 



it 

€t 



76 A TREATISE ON 

and fluid took place on the surface of the body» as 
well fls an exhalation of similar matter. He asserted 
the same thing of aU the inteiual surfaces and cavi- 
ties: we find this doctrine summed up in thae follow^ 
ing words. : : 



discerning'^ by the great diange her pres^cei always wrought upon hinf, 
ioon effected a cure> which one would thinks might easily have hetti 
effected without the help of such a physician^ or even of any physician 
at all. He was also entreated by the people of Abdera^ to come anA 
inure Democritus of a suppose madneis. As Iheir epistle to him on MSb 
occasion is curious^ and gives a just and full idea of his very extensive 
fame^ I shall here present it to the reader in a translation. 

Our city, Hippocrates, is in very grdat danger, together with that 
person^ who, we hoped, would ever have been a great ornament and 
*' support to it. But now, O ye gods ! it is much to be feared, tilat we 
shall only be capable of envying others, since he, through extmordi* 
" nary study and learning, by which he gained it, is fallen into sickness ; 
'' so that it is much to be feared, that if Democritus beccuBe mad, our 
city will become desolate. For he is got to sudi a jntdi, that he m- 
tirely forgets himself, watches day and night, laughs at til thii^ 
'' little and great, esteeming them as nothing, and spends his whole life 
" in this frantic manner. One marries a wife ; another trades ; another 
" pleads; another performs the office Xji a magistrate, goeth on an em- 
" bassy, is chOs^n officer by the people, is put down, falls sick, is wounds* 
*' ed, dies. He laufffas at all these, observing some to look disooottaftad^ 
''tethers pleased: i^ieover,^he enquires what is done it tha.inferaid 
places, and writes of them : he affirms the air to be filll of images^ 
and says, he understands the language of birds. Rising in the nighty 
'' he oflien nngs to himself; and eayi, that he sometimes, travels t6 tiie 
'' infinity of things, and that there are iiinumend>le Democritus's Mke 
" him : thus, together with his mind, he destroyeth his body. Theee 
^ are the things whidb we fear, Hippocrates:, these are the things whieh 
" trouble ud. Come therefore quickly, and preserve us by your advicey 
*^ and despise us not, for we are not inconsiderable, and if you restore 
him, you shall not fail either of money or fkme. Though you prefer 
learning before wealth, yetaocept trf tibe latter, which shall be offered 
to you in great abundance. If our city were all gold we would give 
'' it to restore Demooritus to health : we think our laws are sick, Hip^ 
^' pocrates : come then, best of inen, and euro a most ezeellent persoBii 
'^ Thou wilt not come as a f^ysidaa^ but -as a guairdiai^of all Ionia, to 



■41 
-tff 



€t 
t« 



t€ 
€€ 
ft 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



77 



" aitrQTjfng cog ex'wvoov xai h^irvoov okov rh rrm^a.** 

" The soft parts of the body attract matter to 

" themselves both from within, and from without ; 

" a proof, that the whole body exhales and inhales." 



" encompass us with a sacred wall. Tbou wilt not cure a man, but a 
"city, a languishing senate, and prevent its diasulution : thus becoming 
" our lawgiver, judge, magistrate, and preserver. To this purpose we 
" expect thee, Hippocratea : all these, if you come, you will be to ua, 
" It is not a single obscure city, but all Greece, which beseecheth thee 
" to preserve the body of wisdom. Imagine, that learning herself c«mes 
" on this embassy to thee, begging, that thou wilt free her from this 
■■ danger. Wisdom ia certainly nearly allied to every one, but especially 
o UB, who dwell so near her. Know for certain, that the next age 
" wilt own itself much obliged to thee, if thou deeert not Democritun, 
" for the truth which he is capable of communicating to all. Thou art 
" allied to .Xsculapius by thy family, and by thy art; he is descended 
" from the brother of Hercules, from whom came Abderas, whose name, 
" as you have heard, our city bears : wherefore even to him will the 
re of DemocrituB be acceptable. Since therefore, Hippocrates, you 
I a most excellent person falling into madness, and a whole |>eopIe 
.0 distress, hiisten, we beseech you, to us. It is strange, that the 
" exuberance of good should become a disease ; that DemocrituB, by 
" how much he excelled others in acuteuess of wisdom, should so much 
sooner fall into madness, while the ordinary unlearned people of 
'' Abdera enjoy their wits as formerly ; and that even they, who before 
" vere esteemed foolish, should now be most capable of discerning the 
" indisposition of the wisest person. Come therefore, and bring along 
" with you .ffisculapiuE, and Epione the daughter of Hercides, and her 
" children, who went in the expedition against Troy : bring with yoo. 
" receipts and remedies against siclinessi as the earth plentifully afForda 
" fruits, roots, herbs, and flowers to cure madness, she can never do it , 
" more happily than now, for the recovery of Democritus. Farewell." 

Hippocrates, after writing an answer to this letter from the Bonate of | 
Abdera, in which he commended their love of wisdo^i and wise mi 
went : but upon his arrival, instead of finding Democritus mad, found j 
all his fellow -citizeiis so, and him the only man in his senses. He hoard > 
many lectures, and learned much philosophy from him ; which has made 
Celsus and others imagine, that Hippocrates was the disciple of Dcmo- 
UB, though it is probable they never saw each other till thi^ inter- 



A TREATISE ON 



1 



The Arabian physicians appear also to have been 
acquainted with this property of absorbing in the 
human body ; for we find them frequently applying 
medicines to the surface of the skin which were to 
produce their effects as expectorants on the lungs, as 
emetics on the stomach, as purgatives on the intes- 
tines, or diuretics on the kidneys. 

It has been experimentally proved, that the whole 
surface of a human body, in the space of fifteen 
minutes may absorb near seven pounds of water : a 
warm bath, therefore, will greatly assist in the cure 



I 



view, which was occasioned by the Abderites. Hippocrates had aka 
public invitations to other countriea. Thus when a plague invaded the 
lllyriiuia and the PuKiniana, the kings of those countries begged of him 
to come to their relief: he did not go, but learning from the messengers 
the course of the winds there, he concluded however that the distemper 
would come to Athens ; and, foretelling what would happen, applied 
himself to take care of the city and the Etudents. He was indeed suck 
a lover of Greece, that when his fame had reached as far as Persia, and 
upon that account Artaxerxes had intreated him, by his governor of the 
Hellcapont, to come to him upon an offer of great rewards, he reliised 
to leave it. He also delivered his own country from a war with the 
Athenians, that was just ready to break out, by prevailing with the Tbes- 
salians to come to their assistance : for which he received very great 
honours irom the Coans. The Athenians also conferred great honours 
upon him : they admitted him next to Hercules in the Eleuainian cere* 
monies ; gave him the freedom of the city ; and voted a public mftin- 
tenance for him and his family in the Prytaneum, or council house at 
Athens, where none were maintained at the public charge, but such as 
had done signal service to the state. He died among tlie LarisBoeans 
about the time that Democritus is said to have died ; some say, in his 
90th year, others in his SSth, ethers in his 101th, and others in his I09tb. 
He was huried between Gyrton and Larissa, where his monument la 
shewn even to this day. His countrymen the Coans kept his birth-day 
as a festival ; and indeed no wonder that he should have divine honours 
[taid him, since, on account of his wonderful skill and foresight in this 
irt, he passed with the Grecians for a god. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 79 

of such diseases: warm water when received into the 
system, by its relaxing power, will soften the ob- 
strncted vessels, and tend to dissolve their glutinous, 
impacted fluids ; and those good effects may the 
rather be expected, considering its action on the skin 
as a universal fomentation, and the extraordinary 
sympathy between the surface of the body, and in- 
ternal, vital parts, which I have before particularly 
mentioned. 

As the quantity of water imbibed by the absor- 
bents will be proportionable to its lightness, and 
purity; that which is soft will be most proper for 
the purpose of abath; and since most water contains 
a certain quantity of vitriolic acid, and earthy mat- 
ter ; it will be necessary to add a sufficient portion 
of soap, or alkaline salt to neutralize the acid, and 
render the water more pure, by precipitating its cal- 
careous earth ; consequently, it will become more 
penetrating and detersive. A handful of aromatic 
herbs may be thrown into the bath at the time of 
use to give it an agreeable odour. 

By coughing, sneezing, and other violent efforts of 
the body, particularly vomiting ; the blood is driven 
through the whole vascular system with increased 
celerity ; emetics, therefore, will also be of consider- 
able service, in chronic diseases of theliver; especially 
in cold, phlegmatic constitutions ; but they ought 
to be directed with great caution, and chiefly in 
cases where the obstruction is recent, and the vital 
parts sound ; or at least before the liver is become 
sehirrous, and broken down. 

Emetics are also less proper in acute diseases of 



1 



80 A TREATISE ON 

the liver, attended with pain, general inflammation, 
and hectic fever ; but where the symptoms are of 
the chronic kind, proceeding from spasm, or simple 
obstruction, with a defectivfe^ secretion of bile; they 
have been found of the greatest service ; especially 
after the use of alterative medicines, and the warm 
bath, or those aftenuants which have already been 
specified ; for, by the action of vomiting, the liver 
is not only strongly acted upon and compressed by 
the abdominal muscles, and surrounding parts; but, 
being contiguous to the stomach, is agitated and 
shaken by its repeated efforts. 

By vomiting, and the agitation which the whole 
of the abdominal contents thereby undergo; the 
motion of the blood through the viscera will be 
greatly increased ; consequently, it will be mote 
freely transmitted through the several, intricate vas- 
cular systems of the liver. Hence, a sea voyage and 
its attendant sickness, by acting more permanently, 
and with greater power, as well as by the copious 
evacuation of bile which it generally occasions, may 
still have additional efficacy. 
• An opiate, after the operation of the emetic, will 
be necessary; particularly, in cases attended with 
pain, or in those of irritable habits: it usually pro- 
motes perspiration ; consequently, by relaxing the 
solids, and abating spasmodic constriction of the 
vessels, it may also assist in removing obstruction. 

Purgatives, seasonably directed, will likewise have 
their use in cases of hepatic or bilious obstruction ; 
for, as the bile stimulates the intestines and naturally 
promotes their discharge ; costiveness will generally 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 81 

be the attendant of such affections. It will therefore 
not only be necessary to direct gentle laxatives as 
substitutes for the deficient bile; but, in particular 
cases, occasionally to administer a smart purgative 
pill, with a grain or two of calomel, and of aloes and 
soap, three grains each, which, by its stimulus, may 
help to dislodge, and carry off those gross, stagnat- 
ing humours from wliich diseases of the viscera so 
often originate; and such salutary effects may more 
reasonably be expected, as we constantly find, that 
in all disorders of the stomach and bowels, whether 
they are originally, or symptomatically affected ; the 
patient is generally relieved by spontaneous vomiting 
or purging. 

Besides, since purgatives operate more immediately 
upon the alimentary tube which is connected with 
the affected parts, they will be more likely, by their 
stimulus, to dislodge biliary concretions, and give 
motion to the stagnating bile ; especially, as the com- 
mon canal, through which the bile passes into the 
intestine, is formed by the union of the cystic and 
hepatic ducts proceeding from the liver : this obser- 
vation is confirmed by experience; for, we know, 
that by such means, biliary concretions have frequent- 
ly been voided. 

It has been experimentally found that electricity 
accelerates the motion of fluids, and is a remedy of 
great efiicacy, in cases of obstruction, or whenever 
there is a want of circulating power : a capillary 
tube which will only transmit water by drops, being 
electrified, will instantly allow it to pass in a full 
stream. Its effects on animal, and vegetable bodies 
M 



1 



82 A TREATISE ON 

are not less extraordinary ; in the first, it increases 
the blood's motion, as is evident from its raising the 
pulse ; and the growth of plants is remarkably pro- 
moted by it, as well as animal and vegetable per- 
spiration. 

Bile by a property common to all glutinous fluids 
in a stagnating state, will thicken and concrete by 
the evaporation of its fluid, and the mutual attrac- 
tion of its grosser parts ; consequently, gall<stone3 
may thus be simply formed, without any morbid 
affection of the liver itself, or the parts peculiar to it. 

Agreeable to this observation, we find that those 
who lead an inactive, studious life, where the mo- 
tion of cystic bile is sluggish, and retarded in its 
progress into the intestines, are, of all others most sub- 
ject to such concretions. As a farther confirmation 
of this reasoning; gall-stones have generally been 
found in the gall-bladder itself, where the bile stag- 
nates, and not in its ducts where it circulates ; and 
because, many who had voided gall-stones, after- 
wards remained in perfect health ; which clearly 
shew, that, independent of tenacity, the bile in such 
cases, may be free from depravity ; and that its si7n- 
jile concretion only is sufKcient to account for the 
formation of gall-stones. 

Tills remark, however, should by no means flatter 
the patient with such perfect security, as to withdraw 
his attention from every possible method of prevent- 
ing the disease, which in advanced age, and a bad 
habit of body, is extremely apt to return ; especially 
if he has been afiected by gout, and gravel, or his 
constitution is much broken and impaired by intern- 



DI£T AND REGIMEN. ^ 

peranc^, or preceding chronic diseases which hinder 
him from using sufficient exercise. 

To recapitulate ; whatever may be the diseases of 
the viscera^ which interrupt or suspend their natural 
functions ; if those vital parts are rather disordered 
than broken down, and destroyed ; the remedied, al- 
ready specified will remove them, and. restore the 
patient to health ; namely, the occasional use of al* 
ta^tives, the mild deobstruent power of lixiviated 
wheyf soap clysters, and opiates, assisted by emetics^ 
electricity, and exercise; the various powers of which 
and manner of their action on the human body have 
alr^ddy been explained. 



! ••■ : ■ 



84 A TREATISE ON 



SECTION VU. 



• . • . 



Of Nervous Disorders ; Hysteric Affections ; Low 
Spirits^ Melancholy J and Insanity ; thnr Treatmmit 
and Cure. . ^ 

The word nervous has been so vaguely and indis- 
criminately applied, that it is necessary to ascertain 
the complaints truly such, and to distinguisb them 
from others improperly so called. 

Those disorders may be deemed nervous, where, 
from an original fault, or infirm texture of the nerves, 
they become disagreeably affected by such slender 
causes as would not produce the like sensations in 
others whose nerves were in a natural state. 

Instead of regarding this simple distinction, almost 
every disorder accompanied with weak nerves has 
improperly been called nervous : but in this general 
and indefinite sense, all diseases may be called so, for 
the nerves being the only susceptible parts of animal 
bodies, and every where interwoven with all their 
solid parts, must suffer in proportion as they are in- 
jured by disease, or external violence. 

Such complaints being only symptoms or conse- 
quences of preceding diseases, cannot with propriety 
be called nervous, any more than a person may be 
said to be deeply consumptive after a severe fit of 
illness which had reduced him to skin and bones. 

Before I proceed farther, it will be necessary to 



r 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 83 



explain in a simple manner,the nature of those bodily 
powers which constitute the very principles of life. 

The human body is sustained and kept alive by 
three principal powers, which, hkethe movements of 
a clock or watch, co-operate, and mutually assist each 
other : the first is the brain, and nervous system pro- 
ceeding from it, the great source of all sensation ; 
the second is the heart, with its arteries or blood- 
vessels : and the third is the stomach and bowels 
vrhich prepare aliment for the body's nourishment. 

In speaking of digestion it was remarked, that the 
stomach loses its power when deprived of nervous 
influence ; and I must here take notice, that the 
regularity and vigour of the heart's motion chiefly 
depend on the same cause. 

■ As therefore the brain and nerves, the heart and 
arteries, with the stomach and bowels, are the prin- 
cipal instruments of all sensation, circulation, nutri- 
tion, life, and motion, and the very agents which 
govern and direct the whole animal machine; it will 
necessarily follow, that when any of them become 
disconcerted, or put out of order, the vital functions 
of the body must then be unduly performed. 

Such is the extraordinary sympathy, and inter- 
course between those several organs, that like so 
many little provinces, allied by mutual interest, not 
one of them can exercise its full power, without the 
concurrence of the rest ; for, as the heart and stomach 
cannot act, without the assistance of the brain ; or 
the stomach digest, without receiving a due quantity 
of blood from the heart ; so neither can the heart 
have sufficient force to keep up the circulation, with- 



J 



A TREATISE ON 



^ 



\ 



out continued supplies from the stomach; or even 
tlie brain itself exert its influence over those organs, 
without being duly nourished by both. 

But besides those parts, as well as the action of 
the lungs, there is a more latent principle of life, 
called Irritahililff, which does not depend upon 
either of the former powers, since it continues to 
exist in the body, after all sensibility and circulation 
is lost, and every vital principle, but itself, totally 
extinguished and destroyed. 

By irritability is meant that property of the ani- 
mal fibre, which, on being pricked, or stimulated, 
ha3 a power to contract, and shorten, although the 
animal is dead; for, the lieart, which is the most ir- 
ritable part, may be excited into motion, even after 
the head has been cut off; hence we may conclude 
that initability is not only independent of setisibUitif 
and circulation, but even of the soul itself; being 
found to exist after the brain, the seat of that spiritual 
something, has been destroyed, or taken away. 

As therefore irritability is a property residing in 
the animal fibre, from the peculiar structure and 
nature of its parts, and as it is the latest in taking 
leave of the body ; so with equal reason it may be 
supposed that 'tis thejirst vital principle which gives 
commencement to animal life. 

Lh\ Glisson was the first who used the word irri- 
tability; but we are indebted to the celebrated Baron 
Haller for pointing out the essential difference be- 
tween it and .sensibility, with which it had so oflen 
been confounded. 

The inferences arising from this important dis- 



r 1 

^^ DIET AND REGIMEN. 8T ^ 



I 



covery, so far as they are conducive to explain the 
nature of iiervoitfi disorders, or ihvow additional light 
on their cure, I shall here lay before the reader with 
more pleasure, as the subject is both new and in- 
structive. 

Experiments shew that the degree of irritability 
is in proportion to the firmness and consistence of 
that mucus or glue of which the whole bodily system 
Is originally made up. Whatever therefore hardens 
this animal jelly, as cold, exercise, acids, and the like, 
diminish irritability; and on the contrary, the dis- 
solving power of heat and moisture are found to in- 
crease it. Age, which also strengthens the fibres, 
relieves some diseases more effectually than medi- 
cines, as flushing in the face, nervous tremors, hyste- 
ric, or epileptic fits, and scrophulous complaints, 
about the time of maturity. 

I have observed that those of lax solids, and deli- 
cate habits, are thrown into a flurry of spirits, from 
the most trifling causes; and that such impressions, 
made on the female sex, are often followed by pain 
in the bowels, a diarrhcea, or fever. 

The immediate cause of such eflfects, have been 
attributed to an inordinate motion of the animal 
spij'its. What are these animal spirits, or who ever 
saw them ? 'tis very unfair thus to adopt words, 
without meaning, or only denoting things which 
probably have no existence. 

Such disorders seem to arise from too much irri- 
ttihilittf joined to excess of nervous feeling, which 
generally prevails at the same time, and like the 
former, proceeds from want of sufficient firmness in 



i 




88 A TREATISE ON 

that animal glue or cement which constitutes the 
iiervnus coats, as well as every part of the body. 

Agreeable to this observation, we know that long 
continued illness, profuse evacuations, or whatever 
diminishes bodily strength, produce a preternatural 
degree of irriliihiliti/ and sensibility, though they 
are distinct qualities, and identically different from 
each other. 

As old age approaches, the mucus or animal glue 
at last becomes so firm as to lose its former irritabi- 
lity ; hence want of motion or paralytic numbness 
in the body succeeds, and at last death itself. 

This circumstance is sufficiently confirmed, by 
observing how the muscular fibres which were very 
irritable in infancy, gradually become less so, as they 
are rendered more compact and tendinous from the 
effect of age. It also shews why those who have 
weak stamina in youth, grow stronger as they ad- 
vance in years; likewise why they do not so sud- 
denly become old, as those of stronger habits ; and 
why they are less subject to acute diseases arising 
from a firmer state of the fleshy fibres. 

Upon the vast degree of irritability with which 
the skin and bowels are particularly endowed, we 
are able to account for the surprising success ob- 
served of late in restoring drowned people to life, by 
rubbing the surface of the body with salt, and inject- 
ing the smoke of tobacco by way of clyster : from 
the acrid quality of such applications, and their effect 
on those irritable parts, the several vital organs are 
brought into consent, and rekindle the latent sparks 
of life. 



» 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 89 

On tliis principle only, we may comprehend what 
before seemed mysterious beyond the possibility erf" 
finding out, namely, how such applications should 
act on the body when stiff with cold and void of 
feeling. 

1 have already remarked that the organs of mo- 
tion, differ from those oi' sensation, and that the first 
are susceptible on the mere principle of in'itability ; 
consequently we may conclude, that when people 
apparently dead, are restored to life, the applica- 
tions then used, can only act on the irritable parts, 
for the nerves, which before were sensible, are now 
destitute of all feeling. 

Having considered the property called irritability, 
it will next be requisite to speak oi sensibility; andj 
the better to comprehend the true nature of 7jen;o«* 
disorders, also to shew what the nerves are, and 
whence they proceed, and what is their particular 
office in the animal system. 

Every nerve may be considered as a cylindrical 
chord, made up of two distinct substances, viz. of a 
medullary part, or marrow, and a fine membranous 
covering, both ^vhich are derived from the brain. 
By experiments made on the nerves of brute ani- 
mals, it appears that all their feeling resides in the 
medullary part ; and that the membrane with which 
they are invested, is void of sensation, only serving 
as a defence or covering to preserve the delicatec 
substance of the first, from the violence of too strong' 
impressions. 

These slender nervous chords, are so distributedi 
through the body, that the point of a needle cannot 
N 



J 



■ com pie: 

H Nerv 



90 A TREATI8B ON 

be applied to any part of its surface, without wound- 
ing some of them. In the skin they are spun out 
to such exquisite fineness, as to become invisible to 
the naked eye, and therefore only manifest their 
existence, by their sensibility. 

Although it will hereafter evidently appear, that 
the nerves are the immediate organs of all vital mo- 
tion and sensation, and the medium by which im- 
pressions made on the body, are instantly conveyed 
to the mind ; yet the precise manner by which 
this mysterious intercourse is carried on, remains 
a secret in nature, with which, perhaps, we shall 
never be acquainted. 

Those things premised, it will follow, that so long 
as the medullary part of the nerves, is constitutionally 
good, and their fine membranous covering sufficient- 
ly compact, they will continue in a sound state; but, 
on the contrary, when the last loses its natural firm- 
ness, the marrow, or sensitive part of the nerves 
being as it were thinly ctoathed and exposed will 
feel too much, impressions made on the body or mind. 

Hence, such causes as would not create pain when 
the nerves were in a natural state, cannot be endured 
without symptoms of great violence ; namely, palpi- 
tation of the heart, nervous trembling, and faintings. 

This delicacy of texture in the coats of the nerves, 
is by far the most obvious and general cause of such 
nervous disorders as arise from simple weakness; 
which the son derives from the father, and commu- 
nicates to his offspring, as naturally as his features or 
complexion. 

Nervous disorders may therefore arise from con- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 91 

stitutional, or hereditary weakness, or be acquired 
by whatever impairs the natural strength, as tedious 
diseases, redundant, or profuse evacuations, intem- 
perance, and irregularity of the passions. An indo- 
lent and inactive life, and continual residence in low- 
situations, where the air Is warm and moist, will also 
powerfully dispose the constitution to such maladies. 

So intimately connected, are the body and mind, 
and such their correspondence, that impressions made 
on one, mutually influence the other with like feel- 
ings : thus, by immoderate grief, the digestive facul- 
ty of the stomach is impaired ; and by a blow on the 
head which injures the brain, the soul is as it were 
dethroned, and losing its empire over the body, all 
sense and motion are instantly destroyed. 

The mind, or intellect, whilst confined to the body 
•* that muddy vesture of decay" is obliged to stoop 
to the condition of the nerves, which are liable to 
alteration, and depravity of feeling, from a thousand 
accidental, and unavoidable causes. Those, as well 
AS many other circumstances, concur to prove, that 
the faculties of the mind chiefly depend on the bodily 
organs with which they co-operate ; and where those 
are changed from their natural state, so are the men- 
tal feelings. 

How different is the disposition of body and mind 
when the vessels are empty, or full, viz. after long 
fasting, or a plentiful meal ? In the first, the pulse 
is weak, and unequal, the complexion pale, the body 
languid, and the spirits desponding ; but, after eat- 
ing, and the use of wine, the springs of 



'lA 



B mar] 

■ the] 



92 A TREATISE ON 

wound up, and the body and mind are restored to 
their native vigour. 

The natural temper and genius of a people, are 
most evident when they are left to act without re- 
straint. A masquerade will exemplify what I mean 
to suggest. — How great and evident is the change 
in the votaries of pleasure, hefore, and after the mid- 
night repast? He who at first with the gravity of a 
Spaniard, and phlegm of a Dutchman, silently wan- 
dered about like a ghost waiting to be spoken to, is 
now suddenly transformed ; the influence of beauty, 
and subtle spirit of champagne, like the orient liquor 
of Comus, begin to animate the constitution : his 
spirits expand, his tongue is untied, he becomes 
nimble as Mercury, and more loquacious than a 
Frenchman. 

Was it necessary farther to prove the sympathy 
between body and mind, and shew, that every al- 
teration of one, produces correspondent feelings in 
the other ; it might be illustrated, and confirmed by 
sensations peculiar to that change of constitution, 
at the age of puberty, which influence the sexes 
in favour of each other, even to infatuation and 
madness. 

All sympathy as well as motion, entirely depend 
on the sensibility of the nerves ; but although they 
communicate motion to other parts, they are not at 
all irritable, and consequently destitute of motion 
themselves, a circumstance truly unaccountable. 

The consent between the brain and heart, is re- 
markable; for study or intense thinking, quickens 
the pulse ; and sudden fright will occasion palpita- 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 93 

tions, or a convulsive struggle of the heart, even 
sometimes to a mortal suffocation. In both these 
cases, the first impression is made on the brain, and 
the heart, like a faithful companion, suffers by sympa- 
thy ; but whether the nerves act as tubes, or vibrat- 
ing chords, or serve as conductors to some subtle 
Juid similar to that of electric jfire, we are wholly 
agnorant : it is therefore not a little absurd in peo- 
ple, to talk of neimous fluid, or animal spirits, with 
Bs much familiarity and confidence, as if they bad 
seen them put into a bottle. 

' Nervous ivfluence, like attraction in the loadstone^ 
t>r irritability in the sensitive plant, may be consider- 
ed as a property resulting from matter, according to 
the peculiar modification of its parts, — in itself, ut- 
terly inexplicable, and of which we can know no- 
thing, but from its effects. 

; As the blood vessels proceed from the heart, which 
is the instrument of circulation, so the nerves, as al- 
ilready observed, are derived from the brain, the 
great source of all sensation. We know by feeling 
die pulse, that the action of the heart gives motion 
to the blood ; and it is no less evident, that the in- 
fluence of the brain, governs and directs all percep- 
tions of body and mind. Impressions for example 
made upon the last by excessive grief, or sudden 
■terror, produce symptoms of great violence, or even 
death itself. Cold air admitted to the naked nerve 
of a decayed tooth, will feelingly persuade us, that 
the body as well as mind may suffer by the media- 
tion of the nerves. 
■ The brain seems therefore to the nerves, 



1 



^^^^1 



■ - firm 

H are 



0* A TREATISE ON 

the heart is to the blood-vessels ; for too violent a 
degree of action in the last, will increase circulation, 
and produce heat, as may be observed after violent 
exercise. In like manner, when the power of the 
train and nerves is violently impressed on the body 
■or mind, their sensations will be rendered too quick 
and exquisite, like the motion of a watch, which be- 
-comes rapid and irregular, when the main spring acts 
too strongly upon its subordinate movements. 

Impressions made on the mind will often totally 
subdue those of the body ; and on the contrary, such 
as are made on the body, will remove those of the 
mind ; all which may supply an intelligent observer 
(with useful hints in the cure of such nervous diseases 
as have been unsuccessfully treated by medicines. 

Habitual convulsions for instance, have sometimes 
been cured by the unexpected explosion of a gun, 
or the sudden outcry of fire, in the dead of night ; 
the hiccough may be stopped by sudden surprise^ 
and the approach of an ague Jit has been prevented 
by the same cause. 

As we have seen that different passions, sensa* 
lions, and appetites, at different periods of life, cati 
only be accounted for from alteration of constitution, 
which changes the nervous feeling, so it will appear 
less surprising, that even diseases themselves, espe- 
cially those of the brain and nerves, should some- 
times be cured by the same cause ; in consequence 
of age, or some immediate accidental impression. 

In proportion as the solids of the body are more 
firm and strong, or lax and weak, the nerves, which 
are intimately interwoven with all its parts, will par- 



F 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 9S 



ticipate of the general habit, and become more or 
less endowed with sensibility. 
: For this reason, weakly women and children, 
whom the membranous coveringof the nerves, is too- 
goft, thin and dehcate, are susceptible of slender im- 
pressions, from pain, or sudden fear; so as to pro- 
duce paleness of the face, palpitation of the heart, 
convulsions, or other violent symptoms- On the 
contrary, robust men, and old people, whose nerves 
in common with other parts, are hardened by the 
cfiects of age, become much less subject to those ex~ 
■eessive emotions. 

, Tender bodies, such as the first may be said to be 
■^ trembhngly alive all o'er," and like wax, to receive 
too deep an impression. Women, therefore, com- 
|iared to men, are much more subject to nervous 
disorders, both from their natural delicacy of frame, 
shd a more recluse manner of hying, which deprives 
them of the benefits of exercise, and fresh air. 
^ Nervous disorders thus arising from simple weak- 
ness, are always attended with a preternatural de- 
gree of feeling and ijr'itability, and can only be cured 
^ such means as give more strength and firmness 
tothe whole bodily system. i 

The progress of age, which gradually imparts 
strength to the nervous threads interwoven with 
every part of the body, will therefore greatly assist 
in the cure of nervous, and hysterical complaints 
arising from weakness. 

Hence it may reasonably be concluded, that mode- 
rate exercise in dry pure air ; the liberal use of Peru- 
vian barif, with chalybeates, or preparations of steel, 



1 



1 



r 

■ and also t 

V be depeiK 



A TREATISE ON 



■ po 



and also the cold batb, are the principal remedies to" 
be depended upon, in this species of nervous dis- 
orders, as they are all known to strengthen the body ; 
and, on the contrary, that bleeding, vomits, strong 
purgatives, the immoderate use of tea, or a seden- 
tary life, in warm moist air, will be highly pernicious. 

The nerves, like other parts of the body, are 
nourished by blood-vessels, and consequently, are 
liable to inflammation, which will increase their serv^ 
aibility, and may occasion pain, delirium, or mad« 
ness: this circumstance is more fully exemplified; 
by inflammation of the eye, or ear, which will so 
increase their nervous feeling, that light, and sound, 
before, producing their natural effect on those organs;' 
without pain, will now become intolerable. 

On the other hand, when the nerves are rendered 
too firm, and insufficiently supplied with blood, asy 
in extreme old age, their sensations are deadened,; 
and impaired ; the stomach will lose its natural 
power, and the bowels their expulsive force ; hence 
indigestion, and habitual costiveness ; a paralytia 
numbness of the limbs will follow, the sight and 
memory begin to fail, and all the passions are in ai 
manner extinguished, ; 

' " last scene of all, 
" That ends tbia strange eventful history, ; 

" Ik aei-ond diildisliness, and mere oblivion." 

The first of those nervous maladies, being inflaniK 
matory, may be relieved by bleeding, gentle evacuaM 
tions, and spare diet: the last, without the magic 
power of Medea, is in its own nature incurable. 

Besides those general causes of nervous disordersi 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 97 

arising from simple weakness, there are others of a 
more violent or particular kind, proceeding from 
diseased humours in the blood ; for instance, break- 
ings out on the skin, suddenly driven back, and the 
■over hasty closure of issues, or old sores, have been 
flucceeded by nervous symptoms which ceased as 
.soon as those discharges were again restored. 

The like disorders have been known to follow 
■gouty complaints which suddenly went off without 
. any regular fit; but on the return of the gouty 
humours to the hands or feet, the symptoms were 
jimmediately relieved. This particular class of ner- 
vous disorders is frequently attended with very dan- 
gerous symptoms, in consequence of injury done to 
Ihe brain, by such offending humours ; hence, hyste- 
ric, and epileptic ^ts, low spirits, and melancholy; 
which can only be effectually removed, by taking 
away the original morbid cause. 

In such cases, the nerves themselves are not in 
fault, but suffer in consequence of those latent dis- 
eases ; which must be cured according to their own 
peculiar nature ; for as long as their dregs remain in 
the blood, and poison that vital source, frooi which 
all parts of the body are nourished, and supplied, so 
long must the nervous system continue weak, and 
infirm. 

I now proceed to the cause and cure of hysteric 
affections, low spirits, and melancholy. 

The hysteric passion has been supposed to arise 
from some particular morbid cause impressed upon 
the womb, which by nervous sympathy is quickly 
transferred, from one part of the body to another, 
O 



.1 



k. 



[uickiy ■ 

nother, m 



» 



98 A TREATISE ON 

and wherever it fixes, resembles diseases peculiar to 
such parts, creating colic in the bowels, asthma in 
the lungs, giddiness in the head, and suffocation in 
the tliroat. 

But although this was the general opinion of the 
ancients, and which many of the moderns have taken 
upon trust ; no opinion can be more exceptionable, 
and improperly grounded. I have repeatedly had 
occasion to observe, that various impressions on the 
body and mind, will occasion hysterics, independent 
■of any affection of the womb itself. 

The stomach is more amply supplied with nerves, 
Ihan the womb, and therefore, more susceptible 
.hence, in very irritable and delicate habits, it oftener 
Jjecomes the seat of hysteric, from errors in diet, 
.where the aliment offends in quantity, or quality. 

Violent passions of the mind, as anger, or extreme 
jealousy, will often produce the same effect ; and 
here it may again be remarked, that tlie impression 
is made on the nervous system in general, and not 
on those of the womb in particular. 

However, as hysterics have been observed to fol- 
low obstructed menses, it may be allowed that they 
sometimes proceed from a local affection of the womb. 

Hysterical, and hypochondriac affections are of 
the same nature, for both proceed from weakness, 
and too much sensibility of thenervous system. The 
symptoms are only diversified by the difference of 
sex: in women therefore, this malady is called hyste- 
ric passion; in men, hypochondriac melancholif. 

The excess of sensibility in hysteric women, is in- 
contestibly proved by the effect of musk, or other 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 59 

powerful odours, suddenly producing fits, indepen- 
dent of any other cause ; and going into a hath too 
hot, has also been attended with the same conse- 
quence. 

No disease appears more various and changeable 
than this ; but although 'tis often very alarming, it 
seldom proves mortal. The manner of its attack 
and disappearance, is sometimes so sudden, that the 
patient apparently at the point of death one day, 
seems almost in perfect health the next. However, 
when neglected, it is apt to degenerate into obstinate 
chronic diseases, as faJntings, low spirits, and melan- 
choly. 

Those of hysteric habits have always weak nerves. 
They are subject to obstructed perspiration, bad 
digestion, and wind at stomach. The symptoms are 
very different in different constitutions; generally 
a strangulation is perceived in the throat, as if a ball 
was rising up, and therefore called globus hystericus, 
erroneously supposed to proceed from an ascent of 
the womb. Difficulty of breathing, pale urine, 
&intings, and profound sleep may also be looked 
upon, as genuine symptoms of this disease. 

Sometimes the head or temples are affected with 
acute pain, as if a nail was driven into the part ; at- 
tended with dimness of sight, and involuntary effu- 
sion of tears. At other times, the patient is seized 
with convulsions, or sudden laughter, without ap- 
parent cause, and talks inconsistently like one de- 
lirious. 

The hysteric Jit generally commences with uni- 
versal languor, and pain in the loins, attended with 



h. 




A TREATISE ON 



1 



■ ed 

m 



sense of coldness and nervous trembling; the heart 
palpitates; the pulse becomes unequal and obscure; 
the extremities grow cold; a choking is perceived 
in the throat ; tlie face is pale, breathing difficult, 
and the voice is lost Instances have been known, 
though rare, where the patient remained for a day 
or two, as if in a trance, or dead sleep, without appa- 
rent sense or motion. 

As the fit goes off, the pulse gradually becomes 
stronger, and the countenance resumes its native 
colour. A vast quantity of wind is discharged from 
the stomach, and at last with deep sighings, and a 
face bedewed with sweat, as if awaking out of pro- 
found sleep, she is restored to speech, sense, and mo- 
tion, but complains of soreness over her body and 
limbs, as if she had been bruised. 

During the fit, the attendants instead of crowding 
in upon the patient, ouglit to be kept at a distance, 
that the fresh air may have immediate access to her 
lungs, otherwise, they cannot be blown up; and the 
lieart being overpowered, will now want sufficient 
force to drive the blood through its vessels, conse- 
quently, a syncope, or mortal fainting may ensue- 
All that can be done with propriety, during the fit, 
is to lay her gently on a bed or couch, to keep her- 
head moderately raised, and to guard her from such 
injuries as might happen by the violence of strug- 
gling. 

Before proceeding farther, it is necessary to ob- 
serve, that the hysteric passion, however distinguish- 
ed by different names, is in many respects a true 
nervous affection, of the more severe, or acute kind ; 



niET AND REGIMEN. 101 

and that it is to be relieved or cured by the regimen, 
and medical treahnenty proper in such disorders. 

A like delicacy of constitution, and the same gene- 
ral causes, equally dispose women to hysteric, and 
nervous disorders : which perhaps may be the rea- 
son, why that ornament of physic and philosophy 
the celebrated Roerhaave has not thought fit to 
treat of the hysteric passion as a separate disorder. 

In plethoric habits, where the fibres are strong, 
the pulse hard and full, and the symptoms violent, 
bleeding is proper ; but on the contrary, if the pa- 
tient is languid, and inclined to faintings, it would 
be improper, and highly dangerous. 

If the head is affected with pain, the feet should 
be put into warm water, and the temples bathed with 
vinegar, which may be also snuffed up the nose. 
The violent palpitation of the heart, and internal 
flutter, may be relieved by clysters of vinegar and 
water, or a spoonful of lemon juice taken twice a 
day, especially in full habits of body, attended with 
thirst and fever. 

Moderate exercise of all kinds, particularly riding 
on horseback, or swinging, if the patient is weak, 
have been found sovereign remedies, which may be 
greatly assisted by the use of Peruvian bark, clialy- 
beates, and the cold bath. 

In short, frequent experience, and attentive obser- 
vation have convinced me, that whoever intends to 
r«beve, or eiFectually cure, nervous, or hysterical dis- 
orders, must do it by means which uniformly and 
permanently act on the general habit of body ; and 
not by directing a new medicine for every new 



1 



I 



^^ be no ] 



102 A TREATISE ON 

symptom, which at best, can only produce a tempo- 
rary relief, but will never produce such a change of 
constitution, as to end in a lasting cure. 

Melancholy is a species of insanity, or delirium 
without fever, creating jn the mind ideas, which 
either arise from false perception of external objects, 
or some internal impulse on the braJii independent 
of all outward impressions whatever. 

This disease unfortunately renders the patient 
unfit for the social enjoyments of life. It is either 
original, or acquired, and if of long continuance, 
degenerates into madness. 

To avoid useless distinctions; under the general 
name of jnelanc/ioly may be comprehended those 
maladies termed vapors, low spirits, and insanity, 
being all so many branches from the same root, and 
only differing in degrees of violence. — 

Original, or hereditary melancholy, is inherent 
iu the constitution and intimately connected with 
the very principles of life. 

This particular species of disease may be distin- 
guished, by suddenly shewing itself without any 
apparent cause, and as it results from some fault in 
the structure of the brain, or nerves, is absolutely 
incurable, though it does not seem to shorten the 
duration of life. 

The seeds of this disease, like those of gout, or 
kings evil, are difTused through the blood, and enter 
into the very composition of the animal frame ; for, 
although on examination after death, there should 
be no perceivable fault in its organs, yet, as every 
implies a preceding cause, it may rationaUy 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 103 

be concluded, that the first stamp of their existence, 
was diseased, and will therefore, one time or other 
produce corresponding morbid feelings in the mind. 

Acquired, or adventitious melancholy, does not 
like the former species, arise from a diseased state of 
the brain or nerves, but from some violence applied 
in a greater degree, than their tender texture can 
bear, without impairing their functions, and destroy- 
ing that natural correspondence which ought to exist, 
between external objects, and the ideas arising from 
£hem. 

• Among the principal of such causes is, a transla- 
tion of diseased humours to those organs, the effect 
of poisons, spirituous liquors, or influence of the 
moon : also the excess of anger, joy, and sorrow; or 
the insidious power of love, and jealousy. 

Religious doubts which perplex the mind with 
alternate hopes and fears, a sedentary life, mercury 
.taken in excess, or warm damp air, all dispose the 
constitution to melancholy, by weakening the ner- 
vous power. 

Those are the general causes of low spirits, and 
acquired melancholy, which always operate most 
powerfully, on people of nice sensations, whose plea- 
sures and pains from over delicacy of the nervous 
system, are too exquisite for sense ; but the precise 
manner in which they produce their effects ; or why 
such causes do not always produce similar conse- 
quences in such a particular state of the nerves, is 
utterly unknown. 

Those on the contrary of more clumsy organs, who 
are possessed of little more than vegetable feeling, 



i 



104 A TREATISE ON 

never experience the misery of nervous disorders ; so 
that if they have less pleasure, the account is ba- 
lanced by their enduring less pain. 

Hence it appears, that from vapours or pleasing 
melancholy, to the extremes of lunacy and raging 
madness, their immediate causes can only be two, 
namely, the first internal, from a fault of the brain, 
or nerves; the second external, from adventitious 
causes, so violently applied, as to disturb, or prevent 
their natural functions. 

I have already observed, that the body and mind, 
receive all their information, by means of the brain 
and nerves ; and that by those, they mutually eon- 
verse, and sympathize with each other; hence it will 
follow, that whenever those organs are injured, and, 
like unfaithful messengers, do not truly execute their 
oflSce, and represent things as they are ; the patient 
v?ill then be imposed upon by delusive perceptioUt 
and figure to himself things, which have no existence* 
but in his own distempered brain. 

Impressions from the same objects, affect the body 
differently, at different times, according to the na- 
ture and degree of its nervous power, thus when it is 
diminished, the efforts of the body languish, and 
things attempted to be lifted, seem heavier than be- 
fore; if a slow fever prevails, they are perceived un- 
commonly cold to the touch ; in a word, whatever 
presents to the eye, and ear, the taste, or smell, will 
differently affect those senses, as they more or less 
recede from their natural state. 

Objects thus felt through a false medium, will be 
ju imperfectly perceived by the mind, as those re- 




DIET AND REGIMEN, 



fleeted from a false mirror glass, which assume shapes 
and magnitude not existing in such bodies. 

That melancholy and madness arise from perver- 
sion of nervous Reeling becomes still more evident, 
by observing that where the nerves distributed to 
different senses are injured, their faculties are imrae* 
diately altered and impaired. 

Those who are subject to this lamentable malady, 
perceive a sinking at stomach, are timorous, and 
fond of solitude; they are suspicious, and inquisitive, 
alarmed at mere trifles, and entertain the most in- 
consistent, and extravagant notions, ever apprehen- 
sive that some dreadful calamity is near. 

Retirement, and bodily ease, are destructive to 
the melancholy ; for whilst they sit unemployed^ 
they become a prey to their own thoughts. On the 
contrary, exercise, and severity of diet, are benefi- 
cial; for no one can think or study, with the same 
attention, when impressed with the disagreeable sen- 
sation of hunger, or tormented with a raging toothy 
as when he is at perfect ease. 

Violent agitation of body will always interrupt 
attention of mind; to deny this, would be as absurd 
as to assert, that a person could deeply meditate with 
the same deliberation, when carried swiftly through 
the air by a head-strong horse, at the peril of hit 
Hte, as when retired in safety, and reclined at easafc 
on a bed of down. 

Acquired melancholy may generally be cured, by 
taking away, if possible, the cause which produced 

kit ; but if it arises from a translation of morbid hu- 



)ea I 



i 



]06 A TREATISE ON 

mows to the brain, being then si/mptomatic, it eait 
only be remedied by removing the original disease. 

Since we find that painful sensations applied to 
tlie body or mind, often destroy bealtli, and occasion 
melancholy ; by parity of reasoning it may be con- 
cluded, that pleasurable feelings of a contrary nature, 
will bid fairest to restore it. The chiefest of those 
are, cheurjul company, poetry, music, and dramatic 
entertainments of the comic kind. Frequent exercise 
in the open fields or flower gardens, chalybeate waters, 
assisted by that sovereign remedy, the Peruvian bark, 
and cold bath, will also be found powerfully salutary. 

The study of natural history will afford pleasing 
and rational entertainment for the mind ; as well as 
that of exploring the wonderfid structure of minute 
animal and vegetable bodies, by the assistance of the 
microscope. 

The cure of melancholy should be attempted by 
travelling far from home, with agreeable company, 
or if convenient, into foreign countries. Prospects 
which suddenly open upon the mind with novelty 
and surprise, are most likely to dispossess it of pain- 
ful sensations, or counteract their bad effects. By 
thus shifting the scene, the mind will be presented 
with a continual change of new objects, which strike 
more forcibly on the senses, than things familiar to 
them. The eye will be delighted with all the charms 
of variety, in new prospects ; the impulse of sounds, 
different from those before, will strike the ear ; un- 
usual odours will afiect the smell; and the taste itself 
will also experience a change, by the variety of ali- 
naents peculiar to different situations. 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 107 

From those new impressions, thus made on the 
senses, which are so many avenues, or immediate in- 
lets to the brain and nerves, a succession of new 
ideas will arise so as insensibly to disengage the mind 
from objects of its distress. 

I have already proved, that pecuhar thoughts, and 
reflections of the mind, are joined with certain con- 
ditions of the body, and therefore, that, our manner 
of living, in a considerable degree, changes our man- 
ner of thinking. 

Hence, by travelling, the universal benefits of air, 
exercise, and diet, will at once be most agreeably 
obtained ; all which tend to strengthen the consti- 
fcution, and to wear out disagreeable impressions 
of the mind, by introducing others of an opposite 
nittiire. 

The next sovereign remedy is music. Cicero as- 
serts its amazing power, and Plato supposes that 
the effect of harmony on the mind, is equal to that 
of air on the body : so wonderful is the empire of 
Biusic over the mind, as recorded by the ancients, 
that it leads the soldier undaunted to the " immi- 
" nent deadly breach," and alternately stops tiie 
rage of conquest by its varied power : it mitigates 
bodily pain, suspends the malignant force of mad- 
ness, and despair, and lulls the soul into tranquillity, 
and peace- 

Music, and its manner of operating on the body 
and mind, depends as much upon rational, and de4- 
monstrative principles, as that of any medicine in 
the materia medica, although little has hitherto 



I tne ?ita. 





108 A TREATISE ON 

been said on this subject, except in a vague and 
chimerical way. 

Music produces its salutary effects by creating an 
agreeable sensation on the nerves of the ear, which 
communicate with the brain and nervous system : 
and as the inordinate passions of the mind, all make 
their first disagreeable impressions on those sensible 
parts, and occasion low spirits, vapours, and melan- 
choly ; no remedy can be more rationally applied to 
counteract their malignant power, than that of 
music, which excites a contrary sensation, of the 
pleasurable kind, and acts immediately upon the 
same organs. 

The effect of music will be different according to 
the style, and manner of its composition, and should 
therefore be adapted to the particular state and dis- 
position of the mind. The plaintive tone of soft 
flutes, induce a pleasing languor ; and like the sooth- 
ing power of opium, compose it when irritated by 
passion, or tortured by rage; whilst the merry pipe 
and tabor, will exhilirate and raise the moping head 
of melancholy, depressed by religious despair, dis- 
appointed ambition, or hopeless love. 

Let us next appeal to the refined feelings of those, 
most susceptible of the divine power of harmony, to 
prove its sovereign influence over the mind ;— that 
it is the true oblivious antidote, the Nepenthes of the 
Gods, to heal a wounded spirit, — to exalt the soul 
above low-thoughted care, and lap it in elysium. 



im. M 

1 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



CONCLUSION. 



The human body is made up of such frail mate- 
rials that they must necessarily decay, and often be 
put out of order. We are not only subject to pain 
and diseases, but to irregularities of the passions, and 
influence of weather ; all which affect the spirits, 
intellect, and memory, so as to render the same per- 
son very different at different times, in thinking, 
speaking, and acting, as any one who is not robustly 
insensible, laust naturally discover from his own feel- 
ings. — Considering its admirable structure, the num- 
ber and exquisite fineness of its movements, that in 
a healthy state, all its parts must conspire, to per- 
form their proper office, and that the least failure 
occasions some disease; it appears matter of astonish- 
ment, that we are more than the transitory beings of 
a day. 

The body and mind, are so disposed by the author 
of nature, that they cannot act separately, but are 
mutually affected hy the sole mediation of the nerves, 
by impressions alternately made on the one, or other, 
so that the several passions can only produce their 
effects, whether good or bad, by increasing, or di- 
minishing the influence of these sensible organs on 
the bodily system. 

As the regimen, or government of the passions is ^^ 

highly essential to health, it therefcve properly be^^L^H 

comes an object of medical attention. ^^^^^1 

I The human mind is principally actuated by two' ^^^H 

■ different passions ; the one elevates, or winds up the 1 



110 A TREATISE ON 

spring of tlie nerves, and as it were lifts it above 
itself; such are the effects of hope, and immoderate 
jmf : the other, as/ear, and sorrow, sink it below its 
natural standard. 

Most of the subordinate passions appear to be 
compounded of those : thus the passion of love is 
made up by a conflict of the whole, as hope and fear, 
grief, or joy, aUernately prevail ; and terror is only 
a species of sudden fear, impressed with the ex- 
tremes! violence. 

Those malignant feelings, or demons of the mind, 
for they deserve not the name of passions, envyr 
hatred, and revenge, require no attention : they ought 
to carry with them, their own punishment, and 
scorpion-like, sting themselves to death. 

I shall here take a contrasted view of the several 
dissimilar passions in order to shew their powerful 
influence on the bodily system. 

Hope, or expectation of approaching good, like a 
sovereign balm, diffuses gladness round the heart, 
and by acting gratefully on the nerves, increases 
tlieir power on all the vital parts: it promotes a free 
circulation of blood, as well as the several secretions 
depending upon it; assists appetite, and digestion, 
gives strength and vigour to the limbs, renders thc' 
countenance cheerful, and contributes universally to h 
the preservation of health. H 

Fear, or the dread of future ills, on the contrary, f 
deadens the vital feeling of the nerves, retards the 
blood's motion, and diminishes perspiration ; it im- 
_ pairs appetite, depresses the spirits, and particularly _ 

H disposes the body to receive infectious diseases. ■ 



r 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



Joy arises from the idea of present happiness, or 
of having avoided some impending evil. This pas- 
sion, though nearly allied to hojte, and when mode- 
rate, like it, contributing to health, has yet been 
found, when sudden and excessive, to introduce a 
kind of torpor, or palsy of the nerves ; to suspend 
the heart's motion, and destroy the patient by a 
fainting or mortal syncope. 

Sorrow implies some present calamity oppressive 
to the mind: it is attended with universal languor, 
loss of appetite and sleep ; giddiness of the head, 
eifusion of tears with faintings; and by weakening 
the spring of the nerves, it suspends their natural 
secretions. The pulse loses its usual strength, and 
respiration becomes so difficult, that the patient fre- 
quently sighs to relieve himself of a load at the 
breast. Thus like a vulture, it incessantly preys 
upon the heart, and if not relieved by the effect of 
time, wears out the body, and brings it to decay. 

Terror is a species of extreme and sudden fear, 
from the apprehension of instant danger. It acts 
upon the nervous system with the velocity of elec- 
tric fire, and so increases their influence on the body, 
Bs sometimes to give it a degree of strength, and 
agility, almost incredible; but when this momentary 
exertion is over, universal languor and faintness 
succeed. 

dinger, or a sense of injury sustained, produces 
effects somewhat similar to terror, but not in so vio- 
lent a degree. When this passion is attended with 
revenge, the heart palpitates, the hand trembles, the 





lis A THEATISE ON 

eyes flash with rage, and the countenance alternately 
becomes red and pale- 
Nothing however is more false and inconsistent 
with the philosophy of the passions than the general 
opinion that paleness always indicates revenge ; for 
it is as frequently occasioned by fear, and excessive 
joy, or exquisite sen^bility, as from that diabolical 
feeling. 

Anger has been observed to occasion profusion of 
bile, with sickness, vomitings, and pain m the bowels. 
In those of plethoric constitutions, it has produced 
apoplexy, delirium, and madness : but on the con- 
trary, such as were of a cold, phlegmatic tempera- 
ment, and subject to melancholy, dropsy, or inter- 
mittent fevers, have sometimes been remarkably re- 
lieved by its effects. 

The passion of love, of all others, is most difficult 
to be defined, so various are its affectic»is and invin* 
cible is its power, according to age, sex, and tempe- 
rament ; or as it is attended by hope and fear, grief 
and joy. Whilst one sits " like patience on a monu- 
" ment smiling at grief," another becomes frantic, 
and despairing of what alone could make life desira- 
ble, is driven to suicide, and seeks refuge in the 
grave ! 

Love like the infant blossom of the spring, fostered 
by the genial ray, is nursed by indulgence; hut cold 
indifference, or neglect, blast the promised fruit, and 
cliill it to death. 

Many instances have occurred, where those affect- 
ed by this bewitching passion, have become epileptic. 



UIET AND REGliWEN. 113 

and hysterical, or fell iuto a nervous fttver, consump- 
tion, or melancholy. 

In mutual love, when hope presents her nectar'd 
cup, 'tis replete with more than the sweets of Hybla: 
but when despair, accompanied with his sad, and 
sickly train of jealousies, doubts, and fears, adminis- 
ters bis ebon chalice ; beware the taste — 'tis nause- 
pus as the dregs of gall, and fraught with adder's 
poison ! 

If such are the injuries brought on the constitu- 
tion by irregularity and excess of the passions, how 
much should it be the care of rational beings to guard 
■gainst their insults, and oppose their malignant in- 
fluence with virtuous and becoming resolution ? 
■ Happiness and ?nisen/ are the lights and sliadea 
which fill up the outlines in the portrait of human 
life. Every man naturally endeavours to attain one, 
and avoid the other, but by very different means, 
»nd often disproportioned to that end. 

We frequently deceive ourselves in the pursuit 
and enjoyment of our wishes. Extravagance of 
hope ends in disappointment, and even a series of 
pleasurable events, at last lose their power. To give 
them true relish, and make lasting, the mind must 
refer to some former, painful sensation. i 

Thus a person who always possessed health, is 
scarcely sensible of its value; but when lost, let ib 
again return, and he will bless the means which re- 
stored it. None enjoy riches so much as those whoi 
have been at great pains to attain them, and have 
tasted the bitterness of want. He who was always 
affluent, has no competent idea of former indigence. 



1 



114 A TREATISE ON 



M 



to contrast such a state and exalt his present enjoy- 
ment. 

Were our pleasures too exquisite and lasting, they 
would wear out the body before its time. Every 
extreme, therefore, happily corrects itself, and every 
evil works its own cure. 

If the violent passions harrow up the soul, and 
disturb its union with the body ; a conscience pure, 
and uncorrupted, the inestimable reward of virtue, 
will best reconcile them to each other, and cause 
them to dwell in harmony. That will always speak 
peace to the mind, whatever the world may say, and 
shield it from the malignant attacks of slander and 
abuse. 

Whoever is too solicitous about censure, fame, or 
the possession of temporal enjoyments, will seldom 
find repose : an ungracious look from his superiors, 
or unmerited insolence from those below him, will 
vex and discompose him. If he is ambitious, he 
must feel the bitterness of disappointment ; if anxi- 
ous for long life, a coffin or shroud, the apparatus of 
death, will alarm and appal his senses ; while he who 
beholds those mortal calamities with a philosophic 
eye ; who is neither weary of living, nor afraid to 
die, will find in himself inexpressible calm and repose. 

In a word, the government of the passions is as 
essential towards preventing diseases of the mind, as 
temperance contributes to hinder them from attack- 



I 



^k ing the body. H 

^H ' That man ought to be deemed richest, who is hap- H 

^B piest ; and he is most likely to become so, who, with H 

^^ 4 virtuous resignation is prepared for the unavoidable H 



DIET AND REGIMEN. IIS 

evils wliich flesh is heir to ; who expostulates with 
the foUy and extravagance of his own desires, and 
although a hard task, at last convinces himself that 
what he likes best, is not always best for him ; who 
preserves a decent equality of mind, is not arrogant- 
ly elated with the delusive smiles of prosperity, nor 
servilely cast down by the surly visage of misfortune. 

The different seasons of spring, summer, and win- 
ter, have also a manifest influence on the body and 
mind. In spring, animal, as well as vegetable bodies 
experience a kind of resuscitation ; the nerves are 
invigorated, and pleasurable feelings irradiate the 
body and mind ; but when the autumnal leaves be- 
gin to fall, they are overshadowed by melancholy 
gloom and all their delectable sensations are chilled 
and reversed. 

It will not here be requisite to call in the assistance 
of physic or philosophy, to prove the effects of dif- 
ferent climates, and alterations of weather on human 
bodies, especially in those who are delicate and in- 
firm. The great difference experienced by our feel- 
ings, from sudden changes of the atmosphere, even 
in the space of a single day, or hour, will more power- 
fully confirm the reality of such effects than all tb# -I 
reasoning in the world. 

Popular diseases, as well as bodily habit, and 
natural temperament in people of different nations, 
chiefly depend on particular situations occasioned by 
the soil, air, and water peculiar to each. 

We know that transplantation changes botli the 
shape and quality of some vegetables, and that par- 
ticular animals lose their native temper when trans- 



J 



I 



116 A TREATISE ON "I 

ported to other countries. The phlegmatic disposi- 
tion of a Dutchman, or half frozen, insensible consti- 
tion oi a Laplander might be thawed, and mellowed 
down into more pleasurable feelings, by the warm, 
delightful climate of Italy or south of France. 

Influenced and animated by the air, and manner 
of living prevailing among the natives, he would, 
like them, delight in mirth, in music, and society ; 
and from the same cause, an Englishman, at Paris, 
would perhaps be more than equal in vivacity to a 
Frenchman in London. Men would not therefore 
perlly presume on the superior excellence of their 
bodily, or mental faculties, did they only consider 
how accidentally they came by them. 

Instead of accounting for many diseases, on such 
principles, and applying remedies suitable to their 
cure ; namely, those which may be taken from the 
regimen of air, diet, and exercise, assisted by simple 
medicines; it has been the custom, to impute dis- 
eases to occult qualities, or look at a great distance 
for their causes; as well as ransack the East and 
West Indies for expensive medicines, whilst nature 
has presented us with innumerable vegetables equally- 
salutary, at home, growing in gardens, or negligently- 
trodden under our feet in the open fields, whose vir- 
tues are insufficiently attended to, and whose only 
fault is, their being too cheap, and easily obtained. 

In this frail and transient state, the human system 
is subject to an inclement atmosphere without, and 
the violent passions within ; it may suiFer from in- 
temperance, the advance of age, and prevalence of 

■irious habits, so as to render it more instable than 



I 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 117 

the weather-glass, and in a perpetual state of change, 
from the cradle to the grave. 

If intemperance and irregularity of the passions 
wear out the body and anticipate its decay; the votary 
to temperance will probably arrive at old age, with- 
out diseases or pain : although, by fatal necessity, he 
was bom to die ; the bond of union between the soul 
and body will rather be gently loosed, than forcibly 
torn asunder. When the principles of life are near- 
ly exhausted, as a lamp deprived of oil, the vital 
flame will languish, and at last, must needs be ex- 
tinguished. 

Well may human life thus surrounded and as- 
sailed by a train of unavoidable calamities be com- 
pared to a. fleeting s/iadoiv which never continues in 
one stay : like the unballasted bark in a troubled 
ocean, it becomes the sport of winds and tides, and 
without ihe aid of religion, reason, and philosophy, 
is in continual danger of being swallowed up and 
lost ! 

If such are the various affections of the body and 
mind, and if our manner of living changes our man- 
ner of thinking, and influences our moral conduct ; 
thrice happy they who have been accustomed to 
earli/ temperance, and the due regulation of their 
passions, as powerful motives to virtue, and the surest 
means of preserving health, prolonging life and 
_ tasting its pleasures with the dignity and refinement 

r 



1 




V- ?■ •' 



r 



APPENDIX. 



1 



An account of the natural history and qualities of 
Opium ; with ■practical Cautions and Observations 
relative to its use and abuse. 

OPIUM. 

This juice lias not yet been collected in quantity 
in Europe. Egypt, Persia, and some other provinces 
of Asia, have hitherto supplied us with this commo- 
dity ; in those countries, large quantities of poppies 
are cultivated for this purpose. The opium prepar- 
ed ahout Tiiebes in Egypt, hence named Thebaic 
Opium, has been usually esteemed the best ; but 
this is not now distinguished from that collected in 
other places. This juice is brought to us in cakes 
or loaves, covered with leaves, and other vegetable 
matters, to prevent their sticking together: it is of 
A solid consistence, yet somewhat soft and tenacious, 
of a dark reddish brown colour in tlie mass, and when 
reduced into powder, yellow; of a faint disagreeable 
Smell, and a bitterish taste, accompanied with a pun- 
gent heat and acrimony. 

In the province of Bahar in the East Indies, it is 
said, the poppy seeds are sown in October or No- 
vember at about eight inches distance ; and are well. 



^L stimuli!! 

^B minisliei 

^m skin, it 

^K produce: 



1'20 APPENDIX. 

watered 'till tlie plants are about half a foot high, 
when a compost of nitrous earth, dung, and ashes, is 
spread over the areas; and a little before the flowers 
appear, they are again watered profusely till the 
capsules are half grown ; and then the opium is col- 
lected; for when fully ripe, they yield little juice. 
Two longitudinal incisions, from below upwards, 
without penetrating the cavity, are made at sun set 
for three or four successive evenings ; and then they 
are allowed to ripen their seeds. In the morning, 
the juice is scraped off with an iron scoop, and work- 
ed in an earthen pot in the sun's heat till it be of a 
consistence to be formed into thick cakes of about 
four pounds weight, which are covered over vnith 
the leaves of poppy or tobacco, and dried. 

The external and internal effects of opium appear 
to be various in different constitutions, and in the 
same at different times. By some, when applied to 
the tongue, the nose, the eye, or any part deprived 
of skin, it has been said to stimulate and to induce 
in the eye in particular a slight degree of redness. 
But if this effect do take place, it is at the utmost, 
extremely inconsiderable, particularly when com- 
pared with the effect of a variety of other articles 
applied to the same organ ; and there can be no 
doubt, that in a very short time, the sensibility of 
the part to which it is applied, even when there 
has not taken place the slightest mark of preceding 
stimulus or inflammation, is very considerably di- 
minished. Some allege, that when applied to the 
skin, it allays pain and spasm, procures sleep, and 
produces all the other salutary, or dangerous effects 



APPENDIX. 121 

which result from its internal use; while others 
allege, that thus applied, it has little or no effect 
whatever. 

It sometimes allays the pain from a carious tooth, 
by deadening the sensibility of the part, which is 
sufficient to prove, that it is occasionally useful as a 
local remedy. 

Opium, when taken into the stomach to such an 
extent as to have any sensible effect, gives rise to a 
pleasant serenity of mind, in general proceeding to 
a certain degree of languor and drowsiness. The 
action of the sanguiferous system is diminished, the 
pulse becoming for the most part softer, fuller, and 
slower than it was before. There often takes place 
■swelling of the subcutaneous veins, and sweating ; 
both probably the consequence of a diminution of re- 
sistance at the surface, from a diminution of muscular 
fiction ; and accordingly, opium diminishes those 
discharges which depend on muscular action, as is 
particularly exemplified in its effect of binding the 
belly. Opium taken into the stomach in a larger 
dose, gives rise to confusion of head and vertigo. 
The power of all stimulating causes, as making im- 
pressions on the body, is diminished; and even at 
times, and in situations when a person would na- 
turally be awake, sleep is irresistibly induced. In 
still larger doses, it acts in the same manner as the 
narcotic poison, giving rise not only to vertigo, head- 
ache, tremors and delirium, but to convulsions also; 
and these terminating in a state of stupor, from 
which the person cannot be roused. This stupor is 
accompanied with slowness of the pulse, and with 
R 




J22 



stertor in breathing, and the scene is terminated in 
death, attended with the same appearances as take 
place in apoplexy. 

From these eflFects of opium in a state of health, 
it is not wonderful that recourse should have been 
had to it in disease, as mitigating pain, inducing 
sleep, allaying inordinate action, and diminishing 
morbid sensibility. That these effects do result 
from it, is confirmed by the daily experience of every 
observer : and as answering one or other of these 
intentions, most, if not all, of the good consequences 
derived from it in actual practice, are to be explain- 
ed. If, therefore, by a sedative medicine, we mean 
an article capable of allaying, assuaging, mitigating, 
and composing, no substance can have a better title 
to the appellation of sedative, than opium. 

With regard to the dose, one grain is generally 
sufficient : maniacal persons, and those who labour 
under violent spasms, require oftentimes two, three, 
or more grains ; but it is more advisable to repeat 
the dose at proper intervals, than to enlarge it. By 
frequent use, mucli grealer quantities may he borne : 
the Turks, who habituate themselves to opium as a 
succedaneum to spirituous liquors, are said to take 
commonly a dram at a time. 

A long continued use of opium is productive of 
great relaxation and debility, sluggishness, heavi- 
ness, loss of appetite, dropsies and tremors. On 
leaving it off, after habitual use, an extreme lowness 
of the.spirits, languor, and anxiety, succeed ; which 
are relieved by having again recourse to opium, and 
in some measure by spirituous or vinous liquors. 



Al'I'KNDlX. 133 

Tincture of' opium, commonly called laudanum, 
lias the same effect as the opium in substance ; with 
this difference, that it exerts itself sooner in the body, 
and is less disposed to leave a nausea on the stomach. 
Twenty five drops of the tincture of opium are rec- 
koned to contain one grain of opinm- 

The operation of a moderate dose is supposed to 
last in genera! about eight hours from the time of 
taking it. 



CINCHONA 
PERUVIAN BARK. 



The tree which furnishes this bark is described as 
being in general about fifteen feet high, and six 
inches thick. It somewhat resembles our cherry- 
tree, grows promiscuously in forests, particularly in 
the hilly parts of Quito in Peru, and is spontane- 
ously propagated from its seeds. 

The bark has some odour, to most people not 
unpleasant; its taste is bitter and astrigent, accom- 
panied with a degree of pungency, and leaving a 
considerable lasting impression on the tongue. 

Two species are mentioned, namely, the coloured 
and the white. The coloured includes the pale, 
the red, the yellow, and the knotty ; their barks 
being coloured, having the cinchona taste and smell, 
and the trees having very smooth leaves, and pur- 
plish flowers. The white includes four varieties. 



y liUle ■ 
leaves, 1 



their barks being of a whitish colour, with very 
taste or smell, the trees having broad hairy 
very fragrant red flowers, with hairs on the inside. 
. The pale and the red are chiefly in use in Britain. 
The pale is brought to us in pieces of different sizes, 
either flat or quilled, and the powder is rather of a 
lighter colour than that of cinnamon. The red is 
generally in much larger, thicker, flattish pieces, but 
sometimes also in the form of quills, and its powder 
is reddish like that of Armenian bole. The prepara- 
tions of the Peruvian bark are 

1. The powder. 

2. The extract. 

3. The resin. 

4. Spirituous tincture. 

5. The decoction. 

The best form is that of powder in which the con- 
stituent parts are in the most effectual proportion. 
For covering the taste, different patients require 
different vehicles, liquorice, aromatics, acids, port 
wine &c. are frequently employed; and those who 
dislike the taste of the bark itself, vary in their ac- 
counts to which the preference is due; or, it may be 
given in form of electuary with currant jelly. 

According to some, the Peruvians learned the use 
of the bark by observing certain animals affected 
with intermittents instinctively led to it ; while 
others say, that a Peruvian having an ague, was 
cured by happening to drink of a pool which, from 
some trees having fallen into it, tasted of cinchona : 
and its use in gangrene is said to have originated 
from ita curing one in an aguish patient. About 



125 f 



the year 1640, the lady of the Spanish viceroy, the 
Comitissa del Cinckon, was cured by the bark, which 
has therefore been called cortex or pulvis comitissje, 
cinchona, chinachina or chinchina, kanakina or kin- 
kina.qiiinaquinaorqunquina; and from the interest 
which the Cardinal de Lugo and the Jesuit fathers 
took in its distribution, it has been called cortex or 
pulvis cardinalis de lugo, jesuiticus, patrum &c. 

On its first introduction into Kurope, it was r&. 
probated by many eminent physicians ; and at dif- 
ferent periods long after, it was considered a dan- 
gerous remedy ; but its character, in process of time, 
became very universally established. 

Practitioners have differed much with regard to 
the mode of operation of the Peruvian bark. Some 
have ascribed its virtues entirely to a stimulant 
power. But while the strongest, and most perma- 
nent stimuli have by no means the same effect 
with bark in the cure of diseases, the bark itself shows' 
hardly any stimulant power, either from its action 
on the stomach, or on other sensible parts to which 
it is applied. From its action on dead animal fibres, 
there can be no doubt of its being a powerful astrin- 
gent ; and from its good effects in certain cases of 
disease, there is reason to presume that it is a still: 
more powerful tonic. To this tonic power, some^ 
think that its action as an antiseptic is to be" , 
entirely attributed ; but that, independently oft ] 
this, it has a very powerful effect in resisting tha> 
septic process to which animal substances are naJ 
turally subjected, appears beyond all dispute, frotn^ 
its effects in resisting putrefaction, not only in dead! 



L 



120 APPENDIX. 

animal solids, but even in animal fluids, when en- 
tirely detached from the living body. 
. But altliougli it be admitted that the Peruvian 
bark acts powerfully as an astringent, as a tonic, and 
as an antifieptic ; yet these principles will by no 
means explain all the effects derived from it in the 
cure of diseases. And accordingly, from no artificial 
combination in which these powers are combined, or 
in which they exist even to higher degree, can the 
good consequences resulting from Peruvian bark be 
obtained. Many practitioners, therefore,are disposed 
to view it as a specific. If by a specific, we mean 
an infallible remedy, it cannot indeed be considered 
as inlitled to that appellation ; but, in as far as it is 
a very powerful remedy, of the operation of which, 
no satisfactory explanation has yet been given, it 
may, with great propriety, be denominated a specific. 
But whatever its mode of operation may be, there 
can be no doubt, that it is daily employed with suc- 
cess, in a great variety of different diseases. 

It was first introduced as has already been said* 
for the cure of intermittent fevers or agues; and in 
these, when properly exhibited, it rarely fails of suc- 
cess. Practitioners, however, have differed with re- 
gard to the best mode of exhibition ; some prefer 
giving it just before the fit, some during the fit, 
others immediately after it. Some, again, order it 
in the quantity of an ounce, between the fits ; the 
dose being the more frequent and larger according 
to the frequency of the fits ; and this mode of ex- 
Mbition, although it may perhaps sometimes lead to 
the employment of more bark than is necessary I 



\ 



APPENDIX. 127 

consider as upon the whole preferable, from being 
best suited to most stomachs. The requisite quan- 
tity is very different, in different cases ; and in many 
vernal intermittents, it seems even hardly necessary. 

It often pukes or purges, and sometimes oppresses 
the stomach. These, or any other effects that may 
take place, are to be counteracted by remedies par- 
ticularly appropriated to them. Thus, vomiting is 
often restrained by exhibiting it in wine ; looseness 
by combining it with opium ; and oppression at 
stomach, by the addition of an aromatic. But un- 
less for obviating particular occurrences, it is more 
successful when exhibited in its simple state, than 
with any addition ; and there seems to be little 
ground for believing that its powers are increased 
by crude sal ammoniac, or any other additions whicb 
have frequently been made. 

It is now given, from the very commencement of 
the disease, without previous evacuations, which, 
with the delay of the bark, or under doses of it, by 
retarding the cure, often seem to induce abdominal 
inflammation, schirrus, jaundice, hectic, dropsy &c., 
symptoms formerly imputed to the premature or 
intemperate use of the bark, but which are best ob- 
viated by its early and liberal use. It is to be con- 
tinued not only till the paroxysms cease, but till the 
natural appetite, strength, and complexion return. 
Its use is then to be gradually left off, and repeated 
at proper intervals to secure against a relapse; to 
which, however unaccountable, independently of the 
recovery of vigour, there often seems to be a pecuHar 
disposition ; and especially when the wind blows 



1 



IS8 APFENPIX. 

-from the East. Although, however, most evaciiants 
-conjoined with the Peruvian bark in intermittents 
are rather prejudicial than otherwise, yet it is of ad- 
vantage, previous to its use, to empty the alimeiK 
tary canal, particularly the stomach ; and on this 
iUH^ount, good effects are often obtained from pre^ 
mising an emetic. 

It is a medicine which seems hot only suited to 
both formed and latent intermittents, but to that 
state of fibre on which all rigidly periodical diseases 
aeem to depend ; as periodical pain, inflammation; 
apasm &c. 

In confluent small pox, the Peruvian bark pro^ 
motes languid eruption, and suppuration ; dimin- 
ishes the fever through the whole course of it ; and 
prevents or corrects, putrescence and gangrene. 

In gangrenous sore throats it is much used ; as it 
ie externally, and internally, in every species of 
gangrene. 

It is used for obviating the disposition to nervous, 
and convulsive diseases. 

, In dropsy, not depending on any particular local 
affection, it is often alternated, or conjoined, with 
diuretics, or other evacuants; and, by its ^arly exr 
hibition, after the water is once drawn off, a fresh 
accumulation is prevented, and a radical cure ob^ 
tained. 



APPENDIX. 



129 



Two kinds of weights are used ift England, by 
one of which, gold and silver, and, by the other, al- 
most all other kinds of merchandize are valued ; 
apothecaries employ the former, which is also called 
trot/ weight ; and divide the pound in the follow- 
ing manner, viz. 

The pound, lb. -\ r Twelve ounces 5 

The ounce f t • 3 ^^S^* drams 3 

The dram C j Three scruples 9 

The scruple -J v Twenty grains gr. 



0itn^\xttii^ 



For liquids, we employ measures which are de- 
rived from the wine gallon ; and, divide it for medi- 
cal purposes, in the following mannen 

The gallon "^ f Eight pints 



The pint 

The fluid ounce 

The fluidram 






contains 






Sixteen ounces 
Eight drams 
V. Sixty minims 



O 



Note, — I have added the signs by which we denote the several weights 
and measores. 

s 



130 APPENDIX. 



An Explanation of Tertns. 

Alterative (alterans; from altero, to change). Me- 
dicines which ^ gradually re-establish health without 
producing any sensible evacuation. 

Antiphlogistic {antiphologisticum ; from av7/, 
against, and ^'ksyw^ to burn). Medicines or diet 
which oppose inflammation. 

Antiseptic {antisepticum ; from av7/, against, and 
tryptw^ to putrefy). Medicines which prevent and 
stop the progress of putrefaction. 

Antispasmodic {antispasmodicum ; from av7/, a- 
gainst, and a"Taa"^oj, a spasm). Medicines which 
allay spasmodic affections. 

Aperient {aperiens ; from aperio, to open). Me- 
dicines which gently open the bowels. 

Carminative {carminativum ; from carmen^ a verse 
or charm, because practitioners in ancient times as- 
cribed their operation to a charm or enchantment). 
A term given to those medicines which allay pain 
and dispel flatulency. 

Cathartic {cartharticum ; from xa^&a^igco^ to purge). 
Medicines which increase the number of alvine eva- 
cuations. 

Diaphoretics {diaphoreticum ; from Sicx^opsa), to 
carry through). Medicines which promote perspi- 
ration. 

lEmetic (emeticum ; from sf^sco, to vomit). Medi- 
cines which excite vomiting. 

Narcotic {narcoticum; from vctgKoco, to stupify). 
Medicines which ease pain and procure sleep. 



Posological Table or Medicine Chest directory. 



1 



The quantities are meant for adults ; for children 
tliey require various modifications, and are not mere- 
ly regulated by age. I have, however, added a table 
of the proportional doses suited to the different 
periods of life. Either of the two quantities given, 
or any intermediate one, may be used as a dose. 

. / Mercurial, or blue pill, from five, to ten grains ; 
I JDecoctionofsarsapariUa,fromfour,tdeightounces; 
J i compound of do. do. do. do. 

' of taraxacum do. do. do. * 

i f Peruvian bark, from half a dram, to one dram ; 
J -(Diluted vitriolic acid, from forty, to sixty drops; 

-§ C nitric do. do. do. do. 

. , Nitre, from fifteen grains, to a scruple; 

t \ Cream of tartar, from one dram, to half an ounce ; 

£ \ Epsom salts, from one dram, to one ounce ; 

^ (-Rochelle salts, from one dram, to one ounce. 

s r.ZEtlier, from half a dram, to one dram ; 

I J Opium, from half a grain, to two grains ; 

I-) Laudanum, from fifteen, to twenty-five drops; 

I ^Camphor, from five, to ten grains. 

Lenitive electuary, from one dram, to half an 
a V ounce ; 

I /Cassia pulp, from half an ounce, to two ounces ; 
<iTamarind do. do. do. do. do. 

^ Soluble tartar, from one dram, to three drams. 



1*2 APPENDIX. 



^ /^ Essential oil of peppermint, from five, to ten drops; 
y — — of lavender, from ten^to twenty drops; 

I — 




of mint, do. do. do. 

of cinnamon, from three, to six drops. 

Jalap powder, from twenty, to thirty grains ; 
Scammony, from five, to ten grains ; 
Aloes, do. do. do. 

Gamboge, fi-om two, to four grains ; 
Calomel, from one, to three grains. 

Antimonial powder, from three, to six grains ; 

wine, from ten, to twenty drops ; 

Compound powder of Ipecacuanha, firom five, to 

ten grains ; 
Mindererus's spirit, from half an ounce, to one 

ounce. 

J ( Ipecacuanha wine, one ounce ; 

i 1 Antimonial wine, from one dram, to two drams. 

I C Opium, from one grain, to two grains ; 
1 1^ Laudanum, from thirty, to forty drops. 



APPENDIX. 



183 



The following table^ is intended to shew the doses 
of Medicines proper for persons of different ages : 
thus, supposing one dram of any medicine a suffi- 
cient dose for an adult ^ that is, for one of twenty-one 
years of age, then, other ages will require as follows. 





COMMON DOSE 




Ages. 




3i 




Proportionate doses. 


• 


i. e. 


one 


dram. 




Weeks 


7 




■Ar 


gr. 4 


Months 


7 




A 


gr. 5 




14 




i 


gr. 8 




28 




*• 


gr. 12 


Years 


H 




1 


gr. 15 




5 




X 


di 




7 




1 


3fl 




14 




1 


9ii 




21 




— 


5i 




66 




a 


gr. 55 




77 




i 


gr. 60 


■ 


100 




i 


gr. 48 



No^e.— The characters fi mean Uie half of any thing, as 3fi half a 
dram. 



134 APPENDIX. 



SELECT PRESCRIPTIONS 



Mild Aperient Pill. 

Take of Extract of Spike Aloe, two drains; 
Saffron, 

Myrrh, of each, one dram ; 
Syrup, as much as is sufficient. 
Powder the aloe, and Myrrh, separately; then» 
beat them all together, until they form an uniform! 
mass. 

In cases of habitual costiveness, two, or three pills, 
each containing four grains of the above, may be 
taken at bed-time^ occasionally : these pills are of long 
standing in medicine, and are clearly described by 
Rhazes, the Arabian, who ascribed the original form 
to Riifus, after whom they were first named. 

or, 

Aperient fVine^ 

Formerly called the Sacred Elixir. 
Take of Socotorine aloes, half an ounce ; 
Cardamom seeds, (bruised). 
Ginger, of each, one dram ; 
Spanish white wine, one pint 



APPENDIX 135 

Digest for fourteen days, stirring now and then ; 
and afterwards strain. 

This medicine lias long been in great esteem, not 
only as an aperient, but likewise as a stimulant. 

The aloetic wine is known, from long experience, 
to be a medicine of excellent service in languid, 
phlegmatic habits ; not only for cleansing the primoe 
vice or first passages, but, likewise for stimulating 
the solids, warming the habit, and promoting or ex- 
citing the uterine, and other natural evacuations. 
The dose, as a purgative, is, from half an ounce, to 
one ounce, or more. It may he introduced into the 
habit, so as to be productive of excellent effects, as 
an alterative, by giving it in small doses, at proper 
intervals : thus managed, it does not for a consider- 
able time operate remarkably upon the bowels ; but, 
at length proves purgative ; and, occasions a lax 
babit of body, of much longer continuance than that 
produced by any other medicine. 

or. 

Stomachic Aperient Tincture. 

Take of Turkey rhubarb, sliced, two ounces; 
Cardamom seeds, half an ounce; 
Rectified spirit of wine, 
Water, of each, half a pint. 
Digest for fourteen days, and strain. 
In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of 
the intestines, diarrhoea, colic, and other similar 
complaints, this medicine is frequently of great ser- 
vice. From one, to three table spoonfuls, may be 
taken as a dose, and occasionally repeated. 



1 



136 APPENDIX. 



Stomachic Pill. 

Take of Turkey rhubarb, powdered, one dram ; 
Cayenne pepper, one scruple ; 
Ipecacuanha root, powdered, six grains ; 
Essential oil of cinnamon, six drops ; 
Syrup as much as is sufficient. 

Beat them together, until they form an uniform 
mass; divide the mass into twenty-four pills. In 
cases where flatulence prevails, one of the above 
pills, may be taken three, or, four times a day. 



or, 



Stomachic fVine. 

Take of Gentian root, sliced, half an ounce'; 
Peruvian bark, bruised, one ounce ; 
Seville orange peel, dried, two drams ; 
Canella alba, bruised, one dram ; 
Spanish white wine(i. e. sherry,) two pints. 

Macerate for fourteen day^, and strain. 

This wine will be found a very useful, and elegant 
stomachic medicine. 

Dose ; from one ounce, to two ounces, twice, or 
thrice a day. 



.1 



®Wpcatc or ^Ut\ JWi^ture* 



Take of Myrrh powdered, a drain ; 

Subcarbonateofpotash.twenty-fivegrains; 
Rose water, seven ounces and a half: 
" •**" Sulphate of iron, powdered, a scruple ; 

Spirit of nutmeg, an ounce; 
Refined sugar, two drams. 
Rub together tlie myrrh, the subcarbonate of pot- 
ash, and sugar ; and, during the trituration, add 
gradually ; first the rose water and spirit of nutmegs, 
and last, the sulphate of iron. Pour the mixture 
immediately into a glass bottle, and stop it close. 

In cases where chalybeate medicine is required, 
the above is superior to alt other preparations. One, 
or two ounces of the chalybeate mixture, may be 
taken three times a day, and continued for a month 
or six weeks. 



Decoction of Peruvian Barh. * 

Take of Peruvian bark, bruised, an ounce; 

Water, a pint. - > i 

Boil for ten minutes, in a vessel slightly covered, 
and strain the decoction while hot. 

Dose, one ounce, to four ounces; wliich may be 
repeated three or four times a day. 



138 APPENDIX. 



or. 



Antiseptic Mixture. 

Take of The decoction of Peruvian bark (as above 

directed), eight ounces ; 
Huxham's tincture of bark, two ounces ; 
Diluted Sulphuric acid, two drams ; 
Syrup of ginger, two ounces^ 
Mix. A wine glassful may be taken three, or four 
times a day. 



The Camphorated Mixture of the London 

Dispensatory. 

Take of Camphor, half a dram ; 

Rectified spirit, twenty drops ; 
Water a pint. 
First rub the camphor with the spirit, then with 
the water, gradually added, and strain the liquor. 

A wine glassflil may be taken every three hours, 
or oftener if required. 

or. 

The Camphorated Mixture with Tincture of Opium. 

Take of The camphorated mixture (as above) eight 
ounces ; 
Hoffman's anodyne liquor, two drams; 
Tincture of opium, one dram. 



APPENDIX. 139 

Mix. In urgent cases, this mixture may be taken 
in the quantity of a tea cup full, every three, or four 
hours. 



The Mercurial Pill. 



Take of Purified mercury, two drams ; 

Confection of red roses, three drams ; 
Liquorice root, powdered, a dram. 

Rub the mercury with the confection, in a stone, 
or marble mortar, until the globules disappear ; then 
add the liquorice root, and beat the whole together, 
until they are thoroughly incorporated. 

The mercurial pill, often from its colour called the 
blue pill, is one of the mildest preparations of mer- 
cury. The complete extinction of the mercury must 
be fully accomplished, before the addition of the 
liquorice powder; and can be best judged of by 
rubbing a small portion thinly on paper with the 
finger, and, examining by a magnifying glass, if any 
globules of the metal are still visible. Five grains 
may be taken as an alterative, every night, at bed- 
time : and, the decoction of sarsaparilla, or the com- 
pound decoction of sarsaparilla, may be conjoined. 



l9etoctfon of S>ardaparaia* 

Take of Sarsaparilla root sliced, four ounces 
Boiling water, four pints. 




140 APPENDIX 

Macerate for four hours, in a vessel lightly cover- 
ed, near the fire ; then take out the sarsaparilla and 
bruise it. After it is bruised, put it again into the 
liquor, and macerate it, in a similar manner, for two 
hours more; then boil it down to two pints, and strain. 

Dose ; from four ounces, to half a pint, three, or 
four times a day. 

or. 

Compound Decoction of Sarsaparilla, 

Take of Decoction of sarsaparilla, boiling, four 

pints; 
Sassafras root, sliced, 
Guaiacum wood shavings. 
Liquorice root bruised, of each an ounce ; 
Mezereon root bark, three drams. 
Boil for a quarter of an hour, and strain. 
Dose ; from four ounces, to hailf a pint^ three or 
four times a day. 

The above is a very excellent antiscrophulous 
medicine, especially when the disease makes its ap- 
pearance ill the periosteum, and bones of adults. 



or. 



Lixiviated Whey. 

Take of Solution of subcarbonate of potash, half a 

dram; 
'Runnet whey, one pint ; 
Virgin honey, one ounce. 



Mix. A quarter of a pint may be taken as a deob- 
struent alterative, three, or four times a day. 

and. 

Decoction of Taraxacum or Dandelion. 

Take of Dandelion root, fresh, and bruised, a 
pound ; 
Water boiling, a gallon. 
Macerate for twenty-four hours, boil down to four 
pints, and strain the liquor through a woollen cloth. 
Dose ; from four ounces, to half a pint, four times 
a day. 

I.J f*tH,W((.'- 

Mindererus's Spirit. 

Take of Carbonate of ammonia, half an ounce ; >' 
Vinegar, one pint. ■ 

Add the acid to the salt, until bubbles of gas shal^ 
no longer arise, and mix. 

Dose ; from half an ounce, to one ounce. 

or. 

Diaphoretic Draught. 

Take of Mindererus's spirit, half an ounce; 
Camphor, five grains ; 
Ipecacuanha wine, half a dram; 
Sweet spirits of nitre, one dram ; 
Syrup of white poppies, half an ounce 



142 APPENDIX. 

Mix. One of the above draughts^ may be taken 
as a diaphoretic, every six, or eight hours. 



or. 



Compound Powder of Ipecacuanha. 

Take of Ipecacuanha root powdered, 

Hard opium powdered, of each half a 

dram ; 
Sulphate of potash powdered, half an 
ounce. 

Mix. And grind them accurately together, so as to 
make an uniform powder. 

This powder is one of the most certain diaphore- 
tics that we know of; and, as such, was recommend- 
ed by Dr. Dover, as an effectual remedy in rheuma- 
tism. Modern practice confirms its reputation ; not 
only in rheumatism, but also in dropsy, and other 
diseases, where it is often difficult by other means, 
to produce a copious sweat. 

The dose is from five, to ten or twelve grains ; 
according as the patient's stomach, and strength bear 
it. It is convenient to avoid much drinking im- 
mediately after taking it, otherwise it is very apt to 
be rejected by vomiting, before any other effects are 
produced. 



a&efrigcrant. 

Common Saline Draught. 

Take of Subcarbonate of potash, one scruple; 

Lemon juice, half an ounce ; 

Water, one ounce ; 

Syrup of ginger, two drams. 
Mix. One of the above draughts may be taken 
IS a refrigerant, every three, or four hours. 



Take of Hard purified opium, powdered. 

Benzoic Acid, of each, fifteen grains ; 
Camphor, ten grains ; 
Essential oil of aniseed, half a dram ; 
Rectified spirit of wine, 
Water, of each, four ounces. 
Digest for ten days in a stopper bottle. 
This medicine was originalli/ called the asthmatic 
elixir, a title which it does not ill deserve. It con- 
tributes to allay the tickling which provokes frequent 
coughing ; and at the same time gives greater liberty 
of breathing : the opium procures (as it does by 
itself) a temporary relief from the symptoms; whilst 
the other ingredients tend to remove the cause, and 
prevent their return. It is proper for children in 
cases of hooping cough, in doses of from 6ve to 



1*4 APPENDIX. 

thirty drops and upwards, according to age: for 
adults, from one to three drams. 

OvS hcole iTjrps 'Kcyio'fMS <l>6ovija'€iov m eripco : 

HiPPOCBATES. 

Medicus ratione utens, nunquam alterum invi- 
dios^ cahimniabitur : sic enim animi impotentiam 
prodet. 



FINIS. 



<■<■.»«■■«»»■■ W i n tmrn t»m*»fmmm** n im n t* 

PHM94 k^ J. AtOmMm mud S^^ 
^ttrnt W\mihmiU Strttt. 



} 

•r 



