Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



COMMENTS OX CORPIXEXCI', 



orCm 



^^^^^^^^^^^n^^^fUfS^^^^M 


^M TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTON I 


^H Mesiri. EBERS's BRITISH and FOREIGN LIBRARY. 




^^H SI. 13j, SiL (he QiiatlHr, are alLoned IB VdIobim la Town, nud SO in Ibi; 


^^^H Connlr) ; Uc InnmHtatl ptnllat ufaU. nru Warla ; ID hale pnrchoKiI 


^^^H mr itiFiD 111} Publjcalion at grneral tnlccnl, ddi pn-iioDrii added id Ihe 


^^M LIbiaif ; and are enlUled la the nu or Ihe ILLUSTRATIVE LIBIIAKV, 




^^^1 Mapt, Ac. u de«rJtied in a Kinrate Calilogye. 


^^^1 SuhKiihm pa}ln|: bL Iii. [he Yeai^Si. 31. Ihe Half Yeac— dt It. Illi. Ihe 








^^H II. lll.M. the Qaarler, ate rnlitled to B Volumei In Toon, and 16 ii. 


^^M the Coualrj, tDclndlne two Neo KublioliDDa <n iheOcuvo and UuiHli-cIni^ 


^^^P Each Quarla Valumt U lie rrctantrt ai Taa. 






^^B Sabserlben have the LRKrly of chOHlng iaj Bmbi froin the Llbiarj, i. 




^^H Time. 


^K CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS, j 


^^H Tc iiihbA aU SubKrOtri art boKtU U acaHe. 


^^B 1 , Tkc S<ibnr/pthn, ^. la lie fall m Ih: Iimi d/ Sv^tprillng, and at 




^^^1 S. The Eipenie of lbs Boi or Big, and CalalogRB, Carrfae* In and from 


^^H the LIbiir}, PacklgK, FoUage, &C., lo be dcftayed b; Ihe EuhKciber. 


^^H 3. U a SubKiiher (IbraBgh v>i ceuH wlialeveO ihoald detain a Ror>k or 




^^M a°d OUEI be inld lllj larh Bnoki ire nluined. 


^^1 *. Tr a Snbierlber lendi a Book In a Nnn-SDUscriber. he forrrUi hia 




^^H !,. If a Book be wrllteii In, lofo, or damitM. whll<t In Ihe FoiHitinn 


^^H nf a Suhwriber, Ihal Book, or the Srt (if pan of one), lo be paid for. 


^^H B. Srw BcH>k> are no! allowrd lo b>; kri>l loogiT (bin One Week b) 


^^^B HubKrIben In Town, i-r I Ibnnlehl if in Ibe Counir} ; and Boohi frnm ihe 


^^H Clalegne are eipftWd lo be eiohaneed once a Forlnishl If In I.,DdOD, or 


^^^H once 1 Montb In Ihe Coaulrii ; but l( li in.>n rarnntlj reiioeited Ihil Itir; 




^^H Snb!Crib«t, bo«ver, are not allowed lo eichaoEe Buobi tvice od Ibe Hoie 
^^H Tke Lib'arji njirni at Mnr, and ehiei at Strm in-ieUflg. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY T. SR£TTELL, RUPERT STREET, HAYMARKET. 



CONTENTS. 

Page 

Comments on Corpulency 1 

Cases 38 

Leanness 89 

Mems. on Diet and Dietetics 113 



CORPULENCY. 



CORPULENCY. 



COMMENTS ON CORPULENCY. 



- Ridentem dicere v 



Quid V 



The celebrated traveller. Dr. Clarke, alluding 
to the pyramids of Egypt, says, " the mind, 
, elevated by wonder, feels at once the force 
J of the axiom, which, however disputed, ex- 
perience confirms, — that in Vastness, what- 
ever be its nature, there dwells sublimity." 
Why, therefore, raay not the mountains of fat, 
the human Olympi and Caucasi, excite our 
attention ? they Jill a large space in society, 
are great objects of interest, and ought to 
[ afford us no small matter of amusement and 
instruction. 

It is now nearly twenty years since I gave, 
la some " Cursory Remarks on Corpulence," 




COnrULENCY. 



an account of all the most conspicuous of 
these mountaineers, from the earliest period ; 
and notwithstanding Mr. Malthus's theories 
for thinning the population, and my own for 
thinning the person, hodily bulk, or obesity, 
seems as much in fasliion as ever : and, if we 
judge from the manner in which the jolly 
gentlemen of the age proclaim eternal war 
with Maigre and Lent, the march of fat-folks 
will, at any rate, keep pace with the march 
of intellect. Nor is it to be wondered at, 
when we consider the great improvement in 
the art of cookery, which has arrived at such 
perfection, as to bring within the compass of 
one stomach what nature provided for two. 

" Plurcs crapula quam gladius" is an 
old adage, which, in a free translation, means, 
" Cookery depopulates like a pestilence;" and 
we have had doctors disseminating this plague, 
with as much moral culpability as illegitimate 
practitioners have the small-pox. This is no 
new doctrine ; it is as old as the days of 
Seneca, who says, " innumerabilis viorhos 
mirabUis, coquos ntimera" — we cannot won- 
der at the number of diseases, when we re- 



CORPULENCY. 



collect the number of cooks! For tliis reason, 
a celebrated modern physician, when visiting 
his opulent patients, never failed to pay his 
respect to the cooks. " My good friends," 
he used to say, " accept my best thanks for 
all the kind services you render us physicians; 
were it not for you, and your pleasing poisons, 
the faculty would soon find themselves inha- 
bitants of the workhouse." 

But let us speak with reverence of an art 
that is as old as king Cadmus; and let us 
recollect that Henry IV, of France was often 
in the kitchen ; that a corps of missionary 

I cooks have been considered the most powerful 
emissaries to convert the Brahmins ; and that 
when the devil himself sends us a plague, in 
the shape of a bad cook, infernal malice can 

I go no further. 



' Que je puisse toujoi 
Benir 



:s apres avoir dm^, 
le ciel m'a docne," 



Were we inclined to philosopliise on this 

I B^bject, we should say, that the portly show, 

I the beautiful rotundity of Burke, and the 

i^peutine liae of Hogarth, which e^ist in 



COEPTTLENCY. 



the fat worthies of this day, compared with 
those of former times, are in proportion to the 
superiority of modern over ancient cookery. 

The hon vivani of our times turns shocked 
and disgusted from the hiack broth, pulse, 
and meagre fare of the ancients ; and his 
refined taste bestows due contempt on the 
patriot who could dine on turnips ! Agesilaus, 
Lycurgus, and Cincinnatus, may have been 
brave and wise, but would Brummel wish to 
dine with them ? 

Athens was little skilled in the higher 
branches of cookery; and even imperial Rome 
considered quantity more than quality. Lu- 
cullus, Apicius, and Ceelius indeed deserved 
to have lived in the days of turtle, French 
sauces, and Kitchener — the great culinary 
censor of tlie age. He was, indeed, the 
" Oracle of Cooks." No man ever possessed 
a tact of palate more certain, more delicate, 
or more infallible. He fed with the gravity 
of a senator, and tasted with the zeal of an 
artist, whose whole gustatory organs were 
employed in promoting the progress of his 
art. In the profundity of his reflections, he 



CORPULENCY. 5 

usually took three or four hours to digest q 
peptic precept, or solve a diuner problem. 
Hence his opinions became oracular. From 
his decisions respecting whatever appertained 
to the art of alimentation there was no appeal. 
His opinion constituted law ; and should it 
ever be possible to form a collection of such 
.decisions, it will be hailed as the Epicurean 
code of the age. 

It is the glory- of modern cookery to bring 
within the scope of human purposes, by the 
. exertion of skill, such viands as, in the dark 
f days of Mrs. Glass, were utterly rejected. 
What could be expected of an old lady (who, 
Jjy the bye, was Dr. HUl,) who commences 
her instructions by the sage advice of " first 
catch a fish," which, in the Scotch editions, 
,was altered to " first of all I wash my twa 
Jiands* ?" Why, her recipes were little better 



■ When the troops under General Wade, in the year 
df the Rebellion 1745, found out the grand secret of 

Vurning oatmeal to account, one of the regiment 

■Wrote to liis mother, telling her that it was " a fine 
country they had got into, for the natives put a little 
water, thickened with sour oatmeal, into a pot, which, 



6 CORPULENCY. 

than Sir Roger de Coverley's great gfari3- 
mother's, which went no further than hasty- 
pudding and white-pot. In France the science 
of cookery is cherished and revered ; in this 
country we have not been without some 
very distinguished admirers and patronisers 
of Ventri potential Champions. Amongst 
others the great lexicographer, Dr. Johnson, 
who, on one occasion, in an ecstacy of satis- 
faction, exclaimed, " We could not have had 
a better dinner, had there been a synod of 

in due time, with tlie blessing of God, came out a fine 
pudding !" (i, e. aowcnB.) On which they became both 
plump and strong. Hence arose the saying, lliat " It 
is tlie aoup makes tlie soMier." " C'est la soiipe ^ui 
Jait le. seldat" is also a French adage ; and though it 
may be difficult to decide their priority, there can be 
no question of the strong claims of tlie French troops 
in business of cookery. The English soldier lays his 
piece of beef at once on the coals ; by which means, one 
side of his strip of meat is made blatk, while the other 
seems, as it were, torn from the imhappy Hanks of one 
of Bruce's bullocks ; or, in other words, one half is lost, 
sad the other burnt to a cinder. Whereas, six French 
troopers fling their rations into the same pot, which, like 
the Scotch sowena, comes out i 



I 



CORPULENCY. 7 

cooks" But it is not every man that is born 
with the qualification necessary to constitute 
a first-rate cook. Monsieur Ude, who com- 
mands the " batterie de cuisine " with the 
genius of a dief, and who has written more 
profoundly than any of his predecessors, tells 
us, that " Cookery is an art which requires 
much time, intelligence, and activity, to be 
acquired in its perfection. Music, dancing, 
fencing, painting, and mechanics in general, 
Jrossess professors under twenty years of age ; 
whereas, in the first line of cookery, pre- 
eminence never occurs under thirty*." 

In these days of philosophical fancies, we 
read a man's history and character at a single 
glance. As a craniologist will tell you his 
good or evil propensities, so a physician, by 
the expression of his visage, will say what he 
dines upon ; and, moreover, what may not be 
generally known, that our personal beauty 
depends upon eating and drinking; the ugli- 
ness of the Calmucks being solely owing to 
their feasting on raw flesh, — an alarming 
piece of news to all eaters of (half-dressed) 
• See The French Cook. 9th Edition. , . 



■4 



8 conPCLENcy. 

beef, and a convincing proof of the importaiKfe 
of cookery. In truth, as many of our best 
physicians, and some of our ablest modem 
surgeons, have demonstrated, " that a healthy 
state of the body depends on the due regu- 
lation of diet," tlie importance of judicious 
cookery must be very evident*. Nay, the 
philosophy of some Iiave carried them so far, 
as to conjecture that not only the health of 
the body corporate, but that the safety of the 
state is connected with this art. Ill-concocted 
viands not only produce commotions io the 
human bowels, but 

"Convulaiona and Iieats in the bowels of Europe:" 

for it is an axiom sanctioned by the highest 
authority, that well-digested opinions are the 

• Dr. Paris, who has treated on tlie subject of diet 
with the learning of a scholar and the science of a 
practical physician, tells us, " The nature of ilie fuel in 
Cornwall (furze) imparts a character lo its cookery : 
thus the facilities of baking turns every article of food 
into pies," They have a proverb, " that the devil will 
not come into Cornwall, for fear of being put into a 
pie." Perhaps he does not like to asBOciaie with criutg 
people. 



^ 



CORPULENCY. 



product of well-digested viands, and vice 
versa ; from which it will appear, the do- 
mestic ordering of diet is as important a 
matter of administration as the Materia 
Medica; and that the Roman general who 
boiled his own turnips would, if he had had 
a cabhage to boil, have boiled it in two suc- 
cessive waters, as he had doubtless discovered 
that vegetables were "Jade" and flatulent, 
unless fi'eed from much noxious matter by 
culinary process. 

Cicero says, " old age has no precise or 
determinate boundary/' — and many philoso- 
I phers have thought, that men might live, like 
1 the patriarchs of old, for centuries, if they 
I took proper means. Proper means ! What 
I #0 they mean by proper means ? The an- 
I kwei is — cookery and diet. 

" Caro aniinata cur vivit et non putrecit ut moriua ? 
I Quia quotidie renovatiir." — Sasctobius. 

I (If Hippocrates, the great father of the medi- 
liial and chirurglcal art, laid much stress, and 
1 wrote largely upon diet. But, during the 
jentury, medical men thought it neces- 
B 3 



J 



10 



CODrULENCY. 



sary to apologise for treating on these sub- 
jects : since, however, local complaints have 
been found to he intimately connected with 
constitutionBl influences, surgery has taken 
an enlarged sphere, and they are now enter- 
tained as both proper and pleasant. 

Fashion, which holds an undivided empire 
over the frivolous concerns of life, extends its 
influence even to the healing art : 

" n y a de la mode jusquc dans la raedecine." 

Thus we find fashionable complaints — ^fashion- 
able remedies' — fashionable seats of disease — 
and fashionable plans of treatment. Half a 
century ago, " nervous complaints" were the 
ton. These were superseded by " liver c(mi- 
plaints," — and tliese again have yielded the 
palm to " stomach complaints." " Duodenal 
complaints" are beginning to be talked of in 
London — while the hypochondriacs of Bath 
have their fashionable localities : so that, at 
present, the seat of aUmentary complaints 
depends on the accidental circumstance of the 
patient's residence. 

Formerly, we sought the phenomena of 



COHPDLENCY. 



11 



insanity in the head and tarain — the causes 

of cough in the lungs and pleura ; — but, 

" nous avoTts chmige. tout cekt^ we look into 

the head for the causes of hooping-cough, and 

for the causes of insanity we search the 

bowels and stomach. In fact, the stomach 

is charged (now a-days) with one-half the 

complaints of mankind; and, amongst others, 

the complaint in question, «iz. Obesity — -aaXJ- 

withstanding some fanciful properties given 

to the colon, as to the secretion of fat. Sir 

Anthony Carlisle says, that long-continued 

experience has taught him that the first 

licfiects of senility are to be traced to the 

-'Stomach, and that many incipient disorders 

'«re to be sought for in the evidence of the 

[#stomach, and its dependencies. But there is 

iliaothing surprising in all this: — the ancients 

nconsidered it the seat of our noblest faculties 

[itand affections, of pride and courage. Persius 

I icalled it the dispenser of genius ; — from the 

• sacred writings we learn, that the Hebrews 

^considered it the head quarters of intellect; and 

the Hindoos, one of the most religious nations 



COEPDLEKCY. 



of the East, eves at tbis hour, reverence it a 
the seat of thought: — whence, it has been 
humorously conjectured, that beasts with 
two stomachs, came originally to be called 
ruminating animals par excellence. 

During the reign of nerves, camphor-julep 
and cordials were in vogue. \\'hen the 
popular hyjiothesis about the liver prevailed, 
mercurial drugs were lavished in a manner 
that made Dr. Reynolds predict that calomel 
would be taken by the tea spoonful. " Peptic 
precepts" perhaps prevented it. The chylo- 
poietic functions put in their claims; and 
then every body suddenly discovered that 
they had a stomach ! " Don't you tliink," 
said an hypochondriac to me one day, that 
dyspepsia has wonderfully increased of late!" 
adding, at the same time, " By the bye, what 
is dyspepsia * V 

Although gastric disorders and gastric doc- 
trines at present engross the thoughts, and 

• Lord Collingwood said, " Do you know what a 
dgtpepgj/ is? I'll tell you. It is the disease of officers 
who have grown tired : they get invalided for dypepty. 



CORPDLENCY". 13 

employ the pens of all denominations of per- 
sons, yet they are by no means novelties. 
The stomach has been the subject of com- 
plaint from the earliest ages. The rich man 
has complained that his stomach would not 
allow him to eat any thing: the poor man, 
that it ate every thing, and was never satis- 
fied. And the good Erasmus complained, 
that, in spite of all his Catholic propensities, 
his stomach would be Lutheran : and, more- 
over, a very learned and ancient physician 
specifically treated this affair, in a grave work 
entitled " Ventriculi querelce et opprohria" 
In truth, it has been satisfactorily proved, 
that, in every stage of human life, health and 
disease, pleasure and pain, and even life and 
death, are dependent on the functions of the 
stomach. 

An old English adage says, " it is the sto- 
mach makes the legs amble, and not the legs 
the stomach." Shakspeare knew its import- 
ance and powers well ; Fontenelle magnani- 
Imously avowed, that there was no enjoying 
life without a good one — " pour bien jouir 
de la vie, il faut avoir un mauvais coeur, et 



CORPULENCY. 



un ban estomae;" and Serenas Samonicua;* 
many centuries before, says — 



' Qui slomachum regera U 
Contendunt, vera niti ral 



.s corporis esse 
le videntur." 



In the vagaries of modem philosophy. It 
contends for the seat of the soul ; and natu- 
ralists have gone so far as to make it the 
organ of civilization, from the fanciful hypo- 
thesis, that animals submit to domestication 
in pro|)ortion to the subjection in which their 
will is held by their appetite : certain it is, 
that the stubboiT) and rebellious are remark- 
able for their indifference to the pleasures of 
the table; and that "short commons" and 
insubordination are uniform, as cause and 
effect, upon the principle, no doubt, of Sancho 
Pancha's reasoning, that " when the stomach 
is full tlie bones will be resting." 

The variation in the capacities and powers 
of living organs — the peculiarities and devia- 
tions from the ordinary course of tlie human 
constitution, or what has been termed ^(/^o- 
^ncTCtsy, particularly as relating to the 
stomach, affords much amusing " materiel." 



CORPULENCY. 15 

^Ve find sometimes very stout, strong per- 
sons, particularly Northern cousins, from 
some peculiar idiosyncrasy, or some meagi'im 
in the chylopoietic functions, cannot endure 
certain of the most agreeable and innocent 
articles of food ; thus fish, flesh, fowl, butter, 
cheese, bacon, and good red-hening, each in 
its turn, is despised and loathed. It puzzles 
philosophy to account for some of these 
whimsicalities. As for instance, why a man 
six feet high should faint away at the sight 
of a shoulder of mutton ; why another tall 
gentleman should have muttonic aversions so 
great, as to be able to point a mutton-pie, as 
a pointer would a partridge ; — while a third 
" Herculean delicate," minces his meat, and 
puts aside all fat, giistle, and skin, with the 
fastidiousness of a puny school-girl. 

Anotlier peculiarity that excites our as- 
tonishment, is the variety in the capacity 
and power of the stomach, which enables one 
man to swallow the whole of another man's 

I grievance, — for there are those who would 
eat an entire shoulder of mutton in as little 
time as his anti'muttonk neighbour would be 






16 



CORPULENCY. 



I 



recovering from the sight of it*. Much of 
both these evils arises from the error of early 
education, and the force of habit ; and both 
are to be controlled, or at anj rate moderated, 
by the will, as might be illustrated by some 
singular examples. 

Some men have appeared with the digestive 
powers of a double stomach, to which the 
grinding properties of a gizzard seemed 
superadded. They may have been considered 
as " nad consumere /ruges" and in the scale 
of living animals, ought to have been ranked 
with the cormorant or the ostrich. Of these, 
Marriot, the great eater of Gray's Inn, was a 
conspicuous instance. He increased his na- 
tural capacity for food by art, and had as 
much vanity in eating to excess, as any monk 
ever had in starving himself. Nicholas Wood, 
mentioned in Fuller's Worthies, was another 
example of great prowessf. 

• It ia recorded on ihe tomb-atone of James Pareona, 
buried at Tedditigton, March 7, 1743, that he had often 
eaten a whole shoulder of niuiton, and a peck of hasty 



Nt wbimaical caae that the recordi 



ti 



cohpulency. 17 

^■^ Attiongst the fanciful discoveries of Phre- 
nology is the organ of gvstativeness, which 

of private practice afTord, is one that occurred to Dt. 

Miller, of Doncaster, who received a letter, stating 

the extraordinary fact, that a gentleman bod smalhwed 

hit whole KordrobE ! This unfortunate person was no 

less than the celebrated George Alexander Stevens, 

The medical reader will, doubtless, be as much 

startled as Dr. Miller, and expect a serious detail 

from the " Lecturer on Heads." In this he will be 

^sappointed ; and though the facts of the case may 

not help our physiology, further than as a proof 

that " hunger sharpens wit," yet our philosophy may 

receive a moral lesson from the miseries of genius, or 

any rate its cleverness and address, as an attack 

upon humanity, may prove an apology for its intrusion. 

^fler saying tliat he was " about to eat his last waist- 

I 99at," he continues : " Theniistocles had many towns 

Q furnish his table, and a whole city bore tlie charge of 

[ Ills meals. In some respects I am like him, for I am 

I ivrnisbed by the labours of a multitude. A wig has 

I. fed me two days ; the trimming of a waistcoat as long : 

L % pair of velvet breeches paid my washerwoman ; and 

ESTuffled shirt has found me in shaving. My coats I 

* swallowed by degrees : the sleeves I breakfasted upon 

f»r weeks ; the body, skirts, &c,, served me fur dinner 

two months. My stlk stockings have paid my lodgings ; 

and two pair of new pumps enabled me to smoke several 



CORPULENCY. 



orie' ^at authority asserts "rules our love 
of eating;" whilst another maintains, that it 



pipe*. It is incredible how my appetite (bar 
like) rJMB, in proportion aa my aeceasitiea make their 
terrible a<IvaiiccB. I here could say something droll 
Jibniit n good stomach ; hut It is ill jesting with edge 
tooU, and, I nm sure, that is the sharpest thing about 
ine. You may think I can have no sense of my con- 
dition, that, while I am thus wretched, f should offer at 
ridicule : but people coDttitutioned like me, with a dis- 
proporlioiicd levity of spirits, are always most merry 
when iliey arc most miserable ; and quicken like the 
eyes of the consumptive, which are always brightest 
Che nearer the patient approaches dissolution. How- 
ever, to show you I am not lost to all reScction, I 
think myself poor enough to want a favour, and humble 
enough to ask It here. I might make an encomium on 
your good-nature, humanity, &c.; but I shall not pay 
to had a compliment to your understanding, as to en- 
deavour, by a parade of phrases, to win it over to my 
iniereat. If you could any night, at a concert, make a 
small collection for me, it might be a means of my 
obtaining my liberty; and you well know, the first 
people of rank abroad will perform the most friendly 
offices for the sick ; be not, therefore, offended at the 
rofju^it of n poor (though a deservedly punished) 
debtor." 

" Gzo. Alzzakbzk Stevbks." 



* 






CORPULENCV. 19 

" guides our palates as to flavours." Whether 
this discovery overturns or confirms the old 
adage of " de giistihus non," phrenologists 
must decide. The annexed sketch is the 
portrait of a voracious pauper, who had a 
very strangelj-shaped head, with a large 
loose scalp, which has heen noticed by Haslam, 
and others, though not as indicative of polu- 
phagiau propensities. 

These morbid or extravagant propensities 
of English stomachs, lead us very naturally 
to believe, that their late majesties from the 
Sandwich Isles, might, as was reported of 
them, pick the bones of a good-sized pig ; or 
that an Esquimaux may dine very daintily on 
a slice of a whale, a Russian on tallow, or, 
what is still more revolting to our notions, 
that African gentlemen should eat one 
another ! 

Humanity shudders at this barbarous and 
savage practice, and some humane phy- 
siologists have questioned the power of the 
stomach to digest human flesh, and doubted 
the existence of Anthropophagi ; while others, 
who are latitudinarians, not only allow it 



20 



COnPUI.ENCV. 



omnivorous powers, but affirm that the i 
mach, in some instances, has been known to 
eat itself! This, with the feats performed 
some years ago by the stone-eater, who gave 
alarming indications of wishing to devour the 
marble Father Thames, then just put up in 
the square at Somerset House, may be con- 
sidered the very ne plus ultra of digestion. 

The existence of Anthropophagi, however, 
is but too true ; and when, for the sake of 
humanity, we had hoped that the practice 
was on tlie decline, we arc shocked at hear- 
ing, that in a neighbouring country, symp- 
toms of cannibalism have appeared, the 
lamentable result, no doubt, of the high 
price of provisions ; for the " Journal de 
Perpignan" contains a detailed account of a 
family of cannibals being arrested so near our 
own home as France. But we have another 
melancholy proof of the existence of this 
propensity, in people who have not the 
excuse of the high price of provision, ^ven 
by John Anderson, Esq., who went lately on 
a Mission to the Coast of Sumatra. He 
found what might be considered the &shion- 



CORPUI.ENCV. 



ables of that part of the world, so vitiated 
in their appetites, that they could relish no 
other food; and that they would have swal- 
lowed the Missionary much sooner than his 
doctrines. The royal person who ruled over 
them was always afflicted with a pain in his 
stomach, whenever he ate any other than 
human flesh A bit of an enemy was con- 
sidered a treat; and wlienever his majesty 
went to war, besides tlie ready " sauce 
piguante" of malignant feelings, he was fur- 
nished with salt and lemon-juice. 

The Calif Merwan II. it is said, could 
f |(ever see a sheep without wrapping his hand 
I'^ the corner of his robe, and tearing out the 
I j^ney, which he instantly devom-ed. After 
I ^ting his bonne houche, he used to call for a 
T clean habit ; and, in consequence of this be- 
ipoming attention to personal neatness, when 
I jie died, ten thousand greasy vests were found 
I in his wardrobe. 

It does not, however, appear that these 
I Anthropophagi were corpulent, any more than 
[ the French prisoner, who ate sixteen pounds of 
id other great consumers of meat ; 



CORPULENCY. 



whose histories prove, that the " coenas 
sine sanguine," of Horace, possessed more 
materia pinquefaciendi. 

But we are not without an instance, in 
our own liistory, of Cannibal Epicurism. 
Richard Cceur de Lion, in his wars with the 
infidels, being dangei'ously ill, took a violent 
longing for pork. As, however, there was 
no " Pig Ordinary," no " Pig and Beehive" 
in the neighbourhood, none could be obtained, 
and his attendants thought themselves jus- 
tified in committing a " ^Jtow* Jraud," by 
roasting a fine plump young Saracen, which 
was served to the sick prince as a roasted pig! 
Whether it was dished up in the high style of 
the ancient Porcus Tr(yanus, is not men- 
tioned, but Richard relished his dinner, 
recovered bis illness, and was ever after 
remarkably fond of roast pork ! 

Wliile we congratulate ourselves on the 
diminution of mortality, which has accom- 
panied the improvements in the condition of 
society, our pleasure is alloyed by the 
reflection, that considerable deduction is to 
be made in our estimate, according to the 



COHPULXNCr. 



es 



mercantile phrase, of profit and loss, by the 
increase of a set of diseases, which are to be 
attributed to the augmentation of national 
wealth, with its concomitants, luxury and 
high-living*. 

Thus, instead of finding the annual bills of 
mortality announcing in the deadly list, 
plague, pestilence, and famine — not forgetting 
small-pox — we read gout, apoplexy, palsy, 
and even obesity, and a host of minor evils 
connected with repletion. 

Among the grievous calamities incident to 

corpulency, noticed in a former publication, 

was its susceptibility of contagion, and its 

proneness to combustion ; and an instance 

I was mentioned, of a French lady whose fat 



" * Though in the prr^ess of refinement, we are 
surprised at the Abyasinians eating raw flesh ; scarce 
two centuries ago the French nation were equally 
surprised at our eating oysters! for Didelot, nrobas- 
aador to Henry III. of France, being asked, by that 
monarch, what he had seen remarkable in England ? 
answered, that besides drinking out of boots, viz. 
litack jacks, and strewing tlieir best rooms with hay, 
tbeyaatuaUy. eat come ofthirjUh alive.' 



S4 



CORPULENCY. 



ignited. The Mai^avine of Bareith also 
notices a fat FrencJi princess who melted after 
she was embalmed. I have since discovered, 
in the Chronicles of Cromwell's time, that 
these combustible materials in man were 
turned to good account in those days; and 
that a woman who kept a tallow chandler's 
shop in Dublin, made all her best candles 
from the fat of Englishmen ; and when one 
of her customers complained of their not 
being so good as usual, she apologised by 
saying, " Why, ma'am, I am sorry to inform 
you, that, for this month past, I have been 
short of Englishmen." 

Another inconvenience to which the cor- 
pulent must submit, is the being debarred 
equestrian exercise, and the difficulty of 
transportation from place to place, which 
maybe illustrated by the following anecdotes, 
of late occurrence : — 

Mr. B , of Bath, a remarkably large, 

corpulent, and powerful man, wanting to go by 
the mail, endeavoured to secure a place a short 
time before it started. Being told it was full, he 
etiU determined to get admission, and opening 



COBPULENcy. 



door, which no one near him venturing 
to oppose, he got in. When the other pas- 
sengers came, the ostler reported that there 
was a gentleman in the coach ; he was re- 
quested to come out, hut having drawn up 
the blind, he remained quiet. Hearing, how- 
ever, a consultation on the means of making 
him alight, and a proposal to " pull him out," 
he let down the hHnd, and, laying his enor- 
mous hand on the edge of the door, asked, 
who would dare to pull him out, drew up 
the hlind again, and, waiting some time, fell 
asleep. About one in the morning he awoke, 
and, calling out to know whereabouts he was 
on the journey, he perceived, what was the 
fact, that, to end the altercation with him, 
the horses had been put to another coach, 
and that he had spent the night at the inn 
door at Bath, where he had taken possession 
of the carriage. 

A similar occurrence took place lately at 
Huddersfield. A gentleman went to a pro- 
prietor of one of the coaches to take a passage 
for Manchester ; but, owing, to the enormous 
size of his person, he was refused, unless he 



I 



26 



CORPULENCY. 



would consent to be taken as lumber, at 
pence per stone, hinting at the same time the 
advantage of being split in two. The gentle- 
man was not to be disheartened by this disap- 
pointment, but adopted the plan of sending 
the ostler of one of the inns to take a place 
for him, which he did, and, in the morning, 
wisely took the precaution of fixing himself 
in the coach, witli the assistance of the by- 
standers, from whence he was not to be 
removed easily. Thus placed, he was taken 
to his destination. The consequence was, 
on his return, he was necessitated to adopt a 
similar process, to the no small disappoint- 
ment of the proprietors, who were compelled 
to convey three gentlemen, who had pre- 
viously taken their places, in a chaise, as 
there was no room beside this gentleman, who 
weighs about thirty-six stone I 

The Gentoos have a hole at the top of 
their houses for an entrance, through which a 
corpulent man could not pass. Any man 
who is too big to get through, they think has 
not got rid of his sins. 

The King of Persia has an Officer to 



CORPULENCY. 



27 



superintend the size of his subjects, who is 
called " Fonna Corporis Estimator," and 
whose business it is to measure and diet the 
unwieldy ones. We have in this country, at 
certain fashionable places, an " Arbiter ElC' 
gantiarum," but, unluckily, the application of 
the "Regulation Girdle" is not one of his 
duties. 

In enumerating the little miseries of the 
corpulent, their exposure to ridicule should 
not be forgotten. Even the austerity of 
Queen Elizabeth could relax into a joke on 
the fat Sir Nicholas Bacon, whom she was 
classically pleased to define as " Vir prfspin- 
guts," observing " right merrilie," " Sir 
Nicholas's soul lodged well." The good- 
humoured ai]tiquary, Grose, was earnestly 
entreated by a butcher to say " he bought 
meat of him !" " God bless you, Sir," said 
the paviours to the enormous Cambridge 
professor, as he passed over their work. 
Christopher Smart, the translator of Horace, 
celebrated the three fat beadles of Oxford ; 
and the fat physician, Dr. Stafford, was not 



28 CORPULEKCY. 

allowed to rest in his grave without a wttd 
cism : 

" Take heed, O good trav'llcr, and <lo not tread liard^ 
For here lies Dr. Stafford, in all Ihit church ffaTd.''A 

Our good King Edward IV. even made : 
practical joke with the Corporators of London ; 
for when he invaded France, in 1475, he 
took care to be accompanied by some of the 
most corpulent Aldermen of London, " Lies 
bourgeois de Z/Oiidres les plus charges <Ie 
ventre" that the fatigues of war might the 
sooner incline them to call out for jseace. 

Many illustrious cases might have been 
found in France equali to the sj>ecimens 
Edward took with him, even among royal 
and noble persons — of which Charles the Fat, 
Louis le Gros, Sanctius Crassus, and " Corpus 
Poetarum," the fat poetic Elector of Cologne, 
were notable instances. 

In the court of Louis XV. there were two 

very fat noblemen, the Duke de L , and 

the Duke de N . They were both at the 

levee one day, when the king began to rally 



i 




CORPULENCY. 

the former on his corpulency : " You take no 
exercise, I suppose," said the king. " Pardon 

me, Sire," said de L , " I walk twice a 

day round my cousin de N ." About the 

same time the French Queen, in a haughty 
tone, demanded of a fat French wit, " Quand 
il accoucherait?" — " Quand faura'is frouve 
une sttgefemme" was the ready reply, which 
stopped further interrogatories. Nor ought 
we to omit, among other minor personal 
disadvantages of these great personages, the 
expense of clothing; and the inconvenience 
that has been known to arise from the like- 
ness of one fat man to another, which, during 
the search for Georges, in France, harassed 
all the fat people from one end of Gaul to the 
other. 

Having hitherto treated the subject in 
" merry mood," let us now look at it in a 
more serious way. Fat is, of all the humours 
or substances forming part of the human 
body, the most diffused ; a certain proportion 
of it is indicative of health, and denotes being 
in good condition — nay, is even conducive to 



i 




30 



CORPULENCY. 



beauty ; but when in excess — amounting i 
what may be termed obesity — it is not 
only in itself a disease, but may be the cause 
of many fatal effects, particularly in acute 
disorders. Many able medical writers of the 
last century attributed serious evils to the 
local as well as the general derangements 
that occasionally take place in fat. I\Tany 
of these might be " whims of a day, and 
theories of an hour" — fancies dependant on 
the then physiological and patholc^ical 
theories, but tliey speak very positii'ely to 
certain facts. 

Monsieur Lorry, a celebrated French phy- 
sician, indulged in some curious speculations 
relative to acute diseases, arising from the 
admixture of bile, milk, or pus, with fat 
in a fluid state. Either of these uniting with 
the last, in certain conditions of the body, 
would produce a sort of " tertmm quid" in 
the shape of a soapy liquor, causing acute 
diseases in some, and chronic diseases in 
others; and persons have been supposed to 
die of consumption when, in fact, they were 



J 



CORPtJLENCT. 31 

washed away to the other world by their own 
soap* ! Pus and fat, mixing together in a 
gland, became, according to this doctrine, as 

* There is no substance in the hunimi body, M. Lorry 
obserTes, more active in reducing fat than pus. Pus 
mixed with fat gives it the solubility of soap. A 
purulent masa and a fatty mass, mixed together, unite 
with uncomnnon promptitude. The first effect of this 
liquefied mass ia to produce high- coloured hot urine, 
wliich in a few minutes becomes turbid, like badly made 
soap, when dissolved. It acquires an insupportable 
odour, and deposits very Utile red sediment. There 
floats upon the surface an oily substance, imitating, in 
colour, the rainbow, the putrid volatility of nihich is so 
ttrong as lo effect the eyes. The patient feels an op- 
pression about the chest, and difficulty of breathing, 
which is a little relieved by spitting up a yellow bloody 
phlegm. Frequently, erysipelatous spots appear on the 
akin, and become bard ; sometimes even the muscular, 
parts become hard, as if penetrated by these spots; in 
a few days the eyes become yellow, the liver inflamed, 
and painful. This threatens jaundice, which, if it ter- 
:essfully, is carried off by copious bilious 
Hippocrates remarks, that the crisis IB 
fatal, if it happens before concoction, or if the evacu- 
ation does not lessen the hulk of the patient, by dis- 
charging the whole of the soapy basis of the fat, that 
has the character of bile. The liver acts as a depu- 



32 



CORPULENCY. 



active as gunpowder, and generally ended in 
a sort of critical explosion, in the shape of an 
abscess: the omentum, as might be supposed, 
was a frequent seat of these combustions. 
This is confirmed by a celebrated English 
accoucheur — no less a person than Dr. Leake, 
physician to the Westminster Lying-in Hos- 
pital, and celebrated throughout Europe for his 
Pilula Sahdaria, who, in a book published 
1775, describes a species of epidemic fever, 
that appeared among the pregnant patients, 
which he attributed to suppuration of (he 
omentum. Nor is the mixture of milk and 
fat, according to these authorities, less terrific. 
Notwithstanding they both take their prin- 
cipal properties from the aliment, and ought 
to assimilate, they quarrel desperately when 
they come in contact, which occasionally 
arises from a metastasis of milk to the prin- 
cipal seats of fat, particularly the omentum 
and loins. 

ratory organ to the fat, receiving and evacuating tlie 
corrupted humours, and may be considered, according 
to this ancient doctor, in these cases, as tlic eniimctory 
of the fat. 



J 



CORPULENCY. 



33 



It is admitted that corpulent people, when 
in a state of health, secrete less bile than 
others ; yet, from accidental causes, such as 
acute diseases, they engender a vast quantity; 
and it appears as if the liver assumed the 
power of manufacturing the fat into bile. 
This gives rise to green bile, black bile;, 
bilious vomitings, and a thousand symptoms 
not to be enumerated; and the great Ruysch 
is even found indulging in some fanciful 
notions, which involve the Fallopian tubes in 
the consequences of ^ome of these biliary 
vagaries. 

The immediate action of bile upon fat is 
not perhaps capable of strict proof, though 
there are a variety of phenomena not easily 
accounted for on any other principle. Nothing 
reduces a corpulent person so rapidly as those 
sudden bilious evacuations that take place in 
hot weather. Who has not seen, in what is 
called the " plum season," a combustion take 
place, commonly charged to the account of 
the innocent fruit, that, in the short space of 
a few days, transforms a fat friend into a de- 
- ^ate dandy? It is, in fact, a bilious, adipo- 



L 



I 



34- COKPUI.ENCr. 

sical diarrhoea; and those who have looke™ 
into the matter very closely, have detected fat 
with the bile ; and some keen pursuers of ani- 
mal chemistry have asserted that a fatty sub- 
stance may be obtained from bile. 

Some French physicians have thought that 
acids gave a character to fat ; and it has been 
questioned, whether the crude acid, found in 
the pri?n(e vies, in some cases of debility, and 
in the weakness of infancy, do not occasionally 
produce very active constitutional diseases. 

Sir Anthony Carlisle, who has paid great 
attention to the effects of acids, and has given 
a scientific analysis of acid substances, says, 
" that acids not only act upon the stomach 
and its contents, but they likewise pervade 
the whole body." Many people are affected 
with pimples shortly after taking acids ; very 
many are affected with burning heat in the 
face, immediately after taking vinegar; gouty 
pains, spasms, and itching over the whole 
body, are inevitable consequences of the taking 
acids, with a great portion of mankind. My 
own father was a singular example of the de- 
leterious effects of acids; and he found, from 



M 



CORPULENCY. 

experience, so much relief from preparations 
of chalk, that he was never without a box of 
the Creta jireparata in his pocket. 

Alimentary acidities are also the causes of 
erysipelas, and many herpetic diseases ; and 
those who are subject to eruptions on the 
face, experieitce a sensible aggravation imme- 
diately after taking acids. 

External heat may be ranked among the 
causes that alter fat. Fat people are much 
incommoded by any sudden transition from 
l^cold to heat. In a very hot season, if a fat 
person undergoes violent exercise, it is pos- 
sible for the fat not only to become putrid, 
and produce petechial fever, but it may be- 
come in some parts rancid and soapy, parti- 
cularly after a previous dry season — at least, 
so says JMonsieur Lorry. 

Aromatic substances are also supposed to 
give a character to fat. From the aptitude 
of fat to imbibe aromatic particles, it is na- 
tural for it to partake of the qualities of the 
aliment. Thus the odour from the fat of 
those who live solely on animal food is very 
foetid ; so with birds, living entirely on fish. 




COBrULENCY. 

It is reported of the French prisoner, who € 
many pounds of animal food in the course of 
the day, that it was scarcely possible to ap- 
proach him. The odour of garlick remains 
with those who have eaten it for many days. 
Mr. Hunter says, " The essential oils of 
vegetables and animals, indigestible, are so- 
luble either in gastric juice or chyle, by which 
means they become medicinal, from their sti- 
mulating powers. The essential oil of vege- 
tables, but more particularly that of animals, 
would seem to pervade the very substance of 
those animals whose food contains much oil. 
Thus, we find sea-birds, whose constant food 
is fish, taste very strongly of fish ; and those 
who live on that kind of food only during 
certain times of the year, as the wild duck, 
have that taste only at such seasons. This 
fact is so well known, that it was hardly ne- 
cessary to put it to the test of an experiineat ; 
yet, I took two ducks, and fed one with bar- 
ley, the other with sprats, for about a month, 
and killed them both at the same time: when 
they were dressed, the one fed only on sprats 
was hardly eatable, it tasted so strongly of 



CORPULENCY. 37 

fish." — Hunter's Observations on Diges- 
tiony p. 1 77. 

From the preceding detail^ it would appear 
that the pathological examination of fat fur- 
nishes us much matter for reflection on the 
changes that may be produced in fat, in the 
living state, by the process of digestion, as 
also the probable causes of the transmutation 
of diseased appearances, and the sudden 
change that sometimes takes place in the cha- 
racter of acute diseases. 

Leaving these discussions to the doctors, 
for ^* Non nostrum inter vos tantas compo- 
nere litest we shall proceed to the object of 
our inquiry, vi%. Corpulency, and its conse- 
quences. 




We have now to illustrate the preliminary 
remarks ; this will be best effected by extracts 
from the communications of correspondents, 
The first extract is from a very sensible, well- 
informed, studious friend. He gives a suc- 
cinct account of his feelings, presenting an 
outline, or sketch, of which every practitioner 
in the metropolis could produce a duplicate ; 
and every respectable medical roan could, 
doubtless, furnish a more higlily-finished por- 
trait than tliis, and those which follow it. 
Be it so; I shall present my collection as I 
would portraits of another description, feeling 
that those who could give a better delineation 
and colouring of the facts of my portfolio, are 
the persons who will receive with the greatest 
latitude this attempt at portraying charac- 
ters, which, from their very nature, approach 
to caricature. 




COKPULENCY. 



I 



Case I. 

Extract of a Letter Jrom , Esq. 

"You have loag known that I experienced 
much inconvenience from that embonpoint 
appearance, for which the weak and ignorant 
are so apt to congratulate and flatter a person. 
Inactivity, somnolency, depression of spirits, 
great nervousness, as it is popularly called, 
but, above all, an unwillingness, or rather in- 
aptitude for long-continued study, were symp- 
toms of disease which I found very much 
increase; and from all the attention I was 
■able to give to the subject — from what I had 
heard and read — but, above all, from its 
coinciding with your opinion, I was at last 
-perfectly confident, that these symptoms prin- 
cipally arose from a too great accumulation 
of fat. It was not difficult for me to account 
for this accumulation, even supposing there 
was no natural tendency to it in my constitu- 
tion. From earliest childhood I was more in- 
clined to read than to play, and when at school, 
though not wanting mental activity, and pos- 



40 



CORPULENCY. 



sessing considerable boldness of spirits, I was 
averse, and of course totally unskilled in all 
boyish amusements, as cricket, trap-ball, &c. 
This partly arose from my being at that pe- 
riod in a bad state of health, but chiefly from 
having early received the strongest impetus 
towards the attainments of knowledge, and 
the ambition connected with it. 

" Sedentary occupations engrossed my whole 
time ; nor did I relax from my temperate 
habits, which approached to ascetic severity, 
till I became a student of the Temple, when 
I was led to indulge in all the luxuries of the 
age, though never in the least remitting every 
attention to literary attainments. Possessing, 
at the same time, strong powers of digestion, 
and being partial to the most succulent ali- 
ment, as sugar, butter, milk, &c. — it is easy 
to foresee the consequence; I became ex- 
tremely corpulent. 

" I had approached my thirtieth year, how- 
ever, before I experienced any great inconve- 
nience from my increasing bulk. Since that 
period I have suffered much, and at intervals 
have made some attempts to reduce it, biit_ 



I 



COKFULENCY. 



41 



they were feeble, and not continued for any 
length of time. In fact, my mind was in a 
state of indecision on the subject, arising, Hke 
all iithcr indecision, from the want of clear 
and distinct ideas, and the consequent convic- 
tion. The comparative advantage of animal 
or vegetable food to the general constitution 
of mail, or to particular habits, is (strange to 
tell !) not yet ascertained. By far the greater 
part of the medical tribe are satisfied with 
attending only to actual disease, as being the 
only source of profit, while the preventive 
part, though far the most important, but as 
furnishing no emolument, is generally disre- 
garded." From this general philippic, how- 
ever, he es.empted Brown, Darwin, and 
Beddoes, whose theories he was well ac- 
quainted with, and whom he was pleased to 
say, stood as *' noble columns in the dreary 
waste." 

" Here, then, was my difficulty, — I was 
very nervous, This arose from debility, from 
a want of vigour in the system. Animal 
food (the durable stimulant of Brown) com- 
municates greatest strength. I tried animal 



43 



CORPULENCY. 



fcw3d for a month, without any mixture of 
vegetable, eating very hearty and drinking 
pretty freely, but not to great excess. All my 
complaints increased, my nervousness in par- 
ticular. It was natural, then, to inquire 
whether this nervousness was not caused, or 
at least increased, by the weakness and other 
effects arising from my corpulence. 

" I determined then to make trial, at least, 
of a vegetable diet, which I did (witli two or 
three exceptions) for six weeks. I did not, 
in any respect, stint myself at first; I gene- 
rally drank ale, sometimes brandy and water, 
at my meals. I found a pint of ale at night 
necessary to sleep, sometimes with onions, 
sometimes without. I became much lighter, 
more inclined to continual mental exertion, 
but did not, in the course of a month, become 
in the least degree thinner. I reduced my 
quantity both of eating and drinking, and in . 
a iveek was evidently much thinner, but found 
myself very feeble, and little capable of exer- 
cise. I attributed this, however, to the mere 
effect of change ; and, as I found my spirits 
good, determined to persevere. I did so for 



COKPULENCY. 



43 



another week ; my debility increased, and I 
was attacked by a violent diarrhcea, which, 
I should observe, was at that time (August) 
very iirevalent. It left me extremely low, 
and I felt much dread at returning to a vege- 
table diet, and I returned to my usual course 
of living. My complaints again returned ; 
I was soon fatter, had bad nights, was lethar- 
gic, and feit generally uneasy, and unfit for 
any usual exercise of body or mind," 

Observations. — The variation in this gen- 
tleman's health, from an alternate change in 
his regimen, was of a very decided character ; 
and so long as he was temperate, he was free 
from the various evils that tormented him, 
which, the reader will easily discover, were 
allied to what are familiarly termed the " blite 
devils." But he was of too sanguine a tem- 
perament to be temperate ; he was intem- 
perate in fasting as well as in feasting ; and 
he adopted and put in practice the theory of 
the day with the zeal of an enthusiastic par- 
tisan. As he grew older, he became more 
decided in his personal dietetical experi- 
ments. 

I have many letters of a similar nature, at 



u 



conpuLENcy. 



different periods, in which he discusses the 
subject of health, all of which demonstrate, like 
the man in the Spectator, he was constantly 
destroying what he was most anxious to pre- 
serve. He read himself into one complaint, 
which he cured by reading himself into ano- 
ther. At one time he would only take food once 
a day ; this was altered to the other extreme, 
eating little and often ; and then he provided 
himself with gingerbread nuts and biscuits. 
For three weeks, the hour of dining was regu- 
lated, not by the clock, but the state of the 
stomach ; the dinner was to be served, at any 
hour, from noon till midnight, when the gas- 
tric juices were ready. At another period, 
he instituted a scheme of rules, by which 
every thing was regulated by weight ; and 
though he did not follow them with the mi- 
nuteness of Sanctorious, they evince much 
zeal and perseverance. 

By a journal he kept, during the summer 
of 1816, he was successful in his attempts to 
reduce liis bulk. This is applicable to our 
subject. It records — 

" June 10. Weighed ICsi. lOoz. 



eSl. 



1. 



CORPULENCY. 



45 



" During these 21 days the diet chiefly 
vegetables, mUk, and tea. 

" July 7. Weighed IGst. 
Jul}' 21. „ U nibs. 
Julyao. „ U 4." 

At this period he became ill, having been 
seduced from his plans by an accidental de- 
bauch, when in a state least fitted for it. He 
confesses, in a note, that he rewarded his 
resolution, by a violent outrage on his sto- 
mach, eating all kinds of improper things, 
and suffering accordingly. From the man- 
ner in which he apostrophises a French pie, 
it appears to have distributed indigestion to 
the whole party of convivials, who led him 
astray, 

Two months elapsed before he resumed his 
plans. In the mean time he had increased 
a few pounds. At the end of September he 
resumed his course of vegetable diet. He 
begins his journal with a pithy observation 
from his favourite, Dr. Beddoes — " No one 
should be content with his stomach till he has 
recovered that power of digesting vegetables, 
which it possessed in the light and joyous 



46 CORPULENCY. 

spring of life, and which it retains to old t 
when uninjured by accident or imprudence." 
"September 5. Weighed list. 12lbs. 

September 19. 

October 20. 

November 5, 

November 21. 
rHere the journal is continued, but so inter- 
mixed with personal reflections, tliat it as- 
sumes the detail ef hypochondriacal thoughts 
and feelings, and is a very interesting docu- 
ment ; but it ceases to be applicable to the 
points in rjuestion, and only gives us a no- 
tion of some of the phantasies of " a mind 
diseased." 



Case II. 
From a fat Sportsman. 
" Having had some conversation with you 
upon the subject before, and hearing that you 
have made it a matter of study, I am desirous 
of inquiring your opinion further — as to the 
safety and treatment by which weight may 
be diminished by medicine. 



CORPULE^'CY■. 



47 



" I am growing heavier and fatter than I 
wish to be (my ordinary weight, a few years 
ago, was fifteen stone, and I am now increased 
to nineteen). The exercise I take does not 
prevent it at all. / should not quite like to 
be put on a regimen of nhstinence, but upon 
some system which, with moderate living, 
might gradually bring me back to about my 
old standard. All this time I am quite well, 
and should have little to complain of, were I 
not fond of sports which I pursued with 
greater convenience when I was thinner, and 
did I not observe that persons inclined to 
increase in size lose their activity rather too 
soon in life." 

Observations. — This gentleman was an 
ardent sportsman, took excessive exercise, 
went through great exertion every morning, 
and in the afternoon rewarded his virtuous 
labours by eating, drinking, and sleeping — 
the fatigue of bis sporting pleasures being 
previously sustained by an occasional draught 
of stout ale. He did me the favour of a visit, 
when I found, as he had stated, that he was 
in excellent health, but his size interfered 



48 



COR PULE Key. 



with his plans — " he could not get throl 
the woods so easily as he used to do," and " it 
was not so easy as formerly to find a horse to 
caiTy him." " Now what do you recommend 
me to do?" — "Keep your eyes open, and 
your mouth shut." " Poh ! nonsense ! that 
won't do for me — give me something to take 
— have you no pills ?" The same question 
has Iieen so often repeated to some very able 
practitioners, that, with Moliere's doctor, they 
answer, — " Prenez des pillules, Prenez de» 
pillules." 

The pills this gentleman was in search of, 
were to counteract the effects of a dose of 
strong ale, two gallons a day being his mo- 
derate allowance. As he was not only a 
merry fellow hut a scholar, I gave him the 
opinion of an old poet on the subject 
ale : — 

Nil Bpiasiua ilia, 

Dutn bibitur, nil clarius dum nringitur, inde 
Conslat, quod multaa feces in corpore linquat. 

He laughed, and replied with great g( 
humour, " I see how it is — if I am a/e-ing all 
day, it follows of couiw, I must be oi/riog 



the 



CORPULENCY. 



49 



night. Egad ! I can't help it, I sliould die 
without it, and I had rather die with it." 

It is incredible the quantity of malt liquor 
that men swallow, sometimes to the amount 
of many gallons. The Welsh are great con- 
sumers of ale; and it is recorded of a Welsh 
squire, Wm. Lewis, who died in 1793, that 
he drank eight gallons of ale per diem, and 
weighed forty stone ; which, for the reasons 
stated in the Latin verses, is not improbahle. 
This Vinum Britanjiicum, borrowed from 
the Egyptians, was originally patronised by 
I the Welsh, and has subsequently been consi- 
dered the natural beverage of Englishmen. 
I have known some honest Cambrians, who, 
I like Boniface, " ate it and drank it," and 
I would continue drinking it under constitu- 
I tional derangements that would have killed 
I an ordinary man. 

" Nothing will stay on my stomach," said 
I an old toper, " but beef-steaks and Hodgson's 
ale ! — What do you think of my stomach, eh ! 
doctor ? " — " Why 1 think your stomach a 
very sensible stomach!" was the equivocal 
reply. 



CORPnLENCT. 



Case III. 

From a Country Practitioner. 

" I should before have rephed to your let- 
ter of the 31st ult. had I not been waiting to 
see the person whose case I am about to give 
you; this I did yesterday, and, although the 
reduction is not so great as I had previously 
supposed, yet the particulars may not be 
irrelevant." 

He then proceeds to give a long history, 
almost amounting to the birth, parentage, and 
education of a man five feet high — twenty- 
seven years of age — weighing twenty-three 
stone ; and enters into a detail of his plans 
for reducing his bulk, the short abstract of 
which is, that 

June 17, 1S:^0, the weight of this peison was, aa 
stated, . . 23st. Slbs. 

July 27 



Sept. 10 
Oct. 10 
Nov. 10 
Dec. 10 

— 25 



20 
19 



being a reduction of five stone one pound. 
" I have always found it very difficult 



4 

to I 

d 



COTtPUI-ENCr. 



5T 



aim 



get corpulent persons to give up those habits 
which lead to obesity ; they are, for the most 
part, great lovers of the table, and not easily 
induced to forego the pleasures of it. On re- 
turning home, after some years' absence, I 
passed a man in the street without knowing 
him, although I had previously been well 
acquainted with him. He had, from being as 
corpulent a person as I ever saw, become aho- 
gether as thin. Upon inquiring what disease 
bad wrought this effect on him, 1 found he 
had been in perfect health, and continued so; 
but sheer poverty had laid its hand on bim, 
and by depriving him of his usual good cbeer, 
produced the change." 

Observations. — There are many instances 
on record, of persons being cured of obesity by 
accidental circumstances, very disagreeable in 
themselves, but very salutary in their results ; 
and many very extraordinary cases are related 
ancient authors bordering on the mira- 

lous, but given with a confidence that should 
'awaken^our attention, if they do not entirely 
overcome our incredulity. Of these, in Schenk's 
_5iUection, is an account of Francis Pechi, a 
er from the accumulated mischietit 



5S 



COBPUEF.NCT. 



of good living, who was accidentally impri- 
soned. In the year 1 556, after a lapse of 
twenty years, he was found alive and well, 
by the French, who took the citadel in 
which he was confined ; he was, moreover, 
cured of all complaints, and walked through 
the city, his sword by his side, without the 
aid of a stick. Dr. Barwick notices a similar 
case of his brother, who was confined many 
years in the Tower duiing the usurpation. 

Tippoo Saib kept some English prisoners 
on bread and water. Notwithstanding this 
hard fare, on their release and return to Cal- 
cutta, they found themselves in better health, 
and some of them cured of liver complaints, 
while others of their more fortunate friends 
had died in the interim. 

The anecdote told by Colley Cibber, of 
Romeo's Apothecary ; and the case of the 
Brewer's Servant, mentioned in " Remarks 
on Corpulency*," are of the same kind; and 
many cases similar to these must have occur- 
red in the experience of every man who has 
lived long and much in the world. 



' Pages 41 and 109. 




CORPULENCY. 



Case IV. 
A Gentleman called upon me one day, who, 
as soon as he entered, I felt myself involunta- 
rily exclaiming, " Voila, men oncle ! un petit 
honune haut de trois pieds et demi, extraor- 
dinairement gros, avec une tete enfoncee 
entre les deux cpaules," — but more, he was 
the very epitome of good nature and good 
living — the breathing personification of enjoy- 
ment — the actual type of merry-making. As 
soon as he could, he informed me that he was 
a Norfolk gentleman (dumpling, he might 
have said), passing through London to Devon- 
shire for milder air, being troubled with 
" shortness of breath" He did not call to 
consult me about that, but just to know if I 
had any specific to cure corpulency. Seeing 
that he was truly, according to Shakspeare's 
notion, " fat and scant of breath," I suggested 
Radcliffe's remedy ; but he spurned such 
advice, he wanted the specific. I assured him 
I knew of none, when, with a look of good- 
humoured incredulity, he put into my hand 
the following notice:^ 



4 



51 CORPULENCY. 

" To the Corpulent. — Nothing, it is univer- " 
sally admitted, can be more ungraceful and 
unsightly than a fat habit of body. It causes 
a man to look like a beef-eater, and gives to 
the whole person an air of extreme vulgarity. 
For this reason, a medical gentleman of the 
first eminence has, for a series of years, di- 
rected his study to the discovery of a remedy 
against this disagreeable complaint. Nor 
have his long and laborious researches been 
without success, insomuch that he has now 
the satisfaction of announcing to the public 
that he has discovered a certain specific, 
which will not only reduce the most corpu- 
lent person to a graceful and slender habit, 
but effectually prevent all those who take it 
from ever becoming fat, were they even to 
belong to the Court of Aldermen, or to be 
constant attendants at vestry dinners. The 
proprietor pledges himself to the nobiUty and 
gentry, that his said remedy is so perfectly 
safe and harmless, that even a child at the 
breast may take it. To be had in bottles, 
only ten shillings each, duty included, at a 
Fancy shop, Bare-hone Passage" 







C^//t/f/t4"rt/^ o/t ( o/'/tf//f/frt/, . 



COBPULENCV. 55 

Simplicity of character has been considered 
as a most amiable and enviable quality, and 
this man was the most striking personification 
of it I ever met with. We may presume it 
was the characteristic of his family, for he 
was seeking the specific by the advice of his 
maiden sister, who was " counted ratker 
clever !" 

The positive conviction that the whole was 
s joke seemed to disappoint him, for he ex- 
pected that, with the specific in his pocket, 
he was to live ad libitum; and his worthy 
sister no. doubt intended to do wondrous 
works with such a powerful addition to her 
■tore of recipes. 



4 
4 



IJvur doating husbands, is now in fine feather ^^J 
for another. ^^H 



Extractqfa Letter ^from a facetious medical 
■ Friend. 

" Our fat landlord's occupation is no more ! 
he died suffocated by his own fat; and his 
disconsolate widow, who has been blessed with 



50 



CORPULENCY. 



I 



" Poor fellow ! he wished to live, but lie said 
' the devil was in his stomach ;' and truly a 
devil of a stomach he had. Preaching absti- 
nence was in vain. His wife, worthy womao, 
knew his stomach as well as himself; she was 
constantly crying, ' he will die if he be not 
well nourished,' while he emphatically echoed, 
' he knew his own inside.' So they cooked 
the matter between them, and a fine hash 
they made of it. He had no objection to 
physic; to do him justice, his stomach was 
more exigeant than nice, and when absolute 
necessity required the restraints of maigre, 
his kind wife always took care to slip a 
lump of butter and a glass of brandy into his 
gruel. But enough of the Red Lion. 

" We have some jolly dames in this neigh- 
bourhood, tolerable specimens of what you 
call ' obesity,' but none of the dimensions of 
Park's African princesses, where no beauty 
aspires to royal observation without having 
first weighed down a moderate-sized camel. 

" With resjject to fat gentlemen, I beg to 
introduce myself — my height is five feet three 
inches, and I weigh seventeen stone, and I 
am ready to sit for my picture, in any atti- 



CORPULENCY. 57 

tude you think most favourable forgiving full 
effect to my ' omental rotundity.' 

" But to be serious — have we not corpu- 
lency with little fat, and fat deposited several 
inches on the abdominal muscles, especially 
without distended viscera? 

" Obesity, I conceive, may be a healthy or 
a diseased deposite ; healthy, when a super- 
abundant nutrition is taken up by the 
absorbent vessels, and when all the secretions 
of the body are perfectly performed ; diseased, 
when a lethargic state of brain induces thia 
accumulation, to the hinderance of muscular 
action, giving a bloated and plethoric cha- 
racter to the whole outline of the body. 

" It is a healthy deposite in an animal 
feeding on grass, and rambling at large; it 
becomes a diseased one in animals tied to a 
rack, and fed upon oil-cake ; and it appears to 
me, too, that this disposition to sleep upon a 
distended stomach is the great promoter of 
the evil, as I am credibly informed by a gen- 
tleman in this neighbourhood, who formerly 
fattened bullocks, that all those animals who 
became restless, and would not sleep, were 
D 5 



S8 



CORPULENCY. 



invariably turned loose again, as unprofitable 
subjects." 

Observatio7is. — " Mine host of the Red 
Lion" is not the only instance that has come 
within my knowledge, of worthy persons 
kindly coddled out of the world," — " But is 
she nourished?" said a Lady Bountiful to 
me, in a case of peritoneal inflammation ? 
I was once called up in the night, after a 
case of Lithotomy, by an experienced nurse 
emphatically exclaiming, " Bless you. Sir, 
come and settle the cookery ! We are stuffing 
ia beef-tea, and we shall be at beef-steaks 
before morning!" The restless bullocks puts 
me in mind of an Irish advertisement : " Good 
grass for horses, on the following terms : Long 
tails at three shillings and six-pence, and 
short tails at half-a-crown per week." Upon 
inquiry, the following reason was given for 
the difference in price, vh. that long tailed 
horses, by whisking the flies off, could always 
feed undisturbed; but short tailed horses 
were so tormented, as not to be able to fofl 
in the day-time. 



COKPULE NCY. 



Case VI. 

" At 30 years of age he weighed twenty- 
tliree stone, ate and drank with great free- 
dom, and in great abundance, and was withal 
80 lethargic, that he frequently fell asleep in 
the act of eating, and this in company. 

" He felt much inconvenience and alarm 
from these symptoms, and went to Edinburgh 
to consult Dr. Gregory ; in pursuance of his 
advice, he took a great deal of exercise, lived 
sparingly, and slept little. The quantum of 
the former depended on the season, and on 
the power of the patient to bear fatigue. The 
prescribed diet consisted principally of brown 
bread and tea, the former having a consider- 
able quantity of bran ; but as it was necessary 
to ^U the stomach, the patient ate a great 
quantity of apples ; and to enable him to take 
the necessary exercise, he found a pint of port 
or sherry a day indispensable. He retired to 
rest about eleven, and rose at four or five in 
the morning. TIte only medicine he took was 
three brisk cathartics a week. The precise 



I 




60 CORPULEXCV. 

time he continued under this rigorous systei^ 
I have not ascertained; he is now thirty- 
eight, and has been well some years. He re- 
duced himself to fifteen stone only, being a 
very large and hony man, and 1 understand 
that he now eats and drinks without any 
restraint, so much so, that it is thought he 
has of late got rather fatter, and may, with- 
out care, be again in the state from which he 
recovered." 

Ohseroations. — The memoranda of this 
case were given to me by a sensible friend, 
who, though an adept in the sacoir vivre, 
tempers good hving with good discretion. 

Under the judicious direction of Dr. Gre- 
gory, the patient was reduced eigki stone, 
which is the most important fact in the nar- 
rative. The next is the importance attached 
to brown bread, or bread having a certain 
quantity of bran in it — a very grand secret in 
the history oi pamjicalion, from its practical 
application to medical purposes, the whole of 
the alimentary secretions being altered by a 
change in tlie quality of the bread, as I know 



COHPULENCV. 61 

by my own experience, by occasionally dining 
with some of the advocates of this hruno-niaa 
system. 

That I may be understood on this point, I 
heg to state that I am no admirer of 

" the houseliold bread, 



CiirativE of the aching head, 
And constipation's other ills. 
For which folks swallow salts and pills ;" 

but I am, and always have been, an inquirer 
for the " stale loaf," for which I could offer 
many excellent reasons, were they not all an- 
ticipated by my learned and scientific friend, 
Dr. Paris, in his Chapter on " Farinaceous 
Aliments." 

To observe that just medium, with respect 
to quantity, which is most conducive to a 
healthy state of stomach, demands not only 
attention, but resolution. I'he 7iow miich 
must be determined by the individual ; those 
who can abstain at the first sensation of 
satiety, and can resist the demands of appe- 
tite, have made great progress in the art of 
curing most chronic indispositions, of regaining 
■health, and preserving it. 



J 



6S 



COEPULENCY. 



Unerring Nature learn to follow close, 

For quantum sjiffick is ber just dose. 

This, though a trite and famihar doctri 
cannot be too strongly or too often inculcated ; 
in fact, non satiari cibis is a rule of health a» 
old as Hippocrates. 



J 



Case VII. 

From a Country Phi/sician. 

" Nothing proves you more to be a man of 
business than your hand-writing, which is as 
illegible as Sir Walter's. In this respect, I 
am myself on a par with the most learned 
doctors of our acquaintance, as you will 
readily admit before you have read three lines 

of this journal Our fat patient fasts 

and grumbles, but keeps up his weight in a 
wonderful degree. 'C'est un personnage il- 
lustre dans son genre, et qui a porte le talent 
de se bien nourrir, jusqu'ou il pouvait aller; 
il ne semble ne que pour la digestion.' I be- 
lieve he would fatten on saw-dust. There is 
one very important improvement in hij 
symptoms. He can breathe better, and i 



CORPULEKCY. 



63 



lie in a recumbent posture, which he has not 
been able to do for many years. This alone 
keeps him to his ' regime forte et dure,' — for 
it is a curious circumstance, that after three 
months' starvation, as he calls it, he is not 
above ten ]»ounds actually lighter, though so 
wonderfully lighter in his feelings. Every 
time I see him I have to contend with some 
cogent reason, which he urges with consider- 
able humour, to prove that his constitution 
will suffer, all of which I have hitherto com- 
bated successfully. Yesterday, however, lie 
took a. new position ;— he had doubts on a 
moral ground. — ' It is a bad example,' said 
he, ' for 

" If all the world 
Sliould, in a lit of temperance, feed on pulse, 
DrJDk the clear stream, and nothing wear but frieze, 
Th' All-giver would be unthanked.' " 

Observations. — The person alluded to ia 
this letter, as might be supposed, died sud- 
denly. He was a very sensible man, a perfect 
gentleman, a fine scholar, with a playful wit, 
that made him a most agreeable companion : 
and his temper was cast in that happy mould 



54 



CORPULENCY. 



which " looks at every thing on its most fa- 
vourable side." The Doctor thought "he 
would fatten on saw-dust," and truly, hke Fa- 
ther Paul, "the little he took prospered with 
him." He grew fat in spite of starvation, 
which he enforced with some pertinacity, 
though he was constantly furnishing ingeni- 
ous apologies for following the natural bent of 
his inclinations*. The most distressing symp- 
tom he had to contend with was difficulty of 
breathing. He constantly complained of op- 
pression about the proecordium, and he had 
all the symptoms of hydrothorax. But having 
seen many cases with similar symptoms, 

• A humorous author has given an account of a, per- 
son of this kind, a worthy woman, who liept adding 
growth unto growth, " giving a sum of more (o that 
which had loo much," till the result was worthy of a 
Smithfield premium. This was not the triumph of any 
systematic diet for the production of fat ; on the con- 
trary, she lived abstemiously, diluting her food with 
pickles, acids, and keeping frequent fasts in order to 
reduce her compass ; but they were of no avail. Na- 
ture had planned an original tendency in her organiza- 
tion that was not to be overcome ; she would have 
fatted on lopr kroiU. 



J 




where fat impeded the functions of life, I was 
always impressed with the notion, that it was 
fat and not water that oppressed the heart, 
and so it proved to be on examination. 

I had an opportunity of examining the 
body, which presented one of the most extra- 
ordinary internal accumulations of adeps I 
ever witnessed. The heart itself was a mass 
of fat. The omentum was a thick fat apron. 
The whole of the intestinal canal was im- 
bedded in fat, as if melted tallow had been 
poured into the cavity of the ahdomen ; and 
the diaphragm and the parietes of the abdo- 
men must have been strained to their very 
utmost extent, to have sustained the extreme , 
and constant pressure of such a weighty 
mass. 

So great was the mechanical obstruction 
to the functions of an organ essential to 
life, that the wonder is, not that he should 
die, but that he should live. In very many 
cases of sudden death, charged to the account 
of apoplexy, I am perfectly convinced that the 
previous symptoms would be found, on in- 
quiry, to be referable to the heart and circu- 



66 CORPULENCY. 

lation, and the head has often been exai 
for causes which ought to have been sought 
for in the region of the hypogastrium. A. 
sudden palpitation excited in the heart of a 
Jilt man has often proved as fatal as a bullet 
through the thorax; and that it was the 
cause of death here is most probable. There 
was no organ or viscus diseased, nor can even 
the immense deposition of fat in this case, as 
far as simple animal organization is concerned, 
be considered as disease. 

Tliere are many fatal diseases connected 
with the accutnuklion of fat about the heart) 
particularly angina pectoris. 

In Dr. Blackall's cases of angina pectoris, 
we find. Case 3, " the heart large and fat ;" 
Case 4, " a great deal of fat in the anterior 
mediastinum." The same occurs in Dr. 
Wall's case and Dr. Fothergill's in the Medi- 
cal Observations and Inquiries. Also in a 
case by Mr. Paytherus. 

Dr. Black, in a case of angina pectoris, in 
vol. vii. of Medlco-Chirurgical Transactions, 
says, " the first striking appearance was the 
degree to which the cellular membrane was 



COnPULENCV. 



67 



loaded with fat." The same in the case of 
Mr. M'Cormick, ibid. ; and the Doctor notices, 
p. 83, the relation to obesity. 



Case VIII. 
Hypochondriasis. 

It does not often occur to the surgeon to 
Bee— 

" Moping IlypochoiiUria, mother of Spleen ;" 
and although I do not mean to connect " la 
maladie sans maladie" with obesity, yet it 
so happens that the cases I have seen have 
been all corpulent persons, with tlie exception 
of one little gentleman, who thought he was 
growing too large for his skin. The cele- 
brated Doctor Watts may be mentioned as 
another, who, though a puny man, took a 
fancy, in his latter days, that he could not 
pass through a door ; an error which was 
only corrected by his passing through the 
portal of Death. 

Every practitioner must have seen or heard 
of persons fancying themselves made of glass ; 
I once had occasion to visit an earthen-ware 



68 CORPULENCY. 

patient. A fat gentleman sent for me, havirt 
met with an accident, not very serious in its 
nature, but very painful. Lotions, bandages, 
and plaisters were applied, secmidem artem, 
and the case went on most prosjieroiisly : — 
but in proportion as he got on surgically he 
fell off physically, and, instead of being pleased 
and thankful, he became querelous and mo- 
rose. Remembering Bouvart's Scale for Con- 
valescence, and, that " Good morning, Mr. 
Bouvart," was the announcement of a perfect 
cure, I guessed this was my patient's case. 
I did not, however, perfectly comprehend all 
its bearings, till his valet, a very shrewd fel- 
low, said, " Bless you, Sir ! you must not 
mind him, — he's only coming back to his 
old ways." — " Old ways?" — " Yes, Sir, he's 
going to he a — tea pot !" — " A what ?" — " A 
tea pot ! ! " 

This may seem very ludicrous, but it is 
very serious, and must be treated seriously, 
when it occurs. These hypochondriacs are 
like Moliere's sick man, they always fly into 
a passion when credit is not given to their 
complaints— you may easier call them scoun- 
drel, than tell them they look well ; and, as 



coitPULENcr. 69 

Montaigne very justly remarks, they will 
allow themselves to be blistered and bled, 
" for evils which they feel only in their 
conversation." 

Many ingenious contrivances have been 
resorted to in these cases. We read in ancient 
history, that Philotimus cured a patrician, 
who fancied he had lost his head, by putting 
a heavy iron helmet on his skull, the weight 
of which successfully convinced him, that he 
had still a head upon his shoulders. But all 
contrivances fall short of a German doctor, 
who conceived the bold idea of inoculating a 
patient with psora — vulgarly called the 
Scotch-fiddle ! The amusement this disease 
produced, caused a diversion of the other. 



Case IX. 
A worthy, fat, hypochondriacal bachelor 
sent for me one day, to tell me that he was 
dying ; that he had lefl directions I should 
open him for the benefit of mankind ; and 
that, if it was important, it might be done 
immediately after the breath was out of his 
body, only taking care to pierce him through 



TO CORPULENCV. 

the heart, to prevent resuscitation. This 
scena was repeated at least once a year for 
twenty years ; at last he died, with as good 
viscera as any gentleman of seventy-nine 
years of age was ever blessed with. He was 
one of those who studied the art of sdi^ 
tormenting, a comfort which, unfortunate^ 
for those about him, he dispensed with ■ 
liberal hand. Pity seemed the pabulum of 
his life; and to exact commiseration for 
imaginary ills, 

" Which real ills, and they alone could cure," 

was the great object of his exbtence. Ht 
ate well, drank nell, slept well: — but what 
of that? He had " weak stomach and giddy 
head ; flying gout, wind in his veins, and 
water in his skin, with constant crackings 
and burnings." His business seemed, seeking 
for new causes to make himself miserable. 
" Your pulse is very good, Sir," — " Ay, so 
you say ; every body says so ! that pulse will 
be the death of me ; my pulse deceives evefy 
body, and my complaints are neglected be- 
cause I happen to have a good pulse!" — 
" Your tongue, Su', is clean." — " Ay, there it 



COHPCLENCy. 



71 



13 again ; you should have seen it in the 
morning — as white as a sheet of paper." 

" The valetudinary, thus, 

" Rings o'er and o'er his hourly fuss."' 

Observations. — It is truly said that " qui 
medick vivif, misere vivit.'" There cannot be 
a more pitiable person than one who exists 
per force of physic, flannel, and barley water 
— drop their wine, weigh their meat, feel their 
pulse, examine their tongue, make all their 
movements and meals by the regulation of the 
stop-watch, and who measure out their life 
and actions by the scale of scruples and 
drachms. I know persons who, strange to say, 
are sufferers from the rigid regularity with 
which they eat, drink, and sleep. This is a 
city complaint, originally introduced by some 
of the Hamborough Van-Dams of the last 
century, whose movements resembled those of 
the figures of their own Dutch clocks, equally 
regular, and about as lively. These demi- 
Dutch invalids, who make the periods of 
eating, drinking, and sleeping the chief busi- 
ness of life, may be considered as eating' 
valetudinarians, who never fail to put the 



76 



conpuLENcy. 



very important question — " What am ] 
eat?" This constant query is very seldom 
satisfactorily answered. We remember Sir 
Richard Jebb's sad failure about muffins and 
boiled turnips. Dr. Reynolds, who was in 
every respect an able practitioner, was the 
most ready with his answer to this question. 
He invariably recollected whether it was 
muffins, or crumpets, or boiled turnips, or 
baked pears, that he had recommended, and 
be never allowed one or the other of these 
materia alimeiitaria to be changed wWtouf 
his positive order — and he was right, as will 
appear by the following anecdote : — ila 

An eminent court-physician visiting a Qofall 
lady, the following scene took place ; " Pray^ 
doctor, do you think I might now venture ona 
slice of chicken, and a single glass of madeUnt 
as I feel very faint and low ? " — " IVlost ceg^ 
tainly ; I perceive nothing in the state of jows 
ladyship's pulse, or the appearance of yow 
tongue, to forbid so reasonable an indulgence,? 
Her ladyship instantly rang the bell, and witk 
more than usual peremptoriness of manner 
desired the servant to order the doctor's- cato 



CORPULENCY. 73 

riage to the door immediately ; then addi'essed 
him as follows : " Sir, there is your fee, and, 
depend upon itj it is the last you shall receive 
from me. I asked you a question, a serious 
question, Sir, to me, considering the very 
abstemious regimen to which I have so long 
submitted under your direction ; and I think 
it full time to withdraw my confidence from 
a physician who delivers a professional opinion 
without any foundation : for you must be per- 
fectly aware, Sir, that you neither felt my 
pulse nor examined my tongue." 

Periiaps the most pertinent answer, after 
all, was that given by the celebrated Dr. 
Mandeville to the Earl of Macclesfield. 
" Doctor, is this wholesome?" — "Does your 
lordship like it ? " — " Yes." — " Does it agree 
with your lordship?" — "Yes." — "Why then, 
it is wholesome." This was also the opinion 
of Lord Bacon, a tolerably good authority in 
matters of food, as well as philosophy. " There 
is a wisdom in this," says he, " beyond the 
rules of physic ; a man's own observation 
what he finds good of, and what he finds hurt 
of, is the best physic to preserve health." So 



I 



COItPCI.ENCy. 



true is it, that a man, according to the trite 
maxim, is a fool or a physician at forty. 



« 



"In the year of the coronation, 1821, 1 went 
to the north of Scotland, under considerable 
mental anxiety and agitation. I had no 
sooner completed my journey than I was 
attacked by fever, and confined to bed, from 
August to November. As the biliary secre- 
tions were greatly deranged, mercury, under 
very judicious advice, was administered, till 
my mouth became affected, and, I may add, 
my mind also. It brought me to a state such as 
fits a person for suicide, nervous in the highest 
degree ; with a full conviction that my friendly 
Doctors wanted to smother me ; a circum- 
stance I communicated, confidentially, to those, 
whom even my diseased feelings did not 
make me doubt. 

" Amongst other phantasies, I confidently 
believed that all below the lumbar vertOt 



CORPULENCY. 



did not belong to me, that the hed on which 
I lay was a warehouse, — in short 

" I fancied in my fluttering mood 
All the diseases which the 'spitala know, 
For sometimes I would laugh, and sometimes cry. 
Then sudden waxed wrath, and all 1 knew not why." 



i 



Case XI. 
Tlie fair sex are not exempted irom the 
inconveniences of obesity, and the annexed 
sketch is of a woman, whose petticoat would 
have fitted Falstaff, as well as that of the fat 
woman of Brentford, This monstrous fair 
one was really a great object of interest, 
being nearly starved by the brutality of her 
son-in-law. She had been formerly the wife 
of a man who kept a small public house, and 
in that capacity, without any equivoke, might 
have been truly called a Wapping landlady. 
When I first saw her she was an immense 
mass of disease, with all the restlessness of 
thought, accompanying the domestic miseries 
of poverty. 

" Pale, Ijloatcd, cold, she seemed to liate mankind." 



76 CORPULEKCY. 

And, as far as her very slender means would 
allow, she was chasing away sad thoughts by 
the aid of the hrandy bottle. Alas ! poor 
woman, real human miseries oppressed her ; 
the Qt'sw T( of Hippocrates could not be 
found in her symptoms— there was nothing 
" divine in her disorder." She was not rick 
enough to have the vapours ! 



Case XII. 

The memoranda of the case before us are 
interesting, as illustrative of a curious surgical 
complaint — not in the least connected with 
the present subject — but the patient had a little 
twist, of which I find the following note : — 

This gentleman was not only amiable but, 
very rich and very polite — excepting when 
"his skin pinched him," a term he always 
used when oppressed by uncomfortable sen- 
sations. One day " when he was sure he 
would burst," with a long face and gloomy 
looks, he thus addressed me : — " Lord, Sir ! 
I'm very queer — very poorly — always poorly 
— I've no stomach," said he, looking me i 




CORPULENCY. 

in' the face. — " Now I want to know about 
diet — what should I eat ?" — " Nothing." — 
"What shoiildl drink ?" — "Nothing." — "Hot 
or cokl ?" — This " reductio ad absurdum," 
took my breath away; — he made no alteration 
in his tone, but went on with his queries, 
most of which he kindly answered himself, 
" Otio aiundas, Antipho," exclaimed Fallo- 
pius, on a similar occasion, which proves that 
Hypochondriasis was not unknown in the 
days of Terence. 

Where all is wrong there can be no alle- 
viation from medicine— real disease can alone 
Cure imaginary disease — and it sometimes 
happens that those who are only whimsical, 
become, by a just retribution, really what they 
fancied themselves. 



^ :?• ( 78 ) 



An intelligent French author (Monsieur 
Maillct) mentions that, a thousand years before 
the Christian TEra, the Egyptians had two 
temples, dedicated to Satuni, which they 
wisely placed at the extremities of the king' 
dom, for the benefit of liypochondriacal pa- 
tients. These temples were the Bath and 
Brighton of tlie East — and, as at these places, 
the iron restraints of diet, and the doctor, 
were made palatable by recreative amuse- 
ments, and the diseased mind diverted from 
itself by agreeable images, and melodious 
sounds. In those days they were aware of the 
advantage of mixing music with medicine. 
What would be the eifect of a bottle of spa- 
water drank in secrecy and silence? They 
■were aware also of tlie great importance of ex- 
ercise, and sent their patients to the distant 
temples : " Non propter sahtbritatem aqua- 
rum, sed propter longinqaam peregrin 
tionem." 

There is something very comfortable' 



rua- . 




the notion of a specific— it saves a great deal 
of trouble, and enables the parties to live as 
they like — so thought the gentleman who ate 
the " niiilev's pudding," as a " specific," every 
day after dinner. 

The majority of those who seek for specific 
remedies, inquire for pills — this is very na- 
tural, it is a multmn in parvo dose, of great 
antiquity. " Pharmaca ilia in glohulos con- 
fonnata vulgo jnlulce noniinamus" — says the 
profound Pliny; — but he does not give any 
formula that we can apply to present pur- 
poses. Avicenna, who was a more practical 
person, having commenced the business of 
visiting patients at sixteen years of age, on 
the strength of some prescriptions, surrep- 
titiously obtained from his old master ; gives 
a receipt for some pills as a preservative 
against liunger in the time of famine, which, 
being translated, is as follows : — • 

" Take of sweet almonds one pound ; the like 
quantity of melted beef-suet ; of oil of violets 
two ounces ; a sufficient quantity of mucilage ; 
and of the roots of marsh-mallows, one ounce : 
kt, ^toge^heji;, \ft brayed jn , a mortar,, apd 



80 CDEPULENCy. 

made ioto bolusses, about the bigness 
common nut." 

It J3 of the utmost consequence in the 
cure of Obesity, to take off the pinguify pro- 
pensities of the appetite. Of this Avicenna 
seems to have been aware, and he recom- 
mends those who cannot swallow the pills, 
to take the remedy in a fluid state, i. e. " one 
pound of oil of violets, mixed with melted 
beef-suet. A person taking this, may fast 
for ten days together without the least 
hunger ! ! " 

Doubtless this would answer the purpose 
full as well as the French alimentary powder, 
Lord Byron's tobacco, or the German Girdle 
Schmachtrimen — which means the Girdle 
of Emptiness. 

EtmuUer recommends pills, waslied down 
with the Elixir Proprietatis, " a very dryii^ 
medicine, known to the ancients," (muck 
better than to the moderns). 

Monsieur Andry, a great advocate for pills 
made of ashes of cray-fish, sea sponge, and 
the pith of sweet-briar, alarmed all experi- 
mental invalids, by a cautionary admonition. 



CORPULENCV. 




*' that they were of 30 extenuating a nature, 
that unless administered with great judgment 
they would cause too great a meagreness." 
In the administration of this potent remedy 
we must proceed cautiously, bearing in mind 
a saying of honest old Boerhaave's — " Nullum 
ego cognosco remedium nisi quod tempestivo 
tisujiiit tale" 

During a long period, specifics for all human 
ailments were sought in the vegetable king- 
-dom, and botanical chemistry was so closely 
allied to physic, that no professor of the 
former could be eminent without an ex- 
tensive knowledge of the latter. This was 
particularly the case in the reign of \Vigs and 
Canes. Let us take a specimen of those 
botanical practitioners, " verbatim et litera- 
tim" from a consultation in King Charles's 
days. 



" R tamarind, cassiee recent, extract, an. ^j. fol. sense 
Jvj. Rhei 3ij. sem. eoriand. prfeparat. 3J. tnacis jj^. in- 
fund, & ebulliant in a, q. aq. pomor. addendo vini 
albi & succi pomor. an. iij. Colaturas H^. ailde syr. 
violar. S: manns an. ^{^. clarificetur ovi albumine, 
St fiat Apozeraa pro tribus dosibus altemia anroris 
E 5 



gS CORFaLENOr. 

sumeiulis. R sarsaparillge ^vj. Chinee Jiv. ligni lentiac. 
^iij. sassafras, ^ij. ligni guaiaci, eboris, corn, cervi, aiii 
^B. paBsul. enucleat. llj. eort. Winteranffi, fiaved. au- 
rantiorum, citr. nuc. moseliat. an. Jij. iDcidend. incidantur 
i- contund. contundantur, & adde fol. cochlear, marin. ad 
biduum siccat, Mvj. salviEe Mfj. anthos Mj. milleijcd. 
Ibii. furfuris friimeniae, Mj. frugt. ehalybis recent num. 
iiij, fiat Sacculus Bnspend. in con. vj. cereviaiEe dimid. 
part lupuJat. & si pro potu ordinario. R ligni sassafras 
Ifefi. iiifund. io aquB font. Ifexvj. dein adde eboria & 
com, cervi an. 3vj. fol. agrimon. cochlear, marin. bee- 
cabung, nasturtii aquatici, an. Mvj. cochlear, hortens. 
berber, an. Milij. paaauJar. enucleat. Jbij. cort. Winteran. 
cionamomi, an Bij- ^ii' albi Ihiiij. lactis recentis tbvj. 
distillentur orgnnis coinmiin. capiat, aq. distillattc ^ri. 
extra pastum ter in , die, dulcoi-etur syrupo noBtro 
balsamic." 

Modem physicians were pleased to despise 
this as old wives' gossip, aud, ruiininj^ into an 
opposite extreme, so simplified the practice, 
that four medical men have been known to 
sit in consultation on a grain of blue-pill; 
and debate into how many parts it should be 
divided. A prescription of such simple prac- 
tice, not four years old, is now in the ar^ 
chives of Apothecaries Hall. 

This, however, shrinks into nothing, when 



CORPUI,ENCY.. 



83 



compared with the Homaeopathic system^ 
now in vogue in Germany. " The thousandth 
part of a grain of arsenic is the lai^est dose 
that should be given, and the hundred-tkoti- 
santh part of a grain is enough in ordinary 
cases !" A drop of tlie spirituous tincture of 
sarsaparilia is said to be a strong dose — and 
the seven-millionth part qfagrain of cucumis 
Colocynthis acts sometimes too powerfully ! ! 

Truly has it been said — some Doctors let 
the patient die, for fear they should kill him ; 
while others kill the patient, for fear he 
should die. 

In the ancient "Theriaca Andromachi" 
there were seventy-two ingredients. Accord- 
ing to the Homaeopathic system, tlie Elder, 
a most innocent flower, produces 116 symp- 
toms ! Supposing, therefore, each article of! 
the Theriaca to be equally productive — the 
Theriacal symptoois would have amounted 
to no less a number than 8,353 ! ! ! 

This, perhaps, may afford a clue to the 
multiplicity of ingredients used in old pre- 
scriptions, in which action, and counteraction, 
were combined in such perplexing variety* 



I 
I 

I 

I 



M cohpulcncv. 

that no man could tell what the effect of I; 
mixture would be ; he could only hope a 
trump would be found in the pack. 

That " preparations which have the power 
to act beneficially, in the same ratio neces- 
sarily do harm if unskilfully exhibited" — is an 
observation of the learned Mead. A stronger 
proof of it cannot be given, than in the case of 
General Vitellis, whose skin hung about him^ 
from the injudicious administration of thai 
common and efficacious remedy — vinegar. 

Cielius Aurelianus was a great advocate for 
a sudorific system — of hot sand-baths, stoves, 
and stews. This was equally objectionable, 
from the disagreeable effects of orer-stewJng, 
occasionally producing similar results to those 
of General Vitellis, or the " Fat single Gen- 
tleman," who lived six months, unconsciously, 
over a baker's oven. The Newmarket plan 
is more safe and more certain, according to 
the opinion of the most skilful trainers. A 
gentleman who was recommended to try a 
Newmarket doctor, objected to the journey- 
having, as he said, all the requisites at home, 
t>iz. — " a small hoMse, with a lai^e fire, a 



a 



CORMJLENCY. 86 

soil, who kept him in a perpetual fever, and 
a very fat wife !" 

All agree in the advantages of temperance. 
Bir William Temple says " a man has but 
these four things to choose out of — to exercise 
much, to be very temperate, to take phasic, 
OT be «cA." 

There have been many ingenious devices 
for keeping people within bounds at the 
festive board — moderation or temperance, ac- 
cording to the confession of Dr. Johnson, 
'• being no easy virtue." 

It was the custom with some of the em- 
perors at Constantinople, at their coronation, 
while they were seated on their throne re- 
ceiving the homage of the people, for a mason 
to come with patterns of choice marble, and 
beg to know which the august person would 
please to have his tomb made of ! 

The Egyptians carried a skeleton at their 
feasts, lest their guests, in the midst of 
feasting and merriment, should forget the 
frail tenure of life, and its enjoyments. 

In imitation of these ancient authorities* 



COBPBLENCV. 



I 



a modern Gastronome had his gouty shoe 
presented to him as a memento, between the. 
first and second courses, 

The importance of exercise is enfoixredi 
both by ancient and modem writers. Dan-) 
cing has been recommended. Mead had a 
dancing-master in his old age*, and the ilhis- 
trious Scaliger performed the Saltatio Pyrr* 
hica, before the emperor Maximilian — '* jton 
sine stupore (ot'tus Gerrnania .'" 

On horseback one can take most exercise 
in the shortest time. Next to this, riding on 
a long stick, has been highly commended — 
" Equitare in arundine longa,** as the learned 
Scriblems hath it — which has occasionally 
done wonders, on the same principle that 
the basUish, administered in a ball, was so 
efficacious to the voluptuary Ogul. Nor is 
there a better remedy now than this basilisk • 
bolus, and other ingenious applications of the 
" Medicina Gijmnastica." ' 

* The Doctor, perliaps, had studied a book in tte 
College library — " In slrtic lions de bieti Dancer," 4to. 
niria, U88. 



COUPULEKCY. 87 

All these subjects, however, have been 
discussed at large in the " Cursory Remarks 
on Corpulence," — but for those who have 
leisure, and inclination to pursue the subject, 
I have added the following list of 

REFEllENCES. 

Platerus, lib. 3. obs. p. 584. 

Tinraeus, lib. 6. cas. 1. 2. 3. p. 261. et c. L. 

Marcellus Donatus, 1. 5. c. ^ et c. L. 

Bartholinus, c. 3. hist. 88. et 2. epist. 81. 

Panarollus Pentic, 4. obs. 31. 

Sennertus Prax. 1. 5. p. 1. c. 4. p. 21. 

Ludwig. Prog de Ceteri Obesitate Causa Debilitas, 

1760. 
Nanche, Ponteau, and Gassendi. 
Erastus, de Pinguidinis in Animalibus Generatione et 

Concretione, 4to. Heidilberg, 1580. 
Bonetus, v. 2. p. 552. L. 3. sect. xxi. 
Pseudohydrops a Pinguidini anomala, &c. 
Widdeman, De Corpulentia Nimia, 1681. 
Ramaszini, Opera. 

Bass, De Obesitate Nimia, Erf., 1 740. 
Friderici, Diss, de Corpulent. Nimia, Jen. 1670. 
Reussing, de Pinguidine, 1791. 
Shulz, Ditto, Ludl. 1752. 
Wolf, Diss, de Obesitate, Jen. 1683. 
Wucherer, Diss, de Corpulent., Jen., 1716. 



88 COEPULENCY. 

Riemer, De Obesitate Causn, Hal. 1771* 

Scbaper, De Obetitate, 1701. 

Nf Camml) Medie Wahrmehm. 

Bonetus» lib. 1 1 • sect xi, obs, xlvi* 

Coindeton Fat, Journal de Physique, 1798. 

Oswald, Obesitatis Corporis Humani Therapia, Tu- 

bingas, 1775. 
Franciscus Alexander Verullensis, in Schenkii Obser-* 

vat Medicinal, lib. v. p. 6Sl. 
To which may be added Dr. Cheyne's Works, and the 

Pamphlets of Drs. Flemyng and Short. 



LEANNESS. 




.^rnaim^^ ^.^^a/m^ . 



LEANNESS. 



LINEAMENTS OF LEANNESS- 

It may naturally be supposed, from the cases^ 
and comments on Corpulency, that the *^fat 
^xiAfairy^ have not been the only persons who 
have consulted me ; the man who knows how 
to reduce " the Jat^^ ought to know how to 
" fatten the lean ; " and, accordingly, I have 
occasionally been visited by *^ quelques Ana* 
tomies VivanteSy' and although Mons. *, 

• This extraordinary production of nature, pro- 
nounced by the most eminent of the faculty, in France 
and England, to be a " great phenomenon " was brought, 
as we are told, to this country, at a considerable ex- 
pense, to contribute to the advancement of science ! The 
expense of keeping a skeleton we cannot calculate from 
any practical experience in this country ; but we may 
presume it was not much ; ** a recreative excursion,^ for 
a party of such persons, would, it may be presumed, 



the real living skeleton, never did nie the 
honour of a visit, I have seen full as great 
curiosities as the said Monsieur, within the 
circle of my own acquaintance ; and, in the 
persons of two of my most intimate friends, 
witnessed the most extraordinary instances of 
emaciation that the human frame could possi- 
bly exhibit. One of these was a gentleman 
aljout forty years of age; the other was one 
of the most lovely, and beautiful, of her se*, 
who, when she died, at the early age of thirty, 
presented the resemblance of an ivory skeleton, 
covered with thin parchment. 

These cases were similar in appearance and 
progress ; and each of them the effect of great 
organic disease, in the mesenteric glands, and 
abdominal viscera. The first of these cases 

was Major P , who, after much military 

service, and harder duty, as regarded his 
health, in the service of conviviality, and 
good living, became a barrack-master in 

not cost so large a sum as the convivial coramittee of 
City lands. — Qiiere ? wLidi was advanced most by tie 
skeleton's visit, the Englishman's philosophy, or the 
Frenchman's fortune? 




LEANNESS. 



93 



Sussex. I had not seen him for a year or 
two, when one morning he called me up, 
having suddenly left his quarters, " to seek 
my friendly advice, on matters of the utmost 
importance ! " For some moments I could 
not recognise my friend — I knew him not; 
how should I ? an insane skeleton addressed 
me ! It spoke of circumstances I knew, but 
in a voiqe I kpew not. Never, in my 
professional life, was I more distressingly 
affected. I met the momentary difficulty of 
contending feelings as well as I could, and, as 
soon as circumstances permitted, deposited a, 
living skeleton in the charge of his family. 
He lived a few weeks, eating voraciously; 
and swallowed, or rather bolted, some large 
lumps of meat within a few hours of his 
death. 

There are, however, cases of the absorption 
of fat, the causes of which it is impossible to 
ascei'tain. 

A curious case is related by Halle, in the 
" Memoires de I'lnstitut National," of a young 
woman who gradually became emaciated, 
without any dipiinutjoi) of appetite, aqd with-. 



94 



L'EANNESS. 



out any specific complaint. At th' 
twenty-one, the emaciation commenced ; and 
from that time went on progressively. She 
died at five-and-twenty, having been con- 
fined to her bed only fifteen hours, and in 
these were included the usual hours of rest. 
The only peculiarities discovered, on dissec- 
tion, were the almost total want of fat, and 
the obliteration, in a great measure, of the 
lymphatic system. The lacteals were invi- 
sible ; all the glands were remarkably small ; 
the inguinal glands, in particular, were quite 
shrunk, and the vessels leading to them Tvere 
almost impervious. 

Halle, therefore concludes, that this case 
affords an example of atrophy, independent of 
any organic affection, excejit what resulted 
from the successive obliteration of the lym- 
phatic system. 

Two remarkable instances are mentioned 
by Lorry — one of which will sufficienlJf 
illustrate this remark. 

A person advanced in years, and affected 
with melancholy, became, without any evident 
cause, in such a diy state, as to be unable to 



95 



move without producing a Horrid, crackling 
noise in all his hones, even the spine, to such 
a degree, tiiat (being a priest) he was obliged 
to give up saying mass, as the noise was so 
great as to astonish the vulgar, and make 
children laugh. 

Sudden emaciation and absorption of fat, 
however, the effect of diseased organic struc- 
ture or acute disease, does not properly belong 
to, or characterise that opposite state, or anti- 
thesis to corpulence, known by the term 
leanness, which is always attended by ex- 
treme tension, and dryness of the cellular 
membrane, very frequently by weakness in 
tlie digestive powers, but not constantly, as 
we sometimes find thin and lean persons, eat 
more in quantity than others. 

It is not eating alone, however, but diges- 
tion, that gives strength and nourishment: 
yet digestion may he perfect, and assimilation 
of chyle into blood imperfect; for, that the 
quantity of nourishment does not depend on 
the quantity of food, is evinced, by the most 
voracious eaters being found among the leanest 
of their kind. 



96 I.BATfNESS. 

The act of eating gives jise to three sub- 
sequent processes, digestion, chyniefaction, 
and chylefaction. The production of fat, 
seems to dei>end most on this latter process ; 
and whether, as Father Paid says, " the little 
we take prospers with us," or whether we fall 
ofl' though fed on turtle, seems to depend on 
the facility of chylefaction; a process carried 
on out of the stomach, in the small intestines, 
a lower portion of the alimentary canal, to 
which the attention of modern physicians, and 
physiologists, has been particularly directed ; 
and to which we may attribute the duodenal 
diseases, and discrepances now so fashionable- 
There are many of the phenomena of diges- 
tion perfectly intelligible ; there are othere 
that are not so ; and from the peculiar effects 
of certain alimentarj- substances, we are led to 
conclude, that there is a shorter road for some 
of the excretions, than by the lacteals and 
general circulation. And although we catt 
veiy readily explain and account for, various 
circumstances connected with digestion, and 
chylefaction, there are many questions arising 
out of them, that an ingenious casuist maj 



LEANNESS. 97 

suggest, to which we can give no other answer 
than the doctors did to Voltaire, when he 
pro]K)sed on this subject the following 
question : — 

" Par quel secret mystere, 
Ce pain, cet aliment dans mon corps dig^re, 

■ Se transfttrme dans nn lait doucement prcparfi ? 

I' Comment, toujoura filtredans ces routes certaJnes 
En laugs ruisseanx dc pourpre il court enfler mes 



'' Demandez-ce a ce Dieii qui nous donne la vie — " 
was the oracular answer. 

" But what is the cause of my leanness ?" 
said a thin gentleman, who would have given 
half his fortune for half my fat ; " what is 
the cause of my leanness ? " — " Demandez- 
ce a ce Dieu ! " — " Pho ! demand a fiddle- 
stick's end ! — I want you to tell nie, Sir, — 
you. Sir ; — wliat is the cause of my lean- 
ness?" — "Well — soyez tranquille — be quiet 
a minute : there is a predisposition in your 
constitution to make you lean, and a disposi- 
tion in your constitution to keep you so." This 
explanation, about as satisfactory as Dr. 



98 



LEANKSSa. 



Thomas Diaphoreus's explanation of the pro- 
perties of opium — " quia est in ea" &c, &c., 
did not soothe the irritability of my lean in- 
quirer, who became, if possible, more shrunken 
and wizened as his heat increased. Seeing 
the nature and temper of my antagonist, I 
went to book with him in another way: — 
" Why, Sir, as to the causes of leanness, there 
may be many that an ingenious theoriat might 
suggest ; — I speak to you. Sir, as to a sejisiUe 
man." — The storm and heat began to subside ; 
an oily word is like an emollient; — " I speak 
to you. Sir, as a sensible man, and I am aware 
that it is not sufficient to talk to you jik 
general terms, of constitutional peculiarities 
digestive organs, and alimentary functloes; 
you must have a positive, specific cause ; and, 
if possible, an explanation of that cause, as 
plain as the specification of a patent." — " Just 
so; that is what I want — you speak like a 
sensible man" — (the retort courteous) — 
" Every effect. Sir, must have a cause ; and I 
want to know whether the cause may be in 
the stomach, or any particular part of my 
inside ; and if ao, whether, by particularly 




m 



directing our attention to that part, wherever 
it may be, we can in any way alter its 
nature ? " 

The expectations of patients are sometimes 
very exorbitant, generally in proportion to 
their ignorance ; sensible people give very 
little trouble. These demands it is not dif- 
ficult to satisfy ; for a foolish answer, will 
always balance a foolish question. I do not 
recollect ever to have met the equal of this 
inquirer, except in a very pompous person, 
who kept a large circulating library, who, 
doubtless, thought " keeping a library, he 
himself was learned," and who, whenever 
my answer satisfied his great mind, always 
expressed his approbation by a condescending 
nod, with — " Ay ! now, Sir, you give U8 a 
physical reason !" 

But " revenons a noB moutons ; " finding 
my patient's mind was bent on localities, I 
suggested the intestinum c^cum for his consi- 
deration — the newly-discovered organ of fat ! 
He had never heard of it ; this was what he 
expected of me (another retort courteous, for 
which 1 owed him one). " This was news ! 



news : ^^i 



100 



What was it ? how was it ? " — " Why, Sir. 
some are of optnion that the c^cum contains 
a certain ferment — some that it is destined 
to secrete an important fluid — others take it 
for a second ventricle, wherein tlie prepared 
aliments may be stored up, and so long re- 
tained, till a thicker and more nutritive juice 
may be drawn from them; — and how it is a 
depot of fat, you will find in the ' Philosophi- 
cal Transactions,'" 

He heard this very attentively, and having 
passed mutual compliments, and being o« very 
good terms icith each other, he favoured me 
with his unreserved opinion. " I see very 
clearly. Sir, tlie application of this discovery 
to my case : this is an age of discoveries ! — 
the quantity of fat diffused over the body 
must be in proportion to the quantity in the 
depot: I must have a small c«ctt»B .' Now the 
(luestion is — can we enlarge it ? — Perhaps I 
have no c^cum!" We quite agi'eed upon 
the impossibility of supplying this defect ; hut 
as " there Is more in heaven and earth than 
we dream of in our philosophy," my philoso- 
pher did not like to relinquish all speculation 



LEANNESS. 101 

Bpon the subject. I considered the case 
beyond surgery. I am not sure that I might 
have been allowed to look at the caput coU — 
thoiigli I have known an operation done on 
almost as frivolous grounds. But when I told 
him, that, according to the account of the cele- 
brated Hoffman, dogs became rapidly fat 
when theii' spleen was removed, and that Mr. 
Hunter once removed it from a wounded man, 
who did very well, there seemed to arise a 
lurking longing, as much as to say, " I wish 
Mr, Hunter had my spleen." 

There is an asperity in the acute angles of 
some persons, that gives a most forbidding 
appearance — every feature is sharp, and every 
variety of movement quick. Shakspeare makes 
Cssar desire that he may have fat people 
about his person. It would be hard, on this 
authority, to condemn all pereons who have 
the misfortune to he born with small ctscums 
and large spleens, and are meagre from causes 
they cannot control, " as fit for treasons, stra- 
tagems, and spoils." Yet it is clear that 
Caesar liked a curvilinear emhonpoint appear- 
ance in his body-guard, and thought there 



J 



102 



was most safety with a corpulent corps of 
household troops. 

The lean are not less exposed to ridicule 
than the corpulent. A reverend doctor of 
divinity, of very ghostly appearance, was one 
day accosted by a vulgar fellow, who, after 
eyeing him from head to foot, at last said, 
" Well, doctor, I hope you have taken care 
of your soul!" "Why, my friend," said 
the amiable shadow, " why should you be 
so anxious that I should take care of my 
soul ?" — "Because," replied the other, " lean 
tell you that your bodtf is not worth caring 
for." 

Jonas Hanway, who was remarkably thin, 
was met by a man much inebriated, who 
approached him in so irregular a direction, 
that it might have been concluded that he had 
business on both sides the way. Hanway 
stopped when he came up to him, to give him 
his choice ; but the man stood as still as his 
intoxication would permit him, without at- 
tempting to pass on either side. After view- 
ing each other a moment, " My friend," said 
Hanway, " you seem as if you had rather 



LEANNESS. 103 

drunk too much;" — to which the man replied, 
with considerable naivete, " And you, my 
friend, seem as if you had ate too little." 

When the Duke de Choiseul, who was a 
remarkably meagre-looking man, came to 
London to negociate a peace, Charles Town- 
send being asked, whether the French Go- 
vernment had sent the preliminaries of a ^^J 
treaty, answered, he did not know, but they ^^| 
had sent the outline of an Ambassador, ^^| 

I have stated, that good humour, and the ^^| 

power of looking on the favourable side of ^^H 

things, are among the concomitant causes of ^^ 
Corpulency ; and so they have been considerd 

from the days of Solomon. — "A merry heart i 

doeth good like a medicine ; but a broken ^^| 

spint drieth the bones." Now the optics ^^B 

of some lean people are in so unlucky a ^^\ 

perspective, as to throw a shade over every , 

picture that is presented to them: to them ^^J 

the whole face of Nature is gloomy and ^^| 

ugly. It would be a blessed thing for such ^^| 

persons, if DoUond could alter their vision ^^| 

by the aid of spectacles. To fatten a man ; 

^^ by impressions on the optic nerve would be a ^J 



101 



new feat in the philosophy of physic 
surgery *, 

" Laugh and grow fat " is an old adage ; 
and Sterne tetls us, that every time a man 

• Dr. Franklin illustrates tlie different wa^s of see- 
ing an object, by a story : — 

" An old philosophical gentleman fiad grovm, from 
experience, very cautious in avoiding ill-natured people. 
He had, like other philosophers, a thermometer, to 
show him the heat of the weather, and a barometer, 
to mark whan it was likely to prove good or bad ; bm 
there being no instrument invented to discover, at first 
Right, this unpleasing disposition in a person, be, for 
this purpose, made use of hh legs, one of which was 
remarkably bandsome, the other, by some accident, 
crooked and deformed. If a stranger, at the first inter- 
view, regarded bis ugly leg more tlian his handsome 
one, he doubted him. If he spoke of it, aad took no 
notice of his handsome leg, that was sufficient to deter- 
mine the philosopher to have no further acquaintance 
with him. Every body has not this two-legged instru- 
ment ; but every one, with a little attention, may ob- 
serve signs of that carpmg, fatdt-fiDding disposition, 
and take the same resolution of avoiding the acquaintance 
of those infected by it. I therefore advise tliosc queru- 
lous, discontented, unhappy people, if they wish to be 
respected and beloved by others, and bappy in tbem- 
Klvee, tx> leave off looking at the ugly leg." 



LEANNESS. 



laughs, he adds something to his life. An 
eccentric philosopher, of the last century, used 
to say, that he liked not only to laugh him- 
self, but to see laughter, and hear laughter. 
" Laughter, Sir, laughter is good for health ; it 
is a provocative to the appetite, and a friend 
to digestion. Dr. Sydenham, Sir, said the ar- 
rival of a merry-andrew in a town was more 
beneficial to the health of the inhabitants than 
twenty asses loaded with medicine." Mr. 
Pott used to say that he never saw the " Tailor 
riding to Brentford," without feeling better 
for a week afterwards. 

From what has been said, it will appear 
that, next to my philosophical patient's no- 
tions of enlarging the caecum, and lessening 
the spleen, the excitement of laughter ought 
to have a place in the " Ars Pinguefacicndi." 
Mr. George Jones, mentioned by Granger, 
seems to have had this object in view in his 
" Friendly Pills," which were to make pa- 
tients of all complexions laugh at (he time of 
taking thein, and to cure all curable complaints. 
Let us hope, for the sake of his Majesty's " lean 
lieges," that George Jones's recipe may start 
f5 



106 LEANNESS. 

from some antiquarian pill-box, for the en- 
larging and beautifying that portion of the 
population. Let us also flatter ourselves, that 
although we do not now know our way to 
Mr. Payne's toy-shop, for his three-and-six- 
penny bottle of" Pinguefying Specific," such 
may be found amongst the arcana of modern 
chemistry *. 

The French have a happy mode of intro- 
ducing specifics ; — Monsieur Morison, I'Hy- 

* When the Spectator was first published in the forni 
of a newspaper, advertisements were attached to it, of 
which the following is a specimen :— - 

" An assured cure for leanaens, which proceeds ■ttam 
a cause which few know, but easily removed by an un- 
paralleled specific tincture, which fortiSeH the stomach, 
purifies the blood, takea off fretfuliiess in the mind, 
occasions real, and easy sleep, and as certainly disposes 
and causes tlie body to thrive and became plump and 
Heshy, if no manifest distemper afflicts the patients, as 
water will quench fire, &x. &c, 

" It is pleasant to taste, and is sold only at Mr. 
Payne's toy-shop ; price 3s. Gd. a bottle, witli directions." 

What efTects it had upon those who tried it, does not 
appear, but the demand for it was so great that it «tire<) 
the proprietor binuelf of leanness. 



J 



LEANNESS. 107 

geiste, informs the thin gentlemen of Paris, 
that he has discovered utie Midecine Vigi- 
tale, which is administered in the shape of 
pills, and may be taken with perfect safety 
at all hours and seasons. Should the pills fail 
— then, there is the" Catapkpsienne, cette 
heiireuse liqueur, dont les midecins font le 
plus grand eloger 

The representation our neighbours give oF 
our proceedings, though it may be said to be 
lively, is by no means agreeable. Monsieur 
Lefevre tells us, very gravely, that " English 
ladies make no scruple of drinking wine, in 
which whole living vipers have been suffocated, 
in order to keep up their einbonpoint and 
gaiety, prevent wrinkles, and preserve their 
health." A notion bon-owed from Ralph 
Williams's "Physical Rarities" (1651), in 
which is an equally rational receipt, for bray- 
ing live swallows, and making " cock-broth, 
to cure a consumption." 

Among the most singular propositions for 
fattening the person, that our inquiries have 
funiished us with, that of flagellation is the 
most whimsical. Id the " Artificial Change- 



I 

I 

i 

Jhange- j 



108 



LEANNESS. 



ling," we read that the Mangones, to make 
their bodies more fat for sale, " were wont to 
whip their posteriors and loins, with rods, and 
80 by degrees make them more fleshy ;" and 
it is even said that this is noticed by Galen, 
as no contemptible stratagem to attract the 
nourishing particles to the outer parts. 

The operation of flagellation has been, in 
former times, resorted to by ecclesiastical, 
as well as medical doctors; and some very 
cuiious secrets were laid open in the Abbe 
Boileau's " History of tlie Flagellants." But 
the work most to our purpose Is that of Mei- 
bomius, " De I'Utilite tie la Flagellation." 

*' Jerome Mercuiialia," says Meibotnius, 
"nous apprend que plusieurs medecins, ont 
ordonne la flagellation a des personnes maigres, 
pour les engraisser, ct leur donner de I'em- 
bon point. 

" Galien, citant a. ce sujet les stratagSmea 
des marchandes d'esclaves, qui se servoient de 
ce moyen pour les faire paroitre plus brillans 
de fraicheur, et d'embonpoint, ne laisse aucun 
doute sur I'efBcacite de ce remede. II est 
certain, qu'il fait gonfler la chair, et attire & 



LEANNES3. 109 

elle les alimeiis. Personne n'ignore que la 
flagellation avec des oitus vertes, a Ic plus 
grand succes pour raffermir les inembres, et 
rappeler la chalcur, etlesang, dans les parties 
qui en sont privfies." — Me'ibomius, de V Utiltte 
de la Flagellation, p. 33. 

He adds, — " Combien de nourrices, sans 
avoir consulte Jerome Mercurialis, ni Galien, 
ont recours a ce stratageme qu'elles connois- 
sent par tradition, et claquant les enfans sur 
les fesses, avant de les i-endre a leurs meres, 
tronipent par cet embonpoint factice, et mo- 
mentane, la confiance des tendres parens qui 
leur ont confie ces interessantes creatures !" — 
Meihomius, de I' Utilite de la Flagellation. 

One gentleman told me, that he understood 
mercury was very fattening. Mercury of itself 
cannot be said to have this effect ; for if it fail 
to cure tbe disease for which it is adminis- 
tered, the patient becomes thinner. 

Dr. Paris bad a case of emaciation in a 
gentleman who never ate salt — he was per- 
suaded to do so, and recovered. 

Those who refer all difficulties to the 
stomach, and look for -comlortable remedies 



4 



110 LEANNESS. 

in " Cookery-books," would do well to vintl 
Paris, where a restaurateur invites patients 
of this sort, by tlie following consolatory ex- 
hortation written over his door : — 

Venite ail me omnes qui stomacho laboratis, et ego 
rc-staurabo vos '. 



I 
I 



This class of inquirers, who are generally 
great believers in the eflficacy of milk, and 
cock-broth baths, gelatine, and (wtatoe-pie ; 
and are ever on the alert to discover the most 
nutritious articles of food, should be informed 
of the notable example of the effect of choco- 
late, given by the industrious Dr. Mundy, 
who says " that he knew a man in a desperate 
consumption, who took a great fancy for 
chocolate; and his wife, out of complaisance, 
drank it often with him : the consequence was, 
the husband recovered, and the wife had 
three sons at a birth !" — Harl. MSS. 

When it is recollected, that human life is 
lengthened, or abridged, according to the 
suitableness, or unsuitableness of diet, and 
that some of our most scientific physicians, 
have considered the " Materia Alimentaria," 



Ill 



as important as the " Materia Medica ;" — it 
appears strange, that a " Dietetic Dispensary" 
has never been established. What an agree- 
able book the Pharmacopoeia of snch an in- 
stitution would be, and how agreeable the 
practice ! 

Notwithstanding the encouragement held 
forth by various remedial processes, and spe- 
cifics, the task still remains a difficult one — 
and we must even now agree with wliat the 
learned Bulmer said, a century ago, " All 
bodies may be made leane, but it is impossible 
to fatten where vehement heat or driness is 
by nature ; for one may easily substract from 
Nature, but to add to Nature is difficult, 
when Virtue does not co-operate : all other 
creatures, if they have sufficient and proper 
food, will grow fat and be franked ; whereas 
men, although they have the best aliment ex- 
hibited to them, will not in like manner be 
fat, the chiefe cause whereof, as to man, is 
imputed to his temperament." — Artificial 
Changeling, p, 478, 



MEMS. 



ON 



DIET AND DIETETICS. 




" Miiiti magni n 

St and fear not, you'll need no drop or pill ; 
Hunger may starce — excess is sure to kill." 

Hippocrates does not admit the possibility 
of fasting above seven days, without death ; 
but Pliny, and some other writers, allow of a 
longer time. An inquiry was instituted in 
France, " Sur I'Abstinence longue et totale, 
des Aliments, tant solides que liquides," in 
which the possibility is accounted for from 
natural causes. In the Harleian Miscellany, 
is tlie copy of a paper, humbly offered to the 
Royal Society, by John Reynolds ; containing. 



J 16 



ABSTINESCr;. 



" A Discourse upon the prodigious Ab^ 
nence, occasioned by the twelve months' fast- 
ing of Martha Taylor. Proving that, without 
any miracle, the texture of human bodies may 
be so altered, that life may be continued with- 
out the supplies of meat and drink." 

There are a great variety of curious anec- 
dotes on record, of a similar kind. In Plot's 
" History of Staifordshire," is mentioned John 
Scott, and Mary Vaughton, of Wig^nton, 
who fasted marvellously. And Ames, in his 
" Topographical Antiquities," refers to "A true 
and admirable history of a Mayden of Confo- 
lens, that for the space of three years and 
more, lived without receiving meat or drinke." 

The Annual Register affords several ; in 
Vol. I. is an affecting account of three persons 
buried about five weeks in snow, sixty feet 
deep ; and in the same work, 1762, is another 
of a girl, who subsisted nearly four years on 
water alone. 

Dr. Beddoes tells us, in one of his Essays, 
that in a certain seminary, an elegant delicacy 
of appetite had been so successfully inculcatttlli 
not by actually professed limitation, but' by 



ABSTINENCE. 



117 



the fear of ridicule, that forty girls were fed 
for two days on a single leg of mutton ! This 
was very similar to the fare of Paul, at Master 
Cahra's Boarding School, where the broth 
was so clear, " that a man might have seen to 
the bottom, had it been ten fathom to it." 
" This business of starving," says he, " ia very 
hard to be learned at first ; I was used to feed 
like a farmer, and am now brought to fast like 
an anchorite." 

In France, " this business of starving," as 
Monsieur Paul calls it, is, in some of the reli- 
gious seminaries, carried to a great extent. A 
friend of ours, who paid a visit to La Trappe, 
where, to a rigid abstinence, is added a pro- 
found taciturnity, expressing his astonishment 
at the rigour with which it was enforced, and 
the diiBculty and distaste with which a novi- 
tiate must enter upon the rtgime, was told by 
the chief of the estabUshment — " Why, 'tis a 
little difficult at first — but after a time, there 
is nothing so easy, nothing so pleasant .'" 

There is in Paris, on the spot where the 
Bastile formerly stood, a convent, under the 
patronage of the Duchess d'Angoul^me, 



116 



ABSTINENCE. 



where the system is very rigid. They fast 
three months in the year, and it is maigre all 
the rest Indeed, we are told by Hequet — 
" On voit tres-souvent des Chartreux at- 
taques de maladies tres-dangereuses, ou dans 
le fort des operations de chiruigie les plus 
cruelles, soutenir avec zele I'etat de penitence 
auquel ils se sont devoues; et on a vu plu' 
sieurs fois, a la gloire de la Nature gueris- 
sante, que la plupart de ces saints Keligieux 
ont recouvre la sante, en ne prenant que des 
liouillons d'herbes et de grains." 

The " HiUe Absolue" of a French ho8|Mtal, 
is rigorous enough to starve out the most inve- 
terate of maladies. The celebrated physician, 
Tronchin, used to say — " You gain a great 
point, if you cut off the enemy's provisions." 

A remarkable case, connected with reli- 
gious opinions, occurred not very long since. 
An unhappy man, having given way to a 
gloomy superstitious turn of mind, resolved to 
imitate the austerities of the Ascetics of 
former times. 

He accordingly took no other sustenance 
than water, dtghily Jluvoared with orai^e$. 



ABSTINENCE. 119 

for sixty days ! The quantity used each day 
■ was from half a pint to a pint, and two oranges 
served for a week ! 

The change produced by thus abstiuning 
from food, was a ^arf/ta/ emaciation, which 
became at length so extreme, that his whole 

' appearance suggested the idea of a skeleton, 
iprepared by drying the muscles upon it, with 
the various parts of the human anatomy re- 
maining in their natural situations. 

On the sixty-first day medical assistance 
was called in, and the patient consented to 

:take some food; but as he could not masti- 
cate any thing of either an animal, or vege- 
table nature, panada, broths, &c. were ad- 

' ministered in small quantities, increasing 
them with caution. 

In consequence of this judicious treatment, 
the poor wretch soon evinced signs of con- 
valescence ; but in the course of a week he 
became highly irritated, and died very shortly 
afterwards. 

Dr. Peachell, Master of Magdalen College, 
Oxford (1690), died of abstinence. Arch- 
bishop Sancroft having rebuked him for set- 



J 



ABSTINENCE. 



ting an ill example in the University, by 
intemperance and loose conduct, he did pe- 
nance, by fasting four days, after which he 
would have eaten, but could not. 

A person who was desirous of lessening his 
bulk, was advised to live altogether on vegeta- 
ble food, but tiring of the plan, altered it to 
the following mixture, vis. — six spoonsful of 
grits, in three pints and a half of water, boiled 
down to a little less than three pints of gruel ; 
to this were added, three spoonsful of fine 
flour (first mixed smoothly, to prevent its 
being in lumps), when, after a (ew minutes 
more boiling, the whole was divided into three 
parts, and, with the addition of a little sugar, 
furnished food for four and twenty hours. 
During this experiment, which was for many 
months, the person became quite satisfied 
with the diet, and enjoyed good health and 
spirits. 

Schenkius, Horstius, Fabritius, Po^us, 
and other learned persons, have given detailed 
accounts of the marvellous feats of fastiog- 
|>eople, who have not only lived months, but 
years, without food. " I know," says Pog^u^ 



ABSTINENCE, 121 

" a man who lived for two years together 
without amjjbodr Some of our readers 
may think this pretty well of Poggius, not so 
Poggius himself ; for he gravely states, that, 
in the reign of the Emperor Lotharius, a long 
while back, to be sure (anno 1323), ," a girl 
lived in the same manner for the space of 
twelve years .' " To come nearer to our own 
times, however, Pennant, gives an account of 
a woman in Ross-shire, who lived a year and 
three quarters, without meat or drink* ! 

In hybernating animals, it is not unusual 
to find extraordinary instances of the. dura- 
tion of life without food. Such was the Dover 

• Those who delight in fancies and fairy tales, raaj read 
Moses Pitt's " Account of Ann Jefferies, fed by fairieB," 
1(186; Pliny's "History of Astoiii," people without 
mouths, who live on the smelt of flowers ; or may be 
amused with a book printed in London, 16 II, which 
gives a narrative of Mrs. Eve Fleigan, who lived after 
the manner of the Astoni. 

" This maid of Ttleurs, thirty-and-six years spent, 
Fourteen of which she took no nourishment : 
Thus pale and wan, she sits sad and alone, 
A garden's all she loves to look upon," 



ABSTINENCE. 



pig, buried by a fall of the cliff, on December 1-J 
1810, and dug out on the 3rd of May, 1811, 
thirty feet under the surface of the eaith. He 
weighed eight score at the time of the accident, 
and, on being taken out, was reduced to two. 

Dr. Luke Wayman, who practised in Roy- 
ston, and afterwards in London, relates the 
following remarkable instance of the duration 
of life, without food : — " In the time of the 
hard frost 1739-40, a gentleman, Mr. Robert 
Chatteris, of Eaton, in Huntingdonshire, had 
three fat sheep put into an orchard, wherein 
was a summer-house, whose door could be 
opened and shut by the wind. These sheep were 
one night lost out of the orchard, and were 
tliought to have been stolen ; and, in order to 
their recovery, cried. But it happened, that 
about eleven weeks and some days, after the 
time they were first missing, they were found 
in the summer-house, where they had been 
all the time, without any food ; one dead, and 
two alive, exceedingly poor and feeble ; bO 
that one died soon, but the other lived and 
did well," > 

Now there is nothing in these two histories 



ABSTINENCE. 123 

at all inconsistent with each other, or with 
probability. The first shews, how easily ani- 
mals after domestication, for innumerable 
generations, return to their original economy ; 
and the second, tliat there is no means of in- 
dueing a change in the economy of animals. 

The bear is an hyliernating animal. In its 
natural condition it sleeps through the winter. 
The pig, with naturally similar propensities, 
was accidentally reduced to its native state. 
It was shut out from the air during a severe 
winter, and remained torpid till spring, when 
it began to awake, and feel the effect of 
hunger; the warmth, having by that time, 
penetrated the loose earth, which covered it. 
Sheep, are hybernating in a slighter degree ; 
it is known that they can live some weeks 
under snow. But they never voluntarily ex- 
clude themselves during the winter, nor does 
a very cold climate seem congenial to them. 

To the numerous instances on record, of 
fasting human prodigies, it is impossible to 
give credit ; whenever such do occur, their 
existence appears to be analogous to that of 
hybernating animals. 



124 ABSTINENCE* 

V All are not men, who bear the human form.'* 

We see some bearish — brutish — sheepish ; 
why should not, therefore, their hybemating 
qualities be called into action by accidental 
(Causes, and thus these seeming miracles be 
accounted for ? 



( 125 ) 



IDIOSYNCRASY. 

" Some men there are, love not a gaping pig ; 

Some, Cliat are mad, if they behold a cat." 

So says Shakspeare ; and it appears that 
the enemies of our nature work upon us, 
whether we are aware of it or not. In vain 
we demand a reason of oui-selves for what is, 
or is not to our taste ? 

■ The ancient naturalists, attributed all the 
effects they could not understand, to sympathy, 
and antipathy. John Baptist Porta, expresses 
himself thus : — "It is," says he, "hy sym- 
pathy, an elephant becomes tame at the sight 
of a ram ; it is by antipathy, the vine, shuns 
the cabbage — hemlock, removes from rue — 
and that the juice of rue, prevents the effect 
of the juice of hemlock," and so the story 
runs of the cock and the lion — the wolf and 
the sheep — and the thousand other exempli- 
fications. Sympathy, was one of those useful 



4 



126 



IDIOSYNCHASY. 



terms, that settled a great manj difficulties. 
But it was asked, what is sympathy ? " An 
agreement and conformity of natural qualities, 
humours, or temperaments, which occasion 
two things to love one another," to seek one 
another, to remain at rest together — 
" United by tliia sympathetic bond. 
You grow familiar, intimate, and fond." 

True, but whence this agreement? Whence 
this bond of union ? " Mutual attraction of 
corpuscules I" — An emission of volatile spirits, 
or corpuscules, which, proceeding from one 
person to another, makes a pleasing impres- 
sion on the retina, or optic nerve, and this im- 
pression reaching the brain, affects that organ, 
so as to make the perception or sensation, per- 
fectly agreeable — and this is sympathy. Some 
persons, not symjmthmiig witli these natural 
fancies of naturalists, may consider the ex- 
planation, on a par with Kattafelto's " causes 
of Thunder." There are others, who would 
not be satisfied with a definition from Bal- 
thazar Gracian, or John Hunter. ComeUle 
describes it best to my taste, when he says — 



IDIOSYNCRASY, 127 

" 11 est d»5 aceuds secreta, il est ties sympathies, 
DoQt, par lea doux. rapports des antes assorties, 
S'attaclient I'un ti 1' autre, et se laissent piquer 
Par ce je no s^ai quoi qu'ont ne pent expliquer." 

That curious, sympathetic, wonder-working 
person. Sir Kenelm Digby, has detailed, per- 
haps, more singular fancies, relating to anti- 
pathies, and sympathies, than any other man. 
He narrates the dire effects of flowers, upon 
certain people, even to fainting and dying. 
So obnoxious was a rose to the Lady Heneage, 
that she had her cheek blistered, says Sir 
Kenelm, by laying one on it while she slept. 
It is even stated that Cardinal Caraffa, and a 
noble Venetian ; one of the Barbarage, were 
confined to their palaces during the rose 
season, for fear of their lives ! 

" Johannes e Querceto, a Parisian, and se- 
cretary to Francis I. king of France, was forced 
to stop his nostrils with bread, when there 
were any apples at table ; and so offensive 
was their smell to him, that if an apple had 
been held near his nose, he would fall a bleed- 
ing. Such a peculiar, and innate hatred to 
apples, had the noble family of Fystates in 
. Aquitain." Schenck, Obs. 3fed. 1. vii. p. 890. 



138 



imOSYNCRASr. 



" I saw a noble countess," said Horstius, 
" who (at the table of a count) tasting of some 
udder of beef, had her lips suddenly swelled 
thereby, who, observing that I took notice of it, 
told me that she had no dislike to that kind of 
'dish, but as oft as she did eat of it she was 
troubled in this manner, the cause of which 
she was utterly ignorant of." 

Bruverinus knew a girl, sixteen years of 
age, who, up to that time, had lived entirely 
on milk ; and could not bear the smell of bread, 
the smallest particle of which she would dis- 
cover, by the smell. 

Many cannot sit at table with cheese. 
Martin Schookius has written a treatise, " De 
aversione Casei." 

L'Abbe lost his voice if he smelt hot 

lobsters — but if they were cold, he could eat 
them. 

An antipathy to pork is very common. 
Shenckius tells us of one, who would imme- 
diately swoon as often as a pig was set before 
him, even though it were enclosed in paste — 
he would fall down as one that is dead, nor 
return to himself till the pig was taken from 
table. 



iniOSVNCRASV. 



129 



Marshal Albret fainted away, whenever he 
saw the head of a hoar. Hereupon, Bussi 
forms a sort of ludicrous case of conscience, 
whether a mau who was to fight against 
the Marshal, sliould, in honour, be allowed to 
carry with him in his left hand, the head of a 
boar. " I have seen," says Montaigne, " some 
run away at the smell of apples, as if a musket 
were presented at them ; others frightened 
out of their wits at a mouse, and others not 
able to abide the sight of cream, or the stir- 
ring of a feather bed. 

The mildest medicines create in some, 
as great disturbance, as the most violent. 
Manna, and senna, are dreadfully distress- 
ing to some persons. One grain of calo- 
mel, has been known to cause a salivation 
for weeks, and to produce an instanta- 
neous eruption. Opium, frequently produces 
violent irritation of the skin, and many judi- 
cious physicians never prescribe it to strangers, 
without inquiring whether they have taken 
it before, and with what effect. Fallo- 
pius mentions an abbess of Pisa, to whom 
he often prescribed pills, who never swallowed 
"" G 5 



I 
I 



130 



IDlOSYXCRASr. 



them, but was speedily cured, by merely 
crushing tliem with her fingers. 

Cornelius Agrippa relates a story of one, 
" Qui solo aspectii medecinse movebatur ad 
agendum," Old Daniel Turner, who delighted 
in the marvellous, goes further than this, and 
says he knew a gentleman, " whose Idiosyn- 
cracy was so admirable," that he would be 
distressed even by the sound of a word. 

The odour from ipecacuanha, has produced 
equally violent effects. A servant maid, putting 
her lady's cap into a wardrobe, became in- 
stantly affected with nausea. No notice was 
taken of it, being considered accidental. A 
few days afterwards, going to the same 
wardrobe, she was again seized with nausea, 
and sickness. She then said she was sure 
there must he ipecacuanha there, and so it 
proved; for her lady's husband had bought 
a box of ipecacuanha lozenges, and uncon- 
sciously letl them in the wardrobe. 



( 131 ) 



NURSERY, MEMS. 



Formerly, all the iiiles, and regulations of 
life, particularly nursery regulations, were 
drawn from the " Domestic Medicine." With 
some, " Buchan" was next to the Bible. These 
were facetiously denominated " Suchaneers" 
" Buchan, Sir, has done more towards im- 
proving the health and shape of our girls, than 
any man living," said one old lady ; " he 
popped them all into cold water at Christ- 
mas ! " — " But for Buchan, my poor hus- 
band would have died ten years sooner 
than he did," rejoined a young widow. " Ah ! 
he was a fine man ! " echoed a third. 

Buchan, however, died one day, and with him 
were buried, many of the plans by which some 
people had been braced into health, and others 
braced out of the world. The late Margravine 
of Anspach, was, at an early period of her life, 
so reduced by weakness, that a sister only 
two years older than herself, actually carried 



132 



NUBSERY MEHS. 



her about in her arms; to give her strength, 
cold batliing was ordered, which produced 
an ague, from which she with difficulty re- 
covered. 

"VVe have heard the case described of a poor 
infant, who was preposterously dipped every 
morning into iced water. The dread of the 
little creature, as she was carried towards the 
scene of her suffering, was most tragically 
evinced, by her violent trembHng, and clinging 
to her nurse, for she was not old enough to 
speak ; but when she was held over the bath, 
preparatory to the remorseless plmige, her 
limbs became almost convulsed, and Iier soft 
and baby face, which one might imagine inca- 
■pable of any expression, was momentarily 
visited with a premature cliaracter, in the de- 
formity of its terror ; and the beseeching looks 
cast towards Iier father, who yielding to in- 
judicious advice, used to sanction the opera- 
tion. This child died of hydrocephalus. 

The barbarous practice of hardening chil- 
dren, then went out of fashion. Our ears are 
no longer assailed, with the convulsive screams 
of half-drowned children, whose worthy par 



XURSERY MEMS. 



133 



rents believed they were sacrificing themselves, 
■for the good of their offspring. What stuff, 
have we not heard about " inuring children to 
hardiness !" These excellent people forgot 
to confer the Spartan constitution, before they 
introduced the Spartan discipline ; yet, agaiost 
the experience of common sense, and the con- 
vulsive screams of baby eloquence, they con- 
fidently hoped to turn nature from her course. 
Who would have ventured to oppose the sa- 
crifice of such amiable feelings ? Who could 
have uncourteously hinted, that the sud- 
den chilling of the skin repels capillary action, 
and thereby increases the vascular action of 
internal parts? 

This system, however, was succeeded by 
another equally pernicious. It might be called 
the "Coddling system ;" and children, instead 
of being Ar«c^(/, were s^j^erf to death. The 
disorders of children, were discovered to arise 
from wind. Wind, was the effect of emptiness, 
consequently the more they cried, the more 
they were stuffed: — "Godfrey'sCordial,""Dal- 
bys Carminative," and thick pap, being ad- 
ministered in proportion : the nurse, like a 



I 



134 



NDR8EST MEMS. 



skilful pilot, steering according to the way the 
" wind blew." 

This system, like the other, had its day, till 
good sense, and good nature overcame it. But 
if we have got rid of some of these prejudices, 
are we still, in our enlightened times, exempt 
from error ? Have we not very learned ladies 
now-a-days, whose "Domestic Medicine" is 
equally potent ? Woe be to the child with a 
hot head, if his mother has ever heard of 
" Hydrocephalus acutus." Woe be to '* papa's 
darhng," if mamma understands the adminis* 
tration of calomel ! " Doctor," said a lady to 
Reynolds one day, " I have sent for you be- 
cause we cannot get on with this child; — Ke 
have given five grains of calomel, and repeated 
the dose, but all without success ! " The child 
was in a state which medical men will under- 
stand ; and which extorted from the Doctor 
the emphatic exclamation — " Calomel will 
soon be measured by the spoonful ! " Within 
these few days, a gentleman, whose excellent 
lady is skilled in Domestic Medicine, in answer 
to the question, " How d'ye do?" replied^ 
" I am very well, only a little over calomel* 



NURSERY MEMS. 



135 



ized ! " — " Over calomelized ! By whom ? " — 
" By an amateur practitioner ! " Strange ! 
that one who would not dream of understand- 
ing the machinery of a watch, should think 
the complicated machinery of the human 
frame, more easily comprehended ! 

Mr, Brande, in some very sensible remarks 
on this subject, uses a very appropriate ej)!- 
thet. He calls it domestic empiricism ! " At 
a time," says he, " when domestic empiricism 
is so prevalent, as at present, it is important 
to point out the dangers which may arise 
from the uses, or rather abuses, of the most 
simple remedies." 

" Every medical practitioner must have 
repeatedly witnessed the seriousj and some- 
times fatal consequences, attendant upon the 
imprudent use of the stronger medicines, 
which are so extensively supplied for family 
consumption, particularly preparations of an- 
timony, mercury, and opium ; which, under a 
great variety of seducing forms and titles, are 
constantly employed ; they are not, however, 
aware of the prejudicial effects of magne- 
sia." He then proceeds to state the case of 



136 NURSERY MEMS. 

a lady, who, in the course of two years and a 
lialf, took from nine to ten pounds weight of 
magnesia ; and notices another, in which from 
four, to six pounds of insoluble magnesia, were 
found in the colon of a deceased ]\obleman. 

The great science that watches Qver health, 
is as complicated, as it is important. It re- 
quires attainments of the highest order — 
knowledge of every kind — and after the ex- 
perience of ages, still remains, to the most 
learned and most skilful, '* a conjectural art." 
•While private quackery, like public quackery, 
being founded in ignorance, and having no- 
thing to conjecture — has nothing to fear. 



( 137 ) 



DIETETIC. 

" Despise no new accident of your body, but ask 
advice of it." — Bacon. 

" He that would eat much, must eat little," 
says the proverb ; or, " temperance lengthens 
existence." 

Cornaro had a merry saying, that would 
not be credited in the city, vh. — " that of all 
parts of a feast, that which one leaves^ does 
one most good ! " 

Those are the most healthy, who have nar 
ture for their cook, — necessity for their 
caterer ; who have no other doctor, than the 
sun, and fresh air, and no other physic, than 
temperance, and exercise. 

Temperance, according to Sir William 
Temple, consists in a regular and simple diet, 
limited by eveiy man's experience, of his own 
easy digestion. It is moderation. We may 
be intemperately abstemious, as well as intem- 
perately luxurious. 



Leontinus, who was a stout man at 108 
years of age, and a proverb for strength and 
vigour, said, his rule was, never to do any 
thing merely for pleasure. 

" To assert, that such or such a thing is un- 
wholesome, without a knowledge of the person 
for whom it is intended, is like a sailor saying, 
that the wind is fair, without knowing the 
port to which the vessel is bound." — VaN 
SwiETEN. 



1 fool or a physii 






By this time, if ever, he must know what is 
best for him, have studied his gratifications, 
and their effects, both morally and physically 
speaking. He finds, perhaps, that drinking at 
dinner assists his digestion ; while another, on 
similar grounds, will maintain a contrary prac- 
tice : which latter is indeed the present prevail- 
ing fashion. Our French neighbours, deem this 
nonsense ; however this be, I know several 
persons, who, defying all rules and decorum, 
invariably call for beer after soup I 




DIETETIC. 139 

On the same iilan, a Frenchman will eat 
two dozen oysters during dinner, to im- 
prove his appetite; and an Englishman the 
same number, to get rid of it ; while an 
Italian, after devouring a platterful of mac- 
caroni, and stujitlo of beef, sighingly exclaims, 
that he feels " una dolcissimo languore dello 
stomac/io." 

" Hunger aliarpena wit," 

Those faculties which, before dinner, are 
capable of engaging in the most acute, and 
sublime disquisitions, are found, by general 
experience, to be comparatively dull, and 
stupid after it. " I know not bow it is," said 
a celebrated writer, " but all tlie philosophy, in 
which I was so warmly engaged in the morn- 
ing, appears like nonsense as soon as I have 
dined." 

" Some people grow angry as tliey get hungry," 

Wealthy people, though exempt from la- 
bour, are subject to whims and absurdities, 
that expose them to diseases, from which the 



I 

i 



140 DIETF.TIC. 

meagre carcass of poverty is exempt. Hygeia, 
disdains to become the slave of Plutus. 
■ Owen, the poet, has the following epigram 
respecting Diet ; — 

" Si larde ciipla esae Scncx, utaria oportet 
Vel medico medice, vel medico modicfe 
til/ Suinpta cibus tanqunm \aidit medicina salutem f,] 
At sumptus prodiist ut medicina cibua." 

The first hook ever printed on this subject, 
to my knowledge, is " The Regimen of Life," 
1 544, translated from the French, by Phayer. 
Next to this, is a Treatise, by Nonnius, en- 
titled " Dieteticon, sive de re Cibaria," rw/- 
ffo. Peptic Precepts. Then the " Good Hus- 
wives' Jewell," 1596, Cam mullis aliis. 

In the next century, we have Sir Theodore 
Mayorne, writing "Experiments in Cookery, 
with the best way of Preserving," 1658. Sir 
Edmund King published, " De re Cnlinaria ;" 
and Dr. Lister " De Opsoniis et Condimentis,'' 
being an olio of the soups and sauces, of the 
ancients, 1703. 

The Egyptians, a wise people, especially 
in medical concerns, thought so much de- 
pended on diet, that they dieted their kii^ 



I 



DIETETIC. 141 

aifid prescribed by law, both the quality, and the 
quantity of their food. It is to be lamented, 
that these " Bills of Fare*" have not been 
preserved to this time ; and, though God for- 
bid ■ that we should ever live to see the Legis- 
lature dictating to Sir Henry Halford ; yet, if 
the Egyptian regulations for different ranks 
of society, had been handed down to us, we 
might have had Parliament interfering with 
the luxury of modern tables, and the Cabinet 
Ministers, by way of example, dining like 
their great grandfathers, on a pudding and 
a joint. 

Some people have imagined, as has been 
shewn before, not without considerable pro- 
bability, that animal food communicates its 
qualities, with its nourishment. In this sup- 
position, Achilles, who was not only born, 
but bred a hero, was nourished with the 
maiTow of lions. It was on this principle, that 



* An hoiK^st Londoner, at Paris, being presented, at 
a Restaurateur's, with a bill of fare, containing one hun- 
dred and ninety diskei, returned it to the waiter, saying 
he had made a mistake, and brought him a bill of 
lading. 



142 DIETETIC. 

Prince Maurice of Nassau, always employed 
the English troops, as joom as they joined him, 
whilst, to use his own expression, " they had 
a piece of beef in their stomachs." 

An old-fashioned correspondent, expresses 
great apprehensions that the present mode 
of living, will degenerate our countrymen, and 
that the next generation, will be the pale-faced 
puny sons, of compound Entremets, instead 
of the lusty offspring, of beef and pudding. 

With respect to vegetable diet, as in ■ i 
days of Hudihras, there are 

" Some for abolisliing black-pudding, 
And eating nothing with the blood-in," — 

a very useful class of society, in the present time 
of " high prices*," and with whom we should 



• An old friend of mine, who remembers the scbool 
regulation, that " those who ate most pudding, should 
have most meat," writes very gravely, that one gretf 
cause of the excessive price of the necessariea of tift^ 
and particularly butchers' meat, is, that pudding tloel 
not come Jirst upon table, as it used to do in our fore* 
fathers' time. Upon the average, he asserts, dist tt 
least one- third of the butchers' meat made useof witlni 
the Bills of Mortality might be saved ; and the peap^ 




DIETETIC. 



149 



not quarrel, if they confined their herbiverous 
notions to themselves ; but when, like the 
domestic empirics before noticed, they carry 
their speculations into the nursery, we feel 
very much inclined to urge the claims of our 
young friends ; and, as far as our feeble effort 
can, protect them from the physic of one party, 
and the food of the other. How ought we to 
bless ourselves, we were not born of mer- 
curial parents, or a root-eating race. Hear 
what a philosopher of this latter school says, 
" our children are perfect Pythagoreans. A 
beef-steak is an absurdity to them ; a mutton- 
chop, a solecism in terms; a cutlet, a word 
absolutely without a meaning ; a butcher is 
nonsense, except as a hero !" And all this is 
called " a Return to Nature." — " Naturam 
expellas furca ; tamen usque recurret." By 



would be as well fed, if not better. The quantity of 
aaimBl fooil tvhicfa is thrown into the stomach, without 

Bufiident nnstication, is the great cause of moiit of the 
diseases with wliich the inhabitants of London are 
afflicted. Wliereas, if the daily food were simple, such 
as milk, puddings, vegetables. Sec. with but little of 
the former, the people would be healthy. 



DIETETIC. 



" Abstain from flesh!" Bichardus cries, 
" Twill make you candid, jusl, and wise ;" 
" Just, candid, wise ! — Pythagorean, 
Feed thou on pulse — roasl-beef (eed we on !" 



^M 144 

^H way of experiment, I would place a beef-steak 

^H before the youngsters :-~at any rate, we 

^H agi'ce with the epigrammatic sentiments of tiie 

^H critic : — 

^H If it were possible, to point out precisely 

^f what articles of food are innocent, and what 

decidedly hurtful, we might expect the sen- 

I sible part of the community would voluntarily 

forego, the /«(/CT;/(ff, and by controlling their 

inclinations, preserve their health. 

The first person we read of, as havii^ 
studied and taught, what was noxious, and 
what was really nourishing to man, was Isi^ 
wife of Osiris, King of Egypt, a countl]' 
where the most palateahle food, was fbund 
to be most hurtful, and, for the benefit derived 
from, her instructions and advice, to aT<^ 
the pleasif)g-knr(ful, she was called «>•£«, 




DIETETIC. 145 

Few writers on this subject, are able to 
s])eak from such experimental practice, in 
their own persons, as Sanctorius, and Stark ; 
and although the latter sacrificed his life 
in the inquiry, yet idiosyncrasy, and various 
powers of digestion, make it difficnit to arrive 
at any certain conclusion — a difficulty, which 
is increased, by the contradictory evidence, 
furnished by the general testimony of man- 
kind. Let us exemplify this, by some of the 
ordinary articles of daily use ; and, first, of 



" I'oEt pisces nux sit, post carnes caseua esto." 
Nonnius wrote a book " De Usu Piscium," 
called Icthyophagia, in which fish is shewn 
to be the most salutary, and proper aliment, 
for all descriptions of persons, sick or well, fat 
or lean, old or young. This, seems to have 
agreed with the general opinion of the ancient 
physicians, many of whom have written, " De 
Salubri Fiscium AUmento." 

From the universality of these doctrines, 



uS 



there was a period, when fish was a greater 
object ofmonopoly, than in these days; and it is 
related of Queen Aterbates, that, fearing there 
should not be enougli to regale their sovereign, 
she interdicted her subjects from the nse of 
fish diet. Luckily, however, for our king- 
dom, Philip II. of Spain, adopted a different 
opinion ; and, entertaining the philosophical 
notion, that fish were nothing but element 
congealed, or a jelly of water, he persuaded 
his consort. Queen Mary, to let the Fish- 
mongers' Company, and the salesmen at Bil- 
lingsgate, follow their old avocations. 



" A Frcncliman t 



Englishman to get rid of it." 



I appetiK 



I 



Everj' one knows that oysters are a favourite 
dish in France ; and that a native of tbat 
country, often begins his dinner, by swallow-* 
ing half a hundred of them in a raw state. 
A treatise has just appeared in Paris, under 



DIETETIC. 147 

the singular title of the " Manual of the 
Amateur of Oysters ; " in which oysters, 
are considered in every point of view, literary, 
medicinal, and gastronomic. They are sub- 
divided into Jbriy-six kinds; and we ase 
quite flattered to find, that the one, which is 
deemed most delicate, goes by the name of 
" the English Oyster." 

Apicius, in Trajan's time, knew how to 
preserve oysters ; but Peto, of Sherborne-lane, 
was the first to discover the possibility of 
their transportation in barrels; in which, under 
the name of " Oystericus," he conveyed the 
" Natives " to all parts of the kingdom. 



" Thus aaith the Prophet of the Turk : 
Good Musaulmen, abstain from pork." 

Some fashionable Doctors, differ with Ma- 
homet, on this subject. Bacon, and Boyle, 
used formerly to l>e the theme of admbation ; 
but all the conversation, now is, about hacon 



148 



DIETETIC. 



and hile, which have been discovered to have 
such attractions to each other, that the 
" bilous," at Bath and Cheltenham, are eating 
_fat bacon for breakfast. At another watering 
place, not far distant, similar properties have 
been found in mutton chops ! It is probably 
on this account, that it has been proposed to 
give a new nomenclature for fat substances. 
" Maisil faut que cette verite soit bien simple, 
pour avoii' echappe a tous les philosophes ! " 

The general opinion is, that pork is difficult 
of digestion. Fuseli, the painter, used to 
summon the night-mare to his aid by supping 
on pork-chops. In former times, however, 
sucking-pig, was considered in the nursery to 
be as efficacious as " dill-water." And a mo- 
dem lexicographer, not being able to reconcile 
such discrepancies, in the article "Pig's 
Petty-Toes," settles the difficulty, by deno- 
minating it, "a dish, of which the author of 
this dictionary, is extremely fond." 



DIETETIC. 



" Cheese is a peevish elf-; 

It digests all things but itself." 

" I presume you never eat cheese ?" said a 
delicate lady to a stout gentleman. "Unless 
you wish to die a martyr to rheumatism, let 
me advise you never to eat cheese." The 
lady might as easily have persuaded an Irish- 
man, to think potatoes poison, as to have per- 
suaded a gentleman of Camhrian descent, that 
cheese was either indigestible, or unwhole- 
some ; whose motto is — 

" My cheesej my digestion." 

The French, who are lively philosophers, 
and constantly making discoveries, have found 
out that rats, occasionally require the operation 
of lithotomy. Monsieur Morand, M, D., 
enters into very prolix details, to prove that 
this arises from their eating too much cheese. 
We remember to have read of an English 
Doctor (Stark), who died of a similar excess. 




J 



150 



Since tlie days of Sanctorius, no man has 
carried Dietetical, and Statical, experiments, 
to such an extent. He fell indeed a sacrifice 
to them. The account of his life and writings, 
by Dr. Carmichael Smyth (1788), are well 
worth the inquirer's attention. 



' Sal sapit omnia," 



.d 



Is the creed of the Salters' Company- 
It has been considered not only necessary for 
man, but essential to birds and beasts : hence, 
we find nature, bountifully supplying it, 
throughout the habitable world. The uni- 
versality of its application, renders it an ob- 
ject of taxation in all countries ; and in Hol- 
land, making a culprit eat his bread without 
salt, was considered the severest punishment 
that could be inflicted ; as he would inevi- 
tably, be destroyed by worms, before the time 
of his interment. 

Swift, though he condescended to eat it, 
thought it useless, and only introduced by 



DIETETIC. 151 

luxury, as a provocative for drinking. Other 
learned pei-sons have imagined, that it gave 
zest to the intellect ; from the notion that 
there were some very stupid nations, by whom 
it was not used. Horace seems to have enter- 
tained this opinion, for, wishing to describe 
the ignorance of certain people, he remarks, 

" Illi noo Eequora norunt, 

Nee sale conditis noverunt camibus uti.* 

Plato and others have called it " Corpus 
divinum" — " Deo amicissimum." It has cer- 
tainly many excellent medical properties ; — 
our grandmothers used It as a dentifrice ; 
little boys, to catch sparrows ; and farmers 
still make use of itj to fatten pigs, and improve 
the soil. 



" Tliat which preserves apples and p]uma, 
Will also preserve life and lungs," 

Such, however, was not the opinion of the 
illustrious Willis, who maintained, that the 
scorbutic complaints of the English, and half 



isi 



DIETETIC, 



their other maladies, were caused by its ui 
Sugar has generally been supposed nutritious ; 
and West Indians tell us, that negroes fatten 
on sugar-cane. Majendie tliinks otherwise; at 
any rate, dogs will not exist upon it, as proved 
by many, we must hope, not useless ex- 
periments, of starvation, novo modo. 

All animals eat sugar, except cats, who 
have the greatest antipathy to it. Grimalkin 
will, however, strange to say, take sugared 
milk with avidity. 



OBSOLETE PASTRY. 



The ancient Sicilian cheese-cake, what- 
ever were its ingredients, concerning which 
commentators are not agreed, seems to have 
been considered the greatest possible dainty, 
and usually concluded a feast. This cir- 
camstance, gave rise to a royal witticism. 
King Philip of Macedon, going to sup with 
one of his courtiers, was accompanied by 90 
many attendants, that his host had not apro> 
portionable entertainment for them. The 



I 



DIETETIC. 



king immediately undertook to remedy this in- 
convenience, by advising each man, in a whis- 
per, to " keep a place for the cheese-cake." 
Of this, the guests indeed, were disappointed ; 
but the supper was found amply sufficient. 

The time has been, when certain puddings 
and pies, excited great heats and animosities, 
in December, amongst those who, at all other 
periods of the year, would eat them with 
great satisfaction. We are not old enough, 
to remember, the puritanical horrors of Christ- 
mas pies, and plum-porridge, nor the wonder- 
working, curative properties, of the miller's 
pudding, mentioned in the " Transactions of 
the Royal College of Physicians," the receipt of 
which, was thus recorded, by Sir George 
Baker, when the county of Essex resounded 
with the exploits of the " Miller of Bil- 
lericay." 

" The pudding, which was his sole support 
during two years, was made as follows : — 
Three pints of skimmed milk, boiling, were 
poured on one pound of the best sea-biscuit, 
broken into pieces. This was done over 
night ; and these ingredients were left to 
H 5 



154 



stand together, until the following morning, 
when two eggs were added. This compound, 
being boiled in a cloth alioiit the space of an 
hour, became a pudding of sufBcient con- 
sistence to be cut with a knife. Of this, 
his quantity used to be one pound and a 
half, at four or five o'clock in the morning, as 
his breakfast, and the same at noon, as his 
dinner; after which he abstained from food 
until the next day. But having grown fatter 
under the use of this diet, he judged it ne- 
cessary to quit it, as being too nutritious ; 
and, during three months, he lived on the fol- 
lowing composition ; vix. one pound of coarse 
flour, and one pint of water, boiled together. 
This he was at first much pleased with ; but 
afterwards found it disagreeable to bis sto- 
mach, and not easily digestible. The pudding 
which he now uses, is composed of one pound 
of flour, of which the best kind of sea-biscuit 
is made, boiled with n pint and a half of skim- 
med milk, without any other addition." 



DIETETIC. 



The most frugal system of house-keeping, 
on record, was that of Roger Crabb, the Buck- 
inghamshue hermit, in theseventeenth century, 
who allowed Iiimself three farthings a week ! 

Dr. Franklin, lived on bread and water for 
a fortnight, at the rate often pounds of bread 
per week, and was stout and healthy. 

A gentleman who had been a prisoner, and 
obliged to live on a small quantity of barley, 
became so accustomed to eat very little, and 
often, that he never sat down to stated 
meals, but carried biscuit, and gingerbread 
nuts in his pocket, of which he ate from time 
to time. 

Prynne, " Voluminous Prynne," as he was 
called, seldom took any regular dinner, but 
would every three hours or more, be found 
maunching a roll of bread, and refreshing his 
exhausted spirits with ale, brought to him by 
liis servant. 

Mr. , aged sixty, has, for upwards of 

ten years, made only one meal a day. 

Sir John Pringle knew a lady, ninety years 
of age, who lived on the pure fat of meat. 




1-56 DIETETIC. 

Mossop, the actor, is said to have adopted 
various food, according to the line of cha- 
racter he was to represent. Broth for one ; 
roast pork for tyrants ; steaks for " Measure 
for Measure;" boiled mutton for lovers ; pud- 
ding for Tancred, &{c. 

Dr. Gower, of Chelmsford, had a patient, 
who lived for ten years on a pint of tea, daily, 
now and then chewing half-a-dozen raisins and 
almonds, but not swallowing them. Once a 
month, she eat a morsel of bread the size of a 
nutmeg ; but frequently abstaining from food 
for many weeks together. 

Dined with Dr. C , this day (Nov. 6th, 

1802) ; he mentioned a case of a gentleman 
who had never tasted fish, flesh, or fowl, but 
whose diet had constantly been bread and 
milk. He was once, in travelling, being very 
hungry, tempted to taste a small piece of 
chicken; but it had such an effect on him, as 
to occasion fainting almost instantaneously. 

JSlrs, F.. of Therfield in Hertfordshire, now 
a stout healthy woman, never tasted animal 
food till she was twenty years of age. 
- Brassavohis reports of the younger daughter 
of Frederick, king of Naples, " tliat she could 




DIETETIC. 137 

not eat any kind of flesh, nor so much as taste 
of it ; and, as oft as she put any bit of it into 
her mouth, she was seized with a vehement 
syncope, and falling to the earth, and rolling 
heiself thereupon, would lamentably shriek 
out. This she would continuue to do for the 
space of half an hour after she was returned 
to herself." — Turner's History of Remark- 
able Providences, 1697, folio, part 3, c. 2. ^ 6. 

The late Duke of Portland broke a blood- 
vessel in his lungs, when twenty-seven years 
of age. He was attended Iiy Dr. Warren, 
forty ounces of blood were taken from him in 
a few hours. He lived on bread and water 
for six weeks ; at the end of which time, he 
was allowed one boiled smelt. 

From this time he lived n'ith the most rigid 
temperance, and never drank wine, or malt 
liquor. He took a drachm of powdered bark 
every morning in a glass of water, which, 
with a moderate breakfast, was all he was in 
the habit of taking, till a late dinner in the 
evening. In the early part of his life, he was 
confined to his room, three months at a time, 
with the gout. In his latter days, though occa- 
sionally affected by it, was never violently so. 



His father was gouty, his mother not ; but 
his grandmother died of this disorder, a 
little above forty years of age. 

The monks of MonLe Santo (Mount Athos) 
never taste animal food ; they live on vege- 
tables, olives, and cheese. In 1806, one of 
their fraternity was in good health, at the 
great age of one hundred and twenty years. 

Dr. Hecquet, who died at Paris, 1773, had 
not eaten any meat, or drank wine, for thirty 
years. He was the Sangrado, of Cervani 



It. ; Henry Welby died 1G3G. 

Flesh be abhorred] and wine ; he drank Bmall'bei 
Cow'h milk, and water-gruel were his clicer, 

OFPtKY. 

Offley, three dishes had of daily roast, 
An egg, an apple, and (the third) a toaa 



Hasselquist, in his travels in the Levant, 
relates the following singular fact : " Abo\'e 
a thousand Abyssinians, who were destitute 
of provisions on a journey to Cairo, lived for 
two months on gum arabic; and arrived at 
Cairo, without any unusual sickness, or 
mortality." 





DIGESTION. 

An old EiFendi, whose back was bent like 
a bow, was in the daily habit of taking four 
ounces of rice — thirty cups of coffee — three 
drachms of opium — and besides, smoking 
sixty pipes of tobacco. 

A foreign physician has declared, that he 
should have died an hundred times of indiges- 
tion, if he had not accustomed himself, to take 
several cups of strong coffee after dinner. 
This is quite enough to increase its consump- 
tion immediately. 

In Queen Elizabeth's time, the breakfast 
for "my lorde and my lady," consisted of" half 
a chine of mutton, or ells a chyne of beef 
boiled ; " and the children had " a chikynge, 
or ells three mutton bonys boiled, with certain 
quarts of beer and wine." 



DIGESTION. 



Francis Bathalia, the stone eater, ii ' 
said, converted his flinty food into sand iu 
seven days. 



160 



DIGESTION. 



Mr. cannot digest an appli 

diatelj causes pain in the stomach, like 
a stone, or any other hard body. He can, 
however, eat any quantity of toasted 
cheese. 

Mr. cannot masticate rice — this sim- 
plest of all food he never eats — and the reason 
he assigns for it is, that a relation of his 
could not, or would not eat potatoes ; he 
had quarrelled with Potato-Pome in Jamaica. 

Some have great power in digesting salted 
meats ; — ham, bacon, salted fish, are taken for 
breakfast in considerable quantity, without 
any inconvenience; these persons are ni 
thirsty. 

Sir .Tames Earle, and Dr. Robert Hallifas, 
attended a child, six years old, on whom 
scarlet strawberries constantly produced irri- 
tation in the kidneys. 

Opium and senna, produce instantanei 
effects upon the skin ; oil of almonds does 
same, and makes the face swell, as in erysi- 
pelas. Mr. H , of D., cannot cat almonds 

without a scarlet rash immediately appearing 
in his face. 



hout 

"fas, 
loin 
rri^^^^ 

the I 




DIGESTION. 161 

The small black currant, from Zante, is 
rarely or ever digested by children, though 
it is a frequent ingredient in their food. 

Mrs. B. cannot take milk without being 
instantly affected by it. Disguised in any 
manner, it never fails to manifest its effects. 

New honey is obnoxious to many, and not 
unfrequently produces violent cholera. 

Donatus knew a young gentleman, who 
could not eat an egg without its causing his 
lips to swell, and bringing purple spots out 
on his face. 

The Prior of , who laboured under a 
periodical complaint of the stomach, found 
relief in eating nuts; and consumed, with im- 
punity, many bushels in the course of the 
year- 
There are men, who are possessed of such 
powers of digestion, as never to feel them- 
selves incommoded by quantity, or the most 
heterogeneous qualities of their food. These 
prodigies of nature, needing no restraint, are 
dangerous companions. 



I 
I 



{ 16a ) 



HEALTH. 

There are many who think, if they keep a 
doctor io pay*, they may do as they please — 
he is responsible for their health, let them 
eat or drink as they may. So the heathens 
offered sacrifices for health, and at the same 
time, fed so intempcrately on the resist 



• An old epigram says — 

" Health is a jewel true; whicli, when we buy^ 
Pliysicians value it accordingly : " 
which, probably, suggested the following advertii 



I 



" Wanted for a family, who have bad health, a sober, 
steady person, in the capacity of Doctor, Surgeon, 
Apothecary, and Man-roidwife. He must occasionally 
act as butler, and dress hair and wigs. He will be 
required sometimes to read prayers, and to preacli a 
sermon every Sunday. The reason of this advertise- 
ment is, that the family cannot any longer afford the 
expenees of the physical tribe, and wish to be at a 
certain expence for their bodies and souls. A good 
salary will be given." 



3 



HEALTH. 163 

as to bring upon themselves sickTiess. This is 
as futile, as saying grace over a debauch, or 
expecting health from a feast; which, Persiua 
says, though Jupiter himself were ever so 
inclined to grant, Luxury would not 
suffer. 

Hence it is, that such as live in opulence, 
and ease, have not the athletic soundness, and 
vigour, of those in humbler life; for, besides 
the luxurious living, the indolence of the 
higher orders is to be taken into account. 
Dr. South, in one of his sermons, touches 
this point, after his usual manner, in which 
sense and quaintness, ai-e strangely combined. 
" Nor, is excess," says he, " the only thing 
by which sin mauls, and breaks men in their 
health, and the comfortable enjoyment of 
themselves thereby ; but many are brought 
to a very ill and languishing habit of body, 
by mere idleness ; and idleness is both itself 
a great sin, and the cause of many more. 
The husbandman returns from the field, and 
from manuring his ground, strong and healthy, 
because innocent and laborious. You will 
find no diet-drinks, no boxes of pills, nor 



164 IirALTH. 

gally-pots amongst his provisions : no, h*l 
neither speaks, nor lives French; he is not 
JO muck a gentleman (forsooth). His meals 
are coarse and short, his employments war- 
rantable, his sleep certain, and refreshing; 
neither intermpted with the lashes of a guilty 
mind, nor the aches of a crazy body; and 
when old age comes npon him, it comes 
alone, bringing no evil with it but itself: but 
when it comes to wait upon a great and wor- 
shipful sinner, (who for many years together 
has had the reputation of eating well, and 
doing ill), it comes {as it ought to do to a 
person of such quality) attended with a long 
train and retinue, of rheums, coughs, catarrhs, 
and dropsies, together with many painful 
girds and convulsions, which are at least 
called the Gout. How does such an one go 
about, or is carried rather, with his body 
bending inward, his head shaking, and his 
eyes always watering (instead of weeping) for 
the sins of his ill-spent youth? Old age 
seizes upon such a person, like fire upon a 
rotten house ; it was rotten before, and must 
have fallen of itself; so that it is no more 





165 



than one ruin preventing another." — SOUTH, 
Vol. ii. 

These people may be said to shake the 
glass, to make the sand run quicker ; and 
-^sculapius deemed it not incumbent on 
physicians, to attend such, who, on their 
recovery, would only return to their former 
excesses. This might be very proper for a 
heathen god, to tell a heathen people, but 
would not suit the ^sculapii of modern 
times. 

Great allowance must be made, for the dif- 
ficulty of changing long, and deeply-rooted 
habits ; and, while we would recommend 
such a change to the debauchee, we should 
do well to imitate the indulgent parent, who, 
ever anxious to promote the true interests of 
his children, permits his strict discipline to 
relax occasionally into the enjoyment of 
innocent pleasure. We should inculcate at 
the same time, the observance of that difficult 
virtue, self-denial, well worthy the attention 
of those, who would lighten the shadows of 
old age, by retaining a stock of health, and 
good temper to tiie last. 



It lias been said, that " the man wJio hath 
never been sick, doth not know the value of 
health." He would ask, what it means? 
Suppose we refer him to Pythagoras. He 
calls it Harmony ! A pithy and short deS- 
ilition. 

Plato, understands it to be a Symmetry of 
constitution, that sv^t^asta, or good tempe- 
rature, and fitting conformation, of all parts 
to their several uses. 

Paracelsus, thought that health, depended 
on the due proportion of salt, sidphur, and 
mercury, of which " three first substances," 
as he calls them, the human body is composed. 

Other philoaojihers, and physicians, ran 
mightily upon a balance of humours, and 
temperaments; a sort of geometry in our 
composition, which might be overturned, by 
a little more or less, thrown into the scale, 
which regulated particular parts. 

Hippocrates, who is admitted by the Col- 
lege of Physicians, as great authority, sup- 
posed a healthy state of body, to consist of 
tbe humours, spirits, and solids, in their 
natural state, balancing one another, 




'1 



167 



quality, quantify, and due mixture. This 
lucid interpretation of health, satisfied the 
world for a long time, till ^ViUiam Hervey, 
by discovering the circulation, disconcerted 
many of the comfortable theories, which had 
served the learned for centuries. 

As our acquaintance with animal economy 
extended, our ideas concerning health, became 
proportion ably accurate ; and we find the 
learned Mead, by making a practical appli- 
cation of this discovery, discomfiting the 
Hippocratic phalanx, of solids, and fluids ; 
quantity, and quality. He affirms " that life 
itself, so far as respects the body, is, in one 
■word, ihe circulation of the bloody that its 
regularity, is the standard of health, as its irre- 
gularity, the occasion of disease — and death." 

To come nearer to our own times, Quincy 
thought it, the faculty of performing, all 
actions proper to human body, in the most 
perfect manner. 

Dr. Lettsoni, who wrote largely on this 
subject, proposed a thermometer for tem- 
perance, and intemperance. So Health, may 
be thrown into a scale of degrees, and com- 
pose a sort of hygieometer, as thus : — 




ATHLETIC; 

Moderate Heaith ; 

Declining ; 

Nearer Health than Sickness ; 

Nearer Sickness tban HtALTB ; 

SICKNESS ; 

^^endiag or Convalescence ; 

Nearer Sickness than Health ; 

a than Sickness ; 

Moderate Hi;/ 

ATHLETIC. 

Leaving these disquisitions, however, to be 
settled by the Doctors, we may venture 
to say, that the four ordinaiy secrets, of 
health, are — early rising — exercise — personal 
cleanUoess — and leaving the table unop- 
pressed. 

When a family rises early in the morning, 
conclude the house to be well governed, and 
the inmates healthy. 

With respect to exercise, there is a simple, 
and benevolent law of nature — " £]am, and 
you may enjoy," Secure good digestion, by 
exercise. 

" To ride on horseback be your cue, 
And let not every tjuack ride you," 




HEALTH. 



169 



As much, perhaps, may be said concern- 
ing ablution, as exercise. Dispel the ill 
liiiinours at the pores. Cleanliness is a 
virtue, though not the first in rank, the first, 
at least, in necessity, A dirty old hypo- 
chondriacal woman, attempted to drown 
herself; she was taken out of the water, 
underwent an active rubbing, and was not 
only restored to life, but to health ; from 
which it was inferred, that the most melan- 
choly part of her disease, was owing to her 
want of cleanliness. 

I know it is very dilEcult to command 
attention, by preaching on gloomy subjects, 
or the iron restraints of necessity. Old 
Jeremy Taylor says — " It would have been 
of no use to talk to Apicius, of the secrets of 
the other world, and of immoitality ; that 
saints and angels eat not ! The fat glutton 
would have stared a while, and fallen asleep. 
But if you had discoursed well and knowingly 
of a lamprey, a large mullet, or a boar, 
animal propter conviviu natum, and had 
sent him a cook from Asia to make new 
sauces, he would have attended carefully, 
and taken in your discourses greedily." 



170 



CONCLUSION. 



On the subject of temperance, that sturdy 
moralist, Johnson, speaking of a work that 
recommended it, said, *' such a book should 
come out every thirty years, dressed in the 
mode of the times." 



' Abstine 



a difficult o 



t that J 



In conclusion, should it be thought that 
the subject has not been treated throughout 
with sufficient gravity, I would beg to remind 
the reader, that some of the most serious of 
our profession, made their lectures, both 
" plesaunte and pytyfulle :" and that these 
commentaries, are not offered as an " ex- 
quisite censure" concerning this matter ; 
but to induce its being taken in hand, and 
" laboured by those, who have learning 
and leisure, to handle the argument more 
pythelie." 




Messrs. EBERS & Co. 

HAVE JUST PUBLISHGD THE FOLLOWING WORKS. 

THE FRENCH COOK. 

A SYSTEM of FASHIONABLE and ECONOMICAL 

COOKERY, for the USE of ENGLISH FAMILIES. 

B)r LOUIS EUSTACHK UDE. 

Ci-devanI Cook to LOUIS XVI. and the Eari of Sefton, lale Sleward 
loHi! 

d'HOtel at Crockford 

Tenth Edillon, enlarged. Price 12a. 



U. Ude'i buak 
If Mj, Ibal ir>lb 



Vonthljt Uagatftw, 



Lunli EaiKcbc L 



" InfiolUlj (ha ted in 



^ 









JUST PUBLISHED, dv Mehrs. EBERS & Co. 
THE ITALIAN CONFECTIONER ; 



Or, COMPLETE ECONOMY of DESSERTS, 
the ELEMENTS of (he ART, according la 
approved prnclice. 

Bj' G. A. JARRIN, Conrectioner, New Boni! Street. 

The Third F.ditioD, correclcd and enlarged. 

CHRISTMAS BOX for 1829; 

An Annual Present for Young Persons. Edited by T. 
CROFTON CROKER, Esq. EnibelliBlicd wilb upwards of liigbly 
Wood Engravings, excrnlrd under Ihe aupcrintendenceof Mr. Hkoosej 

Writer! of ttie dB]r,snd amongst others, Miss Edge worth, Mrs. Htinans, 
Uias Milford, Mlsi Jewibury, Mrs. Ho6and, Mrs. Markham, &c. 
as. elegantly done up, with gilt edge*. 

Mi: EBERSS SEVEN YEARS OF THE KING'S THEATHE. 
With Porlraili of eminent Female Performers. 8vo. Price lb. 



1 

intaming " 
>dcm and 

4 




w 



I 



mm^^tmm 



■V-tift ■ 



■".■ 



wm 






