Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



THE BUSINESS 
HISTORICAL 
SOCIETY iNC 



¥ 




''^!^^^W 




DEPOSITED 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



■'. J 



^ THE 



WINE-DRINKER'S 



MANUAL. 



" IN VINO VERITAS." 



LONDON : 

MARSH AND MILLER^ 137, OXFORD 3TREET, 
AND CONSTABLE AND CO. EDINBURGH. 

1830. 



HAirvrsD roitroc ,„,,^ 

eWBJE C. D£r,!r3£y 



PRINTED BY C. RICHARDS, 100, 8T. MARTIN'S LANS, CHARING CROSS. 







To J. H. 



THIS VOLUME 



IS INSCRIBED, 



WITH 



EVERY SENTIMENT OF ESTEEM 



AND FRIENDSHIP, 



BY 



THE AUTHOR. 



April 27, 1830. 



ERRATA. 

At p. 26, for * Vienna,* read ' Vienne.' 

35, for * St. Lawrence,* read * St Laurence.' 
140, for * Gestaccio,' read * Testaccio.' 



«• weirs of 



PREFACE. 



The object of the following pages is to 
exhibit a sketchy outline of the most cele- 
brated vineyards, and the several processes 
of wine-making in different countries: in 
short, to represent the general economy of 
one of the most interesting branches of hu- 
man invention. The subject was of no 
YGtj facile complexion ; but one from which 
the Author would have shrunk with due 
sense of his incompetence to treat, had he 
not been induced to the task, by the super- 
abundance of materials,which, much reading 
and laborious research enabled him to ren- 
der available. His duties, tb^r'^fore. became 



VI PREFACE. 

rather those of arrangement than author, 
ship ; although it is hoped that the candour 
with which this distinction is made in the 
subsequent pages, renders this explanation 
almost superogatory* 

As the present volume aspires only to the 
rank of a '* Manual," the reader will not 
expect to find it contain any extensive re- 
searches into the antiquarian history of 
Wine, or the ancient and modem philoso- 
phy of its manufacture. Had these divi- 
sions of the subject been largely expatiated 
on, the work must necessarily have assumed 
too scientific a character for the general 
reader. On the other hand, the Author has 
endeavoured to produce a book of pictu- 
resque details of the wine-countries, and the 
practical points of wine-making; at the 
same time, illustrating the latter by the 
results of the most recent enquiries of 
men of experimental and practical science. 
To these the Author has added his own ex- 



PREFACE. Vli 

perience, which, though comparatively un- 
pretendiDg, has, he hopes, enabled him to 
adapt and arrange the contributions of 
others with propriety and effect. 

Although the Author's claim to originality 
in these pages is thus humbly rated, it 
would be false delicacy not to express his 
confidence in the appreciation of the labour 
which was requisite for their production. 
Anxiety to furnish the reader with the pre- 
sent face of the wine-countries, has led him 
to consult the journals of the most recent 
and accredited travellers; and equal dili- 
gence has prompted him in the more prac- 
tical and technical portions of his work. 
Few attempts have been made at ornate 
style, or embellishment of the subject; since 
it would have been folly to attempt in prose 
what the poets of all ages have so divinely 
blended with their happiest productions ; 
but some relief was occasionally neces- 
sary. 



Vlll PREFACE. 

A glance at the annexed Table of Con- 
tents, will excuse the Author adding more 
in a prefatory form ; but, as the subject is 
rife with delight, he will not trespass on the 
patience of the reader, further than by ex- 
pressing a hope, that his gratification will 
be identified throughout the pages of the 
Wine-drinker's Manual. 

Richmond^ April, 1830. 



CONTENTS. 



ON WINE-DRINKING. 

Adam and Noah — Ancient Physicians — Ancient Drink- 
ing — Quantity — The Poets — Statesmen — Medical quali- 
ties — National Drinking — Origin of Wine — ^Persia, &c. 

Page 1-15. 

WINES OF THE ANCIENTS : 

Greek and Roman Vineyards and Wines. 15-26. 

FRENCH WINES: 

Classification — Wines of Gaul — Modem Wines : Cham- 
pagne, Burgundy, Dauphiny, fiordelais, Languedoc, Pro- 
vence, and Rousillon — Manufacture of Champagne and 
Claret — Management— Count Chaptal on the choice of 
a Cellar — Bottling, Forcing, &c. — Wine-trade of France 
— Consumption, &c. 27-68. 

SPANISH WINES: 

Mismanagement of the Peasantry — Xeres, or Sherry — 
Paxareta — Tinta di Rota — Malaga — Alicant — Benioar- 
lo — Vine in Catalonia—The Canaries — Teneriffe — Vi- 
donia — Chacoli — Majorca and Minorca — -Vineyards at 
Yepes. 69-81. 



X CONTENTS. 

PORTUGUESE WINES: 

Lisbon and Port— Wine Country of the Douro — Oporto 
Company — Methuen Treaty — ^Adulterations of Port 
Wine — Exports from Oporto — Management — Introduc- 
tion in England — White Wines — Careavellos, Setuval, 
and Termo — Red Wines of Lisbon — Vintage, p, 82-97. 

GERMAN WINES : 
Introduction of the Vine into Germany — Circle of Cob- 
lentz — Soil of the Banks of the Rhine — Rhinegau, Hoch- 
heim,and Mayn — Immense Casks of Tubingen,Heidclberg, 
and Gnimingen — ^Autumn on the Rhine — Bacharach and 
the ara Bacchi — Vineyards of Wurtemburg — Qualities 
of Rhenish Wines — the Moselle — German Wines drunk 
in England — Hock and Soda Water — Oil from the 
Stones of Grapes. 98- 114. 

HUNGARIAN WINE : 

The Vine in Hungary — Peasants' Vineyards — Tokay, 
Ausbruch, and Essence; its properties and rules for 
judging — Red and White Wines of Hungary — ^Vineyards 
of Menes, and description of the Vintage, 115-128. 

ITALIAN WINES: 
Luxuriance of the Vineyards — Improved Culture — Wine 
at Naples — ^North of Italy — Ancient and Modem Italian 
Wines — Wine-making in Tuscany — Montifiascone — Epi- 
taph in the Cathedral at Siena — Wine Festivals of the 
Roman peasantry — Vines of the Campagna — Tuscany 
and Genoa — Wines of Vesuvius — Lacryma Christi — 
Vines of Southern Italy — Sicilian Wines — Syracuse — 
Policy of introducing Italian Wines into England — 
Wine-trade at Florence — ^Wines of Elba — Culture of the 
Vines, &c. 129-153. 



CONTENTS. Xi 

GREEK WINES: 

Neglect of the Vine— Zante Currants — Vines of Corinth 
— Candia and Crete— Malivisi — Rettimo — Ancient and 
Modem Cyprus Wine — Barout— Wines of Zante, Ithaca, 
Rhodes, Cos, Samos, Tino, Lampascus — Vineyards at 
Leuctra — Adulteration of Greek Wines. p. 156-168. 

RUSSIA WINES: 
Wines consumed in Russia — Cultivation of the Vine in 
the South— Valley of Soudak — Vintage at Akerman — 
Georgian Wine— Tiflis. 162-176. 

PERSIAN WINES : 
Discovery of Wine by Jem-sheed — Grapes of Shiraz — 
Persian Vine-dressers — Wine forbidden by the Koran — 
Shah Suffee — ^Abbas II. — Royal Wine-diinkers — the Per- 
sian love of Wine — Vineyards of Shiraz, Ispahan, Te- 
heran — ^Persian Poets in Praise of Wine. 1 77- 1 86. 

MADEIRA WINES : 
Introduction of the Vine — Varieties of Wine — Sercial 
and Malmsey — Culture, &c. — Soil of the Vineyards de- 
scribed by Mr. Bowdich —Manufacture — Quantity — Im- 
provement by a voyage explained — Maturation of Ma- 
deira — Flavouring — Climate of the Island. 187-203. 

CAPE WINES: 
Climate of the Cape— Culture of the Vine— Constantia 
—Cape Madeira — ^Wine-trade at the Cape — Duties — 
Brandewyn — Quantity of Wine exported — Improvement 
of the Manufacture — Training — Management of the 
Vines — Soil, Adulterations, &c. — Constantia, 204-21 1. 



Xll CONTENTS. 

BRITISH WINKS: 

Introduction of the Vine — Saxon VineyMs — Domesday — 
Monasteries — Vineyards in London — Gloucester — Wind- 
sor — Foreign Wines introduced — Vineyards in Sussex, 
Surrey, and in the Isle of Wight — Painshill — Change 
of Climate — Chaptal on Vines — Earliest Foreign Wine 
Statute-duties — Wine-Conduits — Wine at Breakfast — 
Aristocratical Enactments — Duties and Importation — 
Wine in Scotland — Theory of Wine-making — ^Failure of 
British Wines explained — Dr. Macculloch*s System — 
Synthetical preparations. p. 21 2-24 1 . 

ADULTERATION OF WINE : 

Early English Mal-practices — Vintner's Company — 
Enactments of Henry VI., Mary, and Charles II. — Addi- 
son, in " the Tatler." — Lead Adulteration, and Tests for 
its Detection — Washing Bottles — Correcting Acidity — 
Brandying Port Wine — ^To detect Adulterated — ^Testsfor 
the natural Colouring — Flavouring — Dry Rot. 242-229. 

ART OF DRINKING WINE : 

Rationale of Drinking — Fashion — a French Dinner — 
Precedience of French Wines — Wines for different tem- 
peraments — Wine - Melancholy — Claret and Cham- 
pagne — Port — Sherries — Philosophy of Wine-drinking — 
Poets and Essayists — Plutarch^s authority — Morris, 
Burns, and Moore — ^Table Companions. 260-276. 

APPENDIX: 

The Cellar — Champagne — Claret — Iceing Wines — Dr. 
Maculloch's Receipts : Wine from unripe Gooseberries — 
from unripe Grapes — from ripe Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants — from ripe Grapes — French Method of making su- 
perior Gooseberry and Currant Wines — Improved Me- 
thod of making Raisin Wine. 277-296. 



THE 



WINE-DRlNKER'S MANUAL. 



ON WINE-DRINKING. 



The love of Wine may almost be classed 
with the innate principles of our very being. 
It is believed that the father of the human 
race drank wine, and were the antediluvian 
records more complete, this point of belief 
might be settled by the next Antiquarian 
meeting at Somerset House. We have, 
however, ^^confirmation strong as holy writ" 
that Noah planted a vineyard, and, more- 
over, " that he drank of the Wine and was 
" drunken." {Genesis^ ix. 20.) Adam, good 
man, for aught we know, did the same. 
" Driven by sin from Paradise," says old 
Christopher North, "what liquor could 
*^ ever have raised ^i» spirit?^ How dismally 



2 wine-drinker's 

" in his cups must he have sung ^ Auld lang 
" syne !' What a hollow hip, hip, hurra !" 

A moderate use of Wine has been sanc- 
tioned by the wise and good in all ages. 
St. Paul says, (Jhn, i. v, 23>/ " Use a little 
" wine for thy stomach's sake :" and this 
seems to have been the opinion of the most 
ancient philosophers and physicians. As- 
clepiades wrote upon Wine, the use of which 
he introduced with almost every remedy, ob- 
serving, that the gods had bestowed no more 
valuable gift on man : even Diogenes drank 
of it; for it is said of him that he liked 
that Wine best, which he drank at other 
people's cost: no bad proof of the policy of 
his philosophy. A modem, however, adopted 
this notion, who, when asked, — " What 
" Wine do you drink. Doctor?" answered, 
" Port at home. Claret abroad !" 

Hippocrates recommended a cheerful 
glass; and Rhases, an ancient Arabian 
physician, says no liquor is equal to good 
Wine. Eeineck wrote a Dissertation, " De 
Potu Vinoso;^^ and the learned Dr. Shaw 
lauded the juice of the giape. But the 
stoutest of its medical advocates was Tobias 
Walker, physician to Charles II, who 



MANUAL. 3 

undertook to prove the possibility of main- 
taining life, from infancy to old age, without 
sickness, by the use of Wine. But Toby 
lived in too free an age to warrant his 
doctrine, although no one can say that his 
theory was unacceptable to his monarch, or 
the times in which he practised. 

In a musty old tract on ^^ voracitie and 
" immoderate drinking," of sundry stories 
of "no man drinking beyond a certaine ring 
" about the glasses and cups," a conscien- 
tious scruple which is easily wiped away by 
plain glasses. There is also " a strange 
historic" of three quaffers in Germany, in 
1549, who, with a coal, " painted the divell 
" on the wall, and drank freely to him, and 
" talked freely to him as though hee had 
" been present. The next morning they 
" were found strangled, and dead, and were 
" hurried under the gallowes." Mahomet, 
another crafty wight, persuaded his followers 
when he forbad them the drinking of wine, 
that " in every grape there dwelt a divell." 
The attachment of Alexander Cambyses to 
Wine, is proverbial. Hiolmus, a king of the 
Goths, was so fond of it, that " he would sit a 
" great part of the night quaffing with his 

^ 2 



4 wine-drinker's 

" servants," for which gracious condescen- 
sion, they (in sport) threw him into " a great 
" vessell of drinke, in the middle of the 
" room,'* and thus, " he misserably and 
ridiculously ended his life." Paulus Dia- 
crius tells us of a drinking wager between 
four old men, each of whom drank as many 
bowls of Wine as he had lived years, and 
thus one of these joUy old fellows drank 92 
bowls. Cyrus, however, preferred water to 
Wine; and Antonius Pius '^ commanded that 
^ none should presume to sell Wine but in 
" apothecaries' shops, for the sicke or 
^ diseased." Had his edict remained in force 
to this age, every house would be required 
for a hospital, and the Wine-haters find 
room in the hospitals. 

The antiquity and propriety of drinking 
Wine is not, however, matter of question. 
The Archbishop of Seville, Antonio de 
Solis, who lived to be 110 years old, drank 
Wine ; and even that wonderful preacher of 
propriety, Comaro, did the same. All we 
differ about is qtM/ntity; and this is a point 
on which we do not pretend to reconcile our 
readers, for that would be too quackial a 
pretension for any Wine-drinker to aspire to. 



MANUAL. 5 

Sir William Temple, as good and grave a 
man as any of the '' illustrious'' of our 
country, was pleased to lay down a rule, 
and limit propriety to three glasses. " I 
" drink one glass," says he " for health, a 
" second for refreshment, a third for a 
^^ friend ; but he that offers a fourth is an 
" enemy." It is, however, fit that we show 
" this" and " that" picture of the antient 
quantity. In modern times, we hear no- 
thing at all equal to the account given of 
some of the ancients. The elder Cato, we 
are told, warmed good principles with " a 
" pretty considerable" quantity of good 
Wine ; and he allowed his slaves, during the 
Saturnalia, four bottles of Wine per diem. 
What sort of a figure would a royal footman 
cut at a rout after such a modicum ! But 
Cicero's son exceeded all others : so much 
so that he got the name of Bicongius^ 
because he was accustomed to drink two 
congii at a sitting ; but as congu are not in the 
last authorized measures, it may be neces- 
sary to inform the reader that two c(mgU 
are seven quarts or eight bottles ! Pliny 
and others abound in grand examples, which 



6 wine-drinker's 

■ 

prove we have degenerated at any rate in 
this respect ; for these convivials were neither 
sick nor sorry. Even Nero was only three 
times sick in fourteen years, a boast in which 
no crowned head of our times can join. 
We now come to the nobler eflFects of Wine, 
in the invigorating of the mindy as well as 
the body; and of the former eflfect we have 
the highest authority. To begin with the 
poets, as the lex suprema^ Martial says 

Regnat nocte calix, volvuntur biblia mane, 
Cum Phoebo Bacchus dividit iraperium. 

All night I drink, and study hard all day : 
Bacchus and Phoebus hold divided sway. 

Horace has done ample justice to Wine ; 
and even Homer, whose bearded busts we 
contemplate with such veneration, says 

The weaiy find new strength in generous Wines. 

This .is a poetical license which was 
sure to be imitated ; and doubtless, upon this 
principle of expanding the imagination, so 
early as 1874, old GeoflFrey Chaucer had 
allowed him a pitcher of Wine a day. Rare 
Ben Jonson, in after times, had the third of 
a pipe annually ; and, says Mr. Wadd, " a 



MANUAL. 



** certain share of this invigorating aliment 
'^has been the portion of Laureates down to 
^ the present day ; probably to aid the inspi- 
'^ ration of their birth-day odes and epithala- 



"mia." 



Nor are the poets the only eulogists of 
Wine. Some of the genteel names in history 
are to be found in the list. We find Mr. 
Burke furnishing reasons why the rich and 
great should have their share of Wine. He 
says, they are among the ilnhappy; they 
feel personal pain and domestic sori'ow; 
they pay their full contingent to the contri- 
butions levied on mortality in these matters ; 
therefore they require this sovereign balm. 
^ Some charitable dole" says he " is want- 
' ing to these, our often very unhappy 

* brethren^ to fill the gloomy void that 
' reigns in minds which have nothing on 

* earth to hope or fear ; something to 
^ relieve the killing languor and over- 
^ laboured lassitude of those who have 
' nothing to do." It is rather out of date, 

but as we are talking of statesmen, let us 
hear an argument held by the learned Sir 
Thomas More. Sir Thomas was sent by 
Henry VIII as ambassador to a foreign 



8 WINE drinker's 

court. The morning* he was to have his 
audience, knowing the virtue of Wine, he 
ordered his servant to bring him a good 
large glass of sack; and having drank that, 
called for another. The servant, with ofiS- 
eious ignorance, would have dissuaded him 
from it, but in vain; the ambassador drank 
off a second, and demanded a third, which 
he likewise drank off, insisting on a fourth; 
he was over-persuaded by his servant to let 
it alone; so he went to his audience. But 
when he returned home, he called for his 



* Wine in the morning is rather a ticklish ven- 
tui*e with some folk. That mad wag^ Tom Browne, 
says — 

Wine in a morning 

Makes us frolic and gay, 
That like eagles we soar 

In the pride of the day ; 
Gouty sots of the night 

Only find a decay. 
'Tis the sun ripes the grape, 

And to drinking gives light ; 
We imitate him, 

When at noon we^re at height : 
They Heal wine who take it 

When he's out of sight. 
Boys, fill all the glasses, 

Fill them up now he shines : 
The higher he rises, 

The more he refines, 
For wine and wit fall 

As their maker declines. 



MANUAL. 9 

servant, and threatened him with his cane. 
" You rogue," said he, " what mischief 
" have you done me ! I spoke so to the 
'^ Emperor on the inspiration of those three 
^^ first glasses that I drank, that he told me 
" I was fit to govern three parts of the 
" world. Now, you dog! if I had drank 
^' the fourth glass, I had been fit to govern 
" all the world." After this brilliant ex- 
ample, we recommend all the premiers of 
Europe to drink Wine ad libitum. We 
should like to know how many glasses 
Bonaparte drank, or rather, how many he 
found it necessary to drink before he re- 
solved on the domination of Europe. 

The French, who are, in truth, a very 
sober people, have a proverb : — 

Qu'il faut> a chaque mois^ 
S enivrer au moins une fois. 

which some, on this side of the water have 
improved into an excuse for getting drunk 
every day in the week, for fear the specified 
day should be missed. It would, however, 
startle some of oiu* sober readers, to find 
this made a question of grave argument: 
yet " whether it if» not healthful to b^ drunk 



10 wine-drinker's 

" once a month," is treated on by Dr. Carr 
in his letters to D'Quincy. A French 
author writes too, to the following efifect: — 

Drink my dear friends and deeply too. 
Ages of health you have before you. 

Wine as a remedy or medicine often gives 
rise to ludicrous associations. " Thus," says 
Mr. Wadd, (in a pleasant article in Brande*s 
Jb2*nia/,No.VIII)" we find particularWines 
recommended by particular doctors, having 
a fashionable run as specifics: — at one 
time, all the gouty people were drinking 
Madeira, and many a man persuaded him- 
self he had a flying gout, for the sake of the 
remedy. Somebody, however, found out 
that Madeira contained acid, and straight 
the cellars were rummaged for old Sherry; 
and Sherry, and nothing but Sherry, could 
or would the Podagres drink. Dr. Rey- 
nolds, who lived and practised very much 
with the higher orders, had a predilection 
for that noble and expensive comforter 
Hock! which short word, from his lips, 
has often made the Doctor's physic as costly 
as the Doctor's fee. In short. Wine has 
been recommended by the highest medical 



MANUAL. 11 

authorities as alleviating the infiimities of 
old age ; probably on the authority of the 
Greek physician, who recommended it to 
Alexander as the pure blood of the earth. 
After such authority, need we wonder at the 
penchant which the sick poor feel for Wine, 
even when labouring under the simoom of 
a fever ? " 

The proper ywaw^wm of wine, however, yet 
remains undecided. Thus, drunkenness pre- 
vails to a much gi^eater extent in northern 
than in southern latitudes. The nature of the 
climate renders this inevitable, and gives to 
the human frame its capabilities of with- 
standing iiquor: hence, a quantity which 
scarcely ruffles the frozen current of a Nor- 
wegian's blood, would scatter madness and 
fever into the brain of the Hindoo. In 
speaking of this subject, it is always to be 
remembered that a person is not to be con- 
sidered a drumkard becatise he consumes a 
certain quantity of liquor ; but becatise what 
he does consume produces certain effects upon 
his system. The Russian, therefore, may take 
six glasses a day, and be as temperate as 
the Italian who takes four, or the Indian 
who takes two. But even when this is 



12 wine-drinker's 

acceded to, the balance of sobriety will be 
found in the favour of the south : the inha- 
bitants there not only drink less, but are, 
bond Jide^ more seldom intoxicated than 
others; those who have contrasted London 
and Paris, may easily verify this fact: and 
those who have done the same to the city 
of Moscow* and Rome, can bear still stronger 
testimony. Who ever heard of an En- 
glishman sipping eau sucr^e^ and treating 
his friends with a glass of lemonade? yet 
such things are common in France. 

To bring the argument down to our own 
times, before we censure the Romans for 
their potent draughts, or discredit their 
drinking prodigies, we should remember the 



* According to Dr. Granville, who, in his re- 
cently published Travels, is very minute in every 
point which relates to eating and drinking in Rus- 
sia, Champagne is drunk in great profusion at all 
the gi'eat entertainments in St. Petersbm'^h. In 
the Doctors account of a Russian wedding, ne des- 
cribes the company as walking in procession to 
the bed-chamber of the bride and bridegroom, each 
visitor quaffing a goblet of Champagne to the 
health of the pai'ties, kissing the bride's hands, who 
returns the salutation on the cheek, and embracing, 
a lafran^aise, the cheeks of the bridegroom. 



MANUAL. 13 

feats of which Caesar speaks, as tmnsiixing 
three soldiers through their shields, with 
javelins, &c. Wine, drunk in large quanti- 
ties, doubtless, flew through their brawny 
and sinewy arms, and fitted them for such 
exploits, which throw into the shade all the 
glory of modern cuirassiers, or the gigantic 
men of "the Guards." 

The belief that wine was the only inebri- 
ating liquor known to antiquity, is, how- 
ever, erroneouB. Tacitus mentions ale or 
beer as common among the Germans ; — the 
Egyptians swigged malt liquor in the Delta ; 
— a kind of Bell's beer deluged the middle 
ages ; the interior of Africa was ever famous 
for brewing; — our Saxon ancestors were 
often drowned in mead ; — the worshippers 
of Odin were drunkards of the first water, 
whence the songs of the Scandinavian 
Scalds, and the fuddled futurity of Valhalla ; 
ardent spirits were quafi'ed by the Arabians 
many centuries ago, and from time imme- 
morial arrack has been manufactured in the 
island of Java, and the continent of Hin- 
dostan. 

It must, nevertheless, be admitted, that 
almost every countiT in whirh the vine is 



14 wine-drinker's 

indigenous, has boasted of some individual, 
or native deity, to whom the honor of the 
invention of Wine has been attributed. — 
Among a number of fictions, the following 
is, at least, amusing. Jem-sheed, the founder 
of Persepolis, is by Persian writers said to 
have been the first who invented Wine. He 
was immoderately fond of grapes, and, de- 
siring to preserve some, they were placed 
for this purpose in a large vessel, and lodged 
in a vault for future use. When the vessel 
was opened, the grapes had fermented ; and 
their juice, in this state, was so acid, that 
the king believed it must be poisonous. He 
had some vessels filled with it: "jooi5(w"was 
written upon each, and they were placed in 
his room. It happened that one of his favor- 
ite ladies was affected with a nervous head- 
ache, and the pain distracted her so much, 
that she desired death. Observing a vessel 
with ^^paison"' written on it, she took it, and 
swallowed its contents. The Wine, for such 
it had become, overpowered the lady, who 
fell into a sound sleep, and awoke much 
refreshed. Delighted with the remedy, she 
repeated the dose so often, that the mo- 
narch's poison was all drank! He soon 



MANUAL. 15 

discovered this, and forced the lady to con- 
fess what she had done. A quantity of 
Wine was made ; and Jem-sheed, and all 
his court, drank of the new beverage; — 
which, from the circumstance that led to 
its discovery, is this day known in Persia 
by the name of Zeher-e-Kooshon, the de- 
lightful poison ! 

Only let the Wine-drinker, be he a three- 
glass, or three-bottle man, think of this de- 
lightful apologue, and we venture to predict 
that his ecstatic pleasure will be enhanced, 
and his illusion brightened by the glorious 
recollection. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

From the pleasures of wine-drinking 
among our ancestors, we pass to the vine- 
yards of the ancients, and the processes 
used by them in the preparation of their 
Wines ; and it is curious to observe in how 
few circumstances their most approved sys- 
tem differed from that of the modems. The 
varieties of their Wines were considerable. 



16 WINE-DRINKER'S 

and attempts have been made to point out 
the affinities of their to our modem varieties ; 
but when we consider the changes which 
soil and culture produce in the vine, even 
in a few years, it would be absurd to ima- 
gine, that after a lapse of two thousand 
years, we should be able to assign the exact 
place, in a modem botanical an-angement, 
to the varieties that adorned the Massic or 
Surrentine hills. The variety which they 
most esteemed appears to have been the 
Arimean, which produced a small grape, 
which is described as surpassing all others 
in richness and flavor. The most remark- 
able fact connected with the vineyards of 
the ancients, is their productiveness; the 
Roman jugerum^ which was less than an 
English acre, being computed to yield fifty- 
four hogsheads of Wine ; whereas, the best 
vineyards in the Lyonnais, the most produc- 
tive in France, afford little more than one 
fifth of this quantity. This superiority, 
however, in a great degree, arose, according 
to Columella, from the ancients allowing 
their vines to grow to a degree of luxuriance 
quite incompatible with the rules of good 



■ WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 17 

husbandry, and forcing them to bear, till, 
in the end, they became exhausted, and lost 
all tbeir original excellence. 

Little is known respecting the modes of 
manufacturing some of the most celebrated 
of the ancient wines, Tbe general processes 
did not perhaps differ much from those at 
present in use. The fruit was collected, 
bruised by the feet, and subjected to pres- 
sure, as now practised.* Both Greeks and 
Romans appear to have frequently concen- 
trated their wines, either by spontaneous 
evaporation, or by boiling. For this pur- 
pose, the wine was sometimes introduced 
into bladders or large jars, and exposed in 
the chimney to the heat of fire, or in the 
upper parts of the bouse to tbe heat of the 
sun. Sometimes the fiiiit was converted 
into raisins by drying, and the wine pre- 
pared from sucb fruit was denominated ^as- 
sum. At other times, the rmist was reduced 
by boiling to one half. This fonued the 

* Of this we have scripmral testimony: "Where- 
fore art ihou red in thine apparel, aiid thy gar- 
ments Ute him that treadctli in tlie wine-vat ?"— 
" I have trudden the wine-press alone." — haiah, 
chap. bdii. v. 2, 3. 



18 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

vinum defructnm : occasionally even to one 
third, when it was termed sapa. By one, 
or perhaps more, of these methods, the wines 
were reduced to the state of syrup, or in 
some instances even to dryness, and were 
capable of being preserved a very long time. 
Thus, Aristotle states, that the Arcadian 
wines required to be diluted with water be- 
fore they were drunk, as indeed was the 
case with most of the ancient wines ; and 
Pliny speaks of wines as thick as honey, 
which it was necessary to dissolve in warm 
water, and filter through linen before they 
were used. These remarks apply chiefly 
to very old tvines.^ Thus, that compared to 
honey had been made two hundred years ; 
and wines of a hundred years old and up- 

* The passion for old wine has been canied to 
a very ridiculous excess among the modems. At 
Bremen there is a wine cellar, called the Store, 
where five hogsheads of Rhenish wine have been 
preserved since the year 1625, or 204 years. 
These ^ve hogsheads cost 1200 francs, or £50. 
Had this sum been put out to compound interest, 
each hogshead would now be worth above a thou- 
sand millions of money : a bottle of this precious 
wine would cost 21,799,480 francs, or about 
£908,311; and a single wine-glass, 2,723,808 
francs, or about £ 1 13,492 ! 



wards seem not to have been uncommon 
among the luxurious citizens of ancient 
Rome. Indeed, seven yeai's was the short- 
est period, according to Aristotle and 
Galen, Jor keeping wine before it was fit for 
drinking. The ancients, too, were as fond 
of giving tlieir wines an artificial flavor, as 
are the modems ; and for this purpose, the 
former introduced pitch, turpentine,* and 
different herbs, into the must; a practice 
still followed bj the modem Greeks. 

Such aie a few of the facts known re- 
specting the manufacture of celebrated an- 
cient wines; which, as Chaptal justly re- 
marks, appear in general to have rather 
deserved tlie name of extracts, or syrups, 
tban wines. They must have been sweet, 
and little fermented, and consequently have 
contained a very small portion of alcohol. 

The earliest of the Greek wines was the 
Maronean, a sweet black wine, which Ho- 
mer describes us " rich, unadulterate, and 
fit drink for the gods," and as so potent, 
that it was usually mixed with twenty mea- 



* Probably with tlie Ckio turpentine, now used 
n medicine, and to be purchaaed at die druggisU. 



20 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

sures of water. Nearly of equal antiquity 
was the Pramnian, a strong, hard, astrin- 
gent, red wine, from the island of Icarus. 
It may be compared to our Port wine; like 
which, also, it was often used medicinallyj 
and on that account was sometimes called 
pharmacites. The best Greek wines, how- 
ever, and which isurpassed those of all other 
nations, were the sweet luscious wines, the 
products of the Ionian and the Egean seas; 
particularly Lesbos, Chios, and Thasos^ 
They were wines of a pale amber color, with 
much odour, and ahigh flavor. The Phanean, 
which is extolled by Virgil, as the ^' king 
of wines," was from Chios. The lighter 
wines were the Medean, the Argitis, and 
the Omphacites : but the Greeks were also 
familiar with the African and Asiatic wines, 
several of which were in high reputation. 
According to Florentinus, some of the Bi- 
thynian wines, but especially that procured 
from a species of grape called Mersites, were 
of the choicest quality : the wines of Byblos, 
in Phoenicia, on the other hand, vied in 
fragrancy with the Lesbian ; and if we may 
confide in the report of Athenseus, the white 
wines of Mareotis and Taenia, in Lower 



WINBS OP THE ANCIENTS, 21 

Egypt, were of almost unrivallBd excellence. 
The fonner, which was sometimes called 
Alexandrian, from the neighbouring teni- 
tory, was a light, sweetish, white wine, with 
a delicate perfume, of easy digestion, and 
not apt to effect the head ; though the allu- 
sion of Horace to its influence on the mind 
of Cleopatra, would seem to imply that it 
had not always preserved its innocuous 
quality. The wine of Meriie, however, 
which was produced at the feast given by 
Cassar to that voluptuous female, would ap- 
pear to have been in still higher estimation, 
and to have borne some resemblance to the 
Falernian, The Tieniotic, on the other 
hand which derived its name from the nar- 
row slip of land where it giew, was a grey 
or greenish wine, of a greater consistence, 
and more luscious taste than the Mareotic, 
but accompanied with some df'gree of as- 
tringency, and a rich aromatic odour. The 
wine of Antylla, also the produce of the vi- 
cinity of Alexandria, was the only remain- 
ing growth from among the numerous vine- 
yards which adorned the bants of the Nile, 
that attained any degree of celebrity. 
The wines of ancient Italy were even 



k. 



22 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

more celebrated than those of Greece. The 
choicest of the Roman wines were the Ma&- 
sic and Falemian. " No wine," says Dr. 
Henderson, " has ever acquired such exten- 
sive celebrity as the Falemian; or more 
truly merited the name of" immortal," which 
Martial has conferred upon it. At least, of 
all ancient wines, it is the one most gene- 
rally known in modem times. But although 
the name is thus familiar to every one, 
scarcely any attempt has been made to de- 
termine the exact nature and properties of 
the liquor ; and little more is understood 
concerning it, than that the ancients valued 
it highly, kept it until it became very old, 
and produced it only when they wished to 
regale their dearest friends. All writers, 
however, agi-ee in describing the Falemian 
wine as very strong and durable, and rough 
in its recent state; — that it could not be 
drunk with pleasure, but required to be kept 
a great number of years before it was suffi- 
ciently mellow. Horace even terms it a 
" fiery" wine, and calls for water from the 
spring to moderate its strength ; and Per- 
sius applies to it the epithet " indomitum,'* 
probably in allusion to its heady quality. — 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

Fi-om Galen's account, it appears to have 
been in condition only from the tenth to the 
twentieth year ; and afterwards it was apt 
to contract an unpleasant bitterness; yet 
we may suppose that, when of a good vin- 
tag'e, and especially when procured in glass 
bottles, it would keep much longer, without 
having its flavor impaired. Horace, who 
was a lover of old wine, proposes, in a well- 
known ode, to broach au amphora which 
was coeval with himself, and which, there- 
fore, probably, was not less than thirty-six 
years old. As he bestows the highest com- 
mendation on this sample, ascribing to it 
aJl the virtues of the choicest vintage, and 
pronouncing it truly worthy to be produced 
on so happy a day, we must believe it to 
have been really of excellent quality. In 
general, however, it probably suffered more 
or less from the mode in which it was kept ; 
and those whose taste was not per\'erted by 
their rage for high-dried wines, preferred it 
in its middle state." 

Among oui* present wines. Dr. Henderson 
has no hesitation in fixing upon those of 
Xeres and Madeira, as the two to which the 
Falemian offers the most distinct featines 



24 WINES OP THE ANCIENTS. 

of resemblance. Both are straw-colored 
wines, assuming a deeper tint from age, or 
from particular circumstances in the quaUty, 
or management, of the vintage. Both of 
them present the several varieties of dry, 
stout, and light. Both of them are exceed- 
ingly strong and durable wines; being, when 
new, very rough, harsh, and fiery, and re- 
quiring to be kept about the same length of 
time as the Falernian, before they attain a 
due degree of mellowness. Of the two, how- 
ever, the more palpable dryness and bitter 
sweet flavor of Sherry might incline us to 
decide, that it approached most nearly to 
the wine under consideration ; and it is 
worthy of remark, that the same difference 
in the produce of the fermentation is ob- 
servable in the Xeres vintages,as that which 
Gulen has noticed with respect to the Faler- 
nian ; it being impossible always to predict 
with certainty, wliether the result will be a 
dry wine, or a sweetish wine, resembling 
Paxarite. But, on the other hand, the soil 
of Madeira is more analogous to that of the 
Campagna Felice ; and thence we may con- 
clude, that the flavor and aroma of its wines 
are similar. Sicily, which is also a volcanic 






WINE9 OF THE ANCIENTS. 

country, supplies several growths which an 
inexperienced judge would very readily mis- 
take for those of the former island. Another 
point of coincidence is deserving of notice : 
both Xeres and Madeira wines are, as is well 
known, infinitely improved by being trans- 
ported to a warm climate ; and latterly it 
has become a common pi'aL'tice, among the 
dealers in the island, to force the Madeira 
wines by aprocoss which is absolutely iden- 
tical with the ancient operation of the fa- 
maHwm. If Madeira, or SheiTy, but parti- , 
cularly the latter, were kept in eaithcm 
jars until it was reduced to the consistence 
of honey, there can be little doubt that the 
taste woidd become so intensely bitter, as 
be " intolerable," an epithet applied by 
licero to Falemian. 

Among the other wines of the Itoman 
territory, may be noticed the Sabinum, the 
Nonuntanum, [which resembled Claret) Ve- 
na&annm, the wine of Spoletum, disdn- 
guisbcd by its bright golden color, the wines 
of Mamostinum, in Sicily, the PoUium of 
Syracuse, the growths of Ciesina, Ligima, 
and the territory of Verona; the Gallic 
wines of Duupbiny, Marseilles, and Nar- 



26 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

bonne ; with those obtained from the violet- 
scented grape of Vienna, and the rich Mus- 
cat of Languedoc. From the valuable source 
already quoted, we could likewise add many 
curious facts with respect to the consump- 
tion of wine at Rome, the dilution of ancient 
wines, and the method of iceing the juice of 
the grape, employed by the epicures of the 
eternal city. On the use of wine at the 
banquets of the Greeks and Romans, much 
amusing information might also be quoted. 
The extent to which they carried the plea- 
sures of the table, their self-indulgence and 
ostentation, devoid of hospitality, will not, 
however, enhance the veneration with which 
we are accustomed to consider these won- 
derful people. 




The classijication of wines is a taijk of 
no trifling diiEculty ; and, accordingly, va- 
rious methods have been adopted to ensure 
its accuracy. M, JuUien, the editor of the 
Eevue Encyclop6dique, at Paris, has at- 
tempted to arrange wines in genera, or or- 
ders, detennined by the qualities of sweet- 
ness, dryness, body, and color ; and upedes, 
by the comparative excellence of their 
qualities. Dr. Henderson, however, prefers 
the division of wine inio two principal 
classes, viz. Red and White, which may 
be again separated into two oi^ders, Dry 
and Sweet ; while the genera are made to 
depend on the diitinctive characters derived 
from soil and climate, tlie species on parti- 
cular localities, and the varieties on the re- 
snective qualities of "he different growths. 



28 FRENCH WINES. 

According to the latter axrangement, we 
shall attempt an outline history of the dif- 
ferent modem wines of Europe, beginning 
with those of France. 

We are told by Posidonius and Strabo, 
that the vine was partially cultivated in the 
south of Gaul ; yet it does not appear that 
its culture was general, even at the time of 
Columella, who wrote in the first century 
after Christ. It nevertheless afterwards 
became so ; and even Normandy, Picardy, 
and Brittany, provinces in which the vine, 
as in England, has yielded to crops more 
sui table to the climate, produced their vines ; 
but they were sour and harsh, in conse- 
quence of the cold winds and fogs to which 
these countries are exposed. In the wine 
districts of France, however, every advan- 
tage which can be desired for the perfection 
of the vine, is found : for example, every 
species of strata that is congenial, much di- 
versity of surface, and consequently the 
most favorable exposures, and a sufficient 
range of temperature to occasion the great- 
est variety in the character of the grapes. 
The French, therefore, by the improvement 
of these gifts of nature, at present deservedly 



FRENCH WINES. 2d 

rank as thefirat wine makers in the world. 
According to Count Chaptal's calculations, 
in the year 1808, the land in France occu- 
pied by vines amounted to 1,639,939 hec- 
tares, or 3,988,974 acres. The average 
production of wine was 35,358,890 hecto- 
litres, or 934,184,500 gallons, and the value 
of the whole 718,941,075 francs, orupwarda 
of twenty-eight millions sterling." 

The wines of Champagne, of Burgundy, 
Dauphiny, and Bordelais, are decidedly the 
best which France now supplies ; to which 
may be added those of Languedoc and 
Roussillon. 



* In triLcing the history of French iv-ines, we 
find that many vineyards, which have litde »r no 
repute, were in former times renowned for the ex- 
cellence of their growths; while those which ol'late 
years have maintained the greatest celehrity, were 
then unknown or almost unnoticed. Thus, the 
wines of Orleans and the Isle of France were at 
Q greater cstimadon than those of Bui 



Normandy, was famed for the 



gundy and Champagne ; and even Mantes, which 
IS on the borders of Normandy, w 
prflduceof its wines. These chanj^ 
chiefly to transfers of property, parlicularly from 
the cunrch lo the laity, and the changes of ma- 
nagement consequent! v iairoduted. 



so FRENCH WINES. 

The wines of Champctgne'^ are commonly 
divided (following a distinction occurring 
so early as the 19th century) into River 
Wines, — vins de la rivldre de Marne^ which 
are for the most part white ; and Mountain 
Wines — vlrvs de la montagne de Reims j which 
are red. The former are for the most part 
brisk or sparkling wines, and distinguished 
by their delicate flavor and aroma. But the 
briskest wines are not always the best, and 
unless they are very strong, much of the al- 
cohol is carried off with the carbonic acid 
gas, which occasions the froth. Hence the 
slighdy frothing wines (cr^mans^ or dem\r 
mousseux) are preferred by connoisseurs. 
Sillefi/y which has obtained its name from 
the vineyards which yield it, formerly be- 
longed to the Marquis of Sillery, and holds 
the first rank among the white wines of 
Champagne. It was brought into vogue 

* If wine be bottled before the fermentation is 
completed^ part of the sugar remains undecomposed, 
the fermentation will go on slowly in the bottle, and 
on drawing the cork, the wine sparkles in the 
glass, as, for example, in Champagne. 

In Champagne wines the red are generally in- 
ferior, because the species of fermentation required 
to extract the color, dissipates part of the flavor. 



■ FRENCH WINES. 31 

by the peculiar care bestowed on the manu- 
facture by theMar^chaled'Estrees, andwas 
long tDown by the name (if fin dela Mar6- 
chale. The most celebrated of the river, ov 
white, wines, strictly so called, is that of 
Ay, the vinum dei of Bandius ; but Dr. Hen- 
derson thinks that the wine of Closet, a 
small vineyard which lies in the bosom of 
the bill to the south-west of Epemay, yields 
a wine fully equal to that of Ay. Similar 
to the wine of Ay also are those of the ter- 
ritories of MareuQ and Dizy ; while those 
of Hautvilliers, Cramant, Avise, Oger, Me- 
nil, and Pierry, are decidedly inferior. 

Of the Reims, Mountain, or rei> wines, 
those of Verzy, Verznay, Mailiy, Bouzey, 
and St. Basle, are most esteemed. But the 
St. Clos, and St. Thieny, furnish the only 
red wine that can be said to unite the rich 
color and aroma of Burgundy with the de- 
licate lightness of Champagne. The soils 
throughout Champagne are composed of a 
loose marl resting on beds of chalk, and in 
some places mixed with flints ; but the ex- 
posures are not favorable, and even the 
Sillery and Mountain red wines, are almost 
all grown on the northern or eastern decli- 



32 FRENCH WINES. 

vities of the hills. The best Champagne 
wines will retain their good qualities £rom 
ten to twenty years, if kept in a temperature 
of 54** Fahrenheit, which is that uniformly 
maintained in the vaults of M. Moet, at 
Epernay. The white %vines of Arbois and 
Papillon, in the department of Jura, resem- 
ble those of Champagne in many of their 
qualities ; but they are not managed with 
the same care, and do not equal the first 
rate growths of Champagne. In 1778, a 
verdict of the faculty of Paris pronounced 
Champagne to be the finest of all wines. 

The wines of Burgundy, as far as re- 
gards richness of flavor and perfume, and 
all the most delicate qualities of the juice of 
the grape, are more perfect than those of 
Champagne. Accordingly, the dukes of 
Burgundy merit their ancient designation of 
^^ princes des bons mns^ The choicest of the 
Burgundy wines is that of Romanee Conti, 
a wine scarcely known in England, and pro- 
duced in small quantities, the vineyard being 
not more than six and a half English acres 
in extent. The next was that of the Clos- 
Vougeot, when that small domain was the 
property of the church ; but it is now con- 



FHEXCH wineb. 

sidered as tlie third or fourth growth, and 
is surpassed by those of the Romanee de 
St. Vivant, Massigny, Clos de Premeau, and 
some others ; some, however, obtained from 
a vineyard in the vicinity of Dijon, is said 
to surpass all the other growths of the Cote 
d'Or, and has been sold, on the spot, at the 
enoi-mons price of twelve francs the bottle. 
Under the name of Macon, which is the red 
Burgundy best known in England, is com- 
prehended, not only the growths of the Md- 
connais, but also the chief part of the Beau- 
jolais, forming a tract of the department of 
the Rhoap. These wines are all red ; but the 
white wines of Burgundy, although less 
known than the red, maintain the highest 
rank among the French white wiues. The 
best is the Mont-Kachet wine, famous for its 
high pei-fiime and agreeable nutty flavour. 
Of this wine there are three varieties, the 
last of which sells for only one third of the 
price of the first. Yet, says Dr. Henderson, 
these three qualities htg produced from vine- 
yards which are only separated from one 
another by a foot-path ; which have the 
same exposure and apparently the same 
soil ; in which the same species of "ines are 



36 FRENCH WINES. 

smoothness, a fragrant aroma, and a delicate 
flavor of the quince, by which it is distin« 
guished from all other sweet, or Muscadine 
wines. 

The wines of Gasoony and Gnienne are 
better known, by name, in England, than 
any other of those of the French yineyards. 
Thus, the vineyards of the Bordelais are 
those of Medoc, Grave, Palus, andVignes 
Blanches, which furnish the prime wine& 
Medoc comprehends the vineyards of Lafitte 
and Latour, LeoviUe, Ch^teau-Margaiix, 
and Rausan. The whUe wines are St Bris, 
Carbonnieux, Sauteme,Barsac and Freinac. 
The names of the greater part of these are 
fiemuliar to English ears ; but the gentune 
wines are seldom drunk here, owing to the 
trickery of the Bordeaux merchants, in 
tidapting them for diflferent markets. Thus, 
the strong rough growths of the Palus, and 
other districts, are frequently bought up, 
for the purpose of strengthening the ordi- 
nary wines of Medoc ; and there is even a 
particular manufactiure, called travail d 
rAnglaise, which consists in adding to each 
hogshead of genuine Bordeaux wine, three 
or four gallons of Benicarlo, half a gallon 



FRENCH 1¥IN£S. 37 

of Stum wine, and sometimes a smaU quan- 
tity of Hermitage. This mixture undergoes 
a slight degree of fermentation ; and when 
the whole is sufficiently fretted, it is ex- 
ported under the name of claret. Some- 
times to that intended for England a small 
quantity of raspberry brandy is added* A 



* Choice Claret is one of the wine-drinker's 
finest luxuries ; and to give the reader some 
idea of its cost^ we subjoin tne following accurate 
information regai'ding the expenses attending the 
importation of genuine Jirst growth wine into this 
country; also respecting the price at which the 
wine-merchant can^ witli a fair profit^ afford to sell 
it to his consumers. Tliis information is from a 
valuable httle treatise on the wines of Bordeaux^ 
by Mr. Paguierre, a retired wine-broker resident 
there: — 

Average price, charged by the first £. s. c/. 
houses at Bordeaux, per hhd. for 

first growth wine of a prime vintage 50 

Insurance and freight . . , . . 18 6 

fianding charges 2 6 

Duty, at 7s. 3d. per gallon .... 16 13 6 

BotUes, corks, wax, &c 4 19 



73 3 6 
Interest, expense of premises, &c. to 

time of sue, 8} per cent .... 644 

£79 7 10 



38 FRENCH WINES. 

g^eat proportion of the wine, however, which 
is drunk under this denomination, is nothing 
but the vin ordinaire^ or, at best, the second- 
ary growths of the country ; for the prime 
growths fall far short of the demand which 
prevails for these wines, not only in this 
kingdom, but in Flanders, Holland, the 

This sum (equal to about 3/. lOs, 6d. per dozen) 
is^ then^ what tne wine, actually costs the importer 
before he can bring it to market; but, as he must 
have a profit on his business, he should get some- 
thing more than this, even when the wine is sold 
immediately; and, if he kept it to acquire age, he 
must, besiaes, be paid for his lisk, and the locking 
up of his capital, as well as all the other charges 
afiecting his Dusiness. 

If what is here stated be just — and we think it 
cannot be proved to be otherwise — it must be a 
mere delusion in any person in this country to 
suppose he can get first growth wine of a fine 
vintage, below the rate current among respectable 
merchants. It is ti*ue that, at this moment, we 
may purchase at Bordeaux, from some shipping 
houses, warranted Chateau-Margaux, vintage 
1825, at 1000 francs per hogshead; but, as it is 
perfectly well known that the whole produce of 
that estate was sold immediately after the vintage 
at very neai'ly that price, and that, after near three 
years keeping, 1000 francs is a fair price for good 
third growth wine, we may judge what degree of 
confidence can be had in such warranters and their 
wan-anty. 



FBENCH WINEB. 39 

north of Europe, and the East and West 
Indies. In favourable years, the produce 
of Lafitte, Latour, and Ch&teau-Margaux, 
sells at from 3000 to 3,300 francs (JC125 to 
£137. 10«.) the tun, which contains 242 gal- 
lons ; and when these wines have been in the 
chaisy or vault, for six years, the price is 
doubled, so that, even at Bordeatucy a bottle 
of the best wine cannot he purchased at less 
than six francs (five shillings). "During 
" twenty years that I have been living at 
" Bordeaux," says one of Rozidre's corres- 
pondents, " I have not tasted three times 
" any wine of the first quality ; yet I ain in 
"the way of knowing it, and getting it 
" when it is to be had. The wines of the 
" year 17S4 were so superior to those of other 
** years, that I have never since met with any 
" Uke them." 

Of the Red wines of Bordeaux the 
Lafitte is the most choice and delicate, and 
is characterized by its silky softness on the 
palate and its charming perfume, which 
partakes of the violet and the raspberry. 
The Latour has a fuller body, and at the 
same time a considerable aroma, but wants 
the softness of the Lafitte. The ChlLteau 



40 FRENCH WINES. 

Margaux is, on the other hand, lighter, 
and possesses all the delicate qualities of 
the Lafitte, except that it has not quite so 
high a flavour. The Haut-Brion, again, 
has more spirit and body than any of the 
preceding, but it is rough, when used, and 
requires to be kept six or seven years in the 
wood; while the others become fit finr 
bottling in much less time. These are the 
first-rate wines of the Bordelais. Among 
the second-rate, that of Rozan, in the parish 
of St.Margaux, approaches in some respects 
to the growths of the Ch&teau-Margaux, 
while that of Oorce in the same territory, 
is little inferior to the Latour. 

The white wines of Bordeaux are of two 
kinds: those called Graves j which have a 
dry, flinty taste, and an aroma somewhat 
resembling cloves; and those made at Sau- 
teme, Barsac, Preignac, and Beaumes. 
The choicest Grave wines are from St. Bris 
and Carbonnieux, Yillenave-en-Rions, and 
Pontac and Dulamon. The other Grave wines 
are more ordinary; in four years they may 
be put in bottle. They have this inconve- 
nience, that if a bottle remain some hours 
open, the wine tarnishes and becomes black 



FRENCH WINES^ 41 

in colour. Sauteme is in much repute at 
Paris, and in the interior of France. It has 
not quite so much strength as Barsac; but 
is very fine and mellow. Barsac is^ distin- 
guished by its strength and flavour in good 
years, and is generally lively and sparkling, 
and very mellow. This wine is much 
drunk in Russia, and all the north. The 
Freignac wines are divided into three 
classes: the first is very agreeable, strong, 
and has a particular flavour. When old, 
they are fiery, and have a fine almond after- 
taste. They are much drunk in Prussia and 
Russia, Denmark and Sweden. All these 
wines keep very well, with an amber 
colour, and a very dry taste, as they get 
old. Some Sauteme that dates from the 
middle of the last century, is said to be 
still in e:dstence. 

From this succinct view of the principal 
wines of France, we pass to some account 
of their 

MANUFACTURE. 

As the details of the respective processes 
would occupy too large a portion of our 



42 FRENCH WINES. 

pages, we can only admit those of Cham- 
pagne^ and Bordeaux, In Champagne, the 
middle grounds, and those which fieu^e the 
south, as at Ay and Hautvilliers, generally 
furnish the best grapes; and the wines 
which are produced from vineyards with an 
eastern or western aspect are usually valued 
one third less; Sillery and Mountain red 
wines are almost all grown on the northern 
and eastern declivity of the hills. All the 
best vines of these territories are old, though 
they have the appearance of young plants. 
They are trained very low, seldom rising 
more than 18 inches, and are planted about 
the same distance asunder. In Mturch 
they are pruned to within three or four 
eyes, and the stalk is pressed down an 
inch or two towards the hill. Every three 
or four years, however, the whole is 
buried in the same direction, leaving only 
two or three eyes above the surface, 
at the extremities of the branches. Then 
follows the first dressing. Another is 
given in May, and, in some places, a 
third, later in the season. The plants 
generally cultivated, are pineau and plant 
odr^; the former giving the best quality of 



FRENCH WINES. 43 

wine. Latterly a new species called the 
plant verty has been introduced, which is 
said to be less apt to drop its fruit than the 
other kinds. 

For the manufacture of white Champcyne 
wines, black grapes are now generally 
used. They are picked with great care, those 
which are unripe, shriyelled, or rotten, being 
rejected: they are gathered in the morning, 
while the dew is yet upon them; and it is 
remarked, that when the weather happens 
to be foggy at the time of the vintage, the 
produce of the fermentation is considerably 
increased. They are then pressed rapidly, 
which occupies about an hour. The wine 
obtained from this first operation is called 
vin (T^Utef and is always kept apart from 
the rest. After the edges of the mmt have 
been cut, and turned into the middle, 
another pressing takes place, which fur- 
nishes the vin de tattle; and the repetition 
of these processes gives the vin de deuxieme 
taille or tisanne. The liquor procured by 
these successive pressings is collected, as it 
flows, in small vats, from which it is re- 
moved, early on the following day, into 
puncheons which have been previously 



44 FRENCH WINES. 

sulphured. In these the mtist undergoes a 
brisk fermentation, and is allowed to remain 
till towards the end of December, when it 
becomes bright. It is then raked, and 
fined with isinglass; and in less than a 
month or six weeks more, is raked and 
fined a second time. In the month of 
March it is put into bottle. After it has 
been about six weeks in bottle, it becomes 
brisk, and towards autumn, the fermentap 
tion is so powerful as to occasion a con- 
siderable loss, by the bursting of the botdes;. 
but after the fii*st year such accidents rarely 
happen. A sediment, however, is generally 
formed on the lower side of the bottle^ 
which it becomes neeessary to remote, 
especially if the wine be intended for expor- 
tation. This is accomplished either by 
raking the wine into fresh bottles, or, if it 
be already brisk, allowing the sediment to 
settle in the neck of the bottle, from which 
it is forced out on drawing the cork. These 
operations, and the loss sustained by them, 
and by the bursting of the bottles, which is 
seldom less than 25 per cent, necessarily 
enhance the price of the wine. The Sillery 



jd 



FRENCH WINES. 45 

wines are kept in the wood from one to 
tbree years before they are bottled. 

In manufacturing pink Champagney the 
grapes are first slightly trodden and freed 
from the stalks, and the fermentation is 
allowed to commence before they are 
ptessed, in order to facilitate the solution of 
die colouring matter. After this, the pro- 
cess is managed in the same way as with 
the white wines.* 

In manufacturing red wines, the grapes 
ai^ trodden before they are introduced into 
die vat. The wines of the higher grounds 
axe generally put into botdes in the 
Norember following the vintage; but the 
pioduceof Clos St. Thierry will improve by 
being allowed to remain cm its lees a year 
or two longer. 

All these wines, says Dr. Henderson, 
when well made and placed in cool cellars, 
wQl retain their qualities from ten to 
twenty years ; the creaming wine of Ay 

* Henderson's History of Wines, 4to. At 
present pink Champagne is less in request than 
the colourless. An inferior sort is manufactured, 
by adding a few drops of decoction of elderben*ies 
nrith cream of tartar. 



46 FRENCH WINES. 

has been known to keep, and continue 
to improve even for a longer period. The 
vaults in which they are stored at Reims, 
Epemay, Avise, &c. are excavated in a rock 
to the depth of 30 or 40 feet. In those of M. 
Mo^t at Epemay , which are the best and most 
extensive, the thermometer is generally 54*" 
Fahrenheit, and the variation from winter 
to summer does not amount to one degree. 

The manufacture of the Red and White 
wines of Bordeaux may be thus briefly 
explained : — The vine-dresser ought to 
seize the proper time when the vine has 
come to perfect maturity, to gather the 
grapes so as to make good wine. The 
wine, if *it has succeeded, ought to be clear, 
transparent, of a fine soft colour, a lively 
smell, and balsamic taste, slightly piquant, 
but agreeable, inclining to that of the 
raspberry, violet, or mignonette, fiffing the 
mouth, and passing without irritating the 
throat, giving a gentle heat to the stomach, 
and not getting too quickly into the head. 

The proprietors of the vineyaids, after 
having prepared the wine-vessels, and 
cleansed and rinsed them with spirits of 



FRENCH WINES. 47 

three-sixths^ or with brandy, gather the 
grapes together, and pick them. This is 
done as soon as they are gathered. Their 
first care is to make a principal vat of the 
best fruit, which is called the mother cask 
(cuve mere J y into which, after picking, they 
put the first and best grapes which arrive, 
till they are from fifteen to twenty inches 
deep; after which, they throw about two 
gallons of old Cognac or Armagnac upon 
them, and then another bed of picked 
grapes, followed by two gallons more of 
brandy, and so on till the vat is full. When 
full, they throw two or four gallons of 
spirits of troissia:^ according to the size of 
the vat, taking for proportion about four 
gallons d-6ths for a wine-vat from thirty 
to thirty-six tun. 

In the very bad years, such as 1816, 1817, 
or 1826, the crop not being able to ripen, 
and the juice unable to enter into fermen- 
tation, it was necessary to excite it by 
artificial heat from chafing dishes, &c.; but 
this seldom happens. 



* Esprit de trois six, is the spirit of wine of the 
highest proof. 



48 FRENCH WINES. 

The cuve mere being filled, it is shut 
hermetically, and is well covered with 
blankets, in order that the air may not 
penetrate. The vat is left in this state for 
three weeks or a month without being 
touched ; taking care to visit it from time 
to time in case of accident. A small brass 
cock is put in the side of the yat, at about 
the height of a third of its depth from the 
bottom, in order to be able to judge of 
the progress of the fermentation, and to 
know the moment when, the ebullition 
having subsided, it may be racked off and 
put into casks, prepared beforehand by 
scalding and rinsing with a little spirits of 
troissiop. 

It is known that the liquor is fit to be 
drawn off, when it has become cool and is 
sufficiently clear. 

While the cuve mere is at work, the vin- 
tage is continued in the usual manner: viz. 
as the grapes are brought in and picked, 
they are trodden in the press, and put with 
their stalks into the vats, where the fermen- 
tation takes place naturally. These vessels 
are not entirely filled ; about one foot or 



FRENCH WINES, 40 

fifteen inches are left for the fermentation, 
which sometimes overflows, especially when 
the vintage has attained perfect maturity. 

The vintage heing finished, and the vats 
covered lightly, they are left to ferment, 
taking care to visit them twice a-day. To 
rack them, you must wait till they are 
quite cold, which is from eight to twelve 
days. 

In making the rvhite wine, the grapes 
are trodden, and when taken from the 
press, the juice, skins, and seeds are put 
into the casks (the stalks separated) ; here 
it ferments, and becomes wine of itself. 
When the fermentation has entirely ceased, 
it is racked off. 

To make Mtcscat WineSy the grapes, (as 
with other white wines) are left till quite ripe, 
and the stalks of the bunches are twisted on 
the vine, till they become withered and dried 
in the sun ; the grapes are afterwards 
gathered, pressed, and the must is left to 
ferment ; but as this juice is glutinous and 
syrupy, the sun having deprived it of a 
great part of its water, the operation takes 
place imperfectly. Muscat wine can thus 
only be made in warm countries, as in Lan- 



50 FRENCH WINES. 

guedoc and Provence, where the sun has 
great force. The best wines are from Fron- 
tignan and Lunel : to be good they ought 
to be rather pale, white, glutinous, of a 
musky odour, having a sweet and strong 
taste. 

Such is an outline of the manufacture of 
the principal wines of France. Our next 
point is to familiarize the reader with the 
best methods for their 

MANAGEMENT. 

The first object to be attended to previous 
to laying in a stock of French wines, is to 
provide a good cellar. The exposition ought 
to be north, if possible ; it should be pro- 
perly ventilated, and as quiet is a grand 
requisite in keeping French wines, — a cellar 
under the house is preferable to one 
under the street: it should be kept con- 
stantly clean and free from cobwebs. 
Any unpleasant smell in the cellar when 
French wines are bottling, is calculated to 
spoil them, so delicate are the finer kinds, 
and so susceptible are they of being afiTected 
by any oflTensive odour in the .atmosphere. 
The cellar ought to be of an equal tempera- 



id 



FRENCH WINES, 

ture all the year round ; if damp, it is very 
injurious to the quality of the wines. In 
this case, they ought to be ranged in the 
bins, at least three inches from the wall, 
and the first layer on pieces of wood, so as 
not to touch the ground : and if the cellar 
be very damp, the roof and walls ought to 
be covered with lead, so that all the humid- 
ity may be collected ; a channel ought also 
to be made, to carry it off out of the cellar. 

Count Chaptal, in his Art of Making 
WineSy thus expresses himself on the care 
to be taken in the Choice of a CeUa/r : — 

" 1. The exposure ought to be north, as 
^^ the temperature is then less variable than 
" when the openings are towards the south. 

*^ 2. It ought to be deep enough to allow 
^ the temperature to be always the same. 

" 3. The humidity ought to be regular, 
" without being excessive. When too 
" damp, the paper, corks, and casks, become 
" mouldy ; if too dry, the casks will give 
" way, and the wine will exude. 

" 4. The light ought to be moderate : a 
** strong light dries too much, and total 
*^ darknes3, or nearly so, rots every thing. 



52 FRENCH WINES. 

" 5. The cellar ought to be free from all 
shocks : motion, or sudden agitation, or 
the shaking occasioned by the passage of 
caniages in the street, stirs up the lees, 
which incorporate again with the wine 
and remain suspended in it, and thereby 
often turn the wine sour. Thunder, and 
all sudden shocks, are calculated to pro- 
duce the same effect. 
" 6. Green wood, vinegar, and all matters 
susceptible of fermentation, ought care- 
fully to be removed from the cellar. 
" 7. The rays of the sun, if they enter a 
cellar, change the temperature, and alter 
the properties of the wine. 
" 8. Hence a good cellar ought to be 
several fathoms under ground, opening 
towards the north, and out of the way of 
streets, roads, work-shops, sewers, currents 
of water, water-closets, wood-cellars, &c. 
and vaulted." 
The cellar being thus prepared, we will 
suppose the order for wine to be given, the 
selection depending greatly on the taste of 
the consumer. However, Clarets form a 
necessary part of the stock of every good 



FRENCH WINES. 53 

cellar; they will support any climate, where- 
as the Hermitage wines are very tender, 
and bad travellers ; if poor, they turn sour; 
if good, bitter ; especially the Beaume wines, 
and the tender delicate Volnay. But Cham- 
bertin la Romanee, and a few others of the 
good vintages, may be safely imported, and 
will, if properly attended to, give the owner 
a high reputation for the choice of his wine. 
The order should be given for the importa- 
tion of wines when the season is temperate, 
as g^eat heat or cold is equally injurious to 
wine. 

The wines being received in the cellars, 
are to be placed for fining perfectly levels 
and not inclining forward, as some erro- 
neously recommend. 

The management of French wines in 
wood, which are not ripe enough to put 
into bottles, is, however, an important point. 
In the choice of wine your own taste must 
guide you, as to its age and ripeness. New 
wines have a violet tinge, are hard and sour 
in the mouth, and leave an unpleasant sen- 
sation on the palate ; but if the wine be of 
a fine ruby color, soft and mild to the pa- 
late, having both a pJeasanf flavor and bou- 



54 FRENCH WINES. 

quet^ (the aromatic odour of the wine, which 
in Claret resembles the smell of violets) you 
may bottle it immediately. When they re- 
quire to be kept, the following observations 
must be carefully attended to. 

Ullage is fatal to French wines ; therefore 
the casks must be examined every month, 
and the ullage filled up with wine of the 
same quality, or, at least, of the same na- 
ture. If the casks are not kept full, the 
mephitic air in the space tends to turn the 
wine sour, and generate a mustiness on the 
surface ; when this mould appears, it is ab- 
solutely necessary to draw oflF the wine into 
another cask, which must be pure ; and to 
be certain it is so, it should be fumigated 
with sulphur. This operation of putting 
wine into fresh casks must, in all cases, be 
done at least once a vear. New wines de- 
posit tartar; and, at the periods of fermen- 
tation, in spring and autumn, this tartar, or 
dregs, being acted on more strongly than 
the wine, it incorporates with it again, and 
the wine, holding it a second time in solu- 
tion, does not readily part with it. In draw- 
ing off wines which are mouldy, it is neces- 
sary to cover the end of the cock which goes 



FRENCH WINES. 55 

into the cask with crape or gauze, to pre- 
sent any of the mould getting into the se- 
cond cask. 

BOTTLING. 

M. Jullien says the preservation and me- 
lioration of wines depend on the following 
points : — 1. On the maturity of the wine in 
the wood. 2. Their limpidity or brightness 
when bottled. 3. The proper time for bot- 
tling. 4. The bottles employed. 5. The 
quality of the corks. 6. The care employed 
in bottling. 7. The method of arranging 
the bottles ; and 8. The wax to preserve 
the corks from humidity and insects.* 

M. Paguierre, of whose experience we 
have already spoken, gives the following 
excellent instructions for bottling wine ; to- 
gether with the customs of various countries 
in this art, and of the manner in which the 
wines are worked, mixed and flavored, for 
the English market : — 

* Corks should be supple, and as little porous as 
possible. The best corks are always the cheapest. 
It is on this account that the Champagne wine- 
merchants pay for their corks six times the price 
of common corks. 



fcfe.ivjij-_ ■ , 



56 FRENCH WINES. 

Bottling should take place in fine weather, 
if possible, in March or in October; because 
at these two periods the wine being clearer, 
we are more certain of its not leaving any 
sediment in the bottle ; and this, especially 
for the choice wines, which ought to remain 
long in bottle before being used.* 

Before you bottle off a barrel, you must 
force it with seven or eight whites of eggs, 
very fresh (or with isinglass fining prepared 
for the purpose) after which, you must leave 
it ten or fifteen days, according to the wea- 
ther, taking care to keep the cask always 
close and well bunged, or, to avoid the incon- 
venience of filling it up, the bung may be 
put to the side, immediately after the ope- 
ration. It will clarify as well, and in this 
state you must draw it off into bottles. 

N. B. — Great care must be taken to keep 
the bung-hole clean, lest the egg^ which 

* A new method of stopping wine has lately 
been introduced in the south of France. This is 
to tie a piece of bladder, or parchment, over the 
mouth of the bottle, instead of using cork : the 
wine, says an amateur of gieat experience, will ac- 
quire, in a few weeks, all the qualities of age, 
which it would require years to give it on the old 
system. 



FRENCH WINES. 57 

may stick to it, become mouldy, and give a 
taste to the wine. 

To force properly, the number of eggs 
must be in proportion to the quantity and 
quality of the wine, as also to its age. The 
common and new wines require more isin- 
glass than the fine and old ones, because 
these last are more free from tartar and 
dregs; besides, if too many eggs were put 
to the old wines, not only would it take 
away too much of the color, already faded 
by age, but would deprive them of a part of 
their taste and smell. It must also be ob- 
served, that when the wines are racked oflF, 
or put into bottles, they lose momentarily 
great part of their flavor, which evaporates 
during the operation. This ought not, how- 
ever, to give any inquietude, because, the 
casks once racked off, the wine regains its 
flavor in about a month or six weeks; and, 
in bottles, as it is in small quantities, its 
primitive qualities return in all their per- 
fection at the end of five or six months. 

Each country has its customs. In France 
as in Holland, every one wishes for natural 
wines ; and it is for that reason that Hol- 
land imports her wine ^r^m Frnnce upon the 



58 FRENCH WINES. 

lees^ in order to manage or take care of them 
after the manner of the country. 

In the north, especially in Russia and 
Prussia, experience has taught men to pre- 
fer importing wines from Fi-ance at two or 
three years old, because they are already 
freed from the greater part of their dregs and 
tartar. 

In England, every one being long accus* 
tomed to drink strong Port wines, Madeira, 
and heady Spanish wines, the pure wines 
of France are not so much esteemed, because 
they are found, in comparison with the 
others, too cold. 

But in order to give the Bordeaux wines 
some resemblance to those vdnes of Spain 
and Portugal which are used in England, to 
render them of the taste preferred in that 
kingdom, from the effect of long habit, — 
the greater part of the French wine mer- 
chants who trade with England, are obliged 
to work thenij that is to say, to mix them 
with other wines by means of a particular 
operation. This is the reason why in gene- 
ral the wines shipped for England are not 
pure, and can no longer be known to be the 
same, when compared with those which re- 



.■5 



FRENCH WINES. 59 

main at Bordeaux. The operation consists 
in mixing a certain quantity of Hermitage, 
and other kinds of fine strong wines of the 
south, which give fire to the Claret, hut 
which render it dry when old, turn it of a 
brick-red color, and cause a deposit of sedi- 
ment when it has been some time in bottle. 

When, by the effect of mixing several 
sorts of wines, a working or fretting results 
which might injure the quality, they take 
some mineral crystal, reduce it to powder, 
and put an ounce into each barrel, beat up 
with a proper quantity of isinglass, and rack 
off the wine about fifteen days after, when 
it has got clear, and has entirely ceased to 
work. 

To give odour (bouquet) to the wine, they 
take two drams of orris-root, (racine (Tlris) 
in powder, put into a fine rag, and let it 
hang about fifteen days in the cask ; after 
which it is taken out, because the wine has 
then acquired sufficient odour; you may 
also, if desired, put the powder into a bar- 
rel, beat up with fining, and fifteen days 
after it may be racked off. 

Many persons, to make wine appear older 
and higher flavored, and at the same time 



60 FRENCH WINES. 

to prevent the injuring its quality, employ 
raspberry brandy (esprit framboise) ; in this 
ease the dose is two ounces for each cask: 
this spirit is well mixed with the wine, and 
fifteen or twenty days after, the wine has 
acquired a certain degree of apparent matu- 
rity, which is increased by a kind of odour 
which this mixture gives it. 

The bouquet which by these means is 
given to the common or ordinary wines, 
never perfectly replaces the natural flavor 
which distin^ishes the choice wines of 
Medoc and Grave, which ought to embalm 
the palate. It is very easy to distinguish 
the fictitious bouquet which has been given 
to the wine, if you are but little in the habit 
of tasting; fAr the smell of the iris as well 
as the raspberry, always predominates in 
the wines which have been worked, and 
forms a striking contrast with the natural 
flavor of the same wines. 

In the Appendix of Receipts^ will be 
found the best method for recovering 
French wines, which will complete the 
instructions for their management. 

We have already glanced at the Count 
Chaptal's calculations of the land in France 



FRENCH WINES. 61 

occupied by vines, in the year 1808. The 
following statement, however, is calculated 
to the present time, and has been obtained 
from a French scientific Journal, of high 
authority. It may therefore be implicitly 
received as a synoptical view of the recent 
state of the 



WINE TRADE OP FRANCE. 

The land at present in culture with 
vines is estimated at 1,728,000 hectares, 
(3,499,200 acres), yielding 40,000,000 hecto- 
litres (800,000,000 gallons), and giving a 
value of 600,000,000 francs (24,000,000/.) 

The general duties yield a total produce 
of 100 millions (4,000,000/.); the local 
or municipal duties, 20,000,000 francs 
(800,000/.) ; amounting, together, to a chai'ge 
on the entire produce of more than 20 per 
cent. According to M. Dupin, the expense 
of levying the indirect duties amounts to 
the exorbitant sum of 20,800,000 francs on 
a revenue of 138 millions; while, in Eng- 
land, the expense of collecting similar 
duties does not exceed 7 millions in 138. 

The duties to which the wines of France, 



62 FRENCH WINES. 

white or red, are subject in various countries, 
are as follow : — 

In Sweden, 400 francs the pipe; in 
Norway, 200 francs; in Prussia, 520 francs; 
in Russia, 750 francs; in England, 1200 
francs; in the United States, 189 francs 
90 centimes. 

Previous to 1789, the annual exportation 
of wines from Bordeaux amounted to about 
100,000 pipes ; but the trade has greatly di- 
minished since diat period. The following 
is the amount of the annual exportations 
since 1819, as stated in a petition of the 
wine-growers, to the Chamber of Deputies, 
in the Session of 1828 : 



1820 ....61,1 10 pipes 
1821 .... 62,224 pipes 
1822 .... 39,955 pipes 
1823 .... 51,529 pipes 



1824 .... 39,625 pipes 
1825 ....46,314 pipes 
1826 .... 48,464 pipes 
1827 .... 54.492 pipes 



The documents laid before the Chambers 
by the ministry, state the average value of 
the three years, 1787-8-9, at 32,000 firancs, 
wine, and 17,000,000 francs, brandy : the 
mean value of the exportation for 1825-6-7, 
at 48,000,000 francs in wine, and 20,000,000 
francs in brandy. 

In France, great complaints have, there- 



f 



FRENCH WINES. 63 

fore, been made within the last two years, 
of the languishing and depressed state of 
the wine-trade ; and the investigation of 
its actual condition has occupied much of 
the time and attention of the French govern- 
ment. A question has been raised, whether 
the high duties imposed on French wines, 
in foreign countries, have brought about 
this stagnation and want of demand now 
experienced? and, it has been shown, that, 
with the exception of England,* the foreign 
tariffs cannot have contributed much to this 
effect. The remedy suggested, and, indeed, 
the only probable one, is the reduction of 
the internal duties. The wine-growers suf- 
fer grievously, not only from the pressure 
of the government taxes, or droits g^raux. 



* The duty on French wines, imported into 
England, is 7s. 6d. per gallon. A sensible writer, 
in a paper on the Arts and Manufacturetin Prance, 
in me Foreign Quarterly Review, observes, the 
reduction of this dnty, or the introduction of a 
scale, on the ad valorem principle, into our tariff, 
as is the case in America, nnd m several countries 
in Em"ope, woidd be as great a benefit to the French 
vine proprietors, as it would be an acceptable boon 
lo our middling and lower classes, and u certain 
augmenlation to the Revenue, 



64 FRENCH WINES. 

wine pays, on entering the barrier of a town, 
but of which no drawback is allowed on its 
exit. These town dues are very arbitraiy, 
and in some places so excessive, that it is 
by no means uncommon to find French 
wines dearer at home, than in other coun- 
tries of Europe. The octroi of Paris is 21 
francs (or 17*. 6d,) per hectolitre, although 
the quarter part of the wine consumed is 
not worth more than 15 francs (or 12s. 6d,) 
the hectolitre ; and it is a strange anomaly, 
that those who wish to get wine at a mode- 
rate price, cannot do it without stepping 
outside one of the barriers* of Paris, where 
but of the octroi^ or municipal tax, which 

* The untravclled reader will probably require 
some explanation of the term barrier, which implies 
a gate, or entrance, of which there are fifty, bearing 
different names, at Paris. Beside an iron-gate, are 
two lodges, or rather temples or pavilions, called im* 
reaux ([octroi, where the duties are received. Some 
of these buildings are very elegant, and surmounted 
with triumphal arches, &c. At the eastern and 
western extremities of the barriers, boats, called 
patdches, are stationed upon the river, to collect the 
duties upon goods entering Paris by water. The 
octroi duty on wine, therefore, may perhaps be 
compared to the duty on all coals entering the port 
of London. 



. -di 



^ FRENCH ■WINES. 65 

they are at once in the " Islands of the 
Blest," — in a land flowing with Bordeaux 
and Macon, — which, freedom from the octroi 
makes the chosen seat of the votaries of 
Bacchus. 

"We have stated six hundred million francs 
to be the value of the annual produce of 
wine in France ; of this, one hundred mil- 
lions are exacted by the droits gin^raux, 
and twenty millions more by the octroi, 
making a total taxation of one-fifth part of 
the whole. The proprietors of vineyards 
have petitioned repeatedly for liberation 
from these restrictions ; and in every case 
where relief has been granted, the increase 
of consumption has surpassed expectation. 
At Bordeaux, where the duty is one-half less 
than at Paris, twice as much wine is con- 
sumed in proportion to the number of inha- 
bitants, as in the French metropolis. 

As the object of this work is the conve- 
nience and information of the consumer, 
it may not be uninteresting to give a few 
memoranda of the retail prices of wine in 
Paris. Thus, at a warehouse, equal to Mo- 
rel's in Piccadilly, the following are a few 
charges : — 



66 FRENCH WINES. 

Chamberdn-la-Romanee . . 4 francs 

Macon 1| to 1| 

Mont-Rachet 3 

Chablis 2 

Champagne^ — ^Av — Mousseux 4 to 5 

, Sillery ... 

Bourdeaux, Lafitte .... 6, 7 and 8 

Chateau-M argaux . . . . 4 to 6 

Medoc 2 

Bourdeaux (ordinaire) 60 cents, to 1 franc 

Sauteme 4} francs 

Barsac d| 

Graves 2 to 3 

Hermitage 4 

Cote-Rotie 3{ 

St. Peray 3 

Rancio'; Koussillon (sweet) . . 5 j 

Rivesaltes 4f 

Frontignan 4f 

Lunel 2^ to 3{ 

Inferior Bourdeaux or Burgun- 
dy, at 11 or 12 sous 

The wine trade of Paris is conducted in a 
market for the purpose, called the Halle aux 
VinSy on one of the quays of the Seine. The 
market was established in 1656, but the 
present was begun by Napoleon, 1813. It will 
be enclosed with walls on three sides, and 
towards the quay is fenced by an iron rail- 
ing ; and is one of the most magnificent mar- 
kets in Europe. It is divided into streets, 
called after different wines, as Rue de Cham^ 



FRENCH WINES. 67 

paffne^ Rue de Bourgogne, Rue de Languedocy 
and Rtie de la Cdte d'Or. Beneath, are for- 
ty-nine cellars, vaulted with hewn stone; 
the whole will contain about 400,000 casks, 
or even double that number, if necessary. 
In the Jialle there is an office containing 
measures of all the casks of the different 
parts of France ; where any purchaser can 
require a cask to be measured. Every cask 
that enters, pays one franc duty to the govern- 
ment ; frequently, fifteen hundred enter daily. 
The conveyance of wine to different parts of 
the city, is by a sort of dray, somewhat like 
a wine-merchant's pulley for lowering casks : 
upon this carriage, 4, 5, or even 6, casks are 
placed, at lengthy (not abreast, as on our 
drays) and are thus confined by strong ropes, 
tightened by a windlass. These narrow 
conveyances are well suited for the confined 
streets of Paris, but, at turnings, they are 
nearly as awkward as a load of timber in 
our metropolis. 

The wine-shops, or shops of the marchand^ 
de viriy are about upon the same scale as spi- 
rit-shops in London ; except that, in the 
French capital, the eye is spared the disgust 
of drunkenness. Here wine is sold by the 



68 FRENCH WINES. 

measure, as the litre^ demHitrej See* Some 
cabarets have tables and seats, where ^carU, 
and dominoes are played from mom till eve. 
Grocers and confectioners likewise deal in 
wines and liqueurs, as commonly as they 
sold home-wines in England a few years 
since. Upon the arrival of the current year's 
wine, it is usual to place a placard of " Vin 
Neufy'^ in the window; and this may al- 
ways be obtained a few weeks after the vin- 
tage. 
— ■ 1 111 

* The consumption of French wines in France, 
has very naturally increased with the increase of 
national wealth. In 1821, the quantity retailed 
as ahove, and, of course, chiefly consumed by the 
lower classes, scarcely amounted to 12,900,000 
hectolitres;* in 1826, it exceeded 14,400,000. 
The quantity sold wholesale, (and consequently 
consumed hy families of opulence, or at least, in 
easy circumstances,) exhihits a still more strongly 
marked progress. In 1818, it was 2,665,948 hec- 
tolitres ; in 1826, is amounted to 3,973,486 ; and 
in 1828, to 25,264,208. 

The quantity of French wine imported into the 
United Kingaom, in the year ending January 
1829, amounted to 475,374 gallons; the amount 
of duty paid 172,000/. 2s. 6(/.; and the quantity 
remaining in hond, 510,816 gallons. — Parliamenr 
tury Papers* 

* A hectolitre, is about 25 gallons. 



SPANISH WINES. 



Spain, from the productiveness of her 
vineyards, is entitled to high rank among 
the wine countries of Europe, and is second 
only to France. Possessing all the advan- 
tages of aspect and soil, Spain might rise 
stUl higher, by improvement in the modes 
of treatment and manufacture of her wines ; 
but, in this, as in other countries of the con- 
tinent, where Nature has been lavish of her 
wealth, art and invention receive but little 
stimulus from her bounty * 

The wines of Spain are white and red : 
the former are for the most part excellent ; 

* By way of illustrating the fine climate of 
Spain, Mr. Jacob describes objects as being more 
distinct at two leagues distance, than the same 
would appear in England, at the short distance of 
a mile. 



70 SPANISH WINES. 

but the red are spoiled by bad management,* 
and but little esteemed. For dry, white 

* Of this mismanagement many instances might 
be quoted. Thus, bottles and casks are rarely met 
with in the villages of Spain, where the peasantry 
store the produce of their vintages in skins, which 
are smeared with pitch; hence the wine is often 
muddy and nauseous. Indeed, the accounts given 
by travellei-s of the common Spanish wines almost 
represent this neglect as an abuse of Nature's bounty, 
and exhibit a sad picture of the indolence of toe 
natives. Mr. Jacob, who visited the soudi of 
Spain in the year 1809, relates one of these in- 
stances. "The mountains round Grenada" ob- 
serves this inteUigent traveller, " are well calculated 
for vines, butsohtde attention is paid to the cul- 
tivation of them, that the wine produced is very 
bad." He could only obtain at the inn where he 
resided, "a. kind of mferior sweet white wine," 
which was not drinkable; "but we had the best 
proof that good wine is made here, in some that 
a gentleman sent us from his cellar : it was equal 
to any Burgundy I have ever tasted, and of the 
" same colour, without any flavour of the skin; in 
" fact, he had sent botdes to a vineyard about three 
" leagues distant, celebrated for its excellent wine^ 
" in order to have it free from that taste which all 
" the wines here acquire from being brought from 
" the vineyards in sheep-skins with tarred seams. 
What follows, is, however, still more extraor- 
dinary, that " in a country where cork trees 
ahound, the trifling operation of cutting diem is 
so ill done, that, to have his wine in good ordert 



tt 



€€ 
C€ 
(€ 






.id 



SPANISH WINES. 71 

win^B, and certain varieties of sweet wines, 
Spain is, however, almost without a rival ; 
hence, the trade in these wines is one of the 
most important of her commercial resour- 
ces. 

Foremost among the wines of Spain are 
those grown at Xeres, near Cadiz, in the 
province of Andalusia, and better known 
under the name of Sherry. Much of the 
celebrity of this wine is, however, attribut- 
able to the superior management of British 
and Fi'ench settlers, in whose hands are 
many of the principal vineyards; yet, such 
is the diversity of the soils of this district, 
that the best vines yield twice the quantity 
of wine that is obtained from the inferior 
soils. 

The manufacture of Sherry wines is an 
interesting process ; especially as the wines 
diemselves are so extensively drunk in this 
country. Dr. Henderson describes the ma- 
nufacture as follows: — "Red and white 
grapes are used indiscriminately. They 



" t&ifr gentleman thought it necessary to send to 
*f Malaga for English corks, as weU as for English 
" kotdes." 



72 SPANISH WINES. 

are gathered as they become ripe, and are 
spread on mats to dry. At the expiration 
of two or three days, they are freed from 
the stalks and picked; those that are un- 
ripe or rotten being rejected. They are 
then introduced into vats, with a layer of 
gypsum on the surface, and are trodden by 
I^asants with wooden shoes. The juice 
that flows from them is collected in casks ; 
and these, as they are filled, are lodged in 
the stores, where the fermentation is allow- 
ed to take its course, — continuing generally 
from the month of October, till the begin- 
ning or middle of December. When it has 
ceased, the wines are racked from the lee8> 
and those intended for exportation receive 
whatever addition of brandy they may re^ 
quire, which seldom exceeds three or four 
gallons to the butt. The wine thus pre- 
pared, has a new, harsh, and fiery taste ; 
but is mellowed by being allowed to re- 
main four or five years, or longer, in the 
wood; though it only attains its full fla^ 
vor and perfection, after having been kept 
fifteen or twenty years. Sometimes bitter 
almonjds are infused in it, to give that nutty 
flavor which is so highly prized in this 



SPANISH WINES. 73 

wine.^'* To this we may add, that the most 
esteemed are diose of a pale straw color. 
The peculiar taste of leather, which is so 
often observable in Sherry, is owing to the 
custom of bringing the wine down the 
country in large leathern vessels, or, as the 
Spaniards call them, a boot, bota: whence 
we derive the term butts which we bestow 
on the casks wherein Sherry is imported. 
Sherries are dry and sweet; but the dry are 
the most esteemed in this country : on their 

* The quantity of wine annually made at 
Xeres, is about 40,000 pipes ; of this, 25,000 are 
consumed in this city, in Cadiz, and the vicinity : 
15,000 are exported, of which ahout 7,000 are sent 
to England; and the remainder to the United 
States, or to the different Spanish dominions in 
South America. The value of the wine, when 
new, is from £8 to £lO per pipe; it increases in 
value by age : and that which is sent to England 
is always mixed with brandy, which occasions a 
further augmentation in the price. Most of the 
wine-merchants in Xeres, have distilleries to make 
brandy, to add to then* wine ; but do not export 
any. There are no staves, nor iron hoops, in this 
part of Spain ; so that supplies are obhged to be 
obtained from foreign countries for the package in 
which they export their most important production. 
The United States of Ameidca furnish the staves, 
and the iron-hoops are sent from England. — 
JacoV$ Travels in Spain. Mo, 180P , 



74 SPANISH WINES. 

native soil, the choice is reversed, the Spai*' 
niard uniformly 'preferring such wines bA 
are rich and sweet. The driest species of 
Sherry, is the Amontillado^ made in imitlh 
tion of the wine of Moutilla, near Cordova. 
The quantity manufactured is, however, 
very limited, notwithstanding the frequent 
occurrence of " Amontillado" in the wine-' 
merchant's vocabulary.* 

Paxareta, a luscious malmsey, is also of 
this district ; its name being derived from 
Faxareta, an ancient monastery, in the en- 
virons of Xeres. This is, in fact, a species 
of sweet Sherry; where the fermentation 
has ceased before the saccharine matter 
has been entirely decomposed. At St. Lu?: 

* The tenn Sherry has given rise to much con- 
troversy among antiquarians and commentator8> 
especiidly with respect to FalstaflTs Sherries scickc 
there can be no doubt, but that it was dry Sh»ry } 
and the French word sec, dry, corrupted into sack; 
In a poem, printed in 1619, sack and sherry are 
noted throughout as synonimous, eveiy stanza of 
twelve ending, — 

Give me sack, old sack, boys, 

To make the muses merry ; 
The life of mirth, and the joy of the earth, 

Is a cup of old Sherry. 

Pasquil's Palinodia. 



SPANISH WIN£a. 75 

car, another sweet wine is manufactured ; 
but this is not so highly prized as the 
other wines of Xeres. Paxareta is highly 
prized in this country : it is sparkling and 
elegant in the glass, and one of the most 
delicious wines known to our table. 

In this province also is made the Tinta 
di Rota, Tintillay or Tent wine ; this is very 
strong and sweet, and is an excellent sto- 
machic, but is seldom drunk at table. 

In the province of Grenada, is made the 
celebrated Malaga, or Mountain, so called 
firom the name of the town, and the declivi- 
ties on which the vines grow. The soil 
consists of clayey slate or limestone, and the 
lower the rock, the better it is calculated for 
vineyards. Thus, the slate splits into lay- 
ers, and is perhaps covered with twelve or 
eighteen inches of mould, and so loose is 
this earth, that, to prevent its being washed 
away by the rains, it is banked into terra- 
ces. Vines, in this district, yield three se- 
parate harvests* of grapes, though several 

* On the hills round Malaga, are upwards of 
7,000 vineyards, which produce annually 80,000 
arobas of wine. The first harvest of grapes com- 
mences in the month nf June which if solely for 



76 SPANISH WINES. 

thousand feet above the lerel of the sea. 
This fertility may be attributed to the great 
capacity of slate and slaty soils for retain- 
ing the heat of the sun. Slate has also been 
turned to account in ripening grapes on 
roofs; and slate-walls have even been sug- 
gested for the same purpose, in our less ge- 
nial climate. 

Malaga is both dry and sweet, and 
and red white. The sweet, white Moun- 
tain, is, however, most sought after as a 
dessert wine. Peroximenes, or Pedro Xi» 
menes, is a very fine-flavored, full-bodied 
wine of this district, and much resembles 
Paxareta Malmsey, alrea4y mentioned. 

In Valentia is found the Alicant, a red 

those dried by the sun ; the heat of which, by 
extracting the saccharine juice, preserves them 
without any other process; and this species is 
known through Europe, as Maltha i-aisins. In 
September, the second crop is gathered, which is 
made into a dry wine resembling Sheny, and called 
by that name ; but, to my taste, much inferior. 
The last vintage of the year, is in October and 
November, and produces those wines, called uj 
Spain and her colonies, Malaga ; and in England, 
Mountain : the natives of Spain prefer these to 
the dry wines of Xeres, or even of Madeira. — 
Jacob, 



SPANISH WINES. 77 

wine, lesembling the Rota, and much used 
in France. It is sweet, when new, but 
grows thick and ropy with age ; like the 
Tent, it is a good stomachic. Among the 
other red wines of Valentia, is Benicarlo, 
from the sea-port of that name. This wine 
is red, dry, and thick, and is much used by 
the Bordeaux merchants in the manufac- 
ture, or rather adulteration of Claret, as 
already explained *. The poorer wines of 
Bordeaux are, however, materially im- 
proved by the admixture of Benicarlo. An- 
other purpose for which the latter is used, 
is as a substitute for Port wine, to which, 
it need hardly be added, it is very inferior, 
both in quality and price. An imposition 
of this sort may be detected, by observing 
whether the wine oflFered, has a ruby 
color instead of a deep black ; a generous 
flavor, and not that harshness which imme- 
diately offends a good palate ; if not, it as- 
suredly cannot be Port wine. 

In Catalonia, the vine is also extensively 
cultivated, though with such negligence is 
the manufacture of wine conducted there, 



78 SPANISH WINES. 

that the maker seldom racks or fines the 
liquor, but sends it to market as from the 
vat. Still, some of the white wines of this 
district are veiy choice, as Sitgas, a Malm- 
sey, nearly equal to Malaga. Arragon has 
likewise many fine vineyajds,especiaJly of red 
grapes;thefiLtwineproduced,fromw^^^^^ 
is from the Gamctcha vine. The best of all 
these, is a red wine, named Hospital, which 
is of excellent flavor and strength : some of 
the white wines are also much esteemed 
In the same province, are made, Mountain, 
Tent, and Mataro, all of which are sweet, 
thick, ropy, and unwholesome. 

Peralta, in Navarre, also yields a delicate 
dessert wine. A particular sort of this dis- 
trict receives the name of Rimcio, when it 
is old enough to merit that distinction. 

The wines of the Canaries, although not 
actually Spanish, are to be met with in most 
of the ports of Spain, and are usually classed 
with the wines of the latter country. The 
whole of the Canaries produce excellent 
wines ; but the preference is given to those of 
Parma and TeneriflFe. In favorable vintages, 
Teneriffe makes up about thirty thousand 
pipes of Vidonia, or, as it is sometimes de- 



SPANISH WINES. 79 

nominated, bastard Madeira, from the simi- 
larity of its flavor, and appeai'ance to the dry- 
wine of the last-mentioned island. Tene- 
liffe also produces a sweet wine, resembling 
Malmsey Madeira. Chacoli, in Biscay, 
produces a second-rate wine; in order to 
obtain which, the Biscayans engraft five 
or SIX different vines on the same stalk. 
Most part of Biscay abound in these vines, 
which border upon the high road, generally 
growing to the height of three or four feet. 
The wine in Biscay is sold at a certain 
price, as regulated by the police, and until 
the whole produce of the vintage is dis- 
posed of, no foreign wine is permitted to be 
brought into the province. Hence, the sole 
object of the wine-growers is to collect a 
lai'ge quantity of wine, without attending 
to its quality, and " Chacoli" has become a 
bye-word in Spain. Ripe and unripe 
grapes are mixed together in the manufac- 
ture, and thus the produce is good for 
little ; whereas the fruit of this province 
would, with proper care, produce a wine 
little inferior to the Champagne of France. 
Majorca and Minorca produce wines 
which are sometimes exported; but the 



80 SPANISH WINES. 

qualities are spoiled by the bad system up- 
on which the vintage is treated. To the na- 
tives of a northern climate, this negligfence 
is truly painful, and appears a species of 
ingratitude, which is a no very enviable 
feature of national character. 

Among the other Spanish wines entitled 
to mention, are the wines of Guidas, in 
Castillo, which is made from cherries, and 
is a sort of ratifia. Fuencaral, a village 
near Madrid, is also known for its wine ; 
and those of Val de Penas, and Ciudad 
Real, may be compared to the stronger 
wines of Bordeaux, and vary but little ex- 
cept in colour. 

Yepes, a small town of Spain, surrounded 
by vineyards, is also celebrated for a very 
delicious white wine. The vintage here, 
which is one of the most gratifying scenes 
of luxuriant nature, is thus described : — 
^* It was the season of the vintage when 
" we arrived ; and, for the first week, we 
" saw nothing but cars and mules, laden 
" with baskets of ripe, luscious-looking, 
" grapes, and surrounded and followed by 
" gi'oups of vintagers of both sexes, and all 
^^ ages, smiling and singing, and looking 



u 
« 

u 



SPANISH WINES. 81 

" contented and happy. In this town also, 
we could procure the finest red wine from 
Val de Penas, in La Mancha. Long 
strings of asses, remarkable for their size 
and beauty, brought this, every week, from 

" the interior of the province ; and we were 

** enabled, during oiu: stay, to keep tables 

" quite luxurious."* 

The happy scene at Yepes, is indeed a 

Carnival of Nature; and assimilates to 

some of the classic Triumphs of the God of 

Wine. 

* Recollections of the Peninsula. 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 



Without entering into an historical 
view of the circumstances which led to the 
introduction of the wines of Portugal into 
this country, we may briefly state, that 
their adoption resulted rather from the poli- 
tical relations of the two countries, than 
from the intrinsic worth of the wines them- 
selves ; France and Spain producing many 
varieties which will bear comparison with 
the best of the Portuguese vintages. 

The vine is extensively cultivated through- 
out Portugal. The two varieties of wine 
known in this country, are Lisbon and Port, 
which are obtained from vineyards in the 
vicinity of Lisbon, and upon the banks of 
the Douro, about fourteen or fifteen leagues 
from Oporto ; occupying a space about six 
leagues in length, and two leagues in 
breadth. The vine of the latter district 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 83 

originally grew in Burgundy ; but the cli- 
mate of Portugal has so altered the grape, 
that no two wines are more unlike than the 
produce of these territories. 

The wine country, or district of the Upper 
Douro, is under the .superintendance of a 
chartered company, , established in the year 
1756; and to such iK height had the mono- 
poly of this company once risen, that, be- 
sides fixing the prices of the wines, they 
even restricted the grbwth of the vine to cer- 
tain limits.* 

* In a law of the Company's charter, we find 
the following : — 

*' The principal object of this Company is the 
'^ better to support the reputation of their wines, by 
" the culture of their vineyards ; to establish a fair 
*' price for the cultivatoi*s and traders, and to raise 
*^ a fund, out of which the company should assist 
*' the necessitous vintagers by loans, without tak- 
" ing from them for these loans, a higher interest 
*' than 3 per cent. ; provided such loans do not ex- 
*' ceed half the common value of the wines." 

The reader may not, therefore,* be aware, that by 
a treaty entered into between Great Britain and 
Portugal, usually called the Methuen treaty, the 
inhabitants of this country, are in some measure 
forced to drink Port wine, from the advantages 
given to Portugal, in her wine-trade with England, 
over every other nation, on the sole condition tl^at she 



84 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

The vintages are divided into factory and 
secondary wines. From the factory wines, 

will take our woollens in return. This being the case^ 
we could not reasonably expect that so much care 
would be taken to supply the market with the best 
wines^ as if there had been a fair competition with 
other countries exporting wine; but^ it coold 
scai-cely be conjectured, that the Portuguese go- 
vemment would sanction the establishment of a 
company, by which such a monopoly might be 
established, as would effectually destroy the wine 
trade of Portugal, if circumstances ever turned up 
to annul the Methuen treaty. 

From a " Report of the Proceedings of the Com*- 
mittee of Wine Merchants, in London, Carres-' 
pondents of the Royal Wine Company, at 
Oporto, in consequence of a petition presented 
to Parliament in the year 1812, by certain per- 
sons, calling themselves Merchants of the late 
Factory," we gather much information, though 
the conflicting statements of a party question like 
this, must not occupy our pages. From the Ap- 
pendix to this pamphlet, we learn, that " One cause 
" of Port wine being in so short a period so very 
generally drunk in England, appears to have 
been^the establishing a body of merchants in 
England ; so far considered as beneficial in tak- 
ing off the woollen manufactures of England, 
" under the sanction of those most valuable privi- 
" leges, ceded by John IV. King of Portugal, in 
the year 1654, to Oliver Cromwell, and the go- 
vernment of England; from which time (forbe-r 
fore that they only went as supercargoes, and 



it 
it 
ft 
t< 
ft 



t( 
tt 
ft 
ft 



ft 
tt 
tt 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 85 

are selected those for the English market — 
those for other foreign markets— or, for 

^' returned again to England,) we may date the 
*' first settlement of the English in Portugal." 

The treaty already alluded to, has, however, been 
frequently infringed by the Portuguese. Accord- 
ingly, the petition of Merchants ti-ading to Por- 
tugal, was presented by Mr. Canning, in 1812. 
During the authority of the Cortes, some attempts 
were made to destroy the monopoly of the Com- 
pany ; but only a few of the obnoxious privileges 
were abated. 

The admixture and adulterations of Port wine, 
as we have already said, gave rise to the establish- 
ment of the Company; since, upwards of forty years 
before, brandy was mixed with the wines, from an 
idea that it was essential for their preservation. 
This supposition is, however, entirely gratuitous. 
Certain regulations were formed, to suppress this 
and other pernicious practices; but, no sooner 
were the Company established, than they set about 
countenancing the very evils they professed to 
abolish. At first, elder-trees were rooted up, and 
forbid growing under severe penalties; and if any 
elder-berries, or elder juice, was found in any 
lodge, or repository of wine, all the wines of that 
lodge were confiscated, and the owner was liable to 
imprisonment, fine, or transportation; and all 
other articles of adulteration were proscribed with 
equal rigour. One of the privileges of the Com- 
pany was, power of buying and making brandy ; 
and when taxed with this species of adulteration, 
they not only pleaded its tipcessity for expoitable 



86 PORTUGUESE WIMES. 

home consumption. The secondary wines 
supply the taverns and distillers. The 

wines, but attributed the adulteration to the cor- 
rupt policy of the English merchants, who- wished 
the wine *' to exceed the limits which nature had 
assigned to it ; and, that when drunk, it should 
feel like liquid fire in the stomach ; that it shotdd 
bum Uke inflamed gunpowder; that it should 
'^ have the tint of ink ; that it should be like the 
sugar of Brazil in sweetness, and like the ^ices 
of India in aromatic flavor. They began by 
recommending, by way of secret, that it was 
proper to dash it with bi-andy in the fermentation^ 
*' to give it strength ; and with elder-berries, or the 
" rind of the ripe grape, to give it colour : and, as 
" the persons who used the prescription found the 
'^ wine increase in price, and the English mer- 
'' chants still complaining of a want of strength, 
" color, and maturity, in the article supplied, the 
" recipe was propagated till the wines oecame a 
" mere confusion of mixtures.** Whether this be, 
or be not, a true idea of the English taste in Port 
wines, the result is, that the greater part of the Port 
wme, which is now brought direct to this countzy, is 
the juice of a variety of grapes, both white and red, 
pressed together, along with die stalks, carelessly 
fermented, and mixed with brandy; and wh^ 
there is a deficiency of black grapes, com, colored 
with elder-berries ; whereas, but for this diabolical 
trickery, the Portuguese wines would have been the 
finest in the world; we mean, had the most skilfnl 
means been adopted in their manufacture, and the 
spirit of monopoly been rooted out fix>m their trade. 



a 

ft 

St 



tt 
it 
tt 
It 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 87 

finest 'EjL'Partj (whence the name,) or Fae- 
tory wine, from its superior strength, and 

.The system of adulteration^ once begun in the native 
coontrv, would^ of course^ be canied still further in 
that wherein the wines were exported. Thus, the 
pernicious practice is sometimes carried on, with- 
out r^ard either to science or humanity; and 
many compounds sold in London, and elsewhere, 
intended to imitate Port, and other wines, agree 
with them in no other character, save in color and 
astringency. Hence, the practical paradox of more 
Port wine being manufactured in the vaults be- 
neath die streets of London, than is procmed from 
the vineyards of Oporto. 

But the most objectionable of the company's pri- 
yil^ies remains to be noticed, — that of fixing the 
maximum of price for the wines of the district. 
Nothing could more clearly expose the cupidity of 
the association than this privilege. Quantity, not 
quality, became their object : hence the culture of 
me growth was neglected for the most productive ; 
and, as Dr. Henderson pertinently observes, '* the 
*' adulterations to which the best wines of the 
** Cima do Douro are subjected, have much the 
same effect, as if all the growths of Burgundy 
were to be mingled into one immense vat, and 
sent into the world as the only true Burgundian 
*' wine ; the delicious produce of Romance, Cham- 
*' bertin, and the Clos Vougeot, would disappear ; 
*' and in their places, we should find nothing better 
f' than a second-rate Beaune, or Macon wine." 

The hrandying of wines is carried to consider- 
able extent in this country. Port wines, otherwise 



€« 
€€ 
4< 



88 PORTUGITESE W1NE8. 

consequent demand for it, is three or four^ 
times as dear as the thinner wines of th^ 
adjacent districts. 

Certain districts on the banks of th& 
Douro produce wines remarkable for their 
strength, flavor, and color ; harsh and un- 
pleasant, when new; sound, high-flavored^ 
and delicate, when old ; but the district be- 
yond there produces a hungry, thin winer 
in a warm climate pleasant, and fit for the 
common drink of the inhabitants, but sel- 
dom for exportation. 

of excellent Quality, are thus frequently rejected 
by determined Port wine drinkers. White wines 
are still more injured by brandy, unless where a 
secondary fermentation ensues. Ta sueh a length 
is hrandying carried even in Portugal, that very 
little of the spirit is exported, nearly the whole 
being used in adulterating the wines. The same 
practice is also common in making up Spanish 
wines. 

The use of elder-berries, it seems, originated 
with one of our own countrymen, a Mr. Peter 
Bearsley, a factor, resident at Viana ; who, travel- 
ling into the wine-country, put, as an experimtsnt» 
elderberry juice into some pale-colored wine, to 
add to it a red tint ; deepness of color, in new 
wines, being considered as a proof of their excd- 
lence. Finding it to answer, it hence became used 
among factors and merchants for this purpose. 



PORT0GtJES£ WINES. 89 

The finest wine is grown in the territory 

^f the Cima do Douro, or Alto Doui-o. This 

*^iperiority is accounted for as follows :— 

"When the demand for the thin Methuen 

'* -wines, (or wines made from red and white 

grapes mixed, so called from Mr. Paul 

IVfethuen, who first made them,) became 

greater than its produce, it put some 

English supercargoes, who resided there, 

and at Viana, near Oporto, on teaching 

Portuguese to cultivate the vineyards on 

the heights, or mountains, bordering on 

** the river Douro, from whence the district 

^* takes the name of Cima (high, up aloft,) 

** do Douro. It is about forty or fifty miles 

^^ from Oporto, where the harbour is, and 

** where it runs into the sea. It is there vul- 

" g^ly called the English Factory, and the 

" Wine Country ; from thence it is the wines 

" are transported and conveyed down to the 

" city of Oporto, in proper vessels, being a 

, " sort of lighters, or keels."* 

A great variety of species of vines are 
cultivated here, according to the flavor of 
the wines just mentioned. The plants are 

* Appendix to the " T^'^fe^ic'* " 'ib*ead'" iiio*^d 



00 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

kept low, and trained on poles. The grapes 
are gathered when they shrivel, and, with 
the stalks, are trodden, in broad and shal- 
low vats, several times, during the fermenta* 
tion ; which, for superior wines, extends to 
three days. The fermentation over, the 
liquor is put into immense tuns, of from 
1,000 to 2,500 gallons each. The racking 
is guided by the fair of the Douro, usually 
in February ; when the wine is conveyed in 
pipes down the river, into the Factory cel- 
lars ; or into those of the wine merchants, 
who purchase at this period.* 

The prices are regulated by the govern- 
ment: as soon as they are promulgated, the 
factors and individuals send in their names 
to the proprietors of the wines. The ^ole 
of this trade is carried on at Villa Nova, 
near Oporto. The quantity annually shipped 
for Great Britain has been variously stated. 
The following has been given as official 
accounts for eight years : — 

^ It is well known, that all liquids increase in 
bulk with heat : hence the policy of the merchants 
purchasing at this cold season, and selling in the 
summer. 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 91 

In 1818, the Factory wine exported from 

Oporto, amounted to 32,843 pipes ; of this 

qaantity, 32,465 were fur England. 
In 1819, the total quantity exported was 19,502 

pipes ; nearly the whole to Great Britain. 
In 1820, the quantity exported was 23,740 pipes ; 

almost the whole to Great Britain. 
In 1821, 24,640 pipes; nearly the whole to 

Ghreat Britain. 
. In 1822, 27,758 pipes ; of which 27,470 pipes 

came to Great Britain. 
In 1823, 23,758 pipes; of which 23,208 to 

Great Britain. 
In 1824, 19,164 pipes; the same proportion to 

Great Britain. 
In 1825, 40,524 pipes ; of which 40,277 to 

Great Britain. 
In 1826, 18,604 pipes; of which 18,310 to 

Great Britain.''^ 

The usual color of Fort wine, on its ar- 
rival in this country, is purplish, or inky ; 

* Foreign Quarterly Review, No. III. 

* In the ten years, 1813 — 1822, the annual 
average quantity of wine exported from Oporto to 
Great Britain, was 24,364 pipes ; and to all other 
parts of the world, only 1,094 pipes per annum. 
— Vide p. 98, of a Pamphlet, hy James Warr, Esq. 
1823. The quantity exported since 1822, has not 
materially altered. 

The largest vintage of the Alto Douro was in 
1804, when it amounted to 76,655 pipes; in 1810, 
it was only 36,250 pipes. In 1798, 64,442 pipes 
were exported. 



92 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

rough and full body ; of an astringent and 
bitter sweet taste ; and odour and flavor of 
brandy, proportionate to the genuineness of 
the wine. Keeping the wine in the wood, 
will abate all these peculiarities, except 
those of the brandy ; which, age, in the bot- 
tle, as from eight to fourteen years, will 
alone qualify ; and the genuine wine is then 
obtained. In the meantime, the coloring 
and other matter becomes crusted on the 
sides of the vessels, frequently carrying with 
it much of the flavor of the wine, which is 
then technically termed iawney. 

It may not be uninteresting to state, that 
Port wines were introduced into England 
about the year 1700. Howel, in his Let- 
ters, 1634, says, " Portugal afi'orded no 
" wines worth transporting." Another 
writer, in 1788, says — ^^ it does not appear, 
" that Port wines have been at all known 
" in the northern countries of Europe, above 
" sixty or seventy years at farthest. So 
" late as Queen Anne's time, the importa- 
" tion was very small ; for, it is related, tra- 
" ditionally, that it was then customary in 
" London, upon the meeting of two friends, 
" the one to invite the other to a tavern to 



Jk 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 93 

^^ drink ; or, in a vulgar phrase, to crack a 
" bottle of Claret dashed with Port :" which 
intimates the extreme scarcity of the latter, 
compared with the former. Davenant, In- 
spector-General of the Imports and Ex- 
ports, in his Report to the Commissioners, 
in 1662, says, " that no Portugal wines were 
'^ entered in the Custom House Books at that 
" time." In the year 1702, the war broke 
out with France and Spain ; and the Portu- 
gpaese joining the allies, the next year, a 
new treaty, commonly called the Methuen 
treaty, was concluded by Queen Anne ; by 
which Portugal wines were to pay one-third 
less duty than French wines. From this 
time, we may date the general use of Port 
wines in Great Britain. In years, when the 
Clarets were strong and plentiful, before 
the war with France, in the reign of Wil- 
liam and Mary, 500 pipes would glut the 
market. In 1717, the duties on French 
wines were 55/. 5s. per tun ; and on Port, 
only 7L 6s. Sd. — l-7th. The French wine 
trade, consequently became depressed ; and 
Portugal wines came into more general use^ 
and Dr. Halley observes, " that the encou- 
" ragement was so great, that the Portu, 



94 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

^^ guese became industrious, and eullmi 
^^ and increased their yineyards, for thi 
^^ to forty leagues, on both banks of 
'^ Douro ; so that the country became 
" only enriched, but new peopled by' 
^^ trade. Thus, it appears by the record 
^^ this date, as well as by the importatioi 
*^ late years, (see page 91,) that England 
" the only country that drinks Port, for 
" benefit of the wine-growers of the Doui 
Red wines are also furnished by ot 
territories besides those of the Douro : m 
of these resemble the second growths of 
Bordelais. Mon§aon, is, however, descril 
as very celebrated, and a£fording suffici 
for a kingdom. Cintra, and its vicin: 
also yield red wines: here, 

Hard by the olive, and the purple vine. 
Their mingled treasures lavishly bestow ; 
Oh favor*d land ! thus com, and soil, and w 
Alon^ thy happy vallies ever flow. 
And bid man's i*avished heart in gratefu 
warmth to glow.* 

The wine known in this country as Cola 
Port, is grown near Cintra. 
The principal white wines of Portuj 

* Lisbon : by Marianne Baillie, 12mo. 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 95 

u% fiucellas, from a few miles above Lis- 
bon; the sweet wines of Carcavellos and Se- 
tuval, and the dry wines of Termo. Most 
of them reach us as Lisbon wines : and Mrs. 
fiaillie, in one of her Letters from Lisbon, 
says, " At the door of every Caso de Pasta, 
*' or public-hoase, we observed the ancient 
^ symbol of a bush ; but, we are assured, 
'^ that the wine found within, is of so excel- 
'' lent a quality, as to require no sign of this 
" nature." Of the Termo wine, this intel- 
ligent lady also thus speaks: — " We have 
" tasted a sort of white light wine, sold 
" here, which we thought almost as refresh- 
'^ ing and excellent as hock, and for which 
" the common charge is about two-pence a 
" bottle; it is made in the vicinity of Lisbon, 
" and is known by the name of mnho de 
" Termo:' * 

About a century since, the red wines of 
Lisbon were considered richer, stronger, 
and better, than the wines of Oporto ; and 
their white wines were excellent. The red 
are, however, now unknown; and the white, 

comparatively, in disrepute. " One to two 

— ■ ■ — 

* Lisbor vol f. 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 97 

t^l " itself over their humble roofs ; or spread- 
'Mng aloDg a sort of light trellis-work, 
" formed grateful and shady porticoes be- 
" fore their doors."* 

The valley of Colares is one of the richest 
and best cultivated spots in the kingdom of 
Portugal. The greater part of it is planted 
with fruit trees, particularly orange; and 
though they are so close together, that their 
boughs intertwine, yet they bear vast quanti- 
ties of delicious fruit. Of the peculiarity 
of the soil about this district, Carcavellos 
furnishes a striking instance, — where there 
is a vineyard of no considerable extent, that 
yields grapes diflferent from those of any 
other part of the kingdom. 

* Ibid. 



V 



GERMAN WINES. 



Notwithstanding the celebrity of Ger- 
many as a wine country, the introduction of 
the vine there is by few authorities refeixed 
to the same period. Tacitus, in his per- 
spicuous and minute details of the mann^ 
and customs of the Germans, does not no- 
tice the vine ; but speaks of the soil as xxor. 
favourable to fruit trees, which is almost 
a proof that the vine did not exist there in 
his time. Again, beer is spoken of as beii^ 
altnost universally the national beverage;* 
which custom also strengthens the opinion, 
that the consumption of wines among the 
Germans was then restricted to foreign kinds, 
and those were only to be met with in such 
districts, as by their proximity to rivers, were 
adapted for commercial convenience. 

Among the most satisfactory of the classi- 

* See page 13, of the present volume. 



J 



QEHHAX wmSK. 99 

^a] authorities which have been quotetl 
UjJOD this point, the earliest is thatof Auso- 
uius, iu the seveuth century, who comme- 
morates the vine-clad baaks of the Moselle, 
und the beautiful aroma of its wine, in some 
of his most felicitous flights of song. The 
culture of the vine, on the banks of the 
Rhine, is of later date, — viz, in the time of 
Charlemagne, whence the agricultural pros- 
perity of Germany is dated ; and so favor- 
able has the climate become to the culture 
of the vine, that in certain places, the plant 
flourishes beyond the latitude of the north- 
ernmost vineyards of France. 

The banks of the Rhine, from Mentz to 
Coblentz, comprise the choicest vineyards. 
The superficial extent of the circle of Cob- 
lentz, is computed at 17,251 Prussian acres, 
and the quantity of wine they produce, at 
385,323 ankers, the value of which is esti- 
mated at £265,000 ; so that each acre an- 
nually yields above fifteen pounds sterhng. 
The wine districts in the circle of Treves, 
contain 2,346 acres, producing 284,822 
aulma of wine, valued at £364,950 ; whence 
it seems, that each acre gives an annual 
produce of more than thirty-nine pounds 



100 GERMAN WINES. 

sterling.* In this district, the yineyards 
extend over both banks of the river, and 
form a scene of indescribable richness 
and beauty. The variety of rocks which 
form the basis of their banks, have fur- 
nished an excellent opportunity for ex- 
amining the influence of their geological 
structure upon the qualities of the soil and 
wines, so successfully cultivated in iMs 
countiy. The comparison, which would be 
difficult to be established in other parts, 
has here been easily made, and wrill serve 
as a basis for other researches. This in- 
quiry has been made by an ingenious Grer- 
man, attached to the Botanic Garden and 
Public Arboretum, at Heidelburg; and the 
results are to be found in a work recently 
published by this gentleman, On the CkdH- 
vation of the Vine v/pon the Banks of the 
Rhine. They will be interesting to the rea- 
der, who is but slightly acquainted with 

* The excise payable on each hundred weight, 
containing thirty-six quarts, is four shillings ; but 
on wines of foreign growth, it is twenty-four shil- 
lings. The effect of this protecting duty, has been 
to increase the domestic consumption, since 1819, 
from 116,068 to 161,544 quarts. 



GERMAN wrafiS. 101 



(4 

ff 

it 

tt 

€t 

€t 
€t 

4* 



g^logical technicalities, and 
in a note.* 



* '' Granite, hy the decomposiiioD cif Bfika md 
felspar, fbmishes aTeir lotileaiid darey ^n>m^ 
Quartz has a light and porous soil; i>i «as}T 
admits air, maistiire, and heat ; and harst bc^liei. 
retain heat ; theie the line will afiwd ^Dod mine, 
if all things aze eqnalhr fiKfoanhleu 

Sienite prodnces at least a amilar eStct. 
Felspar Porphyry , like the grmite, faniifh<cs 
an excellent scm, on vhidb the line soottwk rery 

" welL 

"' Clay Slate, hj its decooiposiiioD, simplies a 
very fertile sckQ ; if the qoarlz, v^iich olten nu» 
in veins in this rock mix with the uA, it makes 
it lighter, and renders it more fit Ux retaining 
heat The deep ec^om* peculiar to this land ^ 
soil increases also its tempeiatmie. This soil is 

" most favoorahle for the vine. 

" Basalt forms, also, hj its decompoong quali- 
ties, a very prodnctiTe and suitable sofl for the 
vine, and becomes one of the best, where mail 
and pebbles of batak are (bmid mixed together. Its 
deep colom- increases heat, and is one of the pin- 
cipal caoses of its iertility Ux the vine. The best 
sorts of vines grow on tnis soiL 

Dolerite prodoces the same effect as the basalt; 

" the most valuable wines are supplied horn this 
soil. 

Variegated SamdsUme, in consequence of its 
decomposition, a&nds a li^t soil, more or less 
productive ; fdiere it is not mixed, it is barren, 

** and the vine waOen op ii in drv fs^^afons. This 



€4 
44 
14 
44 
4( 



4€ 
41 
4( 
U 
44 
41 

44 

tf 

44 
U 
tf 



(t 
t( 



(t 
(t 
(t 



102 GERMAN WINES. 

In the district just particularized, are the 
Rhinegau vintages, which, with those of 

" is not the case where it is mixed with marl^ clay, 
'' and other earths ; but in general it produces no 
" remarkable wine. 

The clay soil^ which is formed from the de- 
composition of Shell Marl, is difficult to colti- 
vate. If the calcareous properties prevail, it be- 
'' comes dry and poor, and requires much manure : 
" but when the calcareous parts are mixed with a 
clay soil, it may produce vines which are of a 
very fair sort. In general, however, mountains 
of this description are of a height too inconsider- 
" able, and their summits too flat for such cuhiva- 
" tion. 

The Coarse Limestone, being very unsuitable 
(tres desagreahle), furnishes a deep and fertile 
" soil, when it is well tilled ; and good vines may 
*' be reared upon it. 

" Gypsum when it composes the sediment of the 
" soil, should produce, according to the author, 
'* good vines ; but he appears to have seen no in- 
" stances of it. 

Kiffer, which is easily decomposed, furnishes 
a light soil, on which vegetation is similar to that 
" on the vaiiegated sandstone. The wine which it 
" produces is weak. 

'' The Schistous Marl of the Lais is easily de- 
" composed by the air, and yields a fertile soil, 
" favorable to the vine. Its black colour is beneficial 
" to the maturity of the grape ; however, it is not 
" distinguished by the production of any remark- 
" able wine. This soil, when it is interspersed with 



St 



if 



GERMAN WINES. 103 

Hochheim, on the banks of the Mayn, are 
considered the finest German wines. A 
small white grape, and an Orleans grape, 
are the fhiit usually preferred here ; they are 
allowed to become fully ripe, and the manu- 
facture is conducted with great care : the 
fermentation is carried on in casks, so as to 
preserve the aroma, and the wine is then 
allowed to mellow in tuns, usually holding 
about 350 gallons, or eight aulms.^ Al- 



*' round pebbles mixed with clay and sand, is very 

" fit for the vine. 

Vegetation commences only by the mixture of 
clay in the sand, arising from the decomposition 

*' of different rocks. Such land can only produce 

*' wild vines, and vegetation is often completely 

"impeded during dry seasons. 

" The mud of gained land is genei*ally little 

*' favorable to the vine. Wet seasons are espe- 
cially injurious to it, and it only produces a bad 






<( 



" wme. 



* The wine-growers of Germany, were for- 
merly celebrated for the immense size of the vessels 
in which they kept their wines. The most famous 
of these were the casks of Tubingen, Heidelbergj 
and Grumingen. The Tubingen cask was twenty- 
four feet in length, and sixteen in depth ; that of 
Heidelberg, thirty-four feet in length, and twenty- 
one deep; and that of Grumingen, thiity-four feet 
long, and eighteen deep. T^e Heidelberg cask 



104 GKRMAN WINES. 

though these stupendous casks are usnaHjr 
regarded as the wonders of the place» 
where they are situated, they are of some^ 
practical service, since some of the stronger 
wines were more effectually mellowed in. 
these immense vessels, than in those o€ 
less magnitude. In this case, the casks^ 
were kept filled up, else the wine soon be- 
came worthless. 

has long been dry^ and the others are in similar 
condition. Another remains to be mentioned, that 
Konigstein made in the year 1725, and larger 
than any of the former. This was erected at Fort 
Konigstein, in the neighbourhood of Dresden, by 
General Kyaw. The height is seventeen Dresden 
ells, and its diameter at the bung twelve ells. It 
is always replenished with excellent wine, and con- 
tains 3,709 hogsheads. On its plate is a Latm 
inscription, to the following purport : — " Welcome, 
" traveller, and admh'e this monument, dedicated 
to festivity, in order to exhilirate the mind with 
a glass, in the year 1725, by Frederick Augustus, 
King of Poland, and Elector of Saxony ; the 
" father of his country — the Titus of the age — the 
" deUght of mankind. Therefore, drink to the 
" health of the sovereign, the country, the electoral 
family, and Baron Kyaw, governor of Konig- 
stein ; and if thou art able, according to the dig- 
nity of this cask, the most capacious of all casks, 
" drink to the prosperity of the whole universe — 
" and, so farewell i** 



tt 



it 




OERMAK wik£:s. 105 

A more giaphic description of the wine 
districts than we have hitherto quoted, will 
t»e found in the lively jouiDal of a recent 
tourist* on the banks of the Rhine. " It 
" runs," says the writer, " along the right 
** bank of the Rhine, from Cassel opposite 
** Mayence, to the junction of the river Lahii 
" with the Rhine, near Coblentz, compre- 
'* bending the luxuriant Rhinegau, Hoch- 
" heini, Johannisberg, Ruilesheim, and all 
" the other genial spots which regale, with 
" pure Rhenish, the bam vivam of Europe. 
" Hochheim stands on a little sunny eleva- 
" vation on the Maine, between Frankfort 
" and Mayence. The little town is sur- 
" rounded by vineyards, with scarcely a 
" tree to obstnict a single ray of sun ; but 
" the choice wine of the place, which eveiy 
" turtle-fed alderman flatters himself he 
" drinks, is produced on a little hill of about 
" eight acres, behind the ancient deanery, 
" which seems formed to court the sun, and 
'■ is protected by the town from the north 
" winds. Each acre contains about 4,000 
" vine plants, valued at a ducat a-piece ; and 




106 GERMAN WINES. 

" the little hill produces in a good year, 
" about twelve large casks of wine, each of 
^^ which sometimes sells, as soon as made, 
" for 1,500 florins, (nearly JE150). Hoch- 
^^ heim was made a present by Buonaparte 
" to General Kellerman." — " This baccha- 
^^ nalian paradise, (the Rhinegau,) which ex< 
^^ tends on the right bank to Lovrieh, has 
^^ from time out of mind been renowned foi 
" its superior wines. An old Carlovingian 
^^ king first gave it to an archbishop oi 
" Mayence, and it was surrounded by a 
^^ rampart and ditch, some remains of whicli 
^' are still visible. At some distance from 
^* the river, rose the Johannisberg mount 
" the rival of Hochheim, covered with 8 
" garden of vines. The wine produced here 
^^ is the dearest and most precious of th( 
" Rhenish wines." Rtidesheim is describee 
as " a busy little town, at the foot of th< 
" bold mountain on which is produced th( 
" famous Rudesheimer wine." Travellers 
however, do not always enjoy the local ad 
vantages of the country through whicl 
they are passing, for our present touris 
says, " though in face of the rich mountain 
" the Rudesheimer wine was not so goo( 



GERMAN WINES. 107 

*' as we might have procured a hundred 
" miles distant." 

" It is difficult," continues the writer, 
" to give you an idea of the luxuriant rich- 
" ness and beauty of the scenes we now 
" passed. The mountains rose on each side, 
'' sometimes in nigged masses, and some- 
^ times in round regular slopes, immediately 
" from the banks of the river. The right 
^^ bank is far more fruitful than the left ; 
" for several leagues from Bingen, its jrange 
" of mountains is one verdant garden, co- 
" vered from the summit to the base with 
" the light green verdure of the well-trained 
" vineyards ; here and there interspersed 
^^ with ridges and masses of rough black 
" rock, whose rude shlEipes defy cultivation. 
" The magnificent Route Napoleon, cut 
" with incredible labour out of the rocks 
" which overhang the river, runs by its side 
" froni Cologne to Bingen; — sometimes un- 
" der craggy shelves and abrupt rocks, co- 
" vered with brushwood and heather, and 
" interspersed with a few vineyards, in spots 
" smooth enough to bear them; — sometimes 
" across little fertile plains, where the 
" mountains slightly recede from the stream ; 



108 GERMAN WINES. 

" or, through orchards, vineyards, and an- 
^^ tique villages at their base. The black 
" purply hue of the rocks, frequently com- 
" posed of basalt, slate, &c. contrasted witk* 
" the delicate green of the vines, which 
" thrive in all their gullies and crevices^ 
^^ adds to the mellow luxuriant tone of the 
*^ scene. A bacchanalian might drink in 
" intoxication from the view— every thing 
^' has a blushing vinous colour; if there was 
'' such a thing as an alderman of imagina- 
^' tion, his lips would water in descending 
" the Rhine." 

^' The strongest wines are said to be made 
" on the highest grounds, — the most whole- 
^^ some on those of moderate height; and 
" the wine of the low grounds is sour and 
^^ requires keeping. Among the multitude 
" of wines which the country produces, the 
^' Laubenheim, Bischeim, and Asmans- 
^' hausen, are considered the most agree- 
^^ able ; those of Hochheim and Johannis- 
^^ berg, the most aromatic ; and those of 
" Nierstein, Markebrunne, and Rudesheim, 
^^ the strongest and most spirituous : a nicety 
" of discrimination, which, at all events, 
" vouches for the connoisseurship of the 



OERHAN wrNEB. 109 

** worthy Germans in such matters, and 

** which may give hints to some of our Lon- 
* don amateurs of the grape." 

" Below Lovrich, the mountains slightly 

** diminish; the town of Bacharach appears 
*' on the left bank, with its mouldering ram- 

** parts half covered with vines, and with 
*' that gloomy slated gothic character which 
*' distinguishes all the towns on the Rhine. 
*' Sons vhans of all ages, appear to have 
*' been of one mind as to the wine of Bach- 
" arach. The Romans called the place 
" Bacchi ara. Pope ^ncas Sylvius used to 
" import a tun of the wine to Rome every 
" year ; and the Emperor Vencezlaus was so 
" fond of it, that he sold the citizens of 
" Nuremberg their freedom for foui- casks. 
" We passed the true ara Bacchi, a little 
" lower down ; a stone, lying in the river 
" between an island and the right bank. Its 
" appearance above the water is hailed with 
" joy ^J the vintagers, as a sign of a dry 
" and hot summer." 

The number of vineyards in the kingdom 
of Wuitemberg, is 595 ; the land cultivated, 
is 82,729 acres, of which 61,514 acres are 
exclusively devoted tjc *h« vine. The total 



k. 



110 GERMAN WINES. 

wine produce in 1826, was 184,380 kilder- 
kins, and the value 3,990,831 florins. 

Dr. Henderson is inclined to class the 
wines of the Rhine by themselves, and as 
generally drier than the French white 
wines ; although some of the lighter sorts 
very much resemble the vins de Graves: 
yet, all the Rhenish wines have a peculiar 
aroma, and what is more extraordinary, an 
extreme durability, — notwithstanding they 
contain, comparatively, but little spirit. 
This preservative quality is attributed by 
Dr. Henderson, to the full decomposition of 
the saccharine matter in the Rhenish grapes, 
and to " the large proportion of free tartaric 
" acid " which the wines contain, " and 
" which can only be separated by the usual 
" chemical co-agents." Acidity is not a 
characteristic of Rhenish wines, when ob- 
tained in perfection, but is the result of 
manufacture in ungenial seasons ; in illus- 
tration of which, Dr. Henderson mentions, 
that *' the wines which have been made in 
" warm and dry years, such as that of 1811,* 

* The produce of the Steinberg vineyard, in 
1811, has been sold on the spot for 6\ florins, or 
half-a-guinea the bottle. This is the strongest of 
all the Rhine wines. 



GEBMAN WINES. Ill 

" or the year of the comet, as it is sometimes 
" called, are always in great demand, and 
" fetich exorbitant prices. Of preceding 
" vintages, those of 1802, 1800, 1783, 1779, 
" 1766, 1748, and 1726, are esteemed the 
" best. That of 1783, in particular, is the 
" most highly esteemed of any of the last 
" century." 

Hitherto we have spoken but of white 
wines, with the exception of Asmanshausen, 
mentioned by the ingenious tourist, at page 
108. This wine is red, and compares with 
fine Burgundy ; but the other red wines of 
the Rhine, are hardly entitled to notice. 

The banks of the Moselle produce wines 
of light pleasant flavour, somewhat resem- 
bling the best Graves^ and in great abund- 
ance, — some of the vintage of the year 1829, 
having been sold on the spot for one half- 
penny a bottle ! 

Here om* notice of the wines of Germany 
must close, — although Franconia, Swabia, 
Moravia, and the Tyrol, produce wines ap- 
proaching in quality those already mention- 
ed; yet, their properties will scarcely in- 
terest the general reader ; whilst their ex- 



11*2 GERMAN WINES. 

cellence is not of sufficient character for the 
hon vivant. 

The German wines principally drunk in 
England, are Johannisberger, Rudesheimery 
Hock, and a few of the Moselle wines. — 
Hock, it would seem, is a restorer and 
brightener of the intellect; if we only recol- 
lect the jeii de mot attributed to Swift, of 
" declining hoc^'* and the " hujus glass." Lord 
Byron too, in one of his wayward fancies, com- 
mends Hock to the bacchanalian ; and even 
ranks it above the onion soup of the French, 
which, by our neighbours, is thought highly 
restorative, peculiarly grateful, and gently 
stimulating to the stomach, after hard 
drinking, or night-watching.* It holds 
among soups, the place that Champagne, 
soda-water, or ginger beer, does among H- 
quors. 

The Germans, not content with procuring 



* Ring for your valet — bid him quickly bring 
Some hock and soda-water, then you^l know 

A pleasure worthy Xerxes, the great king. 
For not blest sherbet, sublimed with snow, 

Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring, 
Nor Burgundy in all its sun-set glow, 

After long travel, ennui, love, or slaughter. 

Vie with that draught of Jiock and soda-water. 

Don Juan. 



GEBMAN WINES. 113 

wine from the fresh grape, Ausbruch from 
the raisins, brandy from the skins, and syrup 
from the unfermented juice, have likewise 
attempted to supply themselves with oil from 
the 9toneJ^ Dr. Crell, in the year 1783, in 
his volume on New Chemical Discoveries, 
published an account of this produce, stat- 
ing, that from 100 pfunds of the stones, 10 
nMSS of a useful oil might be obtained; and 
several authors, both in Germany and Italy, 
mention the same subject. The process con- 
sists simply in collecting the stones before 
the mass of skins has begun to ferment, 
drying them with care, and expressing the 
oil in a mill suited to the purpose. One of 
the earliest experimenters on this subject, 
was a gentleman of the name of Lang, who 
instituted extensive trials on some estates 



* M. M. Schnebler and Beutsch, have also 
found that other species of oleaginous seeds, give 
the quantity of oil as follows : — filberts, 60 per cent. ; 
garden cresses, 66 to 58 ; olives, 50; walnuts, 50 ; 
poppies, 47 to 50; almonds, 46; colsa, 39; white 
mustard, 36 ; tobacco seed, 32 to 36 ; kernels of 
plums, 33 ; winter turnips, 33 ; summer turnips, 
30 ; woad, 30 ; hemp seed, 25 ; fir, 24 ; linseed, 
22; black mustard, 18; heliotrope, 15; beech mast, 
12 to 16. — German JournaL 



114 GERMAN WINES. 

in Styria, so that all the peasants supplier 
themselves with oil for their domestic pmK 
poses; and a calculation was made, thsL 
Austria was capable of yielding this o: 
perfectly serviceable in all manufactures 
and for burning, at least 515,982 pfunds, c 
which, Hungary alone would furnish 425,84 
pfunds. 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 



The mines of Hungary have yielded 
their wealth with an unsparing hand ; but 
in her vineyards^ her harvests, and flocks, 
are placed great and almost unbounded 
resources.* The vine is therefore cultivated 
to a very considerable extent. Schwartner 
has estimated the annual vintage of Hun- 
gary, at more than one half the whole vin- 
tage of Austria and its provinces, estimated 
by Blumenbach, at 32,873,971 eimers. The 
consumption of wine in Hungary is very 
great, but the export is also large ; and as 
early as the year 1804, the Emperor of Aus- 
tria, to encourage the consumption of Aus- 
trian and Hungarian wines, had forbidden 
any foreign wines to appear at his table. 

* Blight's Travels in Hungaiy, 4to. 1818. 



116 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

The vineyards of Hungary are, however, 
chiefly in the hands of the peasantry, who 
pay but little attention to the manufacture 
of the wine. Dr. Bright describes most 
of them as possessing a small piece of 
land, but their peaceful labours are conti- 
nually interrupted by the calls of their chief- 
tains, and the claims of government: — 
" what little time remains, they bestow upon 
" their vineyard, as upon a lotteiy ; a blank 
*^ is drawn, and the adventurer becomes a 
*^ burdensome beggar, dependent on his 
" lord ;" or he not unfrequently seeks some 
monied man, usually a Jew, to whom, for a 
trifling advance, he pledges, by a verbal pro- 
cess, the wine of the coming year ; but, of 
which he can yet form no calculation : he 
thus becomes involved more and more 
deeply, and, at length, is irretrievably 
ruined. 

The quality of Hungarian wines might 
be much improved by the selection of good 
gi'apes, and the separation of the ripe from 
the unripe fruit. This, however, is not to 
be expected from peasants, whose measure 
of a good wine year consists in the number 
of casks which are filled, and not in the qua- 



HDNGABIAN WIKE8. 117 

lity of the produce. The greater part of the 
commoD wine found in the inns of Hun- 
gary is, consequently, very poor. It is ge- 
nerally a white wine, but faintly coloured, 
from the mixture of grapes of every species. 
Some of the finest ports have, nevertheless, 
obtained a celebrity, which originally arose 
from the peculiar care bestowed upon the 
manufacture. Foremost among these wines 
is that of Tolcay, which is the product 
of the country around the town of Tokay, 
called the Submontine district, or the He- 
gallya, which extends over a space of about 
twenty English miles. Throughout the- 
whole of this country, it is the custom to 
collect the grapes which have become dry 
and sweet, like raisins, by hanging on the 
vines. They are gathered one by one, and 
it is from these alone that the prime To- 
kay, or, as it is termed, Tokay Ausbruch, is 
prepared. They are first put together in a 
cask, in the bottom of which holes are bored 
to let that portion of the juice escape, which 
will run from them without any pressure. 
This, which is called Tokay essence, is gene- 
rally in very small quantity, and very highly 
prized. The grapes are then put into a vat, 



118 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

and trampled with the bare feet, no greater 
pressure being permitted. To the squeezed 
mass is next added an equal quantity of 
good wine, which is allowed to stand for 
twenty-four hours, and is then strained. 
This juice, without further preparation, be- 
comes the far-famed wine of Tokay, which 
is difficult to be obtained, and sells in .Vien- 
na, at the rate of £12 sterling per dozen. 
Great part of these vineyai'ds are the pro- 
perty of the emperor; several, however, 
are in the hands of the nobles. Although 
called Tokay, this nectar of German epi- 
cures * is not the produce of Tokay itself, 
but of its environs, particularly Tarczal. 
The yearly produce amounts on an average, 
to 110,000 aulms. 

Dr. Townson, in his Travels in Hungary, 
also gives a minute account of the mode in 
which Tokay is manufactured. The doctor, 
however, does not rate this celebrated wine 
so highly as might be expected : he says, 

* It is equally prized in this country, — since in 
some epicurean hints on the ai't of drinking wine, 
'* Champagne,with its argent foam, is to be sanctifiied 
"by an offering of Tokay, poured from a glass so 
" small, that you might fancy it formed of diamond." 



BUNQJIRIAN WINES. 119 

" Tokay is, no doubt, a fine wine; but I 
" think no ways adequate to its price : there 
" are few of my countrymen, except on ac- 
" count of its scarceness, who would not 
" prefer to it good Claret or Burgundy, 
" which do not cost one-fourth of the price. 
" Some of the sweetish Spanish wines, 
" begging its pai'don, are, in ray opinion, 
" equally good ; and, unless it be very old, it 
" is too sweet for an Englishman's palate." 
The Tokay Essence is thick, and never 
perfectly clear, — very sweet, and luscious. 
It is chiefly used to mix with the other 
kinds, and when joined to the Masslasch, 
forms a wine equally good with the Aus- 
bruch, and often is sold for it. The Aus- 
bruch is the wine commonly exported, and 
what is known in foreign countries under 
the name of Tokay. The following are the 
best mles forjudging of it; though in this, 
and all similar coses, it requires experience 
to be able lo put such rules into practice. 
1. The colour should neither be reddish, 
which it often is, — nor very pale, but a light 
silver. 2. In trying it, you should not 
swallow it immediately, but only wet your 
palate, and the tip of your tongue. If it 



120 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

discover any acrimony to the tongfue, or bite 
it, it is not good: the taste ought to be soft 
and mild. 3. It should, when poured out, 
form globules in the glass, and have an oily 
appearance. 4. When genuine, the strong- 
est is always of the best quality ; andj 5. 
When swallowed, it should have an earthy 
astringent taste in the mouth, which they 
call the taste of the root. The Poles, par- 
ticularly, ai*e fond of this astringency and 
austerity in their Tokay. 

Besides the qualities already mentioned, 
all Tokay wine has an aromatic taste, — ^so 
peculiar, that nobody who has ever drunk it 
genuine, can confound it with any other 
species of wine. The only species that bears 
a resemblance to it, grows in a very small 
quantity, in the Venetian Friule, and is 
only to be met with in private families in 
Venice, where, in the dialect of the place, 
it is called vin piccolit. The Tokay wine, 
both the Essence and Ausbruch, keeps to 
any age, and improves by time ; it is never 
good till it is about three years old. It is 
much the best way to transport it in casks ; 
for when it is on the seas, it ferments three 
times every season, and refines itself by 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 121 

these repeated fermentations. When in bot- 
des, there must be an empty space left be- 
tween the wine and the cork, otherwise it 
trould burst the bottle. They put a little oil 
on the surface, and tie a piece of bladder on 
the cork. The bottles are always laid on 
their sides in sand.* 

Tokay, when new, is of a brownish yellow 
colour, yet, changes with age, to a greenish 
tint. Dr. Henderson relates several parti- 
culars of its high value, by keeping ; and 
tells us, that at Cracau, some vintages are 
said to have been stored a whole century. 
He also says, that " When the Emperor of 
" Austria wished to make a present of some 
" Tokay wine in return for a breed of horses, 
^* which had been sent to him by the ex- 
" King of Holland, the stock in the impe- 
rial and royal cellars, was not deemed 
sufficiently old for the purpose; and 2,000 
" bottles of old Tokav wine, were therefore 
** procured from Cracau, at the extravagant 
*' price of seven ducats the bottle." 

Hungary, perhaps, produces a greater 
variety of wines than any other country in 

* Philos. Transactions abridge^ vol.xiii. p. 453. 






123 HUNGARIAN l^INES. 

Europe. They count as many as one hun- 
dred different sorts. The most valuable 
white wines, after the Tokay, are — 1. The St 
George, which grows in a village of that 
name, about two German miles north of 
Presburg, and in the same latitude with 
Vienna. This wine approaches the nearest 
of any Hungarian wine to Tokay. For- 
merly, they used to make Ausbruch at St. 
George; but this was prohibited by the 
Court, it being supposed that it might hurt 
the traffic of the Tokay wine. 2. The 
OEdenburg wine, resembling the St. George, 
but inferior in quality and value. (Eden* 
burg is a town, situate about nine German 
miles north-west of Presburg. 3. The Car- 
lowitz wine, something like that of the 
Cote Rotiej on the banks of the Rhone. Car- 
lowitz stands on the banks of the Danube, 
between 46 and 46 degrees of latitude. 

The best red wines, are — 1. The Buda 
wine, which grows in the neighbourhood of 
the ancient capital of the kingdom. This 
wine is like, and perhaps equal to Bur- 
gundy, and is often sold for it in Germany. 
A German author says, that a great quan- 
tity of this wine used to be sent to England 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 123 

in the reign of James I., overland by Bres- 
lau and Hamburg, and that it was the fa- 
vorite wine, both at the court, and all over 
England. 2. The Sexard, a strong deep-r 
coloured wine, not unlike the strong wine 
of Languedoc, which is sold at Bordeaux 
for Claret. The Sexard wine, on the spot, 
costs about five creutzers, or twopence-half- 
penny a bottle. Sexard is on the Danube, 
between Buda and Esseh. 3. The Erlau 
wine, which is reckoned at Vienna almost 
equal to that of Buda. Erlau is in Upper 
Hungaiy, south-west of Tokay, between 47 
and 48 degrees of latitude. 4. The Gros 
Warden wine, strong-bodied, and very cheap. 
Gros Warden is an old fortress, near the 
confines of Transylvania, between 46 and 
47 degrees of latitude.* 

It is said, that the vine was first introduced 
by the Emperor Probus,in the fourth century, 
by whom it was planted in Sirmien. The To- 
kay vineyards are known to have flourished 
in the thirteenth century ; their great cele- 
brity is, however, said to have arisen after 
the destruction and neglect of the Sirmien 

* Philos. Trans, abridged^ vol. xiii. p. 454. 



124 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

vineyards, subsequently to the battle of Mo- 
haes. The Sinnien wines, are now again 
become valuable. The red wine from that 
countiy, called Schiller wine, is much Cf»- 
teemed : it is strong and sweet. They like- 
wise make small quantities of Ausbruch, 
and some of those preparations of wine 
called Wermuth, particularly two sorts, de- 
nominated Palunia and Tropfwermuth. The 
exact process of forming the latter is a se- 
cret ; but the former is prepared by putting 
together fresh grapes, wormwood, bruised 
mustard-seed, and several spices in layers, in 
a cask, pouring old wine over the whole, 
and closing the cask firmly. In a few 
weeks, the liquor is fit for use; but, As it 
will not keep above a year at the utmosti 
though much esteemed, it seldom forms an 
article of commerce. 

The vineyards of M^nes, have been de- 
scribed at some length, by Dr. Ltibeck.* 
Their produce is a sweet red wine ; and as 
the Tokay is not entirely the produce of the 
mountain of that name, so the Menescheris 
not only obtained firom Menes, an inconsi- 

* Hungarian Miscellany. 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 125 

derable village, but from the whole extent 
of a chain of hills, nearly covered with 
Fines and villages towards the descent. In 
some parts, these hills are so steep, that 
when heavy rains set in, large tracts of 
ground are often carried away, and the la- 
bour of many years is destroyed in a few 
minutes. The rock of the whole of this 
chain is clay slate. The labourers and inha- 
bitants of this country, are almost entirely 
Walachians ; the cultivation of the vine is 
their principal occupations, and even women 
and children labour in it, either for them- 
selves, for their lords, or for hire. 

Flums are here cultivated to a consider- 
able extent, — that is to say, the trees are 
planted, and the fruit gathered. From these 
the peasants generally themselves manufac- 
ture the well-known damson brandy. In 
the vineyards are seen many cherry-trees, 
apricot, peach, and almonds; and in the 
valleys, the filbert. On the borders, and in 
the divisions of the vineyards, they plant 
culinary vegetables, particularly the beet 
and carrot, which thrive well. 

The vineyards are held by the peasantry 
on the usual tenure, graving a ninth and 



126 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

a tenth of the wine produce to the landlord, 
and two florins for each stiU for preparing 
spirit, with some other small dues. The 
Ausbruchs, and the Mdslas, pay no tenths. 
Much care is bestowed on the cultivation of 
the vineyards, because the lord has the 
right of taking them away from such as 
neglect them, and giving them to others. 
Most of these vineyards belong to persons 
who do not reside upon the spot, but who 
have houses for their wine-presses, and for 
temporary residence, which they occupy 
from the beginning of October, to the end 
of November; during which time, balls, 
amusements, parties of pleasure, and fire- 
works, add to the gaiety of the season. The 
proprietor employs a peasant to keep his 
house, and superintend the vineyard; his 
usual pay is at least 30 gulden^ 1 stein of 
salt, 2 pair of shoes, a large cloak, lodg- 
ing, and wood, besides his common allow- 
ance as a workman, when he labours in the 
vineyard. 

The finest grape is the Hungarian Blue, 
with a thin skin, which yields a very sweet 
reddish-coloured juice. Almost as soon as 
it is ripe, the watery parts begin to evapo- 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 127 

rate, and the grapes shrivel, whence they 
are called Trockenbeeren^ — these are fit for 
making Ausbruch. The culture resembles 
that of other vineyards ; but one rule, which, 
Dr. Lubeck observes, " and daily expc- 
^^ rience confirms, is, that in proportion as 
^* the soil is poor and stony, and the vine 
*^ feeble, the fruit and wines, though small 
" in quantity, become more excellent in 
" their quality." 

When the season for gathering the grape 
arrives, all the wine-presses and casks are 
cleansed ; for remedying the defects of new 
oak casks, nothing has been found more 
efficacious than a decoction of the vine leaf. 
Every thing being prepared, the labourers, 
accompanying their work with songs, or the 
well-known note of the bag-pipe, commence 
the vintage. The vine-gatherers stand in 
ranks, one hundred men and children, old 
and young, freeing the vines from their 
bonds, and collecting the grapes into wooden 
troughs, or pails ; behind them follows the 
WeinzedleTy watching that no grapes are 
left ungathered. The Trockenbeeren are ga- 
thered, picked, and re-picked with extreme 
care^ those which are dead, rotten, or in- 



128 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

jured by insects, being separated from the 
soiind fruit ; as bad grapes, or other sub- 
stances liable to ferment, would spoil the 
whole. Frequently, where the peasantry 
possess vineyards, the Trockenbeeren grapes 
become articles of speculation ; and when- 
ever they are oflFered for sale, there is a great 
competition of purchasers. 

The vintage generally terminates early in 
November, but sometimes later, when frost 
or snow bespeaks the approach of winter. 
The vines are then cut, the prunings carried 
away, and the poles are removed; after 
which, the whole vine-stock, with its 
branches laid along the ground, is covered 
one foot deep with earth, and thus the labour 
of the vineyard is brought to a close before 
the snow falls. The process of covering up 
the vines, is only partially adopted; and, 
" indeed," observes Dr. Llibeck, "it appears 
" very doubtful, whether any material ad- 
" vantage is derived from this practice ; for, 
" it seems, that the vine is as capable as 
" other plants of withstanding the winter 
" frosts ; and, by its remaining uncovered, 
" the cultivator is able to commence the 
" operation ofpruning earlier in the spring." 



ITALIAN WINES. 



ii 



It has been pertinently remarked, by a 
popular writer, that " a vineyard, associated 
" as it is with all our ideas of beauty and 
plenty, is, in general, a disappointing ob- 
ject. In France, the vines are trained 
" upon poles, seldom more than three or 
" four feet in height ; and the ' pole-clipped 
" * vineyard' of poetry, is not the most in- 
" viting of real objects. In Spain, poles for 
" supporting vines are not used ; but cutr 
" tings are planted, which are not permitted 
" to grow very high, but graduaUy form 
" thick and stout stocks. In Switzerland, 
" and in the German provinces, the vine- 
" yards are as formal as those of France. 
" But in Italy is found the true vine of 
" poetry, surrounding the stone cottage with 
" its girdle, flinging its pliant and luxuriant 



130 ITALIAN WINES. 

" branches over the rustic viranda, or twin- 
" ing its long garland from tree to tree."* 
It was the luxuriance and beauty of her 
Tines, and her olives, that tempted the rude 
people of the north to pour down upon her 
fertile fields : — 

The prostrate south to the destroyer yields 
Her boasted tithes, and her golden fields ; 
With grim delight, the brood of winter view 
A brighter day, and heavens of azure hue, 
Scent the new fragrance of the breathing rose. 
And quaff the pendant vintage as it grows.f 

Associated too as Italy is with all the 
classic lore of mythology, where 

Sweet is the vintage, when the showering grapes. 

In bacchanal profusion reel to earth 
Purple and gushing : swe«;t are our escapes, 

From civic revelry to rural mirth,| 

we might reasonably expect to find the 
choicest wines among the produce of her 
delightful clime. Yet, such is not the case ; 
for, in proportion as nature has been more 
bountiful here than in other countries, have 
the culture of the plant, and the manu^Eu;- 
ture of the wine, been neglected by the indo- 
lence of the people. The vines are left to 



* The Alpenstock, by C.J. Latrobe, 1829. 
f Gray. J Lord Byron. 



ITALIAN WINES. 

luxuriate amidst fences, or the boundaries 
of fields, and this nide growth supplies the 
Italian peasant with sufficient wine for his 
own consumption. Even where cultivation 
is atteinpt«d,the vine appears to be a second- 
ary object ; the road in some parts of Italy 
being bordered with vine-hranchea, drawn 
in festoons from elm to ehn, not only bound- 
ing the enclosures, but traversing them in 
lines so near to each other, that, in Eng- 
land, nothing could grow beneath, but rank 
and rushy grass. Here, however, are sown 
grain, or artificial grasses, and vaiious sorts 
of garden vegetables; the shade of Italy 
being as productive as the sunshine of Eng- 
land. Again, such pictures of neglect as 
the following, are by no means rare among 
the delights of an Italian villa: — "There 
" was a long trellis, over which vines were 
" trained ; under this was a walk, but the 
" place was so suffocating, that it was not 
*' worth while to desire the gardener to 
" cleai' away the weeds, with which, as they 
" hindered not the ripening of the grapes, 
" he allowed the walk to be encumbered."* 



• Tlire<^ Years iii T'<ilv. 1829. 



L. 



132 ITALIAN WINES. 

The system of training the vine to pol- 
lard elms is not, however, general throughr 
out Italy. In Lombardy, the Campagna, 
and other provinces, it is raised on poles or 
trellises, but still allowed to luxuriate ; an4 
it is only in a few districts, as in the Neapo- 
litan kingdom, and Piedmont, that the 
vines are pruned and trained, as in France 
and Spain. Some of the more experienced 
growers in Italy, have, for years past, adopt- 
ed the plan of binding and protecting their 
vines with iron wire : latterly, this system 
has been applied by Dr. Fischer, of Cornem^ 
burg, in Austria, not only to the vine, but 
to fruit-bearing trees in general, as a means 
of encouraging their growth and fructifica- 
tion ; and as a substitute for annular inci-. 
sion.* 

* He recommends that the tree should be bound 
with iron wire, on the very spot where the incision 
has been usually made ; that the wire should be 
tightly drawn two or three times round the trunk 
or stem, and then that both ends should be twisted 
together : the operation must be performed in win- 
ter, particulai'ly in the month of February, before 
the sap has begun to circulate. The ligature is to 
be applied to 2be branches of young shrubs, from 
which fruit is derived, and is to be removed in 



ITALIAN WINES. 133 

• The culture of the vine, in some parts of 
the Appenines, is, however, conducted with 
great care ; and, as well as the general cul- 
tivation of the district, deserves mention. 
At the commencement of each ascent, vines 
are dressed on terraces, cut in the side of 
the hill; wheat being sown between every 
two rows of vines : above these, there fre- 
quently is ah olive-garden; and on the more 
elevated parts of the hill, are chestnuts. 

Neither the culture of the vine, nor the 
making, nor keeping of wine, appear to be 
perfectly understood in Italy ; and the supe- 
riority of the climate, and luxuriance of the 
plant, render the erroneous methods adopted 
by the peasantry still more to be lamented. 
The classical mode of marrying the vine to 
the elm, overshadows too much of its fruit. 
"Yet," observes a recent tourist, " the wine 
*^ of Asti, in Piedmont, of Orvieto, in the 
" Roman territory, and that of Naples, — 
*' which I would rather call Vesuvian, these 

summer, after the bloom is off, and at the time when 
the fruit is beginning to expand. This may be 
done every year, taking due cai'e to change the 
spot; and instead of iron-wire, a small hempen 
rope, steeped in oil, may be used. 



u 



u 

it 



134 ITAXIAN WINES. 

'^ wines prove, that the Italian Peninsula, 
through the whole length of it, produces 
wine of excellent quality, and of a flavour 
" which will be approved of by every taste 
^^ that is not spoiled by brandy-^mingled 
^^ adulterations. I do not mean to say, that 
'' these wines are light or weak ; on the con- 
" trary, they bear to be mingled with an 
equal, or more than equal quantity of 
" water, — and are in that state a very plea? 
sant beverage." 

At Naples," observes the same intelli- 
gent traveller,* " I had tolerable Nostrale, 
*' or vindupays^ for five ^am, or two-pence. 
'^ An Austrian officer of the army, told me 
" that he had drunk there very good wine 
^^ at two ffrafd the bottle, less than one > 
*' penny ; not one of those diminutive bot- 
^' ties, which are known in England to run 
^^ fifteen or eighteen to the dozen, but a fair 
" honest quart — the quarter of a gallon. 
" Let not the incautious reader be misled by 
" the phrase, mn du pays, — Qaret, Bur- 
^' gundy, and Champagne, are vins du pa/ys 
^' in Champagne and Burgundy, and on the 

* Mr. Best, author of '' Four Years in Italy." 



ITALIAN WINKS. 13ft 

" banks of the GraroQDe. In the cities, wine 
" is clearer than in the country, on account 
" of the expenses of transport and ceUerage, 
" and duties paid at the entrance of towns ; 
" but, in Rome and Florence, 1 had wine 
" generally at from three-pence to four- 
" pence a bottle." 

We ought not, however, to visit the Ita- 
lians with too sweeping a censure of indo- 
lence : although, they manage the art of 
wine-making worse than any other coun- 
try. It is not uncommon to see the finest 
grapes mixed with those which are unripe 
and unsound, — the must put into dirty ves- 
sels, and the management often so badly 
conducted, that the wine will hardly keep 
a year or eighteen months. Other and mote 
formidable obstacles, however, arise, in the 
petty acts of misgovemment which charac- 
terize the Italian states. These consist of 
certain impolitic laws, by which each state 
grows its own wine, and is cut off from the 
benefit of fair commercial intercourse with 
its neighbour, however advantageous a more 
liberal system might prove to the inhabit- 
ants of both districts. Mr, Stewart Rose, 
in his Tour through the North of Italy, met 



136 ITALIAN WINES. 

with a striking instance of this unjust re- 
striction. — When at Arqua, being parched 
with thirst, he was directed to a little pub- 
lic-house, where he begged a tumbler of 
wine, and was presented with some, which 
might have passed for nectar. On asking 
the price, he was told it was three Venetian 
soldij equivalent to three-farthings of our 
money; yet, the poison produced by the 
plains of Padua cost five in that city. Here, 
then, was a wine, which, if bottled for two 
years, would be equal to the good white 
wines of Gascony, nearly confined to the 
Euganean hills ; though sold on the spot for 
little more than half the price, and only ten 
miles from Padua, with the facility of wa- 
ter-carriage for more than half the distance. 
On his return from Psuiua, Mr. Rose inquired 
if it was not possible to have a botde of 
this precious liquor. He was answered, 
" yes !" and presented with a list otforei^ 
wines, and this amongst them, with the an- 
nexed price of two francs^ or neariy ten 
times as much as it cost at Arqua ; and this 
in consequence of the impediments thrown 
in the way of commerce, to which we have 
just alluded. 



ITALIAN WINES. 137 

The inferiority of modem Italian wines, 
compared with the produce of the ancient 
country, renders the subject still more pain- 
ful. Thus, in vain shall we look for the 
" immortar* Faleniian of Horace or Mar- 
tial, and the epithet of " indomifum''* as- 
cribed to it by Persius, loses its applica- 
bility in the degeneracy of the wines of the 
present age. 

In Italy, wine is pretty generally drunk 
" without a drop of allaying Tyber in it." 
The juice of the grape does not receive 
much time to prepare it for its use ; nor 
is new wine, if made of that juice, and of 
nothing but that juice, by any means un- 
wholesome : indeed, Ludovico Cornaro, the 
noble Venetian who so wonderfully pro- 
longed his life by temperance, always found 
himself somewhat unwell during the two 
months preceding the vintage, which he at- 
tributes to the necessity of drinking wine 
too old for his constitution, as he always 
recovered his usual health when able to 
procure wine just pressed from the grape. 
This must be fatal to the prevailing pas- 
sion for old wine. 

* See page 22. 



138 ITALIAN WINES. 

Wine-making is, however, better under- 
stood in Tuscany than in any other of the 
Italian States. Bedi, in his celebrated 
poem, ^^ Bacco in Toscana,'' exalts the Tus- 
can wines with pardonable poetical license. 
Among these, the principal are luscious, 
sweet wines : the colour is not the least ex- 
traordinary; one of them being of a beau, 
tiful purple colour, and another of a bright 
green. The manufacture is still but imper- 
fectly understood, or neglected, and the du- 
rability of Tuscan wines cannot be relied 
on : when properly managed, and put in 
flask or bottle, they may be kept for several 
years. The author of "Three Years in 
" Italy," says, " when at Tagliaferro, they 
" brought us wine in a large flask, con- 
" taining about three quarts, with a neck so 
*^ long and slender, that I wondered bow, 
" when lifted up, it supported the weight 
" of its round belly. In such flasks wine 
" is kept ; the flask being filled up to the 
^' nec]( : a small quantity of oil is poured 
" in, which completely prevents all com- 
" munication with the air. When the wine 
" is wanted, a little bit of toe is inserted, to 
** draw ofi" the oil, by capillary attraction." 



ITALIAN WINES. 139 

Montifiascone, in the Papal States, pro- 
duces a Muscsuiel wine of such excellence, 
that a German traveller, a prelate, died 
from drinking it to excess. Siena likewise 
contains a memorial of similar import. In 
the church of the Holy Ghost, here, is an 
epitaph on a Bacchanalian, which displays 
" the ruling passion strong in death," as 
vividly as any hie jacet we ever met with. 
The epitaph has been noted in every 
tourists book of our time, as well as of 
ages past: few of either, have, however, 
&voured us with a versified translation; 
but in a very scarce book, entitled, " Vari- 
" orum in Europ^, &c. 1599, per Nathan 
" Christseus, Edit. Secun." we find the epi- 
taph and imitation, as follow : 

POTATORES. 

" Vina dabant vitam — Mortem mihi vini dedere 
Sobrius Auroram cernere non potui. 
Ossa merum sitium Vino consperge sepulcrum 
£t calice epoto — care Viator abi. 
Valete Potatores." 

Twas rosy wine, that juice divine, 

My life and joys extended; # 

But death, alas ! has drain'd my glass. 

And all my pleasures ended. 

The social bowl, my jovial soul, 

Ere mom ne'er thought of quitting, 
A jolly fellow, his wine, till mellow. 

To leave is not befitting. 



140 ITALIAN WINES. 

My thirsty bones, oh ! spare their moans. 

Cry out for irrigation, 
I pray, then o'er my grave you'll pour 

A copious libation. 

Then fill a cup, and drink it up, 

Pure wine, like ruby glowing, 
This boon I pray, dear traveler pay. 

When from this tomb you're going. 

Topers farewell ! where'er you dwell, 

May wine be most abounding, 
Be all your lays, of wine the praise. 

In Paeans loud resounding. 

Many interesting illustrations of the sim- 
plicity and amiable manners of the Italian 
peasantry are to be met with in their peri- 
odical festivals. Among these, one at 
Rome, little known to strangers, is well 
worth observation, fi'om being a remnant of 
the ancient Saturnalia, It is celebrated on 
Sundays and Thursdays, during the month of 
October, on the Monte Gestaccio, at Rome. 
This hill contains the public wine-vaults of 
the city, and from being composed of lai^e 
fragments of pottery, between which the 
air constantly penetrates, is peculiarly fitted 
for nts present use, as an invariable and 
surprising coolness is preserved beneath 
its surface. On the hill, during the days 
already mentioned, tables are spread with 
refreshments; and hither on those days 



ITALIAN WINES. 141 

flock the whole population of Rome and its 
environs, to drink wine fresh drawn from 
the vaults beneath their feet. It is impos- 
sible to conceive a more enlivening picture 
than the summit of Monte Testaccio ex- 
hibits on this occasion. Groupes of pea- 
santSy arrayed in their gayest costume, are 
seen dancing the Saltarello ; some are 
seated in jovial parties round the tables; 
and others mingle with the upper ranks of 
Romans, who have their carriages at the 
foot of the hill, and stroll about to enjoy 
this festive scene. Bodies of cavalry and 
infantry parade to and fro, to preserve 
order ; while the pyramid of Caius Cestus, 
and the adjoining tombs of the Protestants, 
by forming a strong contrast to these Sa- 
tumalian rites, add interest to the picture.* 
The richness and fertility of the Cam- 
pagna of Rome are very prodigal,^ notwith- 
^anding it is much neglected. In the en- 
virons of Poli, however, almost all the 
manure is reserved for the vines. Slips 
stuck into the ground, take root, and on the 



* Pinelli constantly attends this festival, to 
study subjects for his chai*actenstic pencil. 



142 ITALIAN WINES. 

second year begin to bear fruit. As soo 
as they extend their branches for suppor 
they are attached to maple trees. 

Tuscany, which may be styled the paiadifl 

of Bacchus, would exhaust language to di 

scribe its luxuriant and picturesque beaut] 

Leigh Hunt, in the notes to his tranalatioi 

of " Baeco in Toscana,'* says, ** The vine 

^^ of the south seem as if they were mean 

^' to supply the waste of animal spirits oc 

" casioned by the vivacity of the natives 

'^ Tuscany is one huge vineyard and olive 

'^ ground. What would be fields and com 

^^ mon hedges in England, are here a ma» 

^' of orchards, producing wine and oil, w. 

'*' that the sight becomes tiresome in iU 

" very beauty. About noon, all the la 

'^ bourers, peasantry, and small shop-keepers 

^' in Tuscany, maybe imagined taking theii 

^^ flask of wine. You see them all about 

** Florence fetching it under their arms. The 

" eflfect is perceptible after dinner, though 

" no disorder ensues ; the wine being only 

"just strong enough to move the brain 

" pleasantly, without intoxication : a man 

" can get drunk with it if he pleases; but 



ITALIAN WINES. 143 

** drunkenness is thought as great a vice 
" here, as gallantry is with us. 

" Neither Genoa, nor the country about it, 
^^ abounds in Tines. But among the gigantic 
^^ houses, you now and then detect a garden; 
" some of the windows have vines trained over 
^them, not in the scanty fashion of our 
"creepers, but like great luxuriant green 
"hair hanging over the houses' eyes : and 
"sometimes the very highest stories have a 
" terrace along the whole length of the house 
"embowered with them. Calling one day 
"upon a gentleman who resided in an ele- 
"vated part of the suburbs, and to get at 
" whose abode I had walked through a hot 
"sun, and a city of stone, I was agreeably 
"surprised, when the door opened, with a 
"long yellow vista of an arcade of vines, and 
"at once basking in the sun, and defending 
"from it. In the suburbs there are some or- 
"chards in all the southern luxuriance of 
"leaves and fruit. In one of these I walked 
" among heaps of vines, olives, cherry, orange, 
" and almond trees. Next the orchard, was a 
^^ tmne-gardeny answering to our tea-gardens, 
"with wine-arbours and seats, as with us, 



144 ITALIAN WINES. 

"where people come to drink wine and play 
" at their games." 

At Naples, the vines are still supported 
by young elms, as in the time of Virgil. 
The principal wines of the Neapolitan ter- 
ritory, are three sweet species, the most 
celebrated of which is the Lticryma ChrisH, 
a red wine of great richness, but seldom 
be obtained genuine, little of it being 
made, and that for the stores of royalty.* 



\ 



* Lacryma is not, however, always held in such 
high estimation, as the foUowinff anecdote (some- 
what broad) related by Angelo, tne fencing-master, 
will prove. The nairator says : 

" I cannot avoid mentionmg an anecdote that a 
" duke related to me, some years ago, on his return 
" from Italy." — " When I was at Naples, Sir 
" William Hamilton had a cassina at Portici, 
" some htde distance from Mount Vesuvius, as he 
was in the habit of approaching the crater as 
near as he could venture. He often took up his 
residence there expressly for that purpose, and 
was engaged on one occasion that had particu- 
" larly attracted his attention. I was left alone 
" to dine with Lady Hamilton and her mother. 
" who had followed her from England. In the 
" course of conversation, after dinner, when speak- 
" ing of the excellence of the Lacryma Christi 
" a famous Italian wine, the mother ejaculated— 
*' ' Oh ! as how I had but some English gin here. 



<t 



ITALIAN WINE S. 145 

These wines grow on the volcanic soil of 
the vicinity of Vesuvius. 

The cultivation of the vine in the south 
of Italy, is conducted with great care, and 
its advantageous results are very evident. 
A recent traveller, in his journey from Bar- 
lotta to Otranto, says, " Among the vines, 
^ the hoe is the instrument in use: at this 
** season, (February) the earth is collected^ 
'^ into pyramidal heaps, and the roots laid 
*^ almost bare. The vine is cut within two 
" feet of the ground, and the excellence of 
** produce shows the utility of the practice. 
" In the north of Italy, where the vines are 
*' trained in sweeping festoons from tree to 
^^ tree, the wines are almost invariably thin 
** and subacid." 



4t 
U 
U 
« 
t< 
U 
t€ 
(t 
4€ 
•if t 



The duke^ who luckily had taken some with him, 
directly forwarded his servant to his hotel at Na- 
ples, for it. At his return, the madre, delighted 
with the vero gusto, by her frequent tasting, did 
not a little convince his Grace of the improve- 
ment the juniper berry had upon the vulgar 
tongue, (in which she particularly exceUed) 
and the glass increasing, she said, ' she had not 
* never enjoyed the aood creature (gin) since 
' she left England ; it was far betterer than all 
' your outlandish wines."' 



146 ITALIAN WifKES. 

' The wine along the southern co&t is ex- 
cellent. The best is red. and not tmlikemnr 
Port, and costs about two-pence a flagon.^ 

Sicily produces wine in great abundance, 
although the economy or management ai 
the vintage is on the same neglectful 'sys- 
tem as in part of Italy. To the excellence 
of the Sicilian wines, the territories of 
Syracuse and Messina have hitherto borne 
tribute. We learn from Pliny, that the 
Roman emperors had a custom of intro- 
ducing in their /<^^^« the four superior kinds 
of wines : these were the Falemian, pro- 
duced near Naples, the Greek wines of the 
Islands of Chios and Lesbos, and that 
called Mamertinum, from the inunediate 
vicinity of Messina. 

The greater part of the site of the ancient 
Syracusa is now covered with rich vine- 
yards, the walls of which are built with 
broken marble, full of engravings and in- 
scriptions, but most of them spoiled and de- 
faced. The diflferent wines of this district, 
are, generally speaking, extremely fine, and 
some of them truly delicious, especially the 
Calabrese, a wine made from a g^pe ori- 
ginally from Calabria, of a bright red co- 



ITALIAN WINES. 147 

louF,and possessing a very agreeable flavour : 
the Moseatello is likewise a very superior 
wioe, of a delicate flavour and rich amber 
colour, and is generally introduced in the 
dessert. A recent traveller says, " During 
" one of our interviews with the Signer 
** Landolina Nava, he presented us with a 
" bottle of wine that was very palatable, 
" which, he stated, his father, the Cavaliere, 
*^ had made from the directions laid down 
" by Hesiod and Homer. It is generally sup- 
'^ posed that the ancients made from these 
^ same directions the wine used in the ce- 
** lebration of the sacred festivals of their 
" gods."* 

We conclude this portion of our subject, 
by quoting a few observations from a source 
already recognised, on the policy of an ex- 
tended introduction of Italian wines to this 
country. Where so much is done by fashion, 
the suggestions of an individual are perhaps 
not likely to obtain ; but this does not de- 
tract from their point and usefulness. 

** The whole of Italy is much more conve- 
** veniently situated for the exportation of 

* Russell's Tour through Sicily- 1815. 



148 ITALIAN WINES. 

" wine, than are the ancient piovinces of 
^^ Champagne and Burg^dy, whence the 
'^ wine must be sent by some land carnage, 
*^ and a long tract of inland water-carriage, 
^' to the sea-port : no part of Italy is far from 
^^ the sea, except a part of Lombardy and 
" Piedmont ; which, however, are watered 
" by the Po, and its tributaries.* 

* Three Years in Italy. 

" At Avignon," says the author, '* I was in 
treaty for some wine of an excellent vineyard 
and good vintage ; I did not buy it, because the 
quantity was more than I could want during my 
stay there : the agent of the proprietor, who thus 
'' realized his rents from his land, told me that he 
'' should send the wine to Paris. 'By what route?* 
" ' Up the Rhone and Soane, — and by the canal 
" ' that unites the Soane and the Seine.* — ' At how 
" ' much will it be sold at Paris?' — ' About a franc 
" ' a bottle.* This portage, almost from one end 
" of France to the other; this carriage by water, 
" for a great pai't of it against an adverse and a 
" strong current, did not much more than douUe 
" the price of a cheap and heavy article ; for, I had 
" the offer of the wine at eight sous the bottle; but, 
" had it been destined for London, it would have 
'* been sent down the Rhone, and to Marseilles. 
This port, and the ports of Italy, are further from 
England than Oporto and Bordeaux ; but dis- 
" tance would add very litde to the expense of the 
transport of wine once shipped." 



€€ 
« 



€( 



€( 



ITALIAN WINES. 



" Ab a protecting duty for our nostrala — 
" strong beer, (for as a coal fire is the sun of 
" England, so ale is our v'm du pays) let a 
" hundred per cent, ad valorem, he paid by 
" every gallon of foreign wine imported into 
" England; and, I believe, we might get 
" good wine into our cellars, at little more 
" than the price of ale." The writer then 
alludes to the price of wine being increased 
by long keeping, and says, that " a family 
" man, who drinks his own wine, in France, 
" generally begins to drink in the spring 
" the wine of the preceding vintage; that is, 
" household wine, of the same quality as 
" that usually imported." Next, we may 
add, that a bottle of Bordeaux, which may 
be bought even in Paris for a franc, will 
cost the purchaser in London, from Zs. to 
Zs.6d. This, however, only applies to the 
ordinaire, or inferior wine, as we have al- 
ready shown, in the case of fine Claret. We 
concur with the writer, in regretting that 
we are deprived, by mere fiscal regulations, 
of the pleasures of table-wine, at a cheap 
rate; and, that, " instead of bringing home 
QS the wines that gladdened the heart, and 



160 ITALIAN WINES. 

^* inspired the genius of Anacreon, — and the 
*^ wines produced on the island, that was the 
" very cradle of the jolly god — the wines of 
^' Chios and of Naxos ; instead of the wines 
^' of Italy, which contented the masters of 
^' the world ; instead of searching along all 
'^ the shores of the Mediterranean for what 
** might gratify our taste ; we should coo- 
^^ fine ourselves to one country, which^ in. 
^^ this respect, has no advantage oyer other 
'^ countries, but a treaty of commerce ; and 
^* that instead of encouraging competition, 
^^ and in consequence, cheapness, we should 
" give almost the monopoly of our market, 
^^ to a strip of land, in which, though, any 
^ quantity of wine may be mcidej yet, o£ 
^' which it is sometimes said, the natural 
^' productwould be insufficient to the snppljt 
^^ of London only. Of the drinkers in Eng? 
^ land, not one in a hundred drinks wina; 
'* of the wine-drinkers, not one in a hunched 
" drinks any wine but Port." 

Before the suggested change can take 
place, considerable improvement must' be 
effected in the manufeu^ture of the wines of 
Italy : this, however, is no more than was 



ITALIAN WINES. 151 

done by the first wine-settlers in Portugal. 
We know that excellent wine is commonly 
drank in Italy, but it is not always the pro- 
duce of that country. A recent tourist, 
writing from Genoa, says — ** An excellent 
^ light wine accompanied our repast; drunk, 
^ not in little cautious glasses, like our hot 
^ intoxicating liquor, but out of tumblers. It 
*' was just threepence, English, a quart! It 
^' had, notwithstanding its lightness, a real 
^' vinous body, and both looked and tasted 
" like a sort of claret , but, we were sorry to 
" find it was French, and not Italian."* 

The substance of these remarks, is as ap- 
plicable to the wines of France as to those 
of Italy. When we consider how much the 
ingenuity of art has contributed towards the 
superiority of French wines, and thus ad- 
yanced the growers to the rank of the first 
wine-makers in the world, we the more sen- 
sibly regret that the luxuriant bounty of 
Nature, in other parts of the continent, 
should be so inadequately appreciated; an 
evii which we have to point out, more or 
less, in almost every other wine-country. 

* Letters from Abroad, in " the Liberal." 



152 ITALIAN WINES. 

The mode in which the wine-trade of 
Florence is carried on, deserves mention,— 
Wine is sold in almost all the palaces, not 
wholesale, but in single botdes ! A small 
arched opening, not exceeding eighteen or 
twenty inches, jast large enough to admit a 
flask, with a door and knocker, may be seen 
in the front of the building, generally 
near the principal entrance. Nothing can 
appear more ridiculous than the hand put- 
ting out the flask of wine, while a carriage 
is driving up in great stat^ with princes and 
princesses. The wine is of various quali- 
ties, from a penny to five-pence a bottle, — 
containing nearly a quart. ^^At present, 
^ the best wine is sold at the Corsini pa- 
" kce."* 

The island of Elba appears to be espe- 
cially adapted for the vine. The heat of the 
sun, the variety of soil, mountains, which 
afford, by their elevation, all the necessary 
degrees of temperature, — and actual expe- 
rience, corroborate this opinion. Mr. Wil- 
liams, who travelled there in 1 81 7, says, — 
'^ Already, the annual produce may be esti- 

* WiUiams's Travels. 



BLBE8E WINES. 15S 

mated at 60,000 casks of the best quality, 
containing about ten gallons each, with 
about 500j000 barrels of the common wine, 
The best wines are the BianiUo and Alca- 
tico, red; the Muscat, both red and white; 
the Riminese, white. A Champagne, of 
superior flavour, is made of the Procauico 
grape, — and of the Muscat, before it is 
dried in the suu, which is necessary, pre- 
vious to the manufacture of the Muscat 
wine. We have drunk Aleatico, equal to 
the best CoQBtantia. We mentioned our 
doubts of its keeping sound for any length 
of time, and were told, that the common 
wine had been sent to Holland, had been 
returned, and again sent back ; and at the 
end of eighteen months, seemed a different 
and superior sort of wine, and this without 
brandy. The wine called Bischillato, has 
been exported to America. Proprietors 
are now beginning to manufacture with a 
degree of care and choice in the selection 
of the grapes, which promises a variety of 
very excellent wines, if the encourage- 
ment of a market can be found. 
" They begin to cultivate their new vine- 
yards in December, and continue their 
labour through Januarv and February. 



154 ELBESE WINES. 

^^ About seven hundred peasants go annuallj 
** in the end of September from Lucca, to 
^^ assist in the vintage and culture chiefly of 
^' wines, the population of Elba being at 
'^ present inadequate. These peasants re- 
*^ turn to Lucca on the first of May. Their 
*^ hire is a certain quantity of coarse bread, 
^* and a little wine daily, with their bed, 
** implements, and about twenty-five pauls, 
^^ or about twelve shillings a month. The 
** Elbese are better fed: each labourer re- 
*' ceives about twopauls a day, two ancho- 
^^ vies at breakfast; at dinner, two ancho- 
^^ vies, or stock-fish, with beef-soup ; and 
^^ again in the evening, two anchovies, as at 
^^ breakfast, and one bottle of common wine. 
^^ They bring their own bread, and furnish 
" their own implements, and work fix)m 
" daylight till twenty minutes after sun- 
" set. 

^^ Eight men, thus fed, will clear and 
^^ plant in a week un cento di mgna^ contain- 
^' ing 600 vine-plants. The vineyard is in 
" its perfection in the fifth year, when, if 
^^ the season be tolerable, and the soil good, 
" a cento of vines will produce, at an ave- 
^' rage, from twelve to fourteen barrels, 
^^ worth, according to its quality, from ten 



ELBESE WINES. 155 

" to fifteen patUs: * Piu vecckia le vitepiu 
" ^ forte il vino ;' — ^ the older the grapes, the 
" * richer the vine,' is the maxim ; and at 
" Procehio, the vines are of one hundred 
" and fifty years growth. The best hills 
" front to the sun — red stony ground being 
" always the most suitable. In the valleys, 
" the produce is one half greater ; but the 
" wine will not keep. At Campo, for ex- 
^^ ample, the common wine falls off in nine 
*^ months. The Muscato grape is exposed 
" twenty days to the sun, after it has been 
*^ gathered bunch by bunch. 

^^ The land is leased out to the peasants, 
'^ for a portion of the produce ; a half, a 
^^ fourth, or a fifth, according to the quality 
^^ of the soil. A fifth seems to be the more 
" frequent proportion, and hence the te- 
^ Bants, who hold farms of this extent, are 
^^ called Quintazol'L By law, the tenant 
" cannot commence the vintage without the 
*^ landlord's permission ; the value of the 
" landlord's part, and the quality of the 
" wine, depending materially on the time of 
" gathering."* 

* Travels in Italy, Greece, &c. 



GREEK WINES. 



These growths include not only the 
wines of Modem Greece, but of the Ionian 
Islands. A few of these are entitled to es- 
pecial mention, although their number will 
preclude our entering into all their varie- 
ties. 

The climate and geological structure of 
nearly the whole of Greece, may be consi- 
dered congenial to the vine ; yet, from erro- 
neous modes of culture, in some degree, but 
more from injudicious manufacture, the pre- 
sent wines are not entitled to very high rank. 
It must, however, be conceded, that much 
of this neglect has been occasioned by the 
oppression of the Turks ; and to account for 
this, the reader need only recal to his me- 
mory a few of the scenes of warfare, which 
60 long distracted this unhappy country. 



GREEK WINES. 157" 

These hostilities beiagnow at an end, and the 
political aflfaira of Greece in a fair way for 
adjustment, it is reasonable to hope that in 
proportion as the internal resources of the 
country become improved, the manufacture 
of wines may hereafter become an important 
branch of the commerce of the Greeks ; in- 
asmuch as the fertility and variety of the 
soil afford every encouragement for renewed 
industiy. 

The mode of cultivating the vine differs 
in various districts. In some places, the 
plants are cut and pruned, whilst in others 
the vine is left to luxuriate in hedges, or 
entwine round poplars ; and a traveller, in 
noticing this profusion, says, — " under this 
" voluptuous drapery, the mendicants take 
" their stations ; yet, strange to say, leave 
" the fruit untauched." At Barout, the 
vines " are grown on the mountains ; they 
" are very small, and the peasants bury 
" them in theground till thewarm season."* 
The Zante currant, or the raisin de Co- 
rinthe, is extensively cultivated along the 
Gulphs of Lepanto and Salamis, where it 



L 



* Tomer's Tour in the Luvaiit. 



158 GREEK WINES. 

has usurped the fields formerly employed in 
the raising of tobacco. Zante produces an- 
nually about 8,000,000 pounds of eurxmlits, 
almost the whole of which are shipped for 
England.^ The fruit there called uva^99a, 
or pcLssolinay was introduced into the island 
from Corinth, about two hundred tind fi% 
years since. The plant succeeded so' weQ, 
that the greatest part of Zante, where for- 
merly the com required for home consmnp- 
tion was grown, was gradually given up for 
their cultivation ; and Dr. Muller, who 
travelled here in 1821, says the idiand now, 
in good years, produces between twelve «nd 
thirteen million pounds of these grapes; or 
in common years, between ten and eleven 
millions. ' The vine is low, and requires 
seven or eight years before it begins to bear 
properly; but, it lasts for centuries: and 
Dr. Mailer was shown some plants said to 

* Williams s Travels, 1820.— Mi\ Emerson, in 
his "Picture of Greece, in 1822," sajrs — ^'^ Arem- 
'' nant of this may be said to be the only trade at 
" present remaining in Greece." — ^The quanti^ of 
currants annually imported into England, nrin- 
cipally from the Ionian Islands, is about six tnou- 
sand tons. 



GREEK WINES. 159 

be two hundred years old. The grapes are 
about the size of our garden currants, with 
a little acidity, which improves their fla- 
vour. The fruit, when gathered, is spread 
on the ground to dry for fourteen days ; and 
" at this season," (latter end of March,) says 
Mr. Williams, " one heavy shower would 
" destroy the hopes of the harvest; and a 
" passing doud, will darken every counte- 
" nance in Zante," If the taiu continues, 
all precaution is useless : the gi'apes begin 
to rot, and must be thrown away, without 
even saving a small quantity for the cattle. 
Tlie currant-trade is almost entirely in the 
hands of the English ; for the careless and 
lazy Neapolitans and Sicilians, who take so 
little concern about their excellent wines, 
would not be fit for the cultivation of the 
passoHna. 

In other parts of Greece, the vine is fre- 
quently made to entwine on trellises, around 
a wall ; where, in the heat of the day, whole 
families collect themselves, and sit under 
the shade. Chateaubriand describes the 
vines as constituting the riches of Corinth, 
and giving a fresh and fertile appearance to 
the country ; — " they do not climb in fes- 



160 GREEK WINES. 

^^ toous upon trees, as in Italy, nor are they 
^^ kept low as in the vicinity of Paris. Each 
^^ root forms a detached verdant bush, round 
^^ which the grapes hang, in autumn, like 
" crystals." 

The wines of Candia and Cyprus were 
formerly celebrated throughout Europe; yet, 
since these islands have been under the do- 
mination of the Turks, their trade and cele- 
brity have materially decreased. In Candia, 
or Crete, the manufacture of wines was ex- 
tensively carried on in the monasteries. In 
the convent of Arcadi, built with the ruins 
of the ancient Arcadia, Toumefort reckoned 
about two hundred monks employed in the 
labours of the field and vineyard. Sieber, 
who was at Crete in 1817, found only twelve 
monks at Arcadi. " They have," says he, 
" very fine and roomy cellars, and the best 
^ wine in the whole island, which is called 
** after the village of Malivisi. When the 
'^ Venetians were masters of the island, 
^^ great quantities of this wine were produced 
^^ about Rettimo and Candia, and it was 
^^ made by boiling in large coppers, as I 
myself observed in this convent ; but it is 
now very scarce, only a little being made 






QREEK WINES. 161 

" at Arcadi, the vineyards of which lie very 
" high, and produce the finest grapes. The 
" best is sold at the convent at 18 piastres, 
" or ijhrins, the harrel of 18 gallons." The 
domain of the convent extends to the foot 
of Mount Ida, and in the valley of Rettimo, 
nearly to the sea. This wine is a rich malm- 
sey. Dr. Henderson also speaks of an 
agreeable claret from the vineyards of Kis- 
sanos, in Candia, and a fine fiavoured white 
wine from those of Rettimo. 

Cyprus produces several varieties of red 
and white wine. ITie exportation is prin- 
cipally to Venice, the Black Sea, and parts 
of Turkey. The celebrity of the old red 
wine of Cyprus is not yet forgotten.* The 



* Vin de Chupre is a. aplendid item in the carles 
of some of the leading restaurateurs at Piiria, where 
it is sold at the rate of two or three francs a glass. 
This, however, is only an. imitation of Cyprus 
wine, and tlie mode of preparing it is thus given 
by the BibliotfUque Pki/aico-Eeoru>miqve. 1 o ten 
quarts of syrup of elder-berries, add 80 pints of 
water. PresB the berries gently, and add 2 oz. gin- 
ger, and 2 oz. cloves ; boil these together for an 
hour. After skimming it well, pour it into a ves- 
sel, and add 1 § lb. bruised grapes, which are to be 
left in it until the wine has acquired a fine colour. 



162 GREEK WINES. 

choicest wine of the present day, is the Com- 
manderia, — so called from the district in 
which it is made (between Limesole, Baffo, 
and Sta. Croce,) forming part of the Com- 
mandery of the Knights Templars. Great 
part of the commonest red wine is consumed 
in the island, for drinking, and making 
rackecy (weak, white brandy.) Both this, 
and a white muscadine, are broi^ht fix)m 
the villages in skins tarred inside, whence 
they acquire a strong taste of tar. The lat- 
ter is a rich dessert wine ; the common 
white wine is very good, and not very sweet; 
and after being kept two or three years, will 
fetch the price of Commanderia. Turner 
says, ^^ The best white wine in the island is 
^^ made on the mountains near Limesole. At 
'* Barout, the next port to Cyprus, the grapes 
" produce twenty different sorts of wine, 
" each village producing a variety. No wine 
" is, however, made in Barout; or indeed 
^^ admitted into the walls avowedly, and all 



This is nothing more than good elder-wine, which 
any English housekeeper understands making. 
The price and the name are, however, well pro- 
portioned. 



GREEK WINES. 163 

^* that is drunk is smuggled in, which the 
" authorities wink at. They make also a 
** kind of honey from the grapes, very lus- 
^^ cious, and the rest are dried for home con- 
" sumption."* 

The wines of Zante are deservedly much 
esteemed. The white, in particular, is dry, 
high-flavoured, and of a strong body : after 
the first season, it keeps for any number of 
years. One of these, a rich muscadine, 
when old, equals the best Sicilian wine in 
strength and taste. The common red and 
white wines are also sweet, but they are 
very heady ; which quality the owners in- 
crease by artificial admixtures, the Zantiotes 
being very fond of strong wines. From the 
passolina, a wine is also made, which is 
oily, very strong, and a fine stomachic cor- 
dial. It is made from the grape, after it 
has been dried for four or five days, and par- 
tially protected from the sun. When the 
grapes are crushed, one-third of water is 
added; nevertheless, the wine is thick, and 
of a dark colour ; but when in the cask, it 
becomes finer. Dr. Miiller states the quan- 

* Turner's Tour in the Levant. 



164 GREEK WINES. 

dty of wine grown in Zante, at -8)000 casks 
annually. 

Ithaca produces delicious wines, ^^as Ins- 
" cious as the bee's nectareous dew.*' Mr. 
Williams ranks Ithaca ^^ at the head of the 
^^ seven islands, perhaps of all'Greece, for 
" its wine. The red Ithaca wine is exoel- 
^^ lent, superior to that of Tenedos, the 
" Greek wine which it most resembles ; but 
*^ it is generally much injured, sometimes 
^* spoiled, by the injudicious maimer in 
*^ which it is kept. In the possession and 
^ management of the British commandants 
** at Cephalonia and Ithaca, we found it a 
^^ delightful wine, with a Hermitage flavour, 
'' and a good sound body. The great diffi^ 
" culty in bringing the wines of these is- 
'' lands into commerce, when they are to be 
^' sent a distant voyage, arises from the want 
^^ of brandying them sufficiently to make 
" them keep."* 

At Rhodes, wine is so abundant that 
great quantities are exported. Its flavour 
is sharp, with a little sweetness. 

The town of Cos, in the island of that 

* Travels in Greece, &c. 



OBGEK WINES. 165 

name, is neatly surrounded with vineyards. 
Samos produces great quantities of grapes, 
which are made into red and white wines : 
the red is sharp-tasted, with a tolerable 
body ; the white wine, which is celebrated, 
is rather too sweet, hut that goes off with 
time. It is extraordinary, that the wine of 
Samos, now so esteemed, should have been 
in such bad repute among the ancients.* 

The sweet white wine of the island of Tino, 
is famous through the Levant; and it also 
produces a red wine, which has an agree- 
able taste, and a good body. 

Lampascus, in the sea of Marmora, was 
formerly celebrated for its wine ; yet, it is 
no longer famous, althoufih the vines are 
abundant, and its environs display all the 
beauty which Nature has lavished in this 
delightful climate. The neiglibourhood of 
Muriofdi, a village not far from Lampas- 
cus, is thickly planted with vines ; and, in- 
deed, most of the wine that is imported in 

* Lord Byron celebrates this wine, in his trans- 
lation of tlie inspiring Greek song : — 

Fill higb, £]1 bigb, uidi Sajniui wLdc, 



166 GREEK WINES. 

Constantinople is made here, though it all 
goes by the name of Dardanelles wine. 

In a well-written narrative of a ^^ Journey 
^^ from Athens to Missolonghi," in a recent 
periodical work,* we remember to have 
read a description of the classic field of 
Leuctra being planted with vines. The 
season of the journey was in the autumn of 
the year 1822. "The country between 
" Plataea and Neochorio," says the writer, 
" is planted with vines to a considerable 
" distance. The road leads over the field 
" of Leuctra, where Epaminondas achieved 
" his splendid victory over the Lacedemo- 
" nians. The grapes had been rip^pdready 
" for the last six weeks, but neither Grxeeks 
" nor Turks venture to gather them, for fear 
" of a surprise from the enemy. (The rea* 
" der will recollect the agitated state oi 
" Greece at this period.) Among the vines, 
" the Turkish cavalry would have been of 
" little use. Still the Greeks did not think 
" proper to exert themselves for the sake of 
" the grapes, for the whole plain between 
" Chalcis and Thespise, was open to the 

* London Magazine, Third Series. 



QREEK WINES. 167 

" Turks. We waited till dark, al Flat^a, 
" from fear of an attack, if we ventured to 
" pass it in the day-time. Wc amved be- 
" fore midnight at Neochorio, a village op- 
" posite to Thespise, on a steep hill. We 
" did not meet a single Turk, and I myself 
" laid in an ample stock of grapes, and felt 
" no other regret, but that I was not able 
" to cany them all away. They were deli- 
"^cious, of an exquisite flavour, and hang- 
" ing down from the vines so abundantly, 
" as if imploring the stranger to come and 
" pluck them." 

The general adulteration of wine through- 
out Greece, remains to be noticed. The 
principal article for this purpose is rosin 
Even at Athens, the practice is very general 
Mr. Williams, in a note to his account ol 
the city, tells us, that for a bottle of wine ol 
the country, stronglij impregnated icith rosin, 
he paid threepence. " We never tasted this 
" ingredient so predominant as here. The 
" reason usually given for this practice, is, 
" that without rosin, the wine would not 
" keep. Dr. Chelli, a Roman physician, 
" attributes the custom to the knavery of 
" the Greeks- who. he said, used the rosin 



168 ORBEK WINES. 

^^ to prevent the discovery of the quantity of 
^^ water with which the wine is adulterated.'* 
Mr. Turner likewise says, *^ The wine of the 
^^ Morea is positively undrinkable ; for there, 
*^ (and indeed generally , more or less, through 
^^ Greece,) they mix with it such a quantity 
^^ of rosin, that the bitter taste of that bitu- 
^^ minous matter is completely substituted 
" for the original flavour." 



RUSSIAN WINES. 



Whoever has rendered himself at all 
acquainted with the habits of Russian so- 
ciety, either by testimony, or the journals of 
travellers, must be aware that a consider- 
able quantity of wine is annually consumed 
in that vast empire. Even the varieties 
that have been mentioned in the preceding 
pages, as exported to Russia, must have 
given the reader some intimation of the 
above fact.* The culture of the vine in this 

^ At page 12, we have quoted a passage from 
Dr. GranviUe, the last traveller in Russia. The 
seme gendemajdb, after describing the comestibles of 
a splendid entertainment at St. Petersburg, says — 
He of the bottles thinks it high time to remind 
you of such cordial beverages as Champagne, 
Burgundy, Lafitte, Paxareta, Vin du Command- 
eur, Johannisberg, de la Comete, and so on. 



tc 



170 RUSSIAN WINES. 

country, has consequently become an ob- 
ject of national importance ; and the success 
which has already attended the exertions 
made for this object, promises even much 
more favourable results. 

The scene of these fortunate operations, 
has been the southern district of Russia. 
In Moldavia, and on the left bank of the 
Pruth, a white grape, containing a great 
deal of carbonic acid, is advantageously cul- 
tivated. In the Crimea, especially at Sou- 
dak, vines are grown with very large ber- 
ries, often not less than plums. The vines 
of Spain and Languedoc, are successfully 
cultivated by a Frenchman, at Larci, near 
Balaklava. A white wine is produced on 
the banks of the Molotschna, which faUs 
into the Don ; which wines are very well 
known in Moscow and Petersburgh, under 

" until you know not which choice to make. Mine 
" was the easiest task on such occasions^ for I took 
none, and I am the better for it : but the quantify 
of Champagne that I saw drunk in St. Peters- 
burgh, actually astounded me. I feel confident, 
that there must be another Champagne country 
" somewhat nearer to Russia than the French 
*' Champagne, to supply what is actually con- 
" sumed of that wine." 



tt 
it 



171 

the name of Don wines. Theie is a vine- 
yard neai' Astracau, which produces very 
good wine, the (greater part of which is 
sent to the Imperial Court of Petersburg ; 
what is sold, produces a higher price than 
the wines of France. The north aide of the 
Caucasus produces a wine of middling qua- 
lity, and in sufficient quantity fur the inha- 
bitants of these countries. 

The valley of Soudak, especially towards 
the east, is described as one of the most en- 
chanting scenes in the world ; and Ameiica, 
Siberia, Italy, and the Caucasus, are said to 
offer nothing more delightful. So success- 
ful has the culture of the vine been in this 
district, that it is even thought Russia may, 
at no very distant period, produce wines 
enough in the Crimea for her own consump- 
tion. Tlie first vineyards were planted there 
in the year J804, at the suggestion of the 
celebrated naturalist, Pallas; the situation 
is named Gadjakol, in the territory of Kosi. 
Cuttings of vines are brought from France, 
Zante, Tenedos, the Rhine, Astrachan, and 
Kisliar; and two Frenchmen, the one a 
vine-dresser, and the other a farmer, were 
appointed to plant and manage them. Ten 



172 RUSSIAN WINBS. 

orphan pupils, from the military school of 
Cherson, were put under the care of these 
cultivators; government supplied the ne- 
cessary capital for every part of the under- 
takingj and 28,000 vines were plantedy^ 
which, in the year 1826, produced 1,500 
vedros of wine, of Hungary, Bordeaux, 
the Rhine, Asmanshausen, Muscat, Petit 
Bourgogne, Zante, and Kakour, of the IkM 
quality. 

A recent letter from Akerman, describes 
the vintage of the year 1827, as extremdy 
iavourahle, — and presents us with the fi^ 
lowing details : — 

^^ The autumn has been singidarij &• 
'^ vourable for the vintage, and the wines <rf 
^^ this year are of an infinitely superior qoft- 
" lity to any we have yet nxtide. The pw> 
" duce is less abundant, but the prices are 
^^ higher ; so that the vineyards horTe paid 
^^ better this year than the last. Aooordiag 
^^ to a return made by the local auth<^ti^ 
^^ the whole produce of the vintage amouBts 
" to 35,8^3 vedros of the country, or 44,797 
^^ common vedroSy Russian measure. The 
" vedro sells upon the spot, at from five to 
" seven piastres. The number of proprie- 



RUSSIAN WINES. 173 

" tors of vineyards is now 278, the greater 
" number of them originally Greets or Ar- 
" menians. 

" We must not, however, pass over in si- 
" lence, the colonists that dwell in the vil- 
" lage of Schaha, about five wersts from this 
" town. This establishment was formed 
" about four yeara ago, by ten or twelve 
" Swiss families, who have transported to 
" this country, their active industry, and 
" their peaceful habits. The bUls, which 
" they have planted with vines, border upon 
" the Liman, and enjoy a most delightful 
" exposure. In a few years, this infant co- 
" lony has risen to a very remartable degree 
" of prosperity : upon the whole, it is with 
" satisfaction that we have lately observed 
" the culture of the vine making rapid pro- 
" gress in this country. Formerly, the plan- 
" tations were given up to chance ; now, the 
" ground is carefully fenced. Attemptshave 
" been made to transplant the vines of 
" France and Hungary, and those of the 
" Rhine. Lastly, presses have been built 
" upon models brought from abroad. 

" Amongst the establishments which pro- 
" mise to be most successful, may be men- 



174 RUSSIAN WINES. 

" tioned, those just formed by Messrs. Col- 
^^ lin and Krinitzky . The latter has, iB 
^^ Bessarabia, made the first trial of a che- 
^ micel process, with a view to determine 
" the degree of fermentation developed by 
" the wine when it is first tanned. By 
^ means of this ingenious expedient* ike 
^^ instant may be ascertained when the wine 
^^ can be bunged-up without danger to the 
*' casks, from the action of fennentation. 
^^ The application of this method is so much 
^^ the more useful, that the wines of Aker- 
'^ man possess, in some measure, the cream- 
" ing quality. The vineyard belonging to 
" the crown, produced this year more than 
" 32,000 bottles of wine." 

The chief production of Georgia is wine, 
which is of excellent quality, and so abun- 
dant in the countries situated between the 
Caspian and the Black Seas, that it would 
soon become a most important article of ex- 
portation, if the people could be induced to 
improve their method of making and pre- 
serving it. At present, the grapes are ga- 
thered and pressed without any care ; and 
the process of fermentation is so unskilfully 
managed, that the wine rarely keeps to the 



RUSSIAN WINES. 175 

following vintage. The skins of animals, 
are the vessels in which it is kept. The 
hair is turned inwards, and the interior of 
the bag is thickly besmeared with ospbaltura, 
or mineral tar, which imparts an abominable 
flavour to the wine. The Georgians have 
not yet learned to keep their wine in casks, 
without which, it is vain to look for any 
improvement in its manufacture. Yet, the 
mountains abound in the requisite mate- 
rials, and only a few coopers are wanted to 
make the commencement. 

M, Klaproth says, " during my residence 
" at Tiflis, a Hungarian, named Martini, to 
"' whom General Gondovitch had entrusted 
" the management of some vineyards be- 
" longing to the government, made with 
" the giapes of the country several kinds of 
" wine, which might bear comparison with 
" the best wines of Burgundy. The death 
" of this man, put a stop to these interesting 
" experiments. If due attention were paid 
" to the preparation of wine in these coun- 
" tries, they might soon furnish Russia with 
" all she consumes."* 

• Tableau du Caucase, et des Provineos limi- 
trophes eiitre la Russia et la Perse, par M. Klap- 
roth. Paris. 1827. 



176 RUSSIAN WINBS. 

The consumption of wine in Georgia, and 
above all, at Tiflis, is prodigiously great 
From the prince to the peasant, the orcUnaiy 
ration of a Georgian, if we may beUeye M. 
Gamba, is one tonque^ (equal to five bottles 
and a half of Bordeaux per day.) A Umqve 
of the best wine, such as is drunk by per- 
sons of rank, costs about twenty sous; the 
inferior wines for less than a sous a bottle. 



In Turkey, the practice of drinking wine 
gains ground, whilst that of opimn Ms 
into disuse. Very few among the Tudw 
eat opium now, and those in private. So 
long ago as 1796, when Lady Mary Wortley 
Montague wrote her fascinating ^^ Letters," 
the Turkish ladies drank wine. Her lady- 
ship, speaking of their mode of living, says, 
" 'Tis true, their magnificence is of a very 
^^ different taste from ours, and perhaps of a 
^^ better. I am almost of opinion they have a 
" right notion of life. They consume it in 
^' music, gardens, tvinej and delicate eating, 
" while we are tormenting our brains, ic." 



(■•» 



PERSIAN WINES. 



We have already alluded to the sup- 
pository story of Persia being the native 
oountry of the vine^ and Jem-sbeed being the 
fiwt* who discovered wine.* The naiTative 
18 from Moullah Ackber's MSS., and is 
quoted by Sir James Malcolm^ in his valua- 
He" History of Persia."t Without pretend- 
ing to an investigation of the truth of this 
statement, we may remark, that the perfec- 
tion which the vine in Persia attains, would 
almost lead us to receive the above as a 
matter of sober history^ Sir Robert Kerr 
Porter describes the grapes of Shiraz, of a 
** size and fullness hardly to be matched in 
" other climates." Mr. Morier, in his Se- 

* See page 14. f Vol. i. page 10, note. 

N 



178 PERSIAN WINES. 

cond Journey through Persia, subsequent to 
Sir R. K. Porter's visit, extols the grapes of 
another place in Persia, as still finer than 
those of Shiraz. Mr. Morier likewise re- 
lates the following interesting particulars of 
the vineyards : — 

" The Persian vine-dressers do all in 
" their power to make the vine run up the 
" wall, and curl over on the other side, which 
" they do by tying stones to the extremitj 
^^ of the tendril. May not this illustrate 
" that beautiful passage used in Genesis? 
^^ (xlix. 22) Joseph is a fruitful bough; even 
'^ a fruitful bough by a wallj whose branch^ 
" run over tfie walV* 

Wine is strictly forbidden by the Koran; 
the Persians, as Mahometans, are conse- 
quently forbidden from tasting the juice of 
the grape : but this nile is often broken,— 
and, as to use their own phrase, " there is 
^^ as much sin in a glass as in a flagon," 
they usually, whei^they drink, indulge to 
excess. Indeed, they are so impressed with 
the idea that the sole pleasure of this for- 
bidden liquor lies in its intoxicating effects, 
that nothing but constant observation can 
satisfy them that Christians are not all 



PERSIAN WINES. 179 

drunkards. ** It is," ihey often remark, 
when speaking to one, " a privilege of your 
" religion to be so, and therefore neither 
" attended with shame nor disgrace."* If 
told that, though we are permitted to use 
wine, excess is considered as degrading, and 
often, when it incapacitates for duty, as cri- 
minal ; they listen with a smile of incredu- 
lity: for they believe it impossible that 
men, who are not withheld by religion, can 
deny themselves, what they are led, by the 
restraint imposed upon them, to deem one 
ef the most delightful of all enjoyments. 

* Sir John Malcolm relates the following: — 
An English naval officer had come on shore at 
Abushehar^ and mounted a spirited horse, to 
take a ride. The awkwardness of the rider, who 
was nearly falling at every bound the animal took, 
amused a great number of spectators. Next day, 
a Persian, who supplied the vessel with fruit and 
vegetables, came off, and seeing the officer, said to 
him, " I have saved your reputation ; not a man 
" who laughed at you, has me suspicion that you 
" are a bad horeeman.'* — " How have you managed 
" that?" said the gentleman. — " I told them," he 
replied, "that you, like eveiy Englishman, ride 
admirably, as becomes a nation of soldiers, but 
that you were very drunk, and that was the rea- 
son of your not keeping your seat so firmly as 
you otherwise would have done." 



t€ 
tt 
€t 
€€ 



180 PERSIAN WINES. 

Though drunkenness be a vice of the Per- 
sians, it is not only a plebeian sin; for they 
have examples, royal and noble, in their his- 
tory. Shah Suffee, the successor of Shah 
Abbas the Great, was much addicted to his 
cups ; which, instead of gladdening his heart, 
made him more like a beastly savage. When 
he was one day excessively intoxicated, he 
stabbed his favourite queen ; and, we are 
informed by Tavemier, that when he reco- 
vered his senses, and found what he had 
done, he gave way to the most violent grief, 
and issued orders to destroy every wine-flask 
in his kingdom. His illiberality to others, 
who indulged in the same excess with him- 
self, appears to have been boundless; for 
he caused several noblemen of high rank to 
be put to death, on the occurrence of a tri- 
fling afliray, caused by intoxication. Suffee 
was succeeded by Abbas II. who was not 
ten years old when he ascended the throne, 
and a hopeful man he seems to have turned 
out, notwithstanding he at first fell into 
the hands of his ministers, who are repre- 
sented as persons of religious and austere 
habits. They attempted to reform the court: 
wine was prohibited; drunkards were re- 



PEHSIAN W1KE8. 181 

moved from ofGce ; and strict sobriety was 
one of the steps in the ladder to higli sta- 
tion. One author states, that the inhabit- 
ants of Grivan, in Armenia, alaimed at the 
abstemious and pious character of a gover- 
nor appointed to rule them, petitioned the 
king not to send him ; their frailty, they 
said, led theut to dread " a water-drinker." 
The fact was, the Christians of this city 
were remarkable for their love of drinking ; 
and were alarmed at the prospect of being 
governed by a religious bigot, who would 
consider even the moderate use of wine, a 
just ground for plundering them of their 
property, if he did not deprive them of life. 
The king was advised to attend to this peti- 
tion. His reply stated, that the drunkards 
of Grivan, were quite unworthy of the holy 
man whom he had appointed to rule them ; 
and he had therefore nominated one whose 
character was more suited to such sinners. 
But Abbas himself afterwards became as 
great a toper as his precursor: the manners 
^f the court altered as the king advanced in 
years; he committed few cruelties, except 
when intoxicated ; but he appears then to 
liave entirely dropped the king. All Euro- 



b- 



182 PERSIAN WINES. 

peans, whether travellerSymerchantSyinonkS) 
or artificers, were admitted to share his or- 
gies. Persian writers say the royal feasts 
were frequently enlivened by wit, and that 
the king sometimes condescended to smile 
at the sallies of his companions. He hap- 
pened to observe, at one of his entertain- 
ments, that he had sent an ambassador to 
India, who had met with so many delays, 
he believed he Would never come back. " Lei 
us all agree to sit here till he retiums," cried 
the son of ajadge, who made one of the as- 
sembly, and, by the way, was no bad judge. 
— ^Thoug^ the youth had forgotten himself, 
Abbas was delighted with an exclamation, 
showing such enjoyment of his society* But 
different scenes were often exhibited ; and 
the most dissipated nobles dreaded an invi- 
tation to drink with their monarch, who 
was as solicitous to make them exceed, as 
he was prompt to punish any act of disre- 
spect produced by that excess. Probably, 
they received Abbas's invitations with the 
same pleasure, as we should a royal com* 
mand to sup with the lion of the Zoologi- 
cal Society. At length. Abbas died, at the 
age of thirty-four ; it is said, from an in- 



PERSIAN WINES. 183 

flammation in the throat, caused by exces- 
sive drinking. 

Abbas, as might be expected, kept his 
cellars plentifully stocked with choice 
wines, principally from Georgia, Karama- 
nia, and Shiraz; and, as Dr. Henderson 
tells us, " preserved with great nicety in 
" bottles of Venice crystal ; and every six 
^ weeks, he received from the first of these 
*^ countries a supply of twenty chests, each 
" of them containing ten bottles, — and each 
" bottle about three quarts." He had, more- 
over, a master of the cellars, and doubtless, 
a cellar-book. 

Many of the Persians still appear to en- 
tertain the same idea of wine, as they did in 
the time of SuflFee : their indulgences being 
secret, and usually extending to excess and 
intoxication, or to the abuse rather than the 
proper use of wine. They have, likewise, 
an odd 'idea of shifting part of the offence 
against the Koran, by pretending that the 
sin is not so great, if the wine is made by 
infidels; and, according to Sir Robert Kerr 
Porter, so severe is the law upon this point 
of conscience, that wherever jars of Shiraz 
Mahomedan wine are discovered, the chief 



184 PERSIAN WINES. 

of the municipal officers are ordered to see 
them broken into pieces.* We ought, how- 
ever, to mention, that wine is not at this 
time allowed in the royal household ; for Sir 
James Malcolm, in describing the habits of 
the present sovereign of Persia, says,— 
'^ Some of the former kings used to indulge 
'^ openly in drinking wine, but none of the 
^^ reigning family have yet outraged the reli- 
'^ gious feelings of their subjects, by saflag- 
'^ rant a violation of the laws of Persia. 
" Bowls, filled with sherbet, made oi every 
^' i^ecies of fruit, furnish the beverage of the 
" royal meals."* 

The most celebrated of the Persian wines, 
is that of Shiraz ; although the manufacture 
has considerably decreased. Ispahan, Te- 
heran, and other places, have vineyards, 
but are not so well known for their wines ; 
besides, it should be recollected, that g^pes, 
in their season, form part of the ordinary 
meals of the people. Sir Robert Kerr Porter 
tells us, that the vine is comparatively neg- 
lected at Shiraz,and that the manufacture is 
altogether badly conducted. He describes it 

* Sketches of Life in Persia, 1829. 



PERSIAN WINES. 185 

rery quality, from a brilliant topaz clear- 
, to a sour and muddy syrup. " When 
od, the taste should be a little sweet, 
companied with the flavour of dry Ma- 
ira, — ^to which, when old, it is not at 
. inferior." This applies only to the 
te wine of Shiraz ; the red, of which 
X and other Persian poets have sung, 
ch and luscious ; though in prose esti- 
ion, little superior to a second-rate wine, 
be poets of Persia, like those of all other 
Dns, have made wine the theme of their 
e. The extatic strains of Hafiz, on the 
r glories of the Shiraz, will be recollect- 
but the following translation from Ru- 
is less known : — 

He who my brimming cup shall view, 

In trembling radiance shine. 
Shall own the ruby's brilliant hue, 

Is matchM by rosy wine ; 

Each is a gem from Nature's hand, 

In living lustre bright ; 
But on6 congeals its radiance bland. 

One swims in liquid light 

Ere you can touch, its sparkling dye 

Has left a splendid stain ; 
Ere you can drink, the essence high 

Floats giddy through the brain.* 



f Translated by Dr. Leyden. 



186 PERSIAN WINES. 

Again, in a playful ode to " Yesterday," 
from Achmed Ardebeili : — 

Jocund sprites of social joy 

Round our smiling goblet play ; 

Flit, ye powers of rude annoy, 
Like the Ghost of Yesterday ! 

Odorous sweets, and Kerzerom wine, 
Hither, boy, with speed convey j 

Jasmin wreaths with roses twine. 
Ere they fade like Yesterday ! 

Brim the bowl, and pass it round ; 

Lightly tune the sportive lay : 
Let the festal hour be crown'd. 

Ere 'tis lost like Yesterday ! 

Once more : — 

Go scatter flowers, and bring me wine. 
That while I drink, their incense sweet. 

May charm my soul with dreams divine. 
Of her my fancy joys to meet 

But, ah ! her absence brings a pain. 
Which ne'er can be in wine forgot; 

Then take, oh ! take the cup again, 
Wine has no charms where she is not 



MADEIRA WINES. 



The vine was introduced into Madeira 
from the Island of Cyprus; but at what 
period, rests upon very dubious conjecture. 
It is not easy to reconcile the character of 
Chaptal for accuracy in his philosophical 
enquiries, when he mentions, that in the 
year 1420, wines were already planted in 
this island. At all events, there must be a 
confusion in the dates, as the island itself, 
according to the Portuguese historians, had 
been discovered only in the preceding year: 
if so, there could scarcely be a sufficient 
quantity of land cleared away to produce 
the common necessaries of life, much less to 
plant vineyards ; and, if a conflagration of 
the woods which overspread the country, 
and lasted several years, as is generally re- 
lated, was necessary to prepare the island 
for cultivation, a much later period must be 
referred to for introducing the vine into 



188 MADEIRA WINES. 

Madeira. Dr. Henderson appears inclined 
to adopt the opinion of Cbaptal, with a 
trifling variation in the date. He observes: 
^^ The island of Madeira is said to have been 
" stocked with plants brought directly from 
" Candia, by order of Prince Henry ; under 
" whose auspices the first colony of the 
'^ Portuguese was established there, in the 
" year 1421."* 

* History of Wines, 4to. p. 248. As the dis- 
covery of Madeira is involved in some doubt, it is 
not Imely that the above point can be satisfactorily 
ascertained. If the island was discovered by Ma* 
cham, in the reisn of Edward III., or between the 
years 1327 and 1378, the vine might probably 
have been planted here as early as 1420. This 
opinion is likewise, in some measm'e con-oborated 
hy the report of Alvise da Mosto, a Venetian tra- 
veller, who stopped there on his voyage to Africa, 
in 1455 : he says the vines there produced more 
grapes than leaves, and the clusters were of extra- 
ordinary size. He also mentions the manufacture 
and exportation of wine as then commenced. 

Washington Irving, in the translation of the 
narrative of Macham's discovery, appended to his 
Life of Columbus, says : " The country was indeed 
delightful ; the forests were stately and magnifi- 
cent ; there were ti*ees laden with excellent fruits, 
others with ai'omatic flowers; the waters were 
cool and limpid ; the sky serene ; and there was 
a halmy sweetness in the air." 



€C 
it 
i€ 
tt 
(t 



MADEIRA WINES. 189 

There is no end to the varieties of the 
vine in Madeira, if you listen to the culti- 
vators, no two of whom, however, agree in 
giving the same name to the least important. 
The juices of the species called the verdelho^ 
negro moUe, bmtardo, Jmal^ and tinta, are 
commonly mixed together, to produce the 
best Madeira wine, or those in the southern 
part of the island, which is principally in- 
debted for its flavour to tfe two latter. The 
tmtaj when separated, pDduces a wine 
closely resembling Burgundy, in colour and 
flavour, when new, but much softer; be- 
coming very like tawney port a>er it has 
been about two years in the cask ; and not 
distinguishable, either in colour or<{ayour 
from rich old Madeira, at the end of Venty 
years. It is the only red wine made i. the 
island, and is suffered to ferment with he 
husks of the fruit remaining in it, to fix t^ 
colour. It would retain the character c 
Burgundy longer, were it bottled earlier, 
but then there is the probability of its ac- 
quiring a bad flavour from the sediment. 
The paler wines, such as the pure verdelhoj 
or north wine, acquire an amber hue with 
age ; whereas, those whose husks impart 



190 MADEIRA WINES. 

some portion of colour to the juice during 
pressure, grow lighter with age. The serdal 
is said to be the hock grape brought from 
Europe : the leaf is of a very yellow green, 
and cottony on both sides. It grows best 
under precipices, and as the husk is very 
thick, is left longer than the others, to ripen. 
The quantity of serdal produced, does not 
exceed forty or fift/ pipes in the year. 

There are thref qualities of malmsey: the 
cadel^ or candy^ is the best, but produces 
little ; the heilosa and malvazia yield pretty 
abundantly, ^^^ the latter is very inferior. 
The vines ^^ow on rocky grounds, with a 
full expo^re to the sun. The grapes re- 
quire to^e over-ripe or shrivelled, and are 
therefr^ allowed to hang a month later 
than '^ose used in the manufacture of diy 
win^'t 



*^ Mr. Bowdich, in his Excursions in Madeira, 
(o, 1825, says, " This vine was introduced from 
' Candia, before 1445, by Prince Henry.** His 
authority is the Collegao de Noticias. The date 
almost coincides with that adopted by Dr. Hen- 
derson. 

f Mr. Bowdich describes the finest mahnsey 
plantation in the island as created entirely by an 
avalanche of tufa, which, falUng from a height of 



MADEIRA WINES. 191 

Mr. Bowdich has given an interesting de- 
scription of the general culture of the vine 
in the island, which we quote with little 
abridgment : 

" The best soil for the vine is saibro, or 
" an equal mixture of saibro s,nd pedro molle 
" or of the red and yellow tufa ; the latter, 
^^ from its lightness and looseness would be 
" washed away by the rains, were it not 
" mixed with some other soil. Equal por- 
" tions oi saibro y pedro molley andmassapes^ 
" which is a clayey earth, seem to be pre- 
" ferred in very dry situations ; and when 
^^ the massapes is mixed with a volcanic 
" cinder, called the araya, the vine endures 
^^ longer in this than in any other soil. It 
^^ is said to last sixty years in it, if planted 
" wide enough apart. The ground being 
^ turned up, the trenches are dug from four 
" to seven feet deep, according to the na- 



up wards of 1,200 feet, has lodged and spread at 
the bottom of a cliff, adjoining which is a fall of 
water, of one shallow and two deep stages. The 
vineyards and adjoining house are only accessible 
by water ; the labourers have a daring route, in 
ascending and descending the cliff, by a succession 
of simple stakes, driven into, and projecting from it. 



192 MADEIRA WINES. 

^^ ture of the soil, and a quantity of loose oi 
^* stony earth is placed at the bottom, to 
^' prevent the roots reaching the stiff clayey 
^^ soil beneath, which would oppose thrir 
" growth. They water the ground three 
^^ times if the summer has been very dry, 
^^ leaving tl/e sluices open until the ground 
^' is pretty well soaked ; the less the groosd 
" is watered, the stronger the wine, but the 
'^ quantity is diminished in proportion. 
" Some cultivators lay cow-dung at the 
" roots of the vines where they plant them, 
'^ and when the wine becomes poor, mis a 
^^ fresh quantity with the soil at the surJEUse: 
'^ others consider that animal manure in- 
" jures the flavour of the grape, and sow 
'^ the lupiniis perennis among the vines in- 
'^ stead ; this they do in the January of 
" every second year, cutting it down, and 
" burying it, by turning over the surface of 
^' the soil, after the small rains, which pre- 
^^ vail for about ten days at the end of 
" April. 

" An English acre will produce four pipes 
" of wine under the most favourable cii 
^' cumstances ; but one pipe seems to be 
" the average, taking the vineyards through- 



- 1 



MADEIRA WINES. 193 

" out the island * The propagation is by 
" cuttings, and they prefer the verdelho of 
** the north, when forming a plantation in 
^ tlie southern part of the island, as it im- 
*^ proves considerably from the better soil, 
^- climate, and aspect ; on this they engraft 
" any other variety they may wish : the 
*^ grapes yield no wine until the fourth year. 
^^ The stalks of the artmdo sagittata are used 
^^ in making frames for supporting the vines, 
^' in the southern parts of the island, and 
" the salix rubra for tying them to this 
" trellis-work. In the north part of the is- 
^^ land the vines are trained around th^ 
^^ chestnut trees ; this firmer support being 
'^ necessary, as it is said, on account of the 
" high winds prevailing there ; but they 
" generally neglect to cut away the branches 
^^ Which prevent the sun from reaching the 

* The lizards devour immense quantities of 
grapes; and are said to manifest a decided pre- 
ference for the tintOy but this, probably, is merely 
because the verdelho grapes are not ripe so early 
in the season. A cultivator dai-es not allow his 
grapes to remain on the vines after his neighbours 
have taken in theirs ; for if he did, all the rats of 
the neighbourhood would adjourn to his vineyard, 
and take a ruinous tithe. 



194 MADEIRA WINES. 

'^ vine, and it evidently languishes in the 
^^ vegetable soil natural to the chestnut 
" tree. 

^^ The vines give fruit as high as 2,700 
^^ feet in Madeira ; at the extremity of this, 
'^ the vine can scarcely be called flourishing, 
^^ as no wine can be made from it ; still it 
^' produces eatable fruit : the greatest height 
" at which it is now cultivated for wine, 
" is in the valley of the Coural das Freiras, 
" which is 2,080 feet above the level of the 
" sea * There is much dispute as to the 
" best moment for pruning the vines ; some 
" prefer February, others, the middle of 
" March ; it depends principally, however, 
" on their foresight as to the weather when 
" the flowering takes place, which is from 
" six weeks to two months after the prun- 
" ing. The produce of one year must fire- 
" quently be treated very differently from 
" that of another. When the grapes are 
" green, the fermentation must be checked; 



* ** There is one extraordinary kind^ which is 
" merely used as a dessert-fruit, about the size of 
a muscle plum, and the clusters are so lai-ge as 
sometimes to weigh twenty pounds." — History of 
Madeira, 1821. 






« 



MADEIRA WIN£S. 195 

** when tbey are wet, from unseasonable 
^^ rains, it must be assisted; generally speak- 
" ing, the riper the fruit, the more diffi- 
" cult the fermentation. A very agree- 
^^ able liqueur is made in the island from the 
^^8econd pressure of the grape, (the first 
" being merely with the feet) into which an 
*^ equal quantity of brandy is immediately 
" thrown, to stop the fermentation and pro- 
" duce sweetness. Gypsum is pretty gene- 
" rally used to clarify and mellow the wines 
while working, unless they happen to be 
of a green vintage. The importation of 
" foreign brandy is now prohibited, and 
^^ even that made in Portugal is subject to 
*^ a duty amounting to a prohibition ; it is 
" made from the north wine and the lees of 
" others. In the war time all the houses 
" were compelled to ripen their wines by 
** stoves, as they held no stocks : those who 
" managed this themselves, rose the heat 
" gradually, from about 60'* to 90° ; others; 
" who trusted them to the public stoves, 
" generally found that they were neglected 
" until the last moment, and then all but 
" boiled."* 

* This account of the wine manufacture of the 
island is especially valuable^ as no recent traveller 



196 MADEIRA WINES. 

The usual process of making the wine is 
very simple. The grapes, when cut, are 
immediately consigned to the press, which 
is a large wooden trough, not unlike the 
cider-press in England, over which is a laige 
clumsy lever, connected with otiber ma- 
chinery. When the trough is nearly filled, 
the due number of bare-legged peasants, ap- 
pointed for the purpose, enter the machines, 
and by the active tread of their feet, press 
out the juice, which runs into a vessel be- 
neath. The husks or stalks are then col- 
lected and pressed with the lever, which 
pressure is occasionally extended to the 
fourth time. The best wine is allowed to 
ferment for about six weeks after it id 
made. 

There is some difference in the accounts 
given of the quantity of wine made in Ma- 
deira ; but the most authentic average ap* 
pears to be from twenty-five to thirty thou* 
sand pipes, the greater part of which is 
exported, and the rest consumed in the 
island. It does not, however, attain its due 
state of perfection till it has acquired a cer- 

nas paid so much attention to the botany and 
geology of Madeira^ as did Mr. Bowdich, in the 
autumn of 1823. 



MADEIRA WINES. 197 

tain age in Madeira, or been transported to 
a warmer climate, and deposited there for a 
longer or shorter period. Hence has arisen 
the practice of sending such wines as are 
intended for British consumption, a voyage 
to the West liidies, or round the East In- 
dies, China, and the Brazils ; which, expe- 
rience has determined to be essential to 
their excellence. Great part of the cargoes 
conveyed to the East Indies, for the above 
purpose, is purchased on speculation, and 
on long credit, or in barter for goods, and 
often by inexperienced judges of wine ; 
when the wine in question is sometimes 
underrated, by the name of Truck or Barter 
Madeira. 

The wines from Madeira shipped into 
Great Britain in 1785, were 1,225 pipes ; 
in 1802, 2,984 pipes ; in 1810, 4,706 pipes; 
and in 1820, 5,234 pipes. 

Sir George Staunton states the whole 
annual vintage at an average of 25,000 
pipes of 120 gallons each, including 500 
pipes of malmsey. 

The improvement of Madeira wines by a 
voyage, may be explained as follows* In the 
phenomena of fermentation, the formation 
of alcohol is the last and most essential ; 



198 MADEIRA WINES. 

and it is plain how this must depend on the 
quantity of sugar, goodness of the fruit, 
the due apportioning of the leaven, and 
on the management of the process. Thus, 
when all the necessary circumstances are 
present, the process goes on till the produce 
is pure wine, or a compound of alcohol, 
water, acid, colour, vegetahle extract, and 
sugar. For although the two latter are said 
to he destroyed, there is almost always a 
minute portion of hoth remaining: the 
former, rendered very sensible in some 
wines, by the skinny matter which they 
deposit on the sides of the bottles. In a 
similar manner, it happens, that a portion 
of sugar continues attached to the wine for 
a long time, though it is not always sen- 
sible, except to a fine taste. Thus, it is 
perceptible in Claret, and even in Madeira, 
which are among the driest of our wines. 
In the first stages of the fermentation, the 
sugar is never thoroughly decomposed. If 
that were the case, indeed, the process 
would stop, or it would proceed to vinegar. 
Farther fermentation, that slower species 
which takes place in the casks, tends far- 
ther to diminish it ; but still a portion re- 
mains even when it has been bottled. 



It is the gradual conversion of this sugar, 
the chief operation that goes on in bottled 
wineH, which is the cause of the change 
which these nntiergo. This process often 
requires many years for its completion: that 
is the case in the Clarets of Chateau Mar- 
gaux, and other Bordeaux wines ; and the 
same process indeed takes place, to a greater 
or less degree, in Madeira and the other 
strong wines. In these cases, it is a cause of 
improvement ; the wine becoming more per- 
fect under this last tedious fermentation : 
in others, however, it is mischievous, and 
hence the destruction of many wines. 

By the above considerations, we can ac- 
count for the benefit which Madeira re- 
ceives in a hot climate, or in a hot cellar. 
The effect of the heat, and, in the case of a 
sea-voyage, united to the agitation, whose 
action was considered before, is that of acce- 
lerating the imperceptible fermentation, and 
thus ripening the wine sooner than would 
have happened in a low temperature, and 
at rest. But it is a mistake to imagine, that 
this is peculiar to Madeira, or that it is the 
only wine which can be benefited by this 
treatment. The effect of heat, is indeed 
such in this case, as is suspected by few. In 



200 MADEIRA WINES. 

America, it is a well-known practice to boil 
Madeira, or to heat it to the boiling tempe- 
rature, and the effect is that of rendering it 
good and old wine, when previously harsh 
and new : the same practice is applicable to 
Port. If newly-bottled wine be exposed to 
the sun, it begins shortly to deposit, 9X^ 
improve in flavour; and even the rawest 
wine of this kind, by heating it in hot war 
ter, maybe caused, in the course of a day, 
to assume the quality which it would have 
had after many years keeping. It is so &r 
from being injurious, as might be im^ned, 
that it is a valuable secret ; and, as we believe, 
that it is but little known to those whose 
interest it is to give the complexion of old 
wine to new, and who generally effect this 
purpose in a fraudulent manner, by putting 
it into foul ajid crusted bottles.* 

We believe the maturation of Madeira to 
have been attempted in this country, by an 
ingenious method of giving it const€mt mo- 
tion, so as in part to produce the agita- 
tion of a sea-voyage. A familiar instance 

* Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica : 
article — Wine,^ 



MADEIRA WIN£S. 201 

of this good effect on fermented liquors, is 
observable in the London Porter drunk in 
the Isle of Wight, which is materially be- 
nefited by the short sea-carriage. 

Flavouring Madeira is another process 
important to its perfection. The flavour 
itself is nothing; but that which we know 
is given by means of bitter almonds, and 
we believe, of sweet almonds also. This 
requires some delicacy and attention, and 
particular care that it be not overdone. As 
the full fermentation would destroy the 
more volatile flavours, the flavouring sub- 
stances are only introduced towards its de- 
cline : in Madeira, the nut-cake is put into 
the cask.* 

We may here mention, that notwithstand- 
ing the fine climate of Madeira, there seems 
to be considerable error in estimating its 
beneficial effects on invalids. Upon the 
authority of Dr. Heneiken, who has resided 
in the island for several years, we learn that 
since the summer of 1821, thirty-five inva- 



* Dr. Henderson^ however, tells us that the 
nntty taste is not communicated by means of bitter 
almonds, but is inherent in the wme. 



202 MADEIRA WINES. 

lids have either reached or sailed for Ma- 
deira. (The doctx)r speaks from memory.) 
Of this number, two or three died on ship- 
board, and three within a month of tibeir 
landing ; five or six just survived the win- 
ter; about an equal number lingered 
through the spring, and three or four en- 
tered upon and passed through a second 
winter. Of the whole number, thirteen 
only, (including the doctor,) were alive in 
1824. Two or three were cases of asthma, 
and two of chronic disease of the trachea and 
larynx ; " if these be excepted, and those 
'^ be considered as dead who cannot be 
" alive three months hence, the survivors of 
" thirty-five, or thereabouts, in the short 
" space of two years and a half, and who, so 
" far from being cured, can only make the 
" best of a precarious existence, in a low 
" latitude, will be reduced to six." 



The wines of the Canary Islands, which 
approach to the Madeira in quality, have 
already been noticed in the present volume. 
In the Teneriflfe produce, is included the tin 



MADEIRA WINES. 203 

de MalvoMUy (so called from Malvasia, a 
town in the Morea,) or malmsey, a rich and 
luscious sack, which was, in the seventeenth 
century, a great favourite in England. — 
Twenty-five thousand pipes are said to be 
annually exported from Teneriflfe, and a 
good deal of the remainder is manufactured 
into brandy. 

* See " Spanish Wines," p. 78-79. 



CAPE WINES. 



The climate of the British dominions in 
the south of Africa, is one of the finest in 
the world. The average height of the ba- 
rometer is about thirty inches, and the ave- 
rage summer heat, at noon, is about seventy- 
eight degrees. It resembles the climate of 
Italy, but is rather warmer and dryer; and 
it is so dry, that draining is little required 
for the ground. 

With these advantages, the vine has been 
cultivated with considerable success at the 
Cape of Good Hope, since its colonization 
by the Dutch, under Van Reibeck, in 1650. 
Since the colony became British, vines have 
increased tenfold, and the chief article of 



CAPE WINES. 205 

commerce is wine. But, unfortunately, 
more attention has been paid to quantity 
than to quality, except on the farms which 
yield Constantia. This wine, which is so 
much prized in Europe, is the produce of 
two farms known by that name, and si- 
tuated within eight or nine miles of the 
Cape : they have an eastern exposure, and 
are sheltered from the south-west, the only 
injurious blast. The soil being a deposit 
from the neighbouring mountains, is light, 
but enriched by manure: the sub-soil, 
which is even more important, is still lighter, 
being mixed with sand and broken stone ; 
on the contrary, in Drachensteiu, where the 
chief vineyards are at present, the sub-soil 
being clay, the wine receives an unpleasant 
flavour, the idea of which is inseparably 
associated with the very name of Cape 
wine. 

The farms of Constantia yield, on an 
average, about 12,000 gallons per year; but 
De la Caille and Barrow, have estimated 
the produce at considerably more. Besides 
this excellent wine, many varieties are made. 
Among these, the Madeira of the Cape, 
which is sent to Holland, America, the 



206 CAPE WINES. 

Dutch Settlements in India, and to Eng- 
land, is considered the best. It is a boiled 
wine, and is said to be much improved by 
the voyage. From twenty to thirty rix-dol- 
lars the hager of 160 gallons, according to 
Barrow and others, is the common price ob- 
tained by the fanner for his wine at Cape 
Town, where it is afterwards sold at the 
rate of from 40, 50, 60, to 80, and 100 dol- 
lars; and that too, perhaps, after under- 
going adulteration. 

The trade in this article is of great con- 
sequence at the Cape, and the merchants 
are particular in the mode of storing and 
securing the wine. They generally keep it 
in vaults and cellars, in large vessels, made 
of mahogany, or a wood resembling it, very 
thick, highly polished, and shaped like a 
hogshead. These vessels are kept as clean 
as our dining tables, and are bound round 
with great brass hoops, while the edges are 
secured with clasps of the same metal, so 
that neither time nor accident can damage 
them. One of these tons, or reservoirs, will 
contain from six to seven hundred gallons : 
the bung-holes are secured with plates of 
brass, hasped down, and locked. The cocks 



CAPE WINES. 207 

are also large and strong, with locks and 
keys to them, so that the servants or slaves 
are prevented from emhezzling any of the 
wine, as the casks are never opened, except 
in the presence of one of the proprietors. 
Many of these tuns are elegantly carved, 
and ornamented with figures.* When Mr. 
Barrow visited the Cape, a pint of good 
wine might have been purchased for three- 
pence ; and had it not been for the license 
on the privilege of retailing, it might have 
been obtained for three-halfpence. 

There is no duty on wine in the Colony, 
except upon what is brought to the Cape 
market, and then it is subject to a tax of 
three rix-dollars the Jmger, Brandy, or 
hrandewyUy as it is called at the Cape, is 
also exempt, except on passing the barrier, 
when it is charged with a duty at the same 
rate as the wine. This impost is upon the 
plan of the octroi duties in Paris. 

With the manufacture of this spirit, the 
vine-growers seem not to be well acquainted. 



* Percival's Account of the Cape of Good 
Hope, 4to. 



-J 



208 CAPE WINES. 

• 

as it has hitherto been considered of an in- 
different quality. It is extracted from the 
husks and stalks of the grapes, mixed up and 
fermented with the lees of wine, and odier 
ingredients sometimes used of a less grateful 
nature. The whole of the operation is gene- 
rally committed to the care of a slave, who, 
having neither knowledge nor interest in the 
process, pays no regard to the quaUty of the 
spirit ; through this neglect it contracts a 
strong empyreumatic flavour, which it never 
loses. This spirit has been long in use at 
the Cape, though the better sort of people 
among the Dutch seldom drink it. It is 
eagerly purchased by the Hottentot and 
Caffre hordes, who barter their cattle and 
other commodities for it. 

The quantity of wine imported from the 
Cape into Great Britain in 1812, was 40 
tims, 2 hogsheads, 56 gallons; in 1820, 
1,925 tuns, 60 gallons. The whole produce 
of the Cape, is supposed to be about 12,000 
hagers; comprising only what crosses the 
barriers : with the wastage, it may be com- 
puted at about 14,000 pipes. The consump- 
tion of the colony is calculated at 6,000, the 



CAPE WINES. 209 

shipment to St. Helena about 2,000, and the 
remainder is for this country, and its de- 
pendencies.* 

The wine manufacture of the Cape, is 
susceptible of great improvement, and might 
be made of essential benefit to the British 
empire. Were the vine-plantations pro- 
perly managed, and a due regard paid to 
the selection of the grapes, and the process 
of making the wine, much of the money 
that is sent to foreign countries for this ar- 
ticle might be saved, and turned to our own 
advantage. The vines, according to La- 
trobe, are permitted to grow without espa- 
liers, placed in rows like currant bushes in 
our gardens, and when arrived at a certain 
height, the upper-shoots are taken off, to in- 
crease the quantity of grapes; a method 
very different from that practised in Europe. 
The plants, with which the Cape vineyards 

* Parliamentary Papers, — In 1817, when the 
duties on Cape wines were reduced, the amount 
imported was more than doubled from the preced- 
ing year ; but much of the wine was of wretched qua- 
lity, and the market was overstocked, so that Cape 
wines lost altogether in public estimation. 



210 CAPE WINES. 

are stocked, are said to have been brought 
from Persia, and the banks of the Rhine ; 
but, under the new names assigned to them, 
it is impossible to recognise the speeiea. 

Sir John Sinclair, in a recent paper on 
the improvement of the Cape^f observes, 
that ^^ it is unnecessary to enter into the 
^^ subject of the manufacture of the wine. If 
^^ the sub-soil be bad, so will the wine be. 
" The vine does not require a rich sub-soil. 
^^ In Italy, flags are laid to prevent the roots 
^' from penetrating into the clay ; and in 
'^ England, rubbish is thrown in, to make 
^^ a sub-soil, that shall not be so rich as to 
" produce leaves instead of fruit. It would 
'' be advantageous were premiums offered 
" for wine that had not been produced from 
" a sub-soil of clay, but had been reared in 
" trellis, as requiring less labour than the 
'' standaixl, and made on a pure and good 
" system, instead of being mixed with Cape 
" brandy, sulphuric acid, &c. Notwith- 
" standing all these disadvantages. Cape 
" wine is generally sold in England under 

t Date, Jan. 1829. 



CAPE WINES. 211 



fC 



the names, and at the prices, of Madeira, 
" Sherry, Teneriflfe, Stein, Pontae, and above 
« aU, Hock !" 

Constantia has been overrated from its 
rarity and consequent cost. The. two farms 
produce different wines : one a red, and the 
other a white sort of sweet wine; but the 
whole quantity annually made does not ex^ 
ceed ninety pipes. 



BRITISH WINES. 



In England, little attention has been 
paid to the philosophy of wine-making. — 
Hence, the wines of this country have been 
but little esteemed ; and, notwithstanding 
the application of scientific principles to in- 
numerable branches of social improvement, 
their extension to the manufacture of Bri- 
tish wines has been attended with few im- 
portant practical results. In short, France 
is the only nation which has bestowed much 
attention on what may be strictly termed 
the philosophy of unne-making, — as it is that 
which excels all others in the variety and 
the goodness of its produce. 

All that relates to the present manufacture 
of wine in England may therefore be dis- 
posed of in a small portion of our Manual ; 



BHITISH WINES. 2!3 

but the history of the culture of the vIdb, 
and of the wines used, in England, abounds 
with so many interesting illustrations of the 
habits and peculiarities of our ancestors, 
that we should rather neglect than consult 
the gratification of the reader in withhold- 
ing them from these pages. 

The vine is said to have been first planted 
in Britain by the Romans ; and its culti- 
vation to have become common shortly after 
this introduction. This statement has, how- 
ever ,heen often controverted ; and, it appears, 
that if true, the vine could not have been in- 
troduced till near the close of the Roman 
influence, for Tacitus mentions, that it was 
not known when Agricola commanded in 
the island. At the invasion of the Anglo- 
Saxons, however, when the country had 
been under the Roman dominion four hun- 
dred years, and had received, during that 
period, all the encouragement which that 
people gave to the agriculture of the pro- 
vinces ; the vine, without doubt, was ex- 
tensively ctdtivated. Vineyards are men- 
tioned in the earliest Saxon charters, as 
well as gardens and orchards, — " and this 
was before the combating invaders had time 



214 BRITISH WINES. 

or ability to make them, if they had not 
found them in the island.'^* In the Cotto- 
nian Manuscripts, in the British Museum, 
there are some rude delineations in a Saxon 
calendar, which, in the month of February, 
represent men cutting or pruning trees, 
some of which resemble vines. Wine also, 
seems to have been known to the Saxons, 
as mention is first made of it at the feast 
given by Hengist, about the jeax 450, to 
Yortigem, the British King, after the com- 
pletion of Hidecastle ; when Rowena, the 
beautiful daughter of the Saxon chief, is 
represented with a golden bowl, filled with 
wine, drinking to the health of the mo- 
narch ; which is also regarded as the first 
instance on record of drinking health in 
Britain. But although wine was familiar 
among the Saxons, it was not used with 
profusion. A great bowl, from which the 
obbsey or big-bellied jugs, of the monks, were 
filled twice a-day for their dinner and sup- 
per, was all that Ethelwbld allowed to his 
monastery. 

Domesday-book exhibits to us many 

* I'umer 8 Anglo-Saxons. 



BRITISH WINES. 215 

proofs that wine was made in England 
during; the period preceding the conquest. 
At the latter date, several new plantationB 
of vines appear to have been made; and 
ambog other places, in the village of West- 
minster'; at Chenetone, in Middlesex ; at 
Ware, in Hertfordshire; and at Hanten, in 
Worcester sh ire . 

To almost every monastery, vineyards ap- 
peared to have been attached. Canterbury 
Church, and St. Augustine's monastery, 
possessed several vineyards. Tlie Isle of 
Ely, from the abundance of its vintage, was 
denominated the isle of vines ; and the bi- 
shop thereof, shortly after the conquest, 
commonly exacted three or four tuns of 
wine, as the tithe of the vineyard, while a 
certain quantity was reserved in his leases 
for rent. A plot of ground, in Ijondon, 
which now forms East Smithiicld, and some 
adjoining streets, was withheld from the re- 
ligious house within Aldgatc, by four suc- 
cessive Constables of the Tower, in the 
reign of Rufus, Henry, and Stephen; and 
made by them into a vineyard, to their 
great profit. In the old accounts of recto- 
rial and vicarial revenues, and in the old 



216 BRITISH WINES. 

registers of ecclesiastical suits concerning 
them, the tithe of wine is an article that 
frequently occurs in Kent, Surrey, and other 
counties. These vineyards were usually on 
the south-side of a hill, on a light, dry noil, 
having the surface covered with sand ; the 
vines being trained near the ground. 

Towards the middle of the 12th century, 
upon the authority of William of Malmes- 
bury, the culture of the vine, had arrived 
at such perfection within the vale of Gloor 
cester, that a sweet and palatable wine, 
" little inferior to that of France," was made 
there in abundance. His description of 
Gloucester is, — " you may behold the paths 
and public roads fenced with apple-trees, 
which are not planted by the hand of man, 
but grow spontaneously; and such is the 
exuberance of the soil, that it teems with 
the fairest fruits, — which are of excellent 
flavour, and so durable nature, that many 
of them will keep a whole year. This dis- 
trict exhibits too a greater number of vine- 
yards than any other county in England ; 
yielding abundant crops, and of superior 
quality. Nor are the wines made here, by 
any means, harsh and ungrateful to the pa- 



BRITISH WINES. 217 

latc; fur, in point of sweetness, they may 
almost bear comparison with the growths 
of Fiance." The same writer corroborates 
the fertility of the Isle of Ely, and observes 
of a certain domain : — " It is so fully culti- 
vated, that no portion of the soil is left un- 
occupied. On the one hand, it may be seen 
thickly studded with apple-trees; on the 
other, covered with vines ; which either 
trail along the ground, or are trained on 
high, and supported on poles." 

In the thirteenth and fourtecutb centu- 
ries, almost every large castle and monastery 
in England, bad its vineyai-d. The land 
on the south side of Windsor Castle, now a 
pleasant green lawn, running from the town, 
under the castle-wall, was a vineyard, and 
is particularly described in the " Arcbteolo- 
gia." Stowe tells us, that among the ar- 
chives of the Court of Pleas of the Forest 
and Honours at Windsor, " is to be seen tbe 
yearly account of the charges of planting 
tbe vines, that in the time of Kicbard II, 
grew in great plenty within the little park ; 
as also tbe making of tbe wine itself, whereof 
some part was spent in the king's house, 
and some part sold to bis profits ; the tithes 



218 BRITISH WINES. 

whereof were paid to the abbot of Walthem, 
then parson both of the New and Old Win- 
dlesore." 

At this period, wine was made in Eng- 
land, in considerable quantities; and yet 
the importation of foreign wines was yery 
large. Of this, we shall presently speak 
more fully. The vineyards were probably 
continued till the time of the Keformation, 
when the ecclesiastical gardens were either 
neglected or destroyed. The extended in- 
troduction of foreign wines, might also 
have led to the neglect of the vine ; and, 
about the last-mentioned period, ale, which 
had been known for many centuries in Eng- 
land, seems to have superseded the use of 
wine as a general beverage * 

To bring the narrative nearer our own 
times, the revival of the culture of the vine 
for the manufacture of wine, was frequently 



* Ritson has preserved a rude ballad of this pe- 
riod in praise of ale, which was then becoming the 
national beverage : — 

'• Bryng us home no sydyr, nor no palde wyne ; 
For an that thou shall have Cryst's curse and mine : 
But bryng us home good ale, and bryng us home good ale, 
And for our der lady's love, bryng us home good ale.*' 



BHITISH WINEW. 219 

attempted in this country, within the last 
century. We could quote many examples; 
but one of the most successful on record, is 
of a vineyard at Arundel Castle, on the 
south coast of Sussex, which was planted 
about the beginning of the last century ; 
and of the produce of which, there are 
stated to have been 60 pipes in the cellars 
of the Duke of Norfolk, in the year 17B3. 
This wine, is said to have excelled much of 
the Burgundy imported into this country; 
but not, in the words of the record, " of 
quite so fine a flavour as the wines of 
Beaune." The kind of grape, and the 
mode of culture, have not been particularly 
recorded. Aubrey describes a similar vine- 
yard, at Chart Park, near Dorking, in Sur- 
rey, another seat of the Howards. " Here 
was a vineyard, supposed to have been 
planted by the Hon, Charles Howard, who, 
il is said, erected his residence, as it were, 
ia the vineyard." Again, the vineyard 
flourished for some time, and tolerably good 
wine was made from the produce ; but, after 
the death of the noble planter, in 1763, it 
was much neglected, and nothing remained 
hut the name. Un taking down the house, 



220 BRITISH WINES. 

a few years since, a circular stone, resem- 
bling that used in a mill, was found, by 
which the gi*apes were pressed."* We were 
on the spot at the time, and saw the stone 
in question. Vines are still abundant at 
Dorking, the soil being very congenial to 
their growth. " Hence, almost every house 
in this part has its vine ; and some of the 
plants are very productive. The cottages 
of the labouring poor are not without this 
ornament, — and the produce is usually sold 
by them to their wealthier neighbours, for 
the manufacture of wine. The price, per 
bushel, is from 48. to 16«."t 

The Isle of Wight has also been the 
scene of the experimental culture of the 
vine, where, about fifty years since. Sir Ri- 
chard Worsley planted the more hardy spe- 
cies of vines, in a rocky soil, with a south- 
eastern exposure, and engaged a vine-dres- 
ser from France, to superintend their cul- 
ture. In one or two years, a tolerable 
crop of grapes was obtained; but the scheme 

* Picturesque Promenade round Dorking : by 
John Timbs. Sec. Edit p. 258-9. 

t Ibid, p. 143. 



BRITISH WINES. 221 

ultimately turned out unsuccessful and un- 
profitable. 

A more satisfactory experiment was made 
at PainshiU. The result has been fully de- 
scribed by Sir Edward Barry, in his disser- 
tation on the History of Wine, published 
about sixty years since.* The vineyard is 
now overgrown by Scotch pine. It was 
originally planted with white grapes, pro- 
cured from the neighbourhood of Paris ; and 
a wine similar to ChampagBe, was made 
by confining the must or juice of the fruit 
in strong casks, to prevent the force of the 
fermentation bursting the vessels, until the 
cold of the autumn frosts checked the pro- 
cess. The soil was a poor sand, with a 
stony sub-soil, having the advantage of a 
southern exposure, on a steep slope. It 
appears to have been deficient in depth and 
fertility ; and, it is quite evident, if vines 
were to be cultivated in a vineyard in this 
climate, that every circumstance ought to 
be as favourable as possible. PainshiU 
vineyard enjoyed only two advantages — ex- 

* Observations on the Wines of the Ancients. 



222 BAITISU WIVS9. 

posure and dryness ; it wanted fertility, and 
a loose and more porous subsoil.* 

To these experiments may be added, that 
on the southern coast of Devonshire, pos- 
sessing the mildest temperature of the Eng- 
lish counties, there are still, or vei; latdy 
were, two or three vineyards, from which 
wine is commonly made. 

Much of the ill success already menticmed, 
has doubtless resulted from erroaeoos evt 
ture, but the general failure may be re- 
ferred to the unfitness of the Englicdii climate 
for the perfection of the vine. Whatev^ 
may have been the condition and qualities 
of the early English grapes, employed in 
making wine, we know that they must have 
been ripened by the natural tempetatine of 
the climate, as artificial heat was not re- 
sorted to, for the ripening of grapes, tiUtfae 
early part of the last century; and then the 
heat was applied merely to the opposite side 
of the wall on which the vines wero trained: 
nor is it till about the midcUe of the same 
century that we have any account of vines 
being covered with glass. 



* Loudon's Gardeners Mag. Feb. 1829. 



BsrrisH W1NE8. 328 

A writer, in ji recent scientific journal,* 
however, refers the failure of these experi- 
ments to other causes, observing that " the 
climate of this country has undergone a 
considerable change within the last hun- 
dred years, is allowed by all who have con- 
sidered the subject. With such inclement 
and changeable springs, and long protracted 
winters, as have been experienced of late, 
vines, as standards iu the open air, would 
be destroyed, or at least, no dependence 
could be placed upon them for a crop.f In 
their cultivation in this country, practi- 
tioners are more liable to err in planting 
them in too rich, thiin in too poor, a soil ; 
the first adds too much to their natural 
luxuriance of growth, and always reduces 
the flavour of the fruit." 

Upon this point generally, as well as 



* Brandes .Tonmal, April 1827. 

f Grapes, ripened on wails or trellises, are, in 
general, unfit for the iDHiiufacture of wine. In 
this country, however, it is with such grapes that 
the cxperimenis in wine-maJiing are now usually 
nndertaken ; which may probalily be one cause 
why the liquors obtained have neither durability 
nor flavour. — Henderson. 



224 BRITISH WINES. 

upon the many other causes which concur 
powerfully to produce a good or bad quality 
of wine, Chaptal has the following forcible 
observations :— 

" Those who study the progress of Nature 
in her sublime work of vegetation, have 
surely observed how great is the influence 
which causes the least apparent exercise on 
her ; the difference which exists in the soils 
of adjacent grounds. That which is esta- 
blished in the atmosphere of a rising ground, 
by its inclination being more or less rapid, 
or being towards one or other of the cardinal 
points, and the manner in which it is shel- 
tered, are as many causes which act on the 
species and varieties which compose the 
vegetable kingdom, but there are none 
more susceptible of all these impressions 
than the vine." The same author adds, 
" The siu*faee, more or less inclined, of the 
soil which surrounds the vine, though in 
the same locality, presents infinite modifica- 
tions. The summit, the middle, and the 
foot of a hill, give very different produc- 
tions. The summit, which is open and un- 
sheltered, receives at every moment the 
impression of all the changes of the atmos- 



BRITISH WINES. 325 

phere ; the winds injure the vines con- " 
tinually, the fog makes a. more constant and 
direct impression on ihem, and the tempe- 
rature is variable and cold. This causes in 
general a less abundant quantity of grapes, 
which come to maturity slowly and imper- 
fectly, so that the wine made from them is 
inferior in quality to that which the flank 
of the bill furnishes, the position of which 
prevents the pernicious effect of the greater 
part of their causes. The base of the hill 
offers also serious inconveniences. Un- 
doubtedly, the constant moisture of the 
earth nourishes a strong and vigorous vine, 
but the grape is never so sweet nor so 
agreeably perfumed, as towards the middle 
region : the air is constantly damp, and the 
earth incessantly imbued with water, swells 
the grape, and forces the vegetation, to the 
detriment of the quality." 

This portion of our volume might be en- 
larged by the addition of many recent facts 
connected with the improved culture of the 
vine; but, as these would only he advan- 
tageous or available to the practical horti- 
culturalist, they must give place to a few 
more interesting records concerning the 



236 BRITISH WINS9. 

varieties of wines which are mentaoned in 
our domestic history. 

Foreign wines appear to hare been firal 
introduced into England about the mkUle 
of the twelfth century : the date of the ear- 
liest statute of the foreign wine trade bei»g 
1154, when the trade in Bordeaux wines 
commenced with this country. The duties 
on foreign wine imported are mentioned in 
the third year of the reign of John ; and in 
the time of Edward I. who ascended the 
throne in 1272, a duty of two shillings was 
imposed on every tun imported into £ng^ 
land, in lieu of the ancient impost, called 
priscige.* Out of every cargo imported, the 
king claimed one tun before the mast, 
under the name oipriaay or resfa prisa; and 
officers were appointed at the different ports, 
to collect and account for the same. This 
tax afterwards obtained the name of buHeV" 
agcy because it was paid to the king's butler. 

The English, from the above period, were 

* In this year, London imported 3^799 tons of 
wine ; Southampton apd Portsmoutli^ 3iH7 ; ajad 
Sandwich, 1,900. In the time of Edward HI. a 
trade in Rhenish wine was carried on l!>ct?ween 
Hull and the ports of the Baltic. 



BRITISH WIN£8. 227 

much addicted to wine-drinking. According 
to Holiushed, the stix)iigest wines were in 
the greatest request, while claret and other 
weak wiaes, were scarcely thought of. 
Wine was so abundant, that in 1392, when 
Richard II. after a long absence, was re- 
ceived in London hy the citizens, with great 
demonstrations of joy, the very conduits 
in the stieets, through which the caval- 
cade passed, were allowed to run with every 
variety of wine.* 

In the time of Henry VIIL wine was 
used at breakfast, with beer ; and even the 
grave Sir Thomas More drank frequent 



* Perhapa the only relic known in onr time, of 
tlie custom of liquor flowing from conduits in the 
streets, is the distribution ofliquor to the populace, 
on certain public rejoicings. Among the several 
commemoratious'of the last Peace, roUing out bar- 
rels of beer to the multitude was very general. At 
the grand f^te of St. CharleB, to celebrate the 
birth-day of the present king of France, (Nov. 4.) 
provisions are thrown among'the people, and wine 
is diatributed to all who desire it. The fair or F&te 
is held in die Vhampi Elyseei. A programme of 
the day's entertainments is published, andthekoura 
of distribution are duly stated. 



228 BRITISH WINES. 

bumpers in the momiDg, before proceeding 
to state business. 

A quart of wine and a quart of beer was 
the usual quantity served to two persons at 
one of these dejeunis a la goblet* Good 
appetite is, however, only induced by early 
hours; for the present king of France, 
though upwards of seventy-two years of 
age, breakfasts at eight o'clock, when his 
dejeun^ includes a bottle of wine. 

A specific enumeration of the varieties 



* A curious trait of the habits of this period, is 
preseiTed by Cavendish, in his accountof Wolsey s 
splendid reception of the French ambassadors at 
Hampton Court, in 1527. The cardinal is de- 
scribed as arriving while the foreigners were feast- 
ing : " Before the second course, my lord came in, 
booted and spun*ed, all sodainely amongst them 
pro face ; at whose coming there was great joy, 
with rising every man from his place, whom my 
lord caused to sit still and keep their roomes, and 
being in his apparel as he rode, called for a chayre, 
and sat down in the middest of the highest para- 
dise, laughing, and being as meny as ever I saw 
him in all my lyff." The whole party drank long 
and strong : some of the Frenchmen were led off 
to bed, and in the chambers of all was placed 
abundance of " wine and beere." 



BRITISH WINES. 229 

of wines which have been used in England, 
or the fashions and customs of drinking 
them, would occupy too much space in our 
Manual ; neither would it be especially in- 
teresting to wine-drinkers of these days, 
since a comparison of our tables with those 
of the middle ages, for example, would in- 
duce no very favourable conclusions on the 
vigour of the present generation. The re- 
trospect, therefore, had better remain un- 
touched, if we except a slight notice of a 
statute of Edward VI. which is called, " An 
Act to avoide Excesse of Wynes, which not 
only relates to the price, but contemplates 
a set of aristocratical privileges which in 
our days border on the ludicrous. The 
enactments are as follow : — 

I. None but such as can spend one hun- 
dred marks of yearly rent, or is worth one 
thousand marks, or else shall be the son of 
a duke, marquess, earl, viscount, or baron 
of the realm, shall have, or keep in his 
house, any vessel of foreign wine, for his 
family's use, exceeding ten gallons, under 
a penalty of ten pounds for every such 
o£fence. 

II. No taverns for the retailing of wine 
shall be set up, except in towns and cities ; 



2S0 BRITISH WINES. 

and only two taverns shall be allowed for 
every town or city, except London, which 
may have forty taverns; Westminster, which 
may have three ; York, eight ; Bristol, six 
Cambridge, four ; Oxford, three ; Lincoln 
three; Hull, four; Shrewsbury, three 
Exeter, four ; Salisbury, three ; Gloucester 
four ; West Chester, four ; Hereford, three 
Worcester, three; Southampton, three 
Canterbury, four; Ipswich, three; Winches- 
ter, three; Colchester, three; Newcastle,four. 

III. None of the said taverns, however, 
shall retail wines to be spent or drunk 
within the respective houses, on pain of for- 
feiting ten pounds for every such offence. 

IV. Merchants may use in their own 
houses, but not sell, such wines as they 
shall import : also, high-sheriffs, magistrates 
of cities and towns, and the inhabitants of 
fortified towns, may keep vessels of wine for 
their own consumption only. 

These provisions but ill accorded with the 
luxurious habits of the English, as the 
splendid hospitalities and commemorative 
festivals of the period will prove. 

To sum up details in a few words, which 
might be extended to many pages, it may 
be stated, that up to the period of the Revo- 



BRITISH WINES. 231 

lutioQ, the principal supply of wines was 
brought from France ; at which time, ac- 
cording to the report of the commissioned 
of trade and plantations, not less than 
20,000 tuna were the imports for one year. 
Hie duties on these wines, from 1770 to 
1782,werefrom£60 to £96. ; on other winefi, 
the duties were upwards from £30 to £46 
per tun. During the last four years of this 
period, the average quantity imported ap- 
pears to have been 14,094 tuns, while the 
re-exportation was 2,094, leaying a balance 
of 12,000 tUDB for the consumption of the 
country. 

From a variety of documents ,it appears thai 
the consumption of foreign wines, legally 
imported, for a population of 11,978,875 
persons, only amounts, on an average, 
to 6,010,971 gallons; and of this quantity, 
40,000 are said to be annually consumed in 
London alone, which, at 126 gallons the 
pipe, may be estimated at 5,040,000 gallons 
for the inhabitants of that city, the number 
of whom were, in 1821, returned at 1,274,800 
souls. In 1822, the revenue derived from 
imported wine amounted to £952,570, and 
in 1823, to £962,397. 



282 BHITISU WINES. 

The consumption of foreign wine in Scot- 
land is comparatively much less. On an 
average of seven years,the annual quantity for 
a population of 2,000,000, is not more than 
321,408 gallons, being, to each individual, 
somewhat better than a pint. Home-made 
wine is a manufacture not carried to any 
^eat extent in Scotland, nor is it an art of 
much antiquity. Pennant says, that in the 
year 1635, they began to make some in 
England, from the raisins or dried grapes of 
Spain and Portugal, and that one Francis 
Chamberlayne had succeeded so well, that 
he obtained a patent for the manufacture of 
such wine for fourteen years. The author 
of the " Tatler," complained, that in his 
day they could squeeze Bordeaux out of 
the sloe, and draw Champagne from an 
apple. This manufacture has certainly been 
very successfully pursued by the English, 
since it is estimated that one-half of the 
Port, and five-sixths of the white wines 
consumed in London, are the produce of the 
home presses.* 

Probably more has been written upon the 

* Morewood on Inebriating Liquors. 



BRITISH WINES. 233 

manufacture of British wines, than upon 
any other branch of domestic economy. — 
Almost every writer has his favourite theory 
or system of wine-making, — and every good 
housewife has her customary receipts for the 
same purpose. A few observations on the 
result of these enquiries may not, however, 
be uninteresting. They may be advanta- 
geously preceded by some observations on 
the general principles of Wine-making. 

Vinous liquors, resembling wine, may be made 
from every fruit, as weU as from every vegetable, 
which contains acids united to its extractive matter. 
The term wine is thus applied to the produce of 
currants, gooseberries, and many others; while 
that of cyder is especially reserved for the liquor 
to be obtained from apples. That term would be 
a fitter one for many of the vinous liquors in ques- 
tion, and we shall here restiict the teim wine to 
the produce of the vine. 

All fruits consist of the following principles : — 
water, sugar, a peculiar combination of sugar and 
extract, called the sweet principle, by the French, 
supertartiite of potash, malate of potash, and malic 
acid, superoxalate of potash, extractive matter ana- 
lagous to mucilage, and vegetable gelatin, tannin, 
a principle of flavour, and a colouring principle. 
These, however, are not all found in any one 
fioiit, and they also vary in their proportion in dif- 
ferent ones. The essential ones to the making of 



2S4 BRITISH WINES. 

wine are the tartai*ous acid, sugar, or the sweet 
principle, extract, and watjer ; and those which are 
useful, without being indispensable, are flavour, 
tannin, or astringency and colour. And it is by 
possessing these in right proportions, that the 
grape excels all other fruits for the purpose of 
making wine. 

Tartarous acid, or its combinations, is especially 
indispensable; and hence it is that the grape which 
contains it in large quantity, produces wine; when 
the apple, and other fruits which contain the maUc 
acid, produce cyder. It is essential to the fer- 
mentation, as well as to the quality of the produce; 
and it is decomposed in the process, so as to in- 
crease the quantity of alcohol, which the sugar 
would otherwise yield. YiThere malic acid is also 
present, the quality of the wine is bad. Sugiyr 
must be considered the fundamental element, and 
as that from which the alcohol is chiefly deiiyed. 
Thus, the most saccharine grapes produce the 
strongest wine. But it seldom exists in a pure 
state in the grape, or in any other vegetable* It 
appears to be most pure in the sugar cane ; but 
even there it is combined with the extractive mat- 
ter, and also with some acid, forming the sweet 
principle of the French. Pure sugar does not 
ferment in water, it crystallizes; and whenever 
fermentation occurs, some other vegetable matter 
is present. When sugai*, again, has ciystallised 
from a solution of the sweet principle, what re- 
mains, runs still more steadily into feimentation. 
In the produce of the cane, this is molasses. It is 
very important to keep this distinction in view, 
because upon it materially depends the fabrication 



BRITISH WINES. 285 

of sweet wines. It explains many circumstances 
in the process of fermentation, and some that are 
often overlooked. It explains, among other things, 
^y wine ferments in a cask, when it will not fer- 
ment in hottles; hecause the sugar derives the 
necessary extractive matter from the wood. The 
chemical nature of the extractive matter is not 
known ; hut is supposed to contain azote, as this 
is the produce of fermentation. Yeast, or leaven, 
contains the extractive principle in great ahundance, 
and hence its power of inducing fermentation in a 
solution of pure sugar. All vegetables contain it ; 
and it is most abundant in those juices which gela- 
tinate in boiling. It is found in the grape, and it 
is thus the natural leaven of wine, whether existing 
in a separate state, or united to sugar, in the form 
of a sweet principle. Water is a much more essen- 
tial ingredient, than would at first be suspected. If 
over abundant, it is difficult to prevent the produce 
from running to the acetous stage. Hence weak 
wines become sour. If deficient, it is difficult to 
establish the fermentation ; and hence sweet wines. 

Thus, also, sweet wines ai*e injured by drying 
the grapes, or evaporating their juice, both com- 
mon practices in the wine countries. Colour must 
be looked on in the light of an ornament, and is 
found in the husk of the grape. So is the tannin 
principle, which occasions the astringency in Port 
wine. Of the principle of flavour, chemistry knows 
nothing ; it seems often the produce of fermenta- 
tion, as in Claret and Burgundy wines : in those 
of Frontignan and Muscat, it is the natural fla- 
vour of the fruit. 

When the process is complete, the wine is dry, 
or contains no sugar, so that sweet wines, which 



236 BRITISH WINE9. 

are compounds of wine and sugar, are the produce 
of incomplete fermentation. When all the ele- 
ments, ahove described, are in due proportion, the 
product is perfect, a dry wine ; and the elements 
that require particularly to he balanced for this 
result, are the extract, or leaven, and the sugar. 
If the former is in excess, the wine tends to vin^ar, 
unless means are used to stop the fermentation, by 
abstracting the leaven ; if in defect, the process is 
imperfect, a sweet wine. Hence, the perfection 
and management of the leaven, are amongst the 
most impoilant circumstances in the manufacture.* 

Such are the general principles of wine- 
making, but the comparative failui*e of the 
British process may be still further traced. 
The natural ill qualities of our fiiiits must 
be corrected by art, and to do this with ef- 
fect, to imitate the qualities of the more 
perfect fruits of warm climates, constitutes 
the whole secret. Every receipt-book is 
full of processes for making a multiplicity 
of domestic wines. These never take into 
account that an unvarying process cannot 
be adapted to the ever-changing nature of 
our fruits, the qualities of which are dif- 
ferent, according as the season has been 
wet or dry, cold or warm ; according as the 

* Abridged from the Supp. Ency. Brit. 



BRITISH WINES. 237 

soil was exhausted or well manured; the 
trees skilfully or ignorantly pruned, and 
several other circumstances not necessary 
here to enumerate. These popular pro- 
cesses, therefore, seldom succeed; hence 
our domestic wines have a bad character, 
and the art of making them is but little 
cultivated. Such is the opinion of a very 
recent writer*; but the advocates for British 
wine-making usually divide themselves into 
two parties, such as maintain that our wines 
are spoiled by an excess of sugar, and such 
as contend that perfect wine may be made 
from unripe fruit. Mr. Cobbett, whose 
experience in rural economy is entitled to 
respect, observes, " that which we call cur- 
rant wine, is neither more nor less than 
red-looking, weak rum, the strength coming 
from the sugar. People deceive themselves. 
The thing is called tainef but it is rum; that 
is ' to say, an extract of sugar."t Another 
experienced writer says : " the idea of 
making good wine with British fruits, 



* Donovan's Domestic Economy. 
f Cottage Economy. 



238 BRITISH WINES. 

which abound with undecomposable acids, 
with only two pounds of sugar to each gal- 
Ion, is almost impracticable. It may be 
asked, what are the substances that make 
wine keep, and prevent it from tumiBg 
sour? Undecomposed sugar and alcohol. 
Now, as to spirit, the wine as it is ealled, 
scarcely contains any ; and the small quan- 
tity of sugar it contains would be speedily 
decomposed, were it not for the frequent 
skimmings and rackings it undergoes. 
Without this, the wine, as it is called, would 
not keep a twelvemonth ; whereas, wine 
made upon true chemical principles, will 
keep any length of time if properly ma- 
naged. I have wine by me now, made from 
ripe gooseberries, nineteen years old, which 
is perfectly sound ; the wine now drunk by 
my family is twelve years old, and if it 
has any fault, it is that it is too strcmg ; it 
never had spirit of any kind added to ii ; 
all the alcohol it contains is genuine, the 
product of the fruit and sugar. To a^ 
brandy or spirit of any sort to wine, will 
spoil the flavour of the best that ever 
was made, unless it be kept a certain 



BRITISH WINKS. 239 

number of years, or added in a very small 
quantity.* 

Dr. Maccullocli, on the other hand, is 
of opinion that the best wine may be made 
from unripe fruit. He thinks ripe fruits 
are much improved by boiling previous to 
fermentation. This, he states, is particu- 
larly the case with the black currant, which, 
when thus managed, will make a wine 
closely resembling some of the best of the 
sweet Cape wines. But Dr. M. has made 
wines from tmripe grapes and sugar, so 
closely resembling Champagne, Grave^ 
Rhenish, and Moselle, that the best judges 
could not distinguish them from those fo- 
reign wines. The grapes may be used ia 
any state, however unripe ; when even but 
half grown, and perfectly hard, they suc- 
ceed completely .f 

Hie success of the fermentative process, 
however, depends in all cases upon the 
proper adjustment of the sugar and fruit. 
The only ferment to be employed, is that 

* Correspondent of the Gardener s Magazine. 
i See Maceullocb on Wine, 4th Edit. 1829. 



240 BRITISH WINES. 

furnished by nature ; and when this is 
defective, as is sometimes the case in our 
domestic fruits, the ferment of the grape 
must be supplied artificially. This may be 
done by introducing a certain portion of 
crude tartar ; the dose of which may vary 
from one to six per cent, or from two to 
four pounds of tartar, to one hundred pints 
of liquor, the sweetest requiring most, 
without materially affecting the wine, as 
a great portion of what escapes decompo- 
sition, will be subsequently deposited. All 
fi*uits will require more or less tartar. 

As we have abridged Dr. Macculloch's 
valuable hints in a succeeding page, we need 
not here enlarge upon the process and its 
advantages. Neither would it be useful to 
attempt to reconcile or explain the dis- 
crepancies of the various opinions on the 
art of making British wines. An atten- 
tion to the scientific principles of wine- 
making, would, doubtless, render these do- 
mestic processes more complete than they 
DOW are, and the results more valuable ; but, 
much as philosophy may be benefited, and 
ingenuity exercised, by experiment, we are 



BRITISH WINES. 241 

not among those who think that the disad- 
vantages of climate and growth, are to be 
entirely outmastered by art.* 

* We may here notice a few of the synthetical 

E reparations^ which French and other chemists 
ave made, and which possessed many of the 
agreeable properties of those produced from the 
grape. This was done by first analysing the wine 
to be imitated^ and then by apportioning the quan- 
tities of the several ingredients which existed in 
the wine naturally. In this way, Fabroni made 
wine from 864 lbs. sugar, 24 lbs. gum arabic^ 241b. 
tartar, 3 lb. tartareous acid, 36 lbs. gluten of wheat, 
and 1728 quarts of water. Parmentier made a 
good Muscadine wine from 2 16 lbs. sugar, 9 lbs. 
crystals of tartar, 72 lbs. elder flowei-s, and 307 lbs. 
water. The colonists in the West Indies prepare 
a wine from 250 lbs. sugar, 2 barrels of water, and 
4 lbs. of yeast: this wine is coloured with litmus, 
and scented with some essential oiL 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 



Nothing but the early adulteration of 
wines could justify the crafty anathema of 
wine-haters, — that in every grape there 
dwelt " a divell." The pernicious practice 
is of considerable antiquity ; and, as in most 
ways of sin, succeeding generations have 
progressed in the custom, till they have 
made a compound of adulterations, and 
thus lost the original produce which they 
intended to imitate or qualify. Indeed, the 
moderns have reached a refinement of vice, 
which the scientific fraud of future ages 
will probably never transcend. 

The adulteration of wines in England is 
of very early date. The mixing of foreign 
wines afforded many opportunities for the 
introduction of a variety of deleterious com- 
positions ; and these mal-practices of the vint- 
ners are perpetuated in laws, so early as the 



A1>Ul4T£RATI0N OF TV^NE.. 243 

time of Edward III. Hence, in all probsr 
bility, arose the establishment of the Vint^ 
ner's Company. 

In the year 1426, great complaints were 
made against all classes of venders, for adul-^ 
terating their wines; and Sir John Rain, 
well, the mayor, having caused some sus. 
pected quantities to be examined, found 
them so impure, that he ordered one hun- 
dred and fifty butts to be poured into the 
kennels. To put a stop to these abuses, 
Henry VI. in a charter of confirmation 
which he granted to the company in the 
following year, directed that the company 
should appoint annually, '^ four persons of 
the most sufficient, most true, and most cun- 
ning of the same craft, that held no ta- 
vera," to be sworn before the mayor, to see 
that genuine wines only were sold, and at 
such prices as they should affix.* The pre-^ 
amble of a statute of Queen Mary, next ex- 

* At this time, the price of Gascoigne, Guienne, 
and French wines, was limited to eight-pence per 
gallon ; Rochelle, to four-pence ; ^nd no sort Qt 
wine was to exceed one shilling per gaJlbti. In 
1379, however, Gascoigne was but' four-pence a 
gallon. 

b2 



244 ADULTERATION OF WINS. 

presses very praiseworthy horror at all 
adulteration of the genuine juice of the 
grape, and enjoins tavern-keepers to refrain 
from any admixture of old and new wines, 
and from putting any water into the same, 
upon pain of forfeiting their whole stock, 
and losing their franchise or license. There 
is also a statute of Charles II., deserring 
particular mention ; for the gratitude of the 
merry monarch to this soul-inspiring beve- 
rage, led him to make rigid enactments for 
its unadulterate quality; which were ne- 
cessary to keep in countenance the assertion 
of Charles's favourite physician, Toby Shaw, 
that wine was the best preventive of sick- 
ness.* By this statute, it is ordered, ^^ that 
no merchant, vintner, wine-cooper, or other 
person, selling or retailing any wine, shall 
mingle or utter any Spanish wine mingled 
with any French wine, or Rhenish wine, 
cyder, perry, stummed wine, honey, sugar, 
syrups of sugar, molasses, or any other 
syrups whatsoever; nor put in any isinglass, 
brimstone, lime, raisins, juice of raisins, 
water, nor any other liquor, nor ingredients, 

* See page 2. 



ADULTEHATION OP TTINE. 345 

Bor any celery or other herbs, nor any sort 
of flesh whatsoever; and that all offenders 
against the statute, shall forfeit one hun- 
dred pounds, and the vintners, forty pounds, 
for every such oflfeuce. Again, Addison, in 
one of his periodical papers, gives a more 
emhellished idea of the mal-practices of 
these adulterators, and obser\'es, — " there is 
a certain fi-aternity of chemical operators, 
who work underground in boles, eavemsj 
and dark retirements, to conceal their mys- 
teries from the eyes and observations of 
mankind. These suhteiTaneous philoso- 
phers, are daily employed in the transmuta- 
tion of liquors, and by the power of magi- 
cal drugs and incantations, raising, under 
the streetsof Loudon, the choicest products 
of the hills and valleys of France. They 
can squeeze Bordeaux out of the sloe, and 
draw Champagne from an apple. Virgil, 
in that remarkable prophecy, — 

" locultiaque niliens pendebit seotibus uva." 

" The ripening grape aball tajig on every thom," 

seems to have hinted at this art, which can 
turu a plantation of northern hedges into a 
rineyard. These adepU are known among 
one another by the name of wine-brewers ; 
and, I am afraid, do great injury not only 



246 ADULTEllATION OF WINIf. 

to her majesty's customs, but to the bodies 
of many of her good subjects."* 

In every respect, wine is a most faTour- 
able subject for deceptions of the before- 
described nature. It is a costly article, and 
is in universal use; among the poor as a 
cordial, and among the rich as a luxury. 
The peculiar qualities for which it is prized^ 
are of a delicate nature ; and though by ex- 
perienced judges, they may be discerned 
with certainty, the great majority of those 
who affect a discriminating taste in wine, 
frequently become the dupes of skilful im- 
positions ; and the poor, who use wine as a 
medicine, and usually buy it in retail, must 
take what is given them, having nothing to 
trust to but the conscience of the dealer^ 
which has long been rendered callous by 
the love of gain. Wine, accordingly, ap- 
pears to be a subject for the most extensive 
and pernicious frauds. 

One of the most common adulterations is 
by means of lead, which, when dissolved in 
acids, has the property of sweetening them^ 
and is accordingly used for mellowing such 

* 'ratler,NQ. t3I. See also page 232 of the 
present volume* 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 847 

wiiiCB as are liable to turn sour. The air- 
cieiits knew that this metal rendered harsh 
wine milder,b lit it wasnot universally known 
that it was poisonous. According to Pliny, 
the Greeks and Romans proved the quality 
of their wines, hy dipping a plate of lead in 
them. The laLe Mr. Parkes, the chemist, 
mentions a treatise on the management of 
wines, printed so lately as the year 1783, 
which directs the use of lead in order to 
preserve wines from acidity. " In France, 
lead was formerly used largely for this pur- 
pose in the wines consumed in Paris. It 
was then discovered, and the act made 
penal. That lead is a poisonous substance 
is well-known ; but, in this particular case, 
the danger has been overrated. The tar- 
trite of lead, like that of lime, is insoluble; 
so that, after the lead had done its duty, it 
was discharged by racking and hning. Had 
this not been the case, all Paris, at the time 
we speak of, must have been poisoned."* 

* Supp. Encycl. Bril. — Dr. Johnstone, in his 
Essay on Poisons, observes, that " Lead, in its me- 
tallic state, like all the other metftla, is probably 
inert; but is so easily acted upon by the weakest 
Bcidfi and alkalies, that it cannot be taken in tliia 
form without imminent danger." 



S48 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

This exception applies only to cases where 
lead is used for clarifying wines after they 
have become muddy, or for stopping the 
progress of wines to acidity. Yet, it is a 
substance that ought not to be used ; be- 
cause in an acid wine, acescent from fer- 
mentation, it might produce either white 
lead, or sub-carbonate of lead, or else sugar 
of lead acetite ; both of them poisons, if in 
different degrees. 

It is certain, that lead, taken in the sto- 
mach, is highly deleterious, and occasions 
the most afflicting diseases ; and, that wine, 
with the smallest quantity of it intermixed, 
becomes a slow but sure poison : a mo- 
dem chemist therefore justly observes, that 
" the merchant or dealer who practises this 
dangerous sophistication, adds the crime of 
murder to that of fraud, and deliberately 
scatters the seeds of disease and death 
among those customers who contribute to 
his emolument." 

For the credit of humanity, we ought to 
state our belief th^t adulteration of wines 
with lead, is much more rare than formerly; 
but as there are many simple means for its 
detection, we shall pursue the subject* Dr. 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 248 

Watsoti gives the following tests: — Boil 
together, in a pint of water, an ounce of 
quick-lime, and half an ounce of sulphur; 
and when the liquor, which will be of a 
yellow colour, is cold, pour it into a bottle, 
and cork it up for use. A few drops- of this 
liquor being let fall into a glass of wine or 
cider containing lead, will change the whole 
into a colour more or less brown, according 
to the quantity of lead which it contains. 
If the wine be whoUv free from lead, it will 
be rendered turbid by the liquor ; but the 
colour will be rather a dirty white than a 
black brown * By this test, however, iron 
is also precipitated when dissolved, in wine, 
and is apt to be taken for lead ; a mistake 
which has ruined several honest merchants. 
The following test is, therefore preferable, 
as not being liable to the same inconve- 
nience. Heat together equal parts of oyster 
shells and sulphur, keep them in a white 
heat for fifteen minutes, and when cold, 
mix them with an equal quantity of cream 
of tartar; put these into a strong bottle, 
with water to boil for an hour ; and then 



^ Chemical Essays. 



250 ADULTERATION OF WINS. 

decant the liquor into ounce vials, adding 
twenty drops of ' spirits of salts to each. 
This liquor will precipitate the least quan- 
tity of lead, copper, &c. from wines, in a 
very perceptible black deposit. Sugar of 
lead may be detected in wine, by adding to 
it a few drops of Harrowgate water, when 
the wine will become blackish, if lead has 
been used to correct acidity. 

Wines are sometimes adulterated by acci- 
dent or neglect; and as a very common cause 
is as important as it is interesting, we sub- 
join an instance.* 



* It is well known that bottles in which wine 
has been kept are usually cleaned by means of 
shot, which, by its rolling motion^ detaches the 
crust from the sides of the bottles. This practice^ 
which is genei*ally pursued by wine-merchants, 
may give rise to serious consequences, as is evident 
from the following case : — ^A gendeman, who had 
never in his life experienced a day's illness, and 
who was constantly in the habit of drinking half a 
botde of Madeira wine after dinner, was taken ill, 
in the course of the evening, with a severe pain in 
the stomach and bowels, which gradually yielded, 
within twelve hours, to the remedies prescribed by 
his medical adviser. The day following he di*ank 
the remainder of the same bottle of wine which was 
left the preceding day, and within two hours after- 



ADULT?EftATION OP WINE. 261 

As we have spoken of lead for counter- 
acting acidity, it may be useful to add a 
few observations on other and safer means 
for efiFecting the same object. 

Wine-merchants, when their wines be- 
come sour, can only conceal or absorb this 
acidity by certain substances, as by alkalies 
and absorbent earths. But these substances 
give to wine a dark greenish colour, and a 
taste, which, though not acid, is somewhat 
disagreeable. Besides, calcareous earths 
accelerate considerably the total destruction 



wards he was again seized with a violent colic, 
head-ache, shiverings, and great pain over the 
whole body. His apothecary becoming suspicious 
that the wine be bad taken might be the cause of 
tbe disease, ordered tbe bottle from which the wine 
had been decanted to be brought to him, with a 
view that he might examine the dregs, if any were 
left. The bottle happening to slip out of the hand 
of the servant, disclosed a row of shot wedged for- 
cibly into the angular bent-up circumference of it. 
On examining the beads of shot, they crumbled 
into dust, tbe outer crust (defended by a coat of 
black lead, with which the shot is glazed) being 
alone left unacted on, whilst the remainder of the 
metal was dissolved. The wine, therefore, had 
become contaminated with lead and arsenic, the 
shot beiiig a compound of these metals, which, no 
ioubt, had pr6d tided the mischief. 



252 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

and putrefaction of the wine. Oxydeis of 
lead, having the property of forming witli 
the acid of vinegar, a salt of an agreeable 
saccharine taste, which does not alter the 
colour of the wine, and besides, has the 
advantage of stopping fermentation and pu- 
trefaction, might be employed to remedy 
the acidity of wine, were it not for the 
dangers we have shown to result from the 
use of lead. A safer method is, therefore, 
important. For the acidity of wine, from 
the commencement of the acetous fermentr 
ation, there is no proper remedy. It may 
be checked, if taken in time ; as it would 
be prevented by careful sulphuring. Here 
lead is highly pernicious; and, it need 
scarcely be said, that to add sugar of lead, 
as has been done, from ignorance and fraud 
united, is to add a poison without even ob- 
taining a remedy. Chalk and lime may be 
used with impunity : yet, neither can these, 
and far less alkalies, be used to such an ex- 
tent as to cure the disease; as they unite to 
the other acids, and also decompose and 
destroy the wine. To prevent it as far as 
possible, when commenced, a low tempera- 
ture, and careful exclusion from the airfare 



ADULTERATION OP WINE. 253 

necessary. But, it must be remembered, 
that air will find access, not merely through 
cork, but through all rosins, also : and thus, 
there can be no complete secuiity ; the best 
being that of placing the bottles on their 
sides, so that the fluid itself becomes its 
own cork. The Italian practice of using oil 
is thus far safer ;* but it is balanced by its 
various inconveniences. 

Of all wines, Port is the most liable to 
adulteration, and but rarely obtained ge- 
nuine, although the chief consumption is iu 
England. We have already spoken of the 
brandy'mg processf which takes place in the 
native country, the effect of which, thanks 
to the Methuen treaty, and our own per- 
verted taste, we are still likely to enjoy. 

A few years since the frauds in Port wine 
were indisputably exposed, by Mr. Brande, 
in a valuable paper on fermented liquors, 
read before the Royal Society,! in which he 
says that Port wine appears to contain about 
one-half its bulk of pure brandy. According 



* Seii Italian Wines, page 138. 
\ See Portuguese Wines, page 85. 
i Philosopbical Tnuisaflions for 181 1. 



254 ADULTERATION' OF WIN£t 

to this analysis, a man, every time he driiiks 
two bottles of strong-bodied Port, swallow9 
exactly one bottle of the strongest brandy.* 
Another chemist observes, with honest 
indignation, and, we believe, with equal 
truth, ^^ All persons moderately conversant, 
with the subject, are aware that a portion of 
alum is added to young and meag^ red 
wines, for the purpose of brightening their 
colour ; that Brazil wood, or the husks of 
elder-berries and bUberries, which are im^ 
ported from Germany, under the fallacious 
name of berry dye, are used to impart a deep 
rich purple tint to red Port of a pale colour; 
that gypsum is used to render cloudy white 



* In what a serious consideration does this involve 
such topers of Port, as a Mr. Vanhom, mentioned 
by Sir John Sinclair, in his Code of Health, In 
the space of twenty-three years, our naturalised 
friend to Oporto, drank 35,688 bottles, or 59 pipe^Sr 
of Port wine. His usual daily quota was four 
bottles. Sir John observes of him, " it is incre-' 
dible what pleasure any individual can feel from' 
such abundant potations, in the com'se of which 
he resembled more a cellar than a man ; for there 
ai*e many cellars that never contained what diis 
man's must have done, namely, 59 pipes of Port 
wine." 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 255^ 

wine transparent ; that an additional astrin- 
geney is imparted to immature red wines, 
by means of oak-wood and saw-dust, and 
the husks of filberts ; and that a mixture of 
spoiled foreign and home-made wines is 
converted into the wretched compound fre- 
quently sold in the metropolis, by the name 
of genuine old Forty Of this commodity, 
also, the following is a chemical analysis ; 
spirits of wine, 3 oz. ; cyder, 14 oz. ; sugar, 
li oz. ; alum, 2 scruples; tartaric acid, \ 
scruple ; strong decoction of logwood, 4 oz. 
The process to detect alum in Port wine, is 
very simple. Take some fresh prepared 
lime-water, and mix the suspected wine 
vnth it in equal proportion ; allow the mix- 
ture to stand about a day ; then, if the wine 
be genuine, a number of crystals will be 
found deposited at the bottom of the vessel: 
if alum is in the wine, there will be no 
crystals, but a muddy and slimy precipi- 
tate : the lime-water need not be very 
strong. Another method is to drop some 
solution of salt of tartar into the wine, 
when, if the alum be present, there will be 
a violetrcoloured precipitate, or, at least, 
cloudiness, which will vanish again, if a few 



256 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

drops^ of spirits of salts are added to the 
mixture."* 

Amidst a multitude of milder adultera- 
tions, it must, here also, be ceded, that the 
use of poisons has been abated. This is 
probably in consequence of the abundance 
and cheapness of inferior Cape wines, which 



* M. A. Chevalier, a distinguished French che- 
mist, gives the following recent results of his en- 
quiries upon tests for the natural colouring matter 
of wine : — 

" 1. That potash may be applied as a re-agent, 
to ascertain the natural colour of wines, which it 
changes from red to a bottle-green, or brownish 
green. 2. That the change of colour produced 
by this substance upon wine, is different in wine 
of different ages. 3. That no precipitation of the 
colouring matter takes place, the latter remaining 
dissolved by the potash. 4. That the acetate of 
lead should not be employed as a test of the colour 
of wines, because it is capable of producing various 
colourswithwinesofa natural colour only. 5. That 
the same is the case with lime water, with muriate 
of tin mixed with ammonia, and with subacetate of 
lead. 6. That ammonia may be employed for 
this pm^pose, the change of colour which it pro- 
duces, not perceptibly varying. 7. That the samfe 
is the case with a solution of alum, to which a 
certain quantity of potash has been added, and 
which may, therefore, be used for the purpose." 
From the Annates de V Industrie. 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 257 

furnishes wine-tricksters with a more con- 
venient menstruum for their fraudulent pre- 
parations.^ The sophistication, or, as it is 
technically called, the doctoring of wine, is 
still carried on in London, to an enormous 
extent, as well as the art of manufacturing 
spuiious wine, which has long been a re- 
gular trade, in which a large capital has 
been invested ; and, in the cyder counties 
the drinker of Poit wine may learn that 
many thousand pipes of spoiled cyder are 
annually sent to the metropolis, for the 
purpose of being converted into an imita- 
tion of the wines of Oporto. 

Other expedients are resorted to in order 
to improve insipid wines, and are classified 
under the several secrets of flavouring, co- 
louring, correcting, &c. Flavouring is, 



* " The manufactured trash which is selling in 
London^ under the names of Cape, Champagne, 
Burgundy, Barsac, Sauteine, &c. are so many spe- 
cious poisons, which the cheapness of the common 
and inferior wines of the Cape allows the vendors 
of them to use as the basis of the several composi- 
tions, at the expence of the stomach' and bowels of 
their customer, and of the little share of character 
which the real Port wines had acquired." — Quar- 
terly Review. 



s 



268 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

however, a very old practice. The taste of 
Greece is now, as it was in ancient times* 
to perfume its wines with turpentine, the 
vina picata of the ancients ; and this is ef- 
fected by putting turpentine or rosin into 
the casks. In Britain, our chivabrous and 
baronial ancestors perfumed their wines 
with every strange ingredient that can be 
imagined ; but that was the age of spicery 
and perfumes ; and he who eat cinnamon 
with his pork, might drink ambergris in 
his wine. In our times, bitter almonds are 
occasionally employed ; factitious Port wine 
is also flavoured with a tincture drawn from 
the seed of raisins ; and sweet-briar, orris- 
root, clary, cherry-laurel water, and elder- 
flowers, are used to give a botiquet. The di- 
vision of labour in these illicit occupations 
is completely established: each has his own 
share assigned him in the confederate work 
of iniquity. To one class is allotted the 
task of crustinff, which consists in lining 
the interior surface of empty wine bottles 
with a red crust, by suffering a saturated 
hot solution of supertartrate of potash, co- 
loured with a decoction of Brazil wood, to 
crystallize in them. A similar operation is 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 259 

frequently performed on the wooden cask 
which is to hold the wine, and which, in 
the same manner as the bottle, is artificially 
stained with red crust ; and, on some oc- 
casions, the lower extremities of the corks 
in wine-bottles, are also stained red, in 
order to g;ive them the appearance of having 
been long in contact with the wine. The 
scriptural maxim of the danger of putting 
new wine into old bottles, is lost sight of 
in this process. The wine-dealers among 
the Greeks appear to have set the example 
to their- posterity ; for they were accustomed 
to put the new vintage into a cask which 
had been seasoned with an old and high 
flavoured wine; and others placed cheese 
and nuts in the cellar, to blunt the appe- 
tites of purchasers. 

Dry rot is a more conscientious advantage 
upon time, as it soon covers the bottles with 
a mouldy appearance, and consumes the ex- 
ternal parts of the corks, so that with a tri- 
fling operation on the bottles after they are 
filled, and then deposited in cellars pretty 
stiongly affected with the dry rot, they can 
send out wine as having been in bottles 
seven or eight years, before it has, in fact, 
been there as many months. 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 



The reader will probably have received 
sufficient gout for this purpose, from the 
florid and not unpicturesque details of some 
of the preceding pages. The luxuriance of 
the vineyards, and the ingenious processes 
by which their produce is adapted, we had 
almost said mblimed, for the Table, must 
have prepared him for a few pages on the 
order and propriety which are conducive to 
the most refined enjoyment. "There is," 
as Shakspeare incontrovertibly expresses it, 
" a reason in roasting eggs;" and as another 
bard asserts, " order is heaven's first law" ; 
both of which axioms are not a whit less 
applicable to the Table, than to any other 
integral part of the universe. Eating has 
its rationale^ and in well-conditioned society 
its rules of propriety are as closely observed, 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 261 

as any other part of the system, by which 
we live and have our being ; and but little 
pains is requisite to prove that drinking 
should be reduced to the same order. To 
eommence refection with drinking Tokay 
or Lacryma Christi, would be as great a 
breach of propriety, as to eat game before 
soup. 

We must, however, bear in mind that, ac- 
cording to an old adage, "it is not in the 
power of any one to decide on taste or on 
colours ;" else we might soon become lost in 
the labyrinths of romantic investigation. 
Still, there are certain points of propriety in 
the art of drinking wine, which 



On fashiun's mouldering base Iheir transient praise. 

An epicurean wine-drinker obser\es that 
the red wines shonld always precede the 
white, except in the case of a French dinner, 
usually preceded by oysters. In this case, 
theostreal delicacies should be saluted with 
a treble volley of Chablis, or, for greater so- 
lemnity, with libations of Pouilly, or Mont 
R&chet, or even with Sauteme, Barsac, or 
White Hermitage. But, for this important 
reason, red wine should open the repast. 



262 ART OF DRINKINO WINE. 

The custom, during the last century, was 
always to take, after soup, a glass of some 
sweet wine ; but now, the experienced wine- 
drinker either takes a glass of good old Ma- 
deira, or of Teneriffe. 

Our French exemplars assert the most 
proper wine during the first course, to be, 
without any contradiction, Bui^undy oi the 
least celebrated growth, and which, for this 
reason, is known as Low Burgundy. Such 
are Avallon, Coulange, Tonndre, and gene- 
rally all those known under the designation 
of M^on and Auxerre. You then ascend 
to Beaume and Pomard ; and if you choose 
to confine yourself to the Burgundinian to- 
pography, you have the generous Biche- 
bourg, the high-flavoured St. George, the 
purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Ro- 
man^. But if you can ill bear the tram- 
mels of classification, and wish to give a 
fillip to your taste by change of flavour and 
soil. Champagne offers its sparkling Ai, 
perfumed Cumidres, and limpid Sillery. 
After these, you may enjoy the stronger 
wines of Dauphiny, which whet the appe- 
tite, and heighten the savour of roast meats. 
Among these, we recommend Ch&teau 



ART OF URINKING WINE. 263 

Grille, Cote-Rotie, and Hermitage. 'Tis 
then that mirth lig;hts up the faces of the 
conyivial circle, and the gihes and gambols 
of wit are wont to set the table in a roar ; 
'tis then that wc acknowledge the claim of 
only one other wine to produce on the quan- 
tity already imbibed, an effect similar to 
that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or 
a spoonful of oil on the angi-y waves of the 
ocean. This is the wine of Bordeaux or 
Claret. See how wisdom's art gradually 
appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect 
of Medoc poured by a steady hand into 
bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax- 
lights. An armistice ensues, and the " in- 
tellectual gladiators" lay down their wordy 
weapons. Amphytrions clear the table, 
wafers and sweet cakes, and perfumed 
creams, usurp the place of legumes, which 
boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. 
Languedoc, Roussillon, and Provence, what 
brilliant associations do ye create ! Spain 
too, participates in this gale of glory ! But 
what is that mby tint which glows amid 
sparkling crystal ? what is that liquid topaz 
which strikes the eye with wonder, and in- 
spires a new gusto ? Rivesaltes, Grenache, 



264 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

Lunely Malmsejy Frontignan, Malaga and 
Xeres — ^what a galaxy of glories rises with 
your delicious aroma to perplex wine- 
drinkers. Your half-consumed corks give 
eyidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar 
antiquity ; the perfumed gale ascends, and 
your richness mantles and sparkles high; 
whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect 
of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously 
served immediately after dinner, although 
health and good taste concur in delaying 
its appearance. 

But the aromatic gale of the Mocha-berry 
already salutes our delighted senses. FoUy 
produces another bottle, the silver froth 
rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the 
cork to the ceiling, or the Arbois is pro- 
duced, and unites the sweetness of Con- 
drieux with the sparkling of the impetuous 
A*i ! 'Tis then only that the wine-drinker 
can enjoy in diamond glasses, the exqui- 
siteness of veritable Tokay. 

Such, observes a French writer, is an 
abridgment of the didactic order, in which 
the tributes to Bacchus must be greeted. 
He concludes, by rejoicing that notwith- 
standing all their luxury and knowledge of 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 265 

the arts, the ancients did not at any period 
exceed us in wine-making. Aristotle tells 
us, that in Arcadia, the wines evaporated 
in leather-vessels, till they were cntin pieces, 
and dissolved in water for drinking: certes, 
these could not equal our Medoc, Volnay, 
or Ai, without a drop of water. According 
to Galienus, in Asia, wines were hung about 
the chimneys till they had the hardness of 
salt, and were dissolved in water to he 
drunk. Pliny, when he celebrates the wines 
of Italy, and the praises of the Falernian, 
does not even tempt us ; for it seems that 
the best wines in his time were but syrups, 
which were diluted with water for drinking. 
To conciliate a few of the varied opinions 
on the precedence of French wines, the 
same writer observes, some persons prefer 
Burgundy; others contend for Bordeaux; 
a few pretend that Champagne, still, and of 
the first quality, unites the Burgundinian 
flavour with the Bordeaux warmth, while 
the native of the borders of the Rhone, 
asserts that the finest of all wines is Her- 
mitage ! All are right, and each in its turn 
is best ; especially, if the maturation of the 
fruit has been successful ; this is rare, for 



266 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

there is a greater difference between the 
wine of one year and that of another, grown 
in the same vineyard, than between the 
wine of a celebrated district, and that pro- 
cured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we 
should take the advice of Sterne, and likQ 
the man at the fair, every man speak as he 
has found his market in it. According as 
we have drunk Sillery, La Romance, or 
Medoc, of memorable years, we ought to 
prefer the districts which produced them 
respectively, always with this prudent re- 
striction — ^not to be so exclusive in our 
taste, as not to welcome others in the ab- 
sence of better. We may admire Comeille, 
adore Voltaire, and Racine ; but still read 
with pleasure Pamy, Boufflers, and Bertin ; 
and even the sublime viscomica of Voltaire, 
does not produce a distaste for the prettiness 
and pleasantry of Picard. 

In noticing the varieties of wine adapted 
for different habits and temperament, our 
French exemplar suggests that those of a san- 
guine habit should drink a light, moistening 
vrine, like Champagne or Hock ; the phleg- 
matic man requires an ardent wine, as that 
of Languedoc and Dauphiny, to dissolve 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 267 

the phlegm that obstructs his system ; the 
man of melancholy, a mild wine, to restore 
his wouaded spirit, and invigorate his 
wasted frame, for which pui-pose, he shfmld 
choose the produce of Boussillon and Bur- 
gundy, or the vinous wealth of Italy and 
Spain.* For bilious habits, he recommends 
a generous and astringent wine, as fine 
(!laret, which, not only braces the system, 
but counteracts the bile. He then repels 
the unjust terra of coldness, which has by 
some persons been attributed to the Bor- 
deaux wines ; and maiutains that they are 
easier of digestion than any other wine : 
they leave the head cool, although drunk 
unsparingly, and will hear removal ; whilst 
Burgundy is veiy stimulating, and is injured 
by being disturbed. In short, he sums up 



* The quaint old Burton tells us, that wine is 
frequently the sole cau»e of melancholy, especially 
if it be immoderately used ; and Guianeriua relates 
a story of two Dutchmen, whom he entertained in 
hia own house, who drank so much wine, that in 
the short space of a month, they both become so 
melancholy, that the one could do nothing but 
sing, and the other sigh. But, observes Burton, a 
cup of generous wine to those whose minds arc still 
or motionless, is, in my opinion, excellent physic. 



V 



268 ART OF DRINKINO WINE. 

with remarking that Burgundy is aphrodi- 
siac; Champagne, heady; Roussillon, re- 
storative; and Clarety stomachic. Dr. Hen- 
derson ranks Bordeaux among the most 
perfect light wines, and the safest for daily 
use; and Dr. Macnish, in a very cleyer 
worky* distinguishes Claret as ^^ the most 
wholesome wine that is known.'^ He also 
commends Burgundy, Rhenish, and Her- 
mitage, as, generally speaking, more salu- 
brious than the stronger varieties, as Port, 
Sherry, or Madeira. Champagne, except 
in cases of weak digestion,! is one of the 
safest wines that can be drunk. '^ Its intoxi- 
cating effects are rapid, but exceedingly 
transient, and depend partly upon the car- 
bonic acid which is evolved from it, and 
partly upon the alcohol, which is suspended 
in this gas, being rapidly and extensively 
applied to a large surface of the stomach." 
A recollection of these qualities gave rise to 



* Anatomy of Diiinkenness. 

f Champagne and Pine-apple, two of the great- 
est luxuries of the table, and very frequently en- 
joyed together, are formidable obstacles to diges- 
tion. 



ART Of DBINKING WINE. 269 

Mr. Carran's sparkling witticism, that 
Champagne made a runaway rap at a man's 
head. 

The astringent principle of the wines of 
Oporto, is too well known for us to ex- 
plain; and the great quantity of brandy 
with wliich they are adulterated both before 
and after their exportation, almost justifies 
the name of " a hot intoxicating liquor," 
which foppery, in one of its gossamer fits, 
has thought fit to bestow upon Port wine. 
Dr. Johnson valued the potency of Oporto 
wines, in the scrap of Table-Talk, that Port 
was drink for men, and Claret for boys. 
The hospitalities of Mrs. Thrale's cellar 
ought to have taught the Doctor a better 
distinction. Dr. Henderson thinks the wines 
of Oporto may be serrieeable in disoi-ders of 
the alimentary canal, where gentle tonics are 
required. But the gallic acid renders them un- 
fit for weak stomachs ; and their astringent 
virtues will be found in the wines of Ali- 
cant and Kota, which contain more tannin 
and less acid. The excitement they induce 
is of a more sluggish nature than that at- 
tending the use of the purer French wines, 
and does not enliven the fancy in the same 



270 . ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

degree. As a frequent beverage, they are 
unquestionably much more pernicious.* — 
Perhaps the wines commonly drunk in Eng- 
land and France, afford the best chisaracter- 
isti(^ of the two nations. Dr. Henderson'is 
observation is, therefore, very happy, since 
nothing is easier than to conceive the differ- 
ent effects of Port and Bordeaux wines : one 
soon rendering the drinker uncomfortably 
excited, and the other bringing into play 
some of the finest fancies of wit and hu- 
mour, and many of the brighter beams of 
intellectual superiority, which justly belong 
to " the feast of reason and the flow of soul." 
A man with a bottle of Port, and another 
with the same modicum of Bordeaux wine, 
often occupy very different stations in the 
chain of being, or companionable qualities. 
Sherries still recommend themselves by 
the almost total absence of acidity. For 
invalids, of all sti'ong wines, those of Ma- 
deira are most eligible; "being equally 
spirituous as Sherry, but possessing more 
delicate flavour and aroma, and though 

— 

* History of Wines — ^Medical Properties, wito • 
J). 356. 



^RT OF DRINKING WINE. 271 

often slightly acidulous, agreeing better 
with dyspeptic habits."* 

Rhenish wines, and those of the Moselle, 
are delightfully refreshing; and among 
their properties are a diuretic effect, and a 
tendency to diminish obesity. In fevers too, 
they are very serviceable, as they contain 
but little acid. 



The philosophy of wine-drinking is an ex- 
haustless subject. Its inspirations have been 
censured or exalted by the poets and philoso- 
phers of all times. Yet, we suspect many 
of these worthies of base ingratitude in 
deprecating the effects of wine. Addison, 
we know, was far from insensible to the 
pleasures of the Table ; yet, he gravely 
writes thus : — ^** Wine heightens indifference 
into love, love into jealousy, and jealousy 
into madness. It often turns the good-na- 
tured man into an idiot, and the choleric 
man into an assassin. It gives bitterness 

* History of Wines, — Medical Properties, 4to. 
p. 356. 



272 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

to resentment ; it makes vanity insupport- 
able ; and displays every little spot of the 
soul in its utmost deformity.'' 

The witty Butler laments the abuse of 
wine in the following lines: — 

Tis pity wine, which nature meant 
To man in kindness to present, 
And gave him kindly to caress 
And cherish his frail happiness, 
Of equal virtue to renew 
His wearied mind and body too, 
Shou'd (like the cider-tree in Eden, 
Which only grew to be forbidden) 
No sooner come to be enjoy'd 
Than th' owner's fatally destroyed. 

"The maxim of the ancients, * in vino ve- 
ritas — a man who is well warmed with wine 
will speak truth,' (says Johnson,) may be an 
argument for drinking, if you suppose men 
in general to be liars ; but I would not keep 
company with a fellow, who lies as long as 
he is sober, and whom you must make 
drunk before you can get a word of truth 
out of him." The Doctor has likewise an 
obseiTation somewhat akin to those of Ad- 
dison : " In the bottle, discontent seeks for 
comfort ; cowardice for courage, and bash- 
fulness for confidence." A more recent 
writer observes, that wine is such a whet- 
stone for wit, that if it be often set thereon, 



ART 01' DRINKING WINE. ST3 

it will quickly grind all the steel out, and 
scarcely leave a back where it found an edge. 
This remark has often been admired for its 
terseness and laconic foree. 

We must not, however, conclude with a 
homily, but take a few ayt^s on the question. 
No less grave a man than Plutarch, relates 
the argumentative effect of wine, in his 
Symposiacks, or Table Conversation. He 
says, " that one Lampriaa, a man eminent 
for his learning, and a philosopher, dis- 
puted best, and unravelled the difficulties of 
philosophy with most success, when he was 
at supper, and well warmed with wine." 
These table entertainments were part of the 
education of the times, their discourses 
being commonly the canvassing and solu- 
tion of some question, either philosophical ■ 
or philological, always instructive, and 
usually pleasant; for the cups went round 
with the debate, and men were merry and 
wise together, according to the proverb. 
We wish this branch of education had de- 
scended to our times. 

It might be rather hazardous to quote 
many exemplars of the inspiring effects of 



274 4S7 OF DRINKING WINE. 

wine. Passing by the feats of ancient 
wine-drinking, we may touch upon a few 
nearer our own day, and observe that some 
of the greatest as well as the meanest ac- 
tions of men^s lives, have been performed 
under the potent agency of the juice of the 
grape, or of some intoxicating liquid. Even 
the poor savage thought brandy was made 
of tongues and hearts ; ^^ for when I have 
drunk it, I fear nothing, and talk like an 
angel.'' This is very ndive^ and thousands of 
civilized sons have adopted an opinion ex- 
pressed with such amiable simplicity. Three 
of the brightest lights of the political hori- 
zon of their time, — ^Fox, Pitt, and Sheridan, 
appear to have profited by the particular 
branch of edudktion alluded to by Plutarch. 
The story of Sheridan finishing the last act 
of Pizarro, a plate of sandwiches, and two 
bottles of Claret in half an hour, is well 
known. Lord Byron thought Sheridan 
"superb, very convivial, and delightful — 
for his very dregs are better than the * first 
sprightly runnings' of others." Byron's 
note of a party at which Sheridan was 
present, is equally characteristic : " first si- 



ABT OF DRINKIMO WIN£. 975 

lent, then talky, then ai^umentative, then 
disputatious, then unintelligible, then alto- 
gethery, then inarticulate, and then driink." 
The finest productions of the first lyric 
poets of our times, owe much of their su- 
premacy to the inspirations of wine. MTio 
can forget Charles Morris's " Songs, Po- 
litical and ConTivial," and his Prize Ana. 
ereontic " ad Poculwn ?" — 

Come thou Boul-revlTiDg oup. 

And Uy thy healing ut. 
Light thii fancy's viiioas up, 

And oaroi my HOSted bmrt ; 
Touch with glowing tots ofhUu 

Mf mVj'a fELding dream ; 
tlive oip, while thy lip 1 kiss. 

The besv'u that's in thy stream I 

In thy Totint the lyric muse, 

Ever dipp'd her wing, 
Anaereon fed among thy dews. 

And Horace drain'd Uiy spring! 
I, too, humblest of tbe train. 

There my iptTit find, 
Freshen there my langaid brain, 

And store my vacant mind. 



Bums was a practical man, and a living 
example of the precept he inculcated in a 



* For this song, Capt. Morris received tbe 
prize of (he gold cup, from the Harmonic Society. 



276 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

paraphrase upon the royal Hebrew min- 
strel : — 

Gie him strong drink, until he wink, 

That's press'd with grief and care ; 
And liquor gude, to fire his bluid, . 

That's sinking wi' despair: 
There let him booze, and deep carouse, 

In bumpers flowing o'er ; 
Till he forget his love and debt. 

And heed his griefs no more. 

An illustrious living poet, whose talent 
in associating the felicities of woman and 
wine, in the sublimest flights of song, is as 
excellent a table companion, as amiable a 
man ; and to complete the fascination, he 
adds the charm of highly-cultiyated musical 
taste. 



APPENDIX. 



Receipts for the Management of Wines 
will he found in any practical volume on 
the subject ; but the following; have not ap- 
peared in any work of that description. 

The Cellar. 

Count Ghaptal's valuable hiois oa tlic (choice of 
a Cellar, will be round at p. 50, el seq. 

" A cellar can hardly be loo dry j moisture not 
only moulding and rotting the casks, but giving a 
mouldy tasie to die liquor they contain. Expe- 
rience has proved in France, that wines preserved 
in vast tons, built into the stone walls of good cel- 
lars, increase in spirit every year. The floor of the 
cdlarshovdd be well corered with saw-dust, which, 
must not be suffered to get too dry and dusty, but 
must be occasionally changed ; lest, when bottling 
or racking wine, some of the old dust should fly 
into it. In aome vaults it ia necessary, during 
winter, to have a stove or chafing-dish, to keep up 
the proper warmth. In the summer, it is best to 
keep them as cool as possible. The tbemiomet«r 
should be fixed in that part of the vault where the 
wines for bottling are kept, endeavouring to have it 
as low as ' temperate.' In summer, wash the eel- 



278 APPENDIX. 

lar out weekly^ to keep it cool^ and free from mas- 
tiness : in winter^ sweep it clean every ten days at 
least" 

The quantity of the different kinds of wine which 
the cellar of an amateur ought to contain^ is not 
limited; hut a wise precaution ought in this to 
unite economy with wealth. 

There are only some paiticular kind of wines 
which ought to he lain in, in large Quantities. Se- 
veral others may he amassed in sufficient nDmher 
of hottles, to last for some years. Burgundy and 
Champagne, will keep hut veiy few years, and 
should always be drunk as soon as ^y are ripe, for 
they spoil very rapidly. Burgundy turns sour, 
and Champagne becomes thick. In general, it is 
most difficult to preserve white wines : never more 
should be laid in than are sure to be for immediate 
use. Claret, wines fix>m the south, and Spani^ 
wines, will keep, and ought to be kept, long, be- 
cause their age is thdr chief merit Of these, it is 
right to have some pipes in store ; and those which 
contain new wine, should be conceded by those 
which are fit to drink, that they may not be broached 
till they have been, in a manner, forgotten ; and, 
after tnis wine has been laid by in bc^Kles, it will 
come to table (the Port of Oporto especially,) with 
a triple coat of crust, with the corissolaekened and 
half consumed by time. 

In placing wines in the ceUar, Spanish, the 
sweet wines especially, such as Malaga and Rota, 
should be standing upright Heat brings them to 
perfecticm ; and they should be placed on shelves, 
as the coldness of the cellar hinders their ripening. 

Upon the age of wine, it is difficult to obtain 
many reconcileable opinions, since so much must 



APPENDIX. 279 

depeoJ on the success of thu femienlaiive proeess. 
The writer ol' the valunble paper in the Supplement 
to Ike Encyclopedia, (article — Wine,) says, — 
" Wines botded in good order, may be fit to drink 
in star montkt, (especially if bottled in October,) 
but they are not in perfection before twelve. From 
that to two years, they continue so; but it would 
be improper to keep them any longer." This is 
questionaDle. Conscientious wine-merchants think 
/our gears a good general average for fine old 
wine. Of course, there are many instances of 
wines being found of extreme age and goodness. 
Mr. Brande slates, that a few years since, some 
MounLain, which was buried in the fire of London, 
was dug np, and found to be more spirituous thoR 
recent Makga wine; and, its qutdily, in other 
respects, was unimpaired. 

Briskness of Wines. — Champagne. 

This property relates almost exclusively to the 
wines of Champagne, and it is one that may err in 
excess or defect. It is generally known that it is 
ike produce of an unfinished fermentation, and, 
ikerefore, a due degree of it must depend mainly 
on the proper management of ihis process. It is 
secured by bottling at the proper season, March, 
and before the fermentation is exhausted : and, if 
in danger of excess, it is restrained or diminished 
by racking, or decanting, and sulphtuing. Bnt it 
ht^ipens not unfrequently that it fails dtogether: 
eidier from accident in ilie management, or a bad 
season; fiom f^ts in the fi-uit, or fermentation 
carried too far, or a weak wine exhausting itself nn- 
expeetedly. In tliis case, the remedy is to intro- 



280 APPENDIX. 

duce sugar, not only into the casks, but into the 
bottles. In the first case, the fermentation is re- 
newed, and the wine may thus become legitimate 
and good. In the other the effect is far different, 
and not good ; and hence it is, that all the very 
sweet Champagne wines are bad or indifferent. 
These are, in fact, a mixture of wine and sugai*, 
rather than proper wine. And, in this case, the 
effect of the sugar is, not to produce a new fermen- 
tation, but to disengage the carbonic acid of the 
wine ; as a salt, or any other soluble substance, 
would do, by a superior affinity. To gain this end, 
the solid sugar is corked up in the bottle ; so that 
the disengaged gas is retained under the pressure 
of the cork, ready to fly out whenever that is re- 
moved. Thus Champagne, which has been de- 
stroyed by age, is rendered, at once, both sweet 
and effervescent ; and this, however convenient a 
secret it may be to the possessor, is but a fraud, 
and a very common one too. 

Claret, 

In order to give the Bordeaux wines some re- 
semblance to those wines of Spain and Portugal 
which are used in England, to render them of die 
taste preferred here, from the effect of long habit, 
the majority of the Bourdeaux wine-merchants who 
trade with England, are obliged to work them, or 
mix them with other wines, as hermitage; which 
gives fire to the claret, but renders it dry when old, 
turns it of a red brick colour, and causes a deposit 
of sediment, when it has been some time in botde. 
When by this admixture, a working or fretting re- 



APPENDIX. 281 

suits, they take some mineral crystal, reduce it to 
powder, and put an ounce into each baiTel, beat up 
with a proper quantity of isinglass, and rack off the 
wine about fifteen days after, when it has got clear, 
and has entirely ceased to work. To give odour 
{bouquet) to the wine, they put two drams of orris- 
root powder into a fine rag, and let it hang about 
fifteen days in the cask, when it is taken out ; or 
the powder is put into the barrel beat up with 
fining, and fifteen days after it may be racked off. 
Two ounces of raspoerry brandy are sometimes 
added to each cask, fifteen days after which, the 
apparent maturity of the wine is incrusted by the 
peculiar odour which the mixture gives it. 

Damsons or sloes, stewed with some of the wine, 
and sugar, cochineal, and turnsole, are used to co- 
lour claret. 

To improve claret that drinks foul, rack the 
wine from the dregs on some fresh lees of its own 
kind, and then add a dozen new pippins paied and 
with the cores out, and stir the wine well. This 
not only takes away the foulness, but also gives 
the wine an agreeable flavour. 

Here we may hint at a mode of ripening claret, 
even in bottle, which is very much practised in 
. France, and may be practised here without injury 
to the health ; though we are certainly far from re- 
commending the practice to the venders of wine, 
however it may be adopted in private cellars. The 
process is to operate upon wine perhaps only a year 
in bottle. Draw the corks, and pour about a glass- 
ful out of each, re-corking them tightly ; then place 
the wine, thus drawn, in an oven, suffering it at the 
end of an horn* or two to cool gradually. Draw the 



282 APPENDIX. 

eorks again> and fill up the bottles^ which must be 
carefully replaced in the ceHar ; and in a day or 
two the wine will have every appearance of being 
ten years M. 

leeing Wines, 

The custom of iceing wines, is of very consider- 
able antiquity. Iced Hquors were among the luxu- 
ries of the Greeks, who had several methods of 
preserving ice throughout the summer. When 
Alexander the Great besieged Petra, a city of Jn- 
dea, he filled thirty ditches with ice, which, being 
covered with oaken boughs, remained a long time 
entire. The custom of preserving ice was so com- 
mon among the Romans, that they had shops for 
its sale; and Pliny describes an elegant method of 
cooling liquors, which came into vogue during the 
reign of Nero, to whom the invention was ascribed, 
viz. — ^by placing water which had been previously 
l>oiled, in a thin glass vessel, surrounded with 
snow, so that it might be frozen without its purity 
being impaii'ed ; a stretch of luxury which equara 
any of the refinements of modem science. 

Ice may be kept by the following very simple 
method : — Fill a barrel of any size with ice, and 
place it in one so much larger, that a space of from 
two to three inches be left all rouna. Fill this 
space with charcoal, thickly heaped and pressed ; 
cover the mouth of the baiTel with six inches of the 
same substance ; and placing a layer of straw over 
the whole, bury the treasure in die cellar. Next 
winter you have only to renew the charcoal at the 
mouth of the barrel; the rest of the apparatus will 
last for many years. 



APPENDIX. 288 

Of ihe various apparatus for produciDg artificial 
eold for freezing wine, we believe one invented by 
Richard Walker, Esq. of Oxford, hi be entided to 
all the patronage it has received. Under this gen- 
tleman 9 directions iLree distinct kinds of apparatus 
have been manufactured : one for freezing water in 
the hottest weather ; another, for teeing wine ; and 
the third for freezing cream. Other qiparatus 
have been manufactured by Mr. Paterson, late of 
Bridge Street, Blackfiiars. They are commonly 
known as "Paterstmi lee PaiU.' Mr. Walkers 
apparatus for wine, is very simple. He merely 
proposes to add the following portion of Ireesing 
powder to each pint of water, in which the decanter 
of wine is to be placed up to the neck within a cup 
or can surrounded with water in a tin covered pail. 
The freezing powder is made as follows: — To each 
pint of water, take three ounces of powdered nitre, 
and three ounces of powdered sal ammoniac, and 
Glauber's salts in powder, four ounces and a half; 
the whole to be dissolved in water. Care should 
be taken that the surfaceof the wine is rather below 
the surface of the freezing mixtut'e.* 

The iceing of wines b too simple to need any in- 
Btmctlon from us. By iceing Champagne wines 
before they are used, the ten»iency to effervesce is 
in some degree repressed, or only allowed to ope- 
rate to such an extent as may be compatible wiih 
the more perfect Savour that we desire to find in 
them; but when they are kept cool, this precaution 



r immonia, 4 oz. sub-car- 
er, iu H tin puil, bas lH-en 
a three hours. — Brando's 



284 APPENDIX. 

is unnecessary. Sillery Champagne is usually 
drunk iced.* 

Thus, Champagne gains strength by the cold ; 
but it is disputed whether any but comm6n wines 
should be iced, and said, that even they would be 
better if merely cooled with water, which the same 
authority thinks, " always gives sufficient coolness 
to wine, even at the hottest temperature of the dog- 
days. But it is not only that we should avoid ice- 
ing wines that are choice ; every different kind re- 
quires a different degree of cold and warmth. Thus 
Claret, coming immediately out of the cellar, has 
not that soft and delicious flavour which gives it its 
peculiar value. The bottle should be placed, be- 
fore drinking, where it may obtain warmth. In 
winter, wine-drinkers always place it before the 
fire ; but Burgundy shoul(f be drunk fresh from 
the cellar." 



DR. MACCULLOCH'S RECEIPTS FOR 
MAKING WINES. 

We abridge the following from Dr. Mac- 
culloch's excellent Practical Rules for ma- 
naging Wines made from Fruits of British 
growth. 

Wine from unripe Gooseberries, 

Choose the fruit before it has shown the least 
tendency to ripen, but about the time when it has 

* Dr. Henderson's History of Wines. 



APPENDIX. 285 

nearly attained its fuU groivth. The green Bath 
is perhapa among the beat gooseberries. The 
smaUeat should be separated by a sieve properly 
adapted to this puipose ; and any unsound or 
bruised fruit rejectetf, while the remains of the 
blossom and fruit stalk should be removed. Put 
forty pounds of this fruit into a tub, carefully 
cleaned, (the quantities in all the receipts are com- 
puted for a cask often gallons] and of the capacity 
of fifteen or twenty gallons, in which the fruit is lo 
be bruised in successive portions, by a pressure 
sufficient to burst the berries without breaking the 
seeds, or much pressing the skins. Then pour 
four gallons of water into the vessel, carefully stir 
tile contents, and squeeze them in the hand until 
the whole of the juice and pulp are aeparaled from 
the solid matters. The materials arc then to re- 
main at rest from six to twenty-four hours, when 
they are to be strained through a coarse bag. One 
gallon of li'esh water may afrerwards be passed 
through the marc, or pulp, &c. Then dissolve 
thirty pounds of white sugar in the juice thus pro- 
cured, and make up the total bulk with water to 
the amount of lf:n gallons and a half. The liquor 
thus obtained is the arlificia] mutt, or juice of the 
grape. Nest pour it into a tub, over which place 
a blanket or similar substance covered by a board ; 
the vessel being placed in a temperature from fifty- 
five to sixty degrees of the thcmiometer. Here it 
may remain for twenty-four hours, or two days, 
according to its symptoms of fermentation, and 
from this tub it is to be drawn into the cask in 
which it is to ferment. When in the cask, it must 
he filled nearly to the bung-hole, and kept so filled 
as the fermentation proceeds. When the ferment- 



286 APPENDIX. 

ation has somewhat subsi^M^ tlie bsBg may he 
driven in, and a spile-hole bored, the pes bemg 
loosened occasionally till the fermentation nas en- 
tirely ceased. The wine thus made must remain 
over the winter in a cool cellar; and, if required, it 
may be bottled some clear and cold day, towards 
the end of February or beginning of March, with- 
out furth^ precaution. To insure its fineness, 
however, it is better to decant it towards the end 
of December, into a fresh cask, so as to dear it 
from its first lees. If the wine be too sweet, instead 
of decanting it, stir up the lees so as to renew the 
fermenting process ; taking care, also, to increase 
the temperature at the same time. At whatever 
time the wine has been decanted, it is to be fined in 
the usual way, with isinglass. Sometimes it is 
found expedient to decant it a second time into a 
firesh cask, and again to fine it. All these removals 
should be made in clear, dry, and, if possible, ccAd 
weather. In any case, it must be botded during 
the month of March. 

Dr. MaccuUoch then describes a few variations 
of the forgoing process. The husk of the goose- 
berry, or the whole of the marc, as well as the 
juice, may be fermented together in the vat with 
the sugar, in the first stage of the process. The 
fermentation will thus be more rapid, and the wine 
prove stronger and less sweet, but it will acquire 
more flavour. Crude tartar may be added to the 
must, in the proportion of six ounces. 

If it is wished to have a very sweet, as well as 
brisk wine, the quantity of sugar may be increased 
to for^ pounds. 

If the wine is intended to be less- sweet, and less 
sti'ong^ than in the first case, the sugar must be 



APPENDIX. 287 

redui^ to Itventy-ftve-poirnds. Thus made, it 
will rarely fail to be brisk; but will, at the same 
time, be less durable. Wines of this kind will 
resemble the inferior classes of Champagne, and 
must coDuuonly be consumed within the twelve- 
month. 

The proportion of fruit adopted in this receipt, 
is that in common use ; but to insure briskneBB 
without excessive sweetness, or the chance of being 
obliged to renew the fermentation, it is recom- 
mended to increase the proportion of fruit to fifty 
pounds, when the sugar is thirty. If, during the 
fermentation of the wine thus formed, there should 
be any danger of the sweetness disappearing alto- 
gether, it maybe decanted, and the fermentation 
uien checked by fining. Thus it will speedily be 
fit for use. 

The same proportions aiid precautions apply to 
mne from unripe Curranln; but this fruit is still 
belter calculated for brisk wines than the goose- 
berry. 

It must be understood, that in no case is the 
solid matter to be introduced into the cask; and if 
the head, which is fonned in the fennenting vat, 
should acquire a sour or a musty smell, it is to be 
carefully separated. In those cases, also, where 
the solid matter is not to be fermented with the 
fluid, the juice, or must, may be introduced at once 
into the cask, without previously remaining in the 
vat. 

Wine from ■unripe Grapes. 

The fruit may be of different degrees of ripeness, 

and the varieties mixed. The some proportions of 
fruit and sugar will be proper as when gooseberries 



288 APPENDIX. 

and currants are employed, but the tartar must be 
omitted. The husks, also, may be permitted to 
ferment with the liquor in the vat. The subse- 

3uent management is precisely the same as that 
escribed above. Dr. Macculloch also says, an 
excellent wine may be made from the leaves and 
tendrils of the vine ; but the process is by no means 
so certain as either of the preceding, and is, conse- 
quently, less calculated for domestic practice. 

Wine from ripe Gooseberries and Currants, 

May be made either sweet or dry. The rules 
immediately preceding, which relate to the ferment- 
ation, requu% equally to be attended to in this case. 
If sweet wine is intended, the quantity of fruit 
should not exceed forty pounds ; if dry wine is de- 
sired, it may extend to sixty. The propoition of 
sugar will be thirty pounds, as before. If a much 
stronger, of either quahty, is desired, it must ex- 
tend to forty. The same precautions are required 
in the selection and care of the fruit, and the ma- 
nagement of the husks. 

Wine from ripe Grapes. 

No water is to be used ; but, as the juice of the 
fruit is, in general, deficient in sugar, it is necessary 
that from one to two pounds of sugar should be 
added to each gallon of must. The addition of 
tartar is also useful in this case. The remainder 
of the management is as before. 

A superior class of wines is made by the juices 
of Biitish fruits, without any water being added. 




APPENDIX. 

seberrij and 
Currant H'' 

For CuKRANT Wine : — Dissolve eight pounds 
of Loney in fitieen gallons of boiling water ; to 
which, when clarified, add the juice of eight pounds 
of red or white currants. Then fennent twenty- 
four hours, and to every two gallons of water add 
two pounds of sugar. Then clarify with whites of 
eggs and cream of tartar. 

For Gooseberry Wine : — Gatier the fruit 
dry, when about half ripe, and beat it in a mortar ; 
strain the juice through a canvass bag, and mix it 
with sugar, in the proportion of three pounds to 
every two gallons of juice. Leave it quiet for fif- 
teen days, when it should be carefully poured off 
and left to ferment throe months, when the quan- 
tity is under fifteen gallons ; and for five months, 
when double that quantity. It should then be * 
bottled, when it will soon become fit for drinking. 

Improved Method of making Raisin Wine. 
We have obtained the following improved 
method from the Transactions of the Society 
of Arts for the year 1829. The receipt is 
irom the pen of Mr. Arthur Aikin, Secretary 
to the Society ; and its importance will re- 
commend it. 

T have for some years been in the habit of 
making for use in my own family, a light dry rai- 
sin wine; I have also noted down, with more or 
less miuuteness, the progress and result of several 
of these experiments ; and I beg leave now to offer 
tuom Ifl die Society, in the hope that thereby some 



I 



290 APPENDIX. 

additional light may be thrown on a very important 
branch of domestic economy. 

It appeared to me, from some previous com- 
parative trials with black currants, and with others 
of our native fruits, that none of them are so well 
adapted to make light dry wines, as the better kinds 
of raisins : a farther advantage attends the use of 
this latter fruit, that the wine may be made at the 
season when the temperature is most favourable to 
the due progress of the feimentation. 

The raisin which I have been most in the habit 
of using, and which I prefer, is the Muscatel. It 
is imported in boxes, containing about twenty 
pounds ; and, when new, is in common use as a 
table fruit. In this state it would doubtless make a 
wine of excellent quality ; but its price prohibits its 
employment for this purpose. In those which re- 
main unsold for about a year, the rich pulp of the 
recent raisin becomes mixed with sugaiy concre- 
tions, which render it less acceptable at the dessert ; 
and the price of such fruit, being from tenpencc'to 
a shilling a pound, brings it within the reach of the 
domestic wine-maker. 

That matter, whatever it be, which, through 
the process of fermentation, converts a solution of 
sugar into vinous liquor, exists in raisins in suffi- 
cient abundance to change into wine a greater 
quantity of sugar than the fruit itself contains ; and 
I have found it advantageous, both as regai'ds the 
price and quality of the product, to add to any 
fijiveu quantity of raisins from one-tenth to one- 
third of their weight of sugar. In order, however, 
to avoid tainting the wine with the peculiar flavour 
of cane sugai*, I use good loaf, at the average price 
of ten pence or eleven pence a pound. 



APPENDIX. 291 

In my early experiments I pom*ed hot water 
on the raisins, and allowed them to remain therein 
twelve hom*s, more or less ; by this time the raisins 
were plumped up, and I pressed them between 
fluted wooden rollers in order to break their skins, 
and press out the juice. This process, however, by 
no means succeeded to my wish ; the rollers were 
clogged and strained by the fruit which adhered to 
them ; and many of the raisins, by reason of the 
toughness of their skins, passed through the rollers 
entire. I therefore adopted the plan of having the 
misins chopped (without previous maceration) on 
the same kind of tray, and with the same kind of 
chopper as is used in making minced meat ; and I 
have had no reason to vary from this method, 
except, that of late, I have dii'ected the raisins to be 
chopped finer than they were at first. Previous to 
the misins being chopped, the stalks are separated 
for a use that will be mentioned hereafter. 

' I have tried several proportions of ingi*edients; 
but those from which I have obtained the best re- 
sults are, three pounds of raisins and one pound of 
sugar to an ale-gallon of water. 

I prepare the must sometimes by mashing, and 
sometimes by maceration. 

The mashing is perfonned in the following 
manner : — The chopped raisins being put into an 
open tub, or an earthenware pan, I pour on them 
hot water in the proportion of about a quart to four 
pounds of fruit. My object, in this first mash, is 
to extract the greater part of the sacchaiine muci- 
lage as little altered as possible ; I therefore heat 
the water no higher than about one hundred and 
twenty degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer ; the 
water and fruit are mixed ; and after standing for 



292 APPENDIX. 

about a quarter of an hour> the whole is stirred 
together as accurately as possible by hand, taking 
care to break down all tne lumps ; and, in a few 
minutes afterwards, is placed on a sieve over a tub, 
where it drains for a short time ; the husks are then 
lightly pressed by hand, and are returned to the 
mash-tub. 

The second mash is made exactly in the same 
manner as the first ; and the husks, after pressing, 
are returned again to the mash-tub. 

They will now be found to have lost the whole 
of their clamminess, though they are still sweet ; I 
therefore conclude that the saccharine mucilage is 
now for the most part extracted, and my principal 
object in the subsequent mashes is to aissolve out 
the tartar. For this purpose, the water of the 
third mash is put on at the heat of one hundred 
and fifty, or one hundred and sixty degrees, and is 
conducted in the same manner as the former. The 
liquor thus obtained is considerably acidulous, 
having the flavour of the raisins, and but little 
sweetness. Three-fourths of the mash being now 
made, it is tasted, in order to ascertain wheSher it 
is sufficiently astringent; and, according to the 
intended astringency of the wine, I either alto- 
gether reject the stalks, or use the whole, or a part 
of them. If a somewhat astringent wine is intended, 
the last mash is thus prepared : — I pour boiling 
water on the stalks, in a separate tub ; and after 
they have been macerated for about a quarter of an 
hour, I put the liquor on the husks, and mix them 
well witn it ; in a quarter of an hour more the 
liquor is put on the sieve, and the husks ai*e well 
squeezed by hand. 

While the last mash is preparing, I transfer 



APPENDIX. 293 

the liquor of the first three mashes into the fer- 
menting tun, and dissolve the sugar in it; I then 
add as much of the last mash as is requisite to 
bring the must? to the due proportions ; viz, one 
ale-gallon of must to three pounds of fruit and one 
pound of sugar. The time occupied by the above 
processes is four or five hours ; and the tempera- 
ture of the must when put into the fermenting tun, 
is usually about seventy degrees. 

If the weather is warm, and apparently more 
likely to become hotter than colder, I pour the 
must into the fermenting tun with as little agita- 
tion as possible ; but if it is cool, and not likely to 
get wanner, I dash each pailful against the sides of 
the tun, pom-ing it in from as great a height as I 
can conveniently reach ; by this means it is more 
mixed with atmospheric air; and liquor thus 
treated will often begin to ferment in less than 
twelve hours. If the must is at the temperature of 
seventy degrees, fermentation begins in from twelve 
to thirty-six hours, according as it is treated ; and 
the sciun which rises is sometimes taken off every 
day, and sometimes allowed to remain till the liquor 
is about to be removed from the fermenting tun. 
If the fermentation is languid, I keep on the cover 
of the tun, and stir the scum daily into the liquor ; 
if too rapid, I take off the cover and remove the 
scum as it lises. 

The liquor is now vinous, but sweet; and, 
after carefully skimming it, I transfer it to glass 
carboys, containing about six or seven gallons, or 
to stone- ware barrels of the same size.* I insert 



* As barrels of stoneware are always more or less porous, 
they should be warmed thoroughly before a fire, and be 



294 APPENDIX. 

in the bungs glass tubes of safety ; and, on the 
second day, pour into them about an inch of quick- 
silver to exclude the air. The cement that I 
use for covering the bungs, is a mixture of wax 
and resin. 

Carbonic acid continues to bubble through the 
quicksOver in the safety-tube for some weeks, after 
which it ceases ; but the column of quicksilver in 
the exterior leg of the syphon is always higher 
than that in the interior leg, I have never seen a 
single instance of the outer air passing into the 
carboy. 

I think the wine ought to remain an entu*e 
summer in the barrel or carboy, in order that the 
fermentation may proceed so far as almost entirely 
to decompose the sugar ; and as my usual times of 
wine-making are April and October, that made in 
the former month is bottled in the March follow- 
ing ; and that made in October is bottled about the 
end of September, or a week or two later, according 
to circumstances. 

I never fine the wine, being of opinion that 
the light dry wine, which it is my aim to produce, 
would be materially injured by being deprived of 
its tannin, through the action of isinglass, or of any 
similar substance. 

At the time of bottling I have seldom observed 
the wine to have any very sensible flavour ; mean- 
ing by flavour, that compound sensation of smell 
and taste which characterizes the finer kinds of 



rubbed over with a mixture of bees* wax aud turpentine 
(about one part of turpentine to three of bees' wax). When 
this coating is grown cold, it should be well rubbed in with 
a hard brush. 



APPENDIX. 295 

wines ; but after remaining for a year in bottle, a 
flavour resembling elder flowers is strongly deve- 
loped ; mingled, generally, in a slight degi*ee, with 
that of prussic acid. 

As soon as the wine begins to run turbid from 
the carboy, I pass the whole of what remains 
through a filter ; but though I am careful that the 
wine, when bottled, should be cleai', though not 
bright, there is' always more or less of flocculent 
matter deposited which requires the bottles to be 
set upright in the bin, and to be decanted with 
care. 

The wine, when first decanted, is often of a 
very pale yellow colour, especially if high flavomed ; 
but in an hour or two it deepens more or less, and 
at length acquires a tint like that of Bucellas, the 
prussic acid flavour at the same time disappearing. 
Instead of mashing, as above described, I have 
sometimes pursued a still more s^nple way — that 
of maceration ; by mixing in the fermenting tun 
the usual proportions of chopped raisins and sugar 
with cold water, and leaving the raisins in the 
liquor during the whole of the first fermentation. 
By this method I obtain a higher coloured wine ; 
hut the fermentation being generally slower, and 
consequently longer, it is destitute of that Fron- 
tignac, or elder-flower flavour, which it generrally 
acquires when treated according to the first pro- 
cess ; and is apt to get a less agi'eeable flavour from 
the husks of the raisins. Sometimes, however, the 
method succeeds very well; and the elder-flower 
flavour not being pleasant to many persons, such 
wine is more generally acceptable than the former. 
In May, 1827, 1 made some wine in the way 
last described. The materials were put together on 



290 APPENDIX. 

the 3rd day of the month, the temperature of the 
liquor and of the cellar being fifty-six degrees. 
On the dth, at night, fermentation had just b^un, 
the temperature of tlie liquor and cellar being fifty- 
seven degrees. On the 7th, the liquor was at fifty- 
eight degrees. From that tin^e to the 19th, the 
fermentation went on, though languidly, the tem- 
perature of the liquor varying from fifty-seven to 
fifty-eight and a half degrees; and that of the 
cellar from fifty-five to fifty-seven degrees. From 
the 19th to the 24th, the weather became warm, 
the temperature of the cellar rose to fifty-nine 
decrees, and that of tli'^ liquor to sixty-one degrees. 
It had now been tweni -one days under fermenta- 
tion ; and therefore, txiough it was still rather too 
sweet, I put it into carboys, and bottled it about 
half a year afterwards. This wine is now (Decem- 
ber, 1828) strong, dark-coloured for white wine, 
but still rathe rj ^eet, and tastes too much of the 
husks. jV 



FINIS. 



IMnted by C. Richards, 100, St. Martin's Lane. 



«•^ 



■ /•< 



^ffi!iw.« 



THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED 
AN OVERDUE FEE IFTHIS BOOK IS NOT 
RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON OR 
BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED 
BELOW- NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE 
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE 
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES. 



€*'^ 





This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Soc 4.7<i3. a20 



THE BUSINESS 

HISTORICAL 

SOCIETY iNC 




DEPOSITED 

IN 

HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



Digitized by \ 
J 



dbyGooalp 



Soc 4.7(2,3. a30 



THE BUSINESS 

HISTORICAL 

SOCIETY iNC 




DEPOSITED 
IN 

HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



Digili2 J by Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^ THE 



WINE-DRINKER'S 



MANUAL. 



' IN VINO VERITAS. 



LONDON: 

MARSH AND MILLER, 137, OXFORD STREET, 
AND CONSTABLE AND CO. EDINBUR^. 

1830. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



«A,rV.BO COURSE UCMRT 

ewijGE c. oaiPSEy 



PRINTBD BY C. RICHARDB| 100, 8T. MAETIN*S LANB, CHAEINO CROSS. 






Digitized by VjOOQIC 



To J. H. 



THIS VOLUME 



IS INSCRIBED, 



EVERY SENTIMENT OF ESTEEM 



AND FRIENDSHIP, 



THE AUTHOR. 



April 27, 1830. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ERRATA. 

At p. 26, for ' Vienna,' read ' Vienne.' 

35, for * St. Lawrence,' read * St Laurence/ 
140, for * Gestaccio,' read * Testaccio*' 



Bli5 
Qlttot 

C. Dco»pWg^,^g^j^y Google 



PREFACE. 



The object of the following pages is to 
exhibit a sketchy outline of the most cele- 
brated vineyards, and the several processes 
of wine-making in different countries: in 
short, to represent the general economy of 
one of the most interesting branches of hu- 
man invention. The subject was of no 
Yexjfcunle complexion; but one from which 
the Author would have shrunk with due 
sense of his incompetence to treat, had he 
not been induced to the task, by the super- 
abundance of materials,which, much reading 
and laborious research enabled him to ren- 
der available. His duties, therefore, became 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VI PREFACE. 

rather those of arrangement than author, 
ship; although it is hoped that the candour 
with which this distinction is made in the 
subsequent pages, renders this explanation 
almost superogatory. 

As the present volume aspires only to the 
rank of a ** Manual," the reader will not 
expect to find it contain any extensive re- 
searches into the antiquarian history of 
Wine, or the ancient and modem philoso- 
phy of its manufacture. Had these divi- 
sions of the subject been largely expatiated 
on, the work must necessarily have assumed 
too scientific a character for the general 
reader. On the other hand, the Author has 
endeavoured to produce a book of pictu- 
resque details of the wine-countries, and the 
practical points of wine-making; at the 
same time, illustrating the latter by the 
results of the most recent enquiries of 
men of experimental and practical science. 
To these the Author has added his own ex- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE. VU 

perience, which, though comparatively un- 
pretending, has, he hopes, enabled him to 
adapt and arrange the contributions of 
others with propriety and eflfect. 

Although the Author's claim to originality 
in these pages is thus humbly rated, it 
would be false delicacy not to express his 
confidence in the appreciation of the labour 
which was requisite for their production. 
Anxiety to furnish the reader with the pre- 
sent face of the wine-countries, has led him 
to consult the journals of the most recent 
and accredited travellers; and equal dili- 
gence has prompted him in the more prac- 
tical and technical portions of his work. 
Few attempts have been made at ornate 
style, or embellishment of the subject; since 
it would have been folly to attempt in prose 
what the poets of all ages have so divinely 
blended with their happiest productions; 
but some relief was occasionally neces- 
sary. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VIU PREFACE. 

A glance at the annexed Table of Con- 
tents, will excuse the Author adding more 
in a prefatory form ; but, as the subject is 
rife with delight, he will not trespass on the 
patience of the reader, further than by ex- 
pressing a hope, that his gratification will 
be identified throughout the pages of the 
Wine-drinker's Manual. 

Richmond^ April, 1830. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 



ON WINE-DRINKING. 
Adam and Noah — Ancient Physicians — Ancient Drink- 
ing — Quantity — ^The Poets — Statesmen — Medical quali- 
ties — National Drinking — Origin of Wine — ^Persia, &c. 

Page 1-15. 

WINES OF THE ANCIENTS : 
Greek and Roman Vineyards and Wines. 15-26. 

FRENCH WINES: 
Classification — Wines of Gaul — ^Modern Wines : Cham- 
pagne, Burgundy, Dauphiny, Bordelais, Languedoc, Pro- 
vence, and Rousillon — Manufacture of Champagne and 
Claret — Management-^ Count Chaptal on the choice of 
a Cellar — Bottling, Forcing, &c. — ^Wine-trade of France 
— Consumption, &c. 27-68. 

SPANISH WINES: 
Mismanagement of the Peasantry — ^Xeres, or Sheri7 — 
Paxareta — Tinta di Rota — ^Malaga — Alicant — Benicar- 
lo — Vine in Catalonia — The Canaries — ^Tenerifie — ^Vi- 
donia — Chacoli — Majorca and Minorca — -Vineyards at 
Yepes. 69-81. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



f 



X CONTENTS. 

PORTUGUESE WINES: 
Lisbon and Port— Wine Country of the Douro — Oporto 
Company — Methuen Treaty — ^Adulterations of Port 
Wine — Exports from Oporto — Management — Introduc- 
tion in England — White Wines— Carcavellos, Setuval, 
and Termo — Red Wines of Lisbon — Vintage, p. 82-97. 

GERMAN WINES : 
Introduction of the Vine into Germany — Circle of Cob- 
lentz — Soil of the Banks of the Rhine — Rhinegau, Hoch- 
heim,andMayn — Inmiense Casks of Tubingen,Heidelberg, 
and Grumingen — Autumn on the Rhine — Bacharach and 
the ara Bacchi — Vineyards of Wurtemburg—Qualities 
of Rhenish Wines — the Moselle — German Wines drunk 
in England — Hock and Soda Water — Oil from the 
Stones of Grapes. 9&-114. 

HUNGARIAN WINE : 

The Vine in Hungary — Peasants' Vineyards — ^Tokay, 
Ausbruch, and Essence; its properties and rules for 
judging — Red and White Wines of Hungary — ^Vineyards 
of Menes, and description of the Vintage, 115-128. 

ITALUN WINES: 
Luxuriance of the Vineyards — Improved Culture — ^Wine 
at Naples — ^North of Italy — Ancient and Modem Italian 
Wines — ^Wine-making in Tuscany — Montifiascone — Epi- 
taph in the Cathedral at Siena — Wine Festivals of the 
Roman peasantry — Vines of the Campagna — ^Tuscany 
and Genoa — Wines of Vesuvius — Lacryma Christi — 
Vines of Southern Italy — Sicilian Wines — Syracuse* — 
Policy of introducing Italian Wines into England — 
Wine-trade at Florence — ^Wines of Elba — Culture of the 
Vines, &c. 139-153. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. Xi 

GREEK WINES: 
Neglect of the Vine — Zante Currants — Vines of Corinth 
— Candia and Crete — Maliyisi — Rettimo — ^Ancient and 
Modem Cyprus Wine— Barout— Wines of Zante, Ithaca, 
Rhodes, Cos, Samos, Tino, Lampascus — Vineyards at 
Leuetra — Adulteration of Greek Wines. p. 156-168. 

RUSSIA WINES: 
Wines consumed in Russia — Cultivation of the Vine in 
the South—Valley of Soudak—Vintage at Akerman— 
Georgian Wine—Tiflis. 1 62-1 76. 

PERSUN WINES : 
Discovery of Wine by Jem-sheed — Grapes of Shiraz — 
Persian Vine-dressers — Wine forbidden by the Koran — 
Shah Suffee — ^Abbas II. — Royal Wine-drinkers — the Per- 
sian love of Wine— Vineyards of Shiraz, Ispahan, Te- 
heran — ^Persian Poets in Praise of Wine. 177-186. 

MADEIRA WINES : 
Introduction of the Vine — Varieties of Wine — Sercial 
and Malmsey — Culture, &c. — Soil of the Vineyards de- 
scribed by Mr. Bowdich — Manu&cture — Quantity — Im- 
provement by a voyage explained — Maturation of Ma- 
deira—Flavouring—Climate of the Island. 187-203. 

CAPE WINES: 
Climate of the Cape— Culture of the Vine— Constantia 
—Cape Madeira — ^Wine-trade at the Cape— Duties — 
Brandewyn— Quantity of Wine exported — Improvement 
of the Manufacture— Training — Management of the 
Vines— Soil, Adulterations, &c. — Constantia, 204r21 1. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Xll CONTENTS. 

BRITISH WINES: 

Introduction of theViue — SaxonVineyaras — Domesday — 
Monasteries — Vineyards in London — Gloucester — Wind- 
sor — Foreign Wines introduced — Vineyards in Sussex, 
Surrey, and in the Isle of Wight — Painshill — Change 
of Climate — Chaptal on Vines — Earliest Foreign Wine 
Statute-duties — Wine-Conduits— -Wine at Breakfast — 
Aristocratical Enactments — ^Duties and Importation — 
Wine in Scotland — ^Theory of Wine-making — Failure of 
British Wines explained — Dr. Macculloch's System — 
Synthetical preparations. p. 212-241. 

ADULTERATION OF WINE : 
Early English Mal-practices — Vintner*s Company — 
Enactments of Henry VI., Mary, and Charles II. — Addi- 
son, in " the Tatler." — Lead Adulteration, and Tests for 
its Detection — Washing Bottles — Correcting Acidity — 
Brandying Port Wine— To detect Adulterated— Tests for 
the natural Colouring — Flavouring — Dry Rot 242-229. 

ART OF DRINKING WINE : 

Rationale of Drinking — Fashion — a French Dinner — 
Precedence of French Wines — Wines for different tem- 
peraments — Wine - Melancholy — Claret and Cham- 
pagne — ^Port—Sherries — Philosophy of Wine-drinking — 
Poets and Essayists — Plutarch's authority — Morris, 
Bums, and Moore — ^Table Companions. 260-276. 

APPENDLS: 
The Cellar — Champagne — Claret — Iceing Wines — Dr. 
Maculloch's Receipts : Wine from unripe Gooseberries — 
from unripe Grapes — from ripe Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants—from ripe Grapes— French Method of making su- 
perior Gooseberry and Currant Wines — Improved Me- 
thod of making Raisin Wine. 277-296. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE 



WINE-DRINKER'S MANUAL. 



ON WINE-DRINKING. 

The love of Wine may almost be classed 
with the innate principles of our very being. 
It is believed that the father of the human 
race drank virine, and were the antediluvian 
records more complete, this point of belief 
might be settled by the next Antiquarian 
meeting at Somerset House. We have, 
however, ^^confirmation strong as holy writ" 
that Noah planted a vineyard, and, more- 
over, " that he drank of the Wine and was 
" drunken." {Genesis^ ix. 20.) Adam, good 
man, for aught we know, did the same. 
" Driven by sin from Paradise," says old 
Christopher North, "what liquor could 
" ever have raised his spirits? How dismally 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2 wine-drinker's 

^^ in his cups must he have sung ^ Auld lang 
" syne !' What a hollow hip, hip, hurra !" 

A moderate use of Wine has been sanc- 
tioned by the wise and good in all ages. 
St. Paul says, (Tm. i. v, 2V " Use a little 
"wine for thy stomach's sake:" and this 
seems to have been the opinion of the most 
ancient philosophers and physicians. As- 
clepiades wrote upon Wine, the use of which 
he introduced with almost every remedy, ob- 
serving, that the gods had bestowed no more 
valuable gift on man : even Diogenes drank 
of it; for it is said of him that he liked 
that Wine best, which he drank at other 
people's cost: no bad proof of the policy of 
his philosophy. A modem, however, adopted 
this notion, who, when asked, — " What 
" Wine do you drink, Doctor?" answered, 
" Port at home, Claret abroad !" 

Hippocrates recommended a cheerful 
glass; and Rhases, an ancient Arabian 
physician, says no liquor is equal to good 
Wine. Beineck wrote a Dissertation, " De 
Potu Vinoso;'*^ and the learned Dr. Shaw 
lauded the juice of the gi'ape. But the 
stoutest of its medical advocates was Tobias 
Walker, physician to Charles II, who 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MANUAL. 3 

undertook to prove the possibility of main- 
taining life, from infancy to old age, without 
sickness, by the use of Wine. But Toby 
lived in too free an age to warrant his 
doctrine, although no one can say that his 
theory was unacceptable to his monarch, or 
the times in which he practised. 

In a musty old tract on ^^ voracitie and 
^^ immoderate drinking," of sundry stories 
of "no man drinking beyond a certaine ring 
" about the glasses and cups," a conscien- 
tious scruple which is easily wiped away by 
plain glasses. There is also "a strange 
historic" of three quaffers in Germany, in 
1549, who, with a coal, " painted the divell 
" on the wall, and drank freely to him, and 
" talked freely to him as though hee had 
" been present The next morning they 
" were found strangled, and dead, and were 
" hurried under the gallowes." Mahomet, 
another crafty wight, persuaded his followers 
when he forbad them the drinking of wine, 
that " in every grape there dwelt a divell." 
The attachment of Alexander Cambyses to 
Wine, is proverbial. Hiolmus, a king of the 
Goths, was so fond of it, that " he would sit a 
^' great part of the night quaffing with his 
b2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4 wine-drinker's 

" servants/' for which gracious condescen* 
sion, they (in sport) threw him into ^^ a great 
^^ vessell of drinke, in the middle of the 
^^ room," and thus, ^^ he misserably and 
ridiculously ended his life." Faulus Dia- 
crius tells us of a drinking wager between 
four old men, each of whom drank as many 
bowls of Wine as he had lived years, and 
thus one of these jolly old fellows drank 92 
bowls. Cyrus, however, preferred water to 
Wine ; and Antonius Pius ^^ commanded that 
" none should presume to sell Wine but in 
^^ apothecaries* shops, for the sicke or 
^ diseased." Had his edict remained in force 
to this age, every house would be required 
for a hospital, and the Wine-haters find 
room in the hospitals. 

The antiquity and propriety of drinking 
Wine is not, however, matter of question. 
The Archbishop of Seville, Antonio de 
Solis, who lived to be 110 years old, drank 
Wine; and even that wonderful preacher of 
propriety, Comaro, did the same. All we 
differ about is quantity; and this is a point 
on which we do not pretend to reconcile our 
readers, for that would be too quackial a 
pretension for any Wine-drinker to aspire to. 



d by Go ogle 



MANUAL- 



« 



Sir William Temple, as good and grave a 
man as any of the ^'illustrious'' of our 
country, was pleased to lay down a rule, 
and limit propriety to three glasses. ^' I 
" drink one glass," says he " for health, a 
" second for refreshment, a third for a 
^^ £riend; but he that offers a fourth is an 
enemy." It is, however, fit that we show 
" this" and " that" picture of the antient 
quantity. In modern times, we hear no- 
thing at all equal to the account given of 
some of the ancients. The elder Cato, we 
are told, warmed good principles with " a 
" pretty considerable" quantity of good 
Wine; and he allowed his slaves, during the 
Saturnalia, four bottles of Wine per diem. 
What sort of a figure would a royal footman 
cut at a rout after such a modicum ! But 
Cicero's son exceeded all others : so much 
so that he got the name of Bicongius, 
because he was accustomed to drink two 
congli at a sitting ; but as congii are not in the 
last authorized measures, it may be neces- 
sary to inform the reader that two congii 
are seven quarts or eight bottles ! Pliny 
and others abound in grand examples, which 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6 wine-drinker's 

prove we have degenerated at any rate in 
this respect ; for these convivials were neither 
sick nor sorry. Even Nero was only three 
times sick in fourteen years, a boast in which 
no crowned head of our times can join. 
We now come to the nobler effects of Wine, 
in the invigorating of the mindj as well as 
the body; and of the former effect we have 
the highest authority. To begin with the 
poets, as the lex suprema^ Martial says 

Regnat nocte calix, volvuntur biblia mane. 
Cum Phoebe Bacchus dividit imperium. 

All night I drink, and study hard aU day : 
Bacchus and Pbcebus hold divided sway. 

Horace has done ample justice to Wine ; 
and even Homer, whose bearded busts we 
contemplate with such veneration, says 

The weaiy find new strength in generous Wines, 

This is a poetical license which was 
sure to be imitated ; and doubtless, upon this 
principle of expanding the imagination, so 
early as 1374, old Geoffrey Chaucer had 
allowed him a pitcher of Wine a day. Rare 
Ben Jonson, in after times, had the third of 
a pipe annually; and, says Mr. Wadd, " a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MANUAL. 7 

^certain share of this inyigoratihg aliment 
^has been the portion of Laureates down to 
^ the present day ; probably to aid the inspi- 
*' ration of their birth-day odes and epithala- 
"mia." 

Nor are the poets the only eulogists of 
Wine. Some of the genteel names in history 
are to be found in the list. We find Mr. 
Burke furnishing reasons why the rich and 
great should have their share of Wine. He 
says, they are among the lAihappy; they 
feel personal pain and domestic son*ow; 
they pay their full contingent to the contri- 
butions levied on mortality in these matters ; 
therefore they require this sovereign balm. . 
" Some charitable dole" says he " is want- 
^' ing to these, our often very unhappy 
" brethren^ to fill the gloomy void that 
^^ reigns in minds which have nothing on 
'^ earth to hope or fear ; something to 
" relieve the killing languor and over- 
" laboured lassitude of those who have 
" nothing to do." It is rather out of date, 
but as we are talking of statesmen, let us 
hear an argument held by the learned Sir 
Thomas More. Sir Thomas was sent by 
Henry VIII as ambassador to a foreign 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8 WINE drinker's 

court. The morning* he was to have his 
audience, knowing the virtue of Wine, he 
ordered his servant to bring him a good 
large glass of sack; and having drank that, 
called for another. The servant, with offi- 
cious ignorance, would have dissuaded him 
from it, but in vain; the ambassador drank 
off a second, and demanded a third, which 
he likewise drank off, insisting on a fourth; 
he was over-persuaded by his servant to let 
it alone; so he went to his audience. But 
when he returned home, he called for his 

* Wine in the morning is rather a ticklish ven- 
ture with some folk. That mad wag, Tom Browne, 
says — 

Wine in a morning 

Makes us frolic and gay, 
That like eagles we soar 

In the pride of the day $ 
Goaty sots of the night 

Only find a decay. 
'Tis the sun ripes the grape. 

And to drinking gives light ; 
We imitate him. 

When at noon weVe at height : 
They iteal wine who take it 

When he's out of sight. 
Boys, fill all the glasses, 

Fill them up now he shines : 
The higher he rises. 

The more he refines. 
For wine and wit fall 

As their maker declines. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MANUAL. 9 

servant, and threatened him with his cane. 
" You rogue," said he, " what mischief 
" have you done me ! I spoke so to the 
^^ Emperor on the inspiration of those three 
^^ first glasses that I drank, that he told me 
'^ I was fit to govern three parts of the 
"world. Now, you dog! if I had drank 
" the fourth glass, I had been fit to govern 
" all the world." After this brilliant ex- 
ample, we recommend all the premiers of 
Europe to drink Wine arf libUum. We 
should like to know how many glasses 
Bonaparte drank, or rather, how many he 
found it necessary to drink before he re- 
solved on the domination of Europe. 

The French, who are, in truth, a very 
sober people, have a proverb : — 

Qu*il faut, a chaque mois^ 
S enivrer au moins une fois. 

which some, on this side of the water have 
improved into an excuse for getting drunk 
every day in the week, for fear the specified 
day should be missed. It would, however, 
startle some of our sober readers, to find 
this made a question of grave argument: 
yet " whether it is not healthful to be drunk 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



10 WIN£-DRINKER'S 

" once a month," is treated on by Dr. Carr 
in his letters to D'Quiney. A French 
author writes too, to the following eflfect: — 

Drink my dear friends and deeply too» 
Ages of health you have before you. 

Wine as a remedy or medicine often gives 
rise to ludicrous associations. ^^Thus,'' says 
Mr. Wadd, (in a pleasant article in Brande's 
J(9wrwa/,No.VIII)" we find particularWines 
recommended by particular doctors, having 
a fashionable run as specifics: — at one 
time, all the gouty people were drinking 
Madeira, and many a man persuaded him- 
self he had a flying gout, for the sake of the 
remedy. Somebody, however, found out 
that Madeira contained acid, and straight 
the cellars were rummaged for old Sherry; 
and Sherry, and nothing but Sherry, could 
or would the Podcyres drink. Dr. Rey- 
nolds, who lived and practised very much 
with the higher orders, had a predilection 
for that noble and expensive comforter 
Hock! which short word, from his lips, 
has often made the Doctor's physic as costly 
as the Doctor's fee. In short. Wine has 
been recommended by the highest medical 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MANUAL. 11 

authorities as alleyiating the infiimities of 
old age ; probably on the authority of the 
Greek physician, who recommended it to 
Alexander as the pure blood of the earth. 
After such authority, need we wonder at the 
penchant which the sick poor feel for Wine, 
even when labouring under the simoom of 
a fever ? " 

The proper ywanf Mm of wine, however, yet 
remains undecided. Thus, drunkenness pre- 
vails to a much greater extent in northem 
than in southern latitudes. The nature of the 
climate renders this inevitable, and gives to 
the human frame its capabilities of with- 
standing iiquor: hence, a quantity which 
scarcely ruffles the frozen current of a Nor- 
wegian's blood, would scatter madness and 
fever into the brain of the Hindoo. In 
speaking of this subject, it is always to be 
remembered that a person is not to be con- 
sidered a drtmkard because he consumes a 
certain quantity of liquor ; but because what 
he does consume produces certain effects upon 
his system. The Russian, therefore, may take 
six glasses a day, and be as temperate as 
the Italian who takes four, or the Indian 
who takes two. But even when this is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 wine-drinker's 

acceded to, the balance of sobriety will be 
found in the favour of the south : the inha- 
bitants there not only drink less, but are, 
band Jide^ more seldom intoxicated than 
others; those who have contrasted London 
and Paris, may easily verify this fact: and 
those who have done the same to the city 
of Moscow^ and Rome, can bear still stronger 
testimony. Who ever heard of an En- 
glishman sipping eau sucr^e^ and treating 
his friends with a glass of lemonade? yet 
such things are common in France. 

To bring the argument down to our own 
times, before we censure the Romans for 
their potent draughts, or discredit their 
drinking prodigies, we should remember the 



* According to Dr. Granville, who, in his re- 
cently published Travels, is very minute in every 
point which relates to eating and drinking in Rus- 
sia, Champagne is drunk in great profusion at all 
the great entertainments in St. Petersburgh. In 
the Doctor's account of a Russian wedding, ne des- 
cribes the company as walking in procession to 
the bed-chamber of the bride and bridegroom, each 
visitor quaffing a goblet of Champagne to the 
health of the pai'ties, kissing the bride's hands, who 
returns the salutation on the cheek, and embracing, 
a lafran^aise, the cheeks of the bridegroom. 



d by Go ogle 



MANUAL. 13 

feats of which C*desar speaks, as tmnsfixing* 
three soldiers through their shields, with 
javelins, &c. Wine, drunk in large quanti- 
ties, doubtless, flew through their brawny 
and sinewy arms, and fitted them for such 
exploits, which throw into the shade all the 
glory of modem cuirassiers, or the gigantic 
men of ^ the Guards." 

The belief that wine was the only inebri- 
ating liquor known to antiquity, is, how- 
ever, erroneouB. Tacitus mentions ale or 
beer as common among the Germans ; — the 
Egyptians swigged malt liquor in the Delta ; 
— a kind of Bell's beer deluged the middle 
ages ; the interior of Africa was ever famous 
for brewing; — our Saxon ancestors were 
often drowned in mead ; — the worshippers 
of Odin were drunkards of the first water, 
whence the songs of the Scandinavian 
Scalds, and the fuddled futurity of Valhalla ; 
ardent spirits were quaffed by the Arabians 
many centuries ago, and from time imme- 
morial arrack has been manufactured in the 
island of Java, and the continent of Hin- 
dostan. 

It must, nevertheless, be admitted, that 
almost every country in which the vine is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 wine-drinker's 

indigenous, has boasted of some individual, 
or native deity, to whom the honor of the 
invention of Wine has been attributed. — 
Among a number of fictions, the following* 
is, at least, amusing. Jemnsheed, the founder 
of Persepolis, is by Persian writers said to 
have been the first who invented Wine. He 
was immoderately fond of grapes, and, de- 
siring to preserve some, they were placed 
for this purpose in a large vessel, and lodged 
in a vault for future use. AVhen the vessel 
was opened, the grapes had fermented ; and 
their juice, in this state, was so acid, that 
the king believed it must be poisonous. He 
had some vessels filled with it : ^^poison*' was 
written upon each, and they were placed in 
his room. It happened that one of his favor- 
ite ladies was affected with a nervous head- 
ache, and the pain distracted her so much, 
that she desired death. Observing a vessel 
with ^^poisorC written on it, she took it, and 
swallowed its contents. The Wine, for such 
it had become, overpowered the lady, who 
fell into a sound sleep, and awoke much 
refreshed. Delighted with the remedy, she 
repeated the dose so often, that the mo- 
narch's poison was all drank! He soon 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MANUAL. 15 

discovered this, and forced the lady to con- 
fess what she had done. A quantity of 
Wine was made ; and Jem-sheed, and all 
his court, drank of the new beverage; — 
which, from the circumstance that led to 
its discovery, is this day known in Persia 
by the name of Zeher-e-Kooshon, the de- 
lightful poison ! 

Only let the Wine-drinker, be he a three- 
glass, or three-bottle man, think of this de- 
lightful apologue, and we venture to predict 
that his ecstatic pleasure will be enhanced, 
and his illusion brightened by the glorious 
recollection. 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

From the pleasures of wine-drinking 
among our ancestors, we pass to the vine- 
yards of the ancients, and the processes 
used by them in the preparation of their 
Wines ; and it is curious to observe in how 
few circumstances their most approved sys- 
tem differed from that of the modems. The 
varieties of their Wines were considerable, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16 wine-drinker's 

and attempts have been made to point out 
the affinities of their to our modem varieties ; 
but when we consider the changes which 
soil and culture produce in the vine, even 
in a few years, it would be absurd to ima- 
gine, that after a lapse of two thousand 
years, we should be able to assign the exact 
place, in a modem botanical an*angement, 
to the varieties that adorned the Massic or 
Surrentine hills. The variety which they 
most esteemed appears to have been the 
Arimean, which produced a small grape, 
which is described as surpassing all others 
in richness and flavor. The most remark- 
able fact connected with the vineyards of 
the ancients, is their productiveness^ the 
Roman jugerum^ which was less than an 
English acre, being computed to yield fifty- 
four hogsheads of Wine ; whereas, the best 
vineyards in the Lyonnais, the most produc- 
tive in France, aiford little more than one 
fifth of this quantity. This superiority, 
however, in a great degree, arose, according 
to Columella, from the ancients allowing 
their vines to grow to a degree of luxuriance 
quite incompatible with the rules of good 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 17 

husbandry, and forcing them to bear, till, 
in the end, they became exhausted, and lost 
all their original excellence. 

liittle is known respecting the modes of 
manufacturing some of the most celebrated 
of the ancient wines^ The general processes 
did not perhaps differ much from those at 
present in use. The fruit was collected, 
bruised by the feet, and subjected to pres- 
sure, as now practised * Both Greeks and 
Romans appear to have frequently concen- 
trated their wines, either by spontaneous 
evaporation, or by boiling. For this pur- 
pose, the wine was sometimes introduced 
into bladders or large jars, and exposed in 
the chimney to the heat of fire, or in the 
uppCT parts of the house to the heat of the 
sun. Sometimes the fruit was converted 
into raisins by drying, and the wine pre- 
pared from such fruit was denominated joa«- 
sunt. At other times, the must was reduced 
by boiling to one half. This formed the 

* Of this we have sciiptural testimony : "Where- 
fore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy gar- 
ments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat ?" — 
" I have trodden the wine-press alone." — Isaiah, 
chap. Ixiii. v. 2, 3. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

vinum defntctum : occasionally even to one 
third, when it was termed sapa. By one, 
or perhaps more, of these methods, the wines 
were reduced to the state of syrup, or in 
some instances even to dryness, and were 
capahle of heing preserved a very long time. 
Thus, Aristotle states, that the Arcadian 
wines required to be diluted with water be- 
fore they were drunk, as indeed was the 
case with most of the ancient wines ; and 
Pliny speaks of wines as thick as honey, 
which it was necessary to dissolve in warm 
water, and filter through linen before they 
were used. These remarks apply chiefly 
to very old unnesJ^ Thus, that compared to 
honey had been made two hundred years ; 
and wines of a hundred years old and up- 

* The passion for old wine has been carried to 
a very ridiculous excess among the modems. At 
Bremen there is a wine cellar, called the Store, 
where five hogsheads of Rhenish wine have been 
preserved since the year 1625, or 204 years. 
These five hogsheads cost 1200 francs, or £50. 
Had this sum been put out to compound interest, 
each hogshead would now be worth above a thou- 
sand millions of money : a bottle of this precious 
wine would cost 21,799,480 francs, or about 
£908,311; and a single wine-glass, 2,723,808 
francs, or about £l 13,492 ! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 19 

wards seem not to have been uncommon 
among the luxurious citizens of ancient 
Rome. Indeed, seven years was the short- 
est period, according to Aristotle and 
Galen, for keeping wine before it was fit for 
drinking. The ancients, too, were as fond 
of giving their wines an artificial flavor, as 
are the modems ; and for this purpose, the 
former introduced pitch, turpentine,* and 
different herbs, into the must ; a practice 
still followed by the modem Greeks. 

Such are a few of the facts known re- 
specting the manufacture of celebrated an- 
cient wines; which, as Chaptal justly re- 
marks, appear in general to have rather 
deserved the name of extracts^ or syrups^ 
than wines. They must have been sweet, 
and little fermented, and consequently have 
contained a very small portion of alcohol. 

The earliest of the Greek wines was the 
Maronean, a sweet black wine, which Ho- 
mer describes as ^^ rich, unadulterate, and 
fit drink for the gods," and as so potent, 
that it was usually mixed with twenty mea- 

* Probably with the Ohio turpentine, now used 
in medicine^ and to he purchased at the druggists. 

C2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

sures of water. Nearly of equal antiquity 
was the Pramnian, a strong, hard, astrin- 
gent, red wine, from the island of Icarus. 
It may be compared to our Port wine ; like 
which, also, it was often used medicinally, 
and on that account was sometimes called 
pharmacites. The best Greek wines, how- 
ever, and which isurpassed those of all other 
nations, were the sweet luscious wines, the 
products of the Ionian and the Egean seas; 
particularly Lesbos, Chios, and Thasos^ 
They were wines of a pale amber color, with 
much odour, and ahigh flavor. The Phanean, 
which is extolled by Virgil, as the ^'king- 
of wines," was from Chios. The lighter 
wines were the Medean, the Argitis, and 
the Omphacites : but the Greeks were also 
familiar with the African and Asiatic wines, 
several of which were in high reputation. 
According to Morentinus, some of the Bi- 
thynian wines, but especially that procured 
from a species of grape called Mersites, were 
of the choicest quality : the wines of By bios, 
in Phoenicia, on the other hand, vied in 
fragrancy with the Lesbian ; and if we may 
confide in the report of AthenaBUS, the white 
wines of Mareotis and Taenia, in Lower 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WIN£$ OF THE ANCIENTS. 21 

Egypt, were of almost unrivalled excellence. 
The former, which was sometimes called 
Alexandrian, from the neighbouring teni- 
tory, was a light, sweetish, white wine, with 
a delicate perfume, of easy digestion, and 
not apt to affect the head; though the allu- 
sion of Horace to its influence on the mind 
of Cleopatra, would seem to imply that it 
had not always preserved its innocuous 
quality. The wine of Merue, however, 
which was produced at the feast given by 
Caesar to that voluptuous female, would ap- 
pear to have been in still higher estimation, 
and to have borne some resemblance to the 
Falemian. The Taeniotic, on the other 
hand which derived its name from the nar- 
row slip of land where it grew, was a grey 
or greenish wine,. of a greater consistence, 
and more luscious taste than the Mareotic, 
but accompanied with some degree of as- 
tringency, and a rich aromatic odour. The 
wine of Antylla, also the produce of the vi- 
cinity of Alexandria, was the only remain- 
ing growth from among the numerous vine- 
yards which adorned the banks of the Nile, 
that attained any degree of celebrity. 
The wines of ancient Italy were even 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

more celebrated than those of Greece. The 
choicest of the Eoman wines were the Mas- 
sic and Falemian. "No wine," says Dr. 
Henderson, " has ever acquired such exten- 
sive celebrity as the Falemian; or more 
truly merited the name of" immortal," which 
Martial has conferred upon it. At least, of 
all ancient wines, it is the one most gene- 
rally known in modem times. But although 
the name is thus familiar to every one, 
scarcely any attempt has been made to de- 
termine the exact nature and properties of 
the liquor ; and little more is understood 
conceming it, than that the ancients valued 
it highly, kept it until it became very old, 
and produced it only when they wished to 
regale their dearest friends. All writers, 
however, agree in describing the Falemian 
wine as very strong and durable, and rough 
in its recent state; — ^that it could not be 
drunk with pleasure, but required to be kept 
a great number of years before it was suffi- 
ciently mellow. Horace even terms it a 
" fiery" wine, and calls for water from the 
spring to moderate its strength ; and Per- 
sius applies to it the epithet " indomitum,'* 
probably in allusion to its heady quality.— 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 23 

From Galen's account, it appears to have 
been in condition only from the tenth to the 
twentieth year ; and afterwards it was apt 
to contract an unpleasant bitterness; yet 
we may suppose that, when of a good vin- 
tage, and especially when procured in glass 
bottles, it would keep much longer, without 
having its flavor impaired. Horace, who 
was a lover of old wine, proposes, in a well- 
known ode, to broach an amphora which 
was coeval with himself, and which, there- 
fore, probably, was not less than thirty-six 
years old. As he bestows the highest com- 
mendation on this sample, ascribing to it 
all the virtues of the choicest vintage, and 
pronouncing it truly worthy to be produced 
on so happy a day, we must believe it to 
have been really of excellent quality. In 
general, however, it probably suffered more 
or less from the mode in which it was kept; 
and those whose taste was not perverted by 
their rage for high-dried wines, preferred it 
in its middle state/* 

Among our present wines. Dr. Henderson 
has no hesitation in fixing upon those of 
Xeres and Madeira, as the two to which the 
Falemian offers the most distinct features 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 1VINE8 OF THE ANCIENTS. 

of resemblance. Both are straw-colored 
wines, assuming a deeper tint from age, or 
from particular circumstances in the quality, 
or management, of the vintage. Both of 
them present the several varieties of dry, 
stout, and light. Both of ihem are exceed- 
ingly strong and durable wines ; being, when 
new, very rough, harsh, and- fiery, and re- 
quiring to be kept about the same length of 
time as the Falemian, before they attain a 
due degree of mellowness. Of the two, how- 
ever, the more palpable dryness and bitter 
sweet flavor of Sherry might incline us to 
decide, that it approached most nearly to 
the wine under consideration ; and it is 
worthy of remark, thai the same difference 
in the produce of the fermentation is ob- 
servable in the Xeres vintages, as that which 
Gralen has noticed with respect to the Faler- 
nian ; it being impossible always to predict 
with certainty, whether the result will be a 
dry wine, or a sweetish wine, resembling 
Paxarite. But, on the other hand, the soil 
of Madeira is more analogous to that of the 
Campagna Felice ; and thence we may con- 
clude, that the flavor and aroma of its wines 
are similar. Sicily, which is also a volcanic 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 25 

country, supplies several growths which an 
inexperienced judge would very readily mis- 
take for those of the former island. Another 
point of coincidence is deserving of notice : 
both Xeres and Madeira wines are, as is well 
known, infinitely improved by being trans- 
ported to a warm climate ; and latterly it 
has become a common practice, among the 
dealers in the island, to force the Madeira 
wines by a process which is absolutely iden- 
tical with the ancient operation of the fu- 
marium. If Madeira, or Sherry, but parti- 
cularly the latter, were kept in eaithem 
jars uptil it was reduced to the consistence 
of honey, there can be little doubt that the 
taste would become so intensely bitter, as 
to be " intolerable," an epithet applied by 
Cicero to Falemian. 

Among the other wines of the Roman 
territory, may be noticed the Sabinum, the 
Nonuntanum, (which resembled Claret) Ve- 
nafranam, the wine of Spoletum, distin- 
guished by its bright golden color, the wines 
of Mamostinum, in Sicily, the PoUium of 
Syracuse, the growths of Caesina, Liguria, 
and the territory of Verona; the Gallic 
wines of Dauphiny, Marseilles, and Nar- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 WINES OF THE ANCIENTS. 

bonne ; witb those obtained from the violet- 
scented grape of Vienna, and the rich Mus- 
cat of Languedoc. From the valuable source 
already quoted, we could likewise add many 
curious facts with respect to the consump- 
tion of wine at Rome, the dilution of ancient 
wines, and the method of iceing the juice of 
the grape, employed by the epicures of the 
eternal city. On the use of wine at the 
banquets of the Grreeks and Bomans, much 
amusing information might also be quoted. 
The extent to which they carried the plea- 
sures of the table, their self-indulgence and 
ostentation, devoid of hospitality, will not, 
however, enhance the veneration with which 
we are accustomed to consider these won- 
derful people. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 



The classification of wines is a task of 
no trifling difficulty ; and, accordingly, va- 
rious methods have been adopted to ensure 
its accuracy. M. Jullien, the editor of the 
Revue Encyclopedique, at Paris, has at- 
tempted to arrange wines in genera^ or or- 
ders, determined by the qualities of sweet- 
ness, dryness, body, and color ; and species^ 
by the comparative excellence of their 
qualities. Dr. Henderson, however, prefers 
the division of wine into two principal 
classes, viz. Red and White, which may 
be again separated into two orders. Dry 
and Sweet ; while the genera are made to 
depend on the distinctive characters derived 
from soil and climate, the species on parti- 
cular localities, and the varieties on the re- 
spective qualities of the different growths. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



k 



28 FRENCH WINES. 

According to the latter arrangement, we 
shall attempt an outline history of the dif- 
ferent modem wines of Europe, beginning 
with those of France. 

We are told by Posidonius and Strabo, 
that the vine was partially cultivated in the 
south of Gaul ; yet it does not appear that 
its culture was general, even at the time of 
Columella, who wrote in the first century 
after Christ. It nevertheless afterwards 
became so; and even Normandy, Picardy, 
and Brittany, provinces in which the vine, 
as in England, has yielded to crops more 
suj table to the climate, produced their vines ; 
but they were sour and harsh, in conse- 
quence of the cold winds and fogs to which 
these countries are exposed. In the wine 
districts of France, however, every advan- 
tage which can be desired for the perfection 
of the vine, is found : for example, every 
species of strata that is congenial, much di- 
versity of surface, and consequently the 
most favorable exposures, and a sufficient 
range of temperature to occasion the great- 
est variety in the character of the grapes. 
The French, therefore, by the improvement 
of these gifts of nature, at present deservedly 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 29 

rank as the first wine makers in the world. 
According to Count Chaptal's calculations, 
in the year 1808, the land in France occu- 
pied by vines amounted to 1,639,939 hec- 
tares^ or 3,988,974 acres. The average 
production of wine was 35,358,890 hecto- 
litresy or 934,184,500 gallons, and the value 
of the whole 718,941,675 francs, or upwards 
of twenty-eight millions sterling * 

The wines of Champagne, of Burgundy, 
Dauphiny, and Bordelais, are decidedly the 
best which France now supplies ; to which 
may be added those of Languedoc and 
Roussillon. 



* In tracing the history of French wines, we 
find that many vineyards, which have little or no 
repute, were in former times renowned for the ex- 
cellence of their growths ; while those which of late 
years have maintained the greatest celebrity, were 
then unknown or almost unnoticed. Thus, the 
wines of Orleans and the Isle of France were at 
one time in greater estimation than those of Bur- 
gundy and Champagne ; and even Mantes, which 
is on the borders of Nonnandy, was famed for the 
produce pf its wines. These changes are attributed 
chiefly to transfers of property, particularly from 
the church to the laity, and the changes of ma- 
nagement consequently introduced. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



so FRENCH WINES. 

The wines of Champagne are commonly 
divided (following a distinction occurring 
so early as the 19th century) into River 
Wines, — tins de la rivi^e de Mame^ which 
are for the most part white ; and Mountain 
Wines — vim de la monia^ne de Ttewiw, which 
are red. The former are for the most part 
brisk or sparkling wines, and distinguished 
by their delicate flavor and aroma. But the 
briskest wines are not always the best, and 
unless they are very strong, much of the al- 
cohol is carried off with the carbonic acid 
gas, which occasions the fix>th. Hence the 
slightly frothing wines fcr&mans^ or demir 
vfumsseux) are preferred by connoisseurs. 
Silleryf which has obtained its name from 
the vineyards which yield it, formerly be- 
longed to the Marquis of Sillery, and holds 
the first rank among the white wines of 
Champagne. It was brought into vogue 

* If wine be bottled before the fermentation is 
completed^ part of the sugar remains undecomposed, 
the fermentation will go on slowly in the botde^ and 
on drawing the cork^ the wine sparkles in the 
glass^ as, for example, in Champagne. 

In Champagne wines the red are generally in- 
ferior, because the species of fermentation required 
to extract the color^ dissipates part of the flavor. 



I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 31 

by the peculiar care bestowed on the manu- 
facture by the Marechale d'Estrees, and was 
long known by the name of Vin de la Mare- 
chale. The most celebrated of the river, or 
white, wines, strictly so called, is that of 
Ay, the vinum dei of Bandius ; but Dr. Hen- 
derson thinks that the wine of Closet, a 
small vineyard which lies in the bosom of 
the hill to the south-west of Epemay, yields 
a wine fully equal to that of Ay. Similar 
to the wine of Ay also are those of the ter- 
ritories of Mareuil and Dizy ; while those 
of Hautvilliers, Cramant, Avise, Oger, Me- 
nil, and Pierry, are decidedly inferior. 

Of the Reims, Mountain, or red wines, 
those of Verzy, Verznay, Mailly, Bouzey, 
and St. Basle, are most esteemed. But the 
St. Clos, and St. Thierry, furnish the only 
red wine that can be said to unite the rich 
color and aroma of Burgundy with the de- 
licate lightness of Champagne. The soils 
throughout Champagne are composed of a 
loose marl resting on beds of chalk, and in 
some places mixed with flints ; but the ex- 
posures are not favorable, and even the 
Sillery and Mountain red wines, are almost 
all grown on the northern or eastern decli- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



32 FRENCH WINES. 

vities of the hills. The best Champagne 
wines will retain their good qualities from 
ten to twenty years, if kept in a temperature 
of 54® Fahrenheit, which is that uniformly 
maintained in the vaults of M. Moet, at 
Epernay. The white wines of Arbois and 
Papillon, in the department of Jura, resem- 
ble those of Champagne in many of their 
qualities ; but they are not managed with 
the same care, and do not equal the first 
rate giowths of Champagne. In 1778, a 
verdict of the faculty of Paris pronounced 
Champagne to be the finest of all wines. 

The wines of Burgundy, as far as re- 
gards richness of flavor and perfume, and 
all the most delicate qualities of the juice of 
the grape, are more perfect than those of 
Champagne. Accordingly, the dukes of 
Burgundy merit their ancient designation of 
^^ princes des bons vins^ The choicest of the 
Burgundy wines is that of Romanee Conti, 
a wine scarcely known in England, and pro- 
ducedin small quantities, the vineyard being 
not more than six and a half English acres 
in extent. The next was that of the Clos- 
Vougeot, when that small domain was the 
property of the church ; but it is now con- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 33 

sidered as the third or fourth growth, and 
is surpassed by those of the Romanee de 
St. Vivant, Massigny, Clos de Pr6meau, and 
some others : some, however, obtained from 
a vineyard in the vicinity of Dijon, is said 
to surpass all the other growths of the Cote 
d'Or, and has been sold, on the spot, at the 
enormous price of twelve francs the bottle. 
Under the name of M SU;on, which is the red 
Burgundy best known in England, is com- 
prehended, not only the growths of the McU 
connais, but also the chief part of the Beau- 
jolais, forming a tract of the department of 
the Rhone. These wines are all red ; but the 
white wines of Burgundy, although less 
known than the red, maintain the highest 
rank among the French white wines. The 
best is the M ont-Ra^het wine, famous for its 
high perfume and agreeable nutty flavour. 
Of this vrine there are three varieties, the 
last of which sells for only one third of the 
price of the first. Yet, says Dr. Henderson, 
these three qualities are produced from vine- 
yards which are only separated from one 
another by a foot-path; which have the 
same exposure and apparently the same 
soil; in which the same species of vines are 

D 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 FRENCH W1NE9. 

cultivated^ and which are managed in every 
respect precisely in the same manner. 

The wines of Dauphiny are among the 
most ancient in France ; but the celebrity 
of some of them, the Condrieux, the Her- 
mitage, and the C6te Botie, is of very recent 
date. The Hermitage, which derives it» 
name from the ruins of a hermitage on the 
rock on which the vineyard is situated, is 
both red and white ; the former being the 
production of the siras^ and the latter that 
of the Marsanne and rousanne grapes. The 
C6te R6tie resembles the Hermitage in fla- 
vor and perfume; and the department of 
y aucluse furnishes a few growths analogous 
to both, but inferior in quality. Dauphiny 
yields also a luscious wine, resembling the 
best Constantia. It is made from the ripest 
grapes, which are hung up, or spread upon 
straw, for six or eight weeks, or until they 
become half dried ; from which circumstance 
the liquor obtained from these is named 
Straw Wine Cvin depaillej Lunel is like- 
wise from this district 

Languedoc,* Provence, and Roussillon, 

« The canal of Languedoc, by which means 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 35 

from their climate and soil, might be ex- 
pected to surpass the more northern depart- 
ments in the production of the grape ; yet 
neither of these districts supplies wine equal 
or approaching to the best vintages of the 
Hermitage, or of the C6te R6tie. They are, 
however, superior in the class of sweet 
wines. 

The wines of Tavel, Chuzclan, St. Geniez, 
Lirac, and St. Lawrence, are the best of the 
red wines of Languedoc. They have a 
bright rose tint. The red wines of Roussil- 
lon are the strongest and most durable that 
France produces : the choicest are those of 
Bagnols, Cosperon, and CoUioure. The 
wines of Provence are of very ordinary 
quali^. Among the dry, white wines of 
these districts, are the Rivesaltes, and the 
Frontignan, the former of which Dr. Hen- 
derson thinks too little prized in this coun- 
try. When sufficiently matured by age, it 
is of a bright golden color, and has an oily 

much of the wine-trade is carried on, is 152 miles 
long, and six feet de^. If was finished during 
the reign of Louis XIV, at an expense of ahout 
£650,000. It has 100 locks, and its summit 
level is 639 feet above the level of the sea. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 FRENCH WINES. 

smoothness, a fragrant aroma, and a delicate 
flavor of the quince, by which it is distin* 
guished from all other sweet, or Muscadine 
wines. 

The wines of Gasoony and Guienne are 
better known, by name, in England, than 
any other of those of the Frendi vineyaids. 
Thus, the vineyards of the Bordelais are 
those of Medoc, Grave, Palus, and Vignes 
Blanches, which fumidi the prime wines. 
Medoc comprehends the vineyards of Lafitte 
and Latour, Leoville, Ch&teau-Maigaux, 
andBausan. The f^At/e wines are St Bits, 
Carbonnieux, Sauteme,Barsac and Fteinac. 
The names of the greater part of these are 
feuniliar to English ears ; but the genuine 
wines are seldom drunk here, owing to the 
trickery of the Bordeaux merchants, in 
adapting them for different markets. Hius, 
the strong rough growths of the Palus, and 
other districts, are frequently bought up, 
for the purpose of strengthening the ordi- 
nary wines of Medoc ; and there is even a 
particular manufacture, called travail d 
FAnglaisej which consists in adding to each 
hogshead of genuine Bordeaux wine, three 
or four gallons of Benicarlo, half a gallon 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 87 

of Stum wine, and sometimes a small quan- 
ti^ of Hermitage. This mixture undergoes 
a slight degree of fermentation ; and when 
the whole is sufficiently fretted, it is ex- 
ported under the name of claret. Some- 
times to that intended for England a small 
quantity of raspberry brandy is added.* A 



* Choice Claret is one of the wine-drinker s 
finest luxuries ; and to give the reader some 
idea of its cost^ we subjoin the following accurate 
information regai'ding the expenses attending the 
importation oi genuine first growth wine into this 
country; also respecting the price at which the 
wine-merchant can^ with a fair profit^ afford to sell 
it to his consumei*s. Hiis information is from a 
valuable httle treatise on the wines of Bordeaux^ 
by Mr. Paguierre, a retired wine-broker resident 
there : — 

Average price, charged by the first £. s. d, 
houses at Bordeaux, per hhd. for 

first growth wine of a prime vintage 50 

Insurance and freight . . , . . 1 

Landing charges 

Duty, at Is. Sd. per gallon . . . . 16 

BotUes, corks, wax, &c 4 









8 


6 


2 


6 


13 


6 


19 






73 3 6 
Interest, expense of premises, &c. to 
time of sale, 8} per cent .... 644 



73 3 6 
6 4 4 
£79 7 10 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



38 FRENCH lYINES. 

great proportion of the wine, however, which 
is drunk under this denomination, is nothing 
but the vin arcUnairey or, at best, the second- 
ary growths of the country ; for the prime 
growths fall far short of the demand which 
prevails for these wines, not only in this 
kingdom, but in Flanders, Holland, the 

This sum (equal to about 3/. 10<. 6d. p^ dozen) 
is^ then, what the wine, actually costs the importer 
before he can bring it to market; but, as he must 
have a profit on his business, he should get some- 
thing more than this, even when the wine is sold 
immediately; and, if he kept it to acquire age, he 
must, besides, be paid for his risk, and the locking 
up of his capital, as well as all the other charges 
affecting his business. 

If what is here stated be just — and we think it 
cannot be proved to be otherwise— it must be a 
mere delusion in any person in this countiy to 
suppose he can get first growth wine of a fine 
vintage, below the rate current among respectable 
mercnants. It is tiiie that, at this moment, we 
may purchase at Bordeaux, from some shipping 
houses, warranted Chateau-Margaux, vintage 
1825, at 1000 firancs per hogshead; but, as it is 
perfecdy well known that the whole produce of 
that estate was sold immediately after the vintage 
at very nearly that price, and that, after near three 
years keeping, 1000 framics is a fair price for good 
third growth wine, we may judge what degree of 
confidence can be had in such warranters and their 
wantmty. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



J-BENCH WINES. 39 

north of Europe, and the East and West 
Indies. In £Eiyourable years, the produce 
of Lafitte, Latour, and Ch&teau-Margaux, 
sells at from 3000 to 3,300 francs (£125 to 
£137. lOs.) the tun, which contains 242 gal- 
lons ; and when these wines have been in the 
chaisy or vault, for six years, the price is 
doubled, so that, even at Bordeaux, a bottle 
of the best wine cannot be purcJuued at less 
than six francs (five shillings). "During 
" twenty years that I have been living at 
" Bordeaux," says one of Rozidre's corres- 
pondents, "I have not tasted three times 
" any wine of the first quality ; yet I am in 
"the way of knowing it, and getting it 
" when it is to be had. The wines of the 
" year 17S4 were so superior to those of other 
" years, that I have never since met with any 
"like them." 

Of the Red wines of Bordeaux the 
Lafitte is the most choice and delicate, and 
is characterized by its silky softness on the 
palate and its charming perfume, which 
partakes of the violet and the raspberry. 
The Latour has a fuller body, and at the 
same time a considerable aroma, but wants 
the softness of the Lafitte. The Chd.teau 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



40 FRENCH WINES. 

Margaux is, on the other hand, lighter, 
and possesses all the delicate qualities of 
the Lafitte, except that it has not quite so 
high a flavour. The Haut-Brion, again, 
has more spirit and hody than any of the 
preceding, hut it is rough, when used, and 
requires to be kept six or seven years in the 
wood; while the others become fit for 
bottling in much less time. These are the 
first-rate wines of the Borddais. Among 
the second-rate, that of Bozan, in the parish 
of StMargaux, approaches in some respects 
to the growths of the Ch&teau-Margaux, 
while that of Oorce in the same territory, 
is little inferior to the Latour. 

The whUe wines of Bordeaux are of two 
kinds: those called Graves, which have a 
dry, flinty taste, and an aroma somewhat 
resembling cloves; and those made at Sau- 
teme, Barsac, Preignac, and Beaumes. 
The choicest Ghrave wines are from St. Bris 
and Carbonnieux, Yillenave-en-Rions, and 
Fontac and Dulamon. The other Grave vrines 
are more ordinary; in four years they may 
be put in bottle. Ihey have this inconve- 
uience, that if a bottle remain some hours 
open, the wine tarnishes and becomes black 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 41 

in colour. Sauterae is in much repute at 
Paris, and in the interior of France. It has 
not quite so much strength as Barsac; but 
is very fine and mellow. Barsac is^ distin- 
guished by its strength and flavour in good 
years, and is generally lively and sparkling, 
and very mellow. This wine is much 
drunk in Russia, and all the north. The 
Freignac wines are divided into three 
classes: the first is very agreeable, strong, 
and has a particular flavour. When old, 
they are fiery, and have a fine almond after- 
taste. They are much drunk in Prussia and 
Russia, Denmark and Sweden. All these 
wines keep very well, with an amber 
colour, and a very dry taste, as they get 
old. Some Sauterne that dates from the 
middle of the last century, is said to be 
still in existence. 

From this succinct view of the principal 
wines of France, we pass to some account 
of their 

MANUFACTURE. 

As the details of the respective processes 
would occupy too large a portion of our 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 FRENCH WINES. 

pages, we can only admit those of Cham" 
pagne, and Bordeaux. In Champagne, the 
middle grounds, and those which face the 
south, as at Ay and Hautvilliers, generally 
furnish the best grapes; and the wines 
which are produced from vineyards with an 
eastern or western aspect are usually valued 
one third less; Sillery and Mountain red 
wines are almost all grown on the northern 
and eastern declivity of the hills. All the 
best vines of these territories are old, though 
they have the appearance of young plants. 
They are trained very low, seldom rising 
more than 18 inches, and are planted about 
the same distance asunder. In March 
they are pruned to within three or four 
eyes, and the stalk is pressed down an 
inch or two towards the hill. Every three 
or four years, however, the whole is 
buried in the same direction, leaving only 
two or three eyes above the surface, 
at the extremities of the branches. Then 
follows the first dressing. Another is 
given in May, and, in some places, a 
third, later in the season. The plants 
generally cultivated, are pmeau and plant 
odr^\ the former giving the best quality of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 43 

wine. Latterly a new species called the 
plant vert, has been introduced, which is 
said to be less apt to drop its frait than the 
other kinds. 

For the manufacture of ivhite Champagne 
wines, black grapes are now generally 
used. They are picked with great care, those 
which are unripe, shrivelled, or rotten, being 
rejected: they are gathered in the morning, 
while the dew is yet upon them; and it is 
remarked, that when the weather happens 
to be foggy at the time of the vintfi^e, the 
produce of the fermentation is considerably 
increased. They are then pressed rapidly, 
which occupies about an hour. The wine 
obtained from this first operation is called 
vin d*^liiey and is always kept apart from 
the rest. After the edges of the mtist have 
been cut, and turned into the middle, 
another pressing takes place, which fur- 
nishes the vin de taille; and the repetition 
of these processes gives the vin de detuvieme 
taille or iisanne. The liquor procured by 
these successive pressings is collected, as it 
flows, in small vats, from which it is re- 
moved, early on the following day, into 
puncheons which have been previously 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 FRENCH WINES. 

sulphured. In these the must undergoes a 
brisk fermentation, and is allowed to remain 
till towards the end of December, when it 
becomes bright. It is then raked, and 
fined with isinglass; and in less than a 
month or six weeks more, is raked and 
fined a second time. In the month of 
March it is put into bottle. After it has 
been about six weeks in bottle, it becomes 
brisk, and towards autumn, the fermenta^ 
tion is so powerful as to occasion a con- 
siderable loss, by the bursting of the bottles; 
but after the first year such accidents rarely 
happen. A sediment, however, is generally 
formed on the lower side of the bottle, 
which it becomes necessary to remove, 
especially if the wine be intended for expor-* 
tation. This is accomplished either by 
raking the wine into fresh bottles, or, if it 
be already brisk, allowing the sediment to 
settle in the neck of the bottle, from which 
it is forced out on drawing the cork. These 
operations, and the loss sustained by them, 
and by the bursting of the bottles, which is 
seldom less than 25 per cent, necessarily 
enhance the price of the wine. The Sillery 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 45 

wines are kept in the wood from one to 
tbree years before they are bottled. 

In mana£eieturing pink Champagney the 
grapes are first slightly trodden and freed 
from the stalks, and the fermentation is 
allowed to commence before they are 
pressed, in order to facilitate the solution of 
the colouring matter. After this, the pro- 
cess is managed in the same way as with 
the white wines.* 

In manufacturing red wines, the grapes 
are trodden before they are introduced into 
the vat. The wines of the higher grounds 
are generally put into bottles in the 
November following the vintage; but the 
|>roduce of Clos St. Thierry will improve by 
bdng allowed to remain on its lees a year 
or two longer. 

All these wines, says Di*. Henderson, 
when well made and placed in cool cellars, 
will retain their qualities from ten to 
twenty years ; the creaming wine of Ay 

* Hendersons History of Wines, 4to. At 
present pink Champagne is less in request than 
the colourless. An inferior sort is manufactured, 
by adding a few drops of decoction of elderbenies 
with cream of tartar. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 FRENCH WINES. 

has been known to keep, and continue 
to improve even for a longer period. The 
vaults in which they are stored at Reims, 
Epemaj, Avise, &c. are excavated in a rock 
to the depth of 30 or 40 feet. In those of M. 
Mo^t at Epemay , which are the best and most 
extensive, the thermometer is generally 54'' 
Fahrenheit, and the variation from winter 
to summer does not amount to one degree. 

The manufacture of the Bed and White 
wines of Bordeaux may be thus briefly 
explained : — The vine-dresser ought to 
seize the proper time when the vine has 
come to perfect maturity, to gather the 
grapes so as to make good wine. The 
wine, if 4t has succeeded, ought to be clear, 
transparent, of a fine soft colour, a lively 
smell, and balsamic taste, slightly piquant, 
but agreeable, inclining to that of the 
raspberry, violet, or mignonette, filling the 
mouth, and passing without irritating the 
throat, giving a gentle heat to the stomach, 
and not getting too quickly into the head. 

The proprietors of the vineyards, after 
having prepared the wine-vessels, and 
cleansed and rinsed them with spirits of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 47 

three-sixths* or with brandy, gather the 
grapes together, and pick them. This is 
done as soon as they are gathered. Their 
first care is to make a principal vat of the 
best fruit, which is called the mother cask 
fcuve mere), into which, after picking, they 
put the first and best grapes which arrive, 
till they are from fifteen to twenty inches 
deep; after which, they throw about two 
gallons of old Cognac or Armagnac upon 
them, and then another bed of picked 
grapes, followed by two gallons more of 
brandy, and so on till the vat is full. When 
full, they throw two or four gallons of 
spirits of troissixy according to the size of 
the vat, taking for proportion about four 
gallons d-6ths for a wine-vat from thirty 
to thirty-six tun. 

In the very bad years, such as 1816, 1817, 
or 1826, the crop not being able to ripen, 
and the juice unable to enter into fermen- 
tation, it was necessary to excite it by 
artificial heat from chafing dishes, &c.; but 
this seldom happens. 

* Esprit de trois six, is the spirit of wine of the 
highest proof. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 FRENCH WINE8. 

The cure mere being filled, it is shut 
hermetically, and is well covered with 
blankets, in order that the air may not 
penetrate. The vat is left in this state for 
three weeks or a month without being 
touched ; taking care to visit it from time 
to time in case of accident. A small brass 
cock is put in the side of the yat, at about 
the height of a third of its depth from the 
bottom, in order to be able to judge of 
the progress of the fermentation, and to 
know the moment when, the ebullition 
having subsided, it may be racked off and 
put into casks, prepared beforehand by 
scalding and rinsing with a little spirits of 
tr<nssix» 

It is known that the liquor is fit to be 
drawn off, when it has become cool and is 
sufficiently clear. 

While the cuve mere is at work, the vin- 
tage is continued in the usual manner: viz. 
as the grapes are brought in and picked, 
they are trodden in the press, and put with 
their stalks into the vats, where the fermen- 
tation takes place naturally. These vessels 
are not entirely filled ; about one foot or 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 49 

fifteen inches are left for the fermentation, 
which sometimes overflows, especially when 
the vintage has attained perfect maturity. 

The vintage heing finished, and the vats 
covered lightly, they are left to ferment, 
taking care to visit them twice a-day. To 
rack them, you must wait till they are 
quite cold, which is from eight to twelve 
days. 

In making the tvhite wine, the grapes 
are trodden, and when taken from the 
press, the juice, skins, and seeds are put 
into the casks (the stalks separated) ; here 
it ferments, and becomes wine of itself 
When the fermentation has entirely ceased, 
it is racked off. 

To make Muscat Wines, the grapes, (as 
with other white wines) are left till quite ripe, 
and the stalks of the bunches are twisted on 
the vine, till they become withered and dried 
in the sun ; the grapes are afterwards 
gathered, pressed, and the mmt is left to 
ferment ; but as this juice is glutinous and 
syrupy, the sun having deprived it of a 
great part of its water, the operation takes 
place imperfectly. Muscat wine can thus 
only be made in waim countries, as in Lan- 

E 



I Digitized by Google 



60 FRENCH WINES. 

g^edoc and Provence, where the sun has 
great force. The best wines are from Fron- 
tignan and Lunel: to be good they ought 
to be rather pale, white, glutinous, of a 
musky odour, having a sweet and strong 
taste. 

Such is an outline of the manufSeu^ture of 
the principal wines of France. Our next 
point is to familiarize the reader with the 
best methods for their 

MANAGEMENT. 

The first object to be attended to previous 
to laying in a stock of French wines, is to 
provide a good cellar. The exposition ought 
to be north, if possible ; it should be pro- 
perly ventilated, and as quiet is a grand 
requisite in keeping French wines, — a cellar 
under the house is preferable to one 
under the street: it should be kept con- 
stantly clean and free from cobwebs. 
Any unpleasant smell in the cellar when 
French wines are bottling, is calculated to 
spoil them, so delicate are the finer kinds, 
and so susceptible are they of being a£fected 
by any offensive odour in the .atmosphere. 
The cellar ought to be of an equal tempera- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 

ture all the year round ; if damp, it is very 
injurious to the quality of the wines. In 
this case, they ought to be ranged in the 
bins, at least three inches from the wall, 
and the first layer on pieces of wood, so as 
not to touch the ground : and if the cellar 
be very damp, the roof and walls ought to 
be covered with lead, so that all the humid- 
ity may be collected ; a channel ought also 
to be made, to carry it off out of the cellar. 

Count Chaptal, in his Art of Making 
WineSy thus expresses himseK on the care 
to be taken in the Chaice of a CelUtr : — 

" 1. The exposure ought to be north, as 
** the temperature is then less variable than 
" when the openings are towards the south. 

" 2. It ought to be deep enough to allow 
" the temperature to be always the same. 

** 3. The humidity ought to be regular, 
** without being excessive. When too 
" damp, the paper, corks, and casks, become 
** mouldy ; if too dry, the casks will give 
" way, and the wine will exude. 

" 4. The light ought to be moderate : a 
*^ strong light dries too much, and total 
** darkness, or nearly so, rots every thing. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



52 FRENCH WINES. 

^^ 5. The cellar ought to be free from all 
^ shocks : motion, or sudden agitation, or 
" the shaking occasioned by the passage of 
" carriages in the street, stirs up the lees, 
" which incorporate again with the wine 
'^ and remain suspended in it, and thereby 
" often turn the wine sour. Thunder, and 
^^ all sudden shocks, are calculated to pro- 
" duce the same eflFect. 

" 6. Green wood, vinegar, and all matters 
" susceptible of fermentation, ought care- 
" fiilly to be removed from the cellar. 

" 7. The rays of the sun, if they enter a 
" cellar, change the temperature, and alter 
" the properties of the wine. 

" 8. Hence a good cellar ought to be 
" several fathoms under groimd, opening 
'^ towards the north, and out of the way of 
" streets, roads, work-shops, sewers, currents 
" of water, water-closets, wood-cellars, &c. 
" and vaulted." 

The cellar being thus prepared, we will 
suppose the order for wine to be given, the 
selection depending greatly on the taste of 
the consumer. However, Clarets form a 
necessary part of the stock of every good 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 58 

cellar; they will support any climate, where- 
as the Hermitage wines are very tender, 
and bad travellers ; if poor, they turn sour; 
if good, bitter ; especially the Beaume wines, 
and the tender delicate Volnay. But Cham- 
bertin la Romance, and a few others of the 
good vintages, may be safely imported, and 
will, if properly attended to, give the owner 
a high reputation for the choice of his wine. 
The order shoidd be given for the importa- 
tion of wines when the season is temperate, 
as great heat or cold is equally injurious to 
wine. 

The wines being received in the cellars, 
are to be placed for fining perfectly level, 
and not inclining forward, as some erro- 
neously recommend. 

The management of French wines in 
wood, which are not ripe enough to put 
into bottles, is, however, an important point. 
In the choice of wine your own taste must 
guide you, as to its age and ripeness. New 
wines have a violet tinge, are hard and sour 
in the mouth, and leave an unpleasant sen- 
sation on the palate ; but if the wine be of 
a fine niby color, soft and mild to the pa- 
late,, having both a pleasant flavor and boii- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



54 FRENCH WINES. 

qtiety (the aromatic odour of the wine, which 
in Claret resembles the smell of violets) you 
may bottle it immediately. When they re- 
quire to be kept, the following observations 
must be carefully attended to. 

Ullage is fatal to French wines ; therefore 
the casks must be examined every month, 
and the ullage filled up with wine of the 
same quality, or, at least, of the same na- 
ture. If the casks are not kept full, the 
mephitic air in the space tends to turn the 
wine sour, and generate a mustiness on the 
surface ; when this mould appears, it is ab- 
solutely necessary to draw oflf the wine into 
another cask, which must be pure ; and to 
be certain it is so, it should be fumigated 
with sulphur. This operation of putting 
wine into fresh casks must, in all cases, be 
done at least once a year. New wines de- 
posit tartar; and, at the periods of fermen- 
tation, in spring and autumn, this tartar, or 
dreg^, being acted on more strongly than 
the wine, it incorporates with it again, and 
the wine, holding it a second time in solu- 
tion, does not readily part with it. In draw- 
ing off wines which are mouldy, it is neces- 
sary to cover the end of the cock which goea 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WIN£S. 55 

into the cask with crape or gauze, to pre- 
vent any of the mould getting into the se- 
cond cask. 

BOTTLING. 

M. JuUien says the preservation and me- 
lioration of wines depend on the following 
points : — 1. On the maturity of the wine in 
die wood. 2. Their limpidity or brightness 
when bottled. 3. The proper time for bot- 
tling. 4. The bottles employed. 5. The 
quality of the corks. 6. The care employed 
in bottling. 7. The method of arranging 
the bottles ; and 8. The wax to preserve 
the corks from humidity and insects.**^ 

M. Paguierre, of whose experience we 
have already spoken, gives the following 
excellent instructions for bottling wine ; to- 
gether with the customs of various countries 
in this art, and of the manner in which the 
wines are worked, mixed and flavored, for 
the English market : — 

* Corks should be supple, and as little porous as 
possible. The best corks are always the cheapest. 
It is on this account that the Champagne wine- 
merchants pay for their corks six times the price 
of common corks. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



50 FRENCH WINES. 

Bottling should take place in fine weather^ 
if possible, in March or in October ; because 
at these two periods the wine being clearer, 
we are more certain of its not leaving any 
sediment in the bottle; and this, especially 
for the choice wines, which ought to remain 
long in bottle before being used.* 

Before you bottle oS a barrel, you must 
force it with seven or eight whites of eggs, 
very fresh (or with isinglass fining prepared 
for the purpose) after which, you must leave 
it ten or fifteen days, according to the wea- 
ther, taking care to keep the cask always 
close and well bunged, or, to avoid the incon- 
venience of filling it up, the bung may be 
put to the side, immediately after the ope- 
ration. It will clarify as well, and in this 
state you must draw it off into bottles. 

N. B. — Great care must be taken to keep 
the bung-hole clean, lest the eggy which 

* A new method of stopping wine has lately 
been inti-oduced in the south of France. This is 
to tie a piece of bladder, or parchment, over the 
mouth of the bottle, instead of using cork : the 
wine, says an amateur of gi'eat experience, will ac- 
quire, in a few weeks, all the qualities of age, 
which it would require years to give it on the old 
system. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 57 

may stick to it, become mouldy, and give a 
taste to the wine. 

To force properly, the number of eggs 
must be in proportion to the quantity and 
quality of the wine, as also to its age. The 
common and new wines require more isin- 
glass than the fine and old ones, because 
these last are more free from tartar and 
dregs; besides, if too many eggs were put 
to the old wines, not only would it take 
away too much of the color, already faded 
by age, but would deprive them of a part of 
their taste and smell. It must also be ob- 
served, that when the wines are racked off, 
or put into bottles, they lose momentarily 
great part of their flavor, which evaporates 
during the operation. This ought not, how- 
ever, to give any inquietude, because, the 
casks once racked off, the wine regains its 
flavor in about a month or six weeks; and, 
in bottles, as it is in small quantities, its 
primitive qualities return in all their per- 
fection at the end of five or six months. 

Each country has its customs. In France 
as in Holland, every one wishes for natural 
wines ; and it is for that reason that Hol- 
land imports her wine from France upon the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



58 FRENCH WINES. 

lees^ in order to manage or take care of them 
after the manner of the coantry. 

In the north, especially in Rassia and 
Prussia, experience has taught men to pre- 
fer importing wines from France at two or 
three years old, because they are already 
freed from the greater part of their dregs and 
tartar. 

In England, every one being long accus- 
tomed to drink strong Port wines, Madeira, 
and heady Spanish wines, the pure wines 
of France are not so much esteemed, because 
they are found, in comparison with the 
others, too cold. 

But in order to give the Bordeaux wines 
some resemblance to those wines of Spain 
and Portugal which are used in England, to 
render them of the taste preferred in that 
kingdom, from the effect of long habit, — 
the greater part of the French wine mer- 
chants who trade with England, are obliged 
to work themj that is to say, to mix them 
with other wines by means of a particular 
operation. This is the reason why in gene- 
ral the wines shipped for England are not 
pure, and can no longer be known to be the 
same, when compared with those which re- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 59 

main at Bordeaux. The operation consists 
in mixing a certain quantity of Hermitage, 
and other kinds of fine strong wines of the 
south, which give fire to the Claret, bat 
which render it dry when old, turn it of a 
brick-red color, and cause a deposit of sedi- 
ment when it has been some time in bottle. 

When, by the effect of mixing several 
sorts of wines, a working or fretting results 
which might injure the quality, they take 
some mineral crystal, reduce it to powder, 
and put an ounce into each barrel, beat up 
with a proper quantity of isinglass, and rack 
off the wine about fifteen days after, when 
it has got clear, and has entirely ceased to 
work. 

To give odour (bovquet) to the wine, they 
take two drams of orris-root, (rcunne diris) 
in powder, put into a fine rag, and let it 
hang about fifteen days in the cask ; after 
which it is taken out, because the wine has 
then acquired sufficient odour; you may 
also, if desired, put the powder into a bar- 
rel, beat up with fining, and fifteen days 
after it may be racked off. 

Many persons, to make wine appear older 
and higher flavored, and at the same time 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



60 FRENCH WINES. 

to prevent the injuring its quality, employ 
raspberry brandy (esprit framboise) ; in this 
case the dose is two ounces for each cask: 
this spirit is well mixed with the wine, and 
fifteen or twenty days after, the wine has 
acquired a certain degree of apparent matu- 
rity, which is increased by a kind of odour 
which this mixture gives it. 

The bouquet which by these means is 
given to the common or ordinary wines, 
never perfectly replaces the natural flavor 
which distinguishes the choice wines of 
Medoc and Grave, which ought to embalm 
the palate. It is very easy to distinguish 
the fictitious bouquet which has been given 
to the wine, if you are but little in the habit 
of tasting; fAr the smell of the iris as well 
as the raspberry, always predominates in 
the wines which have been worked, and 
forms a striking contrast with the natural 
flavor of the same wines. 

In the Appendix of ReceiptSj will be 
found the best method for recovering 
French wines, which will complete the 
instructions for their management. 

We have already glanced at the Count 
Chaptal's calculations of the land in France 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 61 

*x?cupied by vines, in the year 1808. The 
following statement, however, is calculated 
to the present time, and has been obtained 
from a French scientific Journal, of high 
authority. It may therefore be implicitly 
received as a synoptical view of the recent 
state of the 



WINE TRADE OF FRANCE. 

The land at present in culture with 
vines is estimated at 1,728,000 hectares, 
(3,499,200 acres), yielding 40,000,000 hecto- 
litres (800,000,000 gallons), and giving a 
value of 600,000,000 francs (24,000,000/.) 

The general duties yield a total produce 
of 100 millions (4,000,000Z.) ; the local 
or municipal duties, 20,000,000 francs 
(800,000/.) ; amounting, together, to a chai'ge 
on the entire produce of more than 20 per 
cent. According to M. Dupin, the expense 
of levying the indirect duties amounts to 
the exorbitant sum of 20,800,000 francs on 
a revenue of 138 millions; while, in Eng- 
land, the expense of collecting similar 
duties does not exceed 7 millions in 138. 

The duties to which the wines of France, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



62 FRENCH WIN£S. 

white or red, are sabject in various countries, 
areas follow: — 

In Sweden, 400 francs the pipe; in 
Norway, 200 francs; in Prussia, 620 francs ; 
in Russia, 750 frrmcs; in England, 1200 
francs; in the United States, 189 francs 
90 centimes. 

Previous to 1789, the annual exportation 
of wines from Bordeaux amounted to about 
100,000 pipes ; but the trade has gready di- 
minished since that period. The following 
is the amount of the annual exportations 
since 1819, as stated in a petition of the 
wine-growers, to the Chamber of Deputies, 
in the Session of 1828 : 



1820 ....61,1 10 pipes 
1821 .... 62,224 pipes 

1822 ....39,955 pipes 

1823 ....51,529 pipes 



1824 .... 39,625 pipes 
1825 ....46,314 pipes 
1826 .... 48,464 pipes 
1827 ....54.492 pipes 



The documents laid before the Chambers 
by the ministry, state the average value of 
the three years, 1787-8-9, at 32,000 francs, 
wine, and 17,000,000 francs, brandy : the 
mean value of the exportation for 1825-6-7, 
at 48,000,000 francs in wine, and 20,000,000 
francs in brandy. 

In France, great complaints have, there- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 63 

fore, been made within the last two years, 
of the languishing and depressed state of 
the wine-trade ; and the investigation of 
its actual condition has occupied much of 
the time and attention of the French govern- 
ment. A question has been raised, whether 
the high duties imposed on French wines, 
in foreign countries, have brought about 
this stagnation and want of demand now 
experienced? and, it has been shown, that, 
with the exception of England,* the foreign 
tariiSs cannot have contributed much to this 
effect. The remedy suggested, and, indeed, 
the only probable one, is the reduction of 
the internal duties. The wine-growers suf- 
fer grievously, not only from the pressure 
of the government taxes, ox droits ginerauucy 

*The duty on French wines, imported into 
England, is 7s. 6rf. per gallon. A sensible writer, 
in a paper on the Arts and Manufactures in France, 
in the Foreign Quarterly Review, observes, the 
reduction of this duty, or the introduction of a 
scale, on the ad valorem principle, into our tariff, 
as is the case in America, and in several countries 
in Emx)pe, would be as great a benefit to the French 
vine proprietors, as it would be an acceptable boon 
to our middling and lower classes, and a certain 
augmentation to the Revenue. 



,y Google 




64 FRENCH WINES. 

wine pays, on entering the barrier of a town, 
but of which no drawback is allowed on its 
exit. These town dues are very arbitrary, 
and in some places so excessive, that it is 
by no means uncommon to find French 
wines dearer at home, than in other coun- 
tries of. Europe. The octroi of Paris is 21 
francs (or 17s, 6d.) per hectolitre, although 
the quarter part of the wine consumed is 
not worth more than 15 francs (or I2s.6d.) 
the hectolitre ; and it is a strange anomaly, 
that those who wish to get wine at a mode- 
rate price, cannot do it without stepping 
outside one of the barriers* of Paris, where 
but of the octroiy or municipal tax, which 

* The untravelled reader will probably require 
some explanation of the term barrier, which implies 
a gate, or entrance, of which there are fifty, bearing 
different names, at Paris. Beside an iron-gate, are 
two lodges, or rather temples or pavilions, ctdled ^ii- 
reaux ^octroi, where the duties are received. Some 
of these buildings are very elegant, and surmounted 
with triumphal arches, &c. At the eastern and 
western extremities of the barriei*s, boats, called 
patdches, are stationed upon the river, to collect the 
duties upon goods entering Paris by water. The 
octroi duty on wine, therefore, may perhaps be 
compared to the duty on all coals entering the port 
of London. 



d by Go ogle 



FRENCH WINES. 65 

they are at once in the "Islands of the 
Blest," — ^in a land flowing with Bordeaux 
and Macon, — ^which, freedom from the octroi 
makes the chosen seat of the votaries of 
Bacchus. 

We have stated six hundred million francs 
to he the value of the annual produce of 
wine in France ; of this, one hundred mil- 
lions are exacted by the droits g&n&rav^x^ 
and twenty millions more by the octroi^ 
making a total taxation of one-fifth part of 
the whole. The proprietors of vineyards 
have petitioned repeatedly for liberation 
from these restrictions ; and in every case 
where relief has been granted, the increase 
of consumption has sui-passed expectation. 
At Bordeaux, where the duty is one-half less 
than at Paris, twice as much wine is con- 
sumed in proportion to the number of inha- 
bitants, as in the French metropolis. 

As the object of this work is the conve- 
nience and information of the consumer, 
it may not be uninteresting to give a few 
memoranda of the retail prices of wine in 
Paris. Thus, at a warehouse, equal to Mo- 
rel's in Piccadilly, the following are a few 
charges : — 

F 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



66 FRENCH WINES. 

Chambertin-la-Romanee . . 4 francs 

Macon 1{ to 1| 

Mont-Rachet 3 

Chablis 2 

Champagne, — ^Av — Mousseux 4 to 5 

, Silleiy ... 

Bourdeaux, Lafitte .... 6, 7 and 8 

Chiteau-Margaux . . . . 4 to 6 

Medoc 2 

Boordeanx (ordinaire) 60 cents, to 1 franc 

Sauteme 4^ francs 

Barsac 3| 

Graves , . 2 to 3 

Hermitage 4 

Cote-Rotie 3{ 

St. Peray 3 

Rancio, Roussillon (sweet) . . 5{ 

Rivesaltes 4} 

Frontignan 4^ 

Lunel 2ito3i 

Inferior Bourdeaux or Bui^un- 

dy,aX 1 1 or 12 sous 

Hie wine trade of Paris is conducted in a 
market for the purpose, called the Halle aux 
Vinsy on one of the quays of the Seine. The 
market was established in 1656, but the 
present was begun by Napoleon, 1 8 1 3. It will 
be enclosed with walls on three sides, and 
towards the quay is fenced by an iron rail- 
ing ; and is one of the most magnificent mar- 
kets in Europe. It is divided into streets, 
called after different wines, as Rtie de Cham- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRENCH WINES. 67 

pagne. Rue de Bourgogney Rtie de Languedocj 
arid Rue de la Cdte d'Or, Beneath, are for- 
ty-nine cellars, vaulted with hewn stone; 
the whole will contain about 400,000 casks, 
or even double that number, if necessary. 
In the haUe there is an office containing 
measures of all the casks of the different 
parts of France ; where any purchaser can 
require a cask to be measured. Every cask 
that enters, pays one franc duty to the govern- 
ment ; frequently, fifteen hundred enter daily. 
The conveyance of wine to different parts of 
the city, is by a sort of dray, somewhat like 
a wine-merchant's pulley for lowering casks : 
upon this carriage, 4, 5, or even 6, casks are 
placed, at length, (not abreast, as on our 
drays) and are thus confined by strong ropes, 
tightened by a windlass. These narrow 
conveyances are well suited for the confined 
streets of Paris, but, at turnings, they are 
nearly as awkward as a load of timber in 
our metropolis. 

The wine-shops, or shops ofihemarckands 
de mn, are about upon the same scale as spi- 
rit-shops in London ; except that, in the 
French capital, the eye is spared the disgust 
of drunkenness. Here wine is sold by the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



68 FRENCH WINES^ 

measure, as the litrcy demi4Ure, &e.* Some 
cabarets have tables and seats, where ^art^^ 
and dominoes are played from mom till eve. 
Grocers and confectioners likewise deal in 
wines and liqueurs, as commonly as they 
sold home-wines in England a few years 
since. Upon the arrival of the current year's 
wine, it is usual to place a placard of " Vin 
Neirfy"* in the window ; and this may al- 
ways be obtained a few weeks after the vin- 
tage. 

* The consumption of French wines in France, 
has very naturally increased with the increase of 
national wealth. In 1821, the quantity retailed 
as ahove, and, of course, chiefly consumed hy the 
lower classes, scarcely amounted to 12,900,000 
. hectolitres ; * in 1826, it exceeded 14,400,000. 
The quantity sold wholesale, (and consequently 
consumed by families of opdience, or at least, in 
easy circumstances,) exhibits a still more strongly 
marked progi*ess. In 1818, it was 2^665,948 hec- 
tolitres ; in 1826, is amounted to 3,973,486 ; and 
in 1828, to 25,264,208. 

The quantity of French wine imported into the 
United Kingdom, in the year ending January 
1829, amounted to 475,374 gallons; the amount 
of duty paid 172,000/. 2s. 6rf.; and the quantity 
remaining in bond, 510,816 gallons. — Parliament 
tary Papers* 

* A hectolitre, is about 25 gallons. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 



Spain, from the productiveness of her 
vineyards, is entitled to high rank among 
the wine countries of Europe, and is second 
only to France. Possessing all the advan- 
tages of aspect and soil, Spain might rise 
still higher, by improvement in the modes 
of treatment and manufacture of her wines ; 
but, in this, as in other coimtries of the con- 
tinent, where Nature has been lavish of her 
wealth, art and invention receive but little 
stimulus from her bounty * 

The wines of Spain are white and red : 
the former are for the most part excellent ; 

* By way of illustrating the fine climate of 
Spain, Mr. Jacob describes objects as being more 
distinct at two leagues distance, than the same 
would appear in England, at the short distance of 
a mile. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 SPANISH WINES. 

but the red are spoiled by bad management,* 
and but little esteemed. For dry, white 

* Of this mismanagement many instances might 
be quoted. Thus, bottles and casks are rarely met 
with in the villages of Spain, where the peasantry 
store the produce of their vintages in skins, which 
are smeared with pitch; hence the wine is often 
muddy and nauseous. Indeed, the accounts given 
by travellers of the common Spanish wines almost 
represent this neglect as an abuse of Nature's bounty, 
and exhibit a sad picture of the indolence of the 
natives. Mr. Jacob, who visited the south of 
Spain in the year 1809, relates one of tliese in- 
stances. "The mountains round Grenada" ob- 
serves this intelligent traveller, *' are well calculated 
" for vines, but so httie attention is paid to the cul- 
" tivation of them, that the wine produced is very 
" bad." He could only obtain at the inn where he 
resided, "a kind of inferior sweet white wine," 
which was not drinkable; *' but we had the best 
^' proof that good wine is made here, in some that 
" a gendeman sent us from his cellar : it was equal 
" to any Burgundy I have ever tasted, and of the 
" same colour, witnout any flavour of the skin; in 
'* fact, he had sent botdes to a vineyard about three 
" leagues distant, celebi-ated for its excellent wine, 
'^ in order to have it free from that taste which all 
" the wines here acquire from being brouffht from 
** the vineyards in sheep-skins with tarred seams. 
What follows, is, however, still more extraor- 
dinary, that " in a country where cork trees 
'' abound, the trifling operation of cutting them is 
" so ill done, that, to have his wine in good order. 



d by Go ogle 



SPANISH WINES. 71 

wineiB, and certain varieties of dweet wines, 
Spidn is, however, almost without a rival ; 
hence, the trade in these wines is one of the 
most important of her commercial resour- 
ces. 

Foremost among the wines of Spain are 
those grown at Xeres, near Cadiz, in the 
province of Andalusia, and better known 
under the name of Sherry. Much of th^ 
celebrity of this wine is, however, attribut- 
able to the superior management of Britisli 
and French settlers, in whose hands are 
many of the principal vineyards; yetj such 
is the diversity of the soils of this district, 
that the best vines yield twice the quantity 
of wine that is obtained from the inferior 
soils. 

The manufacture of Sherry wines is an 
interesting process ; especially as the wines 
th^nselves are so extensively drunk in this 
coantrj. Dr. Henderson describes the ma- 
nufacture as follows: — "Red and white 
graphs are used indiscriminately. They 

" this gentleman thought it necessary to send to 
'.' Malaga for English corks^ as well as for English 
" bottles." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 SPANISH WINES. 

are gathered as they become ripe, and are 
spread on mats to dry. At the expiration 
of two or three days, they are freed from 
the stalks and picked; those that are un- 
ripe or rotten being rejected. They are 
then introduced into Tats, with a layer of 
gypsum on the surface, and are trodden by 
peasants with wooden shoes. The juice 
that flows from them is collected in casks ; 
and these, as they are filled, are lodged in 
the stores, where the fermentation is allow- 
ed to take its course, — continuing generally 
from the month of October, till the begin- 
ning or middle of December. When it has 
ceased, the wines are racked from the lees^ 
and those intended for exportation receive 
whatever addition of brandy they may re^ 
quire, which seldom exceeds three or four 
gallons to the butt. The wine thus pre- 
pared, has a new, harsh, and fiery taste ; 
but is mellowed by being allowed to re- 
main four or five years, or longer, in the 
wood; though it only attains its fall fla- 
vor and perfection, after having been kept 
fifteen or twenty years. Sometimes bitter 
almonids are infrised in it, to give that nutty 
flavor which is so highly prized in this 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 73 

wine."* To this we may add, that the most 
esteemed are tliose of a pale straw color. 
The peculiar taste of leather, which is so 
often observable in Sherry, is owing to the 
custom of bringing the wine down the 
country in large leathern vessels, or, as the 
Spaniards call them, a boot, bota; whence 
we derive the term butts which we bestow 
on the casks wherein Sherry is imported. 
Sherries are dry and sweet; but the dry are 
the most esteemed in this country: on their 

* The quantity of wine annually made at 
Xeres, is about 40,000 pipes ; of this, 25,000 are 
consumed in this city, in Cadiz, and the vicinity : 
15,000 are exported, of which about 7,000 are sent 
to England; and the remainder to the United 
States, or to the different Spanish dominions in 
South America. The value of the wine, when 
new, is from £8 to £ 10 per pipe; it increases in 
value by age : and that which is sent to England 
is always mixed with hrahdy, which occasions a 
further augmentation in the price. Most of the 
wine-merchants in Xeres, have distilleries to make 
hrandy, to add to then* wine ; hut do not export 
any. There are no staves, nor iron hoops, in this 
part of Spain ; so that supplies are ohliged to be 
ohtained from foreign countries for the package in 
which they export their most important production. 
The United States of Amenca furnish the staves, 
and the iron-hoops are sent from England. — 
Jacob's Travels in Spain, Ato, 1809. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 SPANISH ^INES. 

native soil, the choice is reversed, the Spa-' 
niard uniformly 'preferring such wines as 
are rich and sweet. The driest species of 
Sherry, is the Amontillado^ made in imita- 
tion of the wine of Montilla, near Cordova. 
The quantity manufactured is, however, 
very limited, notwithstanding the frequent 
occurrence of " Amontillado" in the wine-' 
merchant's vocabulary.* 

Paxareta, a luscious malmsey, is also of 
this district ; its name being derived from 
Paxareta, an ancient monastery, in the en- 
virons of Xeres. This is, in fact, a species 
of sweet Sherry ; where the fermentation 
has ceased before the saccharine matter 
has been entirely decomposed. At St. Lu- 

^ The tenn Sherry has given rise to much con- 
troversy among antiquarians and commentators^ 
especially with respect to Falstaff's Sherries sack: 
there can he no doubt, but that it was dry Sherry ; 
and the French word sec, dry, corrupted into sack. 
In a poem, printed in 1619, sack and i^erry are 
noted throughout as s3monimous, every stanza of 
twelve ending, — 

Give me sack, old sack, boys, 

To make the muses merry ; 
The life of mirth, and the joy of the earth. 

Is a cup of old Sherry. 

Pasqvil's Palinodia. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 75 

car, another sweet wine is manufactured ; 
but this is not so highly prized as the 
other wines of Xeres. Paxareta is highly 
prized in this country : it is sparkling and 
elegant in the glass, and one of the most 
delicious wines known to our table; 

In this province also is made the Tinta 
di Rotay Tintillay or Tent wine ; this is very 
strong and sweet, and is an excellent sto- 
machic, but is seldom drunk at table. 

In the province of Grenada, is made the 
cdebrated Malaga, or Mountain, so called 
from the name of the town, and the declivi- 
ties on which the vines grow. The soil 
consists of clayey slate or limestone, and the 
lower the rock, the better it is calculated for 
vineyards. Thus, the slate splits into lay- 
ers, and is perhaps covered with twelve or 
eighteen inches of mould, and so loose is 
this earth, that, to prevent its being washed 
away by the rains, it is banked into terra- 
ces. Vines, in this district, yield three se- 
parate harvests* of grapes, though sevej:al 

* On the hills round Malaga, are upwards of 
7,000 vineyards, which produce annually 80,000 
arobas of wine. The first harvest of grapes com- 
mences in the month of June, which is soldy for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 SPANISH WINES. 

thousand feet above the level of the sea. 
This fertility may be attributed to the great 
capacity of slate and slaty soils for retain- 
ing the heat of the sun. Slate has also been 
turned to account in ripening grapes on 
roofs; and slate-walls have even been sug- 
gested for the same purpose, in our less ge- 
nial climate. 

Malaga is both dry and sweet, and 
and red white. The sweet, white Moun- 
tain, is, however, most sought after as a 
dessert wine. Peroximenes, or Pedro Xi- 
menes, is a very fine-flavored, full-bodied 
wine of this district, and much resembles 
Paxareta Malmsey, abea4y mentioned. 

In Valentia is found the Alicant, a red 

those dried by the sun ; the heat of which, by 
extracting the saccharine juice, preserves them 
without any other process; and this species is 
known through Europe, as Malaga luisins. In 
September, the second crop is gathered, which is 
made into a dry wine resembling Sherry, and called 
by that name ; but, to my taste, much inferior, 
lie last vintage of the year, is in October and 
November, and produces those wines, called ux 
Spain and her colonies, Malaga ; and in England, 
Mountain : the natives of Spain prefer these to 
the dry wines of Xeres, or even of Madeira. — 
Jacob, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 77 

wine, resembling the Rota, and much used 
in France. It is sweet, when new, but 
grows thick and ropy with age ; like the 
Tent, it is a good stomachic. Among the 
other red wines of Valentia, is Benicarlo, 
from the sea-port of that name. This wine 
is red, dry, and thick, and is much used by 
the Bordeaux merchants in the manufac- 
ture, or rather adulteration of Claret, as 
already explained *. The poorer wines of 
Bordeaux are, however, materially im- 
proved by the admixture of Benicarlo. An- 
other purpose for which the latter is used, 
is as a substitute for Port wine, to which, 
it need hardly be added, it is very inferior, 
both in quality and price. An imposition 
of this sort may be detected, by observing 
whether the wine oflFered, has a ruby 
color instead of a deep black ; a generous 
flavor, and not that harshness which imme- 
diately offends a good palate ; if not, it as- 
suredly cannot be Port wine. 

In Catalonia, the vine is also extensively 
cultivated, though with such negligence is 
the manufacture of wine conducted there, 

* See page 36. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 SPANISH WINES. 

that the maker seldom racks or fines the 
liquor, but sends it to market as from the 
vat. Still, some of the white wines of this 
district are veiy choice, as Sitgas, a Malm- 
sey, nearly equal to Malaga. Arragon bas 
likewise many fine vineyards,especially of red 
grapes ; the finest wine produced, from which, 
is from the Gamacha vine. The best of all 
thiese, is a red wine, named Hospital, which 
is of excellent flavor and strength : some of 
the white wines are also much esteemed. 
In the same province, are made, Mountain, 
Tent, and Mataro, all of whicli are sweet, 
thick, ropy, and unwholesome. 

Peralta,in Navarre, also yields a delicate 
dessert vnine. A particular sort of this dis- 
trict receives the name of Runcio, when it 
is old enough to merit that distinction. 

The wines of the Canaries, although not 
actually Spanish, are to be met with in most 
of the ports of Spain, and are usually classed 
with the wines of the latter country. The 
whole of the Canaries produce excellent 
wines ; but the preference is given to those of 
Parma andTeneriffe. In favorable vintages, 
Teneriffe makes up about thirty thousand 
pipes of Vidonia, or, as it is sometimes de- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 79 

nominated, bastard Madeira, from the simi- 
larity of its flavor, and appearance to the dry 
wine of the last-mentioned island. Tene- 
riflTe also produces a sweet wine, resembling 
Malmsey Madeira. Chacoli, in Biscay, 
produces a second-rate wine; in order to 
obtain which, the Biscayans engraft five 
or six different vines on the same stalk. 
Most part of Biscay abound in these vines, 
which border upon the high road, generally 
growing to the height of three or four feet. 
The wine in Biscay is sold at a certain 
price, as regulated by the police, and until 
the whole produce of the vintage is dis- 
posed of, no foreign wine is permitted to be 
brought into the province. Hence, the sole 
object of the wine-growers is to collect a 
large quantity of wine, without attending 
to its quality, and " Chacoli" has become a 
bye-word in Spain. Ripe and unripe 
grapes are mixed together in the manufac- 
ture, and thus the produce is good for 
little ; whereas the fruit of this province 
would, with proper care, produce a wine 
Httle inferior to the Champagne of Prance. 
Majorca and Minorca produce wines 
which are sometimes exported; but the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



80 SPANISH WINES. 

qualities are spoiled by the bad system up- 
on Mrhich the vintage is treated. To the na- 
tives of a northern climate, this negligence 
is truly painful, and appears a species of 
ingratitude, which is a no very enviable 
feature of national character. 

Among the other Spanish wines entitled 
to mention, are the wines of Guidas, in 
CastiUe, which is made from cherries, and 
is a sort of ratifia. Fuencaral, a village 
near Madrid, is also known for its wine ; 
and those of Val de Penas, and Ciudad 
Real, may be compared to the stronger 
wines of Bordeaux, and vary but little ex- 
cept in colour. 

Yepes, a small town of Spain, surrounded 
by vineyards, is also celebrated for a very 
delicious white wine. The vintage here, 
which is one of the most gratifying scenes 
of luxuriant nature, is thus described : — 
^^ It was the season of the vintage when 
*^ we arrived ; and, for the first week, we 
*^ saw nothing but cars and mules, laden 
" with baskets of ripe, luscious-looking, 
'^ grapes, and surrounded and followed by 
" groups of vintagers of both sexes, and all 
^^ ages, smiling and singing, and looking 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SPANISH WINES. 81 

" contented and happy. In this town also, 
" we could procure the finest red wine from 
" Val de Penas, in La M ancha. Long 
'^ strings of asses, remarkable for their size 
" and beauty, brought this, every week, from 
" the interior of the province ; and we were 
** enabled, during our stay, to keep tables 
" quite luxurious."* 

The happy scene at Yepes, is indeed a 
Carnival of Nature; and assimilates to 
some of the classic Triumphs of the God of 
Wine. 

* Recollections of the Peninsula. 



G 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 



Without entering into an historical 
view of the circumstances which led to the 
introduction of the wines of Portugal into 
this country, we may briefly state, that 
their adoption resulted rather from the poli- 
tical relations of the two countries, than 
from the intrinsic worth of the wines them- 
selves ; France and Spain producing many 
varieties which will bear comparison with 
the best of the Portuguese vintages. 

The vine is extensively cultivated through- 
out Portugal. The two varieties of wine 
known in this country, are Lisbon and Port, 
which are obtained from vineyards in the 
vicinity of Lisbon, and upon the banks of 
the Douro, about fourteen or fifteen leagues 
from Oporto ; occupying a space about six 
leagues in length, and two leagues in 
breadth. The vine of the latter district 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



POETUGUESE WINES. 88 

originally grew in Burgundy ; but the cli- 
mate of Portugal has so altered the grape, 
that no two wines are more unlike than the 
produce of these territories. 

The wine country, or district of the Upper 
Douro, is under th^ ..superintendance of a 
chartered company, ,^tablished in the year 
1756; and to such $ height had the mono- 
poly of this company once risen, that, be- 
sides fixing the prices of the wines, they 
even restricted the grbwth of the vine to cer- 
tain limits.* 

* In a law of the Company's charter, we find 
the following : — 

" The principal object of this Company is the 
*' better to support the reputation of their wines, by 
" the culture of their vineyards ; to establish a fair 
'' price for the cultivators and traders, and to raise 
" a fund, out of which the company should assist 
" the necessitous vintagers by loans, without tak- 
" ing from them for these loans, a higher interest 
'' than 3 per cent. ; provided such loans do not ex- 
*' ceed hiJf the common value of the wines." 

The reader may not, therefore, be aware, that by 
a treaty entered into between Great Britain and 
Portugal, usually called the Methuen treaty, the 
inhabitants of this country, are in some measure 
forced to drink Port wine, frofti the advantages 
given to Portugal, in her wine-ttade with England, 
over every other nation, on the sole condition that she 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

The vintages are divided into factory and 
secondary wines. From the factory wines, 

will take our wooUens in return. This being the case, 
we could not reasonably expect that so much care 
would be taken to supply the market with the best 
wines, as if there haa Deen a fair competition with 
other countries exporting wine; but, it could 
scai'cely be conjectured, that the Portuguese go- 
vernment would sanction the establishment of a 
company, by which such a monopoly might be 
established, as would effectually destroy the wine 
trade of Portugal, if circumstances ever turned up 
to annul the Methuen treaty. 

From a " Report of the Proceedings of the Com- 
" mittee of Wine Merchants, in London, CorreS" 
"pendents of the Royal Wine Company, at 
" Oporto, in conseauence of a petition presented 
" to Parliament in the year 1812, by certain per- 
** sons, calling themselves Merchants of the late 
" Factory," we gather much information, though 
the conflicting statements of a party question like 
this, must not occupy our pages. From the Ap- 
pendix to this pampnlet, we learn, that " One cause 
" of Port wine being in so short a period so veiy 
" generally drunk in England, appears to have 
" been ^the estabUshing a body of merchants in 
" England ; so far considered as beneficial in tak- 
" ing off die woollen manufactures of England, 
" under the sanction of those most valuable privi- 
" leges, ceded by John IV. King of Portugal, in 
" the year 1654, to Oliver Cromwell, and the go- 
" vemment of England; from which time (forbe-r 
" fore that they only went as supercargoes, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



POKTUGUESE WINES. 85 

are selected those for the English market — 
those for other foreign msuJ^ets-r-or, for 

'' returned again to England^ we may date the 
*' first settlement of the English in Portugal." 

The treaty ah*eady alluded to, has, however, been 
fi-equendy infringed by the Portuguese. Accord- 
ingly, the petition of Merchants ti*ading to Por- 
tugal, was presented by Mr. Canning, in 1812. 
Daring the authority of the Cortes, some attempts 
were made to destroy the monopoly of the Com- 
pany ; but only a few of the obnoxious privileges 
were abated. 

The admixture and adulterations of Port wine, 
as we have already said, gave rise to the establish- 
ment of the Company; since, upwards of forty years 
before, brandy was mixed with the wines, from an 
idea that it was essential for their preservation. 
This supposition is, however, entirely gratuitous. 
Certain regidations were formed, to suppress this 
and other pernicious practices; but, no sooner 
were the Company established, than they set about 
countenancing the very evils they professed to 
abolish. At first, elder-trees were rooted up, and 
forbid growing under severe penalties; and if any 
elder-berries, or elder juice, was found in any 
lodge, or repository of wine, all the wines of that 
lodge were confiscated, and the owner was liable to 
imprisonment, fine, or transportation; and all 
other articles of adulteration were proscribed with 
equal rigour. One of the privileges of the Com- 
pany was, power of buying and making brandy ; 
and when taxed with this species of adulteration, 
they not only pleaded its necessity for expoitable 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

home consumption. The secondary wines 
supply the taverns and distillers. The 

wines^ but attributed the adulteration to die cor- 
rupt policy of the English merchants, who- wished 
the wine ** to exceed the limits which nature had 
*' assigned to it ; and^ that when drunk, it idioold 
'' feel like liquid fire in the stomach ; that it should 
<' bum like inflamed gunpowder; that it should 
" have the tmt of ink ; that it should be like the 
'' sugar of Brazil in sweetness, and like the ^ioes 
'' of India in aromatic flavor. They began by 
" recommending, by way of secret, that it was 
'* proper to dash it with brandy in the fermentation, 
'* to give it strength ; and with elder-beniet, or the 
** rind of the ripe grape, to give it colour : and, as 
** the persons who used the preseriptkm found the 
*' wine increase in price, and the English mer- 
** chants still complaining of a want of strength, 
'* color, and maturity, in the article suppUed, the 
'^ recipe was propageUed till the wines oecame a 
** mere confusion of mixtures." Whether this be, 
or be not, a true idea of the English taste in Port 
wines, the result is, that the greater part of the Port 
wine, which is now brought direct to this country, is 
the juice of a variety of grapes, both white and red, 
pressed together, along with the stalks, cardessly 
fermented, and mixed with brandy; and when 
there is a deficiency of black grapes, com, colored 
with elder-berries ; whereas, but for this diabolical 
trickenr, the Portuguese wines would have been the 
finest m the world; we mean, had the most skilful 
means been adopted in their manufacture, and the 
spirit of monopoly been rooted out fixim thnr trade. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PORTUGUESE WIN£8. 87 

finest Ex-Por^, (whence die name^ or Fac- 
tory wine, firom its superior strength, and 

The S3rstem of adulteration, once begun in the native 
countiy, would, of course, be canied still further in 
that wherein the wines were exported. Thus, the 
peniicious practice is sometimes carried on, with- 
out regard either to science or humanity; and 
many compounds sold in London, and elsewhere, 
intended to imitate Port, and other wines, agree 
with tliem in no other character, save in color and 
astringency. Hence, the practical paradox of more 
Port wine being manufactured in the vaults be- 
neath the streets of London, than is prociured from 
the vineyards of Oporto. 

But the most objectionable of the company's pri- 
vileges remains to be noticed, — ^that of fixing the 
maximum of price for the wines of the district. 
Nothing could more clearly expose the cupidity of 
the association than this privilege. Quantity, not 
quality, became their object : hence the culture of 
fine growth was neglected for the most productive ; 
and, as Dr. Henderson peitinently observes/'^. the 
*' adulterations to wbico the best wines of the 
'* Cima do Douro are subjected, have much the 
" same effect, as if all the growths of Burgundy 
<' were to be mingled into one immense vat, and 
'* sent into the world as the only true Bnrgundian 
*' wine ; the delicious produce of Romanee, Cham- 
" bertin, and the Clos Vougeot, would disappear ; 
" and in their places, we should find nothing better 
'' than a second-rate Beaune, or Macon wine.** 

The hrand/yin^ of wines is carried to consider- 
able extent in tms country. Port wines, otherwise 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 PORTU0irKSE W1NB8. 

consequent demand for it, is three or four 
times as dear as the thinner wines of the 
adjacent districts. 

Certain districts on the banks of the 
Douro produce wines remarkable for their 
strength, flavor, and color ; harsh and un- 
pleasant, when new; sound, high-flavored, 
and delicate, when old ; but the district be- 
yond there produces a hungry, thin wine: 
in a warm climate pleasant, and fit for the 
common drink of the inhabitants, but sel- 
dom for exportation. 

of excellent Quality, are thu» fFequently rejected 
by determmed Port wine diink^rs. White wines 
are still more injured by brandy, unless where a 
secondary fermentation ensues. Ta sueh a length 
is hrandying carried even in Portugal, that very 
little of the spirit is exported, nearly the whole 
being used in adulterating the wines. The same 
practice is also common in making up Spanish 
wines. 

The use of elder-berries, it seems, originated 
with one of our own countrymen, a Mr. Peter 
Bearsley, a factor, resident at Viana ; who, travel- 
ling into the wine-country, put, as an experiment, 
elderberry juice into some pale-colored wine, to 
add to it a red tint; deepness of color, in new 
wines, being considered as a proof of their excdl- 
lence. Finding it to answer, it hence became used 
among factors and merchants for this purpose. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 89 

The finest wine is grown in the territory 
of the Cima do Douro, or Alto Douix). This 
superiority is accounted for as follows : — 
^' When the demand for the thin M ethuen 
" wines, (or wines made from red and white 
" grapes mixed, so called from Mr. Paul 
" Methuen, who first made them,) became 
*' greater than its produce, it put some 
" English supercargoes, who resided there, 
" and at Viana, near Oporto, on teaching 
" Portuguese to cultivate the vineyards on 
" the heights, or mountains, bordering on 
" the river Douro, from whence the district 
" takes the name of Cima (high, up aloft,) 
" do Douro. It is about forty or fifty miles 
" from Oporto, where the harbour is, and 
" where it runs into the sea. It is there vul- 
" garly called the English Factory, and the 
" Wine Country ; from thence it is the wines 
" are transported and conveyed down to the 
" city of Oporto, in proper vessels, being a 
" sort of lighters, or keels."* 

A great variety of species of vines are 
cultivated here, according to the flavor of 
the wines just mentioned. The plants are 

* Appendix to the " Defence," ali-eady quoted 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



90 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

kept low, and trained on poles. The grapes 
are gathered when they shrivel, and, with 
the stalks, are trodden, in broad and shal- 
low Tats, several times, during the fermenta* 
tion ; wliich, for superior wines, extends to 
three days. The fermentation over, the 
liquor is put into immense tuns, of firom 
1,000 to 2,500 gallons each. The racking 
is guided by the fair of the Douro, usually 
in February ; when the wine is conveyed in 
pipes down the river, into the Factory cel- 
lars ; or into those of the wine merchants, 
who purchase at this period.* 

The prices are regulated by the govern- 
ment: as soon as they are promulgated, the 
factors and individuals send in their names 
to the proprietors of the wines. The whole 
of this trade is carried on at Villa Nova, 
near Oporto. The quantity annually shipped 
for Great Britain has been variously stated. 
The following has been given as official 
accounts for eight years: — 

^ It is well known, that all liquids increase in 
bulk with heat : hence the policy of the merchants 
purchasing at this cold season, and selling in the 
summer. 



_ Digitized by VjOOQIC 



POBTUGUESE WINES. 91 

In 1818^ the Factoiy wine exported from 

Oporto^ amounted to 32^843 pipes ; of this 

quantity, 32,465 were fur England. 
In 1819, the total quantity exported was 19,502 

pipes ; nearly the whole to Great Britain. 
In 1820, thequantity escorted was 23,740 pipes; 

almost the whole to Great Britain. 
In 1821, 24,640 pipes; nearly the whole to 

Great Britain. 
In 1822, 27,758 pipes; of which 27,470 pipes 

came to Great Britain. 
In 1823, 23,758 pipes; of which 23,208 to 

Great Britain. 
In 1824, 19,164 pipes; the same proportion to 

Great Britain. 
In 1825, 40,524 pipes; of which 40,277 to 

Great Britain. 
In 1826, 18,604 pipes; of which 18,310 to 

Great Britain.* 

The usual color of Port wine, x>n its ar- 
rival in this country, is purplish, or inky; 

* Foreign Quarterly Review, No. III. 

* In the ten years, 1813—1822, the annual 
average quantity of wine exported from Oporto to 
Great Britain, was 24,364 pipes ; and to all other 
parts of the world, only 1,094 pipes per annum. 
— Vide p. 98, of a Pamphlet, by James Warr, Esq. 
1823. The quantity exported since 1822, has not 
materiafly altered. 

The largest vintage of the Alto Douro was in 
1804, when it amounted to 76,655 pipes ; in 1810, 
it was only 36,250 pipes. In 1798, 64,442 pipes 
were exported. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



92 PORTUGUESE WINES. 

rough and full body ; of an astringent and 
bitter sweet taste ; and odour and flavor of 
brandy, proportionate to the genuineness of 
the wine. Keeping the wine in the wood, 
will abate all these peculiarities, except 
those of the brandy ; which, age, in the bot- 
tle, as from eight to fourteen years, will 
alone qualify ; and the genuine wine is then 
obtained. In the meantime, the coloring 
and other matter becomes crusted on the 
sides of the vessels, frequently carrying with 
it much of the flavor of the wine, which is 
then technically termed tavmey. 

It may not be uninteresting to state, that 
Port wines were introduced into England 
about the year 1700. Howel, in his Let^ 
ters, 1634, says, " Portugal aflforded no 
" wines worth transporting." Another 
writer, in 1788, says — ^^ it does not appear, 
" that Port wines have been at all known 
" in the northern countries of Europe, above 
" sixty or seventy years at farthest. So 
^ late as Queen Anne's time, the importa- 
" tion was very small ; for, it is related, tra- 
" ditionally, that it was then customary in 
" London, upon the meeting of two friends, 
" the one to invite the other to a tavern to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



u 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 93 

^^ drink ; or, in a vulgar phrase, to crack a 
" bottle of Claret dashed with Port :" which 
intimates the extreme scarcity of the latter, 
compared with the former. Davenant, In- 
spector-General of the Imports and Ex- 
ports, in his Report to the Commissioners, 
in 1662, says, " that no Portugal wines were 
" entered in the Custom House Books at that 
time." In the year 1702, the war broke 
out with France and Spain ; and the Portu- 
guese joining the allies, the next year, a 
new treaty, commonly called the Methuen 
treaty, was concluded by Queen Anne ; by 
which Portugal wines were to pay one-third 
less duty than French wines. From this 
time, we may date the general use of Port 
wines in Great Britain . In years, when the 
Clarets were strong and plentiful, before 
the war with France, in the reign of Wil- 
liam and Mary, 500 pipes would glut the 
market. In 1717, the duties on French 
wines were 55/. 5*. per tun ; and on Port, 
only 71. 6s. Sd. — l-7th. The French wine 
trade, consequently became depressed; and 
Portugal wines came into more general use; 
and Dr. Halley observes, " that the encou- 
" ragement was so great, that the Fortu, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



04 PORTUGUBSB WINES. 

'^ guese became industrioiui, and cultivated 
'^ and increased tbetr Tineyards^ for thirty 
*^ to forty leagues, on both banks of the 
'^ Dooro ; so that the country became not 
" only enriched, but new peopled by the 
^* trade. Thus, it appears by the records of 
^^ this date, as well as by the importation of 
" late years, (see page 91,) that England is 
" the only country that drinks Port, for the 
" benefit of the wine-growers of the Douro." 
Red wines are also furnished by other 
territories besides those of the Douro : most 
of these resemble the second growths of the 
Bordelais. Mon9aon, is, however, described 
as very celebrated, and affording sufficient 
for a kingdom. Cintra, and its vicinity, 
also yield red wines : here. 

Hard by the olive, and the purple vine. 
Their mingled treasures lavishly bestow ; 
Oh favor'd land ! thus com, and soil, and wine, 
Alons thy happy vallies ever flow. 
And bid man's i-avished heart in grateful 
warmth to glow.* 

The wine known in this country as Colares 
Port, is grown near Cintra,- 
The principal white wines of Portugal, 

* Lisbon: by Marianne Baillie, 12mo. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 95 

are Bucellas, from a few miles aboTe Lis- 
bon ; the sweet wines of Carcavellos and Se- 
taval, and the dry wines of Termo. Most 
of them reach us as Lisbon wines : and Mrs. 
BaiUie, in one of her Letters from Lisbon, 
says, " At the door of every Caso de Pasta, 
** or public-house, we observed the ancient 
^^ symbol of a bush ; but, we are assured, 
" that the wine found within, is of so excel- 
" lent a quality, as to require no sig^ of this 
" nature." Of the Termo wine, this intel- 
ligent lady also thus speaks: — " We have 
^^ tasted a sort of white light wine, sold 
•^ here, which we thought almost as refresh- 
*^ ing and excellent as hock, and for which 
" the conmion charge is about twopence a 
" bottle; it is made in the vicinity of Lisbon, 
^ and is known by the name of vlnho de 
''Termo:'* 

About a century since, the red wines of 
Lisbon were considered richer, stronger, 
and better, than the wines of Oporto ; and 
iheir white wines were excellent. The red 
are, however, now unknown ; and the white, 
comparatively, in disrepute. " One to two 

* Lbbon^ vol. i. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 PORTUGUESE WINES. 



" thousand pipes are annually exported 
" instead of upwards of 15,000."* 

The vintage in the neighbourhood of 
Lisbon, is described very graphically, by a 
young soldier. " I returned to the camp, 
^^ by a circuitous path, which led across a 
" vineyard. Here, the order had suddenly 
^^ broken in upon, and suspended the cheer- 
" fill labours of the vintage. In one part, 
" the vines were yet teeming with fruit ; in 
^^ another, large heaps of grapes gathered, 
" but not carried to the wine-press, lay 
** deadening in the sun, with baskets haif- 
^^ filled near them ; and the print of littk 
" feet, between the vine-rows, showed, that 
^^ the children had been sharing the light 
*^ and pleasing toil, which, at that happy 
" season, employs their parents."t Again, 
in another village, " The cottages, in which 
" we were quartered, were pleasingly 8ca^ 
" tered over the face of the country ; had 
^^ all their little gardens, in the midst of 
^^ which they stood ; and their walks, clothed 
" with the creeping vine, which extended 



* Defence of the Royal Wine Company^ 1812. 
f Recollections of the Peninsula. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PORTUGUESE WINES. 97 

" itself over their humble roofs ; or spread- 
" ing along a sort of light trellis-work, 
*^ formed grateful and shady porticoes be- 
** fore their doors."* 

The valley of Colares is one of the richest 
and best cultivated spots in the kingdom of 
Portugal. The greater part of it is planted 
with fruit trees, particularly orange; and 
though they are so close together, that their 
boughs intertwine, yet they bear vast quanti- 
ties of delicious fruit. Of the peculiarity 
of the soil about this district, Carcavellos 
furnishes a striking instance, — where there 
is a vineyard of no considerable extent, that 
yields grapes different from those of any 
other part of the kingdom. 

* Ibid. 



H 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 



Notwithstanding the celebrity of Ger- 
many as a wine country, the introduction of 
the vine there is by few authorities referred 
to the same period. Tacitus, in his per- 
spicuous and minute details of the manners 
and customs of the Germans, does not no- 
tice the vine ; but speaks of the soil as un- 
favourable to fruit trees, which is almost 
a proof that the vine did not exist there in 
his time. Again, beer is spoken of as being 
altnost universally the national beverage;* 
which custom also strengthens the opinion, 
that the consumption of wines among the 
Germans was then restricted to foreign kinds, 
and those were only to be met with in such 
districts, as by their proximity to rivers, were 
adapted for commercial convenience. 

Among the most satisfactory of the classi- 

* See page 13, of the present volume. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 99 

cal authorities which have been quoted 
upon this point, the earliest is that of Auso- 
nius, in the seventh century, who comme* 
morates the vine-clad banks of the Moselle, 
and the beautiful aroma of its wine, in some 
of his most felicitous flights of song. The 
culture of the vine, on the banks of the 
Rhine, is of later date, — ^viz. in the time of 
Charlemagne, whence the agricultural pros- 
perity of Germany is dated ; and so favor- 
able has the climate become to the culture 
of the vine, that in certain places, the plant 
flourishes beyond the latitude of the north- 
ernmost vineyards of France. 

The banks of the Rhine, from Mentz to 
Coblentz, comprise the choicest vineyards. 
The superficial extent of the circle of Cob- 
lentz,is computed at 17,251 Prussian acres, 
and the quantity of wine they produce, at 
385,323 ankers, the value of which is esti- 
mated at £265,000 ; so that each acre an- 
nually yields above fifteen pounds sterling. 
The wine districts in the circle of Treves, 
contain 2,346 acres, producing 284,822 
aulms of wine, valued at £364,950 ; whence 
it seems, that each acre gives an annual 
produce of more than thirty-nine pounds 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 GERMAN WINES. 

Sterling * In this district, the vineyards 
extend over both banks of the river, and 
form a scene of indescribable richness 
and beauty. The variety of rocks which 
form the basis of their banks, have fbr- 
nished an excellent opportunity for ex- 
amining the influence of their geological 
structure upon the qualities of the soil and 
wines, so successfully cultivated in this 
country. The comparison, which would be 
difficult to be established in other parts, 
has here been easily made, and will serve 
as a basis for other researches. This in- 
quiry has been made by an ingenious Grer- 
man, attached to the Botanic Garden and 
Public Arboretum, at Heidelburg; and the 
results are to be found in a work recently 
published by this gentleman, On the Culti- 
vation of the Vine v/pon the Banks of the 
Rhine. They will be interesting to the rea- 
der, who is but slightly acquainted with 

^ The excise payable on each hundred weiffbt, 
containing thirty-six quarts, is four shillings ; but 
on wines of foreign growth, it is twenty-four shil- 
lings. The effect of this protecting dut}r, has been 
to increase the domestic consumption, since 1819, 
from 116,058 to 161,544 quarts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 101 

geological technicalities, and are subjoined 
in a note.^ 

* " Granite, by the decomposition of mica and 
** felspar, furnishes a very feitile and clayey ground. 
" Quartz has a light and porous soil ; it easily 
" admits air, moisture, and heat ; and large bodies 
*' retain heat ; there the vine will afford good wine, 
" if all things are equally favom-able. 

" Sienite produces at least a similar* effect. 

" Felspar Porphyry, like the granite, furnishes 
*' an excellent soil, on which the vine succeeds very 
" well. 

"• Clay Slate, by its decomposition, supplies a 
" very fertile soil ; if the quartz, which often runs 
'* in veins in this rock mix with the soil, it makes 
" it lighter, and renders it more fit for retaining 
*' heat. The deep colour peculiar to this kind of 
'* soil increases also its temperature. This soil is 
" most favourable for the vine. 

" Basalt forms, also, by its decomposing quali- 
*' ties, a very productive and suitable soil for the 
" vine, and oecomes one of the best, where marl 
" and pebbles of basalt are found mixed together. Its 
** deep colour increases heat, and is one of the piin- 
" cipal causes of its fertility for the vine. The best 
" sorts of vines grow on this soil. 

" Dolerite produces the same effect as the basalt; 
" the most v^uable wines are supplied from this 
'* soil. 

" Variegated Sandstone, in consequence of its 
" decomposition, affords a light soil, more or less 
" productive ; where it is not mixed, it is barren, 
" and the vine suffers on it in dry seasons. This 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



102 GERMAN WINES. 

In the district just particularized, are the 
Rhinegau vintages, which, with those of 

" is not the case where it is mixed with marl, clay, 
" and other earths ; but in general it produces no 
" remarkable wine. 

" The clay soil, which is formed from the de- 
" composition of Shell Marl, is difficult to colti- 
'' vate. If the calcareous properties prevail, it be- 
" comes dry and poor, and requires much manure: 
'' but when the calcareous parts are mixed with a 
" clay soil, it may produce vines which are of a 
" very fair sort. In general, however, mountains 
" of mis description are of a height too inconsider- 
'* able, and their summits too flat for such cuhiva- 
" tion. 

'< The Coarse Limestone, being veiy unsuitable 
'' (tree desagreahle), furnishes a deep and fertile 
" soil, when it is well tilled ; and good vines may 
" be reared upon it. 

'< Gypsum when it composes the sediment of the 
" soil, should produce, according to the author, 
" good vines ; but he appears to have seen no in- 
" stances of it. 

" Kiffer, which is easily decom{)Osed, furnishes 
" a light soil, on which vegetation is similar to that 
" on the variegated sandstone. The wine which it 
" produces is weak. 

" The Schistous Marl of the Lais is easily de- 
'* composed by the air, and yields a fertile soil, 
" favorable to the vine. Its black colour is beneficial 
*' to the maturity of the grape ; however, it is not 
*' distinguished by the production of any remark- 
'' able wine. This soil, when it is interspersed with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 103 

Hochheim, on the banks of the Mayn, are 
considered the finest German wines. A 
small white grape, and an Orleans grape, 
are the fruit usually preferred here ; they are 
allowed to become fully ripe, and the manu- 
facture is conducted with great care : the 
fermentation is carried on in casks, so as to 
preserve the aroma, and the wine is then 
allowed to mellow in tuns, usually holding 
about 350 gallons, or eight aulms.^ Al- 

*^ round pebbles mixed with clay and sand, is very 
*' fit for the vine. 

" Vegetation commences only by the mixture of 
*' clay in the sand, arising from the decomposition 
** of different rocks. Such land can only produce 
*' wild vines, and vegetation is often completely 
" impeded during dry seasons. 

'' The mud of gained land is genei-ally little 
" favorable to the vine. Wet seasons are espe- 
" cially injurious to it, and it only produces a bad 
" wine." 

* The wine-growers of Germany, were for- 
merly celebrated for the immense size of the vessels 
in which they kept their wines. The most famous 
of these were the casks of Tubingen, Heidelberg, 
and Grumingen. The Tubingen cask was twenty- 
four feet in length, and sixteen in depth ; that of 
Heidelberg, thirty-four feet in length, and twenty- 
one deep; and that of Grumingen, thirty-four feet 
long, and eighteen deep. The Heidelberg cask 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



104 GKRMAN WINES. 

though these stupendous casks are usually 
regarded as the wonders of the places 
where they are situated, they are of some 
practical service, since some of the stronger 
wines were more effectually mellowed in 
these immense vessels, than in those of 
less magnitude. In this case, the casks 
were kept filled up, else the wine soon be- 
came worthless. 

has long been dry, and the others are in similar 
condition. Another remains to be mentioned, that 
Konigstein made in the year 1725, and larger 
than any of the former. Inis was erected at Fort 
Konigstein, in the neighboarhood of Dresden, by 
General Kyaw. The height is seventeen Dresden 
ells, and its diameter at the bung twelve ells. It 
is always replenished with excellent wine, and con- 
tains 3,709 hogsheads. On its plate is a Latin 
inscription, to the following purport : — **^ Welcome, 
" traveller, and admii'e this monument, dedicated 
" to festivity, in order to exhilirate the mind with 
" a glass, in the year 1725, by Frederick Augustus, 
" King of Poland, and Elector of Saxony ; the 
" father of his country — the Titus of the age — the 
'* delight of mankind. Therefore, drink to the 
'' health of the sovereign, the country, the electoral 
'* family, and Baron Kyaw, governor of Konig- 
" stein ; and if thou art able, according to the dig- 
" nity of this cask, the most capacious of all casks> 
" drink to the proroerity of the whole universe — 
" and, so farewell ! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 105 

A more graphic description of the wine 
districts than we have hitherto quoted, will 
be found in the lively journal of a recent 
tourist* on the banks of the Rhine. '^ It 
*^ runs," says the writer, " along the right 
^' bank of the Rhine, from Cassel opposite 
" Mayence, to the junction of the river Lahn 
" with the Rhine, near Coblentz, compre- 
'^ bending the luxuriant Rhinegau, Hoch- 
^^ heim, Johannisberg, Rudesheim, and all 
" the other genial spots which regale, with 
" pure Rhenish, the bans vivans of Europe. 
** Hochheim stands on a little sunny eleva- 
" vation on the Maine, between Frankfort 
" and Mayence. The little town is sur- 
" rounded by vineyards, with scarcely a 
" tree to obstruct a single ray of sun ; but 
" the choice wine of the place, which every 
"turtle-fed alderman flatters himself he 
" drinks, is produced on a little hill of about 
" eight acres, behind the ancient deanery, 
" which seems formed to court the sun, and 
*• is protected by the town from the north 
" winds. Each acre contains about 4,000 
" vine plants, valued at a ducat a-piece; and 

* Autumn near the Rhine, 8vo. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



106 GERMAN WINES. 

^' the little hill produces in a good year, 
*^ about twelve lai^ casks of wine, each of 
^^ which sometimes sells, as soon as made, 
" for 1,500 florins, (nearly £160). Hoch- 
'^ heim was made a present by Buonaparte 
" to General Kellerman."— " This baccha- 
^^ nalian paradise, (the Rhinegau,) which ex- 
^^ tends on the right bank to Lovrieh, has 
" from time out of mind been renowned for 
'^ its superior wines. An old Carlovingian 
^^ king first gave it to an archbishop of 
" Mayence, and it was surrounded by a 
'^ rampart and ditch, some remains of which 
^^ are still visible. At some distance from 
^' the river, rose the Johannisberg mount, 
" the rival of Hochheim, covered with a 
" garden of vines. The wine produced here, 
'^ is the dearest and most precious of the 
" Rhenish wines." Rtidesheim is described 
as '^ a busy little town, at the foot of the 
" bold mountain on wluch is produced the 
" famous Rudesheimer wine." Travellers, 
however, do not always enjoy the local ad- 
vantages of the country through which 
they are passing, for our present tourist 
says, " though in face of the rich mountain, 
" the Rudesheimer wine was not so good 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 107 

" as we might have procured a hundred 
" miles distant." 

" It is difficult," continues the writer, 
" to give you an idea of the luxuriant rich- 
" ness and beauty of the scenes we now 
*^ passed. The mountains rose on each side, 
*^ sometimes in rugged masses, and some- 
" times in round regular slopes, immediately 
" from the banks of the river. The right 
" bank is far more fruitful than the left ; 
" for several leagues from Bingen, its tange 
" of mountains is one verdant garden, co- 
" vered from the summit to the base with 
" the light green verdure of the well-trained 
" vineyards ; here and there interspersed 
" with ridges and masses of rough black 
" rock, whose rude shapes defy cultivation. 
" The magnificent Route Napoleon, cut 
" with incredible labour out of the rocks 
" which overhang the river, runs by its side 
" from Cologne to Bingen; — sometimes un- 
" der craggy shelves and abrupt rocks, co- 
" vered with brushwood and heather, and 
" interspersed with a few vineyards, in spots 
" smooth enough to bear them; — sometimes 
" across little fertile plains, where the 
" mountains slightly recede from the stream ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



108 GERMAN WIN£S. 

" or, through orchards, vineyards, and an- 
" tique villages at their base. The black 
** purply hue of the rocks, frequently com- 
" posed of basalt, slate, &c. contrasted with- 
** the delicate green of the vines, which 
" thrive in all their gullies and crevices, 
^^ adds to the mellow luxuriant tone of the 
'* scene. A bacchanalian might drink in 
" intoxication from the view — every thing 
^^ has a blushing vinous colour; if there was 
^' such a thing as an alderman of imagina- 
^' tion, his lips would water in descending 
"the Rhine." 

" The strongest wines are said to be made 
" on the highest grounds, — the most whole- 
" some on those of moderate height; and 
" the wine of the low grounds is sour and 
" requires keeping. Among the multitude 
" of wines which the country produces, the 
" Laubenheim, Bischeim, and Asmans- 
" hausen, are considered the most agree- 
" able ; those of Hochheim and Johannis- 
" berg, the most aromatic ; and those of 
" Nierstein, Markebrunne, and Rudesheim, 
" the strongest and most spirituous: a nicety 
" of discrimination, which, at all events, 
" vouches for the connoisseurship of the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 109 

'^ worthy Germans in such matters, and 
" which may give hints to some of our Lon- 
^^ don amateurs of the grape.'' 

^^ Below Lovrieh, the mountains slightly 
^^ diminish; the town of Bacharach appears 
'^ on the left hank, with its mouldering ram- 
" parts half covered with vines, and with 
" that gloomy slated gothic character which 
^' distinguishes all the towns on the Rhine. 
" Bons vivans of all ages, appear to have 
" been of one mind as to the wine of Bach- 
" arach. The Romans called the place 
" Bticchi ara. Pope -Sneas Sylvius used to 
"import a tun of the wine to Rome every 
** year ; and the Emperor Vencezlaus was so 
" fond of it, that he sold the citizens of 
" Nuremberg their freedom for four casks. 
" We passed the true ara Bacchiy a little 
" lower down ; a stone, lying in the river 
" between an island and the right bank. Its 
" appearance above the water is hailed with 
" joy by the vintagers, as a sign of a dry 
" and hot summer." 

The number of vineyards in the kingdom 
of Wurtemberg, is 595 ; the land cultivated, 
is 82,729 acres, of which 61,514 acres are 
exclusively devoted to the vine. The total 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



110 GERMAN WINES; 

wine produce in 1826, was 184,380 kilder- 
kins, and the value 3,990,831 florins. 

Dr. Henderson is inclined to class the 
wines of the Rhine by themselyes, and as 
generally drier than the French white 
wines ; although some of the lighter sorts 
very much resemble the vins de Graves: 
yet, all the Rhenish wines have a peculiar 
aroma, and what is more extraordinary, an 
extreme durability, — notwithstanding they 
contain, comparatively, but little spirit. 
This preservative quality is attributed by 
Dr. Henderson, to the full decomposition of 
the saccharine matter in the Rhenish grapes, 
and to ^^ the large proportion of free tartaric 
"acid" which the wines contain, " and 
" which can only be separated by the usual 
" chemical co-agents." Acidity is not a 
characteristic of Rhenish wines, when ob- 
tained in perfection, but is the result of 
manufacture in imgenial seasons ; in illus- 
tration of which. Dr. Henderson mentions, 
that ^* the wines which have been made in 
" warm and dry years, such as that of 1811,* 

* The produce of the Steinberg vineyard, in 
1811, has been sold on the spot for d| florins, or 
half-a-guinea the bottle. This is the strongest of 
all the Rhine wines. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6EBMAN WINES. Ill 

^^ or the year of the eomet, as it is sometimes 
^^ called, are always in great demand, and 
" fetch exorbitiwit prices. Of preceding 
" vintages, those of 1802, 1800, 1783, 1779, 
" 1766, 1748, and 1726, are esteemed the 
^* best. That of 1783, in particular, is the 
" most highly esteemed of any of the last 
" century." 

Hitherto we have spoken but of white 
wines, with the exception of Asmanshausen, 
mentioned by the ingenious tourist, at page 
108. This wine is red, and compares with 
fine Burgundy ; but the other red wines of 
the Rhine, are hardly entitled to notice. 

The banks of the Moselle produce wines 
of light pleasant flavour, somewhat resem- 
bling the best Graves^ and in great abund- 
ance, — some of the vintage of the year 1829, 
having been sold on the spot for (me half- 
fenny a bottle ! 

Here our notice of the wines of Germany 
must close, — although Franconia, Swabia, 
Moravia, and the Tyrol, produce wines ap- 
proaching in quality those already mention- 
ed; yet, their properties will scarcely in- 
terest the general reader ; whilst their ex- 



d by Go ogle 



112 GERMAN WINES. 

cellence is not of sufficient character for the 
bon vivant. 

The German wines principally drunk in 
England, are Johannisberger, Rudesheimer, 
Hock, and a few of the MoseUe wines. — 
Hock, it would seem, is a restorer and 
brightener of the intellect; if we only recol- 
lect the jeu de mot attributed to Swift, of 
'^ declining hoc^^ and the '^ hujus glass." Lord 
Byron too, in one of his wayward fancies, com- 
mends Hock to the bacchanalian ; and even 
ranks it above the onion soup of the French, 
which, by our neighbours, is thought highly 
restorative, peculiarly grateful, and gently 
stimulating to the stomach, after hard 
drinking, or night-watching.^ It holds 
among soups, the place that Champagne, 
soda-water, or ginger beer, does among li- 
quors. 

The Germans, not content with procuring 



* Ring for your valet — bid him quickly bring 
Some hock and aoda-teater, then you'll know 

A pleasure worthy Xerxes, the great king. 
For not blest sherbet, sublim^ with snow, 

Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring. 
Nor Burgundy in all its sun-set glow. 

After long travel, ennui, love, or slaughter. 

Vie with that draught of hock and soda-water. 

Don Juan. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GERMAN WINES. 113 

wine from tbe iresh grape, Ausbruch from 
the raisins, brandy from the skins, and syrup 
from the unfermented juice, have likewise 
attempted to supply themselves with oil from 
the 9tone.* Dr. Crell, in the year 1783, in 
his volume on New Chemical Discoveries, 
published an account of this produce, stat- 
ing, that from 100 pfunds of the stones, 10 
mass of a useful oil might be obtained; and 
several authors, both in Germany and Italy, 
mention the same subject. The process con- 
sists simply in collecting the stones before 
the mass of skins has begun to ferment, 
drying them with care, and expressing the 
oil in a mill suited to the purpose. One of 
the earliest experimenters on this subject, 
was a gentleman of the name of Lang, who 
instituted extensive trials on some estates 

* M. M. Schnebler and Beutsch^ have also 
found that other species of oleaginous seeds^ give 
the quantity of oil as follows : — filberts, 60 per cent. ; 
garden cresses, 66 to 58 ; olives, 50; wabiuts, 50 ; 
poppies, 47 to 50; almonds, 46; colsa, 39; white 
mustard, 36 ; tobacco seed, 32 to 36 ; kernels of 
plums, 33; winter turnips, 33; summer turnips, 
30 ; woad, 30 ; hemp seed, 25 ; fir, 24 ; linseed, 
22; black mustard, 18; heliotrope, 15; beech mast, 
12 to 16, — German JournaL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



114 GERMAN WINES. 

in Styria, so that all the peasants supplied 
themselves with oil for their domestic pur- 
poses; and a calculation was made, that 
Austria was capable of yielding this oil, 
perfectly serviceable in all manufactures, 
and for burning, at least 515,982 pfundsj of 
which, Hungary alone would furnish 435,845 
pfunds. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 



The mines of Hungary have yielded 
their wealth with an unsparing hand ; but 
in her vineyardsy her harvests, and flocks, 
are placed great and almost unbounded 
resources.* The vine is therefore cultivated 
to a very considerable extent. Schwartner 
has estimated the annual vintage of Hun- 
gary, at more than one half the whole vin- 
tage of Austria and its provinces, estimated 
by Blumenbach, at 32,873,971 eimers. The 
consumption of wine in Hungary is very 
great, but the export is also large ; and as 
early as the year 1804, the Emperor of Aus- 
tria, to encourage the consumption of Aus- 
trian and Hungarian wines, had forbidden 
any foreign wines to appear at his table. 

* Bright's Travels in Hungary, 4to. 1818. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



116 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

The vineyards of Hungary are, however, 
chiefly in the hands of the peasantry, who 
pay but little attention to the manufacture 
of the wine. Dr. Bright describes most 
of them as possessing a small piece of 
land, but their peaceful labours are conti- 
nually interrupted by the calls of their chief- 
tains, and the claims of government: — 
^^ what little time remains, they bestow upon 
" their vineyard, as upon a lottery ; a blank 
** is drawn, and the adventurer becomes a 
^^ burdensome beggar, dependent on his 
" lord ;" or he not unfrequently seeks some 
monied man, usually a Jew, to whom, for a 
trifling advance, he pledges, by a verbal pro- 
cess, the wine of the coming year; but, of 
which he can yet form no calculation : he 
thus becomes involved more and more 
deeply, and, at length, is irretrievably 
ruined. 

The quality of Hungarian wines might 
be much improved by the selection of good 
grapes, and the separation of the ripe from 
the unripe fruit. This, however, is not to 
be expected from peasants, whose measure 
of a good wine year consists in the number 
of casks which are filled, and not in the qua- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 117 

lity of the produce. The greater part of the 
common wine found in the inns of Hun- 
g-ary is, consequently, very poor. It is ge- 
nerally a white wine, but faintly coloured, 
from the mixture of grapes of every species. 
Some of the finest sorts have, nevertheless, 
obtained a celebrity, which originally arose 
from the peculiar care bestowed upon the 
manufacture. Foremost among these wines 
is that of Tokay, which is the product 
of the country around the town of Tokay, 
called the Submontine district, or the He- 
gallya, which extends over a space of about 
twenty English miles. Throughout the 
whole of this country, it is the custom to 
coUect the grapes which have become dry 
and sweet, like raisins, by hanging on the 
vines. They are gathered one by one, and 
it is from these alone that the prime To- 
kay, or, as it is termed, Tokay Ausbruch, is 
prepared. They are first put together in a 
cask, in the bottom of which holes are bored 
to let that portion of the juice escape, which 
will run from them without any pressure. 
This, which is called Tokay essence^ is gene- 
rally in very small quantity, and very highly 
prized. The grapes are then put into a vat. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



118 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

and trampled with the bare feet, no greater 
pressure being permitted. To the squeezed 
mass is next added an equal quantity of 
good wine, which is allowed to stand for 
twenty-four hours, and is then strained. 
This juice, without further preparation, be- 
comes the far-famed wine of Tokay, which 
is dijfficult to be obtained, and sells in .Vien- 
na, at the rate of «£12 sterling per dozen. 
Great part of these vineyards are the pro- 
perty of the emperor; several, however, 
are in the hands of the nobles. Although 
called Tokay, this nectar of German epi- 
cures * is not the produce of Tokay itself^ 
but of its environs, particularly Tarczal. 
The yearly produce amounts on an average, 
to 110,000 aulnu. 

Dr. Townson, in his Travels in Hungary, 
also gives a minute account of the mode in 
which Tokay is manufactured. The doctor, 
however, does not rate this celebrated wine 
so highly as might be expected : he says, 

* It is equally prized in this country, — since in 
some epicurean hints on the ait of drinJcing wine, 
" Champagne, with its argent foam, is to be sanctified 
"by an ofiering of Tokay, poured from a glass so 
"small, that you might fancy it formed of diamond." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNOARIAN WINES. 119 

^' Tokay is, no doubt, a fine wine; but I 
^^ think no ways adequate to its price: there 
^^ are few of my countrymen, except on ac- 
^^ count of its scarceness, who would not 
" prefer to it good Claret or Burgundy, 
" which do not cost one-fourth of the price. 
^^ Some of the sweetish Spanish wines, 
^^ begging its pardon, are, in my opinion, 
" equally good; and, unless it be very old, it 
'^ is too sweet for an Englishman's palate.'' 
The Tokay Essence is thick, and never 
perfectly clear, — very sweet, and luscious. 
It is chiefly used to mix with the other 
kinds, and when joined to the Masslasch, 
forms a wine equally good with the Aus- 
bruch, and often is sold for it. The Aus- 
bruch is the wine commonly exported, and 
what is known in foreign countries under 
the name of Tokay. The following are the 
best rules for judging of it ; though in this, 
and all similar cases, it requires experience 
to be able to put such rules into practice. 
1. The colour should neither be reddish, 
which it often is, — nor very pale, but a light 
silver. 2. In trying it, you should not 
swallow it immediately, but only wet your 
palate, and the tip of your tongue. If it 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



120 HUMGABIAN WINES. 

discover any acrimony to the tongue, or bite 
it, it is not good: the taste ought to be soft 
and mild. 3. It should, when poured out, 
form globules in the glass, and have an oily 
appearance. 4. When genuine, the strong- 
est is always of the best quality ; and, 5. 
When swallowed, it should have an earthy 
astringent taste in the mouth, which they 
call the taste of the root. The Poles, par- 
ticularly, are fond of this astringency and 
austerity in their Tokay. 

Besides the qualities already mentioned, 
all Tokay wine has an aromatic taste, — so 
peculiar, that nobody who has ever drunk it 
genuine, can confound it with any other 
species of wine. The only species that bears 
a resemblance to it, grows in a very small 
quantity, in the Venetian Friule, and is 
only to be met with in private families in 
Venice, where, in the dialect of the place, 
it is called vin piccolit. The Tokay wine, 
both the Essence and Ausbruch, keeps to 
any age, and improves by time ; it is never 
good till it is about three years old. It is 
much the best way to transport it in casks ; 
for when it is on the seas, it ferments three 
times every season, and refines itself by 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 121 

these repeated fermentations. When in bot- 
tles, there must be an empty space left be- 
tween the wine and the cork, otherwise it 
would burst the bottle. They put a little oil 
on the surface, and tie a piece of bladder on 
the cork. The bottles are always laid on 
their sides in sand.* 

Tokay, when new, is of a brownish yellow 
colour, yet, changes with age, to a greenish 
tint. Dr. Henderson relates several parti- 
culars of its high value, by keeping ; and 
tells us, that at Cracau, some vintages are 
said to have been stored a whole century. 
He also says, that " When the Emperor of 
^ Austria wished to make a present of some 
" Tokay wine in return for a breed of horses, 
** which had been sent to him by the ex- 
** King of Holland, the stock in the impe- 
" rial and royal cellars, was not deemed 
" sufficiently old for the purpose; and 2,000 
" bottles of old Tokay wine, were therefore 
" procured from Cracau, at the extravagant 
** price of seven ducats the bottle." 

Hungary, perhaps, produces a greater 
variety of wines than any other country in 

* Philos. Transactions abridged, vd.xiii. p. 453. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



122 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

Europe. They count as many as one hun- 
dred different sorts. The most valuable 
white wines, after the Tokay, are — 1. The St. 
George, which grows in a village of that 
name, about two German miles north of 
Fresburg, and in the same latitude with 
Vienna. This wine approaches the nearest 
of any Hungarian wine to Tokay. For- 
merly, they used to make Ausbruch at St 
George; but this was prohibited by the 
Court, it being supposed that it might hurt 
the traffic of the Tokay wine. 2. The 
(Edenburg wine, resembling the St. George, 
but inferior in quality and value. (Eden- 
burg is a town, situate about nine German 
miles north-west of Fresburg. 3. The Car- 
lowitz wine, something like that of the 
Cdte Rdtte^ on the banks of the Rhone. Car- 
lowitz stands on the banks of the Danube, 
between 45 and 46 degrees of latitude. 

The best red wines, are — 1. The Buda 
wine, which grows in the neighbourhood of 
the ancient capital of the kingdom. This 
wine is like, and perhaps equal to Bur- 
gundy, and is often sold for it in Germany. 
A German author says, that a great quan- 
tity of this wine used to be sent to England 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 123 

in the reign of James I., overland by Bres- 
lau and Hamburg, and that it was the far 
vorite wine, both at the court, and all over 
England. 2. The Sexard, a strong deep-r 
coloured wine, not unlike the strong wine 
of Languedoc, which is sold at Bordeaux 
for Claret. The Sexard wine, on the spot, 
costs about five creutzers^ or twopence-half- 
penny a bottle. Sexard is on the Danube, 
between Buda and Esseh. 3. The Erlau 
wine, which is reckoned at Vienna almost 
equal to that of Buda. Erlau is in Upper 
Hungary, south-west of Tokay, between 47 
and 48 degrees of latitude. 4. The Grros 
Warden wine, strong-bodied, and very cheap, 
Gros Warden is an old fortress, near the 
confines of Transylvania, between 46 and 
47 degrees of latitude.* 

It is said, that the vine was first introduced 
by the Emperor Probus,in the fourth century, 
by whom it was planted in Sirmien. The To- 
kay vineyards are known to have flourished 
in the thirteenth century ; their great cele- 
brity is, however, said to have arisen after 
the destruction and neglect of the Sirmien 

* PhUos. Trans, abridged, vol. xiii. p. 454. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

vineyards, subsequendy to tbe battle of Mo- 
haes. The Sirmien wines, are now again 
become valuable. The red wine from that 
country, called Schiller wine, is much es- 
teemed : it is strong and sweet. They like- 
wise make small quantities of Ausbruch, 
and some of those preparations of wine 
called Wermuth, particularly two sorts, de- 
nominated Palunia and Tropfwermuth. The 
exact process of forming the latter is a se- 
cret ; but the former is prepared by putting 
together fresh grapes, wormwood, bruised 
mustard-seed, and several spices in layers, in 
a cask, pouring old wine over the whole, 
and closing the cask firmly. In a few 
weeks, the liquor is fit for use; but, As it 
will not keep above a year at the utmost, 
though much esteemed, it seldom forms an 
article of commerce. 

The vineyards of M6nes, have been de- 
scribed at some length, by Dr. Lubeck.* 
Their produce is a sweet red wine ; and as 
the Tokay is not entirely the produce of the 
mountain of that name, so the M6nescheris 
not only obtained from M^nes, an inconsi- 

* Hungarian Miscellany. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 125 

derable village, but from the whole extent 
of a chain of hills, nearly covered with 
vines and villages towards the descent. In 
some parts, these hills are so steep, that 
when heavy rains set in, large tracts of 
ground are often carried away, and the la- 
bour of many years is destroyed in a few 
minutes. The rock of the whole of this 
chain is clay slate. The labourers and inha- 
bitants of this country, are almost entirely 
Walachians ; the cultivation of the vine is 
their principal occupations, and even women 
and children labour in it, either for them- 
selves, for their lords, or for hire. 

Plums are here cultivated to a consider- 
able extent, — that is to say, the trees are 
planted, and the fruit gathered. From these 
the peasants generally themselves manufac- 
ture the well-known damson brandy. In 
the vineyards are seen many cherry-trees, 
apricot, peach, and almonds; and in the 
valleys, the filbert. On the borders, and in 
the divisions of the vineyards, they plant 
culinary vegetables, particularly the beet 
and carrot, which thrive well. 

The vineyards are held by the peasantry 
on the usual tenure, giving a ninth and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 HUNOARIAN WINES. 

a tenth of the wine produce to the landlord, 
and two florins for each still for preparing 
spirit, with some other small dues. The 
Ausbruchs, and the M&slds, pay no tenths. 
Much care is bestowed on the cultivation of 
the vineyards, because the lord has the 
right of taking them away from such as 
neglect them, and giving them to others. 
Most of these vineyards belong to persons 
who do not reside upon the spot, but who 
have houses for their wine-presses, and for 
temporary residence, which they occupy 
from the beginning of October, to the end 
of November; during which time, balls, 
amusements, parties of pleasure, and fire- 
works, add to the gaiety of the season. The 
proprietor employs a peasant to keep his 
house, and superintend the vineyard; his 
usual pay is at least 30 gulden^ 1 stem of 
salt, 2 pair of shoes, a large cloak, lock- 
ing, and wood, besides his common allow- 
ance as a workman, when he labours in the 
vineyard. 

The finest grape is the Hungarian Blue, 
with a thin skin, which yields a very sweet 
reddish-coloured juice. Almost as soon as 
it is ripe, the watery parts begin to evapo- 



d by Go ogle 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 127 

rate, and the grapes shrivel, whence they 
are called TrockenbeereUy — these are fit for 
making Ausbruch. The culture resembles 
that of other vineyards ; but one rule, which, 
Dr. Lilbeck observes, " and daily expc- 
^^ rience confirms, is, that in proportion as 
^^ the soil is poor and stony, and the vine 
*^ feeble, the fruit and wines, though small 
^^ in quantity, become more excellent in 
" their quality." 

When the season for gathering the grape 
arrives, all the wine-presses and casks are 
cleansed ; for remedjring the defects of new 
oak casks, nothing has been found more 
efficacious than a decoction of the vine leaf. 
Every thing being prepared, the labourers, 
accompanying their work with songs, or the 
well-known note of the bag-pipe, conimence 
the vintage. The vine-gatherers stand in 
ranks, one hundred men and children, old 
and young, freeing the vines from their 
bonds, and collecting the grapes into wooden 
troughs, or pails ; behind them follows the 
Weinzedlevy watching that no grapes are 
left ungathered. The Trockenbeeren are ga- 
thered, picked, and re-picked with extreme 
care, those which are dead, rotten, or in- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 HUNGARIAN WINES. 

jured by insects, being separated from the 
sound fruit; as bad grapes, or other sub- 
stances liable to ferment, would spoil the 
whole. Frequently, where the peasantry 
possess vineyards, the Trockenbeeren grapes 
become articles of speculation ; and when- 
ever they are offered for sale, there is a great 
competition of purchasers. 

The vintage generally terminates early in 
November, but sometimes later, when frost 
or snow bespeaks the approach of winter. 
The vines are then cut, the prunings carried 
away, and the poles are removed; after 
which, the whole vine-stock, with its 
branches laid along the ground, is covered 
one foot deep with earth, and thus the labour 
of the vineyard is brought to a close before 
the snow falls. The process of covering up 
the vines, is only partially adopted; and, 
" indeed," observes Dr. Liibeck, "it appears 
" very doubtful, whether any material ad- 
" vantage is derived from this practice; for, 
" it seems, that the vine is as capable as 
" other plants of withstanding the winter 
" frosts ; and, by its remaining uncovered, 
" the cultivator is able to commence the 
" operation of pruning earlier in the spring." 



d by Go ogle 



ITALIAN WINES. 



It has been pertinently remarked, by a 
popular writer, that " a vineyard, associated 
" as it is with all our ideas of beauty and 
" plenty, is, in general, a disappointing ob- 
" ject. In France, the vines are trained 
" upon poles, seldom more than three or 
" four feet in height; and the * pole-clipped 
" * vineyard' of poetry, is not the most in- 
" yiting of real objects. In Spain, poles for 
** supporting vines are not used ; but cut- 
" ting^ are planted, which are not permitted 
" to grow very high, but gradually form 
" thick and stout stocks. In Switzerland, 
" and in the German provinces, the vine- 
" yards are as formal as those of France. 
" But in Italy is found the true vine of 
" poetry, surrounding the stone cottage with 
" its girdle, flinging its pliant and luxuriant 
K 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



130 ITALIAN WINES. 

" branches over the rustic viranda, or twin- 
" ing its long garland from tree to tree."* 
It was the luxuriance and beauty of her 
Tines, and her olives, that tempted the rude 
people of the north to pour down upon h^ 
fertile fields : — 

The prostrate south to the destroyer yields 
Her boasted tithes, and her golden fields ; 
With grim delight, the brood of winter view 
A brighter day, and heavens of azure hue. 
Scent the new fragrance of the breathing rose, 
And quaff the pendant vintage as it grow8.f 

Associated too as Italy is with all the 
classic lore of mythology, where 

Sweet is the vintage, when the showering grapes, 

In bacchanal profusion reel to earth 
Purple and gushing : sweet are our escapes, 

From civic revelry to rural mirth,^ 

we might reasonably expect to find the 
choicest wines among the produce of her 
delightful clime. Yet, such is not the case ; 
for, in proportion as nature has been more 
bountiful here than in other countries, have 
the culture of the plant, and the manufac- 
ture of the wine, been neglected by the indo- 
lence of the people. The vines are left to 

* The Alpenstock, by C.J. Latrobe, 1829. 
f Gray. J Lord Byron. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 131 

luxuriate amidst fences, or the boundaries 
of fields, and this rude growth supplies the 
Italian peasant with sufficient wine for his 
own consumption. Even where cultivation 
is attempted,the vine appears to be a second- 
ary object ; the road in some parts of Italy 
being bordered with vine-branches, drawn 
in festoons from elm to elm, not only bound- 
ing the enclosures, but traversing them in 
lines so near to each other, that, in Eng- 
land, nothing could grow beneath, but rank 
and rushy grass. Here, however, are sown 
grain, or artificial grasses, and various sorts 
of garden vegetables ; the shade of Italy 
being as productive as the sunshine of Eng- 
land. Again, such pictures of neglect as 
the following, are by no means rare among 
the delights of an Italian villa: — ^'^ There 
" was a long trellis, over which vines were 
** trained ; under this was a walk, but the 
*^ place was so suffocating, that it was not 
** worth while to desire the gardener to 
" clear away the weeds, with which, as they 
" hindered not the ripening of the grapes, 
" he allowed the walk to be encumbered."* 

* Three Years in Italy, 1829. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



182 ITALIAN WINES; 

The system of txaining the vine to pol- 
lard elms is not, however, general throughr 
out Italy. . In Lombardy, the Campagna, 
and other provinces, it is raised on poles or 
trellises, but still allowed to luxuriate ; aad 
it is only in a few districts, as in the Neapo- 
litan kingdom, and Piedmont, that the 
vines are pruned and trained, as in France 
and Spain. Some of the more experienced 
growers in Italy, have, for years past, adopt- 
ed the plan of binding and protecting their 
vines with iron wire : latterly, this system 
has been applied by Dr. Fischer, of Comem- 
burg, in Austria, not only to the vine, but 
to fruit-bearing trees in general, as a means 
of encouraging their growth and fructifica- 
tion ; and as a substitute for annular inci-. 
sion* 

* He recommends that the tree should be bound 
with iron wire, on the very spot where the incision 
has been usually made ; that the wire should be 
tightly drawn two or three times round the trunk 
or stem, and then that both ends should be twisted 
together : the operation must be performed in win- 
ter, particulai-ly in the month of February, befoi'e 
the sap has begun to circulate. The ligature is to 
be applied to Sbe branches of young shrubs, from 
which fruit is derived, and is to be removed in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 133 

• The culture of the vine, in some parts of 
the Appenines, is, however, conducted with 
great care ; and, as well as the general cul- 
tiyation of the district, deserves mention. 
At the commencement of each ascent, vines 
are dressed on terraces, cut in the side of 
the hill ; wheat being sown between every 
two rows of vines t above these, there fre- 
quently is an olive-garden ; and on the more 
elevated parts of the hill, are chestnuts. 

Neither the culture of the vine, nor the 
making, nor keeping of wine, appear to be 
perfectly understood in Italy ; and the supe- 
riority of the climate, and luxuriance of the 
plant, render the erroneous methods adopted 
by the peasantry still more to be lamented. 
The classical mode of marrying the vine to 
the elm, overshadows too much of its fruit. 
" Yet," observes a recent tourist, " the wine 
" of Asti, in Piedmont, of Orvieto, in the 
" Roman territory, and that of Naples, — 
** which I would rather call Vesuvian, these 

sammer, after the bloom is off, and at the time when 
the fruit is beginning to expand. This may be 
done every year, taking due cai-e to change the 
spot; and instead of iron-wire, a small hempen 
rope, steeped in oil, may be used. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



134 ITAXIAN WINES. 

'^ wines prove, that the Italian Peninsula, 
" through the whole length of it, produces 
" wine of excellent quality, and of aflayour 
" which will be approved oi by every taste 
*^ that is not spoiled by brandy^-mingled 
'^ adulterations. I do not mean to say, that 
" these wines are light or weak; on the con- 
" trary, they bear to be mingled with an 
'^ equal, or more than equal quantity of 
" water, — and are in that state a very plea- 
" sant beverage." 

" At Naples," observes the same intelli- 
gent traveller,* '^ I had tolerable Nostratep 
*' or vin du pays^ for five gramy or two-pence. 
'^ An Austrian officer of the army, told me 
" that he had drunk there very good wine 
'^ at two gram the bottle, less than one 
*^ penny ; not one of those diminutive bot- 
'^ ties, which are known in England to run 
'^ fifteen or eighteen to the dozen, but a £Bdr 
" honest quart — the quarter of a gallon. 
*•' Let not the incautious reader be misled by 
" the phrase, vm du pays^ — Claret, Bur- 
'^ gundy, and Champagne, are vins dupays 
^^ in Champagne and Burgundy, and on the 

* Mr. Best, author of '* Four Years in Italy." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 135 

'^ banks of the Graronne. In the cities, wine 
^^ is dearer than in the country, on account 
** of the expenses of transport and cellerage, 
" and duties paid at the entrance of towns ; 
" but, in Rome and Florence, 1 had wine 
" generally at from three-pence to four- 
" pence a bottle." 

We ought not, however, to visit the Ita- 
lians with too sweeping a censure of indo- 
lence : although, they manage the art of 
Tvine-making worse than any other coun- 
try. It is not uncommon to see the finest 
grapes mixed will those which are unripe 
and unsound, — the must put into dirty ves- 
sels, and the management often so badly 
conducted, that the wine will hardly keep 
a year or eighteen months. Other and more 
formidable obstacles, however, arise, in the 
petty acts of misgovemment which charac- 
terize the Italian states. These consist of 
certain impolitic laws, by which each state 
grows its own wine, and is cut off from the 
benefit of fair commercial intercourse with 
its neighbour, however advantageous a more 
liberal system might prove to the inhabit* 
ants of both districts* Mr. Stewart Rose, 
in his Tour through the North of Italy, met 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



136 ITALIAN WINES. 

with a striking instance of this unjust re- 
striction. — When at Arqua, being parched 
with thirst, he was directed to a little pub- 
lic-house, where he begged a tumbler of 
wine, and was presented with some, which 
might have passed for nectar. On asking 
the price, he was told it was three Yenetian 
soldi f equivalent to three-farthings of our 
money; yet, the poison produced by the 
plains of Padua cost five in that city. H^re, 
then, was a wine, which, if botded for two 
years, would be equal to the good white 
wines of Grascony, nearly confined to die 
Euganean hills ; though sold on the spot for 
little more than half the price, and only ten 
miles from Padua, with the facility of war 
ter-carriage for more than half the distance. 
On his return from Padua, Mr. Rose inquired 
if it was not possible to have a bottle oi 
this precious liquor. He was answered, 
" yes ! " and presented with a list oi foreign 
wines, and this amongst them, with the an- 
nexed price of two frcmcSf or nearly ten 
times as much as it cost at Arqua ; and this 
in consequence of the impediments thrown 
in the way of commerce, to which we have 
just alluded. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 137 

The inferiority of modern Italian wines, 
compared with the produce of the ancient 
country, renders the subject still more pain- 
ful. Thus, in vain shall we look for the 
" immortar* Falernian of Horace or Mar- 
tial, and the epithet of " indomitunC^ as- 
cribed to it by Persius, loses its applica- 
bility in the degeneracy of the wines of the 
present age. 

In Italy, wine is pretty generally drunk 
" without a drop of allaying Tyber in it." 
The juice of the grape does not receive 
much time to prepare it for its use ; nor 
is new wine, if made of that juice, and of 
nothing but that juice, by any means un- 
wholesome : indeed, Ludovico Cornaro, the 
noble Venetian who so wonderfully pro- 
longed his life by temperance, always found 
himself somewhat unwell during the two 
months preceding the vintage, which he at- 
tributes to the necessity of drinking wine 
too old for his constitution, as he always 
recovered his usual health when able to 
procure wine just pressed from the grape. 
This must be fatal to the prevailing pas- 
sion for old wine. 

* See page 22. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



138 ITALIAN WINES. 

Wine-making is, however, better under- 
stood in Tuscany than in any other of the 
Italian States. Redi, in his celebrated 
poem, ^' Bacco in Tosc'ana," exalts the Tus- 
can wines with pardonable poetical license* 
Among these, the principal are luscious, 
sweet wines : the colour is not the least ex- 
traordinary ; one of them being of a beau- 
tiful purple colour, and another of a bright 
green. The manufacture is still but imper- 
fectly understood, or neglected, and the du- 
rability of Tuscan wines cannot be relied 
on : when properly managed, and put in 
flask or bottle, they may be kept for several 
years. The author of "Three Years in 
" Italy," says, " when at Tagliaferro, they 
" brought us wine in a large flask, con- 
" taining about three quarts, with a neck so 
^^ long and slender, that I wondered how, 
^^ when lifted up, it supported the weight 
^^ of its round belly. In such flasks wine 
^^ is kept ; the flask being filled up to the 
<< necX : a small quantity of oil is poured 
^^ in, which completely prevents all com* 
" munication with the air. When the wine 
" is wanted, a little bit of toe is inserted, to 
" draw off the oil, by capillary attraction.^' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 139 

Montifiascone, in the Papal States, pro- 
duces a Muscadel wine of such excellence, 
that a German traveller, a prelate, died 
from drinking it to excess. Siena likewise 
contains a memorial of similar import. In 
the church of the Holy Ghost, here, is an 
epitaph on a Bacchanalian, which displays 
" the ruling passion strong in death," as 
vividly as any hie jacet we ever met with. 
The epitaph has been noted in every 
tourist's book of our time, as well as of 
ages past: few of either, have, however, 
favoured us with a versified translation; 
but in a very scarce book, entitled, " Vari- 
" orum in Europa, &c. 1599, per Nathan 
" Christseus, Edit. Secun." we find the epi- 
taph and imitation, as follow : 

POTATORES. 

** Vina dabant vitam — Mortem mihi vini dedere 

Sobrius Auroram cernere non potui. 

Ossa merum sitium Vino consperge sepulcrum 

£t calice epoto — care Viator abi. 
Valete Potatores." 
Twas rosy wine, that juice divine, 

My life and joys extended ; • 

But death, alas ! has drain'd my glass. 

And all my pleasures ended. 
The social bowl, my jovial soul, 

Ere mom ne'er thought of quitting, 
A jolly fellow, his wine, till mellow. 

To leave is not befitting. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 ITALIAN WINES. 

My thirsty bones, oh ! spare their moaos, 

Cry out for irrigation, 
I pray, then o'er my grave you'll pour 

A copious libation. 

Then fill a cup, and drink it up. 

Pure wine, like niby glowing, 
This boon I pray, dear trav'ler pay. 

When from this tomb you're going. 

Topers farewell 1 where'er you dwell, 

May wine be most abounding, 
fie all your lays, of wine the praise, 

In Paeans loud resounding. 

Many interesting illustrations of the sim- 
plicity and amiable manners of the Italian 
peasantry are to be met with in their peri- 
odical festivals. Among these, one at 
Rome, little known to strangers, is well 
worth observation, from being a remnant of 
the ancient Saturnalia. It is celebrated on 
Sundays and Thursdays, during the month of 
October, on the Monte Gestaccio, at Rome. 
This hiU contains the public wine-vaults of 
the city, and from being composed of large 
fragments of pottery, between which the 
air constantly penetrates, is peculiarly fitted 
for nts present use, as an invariable and 
surprising coolness is preserved beneath 
its surface. On the hill, during the days 
already mentioned, tables are spread with 
refreshments; and hither on those days 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 141 

flock the whole population of Rome and its 
environs, to drink wine fi'esh drawn from 
the vaults beneath their feet. It is impos- 
sible to conceive a more enlivening picture 
than the summit of Monte Testaccio ex- 
hibits on this occasion. Groupes of pea- 
sants, arrayed in their gayest costume, are 
seen dancing the Saltarello ; some are 
seated in jovial parties round the tables; 
and others mingle with the upper ranks of 
Romans, who have their carriages at the 
foot of the hill, and stroll about to enjoy 
this festive scene. Bodies of cavalry and 
infantry parade to and fro, to preserve 
order ; while the pyramid of Caius Cestus, 
and the adjoining tombs of the Protestants, 
by forming a strong contrast to these Sa« 
tumalian rites, add interest to the picture.* 
The richness and fertility of the Cam- 
pagna of Rome are very prodigal,^ notwith- 
standing it is much neglected. In the en- 
virons of Poli, however, almost all the 
manure is reserved for the vines. Slips 
stuck into the ground, take root, and on the 

* Pinelli constantly attends this festival, to 
study subjects for his chai'acteristic pencil. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



142 ITALIAN WINES. 

second year begin to bear fruit. As soon 
as they extend their branches for support, 
they are attached to maple trees. 

Tuscany, which maybe styled the paradise 
of Bacchus, would exhaust language to de- 
scribe its luxuriant and picturesque bctauty. 
Leigh Hunt, in the notes to his translaCion 
of " Bacco in Toscana,'' says, " The vines 
*^ of the south seem as if they were meant 
*^ to supply the waste of animal spirits oc- 
" casioned by the vivacity of the natives. 
" Tuscany is one huge vineyard and olive- 
^' ground. What would be fields and com- 
'^ mon hedges in England, are here a mass 
^^ of orchards, producing wine and oil, so 
^^ that the sight becomes tiresome in its 
" very beauty. About noon, all the Isr 
^^ bourers, peasantry, and small shop-keepers 
^^ in Tuscany, may be imagined takingtheir 
^' flask of wine. You see them all about 
" Florence fetching it under their arms. The 
^' effect is perceptible after dinner, though 
^^ no disorder ensues ; the wine being only 
'* just strong enough to move the brain 
^^ pleasantly, without intoxication : a man 
'^ can get drunk with it if he pleases ; but 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITAXIAN WINES. 143 

^ drunkenness is thought as great a irice 
" here, as gallantry is with us. 

" Neither Genoa, nor the country about it, 
^^ abounds in vines. But among the gigantic 
^^ houses, you now and then detect a garden ; 
" some of die windows have vines trained over 
*Hhem, not in the scanty fashion of our 
"creepers, but like great luxuriant green 
"hair hanging over the houses' eyes : and 
"sometimes the very highest stories have a 
" terrace along the whole length of the house 
"embowered with them. Calling one day 
"upon a gentleman who resided in an ele- 
"vated part of the suburbs, and to get at 
" whose abode I had walked through a hot 
"sun, and a city of stone, I was agreeably 
"surprised, when the door opened, with a 
"long yellow vista of an arcade of vines, and 
"at once basking in the sun, and defending 
"from it. In the suburbs there are some or- 
"chards in all the southern luxuriance of 
"leaves and fruit. In one of these I walked 
" among heaps of vines, olives, cherry, orange, 
" and almond trees. Next the orchard, was a 
^^ wine-garden^ answering to our tea-gardens, 
"with wine-ai*bours and seats, as with us, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 ITALIAN WINES. 

"where people come to drink wine and play 
"at their games." 

At Naples, the vines are still supported 
by young elms, as in the time of Virgil. 
The principal wines of the Neapolitan ter- 
ritory, are three sweet species, the most 
celebrated of which is the Lacryma Christi, 
a red wine of great richness, but seldom 
\a be obtained genuine, little of it being 
made, and that for the stores of royalty.* 



* Lacryma is not, however, always held in such 
high estimation, as the following anecdote (some- 
what broad) related by Angelo, me fencing-master, 
will prove. The naarator sa^s : 

" I cannot avoid mentiomng an anecdote that a 
" duke related to me, some years ago, on his return 
" from Italy."—" When I was at Naples, Sir 
" William Hamilton had a cassina at Portici, 
" some little distance from Mount Vesuvius, as he 
" was in the habit of approaching the crater as 
" near as he could venture. He often took up his 
" residence there expressly for that purpose, and 
" was engaged on one occasion that haa particu- 
" larly attracted his attention. I was left alone 
" to dine with Lady Hamilton and her mother, 
" who had followed her from England. In the 
" course of conversation, after dinner, when speak- 
" ing of the excellence of the Lacryma Chrhti, 
" a famous Italian wine, the mother ejaculated — 
'' ' Oh ! as how I had but some English gin here.' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 145 

These wines grow on the volcanic soil of 
the vicinity of Vesuvius. 

The cultivation of the vine in the south 
of Italy, is conducted with great care, and 
its advantageous results are very evident. 
A recent traveller, in his journey from Bar- 
lotta to Otranto, says, " Among the vines, 
^^ the hoe is the instrument in use: at this 
** season, (Fehruary) the earth is collected 
^^ into pyramidal heaps, and the roots laid 
** almost bare. The vine is cut within two 
" feet of the ground, and the excellence of 
** produce shows the utility of the practice. 
** In the north of Italy, where the vines are 
*' trained in sweeping festoons from tree to 
" tree, the wines are almost invariably thin 
** and subacid." 



*' The duke^ who luckily had taken some with him, 
*' directly forwarded his servant to his hotel at Na- 
" pies, for it. At his return, the madre, delighted 
** with the vero gusto, by her frequent tasting, did 
*' not a little convince his Grace of the improve- 
*' ment the juniper berry had upon the vulgar 
" tongue, (in wich she particularly excelled) 
" and the glass increasing, she said, ' she had not 
'' * never enjoyed the aood creature (gin) since 
•" ' she left England ; it was far betterer than all 
*' ' your outlandish wines.'" 

L 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



146 irrALlAN Wl^ES. 

' The wine along; the southern coast is ex- 
cellent. The best is red, and not niilike our 
Port, and costs about two-pence a flagon. 

Sicily produces wine in great abundance, 
although the economy or management of 
the vintage is on the same neglectful sys- 
tem as in part of Italy. To the excellence 
of the Sicilian wines, the territories of 
Syracuse and Messina have hitherto borne 
tribute. We learn from Fliny, that the 
Roman emperors had a custom of intro- 
ducing in ttieirfites the four superior kinds 
of wines: these were the Falemian, pro- 
duced near Naples, the Greek wines of the 
Islands of Chios and Lesbos, and that 
called Mamertinum, from the immediate 
vicinity of Messina. 

The greater part of the site of the ancient 
Syracusa is now covered with rich Yine- 
yards, the walls of which are built with 
broken marble, full of engravings and in- 
scriptions, but most of them spoiled and de- 
faced. The different wines of this district, 
are, generally speaking, extremely fine^ and 
some of them truly delicious, especially the 
Calabrese, a wine made from a grape ori- 
ginally from Calabria, of a bright red co- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 147 

lour^and possessing a yery agreeable flavour : 
Ae Moscatello is likewise a very superior 
wine, of a delicate flayour and rich amber 
eoloury and is : generally introduced in the 
dessert. A recent traveller says, " During 
" one of our interviews with the Sigfnor 
^ Landolina Nava, he presented' us with a 
" bottle of wine that was very pi^table, 
*^ which, he stated, his father, the Cavaliere, 
^^ had made from the direction^ laid down 
" by Hesiod and Homer. It is generally sup- 
^^ posed that the ancients made from these 
" same directions the wine used in the ce- 
" lebration of the sacred festivals of their 
" gods."* :' 

We conclude this portion of oursulgect, 
by quoting a few observations from a source 
already recognised, on the policy of an ex- 
tended introduction of Italian wines to this 
country. Where so much is done by fashion, 
the suggestions of an individual are perhaps 
not likely to obtain ; but this does not de- 
tract from their point and usefulness. 

" The whole of Italy is much more conve- 
** veniently situated for the exportation of 

* Russell's Tour through Sicily, 1815. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



148 ITALIAN WINES. 

^ wine, than are the ancient provinces of 
^ Champagne and Burgondj, whence the 
'' wine mast he sent hy some land carriage, 
^ and a long tract of inland water-carriage, 
'^ to the sea-port : no part of Italy is far from 
** the sea, except a part of Lombardy and 
" Piedmont ; which, however, are watered 
" by the Po, and its tributaries.* 

* Three Years in Italy. 

" At Avignon," says the aathor, " I was in 
" treaty for some wine of an excellent vineyard 
" and good vintage ; I did not huy it, because the 
*' quantity was more than I could want during my 
" stay there : the agent of the proprietor, who thus 
" realized his rents from his land, told me that he 
" should send the wine to Paris. ' By what route?* 
" ' Up the Rhone and Soane, — ^and by the canal 
" ' that unites the Soane and the Seine/ — ' At how 
" ' much will it be sold at Paris?* — ' About a franc 
" ' a bottle.* This portage, almost from one end 
'' of France to the other; this carriage by water, 
" for a great pait of it against an adverse and a 
" strong current, did not much more than double 
" the price of a cheap and heavy article ; for, I had 
" the offer of the wine at eight sous the bottle; but, 
" had it been destined for London, it would have 
" been sent down the Rhone, and to Marseilles. 
" This port, and the ports of Italy, are further from 
" England than Oporto and Bordeaux ; but dis- 
" tance would add very little to the expense of the 
'' transport of wine once shipped.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 149 

" As a protecting duty for oar nostrala — 
*^ strong beer, (for as a coal fire is the sun of 
^' England, so ale is our vin du pays) let a 
^^ hundred per cent, ad valorem^ be paid by 
" every gallon of foreign wine imported into 
" England ; and, I believe, we might get 
" good wine into our cellars, at little more 
" than the price of ale." The writer then 
alludes to the price of wine being increased 
by long keeping, and says, that ^^ a family 
" man, who drinks his own wine, in France, 
^^ generally begins to drink in the spring 
** the wine of the preceding vintage; that is, 
" household wine, of the same quality as 
" that usually imported." Next, we may 
add, that a bottle of Bordeaux, which may 
be bought even in Paris for a franc, will 
cost the purchaser in London, from d«. to 
3«. M. This, however, only applies to the 
ordinaire^ or inferior wine, as we have al- 
ready shown, in the case of fine Claret. We 
concur with the writer, in regretting that 
we are deprived, by mere fiscal regulations, 
of the pleasures of table-wine, at a cheap 
rate; and, that, ^^ instead of bringing home 
*^ the wines that gladdened the heart, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



160^ ITALIAN WINES. 

^ inspired the genius of Anacreon^ — axui the 
** wines produced on the island, that was the 
" very cradle of the jolly god — the wines of 
^* Chios and of Naxos ; instead of the wines 
^' of Italy, which contented the masters of 
'' the world; instead of searching alou^ all 
** the shores of the Mediterranean for what 
'' might gratify our taste ; we should con- 
** fine ourselves to one country, which, in 
^^ this Tespect, has no advantage oyer other 
^ countries, hut a treaty of commerce ; and 
^* that instead of encouraging cc^npetition, 
*^ and in consequence, cheapness, we should 
*^ give almost the monopoly of our market, 
'* to a strip of land, in which, though any 
" quantity of wine may he madey yet, of 
^* which it is sometimes said, the natural 
^' product would be insufficient to the supply 
'* of London only. Of the drinkers in Eng- 
^ land, not one in a hundred drinks wine; 
^ of the wine-drinkers,notoneinahun<ked 
** drinks any wine but Port." 

Before the suggested change can take 
plaee, considiMfable improvement must^ be 
effected in the manufacture of the wines of 
Italy : t^is, however, is no more than was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITALIAN WINES. 151 

done by the first wine-settlers in Portugal. 
We know that excellent wine is commonly 
drunk in Italy, but it is not always the pro- 
duce of that country. A recent tourist, 
writing from Genoa, says — ^^ An excellent 
'^ light wine accompanied our repast ; drunk, 
^ not in little cautious glasses, like our hot 
** intoxicating liquor, but out of tumblers. It 
^' was just threepence, English, a quart! It 
^ had, notwithstanding its lightness, a real 
** vinous body, and both looked and tasted 
" like a sort of claret , but, we were sorry to 
" find it was French, and not Italian."* 

The substance of these remarks, is as ap- 
plicable to the wines of France as to those 
of Italy. When we consider how much the 
ingenuity of art has contributed towards the 
superiority of French wines, and thus ad- 
yanced the growers to the rank of the first 
wine-makers in the world, we the more sen- 
sibly regret that the luxuriant bounty of 
Nature, in other parts of the continent, 
should be so inadequately appreciated; an 
evil which we have to point out, more or 
less, in almost every other wine-country. 

* Letters from Abroad, in " the Liberal." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



152 ITALIAN WINES. 

The mode in which the wine-trade of 
Florence is carried on, deserves mention. — 
Wine is sold in almost all the palaces, not 
wholesale, but in single botdes ! A small 
arched opening, not exceeding eighteen or 
twenty inches, jast large enough to admit a 
flask, with a door and knocker, may be seen 
in the front of the building, generally 
near the principal entrance. Nothing can 
appear more ridiculous than the hand put- 
ting out the flask of wine, while a carriage 
is driving up in great stat^ with princes and 
princesses. The wine is of various quali- 
ties, from a penny to five-pence a bottle, — 
containing nearly a quart. "At present, 
" the best wine is sold at the Corsini par 
"kce."* 

The island of Elba appears to be espe- 
cially adapted for the vine. The heat of the 
sun, the variety of soil, mountains, which 
afi'ord, by their elevation, all the necessary 
degrees of temperature, — and actual expe- 
rience, corroborate this opinion. Mr. Wil- 
liams, who travelled there in 1817, says, — 
" Already, the annual produce may be esti- 

* Williams's Travels. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ELBESE WINES. 153 

'' mated at 60,000 casks of the best quality, 
*^ containing about ten gallons each, with 
'^ about 500,000 barrels of the common wine, 
" The best wines are the Bianillo and Alea- 
" tico, red; the Muscat, both red and white; 
" the Riminese, white. A Champagne, of 
" superior flavour, is made of the Procanico 
" grape, — and of the Muscat, before it is 
" dried in the sun, which is necessary, pre- 
^^ vious to the manufacture of the Muscat 
" wine. We have drunk Aleatico, equal to 
" the best Constantia. We mentioned our 
^* doubts of its keeping sound for any length 
" of time, and were told, that the common 
^* wine had been sent to Holland, had been 
^' returned, and again sent back ; and at the 
'^ end of eighteen months, seemed a different 
" and superior sort of wine, and this without 
" brandy. The wine called Bischillato, has 
" been exported to America. Proprietors 
" are now beginning to manufacture with a 
'^ degree of care and choice in the selection 
" of the grapes, which promises a variety of 
" very excellent wines, if the encourage- 
^' ment of a market can be found. 

" They begin to cultivate their new vine- 
" yards in December, and continue their 
" labour through January and February. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 ELBESE WINES. 

** About seyen hundred peasants go annually 
'^ in the end of September fix>m Lucca, to 
'^ assist in the vintage and culture chiefly of 
** wines, the population of Elba being at 
** present inadequate. These peasants re* 
*^ turn to Lucca on the first of May. Their 
*^ hire is a certain quantity of coarse bread, 
^* and a little wine daily, with their bed, 
'^ implements, and about twenty-five patdsy 
^^ or about twelve shillings a month. The 
'' Elbese are better fed: each labourer re- 
'^ ceives about two j^at^ a day, two ancho- 
'^ vies at breakfast; at dinner^ two ancho- 
'^ vies, or stock-fish, with beef-soup ; and 
'^ again in the evening, two anchovies, as at 
'^ breakfietst, and one bottle of common wine. 
** They bring their own bread, and furnish 
** their own implements, and work from 
^* daylight till twenty minutes after sun- 
" set. 

'^ £ight men, thus fed, will clear and 
^^ plant in a week tm cento di mgna^ contain- 
'^ ing 600 vine-plants. The vineyard is in 
^^ its perfection in the fifth year, when, if 
^^ the season be tolerable, and the soil good, 
'^ a cento of vines will produce, at an ave- 
*^ rage, from twelve to fourteen barrels, 
^^ worth, according to its quality, from ten 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ELBESE WINES. 155 

" to fifteen patUs: * Piu vecchia le vitepiu 
" ^ forte U vino ;' — ^ the older the grapes, the 
'^ ^ richer the vine/ is the maxim ; and at 
" Procchio, the vines are of one hundred 
" and fifty years growth. The best hiUs 
" front to the sun — ^red stony ground being 
** always the most suitable. In the Talleys, 
" the produce is one half greater ; but the 
" wine will not keep. At Campo, for ex- 
'^ ample, the common wine falls o£f in nine 
^^ months. The Muscato grape is exposed 
'^ twenty days to the sun, after it has been 
" gathered bunch by bunch. 

*^ The land is leased out to the peasants, 
" for a portion of the produce ; a half, a 
'^ fourth, or a fifth, according to the quality 
'^ of the soil. A fifth seems to be the more 
'^ frequent proportion, and hence the te- 
^ nants, who hold fieirms of this extent, are 
^' called Quintazoli. By law, the tenant 
^^ cannot conunence the vintage without the 
^^ landlord's permission ; the value of the 
" landlord's part, and the quality of the 
'^ wine, depending materially on the time of 
^' gathering.*'* 

* Travek in Italy, Greece, &c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 



These growths include not only the 
wines of Modem Greece, hut of the Ionian 
Islands. A few of these are entitled to es- 
pecial mention, although their number will 
preclude our entering into all their varie- 
ties. 

The climate and geological structure of 
nearly the whole of Greece, may he consi- 
dered congenial to the vine ; yet, from erro- 
neous modes of culture, in some degree, but 
more from injudicious manufacture, the pre- 
sent wines are not entitled to very high rank. 
It must, however, be conceded, that much 
of this neglect has been occasioned by the 
oppression of the Turks ; and to account for 
this, the reader need only recal to his me- 
mory a few of the scenes of warfare, which 
so long distracted this unhappy country. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 157 

These hostilities being now at an end, and the 
political affairs of Greece in a fair way for 
adjustment, it is reasonable to hope that in 
proportion as the internal resources of the 
country become improved, the manufacture 
of wines may hereafter become an important 
branch of the commerce of the Greeks ; in- 
asmuch as the fertility and variety of the 
soil afford every encouragement for renewed 
industry. 

The mode of cultivating the vine differs 
in various districts. In some places, the 
plants are cut and pruned, whilst in others 
the vine is left to luxuriate in hedges, or 
entwine round poplars ; and a traveller, in 
noticing this profusion, says, — " under this 
" voluptuous drapery, the mendicants take 
" their stations ; yet, strange to say, leave 
" the fruit untouched." At Barout, the 
vines " are grown on the mountains ; they 
" are very small, and the peasants buiy 
" them in the ground till the warm season."* 
The Zante currant, or the raisin de C<h 
rinthCf is extensively cultivated along the 
Gulphs of Lepanto and Salamis, where it 

* Turner's Tour in the Levant. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



158 GREEK WINES. 

has usurped the fields formerly employed in 
the raising of tobacco. Zante produces an- 
nually about 8,000,000 pounds of curraiits, 
almost the whole of which are shipped for 
England.^ The fruit there called uv(ppa89a» 
ot passolifia^ was introduced into the island 
from Corinth, about two hundred and fifty 
years since. The plant succeeded so well, 
that the greatest part of Zante, where for- 
merly the com required for home consump- 
tion was grown, was gradually given up for 
their cultivation; and Dr. Mtdler, who 
travelled here in 1S21, says the idand now, 
in good years, produces between twelve imd 
thirteen million pounds of these grapes; or 
in common years, between ten and eleven 
millions. ' The vine is low, and ' requires 
seven or eight years before it begins to best 
properly; but, it lasts for centuries: and 
Dr. Mailer was shown some plants said to 

* Williams s Travels, 1820.— Mr. Emerson, in 
his " Picture of Greece, in 1822," says — " Arem- 
" nant of this may be said to be the only trade at 
" present remaining in Greece." — ^The quantity of 
cmrants annually imported into England, prin- 
cipally from the Ionian Islands, is about six tnoa- 
sand tons. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 159 

be two hundred years old. The grapes are 
about the size of our garden currants^ with 
a little acidity, which improires their flar 
Vourw The fruit, when gathered, is spread 
on the ground to dry for fourteen days ; and 
'* at this season," (latter end of March,) says 
Idr. Williams, " one heavy shower would 
^ destroy the hopes of the harvest; and a 
^ passing doud, will -darken every counte- 
^ nance in Zante." If 'the rain continues, 
all precaution is useless : -the grapes begin 
to rot, and must be thrown away, without 
even saving k small quantity foi^ the ciattle. 
The currant-trade is almost entirely tn^ the 
hands of the English ; for the careless and 
lazy Neapolitans and Sicilians, who take so 
little concern about their excellent wines, 
would not be fit for the cultivation of the 



1ji other parts of Greece, the vine is fre- 
quently made to entwine on trellises, around 
a wall ; where, in the heat of the day, whole 
fSeunilies collect themselves, and sit under 
the shade. Chateaubriand describes the 
vines as constituting the riches of Corinth, 
and giving a fresh and fertile appearance to 
the country:—" they do not climb in fes- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



160 GREEK WINES. 

" toons upon trees, as in Italy, nor are they 
" kept low as in the vicinity of Paris. Each 
^ root forms a detached verdant bush, round 
^^ which the grapes hang, in autumn, like 
" crystals." 

The wines of Candia and Cyprus were 
formerly celebrated throughout Europe ; yet, 
since these islands have been under the do- 
mination of the Turks, their trade and cele- 
brity have materially decreased. In Candia, 
or Crete, the manufacture of wines was ex- 
tensively carried on in the monasteries. In 
the convent of Arcadi, built with the ruins 
of the ancient Arcadia, Toumefort reckoned 
about two hundred monks employed in the 
labours of the field and vineyard. Sieber, 
who was at Crete in 1817, found only twelve 
monks at Arcadi. " They have," says he, 
" very fine and roomy cellars, and the best 
^ wine in the whole island, which is called 
" after the village of Malivisi. When the 
'^ Venetians were masters of the island, 
" great quantities of this wine were produced 
*^ about Rettimo and Candia, and it was 
'^ made by boiling in large coppers, as I 
*^ myself observed in this convent ; but it is 
" now very scarce, only a little being made 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 161 

'^ at Arcadi, the Tineyards of which lie very 
'^ high, and produce the finest grapes. The 
'^ best is sold at the convent at 18 piastres^ 
" or AJhrim, the barrel of 18 gallons." The 
dotnain of the convent extends to the foot 
of Mount Ida, and in the valley of Rettimo, 
nearly to the sea. This wine is a rich malm- 
sey. Dr« Henderson also speaks of an 
agreeable claret firom the vineyards of Kis- 
sanos, in Candia, and a fine flavoured white 
wine firom those of Rettimo. 

Cyprus produces several varieties of red 
and white wine. The exportation is prinr 
cipally to Venice, the Black Sea, and parts 
of Turkey. The celebrity of the old red 
wine of Cyprus is not yet forgotten.* The 



"^ Vin de Chvpre is a splendid item in the cartes 
of some of the leading restaurateurs at Paris, where 
it is sold at the rate of two or three francs a glass. 
This, howeyer, is only an imitation of Cyprus 
wine, and the mode of preparing it is thus given 
hy the Bibliotheque Physico-Economiqtte. To ten 
quarts of syrup of elder-herries, add 80 pints of 
water. Press the herries gently, and add 2 oz. gin- 
ger, and 2 oz. cloves ; hoil these together for an 
hour. After skimming it well, pour it into a ves- 
sel, and add 1| Ih. hruised grapes, which are to be 
left in it until the wine has acquired a fine colour. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 GBEEK WINES. 

choicest wine of the present day, is the Com- 
manderia, — so called from the district in 
which it is made (between Limesole, Baffo, 
and Sta. Croce,) forming part of the Com- 
mandery of the Knights Templars. Great 
part of the commonest red wine is consumed 
in the island, for drinking, and making 
rackecy (weak, white brandy.) Both this, 
and a white muscadine, are brought from 
the villages in skins tarred inside, whence 
they acquire a strong taste of tar.' The lat- 
ter is a rich dessert wine ; the common 
white wine is very good, and not very sweet; 
and after being kept two or three years, will 
fetch the price of Commanderia. Turner 
says, ^^ The best white wine in the island is 
'^ made on the mountains near Limesole. At 
** Barout, the next port to Cyprus, the grapes 
" produce twenty different sorts of wine, 
^^ each village producing a variety. No wine 
'^ is, however, made in Barout; or indeed 
^^ admitted into the walls avowedly, and all 



This is nothing more than good elder-wine^ which 
any English housekeeper understands making. 
The price and the name are, however, well pro- 
portioned. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 163 

^' that is drunk is smuggled in, which the 
" authorities wink at. They make also a 
** kind of honey from the grapes, very lus- 
^^ cious, and the rest are dried for home con- 
** sumption."* 

The wines of Zante are deserredly much 
esteemed. The white, in particular, is dry, 
high-flavoured, and of a strong body : after 
the first season, it keeps for any number of 
years. One of these, a rich muscadine, 
when old, equals the best Sicilian wine in 
strength and taste. The common red and 
white wines are also sweet, but they are 
very heady ; which quality the owners in- 
crease by artificial admixtures, the Zantiotes 
being very fond of strong wines. From the 
ptissolina, a wine is also made, which is 
oily, very strong, and a fine stomachic cor- 
dial. It is made from the grape, after it 
has been dried for four or five days, and par- 
tially protected from the sun. When the 
grapes are crushed, one-third of water is 
added; nevertheless, the wine is thick, and 
of a dark colour ; but when in the cask, it 
becomes finer. Dr. Muller states the quan- 

* Turner s Tour in the Levant. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



164 GREEK WINES. 

dty of wine grown in Zante, at 8^000 casks 
annually. 

Ithaca produces delicious wines, ^^as lns- 
** cious as the bee's nectareous dew.'* Mr. 
Williams ranks Ithaca ^^ at the head of the 
^* seven islands, perhaps of all Greece, for 
** its wine. The red Ithaca wine is excel- 
" lent, superior to that of Tenedos, the 
^^ Greek wine which it most resembles ; but 
^^ it is generallj much injured, sometimes 
^ spoiled, bj the injudicious maimer in 
^' which it is kept. In the possession and 
^ management of the British commandants 
^^ at Cephalonia and Ithaca, we found it a 
^^ delightful wine, with a Hermitage flavour, 
^' and a good sound body. The great diffi- 
^^ culty in bringing the wines of these is- 
^^ lands into commerce, when they are to be 
^^ sent a distant voyage, arises from the want 
^' of brandying them sufficiently to make 
"them keep."* 

At Rhodes, wine is so abundant that 
great quantities are exported. Its flavour 
is sharp, with a little sweetness. 

The town of Cos, in the island of that 

* Travels in Greece, &c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ORSEK WINES. 165 

name^ is xtearly sujrrbimded \^ith yineyardd. 
Samoa produces great quantities of grapes, 
wldch: are made into red and white wines : 
ibe red. is sharp^tasted, with a tolerable 
body ;. the White wine^ which is cdiebrated, 
is rather toor sweet, but that goes off with 
time. It is extraordinary, that the wine of 
Samos^ now so esteemed,^ should have been 
in such bad; repute among the ancients.* 

He sweet white wine of the island of Tino, 
h famous through the Levant; and it also 
produces a red wine, which has an agree- 
able taste^ and a good body. 

Lampascui^ in the, sea of Marmora, was 
fenneriy celdinrated for itss- wine ; yet, it is 
no Ibnget Iftmous, although the vines are 
di>ui!idant^ and its environs display all the 
beautyi which: Nature has lavished in this 
delightful cHi&ate. The neighbourhood of 
Mi3^fe^o£di, ^ viUage not far from Lampas- 
cus^is thickly planned with vines ; and, in- 
ie^sS^JOO^t of the wine that is imported in 

* Lord Byton celebrates this wine, in his trans- 
hction of the inspiring Greek song : — 

Fill high, fill bighy with Samian wine. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



166 GREEK WINES. 

Constantinople is made here, though it aU 
goes by the name of Dardanelles wine. 

In a well-written narrative of a " Journey 
^ from Athens to Missolonghi," in a recent 
periodical work,* we remember to have 
read a description of the classic field of 
Leuctra being planted with vines. The 
season of the journey was in the autumn of 
the year 1822. "The country between 
" Plataea and Neochorio," says the writer, 
" is planted with vines to a considerable 
'' distance. The road leads over the field 
" of Leuctra, where Epaminondas achieved 
" his splendid victory over the Lacedemo- 
" nians. The grapes had been rip^^dready 
" for the last six weeks, but neither Greelu 
" nor Turks venture to gather them, for fear 
" of a surprise from the enemy. (The rea- 
" der will recollect the agitated state of 
" Greece at this period.) Among the vines, 
" the Turkish cavalry would have been of 
" little use. Still the Greeks did not think 
" proper to exert themselves for the sake of 
" the grapes, for the whole plain between 
" Chalcis and Thespise, was open to the 

* London Magazine^ Third Series. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GREEK WINES. 167 

*^ Turks. We waited till dark, at Plataea, 
^' from fear of an attack, if we ventured to 
" pass it in the day-time. We arrived be- 
" fore midnight at Neochorio, a village op- 
" posite to Thespise, on a steep hill. We 
" did not meet a single Turk, and I myself 
^^ laid in an ample stock of grapes, and felt 
*^ no other regret, but that I was not able 
" to carry them all away. They were deli- 
"^cious, of an exquisite flavour, and hang- 
" ing down from the vines so abundantly, 
^' as if imploring the stranger to come and 
" pluck them." 

The general adulteration of wine through- 
out Greece, remains to be noticed. The 
principal article for this purpose is rosin. 
Even at Athens, the practice is very general. 
Mr. Williams, in a note to his account of 
the city, tells us, that for a bottle of wine of 
the country, strongly impregnated taith rosin^ 
he paid threepence. " We never tasted this 
" ingredient so predominant as here. The 
^^ reason usually given for this practice, is, 
" that without rosin, the wine would not 
" keep. Dr. Chelli, a Roman physician, 
" attributes the custom to the knavery of 
" the Greeks, who, he said, used the rosin 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



168 GRBEK WINES. 

^' to prevent die discovery of this quantity of 
^^ water with which the wine is^dult^cafecL'' 
Mr. Turner likewise says, " The wine of the 
^^ Morea is positively undrinkable; for there, 
^' (and indeed generally , more or less, through 
^' Ghreece,) they mix with it such a quantity 
*^ of rosin, that the bittei: taste of that bitu- 
^' minous matter is completely substituted 
^^ for the original flavour." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RUSSIAN WINES. 



Whoever has rendered himself at all 
acquainted with the habits of Russian so- 
ciety, either by testimony^ or the journals of 
travellers, must be aware that a consider- 
able quantity of wine is annually consumed 
in that vast empire. Even the varieties 
that have been mentioned in the preceding 
pages, as exported to Russia, must have 
given the reader some intimation of the 
above fact.* The culture of the vine in this 

* At page 12, we have quoted a passage from 
Dr. GranviUe, the last traveller in Russia. The 
same gentleman, after describing the comestibles of 
a splendid entertainment at St. Petersburg, says — 
" He of the bottles thinks it high time to remind 
" you of such cordial beverages as Champagne, 
" Bui^ndy, Lafitte, Paxareta, Vin du Command- 
" eur, Johannisberg, de la Comete, and so on. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 RUSSIAN WINES. 

country, has consequently become an ob- 
ject of national importance ; and the success 
which has already attended the exertions 
made for this object, promises even much 
more favourable results. 

The scene of these fortunate operations, 
has been the southern district of Russia. 
In Moldavia, and on the left bank of the 
Pruth, a white grape, containing a great 
deal of carbonic acid, is advantageously cul- 
tivated. In the Crimea, especially at Sou- 
dak, vines are g^rown with very large ber- 
ries, often not less than plums. The vines 
of Spain and Languedoc, are successfully 
cultivated by a Frenchman, at Larci, near 
Balaklava. A white wine is produced on 
the banks of the Molotschna, which falls 
into the Don ; which wines are very well 
known in Moscow and Petersburgh, under 

" until you know not which choice to make. Mine 
" was the easiest task on such occasions, for I took 
" none, and I am the better for it : but the quantity 
" of Champagne that I saw drunk in St Peters- 
" burgh, actually astounded me. I feel confident, 
<' that there must be another Champagne countrv 
" somewhat nearer to Russia than the French 
'' Champagne, to supply what is actually con- 
" sumea of that wine." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RUSSIAN WINKS. 171 

the name of Don wines. There is a vine- 
yard near Astracan, which produces very 
good wine, the greater part of which is 
sent to the Imperial Court of Petersburg ; 
what is sold, produces a higher price than 
the wines of France. The north side of the 
Caucasus produces a wine of middling qua- 
lity, and in sufficient quantity for the inha«- 
bitants of these countries. 

The valley of Soudak, especially towards 
the east, is described as one of the most en- 
chanting scenes in the world; and America, 
Siberia, Italy, and the Caucasus, are said to 
offer nothing more delightful. So success- 
ful has the culture of the vine been in this 
district, that it is even thought Russia may, 
at no very distant period, produce wines 
enough in the Crimea for her own consump- 
tion. The first vineyards were planted there 
in the year 1804, at the suggestion of the 
celebrated naturalist, Pallas; the situation 
is named Gadjakol, in the territory of Kosi. 
Cuttings of vines are brought from France, 
Zante, Tenedos, the Rhine, Astrachan, and 
Kisliar; and two Frenchmen, the one a 
vine-dresser, and the other a farmer, were 
appointed to plant and manage them. Ten 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



172 RUSSIAN WINES. 

orphan pupils, from the military school of 
Cherson, were put under the care of these 
cultivators; government supplied the ne- 
cessary capital for every part of the under- 
taking^ and 28,000 vines were jdanted,— * 
which, in the year 1826, produced 1,500 
vedros of wine, of Hungary, Bordeaux, 
the Rhine, Asmanshausen, Muscat, Petit 
Bourgogne, Zante, and Kakour, of the best 
quality. 

A recent letter from Akerman, describes 
the vintage of the year 1827, as extremely 
favourable, — and presents us with the fol- 
lowing details : — 

^^ The autumn has been singidarly fiau 
'^ vourable for the vintage, and the wines id 
" this year are of an infinitely superior qoa- 
" lity to any we have yet nmde. The pio^ 
^^ duce is less abundant, but the prices are 
^' higher; so that the vineyards hove paid 
^^ better this year than the last. AdcordiBg 
^^ to a return made by the local authorities, 
^^ the whole produce of the vintage amounts 
" to 35,883 vedros of the country, or 44,797 
^^ common vedros, Russian measure. The 
^* vedro sells upon the spot, at from five to 
*^ seven piastres. The number of proprie- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RUSSIAN WINES. 173 

" tors of vineyards is now 278, the greater 
" number of them originally Greeks or Ar- 
-^ menians. 

" We must not, however, pass over in si- 
" lenee, the colonists that dwell in the vil- 
" lage of Schaha, about five toersts from this 
" town. This establishment was formed 
" about four years ago, by ten or twelve 
^^ Swiss families, who have transported to 
" this country, their active industry, and 
** their peaceful habits. The hills, which 
" they have planted with vines, border upon 
'^ the Litnan, and enjoy a most delightful 
" exposure. In a few years, this infant co- 
" lony has risen to a very remarkable degree 
^ of prosperity : upon the whole, it is with 
" satisfaction that we have lately observed 
" the culture of the vine making rapid pro- 
" gross in this country. Formerly, the plan- 
" tations were given up to chance ; now, the 
^^ ground is carefully fenced. Attempts have 
^^ been made to transplant the vines of 
" France and Hungary, and those of the 
*' Rhine. Lastly, presses have been built 
'^ upon models brought from abroad. 

^^ Amongst the establishments which pro- 
'^ mise to be most successful, may be men- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



174 RUSSIAN WINES. 

" tioned, those just formed by Messrs. Col- 
^^ lin and Krinitzky. The latter has, in 
*^ Bessarabia, made the first trial of a che- 
^ mical process, with a view to determine 
" the degree of fermentation developed by 
" the wine when it is first tanned. By 
^ means of this ingenious expedient* the 
" instant may be ascertained when the wine 
" can be bunged-up without danger to the 
'^ casks, from the action of fermentation. 
" The application of this method is so much 
^^ the more useful, that the wines of Aker- 
'* man possess, in some measure, the cream- 
" ing quality. The vineyard belonging to 
" the crown, produced this year more than 
" 32,000 bottles of wine." 

The chief production of Georgia is wine, 
which is of excellent quality, and so abun- 
dant in the countries situated between the 
Caspian and the Black Seas, that it would 
soon become a most important article of ex- 
portation, if the people could be induced to 
improve their method of making and pre- 
serving it. At present, the grapes are ga- 
thered and pressed without any care ; and 
the process of fermentation is so unskilfully 
managed, that the wine rarely keeps to the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RUSSIAN WINES. 175 

following vintage. The skins of animals, 
are the vessels in which it is kept. The 
hair is turned inwards, and the interior of 
the bag is thickly besmeared with asphaltum , 
or mineral tar, which imparts an abominable 
flavour to the wine. The Georgians have 
not yet learned to keep their wine in casks, 
without which, it is vain to look for any 
improvement in its manufacture. Yet, the 
mountains abound in the requisite mate- 
rials, and only a few coopers are wanted to 
make the commencement. 

M. Klaproth says, " during my residence 
*' at Tiflis, a Hungarian, named Martini, to 
** whom General Gondovitch had entrusted 
" the management of some vineyards be- 
" longing to the government, made with 
" the grapes of the country several kinds of 
" wine, which might bear comparison with 
" the best wines of Burgundy. The death 
^^ of this man, put a stop to these interesting 
" experiments. If due attention were paid 
" to the preparation of wine in these coun- 
" tries, they might soon furnish Russia with 
" all she consumes."* 

* Tableau du Caucase, et des Provinces limi- 
trophes entre la Russia et la Perse, par M. Klap- 
roUi. Paris, 1827. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



176 RUSSIAN WINES. 

The consumption of wine in Geoigia, and 
above all, at Tiflis, is prodigiously great 
From th&prince to the peasant, the ordinary 
ratioil of a Greorgian, if we may betieve M. 
Gamba, isone tmqve^ (equal to five botdes 
and a half of JBordeaux per day.) A Umque 
of the best wine, such as is drunk by per- 
sons of rank, costs about twenty 9ous; the 
inferior wines for less than a sous a botde. 



In Turkey, the practice of drinking wine 
gains ground, whilst that of opium bSi& 
into disuse. Very few among the Turiis 
eat opium now, and those in private. So 
long ago as 1796, when Lady Mary Wortley 
Montague wrote her fascinating ^^ Letters,*' 
the Turkish ladies drank wine. Her lady- 
ship, speaking of their mode of living, says, 
" 'Tis true, their magnificence is of a very 
^' different taste from ours, and perhaps of a 
^^ better. I am almost of opinion they have a 
^^ right notion of life. They consume it in 
'^ music, gardens, wine, and delicate eating, 
" while we are tormenting our brains, ftc." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSIAN WINES. 



We have already alluded u> the sup- 
pository story of Persia being the native 
ooimtry of the vine, and Jem^heed being the 
first* who discovered wine.* The narrative 
is from Moullah Ackber's MSS., and is 
quoted by Sir James Malcolm, in his valua- 
ble" History of Persia."t Without pretend- 
ing to an investigation of the truth of this 
statement, we may remark, that the perfec- 
tion which the vine in Persia attains, would 
almost lead us to receive the above as a 
matter of sober history^ Sir Robert Kerr 
Porter describes the grapes of Shiraz, of a 
" size and fullness hardly to be matched in 
" other climates." Mr. Morier, in his Se- 

* See page 14. f Vol. i. page 10, note. 

N 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



178 PERSIAN WINES. 

cond Journey through Persia, subsequent to 
Sir R. K. Porter^s visit, extols the grapes of 
another place in Persia, as still finer than 
those of Shiraz. Mr. Morier likewise re- 
lates the following interesting particulars of 
the vineyards : — 

^^ The Persian yine-dressers do all in 
^^ their power to make the vine run up the 
'^ wall, and curl over on the other side, which 
^* they do by tying stones to the extremity 
'^ of the tendril. May not this illustrate 
'^ that beautiful passage used in Grenesis? 
^^ (xlix. 22) Joseph is a fruitful bough; even 
^^ a fruitful bough by a wall, whose branches 
" run over the waW^ 

Wine is strictly forbidden by the Koran ^ 
the Persians, as Mahometans, are conse- 
quently forbidden from tasting the juice of 
the grape : but this rule is often broken, — 
and, as to use their own phrase, '^ there is 
^^ as much sin in a glass as in a flagon,^* 
they usually, whei^they drink, indulge to 
excess. Indeed, they are so impressed with 
the idea that the sole pleasure of this for- 
bidden liquor lies in its intoxicating effects, 
that nothing but constant observation can 
satisfy them that Christians are not all 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSIAN WINES. 179 

drunkards. ** It is," ihey often remark, 
when speaking to one, " a privilege of your 
" religion to be so, and therefore neither 
" attended with shame nor disgrace."* If 
told that, though we are permitted to use 
wine, excess is considered as degrading, and 
often, when it incapacitates for duty, as cri- 
minal ; they listen with a smile of incredu- 
lity: for they believe it impossible that 
men, who are not withheld by religion, can 
deny themselves, what they are led, by the 
restraint imposed upon them, to deem one 
ef the most delightful of all enjoyments. 

* Sir John Malcolm relates the following: — 
An English naval officer had come on shore at 
Abnshehar^ and mounted a spirited horse^ to 
take a ride. The awkwardness of the rider, who 
was nearly falling at every bound the animal took, 
amused a great number of spectators. Next day, 
a Persian, who supplied the vessel with fruit and 
vegetables, came off, and seeing the officer, said to 
him, '* I have saved your reputation; not a man 
" who laughed at you, has me suspicion that you 
" are a bad horseman.** — " How have you managed 
" that?" said the gentleman.—" I told them,** he 
I'eplied, " that you, like every Englishman, ride 
" admirably, as becomes a nation of soldiers, but 
" that you were very drunk, and that was the rea- 
" son of your not keeping your seat so firmly as 
" you otherwise would have done." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



180 PERSIAN WINES. 

Though drunkenness be a vice of the Per- 
siansy it is not only a plebeian sin ; for they 
have examples, royal and noble, in their his- 
tory. Shah Suffee, the successor of Shah 
Abbas the Great, was much addicted to his 
cups ; which, instead of gladdening his heart, 
made him more like a beastly savage. When 
he was one day excessively intoxicated, he 
stabbed his favourite queen ; and, we axe 
informed by Tavemier, that when he reco- 
vered his senses, and found what he had 
done, he gave way to the most violent grief, 
and issued orders to destroy every wine-flask 
in his kingdom. His illiberality to others, 
who indulged in the same excess with him- 
self, appears to have been boundless; for 
he caused several noblemen of high rank to 
be put to death, on the occurrence of a tri- 
fling affray, caused by intoxication. Suffee 
was succeeded by Abbas II. who was not 
ten years old when he ascended the throne, 
and a hopeful man he seems to have turned 
out, notwithstanding he at first fell into 
the hands of his ministers, who are repre- 
sented as persons of religious and austere 
habits. They attempted to reform the court: 
wine was prohibited; drunkards were re- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSIAN WINES. 181 

moved from office ; and strict sobriety was 
one of the steps in the ladder to high sta- 
tion. One author states, that the inhabi^ 
ants of Grivan, in Armenia, alarmed at the 
abstemious and pious character of a gover- 
nor appointed to rule them, petitioned the 
king not to send him: their frailty, they 
said, led them to dread " a water-drinker." 
The fact was, the Christians of this city 
were remarkable for their love of drinking ; 
and were alarmed at the prospect of being 
governed by a religious bigot, who would 
consider even the moderate use of wine, a 
just ground for plundering them of their 
property, if he did not deprive them of life. 
The king was advised to attend to this peti- 
tion. His reply stated, that the drunkards 
of Grivan, were quite unworthy of the holy 
man whom he had appointed to rule them ; 
and he had therefore nominated one whose 
character was more suited to such sinners. 

But Abbas himself afterwards became as 
great a toper as his precursor: the manners 
of the court altered as the king advanced in 
years; he committed few cruelties, except 
when intoxicated ; but he appears then to 
have entirely dropped the king. All Euro- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



182 



PERSIAN WINES. 



peans, whether travellers, merchantSjinonks, 
or artificers, were admitted to share his or- 
gies. Persian writers say the royal feasts 
were frequently enlivened by wit, and that 
the king sometimes condescended to smile 
at the sallies of his companions. He hap- 
pened to observe, at one of his entertain- 
ments, that he had sent an ambassador to 
India, who had met with so many delays, 
he believed he Would never come back. " Let 
us all agree to sit here till he retiuns," cried 
the son of ajudge, who made one of the as- 
sembly, a^d, by the way, was no bad judge. 
— ^Thoug^ the youth had forgotten himself, 
Abbas was delighted with an exclamation, 
showing such enjoyment of his society. But 
different scenes were often exhibited ; and 
the most dissipated nobles dreaded an invi- 
tation to drink with their monarchy who 
was as solicitous to make them exceed, as 
he was prompt to punish any act of disre- 
spect produced by that excess. Probably, 
they received Abbas's invitations with the 
same pleasure, as we should a royal com- 
mand to sup with the lion of the Zoologi- 
cal Society. At length. Abbas died, at the 
age of thirty-foiir ; it is said, from an in- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSIAN WINES. 183 

flammation in the throat, caused by exces- 
sive drinking. 

Abbas, as might be expected, kept his 
cellars plentifully stocked with choice 
wines, principally from Georgia, Karama- 
nia, and Shiraz; and, as Dr. Henderson 
tells us, " preserved with great nicety in 
" bottles of Venice crystal ; and every six 
'* weeks, he received from the first of these 
** countries a supply of twenty chests, each 
" of them containing ten bottles, — and each 
" bottle about three quarts." He had, more- 
over, a master of the cellars, and doubtless, 
a cellar-book. 

Many of the Persians still appear to en- 
tertain the same idea of wine, as they did in 
the time of Suffee : their indulgences being 
secret, and usually extending to excess and 
intoxication, or to the abuse rather than the 
proper use of wine. They have, likewise, 
an odd 'idea of shifting part of the offence 
against the Koran, by pretending that the 
sin is not so great, if the wine is made by 
infidels; and, according to Sir Robert Kerr 
Porter, so severe is the law upon this point 
of conscience, that wherever jars of Shiraz 
Mahomedan wine are discovered, the chief 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



184 PCRSIAN WINES. 

of the municipal cheers are ordered to see 
them broken into pieces.* We ought, how- 
ever, to mention, that wine is not at this 
time allowed in the royal household; for Sir 
James Malcolm, in describing the habits of 
the present sovereign of Persia, says, — 
*^ Some of the former kings used to indulge 
" openly in drinking wine, but none of the 
^^ reigning family have yet outraged the reli- 
^^ gious feelings of their suljjects, by saflag- 
'^ rant a violation of the laws of Persia. 
" Bowls, filled with sharbet, made oi every 
^' species of fruit, furnish the beverage of the 
" royal meals."* 

The most celebrated of the Persian wines, 
is that of- Shiraz ; although the manufactuie 
has considerably decreased. Ispahan, Te- 
heran, and other places, have vineyards, 
but are not so well known for their wmes ; 
besides, it should be recollected, that grapes^ 
in their season, form part of the orchnary 
meals of the people. Sir Robert Kerr Porter 
tells us, that the vine is comparatively neg- 
lected at Shirasi,and that the manufacture is 
altogether badly conducted. He describes it 

* Sketches of Life in Persia, 1829. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSIAN WINES. 185 

of every quality, from a brilliant topaz clear- 
ness, to a sour and muddy syrup. " When 
" good, the taste should be a little sweet, 
" accompanied with the flavour of dry Ma- 
" deira, — ^to which, when old, it is not at 
" all inferior." This applies only to the 
white wine of Shiraz ; the red, of which 
Hafiz and other Persian poets have sung, 
is rich and luscious ; though in prose esti- 
mation, little superior to a second-rate wine. 
The poets of Persia, like those of all other 
nations, have made wine the theme of their 
verse. The extatic strains of Hafiz, on the 
ruby glories of the Shiraz, will be recollect- 
ed ; but the following translation from Ru- 
deki is less known : — 

He who my brimming cup shall view, 

In trembling radiance shine. 
Shall own the ruby's brilliant hue, 

Is matchM by rosy wine ; 

Each is a gem from Nature's hand. 

In living lustre bright ; 
But onfe congeals its radiance bland. 

One swims in liquid light. 

Ere you can touch, its sparkling dye 

Has left a splendid stain ; 
Ere you can drink, the essence high 

Floats giddy through the brain.* 

f Translated by Dr. Leyden. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



186 PERSIAN WINES. 

Again, in a playful ode to " Yesterday," 
from Aehmed Ardebeili : — 

Jocund sprites of social joy 

Round our smiling goblet play ; 
Flit, ye powers of rude annoy, 

Like the Ghost of Yesterday ! 

Odorous sweets, and Kerzerom wine. 
Hither, boy, with speed convey; 

Jasmin wreaths with roses twine. 
Ere they fade like Yesterday ! 

Brim the bowl, and pass it round; 

Lightly tune the sportive lay : 
Let the festal hour be crown'd. 

Ere 'tis lost like Yesterday ! 

Once more : — 

Go scatter flowers, and bring me wine, 
That while I drink, their incense sweet. 

May charm my soul with dreams divine, 
Of her my fancy joys to meet 

But, ah ! her absence brings a pain, 
Which ne^er can be in wine forgot; 

Then take, oh ! take the cup again, 
Wine has no charms where she is not 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 



The vine was introduced into Madeira 
from the Island of Cyprus ; but at what 
period, rests upon very dubious conjecture. 
It is not easy to reconcile the character of 
Chaptal for accuracy in his philosophical 
enquiries, when he mentions, that in the 
year 1420, wines were already planted in 
this island. At all events, there must be a 
confusion in the dates, as the island itself, 
according to the Portuguese historians, had 
been discovered only in the preceding year: 
if so, there could scarcely be a sufficient 
quantity of land cleared away to produce 
the common necessaries of life, much less to 
plant vineyards ; and, if a conflagration of 
the woods which overspread the country, 
and lasted several years, as is generally re- 
lated, was necessary to prepare the island 
for cultivation, a much later period must be 
referred to for introducing the vine into 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



188 MADEIRA WINES. 

Madeira. Dr. Henderson appears inclined 
to adopt the opinion of Chaptal, with a 
trifling variation in the date. He observes : 
^' The island of Madeira is said to have been 
'^ stocked with plants brought directly from 
" Candia, by order of Prince Henry ; under 
*^ whose auspices the first colony of the 
^' Portuguese was established there, in the 
'' year 1421."* 

♦ Histoiy of Wines, 4to. p. 248. As the dis- 
covery of Madeira is involved in some doubts it is 
not likely that the above point can be satisfactorily 
ascertained. If the island was discovered by Ma^ 
cham, in the reisn of Edward III., or between the 
years 1327 and 1378, the vine might probably 
nave been planted here as early as 1420. This 
opinion is likewise, in some measure con-oborated 
by the report of Alvise da Mosto, a Venetian tra- 
veller, who stopped there on his voyage to Africa, 
in 1455 : he says the vines there produced more 
grapes than leaves, and the clusters were of extra- 
ordmaiy size. He also mentions the manufacture 
and exportation of wine as then commenced. 

Waimington Irving, in the translation of the 
narrative of Macham*s discovery, appended to his 
Life of Columbus, says : " The country was indeed 
'' delightful ; the forests were stately and magnifi- 
" cent; there were trees laden with excellent fruits, 
" others with aromatic flowers ; the waters were 
" cool and limpid ; the sky serene ; and there was 
«al ' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 189 

There is no end to the varieties of the 
vine in Madeira, if you listen to the culti- 
vators, no two of whom, however, agree in 
giving the same name to the least important. 
The juices of the species called the verdelhoy 
negro moUey Imstardoy btud, and tinta, are 
commonly mixed together, to produce the 
best Madeira wine, or tkose in the southern 
part of the island, which is principally in- 
debted for its flavour to tbj two latter. The 
tinta, when separated, produces a wine 
closely resembling Burgundy,in colour and 
flavour, when new, but much softer; be- 
coming very like tawney port a>er it has 
been about two years in the cask ; and not 
distinguishable, either in colour or<lavour, 
from rich old Madeira, at the end of Venty 
years. It is the only red wine made i^ the 
island, and is suffered to ferment with be 
husks of the finiit remaining in it, to fix t^ 
colour. It would retain the character o 
Burgundy longer, were it bottled earlier, 
but then there is the probability of its ac- 
quiring a bad flavour from the sediment. 
The paler wines, such as the fxxreverdelhoj 
or north wine, acquire an amber hue with 
age ; whereas, those whose husks impart 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



190 MADEIRA WINES. 

some portion of colour to the juice during 
pressure, grow lighter with age. The sercial 
is said to be the hock grape brought from 
Europe : the leaf is of a very yellow green, 
and cottony on both sides. It grows best 
under precipices, and as the husk is very 
thick, is left longer thJtn the others, to ripen. 
The quantity of serdal produced, does not 
exceed forty or Mtf pipes in the year. 

There are threfqualities of malmsey: the 
cadely or candy* is the best, but produces 
little ; the bei^^ eaidmalvazia yield pretty 
abundantly, ^^t the latter is very inferior. 
The vines /row on rocky grounds, with a 
full expose to the sun. The grapes re- 
quire to^ over-ripe or shrivelled, and are 
dierefc^ allowed to hang a month later 
than '^^se used in the manufacture of dry 
win^'t 

* Mr. Bowdich^ in his Excursions in Madeira, 
^o. 1825, says, " This vine was introduced from 
* Candia, before 1445, by Prince Henry." His 
authority is the Collegao de Noticias. The date 
almost coincides with that adopted by Dr. Hen- 
derson. 

f Mr. Bowdich describes the finest malmsey 
plantation in the island as created entirely by an 
avalanche of tufa, which, falling from a height of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 191 

Mr. Bowdich has given an interesting de- 
scription of the general culture of the vine 
in the island, which we quote with little 
abridgment : 

" The best soil for the vine is saibro, or 
^^ an equal mixture of saibro B,ndpedro moUe 
" or of the red and yellow tufa ; the latter, 
^' from its lightness and looseness would be 
" washed away by the rains, were it not 
^^ mixed with some other soil. Equal por- 
^^ tions o{ saibro, pedro moUe, andmassapes, 
" which is a clayey earth, seem to be pre- 
" ferred in very dry situations ; and when 
^^ the massapes is mixed with a volcanic 
" cinder, called the araya, the vine endures 
^* longer in this than in any other soil. It 
'^ is said to last sixty years in it, if planted 
^^ wide enough apart. The ground being 
^^ turned up, the trenches are dug from four 
" to seven feet deep, according to the na- 



up wards of 1,200 feet, has lodged and spread at 
the bottom of a cliff, adjoining which is a fall of 
water, of one shallow and two deep stages. The 
vineyards and adjoining house are only accessible 
by water ; the labourers have a daring route, in 
ascending and descending the cliff, by a succession 
of simple stakes^ driven into, and projecting from it. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Id2 MADEIRA WINES. 

^ tore of the soU, and a quantity of loose or 
'' stony earth is placed at the bottom, to 
^^ prevent the roots reaching the stiff clayey 
" soil beneath, which would oppose their 
^' growth. They water the ground three 
^^ times if the summer has been very dry, 
'^ leaving tlie sluices open until the ground 
^^ is pretty well soaked ; the less the ground 
^* is watered, the stronger the wine, but the 
" quantity is diminished in proportion. 
" Some cultivators lay cow-dung at the 
^' roots of the vines where they plant them, 
^^ and when the wine becomes poor, mix a 
^^ fresh quantity with the soil at the surface : 
'^ others consider that animal manure in- 
^* jures the flavour of the grape, and sow 
^^ the lupinus perennis among the vines in- 
^^ stead ; this they do in the January of 
" every second ye€ur, cutting it down, and 
" burying it, by turning over the surface of 
'^ the soil, after the small rains, which pre- 
^' vail for about ten days at the end of 
" April. 

*^ An English acre will produce four pipes 
^^ of wine under the most favourable cir- 
^^ cumstances ; but one pipe seems to be 
'^ the average, taking the vineyards through- 



d by Go ogle 



MADEIRA WINES. 193 

" out the island * The propagation is by 
" cuttings, and they prefer the verdelho of 
^^ the north, when forming a plantation in 
^^ the southern part of the island, as it im- 
" proves considerably from the better soil, 
" climate, and aspect ; on this they engraft 
" any other variety they may Wish : the 
" grapes yield no wine until the fourth year. 
" The stalks of the artrndo sagittaM are used 
" in making frames for supporting the vines, 
^' in the southern parts of the island, and 
" the salix rubra for tying them to this 
" trellis-work. In the north part of the is- 
'^ land the vines are trained around \h^ 
^^ chestnut trees ; this firmer support being 
" necessary, as it is said, on account of the 
" high winds prevailing there ; but they 
" generally neglect to cut away the branches 
^^ which prevent the sun from reaching the 

* The lizards devour immense quantities of 
grapes ; and are said to manifest a decided pre- 
ference for the tinto, but this, probably, is merely 
because the verdelho grapes are not ripe so early 
in the season. A cultivator dai-es not allow his 
grapes to remain on the vines after his neighbom's 
have taken in theirs ; for if he did, all the rats of 
the neighbourhood would adjourn to his vineyard, 
and take a ruinous tithe. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



194 MADEIRA WINES. 

" vine, and it evidently languishes in the 
" vegetable soil natural to the chestnut 
" tree. 

" The vines give fruit as high as 2,700 
" feet in Madeira ; at the extremity of this, 
^^ the vine can scarcely be called flourishing^ 
^^ as no wine can be made from it ; still it 
^^ produces eatable fruit : the g^atest height 
^^ at which it is now cultivated for wine, 
^^ is in the valley of the Cound das Freiras, 
" which is 2,080 feet above the level of the 
" sea.* There is much dispute as to the 
^^ best moment for pruning the vines ; some 
" prefer February, others, the middle of 
" March ; it depends principally, however, 
^^ on their foresight as to the weather when 
" the flowering takes place, which is from 
^^ six weeks to two months after the prun- 
" ing. The produce of one year must fre- 
" quently be treated very differendy from 
" that of another. When the grapes are 
'^ green, the fermentation must be checked; 

* " There is one extraordinary kind, which is 
'' merely used as a dessert-fruit, about the size of 
" a muscle plum, and the clusters are so large as 
" sometimes to weigh twenty pounds.** — History of 
Madeira, 1821. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 195 

" when tljey are wet, from unseasonable 
" rains, it must be assisted; generally speak- 
" ing, the riper the fruit, the more diffi- 
" cult the fermentation. A very agree- 
^^ able liquewr is made in the island from the 
^^ second pressure of the grape, (the first 
" being merely with the feet) into which an 
" equal quantity of brandy is immediately 
" thrown, to stop the fermentation and pro- 
" duce sweetness. Gypsum is pretty gene- 
" rally used to clarify and mellow the wines 
** while working, unless they happen to be 
" of a green vintage. The importation of 
" foreign brandy is now prohibited, and 
" even that made in Portugal is subject to 
^^ a duty amounting to a prohibition ; it is 
" made from the north wine and the lees of 
" others. In the war time all the houses 
" were compelled to ripen their wines by 
" stoves, as they held no stocks : those who 
" managed this themselves, rose the heat 
" gradually, from about 60° to 90**; others; 
" who trusted them to the public stoves, 
" generally found that they were neglected 
" until the last moment, aiid then all but 
" boned."* 

* This account of the wine manufacture of the 
island is especially valuable, as no recent traveller 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



196 MADEIRA WINES. 

The usual process of making the wine is 
▼ery simple. The grapes, when cut, are 
immediately consigned to the press, which 
is a large wooden trough, not unlike the 
cider^press in England, OTcr which is a large 
clumsy lever, connected with oAer ma- 
chinery. When the trough is nearly filled, 
the due number of bare-legged peasants, ap- 
pointed for the purpose, enter the machines, 
and by the active tread of their feet, press 
out the juice, which runs into a vessel be- 
neath. The husks or stalks are then col- 
lected and pressed with the lever, which 
pressure is occa»onaUy extended to the 
fourth time. The best wine is allowed to 
ferment for about six weeks after it is 
made. 

There is some difference in the accounts 
given of the quantity of wine made in Ma- 
deira ; but the most authentic average ap- 
pears to be from twenty-five to thirty thou- 
sand pipes, the greater part of which is 
exported, and the rest consumed in the 
island. It does not, however, attain its due 
state of perfection till it has acquired a cer- 

nas paid so much attention to the botany and 
geology of Madeira^ as did Mr. Bowdich, in Uie 
autumn of 1823. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 197 

tain age in Madeira, or been transported to 
a warmer climate, and deposited there for a 
longer or shorter period. Hence has arisen 
the practice of sending such wines as are 
intended for British consumption, a voyage 
to the West Indies, or round the East In- 
dies, China, and the Brazils ; which, expe« 
rience has determined to be essential to 
their excellence. Great part of the cargoes 
conveyed to the East Indies, for the above 
purpose, is purchased on speculation, and 
on long credit, or in barter for goods, and 
often by inexperienced judges of wine ; 
when the wine in question is sometimes 
underrated, by the name of Truck or Barter 
Madeira. 

The wines from Madeira shipped into 
Great Britain in 1785, were 1,226 pipes ; 
in 1802, 2,984 pipes ; in 1810, 4,706 pipes; 
and in 1820, 5,234 pipes. 

Sir George Staunton states the whole 
annual vintage at an average of 25,000 
pipes of 120 gallons each, including 500 
pipes of malmsey. 

The improvement of Madeira wines by a 
voyage, may be explained as follows* In the 
phenomena of fermentation, the formation 
of alcohol is the last and most essential ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



198 MADEIRA WINES. 

and it is plain how this must depend on the 
quantity of sugar, goodness of the fruit, 
the due apportioning of the leaven, and 
On the management of the process. Thus, 
when all the necessary circumstances are 
present, the process goes on till the produce 
is pure wine, or a compound of alcohol, 
water, acid, colour, vegetable extract, and 
Sugar. For although the two latter are said 
to be destroyed, there is almost always a 
minute portion of both remaining: the 
former, rendered very sensible in some 
wines, by the skinny matter which they 
deposit on the sides of the bottles. In a 
similar manner, it happens, that a portion 
of sugar continues attached to the wine for 
a long time, though it is not always sen- 
sible, except to a fine taste. Thus, it is 
perceptible in Claret, and even in Madeira, 
which are among the driest of our wines. 
In the first stages of the fermentation, the 
sugar is never thoroughly decomposed. If 
that were the case, indeed, the process 
would stop, or it would proceed to vinegar. 
Farther fermentation, that slower species 
which takes place in the casks, tends far- 
ther to diminish it ; but still a portion re- 
mains even when it has been bottled. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 199 

It is the gradual conversion of this sugar, 
the chief operation that goes on in hottled 
wines, which is the cause of the change 
which these undergo. This process often 
requires many years for its completion : that 
is the case in the Clarets of Chateau Mar- 
gaux, and other Bordeaux wines ; and the 
same process indeed takes place, to a greater 
or less degree, in Madeira and the other 
strong wines. In these cases, it is a cause of 
improvement ; the wine becoming more per- 
feet under this last tedious fermentation: 
in others, however, it is mischievous, and 
hence the destruction of many wines. 

By the above considerations, we can ac- 
count for the benefit which Madeira re- 
ceives in a hot climate, or in a hot cellar. 
The eflfect of the heat, and, in the case of a 
sea-voyage, united to the agitation, whose 
action was considered before, is that of acce- 
lerating the imperceptible fermentation, and 
thus ripening the wine sooner than would 
have happened in a low temperature, and 
at rest. But it is a mistake to imagine, that 
this is peculiar to Madeira, or that it is the 
only wine which can be benefited by this 
treatment. The effect of heat, is indeed 
such in this case, as is suspected by few. In 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



200 MADEIRA WINES. 

America, it is a well-known practice to boil 
Madeira, or to heat it to the boiling tempe- 
rature, and the effect is that of rendering it 
good and old wine, when previously harsh 
and new : the same practice is applicable to 
Port. If newly-bottled wine be ex^posed to 
the sun, it begins shortly to deposit, uid 
improve in flavour; and even the rawest 
wine of this kind, by heating it in hot wa- 
ter, may be caused, in the course of a clay, 
to assume the quality which it would have 
had after many years keeping. It is so &r 
from being injurious, as might be imagined, 
that itis avaluable secret; and,aswe believe, 
that it is but little known to those whose 
interest it is to give the complexion of old 
wine to new, and who generally effect this 
purpose in a fraudulent manner, by putting 
it into foul ajid crusted bottles.* 

We believe the maturation of Madeira to 
have been attempted in this country, by an 
ingenious method of giving it constant mo- 
tion, so as in part to produce the agita- 
tion of a sea-voyage. A familiar instance 



* Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica : 
article — Wink* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 201 

of this good effect on fermented liquors, is 
observable in the London Porter drunk in 
the Isle of Wight, which is materially be- 
nefited by the short searcarriage. 

Flavouring Madeira is another process 
important to its perfection. The flavour 
itself is nothing ; but that which we know 
is given by means of bitter almonds, and 
we believe, of sweet almonds also. This 
requires some delicacy and attention, and 
particular care that it be not overdone. As 
the full fermentation would destroy the 
more volatile flavours, the flavouring sub- 
stances are only introduced towards its de- 
cline : in Madeira, the nut-cake is put into 
the cask.* 

We may here mention, that notwithstand- 
ing the fine climate of Madeira, there seems 
to be considerable error in estimating its 
beneficial effects on invalids. Upon the 
authority of Dr. Heneiken, who has resided 
in the island for several years, we learn that 
since the summer of 1821, thirty-five inva- 



* Dr. Henderson, however, tells us that the 
nutty taste is not communicated hy means of bitter 
almonds, but is inherent in the wine. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



202 MADEIRA WINES. 

lids have either reached or sailed for Ma- 
deira. (The doctor speaks from memory.) 
Of this number, two or three died on ship- 
board, and three within a month of their 
landing ; five or six just survived the win- 
ter; about an equal number lingered 
through the spring, and three or four en- 
tered upon and passed through a second 
winter. Of the whole number, thirteen 
only, (including the doctor,) were alive in 
1824. Two or three were cases of asthma, 
and two of chronic disease of the trachea and 
larynx ; " if these be excepted, and those 
^^ be considered as dead who cannot be 
" alive three months hence, the survivors of 
" thirty-five, or thereabouts, in the short 
^^ space of two years and a half, and who, so 
" far from being cured, can only make the 
'^ best of a precarious existence, in a low 
" latitude, will be reduced to six." 



The wines of the Canary Islands, which 
approach to the Madeira in quality, have 
already been noticed in the present volume. 
In the Teneriffe produce, is included the vin 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MADEIRA WINES. 203 

de Malvasiay (so called from Malvasia, a 
town in the Morea,) or malmsey, a rich and 
luscious sack, which was, in the seventeenth 
century, a great favourite in England. — 
Twenty-five thousand pipes are said to be 
annually exported from Teneriffe, and a 
good deal of the remainder is manufactured 
into brandy. 

* See '' Spanish Wines," p. 78-79* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPE WINES. 



The climate of the British dominions in 
the south of Africa, is one of the finest in 
the world. The average height of the ba- 
rometer is about thirty inches, and the ave- 
rage summer heat, at noon, is about seventy- 
eight degrees. It resembles the climate of 
Italy, but is rather warmer and dryer; and 
it is so dry, that draining is little required 
for the ground. 

With these advantages, the vine has been 
cultivated with considerable success at the 
Cape of Good Hope, since its colonization 
by the Dutch, under Van Reibeck, in 1650. 
Since the colony became British, vines have 
increased tenfold, and the chief article of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPE WINES. 205 

commerce is wine. But, unfortunately, 
more attention has been paid to quantity 
than to quality, except on the farms which 
yield Constantia. This wine, which is so 
much prized in Europe, is the produce of 
two farms known by that name, and si- 
tuated within eight or nine miles of the 
Cape : they have an eastern exposure, and 
are sheltered from the south-west, the only 
injurious blast. The soil being a deposit 
from the neighbouring moimtains, is light, 
but enriched by manure: the sub-soil, 
which is even more important, is still lighter, 
being mixed with sand and broken stone ; 
on the contrary, in Drachenstein, where the 
chief vineyards are at present, the sub-soil 
being clay, the wine receives an unpleasant 
flavour, the idea of which is inseparably 
associated with the very name of Cape 
wine. 

The farms of Constantia yield, on an 
average, about 12,6o6 gallons per year; but 
De la Caille and Barrow, have estimated 
the produce at considerably more. Besides 
this excellent wine, many varieties are made. 
Among these, the Madeira of the Cape, 
which is sent to Holland, America, the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



206 CAP£ HVINES. 

Dutch Settlements in India, and to Eng- 
land, is considered the best. It is a boiled 
wine, and is said to be much improved by 
the Toyage. From twenty to thirty rix-dol- 
lars the hager of 160 gallons, according to 
Barrow and others, is the common price ob- 
tained by the farmer for his wine at Cape 
Town, where it is afterwards sold ait the 
rate of from 40, 50, 60, to 80, and 100 dol- 
lars; and that too, perhaps, after under- 
going adulteration. 

The trade in this article is of great con- 
sequence at the Cape, and the merchants 
are particular in the mode of storing and 
securing the wine. They generally keep it 
in vaults and cellars, in large vessels, made 
of mahogany, or a wood resembling it, very 
thick, highly polished, and shaped like a 
hogshead. These vessels are kept as clean 
as our dining tables, and are bound round 
with great brass hoops, while the edges are 
secured with clasps of the same metal, so 
that neither time nor accident can damage 
them. One of these tons, or reservoirs, will 
contain from six to seven hundred gallons : 
the bung-holes are secured with plates of 
brass, hasped down, and locked. The cocks 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPE WINES. 207 

are also large and strong, with locks and 
keys to them, so that the servants or slaves 
are prevented from embezzling any of the 
wine, as the casks are never opened, except 
in the presence of one of the proprietors. 
Many of these tuns are elegantly carved, 
and ornamented with figures.* When Mr. 
Barrow visited the Cape, a pint of good 
wine might have been purchased for three- 
pence ; and had it not been for the license 
on the privilege of retailing, it might have 
been obtained for three-halfpence. 

There is no duty on wine in the Colony, 
except upon what is brought to the Cape 
market, and then it is subject to a tax of 
three rix-dollars the licyer. Brandy, or 
hrandetoyn^ as it is called at the Cape, is 
also exempt, except on passing the barrier, 
when it is charged with a duty at the same 
rate as the wine. This impost is upon the 
plan of the octroi duties in Paris. 

With the manufacture of this spirit, the 
vine-growers seem not to be well acquainted, 

* Percival's Account of the Cape of Good 
Hope^ 4to. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



208 CAPE WINES. 

as it has hitherto been considered of an in- 
different quality. It is extracted firom the 
husks and stalks of the grapes, mixed up and 
fermented with the lees of wine, and oilier 
ingredients sometimes used of a less grateful 
nature. The whole of the operation is gene- 
rally committed to the care of a slave, who, 
having neither knowledge nor interest in the 
process, pays no regard to the quality of the 
spirit ; through this neglect it contracts a 
strong empyreumatic flavour, which it nev^ 
loses. This spirit has been long in use at 
the Cape, though the better sort of people 
among the Dutcdi seldom drink it. It is 
eagerly purchased by the Hottentot and 
Caffre hordes, who barter their catde and 
other commodities for it. 

The quantity of wine imported firom the 
Cape into Great Britain in 1812, was 40 
tuns, 2 hogsheads^ 56 gallons; in 1820, 
1,925 tuns, 60 gallons. The whole produce 
of the Cape, is supposed to be about 12,000 
hagers; comprising only what crosses the 
barriers : with the wastage, it may be com- 
puted at about 14,000 pipes. The consump- 
tion of the colony is calculated at 6,000, the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPE WINES. 209 

shipment to St. Helena about 2,000, and the 
remainder is for this country, and its de- 
pendencies.* 

The wine manufacture of the Cape, is 
susceptible of great improvement, and might 
be made of essential benefit to the British 
empire. Were the vine-plantations pro- 
perly managed, and a due regard paid to 
the selection of the grapes, and the process 
of making the wine, much of the money 
that is sent to foreign countries for this ar- 
ticle might be saved, and turned to our own 
advantage. The vines, according to La- 
trobe, are permitted to grow without espa- 
liers, placed in rows like currant bushes in 
our gardens, and when arrived at a certain 
height, the upper-shoots are taken off, to in- 
crease the quantity of grapes; a method 
very different from that practised in Europe. 
The plants, with which the Cape vineyards 

* Parliamentary Papers. — In 1817, when the 
duties on Cape wines were reduced, the amount 
imported was more than doubled from the preced- 
ing year ; but much of the wine was of wretched qua- 
lity, and the market was overstocked, so that Cape 
wines lost altogether in puhlic estimation. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



210 CAP£ W1N£S. 

are stocked, are said to have been brought 
from Persia, and the banks of the Rhine ; 
but, under the new names assigned to them, 
it is impossible to recognise the speeie& 

Sir John Sinclair, in a recent paper on 
the improvement of the Cape,t observes^ 
that '^ it is unnecessary to enter into the 
^^ subject of the manufacture of the wine. K 
^' the sub-soil be bad, so will the wine be. 
** The vine does not require a rich sub-soil. 
^^ In Italy, flags are laid to prevent the roots 
'^ from penetrating into the clay ; and in 
'^ England, rubbish is thrown in, to make 
^^ a sub-soil, that shall not be so rich as to 
'^ produce leaves instead of fruit. It would 
^' be advantageous were premiums offered 
'^ for wine that had not been produced from 
'' a sub-soil of day, but had been reared in 
" treUis, as requiring less labour than the 
^' standaixl, and made on a pure and good 
" system, instead of being mixed with Cape 
" brandy, sulphuric acid, &c. Notwitii- 
'^ standing all these disadvantages. Cape 
" wine is generally sold in England under 

t Date, Jan. 1^29. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPE WINES. 211 

*^ the names, and at the prices, of Madeira, 
" Sherry, Teneriflfe, Stein, Pontae,and above 
'' aU, Hock !" 

Constantia has been overrated from its 
rarity and consequent cost. The two farms 
produce different wines : one a red, and the 
other a white sort of sweet wine; but the 
whole quantity annually made does not ex- 
ceed ninety pipes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 



In England, little attention has been 
paid to the philosophy of wine-making. — 
Hence, the wines of this country have been 
but little esteemed ; and, notwithstanding 
the application of scientific principles to in- 
numerable branches of social improvement, 
their extension to the manufacture of Bri- 
tish wines has been attended with few im- 
portant practical results. In short, France 
is the only nation which has bestowed much 
attention on what may be strictly termed 
the philosophy of wme-makingy — as it is that 
which excels all others in the variety and 
the goodness of its produce. 

All that relates to the present manufacture 
of wine in England may, therefore be dis- 
posed of in a small portion of our Manual ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 213 

but the history of the culture of the vine, 
and of the wines used, in England, abounds 
with so many interesting illustrations of the 
habits and peculiarities of our ancestors, 
that we should rather neglect than consult 
the gratification of the reader in withhold- 
ing them from these pages. 

The vine is said to have been first planted 
in Britain by the Romans ; and its culti- 
vation to have become common shortly after 
this introduction. This statement has,how- 
ever,been often controverted ; and, it appears, 
that if true, the vine could not have been in- 
troduced till near the close of the Roman 
influence, for Tacitus mentions, that it was 
not known when Agricola commanded in 
the island. At the invasion of the Anglo- 
Saxons, however, when the country had 
been under the Roman dominion four hun- 
dred years, and had received, during that 
period, all the encouragement which that 
people gave to the agriculture of the pro- 
vinces; the vine, without doubt, was ex- 
tensively cultivated. Vineyards are men- 
tioned in the earliest Saxon charters, as 
well as gardens and orchards, — " and this 
was before the combating invaders had time 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



214 BRITISH WINES. 

or ability to make them, if they had not 
foxmd them in the island/'* In the Cotto- 
nian ManuBcripts, in the British Museum, 
Aere are some rude delineations in a Saxon 
calendar, which, in the month of February, 
represent men cutting or pruning trees, 
some of which resemble vines. Wine also, 
seems to have been known to the Saxons, 
as mention is first made of it at the feast 
given by Hengist, about the year 450, to 
Vortigem, the British King, dfter the com- 
pletion of Hidecastle ; when Rowena, the 
beautiful daughter of the Saxon chief, is 
represented with a golden bowl, filled with 
wine, drinking to the health of the mo- 
narch ; which is also regarded as the first 
instance on record of drinking health in 
Britain. But although wine was familiar 
among the Saxons, it was not used with 
profusion. A great bowl, from which the 
obbse^ or big-bellied jugs, of the monks, were 
filled twice a-day for their dinner and sup- 
per, was all that Ethelwold allowed to his 
monastery. 
Domesday-book exhibits to us many 

* Isomer's Anglo-Saxons. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 215 

proofs that wine was made in England 
during the period preceding the conquest. 
At the latter date, several new plantations 
of vines appear to have been made; and 
ambng other places, in the village of West- 
minster'; at Chenetone, in Middlesex ; at 
Ware, in Hertfordshire; and at Hanten, in 
Worcestershire. 

To almost every monastery, vineyards ap- 
peared to have been Attached. Canterbury 
Church, and St. Augustine's monastery, 
possessed several vineyards. The Isle of 
Ely, from the abundance of its vintage, was 
denominated the isle of vines ; and the bi- 
shop thereof, shortly after the conquest, 
commonly exacted three or four tuns of 
wine, as the tithe of the vineyard, while a 
certain quantity was reserved in his leases 
for rent. A plot of ground, in London, 
which now forms East Smithfield, and some 
adjoining- streets, was withheld from the re- 
ligious house within Aldgate, by four suc- 
cessive Constables of the Tower, in the 
reign of Rufus, Henry, and Stephen; and 
made by them into a vineyard, to their 
great profit. In the old accounts of recto- 
rial and vicarial revenues, and in the old 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



216 BRITISH WINES. 

registers of ecclesiastical suits concerning 
them, the tithe of wine is an article that 
frequently occurs in Kent, Surrey, and other 
counties. These vineyards were usually on 
the south-side of a hill, on a light, dry soil, 
having the surface covered with sand ; the 
vines being trained near the ground. 

Towards the middle of the 12th century, 
upon the authority of William of Malmes- 
bury, the culture of the vine, had arrived 
at such perfection within the vale of Glour 
cester, that a sweet and palatable wine, 
*^ little inferior to that of France," was made 
there in abundance. His description of 
Gloucester is, — " you may behold the paths 
and public roads fenced with apple-trees, 
which are not planted by the hand of man, 
but grow spontaneously; and such is the 
exuberance of the soil, that it teems with 
the fairest fruits, — which are of excellent 
flavour, and so durable nature, that many 
of them will keep a whole year. This dis- 
trict exhibits too a greater number of vine- 
yards than any other county in England ; 
yielding abundant crops, and of superior 
quality. Nor are the wines made here, by 
any means, harsh and ungrateful to the pa- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 217 

late ; for, in point of sweetness, they may 
almost bear comparison with the growths 
of France." The same writer corroborates 
the fertility of the Isle of Ely, and obsei*ves 
of a certain domain : — ^' It is so fully culti- 
vated, that no portion of the soil is left un- 
occupied. On the one hand, it may be seen 
thickly studded with apple-trees; on the 
other, covered with vines; which either 
trail along the ground, or are trained on 
high, and supported on poles." 

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centu- 
ries, almost every large castle and monastery 
in England, had its vineyard. The land 
on the south side of Windsor Castle, now a 
pleasant green lawn, running from the town, 
under the castle-wall, was a vineyard, and 
is particularly described in the " Archaeolo- 
gia." Stowe tells us, that among the ar- 
chives of the Court of Pleas of the Forest 
and Honours at Windsor, " is to be seen the 
yearly account of the charges of planting 
the vines, that in the time of Richard II. 
grew in great plenty within the little park ; 
as also the making of the wine itself, whereof 
some part was spent in the king's house, 
and some part sold to his profits ; the tithes 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



218 BRITISH WINES. 

whereof were paid to tte abbot of Waltham, 
then parson both of the New and Old Win- 
dlesore." 

At this period, wine was made in Eng- 
land, in considerable quantities; and yet 
the importation of foreign wines was very 
large. Of this, we shall presently speak 
more fully. The vineyards were probably 
continued till the time of the Reformation, 
when the ecclesiastical gardens were either 
neglected or destroyed. The extended in- 
troduction of foreign wines, might also 
hare led to the neglect of the vine ; and, 
about the last^-mentioned period, ale, which 
had been known for many centuries in Eng- 
land, seems to have superseded the use of 
wine as a general beverage.* 

To bring the narrative nearer our own 
times, the revival of the culture of the vine 
for the manufacture of wine, was frequently 



* Ritson has preserved a rude ballad of this pe- 
riod in praise of aJe, which was then becoming the 
national beverage : — 

*• Biyng us home no sydyr, nor no palde wyne ; 
For an that thou shall have Cryst's curse and mine : 
But bryng us home good ale, and bryng us home good ale, 
And for otir der lady's love, bryng us home good ale.*' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 219 

attempted in this eountiy, within the last 
century. We could quote many examples ; 
but one of the most successful on record, is 
of a vineyard at Arundel Castle, on the 
south coast of Sussex, which was planted 
about the beginning of the last century; 
and of the produce of which, there are 
stated to have been 60 pipes in the cellars 
of the Duke of Norfolk, in the year 1763. 
This wine, is said to have excelled much of 
the Burgundy imported into this country; 
but not, in the words of the record, " of 
quite so fine a flavour as the wines of 
Beaune." The kind of grape, and the 
mode of culture, have not been particularly 
recorded. Aubrey describes a similar vine- 
yard, at Chart Park, near Dorking, in Sur- 
rey, another seat of the Howards. ** Here 
was a vineyard, supposed to have been 
planted by the Hon. Charles Howard, who, 
it is said, erected his residence, as it were, 
in the vineyard." Again, the vineyard 
flourished for some time, and tolerably good 
wine was made from the produce ; but, after 
the death of the noble planter, in 1763, it 
was much neglected, and nothing remained 
but the name. On taking down the house, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



220 BRITISH WINES. 

a few years since, a circular stone, resem- 
bling that used in a mill, was found, by 
which the gi'apes were pressed."* We were 
on the spot at the time, and saw the stone 
in question. Vines are still abundant at 
Dorking, the soil being very congenial to 
their growth. " Hence, almost every house 
in this part has its vine ; and some of the 
plants are very productive. The cottages 
of the labouring poor are not without this 
ornament, — ^and the produce is usually sold 
by them to their wealthier neighbours, for 
the manufacture of wine. The price, per 
bushel, is from 4«. to 16«."t 

The Isle of Wight has also been the 
scene of the experimental culture of the 
vine, where, about fifty years since. Sir Ri- 
chard Worsley planted the more hardy spe- 
cies of vines, in a rocky soil, with a south- 
eastern exposure, and engaged a vine-dres- 
ser from France, to superintend their cul- 
ture. In one or two years, a tolerable 
crop of grapes was obtained; but the scheme 

* Picturesque Promenade round Dorking : by 
John Timbs. Sec. Edit p. 258-9. 

t Ibid, p. 143. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 221 

ultimately turned out unsuccessful and un- 
profitable. 

A more satisfactory experiment was made 
at Painshill. The result has been fully de- 
scribed by Sir Edward Barry, in his disser- 
tation on the History of Wine, published 
about sixty years since.* The vineyard is 
now overgrown by Scotch pine. It was 
originally planted with white grapes, pro- 
cured from the neighbourhood of Paris ; and 
a wine similar to Champagne, was made 
by confining the must or juice of the fruit 
in strong casks, to prevent the force of the 
fermentation bursting the vessels, imtil the ^ 
cold of the autumn frosts checked the pro- 
cess. The soil was a poor sand, with a 
stony sub-soil, having the advantage of a 
southern exposure, on a steep slope. It 
appears to have been deficient in depth and 
fertility ; and, it is quite evident, if vines 
were to be cultivated in a vineyard in this 
climate, that every circumstance ought to 
be as favourable as possible. Painshill 
vineyard enjoyed only two advantages — ex- 

* Observations on the Wines of the Ancients. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



222 BmiTI8H WINBS. 

posure and dryness ; it wanted fertility^ and 
a loose and more porous subsoil.* 

To these experiments may be added, that 
on the southern coast of Devonshire, po8> 
sessing the mildest temperature of the Eng. 
lish counties, there are still, or verj latdy 
were, two or three vineyards, from which 
wine is commonly mtade. 

Much of the ill success already mentioned, 
has doubtless resulted from erroneous eA 
ture, but the general failure may be re- 
ferred to the unfitness of the Englidi dimale 
for the perfection of the vine. Whatever 
may have been the condition and qualities 
of the early English grapes, employed in 
makmg wine, we know that they must have 
been ripened by the natiuai tempecatuie of 
the climate, as artificial heat was not re- 
sorted to, for the ripening of grapes, till the 
early part of the last century ; and then the 
heat was applied merely to the opposite side 
of the wall on which the vines were trained: 
nor is it till about the middle of the same 
century that we have any account of vines 
being covered with glass. 

* Loudon's Gardeners Mag. Feb. 1829. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BBITfSH WlNiI$* 223 

A writer, in a recent smentifie journal,* 
however, refers the fieulure c^ these experi* 
ments to other causes, observing that ^' the 
climate of this country has undergone a 
considerable change within the last hun- 
dred years, is allowed by all who have con- 
sidered the subject. With such inclement 
and changeable springs, and long protracted 
winters, as have been exparienced of late> 
vines, as standards in the open air, would 
be destroyed, or at least, no dependence 
could be placed upon them for a crop.f In 
their cultivation in this country, practi- 
tioners are more liable to err in planting 
them in too rich, than in too poor, a soil ; 
the first adds too much to their natural 
luxuriance of growth, and always reduces 
the flavour of the firuit.^ 

Upon this point g€nerally, as well as 



* Brande s Journal, April 1827. 

f Grapes, ripened on walls or trellises, are, in 
general, unfit for the manu^Eu^ture of wine. In 
mis country, however, it is with such grapes that 
the experiments in wine-making are now usually 
undertaken; which may probably be one cause 
why the liquors obtained have neither dttraUlity 
nor flavour. — Henderson. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



224 BRITISH WINES. 

upon the many other causes which concur 
powerfully to produce a good or bad quality 
of wine, Chaptal has the following forcible 
observations : — 

" Those who study the progress of Nature 
in her sublime work of yegetation, have 
surely observed how great is the influence 
which causes the least apparent exercise on 
her ; the difference which exists in the soils 
of adjacent grounds. That which is esta- 
blished in the atmosphere of a rising ground, 
by its inclination being more or less rapid, 
or being towards one or other of the cardinal 
points, and the manner in which it is shel- 
tered, are as many causes which act on the 
species and varieties which compose the 
vegetable kingdom, but there are none 
more susceptible of all these impressions 
than the vine.'' The same author adds, 
" The siu-face, more or less inclined, of the 
soil which surrounds the vine, though in 
the same locality, presents infinite modifica- 
tions. The summit, the middle, and the 
foot of a hill, give very different produc- 
tions. The summit, which is open and un^ 
sheltered, receives at every moment the 
impression of all the changes of the atmos- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 225 

phere; the winds injure the vines con-' 
tinually, the fog makes a more constant and 
direct impression on them, and the tempe- 
rature is variable and cold. This causes in 
general a less abundant quantity of grapes, 
which come to maturity slowly and imper- 
fectly, so that the wine made from them is 
inferior in quality to that which the flank 
of the hill furnishes, the position of which 
prevents the pernicious effect of the greater 
part of their causes. The base of the hill 
offers also serious inconveniences. Un- 
doubtedly, the constant moisture of the 
earth nourishes a strong and vigorous vine, 
but the grape is never so sweet nor so 
agreeably perfumed, as towards the middle 
region : the air is constantly damp, and the 
earth incessantly imbued with water, swells 
the grape, and forces the vegetation, to the 
detriment of the quality." 

This portion of our volume might be en- 
lai^d by the addition of many recent facts 
connected with the improved culture of the 
vine; but, as these would only be advan- 
tageous or available to the practical horti- 
culturalist, they must give place to a few 
more interesting records concerning the 
Q 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



226 BBITiaH VINES. 

varieties of winea which i^re mentioned in 
our domestie history. 

Foreign wines apfi^ar to have been firal 
intreiduced into England about the nii<U)e 
of the twelfth o^nturj : the date of the ear- 
liest statute of the foreign wine trade beiag 
1154, when the trade in Bordeaux wines 
commenced with this country. The duties 
on foreign wine imported are mentioned in 
the third year of the reign of John ; and in 
the time of Edward I. who ascended the 
throne in 1272, a duty of two shillings was 
imposed on every tun imported into Eng>- 
land, in lieu of the ancient impost, caUed 
pfiscye,* Out of every cai^o imported, the 
king claimed one tun before the nu^t^ 
under the name oipnsaj oxrestaprisa; and 
officers were appointed at the different ports» 
to collect and account for the same. Thia 
tax afterwards obtained the name of butietr" 
agcy because it was paid to the king's buUer. 

The English, from the above period^ w€at% 

. . ,-~> . r^ ■*' " >' - >. I H I 

* In this year> London imported d>79& tuos of 
wine ; Southampton apd Portsmoutlu 3«H7 ; and 
Sandwich^ 1>900. In the time of Edward ni. a 
trade in Rhenieib wine was carried on betive«i 
Hull and the ports of the Baltic. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 227 

much addicted to wine-drinking. According 
to Holinshed, the strongest wines were in 
the greatest request, while claret and other 
weak wines, were scarcely thought of. 
Wine was so abundant, that in 1392, when 
Bichard II. after a long absence, was re- 
ceived in London by the citizens, with great 
demonstrations of joy, the very conduits 
in the streets, through which the caval- 
cade passed, were allowed to run with every 
variety of wine.* 

In the time of Henry VIII. wine was 
used at breakfast, with beer ; and even the 
grave Sir Thomas More drank frequent 



* Perhaps the only i^elic known in oor time, of 
the custom of liquor flowing from conduits in the 
streets, is the distribution ofliquor to the populace, 
on certain public rejoicings. Among the several 
commemorations^of the last Peace, rolling out bar- 
rels of beer to the multitude was very general. At 
the grand ffete of St. Charles, to celebrate the 
birth-day of the present king of France, (Nov. 4.) 
provisions are thrown among the people, and urine 
is distributed to all who desire it. The fair or fi^te 
is held in the Champs Elysees. A programme of 
the day's entertainments is published, and the hours 
of distribution are duly stated. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



228 BRITISH WINES. 

bumpers in the morning, before proceeding 
to state business. 

A quart of wine and a quart of beer was 
the usual quantity served to two persons at 
one of these dejeun^s d la goblet,* Good 
appetite is, however, onlj induced by early 
hours; for the present king of France, 
though upwards of seventy-two years of 
age, breakfasts at eight o'clock, when bis 
dejeun^ includes a bottle of wine. 

A specific enumeration of the varieties 



^ A curious trait of the habits of this period^ is 
preserved by Cavendish, in his accountof Wolsey s 

Slendid reception of the Fi*ench ambassadors at 
ampton Court, in 1527. The cardinal is de- 
scribed as airiving while the foreigners were feast- 
ing : " Before the second course, my lord came in, 
booted and spurred, all sodainely amongst them 
preface ; at whose coming there was great joy, 
widi rising every man from his place, whom my 
lord caused to sit still and keep their roomes, and 
being in his apparel as he rode, called for a cha}^^, 
and sat down in the middest of the highest para- 
dise, laughing, and being as merry as ever I saw 
him in sdl my lyff.** The whole party drank long 
and strong : some of the Frenchmen were led off 
to bed, and in the chambers of all was placed 
abundance of " wine and beere." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 229 

of wines which have been used in England, 
or the fashions and customs of drinking 
them, would occupy too much space in our 
Manual ; neither would it be especially in- 
teresting to wine-drinkers of these days, 
since a comparison of our tables with those 
of the middle ages, for example, would in- 
duce no very favourable conclusions on the 
vigour of the present generation. The re- 
trospect, therefore, had better remain un- 
touched, if we except a slight notice of a 
statute of Edward VI. which is called, " An 
Act to avoide Excesse of Wynes, which not 
only relates to the price, but contemplates 
a set of aristocratical privileges which in 
our days border on the ludicrous. The 
enactments are as follow : — 

I. None but such as can spend one hun- 
dred marks of yearly rent, or is worth one 
thousand marks, or else shall be the son of 
a duke, marquess, earl, viscount, or baron 
of the realm, shall have, or keep in his 
house, any vessel of foreign wine, for his 
family's use, exceeding ten gallons, under 
a penalty of ten pounds for every such 
offence. 

II. No taverns for the retailing of wine 
shall be set up, except in towns and cities ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



230 BRITISH WINES. 

and only two taverns shall be allowed for 
every town or city, except London, which 
may have forty taverns; Westminster, which 
may have three ; York, eight; Bristol, six ; 
Cambridge, four ; Oxford, three ; Lincoln, 
three; Hull, four; Shrewsbury, three; 
Exeter, four ; Salisbury, three ; Gloucester, 
four; West Chester, four ; Hereford, three; 
Worcester, thre^; Southampton, diree; 
Canterbury, four; Ipswich, three; Winches- 
ter, three ; Colchester, three ; Newcasde^bnr. 

III. None of the said taverns, however, 
shall retail wines to be spent or dnmk 
within the respective houses, on pain of for- 
feiting ten pounds for every such offence. 

IV. Merchants may use in their own 
houses, but not sell, such wines as they 
diall import : also, high-sheriffs, magpistrates 
of cities and towns, and the inhabitants of 
fortified towns, may keep vessels of wine for 
their own consumption only. 

These provisions but ill accorded with the 
luxurious habits of the English, as the 
splendid hospitalities and commemorative 
festivals of the period will prove. 

To sum up details in a few words, which 
might be extended to many pages, it may 
be stated, that up to the period of the Revo- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEITISH WIN138. 231 

lution, the principal supply of wined was 
broug^ht from Friuice; at which time, ac- 
cording to the report of the commissionetb 
of trade and plantations, not less than 
20,000 tuns were the imports for one year. 
The duties on these wined, from 1770 to 
1782, were from £60 to £96, ; on other winefii, 
the duties were upwards from £30 to £46 
per tun. During the last four years of thiis 
period, the average quantity imported ap- 
pears to have been 14,094 tuns, while the 
reexportation was 2,094, leaving a balance 
of 12,000 tuns for the consumption of the 
Country. 

From a variety of document8,i t appears that 
the consumption of foreign Wines, legally 
imported, for a population of 11,978,876 
persons, only amounts, on an average, 
to 6,010,971 gallons; and of this quantity, 
40,000 are said to be annually consumed in 
London alone, which, at 126 gallons the 
pipe, may be estimated at 6,040,000 gallons 
for the inhabitants of that city, the number 
ofwhom were,in 1821, returned at 1,274,800 
souls. In 1822, the revenue derived from 
imported wine amounted to £962,670, and 
in 1823, to £962,397. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



232 BBITISH WINES. 

The consumption of foreign wine in Scot- 
land is comparativelj much less. On an 
average of seven years^the annual quantity for 
a population of 2,000,000, is not more than 
321,408 gallons, being, to each individual, 
somewhat better than a pint. Home-made 
wine is a manufacture not carried to any 
j;reat extent in Scotland, nor is it an art of 
much antiquity. Pennant says, that in the 
year 1635, they began to make some in 
England, from the raisins or dried grapes of 
Spain and Portugal, and that one Francis 
Chamberlayne had succeeded so well, that 
he obtained a patent for the manufacture of 
such wine for fourteen years. The author 
of the " Tatler,'' complained, that in his 
day they could squeeze Bordeaux out of 
the sloe, and draw Champagne from an 
apple. This manufacture has certainly been 
very successfully pursued by the English, 
since it is estimated that one-half of the 
Port, and five-sixths of the white wines 
consumed in London, are the produce of the 
home presses.* 

Probably more has been written upon the 

* Morewood on Inebriatmg Liquors. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 233 

manufacture of British wines, than upon 
any other branch of domestic economy. — 
Almost every writer has his favourite theory 
or system of wine-making, — and every good 
housewife has her customary receipts for the 
same purpose. A few observations on the 
result of these enquiries may not, however, 
be uninteresting. They may be advanta- 
geously preceded by some observations on 
the general principles of Wine-making. 

Vinous liquors, resembling wine, may be made 
from every fruit, as well as from every vegetable, 
which contains acids united to its extractive matter. 
The term wine is thus applied to the produce of 
currants, gooseberries, and many others; while 
that of cyder is especially reserved for the liquor 
to be obtained from apples. That term would be 
a fitter one for many of the vinous hquors in ques- 
tion, and we shall here restiict the teim wine to 
the produce of the vine. 

All fruits consist of the following principles : — 
water, sugai*, a peculiar combination of sugar and 
extract, called the sweet principle, by the French, 
supertartrite of potash, malate of potash, and malic 
acid, superoxalate of potash, extractive matter ana- 
lagous to mucilage, and vegetable gelatin, tannin, 
aprinciple of flavour, and a colouring piinciple. 
These, however, are not all found in any one 
fruit, and- they also vary in their proportion in dif- 
ferent ones. The essential ones to the making of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2S4 BRITISH WINES. 

wine are the tartarous acid, sugar, or the sweet 
principle, extract, and water ; and Uiose which are 
useful, without being indispensable, are flayour, 
tannin, or astringency and colour. And it is by 
possessing these in right proportions, that the 
grape excels all other fruits for the purpose of 
making wine. 

Tartarous acid, or its combinations, is especially 
indispensable; and hence it is that the grape which 
contains it in large quantity, produces wine; when 
the apple, and other fruits which contain the malic 
acid, produce cyder. It is essential to the fer- 
mentation, as well as to the quality of the produce; 
and it is decomposed in the process, so as to in- 
crease the quantity of alcohol, which the sugar 
would otherwise yield. Where malic acid is also 
present, the Quality of the wine is bad. Sugar 
must be considered the fundamental element, and 
as that from which the alcohol is chiefly deiiyed. 
Thus, the most saccharine grapes produce the 
8ttt>ngest wine. But it seldom exists in a pure 
state in the grape, or in any other vegetable* It 
appears to be most pure in the sugar cane ; but 
even there it is combined with the extractive mat^ 
ter, and also with some acid, forming the sweet 
principle of the French. Pure sugar does not 
ferment in water, it crystallizes; and whenever 
fermentation occurs, some other vegetable matter 
is present. When sugar, again, has crystallised 
from a solution of the sweet principle, what re- 
mains, runs still more steadily into fermentation. 
In the produce of the cane, this is molasses. It is 
very important to keep this distinction in view, 
because upon it materiidly depends the fabrication 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 235 

of sweet wines. It explains many circumstances 
in the process of fermentation^ and some that are 
often overlooked. It explains, among other things, 
why wine ferments in a cask, when it will not fer- 
ment in hottles; hecause the sugar derives the 
necessary extractive matter from 9ie wood. The 
chemical nature of the extractive matter is not 
known ; but is supposed to contain azote, as this 
is the produce of fermentation. Yeast, or leaven, 
contains the extractive principle in great abundance, 
and hence its power of inducing fermentation in a 
solution of pure sugar. All vegetables contain it ; 
and it is most abundant in those juices which gela- 
tinate in boiling. It is found in the grape, and it 
is thus the natural leaven of wine, whether existing 
in a sepai'ate state, or united to sugar, in the form 
of a sweet principle. Water is a much more essen- 
tial ingredient, than would at first be suspected. If 
over abundant, it is diflScult to prevent the produce 
from running to the acetous stage. Hence weak 
wines become sour. If deficient, it is difficult to 
establish the fermentation ; and hence sweet wines. 

Thus, also, sweet wines ai*e injured by drying 
the grapes, or evaporating their juice, both com- 
mon practices in the wine countries. Colour must 
be looked on in the light of an ornament, and is 
found in the husk of the grape. So is the tannin 
principle, which occasions the astringency in Port 
wine. Of the principle of flavour, chemistry knows 
nothing ; it seems often the produce of fermenta- 
tion, as in Claret and Burgundy wines : in those 
of Frontignan and Muscat, it is the natural fla- 
vom* of the fruit. 

When the process is complete, the wine is dry, 
or contains no sugai*, so that sweet wines, which 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



236 BRITISH WIN£$. 

are compounds of wine and suffar, are the produce 
of incomplete fermentation. When a]l the ele- 
ments, above described^ are in due proportion, the 
product is perfect, a dry wine ; and the elements 
that require particularly to be balanced for this 
result, are the extract, or leaven, and the sugar. 
If the former is in excess, the wine tends to vinegar, 
unless means are used to stop the fermentation, by 
abstracting the leaven ; if in defect, the process is 
imperfect, a sweet wine. Hence, the perfection 
and management of the leaven, are amongst the 
most impoilant circumstances in the manufacture.'*^ 

Such are the general principles of wine- 
makin^^ but the comparative failure of the 
British process may be still further traced. 
The natural ill qualities of our fruits must 
be corrected by art, and to do this with ef- 
fect, to imitate the qualities of the more 
perfect fruits of warm climates, constitutes 
the whole secret. Every receipt-book is 
full of processes for making a multiplicity 
of domestic wines. These never take into 
account that an unvarying process cannot 
be adapted to the ever-changing nature of 
our fruits, the qualities of which are dif- 
ferent, according as the season has been 
wet or dry, cold or warm ; according as the 

* Abridged from the Supp. Ency. Brit. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 237 

soil was exhausted or well manured ; the 
trees skilfully or ignorantly pruned, and 
several other circumstances not necessary 
here to enumerate. These popular pro- 
cesses, therefore, seldom succeed; hence 
our domestic wines have a bad character, 
and the art of making them is but little 
cultivated. Such is the opinion of a very 
recent writer*; but the advocates for British 
wine-making usually divide themselves into 
two parties, such as maintain that our wines 
are spoiled by an excess of sugar, and such 
as contend that perfect wine may be made 
from unripe fruit. Mr. Cobbett, whose 
experience in rural economy is entitled to 
respect, observes, " that which we call cur- 
rant wine, is neither more nor less than 
red-looking, weak rum, the strength coming 
from the sugar. People deceive themselves. 
The thing is called taine, but it is rum; that 
is 'to say, an extract of sugar."t Another 
experienced writer says : " the idea of 
making good wine with British fruits, 



* Donovan's Domestic Economy, 
f Cottage Economy. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



238 BRITISH WINES. 

which abound with undecomposable acids, 
with only two pounds of sugar to each gal* 
Ion, is abnost impracticable. It may be 
asked, what are the substances that make 
wine keep, and prevent it from tunuBg 
sour? Undecomposed sugar and alcohol. 
Now, as to spirit, the wine as it is called, 
scarcely contains any ; and the small quan- 
tity of si^r it contains would be speedily 
decomposed, were it not for the fiequest 
skimmings and rackings it undergoes. 
Without this, the wine, as it is called, would 
not keep a twelvemonth; whereas, wine 
made upon true chemical principles, will 
keep any length of time if properly mtr 
naged. I have wine by me now, made from 
ripe gooseberries, nineteen years old, which 
is perfectly sound ; the wine now dnmk by 
my family is twelve years old, and if it 
has any fault, it is that it is too strong ; it 
never had spirit of any kind added to it; 
all the alcohol it contains is genuine, the 
product of the fruit and sugar. To add 
brandy or spirit of any sort to wine^ will 
spoil the flavour of the best that ever 
was made, unless it be k^ a certain 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINKS. 239 

number of years, or added in a very small 
quantity.* 

Dr. MaecuUoch, on the other hand, is 
of opinion that the best wine may be made 
from umipe fruit. He thinks ripe fruits 
are much improved by boiling previous to 
fermentation. This, he states, is particu- 
larly the case with the black currant, which, 
when thus managed, will make a wine 
closely resembling some of the best of the 
sweet Cape wines. But Dr. M. has made 
wines from tmripe grapes and sugar, so 
closely resembling Champs^fne, Grave^ 
Rhenish, and Moselle, that the best judges 
could not distinguish them from those fo* 
reign wines. The grapes may be issed iB 
any state, however unripe ; when even but 
half grown, and perfectly hard, they suc- 
ceed completely .f 

The success of the fermentative proeess, 
however, depends in all cases upon the 
proper adjustment of the sugar and fruit. 
The only ferment to be employed, is that 

* Correspondent of the Gardener's Magazine. 
^ l^ee MaccuUocb on Wine, 4^ £dit. 1829. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



240 BRITISH WINES. 

furnished by nature; and when this is 
defective, as is sometimes the case in our 
domestic fruits, the ferment of the grape 
must be supplied artificially. This may be 
done by introducing a certain portion of 
crude tartar ; the dose of which may vary 
from one to six per cent, or from two to 
four pounds of tartar, to one hundred pints 
of liquor, the sweetest requiring most, 
without materially affecting the wine, as 
a great portion of what escapes decompo- 
sition, will be subsequently deposited. All 
finiits will require more or less tartar. 

As we have abridged Dr. MaccuUoch's 
valuable hints in a succeeding page, we need 
not here enlarge upon the process and its 
advantages. Neither would it be useful to 
attempt to reconcile or explain the dis- 
crepancies of the various opinions on the 
art of making British wines. An atten. 
tion to the scientific principles of wine- 
making, would, doubtless, render these do- 
mestic processes more complete than they 
now are, and the results more valuabk ; but, 
much as philosophy may be benefited, and 
ingenuity exercised, by experiment, we are 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BRITISH WINES. 241 

not among those who think that the disad- 
yantages of climate and growth, are to be 
entirely outmastered by art.* 

* We may here notice a few of the synthetical 
preparations^ which French and other chemists 
have made^ and which possessed many of the 
agi'eeahle properties of those produced from the 
grape. This was done hy first analysing the wine 
to be imitated^ and then by apportioning the quan- 
tities of the several ingredients which existed in 
the wine naturally. In this way, Fabroni made 
wine from 864 lbs. sugar, 24 lbs. gum arabic^ 241b. 
tartar^ 31b. tartareous acid, 36 lbs. gluten of wheat, 
and 1728 quarts of water. Parmentier made a 
good Muscadine wine from 2 16 lbs. sugar, 9 lbs. 
crystals of tartar, 72 lbs. elder flowere, and 307 lbs. 
water. The colonists in the West Indies prepare 
a wine from 250 lbs. sugai', 2 barrels of water, and 
4 lbs. of yeast: this wine is coloured with litmus, 
and scented with some essential oiL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 



Nothing but the early adulteration of 
wines could justify the crafty anathema of 
wine-haters, — that in every grape there 
dwelt " a divell." The pernicious practice 
is of considerable antiquity; and, as in most 
ways of sin, succeeding generations have 
progressed in the custom, till they have 
made a compound of adulterations, and 
thus lost the original produce which they 
intended to imitate or qualify. Indeed, the 
modems have reached a refinement of vice, 
which the scientific fraud of future ages 
will probably never transcend. 

The adulteration of wines in England is 
of very early date. The mixing of foreign 
wines afibrded many opportunities for the 
introduction of a variety of deleterious com- 
positions ; and these mal-practices of the vint- 
ners are perpetuated in laws, so early as the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADUI^TERATION OF TV?INE. 24S 

time of Edwaxd III. Hence, in all probap 
bility, arose the establishment of the Vint* 
ner's Company. 

In the year 1426, great complaints were 
made against all classes of venders, for adul-^ 
terating their wines; and Sir John Rain^ 
well, the mayor, having caused some sas^ 
pected quantities to be examined, found 
them so impure, that he ordered one hun- 
dred and fifty butts to be poured into the 
kennels. To put a stop to these abuses, 
Heniy VI. in a charter of confirmation 
which he granted to the company in the 
following year, directed that the company 
should appoint annually, " four persons of 
the most sufficient, most true, and most cun- 
ning of the same craft, that held no ta- 
vern," to be sworn before the mayor, to see 
that genuine wines only were sold, and at 
such prices as they should affix.* The pre-^ 
amble of a statute of Queen Mary, next ex- 

* At this time, the price of Gascoigne, Guienne, 
and French wines, was limited to eight-pence per 
gallon ; Rochelle, to four-pence ; and no sort pf 
wine was to exceed one shilling per gallo^. In 
1379, however, Gascoigne was but four-pence a 
gallon. 

r2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



244 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

presses very praiseworthy horror at all 
adulteration of the genuine juice of the 
grape, and enjoins tavern-keepers to refrain 
from any admixture of old and new wines, 
and from putting any water into the same, 
upon pain of forfeiting their whole stock, 
and losing their franchise or license. There 
is also a statute of Charles II., deserving 
particular mention ; for the gratitude of the 
merry monarch to this soul-inspiring beve- 
i^e, led him to make rigid enactments for 
its unadulterate quality; which were ne- 
cessary to keep in countenance the assertion 
of Charles's favourite physician, Toby Shaw, 
that wine was the best preventive of sick- 
ness.* By this statute, it is ordered, " that 
no merchant, vintner, wine-cooper, or other 
person, selling or retailing any wine, shall 
mingle or utter any Spanish wine mingled 
wifh any French wine, or Rhenish wine, 
cyder, perry, stummed wine, honey, sugar, 
syrups of sugar, molasses, or any other 
syrups whatsoever; nor put in any isinglass, 
brimstone, lime, raisins, juice of raisins, 
water, nor any other liquor, nor ingredients, 

* See page 2. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 1U5 

B(»r any celery or other herbs, nor any sort 
of flesh whatsoever; and that all offenders 
against the statute, shall forfeit one hun^ 
dred pounds, and the vintners, forty pounds, 
for every such offence. Again, AdcUson, in 
one of his periodical papers, gives a more 
embellished idea of the mal-practices of 
these adulterators, and observes, — ^* there is 
a certain fraternity of chemical operators, 
who work underground in holes, caverns, 
and dark retirements, to conceal their mys- 
teries from the eyes and observations of 
mankind. These subterraneous philoso- 
phers, are daily employed in the transmuta- 
tion of liquors, and by the power of magi- 
cal drugs and incantations, raising, under 
the streets of London, the choicest products 
of the hills and valleys of France. They 
can squeeze Bordeaux out of the sloe, and 
draw Champagne from an apple. Virgil, 
in that remarkable prophecy, — 

** Inoultisqwe rubens pendebit sentibus uva." 

^ Tbe ripening grape shall hang on every thorn," 

aeems to have hinted at this art, which can 
turn a plantation of northern hedges into a 
vineyard. These adepts are known among 
one another by the name of wine-brewers ; 
and, I am afraid, do great injury not only 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



246 ADXJLTEllATlON Of WINfi; 

to ber majesty's customd, but to tbe bo^es 
of many of her good subjects.*'* 

In every respect, wine is a most fayour^ 
able subject for deceptions of the before- 
described nature. It is a costly article, and 
is in universal use ; among the poor as a 
cordial, and among the rich as a luxury. 
The peculiar qualities for which it is prized, 
are of a delicate nature ; and though by ex- 
perienced judges, they may be discerned 
with certainty, the great majority of those 
who affect a discriminating taste in wine, 
frequently become the dupes of skilfol im- 
positions ; and the poor, who use wine as a 
medicine, and usually buy it in retail, must 
take what is given them, having nothing ta 
trust to but the conscience of the dealer, 
which has long been rendered callous by 
the love of gain. Wine, accordingly, ap- 
pears to be a subject for the most extensive 
and pernicious frauds. 

One of the most common adulterations is 
by means of lead, which, when dissolved in 
lu!ids, has the property of sweetening them^ 
and is accordingly used for mellowing such 

* tatler. No. t31. See also page 232 of the 
present volume. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 247 

wines as are liable to turn sour. The air- 
cients knew that this metal rendered harsh 
wine milder ,but it was not universally known 
that it was poisonous. According to Pliny, 
the Greeks and Romans proved the quality 
of their wines, by dipping a plate of lead in 
them. The late Mr. Parkes, the chemist, 
mentions a treatise on the management of 
wines, printed so lately as the year 1783, 
which directs the use of lead in order to 
preserve wines from acidity. " In France, 
lead was formerly used largely for this pur- 
pose in the wines consumed in Paris. It 
was then discovered, and the act made 
penal. That lead is a poisonous substance 
is well-known ; but, in this particular case, 
the danger has been overrated. The tar- 
trite of lead, like that of lime, is insoluble ; 
so that, after the lead had done its duty, it 
was discharged by racking and fining. Had 
this not been the case, all Paris, at the time 
we speak of, must have been poisoned."* 

* Supp\ EncycL Brit — ^Dr. Johnstone, in his 
Essay on Poisons, observes, ihat " Lead, in its me- 
tallic state, like all the other metals, is probably 
inert ; but is so easily acted upon by the weakest 
acids and alkalies, that it cannot be taken in tkia 
form without imminent danger." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ftiS JiDULTERATION OF WINE. 

This exception applies only to cases where 
lead is used for clarifying wines after they 
have become muddy, or for stopping the 
progress of wines to acidity. Yet, it is a 
substance that ought not to be used ; be- 
cause in an acid wine, acescent from fer- 
mentation, it might produce either white 
lead, or sub-carbonate of lead, or else sugar 
of lead acetite ; both of them poisons, if in 
different degrees. 

It is certain, that lead, taken in the sto- 
mach, is highly deleterious, and occasions 
the most afflicting diseases ; and, that wine, 
with the smallest quantity of it intermixed, 
becomes a slow but sure poison : a mo- 
dem chemist therefore justly observes, that 
** the merchant or dealer who practises this 
dangerous sophistication, adds the crime of 
murder to that of fraud, and deliberately 
scatters the seeds of disease and death 
among those customers who contribute to 
his emolument." 

For the credit of humanity, we ought txy 
state our belief th|it adulteration of wines 
with lead, is much more rare than formerly; 
but as there are many simple means for its 
detection, we shall pursue the subject. Dr. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 249 

Watsoti gives the following tests: — Boil 
together, in a pint of water, an ounce of 
quick-lime, and half an ounce of sulphur; 
and when the liquor, which will be of a 
yellow colour, is cold, pour it into a bottle, 
and cork it up for use. A few drops^ of this 
liquor being let fall into a glass of wine or 
cider containing lead, will change the whole 
into a colour more or less brown, according 
to the quantity of lead which it contains. 
If the wine be wholly free from lead, it will 
be rendered turbid by the liquor ; but the 
colour will be rather a dirty white than a 
black brown.* By this test, however, iron 
is also precipitated when dissolved, in wine, 
and is apt to be taken for lead ; a mistake 
which has ruined several honest merchants. 
The following test is, therefore preferable, 
as not being liable to the same inconve- 
nience. Heat together equal parts of oyster 
shells and sulphur, keep them in a white 
heat for fifteen minutes, and when cold, 
mix them with an equal quantity of cream 
of tartar; put these into a strong bottle, 
with water to boil for an hour ; and then 



* Chemical Essays. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



250 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

decant the liquor into ounce idals, adding 
twenty drops of * spirits of salts to each. 
This liquor will precipitate the least quan- 
tity of lead, copper, &c. from wines, in a 
very perceptible black deposit. Sugar of 
lead may be detected in wine, by adding to 
it a few drops of Harrowgate water, when 
the wine will become blackish, if lead has 
been used to correct acidity. 

Wines are sometimes adulterated by acci- 
dent or neglect; and as a very common cause 
is as important as it is interesting, we sub- 
join an instance.* 



"i^ It is well known that bottles in wliich wine 
has been kept are usually cleaned by means of 
diot, which, by its rolling motion, detaches the 
crust from the sides of the bottles. This practice^ 
which is generally pursued by wine-merchants> 
may give rise to serious consequences, as is evident 
from the following case : — ^A gentleman, who had 
never in his life experienced a day's illness, and 
who was constantly in the habit of drinking half a 
bottle of Madeira wine after dinner, was tdken ill, 
in the course of the evening, with a severe pain in 
the stomach and bowels, which gradually yielded, 
within twelve hours, to the remedies prescribed by 
his medical adviser. The day following he di*ank 
the remainder of the same bottle of wine which was 
left the preceding day, and within two hours after- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULT?ERATI0N OF WINE« ^61 

Ag we have spoken of lead for counter* 
acting acidity, it may be useful to add a 
few observations on other and safer means 
for effecting the same object. 

Wine-merchants, when their wines be- 
come sour, can only conceal or absorb this 
acidity by certain substances, as by alkalies 
and absorbent earths. But these substances 
give to wine a dark greenish colour, and a 
taste, which, though not acid, is somewhat 
disagreeable. Besides, calcareous earths 
accelerate considerably the total destruction 

wards he was again seized with a violent colic, 
head-acLe, shiverings^ and great pain over the 
whole body. His apothecary becoming suspicious 
that the wine he had taken might be me cause of 
the disease, ordered the bottle from which the wine 
had been decanted to be brought to him, with a 
view that he might examine the dregs, if any were 
left. The bottle happening to slip out of the hand 
of the servant, disclosed a row of shot wedged for- 
cibly into the angular bent-up circumference of it 
On examining 3ie beads of shot, they crumbled 
into dust, the outer crust (defended by a coat of 
black lead, with which the shot is glazed) being 
alone left unacted on, whilst the remainder of the 
metal was dissolved. The wine, therefore, had 
become contaminated with lead and ai'senic, the 
shot being a compound of these metals, which, no 
doubt, had prbdi^ded the mischief. * • 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



252 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

and putrefaction of the wine. Oxydes of 
lead, having the property of forming with 
the acid of vineg^, a salt of an agreeable 
saccharine taste, which does not alter the 
colour of the wine, and besides, . has the 
advantage of stopping fermentation and pu- 
trefaction, might be employed to remedy 
the acidity of wine, were it not for the 
dangers we have shown to result from the 
use of lead. A safer method is, therefore, 
important. For the acidity of wine, from 
the commencement of the acetous fennent- 
ation, there is no proper remedy. It may 
be checked, if taken in time ; as it would 
be prevented by careful sulphuring. Here 
lead is highly pernicious; and, it need 
scarcely be said, that to add sug^ of lead, 
as has been done, from ignorance and fraud 
united, is to add a poison without even ob- 
taining a remedy. Chalk and lime may be 
used with impunity : yet, neither can these, 
and far less alkalies, be used to such an ex- 
tent as to cure the disease; as they unite to 
the other acids, and also decompose and 
destroy the wine. To prevent it as fieir as 
possible, when commenced, a low tempera- 
ture, and careful exclusion from the airfare 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OP WINE. 25^ 

necessary. But, it must be rememberedy 
tbat air will find aeeessy not merely tbrough 
corky but through all rosins, also : and thus, 
there can be no complete security; the best 
being that of placing the bottles on their 
sides, so that the fluid itself becomes its 
own cork. The Italian practice of using oil 
is thus far safer ;* but it is balanced by its 
various inconveniences. 

Of all wines, Port is the most liable to 
adulteration, and but rarely obtained ge- 
nuine, although the chief consumption is in 
England. We have already spoken of the 
brandylng processf which takes place in the 
native country, the effect of which, thanks 
to the Methuen treaty, and our own per- 
verted taste, we are still likely to enjoy. 

A few years since the frauds in Port wine 
were indisputably exposed, by Mr. Brande, 
in a valuable paper on fermented liquors, 
read before the Royal Society,! in which he 
says that Port wine appears to contain about 
one-half its bulk of pure brandy. According 



* See Italian Wines, page 138. 
f See Portuguese Wines, page 85. 
X Philosophical Transactions for 1811. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



254 ADULTERATION OF WII^E^ 

to this analysis, a man, every time be driiikft 
two bottles of strong-bodied Port, swallows 
exactly one bottle of tbe strongest brandy.*. 
Another chemist observes, with honest 
indignation, and, we believe, with equal 
truth, " All persons moderately conversant, 
with the subject, are aware that a portion of 
alum* is added to young and meagre red 
wines, for the purpose of brightening their 
colour ; that Brazil wood, or the husks of 
elder-berries and bilberries, which are im-> 
ported from Germany, under the fallacious 
name of berry dye^ are used to impart a deep 
rich purple tint to red Port of a pale colour ; 
that gypsum is used to render cloudy white 



* In what a serious consideration does this involve 
such topers of Port, as a Mr. Vanhom, mentioned 
by Sir John Sinclair, in his Code of Health. In 
the space of twenty-three years, our naturalised 
friend to Oporto, drank 35,688 bottles, or 59 pipesr 
of Poit wine. His usual daily quota was four 
bottles. Sir John observes of him, " it is incre-' 
dible what pleasure any individual can feel from* 
such abundant potations, in the courae of which 
he resembled more a cellar than a man ; for there 
are many cellars that never contained what this 
man's must have done, namely, 59 pipes of Port 
wine." . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE, 255* 

wine transparent; that an additional astrin- 
gency is imparted to immature red wines, 
by means of oak-wood and saw-dust, and 
the husks of filberts ; and that a mixture of 
spoiled foreign and home-made wines is 
converted into the wretched compound fre- 
quently sold in the metropolis, by the name 
of genuine old Port,^^ Of this commodity, 
also, the following is a chemical analysis ; 
spirits of wine, 3 oz. ; cyder, 14 oz. ; sugar, 
li oz. ; alum, 2 scruples; tartaric acid, 1 
scruple ; strong decoction of logwood, 4 oz. 
The process to detect alum in Port wine,is 
very simple. Take some fresh prepared 
lime-water, and mix the suspected wine 
with it in equal proportion ; allow the mix- 
ture to stand about a day ; then, if the wine 
be genuine, a number of crystals will be 
found deposited at the bottom of the vessel: 
if alum is in the wine, there will be no 
crystals, but a muddy and slimy precipi- 
tate: the lime-water need not be very 
strong. Another method is to drop some 
solution of salt of tartar into the wine, 
when, if the alum be present, there will be 
a violetKJoloured precipitate, or, at least, 
cloudiness, which will vanish again, if a few 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



256 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

drops^ of spirits of salts are added to the 
mixture."* 

Amidst a multitude of milder adultera- 
idons, it must, here also, be ceded, that the 
use of poisons has been abated. This is 
probably in consequence of the abundance 
and cheapness of inferior Cape wines, which 



* M. A. Chevalier, a distmguished French che- 
mist, gives the following recent results of his en- 
quiries upon tests for the natural colouring matter 
of wine : — 

" 1. That potash may be applied as a re-agent, 
to ascertain the natural colour of wines, which it 
changes from red to a bottle-green, or brownish 
green. 2. That the change of colour produced 
by this substance upon wine, is different in wine 
of different ages. 3. That no precipitation of the 
colourinK matter takes place, the latter remaining 
dissolved by the potash. 4. That the acetate of 
lead should not be employed as a test of the colour 
of wines, because it is capable of producing various 
colours with wines of a natural colour only. 5. That 
the same is the case with Ume water, with muriate 
of tin mixed with ammonia, and with subacetate of 
lead. 6. That ammonia may be employed for 
this purpose, the change of colour which it pro- 
duces, not perceptibly varying. 7. That the sam^ 
18 the case with a solution of alum, to which a 
certain quantity of potash has been added, and 
which may, therefore, be used for the purpose.* 
From the Annates de tlndustrie. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 257 

furnishes wine-txicksters with a more con- 
venient menstruum for their fraudulent pre- 
parations * The sophistication, or, as it is 
technically called, the doctoring of wine, is 
still carried on in London, to an enormous 
extent, as well as the art of manufacturing 
spurious wine, which has long been a re- 
gular ti*ade, in which a large capital has 
been invested ; and, in the cyder counties 
the drinker of Poit wine may learn that 
many thousand pipes of spoiled cyder are 
annually sent to the metropolis, for the 
purpose of being converted into an imitar 
tion of the wines of Oporto. 

Other expedients are resorted to in order 
to improve insipid wines, and are classified 
under the several secrets of flavouring, co- 
louring, correcting, &c. Flavouring is, 

* " The manufactured trash which is selling in 
London^ under the names of Cape, Champagne, 
Burgtmdy, Barsac, Sauteine, &c. are so many spe- 
cious poisons, which the cheapness of the common 
and inferior wines of the Cape allows the vendors 
of them to use as the basis of the several composi- 
tions, at the expence of the stomach* and howels of 
their customei*s, and of the little share of character 
which the real Port wines had acquired.** — Quar- 
terly Review. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



258 ADULTERATION OF WINE. 

however, a very old practice. The taste of 
Greece is now, as it was in ancient times* 
to perfume its wines with turp^tine, the 
vina picata of the ancients ; and this is ef- 
fected by putting turpentine or rosin into 
the casks. In Britain, our chivabrous and 
baronial ancestors perfumed their wines 
with every strange ingredient that can be 
imagined ; but that was the age of spiceiy 
and perfumes ; and he who eat cinnamon 
with his pork, might drink ambergris in 
his wine. In our times, bitter almonds are 
occasionally employed ; factitious Port wine 
is also flavoured with a tincture drawn firom 
the seed of raisins ; and sweet-briar, orris- 
root, clary, cherry-laurel water, and elder- 
flowers, are used to give a bouquet. The di- 
vision of labour in these illicit occupations 
is completely established: each has his own 
share assigned him in the confederate work 
of iniquity. To one class is allotted the 
task of crusting^ which consists in lining 
the interior surface of empty wine bottles 
with a red crust, by suffering a saturated 
hot solution of supertartrate of potash, co- 
loured with a decoction of Brazil wood, to 
crystallize in them. A similar operation is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ADULTERATION OF WINE. 259 

frequently performed on the wooden cask 
which is to hold the wine, and which, in 
the same manner as the bottle, is artificiallj 
stained with red crust; and, on some oc- 
casions, the lower extremities of the corks 
in wine-bottles, are also stained red, in 
order to give them the appearance of having 
been long in contact with the wine. The 
scriptural maxim of the danger of putting 
new wine into old bottles, is lost sight of 
in this process. The wine-dealers among 
the Greeks appear to have set the example 
to their posterity ; for they were accustomed 
to put the new vintage into a cask which 
had been seasoned with an old and high 
flavoured wine; and others placed cheese 
and nuts in the cellar, to blunt the appe- 
tites of purchasers. 

Dry rot is a more conscientious advantage 
upon time, as it soon covers the bottles with 
a mouldy appearance, and consumes the ex- 
ternal parts of the corks, so that with a tri- 
fling operation on the bottles after they are 
filled, and then deposited in cellars pretty 
strongly affected with the dry rot, they can 
send out wine as having been in bottles 
seven or eight years, before it has, in fact, 
been there as many months. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 



The leader will probably have received 
sufficient gout for this purpose, from the 
florid and not unpictoresque details of some 
of the preceding pages. The luxuriance of 
the vineycufds, and the ingenious processes 
by which their produce is adapted, we had 
almost said sublimed^ for the Table, must 
have prepared him for a few pages on the 
order and propriety which are conducive to 
the most refined enjoyment. ^' There is," 
as Shakspeare incontrovertibly expresses it, 
^^ a reason in roasting eggs;" and as another 
bard asserts, '^ order is heaven's first law"; 
both of which axioms are not a whit less 
applicable to the Table, than to any other 
integral part of the universe. Eating has 
its rationale^ and in well-conditioned society 
its rules of propriety are as closely observed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 261 

as any other part of the system, by which 
we live and have our being ; and but little 
pains is requisite to prove that drinking 
should be reduced to the same order. To 
commence refection with drinking Tokay 
or Lacryma Christi, would be as great a 
breach of propriety, as to eat game before 
soup. 

We must, however, bear in mind that, ac- 
cording to an old adage, ^' it is not in the 
power of any one to decide on taste or on 
colours ;'' else we might soon become lost in 
the labyrinths of romantic investigation. 
Still, there are certain points of propriety in 
the art of drinking wine, which 



• Fashion so directs, and moderns raise 



On fiuhion's monldering base their transient praise. 

An epicurean wine-drinker observes that 
the red wines should always precede the 
white, except in the case of a French dinner, 
usually preceded by oysters. In this case, 
the ostreal delicacies should be saluted with 
a treble volley of Chablis, or, for greater so- 
lemnity, with libations of Pouilly, or Mont 
K^het, or even with Sauteme, Barsac, or 
White Hermitage. But, for this important 
reason, red wine should open the repast. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



262 ART OF DRINKING WINB. 

The custom, during the last century, was 
always to take, after soup, a glass of some 
sweet wine ; but now, the experienced wine- 
drinker either takes a glass of good old Ma- 
deira, or of Teneriffe. 

Our French exemplars assert the most 
proper wine during the first course, to be, 
without any contradiction. Burgundy of the 
least celebrated growth, and which, for this 
reason, is known as Low Burgundy. Such 
are Avallon, Coulange, Tonn^re, and gene- 
rally all those known under the designation 
of MSU^on and Auxerre. You then ascend 
to Beaume and Pomard ; and if you choose 
to confine yourself to the Burgundinian to- 
pography, you have the generous Biche- 
bourg, the high-flavoured St> George, the 
purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Ro- 
mance. But if you can ill bear the tram- 
mels of classification, and wish to give a 
fillip to your taste by change of flavour and 
soil. Champagne offiers its sparkling Ai, 
perfumed Cumidres, and limpid SOlery. 
After these, you may enjoy the stronger 
wines of Dauphiny, which whet the appe- 
tite, and heighten the savour of roast meats. 
Among these, we recommend Ch&teau 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 263 

Grille, C6te-Rotie, and Hermitage. 'Tis 
then that mirth lights up the faces of the 
convivial circle, and the gibes and gambols 
of wit are wont to set the table in a roar ; 
'tis then that we acknowledge the claim of 
only one other wine to produce on the quan- 
tity already imbibed, an effect similar to 
that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or 
a spoonful of oil on the angry waves of the 
ocean. This is the wine of Bordeaux or 
Claret. See how wisdom's art gradually 
appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect 
of Medoc poured by a steady hand into 
bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax- 
lights. An armistice ensues, and the '^ in- 
tellectual gladiators" lay down their wordy 
weapons. Amphytrions clear the table, 
wafers and sweet cakes, and perfumed 
creams, usurp the place of Ugumes, which 
boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. 
Languedoc, Roussillon, and Provence, what 
brilliant associations do ye create ! Spain 
too, participates in this gale of glory ! But 
what is that ruby tint which glows amid 
sparkling crystal ? what is that liquid topaz 
which strikes the eye with wonder, and in- 
spires a new gusto ? Rivesaltes, Grenache, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



264 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

Lunel, Malmsey, Frontignan, Malaga and 
Xeres — ^what a galaxy of glories rises with 
your delicious aroma to perplex wine- 
drinkers. Your half-consumed corks give 
eyidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar 
antiquity ; the perftimed gale ascends, and 
your richness mantles and sparkles high; 
whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect 
of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously 
served immediately after dinner, although 
health and good taste concur in delaying 
its appearance. 

But the aromatic gale of the Mocha-berry 
already salutes our delighted senses. Folly 
produces another bottle, the silver froth 
rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the 
cork to the ceiling, or the Arbois is pro- 
duced, and unites the sweetness of Con- 
drieux with the sparkling of the impetuous 
A'i ! Tis then only that the wine-drinker 
can enjoy in diamond glasses, the exqui- 
siteness of veritable Tokay. 

Such, observes a French writer, is an 
abridgment of the didactic order, in which 
the tributes to Bacchus must be greeted. 
He concludes, by rejoicing that notwith- 
standing all their luxury and knowledge of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 265 

the arts, the ancients did not at any period 
exceed us in wine-making. Aristotle tells 
US9 that in Arcadia, the wines evaporated 
in leather-vessels, till they were cut in pieces, 
and dissolved in water for drinking: certes, 
these could not equal our Medoc, Volnay, 
or A'l, without a drop of water. According 
to Galienus, in Asia, wines were hung about 
the chimneys till they had the hardness of 
salt, and were dissolved in water to be 
drunk. Pliny, when he celebrates the wines 
of Italy, and the praises of the Falemian, 
does not even tempt us; for it seems that 
the best wines in his time were but syrups, 
which were diluted with water for drinking. 
To conciliate a few of the varied opinions 
on the precedence of French wines, the 
same writer observes, some persons prefer 
Burgundy; others contend for Bordeaux; 
a few pretend that Champagne, still, and of 
the first quality, unites the Burgundinian 
flavour with the Bordeaux warmth, while 
the native of the borders of the Rhone, 
asserts that the finest of all wines is Her- 
mitage ! All are right, and each in its turn 
is best ; especially, if the maturation of the 
fruit has been successfiU : this is rare, for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



266 ART OP DRINKING WINE. 

there is a greater difference between the 
wine of one year and that of another, grown 
in the same vineyard, than between the 
wine of a celebrated district, and that pro- 
cured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we 
should take the advice of Sterne, and likQ 
the man at the fair, every man speak as he 
has found his market in it. According as 
we have drunk Sillery, La Romance, or 
M^doc, of memorable years, we ought to 
prefer the districts which produced them 
respectively, always with this prudent re- 
striction — ^not to be so exclusive in our 
taste, as not to welcome others in the ab- 
sence of better. We may admire Comeille, 
adore Voltaire, and Racine ; but still read 
with pleasure Pamy, Bouffiers, and Bertin ; 
and even the sublime vis camica of Voltaire, 
does not produce a distaste for the prettiness 
and pleasantry of Rcard. 

In noticing the varieties of wine adapted 
for different habits and temperament, our 
French exemplar suggests that those of a san- 
guine habit should drink a light, moistening 
wine, like Champagne or Hock ; the phleg- 
matic man requires an ardent wine, as that 
of Languedoc and JDauphiny, to dissolve 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 267 

the phlegm that ohstructs his system ; the 
man of melancholy, a mild wine, to restore 
his wounded spirit, and invigorate his 
wasted frame, for which pui'pose, he should 
choose the produce of Roussillon and Bur- 
gundy, or the vinous wealth of Italy and 
Spain.^ For bilious habits, he recommends 
a generous and astringent wine, as fine 
Claret, which, not only braces the system, 
but counteracts the bile. He then repels 
the unjust term of coldness, which has by 
some persons been attributed to the Bor- 
deaux wines ; and maintains that they are 
easier of digestion than any other wine : 
they leave the head cool, although drunk 
unsparingly, and will bear removal; whilst 
Burgundy is very stimulating, and is injured 
by being disturbed. In short, he sums up 

* The quaint old Burton tells us, that wine is 
frequently the sole cause of melancholy, especially 
if it be immoderately used ; and Guianerius relates 
a story of two Dutchmen, whom he entertained in 
his own house, who drank so much wine, that in 
the short space of a month, they both became so 
melancholy, that the one could do nothing hut 
sing, and ue other sigh. But, observes Burton, a 
cup of generous wine to those whose minds are still 
or motionless, is, in my opinion, excellent physic. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



268 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

with remarking that Burgandy is aphrodi- 
siac; Champagne, heady; Roussillon, re- 
storative; and Claret, stomachic. Dr. Hen- 
derson ranks Bordeaux among the most 
perfect light wines, and the safest for daily 
use; and Dr. Macnish, in a very clever 
work,* distinguishes Claret as *^ the most 
wholesome wine that is known." He also 
commends Burgundy, Rhenish, and H^- 
mitage, as, generally speaking, more salu- 
brious than the stronger varieties, as Port, 
Sherry, or Madeira. Champagne, except 
in cases of weak digestion,t is one of the 
safest wines that can be drunk. ** Its intoxi- 
cating effects are rapid, but exceedingly 
transient, and depend partly upon the car- 
bonic acid which is evolved from it, and 
partly upon the alcohol, which is suspended 
in this gas, being rapidly and extensively 
applied to a large surface of the stomach.'' 
A recollection of these qualities gave rise to 



* Anatomy of Drunkenness. 

f Champagne and Pine-apple, two of the great- 
est luxuries of the table, and veiy frequently en- 
joyed together, are fonnidable obstacles to diges- 
tion. 



d by Go ogle 



ART OF DRINKING WINE. 269 

Mr. Currants sparkling witticism, that 
Champagne made a runaway rap at a man's 
head. 

The astringent principle of the wines of 
Oporto, is too well known for us to ex- 
plain; and the great quantity of brandy 
with which they are adulterated both before 
and after their exportation, almost justifies 
the name of ^^ a hot intoxicating liquor,'' 
which foppery, in one of its gossamer fits, 
has thought fit to bestow upon Port wine. 
Dr. Johnson valued the potency of Oporto 
wines, in the scrap of Table-Talk, that Port 
was drink for men, and Claret for boys. 
The hospitalities of Mrs. Thrale's cellar 
ought to have taught the Doctor a better 
distinction. Dr. Henderson thinks the wines 
of Oporto may be serviceable in disorders of 
the alimentary canal, where gentle tonics are 
required. But the gallic acid renders them un- 
fit for weak stomachs ; and their astringent 
virtues will be found in the wines of Ali- 
cant and Bota, which contain more tannin 
and less acid. The excitement they induce 
is of a more sluggish nature than that at- 
tending the use of the purer French wines, 
and does not enliven the fancy in the same 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



270 . ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

degree. As a frequent beverage, they are 
unquestionably much more pernicious.* — 
Perhaps the wines commonly drunk in Eng- 
land and France, afford the best character- 
istic of the two nations. Dr. Henderson's 
observation is, therefore, very happy, since 
nothing is easier than to conceive the differ- 
ent effects of Port and Bordeaux wines : one 
soon rendering the drinker uncomfortably 
excited, and the other bringing into play 
some of the finest fancies of wit and hu- 
mour, and many of the brighter beams of 
intellectual superiority, which justly belong 
to " the feast of reason and the flow of soul.'* 
A man with a bottle of Port, and another 
with the same modicum of Bordeaux wine, 
often occupy very different stations in the 
chain of being, or companionable qualities. 
Sherries still recommend themselves by 
the almost total absence of acidity. For 
invalids, of all sti*ong wines, those of Ma- 
deira are most eligible; ^* being equally 
spirituous as Sherry, but possessing more 
delicate flavour and aroma, and though 

* History of Wines — ^Medical Properties, wito • 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^RT OF DRINKING WINE. 271 

often slightly acidulous, agreeing better 
with dyspeptic habits."* 

Rhenish wines, and those of the Moselle, 
are delightfully refreshing; and among 
their properties are a diuretic eflfect, and a 
tendency to diminish obesity. In fevers too, 
they are very serviceable, as they contain 
but little acid. 



The philosophy of mine-drinking is an ex- 
haustless subject. Its inspirations have been 
censured or exalted by the poets and philoso- 
phers of all times. Yet, we suspect many 
of these worthies of base ingratitude in 
deprei^ating the e£fects of wine. Addison, 
we know, was far from insensible to the 
pleasures of the Table; yet, he gra.vely 
writes thus : — ^** Wine heightens indiflference 
into love, love into jealousy, and jealousy 
into madness. It often turns the good-na- 
tured man into an idiot, and the choleric 
man into an assassin. It gives bitterness 

* History of Wines, — Medical Properties, 4to. 
p. 356. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



272 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

to resentment ; it makes vanity insupport- 
able; and displays every little spot of the 
soul in its utmost deformity/' 

The witty Butler laments the abuse of 
wine in the following lines: — 

Tis pity wine, which nature meant 
To man in kindness to present, 
And gave him kindly to caress 
And cherish his frail happiness. 
Of equal virtue to renew 
His wearied mind and body too, 
Shou'd (like the cider-tree in Eden, 
Which only grew to be forbidden) 
No sooner come to be enjoy'd 
Than th' owner's fatally destroyed. 

"The maxim of the ancients, * in vino ve- 
ritas^^a man who is well warmed with wine 
will speak truth,' (says Johnson,) may be an 
argument for drinking, if you suppose men 
in general to be liars ; but I would not keep 
- company with a fellow, who lies as long as 
he is sober, and whom you must make 
drunk before you can get a word of truth 
out of him/' The Doctor has likewise an 
observation somewhat akin to those of Ad- 
dison : " In the bottle, discontent seeks for 
comfort; cowardice for courage, and bash- 
fulness for confidence." A more recent 
writer observes, that wine is such a whe^ 
stone for wit, that if it be often set thereon. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AttT OF DRINKING WINE. 273 

it will quickly grind all the steel out, and 
scarcely leave a back where it found an edge. 
This remark has often been admired for its 
terseness and laconic force. 

We must not, however, conclude with a 
homily, but take a few ayes on the question. 
No less grave a man than Plutarch, relates 
the argumentative eflfect of wine, in his 
Symposiacks, or Table Conversation. He 
says, " that one Lamprias, a man eminent 
for his learning, and a philosopher, dis- 
puted best, and unravelled the difficulties of 
philosophy with most success, when he was 
at supper, and well warmed with wine." 
These table entertainments were part of the 
education of the times, their discourses 
being commonly the canvassing and solu- 
tion of some question, either philosophical 
or philological, always instructive, and 
usually pleasant; for the cups went round 
with the debate, and men were merry and 
wise together, according to the proverb. 
We wish this branch of education had de- 
scended to our times. 

It might be rather hazardous to quote 
many exemplars of the inspiring effects of 

T 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



274 AWI OF DRINKING WINE. 

wine. Passing by the feats of ancieiit 
wine-drinking, we may touch upon a few 
nearer our own day, and observe that some 
of the greatest as well as the meuiest ac- 
tions of men's lives, have been performed 
under the potent i^ncy of the juice of the 
grape, or of some intoxicating liquid. Even 
the poor savage thought brandy was made 
of tongues and hearts; ''for when I have 
drunk it, I fear nothing, and talk like an 
angel/' This is very naive, and thousands of 
civilized sons have adopted an opinion ex- 
pressed with such amiable simplicity. Three 
of the brightest lights of the political hori- 
zon of their time, — ^Fox, Pitt, and Sheridan, 
appear to have profited by the particular 
branch of edudition alluded to by Plutarch. 
The story of Sheridan finishing the last act 
of Pizarro, a plate of sandwiches, and two 
bottles of Qaret in half an hour, is well 
known. Lord Byron thought Sheridan 
"superb, very convivial, and delightful — 
for his very dregs are better than the ' first 
sprightly runnings' of others." Byron's 
note of a party at which Sheridan was 
present, is equaUy characteristic : '' first si- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ART OF OBINKIKQ WINE. S75 

lenty dieii talky, then argumentatiyey then 
disputatious, then unintelligible, then altrv 
gethery, then inarticulate, and then drunk.'* 
The finest productions of the first lyric 
pools ^ our times, owe much of their su- 
premacy te the inspirations of wine. Who 
can forget C3ift«les Morris's ^^ Songs, Po- 
litical and ConfriTial,'' and his Ftize Ana- 
creontic " ad Pocutum ?*'— 

C«me thoa soul-refiTiDg eap, 

And try thy liealing taStt 
light the fancy's visions op^ 

And warm my wasted heart ; 
Touch with glowing tints of hUsi 

Mem'ry's £iding dream ; 
Give ipe, while thy lip I kiss, 

The heav'n that^sin thy stream! 

In thy fount the lyric muse, 

Ever dipp'd her wing, 
Anacreon fed among thy dews. 

And Horace drained Uiy spring! 
I, too, humblest of the train. 

There my spirit find. 
Freshen there my languid brain, 

And store my vacant mind. 
&c. &c.* 

Bums was a practical man, and a liying 
example of the precept he inculcated in a 



* For this song, Capt. Morris received the 
prize of the gold cup, from the Harmonic Society. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



276 ART OF DRINKING WINE. 

paraphrase upon the royal Hebrew miD- 
strel : — 

Gie him strong drink, until he wink, 

That's press'd with grief and care ; 
And liquor gude, to fire his bluid, • 

That's sinking wi* despair: 
There let him booze, and deep carouse, 

In bumpers flowing o'er ; 
Till he forget his love and debt, 

And heed his griefs no more. 

An illustrious living poet, whose talent 
in associating the felicities of woman and 
wine, in the sublimest flights of song, is as 
excellent a table companion, as amiable a 
man ; and to complete the fascination, he 
adds the charm of highly-cultivated musical 
taste. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 



Receipts for the Management of Wines 
will be found in any practical volume on 
the subject; but the following have not ap- 
peared in any work of that description. 

The Cellar. 

Count Chaptal s valuable hints on the choice of 
a Cellar^ will be found at p. 50, et seq. 

*' A cellar can hardly be too dry ; moisture not 
only moulding and rotting the casks, but giving a 
mouldy taste to the liquor they contain. Expe- 
rience has proved in France, that wines preserved 
in vast tuns, built into the stone walls of good cel- 
lars, increase in spirit every year. The floor of the 
cellar should be well covered with saw-dust, which 
must not be sufiered to get too dry and dusty, but 
must be occasionally changed ; lest, when botthng 
or racking wine, some of the old dust should fly 
into it. In some vaults it is necessary, during 
winter, to have a stove or chafing-dish, to keep up 
the proper warmth. In the summer, it is best to 
keep them as cool as possible. The thermometer 
should be fixed in that part of the vault where the 
wines for bottling are kept, endeavouring to have it 
as low as ' temperate.' In summer, wash the cel- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



278 APPENDIX. 

lar out weekly, to keep it cool, and free from mns- 
tiness : in winter, sweep it clean eveiy ten days at 
least." 

The quantity of the different kinds of wine which 
the cellar of an amateur ought to contain, is not 
limited; but a wise precaution ought in this to 
unite economy with wealth. 

There are only some particular kind of wines 
which ought to be lain in, in large quantities. Se- 
veral others may be amassed in sufficient number 
of botdes, to last for some years. Burgundy and 
Champagne, will keep but veiy few years, and 
should always be drunk as soon as iksy are ripe, ibr 
thev spoil very rapidly. Burgundy turns sour, 
and Champagne becomes thick. In general, it is 
most difficult to preserve white wines: never more 
should be laid in than are sure to be for inmiediate 
use. Claret, wines from the south, and Spani^ 
wines, will ke^, and ou^ht to be kept, long, be- 
cause their age is their chief merit €^ these, it is 
right to have some pipes in store ; and ^lose which 
contain new wine, snoidd be concealed by those 
iHiich are fitto drink, that they may not be broadied 
till thc^ have been, in a manner, forgotten ; a&d, 
after this wine has been laid by in beetles, it wOl 
come to table fthe Port of Oporto especially,) widi 
a triple eoat of crust, with the corin olaek^te^ and 
half consumed by time. 

In placing wines in the cellar, Spanish, the 
sweet wines e!^>ecia]ly, such as Mali^ and Rota, 
should be standing upright. Heat mngs thera to 
perfection ; and thev should be pkw^ed on riidves» 
as the cddness of the cellar hinders their ripe&iiig. 

Upon the age of wine, it is difficult to obtain 
many reconcileaUe opinions, nnce so much mvat 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 279 

depend on the success of the fermentative process. 
The writer of the valuable paper in the Supplement 
to the En^cloptBdia, (article — ^Wine,) says, — 
" Wines bottled in good order, may be fit to drink 
in six months, (especially if bottled in October,) 
but they are not in perfection before twelve. From 
that to two years, they continue so ; but it would 
be improper to keep them any longer." This is 
questionable. Conscientious wine-merchants think 
four years a good general average for fine old 
wine. Of course, there are many instances of 
wines being found of extreme age and goodness. 
Mr. Brande states, that a few years since, some 
Mountain, which was buried in the fire of London, 
was dug up, and found to be more spirituous than 
recent Malaga wine; and, its quuity^ in other 
respects, was unimpaired. 

Briskness of fVines, — Champagne, 

This property relates almost exclusively to the 
wines of Champagne, and it is one that may err in 
excess or defect. It is generally known that it is 
the produce of an unfinished fermentation, and, 
therefore, a due degree of it must depend mainly 
on the proper management of this process. It is 
sectured by bottling at the proper season, March, 
and before the fermentation is exhausted : and, if 
in dangei' of excess, it is restrained or diminished 
by racking, or decanting, and sulphuring. But it 
happens not unfrequendy that it fails altogether ; 
either from accident in the management, or a bad 
season; from faults in the fruit, or fermentation 
carried too far, or a weak wine exhausting itself un- 
expectedly. In this case, the remedy is to intro- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



280 APPENDIX. 

duce sugar^ not only into the casks, but into the 
bottles. In the first case^ the fermentation is re- 
newed, and the wine may thus become legitimate 
and good. In the other the effect is far different, 
and not sood ; and hence it is, that all the very 
sweet Champagne wines are bad or indifferent. 
These are, in fact, a mixture of wine and sugar, 
rather than proper wine. And, in this case, the 
effect of the sugar is, not to produce a new fermen- 
tation, but to disengage the carbonic acid of the 
wine ; as a salt, or any other soluble substance, 
would do, by a superior affinity. To gain this end, 
the solid sugar is corked up in the bottle ; so that 
the disengaged gas is retained under the pressure 
of the cork, ready to fly out whenever that is re- 
moved. Thus Champagne, which has been de- 
stroyed by age, is rendered, at once, both sweet 
and effervescent ; and this, however convenient a 
secret it may be to the possessor, is but a fraud, 
and a very common one too. 

Claret, 

In order to give the Bordeaux wines some re- 
semblance to those wines of Spain and Portugal 
which are used in England, to render them of die 
taste preferred here, from the effect of long habit, 
the majority of the Bourdeaux wine-merchants who 
trade with England, are obliged to work them, or 
mix them with other wines, as. hermitage; which 
gives fire to the claret, but renders it dry when old, 
turns it of a red brick colour, and causes a deposit 
of sediment, when it has been some time in bottle. 
When by this admixture, a working or fretting rc- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



. APPENDIX. 2^1 

suite, they take some mineral crystal, reduce it to 
powder, and put an ounce into each harrel, beat up 
with a proper quantity of isinglass, and rack off the 
wine about fifteen days after, when it has got clear, 
and has entirely ceased to work. To give odour 
(hovquet) to the wine, they put two drains of orris- 
root powder into a fine rag, and let it hang about 
fifteen days in the cask, when it is taken out ; or 
the powder is put into the barrel beat up with 
fining, and fifteen days after it may be racked oC 
Two ounces of raspberry brandy are sometimes 
added to each cask, fifteen days after which, the 
apparent maturity of the wine is incrusted by the 
peculiar odour which the mixture gives it. 

Damsons or sloes, stewed with some of the wine, 
and sugar, cochineal, and turnsole, are used to co- 
lour claret. 

To improve claret that drinks foul, rack the 
wine from the dregs on some fresh lees of ite own 
kind, and then add a dozen new pippins pai-ed and 
with the cores out, and stir the wine well. This 
not only takes away the foulness, but also gives 
the wine an agreeable flavour. 

Here we may hint at a mode of ripening claret, 
even in bottle, which is veiy much practised in 
. France, and may be practised here without injury 
to the health ; though we are certainly far from re- 
commending the practice to the venders of wine, 
however it may be adopted in private cellars. The 
process is to operate upon wine perhaps only a year 
in bottle. Draw the corks, and pour about a glass- 
ful out of each, re-corking them tightly ; then place 
the wine, thus drawn, in an oven, sufferingit at the 
end of an horn* or two to cool gradually. Draw the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



282 APPENDIX. 

eorks i^n> and fill op die botdes^ which must be 
carefuUy replaced in the ceHar ; and in a day or 
two the wine will Imve every ai^peaiance of being 
ten years ^. 

leeing Wines. 

The custom of iceing wines, is of yery consider- 
able antiquity. Iced liquors were among the hixn- 
ries of the Greeks, who had several methods of 
preserving ice throushout the summer. When 
Alexander the Great besieged Petra, a dtv of Jo- 
dea, he filled thirty ditches with ice, which, being 
covered with oaken boughs, remained a long time 
entire. The custom of preserving ice was so com- 
mon among the Romans, that they had shops for 
its sale; and Pliny describes an elegant method of 
cooling Honors, which came into vogue during the 
reign of Nero, to whom the invention was ascribed, 
viz. — ^by f^ing water which had been previouahr 
hoiled, m a tmn glass vessel, surrounded with 
snow, so that it might be frozen without its purity 
being impaii'ed ; a stretch of luxury which equaiB 
any of the refinements of modem science. 

Ice may be kept by the following very simple 
method : — Fill a barrd of any size with ice, and 
place it in one so much larger, that a space of from 
two to three inches be left all rouna. Fill tbn 
space with charcoal, thickly heaped and pressed ; 
cover the mouth of the barrel with six inches of the 
same substance ; and placing a layer of straw over 
the whole, bury the treasure in the ceUar. Next 
winter you have only to renew the charcoal at the 
mouth of the barrel; the rest of the apparatus will 
last for many years. 



d by Go ogle 



APPENDIX. 283 

Of the various apparatus for producing aiti£cial 
cold for freezing wine, we believe one invented by 
Richard Walker, Esq. of Oxford, to be entitled to 
all the patronage it has received. Under this gen- 
tleman s directions three distinct kinds of apparatus 
have been manufactured : one ior freezing water in 
the hottest weather; another, for iceing unne; and 
the third for freezing cream. Other apparatus 
have been manufactured by Mr. Paterson, late of 
Bridge Street, Blackfiiars. They are commonly 
known as " Paterson s Ice Pails.* Mr. Walkers 
apparatus for wine, is very simple. He merely 
proposes to add the following portion of freezing 
powder to each pint of water, in which the decanter 
of wine is to be placed up to the neck within a cup 
or can surrounded with water in a tin covered pail. 
The freezing powder is made as follows: — ^Toeach 
pint of water, take three ounces of powdered nitre, 
and three ounces of powdered sal ammoniac, and 
Glaubers salts in powder, four ounces and a half; 
the whole to be dissolved in water. Care should 
be taken that the surface of the wine is rather below 
the surface of the freezing mixture.* 

The iceing of wines is too simple to need any in- 
struction from us. By iceing Champagne wines 
before they are used, the tendency to effervesce is 
in some degree repressed, or only allowed to ope- 
rate to such an extent as may be compatible with 
the more perfect flavour that we desire to find in 
them; but when they are kept cool, this precaution 



• A mixture of 4 oz. nitrate of ammonia, 4 oz. sub-car- 
bonate of soda, and 4 oz. of water, in a tin pail, has been 
found to produce 10 oz. of ice in three hours. — Brande's 
Journal, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



284 APPENDIX. 

is unnecessary. Silleiy Champagne is usually 
drunk iced.* 

Thus^ Champagne gains strength by the cold ; 
but it is disputed whether any but common wines 
should be iced, and said, that even they would be 
better if merely cooled with water, which the same 
authority thinks, " always gives sufficient coolness 
to wine, even at the hottest temperature of the dog- 
days. But it is not only that we should avoid ice- 
ing wines that are choice; every different kind re- 
quires a different degree of cold and warmth. Thus 
Claret, coming immediately out of the cellar, has 
not that soft and delicious flavour which gives it its 
eculiar value. The bottle should be placed, be- 
bre drinking, where it may obtain warmth. In 
winter, wine-drinkers always place it before the 
fire ; but Burgundy should be drunk firesh from 
the cellar." 



fo 



DR. MACCULLOCH'S RECEIPTS FOR 
MAKING WINES. 

We abridge the following from Dr. Mac- 
culloeh's excellent Practical Rules for ma- 
naging Wines made from Fruits of British 
growth. 

Wine from unripe Gooseberries. 

Choose the fruit before it has shown the least 
tendency to ripen, but about the time when it has 

• Dr. Henderson's History of Wines. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 285 

nearly attained its full growth. The green Bath 
is perhaps among the best gooseberries. The 
smallest should be separated bv a sieve properly 
adapted to this purpose; and any unsound or 
bruised fruit rejected, while the remains of the 
blossom and fruit stalk should be removed. Put 
forty pounds of this fruit into a tub, carefully 
cleaned, (the quantities in all the receipts are com- 
puted for a cask often gallons) and of the capacity 
of fifteen or twenty gallons, in which the fruit is to 
be bruised in successive portions, by a pressure 
sufficient to burst the berries without breaking the 
seeds, or much pressing the skins. Then pour 
four gallons of water into the vessel, carefully stir 
the contents, and squeeze them in the hand until 
the whole of the juice and pulp are separated from 
the solid matters. The materials are then to re- 
main at rest from six to twenty-four hours, when 
they are to be strained through a coarse bag. One 
gallon of fresh water may afterwards be passed 
through the marc, or pulp, &c. Then dissolve 
thirty pounds of white sugar in the juice thus pro- 
cured, and make up the total bulk with water to 
the amount of ten ^ons and a half. The liquor 
thus obtained is the artificial nmst, or juice of the 
grape. Next pour it into a tub, over which place 
a blanket or similar substance covered by a board ; 
the vessel being placed in a temperature from fifty- 
five to sixty degrees of the thermometer. Here it 
may remain for twenty-four hours, or two days, 
according to its symptoms of fermentation, and 
from this tub it is to be drawn into the cask in 
which it is to ferment. When in the cask, it must 
be filled nearly to the bung-hole, and kept so filled 
as the fermentation proceeds. When the ferment- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



286 APPENDIX. 

ation has somewbat 8uMJed> ikt bsog mvf be 
driven in, and a spile-hole bored, the peg beiiig 
loosened occasionally till the fermentation has en- 
tirely ceased. The wine thus made must remain 
over the wint^ in a cool cellar; and, if required, it 
may be bottled some dear imd cold day, towards 
the end of February or beginning of March, with- 
out furtib^ precaution. To insure its fineness, 
however, it is better to decant it towards the end 
of Decemb^, into a fresh cask, so as to dear it 
from its first lees. If the wine be too sweet, instead 
of decanting it, stir up the lees so as to renew the 
fermenting process ; taking care, also, to increase 
the temperature at the same time. At whatever 
time the wine has been decanted, it is to be fined in 
the usual way, with isinglass. Sometimes it is 
found en>edient to decant it a second time into a 
firesh cask, and again to fine it. All these r^novals 
should be made in clear, dry, and, if possible, tM 
weather. In any case, it must be bottled daring 
the month of March. 

Th. Macoulloch then describes a few variations 
of the fbrc^ing process. The husk of the goose- 
berry, or the whole of the marc, as weU as the 
juice, may be fermented together in the vat with 
the sugar, in the first stage of the process. 1^ 
fermentation will thus be more rapid, and die wine 
prove stronger and less sweet, but it will acquire 
more flavour. Crude tartar may be added to the 
must, in the proportion of six ounces. 

If it is wished to have a very sweet, as wdl as 
brisk wine, the quantity of sugar may be increased 

If the wine is intended to be less- sweet, and less 
strong^ than in the first case, the sugar must be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 287 

reduced to twenty-five-poimds. Thus made, it 
will rarely fail to be brisk ; but will^ at the same 
time^ be less durable. Wines of this kind will 
resemble the inferior classes of Champagne, and 
must commonly be consumed within the twelve- 
month. 

The proportion of fruit adopted in this receipt, 
is that in common use ; but to insure briskness 
without excessive sweetness, or the chance of being 
obliged to renew the fermentation, it is recom- 
mended to increase the proportion of fruit to fifty 
pounds, when the sugar is thirty. If, during the 
fermentation of the wine thus formed, there should 
be any danger of the sweetness disappearing alto- 
gether, it may be decanted, and the fermentation 
9ien checked by fining. Thus it will speedily be 
fit for use. 

The same proportions and precautions apply to 
wine from unripe Currants ; but this fruit is still 
better calculated for brisk wines than the goose- 
berry. 

It must be understood, that in no case is the 
solid matter to be introduced into the cask; and if 
the head, which is foimed in the fermenting vat, 
should acquire a sour or a musty smell, it is to be 
carefullv separated. In those cases, also, where 
the solid matter is not to be fermented with the 
fluid, the juice, or must, may be introduced at once 
into the cask, without previously remaining in the 
vat. 

Wine from unripe Grapes, 

The fruit may be of different degrees of ripeness, 
and the varieties mixed. The same proportions of 
fruit and sugar will be proper as when gooseberries 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i 



288 APPENDIX. 

and currants are employed, but the tartar must be 
omitted. The husks^ also, may be permitted to 
ferment with the liquor in the vat. The subse- 
quent management is precisely the same as that 
described above. Dr. Macculloch also says, an 
excellent wine may be made from thie leaves and 
tendrils of the vine ; but the process is by no means 
so certain as either of the preceding, and is, conse- 
quently, less calculated for domestic practice. 

Wine from ripe Gooseberries and Currants, 

May be made either sweet or dry. The roles 
immediately preceding, which relate to the ferment- 
ation, require equally to be attended to in this case. 
If sweet wine is intended, the quantity of fruit 
should not exceed forty pounds ; if dry wine is de- 
sired, it may extend to sixty. The proportion of 
sugar will be thirty pounds, as before. If a much 
stronger, of either quality, is desired, it must ex- 
tend to forty. The same precautions are required 
in the selection and care of the fruit, and the ma- 
nagement of the husks. 

Wine from ripe Grapes. 

No water is to be used ; but, as the juice of the 
fruit is, in general, deficient in sugar, it is necessary 
that from one to two pounds of sugar should be 
added to each gallon of must. The addition of 
tartar is also useful in this case. The remainder 
of the management is as before. 

A superior class of wines is made by the jtuces 
of British fruits, without any water being added. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 289 

French Method of making superior Gooseberry and 
Currant Wines, 

For Currant Wine : — Dissolve eight pounds 
of honey in fifteen gaQons of boiling water; to 
which, when clarified, add the juice of eight pounds 
of red or white currants. Then ferment twenty- 
four hours, and to every two gallons of water add 
two pounds of sugar. Then clarify with whites of 
eggs and cream of tartar. 

For Gooseberry Wine : — Gather the fruit 
diy, when about half ripe, and beat it in a mortar; 
strain the juice through a canvass bag, and mix it 
with sugar, in the proportion of three pounds to 
eveiy two gallons of juice. Leave it quiet for fif- 
teen days, when it should be carefully poured ofi* 
and left to ferment three months, when the quan- 
tity is under fifteen gallons ; and for ^ve months, 
when double that quantity. It should then be * 
bottled, when it will soon become fit for drinking. 

Improved Method of making Raisin JVine. 

We have obtained the following improved 
method from the Transaetions of the Society 
of Arts for the year 1829. The receipt is 
from the pen of Mr. Arthur Aikin, Secretary 
to the Society ; and its importance will re- 
commend it. 

I have for some years been in the habit of 
making for use in my own family, a light dry rai- 
sin wine; I have also noted down, with more or 
less minuteness, the progress and result of several 
of these experiments ; and I beg leave now to ofier 
tiiem to the Society, in the hope that thereby some 
X 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



290 APPENDIX. 

additional light may be thrown on a very important 
branch of domestic economy. 

It appeared to me, from some previous com- 
parative trials with black currants, and with others 
of our native fruits, that none of them are so well 
adapted to make light dry wines, as the better kinds 
of raisins : a farther advantage attends the use of 
this latter fruit, that the wine may be made at the 
season when the temperature is most favourable to 
the due progress of tne feimentation. 

The raisin which I have been most in the habit 
of using, and which I prefer, is the Muscatel. It 
is imported in boxes, containing about twenty 
pounds ; and, when new^ is in common use as a 
table fruit. In this state it would doubtless make a 
wine of excellent quality ; but its price prohibits its 
employment for this purpose. In those which re- 
main unsold for about a year, the rich pulp of the 
recent raisin becomes mixed with sugary concre- 
tions, which render it less acceptable at the dessert ; 
and Uie price of such fruit, being from tenpenceto 
a shilling a pound, brings it within the reach of the 
domestic wine-maker. 

That matter, whatever it be, which, through 
the process of fermentation, converts a solution of 
sugar into vinous liquor, exists in raisins in suffi- 
cient abundance to change into wine a greater 
quantity of sugar than the fruit itself contains ; and 
I have found it advantageous, both as regards the 
price and quality of the product, to add to any 
given quantity of raisins from one-tenth to one- 
third of their weight of sugar. In order, however, 
to avoid tainting the wine with the pecuUai* flavour 
of cane sugai', 1 use good loaf, at the average price 
of ten pence or eleven pence a pound. 



d by Go ogle 



APPENDIX. 291 

In my early experiments I poured hot water 
on the raisins, and allowed them to remain therein 
twelve hours, more or less ; by this time the raisins 
were plumped up, and I pressed them between 
fluted wooden rollers in order to break their skins, 
and press out the juice. This process, however, by 
no means succeeded to my wish ; the rollers were 
clogged and strained by the fruit which adhered to 
them ; and many of the raisins, by reason of the 
toughness of their skins, passed through the rollers 
entire. I therefore adopted the plan of having the 
raisins chopped (without previous maceration) on 
the same kind of tray, and with the same kind of 
chopper as is used in making minced meat ; and I 
have had no reason to vary from this method, 
except, that of late, I have directed the raisins to be 
chopped finer than they were at first. Previous to 
the misins being chopped, the stalks are separated 
for a use that will be mentioned hereafter. 

* I have tided several proportions of ingi*edients; 
but those from which I have obtained the best re- 
sults are, three pounds of raisins and one pound of 
sugar to an ale-gallon of water. 

I prepare the must sometimes by mashing, and 
sometimes by maceration. 

The mashing is perfonned in the following 
manner : — The chopped raisins being put into an 
open tub, or an earthenware pan, I pour on them 
hot water in the proportion of about a quart to four 
pounds of fruit. My object, in this first mash, is 
to extract the greater part of the sacchaiine muci- 
lage as little altered as possible ; I therefore heat 
the water no higher than about one hundred and 
twenty degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer ; the 
water and fruit are mixed ; and after standing for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



292 APPENDIX. 

about a quarter of an hour, the whole is stirred 
together as accurately as possible by hand, taking 
care to break down all the lumps ; and, in a few 
minutes afterwai'ds, is placed on a sieve over a tub, 
where it drains for a short time ; the husks are then 
lightly pressed by hand, and are returned to the 
mash-tub. 

The second mash is made exactly in the same 
manner as the first ; and the husks, after pressing, 
are returned again to the mash-tub. 

They will now be found to have lost the whole 
of their clamminess, though they are still sweet ; I 
therefore conclude diat the saccharine mucilage is 
now for the most part extracted, and my principal 
object in the subsequent mashes is to dissolve out 
the tartar. For this purpose, the water of the 
third mash is put on at the heat of one hundred 
and fifty, or one hundred and sixty degrees, and is 
conducted in the same manner as the former. The 
liquor thus obtained is considerably acidulous, 
having the flavour of the raisins, and but little 
sweetness. Three-fourths of the mash being now 
made, it is tasted, in order to ascertain whedier it 
is sufficiently astringent; and, according to the 
intended astringency of the wine, I either alto- 
gether reject the stabs, or use the whole, or a part 
of them. If a somewhat astringent wine is intended, 
the last mash is thus prepared : — ^I pour boiling 
water on the stalks, in a separate tuD ; and after 
they have been macerated for about a quarter of an 
hour, I put the liquor on the husks, and mix them 
well witn it ; in a quarter of an hour more the 
liquor is put on the sieve, and the husks are well 
squeezed by hand. 

While the last mash is preparing, I transfer 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 293 

the liquor of the first three mashes into the fer- 
menting tun, and dissolve the sugar in it; I then 
add as much of the last mash as is requisite to 
bring the must? to the due proportions ; viz. one 
ale-gallon of must to three pounds of fruit and one 
pound of sugar. The time occupied by the above 
processes is four or five hours ; and the tempera- 
ture of the must when put into the fermenting tun, 
is usually about seventy degrees. 

If the weather is warm, and apparently more 
likely to become hotter than colder, I pour the 
must into the fermenting tun with as little agita- 
tion as possible ; but if it is cool, and not likely to 
get warmer, I dash each pailful against the sides of 
9ie tun, pouring it in from as great a height as I 
can conveniently reach ; by this means it is more 
mixed with atmospheric air; and liquor thus 
treated will often begin to ferment in less than 
twelve hours. If the must is at the temperature of 
seventy degrees, fermentation begins in from twelve 
to thirty-six hours, according as it is treated ; and 
the scum which rises is sometimes taken off every 
day, and sometimes allowed to remain till the liquor 
is about to be removed from the fermenting tun. 
If the fermentation is languid, I keep on the cover 
of the tun, and stir the scum daily into the liquor ; 
if too rapid, I take off the cover and remove the 
scum as it rises. 

The liquor is now vinous, but sweet; and, 
after carefully skimming it, I transfer it to glass 
carboys, containing about six or seven gallons, or 
to stone-ware barrels of the same size.* I insert 



* As barrels of stoneware are always more or less porous, 
they should be warmed thoroughly before a fii'e, and be 



d by Go Ogle 



4 



294 APPENDIX. 

in the bungs glass tubes of safety ; and, on the 
second day, pour into them about an inch of quick- 
silver to exclude the air. The cement that I 
use for covering the bungs, is a mixture of wax 
and resin. 

Carbonic acid continues to bubble through the 
quicksilver in the safety-tube for some weeks, after 
which it ceases ; but the column of quicksilver in 
the exterior leg of the syphon is always higher 
than that in the interior leg, I have never seen a 
single instance of the outer air passing into the 
carboy. 

I think the wine ought to remain an entire 
summer in the barrel or carboy, in order that the 
fermentation may proceed so far as almost entirely 
to decompose the sugar ; and as my usual times of 
wine-making are April and October, that made in 
the former month is bottled in the March follow- 
ing ; and that made in October is bottled about the 
end of September, or a week or two later, according 
to circumstances. 

I never fine the wine, being of opinion that 
the light dry wine, which it is my aim to produce, 
would be materially injured by being deprived of 
its tannin, through the action of isinglass, or of any 
similar substance. 

At the time of bottling I have seldom observed 
the wine to have any very sensible flavour ; mean- 
ing by flavour, that compound sensation of smell 
and taste which characterizes the finer kinds of 



rubbed over with a mixture of bees* wax and turpentine 
(about one part of turpentine to three of bees* wax). When 
this coating is grown cold, it should be well rubbed in with 
a hard brush. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX. 295 

wines ; but after remaining for a year in bottle, a 
flavoui* resembling elder flowers is strongly deve- 
loped; mingled, generally, in a slight degree, with 
that of priissic acid. 

As soon as the wine begins to run turbid from 
the carboy, I pass the whole of what remains 
through a filter ; but though I am careful that the 
wine, when bottled, should be clear, though not 
bright, there is* always more or less of flocculent 
matter deposited which requires the bottles to be 
set upright in the bin, and to be decanted with 
care. 

The wine, when first decanted, is often of a 
very pale yellow colour, especially if high flavoured ; 
but in an hour or two it deepens more or less, and 
at length acquires a tint like that of Bucellas, the 
prussic acid flavour at the same time disappearing. 

Instead of mashing, as above described, I have 
sometimes pursued a still more simple way — that 
of maceration ; by mixing in the fermenting tun 
the usual propoitions of chopped raisins and sugai* 
with cold water, and leaving the raisins in the 
liquor during the whole of the first fermentation. 
By this mewod I obtain a higher coloured wine ; 
but the fermentation being generally slower, and 
consequently longer, it is destitute of that Fron- 
tignac, or elder-flower flavom*, which it generrally 
acquires when treated according to the first pro- 
cess ; and is apt to get a less agreeable flavour from 
the husks of the raisins. Sometimes, however, the 
method succeeds very well; and the elder-flower 
flavour not being pleasant to many persons, such 
wine is more generally acceptable man the former. 

In May, 1827, 1 made some wine in the way 
last described. The materials were put together on 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



296 APPENDIX. 

the drd day of the month, the temperature of the 
liquor and of the cellar heing fifty-six degrees. 
On the dth, at night, fermentation had just begun, 
the temperature of the liquor and cellar being fifty- 
seven degrees. On the 7th, the liquor was at fifty- 
eight degrees. From that tin-e to the 19tb, the 
fermentation went on, though languidly, the tem- 
perature of the liquor varying from fifty-seven to 
fifty-eight and a half degrees; and that of the 
celiai* from fifty-five to fifty-seven degrees. From 
the 19th to the 24th, the weather became warm, 
the temperature of the cellar rose to fifty-nine 
degrees, and that of th^ liquor to sixty-one degrees. 
It had now been tweni -one days under fermenta- 
tion ; and therefore, tiiough it was stiU rather too 
sweet, I put it into carboys, and bottled it about 
half a year afterwards. Tms wine is now (Decem- 
ber, 1828) strong, dark-coloured for white wine^ 
but still rather weet, and tastes too much of the 
husks. \^ 



FINIS. 



Printed by C. Richards, 100, St. Martinis Lane. 
If 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 






Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 



\ 




THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED 
AN OVERDUE FEE IF THIS BOOK IS NOT 
RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON OR 
BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED 
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE 
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE 
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES. 






fe 0CT2SJ" 



% 



I 






\ 




