Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



600037S04P 




EBIBLRADCL. 







/ 



iiiiiiiiii 

800037604P 




E.BIBL.RADCL. 



t- 



'2_ -c . j/^ , 




DTSP£PST FORESTAIitiED & RESISTED 



OR 



^^(^l^Tf^SK^ 



oir 



DIET, REGIMEN, St EMPLOYMENT ; 



DELIVERED TO THE 



STUDENTS OF AMHERST COLLEGE; 



SPRING TERM, 1830. 



BY EBWARD HITCHCOCK, 

Professor of Chem, and JN'a/. Hist, in that Instiluiion. 



• •»•. 



Whatever will cure, will prevent ; as water poured on will ex- 
tinguish fire, so it will prevent its being kindled. — Ckt^t, 



AMHERST: 

PUBLISHED BY J. 9. & C. ADAMS AND CO. 

JOITATHAN LEAVITT, NEW YORK. PIERCS AND WILLIAltfB, 

BOSTON, 

1830. 



DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS,....rowt7/ 

• District Clerk's Office, 
Be it remembered, that on the eighth day of May, a. d. 1830, 
in the fifty fourth year of the independence of the United States 
of America, J> S. and C. Adams, and Company of the said 
district, have deposited in this office the title of a Book, the 
right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the words following, 
to wit :^- 

Dyspepsy forestalled and resi«ited : or Lectures on Diet, Reg-- 
imeu and Employment ; delivered to the Students of Amherst 
College ; Spring Term, 1830. By Edward Hitchcock, Profes- 
sor of Chemistry and Natural History in that Institution. What- 
ever will cure, will prevent; as water poured on will extin- 
guish fire, so it will prevent its being kindled. — Cheyne, 

In conformity to the act of Congress of the United States, 
entitled " an act for the encouragement of learning, by secur- 
ing the copies of maps, charts and books, to the authors and 
proprietors of such copies, during the times therein mentioned;^^ 
and also to an act entitled ^^ an act supplementary to an act, 
entitled an act for the encouragen^ent of learning, by secur- 
ing the copies of maps, charts and books to the authors and 
proprietors of such copies during the times therein mentioned ; 
and extending the benefits thereof to the arts of designing, and 
etching historical and other prints." JNO. W. DAVIS, 

Cltrk of the District of Massachusttlt, 



PREFACE. 

As the following Lectures were prepared and deliv- 
ered without solicitation, so they are published upon 
the private responsibility of the writer ; who has not 
waited to ascertain what reception they would meet 
from- his hearers. If any explanation is needed for 
thus printing them, so as to be offered for sale the 
very day after the last one was delivered, he would 
say to his auditors, who have given him so full and 
patient a hearing, that he hopes a desire to accom- 
plish the most in the cause of temperance, has been 
his leading motive. He'thought that the delivery of 
these Lectures would be likely to produce more effect 
than their perusal alone. Yet he supposed that no 
memory would be sufficiently retentive to preserve a 
distinct recollection, even of all the important rules 
and maxims, connected with the subject. He wished, 
therefore, to give all who are disposed, an opportuni- 
ty to examine, a't their leisure, the system of diet, 
regimen, and employment, which he has advanced ; 
by putting this volume within their reach. And he 
thought it important, that this should be accomplished, 
while the interest excited on the subject, was yet 
fresh. Circumstances of a private and personal na- 
ture, conspired also, to urge on this publication thus 
rapidly. The writer Is aware, that such a course has 
rendered attention to literary niceties more difficult 
than would be desirable. For the whole business of 



iv 

writing, delivering, and printing thettf Lectures, ha9 
been crowded into the space of a few months ; and 
this too, in addition to ordinary professional duties in 
College. He hopes, however, that though the style 
may need correction, the meaning will be found clear 
and definite — a. point that has been kept steadily in 
view. 

The author presumes that these considerations will 
afford little, or no apology, for errors, in the view of 
the professed critic. To such, and to all others, into 
whose hands this volume, may fall, he would say, ia 
the words of a distinguished dietetic writer of early 
times, in his preface to an Essay on Health and Long 
Life : — " I know not what may be the fate and success 
of this performance; nor am I solicitous aiiout it, being' 
conscious the design was honest,, the subject weighty, 
and the execution the best my time, my abilities, and 
my health would permit, which cannot bear the labour 
of much fiieing and finishing. Being careful not to 
encroach on the province of the physician, I have con- 
cealed nothing my knowledge could suggest, to direct 
the sufferer, in the best manner I could, to preserve 
his health, and lengthen out his life : and I have held 
out no false lights to lead him astray, or torment him 
unnecessarily." 

The reader will perceive, that the fourth Lecture 
ia the same, with a few slight additions, as a Prize 
Essay recently published under the direction of the 
American Temperance Society. Let him not hence 
infer, that that Society are acquainted with the senti- 
ments advanced in the other Lectures, and approve of 
them. For this is not the case : no member of that 
Society having been consulted,, as to any of the opia- 



ioDS advanced. The writer is alone responsible for 
those opinions; and to him atone belongs the credit, if 
they arc correct, or on him must fall the blame, if 
they are erroneous. 
Amherst Cqflegt^ May 6<A, 1830. 



SiDce the aboTe was in type, the following communic&tioD 
has been received from the stadents of Amherst College* 
And while I take this opportunity to thank them for their fa- 
vourable reception of the following Lectures, I am happy in be* 
ing able thus early to comply with their request. 

To Prof. E. Hrrcaco'cK, 

Sir, — The members of the College, through the medium of 
the undersigned as their Committee, acknowledge their obli* 
gations to you for your interesting and instructive Lectures oxk 
the subject of Health. By giving them a permanent form, 
jour wishes for the welfare of the students, it is believed, will 
be best accomplished, and at the same time, important infor- 
mation be placed within the reach of others. We are in- 
structed, therefore, to request, in the name of the students, 
that the discourses in question may be printed. 

H. B. HACKETT. 

PETER PARKER. 

LYMAN GIBBONS. 

H. D. HUMPHREY. 
Amherst College^ May 7th, 1830, 



CONTENTS. 



PART FIRST. DIET. 

LECTURE I. Introductory remarks. Errors in respect to 
the Causes and Cure of Nervous Complaints. Objections 
against living bj rule. Objections against dietetic rules. 
Proper quantity of Food. . • • . . 9 

LECTURE II. Diet, continued. ' Second rule of Dietetics. 
Attempt to evade it. Great Excesses in eating, in this 
country. The rule peculiarly necessary for Invalids. ^Ex- 
amples for their encouragement. Abstinence. Cold or 
Catarrh. Concluding remarks 60 

LECTURE III. Diet, Continued. Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Si^th, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth rules of Dietetics. Ob- 
jection against their rigor considered. . . . 99 

LECTURE IV. Alcoholic and Narcotic Substances, as arti- 
cles of common use : viz. Ardent Spirit, Wine, Opium, 
and Tobacco. Appeal to Students against their use. I. 
On the ground of Philosophy. — Water recommended. II. 
On the ground of Self-Interest and Prudence. III. Of 
Patriotism. IV. Of Religion 130 

LECTURE V. Liquids. When and in what quantities ne- 
ccsary. Malt Liquors, Cordials, Cider, Coffee, Tea, 
Toast, Water, Gruel, &c. Milk. Solid Food; Eggs, 
Fish, Birds, Mutton, Beef, Lamb, Veal, Venison, Pork, 
Fat, Grease, Oils, Butter, Cheese, Honey, Roots, Pulse^ 
Pickles, Salads, Cookery, Condiments. Concluding Re- 
marks. . 178 

i 

PART SECOND. REGIMEN. 

LECTURE VI. Exercise. Its comparative importance. 
Case of Dr. Dwight. First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Rule concerning Exercise. 
Conclusion 214 

LECTURE VII. Air, Clothing, Cleanliness, Evacuations, 
Sleep ; 1. The proper time for sleep; 2. the proper quan- 
tity ; 3. the means of promoting it. Manners. Influence of 
the Imagination and Passions upon Health. . 24S 



via 



PART III. EMPLOYMENT. 

LECTURE Vin. Influence of different Employments upon 
Health. Study ; best posture of the body ; best time 
of day for its prosecution : night sfudy injurious ; 
Means of preserving the Eyes ; Recreation from study. 
Active benevolent Enterprises, Light Riding, Social In- 
tercourse, Music. General Inferences. . . 285 



PART IV. DYSPEPSY. 

LECTURE IX. Nervous Maladies ; Knowledge concerning 
them important. Their general character and designa- 
tions. Their Effects; 1. Upon the body; 2. Upon the 
intellect ; 3. Upon th# heart ; 4. Upon society. Extent 
to which these maladies prevail. Conclusion. . 321 



XBOTVRB I. 



PAllT I. DIET. 



Introductory remarks. Errors in respect to the Causes 
and Cure of Nervous Complaints, Objections against 
living by rule. Objections against dietetic rules. PrO' 
per quantity of Food, 

Gentlemen, 

The premature prostratioD and early decay of sta- 
dents and profesdonal men in oar coantry, excite a 
deep interest in the mind of every friend to learning 
and humanity, to trace oat the canses and the remedy. 
Time was^ when it was generally thought, that this 
was bat the dismal spectre of melancholly minds : ba^ 
the fact is no longer doubted. Too many budding 
Lopes have been blasted ; too many wrecks are strewed 
around us, to suffer the reality t« he hidden any longer* 
And now the solicitous enquiries are, what is the causes 
and what is the remedy ? To answer these questions is 
my object in addressing the members of this Institu- 
tion. I have formerly made a slight and feehle ex- 
tempore effort of this kind ; but I wish now to examine 
it more systematically, more extensively, and more 
leisurely. I make no pretensions to professional 
knowledge on this subject, nor do I mean to invade the 

2 



10 

province of the physician. Bat a conlUct of more 
than twenty years with the debility and prostration of 
which I have now spoken, has compelled me to pay 
not a little attention to the means of resisting the foe, 
and taught me, experimentally, not a few of his insid- 
ious and ever varying modes of attack. Whatever I 
have thus learned, I feel desirous of communicating 
to the young gentlemen of this College, in the hope 
that it may tend to prevent their falling into the hands 
of the inexorable tyrant, to whose car I have so long 
been fettered : but from which I am confident I might 
long ago have escaped, had some kind friend plainly 
pointed out to me my danger and the remedies. Let 
this be my apology for great plainness and earnestness. 

The premature decay and prostration, of which I 
have spoken, result, most usually, from what is gener- 
ally called dyspepsy, or bilious, or nervous disorders. 
And I would here state an important principle in rela- 
tion to them ; viz. that essentially the same means 
that will cure, will prevent these complaints. The 
same general rules in regard to diet, exercise, and 
employment, will apply both to the prevention and 
the cure. In the latter case, it only requires a more 
rigid and unremitting application of these rules. 

This leads me to premise another most important 
fact on this subject ; viz. that the prevention of 
nervous maladies, is vastly easier than their cure. 
They are not so incurable, I believe, as is commonly 
thought: Still, where they have made an impression 
on the constitution considerably deep, it requires so 
long and sp strict an attention to rules, that few have 
the resolution and the perseverance requisite to 
success. And besides, when a cure has been effected, 
a recurrence to former habits, or a little extra exer* 



11 

taoii) is extremely apt to bring the sjBtem again nnder 
their power. The chief hope, therefore, lies in pre- 
vention : and on this account I feel particularly 8olio> 
itous, that every young man, while yet he is tolerably 
free from dyspeptic habits, should be made acquainted 
with his dangers, that he may guard against them. 

There can be no doubt that we are to impute the 
alarming prevalence of ner?ous complaints, in a 
great measure, to the ignorance that has so extensive- 
ly prevailed among students, in the early stages of ed- 
ucation, as to their causes, remedies, and means of 
prevention. This has been a part of educatioB| 
which it has been the custom to neglect, and thus to 
leave the health of the young, the very foundation of 
all their hopes, to take cam of itself. We have jet 
scarcely got rid of the belief, not long since so pre- 
valent, thai nervous ailments were the creatures of 
imagination, and that it is even unsafe to study into their 
nature, lest we should catch the mysterious contagion 
from the mere description. Just as if knowledge, 
which, on every other subject, is the pole star of h«- 
man conduct, should in this case, prove a mere ignis 
fatuus to bewilder and blind, while ignorance would be 
security and bliss. But though such absurdities are 
vanishing, still the means are not yet put into the 
hands of the student for guarding himself against the 
insidious approaches of ill health. He knows only, 
in general, that temperance and exercise are neces- 
sary for him, and that excessive study is injurious : 
But when he comes to apply these principles to prac- 
tice, it is easy to see, that he knows so little of their 
details, that they are really worse than useless. He 
may be a gli|tton; and his exercise, from the time or 
manner in which it is taken, may be an injury instead 



12 

of a benefit.; and his studies may be conducted in a 
way most fatal to haaltb, wbile he supposes himself 
rigidly adhering to the principles mentioned abore. 

Hence we see the necessity of attending to this 
subject thoroughly and minutely. The smallest cir- 
cumstances must not be passed, over ; since it la 
such circumstances, operating slowly, that more com- 
monly undermine the constitution, than any great and 
sudden violation of the rdles of regimen. On this ac- 
counts I shall be under the necessity of devoting sev- 
eral lectures to thb subject. If, however, any one 
should consider them too long and tedious, he can use 
the liberty which a general invitation gives him, of 
withdrawing whenever he pleases : since, as these 
lecturiis are wholly gratuitous and unsolicited, no one 
is required to be present. 

But merely to bring the truth on this subject before 
the minds of students, is by no means the most difficult 
part of the work to be performed. While men are in 
tolerable health, it is next to impossible to convince 
them that the minute rules which physicians prescribe 
for preserving it, are not puerile, inefficient, and un-* 
necessary. To convince them that the continuance 
of their health depends upon a few ounces more or 
less of food at their meals; or upon an hour more or 
less daily, of exercise; or upon the hour of retiring to 
rest and rising in the morning; or upon a little greater 
or less application to study; is almost to work a mira- 
cle. A feeble man may well enough attend to such 
minutisB ; but for the healthy to do it, is, in their es- 
timation, to make the constitution effeminate, and 
bring on the very disorders we are trying to avoid. 

Nor is it the most difficult part of the work to con 
vince the understanding of the necessity of attention 



13 

to dKet, regimen and employment, for preserving the 
health. To penaade a person to adopt the necessary 
habits, for conforming to these roles, is the great 
difficulty. Here we come directly in contact with ap- 
petites and inclinations that have been indulged from 
infancy. Eat vastly less in quantity than yon do — eat 
of one dish only at a meal — eat little or no animal food 
—drink much less — drink water^walk ten miles where 
jou now go one — retire early to rest, and rise early 
-—in short, be regular in all things, be temperate in 
all things. Such are the rules which must be follow- 
ed by him who would escape the iron reign of dis- 
pepsy ; and it is easy to see that they aim a separ- 
ating blow at many darling objects to which animal 
nature clings. The man will not give them up with- 
out a desperate struggle* They are his gods ; the 
objects of a much sincerer worship, than the heathen 
pays to his idols. 

And of all men to bring up to the work of regulari- 
ty and temperance in living, those, who are already 
suffering from the incipient attacks of dyspepsy, are 
the most obstinate. No other class of men are so lia- 
ble as these to violate the rules of terhperance in 
their daily , habits. They will traverse the whole 
country to find out and consult physicians ; and wiR 
cheerfully submit to the operation of the most violent 
emetics and cathartics ; but touch their idols — try to 
make them give up their intemperate habits of eating, 
drinking and study, and you will find yourself beating 
the air. 

The same feeling in regard to the means of pre- 
serving health, prevails to a great extent among those 
who are already in possession of it. If you recom- 
mend to them to resort at certain seasons to a course 

2* 



u 

of powerful medicine, or to some particular ipe<A6c^ 
they will listen to jou with attention ; and it is not 
difficult to persnade them to adopt such a course. And 
why ? Because you do not touch their idols. Yon 
only pot them in pain for a little time, and when they 
have got through their emetic or cathartic, they can 
gormandize with more relish than ever. Indeed, it 
was the custom among the Romans to prepare them- 
selves for a feast, by an emetic ; and the practice is 
still continued among gluttonous men and wine bib- 
bers. But when yon require of a man the practice 
of daily abstemiousness in food and drink, vigorous 
exercise and regularity, and moderation in all his ha- 
bits and employments, you oppose his strong appetites, 
and he will not believe your prescriptions to be ne- 
cessary, because he wishes them unnecessary. 

On this account, it is, as I very frankly state in the 
outset, that I do not expect those who hear me will 
be very ready to believe many things that I shall ad- 
vance : much less do I suppose, that they will, in gen- 
eral, be persuaded to adopt the course I shall mark 
out as essential to continued health, and long life. I 
expect that much 1 shall say will merely afford matter 
for witty and amusing remarks ; which is the usual 
course men adopt on this subject to avoid the force 
of arguments. I do not expect to be disbelieved, be- 
cause I am going to advance any novel doctrines : for 
I shaU only attempt to embody and illustrate those 
general principles, which the ablest physicians and 
other distinguished writers of all ages, have advanced; 
and I shall take special care to fortify my main posi- 
tions by the testimony of the best living physicians^ in 
this country and in Europe. Nor do I anticipate tills 
failure of conviction, because I sappose this audience 



15 

to be more sceptical and obstinate than other Uterarjr 
audiences: bntsimpljbecanse it is essentially like other 
literaxy audiences. And hence I have little doubt, that 
no small proportion of the young gentlemen, who hear 
me, will fall victims to nervous maladies and premature 
debility ; because a large proportion of just such in- 
dividnals have fallen : that is to say, I believe many 
of these youths, will either go down to an early grave, 
or drag out a miserable existence as confirmed dy^ 
peptics. There is no need of such a result, I say ; 
for, in general, these mdividuals might live and enjoy 
Tigorotts health to extreme old age. Bat I have 
scarcely a hope that they will believe and adopt those 
simple, yet rigid rules, without which they must sink 
prematurely. And yet, there may be some one, or 
two, or three, among them, who will listen, and be 
persuaded, and put in practice the essential rules of 
diet, regimen, and employment, and thus be saved 
from the gnlph. Should this happen, my labors will 
not be in vain, or unrewarded. 

In respect to the causes of those chronic complaints 
to which sedentary persons are peculiarly exposed, 
there prevail very loose and inadequate notions, even 
among intelligent men. Very many mistake by assign* 
ing as their origin, only one particular and limited 
cause. Some will tell you, that they proceed from 
the neglect of exercise alone; leaving out of the account 
diet and employment : others impute them to the want 
of attention to diet, and even to the use of particular 
aYticles, such as tea, coffee, wine, &c. Others assign 
the great mental efforts, to which professional men are 
called at this day, as their cause ; foi^etful of the pon- 
derous tomes of other centuries ; which, to say the 
least, demanded intense, and protracted mental labour- 



16 

Others itnpate them, in the caae of Uteraiy men, to the 
tiDseasoDable houn which they devote to study. 

That each of these causes, and many others that 
might be named, are sometimes the sole source of ner- 
vous maladies, cannot be doubted : bat no one of them 
is the universal cause. And in most cases, several of 
them are combined in undermining the constitution. 
We can only say, therefore, that, in general, they pro- 
ceed from a want of proper attention to diet, regimen, 
and employment 

No less erroneous are the prevalent opinions in re- 
gard to the remedies for these complaints. Some, in- 
deed, assert that the way to cure them, is to pay them 
no attention ; but to eat, and drink, and study, just as if 
all were well, and all will be well, since the difficulty 
lies in the imagination alone. In respect to such opin- 
ions, all that need be said, is, that the men who ad- 
vance them have no knowledge of the subject, either 
from experience, or reading : and therefore, no an- 
swer need be given to their crude and premature sug- 
gestions, until they are either brought under the in. 
Auence of these maladies, or will read the works of 
able physicians concerning them ; and then they will 
no longer need an answer. 

But there is another error on the subject, that does 
need some notice. There is a strong disposition, among 
those who have some experimental or book knowledge 
concerning these maladies, to ascertain and recommend 
some particular specific remedy^ which shall apply, 
and cure universally. The best of all such remedies 
is some preparation of the apothecary ; which, by its 
occult qualities, shall perform a cure, on being taken 
into the system, while a person pays little or no atten- 
tion to diet, regimen and employment : for in such a 



17 

case, a man is under no necessity to resist a rarenottS 
appetite, nor to conquer his bodily indolence, nor give 
up his late hours of study. Hence it is, that we are 
innundated by infallible pharmaceutical remedies for 
dyspepsy. " Have you ever tried the blue pill," says 
one ? " Have have you ever tried white mustard," 
says another ? ^' Have you ever tried dandelion, bis- 
muth, or a hundred other things," say others? ^^ They 
have cured us, and such a one, and such a one, and will 
probably cure you." Now I am not contending that 
such medicines are useful, in no case of nervous maL 
adies. They undoubtedly are indispensible, as auxil« 
liaries, in many instances. But they cannot be substi* 
luted for temperance and regimen. On the contrary, 
-a resort to drastic medicines, by persons of feeble health, 
at every recurrenceof their unpleasant symptoms, par« 
ticularly to medicines not recommended by the regu- 
lar physician, is the sure way to aggravate their com-' 
plaints, and utterly to ruin their constitutions. One of 
the most distinguished living physician in London, ^^ isih' 
the habit of saying, he knows no medicines for nervous 
complaints, but air and exercise.*" "If the experienc- 
ed physician is oflen at a loss what to prescribe," says 
ajQother distinguished London physician,!" and frequent- 
\y finds it most prudent to prescribe nothing at all ; 
what infinite mischief must be hourly produced by the 
patient, and still more ignorant quack, pouring drugs, 
of which they know little, into a body, of which they 
know less ?" If then the medicines of the apothecary 
are scarcely to be employed in the cure of nervous 
maladies, much less are. they to be recommended to 



Mr. Abernethy 
t Dr. Johnson, On the Derangementt of the liver Ac. p» ISt 



18 

the healthy for their prerention. The grand point is, 
to bring the system into such a state, by diet, regi* 
men and employment, that medicines are rarely if 
e?er necessary. And this has been done a thousand 
times, and can be done a million of times more. It 
is the grand point at which I am aiming in these Lec- 
tures. 

But some, who have correct ideas respecting medi- 
cines, as a preventative, or cure, for nervous maladies, 
mistake in supposing that attention to some branch 
only of temperance and regimen is sufficient One 
man is very regular and persevering in his exercise, 
but he has no power over his appetite ; and eats and 
drinks voraciously* Another is a pattern of abstemi*^ 
ousness in his diet ; but he makes this a substitute for 
bodily exercise, and soon destroys his constitution. 
A third is very particular in the choice of articles of 
diet, but pays no attention to quantity ;- or rather, al- 
ways indulges to excess upon his favorite dish. One 
year the Gymnasium is the grand Panecea, in spite of 
high living and irregular habits. Another year the 
grass is suffered to grow in the gymnastic grove, and 
mechanical employments, with the saw and the ham- 
mer, are the infallible remedy, in spite of intemper- 
ance in all other respects. A third year, gardening, 
or riding horseback, or visitiug the springs, is a sub- 
stitute for every thing else. I do not doubt but many 
have found relief, and perhaps some a perfect cure, 
by each of these means : but, in general, they only 
remove or soften down certain symptoms, while the 
disease remains within, as obstinate as ever, ready to 
break out ere long, in some new and aggravated form. 
But equally rigid attention to every part of diet, regi- 
men and employment, agreeable to the most approved 



19 

and establiihed rales, is, in general, indispensable, both 
for the cure and prevention of these maladies. Yoa 
cannot make one a substitute for the others. God has 
joined them together, as the means of preserving and 
restoring health: and any man puts them asunder at 
his peril. However earnestly, therefore, I may urge the 
adoption of particular parts of this three fold system, I 
hope it may always be remembered that I consider 
them only as parts, and not the whole ; and that I de- 
mand, as essential, an equally strict attention to every 
other part. . 

The rules for the prevention and cure of nervous 
maladies, I shall describe under three classes; viz. 
DIET, REGIMEN, and EMPLOYMENT. These terms may 
need a moments explanation. 

Under Diet^ I shall include all that is taken into the 
system in the form of food and drink ; embracing the 
quantity and quality, the times at which they should 
be taken, and the manner of taking them. 

Under Regimen^ I shall include Exercise, Air, Cloth- 
ing, Cleanliness, Evacuations, Sleep, Manners, and the 
Influence of the Imagination and passions. 

Under Employment^ 1 shall consider the influence 
exerted upon the health by the different avocations of 
society. Here, however, on account of the character 
of my audience, I shall confine myself chiefly to liter- 
ary pursuits. 

Against the adoption of precise rules for Diet, Reg- 
imen, and Employment, there exist strong prejudices 
in the minds of many, especially of the healthy. " It 
is treating a person, who is well, as if he were sick," 
says one. No : I answer, it is treating him as if he 
might be sick : It is foreseeing the evil, and taking the 
most judicious method of guarding against it 




20 

« It is the way," says another, " to make the consti- 
iution tender and delicate, and incapable of endaring 
the changes, exposures and hardships, to which we are 
all liable." It is the very way, I answer, to invigorate 
the constitution, and give it the greatest muscnlar 
strength of which it is capable consistent with our em- 
ployment. At least, I contend for no rules, except 
such as will do this, and either recover, or make more 
comfortable, those of debilitated constitutions. 

" Whatever may be said of the feeble," says anoth- 
er, '' those in health, do not need to live by rule. Their 
health will take care of itself, if it be not spoiled by 
constant nursing." Why then, I ask, in reply, has not 
the health of the numerous invalids in the United States, 
taken care of itself? Were they not once in health ? 
And is there any evidence that they have ruined it 
by living according to too rigid rules ? Nursing is 
not one of the leading features of the rules of regimen 
and diet ; but temperance is a leading feature. A man 
in health, you say, does not need to live by rule. But 
have you no rule in respect to eating and drinking, 
exercise and rest, study and sleep ? Do you indulge 
your appetite without any restraint, when it is tempt- 
ed by rich food, and alluring drink ? Do you exercise, 
and study, and sleep, and eat, and drink, by chance ? 
By no means : you have some standard for regulating 
all these things : Every man has one ; and could not 
live without one. Your only difficiflty is, an appre- 
Iiension that the standard, whieh I shall propose, will 
not agree with yours : you are afraid mine will be 
more rigid, and oblige you, if you adopt it, to give up 
9ome darling habit. 

A striking instance of a man's living by most exact 
and. excellent rules, while he declares himself living 
without rule, is presented to us in the case of Dr. 



21 

JmcksoD, an aged and distinguished physician in the 
British army. '^ I have wandered a good deal about 
the world^' sajrs he, and neyer followed any prescribe 
Bd rule in any thing ; my liealth has been tried in all 
ways ; and by the aids of temperance and hard work, I 
have worn out two armies, in two wars, and could 
probably wear out another before my period of old 
age arrives. I eat no animal food, drink no wine, or malt 
liquor, or spirits of any kind ; I wear no flannel, and re* 
gard neither wind nor rain, heat nor cold, when busi- 
ness is in the way." Here yau have a man following 
DO prescribed rule, yet adhering most rigidly to all 
that is important in presciptions for temperance and 
exercise. If any other man will thus live by rule, 
without rule, I will not quarrel with him about the use 
of terms. 

** But this living by rule,^' says a fourth objector, 
requires too much time. A man of fortune and leis- 
are may attend to it, but I have something else to do.^^ 
To live by rule, 1 say, in reply, is the way for any man 
to save time. For a place is thus found for every ne- 
cessary concern, and every thing is kept in its place : 
whereas the man who lives by chance, loses much 
time, and comfort too, by the confusion and interfer- 
ence of his concerns. How can you accomplish so 
much ? said once a friend to a Prime Minister. ^^ I 
never do but one thing at a time," was the reply. 
Now this is the effect of living by rule. True, for a 
man of careless and irregular habits, to come at once 
under the guidance of fixed principles, in respect to 
diet, regimen, and employment, will, for a time, engage 
a considerable share of his attention. But such a 
course soon becomes habitual ; and then the he fol- 
lows on in the same regular routine, almost without a 

3 



22 

thought. And besides a maD who keeps his head clear 
by temperance and exercise, will do more in one hour, 
than one, even slightly given to excess, in three* 
These protracted preliminary remarks seemed ne- 
cessary to introduce the first part of this subject, viz. 

DIET. 

And here also, two or three objections meet us, in 
the very outset, which are considered by most men, 
as sufficient to justify them in neglecting, almost en- 
tirely, any special attention to their food and their 
drink. < These must, therefore, first be considered. 

Says one, " men who pay no attention to diet, nay, 
many who are very irregular in their food and drink, 
enjoy as good health, and live as long, as those who 
are very particular in this respect." 

In repljr, I doubt the statement here made. I know such 
is the prevalent opinion : but where are the exam* 
pies to support it ? That some instances have occur- 
ed of this description, I do not doubt : And that in 
many cases of great longevity, the individuals were 
for a time, or at several times, guilty of violating the 
rules of temperance, I admit. We know this was 
the fact with the famous Thomas Parre, who lived 
153 years : also with Henry Francisco, a French- 
man, who recently died in New York, at the age 
of nearly one hundred and forty. But their in- 
temperance was not habitual : it did not continue long 
enough to destroy the stamina of their constitutions ; 
although it probably shortened even their lives: indeed, 
in the case of Parre, there can be no doubt, that a 
change from simple to rich diet, was the cause of his 
death. If there are any examples of persons, who 



23 

have habitaallj violated the rules of temperance and 
regimen, and yet have enjoyed good health, and lived 
to extreme old age, I am unacquainted with them. 
All the cases of remarkable longevity, of which I have 
read, where the mode of living is mentioned, support 
the opposite opinion. — A writer in Rees' Cyclopedia, 
after mentioning a large number of persons of great 
age, says—" it would be very difficult, in the histories 
of the several persons above mentioned, to find any 
circumstances common to them all, except perhaps 
that of being bom of healthy parents, and of being 
inured to daily labour, temperance and simplicity of 
diet." If there are any exceptions to this statement, 
it is only one in a thousand ; and therefore no objec- 
tion against the general principle, that attention to 
diet is important. 

But if any such exceptions can be found, I hesitate 
not to say, that they will not be found among literary 
men ; but rather among the hard labouring classes of 
society, whose vigorous exercise has in a great meas- 
ure counteracted the e£fect« of intemperance in eating 
or drinking. Students, therefore, have no concern m 
such exceptions. 

Another objection against dietetic rules is, that no 
agreement exists on the subject among medical or oth- 
er writers ; and therefore, a man cannot tell whom or 
what to follow. 

-If such were, indeed, the fact, the conclusion would 
inevitably result. But I would ask the individual, who 
makes the objection, have you ever read the works 
of physicians and others upon diet,with sufficient care 
to be satisfied that they advance no principles in com- 
mon? Or, because you have ascertained that there 
is considerable diversity of opinion upon some points, 



24 

Ao you bence infer that every thing is ancerlaio and 
controverted ? As to the comparative value, ease of 
digestion and nutritive power, of different kinds of 
food, writers on dietetics, do, indeed, differ not a little : 
And the quality of food constitutes, in the opinion of 
most persons, the grand point to be attended to in 
dieting : hence they conclude that any disagreemeDt 
on this subject is r lu de capite. Whereas, in fact, 
this is one of the least important parts of the subject. 
And concerning the quantity and variety of food, and 
the time and manner of taking it, there is such a g^en* 
eral agreement among all able writers, from the Gre- 
cian Hippocrates and Galen down to the present day, 
that there remains no reasonable ground for scepti- 
cism to stand upon. There are certain general rules 
on these points, as well established as almost any prin- 
ciple in medicine and chemistry. Mankind, however, 
in general, live, either ignorant or regardless of them ; 
and therefore, when they are brought forward, they 
are regarded as novel and strange. Until 1 have faith- 
fully done this, however, I shall not feel my con- 
science discharged. 

The first and most important rule respecting 

DIET, IS, that the QUANTITY OF FOOD, TAKEN AT ANY 
ONE MEAL, SHOULD BE VERT MODERATE. 

I presume all who hear me will give a general as- 
sent to this rule, as reasonable and important. But 
when I come to explain and Illustrate it, I fear it mMl 
not be so acceptable. What then do I mean by a very 
moderate quantity ? 

I mean that quantity, which physicians, and those 
in different situations and ages of the world, who have 
made a fair trial, have found most conducive to vigor 
and activity of body and mind, continued health and 
long life. I will quote soine examples. 



26 

Most of. the ancieot philosophers might be named 
as patterns of health, temperance, and long life. Py- 
thagoras, in particular, restricted himself to vegetable 
food altogether ; his dinner being bread, honey, and 
water : and he livett upwards of eighty years. His 
followers adopted the same diet. It is well known, 
also, that the early Christians were remarkable for 
temperance, and for longevity too, when not removed 
by the hand of persecation. Matthew, for example, 
according to Clement, lived upon vegetable diet: 

ia'xav»vj ayv xQtSt fttrtXaft9avtv, The eastern Christians, 
who retired from persecntion into the desarts of 
Egypt and Arabia, allowed themselves but twelve 
x)ance8 of bread per day, as their only solid food, and 
water alone for dsink : yet they lived long and happy. 
St. Anthony lived 105 yeajrs ; James the Hermit, 104 ; 
Jerome, 100;. Simon Stylites, 109; Epiphanius, 115; 
and Romauldus and Arsenius each 120.* 

Galen, one of the most distinguishejcl of the ancient 
physicians, lived 140 years; and composed between 
700 and 800 essays on medical and philosophical sub- 
jects :. and he was always, after the age of 28, ex- 
tremely sparing in the quantity of his food. The 
Cardinal de Salis, Archbishop of Seville, who lived 
110 years, was invariably sparing in his diet. One- 
Lawrence, an Englishman, by temperance and labour 
lived 140 years : and one Kentigern, called St. Mon- 
^ab, who never tasted spirits or wine, and slept on 
the ground and labored hard, died at the age of 1 85.t 
Henry Jenkins, of Yorkshire, who died at the age 



* Cheyne^s Essay on Health and LoDg Life, p. 30, Also 
Rees^ Cyc. Article AbstiDcnce. 
t Cheyne On Health, &c. p. 31. 

3* 



26 

of 169, was a poor fisherman, as long as be eonld fof^ 
low this pursuit, and ultimately he became a beggary 
living uniformly on the coarsest and most sparing diet 
Old Parre, already mentioned, who died at the age of 
153, was a farmer of extremely %bsten^oii» habits, lus 
diet being solely milk, cheese, coarse bread, small 
beer, and whey. At the age of 120 he married a sec- 
ond wife, by whom he had a child. But being taken 
to court by the Earl of Arundel, as a great curiosity, 
in his 152d^year,. he yery soon died, as the physicians 
decidedly testified after dissection, in consequence of 
a change from a parsinM>nious to a plentiful diet. 
Henry Francisco, already noticed also, as living to 
about 140. in this country,, was, except for a certain 
period^ when he became attached to ardenti spirits, 
^( remarkably abstemious, eating but little, and par- 
ticularly abstaining almost entirely from animal 
food : his favorite articles being tea, bread and but- 
ter, and baked apples.^'* A Mi*. Ephraim Pratt, of 
Shutesbury, in this vicinity, who died at the age of 
117 years, lived very much upon milk, and that in 
small quantity ; and his son, Michael Pratt, attained to 
the age of^lOS years by similar means. Indeed, great 
longevity has been attained in no instance with which 
I am acquainted, where the individual was not a pat- 
tern of abstinence in diet! Great eaters never live long: 
A voracious appetite is a sign of disease, or of a strong 
tendency to disease ; and not a sign of health, a» is 
generally supposed. Ill health as infallibly follows 
the indulgence of such an appetite, as any other effect 
its legitimate cause. 



Silliman's Tour, p. 172. 



27 

Dr. Cheyae was a celebrated Eagliah physician, 
who flourished more than a .century ago. In the early 
part of his life, he was a voluptuary; and before be 
attained to middle age, was so corpulent, that it was 
necessary to open the whole side of his carriage, that 
he might enter ; and he saw death to be inevitable, 
without a change of his course. He immediately 
abandoned all ardent spirits, wine, and fermented 
liquors, and confined himself wholly to vegetables, 
milk, and water. This course, with active exercise, 
reduced him from the enormous weight of 448 pounds, 
to 140 ; and restored his health and the vigor of his 
mind. Afler ^a few years he ventured to change his 
abstemious diet, for one more rich and stimulating. 
But the effect was a recurrence of bis former corpulence 
and ill healths A return to milk, water, and vegeta- 
bles, restored him again; and he continued in unin- 
terrupted health to the age of 72. His numerous 
works are full of most earnest exhortations to temper- 
ance in all respects. In respect to eating, his apho- 
rism- was — " A constant endeavour after the lightest 
and least of meat and drink a man can be tolerably 
easy under, is the shortest and most infallible means 
to preserve life, health, and serenity."* He recom- 
mends the following quantity of food and drink, as 
sufficient for a healthy man, not following a laborious 
employment ; viz. eight ounces of meat, twelve of 
bread or other vegetable fo<9d, and about a pint of 
wine or other generous liquor per day. Invalids, 
those of sedentary employments, and students, he 
says, most reduce this quantity, if they wish td pre- 
serve their health and freedom of spirits long. 

m 

m I *mM ^ ^ mtm - ■ i ■■■■■-■■ ^ . — ■■■ i^. .^i— i^^.i ii i W ■ ■ ■■■! i i^w^ » m ■.■^» ■ mm ^m.. ■» , t 

* Essay on diet and regimen, p. 59. 



28 

Lewis Cornaro was a Venetian nobleman, who, by 
gluttony and dissipation, became so reduced, that at 
the age of 35, he was gi^en over by his physicians. 
Immediately he abandoned their prescriptions and re- 
duced his diet to twelre ounces of solid food, and four- 
teen ounces of wine per day. The consequence was, 
not merely a restoration to health, but an almost unin- 
terrupted continuance of It, with a most delightful 
serenity of mind, to one hundred years of age : as he 
has beautifully described it, in a little treatise on the 
subject, abridged from the writings of Cornaro, by 
Mr. Daggett, principal of the Foreign Mission School 
at Cornwall in Connecticut. This gentleman also 
testifies, that at the age of 56^ he had found less than 
12 ounces per diem, and none of it animal food, abun- 
dantly sufficient for himself. Cornaro was prevailed 
upon at a certain time to increase the quantity of his 
solid food only two ounces, and his liquid food about 
as much : and the consequence was, a serious fit of 
sickness. As he grew quite old, he reduced his food 
so much, that it is said he lived several days upon the 
yolk of a single egg. 

The opinion of Mr. Abernethy, one of the ablest 
English physicians now living, concerning Cornaro's 
system of dieting, is thus expressed. ^^ When patients 
apply to me, I -offend them greatly by telling them 
Ihey have their health in their own keeping. If a 
man were to do as Cofbaro did, he would be rewarded 
for it by a long and happy life. The principal beauty 
of Cornaro's life was the happy state of mind in which 
his continued temperance preserved him. Now what 
I propose as a diet, is Cornaro's. diet ; and it is no fan- 
ciful system. The diet should always be of a mode- 
rate quantity ; it should not be wholly vegetable or 
animal, tut it ought to be of a nutritive kind." 



29 

Dr. James JohnsoD, one of the best medlc^il writers 
of modem times, and who conquered the most intense 
degree of dyspepsj in bis own person, hy rigid atten- 
tion to diet and exercise^ says of the dinner of one la- 
boring ander such complaints, when even considerably 
restored bj a more spare diet ; ^^ I would strongly ad- 
vise that the quantity should never exceed half a 
pound in weight, even when that can be borne with- 
out a single unpleasant sensation succeeding. It is 
quite enough, and generallytoo much. The invalid 
will acquire a degree cf strength and firmness, not 
fullness of muscle, on this quantity, which will, in 
time, surprise hisfriends as well as himself.^^* 

Another able medical writer, in his recent work 
entitled, ^^ Sure Mfithods of improving Health and prO' 
longing Life^'^ j^c. has drawn out these rules in a still 
more particular manner. He gives the following geoh 
eral rule as to the quantity of food, which he judges 
will be found best for the preservation of health, and 
the prolongation of life, in the weakly, the sedentary^ 
the invalid, and the aged. 

|j 1/. > ( Bread or biscnit^tand butter Four ounces. 
x>reaKiasL < ^^^^ ^^ .^ dilution. Eight Do. 

Bread or other vegetables. Two Do. 
Meat, Seven Do. 

Light wine or Malt liquor. Six Do. 
Water, Two Do. 

rp ( Bread or biscuit, and butter. Three Do. 
^ ®** \ Tea or other liquid Eight Do. 

* Essay on the Morbid sensibility of the stomach and bow- 
els, p. 113 

t If I mistake not, the hiicuii mentioned by this and other 
English writer!, is essentially the same as our *hip breads or 
pilot breads which is'anleayened, and very different from what 
goes by the name of biscuit in this country. 



Dinner. 



so 

In all, daring the day, sixteen ounces of solid 
food, and twenty four ounces of liquid. Dyspeptics, 
whose digestive powers are greatly weakened, he 
says, must reduce this quantity. And Dr. Johnson 
says, that such ^Vwill often derive more nutriment 
and strength from four ounces of gruel every six 
hours, than from half a pound of animal food and a 
pint of wine." 

In respect to those who are in perfect health, and 
take much exercise, or labor hard, the author of the 
''Sure Methods, says," that their '* solid food may be 
increased to twenty ounces, and their liquid to forty : 
but hardly beyond that with safety." 

*When literary men are vnder the necessity of mak- 
ing great aad protracted mental e£forts, it is extreme- 
ly important that they pay particular attention to diet ; 
and make not a little reduction in the quantity: for 
intense application of mind greatly weakens the diges*' 
tive powers. Gen. Elliott, the defender of Gibraltar, 
(]uring eight of the most anxious days of the siege, liv- 
ed upon four ounces of rice per day. Abstinence, also, 
quickens the apprehension, gives acuteness to the rea- 
soning powers, liveliness to the imagination, and delica- 
cy to the feelings. A large number, perhaps a major ^^ 
ity, of the standard works in English literature,- were 
composed by men whose circumstances compelled them 
to adopt a very spjire diet, and probably this is one cause 
of their superiority. Dr. Franklin was celebrated, in 
early life particularly, for his abstemiousness ; his meal 
consisting frequently of a biscuit and slice of bread, and 
a bunch of raisins only, with a glass of water, or a ba- 
sin of gruel ; and he says, that his '^progress in study was 
proportionate to that clearness of ideas and quickne^ 
of 'conception, resulting from temperance in diet." 



J 



31 

While Sir Isaac Newton was composing his celebrated 
treatise on Optics, he confined himself entirely to 
bread with a little sack and water. One Mr. Law, fa- 
mous for his skill in different games, lived several jears 
on half a chicken per day, with about a pound of bread, 
and drank nothing but wat^r, and by that means it it 
said, he won great sums at play.* « In President Ed- 
wards Diary, we find it written, January 2, J 722 — 3 
^^ I think I find myself much more sprightly and healthy 
both in body and mind, for my self denial in eating 
drinking and sleeping" — Again, July 7-1722. By a 
sparingness in diet and eating (as much as may be) 
what is light and easy of digestion, I shall doubtless be 
able to think clearer and shall gain time, first by length- 
ecing out my life. Secondly shall need less time for 
digestion after meals. Thirdly, shall be able to study 
closer, without wrong to my health. Fourthly, shai| 
need less time to sleep. Fifthly, shall seldomer be 
troubled with the head ache." 

The author of the '' Sure Methods," has given a 
view of what he considers a proper diet for men when 
engaged in composition. It amounts to twelve ounces 
of solid food, and twenty of liquid, per day, 

^ Stale bread, dry toast or 
Breakfai^t 1 plain biscuit, no butter. Three ounces 
at Seven \ Black tea with milk and 

(a little sugar Six Do. 

Luncheon at i ^^ ^^^ ^*^^*'^ ^^^^^^ ^'^^^ * ^*^*° 
. - , ^1 -j^i^ \ slice of bread and butter. Three Do, 

( Toast and water. Do. Do. 



*Chejne^t Natural Method of Curing Diseases, &c. p. 82* 



Dinner at 




S2 

or renison, Mutton, Lamb, Chicken, or 
game, TRouflted or Boiled,) Three Do. 
Bread (no yegetables) One Do. 
half i Toast and water, or Soda 
past two. i water, Four Do. 

I White wine or Genuine Claret 
L(one small glass full,) One Do. 

Stale bread biscuit or dry toast 

very little butter. Two ounces. 
(black)with milk and a 
sugar. Six Do. 

It will be seen, that the preceeding arangement of 
meals is adapted to the system of late dinners, so com- 
mon among the higher classes in England ; and unfor- 
tunately becoming common among us. This is done, 
not because this medical writer, or any other of re- 
spectability, approves of late dinners : for all decided- 
ly condemn them : but merely to accommodate, as far 
as possible, the prejudices and habits of the communi 
iy, I am very thankful that among this community 
such accommodation is not necessary ; the middle of 
the day being still our dinner hour. This writer's 
luncheon of bread and butter, with an egg^ may there- 
fore, be joined with his dinner, or neglected altogether. 
Tou will perceive, also that in nearly all the cases 
1 have mentioned, a portion of wine is included in the 
bill of fare. — In another place, I shall attempt to show, 
that water, substituted in its place, would afford better 
nourishment, though probably the appetite would not 
require so much as is here mentioned of wine. But 
the pernicious habit of drinking wine at meals, I am hap- 
py in believing, is becoming obsolete in our country. 
Yet I cannot but remark, upon the singular inconsist- 
ency of the great majority of English writers on die- 
tetics, in recommending, or allowing wine to literary 



men and iuralids^ wkile in the same rolume, thej xm* 
hesitatingly declare, that of all beyerages water is the 
best ! The troth seems to be, they think it allowable to 
yield this point, to humour the tastes of their readers, 
provided their readers will attend to their directions 
in other respects; because they suppose that wine, in' 
moderate quantity, may not be very hurtful. But if 
they pretend to give the best rules for presefving and 
restoring health, why should they not have the inde- 
pendence to insist upon those articles of drink which 
abundant experience has proved most beneficial for 
this purpose 1 I have no idea of compromising the 
truth for the sake t)f pleasing the palate. If you yield 
one point, disordered appetite will cry give, give, un- 
til all its desires are gratified. 

Although all respectable medical writers strenuous- 
ly urge that only a very moderate quantity of food 
should be taken at meals, yet some of them prefer 
other methods of ascertaining what is the proper quan- 
tity <than by an appeal to weight and measure. Dr. 
Philip and Dr. Paris recommend that *•' the dyspeptic 
should carefully attend to the first feeling of satiety. 
There is a moment when the relish given by the ap- 
petite ceases ; a single mouthfal taken after this, op* 
presses a weak stomach. If he eats slowly and care- 
fully attends to this feeling he will never overload the 
stomach.^'* It is understood, also, in this case I be-- 
lieve, that . a man afaould confine himself to a single 
dish. 

. The grand argument in favour of this role, in pre-* 
ference to that by weight and measure, is, that difier- 



*Parison Diet p. 136-rPhiUps on Indigestion ^^p. p. 69. 



34 V 

6Dt indiyidoals require Afferent quantities of fi)odf 
aod, therefore, no definite quantity can be fixed upon. 
And it is, indeed, true, that the raaa who is in vig- 
orous heahh demands more than the feeble invalid — ' 
hfi who exercises vigorously abroad, more than the 
man confined to his study, or his shop — the middle 
aged man, more than the infant, or the aged — the man 
of large irthletic stature, more than one of small and 
delicate frame, and men more than women, &c. Bat 
leaving out of the account those very young, and those 

- very old, as well as very feeble invalids, and including 
only those in youth,. or manhood, whose health is good 
enough to permit them to attend more or less to sed- 
entary or literju-y pursuits, and I cannot conceive how 
it is possible that their constitutions shottld differ very 
much in respect to the quantity of nourishment neces- 
sary to the system. The organs of digestion are the 

" same in all, and the process by which food is convert- 
ed into blood and animal matter is the same ; and the 
caused that operate to wear out the system are essential, 
ly the same. Why then, should one of them require 
very much more nourishment than the rest : except 
that those in health, who exercise daily and vigorous* 
ly in the open air, will doubtless demand a larger por- 
tion ; and to such, t!ie rule of weight 1 have mention- 
ed, allows one quarter more than to the studious and 
invalids. 

But since it is by all admitted, thkt there is 6ome dif- 
ference in the quantity of food and drink necessary 
for individuals, similarly situated, what id the ob- 
jection against this rule of Dr. Philip, viz. that every 
man should eat till he begins to feel satisfied ?- Those 
in vigorous health, whose natural appetites have ne- 
ver been depraved by excess, or the arts of cookery. 



36 

m^y perhaps be tolerably safe in adoptifig tbb rale^ 
provided they rigidly observe two things ; first, to eat 
only of ooe dish ; and secondly to occupy at least half an 
hoar at erery meah But I am perfectly satisfied that 
this rule aloae will not answer for invalids ; foraoy, 
especially, who are in the least dyspeptical, and who 
have that unnatural and inordinate appetite which al- 
most invari«ibiy accompanies such complaints. Dr. 
Philip remarks, that ^^ there is a moment when the 
relish given by appetite ceases ; a single moalhfol 
taken after this oppresses a weak stomach.'' ^^ It 
should be obaerved,^^ says another physician, ^^ that a 
sdagle .mouthful taken after a certain quantity basbeto 
swallowed, and much before the relish' given by the 
appetite ceases, will 'very often infallibly oppress a 
weak stomach, although the individual may not be 
seilsible of it at the time, or for some hours after*'' 
:This ravenous appetite of invalids may be reckoned 
among the daughters of the horseleach, mentioned by 
Solomon, crying give, give, and is never satisfied, tlil- 
til it has ruined the constitution. A man afflicted 
fvUh it^ will eat, and eat, even of a ^ngle dish, until 
he has fully established his title to the name of glut- 
:ton. Without some other security, therefore, than 
,ihis rule of Dr. Philip, such persons, and they are 
jiumerous, even among those who scarcely suspect 
ihemselves of being dyspeptical, will surely destroy 
themselves. 

. Jfor otjght it to be forgotten here, how very rare 
it is to find persons, even among the healthy, who re- 
tain a natural appetite. ^^ Unfortunately," says the 
Journal of Health, a work conducted by some of the 
ablest pbysiciatns id our country, ^^ there are few indi- 
viduals whom the luxurious refinements of civilized 



36 

life hare not entirely deprived of this simple and aO' 
erriog guide ; aod who, by obeying the irregular and 
inordiDate cravings which they ezperience, do not be** 
come the subjects o( suffering, and disease.^' The 
loD^ use of high seasoned food and a varl^y of dishes, 
have rendered the af)petites of ^ most men artificial 
Now I ask the healthy man, who sits down to a dinner 
of a single dish, cooked in the simplesi * manner^ 
whether he will not satisfy Mb appetite sooner thaa 
he would, if a second, a third, and a fourth dish, ricfa 
and dellciously cooked, be brought forward ? Whicb 
appetite,^ then, shall he take for his gulde^ as to tlHc 
quantity of his food ? that which he has for one sim- 
pie dish, or that which he has for half a doeen' 
Does he reply, I will take that which I feel for the 
single dish as my gui.de : then 1 have few fears but 
he will be a temperate abstemious liver ; and I shall 
not contend with him about tlie soundness of liis rule : 
But where in modern society can he find a tahie 
iipread with this patriarchal simplicity ? No where ; 
unless he spread it for himself alone. Peidiaps he 
will say, that there is no harm in partaking of two* ot 
three dishes ; and he will make it his rule to confine 
himself to these. But another man will say, I fin4 
that four or five do not injure me : and the glutton 
will say, that half a dozen are necessary for bis con-* 
stitution ; and even if there be a greater number, he 
never eats more than his natural appetite craves ; for 
the glutton regards his appetite as natural as well as 
other men. Now can a rule, which thus varies with 
the temptation ; a rule, -which is even so broad as to 
take in the glutton : is such a rule a safe one^ partie- 
ularly for students, who ought to be the most abste- 
mious of men I 



37 

If I mistake not, howeTer, there is a rule suggested 
by Dr. Johnson, for ascertaining the quantity of food 
necessary for each individual, that will come in as an 
Important auxiliary to either of the rules I have men- 
tioned. He would have every one, particularly the 
nervous invalid, judge of the quantity of food and 
drink necessary for himself, hy its effects, rather than 
by satiety of appetite, or by the weight. " Whene- 
ver our drink induces sensible excitement in the sys- 
tem,'^ says he, ^^ or our food is followed by an inapti- 
tude for mental or corporeal exertion, we have trans- 
gressed the rules of health and are laying the foun- 
dation for disease.'^ — " Any discomfort of body, any 
irritability or despondency of mind, succeeding food 
and drink, at the distance of an hour, a day, or even 
two or three days, may be regarded, (other evident 
causes being absent^) as a presumptive proof that the 
quantity has been too much, or the quality injurious.^' 
— ^^ If a few hours after his dinner he feel a sense of 
distention in the stomach and bowels, or any of the 
symptoms of indigestion which have been pointed 
out ; if he feel a languor of body, or a cloudiness of 
the mind ; if he have a restless night ; if he experi- 
ence a depression of spirits, or irritability of tem- 
per next morning, his repast [dinner] has been too 
much, or improper in kind, and he must reduce 
and simplify till he come to that quantity and qual- 
ity of food and drink for dinner which will pro- 
duce little or no alteration in his feelings wheth- 
er .of exhiliration immediately after dinner, or of dis- 
comfort some hours after this meal. This is the cri- 
terion by which the patient must judge for himself* 

* Morbid Seniibility of the Stomach and Bowels, pp. 92 As UO 

4* 



38 

To the same effect is the testimoDy of Cheyne : "If 
any man'' says he, " has eat or drank so mnch m 
renders him unfit for the duties and stadies of his 
profession, (after an hour's sitting quiet to carry on 
the digestion,) he has orerdone."* 

In order fully to understand this rule of Dr. John- 
son, it will he necessary to state, what prohahly many . 
have never learned from their own experience, that 
the natural effect of eating is to ^ve immediate vigor 
to the mind and strength to the hody. Hence any lan- 
guor and stupidity after meals, if not preceded by fa- 
tigue, show that the stomach is overloaded. Hear 
the testimony of Comaro on this poiflt ? " My spirits 
are not injured by what I eat ; they are only revived 
and supported by it. I can immediately on rising from 
table set myself to write or stud}', and never find that 
this application, though so hurtful to hearty feeders, 
does me any harm. And besides I never find myself 
drowsy after dinner as a great many do : — the reason 
is, I feed so temperately as never to load my stomach 
or oppress my nerves: so that I am always as light, 
active, and cheerful, after dinner, as before."! 

Here then is no bad criterion for a man, whatever 
be his constitution, or health, for determining just 
that quantity of food and drink which he needs, to . 
give the greatest vigor to bis body and mind. He 
must reduce the quantity until his meals are followed 
by none of those effects upon the mind, or the body, 
which have been mentioned. When he has ascertain- 
ed that quantity, he should religiously adhere to it, as 
nearly as possible, in all situations. 



« 

•Essay on Health and Long Life, p. 38. 
t Life of Comaro, p. 27. 



39 

Of what use, then, is it to weigh out a given quan- 
tity of food and drink, according to the first rule ? 
The use is very great. That rule gives us the me- 
dium quantity of food and drink, (viz. from twelve to 
sixteen ounces of the former, and from fourteen to 
twenty four of the latter, per day,) which physicians 
have deduced from all the experiments that have 
come to their knowledge, as necessary for the restora- 
tion and preservation of health, and vigor of hody 
and mind in the invalid, and in those of sedentary 
and literary habits. Now let every man just weigh 
out this quantity — let him take the largest if he 
please, and in nine cases out of ten, it will show him 
that he is in the daily habit of eating and drinking at 
least twice as much as is necessary for a temperate 
man in like circumslances. He will be asloDished to 
find that he eats so much more than he had supposed, 
and having thus learnt how to estimate by the eye, 
what is the proper quantity for him to eat and drink, 
he can lay aside the balances and judge by the eye in fu- 
ture, with sufficient exactness. Let him immediately 
reduce his diet to this quantity, and make a trial of 
it for a month or two. The immediate effects will be, 
in most cases, an unexpected freedom and activity of 
mind after meals, and a gradual improvement of the 
health ; and the ultimate effects, if no fatal disorder 
was seated in the constitution, will be confirmed 
health, and an increased capacity for intellectual ef- 
forts, with a*serene and lengthened old age, and finally 
a gentle discharge from life. 

Instead of persuading you, my hearers, to adopt 
this course, I fear that some will exclaim, this is star- 
vation ! this is the sure way to make me weak and 
puny! I have no idea of reducing myself to a skele- 



40 

too while I have an appetite. Lewis Coniaro is no 
rule for me. I must eat aud drink ibr myself, with- 
out his balances or his spectacles. 

If the person who makes such an answer is in vig* 
orous health, I shall^not stop to argue the subject with 
him ; although perfectly convinced that by taking tliis 
first grand step in the course of temperance, he would 
add from thirty to fifty years to his life, and much to 
his happiness. But if he is a person of feeble health, 
already attacked b} ner? ous complaints, I would ear- 
nestly entreat him to pause a moment before he re- 
solves to reject the only method by which he can 
hope to regain his lost vigor, and retain it. Are you 
sure that sixteen ounces of solid food and twenty four 
of liquid pei* day, would be starvation ? How do you 
know it ? Have you tried it fbr any considerable 
length of time? Very many others have tried it 
through life, and found it sufficient, nay, niiost of them 
found it too much for them i will you pay no defer- 
ence to so many fair experiments ? Suppose that for 
a time you should be compelled to sufier not a little 
from a craving appetite, which having been educated 
to receive an enormous load, knows not wijy it maj 
not be indulged still, to the same extent ? Will a feel- 
ing of hunger, when not excessive, compare with the 
pains of disease, or with the tormenting uneasiness of 
dyspepsy ? Can the suffering be compared with the 
immense good that will result to you ? — health, — vig- 
or, — long life ? " If we attentively consider the last 
scenes of most people,'^ says an eminent physician, 
^^ and how it is that they die,, and with what symp- 
toms they expire; we shall constantly find it ta be of 
the too much, the too high, or too hot ; and not of 



41 

the too little^ or too cool."* And yet you fear star- 
vatioa,if allowed no more than what has supported 
many scores of men to extreme old age. How much 
food do you suppose is necessary to the support of life? 
Let physicians give the answer. ^^ The quantum 
contained in two eggs, some say one, administered 
.each day<," observes a medical writer, ^^ will keep a 
man alive and pretty well for six months."! ^^ No 
person," says another, ^^Ifi in danger o[ starvation, 
who can take a pint, nay, only half a pint, of good 
gruel in the twenty four hours."^ Is there then pro- 
bably much danger of starvation upon .a quantity five 
or six times larger than either of these n 

But if not actual starvation, you reply, that the 
quantity, of which I have spoken, is not suflGicient to 
give the greatest muscular vigor to the body, and ac- 
tivity and energy to the mind. A person confined to 
so small a quantity, will become weak and puny, in- 
capable of great bodily or mental efforts. ' And how 



* Cbejne^s Natural Method of Curinf DiseMes, p. 73. 

t Soathern Review, August, 1857, p. 244^ 

t Johnson on Morbid Sensibility, &c. p. 112. 

liMlxiract of a UlUrfrom a lady tn VattaJhoro*^ JtfotiM, daitd 
March^ 1830. — A lady in this place reduced her diet to a piece 
of cracker as large as a cent, and the juice of a piece of b«ef 
an inch in size, and half a tea cup of milk and water. This 
was a meal ; and she was allowed four such a day, and not 
a particle of any thing between her meals. That little di- 
gested, and yielded a little strength. Persevering a few 
months in this way, she was raised from an almost hopeless 
state, to very good health ; but it was tedious, and she suf- 
fered exceedingly from hunger and thirst. 



42 

do you know this ? Have you erer faidy tried tlie 
experimeDt ? • I suppose, indeed, that when a persoQ 
first reduces the quantity of his food so much*as most 
persons must do, to come down to rigid temperance, 
he will, for a time, foel a considerable degree offalot- 
ness, accompanied with a sense of weakness. • And it 
is for precisely the same reason that the drunkard, 
who abandons his cups, feels a depressing sense of 
faintness and weakness. For too much, or too hearty 
food, stimulates the digestive organs, and the whole 
system, indeed, as well as ardent spirits. And the 
withdrawing of this stimulus, in either case, produces 
similar effects. But a perseverance in such a diet for 
a few weeks or months, will, I am persuaded, satisfy 
him that his strength of body and mind have gradual- 
ly and greatly increased. Indeed, it is only because I 
believe that the amount of food I have mentioned, 
will give to sedentary men the greatest, amount of 
strength of which their bodies are capable, while 
their habits are sedentary, that I urge such to con- 
fine themselves to it. The proofs on which I rest this 
belief are the testimony of able physicians and of 
others who have faithfully tried the experiment, 

" There is nothing more ridiculous," says Cheyne, 
^' than to see tender, hysterical, and vaporish people, 
perpetually complaining, and yet perpetually cram- 
ming ; crying out, they are ready to sink into the 
ground, and faint away, and yet gobbling down the 
richest and the strongest food, and highest cordials, ' 
to oppress and overlay them quite."* 



* Essaj on Health and Lon^ Life, p. 115, 



43 

Sajrs «nether phyucian, ^* They who lote to eat, will 
use ingenious arguments to convince themselves that 
they require more food than is thus allowed them. 
They will declaim against starvation and their friends 
will join them ; they will complain that it produces 
faintness, and weakness and renders them unfit for the 
active duties of life. This b all delusion, all wilful 
self deception. More nourishment and strength are 
imparted by six ounces of well digested food, than by 
sixteen imperfectly concocted."* 

" There is a great error committed every day,'' 
says Dr. Johnson, ^^in flying to medicine at once 
when the functions of the stomach and liver are dis- 
ordered, the secretions unnatural, and the food imper- 
fectly digested. Instead of exhibiting purgatives 
day after day to carry off diseased secretions, we 
should lessen and simplify the food, in order to pre- 
vent the formation of these bad secretions. In doing 
this we have great prejudices to overcome. The 
patient feels himself getting weaker and thinner; and 
he looks to nourishing food and tonics for a cure. 
But he will generally be disappointed in the end by 
this plan. From four ounces of gruel every six hours, 
he will under many states of indigestion, derive more 
nutriment and strength than from half a pound of an- 
imal food and a pint of wine."*^^!* have known dyspep- 
tic patients gain flesh, and strength on half a pint of 
good gruel thrice in the twenty four hours." — " The 
invalid will acquire a degree of strength and firmnes» 
not fullness, of muscle on this quantity, (half a 



*45outheni Review, August, 1839, p. 224. 



44 

pound of food at dinner,) which will in time sorpriee 
his friends as well as himself/'* 

Says another physician, ^^ a small quantity of food 
does not only ward off disease and prolong Hfe, it 
likewise preserves the bodily strength ; and it will, 
therefore, be found universally, that, {ccsteris paribus) 
those aged persons who consume the least food in 
moderation, are the strongest." 

The practice of training men for pugilistic combats^ 
though most reprehensible in a moral point of view, 
has thrown much light on the subject under considera- 
tion. The rules these trainers adopt to bring the 
pugilist ^^ to the top of his condition,^' as it is called, 
that is, to give him the greatest possible strength, are 
essentially the same in respect to diet, as those which 
I -have laid down ; although a rather larger quantity of 
food is allowed than is necessary for literary men, be- 
cause these pugilists constantly exercise in the open 
air. The effect of this training is usually, to reduce 
the weight, especially if the individual at all inclines 
to corpulency, but wonderfully to improve the 
strength, symmetry, and beauty, of the corporeal 
frame. The trained boxer is no longer liable to diz- 
ziness from- the heaviest blows : his limgs are surpri- 
singly strength ed, so that he can hold his breath lon- 
ger, and recover it sooner, after it is in a measure 
lost ; his appetite becomes keen, so that not the least 
tineasines results from food : his bones become so 
strong that they are with difficulty .broken ; and bis 
nerves are so remaikably invigorated, that it is said, 
no trained person was ever known to become paralyt- 
tic, or suffer long from nervous depression. 



* Morbid SensibUity, &c. 



J 



45 

Dr. Jackson, the physician already referred to, 
who by living on a spare diet, of vegetable food only, 
without ardent spirits or wine, ^ wore out two armies 
in two campaigns," asserts that soldiers ^^ endure la- 
bor and hardship better on a simple and spare diet, 
with tea for drink," than by full feeding, with ardent 
spirits.* 

To all these authorities, I could add that of the 
individuals already mentioned, who through a long 
course of years found a very small amount of food 
abundantly sufficient for preserving body and mind la 
the utmost vigor. And is all this testimony to be set 
aside as of no weight, while he who sets it aside, h:is 
nothing but his own feelings to oppose to it? If you 
say that you have made the trial and it has failed ; I 
wish to enquire, in the first place, did you reduce 
the quantity of food until every unpleasant feeling, 
that follows excessive eating, disappeared ? Did you 
reduce it as low as -Cornaro's standard, viz. twelve 
ounces of solid food per day ? Did you persevere in 
this course for months ? Did you at the same time ex- 
ercise as much as before in the open air ? Were your 
habits in every other respect abstemious and regular? 
If you cannot answer all these questions in the affirm- 
ative, then your experiment was not a fair one, and 
will weigh nothing against the decided testimony 
which 1 have exhibited on the other side. 

But perhaps some one will say, that he cannot 
believe any very bad effects will result from eating a 
few ounces more than is necessary /or perfect health 
and vigor, and, therefore, all this parade about eating 



American Almanac for 1830, p« 129. 
5 



46 

and drinking 18 unnecessary nicety. He cannot he- 
Here that men would suffer any more from eating and 
drinking, until their natural appetite is satisfied, than 
the hrute creation does, whose hunger is their only 
standard as to quantity. In short, he conceives the 
evil against which I am contending, is rather imaginary 
than real, and that a general adoption of the rules- for 
which I plead, would have but little effect in improv- 
ing health, or lengthening life. 

As to the effect of eating too much, even in very small 
quantity, we have a very instructive instance in Cor- 
naro. liis friends, and physicians too, persuaded him 
at the age of 75, against his judgment, to increase the 
quantity of his solid food, two ounces, and his liquid 
food as much. " This increase," says he " had, in 
eight days' . time, such an effect upon me, that from 
heing remarkably cheerful and brisk, I began to be 
peevish and melancholy, and was constantly so strange- 
ly disposed, that I neither knew what to say to oth- 
ers, nor what to do with myself. On the twelfth djiy, 
I was attacked with a violent pain in my side, which 
held me twenty two hours, and was followed by a vio- 
lent fever which continued thirty five days, without 
giving me a moment's respite." This was the only- 
sickness with which he was visited, from the time he 
entered upon his temperate course,' till his death ; a 
period between sixty and seventy years. 

Old Parre, as already mentioned, lost his life by 
increasing the quantity, and changing the quality of 
his food ; and Cheyne was visited anew with his for- 
mer complaints, as soon as he relaxed a little in his 
abstemious diet. 

The following instance is taken from an old medi- 
cal writer, in his own words. 



47 

"Mr. John Bill related too, that Richard Llojd, horn 
two miles from Monlg^omery, was nged one hundred 
and thirty three years within two months ; a strong, 
straight, and upright man ; wanted no teethe, had no 
grey hair, it all being of a darkish brown colour ; 
couid hear well, and read without spectacles; fleshy 
and full cheeked, and the calves of his Tegs not wast- 
ed and shrunk ; he could talk well. He was of a tall 
stature ; his food was bread, cheese, and butter, for the 
most part ; and his drink, whey, buttermilk, or water, 
and nothing else ; but being by a neighbour gentlewo- 
man persuaded to eat flesh meat, and drink malt li- 
quors, soon fell off and died. He was a poor labour- 
ing man in husbandry." 

I cannot withhold the very judicious remarks of the 
Editors of the Journal of Health upon this case : 

" The good lady above mentioned, no doubt thought 
that this old man ought to have more nourishing and 
strengthening food than what had so long preserved 
him in excellent health. It is thus with the world gen- 
erally. In the very face of the plainest experience, peo- 
ple force their nostrums, and their good dishes, and 
nice cordials, on a complaining friend, who, becoming 
worse under this kindness, is after a while transfered 
to the hands of the doctor, as if it were in the power 
of any man, however learned and skilful, to remove 
by the aid of a few drugs, the effects of years of sen- 
sual indulgences." 

Nor can I neglect to give the concluding remarks 
of the original relator of the facts — addressed to his 
cotemporaries. 

'^ A hundred examples," says he " of this kind, may 
be found to confirm the doctrine of temperance and cool 
diet,as necessary to the prolongation of life ; but if an 



48 

angel from heaven shoald come down and preach it, one 
bottle of Burgundy would be of more weight with this 
claret-stewed generation than ten tuns of arguments to 
the contrary, though never so demonstrable and divine.^' 
Such facts weigh more than a thousand suggestions 
about the improbabilities of injuring the health by a 
Slight excess-in the use of food. But men do not per- 
ceive the bad effects of over feeding, because in gener- 
al, they are ignorant of their nature, and confine their at- 
tention to the more immediate efifecls instead of looking 
at those which are remote. They generally suppose, 
that if the stomach, or any internal organ, be oppress- 
ed, or disordered, pain will be produced in the or- 
g^n itself: whereas, the uneanines and pain are most 
commonly in some other part, not unfrequently a re- 
mote part, of the body. And oftentimes food, which 
ultimately does the man a great deal of injury, give» 
to the stomach a transient relief, just as piling a large 
quantity of wood upon a fire, seems for a time to have 
almost extinguished it. Thus, the dyspeptic is ofteo 
exceedingly oppressed with a sense of gnawing, and 
iaintness at the stomach, previous to his meals. The 
immediate consequence of eating to satiety, is, to re- 
move this uncomfortable sensation, and to produce a 
glow in the system, which, at first, is not disagreeable. 
Hence such a man concludes that his hearty meal has 
done him good. True he feels an indisposition to 
bodily or nlental effort, and perhaps drowsiness and 
sleep come over him, for two or three hours : but 
this he considers as no bad omen : indeed, his nap re- 
freshes him for the time, and although the thought 
may enter his mind, that perhaps he has eaten rather 
too much, should headach or heartburn come on, jet by 
a little exercise, he gets rid of these, and fand&s that 



49 

when he has forced the food from the stomach, no far- 
ther bad effects will result from a little excess in qnan* 
tity. Should he hare disturbed sleep, and restless- 
ness, or the nightmare, or unpleasant dreams, the fol- 
lowing night, he scarcely thinks of referring the mis- 
chief to the dietetic excesses of the preceeding day. 
His appetite is good the next day, and he takes the 
same course, viz. to eat as much as his stomach 
craves ; and although overloaded nature raises those 
signals .of distress which I have mentioned, he is ig- 
norant of their meaning, until after a few weeks, or 
months, when gloom and jealousy enshroud the mind, 
as forerunners of the storm that is about to burst. Yet 
the man never thinks of imputing these feelings to his 
excess in eating, although, in fact, they are the direct 
consequence ; and, indeed, I am more and more con- 
vinced, that most of the depression of spirits, that accom- 
panies nervous complaints, might be prevented by ri- 
gid abstinence in diet. Another remote, consequence 
of eating too inuch, is unevenness and irritability of 
temper, especially in the morning, which most men 
never regard as having such an origin. 

*' The greatest gluttons we ever beheld, (except 
one,)"' says a medical reviewer,* " were meagre men, 
whose tempera became so crabbed, that even their 
children have wished them iead. That these are 
real dyspeptics is proved by their cure being . practi- 
cable, if they are subjected to the same reg imen 
which dyspeptics require." 

Dr. Johnson mentions a curious case illustrative of 
this effect of excessive feeding upon the mind. He 



'Southern Review, Augait, 1829, p. 218. 

5* 



60 

had a hypochondriacal patient who ^' was erery se* 
cond daj affected with such an exasperation of liis 
molancholy forebodings, that he did nothing bat walk 
about his room, wringing his hands, and assuring hii 
servants that the hand of death was npon him, and 
that he could not possibly survive more than a few 
hours. Under these gloomy impressions he would 
refuse food and drink, and, in fact, gi?e himself up 
for lost. The succeeding sun, however, would find 
him quite an altered man. The cloud had broken 
away ; hope was rekindled ; and the appetite for food 
and drink was indulged ad libitum* Next morning 
all would again be despair, and nothing but death 
could be thought of. So he went on, as regular as 
light and darkness. But if on the good day, he could 
be kept on a very small portion of food, and the bot- 
tle unopened, the next would be good also. This, 
however, could seldom be done , for as soon as he ielt a 
respite from his miseries, procured by one day's absti- 
nence, he returned to his usual indulgencies and again 
Irritated hh stomach and bowels, and through them 
reproduced the blue devils in the mind."* 

Aller nature has thus sent out for some time the 
groans which a too heavy load extorts from her, and 
the man heeds them not, but continues to pile on more 
and more, she refused^ to proceed ; and deluges him 
with all the pains of a severe dyspeptic attack. He 
flies to the physician for help. The emetic or ca- 
thartic usually relieves the burdened and clogged 
powers of digestion ; the appetite gradually returns ; 
it \s again indulged to excess, and the same scene is 



*M«rbid Sensibility, Icc.p. 105. 



61 

acted oyer ag^n, and the morbid secretioos are again 
formed and removed by medicine. Bat each succes- 
sive time^ the -stomach and bowels become weaker 
and disease gets more and more firmly hold of the 
eonstitation. If the man discovers soon enough that the 
root of his whole difficulty is his intemperance in eat- 
ing, he may, if he will, save himself from morbid secre- 
tions and the physician^s hands, by rigid abstemious- 
ness. But if otherwise, organic disease gradually 
supervenes and closes his days. 

When food is taken into the stomnch it is convert- 
ed into a pulpy mass, called chyme. If the quantity 
be too great, of course, this process is but imperfectly 
performed ; as the gastric juice is not sufficient for the 
whole work. The consequence is, that imperfect 
chyme will make imperfect chyle^ the second state 
into which food passes ; and imperfect chyle will 
produce imperfect blood ; and imperfect blood will 
produce morbid secretions ;-^the blood will be too 
much in quantity, and poor in quality ; and hence 
the system will be but imperfectly nourished. 
Hence, too, we see why a small quantity of food 
affords more nourishment than a quantity too large, 
viz, because the former is perfectly, and the latter 
imperfectly, converted into flesh and blood. Na- 
ture must make a great effort to get rid of the su- 
perabundance with which she is deluged. Hence she 
will force through the pores of the skin, fetid sweats, 
and load the alimentary canal and every part of the 
system, with every kind of morbid secretions. We 
see hence^ why the men, who gormandize most, are 
generally pale and emaciated : though sometimes the 
excess of nourishment is converted into fat, which 
seems generally to be a morbid secretion. 



52 

As to men^s following the example of the brates, by 
eating as mach as the appetite craves, it will not help 
the argument mach to take the domesticated animals 
for a standard : for their imitation of man, or some 
thing else, has given them an appetite somewhat too 
voracious; ds every farmer knows, whose cornfield, 
or granary, has been broken open by his horse or ox. 
And as to the wild animals, they cannot properly be 
considered examples, until man shall get rid of his 
factitious appetite, and will consent to live in the 
open air like them, and abjure all mental efforts ; in 
short, to become a brute in every thing but shape, 
which, according to Cicero, is a genuine transformation: 
Quid enim interest^ utrum ex homine se quis conferat in 
belluam^ an hominis Jig^ira immanitatem gerat belluae ?* 
And were this done, 1 think that even the vora- 
cious dyspeptic would not judge it safe for a being, who 
was once a student, to imitate the musqnito, that quiet- 
ly resigns life for the pleasure of sucking its fill : nor 
even the Siberian Glutton, which, though not much 
larger than a ddg, ;(vas not satisfied with thirty pounds 

of flesh at a meal.t 
But the evil against which I contend, is thought to 

be imaginary. Let us hear some testimony on this 
point. 

It is a prevailent opinion, that persons of rather fee- 
ble health, especially such as are on the gaining hand, 
should take food in generous quantity, and of nour- 
ishing quality, in order to gain strength ; and hence 
their kind friends will tempt their craving appetites, 



•Cic.de. off. L. 3—20. 

t Smellie^s Philoi. Nat. Hist. p. 150. 



63 

as mach as possible, by food nicelj cooked, and by 
persuasion, and very commonly they yield to the so- 
licitation, but rarely without reaping the bitter results. 
To this course, the amiable and pipus Clement, an 
Englbh clergyman, whose name is pr )bab]y familiar 
to you, to this course, he fell a sacri^co. At the 
age of eighteen, his health declined rapidly, with 
symptoms of a consumption. But by rigid adherence 
to a milk and vegetable diet, without spirits, or wine, 
he, in a short time, regained his health. But return- 
ing to his former liberal diet, his disorder returned 
also, with giant pow^r, and soon laid him in the gravBi 
— the real victim of intemperance ; though nothing 
was farther from his thoughts, or those of his friends 
than that he was intemperate.* 

It is well known that a voracious appetite generally 
accompanies a recovery from fevers ; and who has 
not known instances of fatal relapses by indulging it ! 
It was the misfortune of Mr. Vinall, one of the first 
missionaries to the Osages, to be cast on the care and 
kindness of a Christian lady, after a jiavere sickness. 
With the best intentions, she plied him with rich 
and tempting food. He partook of it immoderately, 
and thus brought on an attack of apoplexy, which ter- 
minated his life.t 

As it respects invalids, then, the evils of excessive 
eating are not imaginary. How is it with mankind in 
general^ "There are few," says the author of Ser- 
mons to the rich and studious, " who do not eat one 
third or a fourtl\ more than is necessary to support 
them."|| " In general," says Dr. Franklin, " man- 



^Dagget^i Life&c. of Cornaro, p. 59« 
tDaggeri life of Cornaro, p. 61. 
I Do. p. 48. 



54 

• 

kind since the improvements of cookery, cat aboat 
twice as much as nature requires.'-* " We may safe- 
ly take it for granted after, long observation," says 
an American medical reviewer, " that almost every 
man, woman, and child in this countrj', habitually eats 
and drinks twice as much every day, on a moderate 
estimate, as is neccessary.''t 

Such 1 believe is the almost unanimous opinion of 
all who are at all qualified to judge of this subject- 
Now what is the effect of such cnormons gluttony ? 
Let the answer be well considered by those who im- 
agine I am 6ghting with shadows. 

" Most of all the chronical diseases, the infirmities 
of old age, and the short periods of the lives of En- 
glishmen," said Dr. Cheyne, more than a hundred 
years ago, '• are owing to repletion."|| 

"I tell you honestly," says Mr. Abernethy, "what 
I think is the cause of the complicated maladies of 
the human race : it is their gormandizing, and stuffing, 
and stimulating their digestive organs to an excess, 
thereby produQJng nervous disorders and irritation. 
The state of their minds is another grand cause ; the 
fidgeting and discontenting yourself about that which 
cannot be belped ; passions of all kinds — malignant pas- 
ions, and worldly cares pressing upon the mind, disturb 
the cerebral action and do a great deal of harm.''1F 

" It is the opinion of the majority of the most dis- 
tinguished jphysicians," says another medical writer, 
" that intemperance in diet, destroys the bulk of man- 
• kind: in other words, that what is .eaten and drank, 
and thus taken into the habit, is the orignal cause of 



»Life of Cornaro, p. 42. f Southern Rev. Aug. 1829, p. 221. 
II Essay on Health and Long Life, p. 35. 
IT. Southern Rev. Aug. 1829. p. 215. 



55 

by far the greater number of diseases which afflict the 
human race."* 

Is such decided unbiassed testimony as this to go 
for nothing ? Will any one still contend that attention 
to diet is unnecessary ? that the monster who is cut- 
tinsr down ^^ the bulk of mankind" U a chimera of the 
brain ? The truth is, God has so constituted the hu- 
man frame, that if properly treated, it will endure to 
old age, and rarely, if ever, be subject to the attacks of , 
disease. Disease, in most cases, is the consequsnce of 
intemperance in diet. A man dies of a fever, orof ap. 
oplexy, or other violent disorder, and men generally 
consider it as his unavoidable fate : whereas, in the 
majority of Instances, it is the consequence of long 
continued excess in diet. Had the man followed the 
rigid rules on this subject, which experience has point- 
ed put, probably he would have escaped the acute dis- 
ease that ended his days, and in extreme old age, have 
sunk by mere decay. But most people regard a 
full habit, a florid countenance, and strength of muscle 
as sure marks of health. Whereas, in nine cases out 
often, such a person cannot endure half as much hard- 
ships as a lean and seemingly feeble man : And the 
reason is, that the full habit of the former, is common- 
ly the effect of excess, either in eating or drinking, 
and the powers of life have been urged on so fast, that 
they give way to comparatively slight shocks. This 
vigaur, indeed holds out for a time ; but it is by 
drawing upon the powers of life, through the stimulus of 
rich and strong food, or drink ; and thus the constitution 
is preparing to give way to the first attack of a violent 
disorder- " Look" say those who decry abstemious- 

* Sure Methods Sec, p. 78. 



66 



• » 



neis, ^Mook at Mr. .— ^— : fae does not lire like an asce^ 
tic : What do joa think, Doctor, of liis robust frame 
aiui florid face.^' No answer ! AAer the lapse of a 
few years, perhaps months, from the date of this ques- 
tion, the doctor is solicited to visit this model of health, 
whom he finds deprived of the ase of one side of his 
body, — ^jokes no longer come trippingly on his tongne ; 
it feebly and tremblingbly articulates the commonest 
replies."? 

I woald not 6e understood assaying, that every per- 
son who at all exceeds 12 or 16 ounces of solid, and 14 
or 24 of liquifl food per day, is an intemperate liver. 
But I do say, that he who eats or drinks more than if 
necesary to give to the body and mind the greatest degree of 
health and v^or^ is intemperate,^ This is essentially the 
rule given by Cicero — ^'^tantum cibi et potionis ad- 
hibenduro, ut refidantur vires,^on opprimantur." 
And I do firmly believe, on the o%(. testimony, that 
scarcely any sedentary or literary mab, who will make 
a fair trial, will find that he can much exceed the 
quantity mentioned above, and keep within the bounds 
of temperance. 

Need any literary youth, therefore, thinkdt strange, 
that I press this subject with great earnestness upon 
the attention of this audience. • If I cannot persuade 
you, my hearers, i^o adopt some constant rule, as to the 
quantity of your food! and drink, all my efibrts,in respect 
to other parts of diet and regimen will be almost in 



•Journal of Health vol. 1. p. 18. 

f *^ Intemperance is excess of any kind, and is applied to ev- 
ery function and action of both bodj and mind.'* — ^Joumal of 
Health vol. 1. p. 205. 

^' Temperance, is moderation in things not hurtful^ and ab- 
stinence from those which are.*' — Pierson's Address, p. 4. 



^'" 



» « 



&7 



Vain, 'the corner stone will be wanllngf, and the id- 
]>erstracture can never stand. I appeal, therefore, to 
the friends of temperance, and entreat them to extend 
the principles, which thej hare so nobly adopted and 
defended, in regard to ardent spirits, to food also. If 
you admit that man to be Intemperate, who uses ar- 
dent spirits when they are unnecessary for health and 
Vigor of body and mind, how can you consider him in 
any other light, who eats more than is necvssary for 
the same purpbse ? You very reasonably, suspect, that 
the man, who will not even make the trial of living 
for a time without spiijts, to prove whether they are 
necessary, you justly suspect that he fears he shall be 
convinced that they are unnecessary ; and that he is 
inordinately attached to them ? Am I unreasonable, 
then, in entertaining a similar suspicion in regard to 
you, if you will nottake Ihe pains to ascertain wheth- 
er you are not i^plmperate eaters ? And is intem- 
perance in drinking any more criminal in the sight of 
God, than intemperate eating ? or is it less injurious 
in its ultimate efiects upon the individual ? Who shall 
decide between the guilt and the misery 6f the drunk- 
ard and the glutton ? Extend, I say, your principles 
of temperance to your whole diet, or else abandon 
them altogether. 

As literary tnen— 'as those who intend to rise high 
in the learned professions — I call on 'you to make trial 
of the principles I have advocated. If you are intem- 
perate eaters, you will as certainly blunt the powers 
of your intellect, and fail of accomplishing any thing 
noble in literature and science, as if you were intem- 
perate drinkers. How do you know but you are al- 
ready ignorantly intemperate in food ? Why shrink 
from ascertaining the fact? Of all men in the world 

6 



68 

you ought to be the last to become slayei to appetite. 
You have food to eat of which the igDonunt maltitnde 
know nothing. Let them riot, if they will, in luxari- 
008 Jiving : hot joa have chosen a noble lot, and pro- 
vided you have food enough to repair the wastes of na- 
ture, and sustain the health and vigour, you ought to 
despise the low ambition of those who live only to 
eat; and you should preserve a philosophical indiffer- 
ence as to the luxuries of the table. While ambrosia 
and nectar are within your reach, do not, I beseech 
you, descend to root with swine in the dunghill. 

I call on you as Christians, also, to reduce the quan- 
tity of your food to the standard of temperance. I see 
not a few here, who have, as I believe, sincerely de- 
voted themselves to the service of God ; and wbo 
desire to do as much as they are capable of doing, for 
his cause. And it ought not to be concealed, that 
such young men have oflener failed in their health, 
than almost any other class, as the records of the 
American Education Society will show. Most of them, 
having been accustomed to active habits before com^ 
mencing study, and beginning rather late, they make 
great efforts to advance rapidly : But the change is 
too great for the constitution. Dyspep&y creeps on, 
with its unnatural appetite, and not knowing but they 
may indulge it, they not unfrequently are compelled 
to abandon their object. But in nine cases out of ten, 
rigid temperance and exercise would have saved them. 
Let not, then, such a young man talk of his desire. to 
do ail the good he can in the world, if he is not wil- 
ling to abandon his intemperate habitis at the table. 
Let him not talk of the Christian ministry, until he 
can learn to live as abstemiously as a philosopher. 
For the bible testifies ; Every man thflt iirivHhfqr (As 



I 



5d 

Wuutery,* is tennptrate in all things. 1 do not contend 
for excessire ftnd hurtful abstinence : this it quite as 
injurious as repletion : but I do plead for a reduction 
to the standard of health, which in most cases, as we 
hare seen, will be a reduction of nearly one half. I 
say that every Christian is accountable to God for ex- 
ceeding this standard : and I tremble for him who per- 
sists in following his yoracious appetite, instead of the 
rules of temperance. 

In conclusion, let me say, that I have little hope 
of the thorough and effectual reformation of any one, 
in this respect, who *doe8 not look to a higher 
source of strength and resolution than can be found 
in himself. But let him take the course that Cor- 
naro did, and he may hope to be triumphant — ^^ I 
must confess,^^ says he, ^^ that it was not without great 
reluctance that I abandoned my luxurious way of liv- 
Ing. I began with praying to God that he would 
grant me the gift of temperance ; well knowing that 
he always hears oar prayers with delight. Then 
considering, that when a man is about to undertake 
any thing of importance, he may greatly strengthen 
himself in it by often looking forward to the great 
pleasures and advantages that he is to derive from it : 
just as the husbandman takes comfort uAder his toils, 
l^y reflecting on the sweets of abundance ; and as the 
. good Christian gladdens in the service of God, when 
he thinks on the glory of that service, and the eter- 
nal joys that await him ; so I, in like manner, by re- 
flecting on the innumerable pleasures and blessings of 
health, and beseeching God to strengthen me in my 
good resolution, immedifitely entered on a course of 
temperance and regularity." 



ftaovvna iz« 



Diet, continued. Second Rule of DieteiiCM, Adett^i 

to evade it. Great Excesees in eatin§^^ in this country* 

The rule peculiarly necessary for Invalids. Examples 

for their encouragemenf. Abstinence. Cold or Catarrh. 

Concluding Remarks. , 

At the last Lecture^ OentlepieDi I confined myself 
solely to prellaiiDary remarks, and to the illastratioo, 
defence and application of the first riile of dietetics, 
.whloh<r^ii4tf6S>thettheqiiaiitfty of food, lalLen at tatj 
one meaL, should he very moderate. If any apology 
waft due for dweUiog upon this point so long*, and urg- 
ing it so strenuously, it exists in the rast importance 
of that rule ; lying, as it does, at the yery foundation 
of the whole subject. Yet the second rule, to which 
I proceed without preihce, approximates in impor- 
tanee^to the first; especially when we yiew the two 
in conDexion. It may be thus briefly expressed : 

The ucss vXrictt of food asd raiiNK at ant okc 

MFAL, THE B£TTER. 

This rule is as old as Hippocrates, the cetempora* 
ry of Socrates, and the father of medicine. • Ta yoQ 
wofiota crraffia^i says he : and the yery sound of this 
yerb, maaiaUt^ represents not inaptly, the commotio^ 
produced in the stomach by the introduction of a yari- 
ety of incongruous substances together. This is, In- 
deed, one of the principal reasons for the rule under 
consideration. The gastric juice has not the power 



61 

oT diasolTing a mixture of yarions substances, so per- 
fectly as a single one : indeed, this is the case with 
all solvents, eyen the most powerfal: though we 
ought not probablj to consider the action of the gas- 
tric juice upon food, as a mere chemical solution. 
The principle of life is so intimately concerned in 
the process, and so modifies it, that the term solution 
do<es not fullj describe it. The process of digestion 
seems to be partly chemical, partly mechanical, and 
partly mysterious. Hence Dr. Hunter facetiously re- 
marks, in his Lectures; ^^ Some will have it, that the 
stomach is a mill ; others that it is a fermenting vat ; 
others again that it is a stew pan ; but in my yiew of 
the matter, it is neither a mill, a fermenting, vat, nor 
a stew pan — but a stomach, gentlemen^ is a stomach.^^ 
Shakspeare has a better description of it. 

^^ It is the storehouse, and the shop 

Of the whole body. Tfue it is, 

That it recbiyes the general f*od at first : 

Bat all the cranks and offices of man, 

The stronj^est nerves and small inferior veins, 

From it receive that naturaJ competence 

Whereby they live." 

But though we may not perfectly understand the 
whole rationale of digestion, we do know, because ex- 
perience teaches us, that the more simple the food is, 
which the stomach receives — that is, the fewer the 
kinds are, that are mixed together in it, the more 
easily does digestion go on, and the less is the system 
affected by the operation. No principle in medicine 
is nvore clearly established than this ; nor have dietet- 
ic writers failed, in any age, to proclaim and apply it, 
howeyer little it has been heeded by men. 

A curious argument, howeyer, has of late been 

brought forward, by the loyers of yariety in diet, to 

6* 



62 

prore that it is as easj for the stomach to digest the 
roo9t compoand miztare of siihstaDces^asasingle ooe^ 
Chemists have shown that all re^etable substance» 
consist essentially of carbon, oxjgen, and hjdrogen ; 
and the same elements enter into the composition of 
all animal substances, with the a(Mition only of nitro- 
gen. Hence, then, all vegetable and animal food con- 
sists of these four simple substances, oxygen, hydrogen^ 
carbon and nitrogen. Whether a man, therefore, takes 
one, or twenty kinds of food, these four, and only 
these, will be present ; and why, then, will it be hard- 
er for the stomach to digest twenty varieties of food, 
• than one variety? 

If nil the compound vegetable and animal substances, 
taken as diet, were decomposed into their elements 
before eating, this argument would be a sound one : 
for then, there would be uniformly four substances 
on which the gustric juice would operate. But in or- 
der that this argument should hold in the present case, 
il must be shown^ that all compound substances, made 
up of the san>e elements in different proportions, are 
dissolved and decomposed with equal ease; since sola- 
tion, or decomposition, appears to be the result of the 
operation of the digestive powers. Now every cheoi 
ist knows, that there is an immense difference in the 
ease with which solution and decomposition are effect- 
ed ; even in those cases where substances differ only 
in the proportion in which the same elements are com- 
bined. The more variety, therefore, that is introduc- 
ed into the stomach, the more burdened will be the 
powers of digestion. Hence this specious argument 
amounts to nothing. 

What would you think of the man, who should in . 
▼ite you to partake of a collation of fruit and wine, and 



63 

then present you onlj with charcoal and water, giving 
as a reason that these latter substances were compos- 
ed of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, and that the same 
elements, and no more, enter into the CQmpositlon of 
fruit and wine ; and, that therefore, the difference be- 
tween them is merely imaginary. You would hardly 
thank him for his chemistry. 

But this. case does not require the aid of chemistry, 
to show the fallacy of the ai^umeut adduced. The 
uniform ex]?erieneQ of physicians, and indeed, of al- 
most all other men, agrees in the statement, that one 
article of food, taken at a meal, digests more easily and 
much quicker, than a mixture of several. This, then, 
is a sufficient ground for establishing the rule of diet, 
which recommends, as best of all, to confine ourselves 
at each meal, to a single dish. 

A second, and even faore important reason for this 
rule, is the strong temptation that is presented by va- 
riety in food, to exceed the bounds of temperance in 
quantity. This is, indeed, the original source of nine 
tenths of the gluttony in the world. The state of the 
case is juit this. A man usually eats of the first sort 
of food presented to him at the table, until he begins to 
feel as if he had eaten enough, and, indeed, he has eaten 
enough ; and then is the time for him to leave the tabic. 
But a second soi>t solicits his appetite, and such is the 
wonderful influence of the temptation over the stomach, 
as to produce a desire for the second kind of food, full as 
strong as for the first. The second sort is eaten, until a 
sense of satiety begins to be felt, which, however, does 
not usually happen till nearly enough of the second dish 
has })een taken to suffice for a meal. The third variety 
attracts the appetite with nearly as great power, if cook- 
ed temptingly ; and even a fourth, or a fifth, or more, 



64 

will not be set before the gwrmand in yain. And it 
happens in this case, that the more indigestibly these 
sorts are prepared, the more filled up with gravies, 
and sweets, the more powerful is their inflaence oyer 
the appetite. The truth is, the quantity of food that 
men eat, is nearly in a direct ratio to the number of 
sorts that are set before them : that is, two sorts will 
double the quantity ; three sorts, treble it, and so on. 
Or, if towards the close of the repast, the pastry, and 
cake, and fruit, are not taken in so lai^e quantity, their 
more indigestible nature makes up for the deficiency. 
But what do I mean, when I speak of one sort, or 
one di9h ? Is it meat alone, or bread alone, or butter, 
or salt, or pepper alone. By no means. I understand 
by the term, one of the more substantial articles, in** 
eluded in every meal, as bread, or meat, with the usu- 
al condiments and accompaniments ; such as butter, 
salt, sugar, patatoes, &c : that is, such of these articles, 
as a person chooses to eat along with the bread, or the 
meat, his principal article. But if any of these, or' 
other articles, such as pudding, cake, &c. are intro* 
duced, afler the removal of the principal articles of 
the first dish, it constitutes what I call a second sort, 
or a second dish. Hence it appears, that what I un- 
derstand by one dish, or sort, may include several va- 
rities of food ; for example — milk ijnd bread — bread 
and butter — meat, bread, potatoes, and salt, &c. It is 
presenting another dish in a new form, after finishing 
one of these, that I have mentioned, which tempts the 
appetite and does the mischief. If a man would mix 
his five or ten sorts together at the table, just as they 
are mixed in the stomach,'^after eating, it is not proba- 
ble that he could eat much more of the whole, than of 
any one of them taken separately. I should not object 



65 

indeed, to having every thing considered irt a single 
dish, which was mixed together before it waa eaten : 
though certainly the less compound such n dish is, the 
iess oppressive will it prove to th^ stomach. But a 
man will not eat as much of such a mixture, by any 
means, as he would, if the same articles were present- 
ed to hfm, one aAer another; especially if a little 
modified by cookery. 

If the preceding view of this subject be jiist, how 
immense is the intemperance in food and the gluttony 
of our land ! In other countries, you will undoubtedly 
find examples of greater excess of this kind among the 
higher classes of society :«bQt probably in no other 
part of the world, have the great mass of the people tbe 
meaoi of ibmishing their tables with so great a variety 
as among of ^ Even the poor are Moally able to have 
their second and third dishes. So that probably there 
is no nation where excess in eating is so universal as 
amoi^ as : nor can we regard the opinion, already 
quoted, as an exageration ; ^^ that, almost every man, 
woman and child in this country, habitually eats and 
drinks twice as much every day on a moderate esti- 
mate as is necessary." Who among us thinks c: mak- 
ing out a meal from a single dish, unless under the 
care of a physician !' What traveller would not con- 
sider that a most wretched public house, where his ta- 
ble was furnished with only one sort of food, howev- 
er wholesome and well prepared ! liow soon wonld 
(hat boarding house be deserted, which should rigidly 
^here to the rule I have laid down, as most conducive 
to health, even were it« prices greatly reduced ! Now 
were this excess indulged in only by the labouring classes 
of society, its efiects, so fares health is concerned, 
would be comparatively harmless : Cut it ei^sts, per« 



66 

haps in an equal degree, anong the aedentary cla»£i 
of society — ^yes, even among literary men, and relig- 
ious men. Let us select an example of this latter de- 
scription, from those who are considered temperate 
and respectable. Let us sum up the ordinary fare of 
such a family for one day. 

Probably a majority of sedentary and literary men 
among us, make use of meat for breakfast ; and general- 
ly of t^o kinds. Accompanying this, there must be 
bread and potatoes, salt, pepper, pickles, and sometimes 
^gg^i ^ I Iq addition to these, there must be toast or 
warm cakes, or biscuit and butter, and cheese. At 
dinner, there are usually two sorts of meat ; accompani- 
ed by bread, potatoes, gravies, pickles, and yarioos 
other vegetables and condiments. After this comes a 
pudding ; then bread, cheese, and butter, at least : or if 
not a pudding, bread, cheese, butter and a pie; and 
not unfrequently some kind of fruit closes the repast. 
At supper there must be bread, or biscuit, cheese, and 
butter, and generally preserves, with the addition of 
some kind of cake, or pie, and sometimes both. 

When the same family invite their friends to dine, 
or sup with them, there must be an addition to the din- 
ner, of at least a third kind of meat, and one or two oth- 
er pies, custards, &c. To the supper there must be 
added dried beef, or beefs tongue, pastry, preserves, 
custards, and two or three kinds of cake, — the loaf cake 
— the pound cake — the sponge cake,&c. — of all things 
the most unfit to put into a sedentary person's mouth* 
Not long after tea — which must also be so unreasona- 
bly strong|as to produce wakefulness through the best 
part of the night, there come other temptations in the 
form of fruits, nuts, jellies, trifles, &c. And we must re- 
collect, also, that it is the general custom of the guests, 



67 

Ob sncb occasions, to partake ofa portion at least, of near^ 
\j every yariety of food and drink that is here presented 
to them. Oh, when we remember that one of the sim» 
plest of these dishes would have been the most condu- 
cive to health, what shall we think of cramming down 
such a heterogeneous indigestible mass into a stomach 
disposed by occupation to weakness! Ask the indi- 
viduals next day what they think of it. And yet, such 
are the common and approved entertainments that 
are met with every day, in our land, in intelligent 
and religious families — among the most worthy and 
most pious part of the community. 1 say nothing here 
of those extensive and ridiculous fashionable parties 
among the gay and worldly minded, where the chief 
object seems to be to exclude common sense and pru- 
dence, and to do all that is possible, bv food, drink and 
folly, to ruin the health and the morals : but I speaj^ 
of the manner in which many temperate men of pub. 
lie education — many professors of religion, many min- 
isters of the gospel, live nearly every day — and of the 
manner in which they are wont to entertain their 
friends, when they invite them to a common social en- 
tertainment. 

But what shall 1 say of that chef d* cBuvre of li- 
censed gluttony, a New England Thanksgiving? I 
would not be thought to condemn an institution, so 
hallowed by religious, patriotic, and domestic associa- 
tions ; and really so happy in its influence upon the 
community. But I condemn its monstrous abuses by 
stuffing and gormandizing, and even sanctioning glut- 
tony by religious acts. Even the poorest in society, 
feel themselves perfectly justified in devoting a large 
part of their earnings to the preparation of numerous 
varieties of rich and stimulating dishes, for one or two 
meals. And as to the middling and richer classesf 



68 

tbefe is no calcalallng the evpeose and profuflioii of a 
thanksgiving dinner ; whose almost only effect^s, to un- 
fit them entirely for the religious duties of such an occa- 
fiioa. Just compare this enormous waste, with the 
scanty and comparatively contemptible contributions to 
benevolent objects, which are made on these occasions; 
and enquire, whether such a perversion of heaven's 
gifts', must not be highly criminal in the sight of God. 
if this were a necessary evil connected with thanks- 
giving, I would submit to it in silence, rather than lose 
the benefits of so valuable an observance: But it is only 
a gangerous excresence, that demands the application 
of the knife, which religion and temperance are at this 
day using so effectually. 

I am aware, indeed, that very much of the sjn of 
this extravagHnce and gluttony, on all the occa- 
sions above pointed out, must rest upon the ladies, 
who are at tie heads of families, and who have 
it in their power, in a great measure, to regulate 
the bill of fare at their own tables. And were this 
the proper place, I would most seriously remon- 
strate with this class of the commuuity, who are ever 
ready to follow in the path of duty, when it is clear- 
ly marked out to them. It is not merely irreligious 
and worldly minded females, who take the course 
I have described ; but many of the most pious, many 
who feel it to be a duty to make sacrifices to pro- 
mote objects o£ benevolence, and who carry round 
the subscription paper to collect the widow's and the 
orphan's mite, for sending the Gospel to the ends of 
the earth. Such, especially, I would ask, how they 
can reconcile this worse than unnecessary expense in 
living, with their professed principfes of benevolence; 
with their duty to the poor, the distressed, the hea- 



69 

llien of our own, and of other lands ! Ton cannot de- 
Bj that the eipense ef living, so far as food is con- 
cerned, increases almost in direct proportion to the 
nnmher of dishes yoa introduce. You cannot deny 
that the expense of an occasional entertainment of 
jour friends, in your way, does invoWe no small 
amount of cost. 'Your pies and cakes, your sweat 
meats, and various condiments, are all made up of 
ihe most costly materials : Aud are they not also, for . 
the most part, excessively indigestible ? Do you re- 
ally believe that they are as well adapted to promote 
the health of your families and friends, as a more 
simple fare ? Which person do you suppose would 
rise next morning most vigorous and refreshed, and best 
fitted for intellectual labor; he who had made his sup- 
per from a cup of weak tea, or coffee, and a little dry 
toast and butter, or he, who followed j'our recommen- 
dation, and drank your concentrated extract of tea, 
or coffee, and ate the whole round of your hot biscuit, 
and pastry, and cakes, and sweatmeats, and fruits ? Oh 
how can a lady, who has any knowledge on this sub- 
ject, even after she has prepared such a farrago of 
indigestibles, urge them, as an act of kindness, upon 
her guests, if they are literary persons ? To them such 
trash is rank poison — poison to the body, and poison 
to the soul ; and they ought to touch not, t aste not, 
handle not. No stomach can endure them without 
injury, except it be that of the sailor, the soldier, the 
drayman, and the hard working farmer. From other 
circles, especially from among literary men, and all 
ladies, and those in easy circumstances, these things 
ought to be banished as real and dangerous enemies. 
Instead, therefore, of saying to a literary friend, as 
if it were an act of kindness, do let me help you to a 

7 



A., 



70 

piece of this pie, or this cake, or these sweatmeate, 
or these fruits; it would be a fair statement for a lady 
to say ; "this tea, Sir, will probably give you a sleep- 
less night, and a headache to-morrow. This biscuit is 
just baked, so as to be exactly adapted to lie heayj 
on your stomach, and give disturbed and unrefreshing 
sleep. This cheese, if you will take a little of it, 
along with the biscuit, will load your imagination with 
unpleasant dreams. Add a few of these sweatmeats, 
and you may be sure of the nightmare. This kind of 
cake, with a little wine, is well adapted to bring on a 
fit of the gout ; this kind, to. make it sure that a per* 
son will be a fashionable and confirmed dyspeptic ; and 
this kind to • prepare the constitution for a fever. 
These walnuts. Rev. Sir, will be sure to give you a 
dull audience next Sabbath. These almonds, Sir^ 
will make your client lose his cause in court to-mor* 
row. These raisins, Sir, will be sure to sink below 
its competitors, the prize essay, you are preparing. 
And the digestion of this pine apple. Sir, will prevent 
your digesting the mathematical problem that labors 
in your mind." 

This is no caricature. These very results have 
followed such causes hundreds and hundreds of times. 
How can a woman of principle, of religious principle, 
therefore, be willing to present so many fatal tempta- 
tions before those whom she respects and loves. Does 
she expect they will resist the temptation ? Alas,she ex- 
pects more from human nature than it hasever yet exhib* 
ited. There is certainly no sure way of preventing 
men from becoming gluttons, but by keeping the tempt- 
ations out of sight. Do females plead that tyrant cuslt 
torn and fashion will not permit them to do otherwise 
than they do ? and that if they reduce their bills of 



71 

■ 

ikre, they shall only be called niggardly, and no on^ 
will second their efforts ? But ha?e they ever fairly 
made the experiment ? How do they know bat ther« 
are many, who have not made a god of their belly, and 
who wiU rally round them ? How long is it since these 
same tyrants^Custom and Fashion^ imperiously demand- 
ed the circulation of wine, as an essential part of an 
entertainment ? But now their decree seems likely 
scon to go forth for its total exclusion. 

But ladies plead that their husbands, and their 
guests are gratified with this variety and richness of 
food and drink ; and that, therefore, they are under a 
sort of necessity of complying with their tastes. And 
with the gentlemen, I am inclined to believe, the 
great burden of the sin does rest : though I am aware, 
that the fear of being thought out of fashion, and the 
desire of being at least equal to others, in the variety 
and richness of an entertainment, are nearly omnipo- 
tent in a female bosom, even in the bosom of piety. 
But if their husbands, if the majority of influential 
gentlemen, were to raise their voices against these 
extravagant and ruinous habits, I have no fears but 
intelligent and pious females would bring their food 
and drink within the bounds of temperance. But 
the truth is, the great mass of men, even of literary 

* and professional men, are pleased with the variety of 
dishes and dainties that they meet in a modern visit- 
ing party. Now for men of intellectual habits, I main- 
tain ; that this is scandalous. It is an entire perversion 
of the proper object of social entertainments, which is, 
to improve intellectually, morally, and religiously : for 

« by thus gormandizing and stnfBng himself, with twenty 
indige8tibles,a man is much better prepared for the glut- 
tOfiU CQu^h^^than to give or receive intellectual, moral. 



n 

or religious impro?ement. It is hig^h time, tliereforie?f 
for every studeat, to prepare himself to set bis face 
agaiost the monstrous extra?agancie8 and perversions 
that exist on this subject. If men of no mental caU 
ture will continue to make social and friendlj meet- 
ings an occasion for gluttony, let them do it. But 
no student should venture near such meetings, unless 
be can successfully resist every temptatation to ex- 
cess. How contemptible is that man who suffers a 
cultivated intellect, in this way, to be manacled and 
brutalized. And a man may accomplish the degrada- 
tion without resorting to entertainments, simply by 
permitting himself to indulge his appetite daily, in a 
great variety of food and drink. Hence the lawyer 
returns from the county court, the legislator from 
the Capitol of the state or the nation, where he has 
yielded too much to the temptations of high living, 
hence he returns, stupified and incapable of mental 
effort. Hence too, the clergyman oflen gets the 
name of a great eater, because he is so often tempted!, 
by the variety and richness of food, which liis kinci 
hearted parishioners set before him, to indulge to ex- 
cess : and hence, too, he is so incapable of attending 
to composition, after returning from the presbytery, 
association, or religious anniversary. For on these 
pub\ic occasions, it seems to be the general Impres- 
sion, that in proportion as a man excels in intellect, 
or holiness, so he ought to excel in the capacity and 
^ower of his stomach. At least, this is the most char- 
itable explanation you can give, of the extravagant 
dinners, which religious men prepare on such occa- 
sions, for ministers of the gospel. 

On this subject I <;annot avoid appealing with ear- 
nestness, to those men, especially, wh9 act on the 



TS 

principle of entire abstinence from ardent spirits. I 
maintain that the same reasons, that led them to adopt 
this course, applj with no less power, in fa? or of tak- 
ii^ for their guide, the rule which excludes a yariet j 
of dishes from the same meal. Do the j abstain from 
the use of ardent spirits because their use, even 
in the smallest quantity, exposes them to intemperance 
in drinking? So does the second and third dish ex* 
pose tbem as certainly to intemperance in eating. 
Do they, abstain because spirits would do them no 
good ? Nor does the second and third dish, but injury, 
in almost every case, ^ve ardent spirits destructive 
to property, health, and life ? I hesitate not to say, 
that the intemperate eating in our land is scarcely 
less injurious in these respects. Suppose, that upon 
an average, the people of this country, of all classes, 
consume twice as much food as is necessary ^ and sup- 
pose that the average annual support of each indi vid- 
ua], of our twelve millions, is twenty dollars, and that 
bj reducing the quantity of their food one half, they 
siiould save one third of the expense. This would 
produce an annual, saving of eighty millions of dollars. 
But in the words of an able medical wi^iter, whom I 
have already quoted, ^' it is the opinion of the majori- 
ty of the most distinguished physicians, that intem- 
perance in diet destroys the bulk of mankind; in 
other words, that which is eaten and drank, and thus 
taken into the habit, is the original cause of by far the 
greater number of diseases which afflict the human 
race.'' Suppose three quarters of the diseases and 
deaths occurring under seventy years of age, are im« 
putable to this cause. In this country, it is reasonable 
to impute one sixth of the deaths, (40, 000 annually,) 
to intemperate drinking. Deduct also one tenth for 

7» 



74 

those indi?idaal9 who lire to the age of seyentj; thitf 
being the medium length of haman life, accordiog to 
^the Bible, when not shortened by accident, exposare, 
or intemperance ; so that all who attain to that peri* 
od, may be regarded as uninjured by excess. This 
calculation will leare us one half of the diseases and 
deaths that occur, under the age of seventy, to be laid 
to the charge of intemperance in eating. Now the 
bills of mortality, in the healthy part of the civilized 
world, show, that one half of mankind die under 
twenty years of age ; two thirds of them are gone at 
forty five ; and three quarters of them at fiAy, or a little 
beyond. It is a moderate estimate, therefore, to say 
that one half of the people in this country, lose/rom 
twenty to thirty years of life, in consequence of intem- 
perance in eating : that is, they fall short of seventy 
years by that amount. This .premature departure of 
so many citizens, is an immense pecuniary loss, to say 
nothing of the expense they incur by sickness, and the 
comparative feebleness and inefficiency of their efforts 
while they live. For it is the saying of a wise and 
observlDg man, confirmed by experience, as a general 
truth, thai ^^ he who eats but of one dish, never needs 
a physician." 

Excess in eating produces similar, though to the 
eye of common observation, not equally striking ef- 
fects, upon the intellectual, moral and religious 
character, as excess in drinking. It is a very rare 
case, that an habitually great eater, possesses much 
acuteness of Intellect. Gormandizers, who never stop 
eating, till they have tried all the dishes before them, 
who eat, according to the proverb, " ab ovo usque ad 
mala," usually discover great obtuseness of percep- 
tion and clumsiness in their mental operation. They 



76 

never make anj great and strikiDg literary, or scieO' 
tific efforts : nor rise to much eminence in life. And 
even those, who in early life, have heen abstemious, 
and have made great attainments in learning, if they 
begin to indulge their appetites to excess, soon destroy 
the energy of their minds, impair their memories, 
and are early taken away by some acute disease. Nor 
can a man make himself a beast in intellect, without 
exhibiting bestiality in bis moral conduct, — without los- 
ing sensibility of conscience and benevolence of heart. 
How much there is to choose, in a moral point of view, 
between the swinish insensibility of the glutton, and 
the 'frantic ravings of the drunkard, I will not under- 
take to say : but as evils affecting property, health, 
life and intellect, can any reasonable man doubt that 
the excessive eating of our land, is at least as great as 
the excessive drinking : I mean in the aggregate ; 
for when we come to individual cases, there can be no 
doubt that drunkenness is by far the most prolific in 
waste and misery. 

Now if I have shown this, or any thing like it, how 
can the honest disciple of total abstinence from ardent 
spirits avoid the conclusion, that he is bound to apply 
his principles to intemperance in food, and to do, what 
can be done, to check the evil and the sin ? The only 
course, by which he can hope to accomplish much, is 
to adopt, and adhere rigidly to the rule under consid- 
eration ; viz. to make out his meal uniformly from a 
single dish — and to endeavour to persuade others to 
do the same. If this rule be not adopted, you might 
as easily confine water in a mill dam, after opening the 
sluices, as to prevent excessive eating. But if it were 
to become fashionable, it would be nearly as effectual, 
in respect to food, as to^l abstinence is in respect to 
strong drink. 



76 

I know that the calcQlationt, which I have made on 
the subject, will be regarded as of « a fiobadil diarac- 
ter, by maDy. But if they are so, alike Bobadil, are 
the calculations that liave been so repeatedly madey 
in respect to intemperate drinking. I maintain that 
the basis of the calculations is as good in one case as 
the other : and I can only say, let their hoUowness 
and falsity be shown, if they can be, in some other way 
than by ridicule. I would not be thought to underrate 
the erils of drunkenness ; nor to be indifferent to the 
efforts that have been made for its extinction. In the 
proper place, 1 think I shall convince you, that I am 
no friend to ardent spirits, as an article of luxury or 
diet. But I plead that the same general principles, 
which have been applied so successfully to excess in 
drinking, should be brought to bear upon excess in 
eating. I maintain that we need sermons, and ad- 
dresses, and agents, for the supression of the latter, as 
well as the former. I maintain, that a man cannot 
consistently put forth his zeal in vindication of total 
abstinence from the one, without a correspondent zeal 
for temperance in the other. Yet how many zealous 
and able advocates for putting away ardent spirits, are 
to be found, who, if tried themselves by the rules of 
temperate eating, would be found transgressors of no 
common stamp ! Nay, some well meaning friends of 
abstinence from spirits, have recommended the substitu- 
tion of food for drink, when the stated seasons for indul- 
gence had arrived ; thus, converting men from drunk- 
enness to gluttony, instead of subduing their inordinate 
appetites, by withholding all substitutes — ^and leaving 
them constantly exposed to revert to their first love* 
Others who abstain from alcohol, are as mvch disap- 
pointed and as fretful, if the usual variety and richness 



77 

of food are not upon their tables, as is the drunkard, if 
depriyed of liis dram .at the accustomed hour. And 
probably one of the effects of abstinence from spirits 
where the habit of drinking had acquired considera- 
ble strength, has been to make men inordinate eaters 
— ^that is, in ^avoiding Scylla, thej have rushed into 
Charjbdis : and they have done it too, under the im- 
pression that in Charjbdis there was no danger. But 
I am confident that most of the men, who hare aban- 
doned the use of spirits, have so much piety and 
strength of character, that when they once see (heir 
Inconsistency, in not applying the like principles to 
every part of their diet, they will suffer no cravings of 
disordered appetite to prevent their practice of tem- 
perance in all its branches. Conscience will torment 
them, just as it does the pious advocate for moderate 
drinking, until they can no longer endure its reproof. 
Some may think that I have not sufficiently shown 
the existenee of a very great excess among us, in re- 
pect to a variety of dishes. Let me therefore, allude 
to one or two other indices of the public taste in this 
respect. The keepers of public houses will certain- 
ly be apt to find out what that taste is, and to adapt 
their bills of fare to it. Certainly, they will be un- 
der no temptation to be more profuse or various in 
the meals which they provide for travellers, than the 
general appetite requires ; since variety and profu- 
sion only diminish their profits. But who that has 
travelled much, does not know, that even the humblest 
country tavern, loads its table with enough varieties 
of food to satisfy a city glutton, though not perhaps so 
delicately cooked, as he might wish : and who has 
not seen the ill humor and indignation of gentlemen, 
even literary gentlemen, if any of these six or eight 



78 

dishes — meats, butter, cheese, bread, potatoes, saoces^ 
gravies, pickles, — the castor of spices, catchup, caj-* 
enneandoil — pie, cake, crackers, &c* are wanting? 
Who has not seen the voracity with which on€ dish 
after another was dispatched, as if the traveller thought 
it right and necessary that he should cram himself, in 
order to get the full value of his bill. Nay, so uni- 
versal is this demand for variety and richness of food| 
that if a temperate man call only for one dish — for a 
breakfast of bread and milk, or milk porridge o r dry 
toast ; or for a dinner of nothing but a slice of steak, 
and a piece of bread ; or for a supper, of a cup of tea, 
and a slice of bread only ; the landlord supposes he 
does it, not because he prefers this fare, but in th« 
hope of lessening his bill. And here let me remark, 
that it is, indeed, unreasonable, that the price of 
meals at our public houses should be regulated 
by the amount that is required to satisfy a glut- 
ton; and that a temperate man must pay for this 
amount, though he call for only the quarter part 
of it. In some of our cities, indeed, provision is 
made, as in all the large places in Europe, for get- 
ting only those articles which you want, and at prices 
corresponding to their value. But in the country, the 
man whose comfort and whose conscience forbids him 
to gormandize, must pay the same bill, whether his 
meal consists of one, or a dozen sorts of food; and he 
has only the poor consolation of reflecting, that it 
would have cost him nothing but his health and con- 
science to have partaken of twelve. When will the 
time come, that abstemious travellers enough shall be 
found upon our public routs, to make a demand for a 
table to be spread in the genuine temperance style ! 
Boarding houses are another good index of the pub- 



J 



79 

lie appetite for food. And what, in common language, 
constitutes the essence of the best boarding house ? 
Simply the greatest variety and richness of food, cook- 
ed in the best manner : though surely, if things were 
called by their right names, that would be regarded 
as the worst eating house, where a man was most like- 
ly to ruin his health. And the fault that men find 
with boarding houses, in nine cases out often, is found- 
ed upon what they consider a deficiency in the varie- 
ty or richness of the food. You rarely hear a man 
complaining that the. food ofiered him is too rich, or 
too various. Even in those cases where the remark 
is made, that there is greater richness and variety 
than is necessary, it is generally obvious that the man 
likes it well enough himself, although he may fear for 
others. The keepers of boarding houses, are, there- 
fore, compelled to supply the fare that a gluttonous 
appetite demands, or lose their custom. And it is in 
such boarding houses, that literary young men partic- 
ularly, acquire the habits of intemperate eating. They 
do not know their danger, until so strong an attach- 
ment has been acquired ior high living, that their eyes 
are blinded, and they will not see it ; and then they 
are confirmed in intemperance, probably for life. 

It g^ves me great pleasure to allude in this place to 
an experiment, which I understand has been made, du- 
ring the last year, by several of the members of this 
Institution, to regulate their board, essentially accord- 
ing to the principle, which lam advocating, in respect 
to variety in food : that is, to have only one substan- 
tial dish at a meal. Such individuals have taken one 
most important and fundamental step towards obtaining 
and preserving vigorous health, long life and happi- 
Dess ; and thus fumishing themselves with ten times 



. 80 

greater means of asefulneBs, than he possetses, who 
eatfl e?ery dish that is set before him, and thus brings 
on prematnre debility of bo'dy, and imbecility of mind. 
If they are equally resolute in adopting and adhering 
to the other established rules for the health of litera- 
ry men, and in the cultiration of knowledge, I fear not 
to predict, that in future years, they will far outstrip 
iif usefulness and respectability, eyery companion who 
lingers oyer his second, and third, and fourth dish, and 
that that they will bear away the prize, wliile the lat- 
ter are toiling and panting in the middle of the race. 
Could such a custom, as I have here alluded to, be- 
come universal in this College, it would do more for 
its prosperity and usefulness than wealth could give. 
Nay, it would be a substitute, in a degree, for wealth: 
for it would certainly reduce the price of board one 
third : and this would be a most important help to those 
meritorious young men, who are not daunted by pov- 
erty, from pressing forward in a course of public edu- 
cation. 

If the arguments, which I have adduced in favor of 
confining the diet to a single dish at a meal, are of 
sufficient weight to render it desireable. and impor- 
tant, even for those in good health to adopt the rule, 
surely they will apply with ten fold power, to those 
who are, eien m a slight degree, affected by dyspep- 
sy. So insiduous is this class of complaints, that ve- 
ry many students, in the earl^ part of their literary 
course, suffer their constitutions to be deeply affected 
by them, ere they have any suspicion of the real en- 
emy that is within the citadel. They are occasional- 
ly subject, indeed, to a depression of spirits, to 
which they were formerly strangers ; and now and then 
headache, heartburn, or a foul stomach, oppress them. 




81 

jAofkg with listlessnesg aod drowuness. But io gener- 
al, their appetite is anusaalljr good ; nay, it is not easy 
to satisfy their hunger. Hence they conclude, that 
their occasional bad feelings cannot be any thing seri- 
ous, and a resort to an emetic or cathartic relieyet 
them. Now such individuals are the men, above all 
others, who ought to adhere most rigidly to the rule 
nnder consideration, in connection with that consider- 
ed in my last lecture as to quantity. They are dys- 
peptics, most decidedly so : their ravenous appetites, 
accompanied by emaciation, rather than corpulency, 
is abundant proof of this ; and the adoption of these 
two rules, with vigorous exercise, would be an almost 
certain cure, while yet they are only in the first sta- 
ges of the malady. And, indeed, it is most painful to 
see such persons, evidently ignorant of their situation, 
load and overload their stomachs, with pudding upon 
meat, and bread and butter, or pies and cakes, upon 
both; and th^n cram ^own fruit upon the whole. But 
t>f all men to convince that they eat too much, dyspep- 
tics are the most difficult. ^^ Of all mankind,^' says 
Dr. Trotter, " they are the most liable to surfeits." 
And this on two accounts : first, they generally have 
a ravenous inordinate appetite, which is almost irresist- 
ible ; secondly, their powers of digestion cannot make 
way with as much food as those of a mao in vigorous 
health, because they are weakened. If any present 
belong to this class, and I fear there are many, I ear- 
nestly entreat them to deliberate well upon the consid- 
erations, which, in the faithfulness and plainness of 
friendship, I have suggested. If you were not per- 
suaded by the last lecture to apply the balances to 
your food, you have no idea probably of the enor- 
mous quantity which you daily consume. Are you 

8 



82 

willing to learn the amount 7 Then I have one other 
plan to suggest, without using the balances. For one 
daj) place in a dish set by your side, just as much of 
each article as you eat and drink, and at night look 
at the incogruous mixture, and if it does not startle 
you, I shall think it strange. After (bis, go on if your 
conscience will let you, — ^you who have devoted your 
life to learning,-^— you, who are willing to make any 
sacrifice to attain clearness and vigor of thought, — 
you, who have perhaps devoted yours days to the ser- 
vice of mankind, and your God and Redeemer, — go on, 
I say, to fill up the reservoir daily, with the same dis- 
gusting mass, until your stomach, and your literature, 
and your hopes of distinction and useiulness, all sink 
into a common grave. 

fiut if there be any desponding invalid, whose resolu- 
tion is half formed to engageat once in this self denying 
effort,of temperance perhaps it may cheer him forward, 
to listen to a few more decided te^lmonies to the effica- 
cy of this system in bringing back the sinking constitu- 
tion to health and vigor. The first is from Dr. James 
Johnson, who, as one of the ablest London physicians, 
is now reaping its precious fruits. 

"By adherence to the foregoing plan," says he, 
" varying the quantity (of food) according to the feel- 
ings subsequently experienced, the surest foundation 
is laid, not only for health, but, for happioessv 
Under a regimen of this kind, the body will be brought , 
to the greatest degree of muscular strength, of which 
the individual constitution is susceptible ; and the in- 
tellectual powers will be raised in proportion. Equa- 
nimity of mind will be attained, if attainable at all . 
and where moral causes of irritation or auction can 
not be avoided, they will be greatly neutralized. Un- 



83 

der such a system of diet, the corporeal frame wiU 
be rendered more capable of undergoing fatigue ; and 
the mind more able to resist misfortune, than by tht 
richest dishes, and most luxurious wines<." 

'^ The rigid system which I have proposed, is not 
the creature t>f speculation, engendered in the closet. 
It is that which many, to my knowledge, have adopted 
with the most perfect success ; it is that by which I 
have conquered the most intense degree of dyspepsj 
in my own person. Those who have courage and 
perseverence to reap the fruits of such a 83'8tem, will 
hardly be induced to change it, however strongly they 
may be tempted by the luxuries of the table, and the 
seductions of convivial society. It would be well for 
those in the enjoyment of present health, if thej 
employed it as a preservative of that invaluable ble«* 
singi But this I do not expect. I am addressing those 
who have tasted the bitter cup of sickness ; and espe- 
cially those who have experienced the horrors of dys- 
pepsy. The latter alone can appreciate the luxury of 
immunity from the terrible feelings of mind and body, 
engendered by that worst of human afflictions.^'* 

One of the most distinguished scholars now Mving 
in this country, who declares that he has ^^ been an 
invalid, and one standing pretty high on this list, for 
some thirty yeais,'' testifies, that he ^^ should have 
been in* his grave before he was 45 years of age, had 
he pursued the tonic system.'^ His diet consists of a 
^^gill of coffee in the morning, and half that quantity 
of tea at night :"— " Simple nutritive food in moder- 
ate quantities ; nature's beverage ; milk and farinace- 
ous diet ; meat with great moderation, and never more 
than once a day; avoiding the whole tribe of desserts 



'Mprbid Seniibilitj of the Stomach, &c. p. 115. 



84 

pite, <5ake8, sweetmeats, and all the various articled 
of mere luxury, which the love of gratifying appetite 
has iavented." " Since I have practised in this way,'* 
says he, (though his constitution was too completely 
undermined in early life, ever to be restored to an 
entire state,) ^^ I have more than doubled my ability 
to labor in my vocation, and more than half diminished 
my sufferings."* 

The next case is that of Howard, the distinguished 
philanthropist, whose name is familiar to all/ Hi» 
story shall be given in his own words. 

^^ A more ^ puny whipster^ than myself, in the daysr 
of my youth, was never seen* I could not walk out 
in the evening without being wrapped up : I eould 
not put on my linen without its being airied ; 1 was po- 
litely speaking,enfeebled enough to have delicate nerves^' 
and was, occasionally troubled with a very genteel 
hectic. To be serious, I am convinced, that whatever 
enfeebles the body debilitates the mind^ and readies 
both unfit for those exertions which are of such use 
to us all as social beings. I therefore entered upon a 
reform of my constitution, and have succeeded in such 
a degree, that 1 have neither had a cough, cold, the 
vapors, nor any more alarming disorder, since I sur- 
mounted the seasoning. Prior to this, I used to be a 
miserable dependant on wind and weather : a little 
too much of the one, or a slight inclemency of the 
other, would postpone, and frequently prevent, not 
only my amusements^ but my duties : or, if pressed 
by my affections, or by the necessity of affairs^ I did 
venture forth in despite of the elements, the conse^ 



•Journal of Homanity, Doc^ 2^ 1829. 



85 

qnences were equally absurd and incommodiouf) not 
seldom afflictiye. I muffled up even to my nos- 
trils ; a crack in the glass of my chaise was sufficient 
to distress me ; a sudden slope of the wheels -to the 
right or left, set me a trembling ; a jolt seemed like 
a dislocation, and the sight of a bank or a precipice, 
near which my horse was to pass, would disorder me 
so much, that I would order the driver tor stop, that 1 
might get out and walk by the difficult places. Mul- 
led wines, spiritous cordials, and large fires, were to 
comfort me, and to keep out the cold, as it is called, 
at every stage, and if I felt the least damp in my feet 
or other parts of my body,' dry stockings, linen, kc, 
were instantly put on : the perils of the day were to 
be baffled by something taken hot on going to bed , and 
before I pursued my journey, the next morning, a 
dram was to be swallowed, in order to fortify the 
stomach, in a word, I lived, moved, and had my be. 
ing so much by rule, that the slightest deviation was 
a disease. 

*^ Every man must, in these cas^s, be his own phy* 
sician. He must presciibe for, and practise on, him- 
self. I did this by a very siiiiiple, bat as you will 
think, a very severe regimen, namely, by denying 
myself almost every thing in which I had long indulg* 
ed. But as it is always harder to get rid of a bad habit, 
than to contract it, I entered on my reform gradually ; 
that is to say, I beg^an to diminish my usual indulgen- 
ces by degrees. I found that a heavy meal, or a hearty 
one, as it is. termed, and a cheerful glass, that is, one 
more than does you good, made me incapable, or at 
least, disinclined to any useful exertions for some time 
ifter dinner hours; and if the dilutive powers of tea 
isiisted the work of a disturbed digestion, so far as to 

8* 



86 

rettore my facoltiei, a laxurions supper came 10 sdr 
close upon it, that I was fit for nothing' but diwipatioDY 
till I went to a Inxarioas bed, where 1 finished the en* 
errating practices, by sleeping eight, ten, and some- 
times a dozen hours on the stretch. You will not 
wonder that I rose the next morning with the solids 
relaxed, the juices thickened, and the constitution 
weakened. 

** To remedy all this, I ate a little less at every meal, 
and reduced roy drink in proportion. It is really won- 
derful to consider, how imperceptibly a single morsel 
of animal food, and a tea-spoonful of liquor deducted 
frpm the usual quantity daily, will restore the mental 
functions, without any injury to the corporeal — ^nay, 
with increase of vigour to both. I brought myself, in 
the first instance, from dining on many dishes, to dip* 
ing on a few, and then to being satisfied with one ; in 
like manner, instead, of drinking a variety of wines, I 
made my election of a single sort, and adhered to it 
alone. 

'< My next business was to eat and drink sparingly 
of that adopted dis|i and bottle. My ease, vivacity, 
health, and spirits augmented. My clothing &c. un- 
derwent a similar reform ; the effect of all which is, 
and has been for many years, that I am neither affected 
by seeing my carriage dragged up a mountain, or driv- 
en down a valley. If an accident happens, I amjpre- 
pared for it, so far as respects unnecessary terrors ; 
and I am proof against all changes in the atmo^sphere, 
wet clothes, damp feet, night air, transitions from heat 
to cold, and the long train of hypochondria affections." 

"In his 6 3d year, Mr. Howard was in the full posses^ 
sJLQD of his mental and physical powers. He, howev* 
ej, accidentally contracted a malignamt fever whllsl 



87 

trisiting the sick In an infected diatrict, tdiich tenniii' 
aied his life in a few days.* 

In mj remarks open the use of a variety of dishes at 
the same meal, I would not be understood as condemn* 
ittg a variety in the diet. I care not, if a man find a 
new dish for ererj meal through the year ; provided 
he oae them all in moderation, and they be not of such 
a nature, or so compound, as to.be by common consent, 
indigestible. Yet, as there is not a great variety of 
simple food, that is easily digested, it is a better course 
to select a few articles, for the principal part of the 
diet, and continue usually and regularly to use them, 
so long as they are relished ; because new varieties, 
even when only one kind is employed, are apt to prove 
a strong temptation to. excess. But let no one contin- 
ue to eat any particular article afler his relish for it 
is gone: since even less digestible food will be bet* 
ter than the best, without such a relish : for the relish 
quickens the power of the stomach. 

Nor would I be understood as asserting, that more 
than one kind of food cannot, in any case, be taken at 
a meal, without a transgression of the rules of temper- 
ance. If due attention be paid to the -quantity, accord- 
ing to the rules which I have already illustrated^ ex- 
cess need not be the result. But whenever a man 
once begins upou the second and the third dish, he is 
constantly exposed to eat too much. He is exactly in 
the condition of the moderate drinker of ardent spirits 
— not indeed actually intemperate^ but drawn toward^ 
the vortex, by an almost irresistible power. In either 
case, the only safety lies in living within the rules 
which temperance prescribes. For it is much ealser 
to be abstinent than abstemious. And for the individ- 
ual eq^ecially, who is endeavouring to put in practice 

* Journal of Health, Vol. I. p. 59. 



88 

the rales of temperance in diet, for liim to continne to 
take a little of the second dish, and a little of the third, 
&c. a little of the pudding, or pie aAer the meat ; a 
little of the pastrj, or cake, or sweatmeats, after the 
toast, &c. this will prevent his ever effectually over- 
coming his old hankerings after an enormous quantitj. 
Appetite will be perpetually tormenting him, with its 
demands, and he will be almost constantly trespassing 
and repenting ; resolving and re resolving ; and it is a 
wonder if he do not die the same. Whereas, by a 
resolute restriction to one dish, he would soon forget 
the secon'd and the third, and temperance would be- 
come so habitual as to be natural. 

But I fear that I am labouring almost in vain, both 
with the invalid and the healthy, in urging a rigid ad- 
herence to the rules, as to quantity and variety in food, 
which have been explained. It is not because the po- 
sitions I have taken, are wanting in argument, or med- 
ical authority, to support them, that they will not be 
admitted. For they are established as fundamental 
principles in dietetics : and physicians and philoso- 
phers, have been urging them for thousands of years, 
But still to the great mass of men, tbey sound new 
and strange, and probably absurd and extravagant. I 
come forward, therefore, in defence of them, in the 
face of public opinion. It is yejt too early, I fear, for 
such opinions to be received ; I bad almost said, by 
half a century. ^^ This system is too rigid, too asce- 
tic for me,'' will be the general exclamation. It is 
not necessary to be so particular and abstemious. I 
have been in the habit of eating such things as were 
set before me, and as much of them as my appetite 
seemed to crave, and I am not aware of having receiv- 
ed any injury. My health is as good as that of moat 



89 

others : and I have no idea of raining it by the adoption 
of any new fangled rules of eating and drinking, until 
I dnd the need of it. 

By some such ansvFer as this, will most persons 
evade the force of all my arguments, or else they will 
call in the aid of ridicule to complete the triumph, and 
justify their own gluttony. Even the invalid, will not 
feel the need of these rules, until he is very far gone ; 
and then he will be ready to go to London and Paris, to 
consult those physicians of distinction, whose advicei 
gratuitously sent to him, before it is too late, he rejects 
because it is too rigid and ascetic ^^ Nothing is more 
common'^ says the Journal of Health, ^' than to see a 
miserable object with a constitution broken down by 
his own imprudence, and a prey to disease, bathing 
walking, riding, and in a word, doing every thing to 
solicit a return of health — ^yet, had his friends recom- 
mended these very things by way of preventing, the 
advice would in all probability, have been treated with 
contempt, or at least with neglect Such is the weak- 
ness and follyof mankind, and such the want of foresight, 
even in those who ought to be wiser than others.^' 

The man' in health feels no need of dietelic ruleS) 
because his constitution has hitherto been able to resist 
all the effects of excessive eating : and he infers that 
it has suffered no injury. But such men ought to know, 
that God has given to the human system the power of 
withstanding, even for years, inordinate indulgencies, 
when they are not very excessive. Still, they gradu- 
ally undermine the constitution, and, if continued, will 
sooner or later break it entirely down. Some students, 
who eat immoderately, will hold out in tolerable health 
till they get through College ; others do not fail 4111 
their professional education is nearly completed ; and 



90 

•ome endore for yean 1oDg;er, and then sink. Present 
health, therefore, furnishes no reason for neglecting 
those precautionary measures which I have urged : 
and the later in life a man^s health fails him, ia conse- 
quence of disregarding them, the more guilty is he; 
because with so much stamina of constitution, he might 
more easily have saved himself. 

But some will say, that rather than submit to such un- 
merciful rigor of diet, and thus forego all the pleasures 
of good living, they had rather risque the danger of 
poor health and premature death. Such persons, 
however, certainly know little of the wretchedness of 
constant feeble health ; nor can they have thought 
much of the solemnities of dissolution. "Butl,'^ says 
old Dr. Cheyne, ^ who give little credit to such boun- 
ces, know self preservation to be the great law in na- 
ture, never met one but the true practical and habit- 
ual Christian among my many patients, and even scarce 
these, who was truly willing and pleased to strip and lie 
down ; and only him who was always resigned to the 
order of providence either in life or death ; and not 
even him at all times and in the dark moments of trial; 
or any but the extremely miserable in life. But here 
the case is not mere dying but living a dying life, per- 
haps for many years. — In short, not to take up with a 
low regimen here, is a plain rebellion against the or- 
ders and designs of providence, manifested by nature, 
the relations of things, philosophy and experience, for 
the mere gratification of vitious morbid appetites : In 
a word, it is deliberate suicide, the greatest of all rebel- 
lion and sin." ^ 

This may seem a severe judgment : but it is never- 
theless true, that the grand cause why men are so 
averse to dietetic rules, is, that they prefer a little 



91 . 

present indalgence to a future good. It is preciseljr 
the same reason that makes one man persist in using a 
rarietj of dishes, at the same meal, and another un- 
willing to abandon hisbottle. Bothof them suppose some 
tbingelse to be the ground of their unwillingness: But 
he who has himself gone through the process of break- 
ing ofi from these intemperate habits, knows well that 
the solicitations of an inordinate appetite are the se- 
cret source of all the repugnance to abstemiousness. 
Experience, reason, physicians, conscience, all tell a 
man that he only, who is strictly temperate, is truly 
happy : but how can he forego the exquisite pleasures 
of the palate, for future philosophical composure and 
peace. 

When I think of the omnipotence of bad habits, and 
the long and deep slumber of the public mind and con- 
science on the subject of eating, I copfess I feel as if I 
were merely beating the air. But when I think of 
the powerful movement of the day, in regard to drink- 
ing, I take courage ; and begin to hope that the sun of 
temperance will disipate all the the fogs that coyer 
his face, sooner than I had even hoped. This tem- 
perance moyement is certainly preparing the* public 
mind to look seriously at tbe subject I am urging in 
these lectures : and already there are pleasing indica- 
tions that some of the totally abstinent in respect to 
ai:dent spirits, are beginning to feel the necessity of 
extending their principles to solid as well as liquid 
food. The establishment, as well as character of the 
Journal of Health ; a work rich in learning and expe- 
rience ; free from empiricism ; attractive in its style 
and arrangement, and so decided and thorough in rer 
spect to dietetics ; — should be hailed as auspicious 
harbingers of light and reformation. Nor does the 



92 

weeUj herald of the American Temperance Sodety 
helie ite name, by pairing orer this sabject in silence. 
I should rejoice to see a fire opening forthwith, from 
every temperance battery in the land. But let me 
say to any, who unsheath the sword in this cause, that 
the battle will be more fierce and obstinate than that 
which is now raging with ardent spirits ; because the 
enemy will then feel, that he is attacked almost in his 
last entrenchments ; and that if driven from these, 
temperance, health and happiness, peace, morality and 
religion, will reign once more in those dominions wluch 
he has usurped. What! will the gormandizing world 
say — is it not enough to have wrested from us, by the 
force of public opinion, our right to use ardent spirits: 
will you also attempt to starve us ; or at least, to shut 
us up in prison and confine us to bread and water, 
weighed in your own light balances ? Leviathan, yoa 
will find Is not thus easily tamed. De aris eifocis eer- 
tandum. 

To those literary men who are determined in spite 
of arguments and physicians, to live as they have liv- 
ed, in the indulgence of their appetites, there is one 
direction, which may serve to obviate the effects of 
their excesses. It is the observance of occasional sea- 
sons of abstinence from food. This is the sovereign 
remedy the brutes employ, for nearly all their diseas- 
es ; and, indeed, in chronic complaints, it has a won- 
derful power over the human constitution. John 
Home, the author of Douglass, and otherwise distin- 
guished in literature, bore without inconvenience, the 
luxuries of London, by eating on the Sabbath, nothing 
more than a single poached egg,* This course was 

* Sure Methods, &c, p. 86. 



9a 

not onlj wise, but Simdaj was tbe best daj of the set* 
eo, for observing such a fast 

A French writer, in a work entitled '' An apology 
for Fasting,'Vha8 made a comparison between the lon- 
geyitj of 152 bishops, or clergymen, who not only led 
strictly temperate lives but frequently fasted, and the 
same number of men devoted to literature and science ; 
who were also temperate, but not abstinent,* and he 
finds that the lives of the bishops were seven years 
longer, upon an average, than those of the Academi- 
cians : which he imputes to the effects of fasting. 

Howard, the philanthropist, also fasted one day in 
the week ; as did also, Franklin, for a time : And Bo- 
naparte, when he felt his system unstrung, gave up 
his usual repasts, and took exercise on horseback.* 

The ablest physicians declare that abstinence is one 
of the most effectual means of preventing violent and 
inflammatory disorders, such as fevers and sore 
throats. Socrates lived in Athens during the whole 
of tbe -celebrated plague, that made such desolation in 
that city in his time : yet he escaped unhurt : and 
this Is unanimously ascribed, by the writers of those 
times, to his uninterrupted temperance.! 

I do not mean by abstinence in this case^ that which 
Is excessive : not such as monkish austerity has so 
oAen practised, and which has been the source of so 
much religious superstition, self-righteousness, and 
cruelty. Seasons of entire abstinence, unless directed 
hy a physician, are rarely extended with advantage, 
beyond a day or two. But the danger on this side is 



'Journal of Health, vol. 1. p. 13. 
t Spectator, No. 195, also Rees* CycfArt. Abstinence. 

9 



94 

•0 small, that a caution seems at this daj scarcelj ne^ 
cessarj. 

Ad amusing and instructive example of the good ef- 
fects of ahstinence, occurs in the case of Pomponius 
Atticus, the friend of Ciceio. The melancholy ac- 
companing a disordered stomach, brought him to the 
resolution of destroying himself; and he called together 
Ids friends, to consult as to the best means of accom- 
plishing his design. His son-in-law, Agrippa, with 
great sagacity, advised and persuaded him to starve 
himself; recommending, however, that he should oc- 
casionally swallow a little water, to alleviate the pains 
of abstinence. To this he consented, supposing, as 
people generally do at this day, that water affords no 
nourishment, although, in fact, it is almost the only 
fluid that does nourish. In this case it sustained Atti- 
cus, day after day, beyond the time he had calculated 
upon dying by starvation : and not only so, but this 
water, and the abstinence, removed the complaints of 
bis stomach, and his dejection of spirits ; and he was 
then easily persuaded by his son, that it was his duty 
to live. He did live to an advanced age. 

There is one subject connected with abstinence, 
which I shall take occasion here to notice, although 
it may seem to require rather the prescription of a 
professed physician. And I wish to be distinctly un- 
derstood, as disclaiming all pretensions to a knowl- 
edge of the practice of medicine, technically so called. 
— My object is not to prescribe as a physician, and 
thus invade his province; but to point out that diet and 
regimen which will keep men ont of the physician's 
bands ; and which every intelligent man ought there- 
fore to understand. Yet let me here also remark, that 
I am by no means disposed to declaim against regular 



95 

fecientific phjsiciaiu, as useless. On the other hand, 
I thank God, that so many of this character are foand 
at this day, to bless society. And when a man is at- 
tacked by any acute disease^ he cannot apply to one 
of these too soon. Life is oflen sacrificed by a few 
hours delay. And when any man is in such a state of 
health, as to render it advisable for him to be under 
the physician^s care, let him adhere rigidly to the pre- 
scriptions of the physician : for in sickness, it is some- 
times necessary to direct to a course, which is entire- 
ly opposite to those rules of diet and regimen, that are 
so salutary in health and in mere functional .disorders. 
But to return : the subject to which I alluded, 
is that of a common cold, or catarrh. And con- 
cerning its cure, there is h most false and perni- 
cious saying : viz. '^ glut a cold, and starve a fever.'' 
But what is a cold, if not an incipient fever? certain- 
ly a fever is always present. And if a man wishes to 
aggravate all its symptoms, and to hinder nature in re- 
storing the system, let Mm follow . this rule, and eat 
and drink even more voraciously than ever — as his 
appetite will tempt him to do. But if he wish to as- 
sist nature, and break up a cold in its very commence- 
ment, let him at once enter upon a course of rigid tem- 
perance, or even abstinence, avoiding all unnecessary 
exposures. In this way, it is said, indeed, that a man may 
come at length into the habit of ridding himself of every 
incipient catarrh, before it has fastened upon the head, 
or the l^ngs; and thus avoid one of the most common 
germs of fatal disease. A man has only to try this 
covrse faithfully once or twice, to be satisfied that the 
general practice of mankind, in such cases, is altogeth- 
er erroneous ; and that abstinence is the sovereign 
remedy. What monstrous absurdities have been palm* 



96 

ed upon human belief in regard to the treatment of 
diaeases ! and how much more prone are the majority 
to receive the nostrams of quackerj^ than the reaolti 
of knowledge and experience I 

One or two more remarks on the general subject of 
this lecture, and I shall close. If anj one who hears 
me, should be induced to adopt in practice the rules of 
diet'for which I have contended, I entreat him not to 
do it by halves. Let him make thorough work, both 
as to quantity and simplicity in food : or else let him 
not complain of these rules, if he do not experience 
the beneficial efiTects, which have been declared to 
flow from them. Many profess to be dieting, who in 
fact violate the rules of diet every day. Thus do thej 
torment themselves to no purpose. They lose both 
the good effects, which rigid temperance would pro^ 
duce, and the pleasures of indulging the palate ad lib-^ 
iivm. In a word, to be half way temperate, is to live: 
and die a starving glutton. 

Again, if a man enter upon the abstemious course 
that has been pointed out, let him make a persevering 
trial of -it. Invalids, in particular, are apt to get dis- 
couraged, if they do not experience from such a course 
a very rapid improvement, and even a speedy ree9* 
tablishment of health. They expect that the ravages 
of years of indulgence, will be repaired by a few weeks 
or months of temperance : whereas, Revocare gradum^ 
tuperasque evadere ad attrcu, hoc opus hie labor 0sU As 
Cheyne says, '* in a low regimen, even when upon ne- 
cessity and prudent counsel and advice a person has 
entered upon it, and has continued in it for a long time, 
they may have many plunges, discouragements and 
exacerbations— "This interruption will only retard the 



J 



97 

cute a nhoTt time, and will gire strength to perfect it 
at last as £ir as* the nature of things will permit."* 
Others failln this . matter, because they do not paj as 
strict attention to their . exercise and other means of 
health, as to their diet. Some give orer the contest, 
because their companions in health ridicule their pecu- 
liarities. And some become alarmed when their friends 
expostulate with them upon their danger of starvation. 
But more fail because they still exceed the 
rules of temperance in the quantity of their food. 
Appetite grows clamorous, and fancying themselves 
to be growing weaker, they begin to relax in their 
struggles, and like the ancient Israelites, when fed on 
manna, they exclaim. Who shall give usjlesh to eat ? We 
remember the fish which we did eat in E^ypt freely ! the 
cucumbers and the melons^ and the leeks^ and the onions^ 
and the garlic. JBut now our soul is dried away : there 
is nothing at all besides this manna before our eyes. 
Wherefore have ye brought us up out Egypt to die in the 
wilderness ? Let the invalid, who thus suffers his ap. 
petite to bring him back again, like the dog to his 
vomit, read his subsequent history in that of the Israel- 
ites. So they did eat and were filled : for he gave them 
their own desire ; they were not estranged from their lust: 
but while their meat was yet in their mouths^ the 
wrath of God came upon them^ and slew the fattest of 
them and smote down the chosen men of Israel. From all 
that I have seen and experienced, fully convinced I am, 
that only two things will give a man resolution to en- 
ter upon, and persevere, in this strait and narrow 
course of temperance, that leads to health and long 



* Diet and Regimen, p, 56. 

9» 



98 

life : one is, a deep and abiding imprenionytliaf a man 
most either do this, or soon die ; and the other is, such 
a strength of Christian principle, as will make a man 
feel it to be his imperious daty. Alas, that the latter 
is so oAen weaker than appetite ! and alas, too, that 
the former is not usually felt, until the c);>n8titutioii is 
irretrievably ruined 1 



KBOTURB III. 



Diet, continued. Third — Fourth— ^Fifth — Sixth — 
Seventh^^Eighihr^^and Ninth Rules of Dietetics, 
Objection against their rigor considered, 

GENTLElfEN, 

The remainiDg rales in respect to diet, will not re- 
quire so protracted an illustration and application, as 
the two that have oeen already considered. The 
third may he thus announced : 

Sedentary persons should not use animal food 
more than once a dat. 

That persons in feehle health, may, under certain 
circumstances, require the constant and almost exclu- 
sive use oi animal food, I admit ; hut these fte except- 
ed cases, requiring the directions of a skillful physi- 
cian. In ordinary cases, the general conclusion, that 
is now considered established by all respetcable writ- 
ers on diet, is, that men generally, but particularly the 
sedentary and the literary, should indulge in the use 
of animal food only at dinner. 

The enquiry, however, has been extensively agita- 
ted, whether animal food is requisite at all for the 
health and vigor of the animal system. In discussing 
this subject, an appeal is made both to the principles 
and discoveries of chemistry, and to the practice of 
different natious and individuals. 

Vegetable and animaf substances are composed of 
the same simple principles, or elements, except that 



100 

the latter otaally contain nitrogen in considerable 
proportion ; in which, moat of the former are want* 
ing. Hence the inquiry has arisen, how vegetable 
food alone can supply the nitrogen which the animal sys- 
tem demands ? Some have thought that the nitrc^en 
of the atmosphere was taken into the blood, in the act 
of respiration : but the most modern and satisfactory 
experiments do not show that any of this substance is 
absorbed in this process. The conyersion of the su- 
perabundant carbon of the blood into carbonic acid, 
seemi to constitute the whole chemical result of res- 
piration. Chemiairy, therefore, does lead us to the 
conclusion, that some animal food is necessary to the 
support of life, unless the vegetables eaten should 
happen to contain it ; as some of them do. 

Majendie thinks that he has established the same 
conclusion by experiments upon animals. He fed 
dogs exclusively upon the most nutricious substances, 
that are destitute of nitrogen, such as sugar, gum, 
olive oil, and butter; and in a few days they beg^n to 
pine away, and died in every case, in less than forty 
days. He infers that it was the want of nitrogen that 
destroyed them. But Dr. Paris says, it was owing to 
their having received their food in too concentrated 
a state ; and that men and animals universally suffer if 
their rich food be not sufficiently mixed with that 
which is less nutritive. The inhabitants of Kamts- 
chatka, for instance, are frequently compelled to live 
on fish oil alone ; and they have learned that it in 
even better to mingle it with saw dust, than to receive 
it in an unmixed state. 

Throughout nearly the whole animal kingdom, we 
find that the structure of the irame points out the na* 
ture of the food destined for their support. Thus the 



101 

graminiyorous tribes have uniformly a double row of 
grinding -teeth, and larger itomnchs and intestines, 
than those that live solely on animal food, and are 
hence called carnivorous. The latter are famished 
with cutting and canine teeth to seize and devour 
their prey. Now man is famished with both the kinds 
of teeth found in these animals. Hence it If very 
probably- inferred, that he was intended to feed both 
upon vegetables and aniioals : or to speak technically, 
he is neither graminivorous nor carnivorous, entirely, 
bat omnivorous. Some writers have even gone so 
far as to infer, from the relative number of teeth in 
the human species, adapted to animal and vegetable 
food, that men ought to use 20 parts of the latter, and 
12 parts of the former. But the premises are proba* 
bly too narrow for the conclusion. 

As to the effects of these too kinds of food upon the 
8ystem,itis agreed on all hands, that animal food is more 
nutritive and stimulating : that is, the same quantity of 
the former, will form more blood, and sustain life long- 
er, than the latter. Hence, for men exposed to con** 
stant and hard labour, animal food is more important; 
though I cannot believe, that this is a sufficient rea- 
son for justifying the so common practice, among the 

• 

labouring classes in our country, of useing meat, in 
large quantities, three times a day. Certainly it does 
not render necessary theii hearty suppers, when the 
toils of the day are over, and the stomach, as well as 
other parts of the system, need rest. But my concern 
now is with sedentary men : and as to these, the effect 
of much animal food, is to produce too much excite- 
ment in the system, and to urge on the powers of life 
too fast Hence, in hot climates, men instinctively 
prefer a vegetable diet ; and thus they escape many 



102 

oflhoie fioleot diMrdera, to which, thou tiring rarj 
much on iDimal food, are aubject ; such ai the acorrj, 
nmllKnant ulGenjlaflamatoryferera, be Animal food 
li alio much more DnfaTourable to the free <^ralku 
of llis mind, (hnn vegetable : hence (we of the reamn 
why men are usually so uofil for studj imme^fiald; 
uUvnllnnerr (hough it ia lot>e feared, that thiiisnon 
ni>ilili<»lljr Impotable to excess In qnantit^. The eipe- 
I'lniii-.fl of Newton and Franklin, as (o the ftTBuntde 
Ilil1uiiiic« of rcgetable food upon moDtal opentiooa, 1 
Iinvn ulri'ait)' roeatioaedin a former lecture. To these 
l>«HHl))l<'R 1 might add many more, were it Deceasai;. 
"Vi'lfntuble aliments," ta.ya Dr. Culleo, a name hi^f 
rnvt^md Iti mudlclne, "at never OTer-diateodnig tbe 
r«i*r>li, or ioadiog the ■jstem, never inlerrnpti the 
•li'iiiiKt>r motions of the miod; while the lieat, follow 
Hli'l tvfltfhl uf animal food, is an eoemy to its vigorous 
mIIiH'Io." Another writer sajS, that vegetable fqod 
>■ InitilN li> |irn»orve a delicacy of feeling, a liveHoess 
"f hlMiirliiHtlon, and nculeness of judgment, seldom eo- 
\iiftiii |i| lliuMV who live principally on meat"' Hence 
Mi>-i" I* Viniilcr danger that the student will take loo 
miiU, lliHtt loo llltio, of animal food, lo most cases, 
■ft III icvoii oiiiioos per day, taken at dinner, is aboo- 
lUliliy ■HfltfJnnlt nnd the corpulent, and persons ad- 
f Mfffil III jiftt, should reduce this quantity. Indeed, 
ttf-f tv"iil'l |(ri>bnl>ly do best, in general, to confine 
..Hufih" "»s l» VKgetablcs alone. 

f>H<w, III Dr. Paris remarks, "it must be al- 
I Ml HrllKironce to vegetable diet, is usually 
I hWnf loss evil than that which follow^s the 



' nun M«thodi ftc. p. 13. 



103 

use of an exclusively animal regimen.''* Cheyne 
says, that at fifty years of age, a man ought to lessen 
his animal food; and at sixty, entirely give it up; 
'' descending out of life, as one* ascends into it, viz. 
by milk-porridge, water-gruel, panada, and the like.'' 
Most physicians also advise, that little if any animal 
food, except milk, should be allowed to children ; and 
indeed nature seems to instruct us in the saqse lesson: 
nor can it be doubted at all, that the prevalent sys* 
tern of stuffing and cramming children with all sorts 
ofindigestibles, is the direct cause of the death of one 
third of those that are boru, before they reach the 
age of three years. 

The practice of mankind, respecting the use of ani- 
mal and vegetable food, supports essentially the views 
that have been given : though^ it must l^ confessed, 
that it almost leads one to conclude, that a diet wholly 
vegetable, would, upon the whole, be more favoura- 
ble to human health and happiness ; though probably 
not so favorable to the developement of the sterner 
featares of our nature. The truth is, a large majori- 
ty of men, do live, almost exclusively, on vegetables. 
Millions in Asia, are sustained by rice alone, with per- 
haps a little seasoning of vegetable oil: And although 
these Asiatics with their feebleness and effeminacy, 
may be regarded as no very flattering examples of 
the value of a vegetable diet ; yet whenwe compare 
tkem with the timid and stupid Laplanders, Esquimaux, 
and Samoideans, who subsist almost entirely on animal 
food, the other side of the picture does not seem more 
inviting. The Bramins of Indostem, even in their 
exhausting climate, are noted for longevity. And 



f On Diet, p. 07. 



104 

when we recolleet that the Neapolitan Lazzaroni, with 
their active and well proportioned forms, are soatain- 
ed hy bread, oil, and sallad ; and that mllliona of the 
Irish peasantry, proverbial for vivacity of mind, and 
robustness of body, and capability of enduring fa-, 
tigue, scarcely ever eat meat; and that the Scotch and 
Swiss peasantry also — as fine examples as the world 
can afford of health and bodily strength — live chiefly on 
bread, milk, and cheese ; surely, we shall not be dis- 
posed to insist upon it, that animal food, even in high 
latitudes, is essential to the full developement of the 
powers of man,* 

According to this view of the subject, what opinion 
shall we term of those students, who think they cannot 
make out even a tolerable breakfast without a good 
supply of m^t? and who will eat meat even three 
times a day, if it be set before them ? Surely we must 
concude that they are slaves to their palates ; and 
consequently will never exhibit any great vigour of 
mind, or proficiency in literary pursuits. They will 
probably tell you, that they find nourishing foo& ne- 
cessary to give them strength ; and if they neglect to 
take this, they shall be so debilitated, as to be unfitted 
for study. This is just the plea the intemperate 
drinker uses, to vindicate his poisonous draughts. 
True, if he neglects these, debility follows ; because 
it is an abstraction of the usual stimulus, and his sys- 
tem is so much injured, as not easily to move on with- 
out it: and this is precisely the cause of the defolity 



* For a fuller discussion of this subject, see Paris on Diet, 
p. 63« Sare Methods, Sec, p. il. Smellie^s Philosophy of 
Nat. History, Ware^s first Edition, p. 148, and Edinburgh En- 
cyclopedia, Alt, •Alimeni, 



105 

the intempertte tater experiences, by giviog up his 
animal food in the morning. Now the opinion of most 
men is, that debility is a real disorder, and if by some 
stimulus they can remove it, they have removed the 
disease : Hence the great fondness they exhibit for ton- 
ic and bracing food and drink. Whereas debility is 
merely a symptom of some oppression, irritation, or in- 
flammation in some part of the system : and this whole 
sjTstem of bracing and strengthening the invalid by 
nourishing food and drink, is, in most cases, the effect- 
ual way to aggravate the disease ; althoagh it affords 
a temporay relief to the debility : For too much food 
irritating the stomach and bowels, id a majority of in- 
stances is the sole cause of the debility. The contrary 
course,that is a spare and simple diet, ia generally the 
method of removing the cause, and ultimately the debil- 
ity, fiat quacks will tell men otherwise ! and here is the 
strong hold of empiricism. Their nostrums, elixirs and 
babams, are all directed to the alleviation of symptoms, 
and not to the cure of diseases : Now it fs not a difficult 
mater to soften down the symptoms ; and when this is 
ODce done, the cure is proclaimed ; whereas, the embers 
are raging within, struggling to get vent, and will ere 
long break out in tenfold fury, fiut until men shall 
learn in some measure to distinguish between symp- 
toms and diseases, they will continue to be the dupes 
of newspaper quackery and unprincipled ignorance. 

According to his own account, '^ says the Journal of 
Health, ^' the invalid is in a state of debility. This to 
a certain extent, is true ; but it is a debility that can 
be removed only by restoring to health the organ pri- 
marily affected : a task for which the experienced 
physician is alone competent. But the sufferer is of 
a different opinion : he is debilitated ; all he requires. 

10 



106 

is fometliiag to restore strength to his sjstem geiier« 
ally ; additional and more stimalatiAg food ; some cor* 
dial or elixir — ^some potent tonic I These are sooo 
obtained ; a momentary excitement is the result, to 
sustain which requires their frequent repetition : hot 
so far from any permanant advantage resulting from 
their use, the symptoms advance with increasing ra- 
pidity ; the individual becomes more and more exhaust- 
ed ; and if he fall not a speedy victim to the disease 
itself, he too oAen does to the effects of intemperate 
habits induced by the remedies to which he has had 
recourse." 

The fourth rule of dietetics, which 1 consider as es- 
tablished, is, that LITEHART MEN SHOULD TAKE ONLY 
THREE MEALS PfR DAT AND NO LUNCHEONS. 

After the rest and the fast of the night, it is natural 
that the stomach should demand food in the morning. 
But as it comes immediately before the most active la- 
bors of the day, it should be moderate in quantity, and 
simple in quality ; consisting usually, in this country^ 
of a little tea, or coffee, or milk, or milk porridge, or 
water and milk, with bread and butter, or dry toast. 
It should be taken about an hour after rising ; and, 
therefore, should usually be ready from six to seven 
oVlock ; — ^say six in the summer, and seven in the win- 
ter. This will leave five or six hours before noon for 
study and exercise — which are emphatically the gold- 
en hours of the day ; and the student should calculate 
to get through with the most laborious part of his dai- 
ly duties, during this period. 

By twelve or one o'clock, the stomach will have 
thoroughly digested Hie light breakfast taken at six or 
seven, and have rested besides one or two hours, so 
as to be prepared for dinner, the principal meal of the 



107 

Mve or six hoars after Sinner, a cup oftea, or milk 
and water, cold or hot, according to the season, may 
advantageously he taken, with a smaller quantity than 
in the morning, of vegetable food. The less of this, 
however, the better ; and perhaps the invalid will best 
consult his comfort, by omitting it altogether, unless 
perhaps to the amount of one or two crackers. 

I can hardly move a step on this subject, without com- 
ing into collision with the habits and practices of society. 
You will perceive that the course which I have here 
marked out, is directly opposed to that pursued by 
multitudes. 

Many, in the first place, violate this rule, by irregu- 
larity in the times of taking their food. If their din- 
ner be delayed an hour or two beyond the the proper 
time, they seem indifferent about it, as their appetite 
will be better, and they shall enjoy the repast better. 
But they will be sure to overeat. Exactness and uni- 
formity in respect to the hours of meals, is considered 
by physicians as of the first importance to those who 
are in feeble health. One of them remarks, that he 
has often said to his patient ; ^^ I will wave all my ob- 
jections to the quantity and quality of your food, if I 
am sure that such a sacrifice of opinion would insure 
regularity in the periods of your meals.'' I am happy, 
however, in knowing, that the regular routine of col- 
lege exercises, prevents almost entirely the occurrence 
of this difficulty among us. May all learn so thorough- 
ly the value of regularity in this respect, as never in 
after life to be induced to swerve from it. 

In the second place, others violate the rule under 
consideration, as above detailed, by indulgence in more 
than one hearty meal per day. Some, even some- stu- 
dents, are in the habit of taking three hearty meals 
in a day ; that is, they devour at each meal, quite 



108 

as fliiieh as the most lax rvles would allow for df n- 
ner. Yes, not a few young men do this ; men who 
are full of expectation that they are going to rise 
high in the world in learning and usefulness. But 
without an alteration of their habits, they will always 
remain mere scavengers in literature and religion. 
For if, as a wise man has said, '^ the second meal (that 
is, the second full meal,) makes the glotton^'-Twhat 
can the third make, but a beast ? Among tlie ancient 
philosopher8,the eating of more than one hearty meal in 
the 24 hours, was considered monstrous. What have 
you seen, said a friend to Plato on his return from Sic- 
ily ? Vidi tnonsirum in naiura ; homintm his saturoiiuin 
i» die. Literally, ^^ I have seen a monster in nature ; 
a man twice stuffed in a day ?*' What w«uld Plato 
think, could he be revived from the dead, and were to 
spend one week only in the boarding' houses connect- 
ed with the literary institutions of our land I Oh, let 
every Christian youth, on whom this satire falls, be 
ashamed to be thus reproved by a heathen ! 

In the third place, this rule is violated by many, in 
taking dinner at a late hour; or, as it is called, the 
fashionable hour; and a consequent delay in the oth- 
er meals. I rejoice, indeed, that in this Jnstitution, 
we are free from this most pernicious practice : and 
I rejoice also in the fact that, the great mass of (he yeo- 
manry of our country have their dinner upon the ta- 
ble at twelve o'clock — the hour which nature and rea* 
son point out as the proper one for the principal re- 
past. But the habit of late dinners, which originated in 
the unnatural and luxurious habits of the higher classes 
in cities, is certainly gaining ground among the same 
classes, even in the country : so that the temperate 
student is liable to be annoyed by it wherever he 
goes. Eveiy literary man, therefore, should make up 



J 



109 

Ills mind on the tubjact of its utility ; and if convinc- 
ed of its bad influence, be prepared to raise liis voice 
and example against it. 

The objections to late dinners are these : first, 
the bodily powers are not as well able to bear the 
digestion of a hearty meal near evening, as in the mid- 
dle of the day. The pulse is then quickened and the 
secretions lessened, and the system begins to feel the 
need of repose : Secondly, this practice furnishes an 
almost irresistible temptation to excess in eating: the 
appetite having been so Jong denied gratification, that 
io a healthy, man, it must become ravenous before five 
or six o'clock, or even before three or four. Third- 
^7) lo prevent this su£fering from hunger, men are 
tempted, either to eat excessively at breakfast, or to 
fall into the unhealthy practice of taking luncheons : 
Fourthly, the practice almost infallibly results in late 
suppers, late retiring to rest, and late rising in the 
morning, aod consequently lute breakfasts. And the 
iofallible result of thus inverting the order of nature, 
and turning night into day, and day into night, is debilita- 
ted constitutions, nervous maladies, and imbecility of 
mind. Wherever you find late dinners, you always 
find more or less of these effects. But if dinner be 
taken at twelve, tea will not be delayed longer than 
six or seven ; and consequently men will be prepared 
to retire to rest at nine or ten ; and in the morning, 
they will rise at five or six : thus employing the night 
for repose, and the day for action, as God intended. 
Late dinners among the great mass of the community, 
would, therefore, be one of the greatest evils that 
could come upon them. It is hence the duty of every 
well wisher to his country, to resist the ruinous cus- 
tom by his example and influence. It is true, that the 

10* 



no 

inhabitants of our cities plead in behalf of this cnstoiDt 
that it is more conyenient to finish th^ir daily rou- 
tine of business before dinner ; and that they cannot 
find time for dinner at twelve or one : nor do they feel 
as well qualified for business after dinner as before it. 
But were they to commence business at six or seven in 
the morning) instead of nine or ten, there would be no 
want of time ; and were they to dine as temperately 
as they ought, they would be refreshed instead of stn- 
pified by the repast, and ere long might resume busi- 
ness with as much alacrity as ever. I have been as- 
tonished to see how easily young men of excellent 
habits from the country, who go to reside in the cities, 
fall into the practice I am here condemning ; and how 
soon they are ready to approve of them. How any 
christian parent can consent to educate a family of chil- 
dren, in this system of late hours, with all its hurtful 
accompaniments, and thus take an almost infallible 
method of debilitating their bodies and their minds, I 
confess I do not see. Nor do 1 wonder at a fact stated 
by Dr. Johnson, in regard to the inhabitants of London, 
that ^^ we shall not find one in ten whose digestive or- 
gans are in a natural and healthy condition :^'* nor at 
another fact, stated by a dififerent writer, that while in 
the country the annual mortality is only one in about 
sixty, in London it is one in twenty! Hence is seen 
the truth of the remark, that ^^ large towns are the grarvee 
of the human race :'^ hence too the ground of the ex- 
clamation of the Roman poet. 



Saevae urbis ! 



-pericula mille 



* Influence of Civic Life iec. p. SI. 
i Sure mothodi &c. p* 107« 



Ill 

Bat ii those who live in the cities will persist, (as 
doubtless they will in spite of mj ezpostolations,) in 
their late dinners and late hours, let them do it : let 
also the glntton do it, and thus the sooner relieve the 
society which he hardens ; and we will join the poet 
in saying, 

'^ LtisisU latu, •diflti latii, atqae btbisti ;^^ 
" TempuB abire Ubi eit."» 

But^I protest against the encouragement and introduc- 
tion of these habits in the country, as some, who are 
aping city manners, are attempting to do. Happily it 
is not, as I believe, too late to sound an alarm on this 
subject among the sober and religious citizens of our 
interior. In most cities such a cry would be met only 
by hisses and scorn. Even physicians there, seem to 
be yielding up the point, or rather striving for a com- 
promise. " No dinner," says one, " should be taken 
later than four o^clock, and in fixing this hour I go to 
the utmost limit allowed by the principles of health 
and longevity"! — " With regard to the proper period 
at which invalids should dine," says another, *' physi- 
cians entertain but one opinion ; it should be in the 
middle of the day, or at about two or three o'clock."} 
" Early breakfast" — says a third — " dinner as near the 
middle of the day as fashion, or folly, or pride will 
permit &c."ir These receipts were written for the 
latitude and longitude of London : and it seems that 
there, these physicians consider it altogether useless 
to tell men that they ought to dine at twelve o'clock: 
and so they say, if you will not delay till seven or 



• Hor. L. 2. Epist 2. Lm. 212- 

t Sure Methods p. 72. | Paris Ou Diet, p. 134 

Y Jofanion 0ki the Liver p. 189. 



112 

eight, we will meet yoo half way, and consent to let* 
jou haye till three, or even four, to prepare to gor- 
mandize. I8 there no reason to fear, that the yerj 
distinguished physicians of some of oui; own cities, are 
yielding to the same difficulty, in the same way ? 

In the fourth place, the rule under conuderation, 
requires that luncheons be dispensed with : that is, 
food should not be taken in the interirals between 
meals. If a person, indeed, be so weak, that he can- 
not bear enough to sustain him at three meals, he 
must increase their number. But in this case he will 
need to be under the physician's care ; and therefore 
he is not in a condition in which I shall undertake to 
prescribe for him. Others will tell us, that without 
their luncheon, they find themselves so faint, that 
they cannot attend to business. Aud so does the 
drunkard, who is deprived of his cups at the regular 
hour, and for the same reason ; viz. that his stomach 
has been accustomed to the stimulus at that time. 
But let him, and let the luncheon eater, resolutely per- 
sist for some time in denying the calls of appetite, and 
they will soon find their faiotness vanish, and the pal- 
ate will crave no more than at auy other hour. We 
are in these things the creatures pf habit ; and we 
can learn the stomach to crave, or not to crave, food 
and drink, at particular seasons, very much as -we 
please — provided we furnish it with enough to sustain 
the health and strength. The faintuess and weakness, 
which a person feels, by neglecting his luncheoos, are 
of the same character as that debility which the exces- 
sive eater feels for a time, when he reduces his food 
to a healthy standard ; resulting more from a change 
of habits, than from real weakness. 

Of all luncheons, the worst are t^ose taken a short 



118 

time previous to the hour of rest at night. It is the 
sure way to produce restlessness and sleeplessness at 
night, and dullness and headache ib the morning. It is, 
indeed, the very worst time in the twenty four hours, 
for taking food. It is the original cause of those late 
suppers, which are indulged in hy so many of the rich 
and luxurious, and which are preeminent in the list of 
indulgcncies that shorten life. " Cardan observes, 
that he had conversed with many persons, who had 
lived to be a hundred years of age, and they all de- 
clared to him, that they had made it a rule to eat 
little at night^' It is like loading your horse with a 
heavy additional burden, after he has been toiling all 
day and is weakened by fatigue : or like filling op the 
mill hopper when the water is nearly run out. Peo- 
ple may tell me, that they cannot sleep without this 
luncheon, or supper, just before bed time : bat they 
may rest assured, that a persevering indulgence In it, 
will ere long bring on a sleep,that will be broken only 
by the archangePs final shout. 

But some will enquire, when, according to these 
principles, they are to be gllowed to partake of those 
delicious fruits and sweetmeats, which, to many, con- 
stitute so large a part of an evening entertainment, er 
even of a family circle ? If you are an Invalid, I reply, 
you had better not take them at all ; and if in health, 
the more abstemious you are, in respect to most of 
them, the better ; though I would not be understood 
as condemning the use of ripe fruit, at the proper sea- 
son. Indeed, a moderate quantity of it^ is undoubted- 
ly salutary in health, and^ even in many cases of debil- 
ity. But it should be eaten at the regular meals,-*- 
particularly at breakfast, — and as a part of the meal ; 
the other food being proportionably lessened in quan"- 



114 

titj. There Is an old saving, foaoded in trath, ^^ froit 
is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at 
night.^' It Is lead at anj time of the daj, when taken 
between meals ; but late in the eyening — the usnal 
time of passing it to company — ^it is dross : Especially 
when apples, almonds, walnuts, raisins, &c. are cram- 
med down, one opon another, as they often are, into 
the stomach of a dyspeptic student, or delicate nerr- 
ous la^y. To crown all, some two or three sweet- 
meats, as compound and indigestible as cookery can 
make them, are loaded into the stomach, and then a 
glass of wine, or cordial, is added, to drown the 
groans of laboring nature. And this is done, too, by 
professing Christians; who are commanded to be tem- 
perate in all things, and who are told that their bodies 
are the temples of the Holy Ghost ! 

Scarcely less censurable, or fatal, is a practice 
indulged in by students, probably more than any other 
class in society ; I mean the repeated use of apples, 
nuts, raisins, and other fruits, between their meals. 
In this way, many accustom their stomachs to be in- 
cessantly craving some such pernicious article, which 
constantly disturbs the process of digestion, and ends 
in gluttony and dyspepsy. Indeed, some cannot cease 
their champing,* during the short hour of lecture or 
recitation ; and they make it a rule, just as some ani- 
mals do, to strew every room where they are admit- 
ted, with the husks, the shells, and the cores. Per- 
sons of such habits will not find it so easy a matter to 
get rid of the'm, when, at a future time, they shall 
find that such slovenly practices would turn them out 
of a lady's drawing room, or a gentleman's parlor. 

By indulging in the use of luncheons surreptitiously, 
as it were, many invalids defeat all their pretended 



115 

efforts in dieting. However particular they may be 
as to what, and how mach they eat, it is all useless, 
until they will resolutely govern their appetites dur- 
ing the intervening periods : unless, indeed, this peri- 
od, at any particular time, should be unusually long, 
and extra exertions should be requisite, when some 
simple food, as a piece of bread, or a cracker, may be 
taken with impunity. 
The fifth rule of dietetics is, to eat and drink 

SLOWLY. 

A physician of distinction, whom I once consulted, 
said to me, *^ have you ever thought for what purpose 
Providence gave^you teeth ?^' It was a fact that I 
had never deliberately done this ; and from the hurried 
manner in ^which most people swallow their meals, 1 
fear few persons ever do it. The fact is, imperfect 
mastication operates very unfavorably in two ways. 
It prevents the food from being properly comminuted 
for the action of the gastric juice ; and does not af- 
ford 'the saliva an opportunity to be properly mingled 
with it. To expect that the stomach will produce 
healthy gfiyme, from food thus driven pell mell into 
it, is almost as unreasonable, as for the Egyptian task 
masters to require brick without straw. Here then 
we perceive one important reason for the rule above 
announced. 

Another reason for its adoption is, that it tends to 
prevent excess in eating. Physicians may qot agree 
in assigpiiing the reason, why the same quantity of food 
introduced slowly into the stomach, satisfies the appe^ 
tite much more effectually, than when eaten rapidly : 
Batasto'lhe (act, there can be no doubt. Every person 
must have observed, how a short interruptioD in the 
midst of eating, has diminished, if not entirely de- 



116 

Btroyecl, his appetite, and produced the feeBng of sa- 
tiety. The same thing happens in a less degree in 
eating slowly. But h^ who forces his food half mas- 
ticated dofFfi his throat, as a farmer would load a cart, 
just hef<>re a thunder storm, will haye exceeded in quan- 
tity, ere the feeling of satiety g^yes him any Tvarning. 

This rule is recommended too, hy the superior 
pleasure to he deriyed from eating slowly. Dr. Faust, 
in his excellent Catechism of Health, a work which 
Dr. Rush recommends for parents to teach to their 
children, inquires ; ^^What giyes the most delicious re- 
lish to food? Answer: Hunger, and the thorough 
chewing of the food.'' (p. 53.) The man who spends 
half an hour in masticating six ounces of food, expe- 
riences yastly more pleasure from it, than he, who 
eats two pounds in half that time. It is difficult per- 
haps, to fix upon any precise numher of minutes; that 
ought to he assigned to our meals. Some, physicians 
say, that dinner ought to occupy not less than ^a hour. 
Perhaps this is too much, for those who dine on one 
dish ; hut certainly it is desirable to devote half that 
time to each meal. 

Students, I believe, are proverbially yiolators of 
this rule. From what Ihave seen, I do not believe 
that the average length of time,. given to their meals, 
by the members of our colleges, exceeds ten min- 
utes. Not improbably it would be found, that it does 
not etceed five. 

To conquer this habit is no easy task. A great help 
in overcoming it, is to adhere to the rules, as to quan- 
tity and variety, that have been discussed. .When a 
person first sits down to the table, let him collect be- 
fore him, every particle of food which he intends to 
eat at that meal. Knowing that he shall have a good 



117 

ft 

appetite whea he finiehes this, he will l»e induced to 
ciijoy it as long as possible. Another help is to di- 
vide his food into as man j portions as he ooayeniently 
can, and then admit only one piece into his month at 
a time. If in addition to this, he make it a rule te 
lay down liis eating apparatus aAer every mouthful, 
he will find it^i good rein upon his appetite. 

Some may think it unnecessary nicety to be thus 
particular in a public lecture. But 1 regard nothing 
unnecessary, on such a subject, that will help yon to 
conquer a bad habit Nor am I very fastidious about 
literary niceties, when they come in competition with 
a plain and forcible developement of important truths. 

But after all, the most important precaution in tiiis 
case, is, always to srr dowh to tbk table, with the 

MIHD WRES, from CJlBC, OTTENSE THOUaHT, OR' PASSION, 

AND DISPOSED to BE cHEERFui. AND sociabijE. So im- 
portant is this direction, that I shall give it as the 
sixth rule in dietetics. So intimate is the connection 
of the mental with the coporeal powers and opera- 
tions, that any strong excitement of the mind, will most 
effectually check, if not entirely stop, the process of 
digestion. A violent fit of anger, coming on when a 
person is eating with a good relish, or the reception 
of distressing news, will as assuredly destroy the appe- 
tite, as a fit of apoplexy : while, on the contrary, 
si^eeable and easy conversation,* kindness and hospi- 
tality, or pleasant inteligence, will create an appetite. 
So we all know, that heavy cares, or a£9ictions, will 
indispose for taking food. Severe thought will do the 
same. Sir Isaac Newton retired one day to his study 
and gave orders .to his servant that he must not 
be disturbed A friend called to see bim; and learn- 
ing his directions, waited for him at the hour of 

11 



dijiner. But Sir Isaac not appearing, tlie fiieod took 
ilia place aod devoured the chicken. Newton coming' 
in soon after, and seeing the picked bones upon the 
table, exclaimed, ^^ I thought I had not dined, hut I novr 
find that I have."* 

According to these views, we learn that when a man 
is in an agitated state of mind, he is not in a condition 
to sit down at the table ; he had better wait till he is 
cool and composed, and if possible, till he is cheerful. 
For the same reason, he should not eng^e in eating, 
while poring intently over some mathematical or 
metaphysical problem. And no gentleman, who un- 
derstands good manners, will introduce at table, any 
subject of discussion, that is likely to call forth strong 
feeling, or vigorously to exercise the powers of the 
mind. For the same reason, reading should not be in- 
dulged in while eating, unless it be of a character to 
amuse rather than task the mind; nor sliould any 
details be giv^n that are calculated to harrow up the 
feelings and produce strong emotion. In all cases 
where these rules are not regarded, you will find men 
eating and drinking in a hurried manner, forcing down 
their food almost without chewing, and plying their 
knives and forks with gluttonous,rapidity. 

This principle shows us, also, that theinutual atten- 
tion to one anotber^s wants, which good breeding de- 
mands, at the table, contributes no less to health than 
to good manners. By striving to help your neighbour 
first, and to the best, you- put him, as well as yourself, 
in good humor ; and pave the way for pleasant conver- 
sation and for a return of favours. The man who takes 
care of himself only at table, appropriating to his plate, 

* l^ibrary of Useful Ri^owl^dge, No. 50, p. 18* 



119 

whatever his appetite craves^ and then gormaodizes in 
silent moroseness, will be amply punished bj the clog 
he thus pats npon liis digestion. Wh^n the poet would 
describe a toti&l uiihinging of society, and the obHt- 
eiration of erery fellow feeling, he says, 

— ^^ And each sat silently apart, 
Gorging himself in gloom.*^ (^Byron.) 

ItL view of the rule under consideration, i more 
than do^bt the expediency of the practice at some of 
our seminaries of learning, of introduciog some regu- 
lar theme of discussion at table, the principal presiding. 
It has a show of great economy in point of time. But 
it is cheating the stomach out of the hour that properly 
belongs to it ; and depend upon it, that organ will be re- 
venged upon the intruder. There will be too much of 
formality and constraint at such a table; and pupils when 
questioned^ cannot but feel such an excitement, as to l>e 
injurious. 

A seventh rule of dietetics, in which physicians 
agree, is not to indulob in a full meal while much 

FATIGUED. 

The generality of mankind, ^' says Dr. Wallis, in his 
art of Preserving Health, ^' are accustomed after they 
have suffered fatigue, and that perhaps severe, from 
hunting, shooting, cricket playing, walking, or any oth- 
er species ofundue exerdse, to indulge their appetites, 
by eating copiously of solid food, and think it one of the 
advantages thence arising, that they are enabled to 
throw down such a load of gross materials ; nay not con-' 
teot with this, they make it float in porter, ale, or some 
other viscid liquor, and afterwards indulge themselves 
with a jolly bottle. This practice they think support- 
ed by reason ; for when the machine is exhausted, they 
argue, it is most natural to conclude that it requires 



120 

mypb refreshment. If we examine bovrever, the e^ 
fecta of such indiscreet conduct, we cannot hesitate to 
pronounce it erroneous, and to condemn the practice. 
For after eating and drinking copiously under such 
circumstances, the 'system grow* dull and heavy, and 
general lassitude comes on ; the pulse grows quick, the 
lace flushes, a temporay fever ensues f the skin is dry 
— the mouth clammy — thirst attends — and in the place 
of that recruited strength, alacrity and cheerfulness 
they expected to obtain from their healthy meal and 
night's repose, they arise in the morning afler a few 
hours of disturbed sleep, weary and depressed with 
pain, or stiffness in the joints, an aching head, and a 
stomach loathing it^ accustomed food.. Nor can it he 
otherwise ; for the digestive powers of the stomachy 
in that state of exhaustion induced by fatigue, are inca- 
pable of performing the task to which tfiey are excited;, 
and the load of food which is taken, in place of recruit- 
ing the strength and activity of the system, is a bause 
of sufiering and disea^e^ extending from the stomach 
itself to the residue of the system."* 

These remarks must not be understood as implying 
that exercise before meals is not important : for that is,^ 
indeed, the best season during the day : But when that 
exercise has been carried so far as to induce considera- 
ble fatigue, the diet should be confined to liquid food 
chiefly, or that easily digested, such as plain broth,, 
milk, light bread, or pudding : or efee. a man should 
take time for nature to recruit her exhausted* energies 
before partaking of his repast. 

There Is a prevalent opinion, that a man may eat 
in proportion to his exercise : and It is undoubtedly 
true, that vigorous exercise will, in a measure, coui^ 



• Journal of Health, p. 110.. 



121 

teract the bad effects ofezeeasiTe eating. Bat in (he 
case under consideration, that is, when the exercise her 
comes fatigolng and exhausting, we see that the rale 
will not apply. Hence there Is no small danger in 
taking it for our guide f although it is supported bj 
the authority of Lord Bacon. The better rule is to 
adhere always to nearly the same quantity from a sin- 
gle dish, and to suffer ourselves to exceed it but veiy 
moderately, even when journeying, or otherwise spend, 
ing our whole time in active exercise abroad : For ex^ 
peiience assures us, that even in such cases, nature 
does not require any very great addition. We shaH 
then always be safe from excess without the danger 
of starvation. 

The rule under consideration shows how very inju- 
rious is the habit of some speakers, particularly cler> 
gymen, of eating very heartily soon aAer a fatiguing 
effort in public. The anxiety which they feel previa 
ousto the effort, usually moderates their appetite : but 
when the work is finished, they give up the reins of 
self control and indulge in the most hearty food and 
the strongest tea or coffee, even to satiety — not aware 
that the stomach, like every other part of the system, 
then needs rest. The consequence is, an uneasy 
watchful state of the system, which physicians call the 
digestive fever. Hence results most of the clergy- 
man's sleeplessness and nervous excitement sabbath 
night ; and hence too many of what he calls his JkTofi- 
daifish/eeling». Let his aupper be unusually light and 
sparing on the sabbath, sind let him contrive to get 
some active bodily exercise in the evening, and 
lie would find sleep no sti-anger to his couch^ nor JAm^ 
day a day of yawning and listlessness. 

An eight rule respecting diet may be added, wlikh 

11* 



122 

directs that our food and drink fflooLD vary ^oud^ 

WHAT WITH THE SEASONS OF THE VKAR. 

Animal food^ for example^ is better fitted for the 
winter than for the spring, or summer ; because then 
the system needs to be more bciaced to resist the cold 
and to. endure the- more vigorous exercise wliich is 
requisite to health. But ia^ring, a change of no small 
magnitude takes place in the system. The sluggish 
movements and torpid action of winter are succeeded 
by greater mental susceptibility, more acuteness of feel- 
ing,,iDcreased circulatioa of the bloed,and a greater Aotr 
of perspiration and sensibility of the digestive organs- 
This change brings along with it a susceptibility to new 
forms of disease and demands peculiar attention to that 
fruitful source of disorder as well as ofhealtli — the di- 
gestive, process. The food, generally, but animal food 
in particular, should be diminished in quantity, and its 
quality be nourishing but not irritating. Ardent spirit, 
wine, and every species of stimulating drink, should be 
most carefully avoided: even tea and coffee are oHea 
injurious at this season, and should in such case l>e aban- 
doned. People are apt to imagine, that in the spring 
their blood has become impure, and needs the apotbe^ 
cary^9 compounds to correct it. But, says the Journal o( 
Health, ^^ Increase of thirst, feverish beat, pains of the 
head f or palpitation, with a sensation of languor or 
uneasiness, are best obviated by a reduction of the 
usual quantity of food — and a substitution, almost en. 
tire, of vegetable for animal substances — Copious po- 
tations of water, at this season will be found the very 
best purifier of the blood and remover of all peccant 
matter; while milk, as an article of diet, with good 
light bread, baked on the preceeding day, or vegeta- 
bles, may be regarded as the grand cordial and true 



123 

took. This is ia many couotries, the food of the ro- 
bust ploughmaD and hardy mouDtaineer, whose spir- 
its are strong in a very different key to what the flip- 
per of wine and cordial, the bibber of beer and porter, 
or the tippler of ardent spirits can boast of 

During the relaxing heats of summer, essentially the 
same course, as to diet, should, be followed, as in the 
spring, by all who would secure an immunity from dis- 
ease. The cool, the light, and the little should be 
soaght, and Ihe g^oss, the stimulating and the indigest- 
ible, should be shunned. How many would in this 
way avoid the prevalent fevers, dysenteries, and other 
violent disorders, that cut down so many in early au- 
tumn ! But when one and another falls before these 
complaints, no one thinks of looking for their causes 
to the dietetic excesses of the proceeding months. 

The ninth and last general principle in respect to 
diet, must be expressed in a rather general manner, to 
embrace those points on which there is a. general 
agreement among dietetic writers. It is this : Some 

ARTICLES OF DIET ARE MORE NUTRITIVE AND MORE 
EASV OF DIGESTION THAN OTHERS ; AND SOME AUE. EN- 
TIRELY DESTITUTE OF NOURISHMENT. 

1 DOW come to a part of the subject which men gen- 
erally regard as the essence of dietetics viz. the com- 
parative value of the different kinds of food : But I 
have already expressed the opinion that this is of much 
less importance than is supposed. Still it is a wide field 
and must not be left altogether unexplored. In re- 
spect to a few articles of the Materia Alimentaria^ as 
Dr. Paris calls it, I shall enter into a minute ex- 
amination; because they have a most important bearing 
upon man^s temporal and eternal interests : while in 
respect to ihe others, I can only briefly notice their 
leading properties, and effects. 



All our alimentary sabttancea are naturally dirMed 
into Liquid and Solid. I shall fint consider those that 
are liquid. And before soch an audience as this, it 
seems peculiarly desireable, that we should examine 
philosophically, as well as politically, moraDy, and 
religioosly, the nature and effects of those alcohoHe 
and narcotic substances that are in such general use 
among all classes of society ; particularly ardent spi- 
rits, wine, opium, and tobacco. These are not, in- 
deed, ail liquid : but coming into the same class of 
substances, and having many properties and relations 
in common, they are most conveniently examined to- 
gether. And in this examination, 1 am determined 
to follow the course which philosophy, prudence, 
patriotism, and religion point out as the path of tem- 
perance. 1 am aware that it may lead me close along 
in front of the heavy batleries of public opinion, 
prejudice, and evil habit. But I am determined not 
to turn to the right hand or to the left, however warm 
may be the fire that may open upon me ; for though 
it may be easy to cut me down, it is of little conse- 
quence, provided the truth remain ; and I feel strong 
confidence that this will not be so easily overthrown ; 
for magna est Veritas^ et prevalebiL 

I am aware that many will consider me as taking 
an injudicious course, in attempting, as I have done, 
and purpose still to do, to draw out and apply the 
principles of temperance so closely, so rigidly, and so 
universally. They will regard it as the sure way to 
defeat my object : because men, cannot be persuaded 
to go to such extremes. They will not give up eve* 
ry luxury, and every unecessary indulgence of the pal- 
ate: and therefore, we ought to direct our efforts 
against those only that are most hurtful ; leaving to 



125 

fbem, the smaller and comparatively harmless iodut' 
gences, if they will abandoD the more pernicious. To 
grasp at so much, is to lose all. Instead of attempting 
to adopt such ascetic rules, men will reject the whole 
as entirely Utopian and impracticable. 

Tttat but few persons will be induced to incorporate 
the principles of universal temperance inio their prac- 
tice, is what I expect. But that this furnishes a suffi' 
cient reason for modifying and softening down these 
rules, so as to suit the caprices and morbid appetites 
of men, I do not believe, for the following reasons. 
. 1. The moral philosopher knows full well, that no 
man will ever perfectly pot in practice the rules of 
ethics : yet he does not regard this as a reason for 
softening down and modifying these rules to suit the 
humours of men. But he presses them in all their an- 
yielding strictness, as demanding perfect obedience. 
And does the perfection of moral precepts render them 
nugatory, or furnish any excuse for rejecting them I 

2. The law of God, requiring supreme lo?e to him, 
and sinless perfection in every man, was never yet 
obeyed completely in its spirit by any human being : 
nor will it ever be thus obeyed in this world. But 
God did not, therefore, lower its demands ; and en- 
deavour to accommodate it to man's deficiences and 
likings. This would have converted it into a mass of 
wax, which must be moulded into different shapes in dif^. 
ferent states of society. He has given a perfect and inva- 
riable standard, and the nearer men come to it, in their 
conduct, the better : but heaven and earth must first 
pass away, before he will lower down, or alter, any of 
its requirements. Now the rules of temperance are 
only one of the branches of morality and religion. 
Why then should we not urge them upon men exact 



126 

\j ia the form ia which philosophy^ experience, atici 
religioD, declare them most perfect, and best calcula- 
ted to promote human happiness ? Tiiis is what I hare 
endearoared to do. If I have not stated them correct- 
ly, that is another thing : and I shall most cheerfully 
see them corrected. But I maintain that because men 
will not adopt them, it is no reason for giving them a 
modified accommodating form. I have not taken my 
own experience as the infallible guide, expecting that 
every man must come up precisely to my standard in 
diet, exercise and employment. Indeed, I do not pre- 
tend that my own practice, is perfectly conformed to 
ihese rules, any more than it is to the rules of moral!' 
ty and religion. But because I have not the resolu- 
tion and the government of my appetites, sufficient to 
observe these rules in perfection, shall I there* 
fore, bring them down to my defective practice? 
Derived as they are, from the principles of phi- 
losophy and medicine, and the testimony of general 
experience, I have not dared to give them any other 
form, even when they seemed at variance, (as in a 
few minor cases they did,) with my own particular 
limited experience. And satisfied as I am, that be 
who comes nearest to their perfect observance, will 
be most benefited, I would not present them in an oth- 
er form, any more than I would modify the principles 
of ethics or religion. I wish it to be distinctly remem- 
bered, that my object is not to give merely good rules, 
but the best rules ; not to point out a standard that will 
be of fome service; but a standard which is the best 
that can be ascertained. And I am confident that with 
such a standard before him, every man, who attends at 
all to diet and regimen, will be more successftil in his 
efforts, and rise higher, than if thaf standard were loose 



127 

aod accommodated to the tastes and prejudices of so- 
ciety. And as to those, who are repulsed by itssfric^- 
Dess, they would probably be repulsed by any rules 
rigid enough to' do them any good. 

3. But in one branch of temperance, the experi* 
ment of acting according to what would be called a 
more liberal and accommodating principle, has been 
tried; and has utterly failed. A few years since, nu* 
merous associations were formed in the land, whose 
object was to discourage the intemperate use of ar- 
dent spirits, by lending the power of example in ia* 
vor of a moderate use : but since men^s views differ- 
ed as to what constituted a moderate use, the result 
was, that every one used just as much as he chose ; 
while the drunkard ridiculed the whole plan as a 
mere farce. But just. so soon as the fundamental prin- 
ciple of total abstinence was taken as a guide, which 
roultitodes still consider as too rigid and self-denying 
for their adoption, intemperance received a prodigious 
shock ; and temperance commenced its march, from 
conquest to conquest, and from victory to victory. 

Now this liistory is a most instructive lesson, as to 
other branches of the 9ame subject. I never yet saw 
a drunkard, or a glutton, who would not join me* in 
condemning luxurious eating and drinking : But where 
does all this take place ? Oh, 1 am not guilty of it-^ 
bat in some cities or towns far hence, the rich and 
the indolent are very intemperate. And just so will 
all men look somewhere else than to their ovn prac- 
tice, for the evil ; until the rules of diet are applied 
so clearly and particularly, as to bring home the 
faithful warning, Thou art the man. Merely to tell 
men that they ought to be very temperate in their 
diet, while you do not mark out the limits of temper- 



128 

ance, nor apply its rules, is one of the most uselen of 
all kinds of iostraction. 

4. Finally ; the character of mj audience, as it 
seems to me, renders it peculiarly proper, that I 
should urge a very high standard of temperance for 
their adoption. They are young men, who cannot 
plead the power of bad habits, indulged tiH they Hare 
become a second nature, as the' more advanced in life 
oAen do. Nor, can many of them tell us of long con- 
tinued infirmities, and debilitated constitutions, which 
might receive too severe a shock from great and sud- 
den changes in living. In short, they have that yoath^* 
ful vigour, and that pliability of constitution, which 
will enable them with comparative' ease, to adopt the 
most thorough system of training, that philosophy and 
experience approve. To them, therefore, may the 
inspired principle be addressed in its strictest mean- 
ing: Every man ihcU strivethfor the mastery^ is temper" 
ate in all Mngs. And the peculiar reason for addres- 
sing it to them, may be given in the words of another 
inspired writer : / have written unto you^ young men, 

9 

because ye are strong. Moreover, these young men 
are students ; who ought, therefore, to sacrifice erery 
sensual indulgence, and be willing to endure any self 
denial, whereby they may attain vigour and clearness 
of thought, and the power of close application to 
study : for they are the young Samsons, who are here- 
after to help sustain the pillars of our intellectual 
greatness. They are to furnish a quota of our 
future legislators, and civilians, and ministers, and 
missionaries. Add to all this, they are coming for^ 
ward at an age, when the energies of the human mind 
are waking up to mighty efi^orts ; and when they will 
need every aid, which mental and bodily diseipline can 



129 

lurnSsh^ to sustain them in the high places t)f conflict 
And shall I talk to such men, in such circumstances, 
of making a comprombe between temperance and ap* 
petite ? Shall I fear that they will be repelled by any 
rules, however strict upon i^nimal nature, if their 
effect be to fit them A>r the high and holy achieve- 
jnents on which they have set their hearts ? And es^ 
pecially when I recollect, that these young men are 
most peculiarly exposed to be assaulted and overcome 
hy dyspepsy ; and that every year we see no small 
^raft made upon their number, by this unmerciful 
scourge ; shall I fear that the only weapons by which 
they can be defended, and which I am endeavouring 
to put into their hands, will be too bright and 
keen ? Were I addressing an assembly of farmers, 
or hardy mountaineers, of soldiers, or of sailors, I 
ishould hardly need to remind them that they had stoio- 
achs ; so securely defended are they against this ene- 
my, by the plaited, seven fold armour in which their 
occupations encase them : But not so with literary 
men ; or any others of sedentary habits. They must 
be taught, that such a subtle and desperate foe, cannot 
be repulsed, or kept at bay, by parleying ; or by any 
armour half buckled on, or by any tekan imbelle Pri- 
ximi. He must be met in the " panoply complete" of 
temperance : And if I can persuade the young men of 
this, or any other literary institution, resolutely to 
buckle it on, and to stand always braced for the con- 
Aict, I shall not fear to begin the shout of victory. 

12 



SBOTVRB IV.- 



Alcoholic and Narcotic Substances^ as Articles of com' 
mon Use: viz. Ardent Spirits j Wine^ Opvrnn^ and 
Tobacco, Appeal to Students against their use, L 
On the ground of Philosophy. — Water recommended, 
II. On the ground of Self Interest and Prudence. IIL 
Of Patriotism. IF. Of Religion. 

Gentlemen, 

The substances in common nse, which contain the 
largest quantity of alcohol, are ardent spirit and wine. 
The proportion of this principle, in 100 parts, of the 
most usaal varieties of these articles, is as follows : 



Rum 




54 


BraDdj, (Frenck) 




53 


Gin 




52 


Scotch Whiskey 




54 


Port Wine from 


19 to 


26 


Madeira '^ 


19 " 


24 


Current Wine 


• 


21 



Sherry, Lisbon and Malaga, from 18 to 20 
Claret from 13 to 17 

Tokay 10 

Nearly all the wines used in this country contain a 
much larger proportion of alcohol than the above ta- 



•This Lecture has been recently published, as a Prize E»- 
', by the American Temperance Society ; and it is inserted 
by their permission. 



131 

ble indicates : as it is weli known to be tlie practice 
of many dealers in wine, to add brandy and other ar- 
ticleS) to give them more life and a richer color. In- 
deed, it is stated by a most respectable medical au- 
thority, that ^^ for every gallon of pure wine which is 
sold, there is perhaps a pipe, or fifty times the qaan- 
tity, of that which is adulterated, and in various man- 
ners sophisticated — the whole, without exception, the 
source of a thousand disorders, and in many instances 
an active poison imperfectly disguised.^'t 

Of the narcotic substances commonly used, opium 
and tobacco contain much the largest quantity of the 
narcotic principle. 1 would, therefore, solicit the at* 
tention of every student and other intelligent yOung 
man, to an examination of the nature, relations, and 
effects of spirit, wine, opium, and tobacco ; in the 
hope of persuading them all, totally to abstain from 
their use. 

I group these articles together, as alike to be rejee* 
ted, because they agree in being poisonous in their 
natures ; unnecessary to the healthy ; incapable of 
affording nourishment to the body ; fascinating to dis- 
eased appetite, and destructive to property, health, 
and life. 

Of these articles, however, ardent spirit is pre- 
eminent in the work of destruction : and, therefore, 
abstinence from this, Is of preeminent importance. 
But wine, opium, and tobacco, in all the Protean forms 
they are made to assume, number not a few among 
their victims. They ought, therefore, to be all pro- 
scribed together. 



* Journal of Health, Vol. I. p. 136. 



132 

Moreover, abstinence from one or more of these 
articles, while we retain tlie hM)it of nslog any of 
them, most effectaally neutralixes the influence of onr 
example m favor of temperance. ^^ I should prefer 
to use wine, instead of rum, or whisky," says aa in- 
temperate man ; ^^ but wine is too expensive. Give 
me your wine, and I will abandon spirit." ^^I anr 
ready to abstain from alcohol," says another, ^^whea 
yoQ do from tobacco." Thi« appeal must effectaally 
shut the mouth, and destroy the influence, of any one, 
who will persist in the use of wine or tobacco. 

By total abstinence from the alcoholic and narcotic 
substances above mentioned, I mean an entire disuse 
of them, except when they are prescribed for bodily 
disease, by a regular physician, who is not himself 
addicted to their use. Like roost other poisons, they 
may sometimes be employed advantageously, as medi* 
cines; though several medical men of the first stand- 
ing in our country, have pronounced all of them, ex- 
cept opium, to be unnecessary, even to the physician; 
since in all cases, as good, or better substitutes, may 
be employed. 

The appeal, which I now proceed to n^ake, to eve- 
ry scholar and intelligent young man, urging him to 
abstain entirely from ardent spirit, wine, opium, and 
tobaccoi, is based 

I. Upon the principles of PiULOSoPHr. 

These articles, it is well known, have all a vegeta- 
ble origin. Alcohol is the principle that g^ves to ar- 
dent spirit and wine their intoxicating power ; while 
the nHfcoiic principle gives to opium and tobacco si- 
milar properties. In popular language, alcohol is 
classed among the stimulants ; and opium and. tobacco 
among the narcotics; which are substances,, whose ul- 



133 

timate effect upon the animal system, is, to produce 
torpor and inseosibility ; but taken in small quantities, 
tbej at first exhilirate. And since alcohol does the 
same, most medical writers, at the present day, class 
it among, the narcotics. 

All vegetable substances consist essentially of three 
simple principles; oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen. 
These, and these only, compose the sweetest as well 
as the most acid parts of plants : the mildest, as well 
* as the most, powerful; the most salutary, as well as 
the most poisonous. Nor can chemistry discover any 
difference in their composition, except that the ele- 
ments above mentioned, usually exist in them in dif- 
ferent proportions. A knowledge of the chemical 
constitution of the narcotics under consideration, af- 
fords no assistance, therefore, in determining whether 
they are salutary or injurious. Their physical effects 
upon animals, however, prove them to be active poi- 
sons. 

But what are we to understand by a poison ? Any 
thing, which being introduced into the animal system, 
proves detrijiental, or fatal, may properly be denom- 
inated poisonous : so that the same substance may be 
a poison, or not, according to the quantity and cir- 
cumstances in which it is taken. Thus, a very small 
quantity of arsenic, and a moderate amount of animal 
fbod, may be taken with equal impunity, and some- 
times with equal benefit But a large quantity of the 
food proves sometimes as fatal to health and life, as a 
large dose of the arsenic ; and the effects of the two 
are not much dissimilar. Smallness of quantity and a 
certain obscurity in the mode of operation, seem in- 
cluded in Dr. Johnson's definition of the word. But 
these are relative circumstances merely, and therefore 

12* 



154 

not essential. If the effect be rapid and powerfiif 
from small quantities, the poison is said to be actire. 
In order to determine, therefore, whether the sob- 
stances under consideration belong to this class, we 
have only to compare their effects upon the animal 
system, with that of articles universally acknowledged 
to be actively poisonous. 

As to Morphia and Nicotin, which are the quintes- 
sence of opiuuk and tobacco, there will be no dispute. 
" A grain and a half of morphia," says Dr. Ure, ' 
^^ taken at three different times, produced such riolent 
symptoms upon thnee young men of seventeen years 
of age,, that Sertumer was alarmed, lest the conse- 
quences should have proved fatal." ^^ A drop or two 
of the chemical oil of tobacco," says a medical writ- 
er, ^^ beii^ put upon the tongue of a cat, produces 
violent convulsions and death itself in the space ef a 
minute."* 

In the various modes in which opium is used, whe- 
ther in pills, tinctures, confections, electuaries, or 
anodynes, such as laudanum, paregoric, &c.; or whe^ 
ther tobacco be chewed, or smoked, or taken as snuff, 
the virulent poisons above mentioned, which give 
them their power, are greatly weakened by mixture 
with other substances. Still, the paw of the lion can 
not be entirely hid. A few grains of common opium, 
indeed, will destroy a person unaccustomed to it : and 
a large quantity of tobacco has produced the same 
effect. The habitual use of opium brings on weak- 
ness of the digestive organs and imbecility of mind ; 
a remarkable sottishness in the appearance, and pre* 



* Ree^s Cyclopedia, Article Tobacco. 



135 

matare dissolution. In those not accuslomed io it, to« 
bacGo excites nausea, vomiting, dizziness, indigestion, 
mental dejection, and in sliort, the whole train of ner- 
▼ous complaints. No wonder that James the first, on 
seeing such effects from this *^ Nicotian Drug,*' tbonld 
have sent forth his ^^ Counterblast to Tobacco,'' and 
edicts still more powerful, to prevent its introduction 
into England : that the Pope excommuuicated those 
who used it in the chur(:hes : and thaHIhe civil power 
was arrayed against it in Russia, Turkey, and Persia. 
But tobacco has triumphed; and the only hope of its 
extirpation from our land, is by rousing against it a 
mightier power than any Eastern despot wields; and 
that is, enlightened public opinion. 

Most of the other powerful vegetable poisons, such 
as henbaDe, hemlock, thorn apple, prussic acid, dead- 
ly nightshade, foxglove and -poison, sumach, have an 
effect on the animal system scarcely to be distinguish- 
ed from that of morphia and nicotin, or opium and to« 
bacco. The operation of alcohol is also very similar. 
These poisons produce nausea, vertigo, vomiting, ex- 
hiliration of spirits for a time, and subsequent stu* 
por, and even total insensibility ; and so does al- 
cohol. They impair the organs of digestion, and may 
bring on fatuity, palsy, delirium, or apoplexy ; and 
so may alcohol. These effects, indeed, usually fol- 
low only in a slight degree from spirit, as it is com- 
monly drank; because the alcohol is so much dilu- 
ted. Even spirit of the first proof, contains, as we have 
seen, only about 50 parts of alcohol in 100: yet seven 
drams introduced into the stomach of a rabbit, produc- 
death in an hour and a quarter :* and six drams prov<* 
ed fatal to a robust dog in three and a half hours.! 

•Rees' Cyclop. Article, Poison. 

t Nancredi^s Abridgment of Orfila on Poison. 



136 

Nor are the cases rare, in which alcohol, thus diluted^ 
has proved almost immediately fatal to men* Were 
the alcohol perfectly pare, or andihited, these effects 
would be douhlj powerful. Now all the powerful poi- 
sons, if mixed with other substances, so as to be less con- 
centrated, may be used for a very long time, even ha- 
bitually, without seeming to produce any very injurious 
effects. A horse may take a dram ofarsenic daily and 
continue to thrive': and a very small quantity seems 
not to affect a man . In short, there is so close a re- 
semblance between the operation of alcohol and most 
of the powerful vegetable poisons, that to regard the 
latter as poisonous and not the former, would be highly 
unphilosophical. Accordingly the best medical writers 
of the present day, do class alcohol among the poisons, 
as well as opium and tobacco. 

It is surely reasonable to infer from hence, that 
these substances must be very dangerous, when em- 
ployed as artietes of luxury or diet ; or when adminis- 
tered as medicines, except under the direction of the 
regular physician. He may use them (especially opium) 
in many cases, perhaps, with advantage. For the 
same substance, that is deadly poison to the constitu- 
tion in health, may be eminently salutary in sickness. 
And a similar difference exists in difierent constitu- 
tions ; which is the reason that some men are worn 
out much sooner than others by the use of stimulants 
and narcotics. But the physician is the only proper 
person to judge of the cases in which these substances 
ought to be used ; and of the quantity in which they 
should be used. For every man to take the business 
into his own hands, without any knowledge of medi- 
cine, and to undertake to determine when, and how 
much, of ardent spirits, wine, opium and tobacco, are 



137 

necessary for him, isjust as abs«rd, and as dangerous, as 
if he were to prescribe and deal out arsenic, or coi* 
rosive sublimate, or calomel. Nor can the man in 
health do it to gratify his appetite, without certain 
injury to his constitution. He may not perceive 
injurious effects for years, on account of the imme- 
diate* exhiliration ; but complicated chronic com- 
plaints will, after a time, creep upon him, making life 
a burden, and ending in premature dissolution ; though 
he may impute his sufierings to other causes, and even 
die, folded with unsuspicious confidence, in the arms o£ 
bis murderer. 

There can be no doubt that opium, in the hands of 
a judicious physician, is a most valuable medicine ; nor 
any more doubt, that when used habitually, or even 
occasionally, without medical advice, it is almost uni- 
formly and highly injurious. We have, indeed^ few 
-genuine opium eaters among us ; but the laudanum- 
and paregoric phial are considered almost indispensa- 
ble in every family. Nor does the mother hesitate^ 
night after night, to quell the cries of her infant child, 
by administering increasing doses of these poisons, and 
thus almost infallibly ruining its constitution. The ner- 
Tous invalid also, resorts to this remedy for allaying 
the irritation of his system and procuring repose. And 
more especially does the delicate votary of fashiona- 
ble life, make this her nightly resort, on returning at 
midnight from the assembly, the dance, or the tea par- 
ty, " all soul within and all nerve without." And 
nearly all these persons, numerous as they have be- 
come among us, are probably Ignorant that they are 
thus destroying themselves and their children. But if 
they will not listen to the following awakening warn* 
iog, coming from high medical authority, they are ir^ 
retrievably ruined. 



138 

'^ However repugnant to our feelings as rational be- 
ings may be the vice of drunkeness, it is not more 
hurtful in its effects than the practice of taking laud- 
anum ^' — ^' This is not the language of exage ration or 
speculative fear. We speak from a full knowledge of 
the facts. We repeat it — the person who gives into 
the habit for weeks, (he may not reach to months, 
or if he pass these, his years will be but few and mis^ 
erable,) of daily measuring out to himself his drops of 
laudanum, or his pills of opium, or the deleterious sub- 
stance, call it tincture, solution, mixture, potion, what 
you will, is destroying himself as surely as if he were 
swallowing arsenic, or had the pistol applied to Ids 
head. The fire of disease may for a while be coin 
cealed — he may smile incredulous at our prediction ; 
but the hour of retribution will come, and the conse- 
quences will be terrible."* 

Not less decided is the testimony of physicians- 
against the use of tobacco in every form. ^^ Did the 
least benefit result to the system from its habitual 
use,^' says the same authority, ^^ there would then be 
some reason why, with all its loathsomeness of 
taste and smell, it should have become so general a 
favorite. But we know, on the contrary, that all who 
habituate themselves to its use, sooner or later expe* 
rience its noxious power. Tobacco is in fact an abso- 
lute poison. A very moderate quantity introduced in- 
to the system — even applying the moistened leaves 
over the stomach — has been known very suddenly to 
extinguish life." In whatever form it may be em* 
ployed, a portion of the active principles of the tobac- 
co, mixed with the saliva, invariably finds its way to 



•Journal of Health vol. 1 p. 162—103 



1S9 

the stomach, and disturbs or impairs the firoctioiis of 
that orgao. Hence most, if not all, of those who are 
accustomed to the use of tobacco, labor under djrspep- 
tic symptoms. They experience, at intervals, a want 
of appetite — ^nausea — inordinate thirst— vertigo — 
pains and distentions of the stomach — disagreeable 
sleep, and are more or less emaciated.^' 

How very pernicious, then, must be that filthy prac- 
tice, to which some are given, of swallowing down 
purposely, a quantity of tobacco spittle aAer meals, to 
assist digestion ! Or the still more degrading habit, of 
chewing snuff ; to which, it is said, not a few delicate 
ladies are addicted ! Alas, to what depths of degra- 
dation will brutal appetite bow down the immortal 
mind ! 

The common opinion, that tobacco, in some of its 
forms, is serviceable for headaches, weak eyes, the 
preservation of the teeth, sweetening the breath, cold 
and watery stomachs, &c. is mere delusion. ^^ At first 
had recourse to, by some, for the relief of headache, or 
disordered eyes, — snuff, when long continued,'^ says a 
medical writer, ^^ brings on those very evils it was in- 
tended to remove.'' And here I am happy in having 
permission to give the opinion of one of the ablest 
physicians in Massachusetts, as to the use of tobacco 
in another form. ^^ The chewing of tobacco," says he, 
*^ is not necessary or useful in any case that 1 Icnow of: 
and I have abundant evidence to satisfy me that Its 
ase may be discontinued *without pernicious conse- 
quences. The common belief, that it is beneficial to 
the teeth, is, I apprehend, entirely erroneous. On 
the contrary, by poisoning and relaxing the vessels of 
the gums, it may impair the healthy condition of the 
vessels belonging to the membranes of the soc^ 



140 

mth the condition of which, tLe state of the tooth li 
closly connected."* 

The practice of smoking is alike deleterious. If it 
were ever useful as a medicine, the habit, bj deaden- 
ing the nervous sensibility, must prevent every good 
effect, and then it becomes injurious only: Indeed, 
^^ even in persons much accustomed to it, it may be 
carried so far as to prove a mortal poison."T 

The counsel given by the Journal of Health, is, 
therefore, in perfect accordance with the principles 
of medical philosophy. "Our advice is, to desist, im- 
mediately and entirely, from the use of tobacco in ev- 
ery form, and jn any quantity, however small." — ^^ A 
reform of this, like of all evil habits, whether of smok- 
ing, chewing, drinking, and other vicious indulgeor 
cies, to be eflBcacious, must be entire, and complete, 
from the very moment when the person is convinced, 
either by his fears or his reason, of its pernicious ten- 
dency and operation." 

Ardent spirit and wine are considered very ser- 
viceable, by multitudes, in several circumstances. Let 
ufl sec whether this opinion is correct. 

h it necessary for the farmer, to sustain him 
under protracted labour and fatigue? The experiment 
has been fairly and repeatedly tried, by many of the 
most hard working men in the country ; and their 
testimony is, that spirit is decidedly injurious, by 
increasing the very evils it is supposed to remove ; 
notwithstanding the temporary exhiliration which 
it produces. 

Is it necessary for the soldier? Says Dr. Jack- 



* Letter from Dr. John C. Warren of Boston, March, 1630. 
t Reei* Cyc. Article Tobacco. 



141 

on, a distingoshed surgeon in the British armj; 
as quoted in a former Lecture, ^^ my health hat 
been tried in all ways ; aod bj the aids of tem- 
perance and hard work, I have worn out two ar- 
mies, in two wars, aod probably could wear out anotI»- 
er before my period of old age arrives. I eat no ani- 
mal food, drink no wine or malt liquor, or spirits of 
any kind ; i wear no flannel ; and neither regard wind 
nor rain heat nor cold when business is in the way.''* 
A general officer in the British service thus te^ified 
also more, than thirty years ago. ^^But above all, let 
ever one who values his health, avoid drinking spirits 
when heated ; that is adding fuel to the fire, and is apt 
to produce the most dangerous inflammatory com- 
plaints.'' ^^ Not a more dangerous error exists, than 
the notion that the habitual use of spirituous liquors 
prevents the effects of cold. On the contrary, the 
trath is, that those who drink most frequently of them 
are soonest affected by severe weather. The daily 
use of these liquors tends greatly to emaciate and 
waste the strength of the body.'''t 

The Roman soldiers, who conquered the world,* and 
bore a weight of armour that would almost crush a 
modern warrior, drank nothing stronger than vinegar 
and water. 

Are alcoholic mixtures necessary for sailors? In 
1619, the crew of a Danish ship, of sixty men, well 
supplied with provisions and ardent spirit, attempted 
to pass the winter in Hudson's Bay : but fifty eight of 
them died before spring. An English crew of twenty 
two men, however, destitute of ardent spirit, and 
obliged to be almost constantly exposed to the cold, 

* Sore Methods of Improving Health &c. p. 79. 
t Military Mentor, vol. 1. p.24~25. 

13 



14,2 

wiDtered in the same Bay, and odIj two of them died^ 
Eight Englishmen did the same, in iike circumstancesr 
and all returned to England : and four Russians, left 
without spirit or provisions in Spitzhergen, lived 
there six years and afterwards returned home. In ac- 
cordance with these facts, it is found, that when sai- 
lors are exposed in high latitudes to cold and wet, those 
endure hest, and live longest, who drink no spirit.* 

Is spirit necessary for slaves, who are exposed to 
a summers^s sun in warm climates ? '^ On three con- 
tiguous estates,'' in theislandof Cuha, says Dr. Abbot, 
^^ of more than four hundred slaves, has been made 
with fine success, the experiment of a strict exclusion 
of ardent spirits, at all seasons of the year. The suc- 
cess has far exceeded his (the proprietors) most san- 
guine hopes. Peace and quietness, and contentment, 
reign among the negroes ; Creoles are reared in much 
greater numbers than formerly ; the estates are in the 
neatest and highest state of cultivation, and order and 
discipline are maintained with very little correction, 
and the mildest means.^'t 

The men in Europe, who are trained to becQme 
pugilists ; and to whom it is the object to give the 
greatest strength and most perfect health, are not al- 



• Extract from the J^ew YojlU Mercury of March 31*/ 1830. 
On Thursday night a very fair experiment was made on the 
effect .of spiritous liquors to sustain men under fatigue. The 
vessel was on Barnegat Shoals when the storm came on, and 
through the night was in great peril. All hands dirank spirit 
except one man sixty years of age. He stood at the helm 
from five o^clock in the eveninE; of Thursday, until ten o^clock 
en Friday, the sea breaking upon him constantly, when he 
came eff in good condition — All the men who drank spirits had 
given out several hours before." — See also^ Rees'^ Cyclop^ Jit- 
ficU Cold, 

f Abbotts Letters from Cuba* 



143 

lowed ardent spirit at all ; and the best traioen pro- 
hibit wine. 

Now if spirit and wine are not oolj onneceasarjr, but 
decidedly injurioos, in tlie extreme cases that iiaT€ 
been pointed oat, snrelj they cannot be beneficial to 
the student, who is subject to none of these exposorei. 
Some, however, will say, that their moderate use by 
such persons greatly assists digestion. 

^^ It is a common enough belief,'^ says an Earopeaa 
medical writer, ^^ that a dram after meals promotes di- 
gestion. Bat there cannot be a more erroneous opio* 
ion. Those, indeed, who hare acquired this pemiclous 
habit, may find, that without their usual stimulus, di- 
gestion goes tardily on. But this only bespeaks the 
infirm and diseased slate to which the stomach has 
been reduced. For the digestion of the healthy and 
unaccustomed, la sure to be interrupted and retarded 
by a dranu Common observation might satisfy us of 
this. But the question has beep submitted to direct ' 
experiment by Dr. Beddoes ; and he found that the 
animals to whom spirits had been given along with 
their food, had digested nearly one half less, than oth- 
er similar animals from whom this stimulus had been 
withheld,"* 

Physicians were, indeed, formerly in the habit of 
recommending a little brandy and water, or wine, to 
those affected with the dyspepsy. But the opinion of 
the ablest of them now, at least in this country, is, 
that such tonics, in most cases of this sort, give only a 
transient and deceitful relief; and in fact tend to ex- 
haust the invalids scanty strength. Indeed, they main- 

^Cdinburgh Encycloptdia, Article Aliment, vol. 1. p. 498. 



.144 

tain tbat ** permanent strength is never giren by stinf^ 
alating medicines/t A distinguished scholar of oar 
country, who has been a dyspeptic for " some thirty 
years," says, **that the worst of all tonics is ardent spir- 
its. For a dyspeptic, however, wines of all kinds are a 
deadly poison } even worse than brandy, bat for Affer- 
ent reasons." 

Many suppose that spirit, wine, and tobacco, possess 
a wonderful efficacy in resisting contagion : and hence 
they are freely ised by those in attendance upon the 
sick. But their only value in this respect, appears 
to consist, in inspiring confidence in those who employ 
them ; and this is a state of mind, more favourable than 
that of fear, for repelling contagion. But on the other 
hand, the insensibility produced by these substances, 
la a far more prolific source of danger } so that the 
man under their influence, is peculiarly exposed to con- 
tract disease. A single phial of the chloride of lime, 
or soda, (substances now easily obtained in oar coan>' 
try,) applied occasionally to the nose in the rooms of 
the sick, affords more security against contagion, than 
all the alcohol, and all the wine, and all the tobacco, 
and all the aromatics in the land. Let a man furnish 
himself with this safeguard, let him see that the rooms 
of the sick are well ventilated, and if he please, fumi- 
gated with the chlorides, and let him not go to fasting* 
to visit them, and he has taken the best methods known> 
for avoiding the contagion of dangerous maladies. 

It would be passing by a most important part of the 
pldlosophy of this subject, not to endeavour to g^ve a 
trae account of the operation of alcohol upon the ani- 



t See Dr. Hales^ able Essay in the Journal of Humanitj for 
Nov. 18th, 18i9, &c. 



145 

tnal system. Water, milk) and solid food, strengthen 
that system, hy being actually converted into its sab- 
stance. In the stomach they are changed into a palp- 
ly mass, called chyme ; thence they pass into the bowels, 
where their natricious portions become chyle ; and 
this, lieing taken up by the lacteals, passes into the 
blood ; which, in its circulation, conveys the chyle 
to every part of the system that needs to have its 
wastes repaired. Does alcohol operate in the same 
manner to invigorate the bodily powers? In other 
words, does it impart any nourishment to the syltem ? 
That the water, with which alcohol, when drunk, is 
diluted, might be nutrlcious, if it were to pass into 
the blood, cannot be doubted. Usually, however, it 
does not go into the blood ; but is thrown off by those 
organs, ^^ which are set as waste gates to the system,^' 
because, the system is already supplied with fluid 
enough. This excess of liquid must weaken the di- 
gestive power of the stomach over nutricious substan- 
ces, by too much diluting the gastric juice ; while the 
alcohol will have a similar debilitating effect, by 
exhausting the stomach^s excitability. Moreover, it is 
now ascertained, thatalcobol,frequently,at least, passes 
unchanged into the blood ;* so that if 3'ou distil a 

* M. Majendie tied up the passage from the stomach to the 
intestines in a dog, and then injected alcohol into the stomach. 
In half an hour afterwards the chyle was examined and con- 
tained no alcohol ; hut its odour was very sensible in the blood, 
which yielded it on distillation. Jience, alcohol may pass in 
tome mysterious manner, and through some hithei to undiscov- 
ered passage, directly from the stomach into the blood — ^per- 
haps through the agency of galvanism. May it not past into 
any other part of the system in the same manner, and corrupt 
the various secretions ; and when a man is thus filled with al- 
cohol, will he not be liable to take fire : and will not this ex- 
plain the spontaneous combustion of drunkards, which in sev- 
eral instances has undoubtedly taken place. Paris on Diet, 
p. 46* 

13* 



14^ 

drunkard^s blood, jou will obtain pure alcohol : iad^e^ 
it has been found ib the ventricles of the brain.* Now 
alcohol in the blood cannot nourish any part of the 
animal system, because no part of that system is com- 
posed of alcohol : and there is no reason to suppose 
that this substance is decomposed after getting itfto the 
circulation. All the organs, as an ingenious medical wri- 
ter remarks, ^declineP this alcohol, as the h\oo6 corfveys 
it round to them. " The head says, 'my nerves are 
calmer, my thoughts are clearer, without it, — I beg to 
be excused : the heart says, 'my motions are more reg- 
ular, my affections are purer, without it, — I have no 
occasion for it :"* the limbs say, ' our strength is firm- 
er , our vigor is more durable without it, — we need it 
not:' all say, ' it cannot nourish us, it cannot sustain 
US, — we will none of it :' and at length rejected by all, 
' except by those organs whose peculiar office it is to 
convey out of the blood, its refuse and worthless parts, 
it is taken up by them and thrown out of the body"t 
No nourishment in alcohol ! How can this be, when 
it is extracted from molasses, grain, and other substan- 
ces confessedly nutricious, and seems to constitute 
their essence ? And how is it, that intemperate men 
Eot only live, but grow corpulent, upon less solid food 
than the temperate ? 

How can it be expected, I reply, that a stomach 
so debilitated as the drunkard's, so worn out by 
constant excitement, should be able to digest as 
much food as that of the temperate man ? And who 
can mistake the bloatedness of a diseased body, 
for firm and robust muscle ? As to the originf of alco- 
hol, it is a mistaken opinion, that it exists naturally 

* Journal of Humanity, Nof. 18th 1829. See alva MusMj^i 
Address, p. 5. 

t Journal of Humanity, Dec. 9th 1829, 



147 

iind originallj in anj kind of fruit, or g^n. Foi' it 
always resvlta from the fermentation, or incipient de- 
compositioo) of those suhstances that contain, or will 
prodoce, sugar. Before any part of fruit or grain can 
become alcohol, its nature must be as entirely chang- 
ed, as that of manure, before it can become the stalls, 
or flower, or fruit, of a plant. 

Since spirit is obtained from grain and other nutri- 
cioQS substances, some have inferred, that God intend- 
ed it for drink, as much as he intended flour for 
food. But the alcohol does not exist naturally in the 
grain, as flour does : nor could it be obtained from 
the g^in, in much quantity, without the artificial 
processes of fermentation and distillation. 1* rue, 
the laws of chemical affinity, which God has estab- 
lished, operate in the production of alcohol, by these 
processes. And so they operate in the production of 
the most hateful and dangerous gases, resulting from 
the decomposition of vegetable and animal substances: 
and if this fact proves that alcohol is to be used for 
drink, it proves equalij', that these gases are to be 
used in respiration. 

Some too, cannot conceive how alcohol should be 
poisonous, since the substances from which it is pro- 
duced, are so eminently salutary. But if alcohol be 
an entirely new substance, formed out of the ruins of 
the grain, cider, &c. why should it be thought any 
more strange, that it should be a poison, than that 
poisonous gases should result from the decomposition 
of the sweetest and most nutricious vegetable and 
animal substances. 

But if alcohol afibrd no nourishment, how can it 
suddenly inspire a man with such surprising vigor ? 1 
answer, by its action on the nervous system, whereby 
the latent energies of the constitution are roused into 



148 

acdoD. God has giren to the animal constitation, 8 
capacity to exert an amoaot of physical power, much 
superior to what is necessary for ordinary occasions. 
The key to this store house of strength, is the excita- 
bility of the system ; and this is put into requisition 
by the action of alcohoL Alcohol does not create 
any new physical power ; it merely rouses into action 
that wliich already e^sts in the constitution. 

If such be a true account of the operation of alco^ 
hoi, and I might appeal to the highest medical autho- 
riticts for its correctness, it is very obvious that this sub- 
stance must prematurely exhaust the system. That se- 
cret energy, which nature has in reserve for seasons 
of great bodily and mental effort, for extremes of heat 
and colcl,^unger, thirst, and disease, is thus prodigally 
and irretrievabl}' wasted. It is, as if a powerful prince 
should unlock the magazines collected by his prede- 
cessors, against a time of need, and wantonly expend 
them upon his lusts ; while powerful enemies were 
hovering along his frontiers. 

The friends of temperance are very frequently 
urged to point out any bad effects, resulting to a man's 
constitution, from a very moderate and prudent use of 
ardent spirit, or wine. In the statement just made, 
we have the answer. The premature exhaustion 
which is thus iDfalllbly produced, in a greater or lesi 
degree, renders the individual peculiarly liable to the 
attacks of violent and dangerous disorders. He is 
seized with fever, or dropsy, or apoplexy; but never 
suspects that his prudent use of spirit or wine, is the 
cause. But his physician understands the matter; 
though prudence may prevent his even hinting his 
suspicions. 

Nor is this all. This premature exhaustion ren- 



149 

ders the system far less able to resist disease, than if 
it had been subjected to do uonataral excitement. 
Hence the most moderate drinker, is far more apt to 
sink under his disorder, tlTan he, who is rigidly tem- 
perate. Listen to the opinion of one of the most re- 
spectable medical societies in our land, on this point 
'^ Beyond comparison,'^ say they, ^^ greater is the risk 
of life undeigone in nearly all dbeases of whatever 
description, when they occur in those unfortunate 
men, who have been previously disordered by these - 
poisons."* 

Philosophy urges total abstinence upon literary 
men, on the ground also, that spirit, wine, opium, and 
tobacco, exert a pernicious influence upon the intel- 
lect. They tend directly to debilitate the digestive 
organs ; and we cannot take a more e^^>«tual course to 
cloud the understanding, weaken tfijis P.emory, unfix 
the attention, and confuse all the mental operations, 
than by thus entailing upon ourselves the whole hate- 
ful train of nervous maladies. These can bow down 
to the earth an intellect of giant strength, and make 
it grind in bondage, year aAer year, like Samson shorn 
of his locks, and deprived of his vision. Would to 
God, there were not so many melancholy illustrations 
* of this position, in the history of drunkenness in our 
land. Alas, intemperance seems to select the bright- 
est intellects as her victims, that she may. show her 
omnipotence by crushing them in her iron embrace. 

But to pass by the sot and the drunkard ; I main- 
tain that the unnatural excitement, which a moderate 
and occasional use of alcoholic and narcotic substances 



♦Report of the Committee of the Philadelphia Medical 
Society, Jan. 24, 1829, 



150 

produces, is unfavorable to clearness and vigor id 
mental operations. The dizziness of the brain, and 
exhilaration accompanying their use, especially that 
of alcohol, what are they,. but incipient delirium, 
and the premonitions of apoplexy. The mental ope- 
rations may, indeed, seem to be quickened ; but to 
what purpose is it, that the machine is furiously run- 
ning and buzzing, aAer the balance wheel is taken off! 
From snch a severe denunciation as this, however, 
must not the mild and healthful exhilaration of an oc- 
casional glass of wine be exempted ? Have not liter- 
ary men, and even some physicians of early times, de- 
clared that ^^ wine inspires a genius favourable to the 
poet ?" 

True, I answer, there has been a deep delusion on 
this, as well ^^^'ther important subjects: Armstrong,in 
Ids generally ^feellent poem, on the Art of Preserving 
Health, e ven advises men to ^^ to learn to revel.^' Bat 
a more modern poet, of no mean name, could say^ 

•' We neyer drew our inspiration from the flask.^'* 

And more modern, and not less able physicians t(fo, 
have testified as follows : ''• My whole experience as- 
sures me that wine is no friend to vigor or activity of 
mind. It whirls the fancy beyond the judgment and 
leaves the body and soul in a state of listless indolence 
and sloth. The man that on arduous occasions is to 
trust to his own judgment must preserve an equilibri- 
um of mind, alike proof against contingences as inter- 
nal passions. He must be prompt in his decisions; 
bold in enterprise ; fruitful in resources ; patient 
under expectation ; not elated with success ; or de- 
pressed with disappointment. But if his spirits are of 

* Cumberland's Retrospection, 



J 



161 

that standard as to need a fillip from wine, he will never 
conceiye or ezecnte any thing magnanimous or grand. 
In a sarvey of my whole acquaintance and friends, I 
find that water drinkers possess the most equal tem* 
pers and cheerful dispositions.* 

'^ The depths of philosophy, and the elevations of 
poetry," says the Journal of Health, ^^are most feli- 
citously explored by those whose minds are allowed 
to exert their powerful faculties, unclouded by the 
muddy vapors of wine or spirits." 

Finally ; Philosophy makes her appeal on this sub- 
ject, on the ground that alcoholic and narcotic sub- 
stances, blunt, and ultimately almost obliterate, the 
natural afTcctlons, and moral sensibilities. Philosophy 
well knows, because she has seen the experiment 
tried, and that too, by her own mistaken votaries^ that 
even to weaken these affections and sensibilities, is to 
undermine the pillars, on which society rests ; and to 
destroy them, is to knock out the keystone of the 
arch, that sustains all which is beautiful and valuable 
among men. Experience, too, the handmaid of Phi- 
losophy, points us to the victims of Intemperance, that 
meet us at every corner; and* bids us see, with our 
own eyes, the desolating influence of alcohol. These 
men find women were once the ornament and hope of 
society. Once, they were the joy and the pride of par- 
ents and friends ; but now, are they their shame and an- 
guish. Once, their bosoms swelled with honourable 
feeling, and virtuous enterprise ; but now, they are 
past shame, past hope, past effort, except to complete 
the work of self-immolation. Once, soKe of them 
were husbands and wives; in whose bosoms there 
glowed a tender, pure, and unchanging conjugal affec- 

^ Trotter^s Esiay on Intemperance, p. 170. 



162 

tion ; and they had childrea clustering around them, 
affectionate and beloved, whose ears never heard a 
tweeter sound, than the name of father or mother ; 
and their home, O, how sweet a paradise it was, for 
such a world as this ! but now, their bloodshot eyes 
look with, stupid unconcern, or savage glare, upon the 
partners, whose bosoms they have made desolate, and 
upon the children, whom they have covered with rags 
and infamy ; and their voices now sound like the yel- 
ling of fierids, in that home^ once so sweet, now almost 
converted into an abode of fiends. Once, they }iad 
consciences, quick to discern, abhor, and shun, every 
thing immoral and base ; but their conscience now, 
O it is dead and buried, never to awake till the judg- 
ment day. 

Would the temperate and educated youth of our 
land, escape this horrible desolation? Total absti- 
nence is the only sure wall of defence, which they can 
build up around them. Every other rampart has been 
demolished by the insidious sappings of the foe. 
Trust in no other, then, if you would escape the moral 
ruin, which, sooner or later, follows in the track, even 
of moderate indulgence. 

But what substitute has Philosophy to offer, when 
she thus demands the abandonment of stimulants and 
narcotics ? God has provided one : a most safe, most 
salutary, and most abundant substitute. Most merciful- 
ly is it scattered in purity and profusion, all around us : 
gushing forth, clear as crystal, from the base of every 
hillock in our favoured land. Its name is Pure 
WaUr : though it sometimes assumes the name of 
rmHik and water, vinegar and water, sweetened water, 
or small beer, without losing its essential and cbarac* 
ieristic excellencies* I know that so simple a here* 



153 

rage is loathed by a stomach that has lost its natural 
tone, and has become edacated to the use of stimu- 
lants and narcotics. But such a stomach maj be again 
learnt to relish it : and it is now too late to maintain 
that water needs the admixture of any other sub- 
stance, to render it, of all drinks, the most promotive 
of health, strength, longevity, and serenity of mind. 
Let us hear a few testimonies on this subject, from 
medical men. 

Cheyne, a distinguished physician, who wrote more 
than a century ago, and who had himself experienced 
incalculable benefits from the use of water, describes 
its value with great enthusiasm. "The benefits," says 
he, (* a person who desires nothing but a clear 
head, and strong intellectual faculties, would reap by 
drinking nothing but water (tepid or cold as» the sea- 
son is,) while he is yet young and tolerably healthy, 
well educated and of a sober honest disposition are 
ionumerable : As first, that he would live probably till 
towards an hundred years of age, &c. Secondly, that 
he would constantly enjoy a clear head, calm, at least 
governable passions ; a facility in intellectual appli- 
cations, and the acquisition of virtue, &c. Thirdly, he 
would thereby be secured against all the great atro- 
cious and frightful distempers ; as melancholy, lowness 
of spirits, wrong-headedness, madness, apoplexies, suf- 
focations, fevers of all kinds, pestilences and* pleuri- 
sies, &c."* 

" If there is in nature a remedy, which deserves the 
name of universal," says Hoffman, a celebrated Ger- 
man physician, who lived nearly two centuries ago, 
*'it is, in my opinion, pure water." 

* Essay on Regimen and Diet, p. 26. 

14 



154 

^' Water,^' says the Ediobargh Encyclopedia, ^^is th^ 
natural drink of man, and indeed, of ail animals. It is 
not only the safest and best drink, but boweyer it may 
be disguised, water is perhaps the only fluid which 
can answer all the purposes for which drink is require 
ed." 

^' There can be no question,^^ says Dr. James John- 
son of London, ^^ that water is the best and the only 
drink which nature has designed for man ; and there 
is as little doubt but that every person might gradual- 
ly, or even pretty quickly, accustom himself to this 
aqueous beverage." — " The water drinker glides 
tranquilly through life, without much exhilaration or 
depression, and escapes many diseases to which he 
would otherwise be subject. The wine drinker ex- 
periences short, but vivid periods of rapture, and long 
intervals of gloom ; he is also more subject to disease. 
The balance of enjoyment then turns decidedly in fa- 
vour of the water drinker, leaving out his temporal 
prosperity and future anticipations ; and the nearer 
we keep to his regimen, the happier we shall be."* 

"I have known," says Dr. Rush, " many instances 
of persons who have followed the most laborious em- 
ployments for many years in the open air, and in 
warm and cold weather, who never drank any thing 
but water, and enjoyed uninterrupted good health."t 

Capt. Head also, a celebrated pedestrian traveller, 
states, that when he commenced his travels in South 
America, he was quite unable to undergo the necessa- 
ry exertion, till he adopted the plan of living on plain 



• Influence of Civic Life, Sedentary Habits and Tntellectm- 
al Refinement on Human Health, &c. p. 37 and 39. 
t Medical Enquiries, vol. I. p. 161. 



155 

minimal food aod water onljr : he could then, in a short 
time, tire out horses in his pedestrian marches. 

(( I aver," says Dr. Moseley, as quoted bjr Dr. Rush) 
<< from my own knowledge and custom, as well as the 
custom and observation of manj other people, that 
those who drink nothing but water, or make it their 
priacipal drink, are but little affected bj the climate 
(of the West Indies,) and can undergo the greatest fa- 
tigue without inconvenience, and are never subject to 
troublesome or dangerous diseases. 

Those sudden deaths, which are not unfrequent from 
drinking cold water, in very hot weather,rareljr if ever 
take place, except in persons of intemperate habits. 

The following animated, but not exagerated do- 
scriptloa of the value of water, is from the Journal of 
Health; and expresses the views of the most able 
physicians of our own country at the present time. 

" In physical strength, in the capability of enduring 
labour and fatigue, in the vigor and clearness of the 
intellectual powers, the individuals whose drink is con- 
fined entirely to water, far exceed those who substi- 
tute for the pure element, distilled or fermented li- 
quors." 

^^ Would the strong man preserve his strength, and 
the fair woman her beauty, water will be their beve- 
rage, their cordial, their restorative. Is the constitu- 
tion, broken down in drunken bouts, and gluttonous 
feasting, to be renovated ; water — water alone, un- 
mixed, unspoiled^ must be the grand anti-dyspeptic 
draught. If cramps and pain torment, or wakefulness 
cheat the wearied spirit of its repose, not all the es- 
sences of peppermint or mustard for the former, or all 
the sedatives of laudanum, or black drops, or hops for 
the latter, will be so composing for the time, and un- 



156 

attended bjr after saffering, as a tambler fall or two of 
hot water. Let Dot the trembling drankard be deter- 
red from repose by the fear that no sabstitate can be 
found for the midnight cap. — He will experience from 
Lot water, taken in sufficient quantity, a feeling of in- 
ternal warmth and stimulaticto, and a slight fullness of 
the head, which will safely simulate the fit of drunk- 
enness : but unlike the latter, it will not terminate in 
the insensibility of apoplexy, but of tranquil slumber. 
The nervous lady who refuses to take adequate exer- 
cise during the day, and drinks her strong green tea in 
the evening, may consult her physician, if she be par- 
tial to having a listener to her tale of wo ; but if she 
desire to rest well and keep out of the hands of qaacks, 
and spare the nerves of her regular medical adviser, 
who really wishes her well, she must dilute her tea, 
take longer walks, and in place of recourse to the 
laudanum vial, try a tumbler full of hot water at bed 
time. The poor hypocondriac must not hope for eas- 
ier digestion and a greater flow of spirits by a little 
wine or other bitters before dinner, and a little wine 
or brandy and water at and after this meal. He may 
as well hope to breathe freer by having his throat a lit- 
tle compressed* by a tight band just before he takes 
a walk, and again a little squeezed immediately after 
hii return. His draughts from the fountain of Hygeia 
must be in the shape of pure water from the nearest 
spring or cistern." 

I might add to this evidence, the testimony of almost 
every valuable medical writer since the days of Hip- 
pocrates ; all agreeing in the opinion, that water u the 
natural and thi best drink for man : and that consequent- 
ly, ^* water — water unmixed, unspoiled," is the best 
•ubstitute for stimulants and narcotics that can be foan4 



167 

And if the best, vrhy should the yooDg maO) the tem- 
perate man, the scholar, enquire for any other ? Malt 
liquors, cider, coffee, tea, and the like, have, indeed, 
heen proposed as substitutes. True, he does well, who 
uses tea or coffee for brandy, and cider for wine : but' 
he does far better, who in early life brings himself at 
once to nature's beverage alone : For ale, cider, coffee, 
and tea, owe their exhilarating properties to the same 
alcoholic and narcotic principles which exist more abun. 
dantly in spirit, wine, opium and tobacco : Hence the 
former will tend to keep alire an appetite for the lat- 
ter; and whenever an occasion offers, it will be much 
easier to make the transition to drunkenness, than it 
would be for the water drinker, who has learned to 
live without any unnatural stimulus ; and whose stom- 
ach, therefore, craves none. Hence, then, though I 
should consider it extremely injudicious,, and even quix- 
otic, for any Temperance Society to require total ab- 
stinence from these milder stimulants, I should regard 
it as highly expedient and desirable,. for every young 
man, for every scholar especially, to refrain from them 
entirely. Then will he probably be able, fifty years 
hence, to say : — 

*' Though I look old, yet am I strong and lusty ; 
For in my youth I never did apply 
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood : 
Nor did not, with unbashful forehead, woo 
The means of weakness and debility ; 
'J'herefore my age is as a lusty winter^ 
Frosty but*kindly." 

I make my appeal, 

II. ON THE GROUND OF SELF-INTEREST AND PRUDENCB. 

I have already shown, that a regard to bodily and 
mental health, demands the entire abandonment of 
alcoholic and narcotic substances. But there are oth- 

14* 



158 

er considerations, that urge a man, from mere self 
lore, to total abstinence. 

In the first place, the use of these articles, is ex- 
pensive. Those can best appreciate this argament, 
who, as heads of families, have been called for several 
years to settle their alcoholic and narcotic bills, with 
the merchant. It is not that the price of a gallon of 
ram, or brandj, or wine; or of a pound of snuff, or tobac* 
CO, is a heavy drawback upon a man's income ; but 
the endless repetition of these purchases, which cus- 
tom has heretofore demanded, changes the arithme- 
tical series in the calculation,, into a geometrical one. 
And I hesitate not to assert, that the educated men of 
the last generation, (I might perhaps say it of the 
generation now in their mid course,) have expend 
ed more money for these articles, than in the cause 
of public benevolence. They did it, it is true, ignor. 
antly and in unbelief: but this excuse can never be 
pleaded by the educated generation that is advancing 
upon the stage. By a very moderate calculation, eac h 
one of these can save one thousand dollars, in forty 
years, by total abstinence. 

In the second place, this course will secure him more 
cespect and influence in society, than be couK) attain,, 
while using these substances in the greatest modera- 
tion. Even habitual drinkers will respect him more, 
ftlthough his example m^y exasperate them, for taking- 
the course which their consciences approve* And 
surely the temperate and respectable part of society, 
cannot but have a higher regard for him, who aban- 
dons every idol of appetite, than for him, who, giving 
up perhaps his ardent spirit, still clings to wine or to- 
bacco. For they well know, that it is no difl&cult mat- 
ter to leave one idol, if several others of the same^ 



159 

general nature are left to ns, on which to concentrattf 
oar affectioDS and worship. 

Sach a blaze of light now illaminates every man^s 
path on this sabject, and so powerfallj do a thousand 
motives urge to total abstinence, at least from alcohol, 
that the intelligent and virtuous part of society are 
suspicious, that the man, who refuses, has a secret 
attachment to the poison. Hence thej dare not trust 
important interests in his hands ; but will commit them 
rather to the decidedly temperate. Such a suspicion 
may seem most uncharitable to those who fall under 
it: Still, so long as In nine cases out often, the final 
result shows it to have been well founded, you cannot 
prevent men from indulging it* 

In the third place, to use alcoholic mixtures, at the 
present day, even in small quantities, occasions more 
inconvenience and suffering to a respectable man, in 
many parts of the country, than total abstinence^ 
In order to do it, he must breast the current of public 
opinion, which sets so strongly in favour of temperance. 
Even to replenish from time to time his stores of rum, 
brandy, and wines, is no easy task. To go openly to 
the retailers for this purpose, is to expose himself to 
the mortification of meeting the eye, or the reproof, 
of some respectable friend of abstinence. To go pri- 
vately, is to be haunted continually with the fear of 
being discovered. Still more difficult is it to find a 
time and place to drink. To do it publicly, is to be 
reckoned among the intemperate. To do it at home, 
is t o excite the constant fear, lest some visitor should 
perceive the alcoholic odour of the breath. To take 
peppermint essence, or cinnamon, or sweet flag, as 
some do, affords, indeed, a little security. But what 
If the effluvia of the spirit should i^t any time predoiib> 



160 

inate over the aromatics ! Worse than all this, the 
man finds, that so long as he refuses to practice total 
abstinence, the whole clan of drunkards around him, 
appeal triumphantly to his example ; seem to feel and 
treat him as if he were a brother, engaged in a com- 
mon cause with them, and lean on him as a support 
against the reproaches of conscience and the contempt 
of the world. Now he detests drunkards : and it is 
most mortifying to be thus dragged into their commu- 
nion ; to be saluted by them aa a leader and protector ; 
and then to find among the temperate and respectable, 
a half expressed suspicion, that he may not, in fact, be 
so far removed from these drunkards as he supposes 
But the sure way to avoid all this mortification, insult, 
and anxiety, is, while young, to come up to the altar 
of temperance, and swear eternal enmitj to alcohol. 

In the fourth place, literary men, by indulging in a 
moderate and occasional use of alcohol, expose them- 
selves, even peculiarly, to personal intemperance. 

Look at the men, who for the last thirty or forty 
years, have successively gone from our seats of learn- 
ing, to mingle with the community ; and enquire into 
their characters. Some of them occupy the high and 
important stations of trust and honor in our national 
and state governments; some sit in our courts of justice, 
as judges and expounders of the law : some are advo- 
cates in those same courts, to plead the cause of th€ 
injured and oppressed : some have devoted their lives 
to general literature, or the oversight of extensive mer- 
cantile, manufacturing, or agricultural establishments : 
some have become physicians, and some ministers of 
the Gospel : and among all these descriptions of char- 
acter, some, alas, not a few, are intemperate. 
' Now does any student feel as if he were in no dan. 



161 

ger, 8urrouDd«d as he is, by so many wrecks ? If 
splendid abilities, or correct morality, or hopeful pie- 
ty, or faithful warnings, or strong resolutions, or fer- 
vent prayers, could have saved them, these had not 
fallen : for it was not merely the stupid, the idle, and 
the vicious, that were ruined. But they were taught 
that they might safely linger about the dragon^s den, 
and admire his sparkling eyes, and party-coloured 
scales, and listen to his siren voice. And ere they 
were aware of it, his coils were twisted around them, 
crushing the powers of life ; and the poison of his 
fangs was rankling in their veins. As certain as like 
causes produce like effects, the youth of oar literary 
institutions, who are coming forward to occupy sta- 
tions of authority and influence, will fall, in equal num- 
bers, into the folds of the same monster, unless they 
use some weapon of defence wliich their predecessors 
never employed* That weapon, of heavenly temper, 
is total abstinence. Oh, it is madness to rush on, un- 
protected by this weapon, to that deadly spot, where 
the mightiest lie slain by thousands. 

Let the student recollect, that scarcely any other 
man in society is so peculiarly exposed to intemper- 
ance as himself. In the first place, it is very natural 
to seek relief, in the stimulus of wine, or ardent spirit, 
from the debility consequent upon vigorous mental 
efforts ; although the constitution is then in a very 
bad state to resist their influence. In the second place, 
literary men are peculiarly subject to nervous mala- 
dies ; and the depression of spirits accompanying them, 
receives a temporary relief, though an ultimate ag- 
gravation, from stimulants ; and the result of using 
them, most commonly, is confirmed intemperance. In 
the third place, the delicacy of constitution possessed 



162 

bj liUrary men, is sooner overcome by alcoholic 
poisons, than the coarser and more robust s(amina of 
the active and labouring classes. In the fourth place, 
men of the learned professions, the physician, the law- 
yer, and the clergyman, are more exposed than others, 
to those special occasions when it is customary to use 
alcohol. Civil courts of every grade, furnish one of 
these occasions ; and rarely are the temptations strong- 
er, or the defences weaker. Among the sick, alcohol 
is thought to be essential ; and there the physician is 
tempted to make up by stimulants, for the fatigue and 
sleeplessness of the preceding night ; and there the 
clergyman guards himself, as he supposes, against 
contagion, by the same means : and thus in spite of 
the loud warnings, uttered by the science of the one, 
and the religion of the other, they both become drunk- 
ards. Finally, if I mistake not, literary men — perhaps 
I ought to say all persons of sedentary habits — are 
more addicted than others, to smoking and chewing 
tobacco : and it is well known that tobacco, by rend- 
ering the taste of water insipid, inclines a person 
strongly to resort to ardent spirit. This is illustrated 
in the ^^ Confessions of a Drunkard,'*" who undertook 
to substitute tobacco for alcohol. ^^ The devil,'' says 
be, ^^ could not have devised a more subtle trap to re- 
take a backsliding penitent. The transition from 
gulphlng down draughts of liquid fire, to puffing out 
innocuous blasts of dry smoke, was so like cheating 
him. But he is too hard for us ; when we think to 
set off a new Ruling against an old infirmity, 'tis odds 
but be puts the trick upon u&« of two for one. That 
(comparatively,) white devil of tobacco, brought with 
him in the end seven worse than himself." 

*^ It were impertinent to carry the reader throo^h 



165 

all the processes bj which, from smoking at first with 
malt liquor, I took my degrees through thin wines, 
through stronger wine and water, through small puncht 
to those juggling compositions, which, under the name 
of mixed liquors, elur a great deal of brandy or other 
poison under less and less water continually, until they 
come next to none, and none at all. But it is hateful 
to disclose the secrets of my Tartams."* 

Oh, let the student turn his eye backward, and look 
at the almost countless wrecks of talent and genius, 
that are strewed over the ocean of intemperance. Se« 
iect a single example, if you will — say that of Bums, 
— and ask yourself, whether you would desire even his 
glory for your name, if it must also be loaded with his 
infamy! Let his epitaph, written by himself, sink 
deep into the memory of every youthful votary of sci- 
ence. 

The poor inhabitant below 

Was quick to learn and wise to know, 

And keenly felt the friendly glow 

And softer flame ; 
Bui thoughtless foUie* laid him low 

nAnd slain* d his name. 
Reader attend ! Whether thy soul 
Soar fancy^s heights, beyond the pole, 
Or darkliDg grubs this earthly hole, 

In low pursuit ; 
JTnotf, ftrudenl^ cautious^ sel/conlrql 

Is wisdom'*s tool, 

* An almost infallible attendant upon brandy, wine and to- 
bacco, is gambling ; and most cordially do I join in the earn- 
est wish of an able friend to temperance ^ ^^ O ! that 
every society for the suppression of intemperance, would shut 
out also thd>Tice of gambling — ^would banish it entirely ! Little 
gambling is like little drinking ; one degree leads on to anoth- 
er. All great vices hare iittle beginnings, and these little be- 
ginnings are what we are most cautiously to avoid. As these 
two vices then are so intimately connected while living, sep- 
arate them not in death, but bury them both in the same 
grave. And bury them deep too — pile high the earth upon 
them, that their noisome presence may. never cloud the pure 
light of virtue. ''^ Stceetse^'^s Address htfort th€ young men of 
Burlington^ March 24th 1830. p. 8. 



164 

I make my appeal, 

III. ON THE GROUND OF PATRIOTISM. 

Patriotism requires that the man, who loves his 
country, should shrink from no personal sacrifice, if 
he can thereby arrest some great national evil. How 
great an evil in this country, is the use of alcoholic and 
narcotic substances, will appear from a few facts. 

The amount of ardent spirit and wine annually 
consumed, by the 13,000,000 inhabitants of the Unit- 
ed States, cannot be less than 50 or 60 millions ofgxil- 
lons. This, at half a dollar per gallon, would cost 25 
or 30 millions of dollars. It is impossible to estimate 
exactly the amount of opium and tobacco unnecessari- 
ly used among us : yet their value can hardly be 
thought less than 5,000,000 dollars. Let us look at 
some of the injurious consequences resulting from such 
an immense expenditure, and from the consumption of 
these deleterious substances. 

1. From 300,000 to 500,000 persons are thereby 
made habitual or occasional drunkards. If each of 
these earns less per annum, by $100, than if he were 
temperate, the whole loss to the country is from 30 to 
60 millions. 

Some will say, that the country is not impoverished 
in this way, to such an extent ; because the distillation, 
transportation, and vending of these articles, amounts 
even to a greater sum. This reasoning would be sound, 
if the persons who distil, transport, and vend them, 
could find no other employment: but other em- 
ployments might be found ; probably no less lucrative. 
Suppose this to be done, and that each of the intem- 
perate were to earn $100 more per annum, than he 
DOW does. The wealth of ^he country would certain*- 
ly be increased by 30 to 50 millions of dollars. This, 
then, is the amount of its loss. 



166 

2. Bat a dead loss is not all. The drunkard does 
not merely die to society : he cleaves to it, like a gan- 
grenous excrescence, poisoning and eating away the life 
of the community. Three fourths of the pauperism in 
the United States result from intemperance ; and to 
support tills nnmher of the poor, it requires not lest 
than 8,000,000 of dollars. Three fourths of the crime 
in the country, originates also, from the same source. 
Alcohol lets loose upon the community, an army of 90 
to 100 thousand who live hy crime ; and their deprada- 
tions, apprehension, imprisonment, and punishment, 
must cost several millions. 

3. From 30 to 50 thousand individuals, aho?e the age 
of twenty, die prematurely, every year, in the United 
States, in consequence of the use of these suhstances* 
The profits of their labour, for the additional period 
they would have lived, if temperate, is a loss to the 
country, without compensation. Suppose they would 
have lived only ten years longer, and earned only ^100 
per annum above their support : this shows us anoth- 
er loss of 30,000,000 to 50,000,000 of dollars. 

4. There are other items in this account, which, 
though we cannot calculate their amount, must be large; 
such as the losses sustained by the fraud and careless- 
ness of intemperate agents and seamen, the casualties 
and accidents thence resulting ; the indolent habits ac- 
quired by the children of the intemperate, &c. The 
fium total of loss to the country, cannot be less than 
jj 100,000,000; and probably it is twice that amount 
Yet this sum is four times greater than the revenue of- 
the United States : it would construct 8000 miles of ca- 
nal, annually ; or more than 10,000 miles of railway : 
nay, it would probably connect the gulph of Mexico 

and the Pacific Ocean: it would support all the Colleges, 

15 



166 

Academies, and schools of every description, and all the 
clergymen in the United States : nay, it would send a 
missionary, to every 2000 or 3000 soals on the whole 
glohe : and it is fif^y times more than the annual income 
of all the benevolent societies of the age — But pecu- 
niary loss is not after all, the most alarming evil that 
follows in the train of intemperance. 

5. It is undermining the physical and intellectual 
character of our country. As a general fact, the two 
stand or fall together : at least, we cannot expect, that 
the intellect should long maintain itself erect, vigorous, 
and well proportioned, when the body is half in ruins- 
The giant minds of other days, whose names and works 
will make the deepest impression on future times, 
were lodged in vigorous bodies : and if some of these 
have been found in periods of eflfeminacy, it shows on- 
ly, that they withstood its deteriorating influence, in- 
tellect is not necessarily cultivated and strong, where 
there is vigorous muscular strength : but where bodily 
debility and effeminacy extensively pervade a nation? 
we never look for great intellectual achievements- 
Knowing what were the habits and physical energy of 
the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans, we are 
not disappointed to find the display of a correspondent 
mental power, such as their history exhibits. But 
modern Egypt and Italy are the last places to which 
we look for intellectual prowess. Poetry may, indeed 
kindle up her fitful lamp at the funeral pile of the 
body : but it is not the poetry of Homer, or of Milton. 

We have seen that the use of alcohol and tobacco 
tends powerfully to debilitate the constitution ; and the 
complaints, which they generate, descend hereditarily 
to posterity. Nor are these effects confined to the 
offspring of the habitually intemperate. These poi»- 



167 

oms, still regarded by multitudes as the elixir vitatt are 
working a slow, but fatal deterioration, in the constitu- 
tions of thousands, who would resent the charge of in- 
temperance with indignation : so that the influence has 
become truly national : nor is it among the feeblest of 
those causes, that are hurrying us fast away from the 
simplicity, purity, and the ^ysical and intellectual en- 
ergy, of our Pilgrim Fathers. 

6. The use of these substances is injurious to our so- 
cial condition. When writers wish to exhibit the cli- 
max of human misery, they introduce us to a drunkard's 
family. And truly, if there be any suffering absolute- 
ly without alleviation, from any human power ; any 
degradation below the brutes ; wc are presented with 
it in the drunkard's wife and children. Yet probably 
more than fifty thousand families in our country, are in 
a condition approximating to this. 

But the use of these substances, even in a moderate 
degree, has a most unfavourable bearing upon domes- 
tic and social happiness. The powerful excitement, 
which they produce, destroys a relish for the simple 
and noisless pleasures of home, and virtuous, temperate 
society ; and a love is created for places of public re- 
sort, such as the grog shop and the tavern. Here also 
men can indulge in that grossness of manners, which is 
the natural consequence of stimulants and narcotics, and 
which induces the dram drinker, the wine bibber, the 
smoker, the chewer, and snuff taker, to avoid the soci- 
ety of refined and virtuous females. 

Such men know very well, that no lady wishes her 
parlour fumigated with the smoke of tobacco, or the ex- 
halations of alcohol; nor her eyes disgusted with a vest, 
or cravat, soiled by snuff, or the dri veilings of tobacco • 
por her ears saluted by a voice, stifled with snuff, or 



168 

gfarrolous with the silly talk and indelicate innuendo^ 
produced by alcohol. These men, therefore, will be 
tempted to avoid the society of refined and intelligent 
females, and to resort to that of their own sex, where 
slovenly appearance and indelicate manners will meet 
with no reproof. Such a separation between the sex-* 
es, will exert a most pernicious influence upon the con^ 
dition of any people. It will create a relish for those 
grosser public amusements, such as theatrical exhibi- 
tions, circus-sports, horse-racing cock-fighting, bull- 
baiting, boxing matches, and gladiatorial contests, 
whode prevalence always indicates a diseased and sink- 
ing state bf society. He must be a blind man, who 
has not seen for some time past, a rapid progress in 
this country, towards such a condition. 

7. The use offhese substances is making havoc with 
the moral and religious principle of the country. You 
can see, in the man of settled religious principle, how 
even a moderate use of alcohol especially, blunts bis 
moral sensibilities, and lowers the standard of his ef- 
forts. And in the confirmed drunkard, you see the 
work of desolation made perfect. Who are the 
men that trample the most furiously upon the sabbath? 
whose mouths are open the widest in blasphemy? 
whose brazen fronts are foremost in the the legions of 
infidelity and atheism ? whose word is it that no man 
dare trust? whose bosoms are steeled alike against nar 
ural affection and moral emotion ? Who are the men 
that fill our prisons and penitentiaries ? the men who 
prowl through the land, for theft, fraud, and murder ? 
Oh, these are the men, who exhibit the genuine effects 
of alcohol. And who are the youth, that are begin- 
ning to learn the dialect of profanesess? beginnuigto 
scoff at the faithful reproofs of parents aqd friends, and 



169 

Sit the iDstitotioAS and principles of religion ; and are be. 
coming familiar with the gaming table and the brothel ? 
Oh, they are the young men, who are also addicted to 
the use of wine, brandy, and the cigar. And wherever 
jou go, you will find that just in the degree in which 
wine and brandy are admitted, will religion be driven 
out, and conscience stupified. This desolating meta- 
morphosis has already made fearful progress in our 
land ; and if learning, morality, patriotism, and re- 
ligion, do not unite to stop these destroyers, their his- 
tory may be given in the prophetic language of inspi* 
ration : A fire devoureth before ihem^ and behind^ ajlaine 
humeth : the land is as the garden of. Eden before ihem^ 
and behind them^ a desolate wilderness : yea^ and nothing 
shall escape them. 

Finally, ihe use of these substances threatens our 
liberties with ruin. We might as reasonably expect 
to see the palm tree flourishing amid the ice-bergs 
of the arctic regions, as liberty, either civil or relig- 
ious, existing, where the great mass of the people are 
ignorant and depraved. Now I have shown thatalco 
holic and narcotic substances, are weakening the phys- 
ical and mental energies of this nation, depraving our 
manners, and destroying the public conscience. Al* 
ready a fearful breach is made upon us at all these 
points. And if the enemy continue to be resisted by 
forbearance, and proposals of peace and* union, as he 
has been, the time is not distant, when not one stone, 
in the beautiful edifice of our independance, will be 
left upon another. Let the time come, when the elec- 
tors, who are under the influence of alcohol, in con- 
junction with those, who are ignorant and unprincipled, 
shall constitute a majority, and our libei'ties will be 
bartered for a dram* For what do the men care fet 

16* 



170 

national liberty, who have sold all their faculties into the 
most vile and oppressiye bondage, and who hare noth- 
ing to loose ? These are just the tools, which unprinci- 
pled leaders have always used for the destruction of 
free institutions : and they are already employed to an 
alarming extent, in our land. It ought to startle us 
to learn, that in our popular elections, he who can 
deal out the most whiskey, is not unfrequently, on that 
account, the successful candijjate ; and that in a ma- 
jority of cases, even temperate men take the tavern in 
their way to the ballot box, and thus unfit themselves 
as much for voting as for praying. 

Every true patriot, who looks steadily at this 
portentous cloud, that hangs with fearful aspect over 
our beloved country, and has already rained so many 
plagues upon us, cannot but feel, that all which we 
hold dear, as freemen and Christians, is in danger ; 
and with solicitude will he enquire, what efforts, what 
sacrifices can save us ? The «inswer is easy — the effort 
is easy — the sacrifice is easy. Let all the intelligent 
and educated youth in our country, abstain, henceforth 
and forever, from alcoholic and narcotic poisons, and 
try to persuade the community to do the same, and 
whatever other evils may destroy us, intemperance ne- 
ver will. So long as our free institutions exist, the men 
of education will control public opinion ; and when 
public opinion is turned into the channel of temperance, 
the work is done. In a free country like ours, ignor- 
ance cannot extensively, nor permanently, influence 
the public mind, until corruption has pervaded the ma- 
jority. Give me, therefore, the united opinion, and 
the united example, and the united efforts, of one gen- 
eration of educated men, and I will go forth with con. 
fidence to encounter the giant-monster Intemperance : 



171 

nod though hU height reach unto heaven, and he he- 
stride the land at a step, jet will I cut him down, and 
hew him in pieces, and the next generation shall see 
only his bones bleaching in the sun. 

Oh, joung men, it is a moral Themopylae in which 
you are placed; and the evils that threaten your coun- 
try, are more dreadful than the inyasidn of a Xerxes 
ivith his millions. It was a less urgent cause, in which 
the Bruti and the Gracchi offered up their lives. Nay, 
that was less urgent, which roused our fathers in the 
leVolutionary contest ; for what foreign yoke, what 
civil oppression, can compare with the bondage of in- 
temperance? And yet, the efforts and sacrifices you 
are called upon to make, are not worthy to be named 
in comparison with theirs. They shed their blood in 
lor rents to purchase your liberties and rights: Will 
vrni not deny yourselves the gratification of an unnatu- 
r»i appetite, to save the precious patrimony from de- 
struction ? 

In the contest with intemperance, it is incumbent 
t)|}on educated men to take their stand in the fore front 
<>{ the battle ; not merely on account of their stations 
in society, but especially because in times past, such 
Yi^.cn have done more than other classes to bring this 
vcoiirge upon the nations. The distinguished poets of 
aricieot and modern times have devoted their most 
< ;tj»tivating numbers to the praise of Bacchus. They 
)ra\o furnished the drunkard with his song, and the oc- 
cnf^ional drinker with his inspiring and elegant apology. 
Nor is it merely the poets of looser strain, who have 
<Jono this ; such as Horace, Anacreon,aod Shakespeare: 
l»wt even the grave and religious Milton, devoted a 
beautiful ode to celebrate the virtues of wine : And the 
sentiment advanced by Armstrong, was but an echo of 
the opinion of most physicians, before the present daj: 



172 

** We enrtc not wine, the Tile ezcen we blame.^^ 

This sentiment has been the secret root, that has nour- 
ished nearly all the intemperance in the world : for 
scarcely an immoderate drinker of wine, or ardent 
spirit can be found, who will admit that he indulges in 
the use of them to excess. True, he uses a greater 
quantity than he once did : but this he supposes ne- 
cessary on account of some change in his employment, 
or growing infirmities. To give a license, then, for 
moderate drinking, is in fact to license intemperance ; 
since no man is intemperate in hfs own estimation. 
Literary men, both by their writings and example, 
hare generally given such a license ; At least, it has 
been only here and there a retired philosopher, or 
physician, who has pleaded for total abstinence : and 
he has been regarded as an ascetic, or a dreaming vis- 
ionary. Educated men are under peculiar obligation, 
therefore, to come forward in one unbroken phalanx, 
and endeavour to drive back the vandal hordes of in- 
temperance. 

I ground my appeal, 

IV. Upon the principles of christianitv. 

But here I meet at the outset, an argument drawn 
from the Bible, in favour of using wine, and even ar- 
dent spirit. Our Saviour, it is said, has sanctioned the 
use of wine, by his miracle at the marriage in Galilee, 
and by employing it at the institution of the eucharist : 
and Paul has done the same, by recommending it to 
Timothy. Indeed, nowhere in the bible is wine pro- 
hibited to men generally ; but only its excess. Nay, 
in one instance at least, we find an express permission 
to the Jews, to use, not oply wine, but strong drink- 
One of the tithes, which they paid every second year, 
those living remote from Jerusalem, had liberty to 



175 

convert into money, anil having brought it to that city, 
the command was ; thou shall bestow that money for what 
thy sotd lusteth Sifter^ for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, 
or strong drink, or for whatsoever thy soul desireth : and 
thou shall eat there before the Lord thy God, and thou shalt 
rejoice, thou and thine household. Now it is difficult to 
assign any reason why God should prohibit that to a 
Gentile, which he permitted to a Jew : hence we may 
conclude, that wine and ardent spirit, in moderate 
quantity, may be lawfully employed in any part of the 
world. 

Concerning wine, I remark, in reply to this argu- 
ment, that a permission to use it in Judea, is a very 
different thing from allowing its use in the United 
States. For in the first place, the wine sold in this 
country, is, as I have already shown, a very different 
substance from that used in Judea, or any other coun- 
try where the grape is cultivated. Forty nine fiftieths 
of our wines are a mixture of.wine, cider, brandy, and 
sometimes the juice of berries, sumach, logwood, 
gpices aromalics, sulphur, and the leaves of plants, more 
or less poisonoub. In short, they are generally ardent 
spirit in a diluted form, disguised by substances hard- 
ly less injurious. To be permitted to drink the pure 
juice of the grape, which is the common wine of Ju- 
dea, is surely a very different thing from a grant to use 
such deleterious compounds. Indeed, let any one 
point out to me, if he can, the difference between us- 
ing brandy and water, and brandy mixed with wine ? 

In the second place, I remark, that in those countries 
where the grape is cultivated, the use of wine is equiv- 
alent to the use of cider in those countries Where ap- 
ples are abundant ; but where the grape does not grow. 
For they both serve as very common drinks in the re- 



174 

spective countries, where thej are produced ; and their 
intoxicating power does not differ very much, although 
wine,froro being more grateful to the palate, is probably 
drunk oAener to excess. The example of Christ and 
Paul, therefore, if it authorizes the use of wine in wine 
countries, merely authorizes the use of cider in cider 
countries ; and cannot, by any sound l(^c, give a li- 
cense to employ wine in cider countries ; especially 
since most of the wine there used, is an entirely differ- 
ent and most objectionable substance. Now if Christ 
had converted water into cider at the marriage, 
or if Paul had directed Timothy to drink a little cider, 
who would have thought this to be a license for the use 
of wine! Yet certainly the miracle and the advice 
amount to no more than this, when applied to this 
country. And it is worthy of the serious consideration 
of the Christian Church, whether they would not be 
conforming more exactly to the spirit of their Master's 
injunctions, were they to substitute cider for wine at 
the holy supper : or at least, see to It, that the wine 
they use, be not ardent spirit in disguise. 

As to any permission given in the bible to use ar- 
dent spirit, I remark, that the whole bible contains 
not a syllable concerning ardent spirit: and for this 
reason, that it was not known to exist till about nine 
hundred years after Christ, when it was brought to 
light by an Arabian chemist in the process of distilla-. 
tion. The strong drink several times mentioned in the 
bible, was merely a particular sort of wine, made from 
dates and various seeds and roots ;* nor is there any 
evidence that its intoxicating power was greater than 
that of the wine produced from the grape. 

' Jnhn^s Biblical Archsolo^ ^ 144, 



175 

Let us now enqoire, whether the principles of the 
bible demand total abstinence from the alcoholic and 
narcotic substances under consideration* 

These principles require us to avoid temptation. 
Now from 30,000 to 50,000 individuals in our land 
become sots every year, by moderate indulgence in 
these articles ; for this is the number annually requir- 
ed, to fill up the vacancies occasioned by death in the 
tanks of intemperance. And | have shown that liter- 
ary men are peculiarly exposed to this temptation. 
He, therefore, who neglects to secure himself against 
it, forfeits the promise of a divine protection ; and de- 
pends only o» his weak and treacherous heart, where 
he needs an angcPs holiness and an angePs strength. 

The great law of Christian benevolence requires 
us to love our neighbor as ourselves. Now we do 
not probably influence our neighbor's welfare and hap- 
piness so much in any other way, as by example. 
Hence, to continue ourselves to use even moderatelVi 
stimulants and narcotics, contributes to strengthen our 
neighbor in the same practice : and he falls a sacrifice 
to intemperance. It needed, perhaps, only our exam- 
ple of total abstinence, to have saved him from ruin : 
but that example was on the other side, and it helped 
to smother the cries of reason, and to repress the 
!hroes of conscience. No wonder the bible pro- 
nounces a woe upon him who gives his neighbor 
strong drink, and puts his bottle to him, and makes him 
drunken also. Let it be remembered, that this may 
be done by example, as well as in any other way. 

I know that the selfish heart will exclaim against 
self denial, merely for our neighbor's good. But very 
different is the spirit of Christian benevolence. If 
meat make my brother to offend^ says Paul, / will eat no 



176 

fUih whiU the world iiandeth; lest Intake my brother to 
offend. Indeed, according to this law of love, every 
fna» is guilty^ who euffers any evU to come upon hie 
neighbor^ which he could have prevented^ connstenily with 
other duties. 

That great branch of the law of love, which re^ 
quires that whatsoever we would that men should do to 
us^ we must do even so to them, leads us to the same con- 
clusion. What, then, is that man doing to others, who 
refuses to abstain entirely from the alcoholic and nar- 
cotic substances we have mentioned ? 

By his example, he contributes to uphold a practice, 
which brings an annual expense upon- his fellow coun- 
trymen, of more than 100,000,000 of dollars; and thus 
to reduce to extreme poverty and wretchedness, from 
50,000 to 100,000 families; and not less than 150,000 
individuals to pauperism. 

And to shut up 50,000 men annually in the debtor^s 
prison : 

And to send out 90,000 murderers, robbers, incen- 
diaries, theives, and the like, to make havoc in society : 

And to render from SOO to 500 thousand citizens ha- 
bitual drunkards : 

And annually to make a draft upon the temperate 
part of the community, for thirty or ^dy thousand re^ 
cruits, to fill up the wasting ranks of drunkenness : 

And to pour out upon the land , such a flood of cor- 
ruption and profligacy, as seriously to degrade, apd 
threaten with utter ruin, her social, intellectual, polit- 
ical, and moral character. 

Now is there any thing in all this list, which a maa 
would wish to have his neighbour do unto liim ? any 
thing that does not directly violate the law of Chris- 
tian love ? But this is not all, nor the worst : for the 



177 

fnaa who abstains not entirely from stimulants and nar- 
cotics, is giving the weight of his example In support 
of an evil, that sends prematurely into eternity 
from thirty to fifty thousand of his countrymen every 
year : that is, from 500 to a 1000 every week, or from 
seventy to one hundred and forty every day. 

Ah my friends, this part of the subject possesses a 
momentous interest, and takes hold upon the retribu- 
tions of eternity. For what is it to go into eternity, a 
drunkard ? Be not dtcevoed ; neither fornicators^ nor 
idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of 
ihemselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor 
drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit th§ 
kingdom of God. Oh, it is fearful responsibility to ex- 
ert «ven a feeble and remote influence, in thus precip* 
itating such a multitude of souls, ^* uncancelled, unao- 
annointed, unannealed,^^ upon the uncovenanted mercy 
of God ! Let no one forget, that human laws inflict an 
equal punishment on the accessary and the principal; 
and that the sanctions of the Divine Law are the same. 
How can he, then, who has been accessary to the 
drunkard^s ruin on earth, hope to escape the drunk- 
ard's doom la eternity ! 



16 



IBCTURB V. 



Liquids ; when and in what qvantitus necessary. Malt 

Liquors — Cordio Is — Cider — Coffee — Tea Toa^t 

Water — Gruel^ ^c. Milk. Solid Food; Eggs — Fish 

—Birds — Mutton — Beef — Lam b — Fea I — P^enison 

Pork — Fat — Grease — Oils — Butter — Cheese — Honey 
— Bread — Pies — Cakes — Puddings — Fruit — Esculent 
Roots — Pulse — Pickles — Salads — Cookery — Condi' 
ments. Concluding Remarks, 

Gentlcimen, 

The liquid parts of the humno body far exceed the 
solid in weight ; and they are, to sny the least, no less 
subject to waste and decay ; and therefore, need to be 
daily repaired. Hence the need of liquid food : and 
it is generally considered, that this should exceed the 
solid in quantity, as much as the liquidii in the sys- 
tem outweigh the solids. To supply this desideratum, 
is the object of that feeling called thirst, which is es- 
sentially distinct from the sensation of hunger. In- 
deed, the two rarely coexist naturally, in the same 
animal. But the habits of society are continually 
changing and perverting the course of nature. Hence 
men usually mix a large quantity of liquid, with their 
solid food. Where the latter is very dry and hard, 
indeed, it requires the dilution of a certain amount of 
the former, in order that the gastric juice may have 
free access to every part of the mass in the stomach. 
But when the quantity of fluid is great, this solvent is 
too much diffused to act with energy on the contentt 



179 

of the stomach. In weak stomachs, therefore, a fit 
of indigestion usually follows the introduction of much 
iiquid, along with solid food. And in general, the er- 
ror lies on the side of taking too much fluid. Afler 
the digestion has proceeded to a certain stage, there 
can be no doubt, that a repast, mostly fluid, such as 
water, milk and water, or tea, assists the process of 
chyliflcation. Hence there is a propriety in the 
common practice of taking tea a few hours after din- 
ner. And hence too, those act the wisest part, who 
take little or no drink with their dinner. But if a 
person confine himself almost entirely to water, ne- 
ver mixing any thing with it, unless it be milk, or su- 
gar, or molasses, or vinegar, and take a proper degree 
of exercise, so as to produce only natural thirst, there 
is little danger that he will drink too much. One 
great objection against the various narcotic and stim- 
ulant drinks, that are so much in vogue, is, that they 
excite an unnatural thirst, and destroy a natural one. 
** Many" says Dr. Faust^s Catechism,' " from not tak« 
ing suflicient exercise in the open air, and from drink- 
ing frequently large quantities of warm drink, lose all 
real thirst ; and from not drinking a suflicient quantity 
of cold water, their blood remains viscid, acrid, and 
impure." (p. 61.) 

The proper quantity of liquid food is about three 
or four pints per day : though the feeble should not 
take more than two or three. The quantity will ne- 
cessarily be greater in summer than in winter, and 
the laborious will need more than the sedentary. 
These are essentially the rules adopted by the train- 
ing gentry in Great Britain ; and we need not fear 
that thoy will be intentionally out of the way.* 

* Sure Mtsthods, &c. p. 67. 



180 

As to tbe temperature at irhicb oar drink and ts^U 
id food should be taken, tbe general rule is, tbat it 
sbould be very little above, or below, the beat of the 
blood; that is about 9B^ of Fahrenheit's thermometer* 
In winter, perhaps, water may be raised somewhat 
above this point, without injury ; and in summer, sudIe 
somewhat below it. But the habit of drinking tea or 
coffee, every day, at as high a temperature as can be 
borne, whether in summer or winter, is certainly very 
pernicious. True, the stimulus of such a potation 
produces a present relief, and a pleasurable state of 
feeling ; and it is by the immediate effects, that men 
In general judge of the value of food and medi- 
cine : hence you cannot persuade the nervous lady or 
gentleman, that their scalding hot tea does them any 
Injury : But the physician, who is obliged to listen to 
their woful tale of suffering, knows full well how 
their trials are aggravated by such a debilitating 
course ; although he may not perhaps distinctly de*- 
clare it to them, because he knows that that they will 
not believe him. 

Towards the zero end of the scale, is another dan* 
g^rous practice : I refer to the use of ice, to cool the 
liquids which are drunk in ver}' hot weather. Tbe 
numerous deaths that annually occur from the rash 
and abundant use of common spring water, when the 
body is heated, show how powerful are the effects of 
suddenly lowering the temperature of the stomach 
only a few degrees ! How must the danger be increas- 
ed, by introducing a fluid nearly at the freezing point! 
If immediate prostration of the powers of life do not 
follow, yet a benumbing shock is given to the system, 
from which it may never rise. 

Several articles of drink, mentioned incidentally at 



181 

the last lecture, such as strong beer, porter, cider, 
tea, coffee, &c. deserve a few moments more of ajt- 
tentiOD. Malt liquors are more used in Qreat Britain 
flian in any other country ; and by some are called 
vinum Brittanicum ; and by others, who extol their 
virtues, liqvid bread. Their effects upon the British 
soldiery are thus described by a poetical encomiast : 

** Your wloe-tipplin^, dram-sipping fellowi retreat, 
*^ But your beer-drinking Britons can never be beat.^^ 

Strong beer, ale, porter, small beer, and spruce beer, 
are included in the term, malt liquors. As to sm»ll 
beer, and spruce beer, there can be little objection to 
their use, except it be that they may occasion a dlsrel* 
ish for pure water, which has been shown to be the best 
of all beverages. Nor can it be denied, that strong 
beer, ale, and porter, possess some nutritious quali- 
ties, be!«ides the water that enters into their composi* 
tioD. But they do also contain so much alcohol as to 
produce Intoxication : and ip Great Britain, where 
420,000.000 gallons of beer are annually drunk, or 
more than 20 gallons to each inhabitant,* these effects 
are painfully manifest. Dr. Johnson says, also, that 
the use of malt liquors, is prolific in disease ; produc> 
ing corpulency, obesity, hebetude, vertigo, apoplexy, 
hydrothorax, and other diseases of the heart and the 
head. He, therefore, is hostile to their use, and de- 
clares that "the beer bibber has probably little reason 
to exult over the dram drinker." Other physicians, 
of eminence, however, commend them; not because 
they doubt that these effects do follow, but because 
come good accompanies the evil ; and they fancy that 
the use of ardent spirit is thereby prevented. In 

II III - ~"' 1 " I — ~ - II ' Til r 1 mm Mi— I ^m . ■ m^ pw i i ■■ i w, 

* Journal of Health, Vol. I. p. 27. 

It)* 



182 

other words, Ibej prefer the least e?iL Bot with 
yoang men of lilerarjr habits, soch an argniDent caa 
have DO force : for they oaght to desire to use those 
articles of food and drink, that are best adapted to pr0> 
mote their health, long life, clearness and vigor of 
mind, and ability to be useful ; and to accomplish all 
this, physicians agree that piKe water alone is the 
best beverage. 

To this point, it seems to me, students must ere long 
come: especially those who have consciences, and 
have adopted the principles of total abstinence from 
ardent spirit. There is no other stopping place, that 
will not Ieav6 them, with a narrow and slippery foot 
bolJ, upon th'e side of a precipice. They most give 
up cider, and perry, and porter, and metheglin, as well 
as strong beer, and all those flavored and most mis- 
chievous cordials, known by the name of liqtteun^ for 
similar reasons. To come at once to this natural and 
safe resting place of temperance, caa require no ve- 
ry painful self denial in the young, while they yet 
have vigor of constitution, resolution, and freedom 
from enslaving habits. ' Those more advanced in life, 
will struggle long with reason and conscience, before 
they will come to it. If they give up ardent spirit, they 
feel as if they bad made a wonderful sacrifice ; and 
they cannot believe buttbat their constitutions require 
some of those bracing and cheering beveniges. Well, 
let them have them, if they will: but let notour young 
men neglect to set a noble example on this subject. 
Oh, what a host of the genuine disciples of fiacon, and 
!Newton,and Franklin, and Howard, aad Edwards, would 
such a resolution, made by all in our seminaries of 
learning, raise up to bless the church and the world I 

The other articles to which I referred, as common 



183 

drinks, are tea and coffee. Whatever we may think 
of their quality, the qaantity of them consumed among 
men, is enormous. In all the world, not less, certain- 
ly, and prohahly very much more, than 150 millions 
of pounds of coffee, are used annually.^ In Turkey, 
France, and Great Britain, ahout .two thirds of a 
pound, to each inhabitant, are consumed. The con- 
sumption of tea in Great Britain, amounts to nearly 
23 millions of pounds per annum ; or one pound, 
two ounces, to each inhabitant In the United States, 
as an English writer computes, we use about as many 
pounds of tea as we have inhabitants; viz. 12 or 13 
millions: and two pounds of coffee for each inhabi- 
tant.? 

As to the influence of these articles upon health, 
there has been a great diversity of opinion, among the 
ablest physicians. In such a case, we are certainly 
safe in concluding, that they are by no means necessa^ 
ry to health or happiness. Indeed, the history of 
their introduction, goes to prove the same point. 
Cofifee cannot have been in use, even in the Eastf 
more than 400 or 500 years ; as no mention is made 
of it by the crusaders: and tea cannot claim an antiqui^ 
ty, out of China, of more than half that period. The 
greater part of the world, therefore, have lived and 
died without using tea or coffee ; nor were their in- 
troduction succeeded by any remarkable change in 
human life ; either lengthening it out, or cutting it 
short. Nor can it be denied, that the use of these 
articles affords a great deal of happiness ; and perhaps 

it tends to prevent some worse habits being formed. 

. — — * ■ ■ — - 

• Rees' Cyc. Art. Coffee, 
t See Joarnal of Health, vol. t. p. 27. and New York M*r* 
cury for January, 1830. • 



184 

AAer all, it must be confessed, that the bewitching in- 
flaence of these substances, lies in their narcotic prop- 
eties — the same principle that gives opium and tobac- 
co their attractions. They exhilarate the system, pro-* 
ducing a pleasurable g«oiv, and lessening nervoos ir- 
ritability. They do this in a less degree, than ar- 
dent spirit and wine : still, the exciting principle 
is essentially the same ; that is, it is a narcotic. As 
to the nutrition imparted by these substances, apart 
from the water, mill«, and sugar, with which they are 
prepared, although coffee may impart some, there is 
no more in tea, than in tobacco, opium, or ardent 
epiritr-that is, none at all. 

• From these facts, it might reasonably be inferred, 
that these beverages, if drunk in considerable quanti- 
ties, and strong, must be injurious to every dyspeptic, 
and to all of delicate nervous temperament, particu- 
larly females, who are chiefly confined to the bouse. 
And to the correctness of this conclusion, the most 
distinguished physicians bear abundant testimony. 

" From the experience which I have had," says 
Dr. Trotter, " in some thousands of these cases, (ner- 
vous maladies,) tinder all the variety in which they 
usually appear, I freely give it as my opinion, that 
the only means of cure, lie in a total abstinence from . 
every species of fermented liquor ; from every thing 
that bears any analogy to them, such as tea, coffee, 
opium, and all other narcotics."* 

Q. "Why are people, particularly women,'' asks 
Dr. Faust in his Catechism, " so fond of .tea and cof- 
fee f' 

A. " Because for want of exercise, they have no 

♦ Nervous Tcmpeiament, p. 2C8. 



185 

Dataral or real thirst ; and because they have been 
used to them from their iafaDcy.'^ 

Q. " What oaght to be the only beverage of chil" 
dren ?" 

A. "Pare, good, cold water, ought to be the only 
drink of children and young folks ; who ought to be 
prohibited from drinking beer, cofTee, tea, or other 
warm liquors." 

As to tea, Dr. Johnson, (not he of tea-drinking 
memory,) says, that " we may fjiirly set it down as 
contributing in no mean degree, to those derange- 
ments of the digestive organs and nervous system, 
which now meet our eye at e.very step."* 

" Coffee," says an able writer in the Southern Re- 
view, " painfully increases the arterial action, produ 
cing palpitation of the heart, &c. and in spite of all 
that has been said and written in its favour, is, we 
think, nearly as injurious to the dyspeptic as so much 
brandy. Tea acts on the nervous system, as is well 
proved, by its almost universal effect in producing 
wakefulness. They are both absolutely unnecessary 
to any one ; for if something warm must be taken, the 
distressed stomach will find a harmless succedaneum 
in milk* and water sweetened, or gruel."t 

" As guardians of health," say the editors of the 
Journal of Health, " we are bound to warn the feeble, 
the nervous, the dyspeptic, the hypochondriacal, the 
gouty, those whose hearts beat as if they would burst 
from their case on the slightest noise, or unexpected 
remark, the fretful and the capricious in temper, the 
delicate student, or man of letters — that strong tea and 
coffee are injurious and cannot be tolerated by them 

* Hygiene, p. 193. 

fFor August, 1829, p. 227, 



- 186 

♦ 

with any reg^ard to their bodil/ comfort and mental 
tranquility.'* 

In these extracts, young gentlemen, you have the 
opinion of several of the roost distinguished living 
physicians, respecting tea and coffee. Those of you 
who are in health, can now make up 3'oor minds as to 
using them. If at once you come to the resolution to 
abandon them altogether, depend upon it, you will 
not only avoid the danger to the health that attends 
them, but you will be rid of a most troublesome habit, 
and in the course of life, you will save a great 
expense : Nor, should feeble health be your portion 
hereafter, will you be compelled to abandon the habit 
of tea and coffee drinking, when it will belike cutting 
off. 4 right hand, or plucking out a right eye — a work 
few invalids have the courage to accomplish ; and so 
they go on, counteracting by strong tea and coffee, the 
good effects of medicine, abstemiousness and exercise. 
If any of you are iu feeble health, can you hesitate, be- 
fore it is too late, to listen to this most decided advice 
of distinguished medical men ; and by abstaining from 
these articles, rid yourselves of an insidious hindcrance 
to your restoration and happiness ? 

I am aware that I shall be rebutted here, by the ex- 
perience of nine tenths of the nervous ladies and gen- 
tlemen in the land. With one voice, they i^ill exclaim, 
that their evening cup of tea is as necessary to prevent, 
or cure, their he.idach, as food is to the nourishment of 
their bodies. I do not doubt this statement at all: but 
I say, if tea be a cure for their headach, it is also, most 
commonly, the cause of it. The truth is, their nervous 
system is out of order ; and when not under the influ- 
ence of unnatural stimulus, debility and headach come 
on, as a natural consequence. Now. by strong tea or 



187 

coffe,e, (heir nerves are stimulated, so as temporarilj to 
remove the debility and (he headnch : but as sood at 
the excitement is over, the system begins to sink again, 
and the headach returns; and resort must be had 
anew to the exhilarating narcotic. But the repetition 
of this process gradually exhausts the powers of life, 
and it is necessary that the stimulus, tliat is, the tea, 
should be stronger and stronger, and be taken more 
frequently, In order to produce the excitement requis- 
ite to carry off the headach. I believe this is in ex- 
act accordance with the history of every confirmed tea 
drinker. He, or she, requires it stronger and oftener, 
as long as the constitution holds out. How ^actly 
does this course resemble that of the drunkard ! And 
what is the diflferrnce between the two, except that 
tea does not so brutify the individual, nor so soon de- 
stroy life ! If the intemperate man abandon his cupt 
for a time, he wilt be beset with that terrific set of feel- 
ings, called the horrors : but at length they pass away, 
and nature moves on regularly and calmly ; and peace, 
and health, and happiness return. Just so, if the tea 
drinker gives up bis beverage ; he will find for a time, 
that dullness, debility and headnch are the conse- 
quence. Many, in such circumstances, conclude that 
this is certain evidence that tea is necessary for them, 
or very Siiiutary ; and they therefore, return to its use. 
But were they to persevere in their abstinence fqr a 
few weeks, or months, their morbid feelings would dis- 
appear ; and probably their headach would be per- 
manently cured. Although but little attached to teat 
myself, I may be permitted here to ^ay, that having 
drank it in early life in the morning, 1 found dull ner- 
vous headach no uncommon companion. About twelve 
or fourteen years ago, I ceased to drink it in the morning; 



188 

aod the consequence was, thai for one or two months^ 
all the early part of the day, I was afflicted with an al- 
most constant headach and heaviness ; which howev- 
er, gradually disappeared ; and since that time, head- 
ach has heen one of my rarest trials. 

But if I cannot persuade any that it is the part of 
wisdom wholly to abandon the use of tea and cofifee, 
while young — except perhaps in cases of exposure to 
wet and cold, or fatigue— let me at least persuade 
them io use the black tea ; and to avoid green tea as a 
poison. In this advice, all medical men, I believe, 
however they ma/ differ as to the general utility of 
lea, coincide ; representing " all green tea as exceed*, 
ingly pernicious, having a strong tendency to injure 
the stomach and bowels, and the whole nervous sys- 
tem,"* As to the cause of this so marked difference 
between the effects of souchong, pochong and bohea, 
which are the black teas ; and hyson, young-hyson, 
gunpowder, imperial, &c., which are the green teas ; 
it is difficult to explain it ; though it is said, that the 
prussic acid, one of the most deadly of all poisons, has 
been detected in the latter. But whatever be the 
cause, the effect is certain ; and the literary man, and 
the nervous invalid, and delicate lady, cannot use the 
latter class, without experiencing the most decided in- 
jury. Even where the black tea is used, the water of 
the infusion should be of good quality, a good propor- 
tion of milk nnd sugar should be employed, and the 
quantity taken should be very moderate, and less 
should be taken in the morning than in the evening. 

In view of these principles, it is greatly to he la- 
mented, that by far the greatest proportion of the tea 
used in this country, is green tea. Even the poorest 

^ t)ure Metkods, &c. p. 43. 



189 

families, — and tea is used in almost every hoyel in the 
land where a human heing resides — are satisfied with 
nothing short of the high priced green tea; souchong he* 
ing thought too poor for them,and bobea absolutely yile. 
But it is not among the poor and labouring classes of 
the community that green tea is most hurtful. It is in 
the every day coteries of delicate, thin-dressed, and 
tight-laced females, where it is served up in g^ant 
strength, that its ravages are most dreadful. The tea 
that is offered at most of the visiting parties in our 
land, is really more injurious than a moderate quantity 
of wine or brandy :' And yet, the advocates of total ab- 
stinence from spirit, who would feel exceedingly guilty 
to offer alcohol to their friends, are often found most 
devotedly attached to two or three cups of the strong- 
est infusion of Imperial, or Gunpowder, or Young Hy- 
son. Kay, if my observation does not deceive me, 
strong beer, and strong tea, are taking the place of 
ardent spirit with not a few. This might, indeed, be^ 
upon the whole, a desirable change : but after all, it is 
substituting one species of unnecessary indulgence for 
another; and the roan is still a slave, and may become 
a victim. The pernicious ciuitom is gaining ground 
among us, of having tea or coffee«served up with din- 
ner, as well as with breakfast and supper : and if I mis- 
take not, this practice is not uncommon, among minis- 
ters of the gospel, upon the sabbath. Their nerves 
must be stimulated, thus unnaturally, for the morning 
service ; and then again for the afternoon ; and in the 
evening, to save themselves from utter prostration. 
To say the least, this is a sure way to wear out the 
system prematurely : and for dyspeptics to take this 
course, is absolute suicide : and I could wish such men 
seriously to enquire, how much there is to choose, be- 

17 



190 

tween the excitement produced by the narcotic power 
of young hyson, and the stimulant power of wine or bran^ 
dy ? This is one of the temptations, against which, I 
would most solicitously caution the young man, who is 
aiming at the holy ministry. Oh, be temperate in all 
things, be holy, be heavenly minded, be men of prayer^ 
and you will need no such artificial stimulants. 

As to several other kinds of beverage, not in so com- 
mon use, in the place of tea and coffee, 1 have but a 
word to offer. The best substitute for coffee, scarcely 
to be distinguised from it, indeed, in taste, though des- 
titute of the narcotic qualities of coffee, is well burnt 
rye. It is recommended, also, in an economical point 
of view. Chocolate contains more nourishment than 
coffee, and is perhaps more wholesome. Cocoa is on- 
ly a weak chocolate, and therefore,- better for the sed- 
entary and the studious. Balm and sage tea are admi- 
rable substitutes for common Chinese tea; as is also 
the partridge berry ; particularly for persons of weak, 
nerves. " John*Hussey, of Sydenham in Kent, who liv- 
ed one hundred and sixteen years, took nothing for his 
hreakfast, for fifty years, but balm tea, sweetened with 
honey." But these articles are neither dear-bought, 
nor far-fetched : and therefore, but few will use them. 

Toast water, made by soaking toasted bread in hot 
water; Barley water, or a decoction of barley; and 
Gruel, which is a d ecoction of oatmeal, though in this 
country, the meal of Indian corn is often used instead 
of oats ; — all these, are mild, nutritive, and unobjec- 
tionable drinks; and after the stomach has learnt to 
relish simple, unstimulating diet, they are extremely 
agreeable to the palate. To these we may add warm> 
or rather hot water, with a little milk and sugar, as a 
harmless and salutary beverage, particularly in the wii^ 



191 

ter: and with such a list of substitutes for tea and cof- 
fee—all destitute of narcotic qualities — the temperate 
man, who gives up these articles, surely need not ap- 
prehend much of privation and suffering; and he will 
certainly gain much in comfort and happiness. 

Broths, soups, and beef tea, with a due proportion 
of solid aniuKil and vegetable food, are highly nutritious 
and wholesome. Persons of weak digestive powers, 
however, most commonly find that liquid food is dis- 
posed of by the stomach less easily than solid food: 
hence these articles should be taken by such, if taken 
at all, with abundance of bread. 

Of all liquid aliments, milk is the most valuable ; 
constituting the sole nourishment, for a long time, of 
all the mammiferous animals. It con^sls of a liquid 
portion and n solid portion ; the latter being less than, 
the former, probably in the ratio in which the animal 
system requires sojid and liquid nourishment. Tha 
gastric juice has the power of immediately separating 
the solid from the liquid portion, that is, the curd from 
the whey, by coagulation. Hence milk is scarcely ob* 
jectionable for weak stomachs on account of its liquid- 
ity ; unless it be in some very peculiar instances. 
Yet not a few invalids, and some even in vigorous 
health, have so educated their stomachs to something 
more stimulating, that this simple food oppresses them, 
and produces acidity, heartburn, and the like : and such 
persons forthwith conclude that milk does not agrea 
with them : Whereas, would they persevere in its use, 
either in its unchanged state, with plenty of bread, or 
converted into porridge, the stomach would in most cas- 
es be gradually restored to a more healthy state, and its 
morbid secretions, which were so hostile to milk, hav- 
ing disappeared, they would find this diet, particularly 



192 

for breakfast, of the most delicious and salutary kind; 
as multitudes have testitied, who for years have sub- 
stituted it for tea, coffee and meat. True, for a time 
there will be produced a sensation of faintness and 
weakness : and even if it should continue, such de- 
bility is by no means as dangerous to the dyspeptic, as 
the forced muscular enei^y, and the sense of satiety 
and fullness, that result from more stimulating diet. 
But in this gormandizing age, I fear I shall plead in 
vain, for a return to this simple breakfast — the delight 
of our robust fathers, and even now, the diet of some 
of the most vigorous and healthy inhabitants of our 
globe. But the sedentary and the literary men of our 
days, cannot^ as they imagine, be sustained without 
something more invigorating and nourishing. ^^ It is- 
amusing,'^ says the Journal of Health, ^^ to hear a ner- 
*T0U3 female, whose daily exercise consists in going up 
and down stairs two or three jtimes a day and shopping 
once a week, complain that she cannot preserve her 
strength unless she eats freely of some kind of meat, 
and takes her twice daily potations of strong coffee,to say 
nothing of porter, or wine sangaree." — "For the in- 
formation of all such misguided persons, we would beg 
leave to state that the lilge majority of mankind do 
not eat any animal food*, or so sparingly, and at such 
long intervals that it cannot be said to form their nour- 
ishment " Milk, however, is an animal product ; al- 
though it differs from meat, in containing no nitrogen ; 
and seems to hold a middle place between vegetable 
; and animal food. 

A late medical writer, in his Manual for Invalids, 
I recommends milk, as better calculated than any other 

, kind of food, for those who are predisposed to con- 

' sumption, ^' Milk," says he, " has been found to be 



193 

^tk istnimal fluid, affording the most tonic sustenance) 
with the least stimulating quality, of any thing that 
can he named,^^ The influence of a milk diet upon 
the mind is extremely salutary. Even as early as the 
days of Hom^r, we find him designating the milk eat- 
ers, not only as long lived, hut as the most upright of 
men: 

Whatever foundation there may he for this opinion, 
certain it is, that a diet chiefly of milk, does produce 
a most happy serenity, vigor and cheerfulness of mind; 
very different from the gloomy, crabbed, and irrita- 
ble temper, and io^gy intellect, of the man, who de- 
vours flesh, fish, and fowl, with ravenous appeiite ; 
and adds puddings, pies, and cake, to the load. 

Some persons, convinced in their consciences, that 
milk diet at one of their daily meals would be ser- 
viceable, yet too much wedded to their meat, or their 
coffee, to give them up, have undertaken to unite the 
two, in a manner highly r^reeable to a glutton's taste. 
After devouring their usual rations of meat, they take 
a bowl of bread and milk, to neutralize all the bad 
effects of their hearty meal. This is like loading 
down a cart with gravel, and then adding a few bush- 
els of apples to make the draught easier; or rather, 
it is like the intemperate man, \\ V.v very manfully spur- 
red his horse past the pubic house, where he was 
wont to stop for his dram, aiui tljeu immediately rein- 
ed him about, to go in and treat reset ntion. 

In speaking of solid food, 1 siiall be as brief as 
possible; only presenting the r.;s il' of general ex- 
perience, particularly of weak stom ichs, as to the 
digestibility and nutritive povv<M's of the different va- 
rieties. On this subject, howevii., there is no such 



194 

things as a universal rale. For a maQ^s stomach does 
sometimes digest an article of food, which in another 
condition, it could .not master. Early hahits, also, are 
to be taken into the account. * Thus, a medical writer 
says, that ^' a dyspeptic Irishman can digest a potato 
which would kill a Scotchman. So bacon and long 
collards might lie easy in the, bag of a Virginian, 
when they would raise a tempest in that 'of a New- 
Englander, whose stomach would rejoice in a sop of 
molasses that would turn the Virginian^s insides into a 
yinegarcask."* 

These remarks show us that the grand point in a 
system of dieting, is not to select certain articles of 
food, as indigestible, and others as digestible, and then, 
ever afterwards, to reject the one class a3 poisons, and 
adhere to the others as if they were sure to save life, 
and restore health, paying little or no attention to the 
quantity. Yet this is the whole amount of the diet- 
ing, of which manj' make so much noise. They would 
as soon commit sacrilege, a^ to taste of the proscribed 
articles — perhaps pickles, cheese, or fruit — while at 
the same time, they will cram down, pork, beef, gra- 
vies, puddings, pies, &c. enough to load a horse ; and 
all the while imagine, that they are wonderfully strict 
in their diet. But the truth is, there is scarcely any 
article of food that may not be digested with comfort, 
even by a weak stomach, provided the quantity be not 
too large. Hence, when a man is so situated, as to be 
under the- necessity of making a meal, from 7 dish 
which is very indigestible in his stomach, his only 
safety lies in taking special care that he does not eat 
too much of it. 

In respect to most articles of food, however, there 

* boulhern Heview, Aug. 1829. p. 225. 



195 

is a general agreement among those best qualified to 
judge ; I mean among persons of weak digestive pow* 
ers ; as to their agreement or disagreement with the 
stomach. 

In respect to digestion, we may place eggs next to 
milk, when they are lightly boiled, or for two minutes 
and an half. But boiled hard, or fried in the fat of pork, 
or bacon, we may place them next to pebbles. Fish 
hold a middle rank as to nutrition, between vegetables 
and warm blooded animals : and in a proper state, and 
properly cooked, several species are not difficult of 
digestion. Salmon, however, when salted, though very 
nutritive, is extremely indigestible. The same may 
be said of eels. They are too oily^and are said, like 
ail other oily species, to produce eruptions on the 
skin, which, in warm climates, are very troublesome. 
Hence the rejisonvvhy all fish without fins, were pro- 
hibited to the Jews, in the Levitical law. Of the shell 
fish, oysters are the safest : lobsters, muscles, crabs,&c. 
need the strongest powers of digestion to manage them. 
Upon the whole, every iavalid should be very cautious 
and sparing in his use of fish. " It is," says an able 
physician, *' a very precarious if not dangerous species 
of food in weak stomachs. Without butter, or other 
sauces, it is insipid ; and with these additions, it is poi- 
son.'"* 

Of the class of birds, the flesh of the common hen is, 
upon the whole, the best and easiest of digestion. 
The guinea hen, quail, common pigeon, and lark, are 
nearly as good. But to digest goose, requires a stom- 
ach of Herculean power. Ducks and all wild water 
fowl, are nearly as bad — and the turkey, especially 

*Murbid Sensibilit/. p. 113. 



196 

with its attendant stuffings and graTies, is not much 
better. 

The meat of quadrupeds mostly in use, is beef, mut- 
ton, Iamb, veal, venison, and pork. These contain a 
great deal of nourishment in a small space : and if we 
consider merely the comparative ease with which an- 
imal substances are decomposed, the flesh of quadrup- 
eds would be thought very easy of digestion. But expe- 
rience shows that it produces greater heat and irritation 
in the system — called by Dr. Paris " the digestive fe- 
ver" — than vegetables ; and hence it urges on the 
powers of the invalid too fast, and though it may give 
him temporary vigor, it weakens the digestive organs, 
and ultimately aggravates his complaints. Hence the 
necessity of mixing bread and other farinaceous food 
with meat : and hence too, the nervous and the feeble, 
except in peculiar cases, should be \^ery sparing in an- 
imal diet. Fresh meat, which has been kept as long 
as may be, without putrefaction, is undoubtedly far 
more digestible than pickled, salted, or smoked. Mut- 
ton is said to be the best of »tl these meats, so far as 
digestion is concerned: lamb is less valuable; and in 
general, "the flesh of young animals is less nutritious 
and less easy of digestion, than that of full grown."* 
Hence it is, probably, that veal is found to be so very 
unfriendly to weak stomachs. For tender beef, next 
to mutton, is perhaps best adaptod to such; and in point 
of nourishment, it stands, I believe, at the head of the 
list. The flesh of the deer, the hare, and the rabbit, 
little known in this quarter of the world, is said to be 
very digestible and nutritious. Pork also yields per- 
haps to no food in point of nourishment ; and is hence 

♦Sure Methods, p. 18. 



197 

well suited to persons who lead an active laborious life; 
but can hardly be considered wholesome for the sed- 
entary and jlhe literary, eyen. when their health is 
good ; for it produces obesity, disorders of the skin^ 
and foulness of the digestive organs. Salt pork is more 
unfriendly to health than fresh : and as to bacon^ it is 
so extremely indigestible and heavy, that it ought if 
possible to be avoided, except by the healthy and la- 
boring classes. The same may be said of beef that 
has been thoroughly salted; though that which is mere- 
ly corned, is more agreeable and salutary. 

In all those cases, however, in which the invalid 
cannot conveniently avoid partaking of such kinds of 
meat as salt pork, beef, bacon, and veal, there is one 
very safe rule for him to follow ; and that is, as already 
mentioned, to partake of it in so small a quantity, as to 
be sure of not overloading the stomach. Every man 
of feeble digestive powers, ought, therefore, to know^ 
in general, how different articles agree with his stom- 
ach ; that he may judge how much of each he can 
bear. He ought to know, for instance, that a man can 
bear about four times as much of milk and vegetable 
diet, as of meat* — and that one pound of roasted meat 
contains as much pourishment as two of boiled meat :t 
— and that ^^an ounce of fat meat affords nutriment equal 
to four ounces of lean.^^]; 

It is of great importance also for every man to know 
that fat and grease of all kinds, and the different 
oils, are among the most indigestible and dangerous of 
all articles of food. Hence all those preparations of 
flour, potatoes, bread, eggs,&c, that are baked or fri- 



* Cheyne on Diet and Regimen, p, 30, 
t Paris on Diet, p. 76 
t Paris on Diet, p. 1% 



198 

ed ID grease, or lard, are to be shunned by the invalid 
and the sedentary, and indulged in only by the athlet- 
ic hind, who does not, know that he has a stomach. 
Probajjly grease or fat, when burnt, stands at the head 
of allindigestibles. Yet 1 believe it is no unfrequent in- 
gredient of the diet of the sedentary. It comes upon 
the table if I mistake not, in the form of burnt 
pork, burnt spnre-rib, burnt goose, and turkey, &c. 
and some dyspeptic stomachs are in so morbid a 
state as even to crave the poison. 

From these remarks, in regard to the generally in- 
jurious effect of oils, fa(, grease, &c. we must except 
fresh, unmelted butter ; which, used in small quanti- 
ties, upon cold bread, is generally, though not always, 
wholesome. When melted, however, it clog^ and 
spoils digestion : and hence the wisdom of avoiding 
dipped toast. Solid butter, also, if used, as not a few 
do use it, in quantities almost equal to the bread which 
it covers, must be injurious : it ought to be regarded 
only as a condiment, to be spread as thinly as possible 
over the bread ; or else it should be abjured. 

Cheese is by far more hurtful than butter. It is 
very hard of digestion, produces constipation, and af- 
fords but little nourishment : and the most vigorous 
powers of digestion can alone grapple with it. If 
toasted, it is still worse. For the invalid to mix it with 
bread and butter, pye and cake, is suicidal. 

The most important articles of nourishment, derived 
from the vegetable kingdom, are those called farina- 
ceous ; out of which bread is prepared — a substance not 
unaptly denominated the staff of life. This is usually 
made from some sort of grain ; as wheat, rye, barley, 
oats, buck wheat, Indian corn, rice, &c.; and it may be 
prep ared from the potato, and several other roots, and 



199 

eyeo from chesnuls. In all these substances, there is 
more or less>, I belieye, of a macilaginoas, saccharine 
matter, starch, and what is called gluten ; all of v?hich 
are highly nutritious. Wheat is the most so ; and in 
general the best adapted for bread. That made from 
the finest wheat flour, called whiten in England, is, 
however, constipating, and the nutriment rather too 
much concentrated. .If a part, or the whole of the 
bran be left in the Hour, the bread, called in England 
wheaten and household^ is, for most constitutions, far 
preferable. The same is true of other kinds of bread: 
the coarser sorts being much the best. Brown bread, 
made of a mixture of wheat and rye, is said to be ex- 
cellent: ancf for those in health, that prepared from 
rje and indian corn, is salutary. That from rye alone, 
is more laxative than if made from wheat. Barley 
and oats are scarcely used in this country for bread, 
though very commonly employed for this purpose in 
Europe : but such bread is less valuable than that from 
wheat or rye. Rice and potatoes require the addi- 
tion of some flour, to render the bread made from them 
easily digestible. 

Leavened or raised bread, agrees best with most 
stomachs. Of unleavened bread, the sea biscuit, cal- 
led also sea bread, pilot bread, kc, and made of flour 
and water only, is the best; and is oAen extremely 
salutary to the invalid. The bread known by the 
name of crackers, in this country, is unleavened ,* but 
contains butter, to render it light and tender ; and is, 
therefore, more objectionable; though certainly not 
unhealthy. The common biscuit used among us, con- 
tains the same ingredient, and is also leavened. 

There is one rule in respect to bread, in which I 
believe all physicians agree ; and which nearly al{ 



200 

men yiolate^bat which is nevertheless of great conse- 
quence to the invalid and literary man : viz. not to 
use bread that is newly baked. Eaten just from the 
oven, and hot enongh to melt the butter that is pat 
npon it, it is lead in the stomach. Yet so depraved 
are most appetites, so educated to relish unwholesome 
articles, that the great mass of mankind eat their bread 
in this very state ; and loathe it,- when it has become 
stale. The student and the invalid, who habitually 
take their bread thus smoking from the oven, may be 
certain, that they are most effectually clogging both- 
mind and body. If they must eat it new, let them take 
the precaution to have it thoroughly toasted. Indeed, 
this is an important precaution in almost every case. 

Cookery has invented numerous other compounds, 
whose basis is some kind of flour. I am glad to say, 
that I am not enough acquainted with Dr. Kitcbener^s 
vocabulary, to enumerate the rarer varieties. But 
those most in use, are the various cakes, filled with 
lard and butter, and then Imcpersed in the same, while 
cooking over th^ fire : such as pancakes, slapjacks, 
nutcakes, &c. which are to be eaten while warm : 
next come the different kinds of pies, or pastry ; and 
last, and worst of all, the pound cake, sponge cake, 
loaf cake, bridd cake, &c.* All these are so com- 
pounded as to tempt the palate, aAer the stomach has 
taken enough of other food ; and, without exception, 
they are extremely hostile to health and comfort. In 

^ wm» ■■■ I »■ ■■ ■■■■—■■,■» ■■i w i ■,,.■..■■.■ ^m .■ ^ — - 

* The cakes, or mtuiacea^ of the Romans, so common after 
a rich entertainment, were composed ot meat, aniseed, cnoif 
min, and seyeral other aromatics ; and their object was to re- 
move, or prevent, the indigestion so frequent after a hearty 
meal ; whereas most of the cakes of moiiern times, are, as 
Dr. Paris remarks, " an excellent inYeniion {or producing ^ in- 
stead of curing indigestion.^' 



201 

this opinion physicians all a^ee. Dr. Paris, who as a 
writer on diet, is more fayorabie to the fuO liver, than 
almost any other, and who even seems disposed to yield 
not a little to the glnttonons habits of the l.ondoners, 
loses all patience on this subject. ^^ All pastry,'' says 
he, '' is an abomination. I verily believe, that one 
half, at least, of the cases of indigestion which oc- 
cur after dinner parties may be traced to this causjc.''* 

"Is it good," inquires the Catechism of Health, "to 
give children dainties, cakes or sweetmeats ? Am, 
No. Children are thereby rendered toofoud of their 
bellies, become gluttons, and degenerate from the 
dignity of their nature."! 

In direct opposition to such advice, it is the prac- 
tice of very many parents at this day, to suffer their 
children to cram themselves, particularly at meals, 
with all the indigestible varieties of pastry, cakes, 
hot and cold, and sweetmeats, which, they use them- 
selves : and when the child is carried abroad to visit 
a friend, it must be loaded with cakes and confection 
by the kind relative : And in this way, it is, that 
we all learn very early to crave rich and stimulating 
food ; and find it so hard to come back again to the 
plain and simple fare, which nature provides, and 
health demands. 

Puddings are among the articles of very doubtful 
utility for literary men. Those made from bread and 
rice, are the best ; those containing suet, the worst. 
In addition to their indigestible nature, they are com- 
monly eaten quite hot; swimming in butter and sugar, 
or some other seasoning, and taken after people have 
eaten as much of one dish as temperance will justify. 



* On Diet, p. 121. 
t Faust, p. 57. 

18 



202 

As to fniit, there are a few sorts that are salotarf^ 
if fally ripe, aod if eateo at breakfast, or dinner^ as a 
part of the meal ; the other food being proportionally 
diminished in quantity. The best fmits aie apples, 
pears, peaches, apricots, strawberries, raspberries, or- 
anges, and currants. Cherries, plums, olives, melons, 
cacambers, and all kinds of nuts, are very difficult of 
digestion : And to eat them, as some do, in addition to 
a full meal, or between meals, is ruinous to the healthy 
and poisonous to the invalid. Chesnots, walnuts, but- 
ternuts, filberts, and almonds, are particularly injurious, 
taken at such times. Not much better are raising 
prunes, figs, &c. 

Of the esculent roots, turnips, potatoes, and onions, 
are the best. Dry mealy potatoes, especially, are ca- 
pable of sustaining life, health, and vigor, alone, or 
simply with salt.* The sweet potato, though abound- 
ing in nourishment, is less digestible. 

From the potato is prepared most of the arrow root 
of commerce. This is essentially starch, as is also 
tapioca, sago, and salep. All these are very nourish- 
ing and digestible, if eaten with bread : and they are 
used advantageously, by people recovering from sick* 
ness. 

Pickles are mere vegetable receptacles for vine- 
gar. All the sedentary and literary will do we'll to let 
t hem alone ; unless directed to their use by .the physi- 
cian. 

All vegetables of the pulse«kind, of which peas and 
beans are the most common, are among the most un- 
wholesome articles of diet, for sedentary and lit- 

■ -, , rail "^^^^ 

♦The introduction and use of the potato into Europe, was 
resisted for two centuries, by the most yiolent prejudices. But 
after Louis XV had "worn a bunch of potato flowers in his 
coat, on a day of festivity, the people enthusiastically began to 
cultivate and use this root. 



203 

erary men : being not oolj indigestible, bat deficient in 
nonrishment 

Salads, lettuce, radishes, and most pot ^rbs, may 
be occasiouaUj ser? iceable, in small quantities, to those 
IB health : hot ner?oiis invalids will aloMst always 
suffer from their use. Radishes in particular, will an- 
swer only for the strongest stomachs, -^^arrots, pars- 
nips, beets, and cabbage, should be sparingly used, if 
used at all by such. 

By the art of cookery, the different alimentary sub- 
stances undergo veiy important changes. These are 
accomplished by the application of heat and water, or 
by the admixture of different articles. Aliments that 
sure roasted, retain more of their nutritive qualities 
than if cooked io any other way. By baking and stew- 
ing, they do not lose their nutritive powers, but are 
rendered much less digestible. Boiling extracts not a 
little of the soluble nutriment ; and it is said that arti- 
cles are thus rendered less proper for weak stomachs, 
than by roasting, or baking. Broiling is probably not 
inferior to roasting io rendering food salutary and nu- 
tritious ; and this is the mode of preparing meat for 
the athletic, while under the training process. Fry- 
ing is the worst of all the simple modes of cookery ; 
because it requires the use of oil, or fat, made boiling 
hot ; and thus rendered empyreumatic. Fryed meat 
is, however, less injurious than fried potatoes, or pud- 
ding, for weak stomachs. Of all common articles of 
food, those that are saturated with butter, or fat, while 
at a boiling heat, are the most pemiciotis. 

These simple processes of cookery are all that are 
essential to health and happiness. But these do not 
satisfy the craving appetite of gluttony. Food thus 
prepared, was soon found, by men in a luxurious state 



204 

of flocietjr, to be too mild, too void of stimolatiofl. 
The first resort was to the yarious kinds of seasoniBg^ 
called condiments. These are of five sorts : 1 The 
oiljr condiments, as oil, batter, cream, and fat : 2 The 
saccharine-condimeots ; sog^r and honey : 3 tlie acid 
condiments ; vinegar, and lime juice : 4 the saline con^ 
diments ; common salt and nitre : 5 the acrid condi- 
ments, or aromatics ; indading pepper, spice, cloves, 
nutmegs, cinnamon, &c : Of the first class, I have al- 
ready spoken — Of the second, I woald say, that sagar 
and honey are undoubtedly among the most nutritious 
of all substances. The nourishment, however, is in 
too concentrated a 8tate,to be used without a due admix- 
ture of bread, or other farinaceous aliment. Hence the 
nausea and uneasiness that result from eating these ar- 
ticles in any considerable quantity. The acid condi- 
ments, of which vinegar is the principal, are undoubt- 
edly serviceable, with some kinds of food ; and to the 
healthy stomach ; but few invalids can employ them 
with advantage. Among all these condiments, no one 
deserves so much to be recommended as common salt. 
This seems to be universally adapted to. promote the 
nutrition of plants and animals; and the want of it, is 
attended with most disastrous consequences. One of 
the severest penalties annexed to the ancient laws of 
Holland, was, that criminals should '^ be kept on bread 
alone, unmixed with salt.'' ^^ The effect was horrible: 
these wretched criminals are said to have been deyour- 
ed by worms engendered in their own stomachs.'' 
Salt may, indeed, be used in too large quantities ; but 
there does not appear to belong to it, any of those be- 
witching properties, that tempt so many to excess in 
other articles of food and drink. 
If such be the effect of salt, how happens it that salt* 



206 

ed provisions are so iadigestible ; and when used ex- 
dasivelj, produce the scuryy, and other painful disor- 
ders ? In the case of salted meat and fish, it may be 
replied, there seems to be a chemical change produc- 
ed in the meat and the fish, by their union with the salt, 
and thus their character, as food, is essentially alter- 
ed ; whereas, salt used as a condiment, produces no 
such change. And although our senses are not awaie 
of such slight differences, yet the stomach is affected 
by them, more than the most delicate chemical test. 
On the same principle, although the stomach immedi- 
ately separates milk into butter and cheese, yet in such 
cases, it digests these with far more facility, than when 
these substances, artificially prepared, are ej\teu. 

The aromatic condiments operate as stimulants up- 
on the digestive powers, and, therefore, furnish a tem- 
porary assistance to digestion ; just as brandy and wine 
do. But I cannot see Why these aroraatics do not pre- 
maturely wear out the stomach, just as alcohol does- 
Let every man, who is fond of stimulating food or drink 
of any kind, remember, that the momentary strength 
and comfort which they give, is to be succeeded by 
early prostration and disease. According to this prin- 
ciple, that literary and sedentary man conducts wisest, 
who uses least of the aromatic condiments. He, to be 
sure, will not experience the temporary glow and ex- 
citement of one whose system is braced up by a tonic 
diet : but he will enjoy comfort and serenity of mind, 
long after the other is in the grave. He must, how- 
ever, carry out this system, into every part of his diet, 
to experience such effects. For example, all the com- 
pound grayies, and sauces, made up, usually, of a mix- 
ture of different condiments, in which melted butter 
predominates — must be discarded by him altogether. 

18* 



206 

Not that it would be particularly injurious for him t<9 
partake of such articles in small quantities, occasion- 
ally : but if he partake sometimes, he will nerer know 
where to stop. In all cases, therefore, where an ar- 
ticle of diet is not necessary for health, or streng^h^ 
the literary and sedentary should make it a principle 
to discard it, even from their occasional bill of fare. 

I crave the patience of this audience, while I close 
the extended view that has been given of the subject 
of diet, by a few remarks, suggested by all that has 
been advanced. 

In the first place, let me conjure you not to reject 
the great, fundamental, leading principles, which I bare 
advocated,unless you can find authorities and arguments 
against them, stronger than I have adduced in their 
defence. I may have mingled minor peculiarities of 
my own with these principles ; and these, 1 would 
have you adopt, or reject, according to the evidence. 
But for the leading principles advanced, I have made 
my appeal to the highest medical authorities of past 
and present times, and to the known laws of the hu- 
man constitution. Now what I request is, that you 
would not reject these principles until you can find at 
least as many, and as good authorities and arguments 
against them, as I have given in their favour. In oth- 
er words, do not reject them because they are contra- 
ry to your own practice and feelings. Go to work as 
diligently as you please, to study dietetic writers, who 
have collected together the results of experience on 
these subjects ; and find, if you can, that my views are 
wrong, according to the testimony of a majority of the 
ablest of them ; and 1 shall very cheerfully acknowL 
edge my errors : Fut until you can do this, let not a 
love of high living, or the sneer of ridicule^ persuade 



207 

you to reject priociples which may be jour only secu* 
rity against sickness, imbecility, and an early graye. 

Secondly / if the principles which I have advanced 
be correct, we learn that Intemperance is a Monster 
far more hideons and gigantic in his members, than 
has been supposed. So frightful are tlie ravages of in- 
tempeiate drinking, that men. have been led to sup- 
pose that the whole power of the monster was there 
concentrated : But in fact, this is only one of his paws, 
which he reaches out from the place of his conceal- 
ment, in order to seize upon his victims. This sub* 
ject throws new light into his den ; and discovers to 
our view his other gigantic limbs, and terrible mouth, 
and mammoth bulk. I bid God speed to the resolute 
soldiers, who have gathered around his lurking place, 
sword in hand, and are attempting to cut off this paw; 
which U so busily and powerfully engaged in the work 
of destruction : Already several of the muscles and 
sinews have been severed, and the monster begins to 
feel the loss of blood. The entire amputation will 
weaken and cripple him still more. But let no man 
think that the battle will then be over. He will wake 
up with the power that desperation gives; and must 
be met and overcome by the power that religion gives. 

Thirdly ; the discussion of this subject shows us how 
groundless are most of the complaints made in our 
country, about hard times, the impossibility of paying 
debts, supporting families, and contributing to benev- 
olent objects. Most of men, who thus complain, are 
the very persons, who are expending nearly double 
every year what is necessary, for unnecessary and high- 
ly injurious articles of diet. They can hardly make 
out a meal, unless three or four varieties of food, and 
a quantum of the strongest tea, or coffee, are before 



208 

them. Clogged as thej are bj this worse than need- 
less extra expense, and incapacitated as thej are for 
the Tigoroos prosecution of bosiness, bj excess in eat- 
ing, it is no wonder that thej find it difficult to keep 
their expenditures within their income. But let them 
only adopt those rules of diet, for themselres and fam- 
ilies, which experience and the best physicians point 
out, as most calculated to promote health and happi- 
ness, and they would find their temporal concerns 
most astonishingly blessed. Instead of complaining of 
the hard times, and the difficulty of supporting their 
families, they would be contloually praising God for 
casting their lot in a part of the world, where their 
facilities for obtaining the comforts, and even luxuries 
of life, are unexampled ; and where by honest indus- 
try and economy alone, they can not only do this, but 
obtain a surplus for meeting in a liberal manner, the 
various calls, which learning, bcoeTolence, and reli- 
gion make upon their charity : and besides this, have 
something lefl as a reserve for future exigences. 

i am aware, indeed, that it requires the spirit of a 
martyr, for any individual at the present day^ to adopt, 
and carry through, such a system. Public opinion will 
ridicule his fanaticism on this subject, if he be not re- 
garded as deranged ; and his conscientious simplicity 
of living, will be branded as narrow minded parsimo- 
ny : and he will be in danger of being cast out, with 
bis family, from respectable and even religious socie- 
ty. His best friends will affectionately urge him not 
to starve himself and his family, and try to make him 
believe, that his children will be despised for the pe- 
culiarities of their father ; and as soon as they are 
out of.the reach of his excessive restrictions, will give 
a loose to all their desires, and become dissolute. Ua- 



209 

less a mao, therefore, is prepared to meet all these dfF' 
ficalties, (aad nothing but strong religious principle, 
and daily prayer, can prepare him,) he had better not 
make the attempt. Alas, how few there are, who as- 
pire to the honour of tliis martyrdom ! But it will not 
be always thus. 

Fourthly ; the discussion of tliis subject shows vm 
from whence the means are to be deri? ed, for civ* 
ilizing and Christianizing the world. 

They are to result from the prevalence of temper* 
ance. In the first place, this will furnish men for the 
work. When children shall be brought op according 
to strict temperance, and shall persevere in the sr^'*^ 
course through life, there will be little more compumii 
about debilitated constitutions tfnd feeble health : nor 
will acute diseases but seldom cut down suddenly the 
most vigorous and useful of men : But they Vill live 
until natural decay shall remove them ; that is, at a 
medium, until seventy years old. Certainly this will 
add twenty or thirty years to the present term of life : 
and it will add more than this, to the period of useful- 
ness : because we need not make so much allowance, 
as we now do, for sickness and premature debility. 
The same number of men, therefore, under the reign 
of temperance, will do much more in the mighty work 
of renovating the world, than they can do, under the 
influence of the present habits of society. 

Is this all imagination ? Or does the language of 

. prophecy teach us the same ? Speaking of the latter 

days, Isaiah says : there shall be no more thenee an in^ 

fant of day$^ nor an old man that hath not filled his days: 

for the child shall die a hundred years old : but the sinner^ 

being a hundred years o/d, shall be accursed. And they 

shall build houses and inhabii them ; and they shall plant 



210 

vineyardi and eat the fruit of them. They shaU nol buUd 
{ind another inhabit ; they shall not plant and another 
eat : for as the days of a tree are the days of my people^ 
and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands, 
CertaiDly thi« passage describes an importaDt addi- 
tion to the term of life in latter times : in this world 
too, because sinners are here spoken of. And if we 
seek for natural causes to account for such a result, 
how exactly does temperance answer the reqjusite 
conditions. 

But the progress of temperanpe, in respect both to 
drink and ibod, paves the way for the progress of true 
p^*?. Hence temperance will be the means of quali- 
i^&g many more young men to be ministers and 
missionaries. And since its general preyalence 
will render unnecessary many branchies of bus- 
iness, now extensively pursued, more and more 
youth can be spared for the benevolent work of carry- 
ing civilization and science to their ignorant and be- 
nighted fellow men. 

Temperance will also furnish the pecuniary means 
for this work. Our benevolent societies now find it 
extremely difficult to procure money enough to carry 
forward their operations on a very limited scale. But 
were only their present contributors to adopt the 
principles of temperance, they might enable these 
societies to enlarge the sphere of their labours in an as- 
tonishing ratio. Admitting that the 800,000 profes- 
sing Christians in the United States, constitute these 
contributors, or are equivalent to them as to number, 
and the following estimate must be regarded as very 
moderate. 

The pecuniary expense of ardent spirit in this coun- 
try, cannot be put less than one hundred millions of 



211 

dollars annually. Divided equally upon our thirteen 
millions of inhabitants, it will gire eight dollars 
to each individual. Suppose that professors of 
religion expend only one third as much as the arerage 
sum for this article ; an'j the 800,000 would, by total 
abstioence, save $'i,136,000. 

Suppose each of these individuals, by reducing the 
quantity of his solid food one half, could save ten dol- 
lars per annum. The whole amount saved would be 
$8,000,000. To this ought to be added at least 
^4,000,000 more, for the unnecessary dbhes, and 
sweettneats, cakes, froKs, &c, with which friends and 
and parties are regaled.. 

Tobacco, cigars, and snuff, at one pound for each 
individual, (about the quantity consumed in England) 
and at twenty cents per pound, amounts to 160,000 
dollars.* 

Tea, at one pound for each person, at one dollar 
per pound, ^800,000. Coffee, at two pounds each, and 
thirty cents per pound, ^480,000. 

The whole amount is not far from fiAeen millions ; 
or thirty times more than the income of the charitable 
and benevolent societies in the United States in 1829. 
To this might be added, could it be estimated, a largo 
sum, saved by the influence of temperance, from the 
ordinary expenses of sickness. Another large amount 
also, for the addition to life, resulting from the same 
cause ; and the consequent ability to enlarge the pe- 
cuniary stock above the present standard. Nor should, 
it be forgotten, that a speedy and natural consequence 
of rigid temperance, would he, toiead to an immense 
reduction of those extravagances in dress, furniture, 



* See Journal of Health, p. 27. 



212 

and equipage, which e?en exceed the the excesses of 
Christiaas io eating and drinking. All these items 
must more than douhle the amount mentioned above ; 
which the thorough practice of temperance would set 
at liberty, for the service of the Lord. 

Tills, then, is the enormous annual tax, wliich 
Christians in this country pay, for feeding the maw of 
intemperance. Let this monster be starred, and all 
this might go to hasten forward the conversion, civil- 
ization, and salvation of (he world. Oh, it is a matter 
of joy, that such vast resources can be poured so easily 
into the streams of benevolence — making healthier, 
and happier, and richer, those who give; and imparting 
peace, and joy, and eternal blessedness, to those who 
receive ! And if the present comparatively small num- 
ber of professing christians in our land, could do so 
much, what might the great mass of the inhabitants 
accomplish,' were they too, to become temperate and 
devotedly pious! One hundred millions annually, they 
could have at their command, by total abstinence from 
ardent spirit: another hundred by temperance in eat- 
ing ; twenty or thirty, by abandoning hurtful narcot- 
ics ; and more than double the whole of these items, 
by a reasonable reduction of extravagancies in dress, 
furniture, and equipage ? Carry your thoughts farther; 
and suppose these principles of temperance to prevail 
among all Christian nations ; and surely you have the 
means in your hands for the complete renovation of 
this wretched world. Jet all this, may Christians 
hope to sea, in millenial times. And who knows, but 
the temperance movement in our land, is the grand 
instrument, which God means to employ, to bring about 
such mighty and glorious results I 

If there be any approximaUon to truth in these prin- 



213 

ciples and inferences, Oh what constraining motires 
are here presented to the educated youth of our coun- 
try, to adopt the principles of temperance, in their 
widest applications ! What a mighty influence upon 
the destinies of our world, might the youth, even in the 
literary seminaries in this place, exert, if they could 
he persuaded, early and effectually, to incorporate 
these principles with all their hahits, and be seen mov- 
ing on, in an unbroken phalanx, in the holy war against 
intemperance. Oh, the light and influence, which 
they might thus send out into the world, and down to 
posterity, would not, like other emanations proceeding 
from a centre, spread and increase in the slow ratio of 
the square of the distance and the time ; but in a ratio 
flo high, that the quadratics of the millenium could 
alone express and resolve it. 



19 



£B0TV11B VX. 



PART If. RE6I91E3Y. 

ExEBOiaB : its comparative importance. Case of Dr, 
Dwight. First^Second'-' Third — Fourth — Fifihr-- 
Sixth — Seventh — and Eighth Rule concerning Exercise 
-^Conclusion, 

In commencing this lecture, Gentlemen, I enter ap^ 
on the second principal branch of my subject, that is. 
Regimen. I have already stated what I shall consider 
as included in this term. : viz. Exercise, Air, Clothing, 
Cleanliness, Evacuations, Sleep, Manners, and the Influ- 
ence of the Imagination and Passions upon health. I am 
aware that some of these points cannot be arranged un- 
der regimen with logical precision : and ihat the term is 
oflten used by good writers to include attention to diet< 
But there is a convenience in grouping together these 
subjects under this head ; nor am I without good au- 
thority in so doing. Indeed, this term, signifying in 
general, a rule^ may be applied with a good deal of 
latitude. 

The most important branch of regimen is Exercise* 
And because I have urged the subject of diet with 
great earnestness and minuteness, let no one conclude 
that I am about to represent the other means of pre- 
serving health, and curing nervous maladies, as com- 
paratively unimportant. I have already stated, and I 
wish to reiterate the declaration, that attention to diet 
alone, however rigid, will not avail as a substitute for 



215 

exercise, or the other rules of regimen; either to pre» 
serve health, or restore it. In many protracted cases 
of dyspeptic complaints, especially, persevering system* 
atic exercise, takes the lead of all other means for 
recovery ; and will succeed when dieting utterly fails. 
Hence Mr. Ahernethy says, " he knows of no rem- 
edies for these complaints, hut air and exercise.'' 

To evince the necessity of attention to exercise, 
as well as diet, even for the most vigorous constitutions, 
we have an instructive example in Dr. Dwight of 
Yale College, while he was a tutor in that institution. 
He reduced the quantity of food, first to twelve mouth- 
ful^ of meat at dinner, and then to the same of veget- 
able food; his other meals being proportipnably light ; 
neglecting at the same time, nearly all active exer- 
cise. Within a year, his constitution was almost ru- 
ined. But by removing to Northampton, and there^ 
in the course of another year, taking upwards 2000 
miles of pedestrian exercise, and 3000 of equestrian, 
liis vigor was restored and held out for forty years.* 

The inquiry will here probably be started, how is it, 
that many of the German scholars are able to sustain 
such long continued application to study, with so little 
exercise ? I reply, that their vigorous constitutions, 
their early training to coarse and temperate diet, their 
perfect regularity, and perhaps more than all, 
their climate, do, indeed, enable some of them al- 
most to mock the rules of regimen : yet probably 
their application and neglect of exercise have been 
much exaggerated. At any rate, if Germans can live 
without exercise, Americans cannot : and he who at- 
tempts it, will only add another victim to the long cat- 



* See Dwighti Life, prefixed to his Theology, p. 13. 



216 

alogue of those in our country, who hare ignorantlj 
or presumptuously tried the experiment, aod found, as 
the consequence, an -early g^ave. True, they may 
hold out for a few years : but the seeds of disease are 
germinating in their constitutions, and will ultimately 
flourish with fearful luxuriance. The discerning eye 
reads in the pale and dull countenances of all such 
individuals, the secret workings of internal decay. 

At this day, however, there is scarcely any iadivid- 
ual among the sedentary and the literary, who doe9 
not acknowledge, in general terms, the necessity of 
exercise. Now and then you will find one, indeed, 
who has the vanity and presumption to believe that 
he shall not fail^ in repeating the experiment of Dr. 
Dwight: and that his genius is of so extraordinary a 
character, that it is his duty to devote all his time to 
study, lest the world should be cheated of some of the 
fruits of his mighty intellect. Very few, also, have 
any accurate or just notions of the quantity of exer- 
cise they need, or of the time and manner in which it 
should be taken. Hence half enough is not taken ; 
and much of the other half, is productive of injury in- 
stead of benefit. We need not wonder, therefore, at 
the multitude of pale cadaverous countenances, that 
are seen at our colleges and preparatory schools. 

My object at this time, is, to collect and define those 
general rules on the subject of exercise, which the 
experience of physicians and others have established; 
or in which the great majority are agreed. There is 
even less of disagreement on this subject, among those 
best qualified to judge, than upon dietetics : and since 
I need pot stop to prove the necessity of exercise, I 
trust I shall be able to dispense with much of that 
prolixity, which seemed indispensable in treating of 
diet. 



217 

The first established rale id respect to exercise, is, 

THAT IT SHOULD BE REGULAR. 

Some stadents thiok it sufficient, ifooce a week, or so, 
they break away from their books, and spend half a day, 
or a whole day, in laying in a stock of exercise for 
the week. But this will answer scarcely better, than 
to eat enough every seventh day for the intervening 
six. Just as the food would oppress the stomach, so 
will such exercise exhaust, rather than strengthen, 
all the powers of life. Nature attempts to conform 
her operatirns to our habits : and if we make sudden 
transitions from long repo«c to protracted muscular 
effort, she has not become habituated jo it, and suffer^ 
violence; because she hd? been endeavouring for some 
time to accommodate her movements to a state of rest. 
The processes o[ digestion, assimilation, -und secre- 
tion, must daily go forward, in order to keep the sys- 
tem sustained. Now the great object, of exercise, is 
to assist in carrying on these operations : and, there^ 
fore, exercise will be needed every day, as much as 
food. 

Some may enquire, whether it be proper to exercise 
on the sabbath ? In itself considered, there is surely no 
violation of the divine command to keep the sabbath 
lioly, in taking so much exercise, of some kind, as will 
render a person most fit for a due observance of the 
day. But if one man is in the habit of riding, or walk- 
ing abroad on that day, however pure his motives, his 
example may have a bad effect upon those who do not 
understand how it is, that he needs exercise, when 
rest is their surest method of collecting their thoughts 
and directing their minds to religious objects. Hence 
the student, and even the dyspeptic, had better make 
it a rule to avoid, as much as possible, exercise in pub 

' 19* j 



218 

lie OD the Lord^s daj ; unless medical prescriptioo re- 
quires it. As a substitute, they can make some mus- 
cular efforts within doors, that will answer the pur- 
pose in a measure : These in-door exercises^ however, 
should be of such a nature, as to show that nothiag 
but necessity, or a sense of duty, induces a man 
to perform them. If a man saw wood, or work at some 
mechanical art, it gives too secular an aspect to his ef- 
forts, and they will have a bad influence upon his fam- 
ily or friends. But if he walk briskly through an 
open hall, for aa hour, or swing a chair, or other 
weight, a hundred times, every one will see that he 
does not exercise for the sake of pleasure or profit. 

Another expedient will help the conscientious man 
very much in this matter. Let him take a great deal 
more exercise abroad on Saturday, than on any other 
c'ay : for although this method will not furnish him 
wi)h a supply of exercise for the week, yet, if the 
constitution be accustomed to regular, daily exercise, 
an increase, in the quantity on the sixth day, will 
strengthen the system for resting on the seventh. In- 
deed, the rule, which the Israelites were directed to 
observe in regard to collecting manna, may be a good 
one for the Christian, in respect to out door exercise. 
They were obliged to collect a quantity' of it every 
morning, only sufficient for that day ; except on Sat- 
urday, when they gathered double the usual amount; 
and this sufficed ttiem for the Sabbath, although, in 
any other case, it was good for nothing but a single 
day. 

There is another circumstance of great importance 
in respect *to this point. Let the man who would pass 
his Sabbaths pleasantly and profitably with little ex- 
ercise, remember that he should be peculiarly abste- 
mious in bis diet on that day, eating much less in 



219 

quantity, and less of stimalating kinds of food. Nay, 
some recommend actual fasting as a most valuable 
means, not only of avoiding the evils I have spoken 
of, but likewise as purifying the system from the ef- 
fects of any excesses of the past week, and strength- 
ening it against any that may be committed during 
the one which the Sabbath commences. At any rate, 
they certainly do not observe this rule, who eat more 
on the Sabbath than on any other day \ which I fe«r 
is the case with very many : nor those who live on 
vegetable food the early part of the day, but devour 
animal food enough at night, to gorge a Polyphemus. 
In urging the necessit}' of regularity in exercise, I 
would by no means be understood as discouraging the 
student from the salutary habit of occasionally taking 
a larger amount of it, than is usual; breaking away, 
for example, for a day or two, from his books, and 
climbing the distant mountain, or in some other way, 
escaping beyond his daily circle of occupation and 
thought. This exerts a most -salutary influence upon 
the system and upon the mind, if not carried too far, and 
indulged in too frequently, until the control over the 
mind is lost, and a roving, discontented, indolent dis- 
position is acquired. But a certain amount of daily 
exercbe must ncrt be dispensed with, however fre- 
quently these occasional efforts can be made. And 
ordinarily, it is best, as far as convenient, to devote a 
certain portion of each day to this object ; not suffer- 
ing any thing else to interfere with, or encroach upon, 
a period, which is probably of more importance to 
the scholar than any other part of the twenty-four 
hours. Indeed, as old Cbeyne has justly remarked, a 
man should " make exercise a part of his religion." At 
least, every student ought to make it a point, to fail 



220 

DO oftener ia this daily exercise, than he does in his 
regular meals ; since his digestioo requires the excr^ 
else, as much as his stomach does the food. Could I 
persuade you rigidly to adhere to this directioo, I 
should Dot fear many failures. For ia general, 1 be- 
lieve, students need no monitor^s bill to make them 
punctual at their boarding houses. 

The second rule respecting exercise, is, that it 

SHOULD NOT BE VIOLENT, OR EXCESSIVE. 

This rule is particularly important for the invalid 
of delicate habits. Very many such, having heard, in 
general, that exercise is the grand panacea for the 
feeble, conclude that the more they take of it, the 
better. Hence they rouse up from a state of inaction, 
and exert all their energies at once, until the frame 
becomes exhausted ; and instead of the recovered 
health and strength which they had expected, they 
find themselves prostrated by actual disease. Where- 
as, had they commenced very moderately at first, and 
every day added a little to the quantity of their efforts, 
their system would gradually have gained strength 
and firmness; and ere long", they might have perform- 
ed wonders in their corporeal exertions. The grand 
point, then, seems to be, to begin moderately, and 
not to carry exercise so far as to produce extreme fa- 
tigue and exhaustion. And yet do not cease your ef- 
forts, until you feel fatigue in a moderate degree. 

This same .caution is necessary for the healthy, 
who have not been accustomed to much active exer* 
cise. Particularly dangerous is this sudden violence 
of effort in the spring, when the motion of the blood 
is accelerated by the genial warmth of the season ; 
and when, therefore, too great exertion may produce 
effects suddenly fatal, or lay the foundation for distress- 



221 

Ing and incurable diseases. On this groand, it was, 
that Galen, one of the most celebrated physicians of 
antiquity, inveighs against the Gymnasium : And if 
caution was requisite in this species of exercise, 
among the athletic Greeks and Romans, it is certain- 
ly not out of. place, for the debilitated constitutions 
and sedentary habits of modern times. I do not con- 
deniu this species of exercise, so much celebrated in 
our day ; but I say, that caution should be used in its 
early stages ; and that a student should begin with its 
most simple and least violent movements, and proceed 
slowly through the prescribed course. In this way, 
the constitution may be gradually brought to endure 
with impunity, the roost severe and protracted labours. 
This is shown by the great hardiness, acquired by 
those classes in society, who are brought up from their 
earliest years, in habits of the most laborious industry. 
The student may sigh, because the vigor, which he 
sees them exhibit, cannot be his : but let him never 
attempt to compete with it, until he has gone through 
a similar preparatory discipline. 

Let not these remarks be misapplied to the justifi- 
cation of the indolent voluptuary, who begins to com- 
plain of debility and exhaustion, ere his exercise is well 
begun ; and who would consider it intolerably cruel, to 
prolong his walk,or ride,till real fatigue came over him. 
I am only urging caution at the beginning of a new 
course of exercise ; for when the system begins to feel 
its bracing influence, it is all important that the quan- 
tum be increased, until the healthy medium, between 
laziness and excess, be attained. In particular, let no 
one, who has the direction of children, endeavour to 
curb their natural inclination for active and almost con- 
stant motion. Until the age of ten or twelve, they 



\ 



222 

should be permitted to pursue their little sports as 
much as possible in the open air, scarcely interrupted 
by tasks of any kind ; unless their books, and other 
means of improv Aient can be made a part of their 
amusements. The ambition manifested by many par- 
ents, to exhibit their young children as prodigies of 
learning, and their consequent efforts to confine them 
to their books for an unreasonable length of time, is 
generally repaid by a sickly boyhood, and bodily and 
mental imbecility in manhood. But let the child be 
allowed in its early years to follow the promptings 
of nature, as far as possible, in respect to exercise, 
and vigor of constitution, bodily and mental, will be 
the rich reward. I dwell on this subject, because 
here is the fruitful beginning of a large part of 
the feeble health, that now meets us at every cor- 
ner. Very few mothers have any just ideas con- 
cerning the physical education of their children. So 
fearful are they, lest they should be exposed to the open 
air, or should lose their delicate complexions under a 
meridian sun, or become rude in their appearance by 
running abroad, or soil their nice clothes in the dirt; 
that they must be sedulously kept within doors, most 
of their time ; and even there be restrained from every 
active movement : and thus, erelong, they become as 
delicate and white as the porcelain ornaments around 
them : and almost as frail and void of mind. Alas, this 
is no caricature : the original is seen on every side : 
it is seen in the nervous lady of eighteen, and in the 
pale faced pedant of the literary institution. 

But my business at this time, is with those, who are 
acting for themselves, in respect to re^men. And in 
regard to the extent to which their exercise, while 
in tolerable health, should be carried, there is rather 



223 

a qaaint role giren by writers, which is not an useless 
one, viz : « that the lean should exerdse ad ruborm, 
that is, till the body and spirits aPe gently heated ; for 
that will help to fatten them : and the fat, ad ndortm, 
that is, till they perspire ; for that will help to reduce 
them ; 9nd consequently extenuate the body."* 
The third rule on this subject, requires, that utera- 

Bir AND SEDENTART MEN 8H0UI.D DEVOTE 8EVERAI. HOURS 
EACH DAY, TO EXERCISE IN THE OPEN AIR. 

The quantity of exercise which it is proper for a 
man to take, is the most important point relating to 
the subject ; and yet, it is not possible to be veiy defi- 
nite in pointing out the quantity. However, we know 
.hat there is danger of erring by taking too little, 
rather than too much. And the shortest time, which 
mil answer for the preservation of health, is two 
hours per day in the open air. It is far better to de 
Tote three hou« to this object ; observing the last 
rule, not to exercise violently or excessively. Indeed 
those individuals, who have derived the greatest ad! 
mteges from exercise, have more commonly extend- 
ed their out-door efiorts, their walks, or their rides 
or their gardening, or their herborizing, to four hours.' 
This has enabled them to walk from 6 to 10 miles • 
or to ride from 10 to 12 : but it is better to limit our 
exen:«e by time, rather than by the space gone ver 
becau,e,by the latter rule, we shall be very apt '; 
compress into one hour, i„ order to save Ume, thosi 
efforts, which should employ two or three 

belt! ?r* " '7 '°"" '^^ "-<=««. ^J'ouW not 
be taken at once ; but rather at two or three times 

<lunng the day; though it is better to have 7Z 

* Sur« Methoda, p. 160. 



224 

times fixed, ia order to ayoid a temptation to omit 
them. 

I do not doubt that many who hear me, will be 
amazed that I make so large a demand upon their 
time for exercise ; and will be conscious, that in times 
past, they have given only a small moiety of four 
hours daily, to this object Nay, it is my belief, that 
if they were to make an honest confession on this 
subject, not a few would say, that a hasty moyement, 
three times a day, from their studies to their boarding 
houses, has constituted the principal part of their ex- 
ercise, since they commenced study. And they proba- 
bly fancy, that in this way, they have gained a great 
deal of time for study, which others have lost in un- 
necessary exertion abroad : whereas, in fact, they 
have most unquestionably lost time abundantly. For 
if there be any fact clearly establbhed, in relation to 
this matter, it is, that a man, who devotes four hours 
daily to exercise, will make more progress in study 
in one hour, than he could do in three, with only one 
hour's exercise. Without sufficient exercise, the 
movements of the animal machine are heavy and la- 
boured, and the mind is clogged in the same propor- 
tion : and ere long, both become feeble and inefficient 
in their operations. The difference, indeed, between 
the movements of the mind with, and without exercise, 
is as great, as between the movements of a clock, 
clogged and groaning with friction and dirt ; and one 
newly oiled and cleaned ; with every pivot, wheel, and 
pin, in place. The true way, therefore, for a student 
to gain time for literary pursuits, is to devote, without 
grudging, these three or four hours per day, to giv- 
ing strength, and freedom, and lightness of play, to the 
numberless wheels, and delicate cords, and levers, and 



225 

s^prings, that make up his corporeal system. Aerugo 
cnimi — rubigo ingenii^ says Seneca : and Plato calls 
him a cripple, who, hy neglecting this bodily disci* 
pline, cultivates bis mind alone ; suffering the delicate 
machinery of his system to rust and sink into decay, 
through sloth and inaction. He may seem to be rear- 
ing up a luxurious crop of the flowers and fruits of 
learning : but he may rest assured, that like the pro- 
ductions of the greenhouse, they will be wanting in 
vigor, in delicate colouring, in just proportions, and in 
ripeness. 

Again would I repeat, to those who hear me, that 
to give these three or four hours per day to bodily 
exercise in the open air , is a point of the last impor- 
tance to their health of body and mind. Consult the 
history of the most distinguished literary men that 
have lived ; except, perhaps^ that of some anomalous 
German literati ; and yoa will find that such was their 
practice ; and that they impute to it, their chief abil- 
ity to accomplish so much as f hey have done. In vain 
is it to adhere rigidly to an abstemious diet, and to eve* 
ry other rule of regimen, if this be neglected: for the 
student has no security against disease and premature 
debility. Nor, indeed, ought be to expect any tym- 
pathy in his fallen state, if he will not lirleo to the 
voice of experience on this polnL For however va- 
rious may be the opinions of distingnl«bed phyKlcSami 
and other writers, on other parts of this subject, here, 
so far as I know, they are unanimous, from Galen and 
Pythagoras downwards. To disregard their testimo- 
ny, therefore, is a mark of most diiiguvtingself cooceft 
and presumption. For any one to do thi*, who pr#>- 
fesses to be devoting himself to lilerary ptjr««iiU. Ufr 
the sake of promoting the Divine Glory, is worte ihau 
folly ; it is criminal. 

20 



226 

* But I doubt not, that the members of this college^ 
and of most other literary iastitu lions in the land, will 
enquire, how is it possible for us, consistently with an at- 
tention to the required routine of study, and other in- 
dispensable requirements, to find three or four hoan 
each day, to devote to exercise ? I confess I must an- 
swer, that Ihardly know. In the words of the Secretary 
of the American Education Society, in his able address 
on the uniQp of study with useful labour — " the truth 
is, that the founders and governors of most seminaries 
of learning have made no positive provision whatever 
for taking exercise. Their laws and regulations are 
silent in regard to it'' — I fully agree with him also, 
in saying, " there must be a change in this respect. 
Instructors and overseers of literary and professional 
schools, must give to exercise a prominent place : they 
must make room for it in the regular employments of 
each day; and throw the whole weight of their in- 
fluence into the scale in favour of it."* 

Does any one enquire, how college duties could be 
80 arranged, as to accomplish this important object? 
I reply, though diffident of my opinion, in either of 
the following modes. 

Retaining the present number of exercises per day, 
I would have morning prayers at 5 o'clock in the sum- 
mer, and at 6 o'clock in the winter ; and breakfast an 
hour afterwards — the intervening period being allow- 
ed, for exercise. Immediately after breakfast, or from 
7 to 8 in the summer, and from 8 to 9 in the winter, 
I would have the first recitation-: then an hour for exer- 
cise ; then study hours, from 9 to 1 1 in the summer, and 
from 10 to 12 in the winter : then a second recitation, 

■^■— — ^» ■■■'■— ■ — - - ,■ ■ ■ ■ 1 1 I ■ — ■■■■■■■ —^1^—, I mm ^ ■■ ■ I ■ - 

'Quarterly Register, Sec. No. X. p. 60. 



227 

from 11 to 12 in the summer, and from 12 to one In 
the winter: next the dinner hour from 12 to one in 
the summer, and from one to two, in the winter. From 
2 to 5 in the afternoon, should be study hours, in the 
Summer ; and from 2 to 4 in the winter : the hour 
from 4 to 5 in the winter, and from 5 to 6 in the summer, 
shouk) be devoted to exercise : evening prayers at 6 in 
the summer, and at 5 in the winter : tea immediately 
following : then recitation commencing at half past 7 in 
the summer, and at half past 6 in the winter. From 8 to 
9 in the winter, a study hour. This plan provides for 
three periods of exercise, during the day, of an hour 
long ; and at the most favourable seasons in the day* 

The other plan proceeds on the supposition that 
only two recitations he required per day — prayers 
and meals being at the same times as mentioned in the 
first plan. The first recitation should come in after 
breakfast, as in the first plan, only allowing an hour 
and a half for its duration ; the second recitation im- 
mediately before evening prayers ; occupjdng, also, 
an hour and un half. Dinner at 12 through the year : 
hours of exercise, before breakfast, immediately after 
the forenoon recitation, and after tea in the evening. 
'Study hours to commence in th^ afternoon at 2, and 
continue till recitation ; from 8 to 9 in the summer, 
in the evening, and from half past 7 to 9 in the win- 
ter, might be study hours. 

I am aware that neither of these plans is free from 
difficulties and inconveniences. But it seems to me 
to be a settled point, that some change must be 
effected in our colleges, in respect to the time al- 
lotted to exercise. 1 cannot believe that the guar- 
dians of these institutions will rest satisfied with the 
presej}4 system much longer. A correct public opin- 



228 

idn is beginoing to form on the subject^ which must 
be reg^arded. And who, in the com muni ty, are more 
likely to adopt any regulations, which reason and ex- 
perience call for, than the high minded and libera) 
mc^n, who make laws for our literary institutions ? I 
have no prejudice in favour of the plans I have sug- 
gested : I only say, let us have something, which will 
g^ve to every student the most favourable opportuni- 
ties for deriving the greatest possible advantages from 
exercise, so that he can blame no one but himself, if 
he neglect them. Almost any system that can be 
proposed, has fewer difficulties, and objections than 
that which prevails, 1 believe^ in at least all the New- 
England Colleges : and, therefore, my conscience 
would not rest esjisy until I had borne testimony againsl 
it. But until it shall be altered by the proper autbority, 
we are all bound, I say, to submit to it. We may reason 
and petition against it ; but let no man lift a finger of re- 
bellion, to throw it off violently. Even while it is irv 
operation, students can so manage their time, as to 
find three or four hours daily for exercise ,* though not 
I confess, at the most favourable period. But let them 
make strenuous efforts for doing this, and they will 
find their reward mo«t ample. 
The fourth rule respecting exercise, is, that it should 

PRECEDE, RATHER THAN FOLLOW, MEALS. 

This rule is as old at least as Hippocrates ; for we 
find him saying, o novog airov eyeeadw — let exercise pre, 
cede food. The other ancient philosophers^ whose 
views in general, were much more correct, concerning 
diet and regimen,tban on most otber subjects, understood 
this principle. At least, an extract from Cicero will 
show that the practice of Socrates was conformed to it, 
— SocrtUem ferunt^ cum usque ad vesperem GoMentim 



229 

(Imbulartt^ qaesituinqtAe estet ab eo, quart idfaceret^ res 
pondisse^ se^ quo tnelius eoenaret^ opsonare ambulando fa- 
men.* 

The practice of nearly all animal, nature bears tes- 
timoDj in favour of this nile : for most animals indulge 
in rest, if not in sleep, immediately af\er eating. And 
such rest greatly assists the work of digestion. The 
experiment was tried upon two dogs, that were fed 
with equal quantities of food. One of them was im- 
mediately taken to the chase, and the other suffered 
to lie down in his kennel. At\er a little more than two 
hours, both were killed ; and while digestion had 
hardly commenced in the stomach of the dog, that had 
been violently running ; in the other, it was almost 
completed, so (ar as the stomach is concerned. Every 
ttian, also, must hare noticed, that when called to ex* 
ercise violently, immediately aAer a full meal, partic- 
ularly afler dinner, the digestive process has been 
greatly impeded. The same effect likewise follows 
upon vigorous mental efforts, soon after hearty meaUr. 
Moderate exercise, however, at that period, is not 
much injurious to the healthy : and the experiment 
with the dogs, only shows, that violent exercise is in- 
jurious. On the other hand, the constant practice of 
the active classes in society, who return to their tasks 
soon after the heartiest meals, proves, that moderate 
systematic exercise, is not to them, particularly injuri- 
ous ; tbough sedentary, and particularly feeble per- 
sons, should be cautious in drawing inferences as to 
what they can do, in respect to eating and drinking, 
from the habits of those,whose whole employments are 
calculated to invigorate their digestive and ftssimilat- 



* Tusc. Dis. L. 6. 

20* 



230 

iog powers ; and concemiog wbom the dyspeptic caiw 
not but often exclaim with Horace ; 

O dura meisoram 
Ilia ! 

Upon the whole, we may coDclade, thut every Dte* 
rary man should endeavour to gain a few moments at 
least, immediately after eating, for rest of body and 
mind ; to the invalid this is indispensable, it is more 
important after dinner, than other meals, because the 
others are, or ought to be, comparatively lights Yet 
if we have not overloaded the stomach, we need net 
greatly fear, if called forthwith to moderate exertion; 
though all violent efforts are then uudoobtediy injuri- 
ous. But habit, in respect to moderate exercise after 
eatiog, will do wonders : and in most cases, that indis- 
position to exertion, and drowsiness, which are felt 
aAer meals, result from excess in quantity, or quality : 
Indeed, where we cannot account for this state of feel- 
ing from previous fatigue^ we may be sure this is the 
cause. 

A few hours after eating, however, when the food 
has passed from (be stomach and small intestines into 
the blood, an instinctive desire for exercise succeeds ; 
and that is the fittest period, both for bodily and mental 
effort. Hence the reason of the rule under considera- 
tion. In the morning, before breakfast, in the fore- 
noon, before dinner, and previous to tea, are, therefore, 
the very best times which we can devote to exercise : 
and we ought not to suffer the fabt^ that these are also 
the best periods for study,, to induce us to monopolize 
for the mind, the whole of ftiat time, which Provi- 

m 

dence intended should be divided between *the mind 
and the body. If we do, we may rely upon it, that the 
body will ere long claim its dues with compound in- 
terest. 



231 

Persons of very feeble health, however, ought here 
to be cautioned against too protracted efforts in the 
morning. An hour previous to breakfsist is abundant- 
ly sufficient for such, to be spent in the open air: And 
indeed, in some cases, the physician will advise that 
exercise at this period, be wholly omitted. The 
healthy, and even the invalid, who is well enough to 
be comfortable, however, need not fear the morning 
air, even at the earliest dawn ; nor need they fear, oc- 
casionally, to protract their morning walk beyond an 
hour. The bracing influence of morning air, has al- 
ways been celebrated : but not overrated. It is nature's 
grand restorative tonic ; and ordinarily Uie only one, 
that should be used by the nervous invalid. 

Immediately after breakAist, is no very unseasona- 
ble time for exercise, wliere, as in - our colleges, the 
hour previous is devoted to other duties. Indeed, in 
summer, this is a far better time than the hour just 
before dinner. For the oppressive heats of the mid- 
dle of a summer's day, should, if conl^enient, be avoid- 
ed. At this season too, a walk after tea, is preferable 
to mid-day. exercises, if it be not prolonged into the 
the damps and chills of the evening — which are even 
worse for the health, than the burning heats of noon. 

From this view of the subject, we see that the old 
poetical rule, as to exercise and rest, has some founda- 
tion in truth : 

After dinner, sit awhile; 
After sapper, walk a mile. 

It ought to be remarked, before proceeding to the 
next rule, that exercise before meals, particularly if 
it have been fatiguing, ought not to be protracted to 
the moment of sitting down to our food: because all 
exhaustion of the system, renders the stomach inca- 



232 

pable of grappling with food. It is well, therefore, 
to rest for a short time previous to eating, if one be 
(atigaed : though it Is the in?alid, who is chieflj 
coocemed in this remark. 

The fiAh rule recommends that Some inteesbting 

OBJECT OF PURSUIT, OR AT LEAST, HARHricaS DIVERSIOir, 
BE ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BZOtCISE. 

The man, who goes abroad to his exercise, as to an 
unpleasant task ; who does it merely because he thinks 
he cannot lire without it, might about as* well cleave 
to Ills studj, till he became fixed to the spot, like a 
zoophyte. ^^ Task exercises,^^ says a lively medical 
writer, ^^ under which denomination may be included 
all those which are resorted to merely for the sake of 
muscular exertion, bear pretty much the same rela- 
tion to health, as the csistigations of ihe penitent do 
to piely or virtue.'^* The fact is, the miod must lie 
turned off from itsordinary routine of thought, at the 
same time that the body is put in motion, or the lat- 
ter will receive very little benefit The mathemati- 
cal or metaphysical chain of reasoning must be thrown 
aside, when a man leaves his study, as much a^ his 
bootcs on these subjects ; and amusing, and altogether 
different ideas, must succeed — ideas ihsX neither pall 
by their dullness, nor fatigue by their abstruseness. 
Hence the great advantage of an agreeable friend, to 
attend as in our exercise ; one, who will divert by 
the versatility of his mind, not one, who will harass us, 
by starting and following out some difficult discussion. 
Hence too, the advantage of so arranging our wallas, 
or rides, as to present before us -the greatest po^hle 
variety of objects, that will be likelj to piDdace the 



■ See Joarnal ofHealth, p. 151. 



233 

qaickesl saccession of heterogeneous ideas. Hence a 
great advantage in riding over walking. Hence too^ 
the solitary wood is one of the most unfavorable plac- 
es for exercise ; though it may be the most favorable 
for serious and profound thought. If, however, a 
man have a taste for natural history, no solitude, no 
desert, no mountain, can he traverse, where he will 
not find variety enough to excite a continually renew- 
ed interest; and that too, of the most lively, though 
not agitating kind. And here, in my opinion, is one 
of the greatest advantages, resulting from a taste for 
this pursuit, among literary men. So numerous and 
varied are the minerals, plant?, and animals, that me^t 
us, even in our daily walks, that it will require many 
years, before they will all become so familiar as to 
cease to amuse and instruct. And that Interest, when 
it is awakened in the bosom, is of the most absorbing 
kind ; so that even the sluggish invalid will entirely 
forget his maladies, as he is hurried on by the spur of 
cariosity, through the deepest glens and morasses, and 
up the most craggy mountains. The dyspeptic here 
forgets his stomach and his forebodings ; and not a few 
of such have I known, brought back to life and useful- 
ness, by these pursuits, after years of prostration and 
misery. I hope, therefore, it will not be imputed to 
undue partiality for my own department in this Insti- 
tution, if I urge the cultivation of a taste for natural 
history, as one of the most effectual means of render- 
ing exercise salutary ; and thus preparing the man for 
more vigorous mental efforts. I might urge it on the 
ground of the pleasure it affords, were I to permit my 
own experience to be judge : For I can truly say, that 
during many years of feeble health, no pursuit of a 
merely worldly character, has afforded me such real 



234 

unmixed enjoyment, and none appears upon the re« 
trospect, so innocent and delightful, as the many ban- 
dred rambles I have taken, through every variety of 
soil and location, in the prosecution of these studies* 
And often in the warmth of myenthusiasm and delight, 
have I expostulated in the language of Beattie, with 
those, who could see do beauty, and derive no pleas- 
ure, where I was continually feasting : 

" Oh how c^Dst thou renounce the boundless store 

Of charms, which Nature to her votary yields I 

The warbling woodlands, the resounding shoro. 

The pomp of groves, and garniture of fields ; 

All that the genial ray of morning gilds. 

And all that echoes to the song of even, — 

All that the mountain's sheltering bpsom shieldS| 

And all the dread magnificence of heaven ; 

Oh, how canst thou renounce, and hope to be forgiven !" 

For those, who have little relish for these pursuits, 
however, no mean substitute is the cultivation of a 
garden ; in whose neatness and beauty they can take 
an interest. The operation of digging is said to be 
peculiarly favourable to health. And who is there, 
that cannot find a spot large enough to exhibit liis' in- 
genuity and taste, in planting, dressing, and pruning, 
those vegetables that are useful, and those that are 
ornamental? In other countries, particularly England, 
the poorer classes fill every nook with flowers, that 
spread an air of freshness and contentment around 
their cottages, which is rarely seen in our country ; 
where, in fact, very many more comforts are within 
the reach of poverty. By not improving this innocent 
source of happiness, our poorer classes are very apt 
to be inferior, in point of correct taste, to the Euro- 
pean peasants. For even literary men would find the 



235 

caltivation of a garden, no contemptible means of im. 
proving this faculty. 

So thoroughly convinced have physicians always 
been, of the necessity of having some object to di- 
vert the mind, during exercise, that they have resort- 
ed to various methods to accomplish it. Hippocrates 
used to require of his invalid patients, that they 
should go from Athens to Megara, for no other pur- 
pose than to touch the walls of the latter place; and 
this was doubtless better than to send them abroad 
with nothing in view, but the recovery of health ; 
an object seldom attained, until the person's atten- 
tion can be diverted from it. Dr. Johnson re- 
commends, from his own experience, a long jour- 
ney, through an interesting country, without having 
the particular route, or direction, previously marked 
out : He would have the traveller direct his course, 
bj convenience alid inclination ; and remain in no 
place a moment after its objects cease to interest him. 
By such a journey, with two other invalids, of 2500 
miles, he succeeded in raising himself from the low- 
est depths of dyspcpsy, and cured his companions. 
And if the rule we are considering be correct, his ad- 
rice to invalids in this respect, is most judicious. The 
good effects of most journies are lost, by hurry, anxi- 
ety to reach the end of them, and the want'of some- 
thing to eliven the attention, and divert the mind, by 
the way. And thus it happcfls, that journeying, one 
of the most effectual of all means for the recovery of 
health, and for giving fresh vigor to the healthy, so 
often merely exhausts the vigorous, and wears out the 
invalid. 

An amusing story is told of Sydenham, a celebrated 
English physician of early times, illustrative of the 



236 

principle under consideration. He told a wealthy pa. 
tient, long under his care, that he could do no more 
for him : but that a certain Dr. Robinson, at Inyer- 
ness, several hundred miles distant, was remarkably 
successful in such complaints. Away went the inva- 
lid, flushed with the hope of seeing Dr. Robinson. 
But to his utter dismay, no one at Inremess had ever 
seen, or heard, of such a physician. Full ofindignation 
the gentleman returned to vent his wrath against Syden' 
ham ; which was expressed in no very measured terms. 
"Well," replies Sydenham, « are you in better 
health ?" " Yes, I am perfectly well: but no thanks 
to you." "No?" says Sydenham, "but you may 
thank Dr. Robinson for curing you— I wished to send 
you a journey with some object of interest in view; 
I knew it would be of service to you: In going, yoa 
had Dr. Robinson and his wonderful cures in contem- 
plation ; and in returning, you were equally engaged in 
thinking of scolding me.''* 

It may be thought that the nle under consideration, 
opposes the practice in some literary institutions, of 
requiring the pupils to take a certain amount of exer- 
cise each day, under the direction of an instructor: 
and this is a correct inference, if those task exercises 
cannot be made interesting. If the youth is stimula- 
ted to engage in them, simply through fear of censure, 
or punishment, the grand object certainly, is nearly 
defeated : And I presume that the belter way would 
be, to subject such a one daily, to a specified number of 
•tripes upon his naked back-not by way of panish- 
ment, but as^a substitute for the gymnasium, or the 
ride; because the whipping would undoubtedly do him 

• Pari* on Diet, p. 194. "" 



237 

the most good, by ezcitiDg* a strong interest in his 
mind to know how be should be revenged : and prob* 
ablj too, soch a castigation, for a jouth of such a dis- 
position, would not be underserved, about as often as 
once a day. 

fiat I believe that the difficulty under consideration^ 
is scarcely found tb exist in those flourishishing Gym* 
nastic Institutions, that are springing up on every side. 
The instructors find it not difficult, by introducing va- 
riety and innocent amusement into their exercises, to 
awaken a lively interest in the breast of every youth, 
who has mind and curiosity enough to be worth educat- 
ing. Whether task exercises can be profitably introduc- 
ed into our Colleges, and Theological, Medical, and 
Law schools, admits, i think, of serious doubt. 

These remarks suggest a sixth rule of exercise; 

that SEDENTARY PERSONS SHOULD INTRODUCE INTO IT AS 
MUCH VARIETV AS POSSIBLE. 

" To render exercise appropriate during health,'' 
says a dietetic writer, " it is necessary that motion be 
communicated to every part susceptible of it ; that the 
breast be dilated beyond the usual bounds of rest ; that 
all the muscles attain the utmost degree of their ex- 
tension and contraction ; that strength- of course be ex- 
erted, and enjoy all its developements." Now there is 
probably no one kind of exercise that will accomplish all 
this ; unless it be, perhaps, the whole series of move- 
ments, usually denominated gymnastic. Hence we 
should seek such a variety as will embrace the ne- 
cessary conditions. Such variety will also tend very 
much to excite fresh interest, and more efiectually 
turn the current of thought into new channels ; and 
thus assist in an observance of the last rule. Consid- 

erabie variety will likewise be necessary, to eouble a 

21 



238 

person to exercise in all kinds of weather. On all 
these accounts, every student should contrive to have 
within his reach, a number of iLinds of exercise ; so 
that he may be sure of being able to use some t>ne of 
them,in any situation in which he can be placed. There 
is, indeed, as a general fact, a decided advantage in 
some varieties of muscular effort oyer others. Bot 
the very poorest of them is better than none ; or as 
Seneca says : — Praeitat aliiui agere quam nihil* I 
have only to time to glance at some of the principal 
modes of exercise within the reach of literary men, 
with their most important characteristics. 

Exercise is of two kinds, in respect to the mode of 
taking it ; viz. passive and active. In passive exer<:ise, 
the person is put in motion by other powers than his 
own ; and it embraces the different modes of ridingy 
sailing, swinging, &c. In active exercise, a person 
depends upon his own muscles to put him in motion. 
The best of the first class, is riding horseback; for this 
combines many of the advantages of active and passive 
exercise. Indeed, where it can be borne, it is proba- 
bly of all exercise, the best for invalids. By perse- 
vering in it for a long time, several distinguished phy- 
sicians are of opinion, that a fixed pulmonary consump 
tion has been cured. The feeble person, however, 
must commence this exercise with much caution; 
gradually increasing in quantity and speed, as his 
strength will bear: though probably very violent horse 
riding, is never as serviceable to sedentary men, as a 
more moderate pace, long continued. 

Riding in a pleasure carriage, particularly one that 
is closed, is one of those methods, which modem luxo- 

* Tke Manual for Invalidfl, p. 34. 



239 

ry has invented, for preventing the good effects of 
journies. The very persons, who are able to ride in 
this manner, are sdch as need, above all others, to use 
their limbs ad tndwrtm* In bad weather, especially, 
when every shutter is closed, the air within soon be- 
comes absolutely unfit for respiration. Yet riding in 
tills manner, is what people of wealth and and fashion, 
particularly in cities, call taking the air. It is, in- 
deed, taking such air, as will soon kill a man : and to 
pleasure carriages of this kind, physicians impute not 
a little of the bad health of cities. Lord Monboddo, 
author of the Ancient Metaphysics, would never en- 
ter a carriage, even in the severest weather ; though 
he annually rode on horseback from Edinburgh to 
London, and took other long journies. He died at the 
ag^e of ninety ; and long after seventy, found himself 
as vigorous as ever. 

The small one-horse waggons, used so much in New 
ELngland, are not liable to the objections above men- 
tioned : and next to riding horseback, they doubtless 
furnish the healthiest mode of carriage exercise. Rid- 
ing in a sleigh, can hardly be called exercise : and 
tience those who practice it, are usually as much chill- 
ed, as they would be, by the northwest wind of a New 
England winter, if sitting still the same length of time, 
fairly exposed to it. 

As to swinging, sailing, &c, they are often servicea- 
ble for the invalid; but the want of the muscular effort 
attending them, is a great objection to their use by 
the healthy, except for the sake of variety. 

Of all active exercises, fortunately the very best can be 
taken by those in health the most easily. This is walk- 
log*. Comparing it with riding horseback,the rule is this: 
riding is the best for regaining health, walking for re- 



240 

taioing It. The pace Id walking should be steady and 
regular, but not quick aud violent;, and ground that 
is hilly, is better thau a plain, to pass over. In the 
summer, morning and evening are the proper seasons ; 
but the middle of the day should not be taken for this 
purpose. • 

Students usually lose a very important advantage, 
which they might derive from journie» on foot, by 
throwing theooeelves into a stage coach, at the close of 
each term, and riding day and night, until home be 
reached. Whereas, could they control their home 
sick feelings enough, to set out moderately on foot, and 
take the proper amount of rest and nourishment on the 
route, they would find their self denial roost amply re- 
warded by invigorated health and spirits. But so sel- 
dom do literary men take journies on foot, in our coun- 
try, that it is the general impression, that all who do 
it, are obliged to take this course on account of their 
poverty : and hence, at the public houses, th^y will 
not receive as good attention. A respectable English 
traveller recently mentioned to me his surprise and 
mortification at finding such a feeling among us; where- 
by he was deprived of much of the pleasure and prof- 
it of his tour. 

I have already spoken of gardening, as an excellent 
species of active exercise during the summer. In 
winter, cutting, sawing^ and splitting wood, are a tol- 
erable substitute. 

Gymnasiic exercises I have already noticed. With 
the precautions that have been mentioned, the system 
is certainly extremely valuable. True, some in an- 
cient, as well as modern times, heedle!)s of these pre- 
cautions, or ignorant of them, have ruined their consti- 
tutions : but ten times more have saved themselves 



241 

from miserable health and premature decay, by a resort 
to these exercises. They were the princpal means of 
saving Cicero from the grave, when reduced by a 
stomach complaint, to a state of great debility. He 
went to Athens, and there in the gymnasiam, became 
firm and robust, and acquired a sweetness and firmness 
of voice, to which he had before been a stranger. By 
military gymnastics, that is, long marches, coarse diet, 
and long exposures in the open air, Julius Caesar threw 
off the epilepsy, headach, and an effeminate delicacy of 
habit. In a similar way, might most of the pnle faced, 
nervous, unhappy delicates of modern days, be invigo- 
rated and made healthful. Calisthenics (the classical 
name for female gymnastics,) would be the most effec- 

' tnal means ladies could employ, for giving freshness 
and fairness, and a rosy glow to their countenances, 
and permanent vigor to their constitutions. But so 
long as they will persist in tight lacing, sipping strong 
green tea, late hours, and neglect of vigorous exercise, 
they must expect that the rose will leave their 
cheeks, firmness of muscle and strength, their limbs, 
and that squalid, or haggard, or pimpled faces, irrita- 

^ ble tempers, and melancholy hours, will be their in- 
heritance. Dolnestic cares and labours ought also to 
be included in Calisthenics : and should the articles 
and employments described by Solomon, in the 31st 
Chapter of Pro verbs,be substituted in the place of stays, 
corsets, and easy chairs; we should hear little more of 
dyspepsy, twisted spines, or any other part of the vo- 
cabulary of modern, fashionable, female complaints. 
But until some change of this kind does take place, 
Spartan mothers will be rare, and Spartan children 
rarer. 

Of all the exercises taken within doors, active, me- 

21* 



242 

chanical labour, is probably the best. During a coa- 
siderable portioo of the year, the workshop may be 
so yentilated, that in fact the labor will be performed io 
the open air. When this cannot be done, the labours of 
the workshop should by no means be substituted for all 
exercise abrocid. This kind ofmuscular effort, however 
valuable as an auxiliary, must never be considered as 
precluding the necessity of other exercise. Other exer- 
cise may, indeed, be necessarily associated with it; eith- 
er by removing the workshop to a considerable dis- 
tance from the study, or by making its labours inter- 
change with agricultural pursuits. Such a plan is 
now, as you know, adopted at several seminaries in 
the land ; and with the most flattering success. The 
few mechanic shops, fitted up in this College, several 
years ago, have not been multiplied, from a want 
of means^ and* not from a conviction of their Idu- 
tility. I am satisfied that it is important, such a 
plan should be adopted in nearly every literary 
institution; and not only this, but the means for 
every variety of exercise should be accumulatetl 
around them, that every student may consult his 
own taste, as to the kind; and thus be induced to 
save himself from debility and ennui, I would act 
even exclude military exercise ; such as mcirching, the 
use of the broad sword, and perhaps fencing, the erec- 
tion of small fortifications, &c. The difierent games 
too, which are not linked, as several of them are in- 
separably, with immorality, should not be excluded. 
In short, I would endeavour to make every literary 
seminary, a University, as to exercise : so that no stu- 
dent should have any excuse for neglecting to strength 
en his physical, as well as mental energies. Even in 
the most inclement weather, there should not be want > 



243 

ing the means of exercise : for if a man can not exer- 
cise, neither ought he to study. 

Friction with the flesh brush, is another indoor ex- 
ercise of great utility. It has often done wonders — 
Cicero found it among the best means he used for the 
restoration of his health : and the ancients generally 
valued it so liighly, that they would not pass a day 
ivithout it. And among the moderns, its reputation, 
stands equally high. It should be practiced about half 
an hour, morning and eycniog. 

Literary men should by no means neglect training 
the Toice, and strengthening the lungs, by reading 
aloud, for an hour or two daily. This practice gives 
strength also, to the stomach, and wonderAilIy invig- 
orates all the organs of the chest. The great men of 
antiquity understood this, and adopted the practice. 
IJdox orationem Graecam Latinamve^ says Pliny, clare 
ei intente non tarn vocis causa^ quam stotnachi lego^ pari- 
ier tamcn et ilia Jirmaiur. 

A seventh rule I have to mention on this subject, is, 

that CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN, ON A CESSATION FROM EX- 
ERCISE, TO PREVENT A SUDDEN SUPPRESSION OF THE PER- 
SPIRATION. 

Some will throw themselves upon the damp ground, 
or take a'station at a window, in a current of air, with- 
out any additional clothing, immediately after the 
most violent efforts. Such persons need not wonder, 
if stiff limbs, rheumatic pains, and severe catarrhs, fol 
low : they may, indeed, think it strange, if they es- 
cape without something more serious. Th^y may 
fluppose themselves, iu this way, to be hardening their 
constitution ; but in fact, they are breaking it down. 
X^aturc will not bear these violent efforts. Even if 
if tliey could bring themselves to endure with impu- 



244 

nity, such exposures; yet it coald be effected only by 
a long course of training : even then, it would be haZ" 
ardous. The better way is to throw on an add! tioal 
garment for a short time, aAer violent or long contin' 
ued exertion ; or to continue to exercise less and less 
violently, until the system is reduced to its natural con* 
dition. 
Finally, we should consider it an important rule, not 

TO ATTEMPT TO MAKE EXERCISE A SUBSTrTUTE FOR AT- 
TENTION TO DIET. 

It is true, that vigorous exercise will, in a measure, 
counteract the bad effects of excessive eating. But in 
order to accomplish this object, a student must give up 
study. If he does not join temperance to exercise, as 
Cheyne says, ^^the evil will be as broad one way, as it is 
long the other. For since exercise will create a greater 
appetite, if it is indulged to the full, the concoctlve 
powers will be as unequal to the load as they were 
before."* A single ounce of food too much, taken into 
a weak stomach, will require a half day^s vigorous ex- 
ercise, above what would otherwise be necessary. 
The student, therefore, who cannot confine himself to 
a temperate diet, had better make up his mind to 
abandon study altogether ; and become a farmer, a car- 
penter, a sailor, a soldier, or any thing else, that will 
require him to exercise severely from twelve to six- 
teen hours per day ; and then he can, with compara- 
tive impunity, enjoy the luxuries of a glutton. If all 
the use he makes of the vigor and good appetite 
produced by exercise, is, to furnish' an excuse 
for eating to excess, he never will accomplish any 
thing in literature or science ; and the sooner he ex- 

•Essay of Health and LoDg Life, p. 100. 



245 

changes the toga literaria for the frock, or the npron, 
the better. 

Such are the principal rules of exercise, by which 
the most distinguished philosophers and literati of an- 
cient and modern times, have been able to sustain 
their health and vigor, under the most severe and long 
protracted mental efforts. Had they neglected these 
rules, their names would never have come down to us, 
encircled with such halosofglorjrj but one line would 
have told their whole history — premature decay — an 
early tomb. And it is paibful to look around upon the 
rising ranks of our literary youth, and to be compelled 
to believe, that this line, will be all that will be -writ- 
ten on the monumental stone of very many, who are 
disregarding these same rules. It would not be so 
painful a thought, did we not know, that many of 
these, have higher aims than to wind the wreaths of 
knowledge atound their brows : aims, which look on- 
ly to the glory of God, and the welfare of their fellow 
men. For this purpose they have left other pursuits, 
and are toiling day and night over their books : but 
alas, they know not the terrible disappointment that 
awaits them, unless they wake up from their bodily 
inactivity, and vigorously cultivate their physical, as 
well as intellectual faculties. O, that I had the power 
to break the delusion, that surrounds them ; and could 
thus le the means of saving some powerful minds, and 
honest, holy hearts, from being buried under the rub- 
bish of a ruined- frame ! In the language of the ablest 
medical men, I would say to them : "Throughout all 
nature, want of motion indicates weakness, corruption, 
inanimation and death. Trenck in his damp prison, 
leaped about like a lion, in his fetters of seventy pounds 
weight, in order to preserve his health : and an illus- 
trious physician observes, " I know not which is most 



246 

necessary to the support of tbe hntnaD frame, food or 
tnoiiott." Were the exercise of the body attended to 
in a corresponding degree with that of the mind, men 
of great learning would be more healthy and vigorous 
<— of more general talents — of ampler practical knowl- 
edge — more happy in their domestic lives — more en- 
terprising, and more attached to their duties as men. 
In fine, it may with much propriety be said, that the 
highest refinement of the mind, without improvement 
of the body, can never present any thing more than 
half a human being.^'* 

" A man " says Sir William Temple, " has but these 
four things to choose out of — to exercue daily, to be 
very temperate^ to take physic^ or to be sick." 

Finally, if the student cannot be persuaded to use 
proper exercise in any other way, 1 could wish him 
to be made the subject of a deception, amusingly de- 
scribed by Voltaire — " Ogul," says he, " a voluptuary 
who could be managed with difficulty by his physcian, 
on finding himself extremely ill from indolence and 
intemperance, requested advice : " Eat a Basilisk 
stewed in rose water," replied the physician. In vain 
did the slaves search for a Basilisk, until they met 
Zadig, who approaching Ogul, exclaimed, " behold 
that thoQ desirest;" ''but my Lord," continued he, 
'•it is not to be eaten; all its virtues must enter 
through thy pores: 1 have therefore enclosed it in a 
little ball blown up, and covered with skin : thou roust 
strike this ball with all thy might, and I must strike it 
back again, for a considerable time ; and by ob- 
serving this regimen, and taking no other drink than 
rose water, for a few days, thou wilt see and acknowl- 
edge the effect of my art." The first day Ogul was 

♦Journal of Health, vol. 1. p. 58. 



247 

out of breath, and thought be should haye died from 
fatigue ; the second he was less fatigued, and slept bet- 
ter : in eight days he recovered all his strength. Zadig 
then said to him, ^^ there is no such thing in nature as a 
Basilisk ; but thou hast taken exercise and been temperate^ 
and hast therefore recovered thy health,^^ 



XBCTVRB VXX. 



Air — Clothing — Cleanlinesi — Evacuations — Sleep : 1 . 
The proper time for sleep ; 2. the proper quantity ; 3. 
the means of promoting it — Manners — Influence of 
the Imagination and Passions upon Health. 

Gentlemen, 

Intimately connected with the subject of exercise, 
is that of 

AIR. 

Indeed, when urging the importance of spending* at 
least two hours each day in the open air, I have antic- 
ipated the most important part of this subject. A 
few things more, however, ought to be added. 

The clear dry air of the country, such as we 
breathe in this land, when a mild west?rly breeze 
prevails, is the natural state of the atmosphere, and 
most conducive to health. Indeed, who does not im« 
mediately feel its invigorating influence? It then 
consists of about 79 parts of nitrogen, and 21 of oxy* 
gen. 

The agents that contaminate this air, are an excess 
of moisture, carbonic acid, and the various vegetable 
and animal miasms arising from putrefaction. 

During clear days, the sun dissipates the ex- 
cess of moisture, which rises by evaporation from 
the land and the water. But at night, it accumulates ; 
and hence the proverbial unhealthiness of the night 
air. To avoid this, should be a grand point with the 



■ ^9 

hnralid ; or if exposed to it necessarily, it Is folly not 
to protect himself by an additional garment. Ttie 
healthy too, should always be on their guard against 
the damps of the evening ; as no constitution can ' 
harden itself against their morbific influence, in hot 
climates, such exposure is the height of presumption; 
and in our climate, those mild and balmy evenings, 
which most tempt the student abroad, and induce him 
to saunter by the way, or to sit down under the open 
skj, are usually the most dangerous. A notion pre- 
rails With some, that fearless and unprotected expo- 
sure to evening air, is the way to become hardened 
against its influence : whereas, he is best prepared to 
resist it, who by temperance and vigorous exercise 
during the day, has imparted a healthy tone to his 
constitution. 

On the same principles, exercise abroad, in the day 
time, in damp foggy weather, or .on low plains, is not 
as good as that taken under a clear sky, and on mod- 
erately elevated ground. The damps of the morning, 
however, are not injurious to those in tolerable health: 
on the contrary, exposures then, are less often follow- 
ed by colds, than at any other time of the day : and 
indeed, there is very little weather during the day, so 
unfavorable, as fo justify the omission of the stated 
out door exercise. 

These same principles show us the importance of 
having our studies, our dwellings, and our sleeping 
apartments, in airy, and dry situations, where they can 
be frequently ventilated, ^nd if Providence should 
make it our duty to spend our lives in a low and 
marshy region, our only security lies in most vigorously 
adopting those rules, which serve as a security against 
the damps and putrid miasms that surround us. 

22 



260 

• 

Bj breathiog, each iDdiridual renders a gallon of 
air unfit for respiration again, in about a minate : — 
that is, he consumes its oxygen, or vital principle. 
Hence the reason why close rooms, filled with peo- 
ple for some time, are so injurious. A hall, 30 £eet 
long, 25 broad, and 30 high, containing 22,500 cubic 
feet, would not permit a hundred people to remain in 
it more than four and a half hours ; twice that num- 
ber could remain in it only half the time. Hence we 
see the reason, why theatres, ball rooms, and, indeed, 
any public places of meetings, which continue several 
hours, are so injurious to the health. And the danger 
here is greatly increased, by being so much bidden : 
for the person perceives little more than slight debili- 
ty, or beadach, even when serious mischief has been 
done to his health. The same is true of air rendered 
irrespirable by the burning of charcoal in close rooms 
— a cause that yearly sends not a few out of the world, 
and debilitates many more. 

It is the opinion of respectable medical writers, 
that the reception of other deleterious gases into the 
lungs, such assulphureited and carburetted hydrogen, 
exert more influence upon the health than is general- 
ly imagined, by actually poisoning the blood.* 

These various circumstances are the cause why cit- 
ies and large towns are so much more unhealthy than 
the open country : For they are all operating more 
or less, in such places ; though other causes must 
doubtless be* taken into the account: In England, the 
annual proportion of deaths in the large towns, is not 
fkr from one in twenty ; in moderate towns, about one 
in twenty^sevenj and in small villages and the open 



• See the Manual of the Invalid, Chap. IX. Also Paris on 
Diet, p. 141. 



. 251 

- country, about one in forty eight.* In this country, 
the difference is not so great. 

For destroying the putrid and contagious effluvia of 
the rooms of the* sick, and*1ndeed, of every other 
place, the chloride of lime, a substance lately discov- 
ered, and mentioned in a former lecture, is by far the 
most effectual ; and as it can be most easily and safely 
applied, no educated man ought to be ignorant of its 
uses. It can now easily be obtained at the shops of 
our apothecaries, with directions how to employ it. 

CLOTHING. 

* Clothing is another point in a system of regimen, 
that deserves attention ; especially as there are erro- 
neous notions prevailing on the subject. Some se- 
dentary men are engaged in the Quixotic scheme of 
hardening their systems, by reducing themselves al- 
most to nudity in the winter. But even if they could 
succeed, it is doubtful whether it would not be at the 
expense of life : that is, they would probably shorten 
life. For it is certainly plain, both from the nature of the 
case, and from the bible, that men were intended to use 
clothing. They are the only species of animal, that 
is not naturally provided with clothing. The only 
question is, how much they shall employ. And my 
answer is, enough to keep them warm. For this is 
the chief object of clothiog. And of what service is 
it, except merely for decency's sake, to wear clothes 
at all, if this be not accomplished. To effect it, will 
of course require a great variety in the articles of 
dress, according to the age, constitution, state of the 
weather, the health, and the season of the year. 
But fhe man, whose clothing is so thin that he is shiv- 



* Sure Mfsthods, &c. p. 107. 



252 •. 

eriog with the cold most of the time, may be rare 
that he isiojuring his constitallon, iostead of hardeo- 
ing it. True, he may envelope himself with as many 
folds of dress as an Egypdao- mummy, every time he 
goes abroad, and thus bring on an oppressive heat 
and debilitating perspiration ; but this is not likely to 
prove so injurious, as the too common practice of ex- 
posure to the cold and dampness of the evening, with* 
out an additional garment. Many consumptions take 
their rise from this imprudence. When a person has 
thrown himself into profuse perspiration by exercise, 
be ought also to put on an additional garment, instead of 
endeavoring to cool himself by natural or artificial 
currents of air. When he, goes abroad to exercise t 
he should be thinly dressed ; but when exposed with* 
out much exercise, to cold and damp air, he should 
put on clothes enough to secure to himself the natural 
warmth of the body. The feet, in particular, should 
always be kept warm and dry. This pact of the 
frame is peculiarly sensible to the effects of cold and 
moisture : and a person ought never to sit down afler 
they have been wet, until his stockings be changed. 
Indeed, this should be a general rule in regard to eve- 
ry part of th^ body. The absurd notion that it is bet- 
ter to let wet clothes dry upon one's back, has sent 
many to a premature grave ; and the escape of any 
who follow sudi a rule, i& rather to be imputed to the 
strength of their constitution, than to the harmless- 
ness of the practice. 

Great injury is often sustained by sedentary meny 
in the Spring and Autumn, by attempting to harden 
themselves, so as to live in damp cold rooms wifhout 
any fire. If, indeed, they were vigorously to exer- 
cise in such rooms, there would he no danger ^ butt<x 



253 

flit still there, until thej are chilled, and this day after 
day, is a sare method to lay the foundation for rheu- 
niatism, consumption, and dyspepsy. True, there is 
6ome danger of making ou^studies too hot, so that de- 
bility shall he the consequence : hut small fires, rath- 
er late in the spring, and rather early in autumn, are 
important to counteract the moisture. 

When, however, the system has become chilled 
more or less thoroughly, it is an important rule, but 
little regarded, however, to restore the natural warmth, 
DOt by sitting down before a large fire, but by vigorous 
eiercise. Such a practice would prevent nearly half 
of the colds, or catarrhs, that afflict men. 

In cold and changeful climates, garments made 
of woolen are decidedly the best — to be worn next* 
the skin ; and for invalids, such a dress is indispensa- 
ble Cotton is next in value ; and for warm climates, 
is generally superior, on account of its lightness. Lin- 
en is an article of luxury that should be indulged in 
^vith caution by the invalid ; and it is not to be much 
recommended to the healthy. Silk, worn next to the 
skin, is still more objectionable. Persons of feeble 
health, have not unfrequently found benefit from wear- 
ing in winter a waistcot and drawers of chamois, or 
deer^s leather. 

Not a little mischief is done by leaving off the win- 
ter clothes too early in the spring, and delaying to re- 
same them till late in the autumn. Some physicians 
have recommended that the winter dress be laid aside 
the day before midsummer, and put on again the day 
after. To be serious, however ; June, July, August, 
and perhaps a part of September, are the only months 
when summer clothes should be used. 

It would seem hardly necessary to caution gentle- 

22* 



264 

men against Ugbtnesa of dress. Tet according ta tire 
experiments of Dr. Herbst, a young man of twentjr 
one, when dressed, took in, every time he drew liis 
breath, only 50 cubic inches of air : but when his 
clothes were loosened, he inhaled 96 cubic inches- each 
time» This shows us, that much as we may declaim 
against the corsets and tight lacing of females,^ we are 
not entirely out of danger ; especially if we are ambi- 
tious of being brought into that wasp-like form,, that 
meets us in the drawings of the latest London fashions^ 
bung up in almost every taiior^s shop^ But had Dr. 
Herbst performed his experiment upon some of the 
ladies, it is to be apprehended the result would have 
been- truly appalling ; for, as a medical writer remarks, 
^^ we often meet ladles .so cruelly dressed, that we 
wonder where their longs and livers are gone to."* 

Another branch of the subject of regimen is eleanU^ 
ness. It does not strictly belong to tlus subject, in 
connexion with- health, to speak of the effects of care^ 
less, slovenly, and filthy habits upoii the success of a 
literary or professional man in the world : and yet, I 
can hardly refrain from sayings that the success of scch 
men depends nearly as much upon a proper attention 
to neatness and cleanliness, as upon their talents or 
acquirements. The world like to have their tastes 
gratified, as well as their intellects : and the avenue 
to the affections, is through the taste. Suppose 
then,, you are introduced into good society, as a man 
of talents, and you appear there with a long beard, a 
dirty cravat, unbrushed boots, or hair uncombed. Not 
the strongest mind, or the finest wit, or the deepest 

•Journal of Health, p. 117. vol. 1. 



255 

lore, can prevent you from being a disgusting object 
in sucb a community. And if your debut be of this 
character, depend upon it, that a prejudice will be ex- 
cited against you, which you will find it no easy mat- 
ter to conquer. 

Now the fact is, that the secluded life of the schol- 
ar, and the constant pressure of his studies, expose 
him, in a peculiar manner, to the §icqoisition of slov- 
enly and filthy habits. Hence it is, (hat his room, if 
left to his own oversight, sometimes does not corres- 
pond with our ideas of the domicil of a young Cicero, 
or Masillon. Hence too, you will see him abroad with 
sllp'Shod shoes, or with a cravat in which he has slept 
for two or three nights ; or with a beard, that is troub- 
led with a razor only once a week. When a man is 
pressed with a multitude of cares and duties, he is 
sometimes compelled to neglect, more than he could 
wish, some of these minor points : but such an excuse, 
no student in a literary institution can plead. And just 
so certain as you find any one indulging such .habits, 
"while there, you may expect, if you meet him in af- 
ter life, to find them still cleaving to him, and injuring 
bis usefulness. I am not, indeed, pleading for a fop- 
ish attention to appearance ; nor would 1 have the stu- 
dent indulge in costly articles of dress, or be very so- 
licitous to have his coat in the latest London fashion. 
Sut I would have him show cleanliness and neatness 
in every part of his person ; .especially when he ap- 
pears in public. If engaged in any employment, where 
<lust will necessarily cleave to him, he ought, indeed, 
to adapt his dress to the situation^ nor feel any more 
asbamed of it, than of the newest and richest garment 
in the proper place. But I would not have him con- 
sider it a matter of no importance, what be his 



266 

appearance in public. If he chooses, in respect to his 
beard, to become a Jew ; I have no objection : bat I 
do object to his wearing a beard, which belongs neith- 
er to Jew nor Gentile : for it will make him alike dis- 
gusting to both. 

Nor is attention eyen to such small things as the 
cravat and the beard, of no importance to health. I 
have known a fit of dyspepsy and nervous depression 
removed, by a clean cravat and a clearing away of the 
beard : and, indeed, cleanliness throughout, produces 
such a sense of comfort, that this single feeling, like 
all other pleasurable emotions, contributes not a little 
to continue the wheels of life in motion. Hence, to 
keep the skin clean, is a most Important object ; for 
thereby the pores are kept open, and insensible per- 
spiration — whose operation is essential to life — is great- 
ly promoted. This is accomplished by bathing. 

Bathing, among the ancients, was practiced almost 
universally : and in warm climates, and in Russia, 
and Hungary, much attention is paid to it at the pres- 
ent day: and it is the opinion of physicians, that its 
neglect by other nations, is to be regretted. Certain- 
ly it is among the means of health, that ought not to 
be neglected, either by the healthy, or invalids. 

in taking the common cold bath, a running streain, 
with a bed of pebbles, or sand, should be selected : 
and the common opinion, that if a person be in a state 
of slight perspiration, be should wait upon the shore 
till he becomes cool, is erroneous. He ought not in- 
deed, to plunge into the water if greatly fatigued ; 
lest the proper reaction should not ensue. But if mod- 
erately warm by exercise, his system is in the very 
best ftate for sustaining the shock, produced by the 
cold water. And the same remarks will apply to the 



257 

shower bath ; which, in many respects, is preferable 
to the running stream. In either case, a general glow 
and warmth of the whole body ought to succeed the 
chiil first felt : and ifthat chill remain for a consider* ' 
able time, and is succeeded at last by a dry sl^in and 
feverish heat, dullness, headach, or tightness across 
the chest, it indicates that the requisite reaction has 
not taken place ; and that such bathing does not agree 
with the constitution. At any rate, vigorous exercise 
ought to succeed the act, until a considerable degree 
of perspiration is excited. In using the shower bath, 
only a single effusion of water should be taken at 
once ; and no one ought to lemain immersed in a 
stream, more than a minute or two ; unless vigo-* 
rously employed in swimming ; when a little more 
time may be allowed : though in general, there 
is great danger of lingeriopg too long In the delicious 
sport. Immediately on coming out of the water, 
the body should be vigorously rubbed, with a coarse 
cloth, as a means of exciting the vessels to actioir* 
The early part of the day, particularly between break- 
fast and dinner, is the best time for this business: 
and in our climate, the cold bath can hardly be con- 
tinued with safety very late in the autumn, except by 
the most vigorous constitutions. Tepid baths, how- 
eyer, in which water is heated from 70 to 85 of Fah- 
renheit, may be substituted for the cold season. Or 
during the winter, invalids would do well to sponge 
themselves every morning on rising, with water some- 
•what warmed, or with vinegar and water. And some 
persons are in the habit on rising, of plunging their 
feet, for a moment, into cold water : and physicians, 
speak well of the practice, where the constitution wiU 
bear it. 



258 

Vapour baths are intended for the application of 
steam to the whole, or a part of the body ; and Oflual- 
\y require the direction of a physician. But warm 
baths may be used by almost every description of per- 
sons, as a preservative of health, a restorative to 
health, and a luiury ; and that too, at all seasons of 
the year ; provided a few precautions be observed. 
The water in the bath should never be used, until it 
has risen to a temperature of 96 or 98 ; and a person 
ought to remain in it, from 10 to 20 minutes. The 
best time of day for using it, is two hours aAer break- 
fast ; and the conduct to be pursued on coming out of 
the water, is similar to that already pointed out in re- 
spect to cold bathing. Once a day in our climate, 
is often enough, and probably too often, for bathing, 
of any kind. 

Iliave been thus particular on this subject, from 
a wish to render the bathing establishment, sonte 
of you have seen fit to connect with this^ Institu- 
tion, as useful as possible ; and to prevent any a1)iise 
of it. Believing, as I do, in its great importance, I 
could wish to see it so enlarged, th^t every student 
might avail himself of its benefits. 

EVACUATIONS. 

So important is the due and timely eracuation of 
tjie faeces ; so injurious their retention in the bowels, 
after their nourishment is withdrawn ; and so liable 
are the sedentary to costive habits, that no motive of 
delicacy, would justify the construction of a code of 
health, which should omit to notice this subject. Bat 
all needful directions concerning it, may be given in a 
very few words. The grand object is, to secure a 
movement of the bowels, in most cases, once a day — 
in some cases, it does not seem necessary more thai^ 
pDce in two d^s. Let there be, however, a stated 



269 

time, and immediat^ty after breakfast is the best 
time, for atteading to this business. Even if no desire 
for the exoneration of the bowels be felt, let the prop- 
er place be regularly yisited at the stated time, and 
habit will help nature. Attention to diet and exercise 
will usually ensure a discharge at the proper hour. — 
la particular, let unbolted wheat, or rye flour, be used 
for bread : and let no one, if possible, contract the very 
injurious habit of resorting to medicine, eyen if it be 
merely the occasional chewing of rhubarb, to accom- 
plish this elimination. He will find the remedy worse 
than the disease. 

SLEEP. 

Sleep is the grand restorer of nalure^s exhausted 
energies; nor can the animal system be prevented 
for any great length of time, from fulling under its in- 
fluence. Couriers, and coachmen, and travellers too, 
are well known often to fall asleep in their carriages, 
and on horseback. During the retreat of Sir John 
Moore, in Spain, many soldiers were found to be . 
asleep, while yet they were marching on ; and some 
boys, completely exhausted, fell asleep in the midst 
of the battle of the Nile.* 

But the most important points that now require at- 
tention on this subject, are, first, what is the best time 
for sleep : secondly, what is the needful quantity : and 
thirdly, what are the be3t means for promoting sleep ? 

As to the first point, nature, throughout all her do- 
minions, speaks an unequivocal language ; proclaim- 
ing' night to be the season best adapted to repose. 
JlU animals, accordingly, obey the instinct wluch 
prompts them to rest at that season, except beasts of 
prey and some of the insect tribes. Man, in his un- 

• Rees^ Cyc. Art. Sleep. 



260 

sophisticated state, Is not aa exception : but man per* 
yerted by custom, joins the carnivorous tribes in con- 
verting night into day, and day into night. Philoso- 
phers, physicians, and ministers of the Gospel, have 
long and loudly remonstrated against this debilitatiog, 
demoralizing transformation : but still the current of 
fashion and pleasure bears along its votaries, as nu- 
merous and infatuated as ever, to. the midnight feast, 
or dance, or route. And especially in large chies, at 
that hour, all is life and motion ; while the beautiful 
rising sun sees only here and there some solitary 
watchman, or stranger, to welcome his first beams, 
and to drink in the balmy breezes of the morning. 
Oh, this is a m'onstrous perversion of the Course of 
nature : and no wonder God visits it in wrath, by 
withholding refreshing slumber from those who are 
gHillty of it ; and bringing upon them hundred headed 
diseases, that make existence a curse. O, let every 
student make up his mind, while yet he is on safe 
grounJ, that he will never yield to such a practice ; 
and let him* adhere to his resolution to the end of his 
days. 

To quell the re'proofs of conscience, an opinion is 
maintained, that it is of little consequence what part of 
the twenty four hours is appropriated to sleep, provid- 
ed the proper quantity be taken. But this sentiment 
deserves reprobation. The fact is, one bourns sleep 
before midnight, gives more refreshment to the system, 
than two hours afterwards. Hence it is agreed on all 
hands, that ten o^clock is the latest hour, at which a 
literary man should retire to rest. And really ,if I had 
the power, I should not be wanting in the disposition, 
to establish military law in our Colleges as to this 
point, and absolutely tp prohibit any one, except in 



261 

tases of sickness, or other Providence, from burning 
his lamp after that hour. I would not annex as severe 
a penalty, as did Frederick the great, who executed 
one of his officers, for continuing, contrary to orders, 
to hum a lamp in his tent, a few moments after ten 
o'clock, in order to finish a letter to his wife, as he 
expected the next morning to go into battle: But 
though I should regard this as rather too severe ; yet 
I would have a penalty follow, that should be neither 
light nor tardy. For in fact, such a rule would be of 
immense advantage to every literary youth. And ev- 
ery such one would gain still more, if he should make 
it a rule to be in bed at nine o'clock. This would be 
restoring the good old habits of our ancestors; and 
would, I doubt not, bring back some of their virtues. 

The second enquiry relates to the quantity of sleep 
that is necessary. And this, we all know, depends upon 
the age of the individual, and the state of the health. 
Females, it is suid, alsoj require rather more sleep than 
men ; and differeut constitutions demand some latitude 
in this respect. But leaving children, invalids, and 
jtg'ed people, out of the account, the young and the 
middle aged require from six to eight hours of rest. It 
has been said by some one, that six hours were enough 
for a student, seven for a gentleman of leisure, eight 
for a farmer, and nine for a hog. But I am satisfied that 
the student requires quite as many hours to recruit 
bis system as the bard laboring man; because the 
latter usually sleeps much sounder. Erobably every 
young man, engaged in study, ought to calculate upon 
getting from seven to eight hours of rest : for it is of 
g^reat importance that a sufficiency of sleep be obtained; 
and every real student, from the character of his em- 
ployment, is liable to be cheated x)ut of a full amount 

23 



262 

of the rest which nature demands. Mental lexertioOf 
without a correspondent exercise of the body, tends to 
wakefulness; or rather, when the mind is pat into 
powerful action, it is not the the work of a moment to 
stay the fer?id wheels: whereas, bodily efforts direct- 
ly dispose to sleep, unless they be excessive. It is 
true, indeed, that not every young man may need as 
many as seven or eight hours of repose : to some six 
is abundantly sufficient : But considering the tempta- 
tions to curtail the amount of sleep, that beset the 
student, in the wide and alluring fields of science 
before him, he had better perhaps calculate upon 
this quantity, rather than upon less. In middle age, he 
will probably not require as much as he now does. 
Bishop Taylor thought that even three hours in the 
four and twenty were enough : Baxter supposes that 
four hours will suffice for any man.* The celebrated 
Dr. John Hunter, and Frederick the Great, as he is 
called, devoted only four or five hours to rest.f Su- 
warrow, the renowned Russian General, accustomed 
himself to still less ; and Charles the Twelfth, of 
Sweden, uniformly slept but four hours.{ John Wes- 
ley, the celebrated itinerant preacher, found^ix hours, 
necessary for him, and probably this is nearer the com- 
mon standard for the middled aged, than the other ex- 
amples. The man inclined to be corpulent, however, 
must not fear to rival even Suwarrow and John Hun- 
ter in this respect : for as old Parr used to say, such a 
one must '^ keep his eyes open and his mouth shut." 

It is desirable that each individual should be able to 
ascertain the precise amount of sleep, which his con- 

* Duty and advantage of Early Rising, p. 44. 

tReea' Cycle. Article Sleep. 

t Military Mentor vol. 1. p. 11 and 13. 



263 

sdtution demaDds. And according^ to John Wesley, 
who printed a sermon on the subject, he may do this* 
" If any one desires," says he, " to know exactly what 
quantity of sleep his own situation requires, he may 
yery easily make the experiment which I made, about 
sixty years ago. 1 then waked every night about 
twelve, or one, and lay awake for some time. I read- 
ily concluded that this arose from my lying in bed lon- 
ger than nature required. To be satisfied, I procured 
an alarum, which waked me the next morning at sev- 
en, near an hour earlier than I rose before ; yet I lay 
awake again at night. The second morning I rose at 
six ; but notwithstanding this, I lay awake the second 
night The third morning I rose at ^ve ; but, never- 
Ihe less, I lay awake the third night. The fourth 
morning I rose at four, (as by the grace of God I have 
done ever since,) and I lay awake no more. And I do 
not lie awake, taking the year round, a quarter of an 
hour together in a month. By the same Experiment, 
(rising earlier and earlier every morning,) may any 
one find how much sleep he really wants." 

The third enquiry is, what are the^best means for 
promoting sleep ; or for securing the proper amount ? 

To accomplish this, the student should not rest sat- 
isfied until he is confirmed in the habit mentioned by 
Wesley, of taking the whole of his sleep, for twenty four 
hours, in unbroken succession, without any wakeful in- 
tervals. This requires an attention to several parties 
ulars. 

In the first place, uniformity as to the period of re- 
pose : say from ten at night to five or six in the morn- 
ing. Nothing but necessity should induce any one to 
to deviate from the hours he has fixed upon. 



264 

Secondly: The habit of retiring to rest earl j. Up<m 
this point I have already insi^ed. 

Thirdly : Earlj rising. Of so much consequence is 
this habit jusUj regarded, that voiumes have been 
written to enforce it. Philosophy, physic, poetry, 
and religion, unite their testimony and their appeals m 
favour of the practice. They paint to us the natu- 
ral beauties of tlie morning; the clearness of mind, 
the exhilaration of spirits, and the inyigorated 
strength, which are then possessed, and the consequent 
facilities for study, for meditation, for doTOtion, and 
for enjoyment, that are presented. Nor have 
these advantages been overrated. Nevertheless, im- 
mense multitudes — whose only pursuit in this world 
is happiness — ^disregard them all, and suffer the sun to 
shine, one, two, three, or four hours, upon the world, 
before their eyes behold it : and thus do they deprive 
themselves of the. possibility Off real enjoyment; and 
as for usefulness, with such persons, it is out of the 
question. For as Dr. Trotter justly says ; ** Can any 
human being be in pursuit of noble and elevated honors, 
who is found ia bed at eight or nine in the morning ? 
Such a man never yet in the world acquired the title 
of either good or great.''* On the the other hand 
those men, who have done most for literature and sci- 
ence, or in the cause of benevolence, have, almost 
without exception, illustrated the good old rule : 

Early to bed and early to rise, 

Is the way to be healthy, and wealthy, and wlae. 

To give a few instances : most of the ancient phi- 
losophers and poets, as Homer, Horace, and Virgil, 
were of this description. In modern times, Dr. Park- 



^View of the Nervous Temperament, p. 283, 



265 

harst, the philologist, rose at &Ye in the smnmer, and 
six in the winter: Sir Mathew Hale, who studied dai- 
ly sixteen hours, rose early. Bishops Jewel, Buraet, 
and Home, have left us their testimony and examples, 
in favour of early rising. Sir Thomas More, the au- 
thor of Utopia, found lime to compose that work by 
means of rising uniformly at four ; and he represents 
the Utopians as being in the habit every morning of 
attending public lectures before day break. Old Parre, 
to whom I have frequently referred, sums up the rules 
of diet and regimen in the following weighty sentence 
— " Keep your body cool by temperance — your feet 
warm by exercise. Rise early — go to bed soon. Nev- 
er eat till you are hungry — never drink but when na- 
ture requires it." Dr. Doddridge informs us, that most 
of his works were composed by means of rising at five, 
instead of seven o'clock. And it is said that Sir Wal- 
ter Scott sends forth his semiannual and even monthly 
volumes, by means of rising at four o'clock and devot- 
ing only five hours. to study : so that after nine in the 
morning, he is free to engage in other pursuits. But 
one of the most instructive examples oft record, is that 
of Dr. Paley. " 1 spent," says he, the first two years 
of my undergraduateship happily, but unprofitably. I 
was constantly in society, where we were not immor- 
al, but idle and expensive. At the commencement of 
the third year, after having left the usual party at a 
late hour, I was awakened at five in the morning by 
one of my companions, who stood at my bedside and 
said, ^' Paley, I have been thinking what a fool you 
are. I could do nothing, probably, if 1 were to try, arid 
can aflford to lead the life you lead. You could do 
every thing, and cannot afford it. I have had no sleep 
during the whole night on account of these reflectionsj 

23* 



266 

and am now come solemnly to inform yon, that if yoa 
penbt in yonr indolence, 1 mast reoonoce your socie- 
Ij 99 (( I ^gg 3Q struck,^' says ihe Doctor, ^^with the yisit 
and the visitor, that I lay in hed a gpreat part of the 
day, and formed my plan. I ordered my bed maker 
to lay my fire every morning, in order that it might be 
lighted by myself. 1 arose at five — read during the 
whole day — look supper at nine — went to bed — con- 
tinued the practice up to this hour.^' 

From foar to six o'clock seems to be the time for 
rising, if we follow the best examples : the precise 
hour being fixed by the season of the year^ the age, 
the hour of going to bed, and the slate of the health. 
He who rises thus early, and is not indolent, (and ear- 
ly rising and indolence, 1 believe, never go together,) 
will be sufficiently fatigued by nine or ten o^elock at 
night, to fall into a sound sleep, which, in ordinary 
cases, will not be broken till the regular hour of ris- 
ing. At any rate,, no student should permit himself 
to indulge in the second, or morning nap, ai\er a 
wakeful interval. On this point physicians ur- 
gently insist.^ . Nor should any one indulge himself 
in lying in bed after first awaking in the moiling : for 
nothing debilitates more. If he -feels- a strong pro- 
pensity to fall asleep again, at the early dawn, let him 
spring instantly from his couch^ and the shock- of a re- 
freshing air bath, will dissipate his drowsiness : and 
even if he has not had his usual allowance of sleep, it 
is far preferable to make up the deficiency at some 
other time, even after dinner, than to do it in the 
morning. For morning slumbers, are, of all others^ 

* Se€ Journal of Health Vol. 1. p. 75. 



267 

the most unrefreshiDg ; especially if the early part of 
the night has been spent in wakefulness. Yet by in- 
dulging in them, even in such cases, the pernicious 
habit of lying long in bed in the morning will be ac* 
quired insensibly. But by resisting the inclination, 
and determining that only certain hours of the night 
shall be devoted to slumber, the constitution soon 
yields to the habit, and an immense advantage is gain- 
ed in respect to healtb. 

But why do I press the point of early rising, in a 
place where, nolens volens, it must be practiced ? I 
answer, because I fear that this requirement is too apt 
to be regarded by students, as .an unwelcome task, 
ivhich greatly interferes with their comfort. And I 
draw this inference from the fact, that so many, the 
day they leave college walls, revert to their old hab- 
its of going to bed and rising late ; and continue in 
them through life : Whereas, in fact, to have acquir- 
ed permanently, habits of a contrary character, would 
be an ample compensation for all the confinement and 
expense of a College course. And if young gentle- 
men would look at the law on this subject in a ration-' 
al light, and not as an unnecessary and unpleasant pen- 
ance, their own "^perience would show them its im- 
mense importance to their future usefulness and happi- 
ness. I ought to add in this place, that persons remark- 
able for longevity, all agree in having been early 
risers. 

But in the fourth place, early rising is not all that is 
requisite to secure unbroken and refreshing slumbers 
at nighf. A proper amount of exercise during the day, 
is of immense importance; as is shown by the 
fact, that labouring men rarely find any diflSculty in 
securing a due proportion of sleep, unless their exer* 



268 • 

cise has been excessiye. The want of this exercia«, is 
the pruicipal cause of the sleeplessness and restlessness 
of the nerroas and the bilioas. Hence, if it have not 
been taken daring the day, measures should be adopt- 
ed for securing it before retiring to rest. To walk 
up and down an open passage for an hoar, or more, 
before bedtime, is recommended foi this purpose^ — 
agreeable to the practice of Cato, of Utica. Other 
kinds of exercise, however, afford good substitutes. 

Fifthly ; temperance in diet, is indispensable to qui- 
et and refreshing slumber at night. This thought is 
well expressed in Ecclesiasticus : (Chap. 31 — 20) 
'^ sound sleep cometh of moderate eating : he riseth 
early, and his wits arc with him : but the pains of 
watching, and choler and pangs of the belly, are with 
an unsatiable man.'' Almost every one has found this 
sentiment true by his own experience. After indulg- 
ing a little too much of some favourite dish, rich food, 
or unseasonable luncheon, or dessert, especialljr late 
in the evening, what man has not been tossed to and 
fro on his couch, harrassed by unpleasant dreams, and 
disposed to protract bis stay in bed in the morning, to 
make up for the fatigue and restlessness of the night ; 
und when he arose, found himself dull, unrefreshed, 
irritable, and melancholy ? But though all 'allow such 
to be the effect of great excess in eating, " it is wor- 
thy of observation, also"' says a physician, " that the 
stomach will sometimes be much irritated by a small 
quantity of indigestible food taken at night, and thus 
may sleep be prevented as certainly as if the organ 
were overloaded with food."* Even a too hearty din- 
ner, taken at twelve o'clock, will very oflen produce 



* Sure Methods &c. p. 177. 



269 

SHCh an irritation of the digestive organs, as to disturb) 
or destroy, the rest of the subsequent night : much 
more, then, might we expect this result from a hear- 
ty sapper ;* and still more, from a ten o'clock lunch- 
eon of meat. This irritation of the intestinal nerve^ 
is the grand danse of those unpleasant dreams, so troub- 
lesome and exhausting to nervous invalids : and even 
the night mare^ which is only the climax of dreaming, 
is usually occasioned in the same manner. It produ- 
ces, also, in some constitutions, the idea of spectres, 
visions, and revelations. You probably have a case 
of this kind in the experience of Cowper. " To what- 
ever cause it is owing," says he "(whether to consti- 
tution or God's express appointment,) I am hunted by 
spiritual hounds in the night season." A single hear- 
ty dinner was undoubtedly the source of the delusions 
of Swedenborgianism ; as is evident from Swedenborg's 
own account of his first vision. " I dined very late" says 
he, " at my lodgings at London, and ate with great ap- 
petite, till at the close of my repast, I perceived a 
kind of mist about my eyes, and the floor of my cham- 
ber was covered with hideous reptiles. They soon 
disappeared, and the darkness was dissipated, and I saw 
clearly in the midst of a brilliant light, a man seated 
in the corner of the chamber, who said to me in a ter- 
rible voice, " eat not so much.^^ At those words my 
sight became obscured ; afterwards it became clear by 
degrees, and I found myself alone. The night follow- 
ing, the same man, radiant with light, appeared to me 
and said, " 1 am God, the Lord, Creator and Redeem- 
er, &c." — " That same night the eyes of my internal 
man were opened, and fitted to see things in the world 
of spirits, and in hell, in which places I found' many 



270 

persons of mine acqaaiotaoce, some of them long 
since and others lately deceased.'^* 

If such he the consequences of hearty dinners and 
suppers, how important the sentiment of the old latin 
^prescription : 

Sommu tU iit levity sit iibi coena brevia ;t 
Which has heen thus translated, or rather paraphrased ; 

To be easy all Dic:ht, 
Let yoar supper be light. 

The person, who is afflicted with sleeplessness and 
hateful dreams, has only to put this rule into vigorous 
practice for a few months, to be satisfied that it is 
perfectly efficacious. 

Sixthly ; it is essential to sound sleep, that the mind 
be unbent from severe study, a considerable season 
before bed time ; long enough, if possible, to get the 
subject entirely out of mind Perhaps nothing is so well 
calculated to accomplish this, as those devotional ex- 
ercises, that are appropriate to the close of the day, 
if they be performed with the faithfulness and interest 
they demand : and surely, the calm and peace which 
religion inspires, are most eminently calculated to 
sooth the irritated nerves, and induce quiet and re- 
freshing repose. But to this point, I shall probably 
again refer, in another lecture. 

Finally^ there are several other circumstances, of 
less importance, that contribute somewhat to secure 
the repose the literary man needs. 

His sleeping apartment should be as spacious as 
possible; or if small, the doors leading to the adjoin- 
ing apartments should be left open. A room in an up- 
per story is best. To crowd several beds into the 
same, apartment is highly^ pernicious. 

• Christian Spectator, Dec. 1823, p. 618. 
tCheyne'8 Essay on Health and Long Life, p. 81. 



271 

It is hardij necessary to say, that a nice attention 
to cleanliness, not only in beds and clothings, but also 
in the chamber, is of high importance. 

Very warm sleeping apartments are injurioos. In- 
deed, for persons in health, no fires should be admit- 
ted into them, at any time : or if admitted, free ven- 
tilation before bed time is desirable. The tempera- 
tare ought not to be higher in any case for the 
healthy, than fifly degrees. 

The practice of warming the bed, unless dampness 
or previous exposure to cold render it necessary, is 
very debilitating : and so is the habit of loading one's 
self with an insupportable weight of clothes. Enough 
to produce comfortable warmth, is all that is neces- 
sary. 

The practice of leaving open the windows of a 
bed chamber during the night in summer, is a bad one. 
It might do no injury to the sailor, or the soldier ; nor 
to the student, after he is thoroughly trained to the 
sailor's or the soldier's life. But, Shys the Journal of 
Health, '^ m^ny persons have experienced serious and 
irreparable injury to their health, by being in this 
manner subjected, while asleep, to a current of cold 
air from without."* Multitudes, I know, will say that 
they practice this with impunity ; but thb only proves 
the strength of their constitutions, and not the good 
effects of the habit, nor its freedom from danger, to 
the more feeble. 

Writers on the means of preserving the health, are 
almost unanimous in condemning the use of feather 
beds, especially for the young ; unless it be in the se- 
verest part of a northern winter. A matress, compos- 
ed of moss or hair, should, they say, be invariably 

* Vol. I. p. 86. 



272 

preferred. Cartains drawD around the bed are ioad* 
missibie in any case ; because they confine the air. 
Sleeping with the head beneath the bed clothes is still 
more pernicious ; and, for the same reason, beds 
should never be placed upon the floor ; since the im- 
pure air generally settles to the lower part of the 
apartment. 

The practice of sleeping af\er dinner is of yerj 
questionable utility ; chiefly because it prevents re- 
freshing sleep at night; and disposes a person to the 
habit of sitting up late. If the tendency to sleep at 
noon be brought on by excess in eating, as it usually 
is, it is the precursor of apop^xy, and must be resist- 
ed. Even the invalid, if he can, will do well to avoid 
his " forty winks' nap" at noon. Some writers, how- 
ever, 1 ought to remark, recommend to such, a short 
ipdulgence of this kind. 

- KANNERS. 

Attention to the manners, may not appear, at first 
view, to have any connection with the health. But it 
is not so. All our habits of body and mind are so in- 
timately related, that their mutual influence is great; 
and not one of these habits, can be named that does 
not, directly or indirectly, affect the health. And I 
maintain that gentlemanly manners, or the manners 
prevalent in good society, are favorable to healt^. 1 
speak not here of Chesterfieldian niceties, nor of 
Chesterfieldian absurdities ; but of those fundamental 
rules of politeness, which regulate the conduct of a 
gentleman and a Christian. These principles dispose 
him to treat others with urbanity, kindness, and due 
respect ; to make him extremely cautious of injuring 
their feelings, diminishing their reputation, or throw- 
ing obstacles in the way of their enjoyment. And on 



273 

the contrary, it is a leading object in all bis inter* 
coarse with others, to make them happy ; not indeed, 
by any sacrifice of truth, or principle ; but by exhib- 
iting a disposition to befriend them ; to overlook their 
minor failings ; and to give them credit for every vir- 
tue which they really exhibit. Now such treatment 
from our fellow men, has a powerful tendency to buoy 
tip the mind, and make it cheerful ; and thus to pro- 
mote the health. And by cultivating such feelings 
towards others, we shall perceive a happy reaction 
upon ourselves ; contributing not a little to bodily, as 
well as mental sanity and enjoyment. / 

Now it ought not to be concealed, thai the retired 
lifeof students, tends strongly to prevent the forma- 
tion of such manners as I have just described. Hence 
it is, that they are so apt to indulge in jesting and 
innuendo in their intercourse with one another. 
Hence they so often visit each others' rooms in Qua- 
ker style, as to their hats. The conseqiience is, they 
are very apt to carry the same habit into the public 
rooms. of college: and it will be strange, if such per- 
sons do not find this habit clinging to them when they 
go abroad into the world, producing an impression 
upon cultivated minds and tastes, that it is easier to 
obtain a diploma for progress in knowledge, than to 
get rid of uncouth and clownish manners. The same 
inference will be drawn, should the student, when 
hereafter he becomes a clergyman, or a judge, or a 
legislator, be seen lolling, and yawning, and raising 
Ms feet upon the breast-work of the pulpit, or the 
bench, or the senate chamber, as he used to do at 
college, in the chapel and in the lecture room. 



24 



274 

Influence of the Imaaination and Passions upojt 

Health. 
These are the grand moTing powers, not onlj of the 
soul, but of the body. Take them away, and you 
leave nothing but a lifeless, stagnating mass of matter 
and mind. But as in mechanical operations, the mov- 
ing forces are sometimes too powerful for the delicate 
machinery on which ihey operate, so the passions 
sometimes strain and sweep away the curious organi- 
zation both of mind and of body. Hence their mighty 
influence over the health. Hence a quaint writer 
cafls them " the thunder and lightning of perturbation, 
which causeth such violent and speedy altercations 
in this our microcosm, and many times subverts the 
good estate and temperature of it." 

Every man must have realized in hh own experi- 
ence, something of the mighty influence of the more 
violent passions over the body. Who has not been 
sometimes sensible that the blush of shame was hur- 
rying the blood to his cheek, and the strong nervous 
excitement of anger, agitating his frame! Who has 
not felt the violent beating of his heart, on opening 
an important letter, or on receiving weighty intelli- 
gence ! History testifies, that the Emperor Valentiai- 
an the first, Wencigslas, Matthias Corvinus, king of 
Hungary, and many others, died by a violent fit of ao- 
ger.* Murat, king of Naples, received a letter from 
his wife, while absent in Bonaparte's celebrated Rus- 
sian campaign, detailing some proceedings of his gov- 
ernment, which he thought encroached upon the royal 
prerogative ; and so great was the effect of his jeal- 
ousy, that before he had finished the letter, his whole 

" ""■■ ■ ■. ■■■—Ill ■ ■■■■ I I ■an^i^^B.^MM^I I ■ ^^B^l« I I ^^^^^^^^^M^i^.^i^^^^B^.OT^.^— " 

•Journal of Heath, vol, 1. p.l64. 



• 275 

skin became completely jauDdiced.* Excessive joj is 
often fatal. Thus it is said that Sophocles, the tragic 
writer, died in consequence of a decision being given 
in his favour in a contest of honour. Diagoras died at 
the instant, when his three sons were crowned on the 
the same day, as victors at the games. Pope Leo X, 
died of a fever, produced by the joyful news of the 
capture of Milan.t Sudden and excessive fear has of- 
ten produced a similar effect. A boy Was once let 
down the side of a very high precipice in a basket, to 
rob an eaglets nest While suspended, some hundreds 
of feet above the rocky base, he was attacked by the 
eagle : and in cutting at the bird^ with a sword which he 
carried with him, he struck the rope by which he was 
suspended, and cut it nearly off. On drawing him up^ 
his hair was found changed to white.|| Sudden hor- 
ror and anguish produce similar effects. A widow 
in Paris, on learning that her daughter with her 
two children, had thrown herself from an upper 
story of the house, and was dashed in pieces, be- 
came in one night as black as a negro.J Terror has 
an effect equally powerful. Thus, " a Jew in France 
came in the dark, over a dangerous passage, on a 
plank, that lay over a brook, without harm : the 
next day, on viewing the perilous situation he had 
been in, he fell down dead.''|| Sudden grief has some- 
times proved alike fatal. Philip V of Spain, died sud- 
denly, on learning the disasterous defeat of his army ; 
and on dissection it was found that his heart was liter^ 



♦Journal of Flealth. vol. 1. p. 142. 
fRees Cyc. Article Passion. 
X Johnson on the Liver, &c. p. 210 
II If I recoUept right, this is related in Thornton^s Medical Ex- 
tracts. 

||Jobnson on the liver, &:c. p. 205. 



276 

ally bant asunder ; showing that the common phrastf^ 
a broken heart, is sometimes pathologically correct. 

On the other hand, imagination and passion have 
often proved of the highest benefit in the cure of dis* 
eases. History is full of examples ef this kind. The 
animal magnetism of Mesmer, and the metallic tractors 
of Perkins, whereby thousands were actually cured of 
roost obstinate disorders^ by means, which were prov- 
ed in the most satisfactory manner to be mere mum^ 
mery, curiously illustrate this subject ; although I have 
no time to enter into details..* Indeed, unless the 
physician can secure the influence of imaginatioo, or 
rather of hope, operating through the imagination, in 
favour of his medicines, he has littb expectation of 
effecting a cure. Hence, too, it is,that particular rem- 
edies have such a wonderful efficacy for a time, and thei» 
fall into disuse. And hence too, the success that oflen 
attends quacks,who are as destitute of medical knowl- 
edge,as they are of moral stamina. By noise and profes- 
sion, they secure the confidence oftheignorant,.aDdin 
that way do really perform many remarkable cures ; 
though in the end, they usually destroy a greater num- 
her than they restore. Hence too, the same medicine 
will cure in the hands of one physician, that will dona 
jg^ood, administered by another. For '^ plures sanat^irk 
,quem plures confident.''^ 

That those maladles,^ which originate in a disorder- 
dered imagination, can be cured by producing a belief, 
that they will be, seems most rational : and that the 
proportion of disorders originating from this source^ 
and from the influence of passion, is large, none can 

*See Rees Cycle. Article Imagination. 



277 

doabt. The following amusing estimate, said to be 
made bj an old London physician, eihibits, the origin 
of the different cases of disease to which he was call- 
ed in the course of a year: viz. — Vauxhall, Theatres, 
Hackney Coaches, and places of worship (that is 
crowded public assemblies,) 1600. — Indulgence in 
Wine, Spirits and Smoking, 1300. — Indolence, 1000. — 
Sudden changes in the atmosphere, 1200. — Prevalence 
of the North or East winds, 1 800. — Force of Imagina- 
tion, 1500.— Gluttony, 1300.— Quack Medicines, 900. 
— Love, 750. — Grief, 850. — Unsuccessful gambling, 
900. — Contagion, 900.— Study, 950. — Reading Nov- 
els, 450. 

" Of these real friends of the physician," he adds, 
^' I am more indebted to Vauxhall, the theatres, plac- 
ces of divine worship, and hackney coaches, than any 
other, because the diseases they occasion are inflam- 
matioa of internal parts, which is not soon reduced, 
and often terminates in chronic diseases, as pulmonary 
consumption and rheumatism. To Fancy, I do not feel- 
much indebted, because the patients are very far from 
being pleasant ones to attend ; indeed, I had rather have 
been without them. The north, east, and north east 
winds, always add considerably to my list of patients. 
Gluttony and abuse of ale, wine, and smoking are ex- 
cellent friends, because they are constantly acting for 
me. Quack medicines are sincere friends, because they 
amuse the minds of the restless hypochondriacs, and 
convert acute diseases into chronic. Gambling occasions 
nervous affections^ which reflection cures. The south 
and west winds, are also good friends, as they add to my 
reputation, by curing many diseases. Love and grief, al- 

24* 



278 

though perfect strangers to me, are, nevertheless sut^ 
cere friends/'* 

But fancy is not concerned in the prodaction and 
cure of imaginary disorders merely. Some that are 
real and obstinate, yield to its power. At the siege 
of Breda, in 1625, the scurvy raged to an alarming 
degree ; so that the garrison was about to surrender ; 
when the Prince of Orange sent into the fortress, a 
few phials of sham medicine, which was- distributed 
among the suffipreis, as most costly and invaluable. 
The effect was almost miraculous. ^' Such as had not 
moved their limbs for a month before, were seen 
walking in the streets, sound, ^straight, and whole. 
Many, who declared that they had been rendered 
worse by all former remedies, recovered in d few 
days, to their inexpressible joy." 

The remarkable cures of persons: afflicted with the 
Scrofula, or Klng^s Evil, by the kings of Engfood and 
France, particularly by Charles II : aad those of the 
pious, though superstitious, Valentine Greakraks; 
those of Francisco Bagnone, in Italy ; and those cele- 
brated as miracles in the Romish Church, by touching 
bones, relics, &c. f all belong to the same class ; and 
are well worthy the students' attention, as illustrating 
the power of imagination over the body, and as shpw- 
ing the facility with which mankind may be duped by 
the crafty and designing. The case of a man cured 
of the gout by terror and alarm, as mentioned by phy- 
sicians, is striking. Another person, disguised as a 
spectre, entered his chamber, while he was in a pa- 
roxysm of the disorder, seized him and dragged him 
^own stairs with the gouty feet trailing behind him. 

Then the ghost disappeared ; when the sick man 

-■■ _■■■■■ 

* Journal of Health vol. 1. p. 107. 



279 

sprang upon his feet with the utmost ease, van up 
stairs, and never afterwards ielt another symptom of 
gout. 

The sudden strength, which strong passion can in- 
spire, even in a dying man, is wel^ illustrated in the 
history of Muley Moluc, Emperor of Morocco. His 
troops were engaged in hattle with the Portugese ; 
and he was carried upon a Jitter into the field, con« 
scious that he must die in an hour or two^ of an incu- 
rable disease. But his army hegan to retreat. He 
sprang from his litter, rallied his fiying troops, saw 
the enemy heaten, and then returning to his litter, 
fiunk down exhausted and expired. 

With the exhilarating and invigorating influence of 
the milder passions, hoth upon the mind and the body, 
we are all, I trust, familiar. Every nervous invalid, 
especially, can doubtless recollect the remarkable 
transition in all his mental and corporeal feelings, pro^ 
duced by the unexpected breaking in upon his mind of 
a ray of hope, or a gleam of joy : how from being si- 
lent and melancholy, he became sociable, and cheer- 
ful ; how bis sloth was exchanged for active efforts j 
liow the dread of disease and death, which had been 
haunting his imagination, disappeared ; and the world, 
which just before was clothed in sombre hue, was 
soon dressed in a sunny radiance, and he arose a reno- 
vated being. 

On the contrary, every such man knows full well, 
bow paralyzing is the eflfect of melancholy, despon- 
dency, and jealousy. For these are the passions that 
brood, like an incubus, over his spirits, a large por- 
tion of the time : and most persons of this character, 
bj the free use of stimulating food and drink, under 
tbe idea of giving their bodies more strength, do, in 



280 

fact, oppress tbe corporeal power*, and thus feed 
these morbid paasioos, that are slowly consomiog 
their lives. Nor can thej ever get rid of the clood, 
until a change of habits shall break np the strong de- 
lusion. Temperance in diet, and thorough persever- 
ing exercise, will accomplbh their emancipation, and 
bring them under the influence of settled cheerfulness 
and tranquillity of mind — a state of feeling, perhaps 
the most enyiable in this world — and absolutely ne- 
cessary to longevity and usefulness. To secure soch 
a state, therefore, should be a grand object with everj 
student. Let him labour for it without remission ; as. 
sured that it is the true elexir vitae — the genuine phi- 
losopher's stone. 

There is one passion of omnipotent sway in the 
youthful breast, to which I have' not alluded. And 
ought I not, from a sense of delicacy, to pass by li^. 
If I had not in these lectures undertaken, in the plain 
and fearless language of a friend, to warn you of eve- 
ry danger, which I could discover in the field I am 
exploring, I might consent to leave tbe subject of 
early attachment to tbe female sex, untouched. But 
I look upon students, as a class among men, who 
make the pursuit of knowledge, paramount to every 
other of a worldly nature ; and who are ready to sa- 
crifice any other object, when it comes in collision, or 
interferes, with this ; certainly, during the eight or 
ten years of their preparatory course. On this ground 
I have urged the imperious necessity lying upon such, 
to deny themselves every gratification of the palate, 
inconsistent with the most vigorous exercise ot* the 
mind. On the same ground, I warn them against the 
mighty and dangerous influence of love. If they fall 
under its oaagic influence, and become devotedly at- 



281 

tached to some angelic nymph, while jet thej ar^ 
green in literature, and have not acquired an uncon- 
que rahle relish for study; I do dot saj that they are 
inevitably rained ; but they are walking along the 
edge of a precipice, over which thousands and thou- 
sands have plunged : At any rate, they have throwo 
a mighty obstacle into their literary course ; and it 
trill be marvellous, if their progress aflterwards, be 
not with a feeble and halting step. 

'^ To sighs deyoted and to tender pains. 

Pensive you sit, or solitary stray, 

And waste your youth in musin^^ — '• 

The infected mind, 

DissolvM in female tenderness, forgets 

£ach manly tirtue and grows dead to fame. 

Sweet heaven, from such intoxicatini^ charmf 

Defend all worthy breasts V^ Armstrong on health p^ 9Qw 

1 am not arguing, with misanthropic stoicism, against 
a proper attention to this subject at the proper time. 
It is a wise and beneficent law of heayen, that the 
heart should yield to its influence, when it will not in- 
terftra with othpr r.onocma of higher raomeni. But Why 
this great hurry to be unalterably affianced to some 
bewitching fair one, while yet the tastes, and habits, 
and manners, of the student, are forming ? and espe« 
cially, while he has an object before him, sufficient for 
his whole powers to grapple with ; I mean the tho- 
rough discipline of his mind by study ? When his edu* 
cation is finished, and his taste and habits are formed, he 
will have ample leisure to attend to this concern ; and 
will then be less under the influence of a skitish fan- 
cy, and less liable to become tired of his choice. For 
however the ardent lover of eighteen mjiy resent it, 
it is true, that as his mind becomes more expanded, 
his taste more correct, and his acquaintance with the 
world more extensiuej the angelic charms of his love- 



282 

ly fair one, may fade awaj ; and he 6nd btmselfin th^ 
sad dilemma, of spending life with one for whom he 
has little respect, or attachment ; or of violently break- 
asunder engagements, for whose fulfilment, he is most 
solemnly pledged. Such a dilemma is a perfect care 
for the enthusiastic notion, so prevalent among the 
young, that these sexual attachments are beyond their 
control ; and that if the spell comes over them, they 
have nothing to do but to submit to it ; indeed,that these 
^^ congenial minds^' are fitted for one another in heav- 
en, before their descent to this world ; according to the 
love sick ditty of Dr. Watts' Indian Philosopher. 

Wisest and happiest by far, then, in my opinion, is 
that student, who during his collegiate course, ayoids 
the snare of female love. I do not mean to chaise 
him with moral delinquency if he is entangled : but I 
say to him, that he has tied a load to his back, that 
will be very likely to retard his progress up the hill 
of science ; and which may altogether discourage him 

Irum adyiun;liig;: uay, lei lilui uot fov^Af, ikai ihlo vciy 

hindrance has turned not a few talented and even pious 
youth, out of the path that leads to usefulness and 
respectability, and sent them down into the valley of 
forgetfulnes8 — alas, some have landed in the gulf of 
infamy. And where else should we expect to find 
such, as have given themselves up to female influ- 
ence ! '^ An ille mihi liber videatur, cui mulier im- 
perat, cui leges imponit, praescribit, jubet, vetat quod 
videtur; cui nihil imperanti negare potest, nihil re- 
cusare audet ? Poscit ? dandum est. Vocat ? venien- 
dum. Ejicit? abeundum. Minatur? extimescendam. 
Ego vero istum non modo servum, sed nequissimam 
servum puto." — {Cicero.) 

But if virtuous love be thus dangerous, what shall 



283 

I saj of every species of meretricious connection ? 
What shall I say ? Solomon has already said it all, 
with the tongue of inspiration. He has shown us the 
way to the house of infamy, and hung up over its en- 
traacci, in burning characters, the appalling inscrip- 
tion — ^HER HOUSE IS THE WAT TO HELL : HER GUESTS ARE 
IN THE DEPTHS OF HELL ^NoNE THAT GO UNTO HER RE- 
TURN AGAIN, NEITHER. TAKE THEY HOLD OF THE PATHS 

OF LIFE. If the student heeds not this warning, it is 
because moral principle, and the sense of shame, and 
(he fear of God, are banishsd from his bosom ; and 
therefore, it is useless to make any farther appeal to 
one who is thrice dead. 

But to turn our thoughts far, far away from such 
scenes, I remark, that there are exercises of the prin« 
ciple of love, which have an omnipotent sway, over 
every unruly passion, and a most salutary effect upon 
the health. I refer to the love, which religion in- 
spires for holy objects : for God as the supreme ex- 
cellence, and fgr other being, in proportion to their 
purity and value. This is the mighty energy, that is 
able to control the fiercest passions, and to strip the 
most desponding of their power. Even the settled 
melancholy of the bilious and the nervous — obsti- 
nately defying every other agency — may be dissipated 
by holy. love. This turns off the affections and the 
attention from created objects, and makes the man 
feel, that it is of little consequence what evils betide 
him here, or through what storms he has to pass, 
since there are cloudless skies a little beyond, and a 
secure haven, which he is sure of entering and en- 
joying. 

^^ His hand, the good man fastens on the skies 
And bids earth roll, nor feels her idle whirl.^* 



284 

He can .take op, and apply the triamphant reasoa^ 
ing of Paul : If God be for us, who can be against tts T 
He thai spared not his own son, but delivered him up for 
us all, how shall he not, with him, also, freely give as cUl 
things. 

When such a principle is in Tigorous exerdse in a 
man^s bosom, what inferior passiSn will dare to lift its 
punj arm to make war therein ! And the serenity, 
cheerfulness, and stability, which it inspires, exert a 
mightier power in the prevention and cure of dis- 
eases, than any prescription the physician's Dispensa- 
tory can furnish. Yea, and when nature grapples with 
her last enemy, it is this principle alone, that enables 
the soul still to triumph ; and amid the ruins of the 
body, to exclaim, O Death, where is thy sting ! O 
Grave, where is thy victory I 



ZBOTURB VZZZ. 



PART III. BMPIiOTMEZfT. 

Influence of different Employments upon Health, Lit* 
erary pursuits favorable to Health. Study: best pos- 
ture of the body ; best time of day for its prosecu- 
tion ; night study injurious : Means of preserving the 
Eyes : Recreaiion from study — Active benevolent En- 
ierprises — Light Reading — Social Intercourse^'-Mu' 
sic. General Inferences. 

With this Lecture, GeDtlemen, I enter upon the 
third general hraoch of mj suhject, viz. Employment. 
Without much impropriety, indeed, I might perhaps 
have treated of this under the head of Regimen. Still, 
in the case of the student, it seems desirable to 
bring forward his daily avocations in bold relief; since 
these exert so important an influence upon his health. 
And this can be done most effectually, by considering 
literary pursuits as a prominent and distinct branch of 
the general subject. 

Although it is a matter of every day^s experience 
and remark, that some occupations are more favora- 
ble to health and long life, than ot hers : yet but few 
accurate observations have been made to determine 
definitely the amount of influence that is thus exerted. 
The following statements, however, will give some 
idea of the subject. 

In Hamburgh, in Holland, it was ascertained that 
the proportion of deaths among the tailors, was about 
one in every nine ; among the cabinet makers, about 

25 



286 

one in 25 ; and among the barbers, nearly one in 1 8.* 
Of 424 individuals, who lived over 80 years, there 
were, according to Schfoter, 



Apothecaries 


3 


Painters 


3 


Physicians & Surgeons 14 


Musicians 


3 


Astronomer 


1 


Philosophers 


18 


Poets 


3 


Clergymen 


33 


Lawyers 


23 


Merchants 


11 


Schoolmasters 


8 


Housekeepers 


10 


Military Officers 


21 


Gardeners 


4 


Soldiers 


12 


Herdsmen 


3 


Noblemen 


8 


Laborers 


8 


Ministers of State 


4 


Mechanics 


71 


Countrymen 


87 


Sailors 


2 


Citizens 


55 


Grave Digger 


1 



But the character of my audience renders it unne- 
cessary for me to dwell upon any occupation, that is 
not essentially literary. I shall, therefore, direct my 
remarks. 

In the first place, to the subject of study ; and 

In the second place, to recreation from study. 

There exists a prevalent opinion, that literary pur- 
suits are peculiarly unfavorable to health. The ac- 
tive part of society make this inference, from the facts 
that so many students are complaining of bad health ; 
and so many others are compelled to abandon tbeir 
books : and the student himself comes to i^uch a con- 
clusion, from an unwillingness to acknowledge that 
the failure of his health may more probably be im- 
puted to his excesses in diet, or study, or neglect of 
exercise, than to the nature of his pursuits ; because 
in the one case, the fault lies with himself; and in the 



Joonial of Health, vol. I. p. 166. 



287 

other, it is a mere misfortone. But I do not believe 
the oplDioo to be correct. Certainly to maintain the 
mind itself in a healthy state, it must have almost 
constant occupation — the more the better, if it do not 
fatigue. It is a want of such mental employment that 
gives rise to ennui, melancholy, and the whole train 
of depressing passions, accompanied by intellectual 
imbecility. Now a disordered mind will soon pro- 
duce a disordered body. And what mental exertion, 
if properly made, can be more favorable to health, 
than the pursuits of literature and science ? To every 
one, ivho deserves the name of a literary man, the 
acquisition of knowledge is an extraordinary pleasure: 
and this circumstance adds greatly to the good effect 
of study upon the bodily health; because no task is 
imposed. There is indeed, such a thing as an exces- 
sive attachment to books, which is injurious; because 
it leads to the neglect of every proper means of health : 
such was the enthusiasm of the English mathematician, 
when he exclaimed; Crede mihi^ extingui dulce erit 
tnathematiearum artium studio. Still a great degree of 
devotedness to learning, is not always unfavourable to 
longevity : " and," as a medical writer observes, "we 
have many instances on record, of men who have at- 
tained their century of years, retaining their intellect- 
ual faculties, and admiring mental acquirements with 
the avidity of youth.'^* 

In support of the position, that literary pursuits are in 
themselves favourable to health, I might add, that while 
they afford a man all needful facilities for- attention to 
diet and regimen, they enable him to avoid many of 
those exposures to wet, heat, cold, and excessive fa- 

^Manual for Invalids, p. 36. 



288 

tigiie, to which the lahoariog classes are liable ; and 
which are the exciting^ causes of a maltitade of fatal 
diseases. Thej enable him, also, to adopt greater 
regularity in his mode of life, than can be done by oth- 
ers ; and this Is extremely faTOurable. 

This yiew of the subject is supported by all medi- 
cal, and other authorities. Says one of the former 
class; ^^to cultivate a love of literature and the fine 
arts, and to direct the taste to pursuits of usefulness, 
is Tery conformable both to health and happiness.* 

Says another, of the latter class ; ^4he time will come 
when the most cultivated and vigorous minds will be 
found connected with the most energetic bodies. 

" The lanf^id eye ; the cheek 
Deserted of its bloom > the flaccid, shrunk, 
And witherM muscle ; and the yaptd soul,** 

ought as rarely to be found in our academic halls-, as^ 
in the habitations of our hardy yeomanry. Sanatnens 
in eorpore sano^ is, with proper management, emphati- 
cally the privilege of students. They may enjoy even 
better health than the most laborious. Alternation or 
bodily and mental effort will be found more favoura- 
ble to health than the long continued muscular action, 
of the farmer and the mechanic. Studious men have 
more knowledge of the regimen essential to health,, 
than others ; and their situation for following it, is in 
general more favourable. That temperance in all 
things, which God has enjoined, especially in eating 
and drinking, united with that exercise of the mental 
and physical powers for which he made us, will be 
found to ensure the most perfect health.'*'* 

" The cultivation of the sciences," says the Journal 



* Manual for loTallda, p. 49, 
t Frosts Qratioa«. 



289 

of Health, ^< appears pnrticolarly favourable to longev- 
ity : there can be but little doubt that an individual 
who exercises his mind as well as his body, has a faii^ 
er prospect of life, than the one whose body alone la 
occupied. — Franchini has enumerated 104 Italian math- 
ematicians of different epochs : he ha^ ascertained that 
of 70 of these, Ird attained the age of 80 years, and 2 
of 90. — In France, according to M. Berard, 152 men 
of science and letters, have been taken at random : 
half yie number appear to have cultivated science, 
and about half to have been devoted to general liter- 
ature : on computatioDy it was found, that the average 
life of each of the 152 individuals, was 59 years."* 

In advancing such principles, however, it ought not 
to be forgotten, that those who fall an early sacrifice 
to literary pursuits, aie not taken into the account ; 
because their names are unknown, beyond the small 
circle in which they moved. And in our country, and 
our times, the number of such victims is unusually 
great. But shall their premature fall be imputed to 
the insalutary nature of their pursuits ? By no meant : 
In the ignorance and neglect of the rules of diet and 
regimen, I have already pointed out fruitful causes of 
their melancholy fate : and another cause Is to bo 
found in their violation of the rules, which experionco 
has shown to be best, for regulating the time and qunn* 
tity of study, and the mode of pursuing it. My proii- 
ent object, is, to point out these rules with ns much 
distinctness as possible. 

In the first place, particular attention should bn pnid 
to the posture ot the body in study. In gononil, thitt poii« 
tare ought to be erect-certainly so far ns thn chtini U 
concerned. Even when the student is sitting, thcihrfmit 



• Vol. l.p. 167. 

26* 



■«*■«■ • • . 



»«•• 



290 

•honld be throwD forward, or swelled cnU and the tfiv 
domea drawn a little inwards, that the lungs may hav^e 
their full play, and none of the internal organs be un- 
duly compressed. Bending over a table, so as to con- 
tract the organs of respiration, for any considerable 
time, is peculiarly injurioos. And to avoid this most 
effectually, and also to give every organ a natural and 
unrestrained position, standing upon the feet is by far 
preferable to sitting, while engaged in studj^ In the 
former position, most persons will hold out tiyce as 
long, with the same fatigue,, as in the latter. I know 
that our natural indolence will plead hard for the easy 
chair; and to one accustomed to this luxury ef a stu^, 
of so very questionable utility, it will require not a lit- 
tle resolution and self denial,^ to learn to stand upon the 
feet. But l«tvoold urge peFsevcranee in this habit, as of 
great importance. True, when a person attempts to 
study, after fatiguing-exercise, he may be excused for 
sitting, until refreshed ; but if his lassitude does not 
proceed from fatigue, let him not yield to it. If lon^ 
standing is painful, the chair and the table may be 
used for a short time, and then the standing position 
be resumed. Indeed, such an occasional alternation, 
will generally be found highly beneBcial ; although 
the time spent upon the feet should always exceed 
that in the chair. 

It can hardly be thought a digresdon here, if I 
should saj' a few words upon the position of students 
generally. For they are very apt to acquire postures 
of the body, that are both extremely ungraceful, and 
unhealthy : So that probably no equal number of any 
other class of men, taken at random, can be found, 
whose forms and positions would be more exceptiona- 
ble, to a military eye and a correct taste, than theirs. 



291 

And the reasons of this are, that they are generaU/ 
bent over and cramped when studying ; and few of 
tbem take any pains to correct their forms and pos- 
tures at other times. But when we coisider of how 
moch importance is an erect and graceful form in a 
public speaker — how it half makes up for lame and 
crooked sentences — it seems strange that the subject 
is thus negl.ected. Every scholar ought to learn the 
posture of a soldier on parade f and t€f accustom him- 
self to it so long, that it shall become easy and habit- 
ual. This posture does not consist in strutting^ as 
most suppose ; that is, in throwing the head far back- 
ward, and the belly forward : But in holding the head 
perfectly erect, drawing in the belly, throwing forward 
the breast, and the shoulders backwards. This will 
place the line of the body in a perpendicular direc- 
tion ; which is the natural position of man, ^nd very 
different from that slouching, ungainly, parabolical, 
indescribable form, which we not unfrequently see un- 
der a scholastic habit. Some may, indeed, imagine 
that it savours of a proud spirit, to appear always 
d Id militaire^ with the head erect, the breast promi- 
nent, the elbows close to the body, and the legs straight ; 
and that the curvilinear, undisciplined posture, looks 
most like humility. But I do not think that an epicy- 
cloidal back, is always Indicative of a submissive spirit ; 
nor a rectilinear spine, a sure index of a stubborn 
will. Depend upon it, gentlemen, that age and Infir- 
mity will bend you down early enough ; however 
careful you may be to accustom yourselves to a sol- 
dier-like and gentlemanly form and posture in youth. 
While it is in your power, therefore, do not bring a 
libel on human nature, by neglecting to cultivate your 
forms^ as well as your minds; especially when health. 



292 

equally with fatare usefulness and success, demands it. 

In the second place, health as well as success in 
study, demand a certam preparation for those seasons 
that are deTot^d to it. This preparation embraces 
both body and soul. If the mind be agitated by cares, 
OF passions, or disgusted with literary pursuits, attempts 
at successful study are mere mockery. And so if the 
body be oppressed with disease, listlessness, or excess 
in diet, the mind operates td an immense disadvantage; 
and to the still farther prostration of the corporeal 
powers. The body and the mind, therefore, must be 
put in order, before we let in the steam, for putting 
the machine in motion. Otherwise, some crank, un- 
equally pressed, will be broken; some valve williiot 
play, or some boiler will burst. 

Very many students^ especially in the earlier part 
of their course, estimate their proficiency by the num- 
ber of houi*s which the}' employ with their books 
open before them : whereas, in fact, a man who en. 
gages in study with no preparation for it, though he 
may spend his twelve or Efteen hours per day over 
his classics, frequently gains nothing in point of knowl- 
edge, or mental discipline. Nay, he is not unfre* 
quently like the frog in a well, concerning whom the 
arithmetic inquires, how long before he will get out, 
if he ascends two feet per day, and falls back three. 
But students learn, before many yeai*s, that a single 
hour, spent over their books, when mind and body are 
harnessed for the work, is worth twelve, where the 
one is unstrung, and the other chained. 

It is surely, then, an object of great importance, for 
every student to know how he may accomplish the 
most of mental labour in the least time. Vigorous 
health is, indeed, of immense importance in effecting 



293 

this: bat the person of rather delicate coostitatioii, 
can perform wonders in ttiis respect, if he ohserre 
certain mles : And first, bis study shonld be retired, 
drj, aitj, and agreeable. 

Euripides, indeed, is said to have composed his tra- 
gedies in a caTe ; and Demosthenes chose a place for 
stody, where nothing conld be heard, or .seen. Bot 
other men, equally happy in their mental labours, 
have fbond that the cheerful light of the sun« and the 
bradng influence of dry and pure air, were quite as 
favourable to the invention of original and bappy 
ideas, as the gloom and dampness of a prison, or a 
cavern. The groves and walks of the Academy and 
Lyceum, near Athens, where Socrates, Plato, and Ar- 
istotle, taught, were certainly far more conducive to 
health and cheerfulness ; and the examples of wisdom 
and knowledge which have emanated thence, will 
surely sustain a comparison with any that antiquity 
can boast. The confined air of a small apartment, and 
the dampness of a sunken, cell, must certainly be 
avoided by the invalid, if he means to preserve com- 
fortable health, or sustain much literary effort. Nor 
shonld any one think it an object of no importance, to 
render bis study a pleasant place : at least, to exhibit 
taste, order, and neatness, in its internal arrangement: 
and if it have some loop-hole, through which his eye 
can rest upon an interesting landscape, it will tend to 
make his situation agreeable, and therefore, like home- 
A study, bowever, should not crowd too closely upon 
the busy street, and other resorts of men, lest the at" 
tention be too much distracted. 

Secondly ; exercise, but not fatigue, should precede 
the hoars of study. The exercise is necessary, in or- 
der that the various parts of the bodily machine should 



294 

be put into easy, vigorous, and harmonious action. 
For until this be effected, the finer intellectual organi- 
zation within, will be cramped, and operate only slug- 
gishly and ineffectually. Every one must have per- 
ceived, what acceleration and life have been given to 
mental operations by exercise in the open air, until a 
gentle perspiration opens the pores, carrying off the 
crudities of the blood ; and the pulse is made thereby 
to Leat full and strong, and the head is relieved from 
pains and drowsiness. But if the exercise be carried 
so far as to occasion severe fatigue, the mind, sympa- 
thizing with the body, demands repose : nor can it be 
spurred up to vigoroiH^ action, without making such a 
draft upon the secret energies of the constitution, as 
will be extrem.ely hazardous to comfort and health. 

Thirdly; light meals should precede study. I mean 
when the hours devoted to study follow the meab, 
with but little interval, the food should be very simple, 
and moderate in quantity. It is said that it is very 
difficult to make a dog see objects through a window, 
because he looks only at the glass. And this, it seems 
to me, very exactly represents that student's conditioD, 
who sits down to his books, after having loaded his 
stomach beyond all reason. True, he can fasten his 
eye upon his books : but the clearest reasonings are 
all opaque to hjm, because his mental vision is so 
blunted by gluttony, as not to be able to penetrate the 
most transparent medium. He, however, does not 
suspect the cause, why he falls so far behind ' others 
in his attainments ; nor why, after hours of study, do 
distinct impression remains upon his mind. He char- 
ges it all to his poor memory, while God charges It 
to his intemperance. Hence it is, that study is so qd- 
profitable to most persons immediately after dinner. 



295 

And hence it is so anprofitable to maltitades after 
breakfast and supper too : for after thej have eateo 
at those meals, as mach as is necessarj for twenty four 
hours, their minds can do more operate freely, than 
can the lungs, when a cord is tightly drawn around 
the neck. The mind, in such a case, must lie still, 
until the stomach has got rid of its load. Hence, too, 
it is, that. the mind is less clear, and the power OTer 
the attention less entire, after a meal of animal food, 
than aflter one of vegetables : for the latter exercises, 
far ^ less vigorously than the former, the digestive 
powers, and produces less feverish heat. Hence, too, 
abstinence, when not carried so far as to produce 
prostration, is, perhaps, the most favorable condition 
of any, for clear and powerful mental abstraction. 

Fourthly; the mind should be kept free from strong 
excitement, or even very engrossing diversions, for 
some time previous to regular studj'. The waves of 
the ocean, when once raised, cannot in a moment be 
calmed, even if the cause of their excitement ceases. 
No easier can you put down at once, the movements 
of the mind. You may excite counter waves in the 
ocean, but those already existing will conflict with 
them for some time : and the same is true of counter 
mental emotions. But in order to grapple successfully 
with the abstrusities of science, the mind should be 
brought to the task, in a collected and unruffled state. 
No half subdued gust of passion should start up — no 
melancholy train of thought should pour in its muddy 
current — no sudden start of a skittish fancy, or engros- 
sing remembrance of a darling diversion — no dreams 
of romance, should come in .to ruffle the smooth sur- 
face. The whole soul should be only a mirror of 
thought; where every inage should be well defined. 



296 

ftnd without distortion. Intent onlj apon thoroaghly 
compreliending the point before him, the stadent 
shoald endeavour to forget every thing else ; and to 
concentrate all the energies of his soul upon the task 
he hai undertaken. And yet, so absorbed should he 
be in his work, as forthwith to foi^et that it is a task, 
and only feel that it is a pleasure. Although at the 
proper time he may give up his mind to business, 
care, light reading, or diversion ; yet these hours are 
consecrated sacredly to study ; — to the thorough dis- 
cipline and enlargement of his mind ; and to all other 
things he should be able to say, procul^ O, procul^ esie 
profani! How very different will be the progress of a 
student thus fitted for the work ; thus nerved with 
giant strength, and wielding an Herculean club ; from 
that of him, whose head is confused and heavy from a 
loaded stomach; whose strength is weakness, from 
want of exercise ; and whose mind is distracted 
with corroding passions, or light and airy thoughts i 

Altogether incompatible with such a preparation as 
this, is the practice of lounging in the early part of 
the day, over the last newspaper, or periodical. In- 
formation thence derived may be serviceable, if ob- 
tained at the proper time ; that is, if such works be 
read as a relaxation from study, and afler the regular 
»tudy hours are past: But to dip into them in the morn- 
ing, or into the romance, or the play, or the poem, is 
effectually to unfit the mind for the vigorous, undivided 
efforts, which the solid branches of learning demand. 
Hence students of this character, although they catch 
many of the floating and iridescent bubbles of polite 
literature, and acquire a pert flippancy and readiness 
of expression, are usually marked with tekel, when 
put into the balances. 



29T 

Ilnal)y, perhaps there is no means more effectual 
to secure this mental preparation for study, that is so 
desirable, than by devoting the season immediately 
previous to devotional exercises. I am not urging 
this duty as a theologian : but merely as a most effec* 
taal method of collecting the thoughts, of fixing the 
attention, of calming the'excited feelings, and awaken- 
ing a determined purpose of soul. I speak not here 
of a hasty, and formal, and unfeeling, and unmeaning re- 
petition of a prayer ; but of those sincere and thor- 
ough devotional exercises, which make the man feel 
the presence* of God, and the controlling influence of 
religious motives, and the vanity, folly, and guilt, of 
acting from merely selfish and ambitions views. De- 
pend upon it, that he who has six hours before him 
for study>, will make a greater proficiency, by devoting 
one of them to such exercises, than by mpnopolizing 
the whole for literature or science. Such a course, 
I might add, enlists in our favour, infinite power and 
boundless wisdom. 

Having thus described the requisite preparation for 
literary labour, the third inquiry is, what portion of 
the day shall be devoted to regular and systematic 
study ? For when I speak of study, I do not mean ev- 
ery thing that goes by the name. I look upon the 
reading of a newspaper, a periodical, a romance, a 
play, or a poem, as merely a relaxation from study. 
It is only winsn the mind is investigating some branch 
of knowledge, hitherto wholly or partially unexplored ; 
and is advancing systematically in its conquests from 
one position to another, that the effcJrt ought to be 
dignified with the name of study. A man may " toy 
with his books,'' and sometimes ought to do it, for 

26 *' 



298 

health's sake: but this is neither mental discipline^ 

# 

nor mental conquest; and therefore, not study. 

As to the season most proper for study, I shall speak 
the unanimous sentiment of every intelligent friend fo 
health, and learning too, when I say that the earlier 
part of the day, is decidedly the best. Every thing 
conspires to render it so. The mind, as well as the 
body, is then refreshed and vigorous from repose ; and 
every organ plays its part freely and pleasantly. And 
if the student do not clog his powers by too hearty a 
breakfast, or too violent exercise, or improper diver- 
sions, he will be able most successfully to prosecute 
his studies until the hour of dinner ; interrupted only 
by those seasons, which should be devoted to exer- 
cise : for rhave already shown, that such seasons ctre 
imperiously demanded, both for the preservation of 
health, and as a preparation for mental efforts. 

Those individuals in the literary world, who have 
left the most imperishable monuments of their iodus. 
try and knowledge, have, almost without exception, 
executed the greatest portion of their works in the 
early part of the day ; devoting the latter part to ex- 
ercise, recreation, and business. I have already, in 
another lecture, mentioned a striking living example, 
which may stand' instar omnium^ that Sir Walter Scott, 
devotes only the hours from four to nine in the 
morning to literary labour. As to the practice of 
studying before day light, however, no student should 
enter upbn it without great caution : for few have 
health and eyes sufficiently strong, to endure it. Bat 
when a man has ascertained that no injury results from 
such a practice, he will certainly find a vigor and 
clearness of mind at that season, which he can scarcely 
)iope to possess, during any 4fther portion of the day^ 



299 

While tipon this sabject, there is still greater need 
that 1 utter a strong caveat against night study: I 
mean study after nine or ten o^clock in the evening. 
Fevr literary men are aware of the great risk they 
ran, by indulging in sach a habit. And it is the be* 
setting sin of stadious men. The interruptions of the 
day, the stillness of the night, and not unfrequently 
the unnatural wakefulness produce^ by strong tea, or 
a deficiency of exercise, are almost irresistible temp- 
tations to such, to prolong their studies beyond the 
liour, when health demands their discontinuance* 
The consequence is, disturbed and unrefreshing sleep* 
^ The tired brain,'' says a physician, ^^ can no more 
repose, than the overstrained muscles after violent 
exertion ; hence the studies of the day rise in inco« 
herent images at night, or drive away sleep altogetb- 
er.''* Every student's experience will attest the 
truth of tliis statement : But every one should make 
the most strenuous efforts to prevent the recurrence 
of such excitement during the night ; for if suffered 
to continue long, it will infallibly destroy the constitu- 
tion, and in some instances, it has proved suddenly fa- 
tal, by bringing On apoplexy. Warned by the exist- 
ence of such a state of nerves, the student must forth- 
with follow the advice of Dr. Johnson. ^^ Whenever 
we find," says he, ^^ the diseases of literature assail 
us, we should have the lamp scoured out and no more 
oil put into it. it is night stady that ruins the consti- 
tution, by keeping up a bewildered chaos of impres- 
sions on the brain during the succeeding sleep — if that 
can be called sleep, which is constantly interrupted by 
incoherent dreams apd half waking trains of thought.'' 



* Johnson on Hygeia. 



300 

To procure repose io such cases, some resorC to (he 
laudanum or paregoric phial, or to spirituous liquoi& 
This is suicide : for it tends to produce a coDgestiooT 
or inflammation, of 4he hrain: and thus, according to 
Dr. Johnson, did the celebrated Professor Porson ter- 
Bunate liis days. 

A more painful case of sel^immolatien, by immod- 
erate night-«tudy, . was that of Henry Kirke White. 
Burning with an ardent desire for distinction in the 
literary world, and full of that self-confident presump- 
tion, which leads many students to despise ail the ad- 
vice of their seniors, and to expect that their consti- 
tutions are strong enough to render all attention to 
health unnecessary, he persisted in an almost incessant 
application to study, until the delicate machinery of 
his system gave way, and left him only tin^e enough 
in this world, while flesh and body were consuming, 
to pour forth the unayailing regret : how have I hated 
instrvu^ion^ and my heart despised reproof! He allowed 
himself scarcely no time for relaxation, or meals, or 
sleep. He used to study till one, two, and even three 
oMock in the merning^; and then devote only two or 
three hours to sleep ; having fixed a larum to hh 
clock, to awake him at five. His kind mother re- 
monstrated, wept, entreated, and prayed in vain. She 
used to go every night to his study, at a certain hour^ 
to extinguish his lamp ; when he would conceal the 
light, and springing into' bed, feign to be asleep : but 
vise again to his self-immolating work as soon as she 
had gone. The sacrifice was soon completed ; and 
the victim has left his blood sprinkled over the vesti- 
bule of the temple of science, as a warning to every 
ardent youth, who attempts to eater in an unlawful 
manner. 



SOI 

Most literary men are conyinced, that yerj late 
study at night is iajarioas to health : but few have 
any idea that it is equally hostile to the most vigorous 
and successful exertion of mind. Yet such Ib the fact : 
and if a man will review io the morning, the mental 
labours, of the preceding night, especially if they 
were performed under the influence oi any artificial 
stimulus, such as tea, coffee, or wine, he will find, that 
although there is exhibited evidence that the mind was 
in operation, yet the balance was gone, and the 
movements were too irregular to be useful. We should 
predict that the mind^s vigor and calmness, would be 
afiected at night, by the bodily exhaustion ; and the 
£nal result shows this to be a true prediction. We see 
this particularly, in the far greater retentiveness of 
the memory in the morning than at night: although 
probably there is a difference equally great, in the ex- 
ercise of the other mental powers. The scholar, 
therefore, who wishes not only to preserve his health, 
but to bring forth the full strength of his powers, must 
choose the early part of the day for the burden of his 
intellectual labours. His most severe efforts should 
be over before dinner. In the aAernoon, indeed, gen- 
tle application to studies requiring no great abstraction 
of mind, is not particularly injurious : and the same 
may said of the evening, until nine or ten o^clock : But 
to throw the principal and most severe studies into this 
part of the day, is slow, but effectual suicide : and es- 
pecially to spur up the mind to intense action, after 
nine o^clock in the evening, is aiming a blow, not on- 
ly at health and life, but at all the budding hopes of 
literary distinction. 

Probably no class of men' violate these rules so ex- 
tensively as clergymen. Their literary labours are 

26* 



SOS 

fie<:essarily verj great f eomposition being probabfy 
more exhausting than any other kind of study : and a» 
the necessity of composition is constantly recurring, 
and other duties are crowding upon them, they are 
tempted to defer, as long as may be, the preparation 
of their sermons. Too often they procrastinate till 
evening; whose stillness invites to religious med' 
itation; and excited by some interesting train of thought, 
or, it may be, by strong green tea, they f^nd the clock 
striking eleven, or twelve, or even one, before the ex* 
haasted powers demand repose. Worse than all, such 
protracted mental labours most frequently occupy Fri- 
day, or Saturday night, following a day of severe mental 
effort, and preceding the day^ when a laborious bodily 
effort is to he made in public. Now this severity of 
study,is the very way to unfit the body for sustahiiog the 
labour of public speaking ; which is trying enough, un- 
der the most favourable circumstances; but excessively 
prostrating to powers weakened by iomioderate men- 
tal application. Can we wonder, that so many cler- 
gymen at this day, are victims to early prostration, and 
almost constant feeble health ; if such, or any thing 
like this, be their practice : and I fear, that essential- 
ly this course, is taken by a majority. The fact is, Fri- 
day and Saturday, or at least the latter,ought to be devot- 
ed by the clergy man, almost entirely, to exercise; and his 
preparation for the Sabbath, should he nearly, or quite 
completed, before that time. Or it might be better 
for him, upon the whole, to make it his rule, to devote 
bis forenoons only to study : and the remainder of each 
day, to parochial visits and other bodily exercise : and 
to have his people understand, that any calls, or yisits, 
before dinner, except such as are imperiously neces- 
sary, will be regarded as an uagentlemanlj lutroaioor 



305 

Such a course, tesolotely carried through, would work 
wonders ia respect to the health and usefulness of 
those, who minister in holy things. 

As to the precise number of hours, which it is advise-* 
able to spend in regular study, no definite rule can be 
given^ Some constitutions will bear twice as much 
confinement as others, with the 'same health. And 
then again, an increase of exercise will enable one 
to sustain a greater amount of study^ Besides, the 
man who enters his study, thoroughly prepared for his 
work, will accomplish more in one hour, than he, who 
is unprepared, can do, in four. So that no student 
can estimate hb proficiency by the number of hours 
he devotes to his books. But each one may give 
as. many hours to his study as he can do, aAer attend- 
ing faithfully to the rules which I have mentioned in 
respect to diet and exercise: provided he finds his 
health remaining firm and vigorous. If morbid feel' 
ings beset him, he may be sure something is wrong, 
either in his diet, or exercise, or amount of study ; 
and if he can discover the difficulty no where else, he 
must shorten his season of study, and increase the 
amount of his exercise, until he has found out the prop- 
er medium. 

Literary men have varied exceedingly in the amojunt 
of time which they have given to close mental appli- 
cation. Some could even confine themselves from 
twelve to fourteen hours each day ; others, with fee- 
ble constitutions, have found six or eight as much as 
they could endure : And, says the. Secretary of the 
American Education Society, " One of the most ac- 
tive and laborious professional students in America^ 
and one who has given to the world as substantial fruits 
of his labours, perhaps as any other man, in proportion 



S04 

to the time he has been upon the pubhc stage, spends 
three hoars of the day in close study, and a large part 
of the remainder in exercise. But study, with such 
men, is a term of different signification from what it 
has in the Tocabularies of many who call themselves 
students. The hour comes, and finds them ready, 
like a strong man, to run a race. The mind grasps 
its subject, and refuses to quit its hold till it has gain- 
ed its object."* 

The student ought here, however, to be cautioned 
against too protracted and intense application to one 
particular point. When the mind becomes exceeding- 
ly absorbed in a favorite branch of knowledge; exer- 
cise, succession of time, and even the common meals, 
are apt to be forgotten; and the man, in hid reverie, 
becomes almost a martyr to his pursuit. This was 
once the case of the learned physician, Boerhave. Hav 
ing for a few days and nights bestowed intense study 
upon one subject, he fell suddenly into a state of ex- 
treme lassitude, and lay for some time in an insensible 
and death like condition t To avoid such a result, let 
no student permit himself to employ the whole of any 
one day, much less several days, in exclusive attention 
to a particular train of thought. The rules for diet 
and exercise, which I have advanced, if properly at- 
tended to, will effectually guaird against this evil. And 
in this respect, if no other, the required attentiop of 
the student to two or more branches of study during the 
same day, in most- of our literary seminaries, operates 
very favourably. 



•Quarterly Register of Am. Ed. Soc. vol. 1. p. 58. 
t Manual for Invalids, p. 39. 



305 

Il^ot a few coDBcieDtions students exceedingly injure 
their constitatioDS, by confining themselves a certain 
length of time to their books, when their health is so 
far impaired, that they can neither fix their attention 
upon one point, nor make any yalaable advances in 
knowledge. Unwilling to yiekl in the contest with dys- 
pepsy, or ignorant that it has seized them, they strog* 
g\e for a long time to overcome their morbid feelings 
by force ; whereas, a little yielding to them at first, a 
little relaxation from severe application, would effect* 
ually remove the difficulty, which is only aggravated 
by an uncompromising resistance ; which, in the end, 
is sore to bring down upon the man a full phial of ven* 
geance. 

I do not mean, by any thing 1 have said, to excuse 
the indolent scholar, who would gladly escape all men« 
tal labour ; not because his mind has become jaded 
out with effort, but because it never learned how to 
operate aright, nor is capable of applying itself close- 
ly to any thing more than a novel, or a poem, or the 
last Edinburgh and Quarterly. Such men have my 
full liberty to study, all night, and all day, If they 
will. I have no fears that they will injure themselves. 
And if they do, society will not regard it as an irre- 
parable loss. 

The means of preserving the eyes, is so intimately 
connected with this part of the subject, and is more- 
over, of such vast consequence to the student, that I 
feel desirous of devoting a moment to the subject. 

The natural light of the day is most favorable for 
the eyes ; as we might expect from the beneficence 
of God. If our studies, however, have a southern 
exposure, the light of the sun is apt to be too intense; 
A northern exposure is far preferable. The light en- 



S06 

teriog a north window, from a summer landscape, £# 
probably more congenial to the eye than almost any 
other degree, either more or less intense. 

Green is the most fayorable of all colors for the eye: 
and hence the benevolence of God appears in spread* 
ing this color over the earth^s surface for so lai^e a 
portion of the year. Hence too, the reason that the 
painter uses a green palette : and that screens of this 
color, afford so good a defence to weak eyes in the 
evening. Hence too, the value of green spectacles^ 
But here permit me to express the opinion, that many 
lose much of the benefit of such glasses, by wearing 
them in cloudy weather« For unless the eye be very 
weak, they ought to be used only when artificial lights 
are employed, or when the person is exposed to the 
strong light of the sub, shining in his strength. At 
other times, they are apt to strain the sight. 

All artificial light, such as that of candles, lamps^ 
g^s, &c. is very trying to the eyes. Hence the g^al 
danger of injuiing the vision by night study. Every 
person, who reads much in the evening, should pro- 
vide himself with a green silk screen, and if conve- 
nient, with green spectacles of a light shade of color. 

Perhaps the worst time for making use of the eyes, 
is during twilight. Nor is it well, as soon as the sun 
disappears, to shut up our window blinds and resort 
to a candle. The change seems to be too sudden. 
Another season peculiarly trying to eyes, in the least 
degree weakened, is before day light in the morning. 

Repeated ablutions of the eyes in cold water, espe- 
cially in the morning, are generally of service. Any 
more powerful applications, however, should be em- 
ployed with extreme caution, and not at all, undirected 
by a physician : for an organ so delicate as the eye^ 



307 

will not endare much quack doctoring. If the eje9 
begin to fail, the best remedy, usually, is to gi?e them 
rest. 

Upon the whole, strict temperance and regularity, 
particularly in respect to sleep, with exercise in the 
open air, are the grand means of preserving and re- 
storing this most delicate and all important organ : and 
when we consider how extremely sensible is the eye 
to injury, and how carelessly men use it, we shall ra- 
ther wonder that so few fail, than that the instances of 
their failure are not infrequent. If, however, stu- 
dents were aware of the inconvenience and suffering, 
consequent upon impaired vision, these cases would 
be far less numerous than they now are. 

Having discussed the essential principles relating 
to study, I proceed, in the second place, as proposed, 
to say a few words in relation to recreation from study. 
I have so often, in these lectures, urged the necessity of 
diverting the mind from intense thought, by turning 
the attention to other objects, and those of a pleasant 
and amusing kind, that I need not dwell upon this 
point again. And I have already alluded to most of 
those amusements and pursuits, proper for the sedenta- 
ry, and connected with exercise. » A few other m^ans 
of recreation, which have little connection with ex- 
ercise, although powerful in their influence upon soul 
and body, remain to be noticed in this place. 

In selecting our amusements, we are not at liberty 
to foi^et, that we -are moral and accountable beings - 
stod that whether we eat^ or drink^ or whatsoever we do^ 
we are bound to do all to the glory of God, Happy, 
therefore, is that man. who finds some branch of active 
benevolence, the only amusement that he needs. — 
When the exercise of beneyplence is congenial to thc^ 



308 

toflte, and the student can find a field opening beford 
him, he may be sure, that such an employment is the 
yerj best recreation he could choose. ' For the con* 
sciousness of doing good puts the soul into just that 
happj state, which is most favorable to the free play 
and security of its frail tenement. 

But it is not always in every man^s power, who 
chooses it, to find such a pleasant field for benevolent 
effort, when he needs relaxation from study. He 
must, therefore, choose between those amusements 
which are within his reach. And here the first and 
most important point is, to make such a selection as 
will be most favorable to virtue : For unhappily, 
some very popular amusements, either possess in 
themselves a positive tendency to corruption of mo- 
rals, or are so closely associated with excess of some 
kind, as to be dangerous to innocence, however well 
fortified by principle. For example : the practice of 
dancing is in itself a harmless recreation, and salutary 
to health; and practised in the patriarchal simplicity, 
in which we find it 'm some parts of the world, the 
most rigid moralist could scarce find fault with its in- 
fluence, fiut in most civilized countries, it is so con- 
nected with unseasonable hours, the exhilaration of 
wine, spirit, and tobacco ; and with lasciyiousness ; 
that every man who respects his own reputation, or 
regards the good of society, must resolutely abjure it. 
And the same remarks will apply, essentially, to those 
various games of chance, which are so perverted by 
avarice and unprincipled karpeyism^ as to prove to 
the young enchanted ground : whose pits and quick- 
sands they can escape, only by avoiding the spot 

Among the amusements peculiarly appropriate for 
literary men, is what goes by the name of light readr 



S09 

iHg. t inclade in this term, all that is comprised ih 
novels, plays, poems, newspapers, and periodicals. 
Indeed, it maj include some branches of philosophy : 
For when a man permits his mind to shifl from object 
to object, as it chooses, and just stops to sip a moment 
at the different foantaias it passes, I should call this 
ifidulgin^ in light reading : and some minds would be 
drawn to the retreats of philosophy, or history, more 
strongly than to the bowers of fiction. Such reading 
as this, 1 should hardly dignify with the name of study • 
and yet, i fear that many professed scholars .are ac- 
quainted with no other kind. But to indulge tbe mind 
of the real scholar, in this discursive rambling, just to 
catch a little sweet from tlie flowers of literature, is 
certainly a most salutary recreation. True, it does 
not relieve the mind from thought: but it unbends it, 
and this is all that health requires : 

"It is not thought — for still the soul's emplDyed — 
'Tie painful thinking that corrodes our-clay." 

Of the different kinds of light reading, unquestiona- 
bly novel reading is the most dangerous. It occupies too 
nruch time to go through a whole volume at once ; and 
to leave it half rcad,distractB the attention, and renders a 
man uneasy, while engaged in his regular task of sub- 
stantial study. These works, also, produce too much 
excitement in the soul, and generally in the passions 
too — ^producing a morbid sensibility, unfavorable to 
strength and firmness of intellect. But I have not 
time to discuss this subject. Let it suffice to say, that 
other kinds of light reading, exist in such abundant 
variety, and are so attractive, as to preclude all neces- 
sity for resorting to any species, whose value and in- 
.fiaence are at all questionable. 

i^ocial intercourse is another most important means 

27 



310 

of unbending the mind, and promoting tlie health. 
How often an hour's cheerful con?erse with friends 
or acquaintance, has scattered the darkest clouds of 
melancholy, every dyspeptic can testify. Nor is the 
influence of this intercourse hardly less improving to 
the mind, than study itself; although it is the stndj 
that renders the intercourse profitable. We are thus 
brought into direct contact with other minds, and leam 
how the subjects that have engaged us intently, are 
regarded by them ; and some new views are most 
commonly elicited by such a discussion and compari- 
son. It b literary society, therefore, that is general- 
ly most profitable to the student : and he has a fine 
opportunity for such intercourse, living in the midst 
of so many companions, whose tastes and pursuits are 
congenial to his own. We need not wonder, there- 
^re, that friendships formed in this manner, are 
among the purest and most enduring in life ; and that 
the student never aAerwards recollects his college 
friends, without strong and peculiar emotions. 

The influence of social intercourse upon the man- 
ners, is another of its most valuable effects. But here 
I confess that students labour under a peculiar difficul? 
ty. For in order that the manners should acquire that 
refinement and delicacy which is desireable, virtuous 
and respectable female society is, I believe, indispen- 
sable. Men associating together alone, will not con. 
duct towards one another with that respect and suavi- 
ty, which genuine politeness demands. There will 
be a grossness and roughness, in their mutual treat- 
ment, which they would not dare to indulge towards 
a refined and respectable female. True, even this is 
better than dandyism ; which shows its head some- 
times even within college walls ; and which I would 



511 

Hot he nnderetood as advocating : for this is the oppO^ 
site extreme. It maDifests itself id the wasp like fig- 
ure-^the finical aspect of the whole dress and accom* 
paniments-^the watch chain — the breast pin— -the 
tasseled caneT— the exquisite cat of the hair — and above 
all, bj the shallowness of the soul ; a characteristic, 
proving, most eonclusively, that this is an exotic, with- 
in college precincts, and cannot flourish without a 
green hoaie. - 

One other amusement only, I shall notice in this 
place. 

' ^ There is a charm, a power that sways the breast ; 

Bids every passion revel or be still ; 

Inspires with rage, or all your cares dissolves ; 

Cain sooth distraction, and almost despair. 

That power is music.^^ 

Cultivated at the proper season — that is, at the 
close of severe study, to calm and divert the mind ; 
and not in defiance of law and good breeding, to dis- 
turb the stillness of the hours sacred to mental appli- 
cation, its efiect is most happy. But its virtues have 
been so oAen celebrated, that I need only repeat the 
poet^s panegyric. 

^* Music exalts each joy, allays each grief, 
Expels diseases, softens every pain, 
Subdues the rage of poison and the plague ; 
And hence the wise of ancient days, adored 
One power of physic, melody, and song.^' 

I have now finished, young gentlemen, according as 
I have been able, the system of Diet, Regimen, and 
Employment, which I proposed to develope. In con- 
clusion, I would occupy your attention a few moments, 
in briefly bringing together the most important advan- 
tages that would result to literary men, from its adop- 
tion into their practice : although most of these ad- 
vantages have been incidentally mentioned in the 
course of my remarks. 



sra 

h the first place, there is safety in adopting' thitf 
system. Many, I know, will feel that the dietetical 
part, is little short of starvation ; that the regimen is 
severe drudgery ; and that the rules, as to employ- 
ment, are unfavourable to a vigorous prosecotioo of 
knowledge. But after all, is there any one-, .w1k> will 
contend that this system will shorten life? Death 
is making ravages all around us y hut how seldom 
do physicians tell us, that excessive abstemious^ 
ness, or too close attieotion to* regimen, is the cause i 
True, instances have occurred, in which individaab 
have actually starved themselves ; but 999 out of a 
thousand,, die of repletion : yet the singje caae of 
starvation, is more noticed than the multitudes of aa 
opposite character; simply because men wish to- 
prove to themselves that abstemiousness is dangerous, 
that they may not be compelled to practice it. In 
spite of their wishes, however, long life and freedom 
from disease, are so generally the rewards of temper- 
ance, and regularity in living, that they are unwilling^ 
ly forced to acknowledge, that safety, if not happihess, 
does attend the adoption, of the system for which I 
plead. 

Secondly ; the adoption of this system, by all classes 
of the community, would free most countries from 
nearly all their poverty and' grosser crimes. And for 
this reason, that excess and extravagance are the 
original source of these evils, in a vast majority of in- 
stances. Three fourths of the pauperism and crime^ 
in this country, result from intemperance in drinking*: 
and probably the largest moiety of the remainder, 
may be set down to the account of intemperance in 
some other respects. But in order that the lower 
classes in society shall pracUce rigid temperance, the 



313 

example must be set them bj the higher classes. And 
who so well calcnlated to take the lead in this matter 
as literary meD ? 

Thirdly ; the thorough adoption of this system would 
preserve the life of the healthy, and secure them, for the 
most part, against acute, as well as chronic disease, to 
extreme old age. Here again would I appeal to experi- 
ence. Can there be an instsance produced, in which 
persons in good health, have found the practice of tem- 
perance to be productive of disease and early debility; 
unless it was pushed to a degree of rigor, for which I 
have not contended? On the contrary, have I not 
brought forward a multitude of instances, in which con- 
tinued health, cheerfulness and happiness, have attend- 
ed the practice of this system of temperance, to ex- 
treme old age ? I have a right, therefore, to con- 
clude, that such would be its effects in every case, 
were it faithfully adopted. That is to say, two of-the 
greatest blessings of this life — health and longevity — 
would be the rich reward of following out the system. 

"Some will telfus," says Cornaro, " that old age is 
no blessing ; that when a man is past seventy, his life 
is nothing but weakness, infirmity, and misery. But I 
can assure these gentlemen they are mightily mista- 
ken ; and that I find myself, old as I am, (which is 
nrtuch beyond what they speak of,) to be in the most 
pleasant and delightful stage of life." 

It is such an old age as Cornaro's, that results from 
temperance ; and not the " labour and sorrow," the 
fretfulness, melancholy, and infirmity, which are the 
lot of all the aged, who, in any respect, violate the 
laws of temperance. 

Thirdly ; the adoption of this system would cure 
most chronic complaints, particularly nervous mala- 

27* 



314 

dies, or render those subject to them more comforta* 
ble, prolong even their days, and smooth their passage 
to the grave. Most chronic maladies are brought oo 
by overworking some part, or the whole, of the sys- 
tem. It is rational, therefore, to conclade^ that by 
Buffering the fatigued organs to rest, as much- as possi- 
ble, for a time^ they would probably recover their 
original strength. Temperance gives them this rest : 
or requires them to labour only enough to keep the 
animal machine in play — demanding no superfluous ef- 
fort. The consequence is, that if the disorder, under 
which a man labours, be curable, temperance will 
cure it. And it has cured many, when medical skill 
had exhausted its powers. But if the constitutioa be 
too far reduced, and actual organic disease has pro- 
ceeded very far, it may be too late for anjr thing but 
a miracle, to save a man from the grave. But eveu 
in such a case, rigid temperance will alleviate the 
symptoms, check the progress of the complaint, ena- 
ble the powers of life to hold out longer, and give fi- 
nally a gentle discharge from life. • Even then, if the 
invalid is not sure of restoration to health, by the 
adoption of this system, he may confidently calculate 
upon most important benefits from it. For when we 
feel disease to be triumphing over nature, how great 
a blessing do we deem a respite of even a few months, 
especially if it be accompanied with superior tran- 
quillity of mind, and followed by a release from life, 
comparatively easy and peaceful. 

Fourthly ; it follows, that the adoption of this tem- 
perance system, would free men from the largest pro- 
portion of those pains and diseases that now afflict 
them. For it is the neglect of these rules that brings 
the greater part of these sufferings upon us. True, 



315 

Home causes of dbease and pain would remain^ were 
meu perfectly temperate and regular: such for in- 
stance as some of the unsubdued passions, which tem* 
perance would not restrain ; various unayoidable ac- 
cidents, &c. But after all, it is intemperance and ir- 
regularity of some kind, that are the most prolific 
sources of disease and suffering. Few, indeed, will 
believe this : But it is not for want of proof: and who- 
ever lives in the millenium, will probably have before 
him an ocular demonstration. 

Fifthly ; the adoption of this system would greatly 
increase the power of sustaining privations and hard- 
ships of all kinds. It is not the men of full feeding, 
and full muscle, whose whole appearance is healthy 
and vigorous, that can ordinarily sustain the severest 
labours, vicissitudes of weather and climate, hunger, 
thirst and nakedness. The lean Arab will go through 
hardships without injury, that would destroy such a 
man. For such a man's constitution is predisposed to 
disease, and will sink under the first shock : whereas, 
temperance and coarse fare have hardened the Arab's 
system, so that disease is almost a stranger to it. 
What, but a change in his habits of living, from excess 
and indolence to rigid temperance and active labour, 
could have sustained Howard so long in his fearless 
exposures to the filth and contagion of so many pris- 
ons and lazar-houses ? ^^ Accustomed,'' says his biog- 
rapher, '^ to the most rigorous temperance, so as to 
discard from his diet animal food and fermented li- 
quors, he found no difficulty in living in the poorest 
countries : and he endured hardships of every kind 
without ^ repugnance." It is this system, incorporated 
into all the habits, that can alone preserve the travel- 
ler and the missionary, who visit unhealthy climates. 



316 

and are exposed to a thoosand priTations and dangen« 
If there be any before ipe, who are looking forward 
to either of these enterprlzes, maj I not hope that 
this fact will make a deep impression upon them* 
They may, indeed, go to foreign lands, unprotected by 
the habits 1 am urging them to adopt ; but disease and 
death will soon terminate their usefulness, and their 
liyes : whereas, rigid abstemiousness would hare baOt 
up around them a wall of defence, which might secure 
them for a long peiiod. Let the young man, who is 
not convinced of the truth of these remarks, consult 
those medical writers who have treated of this sub- 
ject, and he will no longer doubt. Of all men in 
the world, perhaps, the youth who is training for the 
missionary work, needs to be the most temperate in 
his diet, and the most attentive to bis habits. 

Sixthly ; the adoption of this system would exceed- 
ingly increase the ability of sustaining mental labours, 
and g^ve new energy and clearness to the mind. There 
is as much difference in the movements of the mind) 
with and without these habits, as there is in the mo- 
tions of the limbs, with and without a heavy load upon 
the shoulders. Intemperance, either in food, drink, 
or study, oppresses the mind, as much as such a load 
does the body. Hence the mental powers work, if I 
may so express it, »t a great mechanical disadvantage • 
and the effort soon exhausts. Whereas, rigid tempe- 
rance removes this clog, and the intellect not only op- 
erates with greater freedom, but can keep in play 
much longer without exhaustion. Hence it is, that the 
tetnperate scholar, although he may want fullness of 
muscle, can sustain double the amount of literary la- 
bour, that he can, who depends upon stimulating food 
and drink for sustaining his energies. 



517 

Eighthly; rigid temperance is the moat effectuaif 
check, next to religion, upon every inordinate animal 
indulgence. Excess in eating and drinking and a de<< 
ficiency of exercise, are the fuel that feeds every un- 
hallowed animal appetite and desire. At least, with^ 
out this excess, they would burn only with the gentle 
flame, that warms, while it does not consume the sysf- 
tem ; and which spreads no conflagration around. 

JVifUkly ; the adoption of this system' would curd 
most cases of melancholy, despondency, fretfulness, and 
discontent ; and substitute tranquillity and equanimity 
ef mind, cheerfulness and contentment. The man 
who is subject to dejection of mind, irritability of 
temper, jealousy, and fickleness, (and this is the case, 
more or less, with every dyspeptic,) has only to make 
a thorough trial of this system, in order to have the 
aM>8t gratifying conviction of the truth of this state- 
ment A thorough trial T say : for many, who adopt 
it only in a very imperfect manner, remain as much 
the slaves, as ever, to these gloomy feelings. But he 
who adopts the plan in earnest, will be most agreea- 
bly surprised, to find a cheerful, contented, equable 
state of mind, succeeding the- contrary one ; and pro- 
ducing so much happiness a& amply to repay him for 
all his self-denial, and to strengthen him in the course 
he has begun. 

Tenihly ; The adoption of this system would ope- 
rate most favourably upon the religious affections and 
exercises. A severe attack of dyspepsy rarely fails of 
being accompanied by religious despondency ; and 
very much of the stupidity, languor, and sluggishness, 
of which Christians complain, is merely the effect of 
overloading the digestive powers, and neglecting a dv 
amount of exercise. Persuade a man to change 



318 

habits, to live abfltemlooslj, and to talce yigoroos eltet" 
else, and the cload will pass awaj from the mind ; de- 
votional exercises will become pleasant and profitable: 
lively apprehensions of divine things will be experF< 
enced ; and a cheerful hope of the favour of God will 
be kindled op afresh in his bosom, encouraging him 
forwaid in the path of duty. He will be surprised at 
the change ; and be convinced that the melancholy, 
^ and hopelessness, and stupidity, wh|ch he formerly inn 
puted to his constitution, and unavoidable disease, are, 
' , in fact, merely the effects of an excessive and sinful in< 
dulgence of appetite. And now that his eyes are 
opened on the subject, be will see, that to continue 
such indulgencies, will be doubly criminal. 

This part of the subject is extremely important, 
and deserves the solemn consideration of every Chris- 
tian. ^^ Take keed^^'* says their. Master, '^ Usi at any 
timej your hearts be overcharged with naf citing and 
drunkenness. It is your hearts, remember, that are 
here described as borne down, or oppressed, (/Jo^wio— » 
gravo — premo,) by excess. And if men persist in 
thus enslaving their spiritual, to their animal nature,r 
God often does with them as he did to the ancient 
Israelites, who lusted for flesh ; — he gave them their 
request^ but sent leanness into their souls. 

" Whereas many embrace a holy and contemplative 
life," says Cornaro, when 95 years old, " teaching, 
and preaching the great truths of religion, which is 
highly commendable — O that they would likewise be- 
take themselves wholly to a regular and temperate 
life ! They would then be considered as saints indeed 
upon earth, as those primitive Christians were, who 
observed so constant a temperance and lived so long. 
By living like them to the a^e of one hundred and 



319 

iwentj, they might make such a proficiencj m holi- 
ness, and become so dear to God, as to do the great, 
est honor and service to the world ; and they- would 
.besides enjoy constant health and spirits, and be hap-* 
py within themselves ; whereas they are now too of- 
ten infirm and melancholy. In short, if all religious 
people were strictly temperate and holy, how glo- 
lious a scene should we then behold! such num- 
bers of venerable old men, as should create surprise. 
How many blessings might they shower upon the 
earth ! and not as now, eating and drinking so intem- 
perately as to inflame the blood and excite worldly 
passions, pride, ambition, and concupiscence, soiling 
the purity of their minds, checking their growth in 
holiness, and in some unguarded moment, betraying 
themselves into sins disgraceful to religion, -and ruin- 
ous to their peace for life."* 
Finally ; the adaption of this system, would greatly 

enlarge the sphere, and prolong the duration, of a 
man's usefulness and happiness. It would lengthen 
put his life, and give him greater power to labor dur- 
ing all his days. Thus might he accomplish much 
more, in any pursuit in which he should engage. If 
he places his happiness in ihe accumulation of prop- 
erty, or knowledge, or reputation, or in promoting the 
cause of religion, temperance would thus increase 
his facilities for the attainment- of his object. It is, 
indeed, the grand secret of success in any laudable 
pursuit : for a temperate man is always an industrious 
man : and an industrious man, with tolerable health, is 
the most happy man ; especially, if he be engaged in 
benevolent efforts. 

* Dagget^s Cornarpi p. 32. 



320 

fiut i need not dwell any longer upon the utilities of 
this system. If those already pointed out, do not in- 
flaence my hearers to adopt it, I know of no arguments 
that will ayail. If they have not resolution enough, 
nor religion enough, to restrain their inordinate ap- 
petites, and conquer their intemperate habits, thej 
must go on and abide the result. And what is that ? 
Know thou, that for all these things^ God will bring thefi 
into judgtnenU 



X&CTVRIi iZ. 



PART IV. DYSPEPSY. 

Nervous maladies : knowledge concerning them impof' 
tant : Their general character and designations,—* 
Their Effects : 1 . Upon the body ; 2. Upon the intel- 
lect;,^. Upon the heart; 4. Upon society. Extent 
to which these maladies prevail. Conclitsion, 

To cure and prevent nervous maladies, you are 
aware, Gentlemen, has been the grand object I have 
had in view in these Lectures. Yet I have given no 
regular and distinct account of the nature, or effects, 
of these complaints. And it seems to me, that it 
would leave too great a chasm in the subject, to close 
without attempting this. It is not my object, howev- 
er, to do it in the technical phraseology of the phy- 
sician ; but in such a manner as is best adapted to the 
wants of every intelligent man, who has no profession- 
al acquaintance with medicine. 

I know, indeed, that many regard all attempts to 
enlighten men on this subject, as injurious in their 
tendency. It is supposed that the effect will be, to 
lead many to conclude themselves sick, who otherwise 
would never have known it : and such will set up for 
fashionable invalids, when indolence and indisposition 
to study, are the amount of the difficulty. Hence it 
is thought better for students to let medical works 
alone ; lest they should bring on the very maladies 
they would avoid. 

That men, under the influence of certain forms ot 

28 



323 

OD the subject, would hare been his salvation T The 
most able physicians, at the present day, lament that 
there is such a deficiency of medical knowledge, even 
among educated men. ^^ it is much to be wished,^' says 
one. ^* that men of education and information in oar 

7 

country, had more generally some knowledge of the 
principles of medicine — A general knowledge of the 
human frame, of physiology and the animal economy, 
of the obvious phenomena of diseases, and the outlines 
of their principles and treatment, of the general rules 
of diet and regimen, both in health and sickness, con- 
stitute some of the most interesting subjects, in which 
a man of a philosophical turn of mind can engage.^'* 
^^ On the supposition that hygiene and physiology were 
to constitute, as they ought,'' says another, ^^ a part 
of a liberal, academic, or collegiate education, less ob- 
jection would apply to the amateur reading of medical 
works.'^t "The time will certainly arrive," says a 
third, " when medical philosophy will form a veiy 
important part of general education" — " A well in- 
formed mind upon the principles of health and disease, 
by a knowledge of the causes and the effects of mala- 
dies, will be certain to acquire considerable power 
over events : knowledge gives power and resolution 
also."| 

Nervous maladies belong to an advanced, and more 
especially, to a luxjurious state of society. Savages,, 
and men whose lives are chiefly spent in active pur- 
suits, in the open air, are rarely troubled with them 
in the slightest degree. Even in Europe, thej' were 
little known 150 years ago. " Sydenham, at the con^ 



♦Christian Spectator for March 1830, p. 79. 
t Journal of Health. Vol. 1. p. 197. 
t Manual for Invalids, p. 10— 47» 



325 

clusioD of the seventeenth centary, compnted fevers 
to coDstitote two thirds of the diseases of mankind. 
But at the beginning of the nineteenth centarj, we do 
not hesitate to affirm,'' says Dr. Trotter, ^^ that ner- 
TOQ^ disorders have now taken the place of fevers, 
and may justly be reckoned two thirds of the whole, 
with which civilized society is afflicted.''* Bnt not- 
withstanding their prevalence at this day, physicians 
cannot yet invent a name for them, which shall con- 
vey just notions of their character. Hence they are 
known under a variety of terms. ^^ Of all these desig- 
nations" says Dr. Johnson, ^^ Indigestion has been the 
most hackneyed title, and it is in my opinion, the most 
erroneous. The very worst forms of the disease', (that 
is, certain cases of hypochondriasis and melancholy,) 
forms in which the body is tortured for years, and the 
mind ultimately wrecked, often exhibit no signs of indi- 
gestion« — Nearly the same objection lies against the 
term Dyspepsia, or difficult digestion. The term Hypo* 
chondricLsis, conveys no just idea of the nature of the 
disease, though a group of some of its more common 
phenomena is usually understood by that term — Bil- 
ious disorder IS a term equally vague and equally erro- 
neous as the others — Of the various other designations, 
as spleen, vapours, melancholy, nervousness, irritabil- 
ity, mental despondency, &c. I need only say, that they 
are fofms or features of a disorder that assumes almost 
all forms. Hence my sagacious friend. Dr. Marshall 
Hall, not inaptly applied to this class, the generic 
name Mimoses, or imitators ; an appellation which is 
very significant, but which, of course, conveys no idea 

^Nervous Temperament, p. 13. Introdaction. 
28* 



323 

OD the subject, would have been his saWatiooT The 
most able physicians, at the present day, lament that 
there is such a deficiency of medical knowledge, even 
among educated men. ^^ It is much to be wished,^' says 
one, ^* that men of education and information in oar 
country, had more generally some knowledge of the 
principles of medicine — A general knowledge of the 
human frame, of physiolpgy and the animal economy, 
of the obvious phenomena of diseases, and the outlines 
of their principles and treatment, of the general roles 
of diet and regimen, both in health and sickness, con- 
stitute some of the most interesting subjects, in which 
a man of a philosophical turn of mind can engage.^'* 
^^ On the supposition that hygiene and physiology were 
to constitute, as they ought," says another, ^^ a part 
of a liberal, academic, or collegiate education, less ob- 
jection would apply to the amateur reading of medical 
works.''! " The time will certainly arrive," says a 
tliird, ^^ when medical philosophy will form a very 
important part of general education" — "A well in- 
formed mind upon the principles of health and disease, 
by a knowledge of the causes and the effects of mala- 
dies, will be certain to acquire considerable power 
over events : knowledge gives power and resolution 
al80."| 

Nervous maladies belong to an advanced, and more 
especially, to a luKJurious state of society. Savages, 
and men whose lives are chiefly spent in active pur- 
suits, in the open air, are rarely troubled with them 
in the slightest degree. Even in Europe, they were 
little known 150 years ago. " Sydenham, at the con^ 



♦Christian Spectator for March 1830, p. 79» 
t Journal of Health. Vol. 1. p. 197. 
t Manual for Invalids, p. 10 — 47» 



325 

elusion of the seventeenth century, computed fevers 
to constitute two thirds of the diseases of mankind. 
But at the beginning of the nineteenth century, we do 
not hesitate to aflSrm," says Dr. Trotter, " that ner- 
vous disorders have now taken the place of fevers, 
and may justly be reckoned two thirds of the whole, 
with which civilized society is aflSicted."* But not- 
withstanding their prevalence at this day, physicians 
cannot yet invent a name for them, which shall con- 
vey just notions of their character. Hence they are 
known under a variety of terms. ^^ Of all these desig- 
nations'' says Dr. Johnson, '^ Indigestion has been the 
most hackneyed title, and it is in my opinion, the most 
erroneous. The very worst forms of the disease', (that 
is, certain cases of hypochondriasis and melancholy,) 
forms in which the body is tortured for years, and the 
mind ultimately wrecked, often exhibit no signs of indi- 
gestion, — Nearly the same objection lies against the 
term Dyspepsia^ or difficult digestion. The term Hypo* 
chondriaiis^ conveys no just idea of the nature of the 
disease, though a group of some of its more common 
phenomena is usually understood by that term — Bil- 
ious disorder is a term equally vague and equally erro- 
neous as the others — Of the various other designations, 
as spleen, vapours, melancholy, nervousness, irritabil- 
ity, mental despondency, &c. I need only say, that they 
are fofms or features of a disorder that assumes almost 
all forms. Hence my sagacious friend. Dr. Marshall 
Hall, not inaptly applied to this class, the generic 
name Mimoses^ or imitators ; an appellation which is 
"Very significant, but which, of course, conveys no idea 

^ ■j__i__M,_M_. I ■ - - - ,--,-,^^^^^-1 — . ■ — —-^m, 

^Nervous Temperament, p. 13. Introdaction. 
28* 



323 

on the subject, would have been his saiTationT The 
most able physicians, at the present day, lament that 
there is such a deficiency of medical knowledge, even 
among educated men. ^^ It is much to be wished,^' says 
one, ^* that men of education and information in oar 
country, had more generally some knowledge of the 
principles of medicine — A general knowledge of the 
human frame, of physiolpgy and the animal economy, 
of the obvious phenomena of diseases, and the outlines 
of their principles and treatment, of the general roles 
of diet and regimen, both in health and sickness, con- 
stitute some of the most interesting subjects, in which 
a man of a philosophical turn of mind can engage.'^* 
^^ On the supposition that hygiene and physiology were 
to constitute, as they ought,'' says another, ^^ a part 
of a liberal, academic, or collegiate education, less ob- 
jection would apply to the amateur reading of medical 
works.'^t ** The time will certainly arrive," says a 
third, ^^ when medical philosophy will form a very 
important part of general education" — " A well in- 
formed mind upon the principles of health and disease, 
by a knowledge of the causes and the effects of mala- 
dies, will be certain to acquire considerable power 
over events : knowledge gives power and resolution 
al80."| 

Nervous maladies belong to an advanced, and more 
especially, to a luxurious state of society. Savages, 
and men whose lives are chiefly spent in active pur- 
suits, in the open air, are rarely troubled with them 
in the slightest degree. Even in Europe, they were 
little known 150 years ago. " Sydenham, at the con^ 



♦Christian Spectator for March 1830, p. 79. 
t Journal of Health. Vol. 1. p. 197. 
t Manual for Invalids, p. 10— 47» 



325 

elusion of the seventeenth century, compnted fevers 
to constitnte two thirds of the diseases of mankind. 
But at the beginning of the nineteenth century, we do 
not hesitate to affirm,'' says Dr. Trotter, '* that ner- 
vous disorders have now taken the place of fevers, 
and may justly be reckoned two thirds of the whole, 
with which civilized society is afflicted."* But not- 
withstanding their prevalence at this day, physicians 
cannot yet invent a name for them, which shall con- 
vey just notions of their character. Hence they are 
known under a variety of terms. " Of all these desig- 
nations" says Dr. Johnson, " Indigestion has been the 
most hackneyed title, and it is in my opinion, the most 
erroneous. The very worst forms of the disease*, (that 
is, certain cases of hypochondriasis and melancholy,) 
forms in which the body is tortured for years, and the 
mind ultimately wrecked, often exhibit no signs of indi- 
gestion, — Nearly the same objection lies against the 
term Dyspepsia^ or difficult digestion. The term Hypo* 
chondriasis^ conveys no just idea of the nature of the 
disease, though a group of some of its more common 
phenomena is usually understood by that term — Bil- 
ious disorder is a term equally vague and equally erro- 
neous as the others — Of the various other designations, 
«s spleen, vapours, melancholy, nervousness, irritabil- 
ity, mental despondency, &c. I need only say, that they 
are fofms or features of a disorder that assumes almost 
all forms. Hence my sagacious friend. Dr. Marshall 
Hall, not inaptly applied to this class, the generic 
name Mimoses^ or imitators ; an appellation which is 
"very significant, but which, of course, conveys no idea 

^Nervous Temperament, p. 13. Introdaction. 
28* 



323 

on the subject, would hare beeu his saiTation ? The 
most able physicians, at the present day, lament that 
there is such a deiicieDcy of medical knowledge, eyen 
among educated men. ^^ It is much to be wished,'^ says 
one, ^*that .men of education and information in oar 
country, had more generally some knowledge of the 
principles of medicine — A general knowledge of the 
human frame, of physiolpgy and the animal economy, 
of the obvious phenomena of diseases, and the outlines 
of their principles and treatment, of the general roles 
of diet and regimen, both in health and sickness, con- 
stitute some of the most interesting subjects, in which 
a man of a philosophical turn of mind can eng^e.''* 
^^ On the supposition that hygiene and physiology were 
to constitute, as they ought," says another, " a part 
of a liberal, academic, or collegiate education, less ob- 
jection would apply to the amateur reading of medical 
works.'^t " The time will certainly arrive," says a 
third, ^^ when medical philosophy will form a very 
important part of general education" — "A well in- 
formed mind upon the principles of health and disease, 
by a knowledge of the causes and the effects of mala- 
dies, will be certain to acquire considerable power 
over events : knowledge gives power and resolution 
also."| 

Nervous maladies belong to an advanced, and more 
especially, to a luKjurious state of society. Savages, 
and men whose lives are chiefly spent in active pur- 
suits, in the open air, are rarely troubled with them 
in the slightest degree. Even in Europe, they were 
little known 150 years ago. " Sydenham, at the con^ 



♦Christian Spectator for March 1830, p. 79. 
t Joarnal of Health. Vol. 1. p. 197. 
t Manual for Invalids, p. 10— 47» 



325 

clusioD of the seventeenth century, computed fevers 
to constitute two thirds of the diseases of mankind. 
Bat at the beginning of the nineteenth century, we do 
not hesitate to affirm," says Dr. Trotter, '^ that ner- 
vous disorders have now taken the place of fevers, 
and may justly be reckoned two thirds of the whole, 
with which civilized society is afflicted."* But not« 
withstanding their prevalence at this day, physicians 
cannot yet invent a name for them, which shall con- 
vey just notions of their character. Hence they are 
known under a variety of terms. '^ Of all these design 
nations" says Dr. Johnson, ^' Indigestion has been the 
most hackneyed title, and it is in my opinion, the most 
erroneous. The very worst forms of the disease', (that 
is, certain cases of hypochondriasis and melancholy,) 
forms in which the body is tortured for years, and the 
mind ultimately wrecked, often exhibit no signs of indi- 
gestion« — Nearly the same objection lies against the 
term Dyspepsia^ or difficult digestion. The term Hypo* 
chondrians^ conveys no just idea of the nature of the 
disease, though a group of some of its more common 
phenomena is usually understood by that term — Bil- 
ious disorder is a term equally vague and equally erro- 
neous as the others — Of the various other designations, 
as spleen, vapours, melancholy, nervousness, irritabil- 
ity, mental despondency, &c. I need only say, that they 
are fofms or features of a disorder that assumes almost 
all forms. Hence my sagacious friend, Dr. Marshall 
Hall, not inaptly applied to this class, the generiq 
name Mimoses^ or imitators ; an appellation which is 
very significant, but which, of course, conveys no idea 

^Nervous Temperament, p. 13. Introduction. 
28* 



326 

of the natare of the malady .^^'*' Dr. Johnson hiouelf, 
employs the phrase, Morbid Sensibility of the Stomach 
and Bowels^ to designate these complaints. 

Some writers divide nervons maladies into sere- 
ral yarieties, distinguished hy some peculiarities of 
symptoms. Thus, hypochondriasis is generally re^ 
garded as distinct from dyspepsy : the latter being the 
common form of indigestion, and characterized by dif- 
ficult conversion of food into nourishment The hy- 
pochondriac, on the other hand, often makes no com- 
plaint of difficult or imperfect digestion : still, he is 
affected by severe nervousness, and the faculties of 
his mind are much more powerfully affected, than in 
simple dyspepsy ; so as sometimes to terminate in io- 
sanity, partial or universal. But these varieties of 
the general disorder, pass into one another by imper- 
ceptible shades ; and are probably in most cases, de- 
pendant on the same cause, viz. ^^ a disordered condi- 
tion of the gastric and intestinal nerves ; in which 
their natural sensibility is changed, being morbidly 
acute, morbidly obtuse, (torpid) or perverted" t 

Instead of occupying time in physiological discus- 
sions, concerning the nature of nervous complaints, 
my purpose is to devote this lecture to a description 
of their effects upon the body — the intellect — the* 
heart — and society. 

First, their effects upon the body. • 

Every man, who has ever eaten too hearty a din- 
ner, knows something of the symptoms of dyspepsy: 
for though such excess be rather a fit of intemperance 
than indigestion ; yet the symptoms are essentially 

* Morbid Sen8ibility of the Stomach and Bowels, p. 53. 
t Do. p. 67. - 



327 

alike, A sense of weight, fullness, and uneasiness, is 
fell in the stomach, some time after eating. Eructa- 
tions of disengaged air take place, often with a sensa- 
tion of acidity, or hearthurn. Som'etimes nausea nnd 
chilliness succeed ; and generally lassitude and drow- 
siness come on, accompanied by a considerable degree 
of feverish heat. Sleep, dnring the subsequent night, 
is disturbed and un re freshing ; attended by dreams 
and incubus : and on the following morning, the head 
achs, the spirits are sunk, the nerves are unstrung^ 
the tongue is furred, and the bowels often disordered. 
These symptoms commonly ere long pass away, after 
giving a man a foretaste of dyspepsy in its milder 
forips: and probably there are few men among the 
healthy, whose experience cannot testify to the truth 
of this statement : for " nine tenths of men in civili- 
zed society," says an observing physician, " commit 
more or less of this intemperance every day. 

From whatever cause confirmed dyspepsy proceeds, 
it creeps on gradually and insidiously. Suppose the 
individual be a student, who is daily in the habit of 
indulging too freely at the table, or who neglects ap- 
propriate exercise, or is too much devoted to his 
books. For a season, he feels only an occasional, it 
may be a daily, recurrence of the symptoms I have 
described. But these gradually increase in severity. 
His headachs are more frequent and abiding: his 
bowels are generally costive ; though when relieved 
io this respect, disposed to an opposite condition. To 
remove the constipation, he resorts to drastic medi^ 
cines ; which, indeed, give relief for a short time, but 
not permanently. His strength begins gradually to de* 
dine, and he feels an almost unconquerable disposi- 



328 

tioD to ioactioD, especially after meals. His coonte' 
nance assumes a pale, or jrellowish aspect ; his toogoe 
is almost constantly farred ; and frequently — ^particular- 
ly in the morning — ^an unpleasant taste is perceived in 
his mouth ; accompanied, it may be, by nausea. Heart- 
bum, flatulence, and colic, are experienced ; unpleas- 
ant dreams, and even nightmare, are not unfrequent. 
Sometimes, partial numbness of some part is felt for a 
day or two : he finds it difficult to keep bis hands and 
feet warm, in the early part of the day ; but after din- 
ner, a feverish heat oppresses him, with extreme lan- 
guor. Dizziness, with noise in the ears, — nervous 
twitchiugs of the muscles ; shooting pains in_ various 
parts ; dimness of sight : palpitations of the he^ ; 
emaciation, in a greater or less degree, &c. &c. are no 
uncommon sympathetic affections. 

The student, who has such symptoms, is an estab- 
lished dyspeptic : and he finds that his studies now be- 
come irksome, and his mind and his feelings are af- 
fected no less than his body. He becomes alarmed ; 
tells his talc of sufferings to all whom he meets ; con- 
sults physicians of all sorts ; and follows every kind of 
prescription, except attention to diet, exercise, and 
employment. Pills, tinctures, cordials, bitters, &c. af- 
fording a temporary relief, because they alleviate his 
symptoms, are most diligently employed; until, after 
a long time, he finds that they aggravate his com. 
plaints, though they cure s}'mptoms. He is now told, 
perhaps, of the necessity of paying some attention to 
diet and exercise : and he begins by discarding some 
particular articles of food : and taking longer walks. 
But as to the quantity of his food, he does not think it 
will answer to reduce this much, because his kind 



329 

friends tell him, that he mast try to keep up hU 
strength as much as possible, by a good supply of 
nourishment: and this advice is, moreover, exactly 
agreeable to his inclination; since his appetite, in- 
stead of diminishing, has become much better than 
formerly. It is, however, somewhat Capricious ; and 
what seems to agree well with his stomach to-day, 
disagrees tomorrow; and so he changes from one ar- 
ticle to another, at least once a week : always impu- 
ting the bad effects of his diet to the kind, and not to 
the quantity. For how can it be, that he eats too 
much, when he feels so faint the greater part of liis 
time ; and could eat twice as much as he does. In 
this way, he worries through the term of study ; cal- 
culating upon vacation, in which to recruit himself. 
Vacation comes ; and the change of objects, and more 
exercise abroad, and less study, do, indeed, exhilarate 
his spirits, and afford no small relief But his appe- 
tite gains strength, also, and he indulges it freely : and 
when he returns again to his studies, he lays but little 
restraint upon his palate, having become satisfied that 
the starvation system will not answer for him ; since 
full feeding has served him so well during vacation. 
Flesh, fish, and fowl, therefore; gravies, sauces, and 
condiments; butter, pies, and cakes, and it may be, 
wine and brandy^ are the grand, anti-dyspeptic, restor- 
ative mixture, which he employs ; and in one or two 
weeks, he is quite as deep in the mire as ever. Some 
physician, or friend, now faithfully states to him the 
absolute necessity of rigid attention to diet and exer- 
cise ; insisting upon it, that he must eat only of one 
dish at a meal, and but a small quantity of that dish ; 
and altogether abandon stimulants and narcotics. 
The dyspeptic has now reached a critical period in 



S30 

bit coarse. If he Ibten to the voice of conscience^ 
which seconds this advice, and perseveres in a course 
conformed to it, he will, in almost every case, be grad- 
ually, though it may be, very slowly, restored to health 
and happiness. But if appetite prevail over reason, 
and he still resolves to indulge the palate ; or if, after 
having commenced a course of abstemiousness, he 
grows weary of the self denial, and not imfpdiately 
deriving from it the benefit he had expected, he gives 
np again to appetite, the reins of self control, then his 
subsequent history will be only that of a melancholy, 
misanthropic, neglected hypochondriac. It may be, 
that through the kindness and influence of literary 
friends, he will be smuggled into professional life. 
But it will be only tp make a few inefficient, unnoticed 
efforts, producing mortification and disappointment to 
his friends, and drawing from the world, only the ac- 
knowledgment, that he is an unfortunate man. For 
the dyspeptic symptoms I have described, will gradu- 
ally gain strength, while the resistance of his consti- 
tution will become weaker and weaker. Formerly, 
liis sufferings were only occasional : but now, he is 
rarely at rest. Alt]iough the essential symptoms of 
his complaints remain nearly the same, yet so many 
changes are wrought upon them, and so many new 
pains. and morbid feelings are continually springing 
up, as to produce an almost incessant state of alarm ; 
and the apprehension that some dreadful malady has 
seized him, which will shortly end his days. Indeed, 
at this advanced stage of the complaint, these fears 
are not altogether groundless. For there is a constant 
tendency in his sj'stem to organic disease. For years 
dyspepsy is a disorder of function merely : that is, 
certain organs do not properly perform their office ; 



331 

although the J are merely weakened^ but not oppre9<* 
sed with any actual disease. But disorder of function 
will ultimately produce organic disorder : that is, 
some one organ will be attacked in its structure, and 
be actually destroyed, if the attack cannot be repel- 
led : and most generally in such a case, life itself will 
be destroyed too. For the organs most liable to be 
attacked by long protracted nervous maladies, are the 
brain, the heart, and the lungs ; the three grand cen- 
tres of life. The system of the dyspeptic, when his 
disorder has advanced thus far, may be regarded as a 
besieged place. To-dny the enemy pushes his assault 
against one point ; and tomorrow against another ; al- 
ways selecting the weakest. Now, all his energies are 
brought to bear upon the heart; and then appear pal- 
pitation, dyspncea, and other symptoms of angina pec- 
toris ; one of the most terrible of all maladies. At 
another time, he assaults the brain ; and then come on 
violent headach, vertigo, and other premonitions of 
delirium, palsy, and apoplexy. When the lungs are 
assailed, the cough, the hectic, and difficult breathing 
of consumption, tecfinically called ^^ dyspeptic phthi- 
sis," succeed. So long as there is energy enough left 
in the constitution to r«pel these assaults, the threat- 
ening symptoms of the several diseases gradually dis- 
appear. But worn out at length by long protracted 
resistance to repeated attacks, some one point gives 
way, and speedily the whole citadel is in ruins. 

Thus essentially, have many of the noblest geniuses 
and most upright young men, lingeredv and suffered, 
and died. They have fallen victims to their early 
ignorance of their complaints ; or to their wedded at- 
tachment to the indulgence of their appetites. Having 
lived in pevpetual violation of the laws of nature, the 



332 

Inevitable retribution has been terrible. I have fol-* 
lowed out the melancholy history of its effects upon 
the body, until death has closed the scene. But aAer 
all, the mental suffering and decay, resulting from 
nervous maladies, are of a character still more pain- 
ful. I proceed 

in the second place, to give an account of those ef- 
fects upon the mind.* 

One of the first marks of superannuation, is a fail- 
ure of the memory : and this faculty also, earliest and 
most distinctly, manifests the inroads of nervous mala- 
dies. In the latter case, however, there is a singular 
capriciousness of memory, not observable in the for- 
mer. The raost impressive and interesting circum- 
stances, which the man supposes indelibly fixed in his 
mind, suddenly and strangely pass away, like the mor- 
ning cloud ; while those facts and objects, that are of 
little importance, and disagreeable, seem to be written 
on the tablet of the memory, with a pen of iron, and 
the point of a diamond. 

The nervous invalid will, also, early perceive,. that 
he is losing the power of attention and abstraction. 
His mind may have been thoroughly disciplined in the 
school of mathematics — of all means, the most certain 
and effectual, to give a man the mastery over his 
thoughts — and yet he will find, that the Circean rod of 
dyspepsy, has more than counteracted the influence of 
science. For a time, perhaps, he may struggle suc- 
cessfully against this erratic disposition of mind ; and 

^^■^■^a^—*^^'^— ^"^"^^^^ ■ ■ ■■ O^g^ii^^^i" ■ ■ ■■■■»■■■■■■■■■■■ — ■—^^^^■^■^——li^iM^^iai^*^^"'*^^^^ 

• In some of the subsequent parts of these Lectures, free xu^ 
Jias been made of an Essay on Nervous Maladies, m the Chris* 
tian Spectator for April, 1827. This cannot be considered ob- 
jectionable, if both productions are from the same pen : which 
the writer is not disposed to deny. 



833 

bj iDcreasing the centripetal force, balance, in ameas* 
ure, tlie centrifugal. But such mental efforts only 
weaken the corporeal powers still farther, and render 
QFerj successive trial, to chain the attention, more ar« 
daoas» lo tliis way, that is, by often repeated efforts 
to force the mind up to the work of attention and ab* 
stractioD, has many a roan riveted the chains of dis^ 
ease upon himself through life, and so prostrated his 
energies, that the mind becomes the sport of every 
nervous feeling. Was he a mathematician ? The 
pursuit must be abandoned: for patient and fixed 
thought are no longer within his power. Did he de- 
light in tracing mental phenomena to their sources, 
and in the metaphysics of theology ? His leaden wings 
cannot bear him so high, nor guide him aright. 

In this case, however, we find the same capricious* 
ness in the power of attention, as of memory. Upon 
his own sufferings, and the evils that hang over him, 
the mind of the nervous invalid fastens with painful, 
and a sort of involuntary intentness. He may force 
himself into pleasant society ; or mingle in the bus- 
tle of the city ; or range over the hills and dales of 
the country, even when they are clothed in vernal 
loveliness ; yet will the mind turn away from all these 
alluring objects, and brood, with morbid interest, over 
its own woes, and conjure up a thousand terrific ima- 
ges, which, like so many incubi, sink the soul into 
the dust. 

Extreme irregularity in the mental operations, is 
another characteristic effect of nervous complaints^ 
Let the nervous man become exhilarated by propitious 
occurrences in his temporal prospects; or by absti- 
oence from his usual inordinate quantity of food; or 
by some stimulating, or narcotic substance ; and his 

29 



Sd4 

Intellectoal moTements will seem to be most clear and 
most rapid. They will resemble^ howerer, the rao* 
ning down of a watcb, when tbe balance wheel is re- 
mored; producing no valuable results, but merely ex* 
haustiog the system* For if a man eiamines his men* 
tal labours at such a time, he will find them incohe- 
rent and unsatisfactory : a few diamonds, buried amid 
loads of chaotic rubbish. 

On the other hand, when the dyspeptic horrors set- 
tle down upon a man, after having loaded himself with 
food, or drink, or neglected appropriate exercise, or 
met with some adverse occurrence, the mental torpor 
corresponds to the corporeal; and'he finds it an intol- 
erable hardship to spur up the mind to any successful 
efibrt. He bends over his classics, or bis mathematics ; 
but all is fog — nil is confusion. Or if a glimpse of 
light break into his dungeon, it seems swallowed up 
by the darkness, and leaves no abiding impression. 

It is the imagination, however, that probably suffers 
most from nervous maladies: though this influence is 
not usuallv so obvious to the invalid himself. For to 
bim, the distorted and magnified images of fancy, are 
undoubted realities : and while others perceive many 
of them to be but " the baseless fabric of a vision," 
he rarely discovers their extravagance. In the hypo- 
chondriac these strange workings of fancy oAen shoot 
out into the most monstrous distortions ; and in fact, 
constitute the essence of his disorder. They make 
him the butt of ridicule : and, indeed, no risibles but 
his own, can remain unmoved, by the strangeness 
and extravagance of some of his imaginations. When 
we see a man (as some have done) firmly believiog 
himself made of wax, and dreading, on that accoant, 
to approach the fire : or fancying that his bOnes have 



335 

become soft like tallow, and therefore, not daring to 
trust his weight npOn them : or pining awaj through 
fear of want, while he is actually wallowing in opu- 
lence c or wilder still, when we see such a man as Si- 
mon Browne, writing an able defence of revelation, 
and yet, in the dedication of his book to Queen Eliz- 
abeth, declaring with the utmost sincerity of belief, 
and distressing anguish, that ^' by the immediate hand 
of an avenging God, his very thinking substance has 
for more than seven years been wasting away, till it 
is wholly perished out of him" — when we see such 
deiusioBS, we cannot but smile, even though compas- 
sion for a soul in ruin, would teach us rather to weep. 
But such cases are the very extravagance of hypo- 
chondriacism : or rather, they are decided mental de- 
rangement ; to be pitied, not ridiculed : and the expe- 
rience of most dyspeptics has in it nothing approach* 
ing such wildness. Stilly in probably every case of 
these complaints, there is no small play of a morbid 
imagination. The soul, turning away from the lovely 
visions which hope would paint on the future, fixes 
her eye alone tipon the scenes which timidity and de- 
spondency have drawn with sombre hues : or as the 
poet says, 

*• Fear shakes the pencil ; fancy loves excess, 
Dark ignprance is lavish of her shades ; 
And these the formidable picture draw." 

If such be the waking visions of the dyspeptic, we 
might calculate that his real dreams would exhibit the 
wildest riotings of fancy. And her images in sleep, 
are nearly always disgusting or terrific. She opens 
the grave, and digs up the mouldering and festering 
dead: she descends into the world of despair, and 
plunges her captive victim into the burning lake : 



S36 

now tho harries him o?er the tamiiHiioiis waten, or 
•inks him choking beneath the daric wares: anon the 
drags him to the brink of the dizzj precipice, and 
casts him over : now she plants him on the battle field, 
and there transfixes him with the ballet, or the swOrd : 
or leaves him to sink in an unequal contest with the 
solitary murderer, roshiog from his ambush. She 
e?en immures him in prison, and then drags him to 
the scaffold, there to suffer, with the dreadful con* 
sciousness of crimes, from which,, when awake, his 
soul would shrink with horror. 

If the indi?idual faculties of the mind be 'thus pow- 
erfully affiected by nerrous maladies, the judgment, 
most obriously, will be subject, to a correspondent de- 
flection. If sensation convey erroneous impres&ions to 
the understanding; if memory retain only a partial and 
indistinct view of facts; if the power of attention be 
partially wrested from the hands of reason ; and a pe^ 
culiar obtuseness of inlellecf be manifested towards 
some objects, and a morbid acuteness towards others; 
and if tlie reins be given op to a disordered imi^na- 
tion ; what la the judgement, that it should form correct 
conclusions, when the guides to its decisions, are all 
gone out of the way ? it makes no difference, though 
the nervous man's impressions are many of them mere 
spectres; for to him, they are realities; exerting 
over him the same influence as if there were no delu- 
sion. 

Upon tiie whole, these mental effects of indigestion, 
are the worst part of the disease. So long as the in- 
tellect remains unshattered, a man can see, with com-^ 
parative composure, his bodily powers gradually yield- 
ing to decay. But to perceive the immortal part los- 
ing Its energy — ^the memory failing — the power of at- 



S37 

tention and discrimination weakening — the imagination 
giving to almost every object a false coloring — the 
judgment clouded and erratic — in short, the whole 
mind sinking into fatuity — who, but those that feel it, 
can tell the aoguish of such experience ? True, the 
invalid may suppose the inroads made upon his mind 
deeper than they are in reality : yet even the mildest at- 
tack of these complaints, does influence, weaken, and 
confuse, the mind : and sometimes the mental powers do 
so symphathize with the corporeal, that before death 
closes the scene, mere idiocy is all that remains of a 
once powerful and noble intellect. 

In the third place, I shall speak of the effects of 
nervous maladies upon the heart ; or the passions and 
affections. 

Every man, who has seen a nervous invalid, knows, 
that despondency and melancholy are elements of his 
character: for their gloomy lines are depicted even 
upon his countenance. Though he be surrounded and 
caressed by all the kindness and sympathy of the 
most sincere friendship and affection : though exter- 
nal prosperity, peace, and plenty, bear him along upon 
their full unruffled flood ; and even though some 
cheering intelligence may have just reached him ; yet 
if the fit overtake him, not all these buoyant circum- 
stances can keep him from sinking into the mire ; un- 
til the digestion of his too hearty meal be over, or the 
north-easterly, easterly or southerly wind be succeed- 
ed by one from the northwest ; bringing with it a re- 
turn of sunshine, and inducing him to go abroad to in- 
hale the purified air, and to throw off the morbid and 
acrid secretions, that produce his melancholy. Then 
the cloud passes also from his mind ; and a clear 
sky succeeds, until some physical or mental cause, 

29* 



S38 

again Involves him in gloom. Yet as the disorder 
advaaces, these paroxysn[i3 of despondency usually 
increase in frequency and severity, until often they be- 
come settled, hopeless, melancholy. 

The deadly influence of such a state of mind upon 
the hopes of the invalid, must obviously be very great. 
I do not mean that this passion is totally extinguished 
in his bosom : for how then could life be tolerable ? 
— ^but it is so neutralized, as ahnost to cease to be a 
moving spring of action. In his ordinary worldly pur- 
suits, he goes forward more from necessity, and a sense 
of duty, than in the expectation of success. But if he 
be a religious man, his prospects beyond the grave, 
stir up within him a more distressing anxiety. 
Once, he may have seen some evidence of personal 
piety : But now, he can see in his heart nothing 
but unbelief, murmuring, impatience and stupidity. 
Once, he thought himself at least sincere : but now he 
charges himself with hypocrisy, and with performing 
all his religious acta to be seen of men, or from a self 
righteous spirit. Justly, therefore, does he feel him- 
self given over to a reprobate mind : and as he looks 
over the sacred record, his eye fastens with terrible 
self application, upon all those passages that describe 
the awful doom of one, who has resisted the Spirit of 
God, and is living only to fill up the measure of iniqui- 
ty. Among these he classes himself: nor can you 
break the delusion, until you can unlock the iron grasp 
of dyspepsy. 

While the nervous man is thus suffering from des- 
pondency, another gloomy passion settles, like an in- 
cubus, upon his soul. It is jealousy. Disposed by his 
melancholy feelings to shrink from public inspection, 
when business, or duty, force him into an intercourse 



339 

with a bustling and selfish world, he watches every 
word, and almost every look, with a strong suspicion 
that some insult, or unkindness, is intended against him- 
self. He is ever fancying that some one is trying to 
injure him, or to insult him, or to wound his feelings. 
The least appearance of neglect, stirs up within him, 
the most Ifftter, and the most desponding feelings : 
And especially, if any of bis groundless imaginations 
are treated with ridicule, it sends home a dagger to 
his heart : and even if his best friends do not listen 
with sympathizing attention to his oft repeated tale of 
suffering, be judges them to have become his ene- 
mies, 'a 

The effect of such a morbid state of mind is to pro- 
duce a gloomy misanthropy ; and to fix strong preju- 
dices in the bosom against individuals. Those in sta- 
tions superior to his own, he looks upon as oppressive 
and unjust in their requirements ; arid bis equals, he 
regards as desirous of supplanting him. If he is coun- 
seled, he looks upon it as abuse : if he is exhorted to 
rise above his gloom and jealousy, he resents it ; and 
retiring into himself, - he broods with morbid relish, 
over his feelings, and cries out in the bitterness of his 
soul ; 

" There is no flesh in man's obdarate heart, 
It does not feel for man.^^ 

Excessive timidity is another passion attending ner- 
vous complaints from their commencement. The mere 
throbbing of the temples, or a shooting pain, which the 
healthy man would scarcely feel, will sometimes pro- 
duce such an anxiety in the mind of the invalid, as to 
make him fear that his last sickness has comejgi- and 
then his imagination will paint before him, all the ter- 
rors of the final struggle ; the agoni^ng parting of 



340 

frieods; tbe ikUore of sensation; the imriogs of deUr- 
iom ; the shroud, the funeral, and the dark grave. 
And still worse, his hopeless prospects In fatorily, will 
he arrajed In all their blackness before him, awaken- 
ing intolerable forebodinga, and realizing to him all 
the horrors of a hardened sinner's dying hoar. 

This is the most common channel in which the fears 
of the dyspeptic run. But when less agitated, and less 
opprested by his disease, he looks no farther than this 
world, the prospect is gloomy. True, his property, lus 
friends, his reputation, are not yet lost But he fan- 
cies, that amid the gloom of the future, he sees the 
blow impending, that will, speedily, sweep these bles- 
sings away. 

It is a curious fact, that these apprehensions' of the 
nervous man, are more strongly excited by trivial and 
fanciful causes of danger, than by those that are a real 
ground of alarm. And so his anticipated dangers and 
trials are far more dreadful to endure, than those which 
are present and real. He, whom the slightest unusu- 
al bodily sensation will make pale with alarm, will 
sometimes be found, patient and resigned,' when dis- 
ease has actually settled upon some organ^ and brought 
him upon the bed of sickness. He, who lived in per- 
petual fear, lest poverty, or sickness, should visit his 
friends, or family, will be found, calm and collected, 
witnessing the flames devouring his habitation, or 
watching the sick bed of a dying wife, or child. So 
powerful magnifiers are distance and obscurity in fan. 
cy's telescope, that the merest mote in the field of 
view, seems to the mind an ominous cloud, over- 
8 presiding the whole heavens. 

This timidity, with the attendant melancholy of the 
'ous invalid, deeply affect his decision, resolution, 



341 

and fortitude. He dare not decide, lest some tpemeii- 
cioQS cooseqaence should epsue, that would furnish 
ground for long and unavailing repeptance. Thus 
will he remain, halting between two opinions-r-one of 
the most pahiful conditions in which a man can be 
^ placed. And so long as he is under the power of this 
indecision and irresolution, whether in respect to 
temporal or spiritual concerns, he must remain, not 
only one of the most inefficient, hut most miserable 
oi' men. For it is vigorous action alone, that can im» 
part happiness to the mind, whether engaged in world- 
Ij, or religious pursuits. 

It is not so much real tangible evils that break 
down the dyspeptic^s fortitude ; hut rather the dark 
cloud which he seed hanging over the future ; the 
force of whose thunderbolts, when it hursts, he cannot 
predict His qmckened sensibilities have opened his 
eyes wide upon danger ; but they have also weakened 
his power of withstanding them. The unfortunate man 
seems, like the trembling aspen, to be shaken by eve- 
ry breath ; and to be crushed into the dust, like a bruis- 
de reed, unable to rise from hi? roins. Philosophy 
may teach him lessons of firmness, and religion bid 
him trust in thcr overruling Providence of God, and 
wait calmly the event ; but alas, how feeble is even 
religious principle — the mightiest power on earth — in 
a soul that is borne away by an excited sensibility, 
an overpowering fear, and a gloomy fancy ! Much that 
and goes under the name of Christian fortitude, would 
be found mere strength of nerves if accurately tested; 
mnch that is censured as weakness of Christian char- 
acter, will appear at last, to be but the inevitable re- 
sult of nervous maladies. So that, in fact, it would, in 
many cases, be more proper to congratulate the qiai\ 



342 

of resolute fortitude, on the sonnilDess of hb nerreff 
than to celebrate the strength of his Christian char- 
acter : and, on the other hand, we ought frequently 
to pity the oaao of irresolution and indecision, for the 
excessive sensibility of his bodily system, rather than 
blame him for want of faith and fortitude : though I 
pretend not to say, that men are generally without 
iault in suffering nervous maladies to creep upon them. 

This nervous timidity is seen sometimes to produce 
the singular effect, of rendering a philosopher and a 
Christian, somewhat subject to superstitions apprehen- 
tions. His religion and philosophy may botl) remon- 
strate against regarding unfavourable dreams, or re' 
markable natural appearances, as prognostics of per- 
sonal misfortune, sickness, or death ; yet when ^^ he is 
all soul within, and all nerve without," his imagination 
is sometimes so excited by those occurrences, that be 
cannot wholly divest himself of the secret impression, 
that he may have been thus snpematu rally warned of 
impending calamities. They will be apt to fasten up- 
on his memory, for a long time, and haunt him from 
day to day, until he half believes them divine admoni- 
tions : and sometimes reason is overpowered, and the 
man fancies himself favored, or rather tormented, 
with visions and immediate revelations. 

When the fears of the nervous man assume a relig- 
* ious character — as they do whenever such a man is 
religious — they put on a still more unhappy aspect. 
He, who dare not expect any thing prosperous in this 
world, will surely not dare to believe his name to be 
written in the Lamb^s book of Life. He,- who cannot 
confide in any thing future on earth, will feel a like 
want of faith in the Divine Promises, as applied to 
himself. Thus will* his religion partake more of ths 



343 

drudging service of slavery, thaD of the confiding, oa- 
Buspicions confidence of sonship. 

Irritability of temper, or peevishness, is another 
characteristic efiect of nervous maladies upon the heart 
It is not, however, in the early stages of these com- 
plaints, that this' effect becomes obvious to the invalid 
himself. But even the man of phlegmatic tempera* 
ment, in whom, when in health, patience and forbear- 
aDce were scarcely virtues, and who never felt the 
need of a guard on this side of his character, after 
struggling for years with dyspepsy, finds himself most* 
imperceptibly betrayed into a hasty resentment of 
injuries ; and when insulted, perceives a counter tu- 
mult rising in his bosom, which is apt to brealc forth 
upon his adversary. Nny^ he gets ere long to such a 
pass, that he cannot bear to be contradicted when the 
irritable fit is upon him ; and he .will give vent to his 
spleen and ill humour, in spite of decency and relig* 
ion. Jealous in the extreme, and oppressed with 
gloomy feelings, not even bis best friends can escape 
the discharge of his ungoverned temper : much less 
can others escape ; and even the poor domestic ani- 
mals, and inanimate objects around him, feel the fury 
of the storm. Misanthropic and dejected, he murmurs 
at the allotments of Providence ; considers himself 
maltreated by nearly all his fellow men ; and cen* 
fiures, with great severity, the failings of his brethren ; 
while any marks of superiority in a neighbour, or 
companion, awaken bitter envy in his heart. True,# 
when the irritable paroxysm passes by, he haa some 
sense of the entire contrariety between bds feelings, 
and those which religion inspires ; and he repents of 
his wickedness: but ere he is aware of it, again is lie 
overcome by the same temptations, and manifests, the 



344 



Mne unloTely dliiposWon. Thto lays tbe foandation 
for still more bitter repentance ; so that he k tender- 
ed, not only a most nncomfortaWe companion, bot 
most burdensome to himself. 

This capriddnsnea and irregularity in the nerroos 
man's feelings, are not only Tcry characteristic, but 
in general, most unaccountable to himself. One hour, 
or one day, his whole soul may be calm ; his feeUngs 
unruffled and cheerful ; while the very neit hour, or 
day without the least change, as he can perceive, m 
. his external condiUoo, or that of his health, he finds 
himself borne down by melancholy and jealousy, and 
unable to bear the slightest trial of his temper, with- 
out exhibiting a high degree of irritation and fretful- 
ness Such a sudden transformation of soul, w enbre- 
Iv inexplicable to most nervous invalids: while those 
in health are hence led to conclude that these parox- 
,8ms of bad and anomalous feelings, result from no 
Physical cause, but are merely unnecessary and sinful 
aberraUonsof mind; to be cured by moral means. 
But the fact is, these mental phenomena are almost in 
every case, the resuH of a fit of indigesUon-Too 
much food ; or of a bad kind ; or too many sorts ; or 
not sufficient exercise has been taken; and although 
the excess has not been great enough to produce any 
sensible disorder in the body, the irritation it produ- 
COS in the nerves, powerfully affects the more deli- 
cate organization of the mind. " There is, no effect 
of indigestion more common," says Dr. Johnson, "than 
dejection of mind, when no corporeal inconvenience 
appears to follow-The mental despondency (m hypo- 
chondriacs) is invariably dependent on some disorder o» 
the body, and in nine cases out often, it is immediate- 
ly dependent on a morbid or irritaWe state of the 



345 

nerves of the stomach and bowels. Of the troth of 
this I have had 8ti<;h multiplied proof, that not a doobt 
remains on my mind respecting it. It is as useless to 
attempt the removal of this mental despondency by 
moral means, or mere persuasion, as to remove a fever 
or an inflammation by ai^ument. The attempt, indeed 
betrays a great ignorance of the real nature of the 
complaint."* I have already mentioned in a former 
lecture, the case of the hypochondriac, who exhibited 
these mental paroxysms regularly every other day, be- 
cause he could not be prevented from eating and 
drinking to excess every other day. And Dr. Johnson 
says, ^^ 1 have known many instances where individuals, 
having this morbid sensibility of the gastro-intestinal 
nerves, experienced, after eating certain articles of dlf^ 
ficult digestion, such a state of iiritability of temper, 
that they were conscious of the danger they ran, by 
the slightest codision or contradiction from even the 
nearest relations ; and therefore, avoided society till 
the fit went off. One gentleman in this state always 
caused his servants to tie his two hands together, lest 
in the paroxysm of irritation (without any observable 
cause) he should cut his throat or otherwise commit 

soicide.^t 

If any who hear me, are subject to occasional dejec- 
tion of mind, and irritability of temper, with more or 
less of those other effects on the mind, which 1 have 
described, as resulting from indigestion ; I would ask 
themJLn the first place, whether they are not usoalfy 
most free from suffering of body and mind, just before 
bed time ? If so, the reason certainly is, that then the 

* Obsenrations on the Diiease l*c, of InvalidB from Hot Cli- 
mates. — ^p. 16. 

fMorbid Sensibility, &c, p. 106. 

30 



346 

food tho7 haro eaten daring the daj, is digested ; aad 
coDseqaentlj irritation is remoTed from tlie stomacli and 
bowels. Again, if yoo eat a late and hearty supper, 
are you not subject the next forenoon, to dejection of 
mind, irritability of temper, and obtoseness of appre- 
hension ? If so ; do not these effects evidently flow 
from excess in eating? Once more ; are yoa not more 
likely to be melancholy, fretful, and incapable of stodyv 
Monday forenoon, than anj other day of the week? If 
so ; how can you doubt that it is owing to your haviog 
indulged your appetite too freely on the Sabbath, while 
you had les^ of exercise ? 

My object in putting these enquiries to the dyspep- 
tic, is, to show him, first, that in most cases, it b io 
his power in a great measure, to get rid of melan- 
choly, jealousy, a fretful temper, languor and im- 
becility of mind, and stupidity, simply by avoid- 
ing their most common cause, which is, excess 
in eating, or drinking. Let him, for instance, gpreat- 
ly reduce his diet on the Sabbath, and see wheth- 
er his Mondays will be days of gloom, irascibility, and 
incapacity for study. And if he fipds that a reduction 
of his food, does produce such an effect, then I would 
say to him, in the second place, that his mental dejec- 
tion, irritation, weakness, &c, are highly criininal 
Dyspepticas he is, he can in a great measure over- 
come these hateful feelings, and that imbecility of mind 
wliich so unfit him for study, and for duty of any kind. 
God, therefore, will not hold him guiltless, if he does 
not so ^restrain his appetite as to do this. His sin does 
not lie so much in the feelings themselves ; as in their 
cause : for when the stomach and bowels are overload- 
ed with food, such a state of feeling can no more be 
prevented, than a tooth ache : but a man, even if he 
be a dyspeptic, can eat less : and this will ordinarily 



347 

preserve him in a pleasant state of mind and heart If 
he will not do this, if he will not do it thoroughly, he 
ought to receire no sympathy, when he pours his 
tale of sufferings, as the nervous are apt to do, into 
the ear of friendship. For he is wHfully sinning 
against his body and soul, and against God. He will 
not restrain a mere bodily appetite, although it would 
immensely increase his power of doing good, and ad- 
vancing in knowledge and virtue. Why then is he 
not as guilty, as any other man, who is a slave to bodi- 
ly appetites? 

A striking trait in the character of eminent literary 
men, has usually been, a peculiar irritability of temper. 
It is well known that the ancients described an irritOf 
hUe genus vattun : and it has been the practice of mo- 
dem writers, to dignify this unlovely trait of charac- 
ter, with the phrase. Irritability of Genius ; and to re- 
gard it as a necessary accompaniment of a great mind. 
But 1 apprehend, that in most cases the least unfuh 
V curable account of the matter, which justice can 
give, is, to impute it to dyspepsy : since few literary 
men^ given to close habits of study, escape this com- 
plaint entirely. And if the irascibility of dyspepsy, is, 
in most cases, criminal, because the result of exces- 
sive eating or drinking, so probably is the ^^ irritability 
of genius.'' Cicero, indeed, by a dexterous use of 
words, attempts to show that this trait of character Is 
usually to be imputed to goodness. Irritabiles esse 
animos optimorum saepe virorum, eosdemque placab- 
iles; et esse hanc agilitatem moUitiemque naturae 
plerumque bonitati tribuendam. It would come nearer 
the truth, I apprehend, to say, Plerumque dyspepsiae 
et voracitati tribuendam. 



348 

I proceed, in the foartb place, to point oot the ef- 
fect of neryous maladies npoo society. 

Societies and nations will be disting^hed bj the 
aggregate character of the individuals composing them. 
Just so far, then, as nervous complaints prevail in so- 
ciety, they will modify the characteristics of the mass. 
We have only, therefore, to suppose a community, in 
which the influence of these complaints is so great as 
to modify its character, and then infer their effects 
upon the whole, from their effects upon individuals. 

1. Their effects will be obvious upon the physical 
character of a community. Much as the nervous 
have to do with imaginary sufferings^ they are by no 
means free from real bodily ii^firmity. Though the 
deterioration of strength and vigor be slow, yet who, 
that has seed the emaciated frame, and torpid move* 
ments of the dyspeptic, can doubt that the constitutioa 
Is wearing down ; and every physical energy gradtially 
sbking to decay ? Suppose now, that these complaints 
should so infect society, that its army and navy must 
be recruited from nervous invalids ; and its manufac- 
tures, commerce, mechanic arts, and agriculture, must 
depend upon such men to carry them on. How could 
svch soldiers and sailors stand a moment against men 
of undiminished bodily power, and of courage un- 
daunted by imaginary dangers. Nay, how inefficiently 
must even the common pursuits of society be conduct- 
ed, by men of such withered muscle and irresolute 
souls T Let the officers of government, in the legisla- 
tive, executive, and judiciary departments, be nervous 
invalids, charaoterized by their fickleness, irascibility, 
jealousy, and despondency, and who would wish to bo 
among the governed ? 



349 

The pages of hbtor7.giye as abuodaat exampleS| 
illustrative of these saggestioas. For no nation be- 
comes rich and prosperous, without becoming also 
luxurious and debilitated. Now this luxury, -intem- 
perance in food, and drink, and living, infallibly pro- 
duce nervous complaints, and these work a gradual 
change in the character of a people : For such com- 
plaints are hereditary ; or at least debilitate the con* 
stitution, and predispose to dyspepsy and bilious at- 
tacks. Energy of body and mind ; the power of en- 
during hardships ; and fortitude that .braves difficul- 
ties, disappear before these diseases : Hence it was 
that Rome, luxurious, enervated, dyspeptic Rome, 
sunk an easy prey before the brawny arm of the Goth 
and the Vandal. Compare Italy at that time, or Italy 
now, with what she was in the early days of Roman 
glory, and you see the genuine influence of these 
maladies, operaliog through centuries. There is 
scarcely any nation, indeed, of long duration, whose 
character does not exhibit more or less of this same 
influence. Even Eugland, roused to effort, as she has 
been, by so many, causes ; and cultivated as she now 
is, in intellect. Id arts, and refiaemeut, presents, in the 
sterner features of her character, an alarming con- 
trast between the eupeptic days of Elizabeth, and the 
dyspeptic times of George the Fourth. Nor can the 
observing eye fail to perceive in this country, the 
. same debilitating causes powerfully at work, when it 
compares the habits, manners, and constitutions of our 
fathers with our own. 

2. Nervous complaints will unfavourably afi*ect the 

enterprise of society. The irresolution and heartless- 

ness which they produce in individuals, cannot but 

extend to the community : Because those individuals 

30* 



360 

compoffe tbe commuDitj; And we cannot expect tbaf 
they will exhibit ardor and perseverance in pablic en- 
terprizes, when even self interest, one of the most 
powerful of impulses, cannot spur them tip to the 
work, in their own behalf. Accordingly we find, that 
the periods in the history of nations and particular so- 
cieties, which exhibit the most noble and darings 
achievements, and the most useful public enterprises, 
are commonly previous to the time of their greatest 
external prosperity. Splendid baths, and mausoleomsr 
and monumental pillars, and arches, may, indeed, spring 
up at the command of imperial or lordly pride, in de- 
generate times. But when is it that commerce pushes 
her adventures kilo the farthest seas ; that j^ricnlture 
encroaches most successful I3' upon the forest ; that the 
most useful canals, and roads, and other means of in- 
tercommunication are constructed ? When are insti- 
tutions of learning and benevolence most successfully 
and numerously founded? Before a nation or society 
has reached the acme of its prosperity, I reply: for 
when this point is passed, what shall we eat, and what 
shall we drink ; where shall we find any new sensual 
pleasure ? tljese are the all-absorbing inquiries ; and 
the consequence is, imbecility and irresolution, botb 
of body and mind. 

3. These maladies injuriously affect the stability of 
society. They are characterised by a sensibility, ei- 
ther morbidly acute, or morbidly obtuse, strongly and 
irregularly excited. Hence those under their influ- 
ence act more from feelinj^, (and that too often of an 
unhealthy character,) than from sober judgment. Con- 
sequently, they are liable to coiintor feelings, which 
erelong lead them to new and opposite conclusions. 
To-day, a nervous communit}', under the iuiluence of 



351 

strong irritation, may adopt measures which are ex<^ 
ceedingly imprudent ; and thus iovolye themselves in 
aofferiog. This hrings on melancholy : which will 
make them feel that all is lost ; and they will refuse 
to act at all, when a little vigor in action would free 
them from impending evils. Again, jealousy, or strong 
prejudices, for or against individuals, high in office, 
may draw forth, either immoderate praise, or scurri* 
lous abuse. In short, a society leavened by dyspepsy, 
will exhibit so much of fickleness, so much of irreso- 
lution, so much of rashness and extravagance, that lit- 
tle calculation can be made upon their opinions, or 
their conduct. Every new gust of passion will swell 
the surface of the public mind into tumultuous waves ; 
and every ebbing tide of feeling will drain away even 
its vital flood. 

4. Th«se maladies exert no small influence upon 
the literature of society. They tend to make it su« 
perficial. Such is the usual effect of feeble health 
generally, upon individual scholarship: for such a 
person cannot sustiin the protracted labours that are 
necessary to enable one to drink deep of the Castalian 
fount. The alternative with such an one, is, often^ 
whether he shall just sip the waters, as he hastily 
passes, or leave them altogether untouched. Multi- 
ply such individuals in the community, and j'ou create 
a kind of necessity for superficial literature. Writers 
must be superficial, because they cannot endure the 
physical effort which profound investigation demands: 
and readers will prefer superficial works, because they 
are too dyspeptical to endure the labour of long and 
patient thought. We are not, therefore, to impute * 
the innundation of the literary world, in modern times, 
by light reading, so much to a defect in our systems of 



354 

and the resolute courage, and unwayering faith, of 
men, sustained by enpepsy, as well as the gprace of 
God, can urg« forward, into the dark and untrodden 
fields of spiritual death, the mighty wheels of benev- 
olence that are. in motion? And as to the men, who 
go forth as missionaries into these fields of danger and 
death; what can dyspeptics do there, with all their 
despondency, timidity, and irresolution ? 

Non tali aaxilio, nee defensoribus istis 
Tempus egel. 

True, they can go to the field : but it will be only 
to fall, prematurely, victims to the climate, or ex- 
cess in diet, or cares and labours too mighty for 
their enfeebled frames. They were eupeptics, who 
carried the Gospel over the. earth, in primitive 
times. They were eupeptics; who, in modern times, 
have successfully engaged in the same .work; usA 
they must be eupeptics, who are to bring on the mil- 

lenium. 

Such are the deadly influences of nervous mala- 
dies upon the corporeal, the intellectual, and the mor- 
al powers ; and upon the character of society. 1 have 
only sketched som.e of the outlines of the picture* 
But the filling up would afford no alleviation to its 
gloomy lines. Nor is it a picture of the imagination. 
At thb very day, these maladies are exerting a wither- 
ing influence, not only upon individuals, but upon na« 
tions. We have the testimony of the ablest physicians 
9S to their influence in Great Britian : and though it is 
to be hoped, that our country, as a whole, is not ye^ 
equally under their power ; yet we are advancing, 
with the most rapid strides, to the same state'; and 
therefore, we {lave in her condition, an example of 
what we shall shortly be, and are now almost become. 



355 

Thirty yean ago, as we have seen, ^^Dr. Trotter de- 
clared that two thirds of the diseases in society, (in 
England of course) were nervous. More recently, 
Dr. ^Johnson declares, that ^^ what with ennui, and dis- 
sipation in the higher ranks — anxiety of mind arising 
from business, in the middling classes — and poverty, 
bad air, bad drink, and bad occupations, among the 
lower classes, there is scarcely an individual in this 
land of liberty and prosperity — in this kingdom of 
ships, colonies and commerce, who does not experi- 
ence more or less of the '^ English malady^' — that b to 
say, a preternatural ly irritable state erf the nervous sys- 
tem,connected with, or dependent on, morbid sensibility 
of the stomach and bowels.^' To the older and more 
thickly settled parts of our country, this description 
would probably apply without alteration. Indeed, we 
may justly regard nervous maladies as already a formi- 
dable national evil. And the leaven is spreading wi- 
der and wider; and by its fermentation, is secretly 
heaving up the foundations of society. The ravages 
of these complaints will always go hand in hand with 
luxury, intemperance, and excess of every kind. Prob- 
ably no class of the community, however, are so close- 
ly beset by them, as literary men. The church of God 
deeply feels their inroads, in prostrating the energies, 
and prematurely destroying the usefulness, of multi- 
tudes of her most valuable and able ministers. They 
lurk too, around our Theological Seminaries, our Col- 
leges, and preparatory schools ; and seize as victims 
many of the most devoted and able youth, who had 
consecrated themselves to Christ and the' church. In^ 
deed, scarcely any real scholar escapes altogether their 
withering touch. 
Can there be any doubt as to the causes that-*"' 



•356 

dace this mlgbtj evil ? It ii intemperance in some of 
its hjdra forms — excess in eating, or drinking, or 
study, or the indulgence of other consuming passions 
and appetites, or a neglect of exercise, and the othcf 
requisitions of appropriate healthy regimen. And 
when we reflect on the almost universal prevalence of 
these excesses and anuses, we are led rather to won- 
der that nervous complaints are not more prevalent 
and obstinate, than that so many are their victims. 

Nor can there be any more doubt, as to the means 
which can alone arrest their progress. It is the adop- 
tion of temperance in all its branches ; temperance in 
eating, temperance in drinking, temperance in regi- 
men, and temperance in employment. This is the 
sole and the sovereign antidote, which God has g^ven 
for stopping this desolation. Men, therefore, have 
their choice; to suffer the evil to continue its in- 
nundating march, or to raise up this mound againft 
it. There must be a great change in the present 
habits of society, even among those who are consid- 
ered temperate, or dyspepsy will continue its ravages, 
and multiply its victims. 

Firmly convinced of the deadly influence and wide 
extent of this Protean malady ; and that no other 
means, but decided, thorough, universal temperance, 
can ever retard its progress ; and perceiving the deep 
slumber of the public mind on the subject, while the 
interests of learning, humanity, and religion are tram- 
pled upon Hud crushed under the tread of this de- 
stroyer, I have been induced to come forward, and 
publiclj' \\h up my voice, to warn the literary youth 
of ids danger. I thank God that he has given me 
strength to finish my testimony. I am aware indeed, 
that carrying, as I do, the marks of dyspepsy In an 



357 

emaciated frame and a debilitated aspect, the proverb 
will be in almost every mouth, ^ PhysiciaD, heal thy- 
self/ If the system of diet, regimen, and employ- 
ment, which you urge so zealously, as the grand pan- 
acea, cannot restore your own system to a healthy 
state, how can you expect others to believe in its 
mighty efficacy 2 

It IS not pleasant, thus publicly to recur so oflten 
to one's private trials and feelings, as I have done, in 
these lectures. But in the present case, I am bound 
to answer a few words; Permit me then, to say, that 
in order to estimate correctly the difficulties against 
which I have to contend in this matter, it ought to be 
considered, fir3t,tbat it is not the work of a month mere- 
ly, nor of a year, to restore to health and vigor, a con- 
stitution, which, like mine, has been for some twenty 
years sinking lower and lower, under the power of 
dyspepsy — Secondly, although I had for years suppos- 
ed myself attending to diet and regitnen, yet it has 
been only a comparatively short period, in which I 
have even attempted to adopt the system which I have 
recommended in these lectures. I formerlv selected 
certain articles of diet, which were of easy digestion, 
and adhered to their use ;. but defeated all the good ef- 
fects by eating too much ; and especially, by .not mak- 
ing out my entire meal from a single dish : and into 
these errors 1 fell, through ignorance of the true system 
of dieting. The same cause led me into similar errors 
in respect to regimen and employment. And, indeed, 
there is scarcely a rule in this whole system, which I 
have been enforcing, whose importance I have not 
learned by experiencing the bitter effects of its viola- 
tion ; and, therefore, I can say to any, who are only 
partially adopting it for their guide, that they willcer^ 

31 



360 

May no one bfe compelled, after twenty or thirty years 
contest with dyspepsy, to look back, and see the lop- 
ped^dff fragments of himself, strewed oyer the field of 
combat. O, snch experience has all of death in it, 
but the last pang. Nay, it is death protracted, repeat- 
ed, multiplied, concentrated. But I rejoice in the be- 
lief, that none of the members of this Institution are 
acquainted with these bottomless gulfs of dyspepsj. 
1 rejoice, that even though some of you may have felt 
the sting of jsome of his spent arrows, you all as y^ 
occupy vantage grouncl comparatively high. O gird 
on, I beseech you, the panoply of temperance, and 
maintain your post. Long after I shall be sleeping in 
the grave, may the next generation see you vigorous, 
heahhy, and happy, moving in extensive spheres ot 
usefulness, and leaving at your departure, the light 
and warmth of a lovely example, to kindle up other 
fires in future times. 



»y 



