76 & 

U3 

1830 
GKLlfc 





1 f 






an 



SEVENTY-FIVE 



RECEIPTS 



PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS. 



BY A LADY OF PHILADELPHIA. 

Leslie^ E 

* 

THIRD EDITION. 



BOSTON : 

MCJTROE AND FRANCIS, NO. 128 WASHINGTON-STRKKTJ 
C. 8. FRANCIS, 252 BROADWAY, NEW-YORK. 

18 30. 



FAMILY BOOKS. 

At the Bookstore of the publishers of this work may be found the 
following excellent books for families. 

The PRACTICE OF COOKERY, adapted to the business of 
Every-Day Life. By Mrs. DALGAIKNS. Containing 1419 of the 
most useful receipts. 9 

" Mrs. Dalgairns is more practical, more varied, and more suited to 
what we may call the practical readers of such works, than either Dr. 
Kitchener's Oracle, or our friend of the Cleikum Inn. It is this char- 
acter of utility which appears to us to constitute its value, and we have 
no doubt will prove its passport to extensive circulation. One decided 
improvement on former works has been adopted by Mrs. Dalgairns : 
it consists in prefixing to each chapter of her work the useful prelimin- 
ary remarks relative to the subject of the chapter, instead of giving all 
these remarks in the shape of an introduction at the beginning of the 
book." Scots Times. 

" V$e must say Mrs. Dalgairns has succeeded in combining two things, 
which we never before found united in any work of this description, 
we mean the pleasures of sense, with ajust and proper regard to econ- 
omy. Extravagance is the rock upon which all her predecessors have 
split. The great object of the author has been to make her boolj exten- 
sively useful 5 and we think she has completely succeeded. In short, 
the ' Practice of Cookery ' is a book worthy of all acceptation; and we 
recommend it accordingly to every one who wishes to dine comforta- 
bly at a moderate cost." Caledonian. 

At the same place may be had all the recent publications on Cook- 
ery and family economy among these are the Cook's Oracle, Fru- 
gal Housewife," House-Servant's Directory, &c. &c. 

' S ' 

r *ot* 

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO WIT : 

j^District Clerk's Office. 

BE IT REMEMBERED, that on the ninth da^of March, A. D. 1827, 
in the fifty-first year of the Independence of the United Stales of America, 
MUNROE AND FRANCIS, of the said District, have deposited in this 
Office the title of a book, the right whereof they claim as proprietors, in the 
words following, to wit : 

" Seventy-Five Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats. By a Lady 
of Philadelphia." 

In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States, entitled, 
"An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, 
charts and books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the 
times therein mentioned:" and also to an act, entitled, "An act supplemen- 
tary to an act, entitled an act for the encouragement of learning, by securing 
the copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of such 
copies during tlie times therein mentioned ; and extending the benefits thereof 
to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other prints." 
JOHN W. DAVIS, Clerk of the District of Massachusetts. 



PREFACE. 



THE following Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, 
and Sweetmeats, are original, and have 
been used by the author and many of her 
friends with uniform success. They are 
drawn up in a style so plain and minute, as 
to be perfectly intelligible to servants, and 
persons of the most moderate capacity. All 
the ingredients, with their proper quantities, 
are enumerated in a list at the head of each 
receipt, a plan which will greatly facilitate 
the business of procuring and preparing the 
requisite articles. 

There is frequently much difficulty in fol- 
lowing directions in English and French 
Cookery Books, not only from their want of 
explicitness, but from the difference in the 
fuel, fire-places, and cooking utensils, gener- 
ally used in Europe and America ; and many 
of the European receipts are so complicated 
and laborious, that our female cooks 'are 
afraid to undertake the arduous task of ma- 
king any thing from them. 

M368Q87 



The receipts in this little book are, in 
every sense of the word, American ; but the 
writer flatters herself that (if exactly follow- 
ed) the articles produced from them will not 
be found inferior to any of a similar descrip- 
tion made in the European manner. Expe- 
rience has proved, that pastry, cakes, &c. 
prepared precisely according to these direc- 
tions will not fail to be excellent : but where 
economy is expedient, a portion of the sea- 
soning, that is, the spice, wine, brandy, rose- 
water, essence of lemon, &.c. may be omit- 
ted without any essential deviation of fla- 
vour, or difference of appearance ; retain- 
ing, however, the given proportions of eggs, 
butter, sugar, and flour. 

But if done at home, and by a person 
that can be trusted, it will be proved, on 
trial, that any of these articles may be made 
in the best and most liberal manner at one 
half of the cost of the same articles suppli- 
ed by a confectioner. Arid they will be 
found particularly useful to families that live 
in the country, or in small towns, where no- 
thing of the kind is to be purchased. 

January 15JA, 1828, 



CONTENTS. 



PART THE FIRST. 

Preliminary remarks - 7 

Puff Paste - 9 

Common Paste ----- 12 

Mince Pies ...... 13 

Plum Pudding 14 

Lemon Pudding ... 15 

Orange Pudding 17 

Cocoa Nut Pudding - '- - - 18 

Almond Pudding 19 

A Cheesecake .... 19 

Sweet Potato Pudding 21 

Pumpkin Pudding ----- 21 

Gooseberry Pudding - - - - 22 

Baked Apple Pudding .... 23 

Fruit Pies - .... 23 

Oyster Pie .... 25 

Beef Steak Pie - ... - . 26 

Indian Pudding ..... 37 

Batter Pudding - - . . . 28 

Bread Pudding ... - 29 

Rice Pudding ..... 59 

1* 



VI CONTENTS. 

Boston Pudding ----- 30 

Fritters - - - . . 31 

Fine Custards - - - - 31 

Plain Custards ----- 32 

Rice Custards - - - - 33 

Cold Custards .... 34 

Curds and Whey ..... 34 

A Trifle ' . . 35 

Whipt Cream - - - 36 

Floating Island ... 37 

Ice Cream - - - 37 

Calf 's-feet Jelly . 33 

Blanc-mange .... 40 



PART THE SECOND. 

General directions - - 45 

Queen Cake . 47 

Pound Cake - - 48 

Black Cake, or Plum Cake - - 50 

Sponge Cake - 51 

Almond Cake - - - 52 

French Almond Cake 54 

Maccaroons .... 55 

A pees - 56 

Jumbles - - 57 

Kisses - 58 

Spanish Bunns - 58 

Rusk 60 

Indian Pound Cake 61 

Cup Cake 01 

Loaf Cake - 62 

Sugar Biscuits - * .- 62 

Milk Biscuits 63 

Butter Biscuits 64 

Gingerbread Nuts - VJJ&: , ' 65 

Common Gingerbread - <g. 66 

Lafayette Gingerbread 67 



CONTENTS. Vll 

A Dover Cake 

Crullers 

Dough Nuts 

Waffles - - TO 

Soft Muffins 

Indian Batter Cakes 

Flannel Cakes 

Rolls 73 



PART THE THIRD. 

General directions - 77 

Apple Jelly 78 

Red Currant Jelly - -78 

Black Currant Jelly - ^- 79 

Gooseberry Jelly ..... 80 

Grape Jelly ..... 80 

Peach Jelly - - 81 

Preserved Quinces '- - 81 

Preserved Pippins - - - - - 82 

Preserved Peaches 33 

Preserved Crab- Apples - - 84 

Preserved Plums 84 

Preserved Strawberries 85 

Preserved Cranberries .... 85 

Preserved Pumpkin - - - 87 

Preserved Prae-Apple 88 

Raspberry Jam 88 



APPENDIX. 

"^F"*^^ % 

Miscellaneous Receipts of dishes in use at Supper Parties 



WEIGHT AND MEASURES. 



As all families are not provided with scales and 
weights, referring to the ingredients generally used in 
cakes and pastry, we subjoin a list of weights and 



measures. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Wheat flour 
Indian meal 
Butter when soft 
Loaf-sugar, b^pken 
White sugar, powdered 
Best brown sugar 
Eggs - - - 



one pound is 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound is 

one pound is 

one pound, one ounce, is 

one pound, two ounces, is 

ten eggs are 



one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one pound. 



LIQUID MEASURE. 

Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are ... half a pint. 

Eight large table-spoonfuls are one gill. 

Four large table-spoonfuls are - ... half a gill. 



A common-sized tumbler holds 
A common-sized wine-glass 



half a pint, 
half a gill. 



Allowing for accidental differences in the quality, 
freshness, dryness, and moisture of the articles, we 
believe this omparison between weight and measure 
to be as nearly correct as possible. 



PART -THE FIRST/ 






PASTRY. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

IN making pastry or cakes, it is best to begin by 
weighing out the ingredients, sifting the flour, 
pounding and sifting the sugar and spice, washing 
the butter, and preparing the fruit. 

Sugar can be powdered by pounding it in a large 
mortar, or by rolling it on a paste-board with a 
rolling-pin. It should be made very fine and al- 
ways sifted. 

All sorts of spice should be pounded in a mortar, 
except nutmeg, which it is better to grate. If spice 
is wanted in large quantities, it may be ground in a 
mill. 

The butter should always be fresh and very good. 
Wash it in cold water before you use it, and then 
make it up with your hands into hard lumps, squeez- 
ing the water well out. 

If the butter and sugar are to be stirred togeth- 
er, always do that before the eggs are beaten, as, 
(unless they are kept too warm) the butter and 
sugar will not be injured by standing awhile. For 
stirring them, nothing is so convenient as a round 
hickory stick about a foot and a half long, and 
somewhat flattened at one end. 



8 PASTRY. 

The eggs should not be beaten till after all the 
other ingredients are ready, as they will fall very 
soon. If the whites and yolks are to be beaten 
separately, do the whites first, as they will stand 
longer. 

Eggs should be beaten in a broad shallow pan, 
spreading wtde at the top. Butter and sugar should 
be stirred in a deep pan with straight sides. 

Break every egg by itself, in a saucer, before 
you put it into the pan, that in case there should be 
any bad ones, they may not spoil the others. 

Eggs are beaten most expeditiously with rods. 
A small quantity of white of egg may be beaten 
with a knife, or a three-pronged fork. 



There can be no positive rules as to the exact 
time of baking each article. Skill in baking is the 
result of practice, attention, and experience. Much, 
of course, depends on the state of the fire, and on 
the size of the things to be baked, and something 
on the thickness of the pans or dishes. 

If you bake in a stove, put some bricks in the 
oven part to set the pans or plates on, and to tem- 
per the heat at the bottom. Large sheets of iron, 
without sides, will be found very useful for small 
cakes, and to put under the pans or plates. 






PASTRY, 



PUFF PASTE* v 



Half a pound and two ounces of sifted flour. 
Half a pound of the best fresh butter washed. 
A little cold water. 

This will make puff-paste for two Puddings, or for one soup-plate 
Pie, or for four small Shells. 

Weigh half a pound and two ounces of flour, and 
sift it through a hair-sieve into a large deep dish. 
Take out about one fourth of the flour, and lay it 
aside on one corner of your pasteboard, to roll and 
sprinkle with. 

Wash, in cold water, half a pound of the best 
fresh butter. Squeeze it hard with your hands, and 
make it up into a round lump. Divide it in four 
equal parts ; lay them on one side of your paste- 
board, and have ready a glass of cold water. 

Cut one of the four pieces of butter into the 
pan of flour. Cut it as small as possible. Wet 
it gradually with a very little water (too much wa- 
ter will make it tough) and mix it well with the 
point of a large case-knife. Do not touch it with 
your hands. When the dough gets into a lump, 
sprinkle on the middle of the board some of the 
flour that you laid aside, and lay the dough upon it, 
turning it out of the pan with the knife. 

Rub the rolling-pin with flour, and sprinkle a little 
on the lump of paste. Roll K out thin, quickly, 
and evenly, pressing on the rolling-pin very lightly. 
Then take the second of the four pieces of butter, 
and, with the point of your knife, stick it in little 
bits at equal distances all over the sheet of paste. 



10 PASTRY; 

Sprinkle on some flour, and fold up the dough. 
Flour the paste-board and rolling-pin again ; throw 
a little flour on the paste and roll it out a second 
time. Stick the third piece of butter all over it in 
little bits. Throw on some flour, fold up the paste, 
sprinkle a little more flour on the dough, and on 
the rolling-pin, and roll it out a third time, always 
pressing on it lightly. Stick it over with the fourth 
and last piece of butter. Throw on a little more 
flour, fold up the paste and then roll it out in a 
large round sheet. Cut off the sides, so as to 
make the sheet of a square form, and lay the slips 
of dough upon the square sheet. Fold it up with 
the small pieces of trimmings, in the inside. Score 
or notch it a little with the knife ; lay it on a plate 
and set it away in a cool place, but not where it 
can freeze, as that will make it heavy. 

Having made the paste, prepare and mix your 
pudding or pie. When the mixture is finished, 
bring out your paste, flour the board and rolling- 
pin, and roll it out with a short quick stroke, and 
pressing the rolling-pin rather harder than while 
you were putting the butter in. If the paste rises 
in blisters, it will be light, unless spoiled in baking. 

Then cut the sheet in half, fold up each piece 
and roll them out once more, separately, in round 
sheets the size of your plate. Press on rather 
harder, but not too hard. Roll the sheets thinnest 
in the middle and thickest at the edges. If intend- 
ed for puddings, lay^aem in buttered soup-plates, 
and trim them even* round the edges. If the 
edges do not appear thick enough, you may take 
the trimmings, put them all together, roll them out, 
and having cut them in slips the breadth of the rim 
of the plate* lay them all round to make the paste 
thicker at the edges, joining them nicely and even- 



PASTRY. 1 1 

ly, as every patch or crack will appear distinctly 
when baked. Notch the rim handsomely with a 
very sharp knife. Fill the dish with the mixture 
of the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
The paste should be of a light brown colour. If 
the oven is too slow, it will be soft and clammy ; 
if too quick, it will not have time to rise as high 
as it ought to do. 

In making the best puff-paste, try to avoid using 
more flour to sprinkle and roll with, than the small 
portion which you have laid aside for that purpose 
at the beginning. If you make the dough too 
soft at first, by using too much water, it will be 
sticky, and require more flour, and will eventually 
be tough when baked- Do not put your hands 
to it, as their warmth will injure it. Use the knife 
instead. Always roll from you rather than to 
you, and press lightly on the rolling-pin, except 
at the last. 

It is difficult to make puff-paste in the summer, 
unless in a cellar, or very cool room, and on a 
marble table. The butter should, if possible, be 
washed the night before, and kept covered with 
ice till you use it next day. The water should 
have ice in it, and the butter should be. iced as it 
sets on the paste-board. After the paste is mixed, 
it should be put in a covered dish, and set in cold 
water till you are ready to give it the last rolling. 

With all these precautions to prevent its being 
heavy, it will not rise as well, or be in any respect 
as good as in cold weather, 



PASTRY. 



COMMON PASTE FOR PIES. 



A pound and a half of sifted flour. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter washed. 



will make one large pie or two small ones. 



Sift the flour into a pan. Cut the butter into 
two equal parts. Cut one half of the butter into 
the flour, and cut it up as small as possible. Mix 
it well with the flour, wetting it gradually with a 
little cold water. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, take the 
lump of paste out of the pan, flour your rolling- 
pin, and roll out the paste into a large sheet. 
Then stick it over with the remaining half of the 
butter in small pieces, and laid at equal distances. 
Throw on a little flour, fold up the sheet of paste, 
flour it slightly, and roll it out again. Then fold 
it up, and cut it in half or in four, according to the 
size of your pies. Roll it out into round sheets 
the size of your pie-plates, pressing rather harder 
on the rolling-pin. 

Butter your pie-plates, lay on your under crust, 
and trim the edge. Fill the dish with the ingredi- 
ents of which the pie is composed, and lay on the 
lid, in which you must prick some holes,~or cut a 
small slit in the top. Crimp the edges with a 
sharp knife. 

Heap up the ingredients so that the pie will be 
highest in the middle. 

Some think it makes common paste more crisp 
light, to beat it tor4 on bqth sides with the 



PASTRY. 



13 



rolling-pin, after you give it the first rolling, when 
all the butter is in. 

If the butter is very fresh, you may mix with 
the flour a salt-spoonful of salt. 



MINCE PIES. J 

One pound and a half of boiled beef's heart, or fresh tongue chop- 
ped when cold. 

Two pounds of beef suet, chopped fine. 
Four pounds of pippin apples, chopped. 
Two pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped. 
Two pounds of currants, picked, washed, and dried. 
Two pounds of powdered sugar. 
One quart of white wine. 
One quart of brandy. 
One wine-glass of rose-water. 
Two grated nutmegs. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon ~) 

A quarter of an ounce of cloves > powdered. 
A quarter of an ounce of mace j 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
Two large oranges. 
Half a pound of citron, cut in slips. 



Parboil a beef's heart, or a fresh tongue. After 
you have taken off the skin and fat, weigh a pound 
and a half. When it is cold, chop it very fine. 
Take the inside of the suet ; weigh two pounds, 
and chop it as fine as possible. Mix the meat and 
suet together, adding the salt. Pare, core, and 
chop the apples,and then stone and chop the raisins. 
Having prepared the currants, add them to the 
other fruit, and mix the fruit with the meat and 
suet. Put in the sugar and spice, and the grated 
peel and juice of the oranges. ' Wet the whole 
with the rose water and liquor, and mix all well 
together. 

2* 



14 



PASTRY. 



Make the paste, allowing for each pie, half a 
pound of butter and three quarters of a pound of 
sifted flour. Make it in the same manner as pufF- 
paste, but it will not be quite so rich. Lay a 
sheet of paste all over a soup-plate. Fill it with 
mince-meat, laying slips of citron on the top. Roll 
out a sheet of paste, for the lid of the pie. Put it 
on, and crimp the edges with a knife. Prick holes 
in the lid. 

Bake the pies half an. hour in a brisk oven. 

Keep your mince meat in a jar tightly covered. 
Set it in a dry, cool place, and occasionally add 
more brandy to it. 



PLUM PUDDING. V 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in half. 

One pound of currants, picked, washed, and dried. 

One pound of beef suet chopped fine. 

One pound of grated stale bread, or, half a-pound of flour and half 

a pound of bread. 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 
A pint of milk. 
A glass of brandy. 
A glass of wine. 
Two nutmegs, grated. 

A table-spoonful of mixed cinnamon and mace. 
A 'salt-spoonful of salt. 

You must prepare all your ingredients the day 
before (except beating the eggs) that in the morn- 
ing you may have nothing to do but to mix them, 
as the pudding will require six hours to boil. 

Beat the eggsVery light, then put to them half 
the milk and beat both together. Stir in gradual- 
ly the flour and grated bread. Next add the su- 
gar by degrees. Then the suet and fruit alter- 




I 

PASTBY. 15 

nately. The fruit must be well sprinkled with flour, 
lest it sink to the bottom. Stir very hard. Then 
add the spice and liquor, and lastly the remainder 
of the milk. Stir the whole mixture very well to- 
gether. If it is not thick enough, add a little more 
grated bread or flour. If there is too much bread 
or flour, the pudding will be hard and heavy. 

Dip your pudding-cloth, in boiling water, shake 
it out and sprinkle it slightly with flour. Lay it in 
a pan and pour the mixture into the cloth. Tie it 
up carefully, allowing room for the pudding to swell. 

Boil it six hours, and turn it carefully out of the 
cloth. 

Before you send it to table, have ready some 
blanched sweet almonds cut in slips, or some slips 
of citron, or both. Stick them all over the outside 
of the pudding. 

Eat it with wine, or with a sauce made of drawn 
butter, wine and nutmeg. 

The pudding wilnbe improved if you add to the 
other ingredients, the grated rind of a large lemon 
or orange.*- 






LEMON PUDDING. 



One large lemon, with a smooth thin rind. 
Three eggs. 



A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter of a pound of fresh butter washed. 
Haifa glass of white wine and brandy, mixed. 




Five ounces of sifted flour*, and a quarter of f pound of fresh butter 
for the paste. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind of a large 
fresh lemon. Then cut the lemon in half, and 






PASTRY. 



squeeze the juice into the plate that contains the 
grated rind, carefully taking out all the seeds. Mix 
the juice and rind together. 

Put a quarter of a pound of powdered white su- 
gar into a deep earthen pan, and cut up in it a 
quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter. If 
the weather is very cold, set the pan near the fire, 
for a few minutes, to soften the butter, but do not 
allow it to melt or it will be heavy. Stir the butter 
and sugar together, with a stick or wooden spoon, 
till it is perfectly light and of the consistence of cream. 

Put the eggs in a shallow broad pan, and beat 
them with mi egg-beater or rods, till they are 
quite smooth, and as thick as a boiled custard. 
Then stir the eggs, gradually, into the pan of but- 
ter and sugar. Add the liquor and rose water by 
degrees, and then stir in, gradually, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Stir the whole very 
hard, after all the ingredients aje in. 

Have ready a puff-paste made of five ounces of 
sifted flour, and a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter. The paste must be made with as llWle water 
as possible. Roll it out in a circular sheet, thin in 
the centre, and thicker towards the edges, and just 
large enough to cover the bottom, sides, and edges 
of a soup-plate. Butter the soup-plate very well, 
and lay the paste in it, making it neat and even 
round the broad edge of the plate. With a sharp 
knife, trim off the superfluous dough, and notch the 
edges. Put in the mixture with a spoon, and 
bake the pudding about half an hour, in a moderate 
oven f It should be baked of a very light brown. 
If the oven is too frot, the paste will not have time 
to rise well. If too cold, it will be clammy. When 
the pudding is cool, grate loaf-sugar over it. 









PASTRY. 17 



ORANGE PUDDING. 



One large orange, of a deep colour, and smooth thin rind. 

One lime. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 

Three eggs. ^^ 

Half a glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 



Grate the yellow rind of the orange and lime, 
and squeeze the juice into a saucer or soup-plate, 
taking out all the seeds. ^ 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream'. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible, and then stir 
them by degrees into the pan of butter and sugar. 
Add, gradually, the liquor and rose-water, and then 
by degrees, the orange and lime. Stir all well to- 
gether, 

Have ready a sheet of puff-paste made of five 
ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter. Lay the paste in fc buttered soup- 
plate. Trim and notch the edges, and then put in 
the mixture. Bake it about half an hour, in a mod- 
erate oven. Grate loaf-sugar over it, before you 
send it to table. 



COCOA-NUT PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, grated. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Three ounces and a half of fresh butter. 

The i >f six eggs. 

Haifa 5. of wine aud brandy mixed. 

Half .ml ofros^water. 

Break up a cocoa-nut, and take the thin brown 
skin carefully off, with a knife. Wash all the 



18 PASTRY. 

pieces in cold water, and then wipe them dry, with 
a clean towel. Weigh a quarter of a pound of 
cocoa-nut, and grate it very fine, into a soup-plate. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and add 
the liquor and rose-water gradually to them. 

Beat the whites only, of six eggs, till they stand 
alone on the rods ; .and then stir the beaten white 
of egg, gradually, into the butter and sugar. Af- 
terwards, sprinkle in, by degrees, the grated cocoa- 
nut, stjrrjng hard all the time. Then stir all very 
well at the last. 

Have ready a puff-paste, sufficient to cover the 
bottom, sides, and edges of a soup-plate. Put in 
the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven, about 
half an hour: 

Grate loaf-sugar over it, when cqol, 



ALMOND PUDDING, V 



Haifa pound of sweet almonds, which will bef reduced to a quarter 

of a pound, when shelled and blanched."" - 
An ounce of blanched bitter almonds or peach-kernels. 
The whites only, of six eggs. 
A quarter of a pound of butter. 



A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, 
Half a glass of mixed brandy, wine, and rose' 



and rose-water. 



Shell half a pound of sweet almonds, and pour 
scalding water over them, which will make tho 
skins peal off. As they get cool, pour more boil- 
ing water, till the almonds are all blanched. 
Blanch also the bitter almonds. As you blanch 
the almonds, throw them into a bowl of cold wa- 
ter. Then take them out, one by one, wipe them 



19 

dry in a clean towel, and lay them on a plate. 
Pound them one at a time to a fine paste, in a mar- 
ble mortar, adding, as you pound them, a few drops 
of rose-water to prevent their oiling. Pound the 
bitter and sweet almonds alternately, that they may 
be well mixed. They must be made perfectly fine 
and smooth, and are the better for being prepared 
the day before they are wanted for the pudding. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and add to 
it, gradually, the liquor. 

Beat the whites of six eggs till they stand alone. 
Stir the almonds and white of eggs, alternately, into 
the butter and sugar ; and then stir the whole well 
together. 

Have ready a puff-paste sufficient Tor a soup- 
plate. Batter the plate, lay on the paste, trim and 
notch it. Then put in the mixture. 

Bake it about half an"hour in a moderate oven. 

Grate loaf-sugar over it. 



A CHEESECAKE. 

Four eggs. 

A gill of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Two ounces of grated bread. 

Haifa glass of mixed brandy and wine. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, cinnamon, aad nutmeg, mixed. 

A quarter of a pound of currants. 




Pick the currants very clean. W^tf them 
through a cullender, wipe them in a towel, and 
then dry them on a dish before the fire. 

When dry take out a few to scatter over the 

* 



20 PASTRf. 

top of the cheesecake, lay them aside, and sprinkle 
the remainder of the currants with the flour. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Grate the 
bread, and prepare the spice. Beat the eggs 
very light. 

Boil the milk. When it comes to a boil, add to 
it half the beaten egg, and boil both together till it be* 
comes a curd, stirring it frequently with a knife. 
Then throw the grated bread on the curd, and stir 
all together. Then take the milk, egg, and bread 
off the fire, and stir it, gradually, into the butter 
and sugar. Next, stir in the remaining half of 
the egg. 

Add, by degrees, the liquor and spice. 

Lastly, stir in, gradually, the currants. 

Have ready a puff-paste, which should be made 
before you prepare the cheesecake, as the mixture 
will become heavy by standing. Before you put 
it into the oven, scatter the remainder of the cur- 
rants over the top. 

Bake it half an hour in rather a quick oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 

You ma/ bake it either in a soup-plate, or in 
two small tin patty-pans, which, for cheesecakes, 
should be of a square shape. If baked in square 
patty-pans leave at each side a flap of paste in the 
shape of a half-circle. Cut long slits in these flaps 
and turn them over, so that they will rest on the 
itop of the mixture. 

You can, if you choose, add to the currants a 
few raisins stoned, and cut in half. 









PASTRY. 21 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING^ 

A quarter of a pound of boiled sweet potato. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 

A glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

A half-glass of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, mace and cinnamon. ^ 

Pound the spice, allowing a smaller proportion 
of mace than of nutmeg and cinnamon. 

Boil and peal some sweet potatoes, and when 
they are cold, weigh a quarter of a pound. Mash 
the sweet potato very smooth, and rub it through a 
sieve. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, alternately with the sweet potato. 
Add by degrees the liquor, rose-water and spice. 
Stir all very hard together. 

Spread puff-paste on a soup-plate. Put in the 
mixture, and bake it about half an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Grate sugar over it. 



PUMPKIN PUDDING* V 

Half a pound of stewed pumpkin. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a pint of cream. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, tfutmeg, mace and cinnamon. 

Stew some pumpkin with as little water as pos- 
sible. Drain it in a cullender, and press it till dry. 
When cold, weigh half a pound, and pass it 
3 



22 PASTRY. 

through a sieve. Prepare the spice. Stir togeth- 
er the sugar, and butter, to cream, till they are 
perfectly light. Add to them, gradually, the spice 
and liquor. 

Beat three eggs very light, and stir them into 
the butter and sugar alternately with the pumpkin. 

Cover a soup-plate with puff-paste, and put in 
the mixture. Bake it in a moderate oven about 
half an hour. 

Grate sugar over it when cool. 



Instead of the butter, you may boil a pint of 
milk or cream, and when cold, stir into it in turn 
the sugar, eggs, and pumpkin. 



' 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. V 

i 

A pint of stewed gooseberries, with all their juice. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Two ounces of fresh butter. 
Twofcunces of grated bread. 
Three eggs. 

Stew the gooseberries till quite soft. When 

taiey are cold, mash them fine with the back of a 

spoon, and stir into them two ounces of sugar. 

Take two ounces more of sugar, and stir it to a 

cream with two ounces of butter. 

Grate very fine as much stale bread as will 
weigh two ounces. 

Beat three eggs, and stir them into the but- 
ter and sugar, in turn with the goosberries and 
bread. 




PASTRY. 23 






Lay puff-paste in a soup plate. Put in the mix- 
ture, and bake it half an hour. 
Do not grate sugar over it. 



BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

4m 
jf A pint of stewed apples. 

Half a pint of cream, or two ounces of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A nutmeg grated. 

A table spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. 

Stew your apple in as little water as possible, 
and not long enough for the pieces to break and 
lose their shape. Put them in a cullender to drain, 
and mash them with the back of a spoon. If 
stewed too long, and in too much water, they will 
lose their flavour. When cold, mix with them the 
nutmeg, rose-water, and lemon-peel, and two 
ounces of sugar. Stir the oiher tw<frounces of su- 
gar, with the butter or cream, and then mix it 
gradually with the apple. 

Bake it in puff-paste, in a soup-dish, about half 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 



FRUIT PIES. 

Fruit vpies for family use, are generally made 
with common paste, allowing three quarters of a 
pound of butter to a pound and a half of flour. 

Peaches and plums for pies, should be cu' !n 
half, and the stones taken out. Cherries also 



** 

24 PASTRY. 

should be stoned, and red cherries only should 
be used for pies. 

Apples should be cut into very thin slices, and 
are much improved by a little lemon peel. Sweet 
apples are not good for pies, as they are very in- 
sipid when baked, and seldom get thoroughly done. 
If green apples are used, they should first be stew^ 
ed in as little water as possible, and made very 
sweet. 

Apples, stewed previous to baking, should not be 
done till they break, but only till they are tender. 
They should then be drained in a cullender, and 
chopped fine with a knife or the edge of a spoon. 

In making pies of juicy fruit, it is a good way to 
set a small tea-cup, on the bottom crust, and lay the 
fruit all round it. The juice will collect under 
the cup, and not run out at the edges or top of the 
pie. The fruit should be mixed with a sufficient 
quantity of sugar, and piled up in the middle, *so as 
to make the pie highest in the centre. The up- 
per crust should be pricked with a fork, or have a 
slit cut in the middle. The edges should be nice- 
ly crimped with a knife. 

Dried peaches, dried apples, and cranberries 
should be stewed with a very little water, and al- 
lowed to get quite cold before they are put into 
the pie. If stewed fruit is put in warm, it will 
make the paste heavy. 

If your pies are made in the form of shells, or 
without lids, the fruit should always be stewed 
first, or it will not be sufficiently done, as the shells 
(which should be of puff paste) must not bake so 
long as covered pies. 

Shells intended for sweetmeats, must be baked 
empty, and the fruit put into them before they go, 
t table, 



PASTRY. 25 

Fruit pies with lids, should have loaf-sugar gra- 
ted over them. If they have been baked the day 
before, they should be warmed in the stove, or 
near the fire, before they are sent to table, to soften 
the crust, and make them taste fresh. 

Raspberry and apple-pies are much improved 
by taking off the lid, and pouring in a little cream 
just before they go to table. Replace the lid 
very carefully. 



OYSTER PIE. 

A hundred large fresh oysters, or more if small. 

The yolks of six eggs boiled hard. 

A large slice of stale-bread, grated. 

A lea-spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of pepper. 

A table-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, mace and cinnamon. 

Take a large round dish, butter it and spread a 
rich paste over the sides, and round .the edge, but 
not at the bottom. 

Salt oysters will not do for pies. They should 
be fresh, and as large and fine as possible. 

Drain off part of the liquor from the oysters. 
Put them into a pan, and season them with pepper, 
salt and spice. Stir them well with the seasoning. 
Have ready the yolks of eggs, chopped fine, and 
the grated bread. Pour the oysters (with as much 
of their liquor as you please) into the dish that has 
the paste in it. Strew over them the chopped 
egg and grated bread. 

Roll out the lid of the pie, and put it on, crimp- 
ing the edges handsomely. 

Take a small sheet of paste 5 cut it into a square 
3* 



gQ PASTRY. 

and roll it up. Cut it with a sharp knife into the 
form of a double tulip. 

Make a slit in the centre of the upper crust, and 
Stick the tulip in it. 

Cut out eight large leaves of paste, and lay them 
on the lid. 

Bake the pie in a quick oven. 

If you think the oysters will be too much done 
by baking them in the crust you can substitute 
for them pieces of bread, to keep up the lid of 
the pie. 

Put the oysters with their liquor and the season- 
ing, chopped egg, grated bread, &c. into a pan. 
Cover them closely, and let them just come to a 
boil, taking them off the fire, and stirring them 
frequently. 

When the crust is baked, take the lid neatly off 
(loosening it round the edge with a knife) take out 
the pieces of bread, and put in the oysters. Lay 
the lid on a.gain very carefully. 

For oyster patties, the oysters are prepared in 
the same manner. 

They may be chopped if you choose. They 
be put in small shells of puff-paste, 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Butter a deep dish, and spread a sheet of paste 
a.ll over the bottom, sides, and edge. 

Cut away from your beef-steak all the bone, fat, 
gristle, and skin. Cut the lean in small thin 
pieces, about as large, generally, as the palm of 
band, Beat the meat well with the rolling- 



PASTRY. 27 

pin, to make it juicy and tender. If you put in 
the fat, it will make the gravy too greasy and 
strong, as it cannot be skimmed. 

Put a layer of meat over the bottom-crust of 
your dish, and season it to y^tir taste, with pepper, 
salt, and, if you choose, a little nutmeg. A small 
quantity of mushroom ketchup is an improvement ; 
so, also, is a little minced onion. 

Have ready some cold boiled potatoes sliced thin. 
Spread over the meat, a layer of potatoes, and a 
small piece of butter; then another layer of meat, 
seasoned, and then a layer of potatoes, and so on 
till the dish is full and heaped up in the middle, 
having a layer of meat on the top. Pour in a little 
water. 

Cover the pie with a sheet of paste, and trim the 
edges. Notch it handsomely with a knife ; and, 
if you choose, make a tulip of paste, and stick it 
in the middle of the lid, and lay leaves of paste 
round it. 

Fresh oysters will greatly improve a beef-steak 
pie. So also will mushrooms. 

Any meat pie may be made in a similar manner. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

A pound of beef-suet, chopped very fine. 

A pint of molasses. 

A pint of rich milk. 

Four eggs. ' 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and cinnamon. 

A little grated or chipped leaion-peel. 

Indian meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and molasses, and stir them 
together. Beat the eggs, and stir them gradually 
into the milk and molasses, in turn with the suet 






28 PASTRY. 

and indian meal. Add the spice and lemon-peel 
and stir all very hard together. Take care not to 
put too much indian meal, or the pudding will be 
heavy and solid. 

Dip the cloth in foiling water. Shake it out, 
and flour it slightly. Pour the mixture into it, and 
tie it up, leaving room for the pudding to swell. 

Boil .it three hours. Serve it up hot, and eat it 
with sauce made of drawn butter, wine and nut- 
meg. 

When cold, it is good cut in slices and fried. 



BATTER PUDDING, 

Six eggs. 

Eight table-spoonfuls of sifted flour. 

One quart of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Stir the flour gradually, into the milk, carefully 
dissolving all the lumps. Beat the eggs very light, 
and add them by degrees to the milk and flour. 
Put in the salt, and stir the whole well together. 

Take a very thick pudding-cloth. Dip it in 
boiling water, and flour it. Pour into it the mix- 
ture and tie it up, leaving room for it to swell. 
Boil it hard, one hour, and keep it in the pot, till 
it is time to send it to table. Serve it up with 
wine-sauce. 



A square cloth, which when tied up will m t ake 
the pudding of a round form, is better than a bag. 

Apple Batter Pudding is made by pouring the 
batter over a dish of pippins, pared, cored, and 
sweetened, either whole or cut in pieces. Bake it, 
and eat it with butter and sugar. 



PASTRY. 29 



BREAD PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of grated stale bread. 

A quart of milk, boiled with two or three sticks of cinnamon, slightlj 

broken. 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 
A little grated lemon-peel. 

Boil the milk with the cinnamon, strain it, and 
set it away till quite cold. 

Grate as much crumb of stale bread as will 
weigh a quarter of a pound. Beat the eggs, and 
when the milk is cold, stir them into it in turn 
with the bread and sugar. Add the lemon-peel, 
and if you choose, a table spoonful of rose-water. 

Bake it in a buttered dish, and grate nutmeg 
over it when done. JDo not send it to table hot. 
Baked puddings should never be eaten till they 
have become cold, or at least cool. 



RICE PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of rice. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 

A r,\ni and a half of milk, or cream and milk. 

Six eggs. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nutmeg and cinnamon. 

A half wine-glass of rose-water. 

Wash the rice. Boil it till very soft. Drain it % 
and set it away to get cold. Put the butter and 
sugar together in a pan, and stir them till very light. 
Add to them the spice and rose-water. Beat the 
eggs very light, and stir them, gradually, into the 
milk. Then stir the eggs and milk into the*utte? 
sugar, alternately with the rice. 



30 PASTRY. 

Bake it and grate nutmeg over the top. 
Currants or raisins, floured, and stirred in at the 
last, will greatly improve it. 

It should be eaten cold, or quite cool. 



BOSTON PUDDIXG, 

Make a good common paste with a pound and a 
half of flour, and three quarters of a pound of but- 
ter.* When you roll it out the last time, cut off 
the edges, till you get the sheet of paste of an even 
square shape. 

Have ready some fruit sweetened to your taste. 
If cranberries, gooseberries, dried peaches, or dam- 
sons, they should be stewed, and made very sweet. 
If apples, they should be stewed in a very little 
water, drained, and seasoned with nutmeg, rose- 
water and lemon. If currants, raspberries, or 
blackberries, they should be mashed with sugar, 
and put into the pudding raw. 

Spread the fruit very thick, all over the sheet of 
paste, (which must not be rolled out too thin.) 
When it is covered all over with the fruit, roll it 
up, and close the dough at both ends, and down 
the last side. Tie the pudding in a cloth and 
boil it. 

Eat it with sugar. It must not be taken out of 
the pot till just before it is brought to table. 

* Or three quarters of a pound of beef suet, chopped very fine. 
Mix the suet at once with the flour, knead it with cold water into a 
stiff dough, and then roll it out into a large thin sheet. Fold it up 
and roll it again. 



PASTRY. 31 

FRITTERS. 



Seven eggs. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Sufficient flour to make a thick batten 



Beat the eggs well and stir them gradually into 
the milk. Add the salt, and stir in flour enough to 
make a thick batter. 

Fry them in lard, and serve them up hot. 

Eat them with wine and sugar. 



They are improved by stirring in a table-spoon- 
ful of yeast. 

These are excellent with the addition of cold 
stewed apple, stirred into the mixture, in which 
case use less flour. 



FINE CUSTARDS. 

A quart of milk or cream. 

The yolks only, of sixteen eggs. 

Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in small pieces. 

A large handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce of peach kernels 

or bitter almonds, broken in pieces. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A nutmeg. 

Boil in the milk the cinnamon, and the peach- 
leaves, or peach-kernels. When it has boiled, set 
it away to get cold. As soon as it is cold, strain it 
through a sieve, to clear it from the cinnamon, 
peach-leaves, &ic. and stir into it gradually, the 
sugar, spice, and rose-water. 

Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs very light, and 



32 PASTRY* 

stir them by degrees into the milk, which must be 
quite cold or the eggs will make it curdle. Put 
the custards into cups, and set them in a baking 
pan, half filled with water. When baked, grate 
some nutmeg over each and ice them. Make the 
icing of the whites of eight eggs, a large tea-spoon- 
ful of powdered loaf sugar, and six drops of es- 
sence of lemon, beaten all together till it stands 
alone. Pile up some of the icing on the top of 
each custard, heaping it high. Put a spot of red 
nonpareils on the middle of the pile of icing. 

If the weather be damp, or the eggs not new 
laid, more than eight whites will be required for 
the icing. 



PLAIN CUSTARDS, 

A quart of rich milk. 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce of peach-kernels, bro- 
ken in pieces. 
A nutmeg. 



Boil the peach-leaves or kernels in the milk, and 
set it away to cool. When cold, strain out the 
leaves or kernels, and stir in the sugar. Beat the 
eggs very light, and stir them gradually into the 
milk when it is quite cold. Bake it in cups, or in 
a large white dish. 

When cool, grate nutmeg over the top. 



PASTRY. 35 



A TRIFLE. 

A quart of cream. 

A quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, powdered. 

Half a pint of white wine ) . , 

Half a kill of brandy J mixed - 

Eight maccaroons, or more, if you choose. 

Four small spunge-cakes or Naples Biscuit. 

Two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, pounded in a mortar. 

One ounce of blanched bitter almonds or peach-kernels. 

The juice and grated peel of two lemons. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A glass of noyau. 

A pint of rich baked custard, made of the yolks of eggs. 

Pound the sweet and bitter almonds to a smooth 
paste, adding a little rose-water as you pound 
them. 

Grate the yellow peels of the lemons, and 
squeeze the juice into a saucer. 

Break the spunge cake and maccaroons into 
small pieces, mix them with the almonds, and lay 
them in the bottom of a large glass bowl. Grate 
a nutmeg over them, and the juice and peel of the 
lemons, ^id the wine and brandy, and let the 
mixture rffiain untouched, till the cakes are dis- 
solved in the liquor. Then stir it a little. 

Mix the cream and sugar with a glass of noyau, 
and beat it with a whisk or rods, till it stands 
alone. 

As the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, and 
lay it on a sieve (with a large dish under ilj&to 
drain. The cream, that drains into the dish, must 
be poured back into the pan with the rest, and 
beaten over again. When the cream is finished, 
set it in a cool place. 

When the custard is cold, pour it into the glass 
bowl upon the dissolved cakes, &c. and when the 
cream is ready, fill up the bowt with it, heaping 



36 PASTRY. 

it high in the middle. You may ornament it with 
nonpareils. 

If you choose, you can put in, between the cus- 
lard and the frothed cream, a layer of fruit jelly, 
or small fruit preserved. 



WHIPT CREAM. 

A quart of cream. 
The whites of four eggs. 
Haifa pint of white wine. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

Ten drops of strong essence of lemon, or two lemons cut in thin 
slices, or the juice of a large lemon. 

Mix together, in a broad pan, all the ingredients, 
unless you use slices of lemon, and then they must 
be laid at intervals among the froth, as you heap 
it in the bowl. 

With a whisk or rods, beat the cream to a 
strong froth. Have beside your pan a sieve (bot- 
tom upwards) with a large dish under it. As the 
froth rises, take it lightly off with a spoon, and lay 
it on the sieve to drain. When the top of the 
sieve is full, transfer the froth to a laflge glass or 
china bowl. Continue to do this till the bowl 
is full. 

The cream which has dropped through the sieve 
into the dish, must be poured into the pan, and 
beaten over again. When all the cream is con- 
verted into froth, pile it up in the bowl, making it 
highest in the middle. 

If you choose, you may ornament it with red 
sind green nonpareils. 

If you put it in glasses, lay a little jelly in the 
Bottom of each glass, and pile the cream on it. 
Keep it in a cool place till you want to use i^. 



PASTRY. 37 



FLOATING ISLAND, 

Six whites of eggs. 

Six large table-spoonfuls of jelly. 

A pint of cream. 

Put the jelly and white of egg into a pan, and 
beat it together with a whisk, till it becomes a stiff 
froth and stands alone. 

Have ready the cream, in a broad shallow dish. 
Just before you send it to table, pile up the froth 
in the centre of the cream. 



ICE CREAM, 

A quart of rich cream. 
Half a pound of powdered loaf sugar. 

The juice of two large lemons, or a pint of strawberries or raspr 
berries. 



Put the cream into a broad pan, and squeeze 
the lemon juice into it, or stir in gradually the 
strawberries or raspberries, which must first be 
mashed to a smooth paste. Then stir in the sugar 
by degrees, and when all is well mixed, strain it 
through a sieve. 

Put it into a tin that has a close cover, and set it 
in a tub. Fill the tub with ice broken into very 
small pieces, and strew among the ice A large 
quantity of salt, taking care that none of tne salt 
gets into the cream.* Scrape the cream down with 
a spoon as it freezes round the edges of the tin. 
When it is all frozen, dip the tin in lukewarm 
water ; take out the cream, and fill your glasses ; 
4* 



38 PASTRY. 

but not till a few minutes before you want to use 
it, as it will very soon melt. 

You may heighten the colour of the red fruit, 
by a little cochineal. 



If you wish to have it in moulds, put the cream 
into them as soon as it has frozen in the tin. Set 
the moulds in a tub of ice and salt. Just before 
you want to use the cream, take the moulds out 
of the tub, wipe or wash the salt carefully from the 
outside, dip the moulds in lukewarm water, and 
turn out the cream. 



CALF'S-FEET JELLY, 

Four calfs feet. 

Three quarts of water, 

A pint of white wine, 

Three lemons. 

The whites of six eggs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon. 

JIalf a pound of loaf-sugar, broken into lumps. 

Endeavour to procure calf's-feet, that have 
been nicely singed, but not skinned, as the skin 
being left on, makes the jelly much firmer. 

The day before you want to use the jelly, boil 
the four calf's-feet in three quarts of water, till 
the meat drops from the bone. When sufficiently 
done, fut it into a cullender or sieve, and let the 
liquid drain from the meat, into a broad pan or 
dish. Skim off the fat. Let the jelly stand till 
next day, and then carefully scrape off the sedi- 
ment from the bottom. It will be a firm jelly, if 
too much water has not been used, and if it has 
boiled long enough, 






PASTRY. 39 

Early next morning, put the jelly into a tin ket- 
tle, or covered tin pan ; set it on the fire, and melt 
it a little. Take it off, and season it with the cin- 
namon slightly broken, a pini; of madeira wine, 
three lemons cut in thin slices, and half a pound of 
loaf-sugar, broken up. 

If you wish it high-coloured, add two table- 
spoonfuls of French brandy. Mix all well to- 
gether. Beat, slightly, the whites of six eggs 
(saving the egg-shell) and stir the whites inlo the 
jelly. Break up the egg-shells into very small 
pieces, and throw them in also. Stir the whole 
very well together. 

Set it on the fire, and boil it hard five minutes, 
but do not stir it, as that will prevent its clear- 
ing. Have ready a large white flannel bag, the 
top wide, and the bottom tapering to a point. 

Tie the bag to the backs of two chairs, or to the 
legs of a table, and set a white dish or a mould 
under it. 

After the jelly has boiled five minutes, pour it 
hot into the bag, and let it drip through into the 
dish. Do not squeeze the bag, as that will make 
the jelly dull and cloudy. 

If it is not clear the first time it passes througb 
the bag, empty out all the ingredients, wash the 
bag, suspend it again, put another white dish un- 
der it, pour the jelly back into the bag, and let it 
drip through again. Repeat this six or eight times, 
or till it is clear, putting a clean dish* 'fender it 
every time. If it does not drip freely, move the 
bag into a warmer place. 

When the jelly has all dripped through the bag, 
and is clear, set it in a cool place to congeal. It 
will sometimes congealimmediately, and sometimes 
not for several hours, particularly if the weather is 



40 PASTRY. 

warm and damp. If the weather is very cold you 
must take care not to let it freeze. When it is 
quite firm, which perhaps it will not be till even- 
ing, fill your glasses. with it, piling it up very high. 
If you make it in a mould, you must either set the 
mould under the bag while it is dripping, or pour 
it from the dish into the mould while it is liquid. 
When it is perfectly congealed, dip the mould for 
an instant in boiling water to loosen the jelly. 
Turn it out on a glass dish. 

This quantity of ingredients will make a quart of 
jelly when finished. In cool weather it may be 
made a day or two before it is wanted. 

You may increase the seasoning, (that is, the 
wine, lemon, and cinnamon,) according to your 
taste, but less than the above proportion will not be 
sufficient to flavour the jelly. 



BLANCMANGE. 

calf 's-feet. 
A pint and a half of thick cream. 
Haifa pound of loaf-sugar, broken up. 
A glass of wine. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mace, beaten and sifted. 

Get four calf's-feet ; if possible some that have 
been singed, and not skinned. Scrape, and clean 
them w^j|, and boil them in three quarts of water 
till all the meat drops off the bone. Drain the 
liquid through a cullender or sieve, and skim it 
well. Let it stand till next morning to congeal. 
Then clean it well from the sediment, and put it 
into a tin or bell-metal kettle. Stir into it, the 
cream, sugar, and mace. Boil it hard for five 



PASTRY. 41 

minutes, stirring it several times. Then strain it 
through a linen cloth or napkin into a large bowl, 
and add the wine and rose-water. 

Set it in a cool place for three or four hours, 
stirring it very frequently with a spoon, to prevent 
the cream from separating from the jelly. The 
more it is stirred the better. Stir it till it is cool. 

Wash your moulds, wipe them dry, and then wet 
them with cold water. When the blancmange 
becomes very thick, (that is in three or four hours, 
if the weather is not too damp) put it into your 
moulds. 

When it has set in them till it is quite firm, loos- 
en it carefully all round with a knife, and turn it 
out on glass or china plates. 



If you wish to make it with almonds, take an 
ounce of blanched bitter almonds, and two ouncea 
of .sweet. Beat them in a mortar to a fine paste, 
pouring in occasionally a little rose-water. When 
the mixture is ready to boil, add the almonds to iw 
gradually, stirring them well in. Or you may stir 
them in, while it is cooling in the bowl. 

If it inclines to stick to the moulds, set them an 
instant in hot water. It will then turn out easily. 



If you choose to make it without calf's feet, 
you can substitute an ounce of the best and clear- 
est isinglass, or, if in summer, an ounce and a quar- 
ter boiled with the other ingredients. If made 
with isinglass, you must use two ounces of sweet, 
and an ounce of bitter almonds', with the addition 
of the grated rind of a large lemon, and a 



** PASTRY. 

stick of cinnamon, broken up, a glass of wine, and 
half a glass of rose-water. These ingredients must 
be all mixed together, with a quart of cream, and 
boiled hard for five minutes. The mixture must 
then be strained through a napkin, into a large 
bowl. Set it in a cool place, and stir it frequently 
till nearly cold. It must then be put into the 
moulds. 

You may substitute for the almonds, half a gill 
of noyau, in which case, omit the wine. 






CAKES. 57 



in it, not too close together. Bake them a few 
minutes in a moderate oven, till they are very 
slightly coloured, but not brown. Jf too much 
baked, they will entirely lose their flavour. Do 
not roll them out too thin. 



JUMBL.ES. 

Three eggs. 

Haifa pound of flour, sifted. 

Haifa pound of butter. 

Half a pound of powered loaf-sugar. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A nutmeg grated. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. 



Stir the sugar and butter to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very light. Throw them, all al once, into 
the pan of flour. Put in, at once, the butter and 
sugar, and then add the spice and rose-water. If 
you have no rose-water, substitute six or seven 
drops of strong essence of lemon, or more if the 
essence is weak. Stir the whole very hard, with 
a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, and 
flour your hands well. Take up with your knife, 
a porton of the dough, and lay it on the board. 
Roll it lightly with your hands, into long thin rolls, 
which must be cut into equal lengths, curled up 
into rings, and laid gently into an iron or tin pan, 
buttered, not too close to each other, as they 
spread in baking. Bake them in a quick oven 
about five minutes, and grate loaf-sugar over 
them when cool. 



6 



58 CAKES, 

.- 

KISSES. 

One pound of the best loaf sugar, powdered and sifted, 
The whites of four eggs. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 
A tea-cup of currant jelly. 

Beat the whites of four eggs till they stand alone. 
Then beat in, gradually, the sugar, a tea-spoonful 
at a time. Add the essence of lemon, and beat 
the whole very hard. 

Lay a Wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a 
square tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a 
small tea-spoonful of stiff currant jelly.* With a 
large spoon, pile some of the beaten white of egg 
and sugar, on each lump of jelly, so as to cover it 
entirely. Drop on the mixture as evenly as pos- 
sible, so as to make the kisses of a round smooth 
shape. 

Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as they 
are coloured, they are done. Then take them out 
and place them two bottoms together. Lay them 
lightly on a sieve, and dry them in a cool oven, 
till the two bottoms stick fast together, so as to 
form one ball or oval. 



SPANISH BUNS. 

Four eggs. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour, sifted. 

Haifa pound of powdered white sugar. 

Two wine-glasses and a half of rich milk. 

Five ounces of fresh butter. 

A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a broad pan, and 
sift a quarter of a pound, separately, into a deep 

* Is is better to put a little of the beaten white of egg and sugar at 
first, under thbcurrant-jelly. 



CAKES. 59 

plate, and set it aside. Put the milk into a soup- 
plate, cut up the butter, and set it on the stove or 
near the fire to \varra, but do not let it get too hot. 
When the butter is very soft, stir it all through the 
milk with a knife, and set it away to cool. Beat 
the eggs very light, and mix the milk and butter 
with them, all at once ; then pour all into the pan 
of flour. Put in the spice, and the rose-water, or 
if you prefer it, eight drops of essence of lemon ; 
Add the yeast, of which an increased quantity will 
be necessary, if it is not very strong and fresh. 
Stir the whole very hard, with a knife. Add the 
sugar gradually. If the sugar is not stirred in 
slowly, a little at a time, the buns will be heavy. 
Then, by degrees, sprinkle in the remaining quar- 
ter of a pound of flour. Stir all well together; 
butter a square iron pan, and put in the mixture. 
Cover it with a cloth, and set it near the fire to 
rise. It will probably not be light in less than 
five hours. When it is risen very high, and is cov- 
ered with bubbles, bake it in a moderate oven, 
about a quarter of an hour or more, in proportion 
to its thickness. 

When it is quite cool, cut it in squares, and grate 
loaf-sugar over them. This quantity will make 
twelve or fifteen buns. 

They are best the day they are baked. 

You may, if you choose, bake them separately, 
in small square tins, 'adding to the batter half a 
pound of currants or chopped raisins, well floured, 
and stirred in at the last. 



In making buns, stir the yeast well before you 
put it in, having first poured off* the beer or thin 
part from the top. If your yeast is not good, do 



60 CAKES. 

not attempt to make buns with it, as they will 
never be light. 

Buns may be made in a plainer way, with the 
following ingredients, mixed in the above manner. 



Half a pound of flour, sifted into a pan. 

A quarter of a pound of flour, sifted in a plate, and set aside to 

sprinkle in at the last. 
Three eggs, well beaten. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Three wine-glasses of milk. 
A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A large tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A quarter of a pound of butler, cut up, and warmed in the milk. 



RUSK. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of flour sifted. 

One egg. 

Three wine-glasses of milk. 

A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 



Sift your flour into a pan. Cut up the butter in 
the milk, and warm them a little, so as to soften 
the butter, but not to melt it entirely. Beat your 
egg; pour the milk and butter into your pan of 
flour, then the egg, then the rose-water and spice, 
and lastly the yeast. Stir all well together with 
a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board : lay the 
dough on it, and knead it well. Then divide it 
into small pieces of an equal size, and knead each 
piece into a little thick round cake. Butter an 
iron pan, lay the cakes in it, and set them in a 
warm place to rise. Prick the tops with a fork. 
When they are quite light, bake them in a mode- 
rate oven. 



CAKES. 61 



INDIAN POUND CAKE. 

Eight eggs. 

The weight of eight eggs in powdered sugar. 

The weight of six eggs in Indian meal, sifted. 

Half a pound of butter. 

One nutmeg, grated, or a tea-spoonful of cinnamon. 



Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very light. Stir the meal and eggs, alternate- 
ly, into the butter and sugar. Grate in the nut- 
meg. Stir all well. Butter a tin pan, put in the 
mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. 



CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs. 

Two large tea-cups full of molasses. 

The same of brown sugar, rolled fine. 

The same of fresh butter. 

One cup of rich milk. 

Five cups of flour, sifted. 

Half a cup of powdered allspice and cloves. 

Half a cup of ginger. 



Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm them 
slightly. Warm also the molasses, and stir it into 
the milk and butter : then stir in, gradually, the 
sugar, and set it away to get cool. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the 
mixture alternately with the flour. Add the ginger 
and other spice, and stir the whole very hard. 

Butter small tins, nearly fill them with the mix- 
ture, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven. 

6* 



62 CAKES, 



LOAF CAKE. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, setting aside half a pound to sprinkle in 

at the last. 

One pound of fresh butter. 
One pound of powdered sugar. 
Four eggs. 

One pound of raisins, stoned, and cut in half. 
One pound of currants, washed and dried. 
JJalf a pint of milk. 
A glass of wine. 
A glass of brandy. 

A table- spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Haifa pint of the best brewer's yeast 5 or more, if the yeast is not 
very strong. 

Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm it till 
the butter is quite soft ; then stir it together, and 
set it away to cool. It must not be made too warm. 
After you have beaten the eggs, mix them with the 
butter and rnilk, and stir the whole into the pan of 
flour. Add the spice and liquor, and stir in the 
sugar gradually. Having poured off the thin part 
from the top,stir the yeast, and pour it into the mix- 
ture. Then sprinkle in the remainder of the flour. 

Have ready the fruit, which must be well flour- 
ed, stir it gradually into the mixture. Butter a 
large tin pan, and put the cake into it. Cover it, 
and set it in a warm place for five or six hours to 
rise. When quite light, bake it in a moderate oven. 



SUGAR BISCUITS. v 

Three pounds of flour, sifted. 

One pound of butter. 

A pound and a half of powdered sugar. 

Half a pint of milk. 

Two table-spoonfuls of brandy. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved in water. 

Four table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 



Cut the butter into the flour. Add the stfgar 
and carraway seeds. Pour in the brandy, and 



CAKES. 63 

then the milk. Lastly, put in the pearl-ash. Stir 
all well with a knife, and mix it thoroughly, till it 
becomes a lump of dough. 

Flour your paste-board, and lay the dough on 
it. Knead it very well. Divide it into eight or ten 
pieces, and knead each piece separately. Then 
put them all together, and knead them very well 
in one lump. 

Cut the dough in half, and roll it out into sheets, 
about half an inch thick. Beat the sheets ofdough 
very hard, on both sides, with the rolling-pin. 
Cut them out into round cakes with the edge of a 
tumbler. Butter iron pans, and lay the cakes in 
them. Bake them of a very pale brown. If done 
too much they will lose their taste. 

These cakes kept in a stone jar, closely covered 
from the air, will continue perfectly good for seve- 
ral months. 



MILK BISCUITS. 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound cf butter. 
Two eggs. 

Six wine-glasses of milk. 

Two wine-glasses of the best brewer's yeast, or three of good home- 
-made yeast. 

* - 

Cut the butter into the milk, and warm it slightly 
on the top of the stove, or near the fire. Sift the 
flour into a pan, and pour the milk and butter into 
it. Beat the eggs, and pour them in also. Lastly 
the yeast. Mix all well together with a knife. 

Flour your paste-board, put the lump of dough 
on it, and knead it very hard. Then cut the dough 



64 CAKES. 

in small pieces, and knead them into round balls. 
Stick the tops of them with a fork. 

Lay them in buttered pans and set them to rise. 
They will probably be light in an hour. When 
they are quite light, put them in a moderate oven 
and bake them. 

They are best when quite fresh. 



BUTTER BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter. 
Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Haifa pint of milk, or cold water. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 



Cut up the butter in the flour, and put the salt 
to it. Wet it to a stiff dough with the milk or wa- 
ter. Mix it well with a knife. 

Throw some flour on the paste-board, take the 
dough out of the pan, and knead it very well. 

Roll it out into a large thick sheet, and beat it 
very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin. 
Beat it a longtime. 

Cut it out with a tin, or cup, into small round 
thick cakes. Beat each cake on both sides, with 
the rolling-pin. Prick them with a fork. Put 
them in buttered pans, and bake them of a light 
brown in a slow oven. 



CAKES. 65 

^ERBRE. 



GINGEl READ NUTS. 

Two pounds of 

One pound of fi 

Half a pound of bro^CTugar, 

One quart of sugar- house molasses. 

Two ounces of ginger, or more, if it is not very strong. 

Twelve dozen grains of allspice, ^ 

Six dozen cloves, > powdered and sifted. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon, } 



Cut up the butter in the flour. Sprtfid the su- 
gar on your paste-board, and crush it very fine 
with the rolling-pin. Put it to the flour and butter, 
and then add the ginger ana other spice. Wet 
the whole with the molasses, and stir all well to- 
gether with a knife. 

Throw some flour on your paste-board, take the 
dough (a large handful at a time) and knead it in 
separate cakes. Then put all together, and knead 
it very hard for a long time, in one large lump. 
Cut the lump in half, roll it out in two even sheets, 
about half an inch thick, and cut it out in little 
cakes, with a very small tin, about the size of a 
cent. Lay them in buttered pans, and bake them 
in a moderate oven, taking care they do not scorch, 
as gingerbread is more liable to burn than any 
other cake. 

Cou may, if you choose, shape the gingerbread 
, by putting flour in your hand, taking a very 
small piece of the dough, and rolling it into a little 
round ball. 






66 CAKES. 



COMMON GIN 



GERBRKAD. 



A pint of molasses. 

Half a.pound of brown sugar. 

One pmd of fresh butter. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, sifted. 

A pint of milk. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or less if it is strong. 

A tea-cup full of ginger. 



Cut tRe butter into the flour. Crush the sugar 
with a rolling-pin, and throw it into the flour and 
butter. Add the ginger. 

Having dissolved the pearl-ash in a little vine- 
gar, stir it with the milk and molasses alternately 
into the other ingredients. Stir it very hard for a 
long time, till it is quite light. 

Put some flour on your paste-board, take out 
small portions of the dough, and naake it with your 
hand into long rolls. Then curl up the rolls into 
round cakes, or twist two rolls together, or lay 
them in straight lengths or sticks side by side, and 
touching each other. Put them carefully in but- 
tered pans, and bake them in a moderate oven, not 
hot enough to burn them. If they should get 
scorched, scrape off with a knife, or grater, all the 
burnt parts, before you put! the cakes away. 

You can, if you choose, cut out the dough with 
tins, in the shape of hearts, circles, ovals, & 
you may bake it all in one, and cut it in square 
when cold. 

If the mixture appears to be too thin, add, grad- 
ually, a little more sifted flour. 



CAKES. 67 



LAFAYETTE GINGERBREAD. 

Five eggs. 

Haifa pound of brown sugar. 

Half a pound of fresh butter. 

A pint of sugar-house molasses. 

A pound and a half of flour. 

Four table-spoonfuls of ginger. 

Two large sticks of cinnamon, ^ 

Three dozen grains of allspice, > powdered and sifted. 

Three dozen of clpves, } 

The juice and grated peel of two large lemons. 



Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very well. Pour the molasses, at once, into 
the butter and sugar. Add the ginger and other 
spice, and stir all well together. 

Put in the egg and flour alternately, stirring all 
the time. Stir the whole very hard, and put in 
the lemon at the last. When the whole is mixed, 
stir it till very light. 

Butter an earthen pan, or a thick tin or iron one, 
and put the gingerbread in it. Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven, an hour or more, according to its 
thickness. Take care that it does not burn. 

Or you may bake it in small cakes, on little tins. 

Its lightness will be much improved bj a small 
tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved in a tea-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and stirred lightly in at the last.* 
Too much pearl-ash will give it an unpleasant taste. 

If you use pearl-ash, you must omit the lemon, 
as its taste will be entirely destroyed by the pearl- 
ash. You may substitute for the lemon, some 
raisins and currants, well floured to prevent their 
sinking. 

* If the pearl-ash is strong, half a tea-spoonful will be sufficient, or 
less even will do. It is better to stir the pearl-ash in, a little at a 
time, and you can tell by the taste of be mixture, when there U 
enough. 



68 CAKES. 

This is the finest of all gingerbread, but should 
not be kept long, as in a few days it becomes very 
hard and stale. 



A DOVER CAKE. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, dissolved in a little vinegar. 

One pound of sifted flour. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

Haifa pound of butter. 

Six eggs. 

One glass of brandy. 

Haifa glass of rose-water. 

One grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 



Dissolve the pearl-ash in vinegar. Stir the su- 
gar and butter to a cream, and add to it, gradual- 
ly, the spice and liquor. Beat the eggs very light, 
and stir them into the butter and sugar, alternate- 
ly, with the flour. Add, gradually, the milk, and 
stir the whole very hard. 

Butter a large tin pan, and put in the mixture. 
Bake it two hours or more, in a moderate oven. 
If not thick, an hour or an hour and a half will be 
sufficient. 

Wrap it in, a thick cloth, and keep it from the 
air, and it will continue moist and fresh for two 
weeks. The pearl-ash will give it a dark colour. 

It will be much improved by a pound of raisins, 
stoned and cut in half, and a pound of currants, 
well washed and dried. 

Flour the fruit well, and stir it in at the last. 



CAKES. 69 

CRULLERS. N 

Half a pound of butter. 

Three quarters of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Six eggs, or seven, if they are small. 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

A table-spoonful of rose water. 

Cut the butter into the flour, add the sugar and 
spice, and mix them well together. 

Beat the eggs, and pour them into the pan of 
flour, &c. Add the rose water, and mix the whole 
into a dough. If the eggs and rose-water are not 
found sufficient to wet it, add a very little cold wa- 
ter. Mix the dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, take the 
dough out of the pan, and knead it very well. Cut 
it into small pieces, and knead each separately. 
Put all the pieces together, and knead the whole in 
one lump. Roll it out into 'a large square, sheet, 
about half an inch thick. Take a jagging-iron, or, 
if you have not one, a sharp knife ; run it along 
the sheet, and cut the dough into long narrow slips. 
Twist them up in various forms. Have ready an 
iron pan with melted lard.' Lay the crullers lightly 
in it, and fry them of a light brown, turning them 
with a knife and fork, so as not to break them, and 
taking care that both sides are equally done. 

When sufficiently fried, spread them on a large 
dish to cool, and grate loaf-sugar over them. 

Crullers may be made in a plainer way, with the 
best brown sugar, rolled very fine,) and without 
spice or rose-water. 
7 



70 CAKES. 

They can be fried, or rather boiled, in a deep 
iron pot. They should be done in a large quantity 
of lard, and taken out with a skimmer that has holes 
in it, and held on the skimmer till the lard drains 
from them. If for family use, they can be made 
an inch thick. 






DOUGH NUTSj 

Three pounds of sifted flour. 

A pound of powdered sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter. 

Four eggs. 

Half a large tea-cup full of best brewer's yeast. 

A pint and a half of milk. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 



ut up the butter in the flour. Add the sugar, 
ce r and rose-water. Beat the eggs very light, 
and pour them into the mixture. Add the yeast, 
(half a tea-cup, or t\*p wine-glasses full,) and then 
stir in the milk by degrees, so as to make it a soft 
dough. Cover it, and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds with a jag- 
ging-iron, or a sharp knife, and fry them in lard. 
Grate loaf sugar over them when done. 



WAFFLES. 

Six eggs. 

A pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

A pound and a half of flour, sifted. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Warm the milk slightly. Cut up the butter in it, 
and stir it a little. Beat the eggs well, and pour 



i 



CAKES. 71 

them into the butter and milk. Sprinkle in half 
the flour, gradually. Stir in the sugar, by degrees, 
and add the spice. Stir in, gradually, the remain- 
der of the flour, so that it becomes a thick batter. 

Heat your waffle-iron ; then grease it well, and 
pour in some of the batter. Shut the iron tight, and 
bake the waffle on both sides, by turning the iron. 

As the waffles are baked, spread them out sepa- 
rately on a clean napkin. When enough are done 
for a plate-foil, lay them on a plate in two piles, 
buttering them, and sprinkling each with beaten 
cinnamon. 



v 
SOFT MUFFIXS. 

Five eggs. 

A quart of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

A tea-spoonful of salt. 

Two large tables- spoonfuls of brewer's yeast, or four of bo 

yeast. 
Enough of sifted flour to make a stiff batter. 



Warm the milk and butter together, and add to 
them the salt. Beat'ihe eggs very light, and stir 
them into the milk andl5u"tter. Then stir in the 
yeast, and lastly, sufficient flour to make a L 
batter. 

Cover the mixture, and set it to rise, in a warm 
place, about three hours. 

AVhen it is quite light, gntase your baking-iron. 
, and your muffin rings. Set the rings on the iron, 
and pour the batter into them. Bake them a 
brown. W T hen you split them to put on the butter, 
do not cut them with a knife, but pull them open 
with your hands. Cutting them while hot will 
make them heavy. 



72 CAKES. 



INDIAN BATTER CAKES. 

A quart of sifted indian meal. ) . , 

A handful of wheat flour, sifted, 5 mixed ' 

Three eggs, well beaten. 

Two table-spoonfuls of fresh brewer's yeast, or four of home-made 

yeast. 

A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A quart of milk. 

Make the milk quite warm, and then put into it 
the yeast and salt, stirring them well. Beat the 
eggs, and stir them into the mixture. Then, grad- 
ually stir in the flour and indian meal. 

Cover the batter, and set it to rise four or five 
hours. Or if the weather is cold, and you want 
the cakes for breakfast, you may mix the batter late 
the night before. 

Should you find it sour in the morning, dissolve 
a small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash in as much water 
as will cover it, and stir it into the batter, letting it 
sit afterwards at least half an hour. This will take 
off the acid. 

Grease your baking-iron, and pour on it a ladle- 
full of the batter. When brown on one side, turn 
the cake on the other. 



FLANNEL CAKES OR CRUMPETS. <* 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 

Four eggs. 

Three table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's yeast, or four and a half 

of home-made yeast. 
A pint of milk. 

Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with the flour, and set 
the pan before the fire. Then warm the milk, 



CAKES. 73 

and stir into it the flour, so as to make a stiff batter. 
Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the yeast. 
Add the eggs and yeast to the batter, and beat all 
well together. If it is too stiff*, add a little more 
warm milk. 

Cover the pan closely, and set it to rise near the 
fire. Bake it, when quite light. 

Have your baking-iron hot. Grease it, and pour 
on a ladle-full of batter. Let it bake slowly, and 
when done on one side, turn it on the other. 

Butter the cakes, cut them across, and send them 
to table hot. 



ROL.LS. 



Three pints of flour, sifted. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt. 

Four table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's yeast, or six of home-made 

yeast. 

A pint of luke-vvarm water. 
Haifa pint more of warm water, and a little more flour to mix in 

before the kneading. 



Mix the salt with the flour, and make a deep hole 
in the middle. Stir the warm water into the yeast, 
and pour it into the hole in the flour. Stir it with 
a spoon just enough to make a thin batter, and 
sprinkle some flour over the top. Cover the pan, 
and set it in a warm place for several hours. 

When it is light, add half a pint more of luke- 
warm water ; and make it, with a little more flour, 
into a dough. Knead it very well for ten minutes, 

7* 



74 CAKES. 

Then divide it into small pieces, and knead each 
separately. Make them into round cakes or rolls. 
Cover them, and set them to rise about an hour 
and a half. 

Bake them, and when done, let them remain in 
the oven, without the lid, for about ten minutes. 



PART THE THIRD. 






SWEETMEATS. 






GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

I 

IN preparing sugar for sweetmeats, let it be en- 
tirely dissolved, before you put it on the fire. If 
you dissolve it in water, allow about half a pint of 
water to a pound of sugar. 

If you boil the sugar before you add the fruit to 
it, it will be improved in clearness, by passing it 
through a flannel bag. Skim off the brown scum, 
all the time it is boiling. 

If sweetmeats are boiled too long, they lose their 
flavour and become of a dark colour. 

If boiled too short a time, they will not keep well. 

You may ascertain when jelly is done, by drop- 
ping a small spoonful into a glass of water. 

If it spreads and mixes with the water, it requires 
more boiling. If it sinks in a lump to the bottom, 
it is sufficiently done. This trial must be made 
after the jelly is cold. 

Raspberry jelly requires more boiling than any 
other sort. Black currant jelly less. 



78 SWEETMEATS, 

' 






APPLE JELLY. 



T, 



"ake the best pippin, or bell-flower apples. No 
others will make good jelly. Pare, core, and quar- 
ter 1 them. Lay them in a brass or bell-metal ket- 
tle, and put to them as much water only, as will 
cover them, and as much lemon-pel as you choose. 
Boil them till they are soft, but not till they break. 
Drain off the water through a cullender, and rnash 
the apples with the back of a spoon. Put them 
into a jelly bag, set a deep dish or pan under it, and 
squeeze out the juice. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of loaf- 
sugar, broken up, and the juice of two lemons. 
Put the apple-juice, the sugar, and the lemon-juice, 
into the preserving kettle. Boil it a quarter of an 
hour, skimming it well. Take it immediately from 
the kettle, and pour it warm into your glasses, but 
not so hot as to break them. When cold, cover 
each glass with white paper dipped in brandy, and 
tie it down tight with another paper. Keep them 
in a cool place. 

Quince Jelly is made in the same manner, but do 
not pare the quinces. Quarter them only. 



RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash your currants, drain them, and pick them 
from the stalks. Mash them with the back of a 
spoon. Put them in a jelly-bag, and squeeze it till 
all the juice is pressed out. 



SWEETMEATS. 79 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of the best 
loaf-sugar. Put the juice and the sugar into your 
kettle, and boil it fifteen minutes, skimming it all 
the while. Pour it warm into your glasses, set it 
for several hours in the sun, and when cold, tie it 
up with brandy paper. Jellies should never be al- 
lowed to get cold in the kettle. If boiled too long, 
they will lose their flavour, and become of a dark 
colour. 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, and grape 
jelly may be 1 made in the same manner, and with 
the some proportion of loaf-sugar. 

Red currant jelly may also be made in a vefy 
simple manner, by putting the currants whole into 
the kettle, with the sugar ; allowing a pound of su- 
gar to a pound of currants. Boil them together 
fifteen minutes, skimming carefully. Then pour 
them into a sieve, with a pan under it. Let them 
drain through the sieve into the pan, pressing them 
down with the back of a spoon. 

Take the jelly, while warm, out of the pan, and 
put it into your glasses. Tie it up with brandy 
paper when cold. 



BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick the currants from the stalks, wash and drain 
them. Mash them soft with a spoon, put them in a 
bag, and squeeze out the juice. To each pint of 
juice, allow three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put the juice and sugar into a preserving kettle, 
and boil *'ic ; about ten minutes, skimming them 



80 SWEETMEATS. 

well. Take it immediately out of the kettle. Put 
it warm into your glasses. Tie it up with brandy 
papers. 

The juice of black currants is so very thick, that 
it requires less sugar and less boiling than any 
other jelly. 



GOOSEBERRY JELLY* 

Cut the gooseberries in half, (they must be green) 
and put them in ajar closely covered. Set the jar 
in an oven, or pot filled with boiling water. Keep 
the water boiling round the jar till the gooseberries 
are soft, take them out, mash them with a spoon, 
and put them into a jelly bag to drain. When all 
the juice is squeezed out, measure it, and to a pint 
of juice, allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Put the 
juice and sugar into the preserving kettle, and boil 
them fifteen minutes, skimming them carefully. 
Put the jelly warm into your glasses. Tie them up 
with brandy paper. 

Cranberry jelly is made in the same manner. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash and drain 
them. Mash them with a spoon. Put them in the 
preserving kettle, and cover them closely with a 
large plate. Boil them ten minutes. Then pour 
them into your jelly bag, and squeeze out the juice. 



SWEETMEATS. 81 

Allow a pint of juice to a pound of sugar. Put 
the sugar and juice into your keitle, and boil them 
fifteen minutes, skimming them well. 

Fill your glasses while the jelly is warm, and tie 
them up with brandy papers. 



PEACH JELLY, 

Wipe the wool off your peaches, (which should 
be free-stones, and not too ripe) and cut them in 
quarters. Crack the stones, and break the kernels 
small. 

Put the peaches and the kernels into a covered 
jar, set them in boiling water, and let them boil till 
the} 7 are soft. 

Strain them through a jelly-bag, till all the juice 
is squeezed out. Allow a pound of loaf-sugar to 
a pint of juice. Put the sugar and juice into a 
preserving kettle, and boil them fifteen minutes, 
skimming carefully. 

Put the jelly warm into your glasses, and when 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 



Plum, and green-gage jelly may be made in the 
same manner, with the kernels, which greatly im- 
prove the flavour. 



PRESERYED QUINCES. 

Pare and core your quinces, carefully taking out 
the parts that are knotty and defective. Cut them 
into quarters, or into round slices. Put them into 

8 



86 SWEETMEATS. 

a preserving kettle, and cover them with the par- 
ings and a very little water. Lay a large plate 
over them to keep in the steam, and boil them til! 
they are tender. 

Take out the quinces, and strain the liquor 
through a bag. To every pint of liquor, allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Boil the juice and sugar to- 
gether, about ten minutes, skimming it well. Then 
put in the quinces, and boil them gently twenty 
minutes. When the sugar seems to have com- 
pletely penetrated them, take them out, put them 
in a glass jar, and pour the juice over them wamu 
Tie them up, when cold, with brandy paper. 

In preserving fruit that is boiled first without 
the sugar, it is generally belter (after the first boil- 
ing) to let ii stand till next day before you put the 
sugar to it. 



PRESERVED PIPPINS. 

Pare and core some of the largest and finest pip- 
pins. Put them in your preserving kettle, with 
some lemon-peel, and all the apple-parings. Add 
a very little water, and cover them closely. Boil 
them till they are tender, taking care they do not 
burn. Take out the apples, and spread them on a 
large dish to cool. Pour the liquor into a bag, and 
strain it well. Put it into your kettle with a pound 
of loaf-sugar to each pint of juice, and add lemon 
juice to your taste. Boil it five minutes, skimming 
it well. Then put in the whole apples, and boil 
them slowly half an hour, or till they are quite soft 
and clear. Put them, with the juice, into your jars, 
and when quite cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 



SWEETMEATS. 83 

Preserved apples are only intended for present 
use, as they will not keep long. 

Pears may be done in the same way, either 
whole or eut in half. They may be flavoured eith- 
er with lemon or cinnamon, or both. The pears 
for preserving should be green. 

PRESERVED PEACHES, V 

Take the largest and finest free-stone peaches, 
before they are too ripe. Pare them, and cut 
them in halves or in quarters. Crack the stones, 
and take out the kernels, and break them in pieces. 
Put the peaches, with the parings and kernels, into 
your preserving kettle, with a very little water. 
Boil them till they are tender. Take out the 
peaches and spread them on a large dish to cool. 
Strain the liquor through a bag or sieve. Next 
day, measure the juice, and to each pint allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Put the juice and sugar into 
the kettle with the peaches, and boil them slowly 
half an hour, or till they are quite soft, skimming 
all the time. Take the peaches out, put them into 
your jars, and pour the warm liquor over them. 
When cold, tie them up wilh brandy paper. 

If boiled too long, they will look dull, and be of 
a dark colour.* 



If you do not wish the juice to be very thick, do 
not put it on to boil with the sugar, but first boil the 

* To preserve peaches whole, pare them and thrust out the stones 
with a skewer. Then proceed as above, only blanch the kernels and 
keep them whole. When the peaches are done, stick a kernel into the 
bole of every peach, before you put them into the jars. Large fruit 
will keep best in broad shallow stone pots. 



84 SWEETMEATS. 

sugar alone, with only as much water as will dis- 
solve it, and skim it well. Let the sugar, in all 
cases, be entirely melted before it goes on the fire. 
Having boiled the sugar and water, and skimmed 
it to a clear syrup, then put in your juice and fruit 
together, and boil them till completely penetrated 
with the sugar. 



PRESERVED CRAB APPLES. 

Wash your fruit. Cover the bottom of your 
preserving kettle with grape-leaves. Put in the 
apples. Hang them over the fire, with a very lit- 
tle water, and cover them closely. Do not allow 
them to boil, but let them simmer gently till they 
are yellow. Take them out, and spread them on 
a large dish to cool. Pare and core them. Put 
them again into the kettle, with fresh vine-leaves 
under and over them, and a very little water. 
Hang them over the fire till they are green. Do 
not let them boil. 

Take them out, weigh them, and allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar to a pound of crab-apples. Put to 
the sugar just water enough to dissolve it. When 
it is all melted, put it on the fire, and boil and skim 
it. Then put in your fruit, and boil the apples till 
they are quite clear and soft. Put them in jars, 
and pour the warm liquor over them. When cold, 
tie them up with brandy paper. 



PRESERVED PL.UMS. 

Cut your plums in half, (they must not be quite 
ripe,) and take out the stones. Weigh the plums, 



SWEETMEATS. 85 

and allow a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Crack the stones, take out the kernels and break 
them in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels very 
slowly for about fifteen minutes, in as little water 
as possible. Then spread them on a large dish to 
cool, and strain the liquor. 

Next day make your syrup. Melt the sugar in 
as little water as will suffice to dissolve it, (about 
half a pint of water to a pound of sugar) and boil 
it a few minutes, skimming it till quite clear. Then 
put in your plums with the liquor, and boil them 
fifteen minutes. Put them in jars, pour the juice 
over them warm, and tie them up, when cold, with 
brandy paper.* 

Syrups may be improved in clearness, by adding 
to the dissolved sugar and water, some white of 
egg very well beaten, allowing the white of one 
egg to each pound of sugar. Boil it very hard, 
and skim it well, that it may be quite clear before 
you put in your fruit. 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh the strawberries after you have picked 
off the stems. To each pound of fruit allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar, which must be powdered. 
Strew half of the sugar over the strawberries, and 
let them stand in a cold place two or three hours. 
Then put them in a preserving kettle over a slow 

* Plums for common use, are very good done in molasses. Put 
your plums into an earthen vessel that holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum with a knife. To three quarts of plums put a pint of mo- 
lasses. Cover them and set them on hot coals in the chimney corner. 
Let them stew for twelve hours or more, occasionally 61111185 them, 
and renewing the coals. Next day put them up in jars. Done ia this 
jmanner they will keep till the next spring. 
8* 



SWEETMEATS. 

fire, and by degrees strew on the rest of the sugar. 
Boil them fifteen or twenty minutes, and skim 
them well. 

Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, and when 
cold, seal the corks. 

If you wish to do them whole, take them care- 
fully out of the syrup, (one at a time) while boil- 
ing. Spread them to cool on large dishes, not let- 
ting the strawberries touch each other, and when 
cool, return them to the syrup, and boil them a 
little longer. Repeat this several times. 

Keep the bottles in dry sand, in a place that is 
cool and not damp. 

Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, cherries and 
grapes may be done in the same manner. The 
stones must be taken from the cherries (which 
should be morellas, or the largest and best red 
cherries ;) and the seeds should be extracted from 
the grapes with the sharp point of a penknife. 
Gooseberries, grapes, and cherries, require longer 
boiling than strawberries, raspberries or currants. 



PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and to each 
pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the 
sugar in a very little water, (about half a pint of 
water to a pound of sugar) and set it on the fire in 
a preserving kettle. Boil it near ten minutes, 
skimming it well. Then put in your cranberries, 
and boil them slowly, till they are quite soft, and 
of a fine colour. 

Put them warm into your jars or glasses, and tie 
them up with brandy paper, when cold. 



SWEETMEATS. 87 

All sorts of sweetmeats keep better in glasses, 
than in stone or earthen jars. When opened for 
use, they should be tied up again immediately, as 
exposure to the air spoils them. 

Common glass tumblers are very convenient for 
jellies, and preserved small fruit. White jars are 
better than stone or earthen, for large fruit. 



PRESERVED PUMPKIN. 

Cut slices from a fine high-coloured pumpkin, 
and cut the slices into chips about the thickness of 
a dollar. The chips should be of an equal size, 
six inches in length, and an inch broad. Weigh 
them, and allow to each pound of pumpkin chips, 
a pound of loaf-sugar. Have ready a sufficient 
number of fine lemons, pare off the yellow rind, 
and lay it aside. Cut the lemons in half, and 
squeeze the juice into a bowl. Allow a gill of 
juice to each pound of pumpkin. 

Put the pumpkin into a broad pan, laying the su- 
gar among it. Pour the lemon-juice over it. Cov- 
er the pan, and let the pumpkin chips, sugar and 
lemon-juice, set all night. 

Early in the morning put the whole into a pre- 
serving pan, and boil all together (skimming it 
well) till the pumpkin becomes clear and crisp, but 
not till it breaks. It should have the appearance 
of lemon-candy. You may, if you choose, put 
some lemon-peel with it, cut in very small pieces. 

Half an hour's boiling (or a little more) is gen- 
erally sufficient. 

When it is done, take out the pumpkin, spread it 
on alarge dish,and strain thesyrupthrough abag. 
Put the pumpkin into your jars or glasses, pour 
the syrup over it, and tie it up with brandy paper. 



88 SWEETMEATS. 

If properly done, this is a very fine sweetmeat. 
The taste of the pumpkin will be lost in that of the 
lemon and sugar, and the syrup is particularly 
pleasant. It is eaten without cream, like preserv- 
ed ginger. It may be laid on puff-paste shells, 
after they are baked. 



PRESERVED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare your pine-apples, and cut them in thick 
slices. Weigh the slices, and to each pound al- 
low a pound of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the sugar in 
a very small quantity of water, stir it, and set it 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle. Boil it ten 
minutes, skimming it well. Then put in it the 
pine-apple slices, and boil them till they are clear 
and soft, but not till they break. About half an 
hour (or perhaps less time) will suffice. Let them 
cool in a large dish or pan, before you put them 
into your jars, which you must do carefully, lest 
they break. Pour the syrup over them. Tie 
them up with brandy paper. 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Mash the raspberries, and put them with the sugar 
into your preserving kettle. Boil it slowly for an 
hour, skimming it well. Tie it up with brandy 
paper. 

All jams are made in the same manner. 






APPENDIX. 



CONTENTS. 



A-la-mode Beef. 
A boned Turkey. - 
Collared Pork. 
Spiced Oysters. 
Stewed Oysters. 
Oyster Soup. 
Fried Oysters. 
Baked Oysters. 
Oyster Patties. 
Pickled Oysters. 
Oyster Sauce. 
Chicken Salad. 
Lobster Salad. 
Stewed Mushrooms. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



A-LA-MODE BEEP. 

A round of fresh beef weighing from eighteen to twenty pound*. 
A pound of the fat of bacon or corned pork. 
The marrow from the bone of the beef. ? u _ j t ^~~ t \, M 
A quarter of a pound of beef-suet, $ ch PP ed to elh r - 

Two bundles of pot-herbs, parsely, thyme, small onions, &c. chop- 
ped fine. 

Two large bunches of sweet marjoram, ? sufficient when powdered 
Two bunches of sweet basil, $ to make four table-spoon- 

fuls of each. 

Two large nutmegs, ^ 

Half an ounce of cloves, > beaten to a powder. 

Half an ounce of mace, j 

One table spoonful of salt. 
One table spoonful of pepper. 
Two glasses of madeira wine. 



If your a-la-mode beef is to be eaten cold, pre- 
pare it three days before it is wanted. 

Take out the bone. Fasten up the opening 
with skewers, and tie the meat all round with tape. 
Rub it all over on both sides with salt. A large 
round of beef will be more tender than a small 
one. 

Chop the marrow and suet together. Pound 
the spice. Chop the^ot-herbs very fine. Pick 
the sweet-marjoram and sweet-basil clean from the 



92 APPENDIX. 

stalks, and rub the leaves to a powder. You must 
have at least four table-spoonfuls of each. Add 
the pepper and salt, and mix well together all the 
ingredients that compose the seasoning. 

Cut the fat of the bacon or pork into pieces 
about a quarter of an inch thick and two inches 
long. With a sharp knife make deep incisions all 
over the round of beef and very near each other. 
Put first a little of the seasoning into each hole, 
then a slip of the bacon, pressed down hard and 
covered with more seasoning. Pour a little wine 
into each hole. 

When you have thus stuffed the upper side of 
the beef, turn it over and stuff in the same man- 
ner the under side. If the round is very large, you 
will require a larger quantity of seasoning. 

Put it in a deep baking dish, pour over it some 
wine, cover it, and let it set till next morning. It 
will be much the better for lying all night in the 
seasoning. 

Next day put a little water in the dish, set it in 
a covered oven, and bake or stew it gently for 
twelve hours at least, or more if it is a large round. 
It will be much improved by stewing it in lard. 
Let it remain all night in the oven. 

If it is to be eaten hot at dinner, put it in to stew 
the evening before, and let it cook till dinner-time 
next day. Stir some wine and a beaten egg into 
the gravy. 

If brought to table cold, cover it all over with 
green parsley, and stick a large bunch of some- 
thing green in the centre. 

What is left will make an excellent hash the 
next day. 



APPENDIX. 93 



A BONED TURKEY. 

A large Turkey. 

Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Four eggs. 

One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, and little onions. 

Two bunches of sweet marjoram. 

Two bunches of sweet basil. 

Two nutmegs, } 

Half an ounce of cloves, pounded fine. 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, ) 

A table-spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of pepper. 

Skewers, tape, needle, and coarse thread will be wanted. 

Grate the bread, and put the crusts in water to 
soften. Then break them up small into the pan 
of crumbled bread. Cut up a pound of butter in 
the pan of bread. Rub the herbs to powder and 
have two table-spoonfuls of sweet-marjoram and 
two of sweet basil, or more of each if the turkey 
is very large. Chop the pot-herbs, and pound the 
spice. Then add the salt and pepper, and mix all 
the ingredients well together. Beat slightly four 
eggs, and mix them with the seasoning and bread 
crumbs. 

After the turkey is drawn, take a sharp knife and 
beginning at the wings, carefully separate the flesh 
from the bone, scraping it down as you go ; and 
avoid tearing or breaking the skin. Next, loosen 
the flesh from the breast and back, and then from 
the thighs. It requires great care and patience to 
do it nicely. When all the flesh is thus loosened, 
take the turkey by the neck, give it a pull, and the 
skeleton will come out entire from the flesh, as 
easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. 
9 



' 

94 APPENDIX. 

The flesh will then be a shapeless mass. With a 
needle and thread mend or sew up any holes that 
may be found in the skin. 

Take up a handful of the seasoning, squeeze it 
hard and proceed to stuff the turkey with it, be- 
ginning at the wings, next the body, and then the 
thighs. 

If you stuff it properly, it will again assume its 
natural shape. Stuff it very hard. When all the 
stuffing is in, sew up the breast, and skewer the 
turkey into its proper form, so that it will look as 
if it had not been boned. 

Tie it round with tape and bake it three hours 
or more. Make a gravy of the giblets chopped, 
and enrich it with some wine and an egg. 

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop spoon- 
fuls of red currant jelly all over it, and in the 
dish round it. 

A large fowl may be boned and stuffed in the 
same manner. 



COLLARED PORK. 

A leg of fresh pork, not large. 

Two table-spoonfuls of powdered sage. 

Two table-spoonfuls of sweet marjoram. ? ^ , , M , 

One table-spoonful of sweet basil, 5 P ow <terd. 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, ~) 

Half an ounce of cloves, > powdered. 

Two nutmegs, 3 

A bunch of pot-herbs, chopped small. 

A sixpenny loaf of stale bread, grated. 

Half a pound of butter, cut into the bread. 

Two eggs. 

A table-spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of black pepper. 

Grate the bread, and having softened the crust 
in water, mix it with the crumbs. Prepare all the 



APPENDIX. 



95 



other ingredients, and mix them well with the 
grated bread and egg. 

Take the bone out of a leg of pork, and rub the 
meat well on both sides with salt. Spread the 
seasoning thick all over the meat. Then roll it up 
very tightly, and tie it round with tape. 

Put it into a deep dish with a little water, and 
bake it two hours. If eaten hot, put an egg and 
some wine into the gravy. When cold, cut it 
down in round slices. 



SPICED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred large fresh oysters. 

Four table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

Three dozen of cloves, whole. 

Eight blades of mace, whole. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt, if the oysters are fresh. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of whole allspice. 

As much cayenne pepper as will lie on the point of a knife. 

Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a large 
earthen pitcher. Add to them the vinegar and all 
the other ingredients. Stir all well together. Set 
them in the stove, or over a slow fire, keeping 
them covered. Take them off the fire several 
times, and stir them to the bottom. As soon as 
they boil completely, they are sufficiently done ; if 
they boil too long they will be hard. 

Pour them directly out of the pitcher into a 
pan, and set them away to cool. They must not 
be eaten till quite cold, or indeed till next day. 

If you wish to keep them a week, put a smaller 
quantity of spice, or they will taste too much of it 
by setting so long. Let them be well covered. 



96 APPENDIX. 

Oysters in the shell may be kept all winter by 
laying them in a heap in the cellar, with the con- 
cave side upwards to hold in the liquor. Sprinkle 
them every day with strong salt and water, and 
then with indian meal. Cover them with matting 
or an old carpet. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Open the oysters and strain the liquor. Put 
to them some grated stale bread, and a little pep- 
per and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let them stew but 
a very short time, or they will be hard. 

Have ready some slices of buttered toast with 
the crust cut off. When the oysters are done, dip 
the toast in the liquor, and lay the pieces round 
the sides and in the bottom of a deep dish. Pour 
the oysters and liquor upon the toast, and send 
them to table hot. 



OYSTER SOUP. V 

Three pints of large fresh oysters. 

Two table-spoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour. 

A bunch of sweet herbs. 

A quart of rich milk. 

Pepper to your taste. 

Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. Strain 
it, and set it on the fire. Put into it, pepper to 
your taste, two table-spoonfuls. of butter rolled in 
flour, and a bunch of sweet marjoram and other 
pot-herbs. When it boils, add a quart of rich 
milk and as soon as it boils again, take out the 
herbs, and put in the oysters just before you send 
i t to table. 



APPENDIX. 97 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

For frying, choose the largest and finest oys- 
ters. Beat some yolks of eggs, and mix with them 
grated bread, and a small quantity of beaten nut- 
meg and mace, and a little salt. Having stirred 
this batter well, dip your oysters into it, and fry 
them in lard, till they are of a light brown colour. 
Take care not to do them too much. Serve them 
up hot. 

For grated bread, some substitute crackers 
pounded to powder, and mixed with yolk of egg 
and spice. 



BAKED OYSTERS. 

Grate a small loaf of stale-bread. Butler a 
deep dish well, and cover the sides and bottom 
with bread crumbs. Put in half the oysters with 
a little mace and pepper. Cover them with 
crumbs and small bits of butter strewed over 
them. Then put in the remainder of the oysters. 
Season them. Cover them as before with crumbs 
and butter. If the oysters are fresh, pour in the 
liquor. If they are salt substitute a little water. 
Bake it a very short time. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make some rich puff-piste, and bake it in very 
small tin patty-pans. When cool, turn them out 
upon a large dish. 

Stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, 
a little mace and nutmeg, some yolk of egg boiled 
hard and grated, a little butter, and as much of the 



98 APPENDIX. 

oyster liquor as will cover them. When they 
have stewed a little while, take them out of the 
pan, and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell of 
puff-paste. 



s/ 
PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Four hundred large fresh oysters. 

A pint of vinegar. 

Eight spoonfuls of salt. 

A pint of white wine. 

Six table-spoonfuls of whole black pepper. 

Eight blades of mace. . 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and boil it. Then 
pour it hot over the oysters, and let them lie in it 
about ten minutes. Then take them out, and 
cover them. Boil the liquor with the salt, pepper, 
mace, vinegar and wine. When cold, put the 
oysters in a close .jar, and pour the liquor over 
them. Cover the jar very tight, and the oysters 
will keep a long time. 

If the oysters are salt, put no salt to the liquor. 



OYSTER SAUCE. 

When your oysters are opened, take care of all 
the liquor, and give them one boil in it. Then 
take the oysters out, and put to the liquor three or 
four blades of mace. Add to it some melted but- 
ter, and some thick cream or rich milk. Put in 
your oysters and give them a boil. 







APPENDIX. 



99 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large cold fowls, either boiled or roasted. 

The yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs. 

Half a pint of sweet-oil. 

Haifa pint of vinegar. 

A gill of mixed mustard. * 

A small tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. 

A small tea-spoonful of salt. 

Two large heads, or four small ones, of fine celery. 

Cut the meat of the fowls from the bones, in 
pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 

Cut the white part of the celery into pieces 
about an inch long. Mix the chicken and celery 
well together. Cover them and set them away. 

With the back of a wooden spoon, mash the 
yolks of eggs till they are a perfectly smooth 
paste. Mix them with the oil, vinegar, mustard, 
cayenne, and salt. Stir them for a long time, till 
they are thoroughly mixed and quite smooth. 
The longer they are stirred the better. When 
this dressing is sufficiently mixed, cover it, and set 
it away. 

Five minutes before the salad is to be eaten 
pour the dressing over the chicken and celery, and 
mix all well together. If the dressing is put on 
long before it is wanted, the salad will be tough 
and hard. 

This salad is very excellent made of cold tur- 
key instead of chicken. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take two large boiled lobsters. Extract all 
the meat from the shell, and cut it up into very 
small pieces. 



100 APPENDIX. 

For lobster salad, you must have lettuce instead 
of celery. Cut up the lettuce as small as possible. 

Make a dressing as for chicken-salad, with the 
yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs, half a pint of sweet 
oil, half a pint of vinegar, a gill of mustard, a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne, and a tea- spoonful of salt. 
Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 

A few minutes before it is to be eaten, pour the 
dressing over the lobster and lettuce, and mix it 
very well. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Take a quart of fresh mushrooms. Peel them 
and cut off the stems. Season them with pepper 
and salt. Put them in a sauce-pan or skillet, with 
a lump of fresh butter the size of an egg, and suf- 
ficient cream or rich milk to cover them. Put on 
the lid of the pan, and stew the mushrooms about 
a quarter of an hour, keeping them well covered 
or the flavour will evaporate. 

When you take them off the fire, have ready 
one or two beaten eggs. Stir the eggs gradually 
into the stew, and send it to table in a cover- 
ed dish. 



F I K | S T 






I 






3 DAY USE 

RETURN TO 

AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 
40 Giannini Hall - Tel. No. 642-4493 

This publication is due on the LAST DATE 
stamped below. 



r\ r\ T 


^E win 


C I 1 1983 












fSlatU'Ml FWSPOTCB8 U.. 
r\n~r ^ dno^-i 




OCT ^ 1983 




M;^ n ,| |QQ 






, 


s f 




s f; ! 




I -' i 




- . 

| J ^ ' 5 




-. 









LD 24-20m-9,'70 
(N9593slO)476 A-32 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



(^ i, 

^BADCUFFE COIXEGE UBRAK.Y( 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Tmuferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

19) 



COTTONS k BARNARD, 

BOOKS, BTATIONART, & FASC 

184,Wa>bmtoii-St...Boloi]. ^ 



J 



w 



\ 



]^ 



I 

1 



I 



. 



^iitn 35tr(tton.^wrt|) an ^pptvMp 



SEVENTY-FIVE 



RECEIIPTS 



FOR 



PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS. 



m^im^m'^'^m'mm 



BY A LAPY OP PHILAP5LPHU. 



TBIRD XPITIOV. 



BOSTON : 

MVJTAOl AMD F1IAVCI8, jrO. %ZB WASHINGTOir-STRKBT] 



I licii -*r O 1' la^ u fry 

Jtxlyl, 114. 
Bequest of 

Ijowell Putnam 



FAMILY BOOKS. 

At the Bookstore of the publishers of this work may be found the 
following excellent books tor families. 

The PRAGTICE OF COOKERY, 'adapted to the business of 
very-Day Life. By Mrs. Dalgairns. Containing 1419 of the 
most useful receipts. 

'* Mrs. Dalgairns is more practical, more varied, and more suited to 
what we may, call the practical readers of such works, than either Dr. 
Kitchener's Oracle  or our friend of the Clieikum Ian. It is this char- 
acter of utility which appears to us to constitute its value, and we have 
^ no doubt will prove its passport to extensive circulation. One decided 
improvement on former works has been adopted by Mrs. Dalgairns : 
it consists in prefixmg to each chapter of her work the useful prelimin- 
ary remarks relative to the subject of the chapter, instead of giving all 
these remarks in the shape of an introduction at Uie beginning oi the 
book."  Scot^ Times. 

'' We must say Mrs. Dalgairns has succeeded in combining two things, 
which we never before focfnd united in any work of this description,  
we mean the pleasures of sense, with a just and proper regard to econ- 
omy. Extravagance is the rock upon which all her predecessors have 
split. The great object of the author has been to make her book exten- 
sively useful ; and we.think she hgiS comjpletely succeeded. In short, 
the ' Practice of Cookery' is a book worthy of all acceptation; and we 
recommend it accordingly to every one who wishes to dine comforta- 
bly at a moderate cost."  Caledonian. 

At the same place may be had all the recent publications on Cook- 
ery and family ecoonomy  among these are the Cook's Oracle, Fru- 
gal Housewife, House-Servant's Directory, &c. &c. 



DISTRICT OF MASSAClfDSETTS, TO WIT I 

District CUrVs OJtce. 

Be it remembered, that on the ninth day of March, A. D. 1827, 
in the fifty-first year of the Independence of the United States of Jhnericoy 
MUNROE AND FRANCIS, of the said District, have deposited in this 
Office the title of a book, the right whereof they claim as proprietors, in the 
words following^, to wit : 

" Seventy-Five Receipts for Pastry, Calies, and Sweetmeats. By a Lady 
of Philadelphia." 

lu conformity to tlie act of the Congress of the United States, entitled, 
**An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, 
charts and books, to tlie authors and proprietors of such copies, during the 
times therein mentioned :" and also to an act, entitled, *' An act' supplemen- 
tary to an act, entitled an act for the encouragement of learning, by securing 
the copies of maps, charts, and books, to the .authors and proprietors of such 
copies during the times therein mentioned *, and extending the benefits thereof 
to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other prints." 
JOHN W. DAVIS, Clerk of the District of Matsaehusetts. 






PREFACE. 



The following Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, 
and Sweetmeats, are original, and have 
been used by the author and many of her 
friends with uniform success. They are 
4rawn up in a style so plain and minute, as 
to be perfectly intelligible to servants, and 
persons of the most moderate capacity. All 
the ingredients, with their proper quantities, 
lare enumerated in a list at the head of each 
receipt, a plan which will greatly facilitate 
the business of procuring and preparing the 
requisite articles. 

There is frequently much difficulty in fol- 
lowing directions in English and French 
Cookery Books, not only from their want of 
explicitness, but from the difference in the 
fuel, fire-places, and cooking utensils, gener- 
ally used in Europe and America ; and many 
. of the European receipts are so complicated 
and laborious, that our female cooks are 
afraid to undertake the arduous task of mdr 
king any thing from themt 



( iv ) 

The receipts in this little book are, in 
every sense of the word, American ; but the 
writer flatters herself#thac (if exactly follow-^ 
ed) the articles produced from them will not 
be found inferior to any of a similar descrip- 
tion made in the European manner. Expe- 
rience has proved, that pastry, cakes, &e. 
prepared precisely according to these direc- 
tions will not fail to be excellent : but where 
economy is expedient, a portion of the sea- 
soning, that is, the spice, wine, brandy, rose- 
water, essence of lemon, &c. may be omit- 
ted without any essential deviation of fla- 
vour, or diflerence of appearance ; retain- 
ing, however, the. given proportions of eggs, 
butter, sugar, and flour. 

But if done at home, and by a person 
that can be trusted, it will be proved, on 
trial, that any of -these articles may be made 
in the best and most liberal manner at one 
half of the cost of the same articles suppli- 
ed by' a confectioner. And they will be 
found particularly useful to families that live 
in the country or in small towns, where no-* 
thing of the kind is to be purchased. 

January 15M 1828. 



COWTEWTS. 



PART THE FIRST. 



Preliminary remarks 
Puff. Paste 
Common Paste 
Mince Pies 
Plum Pudding 
Lemon Pudding 
Orange Pudding 
Cocoa Nut Pudding 
Almond Pudding 
A Cheesecake 
Sweet Potato Pudding 
Pumpkin Pudding 
Gooseberry Pudding 
Baked Apple Pudding 
Fruit Pies 
Oyster Pie 
Beefsteak Pie 
Indian Pudding 
Batter Pudding 
Bread Pudding 
Rice Pudding 
1* 



7 
9 
12 
13 
14 
15 
17 
18 
19 
19 
SI 
21 
22 
23 
23 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
29 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



Boston Padding 
Frittera 
Fine Custards 
Plain Custards 
Rice Custards 
Cold Custards 
Curds and Whey 
A Trifle 
Whipt Cream 
Floating Island 
Ice Cream 
Calf 's-feet Jelly 
Blanc-mange 



SO 
31 
31 
32 
33 
34 
34 
36 

% 

37 

37 
38 
40 



PART THE SECOND. 



General directions 

Queen Cake 

Pound Cake 

Black Cake; or Plum Cake 

Sponge Cake 

Almond Cake 

French Almond Cake 

Maccaroons 

Apees 

Jumbles 

K.isbes 

Spanish Bunns 

Husk 

Indian Pound Cake 

Cup Cake  

Loaf Cake * 

Sugar Biscuits 

Milk Biscuits 

Butter Biscuits 

Gingerbread Nuts 

Common Gingerbread 

Lafayette Gingerbread 



  



45 
47 
48 
50 
51 
52 
54 
55 
56 
67 
58 
58 
60 
61 
61 
6S 
62 
6$ 
64 
65 
66 
67 



\i 



* CONTENTS. 



Vll 



A Dover Cake 
Crallen 
Dough Nuts 
Wafflef 
Soft Muffins 
Indian Batter Cakes 
Flannel Cakes 
Rolls 



68 
69 
70 
70 
71 
72 
72 
73 



PART THE THIRD. 



General directions 
Apple Jelly 
Red Currant Jelly  
Black Currant Jelly 
Gooseberry Jelly 
Grape Jelly* 
Peach Jelly 
Preserved Quinces 
Preserved Pippins 
Preserved Peaches 
Preserved Crab- Apples 
Preserved Plums 
Preserved Strawberries 
Preserved Cranberries 
Preserved Pumpkin' 
Preserved Pine- Apple 
Raspbwry Jam 



77 

78 
78 
79 
80 
80 
81 
81 
82 
83 
84 
84 
85 
85 
87 
88 
88 



APPENDIX. 

Miscellaneous Receipts of dishes in use at Supper Parties 



89 



WEIGHT AND MEASURES. 



As all families are not provided with scales and 
weights, referring to the ingredients generally used in 
cakes and pastry, we subjoin a list of weights and 
measures. 

TTEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Wheat flour 


one pound is - - 


one quart. 


Indian meal 


one pound, two ounces^ is 


one quart. 


Butter  ^when soil 


one pound is * 


one quart. 


Loaf-sugar, broken 


one pound is 


one quart. 


White sugar, powdered 


one pound, one ounce, is 


one quart. 


Best brown sugar 


one pound, two ounces, is 


one quart. 


Eggs - - - 


ten eggs are 


 one pound. 



lilQXJID MEASURE. 

Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are ... half a pint. 

Eight large table-spoonfuls are - - - one gill. 

Four large table-spoonfuls are - - - - half a gill. 



A common-sized tumbler holds . . *. half a pint. 

A common-sized wine-glass .... half a gill. 

Allowing for accidental differences in the quality, 
freshness, dryness, and moisture of the articles, we 
believe this comparisoii between weight and measure 
to be as nearly correct as possible. 



PART THE FIRST. 



PASTRY. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 



In making pastry or cakes, it is best to begin by 
. weighing out the ingredients, sifting the flour, 
pounding and sifting the sugar and spice, Washing 
the butter, and preparing the fruit. 

Sugar can be powdered by pounding it in a large 
mortar, or by rolling it on a paste-board with a 
rollingf-pin* It should be made very fine and al- 
ways sifted.. 

All- sorts of spice should be pounded in a mortar, 
except nutmeg, which it is better to grate. If spice 
is wknted in large quantities, it diay be ground in a 
mill. 

The butter should always be fresh and very good. 
Wash it in cold water before you use it, and ft en 
make it up with your hands into hard lumps, squeez- 
ing the water. well out^ 

. 

If the butter and sugar are to he stirred togeth- 
er, always do that before the eggs are beaten, as, 
(unless they are kept too warm) the butter and 
sugar will not be injured by standing awhile. For 
stirring them, nothing is so* convenient as a round 
hickory stick about a foot and a half long, and 
somewhat flattened at one end. 



8 PA0TRT. 

The eggs should not be. beaten till after all the 
other ingredients are ready, as they "will fall very 
soon. If the whites and yolks are to be beaten 
separately, do the whites first, as they will stand 
longer. 

Eggs should be beaten in a broad shallow pan, 
spreading wtde at the top. Butter and sugar should 
be stirred in a deep pan with straight sides. 

Break every egg by itself, in a saucer, before 
you put it into the pan, that in case there should be 
any bad ones, they may not spoil the others. 

Eggs are beaten most expeditiously with rods. 
A small quantity of white of egg may be beaten 
with a knife, or a three-pronged fork. 



There can be no positive rules as *to the exact 
time of baking each article. Skill in baking is the 
result of practice, attention, and experience. Much, 
of course, depends on the state of the fire, and on 
the size of the things to be baked, and something 
on the thickness of the pans or dishes. 

ft* you bake in a stove, put some bricks in the 
oven part to set the pans or plates on, and to tem- 
per the heat at the bottom. Large sheets of iron, 
without sides, will be found very useful for small 
cakes, and to put under the pans or plates. 



i^AdtRt. 



PUl^F PASTS* 



Hdlf a poun^ and two ounces of sifted Hout, 
Half a pound of the best fresh butter  ^washed. 
A little cold water. 



This voiU make puff-paste for two Ptiddings, or far one soup'plaU 

Pie J or for four small Shells, 

Weigh half a pound and two ounces of flour, and 
sift it through a hair-sieve into a large deep dish 
Take out about one fourth of the flour, and lay it 
aside on one corner of your pasteboard, to roll and 
sprinkle with. 

Wash, in cold water, hlf a pound of the best 
fresh butter. Squeeze it hard with your hands, and 
make it up into a round lump. Divide .it in four 
equal parts ; lay them on one side of your paste- 
board) and have ready ^ glass of cold water. 

Cut one of the four pieces of butter into the 
pan of flour. Cut it as* small as possible. Wet 
it gradually with a very little water (too much wa- 
ter-will make it tough) and mix it well with the 
point of a large case-knifq. Do not touch it with 
your hands. When the dough gets into a lump, 
sprinkle on the middle of the board some of the 
flour that you laid aside, and lay the dough upon it, 
turning it out of the pan with the knife. 

Rub the rolling-pin with flour, and sprinkle a little 
on the lump of paste. Roll it out thin, quickly, 
and evenly, pressing on the rolling-pin very lightly. 
Then take the second of the four pieces of butter^ 
and, with the point of your knife, stick it in little 
bits at equal distances all over the sheet of paste. 
3 



10 PA8TRT4 

Sprinkle on some flour, and fold up the dough. 
Flour the paste-board and rolling-pin again ; throw 
a little flour on the paste and roll it out a second , 
time. Stick the third piece of butter all over it in 
little bits. Throw on some flour, fold up the paste, 
sprinkle a little more flour on the dough, and on 
the rolling-pin, and roll it out a third time, always 
pressing on it^ lightly. Stick it over with the fourth 
and last piece of butter. Throw oti a little more 
flour, fold up the paste and then roll it out in a 
large round sheet. Cut oflf the sides, so as to 
make the sheet of a square form, and Ipy the slips 
of dough upon the square sheet. Fold it up with 
the small pieces of trimmings, in the inside. Score 
or notch it a little with the knife ; lay it on a plate 
and set it awayjn a cool place, but not where it 
can freeze^ as that will make it heavy. 

Having made the paste, prepare and mix your 
pudding or pie. When the mixture is finished, 
bring out your paste, flour jhe board and rolling- 
pin, and roll it out with a ^ort quic? stroke, and 
pressing the Tollin|^pin rather harder than while 
you were putting tft butter in. If the paste rises 
in blisters, it will be light, unless spoiled in baking. 

Then cut the sheet in. half^ fold up each piece 
and roll them out once more, separately, in round 
sheets the siee of your plate. Press on rather 
harder^ but not too hard. Roll the sheets thinnest 
in the middle and thickest at the edges. If intend^ 
ed for puddings, lay them in buttered . soup-plates, 
and trim tbent evenly round the edges. If the 
edges do not appear thick enough, you may take 
the trimmings,* put them all together, roll them outy 
and having cut them in Blips the breadth of the rim 
of the plate, lay them all round to make the pastd 
thicker at the edges, joining them nicely and even- 



PASTRT. 1 1 

ly, as every patch or crack will appear distinctly 
when baked. Notch the rim handsomely with a 
very sharp knife  Fill the dish with the mixture 
of the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oveq. 
The paste should be of a light brown colour. If 
the oven is .too slow, it will be soft and clammy ; 
if too quick, it will not have time to rise as high 
as it ought to do. 

In making the best pufF-paste, try to avoid using 
more flour to sprinkle and roll with, than the small 
portion which you have laid aside for that purpose 
pt the beginning. Jf you make the dough too 
soft at first, by using too much water, it will be 
sticky, and require more flour, and will eventually 
be tough when baked- Do not put your hands 
to it, as their warmth will injure i^. Use the knife 
instead. Always roll from you rather than to 
you, and press lightly on the rolling-pin, except 
at the last. 

It is difficult to make puff-paste in the summer, 
upless in a cellar, or very cool room, and on a 
marble table. . The butter should, if possible, be 
washed the night before, and kept covered with, 
ice till yt)u use it next day. The water should 
have ice in it, and the butter should be iced as it 
sets on the paste-board. After the paste is mixed, 
it should be put in a covered dish, and set in cold 
water till you are ready to give it tijp last rolling. 

With all these precautions to prevent its being 
heavy, it will not rise as well, or be in any respect 
as good as incold weather. 



12 FASTItr, 



COMSIQlir PASTE FOR PIES^ 



A poand.and a half ofeifted floor. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter  ^washed. 



This will make one large pie or two smaU onet^ 

Sift the fiour into a pan. Ciit the butter into 
two equal parts. Cut one half of the butter intQ 
the dour, and cu4 it up as small as possible. Mix 
it well with the ilour, wetting it gradually with a 
little cold water. 

Spread some ^our on your paste-board, take tb^ 
lump of paste out of the pan, flour your roHiiig-^ 
pin, and roll out the paste iuta a large sheeu 
Then stick it over with the remaining half of tl^ 
butter in small pieces, and laid at equal distances. 
Throw on a little flour, fold up the sheet of past, 
flour it slightly, and roll it out again. Then fold 
it up, and cut it in half or in four, according to the 
size of your pies. Roll it out into round sheets 
the size of your pie-plates, pressing rather harder 
Qn the rolling-pin. 

Butter your pie-plat^ lay on your under crust, 
and trim the edge. Fill the dish with the ingredi^ 
ents of which the pie is composed, and lay on the 
lid, in which you iDust prick some holes, or cot a 
maU slit in the top. Criinp the edges with a 
sharp knife. 

Heap up the ingredients so that the pie will be 
highest in the middle. 

Some thinly it makes common paste more crisp 
^^d light, to hei^t it biirc| on l^th side; with the 



r6lliog-pin, after Jrou give it th^ first irollteg, ^^hcn 
all the butter is in. . 

If the butter is very fresh, you may mix ivith 
the flour a salt-spoonful of salt. 



MINCE PIES. 

One pound and a half of boiled beefs heart, or fresh tongue chop* 

pea when cold. 
Two pounds of beef suet, chopped fine. 
Four pounds of pippin apples, chopped. 
Two pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped. 
Two pounds of currants, picked, washea, and dried. 
Two pounds of powdered sugar. 
One quart of white wine. 
One quart of brandy. 
One wine-glass of rose-water. 
Two grated nutmeg. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon ^ 

A quarter of an ounce of clores > powdered. 
A quarter of an ounce of mace ) 
A tea-'spoonful of salt. 
Two large oranges. 
Half a pound of citron, cut in slips. 



Parboil a beef's heart, or a fresh tongue. After 
you have taken off the skin and fat, weigh a pound 
and a half. When it is cold, chop it very fine. 
Take the inside of the suet ; weigh two pounds, 
aad chop it as fine as possible. Mix the meat and 
suet together, adding the salt. Pare, core, and 
chop the app]es,and then stone and chop the raisins. 
Having prepared the currants, add them to the 
other fruit, and mix the fruit with the meat and 
suet. Put in the sugar and spice, and the grated 
peel and juice of the osanges. Wet the whole 
with the rose water and liquor, and mix all well 
together. 

3* 



|4 PAflTBY. 

Make the paste, allowing for each pie, half a 
pound of butter and three quarters of a pound of 
aifted floi^r. Make it in the saipe manner a& pqff- 
paste, but it will not be quite so rich. I4ay % 
aheet of paste all over a soup-plate. Fill it with 
piince-n^eat, laying slips of citron on the top. Roll 
out a sheet of paste, for the lid of the pie. Put it 
on, and crimp the edges with a knife. Prick holea 
^n the lid. 

Pake the pies half an hour in a brisk oven. 



Keep your mince meat in a jar tightly covered. 
Set it in a dry, copl place, and occasionally add 
piore brandy to it, 



PXUBI PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in half. 

One pound of currants, picked, washed, and dried. 

One pound of beef suet chopped fine. 

One pound of grated stale bread, or, half a pound of flour and half 

a pound of bread. 
Eight eggf. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 
A pint of milk. 
A glass of brandy. 
A glass of wine. 
Two nutmegs, gratedj 

A tabie-spoonfuT of mixed cinnamon and mace. 
^ sah-spoonful of salL ^ 



You must prepare afl your ingredients the day 
before (except beating the eggs) that in the morn-^ 
ing you may have nothing to do but to mix them, 
as the pudding will require six hours to boil. 

Beat the eggs very light, then put to them half 
the milk and beat both together. Stir in gradual^ 
ly the flour and grated bread. Next add the sun 
gar b^ degrees., Th^n \h^ SM^t and fruit altera 



PA9TBY, 15 

nately. The fruit must be well sprinkled with flour,i 
lest it siok to the bottom. Stir very hard. Then 
add the spice and liquor, and lastly the remainder 
of the milk. Stir the whole mixture very well to- 
gether. If it is not thick enough, add a little mor^ 
grated bread or flour. If there is too much bread 
or flour, the pudding will be hard and heavy. 

Dip your pudding-cloth, in boiling water, shake 
it out and sprinkle it slightly with flour. Lay it in 
a pan and pour the mixtui^e into the cloth. Tie it 
up carefully, allowing room for the pudding to swell. 

Boil it si^ hours, and turn it carefully out of the 
cloth. 

Before you send it to table, have ready some 
blanched sweet almonds cut in slips, or some slips 
of citron, or both. Stick them all over the outside 
of the pudding. 

Eat it with wine, or with a sauce made: of drawn 
butter, wine and nutmeg. 

The pudding will be improved if you add to the 
otheriingredients, the grated rind of a l^rge lemon 
Qrorangp. 



I4EMON PUDDING, 

One large lemon, with a smooth thin rind. 
Three eggs. 

 quarter of a pdand of powdered white sam, 
A quarter of a pound of iresh butter washed, 
Half a glass of white wine and brandy, mixed. 
A toa-spoonful of rose-water.  



five ounces of siA^ floar, and a quarter of a pound of firesh buKfr 

^f the paste. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind of a large 
fresh lemon. Then cut the lenion in half, and 



16 PASTftT. 

squeeze the juice into the plate that contains the 
grated rind^ carefully taking out all the seeds* Mix 
the juice and rind together* 

Put a quarter of a pound of powdered white su- 
gar into a deep earthen * pan, and cut up in it a 
quarter of a pound of the* best fresh butter. If 
the weather is very cold, set the pan near the fire^ 
for a few minutes, to soften the butter, but do not 
allow it to melt or it will be heavy. Stir the butter 
and sugar together, with a stick or wooden spoon, 
till it is perfectly light and of the consistence of cream. 

Put the eggs in a shallow broad pan, and beat 
them with an egg-beater or rods, till they are 
quite smooth, and as thick as a boiled custard. 
Then stir the eggs, gradually, into the pan of but- 
ter and sugar. Add the liquor and rose water by 
degrees, and then stir in, gradually, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Stir the whole very 
bard, after all the ingredients are in. 

Have ready a puff-paste made of five ounces of 
sifted flour, and a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter. The paste must be made with as little water 
as possible. Roll it out in a circular sheet, thin in 
the centre, and thicker towards the edges, and just 
large enough to cover the bottom, sides^ and edges 
of a soup-plate. Butter the soup-plate very well, 
and lay the paste in it, making it neat and even 
round the broad edge of the plate. With a sharp 
knife, trim off the superfluous dough, and notch the 
edges. Put in the mixture with a spoon, and 
bake the pudding about half an hour, in a moderate 
oven. It should be baked of a very light brown. 
If the oven is too hot, the paste will not have time 
to rise well. If too cold, it will be clammy. When 
the pudding m cool, grate loaf-sugar over it. 



FASTRT. 17 



One lar^c ontogo, of a deep ooloary and smooth thin rind. 

One lime. 

 qaarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. ^ . 

A quarter of a poand^ of fresh butter. 

Three eggs. 

Half a glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

A tea-spoonftil of rose-water. 



Grate the yellow rind of the orange and lime, 
and squeeze the juice into a saucer or soup-plate, 
taking out all the seeds. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible, and then stir 
them by degrees into the pan of butter and sugar. 
Add, gradually, the liquor and rose-water, and then 
by degrees, the orange and lime. Stir all well to- 
gether. 

Have ready a sheet of puff-paste made of five 
ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter. Lay the paste in a buttered soup- 
plate. Trim and notch the edges, and then put in 
the mixture. Bake it about half an hour, in a mod- 
erate oven. Grate loaf-sugar over it, befare you 
send it to table. 



COCOA-NUT PUDDING. 

A qaarter of a pound of cpcoa>mit, grated. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Three ounces and a half of fresh butter. 

The whites onlv of six eggs. 

Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 

Balf a tea-spoonful of rose-water. 



Break up a cocoa-nut, and take the thio brown 
tUa carefully off| with a koife. Wash all tb<^ 



18 PASTRT. 

pieces in cold water, and then wipe them dry, with 
a clean towel. ^ Weigh a quarter of a pound of 
cocoa-nut, and grate it very 6ne, into a soup-plate. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a crearo, and add 
the liquor and rqsQ-water gradually to them. 

Beat the whites only, of six eggs, till they stand 
ftlone on the rods ; and thpn stir the beaten white 
of egg, gradually, into the butter and sugar. Af- 
terwards, sprinkle in, by degrees, the grated cocoa^ 
put, stirring hard all the time. Then stir all very 
well at the last, 

Have ready a puff-paste, sufficient to cover the 
bottom, sides, and edges of a soup-plate. Put in 
the mixture, and bake it in ^ rnoderate'oven, about 
balf an hour. 

Qrate loaf-^ugar over it, when cool. 



ALMOND PUDDIIirG. 



Haifa pound of sweet almonds, which will be reduced to a quarter 

of a i>ound, when shelled and blanched. 
An ounce of blanched bitter almonds or peach-kernels. 
The whites only, of six eggs. 
A quarter of a pound of butter. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, 
Half a glass oi mixed brandy, wine, and rose? water. 



3hell half a pound of sweet almonds, and pour 
scalding water over them, which will make the 
skins peal off. As they get cool, pour more boil- 
ing water, till the almonds are all blanched. 
Blanch also the bit|<er almonds. As you blanch 
the almonds, throw them into a bowl of cold wa- 
fer. Then take them out, one by one, wipe them 



dry in a clean towel, and lay theni oil a plate. 
Pound them one at a time to a fine paste, in a mar*^ 
ble mortar, adding, as you pound th^p, a few drops 
of rose-water to prevent their oiling. Pound * the 
bitter and sweet almonds alternately, that they may 
be well mixed. They must be made perfectly fine 
and smooth, and are the better for bekig prepared 
the day before they are wanted for the pudding. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a ci^eam, afid add to 
it, gradually, the liquor^ 

Beat the whites of siit eggs till they stand alone. 
Stir.the almonds and white of eggs, alternately, into 
the butter and sugar ; and then stir the whole well 
together. 

Have ready a puff-paste sufficient for a soup- 
plate. Butter the plate, lay on the paste, trim and 
notch it. Then put in the mixture. 

Bake it about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Grate loaf-sugar over it. 



A CHEESECAKE. 

Four emv . 

A ffill ormilk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of polirdered wgart 

Two ounces of grated bread. 

Haifa glass of mixed brandy and win^.. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, cinnamon, dad nutmeg, mixed. 

A quarter of a pound of currantlfc 

Pick the currants very clean. Wadh them 
thipjgh a cullender, wipe them in a towtl, and 
then dry them on a dish before the firei 

When dry take out a few to iscatter over the 



top of tbe cbeeseoake, lay tbeiB ^i^e, aad sprinkle 
the remaiDder of tbe cufrants with tbe flour* 

Stir tbe buttgr and sugar to a cre^m. Gratie the 
bread, and prepare tbe sipice. JBesat tbe eggsf 
very light. 

Boil tbe milk. When it comes to a boil, -add to 
it half the beftten egg, and boil both together tiUitbe* 
comes a curd, stirring it frequently with a knife. 
Then throffir the grated bread on the curd, and stir 
all together. Then take the milk, egg, and bread, 
off the fire, and stir it, gradually, into the butter 
aod sugar. Next, stir in the remaining haI4 of 
the egg. 

Add, by degrees, the liquor and spice. 

Lastly, stir in, gradually, the currants. 

Have ready a puff-paste, which should be made 
before you prepare the cheesecake, as the mixture 
will become heavy by standing. Befoce you put 
it into the oven, scatter the remainder of the cur- 
rants over the top. 

Bake it half an hour in rather a quick oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 

You may bake it either in a soup-plate, or in 
two small tin patty-paps, which, for cheesecakes, 
should be of a square shape. If baked in square 
patty-pans leave at each side a flap of paste in the 
shape of a half-circle. Cut long slit$ in these flaps 
and turn them over, so that 1:hey will rest on the 
top of the mixture. . 

You can, if you choose, add to the currants a 
few raisins stoned, and cut in half. 



tASt&tv ftt 



kWEET POTATO PUHDINGi 

A qoartor of a pound of boiled sweet potato. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered wkite sugar. 

A quarter of a pound or freed butter. 

A glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

A naif-glass of rose-wat6r. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, mace and cinnamon. 



Pound the spice, allowing a smaller proportion 
of mace than of nutmeg ^d cinnamon. 

Boil and peal some sweet potatoes, and when 
they are cold, weigh a quarter of a pound. Mash 
the sweet potato very smooth, and rub it through a 
sieve. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, alternately with the sweet potato* 
Add by degrees the liquor, rose-water and spice* 
Stir all very hard together. 

Spread puff-paste on a soup-plate. Put in the 
mixture^ and bake it about half an hotr in a mod^ 
erate oven. 

Grate sugar oyer it* 



PUMPKISr PUDDING^ 

Haifa poand of stewed pumpkin. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a pint of cream* 

A Quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 

Half a glass pf rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nUtmeg, mace and cinniunoii. 



Stew some pumpkin with as httle water as pos* 
sible* Drain it in a cullender, and press it till dry* 
When cold) weigh half a pound, and pass it 
3 



Sf PA8TBT 

through a sieve. Prepare the spice. Stir togeth* 
er the sugar, and butter, to cream, till they are 
perfectly light. Add to them, gradually, the spice 
and liquor. 

Beat three eggs very light, and stir them into 
the butter and sugar alternately with the pumpkin. 

Cover a soup-plate with puff-paste, and put in 
the mixture. Bake it in a moderate oven about 
half an hour. ' 

Grate sugar over it when cooL 



Instead of the butter, you may boil a pint of 
milk or cream, and when cold, stir into it in turn 
the sugar, eggs, and pumpkin. 



A pint of stewed gooseberries, with all their juice. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Two ounces or fresh butter. 
Two ounces of grated bread. 
Three eggs. 



Stew the gooseberries till quite soft. When 
they are cold, mash them fine with the back of a 
spoon, and stir into them two ounces of sugar. 
Take two ounces more of sugar, and stir it to a 
cream with two ounces of butter. 

Grate very fine as much stale bread as will 
weigh two ounces. 

Beat three eggs, and stir them into the but- 
ter and sugar, in turn with the goosberries and 
bread. 



PASTRT. 23 

Lay puff-paste in a soup plate. Put iu the mix- 
ture, and bake it half an hour. 
Do not grate ^ugar over it. 



BAKEB APPIiE PUDDING. 



A pint of stewed apples. 

Haifa pint of cream, or two ounces of batter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A nutmeg grated. 

A table spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of ^ated lemon-peel. 



Stew your apple in as little water as possible, 
and not long enough for the pieces to break and 
lose their shape. Put them in a cullender to drain, 
and mash them with the back of a spoon. If 
stewed too long, and in too much water, they will 
lose their flavour. When cold, mix with them the 
nutmeg, rose-water, and lemon-peel, and two 
ounces of sugar. Stir the other two ounces of su- 
gar, with the butter or cream, and then mix it 
gradually with the apple. 

Bake it in puff-paste, in a soup-dish, about half 
ftn hour in a moderate oven. 

Po not sugar the top. 



FRUIT PIES. 



Fruit pies for family use, are generally made 
with common paste, allowing three quarters of a 
pound of butter to a pound and a half of flour. 

Peaches and plums for pies, should be cut in 
half, and the stones taken out. Cherries also 



t4 rA#TBV. 

should be stooed, and red cherries (mlj should* 
be used for pies. 

Apples should be cut into very thin slices, and 
are much improved by a little lemon peel. Sweet 
,apples are not good for pies, as they are very m- 
sipid when baked, and seldom get thoroughly done. 
If green apples are used, they should first be stew- 
ed in as little water as possible, and made very 
sweet. 

Apples, stewed previous to baking, should not be 
done till they break, hut only till they are tender. 
They should then be drained in #bu)lender, and 
chopped fine with a knife or the edge of a spoon. 

In making pies of juicy fruit, it is a good way to 
set a small tea-cup, on the bottom crust, and lay the 
fruit all round it. The juice will collect under 
the cup, and not run out at the edges or top of the 
pie. The fruit should be mixed with a sufficient 
quantity of sugar, and piled up in the middle, so .as 
to make the pie highest in the centre. The up- 
per crust should be pricked with a fork, or have a 
slit cut in the middle. The edges should be nice- 
ly crimped with a knife. 

Dried peaches, dried apples, and cranberries 
should be stewed with a very little water, and al- 
lowed to get quite cold before they are put into 
the pie. If stewed fruit is put ii^ warm, it will 
make the paste heavy. 

If your pies are made in the form of shells, or 
without lids, the fruit should always be stewed 
first, or it will not be sufficiently done, as the shells 

i which should be of pufif paste) must not bake so 
ong as covered pies. 

Shells intended for sweetmeats, must be baked 
empty, and the fruit put ipU> t^en) before tfa^7 |Q 
to taU^i 



Fruit pies with lids, should have loaf^fugsi^ gr% 
ted over them. If they have beseo Wked the dsjr 
before, they should be warmed id the stove^ or 
near the fire, before they are sent to table, to softfti^ 
the crust, and make them taste fresh. 

Raspberry and apple-pies are much improT^ 
by taking off the lid, and pouring in a little cream 
just before they go to table. Keplace the lid 
very carefully. 



OTSTSIR PIE; 

A hundred lar^e fresh oysterSi or more if small. 

The yolks of six eggs ijoiled hard. 

A large slice of stale-bread, grajted. 

A tea-spoonful of salt. 

A table-'spoonful of pepper. 

A table-spoooful of mixed spice, nutmeg, me and cjiyaiWH 



Take a large round dish, butter it and spread ft 
rich paste over the sides, and round the edge, but 
not at the bottom. 

Salt oysters will not do for pies. They should 
be fresh, and as large and fine as possible. 

Drain off part of the liquor from the oysters. 
Put them into a pan, and season them with pepper, 
salt and spice. Stir them well with the seasoning. 
Have ready the yolks of eggs, chopped fine, and 
the grated bread. Pour the oysters (with as much 
of their liquor as you please) into the dish that has 
the paste in it. Strew over them the chopped 
egg and grated bread. 

Roll out the lid of the pie, and put it on orioip- 
iQg the edges handsomely. 

Take a small sheet of paste, cut it into a s%iftr<| 

a* 



36 PASTRY. 

nnd roll it up. Cut it with a sharp knife into the 
form of a double tulip. 

Make a slit in the centre of the upper crust, and 
gtick the tulip in it. * 

Cut out eight large leaves of paste, and lay thens 
on the lid. 

Bake the pie in a quick oven. 

If you think the oysters will be too much done 
by baking them in the crust you can substitute 
for them pieces of bread, to keep up the lid of 
the pie. 

Put the oysters with their liquor and the season- 
ing, chopped egg, grated bread, he. into a pan. 
Cover them closely, and let them just come to a 
boil, taking them off the fire, and stirring them 
frequently. 

When the crust is baked, take the lid neatly off 
(loosening it round the edge with a knife) take out 
the pieces of bread, and put in the oysters. Lay 
the lid on again very carefully. 

For oyster patties, the oysters are prepared in 
the same manner. 

They may be chopped if you choose. They 
IQU$t be put io small shells of puff-paste. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Butter a deep dish, and spread a sheet of paste 
all over the bottom, sides, and edge. 

Cut away from your beef-steak all the bone, fat, 
gristle, and skin. Cut the lean in small thin 
pieces, about as large, generally, as the palm of 
your hand. Beat the meat well with the rolling* 



PASTRT. 27 

piDy to make it juicy and tender. If you put in 
the fat, it will make the gravy too greasy and 
strong, as it cannot be skimmed. 

Put a layer of meat over the bottom-crust of 
your dish, and season it to your taste, with pepper, 
salt, and, if you choose, a little nutmeg. A small 
quantity of mushroom ketchup is an improvement ; ' 
^ so, also, is a little minced onion. 

Have ready some cold boiled potatoes sliced tbin. 
Spread over the meat, a layer of potatoes, and a 
small piece ofbutter; fhen another layer of meat, 
seasoned, and then a layer of potatoes, and so on 
till the dish is full and heaped up in the middle, 
having a layer of meat on the top. Pour in a little 
water. 

Cover the pie with a sheet of paste, and trim the 
edges. Notch it handsomely with a knife ; and, 
if you choose, make a tulip of paste, and stick it 
in the middle of the lid, and lay leaves *of paste 
round it. 



Fresh oysters will greatly improve a beef-steak 
pie. So also will mushrooms. 

Any meat pie may be made in a similar manner. 



INDIAir PUBDIlfG. 

 
A pound of beef-suet, chopped very fine. 
A pint of molasses. 
A pint of rich milk. 
Four egg8. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg^ and cinnamon,^ 
A little gratea or chipped lemon-peel. 
Lidian meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and molasses, and stir them 
together. Beat the eggs, and stir them gradually 
into the milk and molasses, in turn with the suet 



. 1 



98 PAtTHY. 

wd Indian meal. Add tbe spice and lQm(ui-pel 
lund 9tir all very bard together. Take qare not to 
put too much Indian meal, or ibe pudctiog will bc) 
heavy and solid. 

Dip the cloth in boiling water. Shake it out, 
imd flour it slightly. -Pour the mixture into it, and 
lie it up, leaving room for the pudding to swell. 

Boil it three hours. Serve it up hot, and eat it 
with sauce made of drawa butter, wine aad nut* 
meg. 

When cold, it is good cut in slices and fried. 



BATTER PUDDIICG. 

Six egg9. 

Eight table-spoonfuls of sifted flour. 

One quart of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salL 

Stir the flour gradually, into the milk, carefully 
dissolving all the lumps. Beat the eggs very light, 
and add them by degrees to the milk and flour. 
Put in the salt, and stir the whole well together. 

Take a very thick pudding-cloth. Dip it in 
boiling water, and flour it. Pour into it the mix- 
ture and tie it up, leaving room for it to swell. 
Boil it hard, one hour, and keep it in the pot, till 
it is time to send it to table. Serve*it up with 
wine-sauce. 



A scjuare cloth, which when tied up will make 
the pudding of a round form, is better than a bag. 

Apple Batter Pudding. is made by pouring the 
batter over a dish of pippins, pared, cored, and 
sweetened, either whole or cut in pieces. Bake it, 
and eat it with butter add sugar. 



PAfTRV* 99 



BUEAD PUDDING. 

A qaarter of a pound of grated stale bread. 

A aoart of milk, boiled with two or three sticks of cikmamon, slightly 

broken. 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar, 
A little grated lemon-peel. 

Boil the milk with the cinnamon, strain it, and 
set it away till quite cold. 

Grate as much crumb of stale bread as will 
weigh a quarter of a pound.- Beat the eggs, and 
when the milk is cold, stir them into it in turn 
with the bread and sugar. Add the lemon-peelf 
and if you choose, a table spoonful of rose-water. 

Bake it in a buttered dish, and grate nutmeg 
over it when done. Do not send it to table hot. 
Baked j3uddings should never be eaten till they 
}iave become cold, or at least cool* 



BICJB PUDDING, 

A quarter of a pound of rice. 

A quafler of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 

A pint and a half of milk, or cream and milk. 

Six eggs. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, 

A half wine-glass of rose-water. 



Wash the rice. Boil it till very soft. Drain it, 
and set it away to get cold. Put the butter and 
sugar together in a pan, and stir them till very light* 
Add to them the spice and rose-water. Beat the 
eggs very Kght, and stir them, gradually, into the 
milk. Then stir the eggs and milk into the butter 
ftod sqgar, ijternatel^ with the rjcQ^ 



>' 



80 PASTRT. 

Bake it and grate nutmeg over the top. 
Currants or raisins, floured, and stirred in at the 
last, will greatly improve it. 

It should be eaten cold] or quite cool 



BOSTON PUDDIIVG. 

Make a good common paste with a pound and a 
half of flour, &nd three quarters of a pound of but- 
ter.* When you roll it out the last time, cut off 
the edges, till you get the sheet of paste of an even 
square shape.  

Have ready some fruit sweetened to your taste. 
If cranberries, gooseberries, dried peaches, er dam- 
3ons, they should be stewed, and made very sweet. 
If apples, they should be stewed in a very little 
water, drained, and seasoned with nutmeg, rose- 
water and lemon. If currants, raspberries, or 
blackberries, they should be mashed with sugar, 
and put into the pudding raw. 

Spread the fruit very thick, all over the sheet of 
paste, (which must not be rolled out too thin.) 
When it is covered all qver with the fruit, roll it 
up, and close the dough at both ends, and down 
the last side. Tie the pudding in a cloth and 
boil it. 

Eat it with sugar. It must not be taken out of 
the pot till just before it is brought to table. 

^ Of three quartera of a pound of beef met, chopped very fine* 
Mix the suet at ouce with the flour, knead it with cold water into a 
ftiff douffh, and then roll it out into a lanpe thia sheet. Fold iti^ 
RUd n>U It tgam. 



PABTKt* ^ 31 



FEITTBS* 



Half a pint of milk. 

A salt-spoonfal of salt. 

Sufficient flour to make a thick batter. 



Beat the eggs well and stir tbem gradually into 
the milk. Add the salt, and stir in flour enough to 
make a thick batter. 

Fry them in lard, and serve them up hot* 

Eat them with wine and sugar. 



They are improved by stirring in a table-spoon- 
ful of yeast. 

These are excellent with the addition of cold 
stewed apple, stirred into the mixture, in which 
case use less flour. 



T^lSlA CUSTARBd. 

A quart of milk or creanfk. 

The yolks only, of sixteen eg^. 

Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 

Half an oiuoce of cinnamon, broken in small pieces. 

A lar^e handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce of peach kernels 

or bitter almonds, broken in pieces. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A nutmeg. 



Boil in the milk the cinnamon, and the peach- 
leaves) or peachkernels. When it has boiled, set 
it away to get cold. As soon as it is cold, strain it 
through a sieve, to clear it from the cinnamon, 
peach-leaves, &c. and stir into it gradually, the 
sugar, spice, and rose-water^ 

Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs very light, and 



stir them by degrees into the milk, which must be 
quite cold or the eggs will make it curdle. Put 
the custards into cups, and set them in a baking 
pan, half filled with water. When baked, grate 
some nutmeg over each and ice them* Make the 
icing of the whites of eight eggs, a large tea-spoon- 
ful of powdered loaf sugar, and six drops of es- 
sence of lemon, beaten all together till it stands 
alone. Pile up some of the icing on the top of 
each custard, heaping it high. Put a spot of red 
nonpareils on the middle of the pile of icing. 

If the weather be damp, or* the eggs not new 
laid, more than eight whites will be required for 
the icing. 



PliAIN CUSTARDS. 

* 

A quart of rich milk. 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
A handful of peach-leaves, or half an ountce of pofkch-kernels^ bro- 
ken in pieces. 
A nutmeg. 



Boil the peach-leaves or kernels in the milk, and 
set it away to cool. When cold, strain out the 
leaves or kernels, .and stir in the sugar. Beat the 
eggs very light, and stir them gradually into the 
milk when it is quite cold. Bake it in cups, or ia 
a large white dish. 

When cool, grate nutmeg over ihe top. 



i^AiTRt^ dd 



italf a ponmd of rice. 

Half a pound of raisins or currants. 

Eight yolks of eggs, or six whole eggs. 

Six ounces of powdered sugar. 

A quart of ricn milk 

A handful of peach-leaveS; or half atn ounce of peach-keriMls, bto* 

ken in pieces^ 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces* 



Boil the rice with the raisins or currants^ which 
kDust first be floured. Butter some cups or a 
mould, and when the rice is quite soft, drain it, and 
put it into them. Set it away to get cold. 

Beat the eggs well. Boil the milk with the 
cinnamon and peach-leaves, or kernels. As soon 
as it has come to a boil, take it off and strain it 
through a sieve. Then set it again on the fire, stir 
into it alternately, the egg and sugar, taking it off 
frequently and stirring it hard, lest it become a 
curd. Take care not to boil it too long, or it will 
be lumpy and lose its flavour. When done, set it 
away to cool. Turn out the rice from the cups or 
mould, into a deep dish. Pour some of the boiled 
custard over it, and send up the remainder of the 
custard in a sauce-boat* 

You may, if you choose, ornament the lumps 
of rice, (after the custard is poured round them) 
by making a stifl" froth of white of egg (beaten tin 
it stands alone) and a few drops of essence of lem- 
on, with a very little powdered loaf-sugar. Heap 
the froth on the top oi each lump of rice. 



34 FASTRT^ 



COLD CUSTARDS. 

A quart of new milk, and half a pint of cream, mixed, 
A qaarter of a pound of powdered white ittgar. 
A laiig^ glatg of white wine. 
Anutmei^. 



Mix together the milk, creaiti, lind sugat. Stir 
the wine into it, and pour the mixture into your 
cUstard-cups. Set them in a warm place near the 
fire, till they become a firm curd. Then set them 
on ice, or in a very cold place. Grate nutmeg 
over them. 



CURDS ADTD WHElT. 

Take a small piece of rennet about two inches 
sqiiare. Wash it very clean in cold water, to get 
all the salt off, and wipe it dry. Put it in a tea- 
cup, and pour on it just enough of lukewarm wa- 
ter to cover it. Let it set all night, or for several 
hours. Then take out the rennet, and stir the wa- 
ter in which it Was soaked, into a quart of milk, 
which should be iii a broad dish. 

Set the milk in a warm place, till it becomes a 
firm curd. As soon as the curd is completely 
made, set it in a cool place, or on ice (if in sum- 
mer) fot two or three hours before you want to 
use it. 

Eat it with wine, sugar, and nutmeg. 



The whey, drained from the curd, is an excel- 
lent drink for invalids. 



PASTRT, 35 



A TRIFLE. 

A quart of cream. 

A Quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, po^^dered. 

Half a pint of white wine > ^-  j 

Haifa gill of brandy J "^'"*^- * 

Eight maccaroons, or more if jou choose. 

Four small spun^e-cakes or Naples Biscuit. 

Two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, pounded in a mortar. 

One ounce of blanched bitter nhnonds or peach-kerpels, 

The juice and grated peel of two lemons. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A glass of noyau. 

A pint of rich baked costard, made of the yolks of eggs. 



Pound the sweet and bitter almonds to a smooth 
paste, adding a little rose-water as you pound 
them. 

Grate the yellow peels of the lemons, and 
squeeze the juice into a saucer. 

Break the spunge cake and maccaroons into 
small pieces, mix them with the almonds, and lay 
them in the bottom of a large glass bowl. Grate 
a nutmeg over them, and the juice and peel of the 
lemons. Add the wine and brandy, and let the 
(nixture remain untouched, till the cakes are dis- 
solved in the liquor. Then stir it a little. 

Mix the cream and sugar with a glass of noyau, 
and beat it with a whisk or rods, till it stands 
alone. 

As the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, and 
lay it on a sieve (with a large dish under it) to 
drain. The cream, that drains into the dish, must 
be poured back into the pan with the rest, and 
beaten over again. When the cream is finished, 
set it in a cool place. 

When the custard is cold, pour it into the glass 
bowl upon the dissolved cakes, ice. and when the 
cream is ready, fill up the bowl with it, heaping 



S6 PASTRY, 

it high in the middle. You may ornament it with 
nonpareils. 

If you choose, you can put in, between the cus* 
tard and the frothed cream, a layer of fruit jelly, 
or small fruit preserved. 



WHIPT CBEABT, 

A quart of cream. 
The whites of four eg^, 
Haifa pint of white wtne. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered ]oafigfar. 
Ten drops of strong essence of lemon, or two lemons cut in thin 
slices, or the juice of a laige lemon. 



Mix together, in a broad pan, all the ingredients, 
unless you use slices of lemon, and then they must 
be laid at intervals among the frothy as you heap 
it in the bowl. 

With a whisk or rods, beat the cream tp a 
9trong froth. Have beside your pan a sieve (bot-* 
torn upwards) with a large dish under it. A$ the 
froth rises, take it lightly off with a spoon, and lay 
H on the sieve to drain. When the top of the 
aieve is full, transfer the froth to a large glass or 
china bowl. Continue to do this till the bowl 
is full. 

The cream which has dropped through the sieve 
Into the dish, must be poured inta the pan, and 
beaten over again. When all the cream is con- 
verted into froth, pil^ it up in the bowl, making it 
highest in the middle. 

If you ehoose, you may ornament it with r^ 
and green nonpareils. 

If you put it in glasses, lay a little Jelly in tb^ 
bottom of each glass, and pile the cream on it, 
P>ep it ill a copl placp tiU ^<ni yfi0 to ^^ \\, 



FAsnT. 3T 



FI^OATIira I8l44JII>#. 



Six whites of eggs. 

Six large table-spoooiiilt of jelly. 

A pint of cream. 



Put the jelly and white of egg ioto a pan, and 
beat it together with a whisk, till it beeooiee a stiff 
froth and stands alone. 

Have ready the cream, in a broad shallow dish. 
Just before yoo send it to table, pile up the froth 
in the centre of the cream. 



ICJB CREAM. 

A qiiart of rich cream. 
Half a pound of powdered loaf sugar. 

The juice of two lai^ge lemons, or a pini ef strawberms or rasp* 
Mrries. 



Put the cream into a broad pan,, and squeexe 
the lemon juice into it, or stir in gradually the 
strawberries or raspberries, which must first be 
mashed to a smooth paste. Then stir in the sugar 
by degrees, and when all is well mixed, strain it 
through a sieve. 

Put it into a tin that has a close cover, and set it 

in a tub. Fill the tub with ice broken into very 

small pieces, and strew among the ice a large 

quantity of salt, taking care that none of the salt 

gets into the cream. Scrape the cream down with 

a spoon as.it freezes round the edges of the tin. 

When it is all frozen, dip the tin in lukewarm 

water ; take out the cream, and fill your glassejs ; 
4* 



38 BASTBT. 

but not till a few minutes before you want to use 
it, as it will vevy soon melt. 

You may heighten the colour of the red fruit, 
by a little cochineal* 

If you wish to have it in moulds, put the cream 
into them as soon as it has frozen iq the tin. Set 
the moulds in a tub of ice and salt. Just before 
you want to use the cream, take the moulds out 
of the tub, wipe or wash the salt carefully from the 
outside, dip the mouldy in lukewarm water^ f^pd 
turn out the cream. 



eALF'S-FET JELI47, 

Four calfs feet. 

Three quarts of water. 

A pint of white wine. 

Three lemons. 

The whites of six eggs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon. 

|Ialf a pound pf loaf-sugar, broken into lumps. 

Endeavour to prqcure calf's-feet, that have 
been nicely singed, but not skinned, as the skin 
being left on, makes the jelly much firmer. 

The day before you want to use the jelly, boil 
the four calf's-feet jo three quarts of water, till 
the meat drops from the bone. When sufficiently 
done, put it into a cullender or sieve, and let the 
liquid drain from the meat, into a broad pan or 
dish. Skim off the fat. Let the jelly stand till 
pext day, and then carefully scrape off the sedi- 
ment from the bottom. It will be a firm jelly, if 
too much water has not been used, and if t\ has 
boiled long qqough, 



PASTRT. 39 

Early next morning, put the jelly into a tin ket- 
tle, or covered tin pan ; set it on the fire, and melt 
it a little. Take it off, and season it with the cin^* 
namon slightly broken, a pint of madeira wine, 
three lemons cut in thin slices, and half a pound of 
loaf-sugar, broken up. 

If you wish it high-coloured, add two table- 
spoonfuls of French brandy. Mix all well to- 
gether. Beat, slightly, the whites of six eggs 
(saving the egg-shell) and stir the whites into the 
jelly. Break up the egg-shells into very small 
pieces, and throw them in also. Stir the whole 
very well together. 

Set it on the fire, and boil it hard five minutes, 
but do not stir it, as that will prevent its clear- 
ing. Have ready a large white flannel bag, the 
top wide, and the bottom tapering to a point. 

Tie the bag to the backs of two chairs, or to the 
legs of a table, and set a white dish or a mould 
under it. 

After the jelly has boiled five minutes, pour it 
hot into the bag, and let it drip through into the 
dish. Do not squeeze the bag, as that will make 
the jelly dull and cloudy. 

If it is not clear the first time it passes through 
the bag, empty out all the ingredients, wash the 
bag, suspend it again, put ^mother white di$h un- 
der it, pour the jelly back into the bag, and let it 
drip through again. Repeat this six or eight tiipes, 
or till it is clear, putting a clean dish under It 
every time. If it does not drip freely, nopve the 
bag into a warmer place. 

When the jelly has all dripped through the bag^ 
Und is clear, set it in a cool place to congeal. It 
will sometimes congeal immediately, and sometimes 
not for several hours, particularly if the weather is 



40 PAffFlT. 

wtrm and damp. If the weather is very cold you 
must take care not to let it freeze. When it is 
quite &ni which perhaps it will not be till eveu'* 
iog, fill your glasses with it, piling it up very high* 
If you make it in a mould, you must either set the 
mould under the bag while it is dripping, or pour 
it from the dish into the mould while it is liquid. 
When it is perfectly congealed, dip the mould for 
an instant in boiling water to loosen the jelly. 
Turn it out on a glass dish. 

This quantity of ingredients will make a quart of 
jelly when finished. In cool weather it may be 
made a day or two before it is wanted. 

You may increase the seasoning, (that is, the 
wine, lemon, and cinnamon,) according to your 
taste, but less than the above proportion will not be 
sufiScient to flavour the jelly. 



BliAirCMANGE* 

Four calf 's-feet. 

A pint and a balf of thick cream. 

Half a pound of loaf-sug^ar, broken up, 

A glass of wine. 

Half a glass of roseowater. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, beaten and sifted. 



Get four calf 's-feet ; if possible some that have 
been singed, and not skinned. Scrape, and clean 
them well, and boil them in three quarts of water 
(ill all the meat drops off the bone. Drain the 
liquid through a cullender or sieve, and skin) it 
well. Let it stand till next morning to congeal. 
Then clean it well from the sediment, and put it 
into a tin or bell-metal kettle. Stir into it, the 
cream, sugar, and mace. Boil it hard for five 



PASTRT. 41 

minutes, stirring it several tinges. Then strain it 
through a linen cloth or napkin into a large bowl, 
and add the wine and rose-water. 

Set it in a cool place for three or four hours, 
stirring it very frequently with a spoon, to prevent 
the cream from separating from the jelly. The 
more it is stirred the better. Stir it till it is cool. 

Wa^h your moulds, wipe them dry, and then wet 
them with cold water. When the blancmange 
becomes very thick, (that is in three or four hours, 
if the weather is not too damp) put it into your 
moulds. 

When it has set in them till it is quite firm, loos- 
en it carefully all round with a knife, and turn i% 
out pn glass or china plates. 



X 



If you wish to make it with almonds, take an 
ounce of blanched bitter almonds, and two ounces 
of sweet. Beat them in a mortar to a fine paste, 
pouring in occasionally a little rose-water. When 
the mixture is ready to boil, add the almonds to it 
gradually, stirring them well in. Or you may stir 
them in, while it is cooling in the bowl. 

If it inclines to stick to the moulds, set them aq 
instant in hot water. It will then turn out easily. 



If you choose to make it without calfs feet, 
you can substitute an ounce of the best and clear-s 
est isinglass, or, if in summer, an ounce and a quar> 
ter boiled with the other ingredients. If made 
with isinglass, you must use two ounces of sweet, 
and an ounce of bitter almonds, with the addition 
of ;he grated rind of a large lemon, and a larg^ 



42 



PASTRY. 



Stick of cinnamon, broken up, a glass of wine, and 
half a glass of rosei-water. These ingredients must 
be all mixed together, with a quart of cream, and 
boiled hard for five minutes. The mixture must 
then be strained through a napkin, into a large 
bowl. Set it in a cool place, and stir it frequently 
till nearly cold. It must then be put into the 
moulds. 

You may substitute for the almonds, half a gUl 
Qf nojrau, in which case, omit the wine, 



PART THE SECOND. 



C A. K. El Sl 



GENERAIi DIRECTIONS. 

In making cakes, it is particularly necessary 
that the eggs should be well beaten. They are 
not sufficiently light till the surface looks smooth 
and level, and till they get so thick as to be of the 
consistence of boiled custard. 

White of egg should always be beaten till it be- 
come a heap of stiff froth, without any liquid at 
the bottom ; and till it hangs from the rods or fork 
without dropping. 

Eggs become light soonest when new-laid, and 
when beaten near the fire, or in warm dry weather. 

Butter and sugar should be stirred till it looks 
like thick cream and till it stands up in the pan. 

It should be kept cool. If too warm, it will 
make the cakes heavy. 

Large cakes should be baked in tin or earthen 
pans, with straight sides, that are as nearly perpen- 
dicular as possible. They cut into handsomer sli- 
ces, and if they are to be iced, it will be found very 
inconvenient to put on the icing, if the cake slopes 
in much towards the bottom. 

Before you ice a cake, dredge it all over with 
flour, and then wipe the flour off. This will ena- 
ble you to spread on the icing more evenly. 

5 



46 CAKES. 

Before you cut an ice cake, cut the icing by it- 
self with a small sharp penknife. The large knife 
with which you divide the cake, will crack and 
break the icing. 

Large Gingerbread, as it burns very easily, may 
be baked in an earthen pan. So also may Black 
Cake or Pound Cake. Earthen pans or moulds, 
with a hollow tube in the middle, are best for cakes. 

If large cakes are baked in tin pans, the bottom 
and sides should be covered with sheets of paper, 
before the mixture is put in. The paper must be 
well buttered. 

Sponge cakes, and Almond cakes should be ba- 
ked in pans that are as thin as possible. 

If the cakes should get burnt, scrape them with 
a knife or grater, as soon as they are cool. 

Always be careful to butter your pans well. 
Should the cakes stick, they cannot be got out 
without breaking. 

For queen-cakes, &tc. the small tins of a round 
or oval shape are most convenient. Fill them but 
little more than half. 

After the mixture is completed, set it in a cool 
place till all the cakes are baked. 

In rolling out cakes made of dough, use as little 
flour as possible.. When you lay them in the pans, 
do not place them too close together, lest they run 
into each other. 

When you are cutting them out, dip the cutter 
frequently in flour, to prevent its sticking. 



CAKES. 47 

qUEEN CAKE. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

One pound of fresh butter  ^washed. 

Fourteen ounces of sifted flour. 

Ten e^gs. 

One wine-glass of wine and brandy, mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water, or twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

One tea-spoonful of mace and cinnamon, mixed. 

One nutmeg, beaten or grated. 

Pound the spice to a fine powder, in a marble 
mortar, and sift it well. 

Put the sugar into a deep earthen pan, and cut 
the butter into it. Stir them together, till very light. 

Beat the eggs in a broad shallow pan, till they 
are perfectly smooth and thick. 

Stir into the butter and sugar, a little of the beat- 
en egg, and then a little flour, and so on alternate- 
ly, a little egg and a little flour, till the whole is in ; 
continuing all the time to beat the eggs, and stir- 
ring the mixture very hard. Add by degrees, the 
spice, and then the liquor, a little at a time. Final- 
ly, put in the rose-water, or essence of lemon** 
Stir the whole very hard at the last. 

Take about two dozen little tins, or more, if you 
have room for them in the oven. Rub them very 
well with fresh butter. With a spoon, put some of 
the mixture in each tin, but do not fill them to the 
top as the cakes will rise high in baking. Bake 
them in a quick oven, about a quarter of an hour. 
When they are done they will shrink a little from 
the sides of the tins. 

Before you fill the tins again, scrape them well 
with a knife, and wash or wipe them clean. 

If the cakes are scorched by too hot a fire, do not 
scrape off the burnt parts till they have grown cold. 

* In buying essence or oil of lemon endeavour to get that which is 
white, it being much the strongest and best. When it looks greenish, 
It is generally very weak, so that when used a double or treble quan- 
tity is necessary. 



48 CAKES. 

Make an icing with the whites of three eggs, 
beaten till it stands alone, and twenty-fonr tea- 
spoonfuls of the best loaf-sugar, powdered) and 
beaten gradually into the white of egg. Fla- 
vour it with a tea-spoonful of rose-water or eight 
drops of essence of lemon, stirred in at the last. 
Spread it evenly with a broad knife, over the top 
of each queen-cake, ornamenting them, (while the 
icing is quite wet) with red and green nonpareils, 
or fine sugar-sand, dropped on carefully, with the 
thumb and finger. 

When the cakes are iced, set them in a warm 
place to dry ; but not too near the fire, as that 
will cause the icing to crack.* 



POUNB CAKE. 

One pound of flour, sifted. 

One pound of white sugar, powdered and silled. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Ten eggs, 

Half a glass of wine "^ 

Half a glass of brandy > mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water > 

Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

A table-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. 

A nutmeg, powdered. 

Pound the spice and sift it. There should be 
twice as much cinnamon as mace. Mix the cin- 
namon, mace, and nutmeg together. 

Sift the flour in a broad pan, or wooden bowl. 
Sift the powdered sugar into a large deep pan, and 
cut the butter into it, in small pieces. If the weath- 

* You may colour icing of a fine pink, by mixing with it a few drops 
of liquid cochineal ; which is prepared by boiling very slowly in an 
earthen or china vessel twenty grains of cochineal powder, twenty 

trains of cream of tartar, and twenty grains of powdered alum, all 
issolved in a gill of soft water, and boiled till reduced to one half. 
Strain it and cork it up in a small phiajl Pink ipio^ should lite Qfnav 
mented with white nonpareils, 



CA&ES. 49 

er is very cold, and the butter hard, set the pan 
near the fire for a few minutes ; but if the butter is 
too warm, the cake will be heavy. Stir the butter 
aud sugar together with a wooden stick, till they 
are very light, and white, and look like cream. 

Beat the eggs in a broad shallow pan with a 
wooden egg-beater or whisk. They must be beaten 
till they are thick and smooth, and of the consis- 
tence of boiled custard. 

Pour the liquor and rose-water, gradually, into 
the butter and sugar, stiring all the time. Add 
by degrees, the essence of lemon and spice. 

Stir the egg and flour alternately into the butter 
and sugar, a handful of flour, and about two spoon- 
fuls of the egg (which you must continue to beat all 
the time,) and when all is in, stir the whole mix- 
ture very hard, for near ten minutes. 

Butter a large tin pan, or a cake mould with an 
open tube rising from the middle. Put the mix- 
ture into it as evenly as possible. Bake it in a 
moderate oven, for two, or three, or four hours, in 
proportion to its thickness, and to the heat of the 
fire. 

When you think it is nearly done, thrust a twig or 
wooden skewer into it down to the bottom. If the 
stick comes out clean and dry, the cake is almost 
baked. When quite done, it will shrink from the 
sides of the pan, and cease making a noise. Then 
withdraw the coals (if baked in a dutch oven ;) take 
off the lid, and let the cake remain in the oven to 
cool gradually. 

You may ice it either warm or cold. Before 

you put the icing on a large cake, dredge the cake 

all over with flour, and then wipe the flour off; this 

will make the icing stick on better  If you have 

6* 



50 CAKES. 

sufficient time, the appearance of the cake will 
be n)uch improved by icing it twice. Put on the 
first icing soon after the cake is taken out of the 
oven, and the second the next day, when the first 
is perfectly dry. While the last icing is wet, or- 
nament it with coloured sugar-sand or nonpareils. 



BLACK CAKE, OR PI.UM CAK. 

One pound of flour sifled. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

Twelve eggs. 

Two pounds of the best raisins. 

Two pounds of currants. 

Two table-spoonfuls of mixed spice, mace and cinnamon. 

Two nutmegs powdered. 

A large glass of wine ^ 

A large glass of brandy > mixed together. 

Half a glass of rose-water j 

A pound of citron. 



Pick the currants very clean, and wash them, 
draining them through a cullender. Wipe them in 
a towel. Spread them out on a large dish, and 
set them near the fire, or in the hot sun to dry, 
placing the dish in a slanting position. Having 
stoned the raisins, cut them in half, and when all 
are done, sprinkle them well with sifted flour, to 
prevent their sinking to the bottom of the cake. 
When the currants are dry, sprinkle them also with 
flour. 

Pound the spice, allowing twice as much cinna- 
mon as mace. Sift it, and mix the mace, nutmeg, 
and cinnamon together. Mix also the liquor and 
rose-water in a tumbler or cup. Cut the citron 
in slips. Sift the flour into a broad dish. Sift the 
sugar into a deep earthen pan, and cut the butter 



9AKES. 91 

into it. Warm it near the fire, if the weather is 
too cold for it to mix easily. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible. Stir them 
into the butter and sugar, alternately with the flour. 
Stir very hard. Add gradually the spice and 
liquor. Slir the raisins and currants alternately 
into the mixture, taking care that they are well 
floured. Stir the whole as hard as possible, for 
ten minutes after the ingredients are in. 

Cover the bottom and sides of a large tin or 
earthen pan, with sheets of white paper well butter- 
ed and put into it some of the mixture. Then 
spread on it some of the citron, which must not be 
cut too small. Next put a layer of the mixture, and 
then a layer of citron, and so on till it is all in, hav- 
ing a layer of the mixture at the top. 

This cake is always best baked in a baker's oven, 
and will require four or five hours, in proportion to 
its thickness.* 

Ice it, next day. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs. 

Ten ounces of silled flour, dried near the fire. 

A pound of loaf sugar, powdered and sifted. 

Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered ciunamoB and mace, mixed. 



Beat the eggs as light as possible. Eggs for 
sponge or almond cakes require more beating than 
for any other purpose. Beat the sugar, by degrees, 

* After this cake is done, it will be better for withdrawing the fire 
(if baked in an iron oven) and letting it stay in the oven all night, or 
till it gets quite cold. 



m CAKE9. 

into the eggs. Beat very bard, and continue to 
beat some time after the sugar is all in. 

No sort of sugar but loaf, will make light sponge- 
cake. Stir in, gradually, the spice and essence of 
lemon. Then, by degrees put in the flour, a little 
at a time, stirring round the mixture very slowly 
with a knife. If the flour is stirred in too hard, the 
cake will be tough. It must be done lightly and 
gently, so that the top of the mixture will be cover- 
ed with bubbles. As soon as the flour is all in, 
begin to bake it, as setting will injure it. 

Put it in small tins, well buttered, on in one large 
tin pan. The thinner the pans, the better for 
spunge-cake. Fill the small tins about half full. 
Grate loaf-sugar over the top of each, before you 
set them in the oven. 

Sponge-cake requires a very quick oven, particu- 
larly at the bottom. It should be baked as fast as 
possible, or it will be tough and heavy, however 
light it may have been before it went into the oven. 
It is of all cakes the most liable to be spoiled in 
baking. When taken out of the tins, the cakes 
should be spread on a sieve to cool. If baked in 
one large cake, it should be iced. 

A large cake of twelve eggs, should be baked at 
least an hour in a quick oven. 

For small cakes, ten minutes is generally sufii- 
cient. If they get very much out of shape in bak- 
ing, it is a sign that the oven is too slow. 

Some think that spunge-cakes and almond cakes 
are lighter when the yolks and whites of the eggs 
are beaten in separate pans, and mixed gently to- 
gether before the sugar is beaten into them. 

If done separately from the yolks, the whites 
should be beaten till they stand alone. 



CAKES. 53 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, pounded very fine. 

Seven ounces of flour, sifted and dried. 

Ten eggs. 

One pound of loaf-sugar, pounded and sifted. 

Two table-spoonfuls of rose-water. 



Take two ounces of shelled bitter almonds, or 
peach-kernels. Scald them in hot water, and as 
you peel them, throw them into a bowl of cold 
water, then wipe them dry, and pound them one by 
one in a mortar, till they are quite fine and smooth. 

Break ten eggs, putting the yolks in one pan and 
the whites in another. Beat them separately as 
light as possible, the whites first, and then the yolks- 
Add the sugar, gradually, to the yolks, beating 
it in very hard, then by degrees beat in the 
almonds, and then add the rose-water. 

Stir half the whites of the eggs into the yolks 
and sugar, divide the flour into two equal parts, and 
stir in one half slowly and lightly, till it bubbles on 
the top, then the other half of the white of egg, 
and then the remainder of the flour very lightly. 

Butter a large square tin pan, or one made of 
paste-board which will be better. Put in the mix- 
ture, and set immediately in a quick oven which 
must be rather hotter at the bottom than at the top 
Bake it according to the thickness. If you allow 
the oven to get slack, the cake will be spoiled. 

Make an icing with the whites of three eggs, 
twenty-four tea-spoonfuls of loaf sugar, and eight 
drops of essence of lemon. ^ 

When the cake is cool, mark it in small squares 
with a knife. Cover it with icing and ornament it 
while wet, with nonpareils dropped on in borders, 
round each square of the cake. When the icing is 
dry, cut the cake in squares, cutting through tl^e 



54 CAKE8. 

icing very carefully with a penknife. Or you may 
cut it in squares first, and then ice and ornament 
each square separately. 



FRENCH ALMOND CAKE. 

Six ounces of shelled sweet almonds. 

Three ounces of shelled bitter almonds, or peach kernels. 

Three ounces of sifted flour, dried near the fire. 

Fourteen eggs. 

One pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 



Blanch the almonds, by scalding them in hot 
water. Put thera in a bowl of cold water, and 
wipe them dry, when you take them out. Pound 
thera, one at a time, in a mortar, till they are per- 
fectly smooth. Mix the sweet and bitter almonds 
together. Prepare them, if possible, the day be- 
fore the cake is made.* 

Put the whites and yolks of the eggs, into sepa- 
rate pans. Beat the whites till they stand alone, 
and then the yolk? till they are very thick. 

Put the sugar gradually to the yolks, beating it 
in very hard. Add, by degrees, the almonds, still 
beating very hard. Then put in the essence of 
lemon. Next, beat in, gradually, the whites of 
the eggs, continuing to beat for some time after 
they are all in. Lastly, stir in the flour, as slowly 
and lightly, as possible. 

Butter a large tin mould or pan. Put the cake 
in and bake it in a very quick oven, an hour or 
more according to its thickness. 

The oven must on no account be hotter at the 
top, than at the bottom. 

When done, set it on a sieve to cool. 

* While pounding the almonds pour in occasionally a little ro9e< 
ivater. It makes them much lighten 



CAKES. 55 

Ice it, and ornament it with nonpareils. 

These almond cakes are generally baked in a 
turban shaped mould, and the nonpareils put on, 
in spots or sprigs. 

A pound of almonds in the shells (if the shells are 
soft and thin,) will generally yield half a pound when 
shelled. Hard, thick-shelled almonds, seldom yield 
much more than a quarter of a pound, and should 
therefore never be bought for cakes or puddings. 

Bitter almonds and peach-kernels can always be 
purchased with the shells off. 



Families should always save their peach-kernels, 
as they can be used in cakes, puddings and custards. 



MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of shelled sweet almonds. 

A quarter of a peund of shelled bitter almonds. 

The whites of three eggs. 

Twenty-four large tea-spoonfuls of powdered loaf-sugar. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A large tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, mace and cinnamon. 



Blanch and pound your almonds, beat them very 
smooth, and mix the bitter and sweet together ; do 
them, if you can, the day before you make the 
macaroons. Pound and sift your spice. Beat 
the whites of three eggs till they stand alone ; add 
to them, very gradually, the powdered sugar, a 
spoonful at a time, beat it in very hard, and put in, 
by degrees, the rose-water and spice. Then stir 
in, gradually, the almonds. The mixture must be 
like a soft dough ; if too thick, it will be heavy ; if 
too thin, it will run out of shape. If you find your 
almonds not sufficient, prepare a few more, and stir 
them in. When it is all well mixed and stirred, 
put some flour in the palm of your hand, and taking 



66 CAKES. 

up a lump of the mixture with a knife, roll it on 
your hand with the flour into a small round ball ; 
have ready an iron or tin pan, buttered, and lay the 
macaroons in it, as you make them up. Place 
them about two inches apart, in case of their 
spreading. Bake them about eight or ten minutes 
in a moderate oven ; they should be baked of a pale 
brown colour. If too much baked, they will lose 
their flavour ; if too little, they will be heavy. 
They should rise high in the middle, and crack on 
the surface. You may, if you choose, put a larger 
proportion of spiCe.* 



APEES. 

A pound of flour, sifled. 

Haifa pouud of butter. 

A glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of rose-water, mixed. 

Half a a pound of powdered white sugar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A teaspoonful of beaten cianaraon and mace. 

Three table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 



Sift the flour into a broad pan, and cut up the 
butter in it. Add the carraways, sugar, and spice, 
and pour in the liquor by degrees, mixing it well 
with a knife. If the liquor is not sufficient to wet 
it thoroughly, add enough of cold water to make it 
a stiff* dough. Spread some flour on your paste- 
board, take out the dough, and knead it very well 
with your hands. Cut it into small pieces, and 
knead each separately, then put them all together, 
and knead the whole in one lump. Roll it out in a 
sheet about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it out 
in round cakes, with the edge of a tumbler, or a tin 
of that size. Butter an iron pan, and lay the cakes 

* Cocoa-nut cakes may be made in a similar manner, substitating^ 
for the pounded almonds half a pound of finely-^ated cocoa-nut. 
They must be made into small round balls with a little flour laid on 
the palm of the hand, and baked a few minutes. They are very fine. 



CAKES. 57 

in it, not too close together. Bake them a few 
minutes in a moderate oven, till they are very slight- 
ly coloured, but not brown. If too much baked, 
they will entirely lose their flavour. Do not roll 
them out too thin. 



JUMBLES. 



Three eggs. 

Half a pound of flour, sifted. 

Half a pouud of butter. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A nutmeg grated. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. 



Stir the sugar and butter to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very light. Throw them, all at once, into 
the pan of flour. Put in, at once, the butter and 
sugar, and then add the spice and rose-water. If 
you have no rose-water, substitute six or seven 
drops of strong essence of lemon, or more if the 
essence is weak. Stir the whole very hard, with 
a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, and 
flour your hands well. Take up with your knife, 
a portion of the dough, and lay it on the board. 
Roll it lightly with your hands, into long thin rolls, 
which must be cut into equaL lengths, curled up 
into rings, and laid gently into an iron or tin pan, 
buttered, not too close to each other, as they spread 
in baking. Bake them in a quick oven about five 
minutes, and grate loaf-sugar o^r them when 
cool. 



M 0AKE9w 



KISSES. 



One poan4 of the best loaf sagar, powdered and sided. 

The whites of four eggs. 

Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

A tea-cup of currant jelly. . 

Beat the whites of four eggs till they stand alone. 
Then beat in, gradually, the sugar, a tea-spoonfiil 
at a time. Add the essence of lemon, and beat the 
whole very hftrd. 

Lay a wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a 
square tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a 
small tea-spoonful of stiff currant jelly.* With a 
large spoon, pile some of the beaten white of egg 
and sugar, on each lump of jelly, so as to cover it 
entirely. Drop on the mixture as evenly as possi- 
ble, so as to make the kisses of a round smooth shape. 

Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as they are 
coloured, they are done. Then take them out and 
place them two bottoms together. Lay them lightly 
on a sieve, and dry them in a cool oven, till the two 
bottoms stick fast together, so as to form one ball 
or oval. 



SPANISH BUNS. 

Four eggs. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour, sifted. 

Half a pound of powdered white sugar. 

Two wine-glasses and a half of rich milk. 

Six ounces of fresh butter. 

A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 

A table-spoonfnl of rose-water. 

A frated nutmeg. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon. 



Sift half a pound of flour into a broad pan, and 
sift a quarter of a pound, separately, into a deep 

* It is better to put a litde of the beaten white of egg and sugar at 
first, under the currant-jelly. 



CAKES. ^9 

plate, and set it aside. *Put the milk into a &oup- 
plate, cut up the butter, and set it on the stove ^r 
near the fire to warm, but do not let it get too liot. 
When the butter is very soft, stir it all through the 
milk with a knife, and set it away to cool. Beat 
the eggs very light, and mix the milk and butter 
with them, all at once ; then pour all into the pan 
of flour. Put in the spice, and the rose-water, or 
if you prefer it, eight drops of essence of lemon : 
Add the yeast, of which an increased quantity will 
be necessary, if it is not very strong and fresh. Stir 
the whole very hard with a knife. Add Jthe sugar 
gradually. If the sugar is not stirred in slowly, a 
little at a time, the buns will be heavy. Then, by 
degrees, sprinkle in the remaining quarter of a pound 
of flouc. Stir all well together ; butter a square 
iron pan, and put in the mixture. Cover it with a 
cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. It will proba- 
bly not be light in less than five hours. When it is 
risen very high, and is covered with bubbles, bake 
it in a moderate oven, about a quarter of an hour or 
more, in proportion to its thickness. 

When it is quite cool, cut it in squares, and grate 
loaf-sugar over them. This quantity will make 
twelve or fifteen buns. 

They are best the day they are baked. 



You may, if you choose, bake them separately, 
in small square tins, adding to the batter half a 
pound of currants or chopped raisins, well floured, 
and stirred in at the last. 



In making buns, stir the yeast well before you 
put it in, having first poured oflT the beer or thin 
part from the top. If your yeast is not good, do 



60 cakes: 

not attempt to make buns *witb rt, as they will never 
be light. 

Buns may be made in a plainer way, with the 
following ingredients, mixed in the above manner. 

Haifa pound of flour, sifted into a pan. 

A quarter of a pound of flour, sift^ in a plate, and set aside to 

sprinkle in at the last. 
Three eggs, well beaten. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Three wine-glasses of milk. 
A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A large tea -spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A quarter of a pound of butler, cut up, and warmed io the milk. 



rusk:. 



A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of nour, sifted. 

One egg. 

Three wine-glasses of milk. 

A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Aiktea-poonful of powdered cinnamon. 



Sift your flour into a pan. Cut up the butter in 
the milk, and warm them a little, so as to soften the 
butter, but not to melt it entirely. Beat your egg ; 
pour the milk and butter into your pan of flour, then 
the egg, then the rose-water and spice, and 
lastly the yeast. Stir all well together with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your pasteboard : lay the 
dough on it, and knead it well. Then divide it into 
small pieces of an equal size, and knead each piece 
into a little thick round cake. Butter an iron pan, 
lay the 'cakes in it, and set them in a warm place 
to rise. Prick the tops with a fork. When they 
are quite light, bake them iif a moderate oven. 



CAKES. 61 



IITDIAN POUND CAKE. 



Eiffbt em. 

The weight of eig^ht eg^ in powdered sugar. 

The weight of six eggs m lodian meal, sifted. 

Half a pound of butter. 

One nutmeg, gprated,  or a tea-spoonful of cinnamon.^ 



Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very light. Stir the meal and eggs, alternate- 
ly, into the butter and sugar. Grate in the nut- 
meg. Stir all well. Butter a tin pan, put in the 
mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. * 



CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs. 

Two large teacupsfull of molasses. 

The same of brown sugar, rolled fine. 

The same of ^sh butter. 

One cup of rich milk. 

Five cups of flour, sifted. . 

Half a cup of powdered allspice and doves. 

Haifa cup of ginger. 



Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm them 
slightly. Warm also the molasses, and stir it into 
the milk and butter : then stir in, gradually, the 
sugar, and set it away to get cool. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the 
mixture alternately with the flour. Add the ginger 
and other spice, and stir the whole very hard. 

Butter small tins, nearly fill them with the mix- 
ture, and bake the cakes in*a moderate oven. 

1* 



6S CAKES. 



liOAF CAKE. 

 

Two pounds of sifted flour, settiag aside half a pound to sprinkle in 

at the last. 
One pouud of fresh butter. 
One pound of powdered sugar. 

Four eggs.  ^ i| 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cu} in half. ' 

One pound of currants, washed and dried. 
Half a pint of milk. 
A glass pf iVine. 
A glass of brandy. 

A table-spoonful of mixed spice, mate, nutmeg, and cinnamon. 
Half a pint of the best brewer's yeast 3 or more, if the yeast is not 
very strong. 



Cut up the butter in the milk, and Warm -it till the 
butta is quite soft ; then stir it together, and set it 
away to cool. It must not be made too warm. Af- 
ter you have beaten the eggs, mix them with the 
butter and milk, and stir the whole into the pan of 
flour. Add the spice and liquor, and stir in the su- 
gar gradually. Having poured oflT the thin part from 
the top, stir the yeast, and pour it into the mixture. 
Then sprinkle in the remainder of the flour. 

Have ready the fruit, whidh must be wellflbm'ed, 
stir it gradually into the mixture. Bytter alatge 
tin pan, and put the cake into it. 'Cover it, and ^t 
it in a warm place for &ve or six hours to rise. 
When quite light, bake it in a moderate oVen. 

SUOAR BISOITI'^S. 

Three pounds of flour, sifted. 

One pound of butter. 

A pound and a half of powdered sugar. 

'Haifa pint of milk. 

Two ttible-spoonfuls of brandy. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, dissolved in water. 

Four table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 



Cut the butter into the flour. Add 'ihe sugatr 
and carraway seeds. Pour in the 'brandy, and 



OAKKB* 63 

then the milk. Lastly, pat in the pearl-ash. Stir 
all well with a knife, and mix it thoroughly, till it 
becopies a lump of dough. 

Flour your paste-board, and lay the dough on it. 
Knead k very well. Divide it into eight or ten pie- 
ces, and knead each piece separately. Then put 
them all together, and knead them very well in one 
lump. 

Cut the* dough in half, and roll it out into sheets, 
about half an inch thick. Beat the sheets of dough 
very hard on both sides, with the rolling-pin. Cut 
them out into round cakes with the edge of a tum- 
bler. B.utter iron pans, and lay the cakes in them. 
Bake them of it very pale brown. If done too much 
they will lose their taste. 

These cakes kept in a stone jar, closely covered 
from the air, will continue perfectly good for seve- 
ral months. 



MILK BISCUITS. 



Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of butter 
Two e^g^. 

Six wine-glasses of milk. 

Two wine-glasses of the best brewer's yeast, or three of good 
home-made yeast. 



Cut the butter into the milk, and warm it slightly 
on the top of the stove, or near the fire. Sift the 
flour into a pan, and pour the milk and butter into it. 
Beat the eggs, and pour them in also. Lastly the 
yeast. IMix all well together with a knife. 

Flour your paste-board, put the lump of dough 
on ity and knead it very hard. Then cut the dough 



64 CAKES. 

in small pieces, and knead them into round balls. 
Stick tbb tops of them with a fork. 

Lay them in buttered pans and set them tq rise. 
They will probably be light in an hour. When they 
are quite light, put them in a moderate oven and 
bake them. 



They are best when quite fresh. 



BUTTER BISCUITS. 



Half a pound of butter. 
Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Haifa pint of milk, or cold water. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 



Cut up the butter -in the flour, and put the salt to 
it. Wet it to a stiff dough with the milk or water. 
Mix it Well with a knife. 

Throw some flour on the paste-board, take the 
dough out of the pan, and knead it very well. 

Roll it out into a large thick sheet, and beat it 
very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin. Beat 
it a long time. 

Cut it out with a tin, 4iDr cup, into small round 
thick cakes. Beat each cake on both sides, with 
the rolling-pin. Prick them with a fork. Put 
them in buttered pans, and bake them of a light 
brown in a slow oven. 



CAKES. 65 



gingc:rbrAB nuts. 

Two pounds of flour, sifled. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Half a pound of brown sugar.  

One quart of sug-ar house molasses. 

Two ounces ofgin|fer/or more, if it is not very strong. 

Twelve dozen grains of allspice, ^ 

Six dozen cloves, > powdered and sifted. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon; O 



Cut Up the butter in the flour. Spread the su- 
gar on your paste-board, nd crush it very 6ne with 
the rolling-pin. Put to it the flour and butter, and 
then add the ginger and other spice. Wet the whole 
with the molasses, and stir all well together with a 
knife. 

Throw Sonne flour on your paste-board, take the 
dough (a large handful at a time) and knead it in 
separate cakes. Then put all together, and knead 
it,very hard for a long time, in one large lump. 
Cut the lump in half, roil it out in two even sheets, 
about half an inch thick, and cut it out in little 
Cfikes, with a very small tin, about the size of a 
cent. Lay them in buttered pans, and bake them 
in a moderate oven, taking care they do not scorch, 
as gingerbread is more liable to burn than any other 
cake. 

You may, if you choose, shape the gingerbread 
nuts, by putting flour in your hand, taking a very 
small piece of the dough, and rolling it into a little 
round ball.* 

* Gingerbread nuts are much improved by mixing with the dough 
half a tea-spooaful of pearl-ash, ditsolved in a little vinegar. 



6 CAKESK 



COMMON GINGERBREAD. 

 

A pint of molasses. 

Half a pound of brown sug^ar. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, sifted. 

A pint olr milk. 

A small tea-spoonfiil ofpearl-asb, or less if it is strong. 

A tea-cup full of ging^er. 



Cut the butter into the flour. Crush the sugar 
with a rolling-pin, and throw it Into the flour and 
butter. Add the ginger. 

Having dissol\red the pearl-ash in a little vinegar, 
stir it with the milk and molasses alternately into the 
other ingredients. Stir it very hard for a long time, 
till it is quite light. 

Put some flour on your paste-board, take out small 
portions of the dough, and make it with your hand 
into long rolls. Then curl up the rolls into round 
<>akes, or twist two rollis together, or lay them in 
straight lengths or sticks side by side, and touching 
each other. Put them carefully in buttered pans, 
and bake them in a moderate oven, not hot enough 
to burn them. If they should get scorched, scrape 
off with a knife, or grater, all the burnt parts, before 
you put the cakes away. 

You can, if you choose, cut out the dough with 
tins, in the shape of hearts, circles, ovals, &:c. or 
you may bake it all in one, and cut it in squares ^hen 
cold. 



If the mixture appears to be too thin, add, grad*- 
ually, a little more sifted flour. 



GAJLCB. 67 



I.AFAYETTE GINGERBREAD. 



Five eggs. 

Half a poand of brown sugar. 

Half a pound of fresh butter. 

A pint of susar-bouse molasses. 

A pound and a half of flour. 

Four table-spoonfuls of ginger. 

Two large sticks of cinnamon, "^ 

Three dozen grains of allspice, > powdered and siAed. 

Three dosen of cloves, j 

The juice and grated peel of two larg^ lemoos* 



Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the 
eggs very well. Pour the molasses, at once, into 
the butter and sugar. Add the ginger and other 
spice, and stir all well together. 

Putin the egg and flour alternately, stirring all 
the time. Stir the whole very hard, and put in the 
lemon at the last. When the whole is mixed, stir 
it till very light. 

Butter an earthen pan, or a thick tin or iron one, 
and put the gingerbread in it. Bake it in a mode- 
rate oven, an hour or niore, according to its thick- 
ness. Take care that it do not burn. 

Or you may bake it in small cakes, or little tins. 

Its lightness will be 'much improved by a small 
tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved in a tea-spoonful 
of vinegar, and stirred lightly in at the last.* Too 
ra\ich pearl-ash will give it an unpleasant taste. 

If you use pearl-ash, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste will be entirely destroyed by the pearl-ash. 
You may substitute for the lemon, some raisins and 
currants, well floured' to prevent their sinking. 

* If the pearl-ash is strong, half a tea-spoonful will be suffi||pnt, or 
less even will do. It is better to stir the pearl-ash in, a little afli time, 
and you can tell by the taste of the mixture, when there is enough. 



68 CAKES. 



Thi^ is the finest of all gingerbread, but should 
not be kept long, as in a few days it becomes * 
very hard and stale. 



A DOVER CAKE. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, dissolved in a little vinegar. 

One pound of gifted flour. 

One pound of powdered white su^ar. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Six eggs. 

One glass of brandy. 

Half a glass of rose-water. 

One grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 



Dissolve the pearl-ash in vinegar. Siir the su- 
gar and butter to a cream, and add to it, gradually, 
the spice and liquor. Beat the eggs very light, and 
stir them into the butter and sugar, alternately, with 
the flour. ' Add, gradually, the milk, and stir the 
whole very hard. 

Butter a large tin pan, and put in the mixture. 
Bake it two hours or more, in a moderate oven. If 
not thick, an hour or an hour and a half will be 
sufficient. 

Wrap it in a thick cloth, and keep it from the air, 
and it will continue moist and fresh for two weeks. 
The pearl-ash will give it a dark colour. 



It will be much improved by a pound of raisins, 
stoned and cut in half, and a pound of currants, 
well washed and dried. 

FMur the fruit well, and stir it in at the last. 



CAKS. 69 



CRUIiLERS. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Three tmarters of a pound of powdered white sug^ar. 

Six egg?, or seven, if they are small. 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 

A grated nutmef . 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Cut the butter into the flour, add the sugar and 
spice, and mix them well together. 

Beat the eggs, and pour them into the pan of 
flour, &;c. Add the rose-water, and mix the whole 
into a dough. If the eggs and rose-water are not 
found sufficient to wet it, add a very little cold wa- 
ter. Mix the dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, take the 
dough out of the pan, and knead it very well. Cut 
it into small pieces, and knead each separately. 
Put all the pieces together, and knead the whole in 
one Imp. Roll it out into a large square sheet, 
about half an inch thick. Take a jagging-iron, or, 
if you have not one, a sharp knife ; run it along the 
sheet, and cut the dough into long narrow slips. 
Twist them up in various forms. Have ready an 
iron pan with melted lard. Lay the crullers lightly 
in it, and fry them of a light brown, turning them 
with a knife and fopk, so' as not to break them, and 
taking care that both sides are equally done. 

When sufficiently fried, spread them on a large 
dish to cool, and grate loaf-sugar over them. 

Crullers may be made in a plainer way, with the 
best brown sugar, (rolled very fine,) and without 
spice or rose-water, 

7 



70 CAKES* 

They can be fried, or rather boiled, in a deep 
iron pot. They should be done in a large quantity 
of lard, and taken out with a skimmer that has holes 
in it, and held on the skimmer till the lard drains 
from them. If for family use, they can be made an 
inch thick. 



BOUGH NUTS. 

Three pounds of sifted flour. 

A pound of powdered susar. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter. 

Four eggs. 

Half a larffe tea-cup full of best brewer's yeast. 

A pint and a half ot milk. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 



Cut up the butter in the flour. Add the sugar, 
spice, and rose-water. Beat the eggs very light, 
and pour them into the mixture. Add the yeast, 
(half a tea-cup, or two wine-glasses full,) and then 
stir in the milk by degrees, so as to make it n soft 
dough. Cover it, and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds with a jag- 
ging-iron, or a sharp knife, and fry them in lard. 
Grate loaf-sugar over them when done. 



WAFFLES. 

Six eggs. ^ 

A pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. 

A pound and a half of nour, sifted. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 



Warm the milk slightly. Cut up the butter in it, 
and stir it a little. Beat the eggs well, and pour 
them into the butter and milk. Sprinkle in half the 
flour, gradually. Stir in the sugar, by degreeSi and 



CAKES. 71 

add the spice. Stir in, gradually, the remainder of 
the flour, so that it becomes a thick batter. 

Heat your waffle-iron ; then grease it well, and 
pour in some of the batter. Shut the iron tight, and 
bake the waffle on both sides, by turning the iron. 

As the waffles are baked, spread them out sepa- 
rately on a dean napkin. When enough are done 
for a plate-full, lay them on a plate in two piles, but- 
tering them, and sprinkling each with beaten cinna- 
mon. 



SOFT MUFFINS. 

Five egers. 

A quart of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

A tea-spoonful of salt. 

Two large table spoonfuls of brewer's yeast, or four of home-mi^de 

yeast. 
Enough of sifted flour to make a stiff batter. 



Warm the milk and butter together, and add to 
them the salt. Beat the eggs very light, and stir 
them into the milk and butter. Then stii? in the 
yeast, and lastly, sufficient flour to make a thick 
batter. 

Cover the mixture, and set it to rise, in a warm 
place, about three hours. 

When it is quite light, grease your baking-iron, 
and your muffin rings. Set the rings on the iron, 
and pour the batter into them. Bake them a light 
brown. When you split them to put on the butter, 
do not cut them with a knife, but pull them open 
with your hands. Cutting them while hot will 
make them heavy. 



72 CAKES, 



INDtAN BATTER CAKES. 



A quart of siAed indian laeal, ) -^^ * 

A handful of wheat flour, siAed, $ **^- 

Three egrgs, well beaten. 

Two tame-^MOQiiila of fineah brewer's yeast, or four of home-made 

yeast. 
A tea-spoonfiil of salt* 
A quart of milk. 



Make the milk quite warm, and then put into it 
the yeast and salt, stirring them well. Beat the 
eggs, and stir them into the mixture. Then, grad- 
ually, stir in the flour and indian meal. 

Cover the batter, and set it to rise four or five 
hours. Or if the weather is cold, and you want the 
cakes for breakfast, you may mix the batter late 
the night before. 

Should you find it sour in the morning, dissolve a 
small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash in as much water as 
will cover 4t, and stir it into the batter, letting it sit 
afterwards at least half an hour. This will take off 
the acid. 

Grease your baking- iron, and pour on it a ladle- 
full of the batter. When brown on one side, turn 
the cake oa the other.^ 



^ Indian batter cakes may be made in a plain and eipeditioos way, 
by put(in|^ three plots of cold water or cold milk into a pan, and grad- 
ually sifting into it (stirrinflr all die time) a auart of indian meal mixed 
with half a pint of wheat-lour, and a small spooafiil of salt Stir it 
verj^ hard, and it may be baked immediately, at it is oot ne^^essary to 
set it to rise. 



CAKES* 73* 



FI.A2fNBl4 CAKBS OR O&UUPJBTS. 

Two poands bfBitmr, sifted. 

Four eggs. 

Three table-spooBfuls of the best brewer's yeast, orfiHir aadiahalf 

of home-made yeast. 
A pint of milk. 



Mix a tea-spoonful of salt wkb the. flouf) and set 
the pan before the fire. Then warm the milk and 
stir into it the flour, so as to make a stiff batter. Beat 
the eggs very light, and stir them into the yeast. 
Add the eggs and yeast to the batter, and beat all 
well together. If it is too stiff, add a h'ttle more 
warm milk. 

Cover the pan closely, and set it to rise near the 
fire. Bake it, when quite light. , 

Have your baking-iron hot. Grease it, and pour 
on a ladle-full of batter. Let it bake slowly, and 
when done on one side, turn it on the other. 

Butter the cakes, cut them across, and send them 
to table hot. 



Three pints of flour, sifted. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt. * 

Four table-spoonfiils of the best brewer's yeast, or six of home- 

made yeast. 
A pint of luke-warm water. 
Half a pint more of warm water, and a little more flour to mix in 

before the kneading. 



Mix the salt with the flour, and make a deep hole 
in the middle. Stir the warm water into the yeast, 
and pour it into the hole in the flour. Stir it with 

7* 



74 CAKES. 

a spoon just enough to make a thin batter, and 
sprinkle some flour over the top. Cover the pan, 
and set it in a warm place for several hours. 

When it is light, add half a pint more of luke- 
warm water ; and make it, with a little more flour, 
into a dough. Knead it very well for ten minutes. 
Then divide it into small pieces, and knead each 
separately. Make them into round cakes or rolls. 
Cover them, and set them to rise about an hour and 
a half. 

Bake them, and when done, let them remain in 
the oven, without the lid, for about ten minutes. 



* 



PART THE THIRD. 



t 

I 



SWEETMEATS- 



GENRAIi DIRECTIONS. 

In preparing sugar for sweetmeats, let it be en- 
tirely dissolved, before you put it on the fire. If 
you dissolve it in water, allow about half a pint of 
water to a pound of sugar. 

If you boil the sugar before you add the fruit to 
it, it will be improved in clearness, by passing it 
through a flannel bag. Skim off the brown scum, 
all the time it is boiling. 

If sweetmeats are boiled too long, they lose their 
flavour and become of a dark colour. 

If boiled too short a time, they will not keep weU. 

You may ascertain when jelly is done, by drop- 
ping a small spoonful into a glass of water. 

If it spreads and mixes with the water, it requires 
more boiling. If it sinks in a lump to the bottom, it 
is sufficiently done. This trial must be made after 
the jelly is cold. 

Raspberryjelly requires more boiling than any 
other sort. Black currant jelly less* 



78 SWEETMEATS. 



APPIiE JBLiIiY. 

Take the best pippin, or bell-flower apples. No 
others will make good jellj. Pare, core, and quar- 
ter them. Lay them in a preserving kettle, and put 
to them as much water only, as will cover them, 
and as much lemon-peel as you choose. Boil them 
till they are soft, but not till they break. Drain off 
the water through a cullender, and mash the apples 
with the back of a spoon. Put them into a jelly 
bag, set a deep dish or pan under it, and squeeze 
out the juice. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of loaf-su- 
gar, broken up, and the juice of two lemons. Put 
the apple-juice, the sugar, and the lemon-juice, into 
the preserving kettle. Boil it twenty minutes, skim- 
ming it well. Take it immediately from the kettle, 
and pour it warm into your glasses, but not so hot 
as to break them. When cold, cover each glass 
with white paper dipped in brandy, and tie it down 
tight with another paper. Keep them in a cool place. 

Quince Jelly is made in the same manner, but do 
not pare the quinces. Quarter them only. 



RED CURRANT JELLT. 

Wash your currants, drain them, and pick them 
from the stalks. Mash them with the back of a 
spoon. Put them in a jelly-bag, and squeeze it till 
all the juice is pressed out. 



SWXGTMSATS; 79 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of the best 
loaf-sugar. Put the juice and the sugar into your 
kettle and boil them twenty minutes, skimming it 
all the while. Pour it warm into your glasses, set 
it for several hours in the sun, and, when cold, tie it 
up with brandy paper. Jellies should never be al- 
lowed to get cold in the kettle. If boifed too long, 
they will lose their flavour, and become of a dark 
colour. 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, and grape 
jelly may be made in the same manner, and with 
the same proportion, of loaf-sugar. 



Red currant jelly may also be made in a very 
simple manner, by putting the currants whole into 
the kettle, with the sugar ; allowing a pound of su- 
gar to a pound of currants. Boil them together 
twenty minutes, skimming carefully. Then pour 
them into a sieve, with a pan under it. Let them 
drain through the sieve into the pan, pressing them 
down with the back of a spoon. 

Take the jelly, while warm, out of the pan, and 
put it into your glasses. Tie it up with brandy pa- 
per when cold. 



BLACK CURRANT JELLT. 

Pick the currants from the stalks, wash and drain 
them. Mash them soft with a spoon, put them in a 
bag, and squeeze out the juice. To each pint of 
juice, allow three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put the juice and sugar into a preserving kettle, and 
boil them about ten minutes, skimming them well. 



80 9WEETMEAT3. 

Take it immediately out of the kettle. Put it warm 
into your glasses. Tie it up with brandy papers. 

The juice of black currants is so very thick, that 
it requires Isss sugar and less boiling than any other 
jelly. 



GOOSEBERRY JELliT. 

Cut the gooseberries in half, (they must be green) 
and put them in ajar closely covered. Set the jar 
in an oven, or pot filled with boiling water. Keep 
the water boiling round the jar till the gooseberries 
are soft, take them out, mash them with a spoon, 
and put them into a jelly bag to drain. When all 
the juice is squeezed out, measure it, and to a pint 
of juice, allow a pound of loaf-sugar! Put the 
juice and sugar into the preserving kettle, and boil 
them twenty minutes, skimming them carefully. 
Put the jelly warm into your glasses. Tie them 
up with brandy paper. 

Cranberry jelly is made in the same manner. 



GRAPE JELLY. 



Pick the grapes from the stems, wash and drain 
them. Mash them with a spoon. Put them in the 
preserving kettle, and cover them closely with a 
large plate. Boil them ten minutes. Then pour 
them into your jelly bag, and squeeze out the juice. 



SWKETHEATS. 81 

Allow a pint of juice to a pound of sugar. Put 
the sugar and juice into your kettle, and boil them 
twenty minutes, skimming them well. 

Fill your glasses while the jelly is warm, and tie 
them up with brandy papers. 



PACH JEIiliY. 

Wipe the wool off your peaches, (which should 
be free-stones, and not too ripe) and cut them in 
quarters. Crack the stones, and break the kernels 
small. 

Put the peaches and the kernels into a covered 
jar, set them in boiling water, and let them boil till 
they are soft. 

Strain them through a jelly-bag, till all the juice 
is squeezed out. Allow a pound of loaf-sugar to 
a pint of juice. Put the sugar and juice into a 
preserving kettle, and boil them twenty minutes, 
skimming carefully. 

Put the jelly warm into your glasses, and when 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

Plum and green-gage jelly may be made in the 
same manner, with the kernels, which greatly im- 
prove the flavour. 

PRESfiRYED QUINCES. 

Pare and core your quinces, carefully taking out 
the parts that are knotty and defective. Cut them 
into quarters, or into round slices. Put them into 
a preserving kettle, and cover them with the parings 
and a very little water. Lay a large plate over 
8* 



83 SWSETMATg. 

^em to keep in tb steam, and boil them till they 
ax<3 teDiler. 

Take out the quinces, and strain the liquor 
through a bag. To every pint of liquor, allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Boil the juice and sugar to- 
gether, about ten minutes, skimming it well. Then 
put in the quinces, and boil them gently twenty 
minutes. When the sugar seems to have complete- 
ly penetrated them, take them out, put them in a 
glass jar, and pour the juice over them warm. Tie 
them up, when cold, with brandy pape#. 

In preserving fruit that is boiled first without the 
sugar, it is generally better (after the first boiling) 
to let it stand till next day before you put the sugar 
to it. 

PRESERTI> PIPPINS. 

Pare and core some of the largest and finest pip- 
pins. Put them in your preserving kettle,* with 
some lemon-peel, and all the apple-parings. Add 
a very little water, and cover them closely. Boil 
them till they are tender, taking care they do not 
burn. Take out the apples, and spread them on a 
large dish to cool. Pour the liquor into a bag, and 
strain it well. Put it into your kettle with a pound 
of loaf-sugar to each pint of juice, and add lemon 
juice to your taste. Boil it five minutes, skimming 
it well. Then put in the whole apples, and boil 
them slowly half an hour, or till they are quite soft 
and clear. Put them, with the juice, into your jars, 
and when quite cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

* The use of brass or bell-metal kettles is now almost entirely su- 
perseded by the enamelled kettles of iron lined with china, called 
preservings kettles ; brass and bell-metal having always been objec- 
tionable on account of the verdigris which they engender. 



Preserved apples are only intended for present 
use, as they will not keep long* 

Pears may be done in tbe same way, either 
whole or cut in half. They may be flavoured either 
with lemon or cinnamon, or both. The pears for 
preserving should be green. 



PRSRVD PACHS. 

Take the largest and finest free-stone peaches, 
before they are too ripe. Pare them, and cut them 
in halves or in quarters. Crack the stones, and 
take out the kernels, and break them in pieces. Put 
the peaches, with the parings and kernels, into your 
preserving kettle, 'with a very little water. Boil 
them till they are tender. Take out the peaches 
and spread them on a large dish to cool. Strain 
the liquor through a bag or sieve. Next day, 
measure the juice, and to each pint allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar. Put the juice and sugar into the ket- 
tle with the peaches, and boil them slowly half an 
hour, or till they are quite soft, skimming all the 
time. Take the peaches out, put them into your 
jars, and pour the warm liquor over them. When 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

If boiled too long, they will look dull, and be of 
a dark colour.* 



If you do not wish the juice to be very thick, do 
not put it on to boil with the sugar, but first boil the 

* To preserve peaches whole, pare them and thrust out the stones 
with a skewer. Then proceed as above, onlv blanch the kernels, and 
keep them whole. When the peaches are done, stick a kerne) into 
the hole of every peach, before you put them into the jars. lai^ 
frmt wiM keep best in broad shallow stone pots. 



84 SWEETMEATS. 

sugar alone, with only as much water as will diV 
solve it, and skim it well. Let the sugar, in aU 
cases, be entirely melted before it goes on the fire. 
Having boiled the sugar and water, and skimmed it 
to a clear syrup, then put in your juice and fruit to- 
gether, and boil them till completely penetrated with 
the sugar. 



PRESERTED CRAB APPLES. 

Wash your fruit. Cover the bottom of your pre- 
serving kettle with grape-leaves. Put in the apples. 
Hang them over the fire, with a very little water, 
and cover them closely. Do not allow them to boil, 
but let them simmer gently till, they are yellow. 
Take them out, and spread them on a large dish to 
cool. Pare and core them. Put them again into 
the kettle, with fresh vine-leaves under and over 
them, and a very little water. Hang them over the 
fire till they are green. Do not let them boil. 

Take them out, weigh therp, and allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar to a pound of crab-apples. Put to the 
sugar just water enough to dissolve it. When it is 
all melted, put it on the fire, and boil and ^kim it. 
Then put in your fruit, and boil the apples till they 
are quite clear and soft. Put them in jars, and 
pour the warm liquor over them. When cold, tie 
them up with brandy paper. 



PRESERVED PLUMS. 



Cut your plums in half, (they must not be quite 
ripe,} and take out the stones. Weigh the plums. 



SWEETMEATS. 85 

and allow a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Crack the stones, take out the kernels and break 
them in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels very 
slowly for about fifteen minutes, in as little water as 
possible. Then spread them on a large dish to cool, 
and strain the liquor. 

Next day make your syrup. Melt the sugar in as 
little water as will suffice to dissolve it, (about half a 
pint of water to a pound of sugar) and boil it a few 
minutes, skimming it till quite clear. Then put in 
your plums with the liquor, and boil them fifteen 
minutes. Put them in jars, pour the juice over 
them warm, and tie them up, when cold, with bran- 
dy paper.* 

Syrups may be improved in clearness, by adding 
to the dissolved sugar and water, some white of egg 
very well beaten, allowing the white of one egg to 
each pound of sugar. Boil it very hard, and skim 
it well, that it may be quite clear before you put in 
your fruit. 

PRESERTED STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh the strawberries after you have picked off 
the stems. To each pound of fruit allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar, which must be powdered. Strew half 
of the sugar over the strawberries, and let them 
stand in a cold place two or three hours. Then put 
them in a preserving kettle over a slow fire, and by 

* PlumS; for common use. are very good done in molasseg. Put 
your plums into an earthen vessel that holds a gallon, having first .si it 
each plum with a knife. To three quarts of plums put a pint of molas- 
ses. Cover them and set them on hot coals in the chimney corner. 
Let them stew for twelve hours or more, occasionally stimng them, 
and renewing the coals. Next day put them up in jars. Done in this 
manner they will keep till the next spring. 

8* 



86 sWfEttfeAfdi 

degrees strew on the rest of the sugar. Boll them 
fifteen or twenty minutes, and skim them well. 

Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, and when 
cold, seal the corks 

If you wish to do them whole, take them careful- 
ly out of the syrup, (one at a time) while boiling. 
Spread them to cool on large dishes, not letting the 
itraWberries touch each other, and when cool, re- 
turn them to the syrup, and boil them a little longer* 
Repeat this several times. 

Keep the bottles in dry sand, in a place that is 
66ol and not damp. 

Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, cherries and 
grapes may be done in the same manner. The 
stones must be taken from the cherries (which 
should be morellas, or the largest and best red cher- 
ries ;) and the seeds should be extracted from the 
grapes with the sharp point of a penknife. Goose- 
berries, grapes, and cherries, require longer boiling 
than strawberries, raspberries or currants. 



lPttSltTl> CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and to each 
pbund allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the 
sugar in a v6ry little water, (about half a pint of wa- 
ter to a pouud of sugar) and set it on the tire in a 
preserving keltie. Boil it nearly ten minutes, skim- 
rtiing it well. Then put in your cranberries, and 
boil them slowly, till they are quite soft, and of a 
6xie colour. 

Put them warm into your jars or glasses, and tie 
them up with brandy paper when cold. 



SWEETMEATS. 87 

All sorts of sweetmeats keep better in glasses, 
than in stone or earthen jars. When opened for 
use, they should be tied up again immediately, as 
exposure to the air spoils them. 

Common glass tumblers are very convenient for 
jellies, and preserved small fruit. White jars are 
better than stone or earthen, for large fruit. 

PRSSERVED PUMPKIlf. 

Cut slices from a fine high-coloured pumpkin, 
and cut the slices into chips about the thickness of a 
dollar. The chips should be of an equal size, six 
inches in length, and an inch broad. Weigh them, 
and allow to each pound of pumpkin chips, a pound 
of loaf-sugar. Have ready a sufficient number of 
fine lemons, pare off the yellow rind, and lay it 
aside. Cut the lemons in half, and squeeze the 
juice into a bowl. Allow a gill of juice to each 
pound of pumpkin. 

Put the pumpkin into a broad pan, laying the su- 
gar among it. Pour the lemon-juice over it. Cov- 
er the pan, and let the pumpkin ehips, sugar and 
lemon-juice, set all night. 

Early in the morning put the whole into a preser- 
ving pan, and boil all together (skimming it well) 
till the pumpkin becomes clear and crisp, but not 
till it breaks. It should have the appearance of 
lemon-candy. You may, if you choose, put some 
lemon-peel with it, cut in very small pieces. 

Half an hour's boiling (or a little more) is gen- 
erally sufficient. 

When it is done, take out the pumpkin, spread it 
on a large dish, and strain the syrup through a bag.- 
Put the pumpkin into your jars or glasses, pour the 
syrup over it, and tie it up with brandy paper. 



68 SWEETMEATS. 

If properly done, this is a very fine sweetmeat. 
The taste of the pumpkin will be lost in that of the 
lemon and sugar, and the syrup is particularly 
pleasant. It is eaten without cream, like preserved 
ginger. It may be laid on puff-paste shells, after 
they are baked. 



PRESERTED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare your p!ne-apples, and cut them in thick sli- 
ces. Weigh the slices, and to each pound allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a very 
small quantity of water, stir it, and set it over the 
fire in a preserving-kettle. Boil it ten minutes, 
skinnming it well. Then put in it the pine-apple 
slices, and boil them till they are clear and soft, but 
not till they break. About half an hour (or perhaps 
less time) will suffice.- Let them cool in a large 
dish or pan, before you put them into your jars, 
which you must do carefully, lest they break. Pour 
the syrup over them. Tie them up with brandy 
paper. 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit.  ' 
Mash the raspberries, and put them with the sugar 
into your preserving kettle. Boil it slowly for an 
hour, skimming it well. Tie it up with brandy pa- 
per. 

All jams are made in the same manner. 



APPENDIX. 



CONTENTS. 



A-laomode Beef .... 


91 


Chicken Pudding .  . . 


92 


A boned Turkey . - - . 


93 


Collared Pork ^ .  . 


94 


Spiced Oysters - . . * 


95 


Stewed Oysters - . * 


96 


Oyster Soup  - - - 


96 


Fried Oysters - ^ - - 


96 


Baked Oysters - - . - 


97 


Oyster Patties * * - - 


97 


Oyster Sauce - - - - 


97 


Pickled Oysters - - - . 


98 


Chicken Salad .... 


98 


Lobster Salad .... 


99 


Stewed Mushrooms . . . . 


99 


Peach Cordial - . - - 


100 


Cherry Bounce - - - - . 


100 


Raspberry Cordial - - - - 


100 


Blackberry Cordial . . . . 


101 


Ginger Beer , - , - 


101 


Jelly Cake - - . , . 


102 


Hice Cakes for Breakfast ... 


103 


Ground Rice-Pudding ... 


103 


Tomata Ketchup .... 


103 


Yeast 


104 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



A-l4A-MOI>-BF. 

A round of fresh beef weighing from eighteen to twenty poands. 

A pound of the fat of bacon or corned pork. 

The marrow from the bone of the beef, ) ^. ^.^j ^.^.l 

A quarter of a pound of beef-suet, J chopped together. 

Two bundles of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, small onions, &c. chop- 
ped fine. 
Two large bunches of sweet maijoram, > sufficient when powdered 
Two bunches of sweet basil, y to make four tablenipopn- 

fills of each. 
Two large nutmegs, ^ 
Half an ounce of cloves, > beaten to a powder. 
Half an ounce of mace, ^ 
One table spoonful of salt. 
One table spoonful of pepper. 
Two glasses of madeira wine. 

If your a-la-mode beef is to be eaten cold, pre- 
pare it three days before it is wanted. 

Take out the bone. Fasten up the opening with 
skewers, and tie the meat all round with tape. Rub 
it all over on both sides with salt. A large round 
of beef will be more tender than a small one. 

Chop the marrow and suet together. Pound the 
spice. Chop the pot-herbs very fine. Pick the 
sweet-marjoram and sweet-basil clean from the 
stalks, and rub the leaves to a powder. You must 
have at least four table-spoonfuls of each. Add the 
pepper and salt, and mix well together all the ingre- 
dients that compose the seasoning. 

Cut the fat of the bacon or pork into pieces 
about a quarter of an inch thick and two inches 
long. With a sharp knife make deep incisions all 
over the round of beef and very near each other. 
Put first a little of the seasoning into each hole, then 
a slip of the bacon, pressed down hard and covered 
with more seasoning. Pour a little wine into each 
hole. 



93 APPENDIX. 

. When you have thus stuffed the upper side of the 
beef, turn it over and stuff in the same manner the 
under side. If the round is very large, you will 
require a larger quantity of seasoning. 

Put it in a deep baking dish, pour over it some 
wine, cover it, and let it set till next morning. It 
will be much the better for lying all night in the 
seasoning. 

Next day put a little water in the dish, set it in 
a covered oven, and bake or stew it gently for 
twelve hours at least, or more if it is a large round. 
It will be much improved by stewing it in lard. Let 
it remain all night in the oven. 

If it is to be eaten hot at dinner, put it in to stew 
the evening before, and let it cook, till dinner-time 
next day. Stir some wine and a beaten egg into 
the gravy. 

If brought to table cold, cover it all over with 
green parsley, and stick a large bunch of something 
green in the centre. 

What is left will make an excellent hash the 
next day. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut up a pair of young chickens, and season 
them with pepper and salt and a little mace and 
nutmeg. Put them into a pot with two large spoon- 
fuls of butter, and water enough to cover thenft. 
Stew them gently ; and when about half cooked, 
take them out and set them away to cool. Pour off 
the gravy, and reserve it to be served up separately. 

In the mean time, make a batter as if for a pud- 
ding, of eight table-spoonfuls of sifted flour stirred 
gradually into a quart of milk, six eggs well beaten 
and added by degrees to the mixture, and a very little 
salt.  Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of a deep 
dish, and pour over it some of the batter ; then another 



APPENDIX. 93 

layer pf chicken, and then some more batter ; and 
so on till the dish is full, having a cover of batter at 
the top. Bake it fill it is brown. Then break an 
egg into ilhe gravy which you have set away, givb 
it a boil, and send it to table in a sauce-boat to eat 
with the pudding. 

A BOXED TURKEY. 

A large turkey. 

Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Four eggs. 

One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, and little onions. 

Two bunches of sweet marjoram. 

Two bunches of sweet basil. 

Two nutmegs, "p 

Half an ounce of cloves, > pounded fine. 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, j 

A table-spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of pepper. 

Skewers, tape, neeble, and coarse thread will be wanted. 

Grate the bread, and put the crusts in water to 
soften. Then break them up small into the pan of 
crumbled bread. Cut up a pound of butter in the 
pan of bread. Rub the herbs to powder and have 
two table-spoonfuls of sweet-marjoram and two of 
sweet basil, or more of each, if the turkey is very 
large. Chop the pot-herbs, and pound the spice. 
Then add the salt and pepper, and mix au the in- 
gredients well together*! ^^^^ slightly four eggs, and 
mix them with the seasoning and bread crumbs. 

After the turkey is drawn, take a sharp knife and 
beginning at the wings, carefully separate the flesh 
from the bone, scraping It down as you go ; and 
avoid tearing or breaking the skin. Next, loosen 
the flesh from the breast and back, and then from 
the thigbti It requires great care and patience to do 
it Dicely. When aU the flesh is thus loosened, 
9 



94 APPENDIX. 

take the turkey by the neck, give it a pull, and the 
skeleton will come out entire from the flesh, as 
easily as you draw your hand ouf of a glove. The 
flesh will then be a shapeless mass. Within needle 
and thread mend or sew up any holes that may be 
found in the skin. 

Take up a handful of the seasoning, squeeze it 
hard and proceed to stufl* the turkey with it, be- 
ginning at the wings, next to the body, and then the 
thighs. 

If you stuff it properly, it will again assume its 
natural shape. Stuff it very hard. When all the 
stuffing is in, sew up the breast, and skewer the 
turkey into its proper form, so that it will look as 
if it had not been boned. 

Tie it round with tape and bake it three hours 
or more. Make a gravy of the giblets chopped, 
and enrich it with some wine and an egg. 

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop spoonfuls 
of red currant jelly all over it, and in the dish 
round it. 

A large fowl may be boned and stuffed in the 
same manner. 

^  

COIiLAREB PORK. 

A \eg of fresh pork, not lai^e. 

Two table-spooofuls of powdered sage. 

Two table-spoonfuls of sweet marjoram, 7 p^j^jjercd. 

One table-spoonful of sweet basil, 5 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, ^ 

Half an ounce of cloves, > powdered. 

Two nutmegs, , j  

A bunch of pot-herbs, chopped imall. 

A sixpenny loaf of stale bread, grated. 

Half a pound of butter, cut into the bread. 

Two eggs. 

A table -spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of black pepper. % 

Grate the bread, and having softened the crust 
in water, mix it with the crumbs. Prepare all the 



> 



APPEITDIX. d5 

Other ingredients, and mix them well with the gra- 
ted bread and egg. 

Take the bone out of a leg of pork, and rub the 
meat well on both sides with salt. Spread the sea- 
soning thick all over the meat. Then roll it up 
very lightly, and tie it round with tape. 

Put it rato a deep dish with a little water, and 
bake it two hours. If eaten hot, put an egg and 
some wine into the gravy. When cold, cut it down 
in round slices. 

SPICED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred laf|fe fresh oysters. 

Four table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar. 

A nutmeg; grated. 

Three dozen of cloves, whole. 

Eight blades oi mace, whole. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt, if the oysters are fresli. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of whole allspice. 

As much cayenne pepper as wilt lie on the point of a knife. 

Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a large 
earthen pitcher. Add to them the vinegar and all 
the other ingredients. Stir all well together. Set 
them in the stove, or over a slow fire, keeping them 
covered. Take them off the fire several times, and 
stir them to the bottom. As soon as they boil 
completely, they are sufficiently done ; if they boil 
too long, they will be bard. 

Pour them directly out of the pitcher into a pan, 
and set them away to cool. They must not be ea- 
ten till quite cold, or indeed till next day. 

If you wish to keep them a ^eek, put a smaller 
quantity of spice, or they will taste too much of it 
by setting so long. Let them be well covered. 

Oysters in the shell may be kept all winter by 
laying them in a heap in the cellar, with the con- 
cave side upwards to hold in the liquor. Sprinkle 
them every day with strong salt and watdr, and then 



96 APP^NOlX. 



# 



wttfa indiaa meal. Corer tbem with mattitig or aD 
old carpet. 

Open the oysters and strain the liquor. Put to 

 them some grated *stale bread, and a^ittle pepper 

and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, and add 

a glass of white wine. Let them stew but a very 

short time, or they will be hard. 

Have ready some slices of buttered toast with 
the crust cut off. When the oysters are done, dip 
the toast in the liquor, and lay the pieces round the 
sides and in the bottom of a deep dish. Pour the 
oysters and liquor upon the toast, and send tbem to 
table hot. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Three pints of large fresh oysters. 

Two table-spoonfuis of butter, rolled in flour. 

A bunch of sweet herbs. 

A quart of rich miik. 

Pepper to your taste. 

Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. Strain 
it, and set it on* the fire. Put into it, pepper to your 
taste, two table-spoonfuls of butter rolled in flour, 
ami a bunch of sweet marjoram and other pot- 
herbs. When it boils add a quart of rich milk  
and as soon as it boils again take out the herbs, 
and put in the oysters just before you send it to 
table. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

For frying, choose the largest and finest oysters. 
Beat some yolks of eggs, and mix with them grated 
bread, and a small quantity of beaten nutmeg and 
maoe, and a little salt. Having stirred this batter 



 < 



APPENDIX. 97 

well, dip your oysters into it, and fry tbem in lard, 
till tbey are of a light brown colour* Take care 
not to do them too much. Serve them up hot. 

For grated bread, some ftibstitute crackers 
pounded to a powder, and mixed with yolk of egg 
and spice. 

BAKEB OYSTERS. 

Grate a small loaf of stale bre^d. Butter a 
deep dish well, and cover the sides and bottom with 
bread crumbs. Put in half the oysters with a little 
mace and pepper. Cover them with crumbs and 
small bits of butter strewed over thenrK Then put 
in the remainder of the oysters. Season them. 
Cover them as before with crumbs and butter. If 
the oysters are fresh pour in the liquor. If they 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a very 
short time. 

OYSTER PATTIES. . 

Make some rich puff-paste, and bake it in very 
small tin patty-pans. When cool, turn them out 
upon a large dish. * 

Stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, 
a little mace and nutmegs some yolk of egg boiled 
hard and grated, a little butter, and as much of the 
oyster liquor as will cover them. When they 
have stewed a little while, take them out of the 
pan, and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell of puff- 
paste. 

OYSTER SAUC]^. 

When your oysters are opened, take care of ail 
the liquor and give tbem one boil in it. Then 



9S 



APPBNPIXi 



take the oysters out, and put to the liquor three or 
four blades of mace. Add to it some melted but- 
ter, and some thick cream or rich milk. Put in 
your oysters and five them a boil. 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Four huDdred large fresh oysters. 

A pint of vinegar. 

Eight spoonfuls of salt. 

A pint of white wine. 

Six table-spooofuls of whole black pepper. 

Eight blades of mace. 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and boil it. Then 
pour it hot over the oysters, and let them lie in it 
about ten minutes. Then take them out, and 
cover them. Boil the liquor with the salt, pepper, 
mace, vinegar, and wine. When cold, put the 
oysters in a close jar, and pour the liquor over 
them. Cover the jar very tight, and the oysters 
will keep a long time. 

If the oysters are salt, put no salt to the liquor. 

CHICKEN SAIiAD. 

Two large cold fowls, eithir boiled or roasted. 

The yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs. 

Haifa pint of sweqjt-oil. 

Haifa pint of vinegar. 

A gill of mixed iQUStard. 

A small tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. 

A small tea-spoonful of salt. 

Two large heads, or four small ones, of fine celery. 

Cut the meat of the fowls from the bones, in pie- 
ces not exceeding an inch in size. 

Cut the white part of the celery into pieces about 
an inch long. Mix the chicken and celery well to- 
gether. Cover fliem and set them away. 

With the back, of a wooden spoon, mash the 
yolks of eggs till they are a perfectly smooth paste. 



APPENDIX. 99 

Mix tbern with the oil, vinegar, mustard, cayenne, 
and salt. Stir them for a long time, till they are 
thoroughly mixed and quite smooth. The longer 
they are stirred the better. When this dressing is 
sufficiently mixed, cover it, and set it away. 

Five minutes before the salad is to be eaten 
pour the dressing over the chicken and celery, and 
mix all well together, (f the dressing is put on 
long before it is wanted, the salad will be tough 
and hard. 

This salad is very excellent made 6f cold turkey 
instead of chicken. 

liOBSTER SALAD. 

Take two large boiled lobsters. Extract all the 
meat from the shell, and cut it up into very small 
pieces. 

For lobster salad, you must have lettuce instead 
of celery. Cut up the lettuce as small as possible. 

Make a dressing as for chicken-salad, with the 
yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs, half a pint of sweet 
oil, half a pint of vinegar, a gill of mustard, a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne, and a tea-spopnful of salt. 
Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 

A few minutes before it is to be eaten, pour^e 
dressing over the lobster and lettuce, and mix it 
very well. ' .  

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

 

Take a quart of fresh mushrooms. Peel them 
and cut off the stems. Season them with pepper 
and salt. Put them in a sauce-pan or skillet, with 
a lump of fresh butter the size of an egg, and suf- 
ficient cream or rich milk to cover them. Put on 
the lid of the pan, and stew the mushrooms about 



100 appendix:. 

a quarter of an hour, keeping'them well covered or 
the flavour will evaporate. 

When you take them off the fire, have ready one 
or two beaten eggs. Stir the eggs gradually into 
the stew, and send it to table in a covered dish. 



PEACH CORDIAL. 

Take a peck of cling-stone peaches ; such as 
come late in the season, and are very juicy. Pare 
them, and cut them from the stones. Crack about 
half the stones and save the kernels. Leave the 
remainder of the stones whole, and mix them with 
the cut peaches ; add also the kernels. Put the 
whole into a wide-mouthed demi-john, and pour on 
them, two gallons of double-rectified whiskey. Add 
three pounds of rock-sugar candy. Cork it tightly, 
and set it away for three months : then bottle it, 
and it will be fit for use. This cordial is as clear 
as water, and nearly equal to noyau. 

CHERRY BOUNCE. 

Take a pfck of morella cherries, and a peck of 
black hearts. Stone the roorellas and crack the 
stones. Put all the cherries add the cracked stones 
into a demi-john, with three pounds of loaf-sugar 
slightly pounded or beaten. Pour in two gallons of 
double-rectified whiskey. Cork the demi-john, 
and in six months the cherry-bounce will be fit to 
pour off and bottle for use ; but the older it is, the 
better. 

RASPBERRY CORDIAI^. 

To each quart of raspberries allow a pound of 
loaf-sugar. Mash the raspberries and strew the 



I 

1 



APPENBIX. 101 

sugar over tbem, having first pounded it slightly, or 
cracked it with the rolling-pin. Let the raspberries 
and sugar set till next day, keeping them well 
covered, then put then^in a thin linen bag and squeeze 
out the juice with your hands. To every pint of juice 
allow a quart of double-rectified whiskey. Cork 
it well, and set it away for use. It will be ready in 
a few days. 

Raspberry Vinegar (suhich, mixed with water, is 
a pleasant and cooling beverage in warm weather) 
is made exactly in the same manner as the cordial, 
only substituting the best white vinegar for the 
whiskey. 



Take the ripest blackberries. Mash them, put 
them in a linen bag and squeeze out the juice. To 
every quart of juice allow a pound of beaf^n loaf- 
sugar. Put the sugar into a large preserving kettle, 
and pour the juice on it. When It is all melted, 
set it on the fire, and boil it to a thin jelly. When 
cold, to every quart of juice allow a quart of brandy. 
Stir them well together, and bottle it for use. It 
will be ready at once. 



GINGER BEER. 

Put into a kettle, two ounces of powdered ginger, 
(or more if it is not very strong,) half *an ounce of 
cream of tartar, two large lemons cut in slices, two 
pounds of broken loaf-sugar, and one gallon of soft 
water. Simmer them over a slow fire for half an 
hour. When the liquor is nearly cold, stir into it a 
large table-spoonful of the best yeast. After it has 
fermented, bottle it for use. 



103 APPENDIX. 



JELLT CAKE. 

Stir together till very ligbtjj^ half a pound of fresh 
butter and half a pound of powdered white sugar. 
Beat twelve eggs very light, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, alternately with a pound of sifted 
flour. Add a beaten nutmeg, and half a wine-glass 
of rose-water. Have ready a flat circular plate of 
tin, which must be laid on your griddle, or in the 
oven of your stove, and well greased with butter. 
Pour on it a large ladle-full of the batter, and bake 
It as you would a buck-wheat cake, taking care to 
have it of a good shape. It will not require turning. 
Bake as many of these cakes as you want, laying 
each on a separate plate. Then spread jelly or 
marmalade all over the top of each cake, and lay 
another upon it. Spread that also with jelly, and 
so on till you have a pile of Gve or six, looking like 
one large thick cake. Trim the edge nicely with a 
penknife, and cover the top with powdered sugar. 
Or you may ice it ; putting on the nonpareils or 
sugar-sand in such a manner as to mark out the 
cake in triangular divisions. When it is to be eaten, 
cut it in three-cornered slices as you would a pie. 

To make a red colouring for icing. Take twen- 
ty grains of cochineal powder, twenty grains of 
cream of tartar, and twenty grains of powdered 
alum. Put them into a gill of cold soft water, and 
boil it very slowly till reduced to one half. Strain 
it through thin muslin, and cork it up for use. A 
very small quantity of this mixture will colour icing 
of a beautiful pink. With pink icing, white nonpa- 
reils should be used. 



APPENDi:iL* 103 



RICE CAKES, FOR BREAKFAST. 

Put a pound of rice in soak over night. Early 
in the morning boil it very soft, drain it from the 
water, mix with it a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and set it away to cool. When it is cold, stir it into 
a quart of milk, and add a very little salt. Beat six 
eggs, and sift half a pint of flour. Stir the es;g 
and Bour alternately into the rice and milk. Hav- 
ing beaten the whole very well, bake it on the grid- 
dle in cakes about the size of a small dessert-plate. 
Butter them, and send them to table hot. 



GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Take a pound of ground rice and boil it in a 
quart of milk, with a grated nutmeg or a tea-spoon- 
ful of powdered cinnamon. When it has boiled, 
pour it into a pan and stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Set it away to get cold. Then beat eight eggs, 
omitting the whites of four. Have ready a pound 
of dried currants well cleaned, and sprinkled with 
flour ; stir them into the mixture alternately with 
the beaten egg. Add half a glass of rose-wat^, or 
half a glass of mixed wine and brandy. Butter a 
deep dish, put in the mixture, and bake it of a pale 
brown. 



TOMATA KETCHUP. 

Slice the tomatas. Put them in layers into a 
deep earthen pan, and sprinkle every layer with salt. 
Let them stand in this state for twelve liours. Then 
put them over the JQxe in a preserving kettle, and 
simmer them till they are quite soft. Pour them 



104 APPfiNBlX. 

into a thin linen bag, and squeeze the juice from 
them. Season the liquor to your taste, with grated 
horse-radish, a little garlic, some mace, and a few 
cloves* Boil it well with these ingredients-^and, 
when cold, bottle it for use. 



TAST. 

Have ready two quarts of boiling water ; put into 
it a large handful of hops, and let them boil twenty 
minutes. Sift into a pan a pound and a half of flour. 
Strain the liquid from the hops, and pour half of it 
over the flour. Let the other half of the liquid 
stand till it is cool, and then pour it gradually into 
the pan of flour, mixing it well. Stir into it a large 
tea-cup full of good yeast, (brewer's yeast if you can 
get it.) Put it immediately into bottles, and cork 
it tightly. It ^ill be fit for use in an hour. It 
will be much improved and keep longer, by putting 
into each bottle a tea-spoonful of pearl-ash. 



FINIS. 



i 



* 



