A 
NEW COLLECTION 

OF 

GENUINE RECEIPTS, 

FOR THE PREPARATION AND EXECUTION 
OP 

CURIOUS ARTS, 

AND 

XnttvtutitiQ 12n)trtm*ttt8, 

MEDICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS, DOMES- 
TIC AND AGRICULTURAL J 

Which are well explained, and warranted genuine, and may 
be performed easily, safely, and at little expense 

TO WHICH IS ADDED, 
A COMPLETE AND MUCH APPROVED SYSTEM 
OP 

DYEING, 

IK ALL ITS VARIETIES, 



i Stereotype edition. 
CONCORD, N. H. 

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY Pli E & CHAf E. 

1831. 



GENUINE 
XNVAXUABXE RECEIPTS. 

To Burnish tvilh Gold. 

Make a sizing by boiling the skins of beaver 
and musk-rats, (which may be easily procured at 
a hat manufactory,) in water, till it is of sufficient 
strength, that, by cooling, it will become a jelly, 
and will support a common leaden bullet on its 
surface. Strain the liquor, and give your work 
one coat of it, while warm, with a brush; when 
this is dry, add a little fine whiting to the sizing, 
and gi\e the work one coat of this; then add as 
pwih whiting as will work freely under the brush, 
and lay on five or six coats of this, allowing it to 
dry each time. Smooth the work by wetting and 
rubbing it with pummice stone, and afterwards 
with sand paper. Take some burnish gold-size 
(which is composed of pipe clay, black lead and 
castile soap, but may be procured ready made,) 
and dilute it with water and the above mentioned 
sizing, equal quantities, and give the work three 
successive coats of this; when the last is dry, dip 
a camel hair pencil in some rum and water, and 
with it wet a small part of the work, and immedi- 
ately, while it is flowing, lay on a leaf of gold, 
brushing it down with a very soft camel hair brush; 
proceed thus till the whole is gilt, and let it dry 
Then with a flint burnisher, rub over the whole, 
carefully, fill you bring it to a perfect polish, and 
the work is finished. 



4 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

To Enamel Picture Glasses. 
The glass must be washed perfectly clean and 
dried; then damp it by breathing on it, or wet it 
with the tongue, and immediately lay on a leaf of 
gold, and brush it down very smooth. When 
this is dry, draw any letters or flowers on the gold 
with Brunswick blacking, and when dry, the su- 
perfluous gold may be brushed off with cotton, 
leaving the figure entire. Afterward the whole 
may be covered with blacking, or painted in any 
colour, while the gold figures will appear to advan- 
tage on the opposite side of the glass 

To Wash Iron or Steel with Gold. 

Mix together one part of nitric acid, and two 
parts of muriatic acid, in a phial, and add gold 
leaf as much as the acid will dissolve. (This so- 
lution is called the nitro-muriate of gold.) Pour 
over this solution cautiously, about half as much 
sulphuric ether; shake the mixture, and then al- 
low it to settle. The ether will take the gold from 
the acid, and will separate itself from it also, and 
form an upper stratum in the phial. Carefully pour 
off. this auriferous either, into another phial. Any 
piece of polished steel, or iron, may be washed 
over with this ether, and immediately plunged into 
cold water, and it will have acquired a coat of 
pure gold, the beauty of which may be increased 
by burnishing, — In some cases it may be well to 
heat the iron moderately in a fire, previous to bur- 
nishing. 

To Wash Bras* or Copper with Silver. 
To half an ounce of nitric acid, in a phial, add 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 5 

one ounce of water and two drachms of good sil- 
ver. It will soon be dissolved, and if the acid 
and metal are both pure, the solution, (which is 
called nitrate of silver,) will be colourless. Add 
to the solution rather more tartrate of potass than 
will dissolve. Then dip a piece of soft leather in 
the solution, and rub it on the metal till it is dry; 
the metal may thus be handsomely silvered. — An- 
other method is, to put some pieces of copper into 
the solution of silver, which will, throw down the 
silver in a state of metallic powder. Fifteen or 
twenty grains of this powder, are mixed with two 
drachms of tartrate of potass, two drachms of 
muriate of soda, and half a drachm of alum. Tho 
metal is first washed with nitric acid, and immedi- 
ately plunged into clear water, and is then rubbed 
over with this composition till it is thoroughly sil- 
vered. 

Ornamental Bronze Gilding. 
The ground on which bronze ornaments are to 
be formed, must be varnished with a mixture of 
copal varnish and old linseed oil. When this is 
dry, it will adhere slightly to any dry substance 
that is pressed against it. Whatever figures you 
intend to bronze, must be represented by holes cut 
through pieces of paper. Lay these patterns on 
the work, but not press them down any more than 
is requisite to keep the paper in its place. Then 
take a piece of soft deer skin leather, and dip it in 
some dry bronze (gold in powder) and apply it to 
the figures, beginning at the edges; tap the figure 
gently with the leather, and the bronze will stick 
to the varnish according to the shape of the pat- 
tern. Thus any figure may be produced, in a va- 



6 GEJNU1JNE RECEIPTS 

riety of shades^ by applying the bronze more free- 
ly to some parts of the work, than to others. If 
some internal parts of the figures, require to be 
more distinct than others, they may be wrought 
with different patterns, or may be edged with dark 
paint. The work must afterwards have one or 
more coats of copal or shellac varnish. 

To give Wood a Gold, Silver, or Copper Lustre, 

Grind about two ounces of white beach sand, 
very fine in a gill of water, in which half an ounca 
of gum arabic has been dissolved, and brush over 
the work with it. When this is dry, the work may 
be rubbed over with a piece of gold, silver or 
copper, and will, in a measure, assume their re- 
spective colours and brilliancy. 

To Print Gold Letters on Morocco. 

First wet the morocco with the whites of eggs; 
when this is dry, rub the work over with a little 
olive oil, and lay on gold leaves. t Then take some 
common printing tvpes, and heat them to the tem- 

f>erature of boiling water, and impress whatever 
etters you choose, on the gold. Rub the whole 
with a piece of flannel, and the superfluous gold 
will come off, leaving the letters entire. 

To Dye Silk a Brilliant Gold Colour. 
To one gill of water in a common flask, add 
one ounce of clean iron filings, or granulated zinc, 
and half an ounce of sulphuric acid. Hydrogen 
gas will be evolved from the water, and rise 
through the neck of the flask, which must not be 
stopped. Take a piece of white silk and immerse 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 7 

It in some nitro muriate of gold, which has been 
diluted with three parts of water, to one of acid; 
and immediately, while the silk is wet, expose it 
to the current of gap, as it rises from the flask; 
the gold will immediately be revived, and the silk 
will becomeybeautifully and permanently gilt 

To Dye Silk a Brilliant Silver Colour. 

Proceed as in the last experiment; only use the 
nitrate of silver, instead of the nitro-muriate of 
gold. Any letters or flowers may be drawn on 
the silk, with a camel hair pencil, dipped in the 
solution, and on being exposed to the action of 
the gas, will be revived and shine with metallic 
brilliancy. 

Note. — If a jar or box be filled With hydrogen 
gas, and the silk be suspended in it, the action of 
the gas, and consequently the revivification of the 
metal will be more uniform. 



Water proof Grilding and Silvering. 
Grind one ounce of white lead, and two ounces 
of litharge, very fine in a gill of old linseed oil; 
expose this to the sun for a week in an open vessel; 
then add as mufch spirits of turpentine as will make 
it work freely with a brush, or camel hair pencil. 
Whatever letters, or flowers you wish to gild, must 
be first drawn with this sizing, and when dry, lay 
on gold or silver leaves smoothly over the whole, 
pressing them down with soft cotton; then brush 
over the whole lightly with cotton or a soft brush, 
and the superfluous leaf will be brushed off, leav- 
ing the figures entirely gilt by the leaf adhering to 
the sizing. Note. — The leaves of gold or silvw 
may be spread on a piece of soft leather and cat 



3 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

into pieces by drawing a smooth edged knife over 
them; — and the pieces may be conveyed to their 
places on the work, by means of a small block or 
knife, covered with soft woolen cloth, which being 
pressed gently on the pieces, takes them from the 
leather; and again being pressed on the sizing, 
leaves them there. 



For a Malignant Sore Throat. 

[By Dr. Jacob Ogden, Jamaica, Long El. 

Take Seneka rattlesnake root, Virginia snake 
root, two ounces, calomus aromaticus, the roots- of 
wild valerian, tops of rue, the flowers of English 
camomile each one ounce, cinnamon, myrrh, Rez- 
in of Guaic. ikittish Saffron, Balsam Capev. pre- 
pared Crab's eyes, and Arminian bole, each half 
an ounce. Ginger and Opium each two drachms 
Maderia wine, enough to dissolve the opium, and 
of clarified honey, thrice the weight of all the pow- 
ders. 

To a child of one year old 15 grains of the Trea- 
cle and 2 or 3 grains of Calom. To 8 years old, 
1-2 drachm and 4 or 5 grains of calom. To a 
grown person, near 2 drachms and 6 or 8 grains 
of calom. — repeat every 12, 16, 20 or 24 hours. 
Drink strong sage tea, acidulated with vinegar — 
keep the patient warm by avoiding the cold air — 
a little murcury may be given in the intervals, if 
the urgency of the symptoms require it. 

Another Cure for the Throat Distemper 

Purge with calomel, then take Borax, bole Ar- 
menic, and Sang. Draconis of each an equal 
quantity; when finely powdered, to a quarter of an 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 9 

ounce of that mixture, add 3 gills of vinegar and 
4 ounces of honey, which shake well together for 
a Gargle, and use it warm every two hours. 

Polipus in the Nose. 
Take blood root powdered fine, and used as 
snuff, will cure. 

For the Ulcers. 
Take 4 ounces honey, tinct. of myrrh and vine- 
gar, of each an ounce, loaf sugar, two ounces, Bo- 
rax and balsam sulphur, of each half an» ounce — t 
mix this to a balsam with the yolk of an egg, with 
a rag tied to a skewer to cleanse and anoint the ul- 
cers after every gargling. 



Whooping Cough. 
Take a wine glass of rum, and a little spirits of 
turpentine, shake well together, rub the child by 
.the fire gently down the neck and chin, night and 
morning; in a few days the cough will be cured. 

Another. 
Take dried Colts foot, a good handful, cut it fine 
and boil it in a pint of spring water, to half a pint, 
when almost cold, strain it and squeezing the herb 
as dry as you can. Dissolve in it half an ounce 
of sugar candy finely powdered, add one spoonful 
and a half of tincture of Liquorice. Give a child 
one spoonful 3 or 4 times a day and more to a grown 
person. It will cure in three or four days. 

Jl Mouth-wash for the Canker. 
Take sage, rose leaves, blue violets, a li *Ie alum 
and honey. 



10 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

Abel Puffer's Cure for the Bite of a Rattle Snake. 

As soon as may be after the person is bit, cut a 
gash in the place bitten, as deep as the teeth went, 
and fill it with fine salt — take common plaintain, 
or strong brine, bruise it, add a little water, squeeze 
out the juice and mix it with clear water, make a 
brine with salt and the juice, till it will not dissolve 
the salt; then apply a linen bandage, above the 
swelling, but not too tight, keep it wet with the 
brine for it will dry very fast — stroke the part with 
the hand towards the cut, as hard as can be borne, 
and you will soon see the poison and virulent mat- 
ter flow out of the cut; and if it flows so fast as to 
swell below the cut, you must cut below, to give 
vent to the matter, and it will not leave running till 
ail is discharged. Move the bandage downwards 
as the swelling abates. Give the patient sweet oil, 
saffron or snake root to defend the stomach. It 
often bleeds after the poison is out, which is a good . 
sign, care must be taken, that none of the virulent 
matter get to any raw flesh. Mr. Puffer has cured 
two persons dangerously bit, and a horse and dog. 

Nerve ointment. 

Take neats foot oil, oil terebinth, brandy and oil 
of John's wort, beef gall and simmer together. 

Cancers. 
Repeated application of leaches to cancers have 
been attended with great success. A man with a 
oancer on the lip, which had been cut without ef- 
fect, had leaches applied; the three first, after suck- 
ing, fell off* dead, in a few days after three more 
shared the same fate. In a week after three more 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 1 1 

were applied, which dropped off alive. This 
wrought a perfect cure. 

•Another. 

Apply a poultice of Carrots, warm, fill all the 
holes and hollows of the ulcer, covered with a warm 
clcth, renew it twice a day — wash it with a decoc- 
tion of hemlock. Also, warm milk and water is 
good; drink 2 or 3 pints of the infusion of malt 
daily. Three pints of boiling water poured on 
half a pint of malt is generally sufficient. 

Another. 
The tail of a Lizzard boiled, produces a gravy 
or broth, which being drank a few times, cures rad- 
ically, the most inveterate cancer. 

Another. 
An Empl. of Cicuta applied to a cancer after 
rubbing with a solution of Sub. Corros. scarifying 
the tumor, a little, will infallibly cure them. The 
solution is made by dissolving 1 dr. in 1 oz. of wa- 
ter, give a gill of Cicuta morning and evening. 

Dropsy. 
Six quarts old hard cider, 1 pint mustard seed 
pounded, 1 double handful parsley roots, do. lig- 
num vitse shavings, 1 do. horse radish roots, sim- 
mer over a slow fire 48 hours, take a teacupful 
three times a day. It operates powerfully by urine. 

Another. 
Put a large cup full of bohea tea into a tea pot, 
steep it, drink the liquor by degrees, and eat all 



12 GENUINE RECEIPTS 

the tea leaves or grounds, in the course of the fore- l 
noon. Do the like in the afternoon, and so pro- 
ceed on for 3 or 4 days. The water will be dis- 
charged by natural evacuations. 

•Another. 
A strong decoction of the leaves or ripe berries 
of dwarf elder has cured a man of an inveterate 
dropsy in about a week. Sweeten it with molasses. 

Bone Ointment. 
Take wormwood, camomile, St. John's wort, 
henbane, night shade, plaintain, green tobacco, 
melilot, simmer in hog's lard and fresh butter, then 
strain off, for use. 

Another 
Take mullin, camomile, catmint, tansev. burdoc 
mayweed, penny royal, mint, asmart, yarrow, 
wormwood indigo weed, simmer gently together in 
fresh butter, till they are crisp and strain out for 
use. 

Quinsy. 
Mix oil Amygdal. Dulcis with spts. sal amnion 
dip in a piece of baize and apply to the part affec- 
ted. 

Liquid Laudanum. 
Take proof spirit one pound, opium two ounces, 
Croc. Ang. one ounce, infuse and strain. 
I feel, O laudanum, thy power divine, 
I fall, with pleasure, at thy slumbering shrine, 
Lull'd by thy charms, I 'scape each anxious 

thought, 
And every thing but Mira is forgot. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. IS 

Floreg Antimonii, are highly extolled for scor- 
butic eruptions, hypocondriac affections, paralytic 
disorders, in a Mania it is considered as a specific, 
confirmed Lues, Rheumatism. 

Volatile IAnament for the Sciatica. 

Take Tern. Feenic. Cimin. a. a. 1-2 oz. 

Sal. C. C. Volat. 4scrup. 

Camoh. 3 scrup. 

Sapo Castiel, 2 oz. 

Ungt. Dialth. 4 oz. 
Rub the articles very fine, add the Ungt. and lastly 
the Sal. C. C. Spread on thin leather, and apply, 
fresh mace, to the hip. 

Janudice. 
Take the white of an Egg and two glasses of 
spring water, beat well together, and drink it every 
morning, it cools the lungs, promotes perspiration, 
invigorates the animal spirits, causes digestion, and 
creates an apetite. 

Rickets. 
Buckshorn roots that grows in meadows two 
ounces, New-England Gentian two ounces, Rhu- 
barb 50 grains, Stoned Raisins one pound, put them 
into a quart of good wine, steep them 24 hours and 
give two spoonfulls morning and evening. 

To Silver Looking Glasses. 
Take some fine plaster of paris, and mix it with 
water to the consistence of soft putty; spread this 
out thin on a board; lay the glass on this and press 
it down till it lays quite close and make an im- 
pression in the plaster; let it remain till the plaff 



14 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

ter is dry. Then take up the glass and spread 
some tin foil over the impression, and press it with 
the glass into the plaster mould, to make it lie 
close. Then pour on a little mercury, and spread 
it all over the tin foil; place the glass in the mould 
again, and place a weight on it, as heavy as may 
be without endangering the glass, and leave it two 
or three days. Then pour off the superfluous 
mercury, and raise the glass from the mould cau- 
tiously, and the amalgum of tin and mercury., 
which is formed by the process, will adhere to the 
glass, which will thus be perfectly silvered. 

To write on Paper ivith Gold or Silver. 
Take some nitro-muriate of gold, or nitrate of 
silver and expose it to a gentle heat in an open 
vessel, by which means, the acid will be evapora- 
ted, and the metal will form itself in crystals on 
the sides, or at the bottom of the vessel. These 
crystals may be carefully collected, and dissolved 
in water. With this solution, (which is an aqueous 
solution of nitro-muriate of gold, or nitrate of sil- 
ver) any writing may be performed on paper, with 
a common penj and by being exposed while damp, 
to the action of hydrogen gas, the writing will be 
revived in metallic lustre. 

To make Good Shining Black Ink. 
Take two ounces of nut-galls in coarse powder; 
one ounce of wood in thin chips; one ounce of 
sulphate of iron; three fourths of an ounce of gum 
arabic; one fourth of an ounce of sulphate of cop- 
per; and one fourth of an ounce of loaf sugar. 
Boil the galls and logwood together in three pints 
of water, till the quantity is reduced to oae half. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS 15 

• 

Then the liquor must be strained through a flannel 
into a proper vessel, and the remainder of the in- 
gredients be added to it. The mixture is then to 
be frequently stirred till the whole is dissolved; 
after which it must be left at rest for twenty-four 
hours. The ink may then be decanted from the 
gross sediment, and must be preserved in a glass 
bottle well corked. 

Blue Ink. 
Dissolve one ounce of gum arabic in a pint of 
water. In a part of this gum water, grind a small 
quantity of best prussian blue; you may thus 
bring it to any depth of colour you choose. 

Red Ink. 
In the above mentioned gum water, grind very 
fine three parts of vermillion with one of lake or 
carmine. This is a very perfect colour, but may 
require to be shaken up occasionally. 

Yelloio Ink. 
Steep one ounce of turmeric, in powder, in a 
gill of good rum or gin which is not coloured; let 
it rest twenty-four hours; then throw it on a cloth, 
and express the colored liquor, which mix with 
gum water. 



Green Ink. 
To the tincture of turmeric, add a little prus- 
sian blue. 

Purple Ink. 
Grind, or dissolve some lake in water; other- 
wile express the juice from the deepest coloured 



l« GENUINE RECEIPTS 

beets; to either of these, add a little blue and gum 
water. 

To write in various Colours, with the tame Pen, 
Ink and Paper. 

Take a sheet of white paper, and wet some parts 
of it with a solution of sub-carbonate of potass; 
wet some other parts of it with the same but more 
diluted; some other parts with diluted muriatic 
acid; and other parts with a solution of sulphate 
of iron; dry the paper and it will be white as ever. 
Then take the juice of blue violets, or tincture of 
red cabbage, (water that has been poured while 
hot, upon red cabbage in thin slices,} and with it 
write on the paper. The ink is of itself, a faint 
purple; where the paper was wet with acid, it will 
instantly become red; on the diluted alkali, it will 
become green; on the stronger alkaline solution, 
it will take a yellow; and on the sulphate of iron, 
it will become deep purple or brown. Thus you 
will have several colours in the same line of writ- 
ing. 

Invisible Ink for Secret Correspondence. 
Dissolve muriate of ammonia in water, and 
write; — the writing will be invisible. When you 
would make the writing appear, heat the paper by 
the fire and the letters will become black. 

Sympathetic Inks. 
Process I. — Write with a solution of sulphate 
of iron,— the writing will be invisible. Dip a feath- 
er in an infusion of nutgalls (water in which pul- 
verised nutgalls have been steeped,) and the writ- 
ing will become black, 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 17 

Process 2. — Write with a dilute infusion of galls, 
— it will be invisible. Dip a feather in a solution 
of sulphate of iron, and moisten the paper with it 
and the writing will become black. 

Process I. — Write with a solution of sub-carbo- 
nate of potass; wet this writing with a solution of 
sulphate of iron, — it will take a deep yellow col- 
our. 



Process 4. — Write with a solution of sulphate 
of copper, — no writing will be visible. Wash the 
paper with a solution of prussiate of potass, — the 
writing will then get a reddish brown colour. 



Pncess 5. — Write with diluted nitrate of silver, 
and let the writing dry in the dark — it will be in- 
visible; but expose the paper to the ray3 of the 
sun, and the writing will become black. 

Luminous Ink that will shine in the Dark. 
To half an ounce of sulphuric ether, in a phial, 
add one drachm of phosphorus; cork the phial 
close and let it remain two or three weeks, often 
shaking it. Afterwards any words may be written 
with it on dark coloured paper, and if carried into 
& dark room, will appear very bright. 



To make a Writing appear and disappear at pleas- 
ure. 
Dissolve equal parts of sulphate of copper and 
muriate of ammonia in water, and write. When 
you would make the writing appear, warm the pa- 
per gently by the fire; the writing will appear in a 
vellow colour; but as soon as you take the paper 
2# 



IB GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

Into the cold air, the writing will vanish, Thi* 
may be often repeated. 

To make a Writing vanish and another appear in 
its place. 
Write on paper with a solution of sub-carbonate 
of potass, — the writing will be invisible. Mix to- 
gether equal parts of salution of sulphate of iron, 
and infusion of galls; write with this mixture 
(which is black) on the same paper. Then add 
to the black liquor a little sulphuric acid, sufficient 
to deprive it of colour. Wet the paper with this 
compound; the acid will discharge the colour from 
the last writing, while the alkali of the first, will 
precipitate the gallate of iron, and the writing will 
become black. 

To restore old Writing that is nearly defaced 
Boil one ounce of powdered nut-galls, for an 
hour or more in a pint of white wine; filter the 
liquor, and when cold, wet the paper with it, or 
pass it on the line9 with a camel-hair pencil, and 
the writing will be much revived. 

To paint a Picture that will appear and disappear 
occasionally. 
To half an ounce of nitric acid, add one drachm 
of cobalt, one drachm of muriate of soda, and two 
ounces of water; set it in a sand bath, or on warn? 
ashes, where it must remain five or six hours. 
Then filter the solution, (which is nitro-muriate of 
cobalt,) and with it draw the trees, and shrubberj 
of a designed picture. Then with a solution of 
oxide of cobalt in acetic acid, draw some distan 
mountf'us, fences, 8tc. and with muriate of coppei 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 19 

draw some flowers, buildings, 8tc. These will all 
be invisible when dry; but warm the paper and 
the picture will appear in green, blue and yellow. 
It will disappear when the paper becomes cold. 

To give Iron the Whiteness of Silver. 
To nitric acid, diluted with an equal quantity of 
water, add as much mercury as the acid will dis- 
solve; then add to the solution, three or four times 
as much water, and having given the iron a coat 
of copper, by immersing it in a solution of sulphate 
of copper, brush it over with the diluted nitrate of 
mercury; its appearance will be equal, if not su- 
perior to that of real silver. In this manner any 
common, or rough iron work, may be apparently 
silvered at a most insignificant expense. 

To cure the Jaundice. 
Take the white of an egg and two glasses of 
spring water, beat well together, and drink it every 
morning, it cools the lungs, promotes perspiration, 
invigorates the animal spirits, causes digestion, and 
creates an appetite. 

The Stone. 
Take Alicant Soap 8 parts, Oyster Shell Lime 
1 part, beat into a mass with water, then dissolve 
the mass into an Emulsion, by adding more water 
so as to make 6 quarts of the emulsion, from every 
pound of soap avoirdupois; let it stand a month, 
stir it frequently and give half a pint three times a 
day. 



Stone or Gravel. 
Take a large handful of the fibres or roots of 



20 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

garden Leejts, put them into two quarts of soft wa- 
ter; simmer gently over the fire close stopped, to 
the consumption of one half; pour off and drink a 
pint in the day, morning, noon, and night. This is 
for an adult — it is some weeks before relief appears; 
perseverance gains the point. 



Corns. 
It is said, if you bind a lock of unwrought cot- 
ton on a Corn for a week or two, you will find in an 
unaccountable manner, the corn will be dislodged. 



Tooth-Ache. 
Burn a sheet of clean white writing paper on a 
clean white plate, take up the oil with clean cotton, 
and apply it in or on the tooth 12 or 15 minutes. 

Putrid sore Throat. 
TaKe a handful of hops, steep in spirits and ap- 
ply a common funnel to the liquid, let the patient 
ipply the funnel to his throat, and thereby absorb 
he steam. Let the hops be applied like a poultice 
co the throat, and occasionally repeated. 



Salve for cuts, fyc. 

Take 1-2 pint sweet oil, 5 ounces red lead fine- 
ly sifted, boil the same together, till they turn black, 
a,dd rozin 2 ounces; by small quantities at a time 
r .o prevent its boiling over; add a tea spoonfull 
Venice turpentine, pour it all into a vessel of cold 
vvater; oil a board to work it on, roll it till it be- 
somes smooth and hard, lay on a board to dry in 

rolls. 

Worms. 

Boil 4 ounces quick silver in one quart soft wn- 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. fll 

ter ftn hour, in a glazed pipkin, pour it off, bottle it 
for use. Boil the quicksilver as often as needful. 
Children may drink a gill, suited to their taste. 
Adults may drink it indifferently as water. Then 
purge off Ine dead worms. 

To clean Teeth. 
Rub the teeth two or three times a day with a 
ve»y fine powder of red Coral, washing them well 
with water in which Sal Prunel. is dissolved 



Corns — a plaister. 
Spread a plaister of Gum Ammon. and apply it 
to the corn, till it has sufficiently done the design- 
ed work of emolition. 

Gout. 
Apply a Leek poultice to the part affected; nu- 
merous instances of its efficacy in this painful dis- 
order, have recently^ occurred; its culture should 
be cherished as a medicine of inestimable value. 

Weak and weeping Eyes. 
Make a strong decoction of camomile, boiled in 
sweet cow's milk; bathe the eyes several times a 
day, as warm as can be borne. It must be contin- 
ued several weeks. 

Rheumatism. 

Put 1 ounce of gum camphor into a quart of 
spirits, and as much of the bark of sassafras roots 
as the spirits will cover, steep 12 hours at least — 
take half a wine glass full at bed time, in the morn- 
ing, and before noon. Rub the parts affected with 



22 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

it — the dose may be increased if necessary — it pro- 
duces perspiration — avoid taking cold. 

Jumble Beer. 
Take two spoonfulls of ground ginger, and one 
pint of molasses, to 2 1-2 pails of water; fnV: mix 
<he ingredients with a little water warmed, espe- 
cially in cold weather; then add the whole compli- 
ment of water and shake it very briskly, and in 
about six or eight hours it will be sufficiently fer- 
mented. 

Wine from Cider. 
Add to a barrell of cider from the press, honey 
sufficient to bear up an egg ; work all of the filth 
out of the bung hole, by keeping the barrell full; 
in about five weeks, draw off the pure liquor into 
a tub, and put the whites of eight eggs, well beat- 
en up with a pint of clean sand into a tub; then 
add one gallon of cider spirits, and mix the whole 
together; and having cleansed the barrell, return 
the liquor into it, bung it tight, and when fine, rack 
it off into kegs for use. It does not cost 25 cents 
per gallon. 

Waterproof Leather 
Take Linseed Oil one lb. Beeswax six ounces, 
mutton suet eight ounces, melt the whole together 
slowly, rub the composition well upon boots and 
shoes; soles as well as upper leather. 

Tanning Leather. 
An eminent tanner in Poland, has ascertained 
that the leaves of the oak are equal to the bark, in 
tanning leather ; provided they are used in th® 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 23 

month of September, when they possess a bitter sap, 
which they afterwards lose. 

Star in a Horse's forehead. 

Take pickled mackerel and confine it on in any 
shape you please, three or four days repeating, and 
it will produce a white spot. 

Rub the white saddle spots, on a horse's back, a 
few times daily in the spring of the year, before 
the coat is shed, with bacon grease, and it will re- 
store the natural colour. 



Improvement in Bread. 
Take flour 5 lbs. Rice 1 lb. boil the rice very 
soft, if too thick, add a little warm water, then add 
your yeast. This makes 8 lbs. of bread. 

Preservation of fresh meat. 
Put fresh meat in a close vessel containing vin- 
egar, which will preserve it a considerable time. 
Tainted meet may be rendered good by pickling it 
in potash water for some time; before it is cookew 
however, it should be dipped in vinegar a short time, 
and then salted in brine. 



Mending China. 
Pound flint glass very fine, then grind it on a 
painter's stone with the white of an egg; it will 
not break in the same place. 

Writing Ink. 
Take four ounces of Nutgalls, Coperas and Gum 
Arabic, each two ounces, one quart of rain water; 
mix and shake up well, and often. If it is set in the 
sun, it will be the sooner fit for use. 






S4 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

Red hair made black. 
Take black lead and ebony shavings each 1 
ounce, of clear water 1 pint; boil together 1 hoar, 
and when fine, bottle it for use. The comb must 
be often wet, and the hair frequently combed; and 
if a fine black is required, add two ounces of cam- 
phor. 

A Cordial. 
Take seven lemons, one quart of rum or brandy, 
six ounces good loaf sugar, one gill of new milk; 
simmer the sugar in half a pint of spring water, and 
skim it; let the milk be made as warm as it comes 
from the cow, put the very thin parings of the rinde 
ofit-he lemons with the milk and syrup, into a jug 
with the rum, close stopped; shake well for three 
days, then filter through paper, and bottle it. 

Shoe Blacking. 
Take 1 quart of good vinegar, four ounces Ivo- 
ry Black, one table spoonful of sweet oil, one gill 
of molasses, 1-2 an ounce oil vitriol; the vitriolto 
be put in last, and well stirred together. 

Botts in a Horse. 
Bleed in the mouth; in about an hour or two af- 
ter the blood is stopped, pour down two ounces of 
alum dissolved in a quart of cider, warmed. 

Iron Moulds. 
Take strong spirits of salts, and dipping the fin- 
ger in it f daub the stain with acid, letting it rest un- 
til it is removed. If the spot has been frequently 
washed, it will be hard to move; in this case put 
on a little salt of sorrel and then rub it well with a 



GENUINE RECEIPTS 25 

ihce of lemon. Then wash it in hot soap and wa- 
ter, and rinse it, and again with salt of sorrel and 
lemon; or, add to it the tincture of galls, till it turns 
black ; let it dry, then apply salt of sorrel and lem- 
on: sometimes one and sometimes the other an- 
swers. 

Liquid Blacking. 
Take three ounces gum shellack, 11-2 ounce 
Venice turpentine, one pint spirits wine, four table 
spoonfuls of ivory black ; put the gum lack in the 
spirits wine, stop it, put it into hot water y or in the 
sun, until dissolved, then add the turpentine and 
ivory black; when well mixed and shook up, apply 
it with a sponge or small brush. 

To destroy Flies. 
Take half a tea spoonful of black pepper made 
fine, a tea spoonful of brown sugar, a table spoon- 
ful of cream; lay in a plate and set it for them. 

Bed Bugs. 
Dissolve one ounce of succotrine aloes in a gill 
of spirits, this will clear several bedsteads, with a 
trifling cost — mark the breadth of a finger with the 
solution, round the foot of each bedpost. 

Raisin Wine. 
Put 20 pounds of raisins, with the stalks into a 
hogshead, and fill it almost full of spring water; let 
it steep about twelve days, frequently stirring it 
about, and after pouring the juice off press the 
r isins, put all the liquor together in a clean ves- 
el. You will find it to hiss for some time, and 
when the noise ceases, stop it close and let it stand 

/ 



26 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

for six or seven months; and then, if it proves fine 
and clear, rack it off into another vessel ; stir it up 
and let it remain twelve or fourteen weeks longer; 
then bottle it off. 



Ink spots on Cotton. 
Apply strong vinegar, lemon juice and salt; by 
rubbing the spot with part of a lemon or common 
muriatic acid diluted. Washing the spot well m 
cold water after the stain is removed. 

To remove Printing Ink. 
Apply warm oil of turpentine, by rubbing the 
spot it will extract ink or paint. Warm the tur- 
pentine by putting the vial in warm water. 

Stain of fruit or ivine. 
Apply strong spirits of wine ; if that does not suc- 
ceed, apply oxy muriatic acid, and washing with 
soap alternately . Apply this, in a small tea or cof- 
fee cup, put three or four tea spoonfuls of common 
spirits of salt, to this add about half a spoonful of 
red lead, after having immersed the small cup in a 
larger one containing hot water; moisten the stain 
and stretch it over the vapor, till the stain be effa- 
ced — wash it well in water. 

To remove grease spots. 
Apply white tobacco pipe clay, or French chalk 
(that is Steatite or soap stone) put blotting paper 
over it and apply a hot iron at a little distance. 
This will take out much of the grease by repetition. 
Good ether or hot oil of turpentine will efface tho 
remainder. Where you can venture to wash the 
olace, a good washing with hot soap and water, will 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 27 

answer every purpose. You may thus efface grease 
spots from paper, should any slight stain remain at 
the edges, brush it with a camel's hair pencil, dip- 
ped in very strong spirits of wine or ether 

Eye Stone. 
It is asserted, tnat a grain of flax seed possesses 
all the valuable properties of an eye stone. 

Dye — Yellow and Green. 
Cut the tops of potatoes when in the flower, 
bruise and press it, to obtain the juice. Linen or 
woollen kept in this 48 hours takes a fine yellow. 
Plunged afterwards in a blue dye it acquires a per- 
manent green color. 

Ginger Beer. 
Tak^ forty quarts of water, thirteen pounds su- 
gar, twelve good lemons, or a proportionable quan 
tity of lime juice, eight ounces of bruised ginger, 
and the whites of six eggs, well beaten; mix all to- 
gether, skimming it before it begins to boil, and 
boil it for twenty minutes; add an ounce of ising- 
glass, and a spoonful of balm, after it is put into 
the cask, stir it well; it will be ready for bottling 
in ten days. , 

Potatoes. 
Plough a deep furrow, place a quantity of cut 
straw or old hay in the furrow, and lay the seed po- 
tatoes on it and cover as usual. The potatoes will 
be of better quality. It has been proved, that one 
large potatoe put into a hill is preferable and more 
productive than cutting them in the usual way. — 
Pick off the blows and balls. 



58 GENUINE RECEIPTS 

To clarify Beer. 
Put in a piece of soft chalk, as big as two hen's 
eggs to a barrell, which will disturb the lflquor and 
cause it to fine, and will draw brisk, though it was 
flat before. 

Shoe Blacking. 
Take 4 ounces ivory black, and half pint of vin- 
egar, mix and apply with a brush in the usual way. 

Bees preserved. 
About the first of May, raise the hives a little, 
and strew some fine salt under the edge, which will 
drive the worms away. 

Corn Stalks. 
Do not be in haste to cut your stalks, until they 
loose their deep green color, begin to turn yellow 
and become dry at the top end; the sap of the up- 
per stock is absorbed and is necessary to the growth 
of the ear; by cutting too early you will loose more 
in grain than is gained in fodder. When corn is 
frost bitten, cut it up by the roots, tye it in small 
bundles and stook it. 



Spring Rye. 
Sow a peck of oats, with a bushel of spring rye 
to prevent blasting, it is easily separated from the 
rye by a good winnowing mill. This has been 
proved. 

Fall Ploughing. 
By ploughing land in the fall, intended to be 
planted the next season, the weeds are turned in 
and grub worms and egg% are destroyed. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 29 

To bleach Cotton. 
The first operation consists in scouring it in a 
slight alkaline solution; or what is better, by expo- 
sure to steam. It is afterwards put into a basket, 
and rinsed in running water. The immersion of 
cotton in an alkaline ley, however it may be rinsed, 
always leaves with it an earthy deposit. It is well 
known that cotton bears the action of acids better 
than hemp or flax; that time is even necessary be- 
for the action of them can be prejudicial to it; and 
by taking advantage of this valuable property in re- 
gard to bleaching, means have been found to free 
it from the earthy deposit, by pressing down the cot- 
ton in a very weak solution of sulphuric acid, and 
afterwards removing the acid by washing, lest too 
long remaining in it should destroy the cotton. 

To bleach Wool. 

The first kind of bleaching to which wool is sub- 
jected, is to free it from grease. This operation is 
called scouring. In manufactories, it is generally 
performed by an ammoniacal ley, formed of five 
measures of river water and one of stale urine; 
the wool is immersed for about twenty minutes in 
a bath of this mixture, heated to fifty six degrees: 
it is then taken out, suffered to drain, and then rins- 
ed in running water: this manipulation softens the 
wool, and gives it the first degree of whiteness; it 
is then repeated a second, and even a third time, 
after which the wool is fit to be employed. In 
some places scouring is performed with water slight- 
ly impregnated with sop; and, indeed, for valuable 
articles, this process is preferable, but it is too ex- 
pensive for articles of less value. 

Sulphuric acid gas unites very easily with water, 
3* 



80 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

and in this combination it may be employed for 
bleaching wool and silk. 

To bleach silk. 
Take a solution of caustic soda, so weak as to 
make only a fourth of a degree, at most, of the 
areometer for salts, and fill with it the boiler of the 
apparatus for bleaching with steam. Charge the 
frames with skeins of raw silk, and place them in 
the apparatus until it is full ; then close the door 
and make the solution boil. Having continued the 
ebulution for twelve hours, slacken the fire, and 
open Ihe door of the apparatus. The heat of the 
steam, which is always above 250 degrees, will have 
been sufficient to free the silk from the gum, and to 
Bcour it. Wash the skeins in warm water ; and 
having wrung them, place them again on the frames 
in the apparatus to undergo a second boiling. Then 
wash them several times in water, and immerse 
them in water somewhat soapy, to give them a lit- 
tle softness. Notwithstanding the whiteness which 
silk acquires by these different alterations, it must 
be carried to a higher degree of splendour by ex- 
posing it to the action of sulpheric acid gas, in a 
close chamber, or by immersing it in sulphurous 
acid, as before recommended for wool. 



To clean silk stockings. 
Wash with soap and water; and simmer them in 
the same for ten minutes, rinsing in cold water. 
For a blue cast, put one drop of liquid blue, into a 
pan of cold spring water, run the stockings through 
this a minute or two, and dry them. For a pink 
cast, put one or two drops of saturated pink dye 
into cold water, and rinse them through this. For 



GENUWNE RECEIPTS. 31 

a flesh color, add a little rose pink in a thin soap 
liquor, rub them with clean flannel, and calender 
or mangle them. 

To clean buff colored cloth. 
Take tobacco pipe clay, and mix it with water 
as thick as lime-water used for whitewashing rooms; 
spread this over the cloth, and when it is dry, rub 
it off with a brush, and the cloth will look extreme- 
ly well. 



To wash fine lace or linen. 
Take a gallon of furze blossoms and burn them 
to ashes, then boil them in six quarts of soft water; 
this, when fine, use in washing with the suds, as 
occasion requires, and the linen, &c. will not onl) 
be exceedingly white, but it is done with half the 
soap, and little trouble. 

To clean white veils. 
Put the veil in a solution of white soap, and U 
it simmer a quarter of an hour. Squeeze it i 
some water and soap till quite clean. Rinse it froi 
soap, and then in clean cold water, in which is 
drop of liquid blue. Then pour boiling water up 
on a teaspoonful of starch, run the veil through 
this, and clear it well, by clapping it. Afterwards 
pin it out, keeping the edges straight and even. 

To clean black silks. i 

To bullock's gall add boiling water sufficient 
make it warm, and with a clean sponge, rub t 
silk well on both sides, squeeze it well out, a 
proceed again in like manner. Rinse it in sprin, 
water, and change the water till perfectly clear 
dry it in the air, and pin it out on a table; but fin 



52 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

dip the sponge in glue water, and rub it on the 
wrong side; then dry it before a fire. 



To clean black veils. 

Pass them through a warm liquor of bullock's 

gall and water; rinse in cold water: then take a 

small piece of glue, pour boiling water on it, and 

pass the veil through it; clap it, and frame it to dry 



To clean scarlet cloth. 
Dissolve the best white soap; and if black look- 
ing spots appear, rub dry soap on them; while the 
other soap is dissolving; with hot water, brush it 
off. If very dirty, immerse the article into the 
warm solution and rub the stained parts. Dispatch 
it quickly, and as soon as the colour begins to give 
wring it out, and immerse it in a pan or pail of warm 
water; wring it again, and immerse it in cold spring 
water, in which mix a table spoonfull of solution of 
tin. Stir it about, and in ten minutes hang it to dry 
in the shade, and cold press it. 



To dip scarlet cloth. 

After it has been thoroughly cleaned with soap, 

and rinsed with warm water, put into boiling spring 

water, a quarter of a pound of young fustic, or 

^ant, a drachm of pounded and sifted cochineal, 

nd and equal quantity of cream of tartar and coch- 

ieal; boil five or six minutes, and cool by adding 

pint or two of cold spring water, and a table 

oonful of the solution of tin. Stir the mixture, 

it in the cloth, boil for ten minutes, and when dry 

;old press it. 

Dip a brush in warm gall, and apply it to greasy 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. S3 

places, rinse it off in cold water; dry by the fire, 
then lay the coat flat, strew damp sand over it, and 
with a brush beat the sand into the cloth ; then 
brush it out with a hard brush, and the sand will 
bring away the dirt. — Rub a drop of oil of olivet 
over a soft brush, to brighten the colours 

To take stains out of siver plate. 
Steep the plate in soap leys for the space of four 
hours, then cover it over with whiting wet with vin- 
egar, so that it may stick thick upon it, and dry it 
by the fire; after which, rub off the whiting and 
pass it over with bran, and the spots will not only 
disappear, but the plate will look exceedingly 
bright. 

To cleanse gloves without wetting. 
Lay the gloves upon a clean board, make a mix- 
ture of dried fulling earth and powdered allum, and 
pass them over on each side with a common stiff 
brush; then sweep it off, snd sprinkle them well 
with dry bran and whiting, and dust them well ; 
this, if they be not exceedingly greasy, will render 
them quite clean; but if they are much soiled take 
out the grease with crumbs of toasted bread, and 
powder of burnt bone ; then pass them over with a 
woollen cloth dipped in fulling earth or alum pow- 
der; and in this manner they can be cleaned with- 
out wetting, which frequently shrinks and spoils 
them. 

To lake out waiting. 
When recently written, ink may be completely 
removed by the oxymuriatic acid, (concentrated 
and in solution.) Tho paper is to be washed over 



34 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

repeatedly with the acid; but it will be necessary 
afterward to wash it with lime water, for the pur- 
pose of neutralizing any acid that may be left on 
the paper, and which would considerably weaken 
it. If the ink has been long written, it will have 
undergonesuch a change as to prevent the preced- 
ing process acting. It ought therefore to be wash- 
ed with liver of sulphur (sulphuret of ammonia) 
before the oxymuriatic acid is applied. It may be 
washed with a hair pencil. 

To clean paper hangings. 
Cut into eight half quarters astale quartern loaf; 
with one of these pieces, after having blown off all 
the dust from the paper to be cleaned by means of 
a good pair of bellows, begin at the top of the room, 
holding the crust in the hand, and wiping lightly 
downvvard with the crumb, about half a yard at each 
stroke, till the upper part of the hangings is com- 
pletely cleaned all round; then go again round with 
the like sweeping stroke downward, always com- 
mencing each successive course a little higher than 
the upper stroke had extended till the bottom be 
finished. This operation, if carefully performed, 
will frequently make very old paper look almost 
equal to new. Great caution must be used not by 
any means to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt 
cleaning it the cross or horrizontal way. The dir- 
ty part of the bread too must be each time cut 
away, and the pieces renewed as soon as at all ne- 
cessary. 

To fry meats fyc. 
Be always careful to keep the frying pan clean, 
and see that it is properly tinned. When frying any 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 35 

sort of fish, first dry them in a cloth, and then flour 
them. Put into the pan plenty of dripping, or 
hog's lard, and let it be boiling hot before putting 
in the fish. Butter is not so good for the purpose 
as it is apt to burn and to blacken, and make them 
soft. When they are fried, put them in a dish or 
hair sieve, to drain before they are sent to table. 
Olive oil is the best article for frying, but it is ve- 
ry expensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is 
dressed with it. Steaks and chops should be put 
in when the liquor is hot, and done quickly, of a 
light brown and turned often. Sausages should 
be done gradually, which will prevent their burst- 
ing. 

To pot leg of beef. 
Boil a leg of beef till the meat will come off* the 
bone easily; then mix it with a cow heal, previous- 
ly cut into thin pieces, and season the whole with 
salt and spice; add a little of the liquor in which 
the leg of beef was boiled, put it into a cheese-vat 
or cullender or some other vessel that will let the 
liquor run off; place a very heavy weight over it, 
and it will be ready for use in a day or two. It may 
be kept in souse made of bran boiled in water, with 
the addition of a little vinegar. 

To make a plain pudding. 
Weigh three quarters of a pound of any odd 
scraps of bread, whether crust or crumb, cut them 
small, and pour on them a pint and a half of boil- 
ing water, to soak them well. Let it stand till the 
water is cool, then press it out, and mash the bread 
smooth with the back of a spoon. Add to it, a 
tea-spoonful of beaten ginger, some moist sugar, 



86 GENUINE RECEIPTS 

and three quarters of a lb. of currants. Mix all 
well together, and lay it in a pan well buttered. 
Flatten it down with a spoon, and lay some pieces 
of butter on the tod. Bake it in a moderate oven, 
and serve it hot. When cold, it will turn out of 
die pan, and eat like good plain cheese cakes. 

A baked potato pudding. 
Mix twelve ounces of potatoes boiled, skimmed, 
and mashed, 1 oz. of suet, quarter of a pint of milk, 
and 1 oz. of cheese grated fine; add as much boil- 
ing water as is necessary to produce a due consis- 
tence, and bake it in an earthen pan. 

Tansy pudding. 
Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of Jor- 
dan almonds; put them into a stew pan, add a gill 
of the syrup of roses, the crumb of a French roll, 
some grated nutmeg, half a glass of brandy, two 
tablespoonfuls of tansy juice, 3 oz. of fresh butter, 
and some slices of citron. Pour over it a pint and 
a half of boiling cream or milk, sweeten, and when 
cold, mix it; add the juice of a lemon, and 8 eggs 
beaten. It may be either boiled or baked. 

To make a Fast day's dish. 
Boil eggs very hard, and cut a little from the 
thick ends. Fry them in a pan, and take care to 
keep them continually in motion; then place them 
in the dish, pour over them some good fish or herb 
gravy, and garnish with lemon. 

To make a puff paste. 
Take a quarter of a peck of flour, and rub it into 
a pound of butter very fins. Make it up into a 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 31 

light paste with cold water just stiff enough to work 
it up. Then lay it out about as thick as a crown 
piece; put a layer of butter all over, then sprinkle 
on a little flour, double it up, and roll it out again. 
Double and roll it with layers of butter three times, 
and it will be fit for use. 

To make a short crust. 
Put six ounces of butter to eight ounces of flour, 
and work them well together; then mix it up with 
as little water as possible, so as to have it a stiffish 
paste; then roll it out thin for use. 



To make paste for tarts. 
Put an ounce of loaf sugar, beat and sifted, to 
one pound of fine flour. Make it into a etirT paste, 
with a gill of boiling cream, and three ounces of 
butter. Work it well, and roll it very thin. 



To steam potatoes. 
Put them clean washed, with their skins on, into 
a steam saucepan, and let the water under them 
be about half boiling, let them continue to boil 
rather quickly, until they are done; if the water 
once relaxes from its heat, the goodness of the po- 
tato is sure to be affected, and to become soddened, 
let the quality be ever so good. A too precipitate 
boiling is equally disadvantageous; as the higher 
parts of the surface of the root begin to crack and 
open, while the centre continues unheated and un- 
decomposed . 

Of roots. 
Cut carrots and parsnips to the length of a fin- 
ger, and of much the same thickness; boil them 

4 



38 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

till half done in water, put them into a stew pan 
with small bits of ham, chopped parsley, and shal- 
ots, pepper and salt, a glass of wine and broth; let 
them stew slowly until the broth is reduced pretty 
thick, and add the squeeze of a lemon when ready 
to serve. For maigre, instead of ham, use mush- 
rooms, and make a mixture beat up with yolks of 
eggs and maigre broth. Celery is done much the 
same, only it is cut smaller. If these roots are to 
be served in a boat for sauce, boil them tender in 
the broth pot, or in water, cut them into the desired 
length, and serve with a good gravy or white sauce. 

To make a rich plum cake. 

Take one pound of fresh butter, one pound of 
sugar, one pound and a half of flour, two pounds 
of currants, a glass of brandy, one pound of sweet- 
meats, two ounces of sweet almonds, ten eggs, a 
quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a quarter of 
an ounce of cinnamon. 

Melt the butter to cream, and put in the sugar, 
stir it till quite light, adding the allspice, and poun- 
ded cinnamon; in a quarter of an hour take the 
yolks of the eggs, and work them in, two or three 
at a time; and the whites of the same must by this 
time be beaten into a strong snow quite ready to 
work in; as the paste must not stand to chill the 
butter, or it will be heavy, work in the white grad- 
ually: then add the orange peel, lemon and citron, 
cut in fine stripes, and the currants, which must be 
mixed in well, with the sweet almonds. Then add 
the sifted flour and glass of brandy. Bake this 
oake in a tin hoop in a hot oven for three hours, 
and put twelve sheets of paper under it to keep it 
from burning. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS SO 

To make a rich seed cake. 
Take a pound and a quarter of flour well dried,|, 
a pound of butter, a pound of loaf sugar, beat am ' 
sifted, eight eggs and two ounces of caraway seed , 
one grated nutmeg, and its weight in cinnamon. 
Beat the butter into a cream, put in the sugar, beat 
the whites of the eggs and the yolks separately, 
then mix them with the butter and sugar. Beat in 
the flour, spices and seed, a little before sending it 
away. Bake it two hours in a quick oven. 

A plain pound cake. 
Beat one pound of butter in an earthern pan un- 
til it is like a fine thick cream, then beat in nine 
whole eggs till quite light . Put in a glass of bran- 
dy, a little lemon peel, shred fine, then work in a 
pound and a quarter of flour; put it into the hoop 
or pan and bake it for an hour . A good plum oak© 
is mi .de the same with putting one pound and a 
half of clean washed currants and half a pound of 
candied lemon peel. 



Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs for nearly half an 
hour, with a whisk, mix well with them ten ounce* 
of fine silled loaf sugar, put in half a pound of 
ground rice, a little orange water or brandy, and 
the rinds of two lemons grated, then add the whites 
of seven eggs well beaten, and stir the whole to- 
gether for a quarter of an hour. Put them into a 
hoop and set them in a quick oven for half an hour 
when they will be properly done. 

To make plain gingerbread. 
Mix three pounds of flour with four ounces ot 
moist sugar, half an ounce of powdered ginger, and 



40 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

one pound and a quarter of warm treacle ; melt half 
a pound of fresh butter in it; put it to the flour and 
make it a paste; then form it into nuts or cakes, or 
bake it in one cake. 



To make cream cakes. 
Beat the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth, stir 
it gently with a spoon lest the froth should fall, and 
to every white of an egg grate the rinds of two lem- 
ons; shake in gently a spoonfull of double refined 
sugar sifted fine, lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, 
and with a spoon drop the froth in little lumps on 
it near each other. Sift a good quantity of sugar 
over them, set them in the oven after the bread is 
out, and close up the mouth of it, which will occa- 
sion the froth to rise . As soOn as they are color- 
ed they will be sufficiently baked; lay them by two 
bottoms together on a sieve and dry them in a cool 
oven. 

To make common buns. 
Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of 
flour, a little salt, four ounces of sugar, a dessert 
spoonful of caraways, and a teaspoonrul of ginger; 
put some warm milk or cream to four table spoon- 
fulls of yeast; mix all together into a paste, but not 
too stiff ; cover it over and set it before the fire 
an hour to rise, then make it into buns, put them 
on a tin, set them before the fire for a quarter of 
an hour, cover over with flannel, then brush them 
with very warm milk and bake them of a nice brown 
in a moderate oven. 



Baked Custards. 
Boil a pint of cream with some maco and cinna- 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 41 

mon, and when it is cold, take four yolks of eggs, 
a little rose water, sack, nutmeg and sugar, to taste; 
mix them well and bake them. 

Rice Custards. 
Put a blade of mace, and a quartered nutmeg in- 
to a quart of cream; boil and strain it, and add to 
it some boiled rice and a little brandy. Sweeten it 
to taste, stir it till it thickens, and serve it up in 
cups or in a dish; it may be used either hot or cold. 

To make apple cakes. 
T?ke half a quartern of dough, roll it out thin: 
spread equally over it five ounces each of coffee 
and sugar, a little nutmeg or allspice, and two oz. 
of butter; then fold and roll it again two or three 
times, to mix well the ingredients. Afterwards roll 
it out thin, and spread over it four rather large ap- 
ples, pared, cored, and chopped small ; fold it up, 
and roll until mixed. Let it stand to rise after. 
Haifa pound of butter may be added. 



Sponge biscuits. 
Beat the yolks of twelve eggs for half an hour; 
then put in one and a half pounds of beaten sifted 
sugar, and whisk it till it rises in bubbles; beat the 
whites to a strong froth, and whisk them well with 
the sugar and yolks, work in fourteen ounces of 
flour, with the rinds of two lemons grated. Bake 
them in tin mould buttered, in a quick oven, for an 
hour; before they are baked, sift a little fine sugar 
over them. 



To make fancy biscuits. 
Take one pound of almonds, one pound of sugar, 
4* 



41 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

and some orange flower water. Pounct Che al- 
monds very fine, and sprinkle them with orange 
flower water; when they are perfectly smooth to 
the touch, put them in a small pan, with flour sifted 
through a silk sieve; put the pan on a slow fire, 
and dry the paste till it does not stick to the fin- 
gers; move it well from the bottom to prevent its 
burning; then take it off, and roll it into small round 
fillets, to make knots, rings, &.c. and cut into vari- 
ous shapes; make an iceing of different colours, 
dip one side of them in it, and set them in it, and 
set them on wire gratings to drain. They may be 
varied by strewing over them colored pistachios, or 
colored ahnond9, according to fancy. 

Black currant jelly. 
Put to ten quarts of ripe dry black currants, one 
quart of water; put them in a large stew-pot, tie 
paper close over them, and set them for two hours 
in a cool oven. Squeeze them through a fine cloth, 
and add to every quart of juice a pound and a half 
of loaf sugar broken into small pieces. Stir it till 
ihe sugar is melted, when it boils, skim it quite 
clcam. Boil it pretty quick over a clear fire, till 
it jellies, which is known by dipping a skimmer in- 
to the jelley and holding it in the air; when it hangs 
to the spoon in a drop,~it is done. If the jelley is 
boiled too long, it will loose its flavour and shrink 
very much. Pour it into pots, cover them with 
brandy papers, and keep them in a dry place. H^d 
and white jellies are made in the same way . 

Raspberry cream. 
Rub a quart of raspberries through a hair sieve, 
and take out the seed?, and mix it v. HI with cream; 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 43 

n it with sugar to your taste, then put into a 
ug, and raise a froth with a chocolate mill, 
j froth rises take it off with a spoon, and lay 
i a hair sieve. When there is as much froth 
ited, put what cream remains in a deep china 
and pour the frothed cream upon it, as high 
as vill lie on. 

Strmvberry jam. 
Bruise very fine some scarlet strawberries, gath- 
ered when quite ripe, and put to them a little juice 
of red currants. Beat and sift their weight in su- 
gar, strew it over them, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan. Set them over a clear slow fire, skim 
them, then boil them twenty minutes, and put them 
into glasses. 



Raspberry jam. 
Mash a quantity of fine ripe dry raspberries, 
strew on them their own weight of loaf sugar, and 
half their weight of white currant juice.* Boil them 
half an hour over a clear slow fire, skim them well, 
and put them into pots or glasses; lie them down 
with brandy papers, and keep them dry. Strew on 
the sugar as quick as possible after the berries are 
gathered, and in order to preserve their flavour 
they must not stand long before boiling them. 

To salt hams. 
For three hams, pound and mix together half a 
peck of salt, half an ounce of salt prunella, three 
ounces of salt petre, and four pounds of coarse 
salt; rub the hams well with this, and lay what is 
to spare over them, let them lie three days, then 
hang them up. Take Hie pickle in which the hams 



44 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

were, put water enough to cover the hams wi 
more common salt, till it will bear an egg, then bo 
and skim it well, put it in the salting tub, and th 
next morning put in the hams ; keep them dowi 
like pickled pork; in a fortnight take them out of 
the liquor, rub them well with brine, and hang them 
up to dry. 

To pickle in brine. 
A good brine is made of bay salt and water, 
thoroughly saturated, so that some of the salt re- 
mains undissolved; into this brine the substance to 
be preserved is plunged, and kept covered with it. 
Among vegetables, French beans, artichokes, ol- 
ives, and the different sorts of samphire, may be 
thus preserved, and among animals, herrings. 

To bottle damsons. 
Put damsons, before they are too ripe, into wide 
mouthed bottles, and cork them down tight; then 
put them into a moderately heated oven, and about 
three hours more will do them; observe that the 
oven is not too hot, otherwise it will make the fruit 
fly. All kinds of fruits that are bottled may be 
done in the same way, and they will keep two years; 
after they are done, they must be put away with 
the mouth downward, in a cool place, to keep them 
from fermenting. 



To preserve grapes. 
Take close bunches whether white or red, not too 
ripe, and lay them in a jar. Put to them a quarter 
of a pound of sugar candy, and fill the jar with 
common brandy. Tie them up close with a Mad- 
der, and set them in a dry place, 



<;enujl\e receipts. 45 

To dry cherries. 
Having stoned the desired quantity of morello 
cherries, put a pound and a quarter of fine sugar to 
every pound; beat and sift it over the cherries, and 
let them stand all night. Take them out of their 
sugar, and to every pound of sugar, put two spoons- 
ful of water. Boil and skim it well, then put in 
the cherries; boil the sugar over them, and next 
morning strain them, and to every pound of syrup 
put half a pound more sugar; boil it till it is a little 
thicker, then put in the cherries and let them boil 
gently. The next day strain them, put them in a 
stove, and turn them every day till they are dry. 



To preserve, strawberries luhole. 
Take an equal weight of fruit and double refin- 
ed sugar, lay the former in a large dish, and sprin- 
kle half the sugar in fine powder; give a gentle 
shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the un- 
der side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup 
with the remainder of the sugar; and allow one 
pint of red currant juice to every three pounds of 
strawberries; in this simmer them until they are 
sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, 
not dead ripe. 

To keep gooseberries. 
Put an ounce of roche alum beat very fine, into 
a large pan of boiling hard water; place a few 
gooseberries at the bottom of a hair sieve, and hold 
them in the water till they turn white. Then take 
out the sieve, and spread the gooseberries between 
two cloihs; put more into the sieve, then repeat it 
till they are all done. Put the water into a glazed 
pot until the next day, then put the gooseberries 



46 GENUINE RECEIPTS 

jnto wide mouthed bottles, pick out all the cracked 
and broken ones, pour the water clear out of the 
pot, and fill the bottles with it, cork them loosely 
and let them stand a fortnight. If they rise to the 
corks, take them out and let them stand two or 
three days uncorked, then cork them close again 

To make cream of roses, 
Take one pound of oil of sweet almonds, one 
ounce of spermaceti, one ounce of white wax, one 
pint of rose water, and two drachms of Malta rose 
or nerolet essence. Put the oil, spermaceti, and 
wax, into a well glazed pipkin, over a clear fire, 
and when melted, pour in the rose water by de- 
grees, and keep heating, till the compound becomes 
like pomatum. Now add the essence, and then 
put the cream into small pots or jars, which must 
be well covered with pieces of bladder, and soft 
skin leather. 



Pearl water for the face. 
Put half a pound of the best Spanish oil soap, 
scraped very fine, into a gallon of boiling water, 
stir it well for some time, and let it stand till cold. 
Add a quart of rectified spirit of wine, and half an 
ounce of oil of rosemary; stir them again. This 
compound liquid, when put up in proper phials, in 
Italy, is called tincture of pearls. It is an excel- 
lent cosmetic for removing freckles from the face> 
and for improving the complexion. 

Common almond paste 
To make this paste, take six pounds of fresh al 
monds, which blanch and beat in a stone mortar, 
with a sufficient quantity of rose water. Now add 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 47 

a pound of finely drained honey, and mix the whole 
well together. This paste, which is exceedingly 
good for the hands, is to be put into small pots for 
sale. If this paste gets dry, rub it up on a marble 
slab with rose water. To prevent this dryness, 
put about half a teaspoonful of this water on the top 
of each pot, before tying up. 

Jin astringent for the teeth. 
Take of fresh conserve of roses two ounces, the 
juice of half a sour lemon, a little very rough clar- 
et, and six ounces of coral tooth powder. Make 
them into a paste, which put up in small pots; and 
if it dry by standing, moisten with lemon juice and 
wine as before*. 



To prevent the tooth ache. 
Rub well the teeth and gums with a hard tooth- 
brush, using the flowers of sulphur as a tooth pow- 
der, every night on going to bed; and if it is done 
after dinner it will be best: this is an excellent pre- 
servative to the teeth, and void of any unpleasant 
smell. 



A radical cure for the tooth ache. 
Use as a tooth powder the Spanish snuff called 
Sibella, and it will clean the teeth as well as any 
other powder, and totally prevent the tooth-ache; 
and make a regular practice of washing behind the 
ears with cold water every morning, the remedy is 
infallible. 



To make rose lip salve. 
Put eight ounces of the best olive oil into a wide 
mouthed bottle, add two ounces of the small parts 



43 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

of alkanet root. Stop up the bottle, and set it in 
the sun; shake it often, until it be of a beautiful 
crimson. Now strain the oil off very clear from 
the roots, and add to it, in a glazed pipkin, three 
ounces of very fine white wax, and the same quan- 
tity of fresh clean mutton suet. Deer suet is too J 
brittle, and also apt to turn yellow. Melt this by a 
slow fire, and perfume it when taken ofT, with forty 
drops of oil of rhodium, or of lavender. When 
cold put it into small gallipots, or rather whilst in a 
liquid state. 

The common way is to make this salve up into 
small cakes; but in that form the colour is apt to 
be impaired. 

This salve never fails to cure chopped or sore 
lips, if applied pretty freely at bed time, in the 
course of a day or two at farthest . 

To swcdcn the breath. 
Take two ounces of terra japonica; half an ounce 
of sugar candy, both in powder. Grind one drachm 
of the best ambergris with ten grains of pure musk; 
and dissolve a quarter of an ounce of clean gum 
tragaeanth in two ounces of orange flour water. 
Mix all together, so as to form a paste, which roll 
into pieces of the thickness of a straw. Cut these 
into pieces, and lay them in clean paper. This is 
an excellent perfume for those whose breath is dis- 
agreeable. 

Excellent perfume for gloves. 

Take of damask or rose scent, half an ounce, 

the spirit of cloves and mace, each a drachm ; 

frankincense, one quarter of an ounce. Mix them 

♦ogether, and lay them in papers, and when hard, 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 49 

press the gloves; they will take the scent in twen- 
ty-four hours, and hardly ever lose it. 

To perfume clothes. 
Take of oven-dried best cloves, cedar and rhu- 
barb wood, each one ounce, beat them to a powder 
and sprinkle them in a box or cjiest, where they 
will create a most beautiful scent and preserve the 
apparrel against moths. 

To preserve brass ornaments. 
Brass ornaments, when not gilt or lackered, may 
be cleaned in the same way, and a fine colour may 
be given to them by two simple processes. The 
first is to beat sal ammoniac into a fine powder, 
then to moisten it with soft water, rubbing it on 
the ornaments, which must be heated over char- 
coal, and rubbed dry with bran and whiting. The 
second is to wash the brass work with roche alum 
boiled in strong ley, in the proportion of an ounce 
to a pint; when dry it must be rubbed with fine 
tripoli. Either of these processes will give to 
brass the brilliancy of gold. 



To clean gold lace. 
Gold lace is easily cleaned and restored to its 
original brightness by rubbing it with a soft brush 
dipped in roch alum burnt, sifted to a very fin© 
powder. 



To male cement for metals. 

Take of gum mastic, 10 grains, — rectified spirit 

of wine, 2 drachms. Add 2 ounces of strong 

isinglass glue, made with brandy, and 10 grains of 

the true gum ammoniac. Dissolve all together, 

5 



50 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

and keep it stopped in a phial. When intended to» 
be used, set it in warm water. 



To take out spots of ink. 
As soon as the accident happens, wet the place 
with juice of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and 
the best hard white soap. 

To make red sealing wax. 

Take of shell-lac, well powdered, two parts, of 
rosin and vermillion, powdered, each, 1 part. Mix 
them well together and melt them over a gentle 
fire, and when the ingredients seem thoroughly 
incorporated, work the wax into sticks. Where 
shell-lac cannot be procured, seed-lac may be sub- 
stituted for it. 

The quantity of vermillion may be diminished 
without any injury to the sealing wax, where it is 
not required to be of the highest and brightest 
red colour; and the rest should be of the whitest 
kind, as that improves the effect of the vermillion. 

Black sealing war. 
Proceed as directed for the red wax, only in* 
stead of the vermillion substitute the best ivor* 
black. 



A COMPLETE SYSTEM 

OF 

DYEING, 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES. 



1? 

To -prepare mordants. 
DriNG is a chemical process, and consists in 
combining a certain colouring matter with fibres 
of cloth. The facility with which cloth imbibes 
a dye, depends upon two circumstances; the union 
of the cloth and the dye-stuff, and the union of 
the dye-stuff, or dyeing material, and the fluid in 
which it is dissolved. Wool unites with almost all 
colouring matters, silk in the next degree, cotton 
considerably less, and linnen the least of all. To 
dye cotton or linen, the dye-stuff, or colouring 
material, should, in many cases, be dissolved in a 
substance for which it has a weaker connexion 
than with the solvent employed in the dying of 
wool or silk. Thus we may use the colour called 
oxide of iron, dissolved in sulphuric acid, to dye 
wool; but to dye cotton and linen, it is necessary 
to dissolve it in acetous acid. Were it possible to 
procure a sufficient number of colouring substan- 
ces, having a strong affinity for cloths, to answer 
all the purposes of dyeing, that art would be ex- 
ceedingly simple and easy. But this is by no 
means the case. This difficulty has, however, 
been obviated by a very ingenious contrivance. 
Some other substance is employed which strongly 
unites with the cloth and the colouring matter. 
This substance, therefore, is previously combined 
with the cloth, which is then dipped into a solution 



GENUINE RECEIPTS 

c tntaming the colour. The colour then combines 
with the intermediate substance, which being iirm- 
ly combined with the cloth, secures the perma- 
nence of the dye. Substances employed for this 
purpose are denominated mordants. 



To choose and apply them. 
The most important part of dyeing is, therefore, 
the choice and application of mcrdanls; as upon 
them, the permanency of almost every dye de- 
pends. Mordants must be previously dissolved in 
some liquid, which has a weaker union with the 
mordants than the cloth has; and the cloth must 
then be steeped in this solution, so as to saturate 
itself with the mordant. The most important, and 
most generally used mordant is alumine. It is used 
cither in a state of common alum, in which it is 
combined with sulphuric acid, or in that state cal- 
led acetite of alumine. 



Use of alum as a mordant. 
Alum, to make a mordant, is dissolved in water, 
and very frequently, a quantity of tartrate of potass 
is dissolved with it. Into this solution woolen cloth 
is put, and kept in it till it has absorbed as much 
alumine as is necessary. It is then taken out, and 
for the most part washed and dried. It is now a 
good deal heavier than it was before, owing to the 
alum that has combined with it. 



Jlcelile of alumine. 
Is prepared as a mordant by pouring acetite of 
lead into a solution of alum. This mordant is em- 
ployed for cotton and linen. It answers for these 
much better than alum; the stuff is more easily 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. to 

saturated with alumine, and takes, in consequence, 
a richer, and more permanent colour 

White oxide of tin. 

This mordant has enabled the moderns greatly 
to surpass many of the ancients, in the fineness of 
their colours; and even to equal the famous Tyrian 
purple; and by means of it scarlet, the brightest 
of all colours is produced. It is the white oxide 
of tin, alone, which is the real mordant. 

Tin is used as a mordant in three states; dis- 
solved in nitro-muriatic acid, in acetous acid, and 
in a mixture of sulphuric and muriatic acids: but 
nitro-inuriate of tin is the common mordant used by 
dyers. They prepare it, by dissolving tin in diluted 
nitric acid, to which a certain proportion of com- 
mon salt, or sal ammoniac is added. 

When the nitro muriate of tin is to be used as a 
mordant, it is dissolved in a large quantity of wa-ter, 
and the cloth is dipped in the solution, and allowed 
to remain till sufficiently saturated. It is then tak- 
en out, washed and dried. Tartar is usually dis- 
solved in the water along with the nitro muriate. 

Red oxide of iron. 
This is also used as a mordant in dyeing; it has 
a very strong affinity for all kinds of cloth, of 
which the permanency of red iron-spots, or iron- 
moulds on linen and cotton is a sufficient proof. 
As a mordant it is used in two states: in that of 
sulphate of iron, or copperas, and that of acetite 
of iron. The first, or coper as, is commonly used 
for tvool. The copperas is dissolved in water, and 
the cloth dipped into it. It may be used also for 
cotton f but in most cases acetite of iron is prefer- 
5* 



64 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

red, which is prepared by dissolving , iron, or its 
oxide, in vinegar, sour beer, or pyroligneous acid, 
and the longer it is kept the better. 

Tan, fyc. 

Tan is very frequently employed as a mordant, 
An infusion of nut-galls, or of sumach, or of any 
other substance containing tan, is made in water, 
and the cloth is dipped in this infusion, and allowed 
to remain till it has absorbed a sufficient quantity. 
Tan is often employed also, along with other mor- 
dants, to produce a compound mardant. Oil is al- 
so used for the same purpose, in dying cotton and 
linen. The mordants with which tan is most fre- 
quently combined, are alumine, and oxide of iron. 

Besides these mordants, there are several other 
substances frequently used as auxiliaries, either to 
facilitate the combination of the mordant with the 
cloth or to alter the shade of colour; the chief of 
these are, tartar, acetate of lead, common salt, sal 
ammoniac, sulphate of copper, &c. 

Mordants not only render the dye permanent, 
but have also considerable influence on the colour 
produced. The same colouring matter produces 
very different dyes, according as the mordant is 
changed. Suppose, for instance, thai the colour- 
ing matter is cochineal; if we use the alumin< 
mordant, the cloth will acquire a crimson colour; 
but the oxide of iron produces with it, a black. 

In dyeing, then, it is not only necessary io pro 
cure a mordant which has* a sufficiently strong af- 
finity for the colouring matter and cloth, and a 
colouring matter which possesses the wi shed-for 
colour in perfection; but we must procure a mor- 
and a mlouring matt^j i nature, that 



GENUINE /E1PTS 55 

when combined together, they shall possess the 
wished-for colour in perfection; and even a great 
variety of colours may be produced with a single 
dye-stuff, provided we change the mordant suffi- 
ciently. 

To determine the effects of various salts or mordants 

on colours. 

The due of madder. 

For a madder red on woollens, the best quantity 
of madder is one half of the weight of the wool- 
lens that are to be dyed; the best proportion of 
of salts to be used is five parts of alum and one 
of red tartar for sixteen parts of the stuff. 

A variation in the proportion of the salts, wholly 
alters the colour that the madder naturally gives. 
If the alum is lessened, and the tartar increased, 
the dye proves a red cinnamon. If the alum be 
entirely omitted, the red wholly disappears, and a 
durable tawny cinnamon is produced. 

If woollens are boiled in weak pearl ash and wa- 
ter, the greater part of the colour is destroyed 
A solution of soap discharges part of the colour, 
and leaves the remaining more beautiful. 

Volatile alkalies heighten the red colour of the 
madder, but they make the dye fugitive 



The dye of logwood. 
Volatile alknlies salts or acids incline this to 
purple; the vegetable and nitrous acids render it 
pale; the vitriolic and marine acids deepen it. 

Lime water, 
In dyeing browns or blacks, especially browns, 
lime water is found to be a good corrective, as also 



*6 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

an alterative, when the goods are not come to the 
shade required; but practice alone can shew it* 
utility ; it answers for either woollens, silks, or cot- 
tons. 

To render colours holding. 

Browns and blues, or shades from them, require 
no preparation; but reds and yellows, either of 
silk, cotton, or woollen, require a preparation to 
make them receive the dye, and hold it fast when 
it has received it. Alum and tartar, boiled togeth- 
er, when cold, form a mastic, within the pores of 
the substance, that serves to retain the dye, and 
reflect the colour in a manner transparently. 

Almost all browns are deemed fast and holding 
colours, without any preparation: the dyeing ma- 
terials containing in themselves a sufficient degree 
of astringent quality to retain their own colours. 
Many reds are also equally holding, but none more 
so than those made with madder on woollens pre- 
pared with aluii and tarter. A very fast red is 
also made with Brazil wood, by boiling the woollen 
in alum and tartar, and suffering the cloth to re- 
main several days in a bag kept moist by the pre- 
paration liquor. The cause of the solidity of the 
colour from Brazil wood dyed alter this method, 
arises from the alum and tartar masticating itself 
within the pores of the wool in quite a solid state. 

There is not a drug used in the whole art of dye- 
ing, but may be made a permanent dye, by rinding 
out a salt, or solution of some metal, that, when 
once dissolved by acids, or by boiling water, wilt 
neither be affected by the air, nor be dissolved by 
moisture. Such are alum and tartar, the solution 
of tin, &.c. But these salts and solutions do not 



GENUINE RECEIPTS 57 

answer with all ingredients that are used in dyeing. 



To purchase dyeing materials. 
The names of the principal dyeing materials are 
alum, argol, or tartar, green copperas, verdigris, 
blue vitriol, roche alum, American or quercitron, 
and oak bark, fenugreek, logwood, old and young 
fustic, Brazil wood, braziletto, camwood, barwood, 
and other red woods, peach wood, sumach, gall, 
weld, madder of 3 or 4 sorts, safflower, savory, 
green wood, annatto, tumeric, archil, cudbear, co- 
chineal, lac cake, lac dye, and indigo. The whole 
may be purchased of druggists and colourmen. 

To dye wool and woollen cloths of a blue colour. 

Dissolve one part of indigo in four parts of con- 
centrated sulphuric acid; to the solution, add one 
part of dry carbonate of potass, and then diluto it 
with eight times its weight of water. The cloth 
must be boiled for an hour in a solution, containing 
5 parts of alum, and 3 of tartar, for every 32 parts 
ojf cloth. It is then to be thrown into a water-bath 
previously prepared, containing a greater or small- 
er proportion of diluted sulphate of indigo, accord- 
ing to the shade which the cloth is intended to re- 
ceive. In this bath it must be boiled till it has ac- 
quired the wished for colour. 

The only colouring matters employed in dyeing 
blue, are woad and indigo. 

Indigo has a very strong affiinity for wool, silk, 
cotton, and linen. Every kind of cloth, there- 
fore, may be dyed with it, without the assistance 
of any mordant whatever. The colour thus indu- 
ced is very permanent. But indigo can only be 
applied to cloth in a state of solution, and the only 



63 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

■olvent known is sulphuric acid. The sulphate of 
indigo is often used to dye wool and silk blue, and 
ia known by the name of Saxon blue. 

It is not the only solution of that pigment em- 
ployed in dyeing. By far the most common meth- 
od is, to deprive indigo of its blue colour, and re- 
duce it to green, and then to dissolve it in water 
by means of alkalies. Two different methods are 
employed for this purpose. The first is, to mix 
with indigo a solution of green oxide of iron, and 
different metalic sulphurates. If, therefore, indi- 
go, lime, and green sulphate of iron, are mixed to- 
gether in water, the indigo gradually loses its blue 
colour, becomes green, and is dissolved. The 
second method is, to mix the indigo in water, with 
certain vegetable substances wich readily undergo 
fermentation; the indigo is dissolved by means of 
quick lime or alkali, which is added to the solution. 

The first of these methods is usually followed 
in dyeing cotton and linen; the second, in dyeing 
wool and silk. 

In the dyeing of wool, woad and bran are com- 
monly employed as vegetable ferments, and lime 
as the solvent of the green base of the indigo. 
Woad itself contains a colouring matter precisely 
similar to indigo; and by following the common 
process, indigo may be extracted from it. In the 
usual state of woad, when purchased by the dyer, 
the indigo, which it contains, is probably not far 
from the state of green pollen. Its quantity in 
woad is but small, and it is mixed with a great 
proportion of other vegetable matter. 

When the cloth is first taken out of the vat, it is 
of a green colour; but it soon becomes blue. It 
ought to be carefully washed, to carry off the un- 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 09 

combined particles. This solution of indigo is li- 
able to two inconveniences,: first, it is apt some- 
times to run too fast into the putrid fermentation; 
this may be known by the putrid vapours which it 
•exhales, and by the disappearing of the green col- 
our. In this state it would soon destroy the indigo 
altogether. The inconvenience is remedied by 
adding more lime, which has the property of mod- 
erating the putrescent tendency. Secondly, some- 
times the fermentation goes on too languidly. 
This defect is remedied by adding more bran, or 
woad, in order to diminish the proportion of thick 
lime. 

To make chemic blue and green. 

Chemic for light blues and greens, on silk, cot- 
ton, or woollen, and for cleaning and whitening 
cottons, is made by the following process: — 

Take 1 lb. of the best oil of vitriol, which pour 
upon 1 ounce of the best Spanish flora indigo, well 
pounded and sifted: add to this, after it has been 
well stirred, a small lump of common pearlash as 
big as a pea, or from that to the size of 2 peas, 
this will immediately raise a great fermentation, 
and cause the indigo to dissolve in minuter and 
finer particles than otherwise. As soon as this 
fermentation ceases, put it into a bottle tightly 
corked, and it may be used the next day. Ob- 
serve, if more than the quantity prescribed of 
pearlash should be used, it will deaden and sirily 
the colour. 

Chemic for green, as above for blue, is made 
by only adding one-fourth more of the oil of vitriol. 

If the chemic is to be used for woollen, East In- 
dia indigo will answer the purpote even better than 



60 

Spanish indigo, and at one quarter of ihe price; 
but the oil of vitriol ig good lor both, 

To make u solution of tin in aqua regia. 

Mix together 8 ounces of filtered river water,, 
and 8 ounces of double aqua fortis; add gradually 
half an ounce of salammoniac dissolved piece by 
piece, and 2 drachms of salt petre. Then take 1 
ounce of refined block tin: put it into an iron pan, 
and set it over the fi«e; when melted, hold it 4 or 5 
feet over the vessel, and drop it into water, so as 
to let it fall in pieces. 

Next put a small piece of this granulated tin into- 
the above aqua-regia, and when the last piece dis- 
appears, add more gradually till the whole is mixed . 
mind and keep it firmly corked. When finished 
it will produce a most excellent yellow, though 
should it fail in that respect, it will not be the 
worse for use; keep it cool, as heat will injure and 
even spoil it. 

To make muriate of tin 
Take 8 ounces of muriatic acid, and dissolve in 
it, by slow degrees half an ounce of granulated 
tin; when this is done pour off the clear liquid in- 
to a bottle and weaken it, if required, with pure fil- 
tered river water ; 

To determine the effect of various waters on different 
colours. 
Snow water contains a little muriate of lime, 
and some slight traces of nitrate of lime; rain 
water has the same salts in a larger quantity, and 
also carbonic acid; spring water most frequently 
contains carbonate of lime, muriate of lime, muri - 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. &| 

ate of soda, or carbonate of soda. River water 
lias the same substances, but in less abundance . 
Well water contains sulphate of lime or nitrate of 
pot-ash besides the above-named salts. Should the 
water contain a salt, or a mineral acid, in the first 
instance, an acid will be requisite to neutralize it, 
and in the second, an alkali. Thus waters of any 
quality may be saturated by their opposites, and 
rendered neutral. 



To discharge colours. 
The dyers generally put all coloured silks which 
are to be discharged, into a copper in which "half 
a pound or a pound of white soap has been dissol- 
ved. They are then boiled off, and when the cop- 
per begins to be too full of colour, the silks are 
taken out and rinsed in warm water. In the in- 
terim a fresh solution of soap is to be added to the 
copper, and then proceed as before till all the 
colour is discharged. For those colours that arc 
wanted to be effectually discharged, such as greys, 
cinnamons, &c. when soap will not do, tartar must 
be used. / For slate colours, greenish drabs, olive 
drabs, &.c. oil of vitriol in warm water must be 
used; if other colours, roche alum must be boiled 
in the copper, then cooled down and the silks en- 
tered and boiled off, recollecting to rinse them be- 
fore they are again dyed. A small quantity of 
muriatic acid, diluted in warm water, must be used 
to discharge some fast colours; the goods must be 
afterwards well rinsed in warm and cold water to 
prevent any injury to the stalk. 



To discharge cinnamons, greys, fyc.vfoen dyed too full. 
Take some tartar, pounded in a mortar, sift it 



62 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

into a bucket, then pour over it some boiling wa-r * 

ter. The silks, &c. may then be run through the I 

clearest of this liquor, which will discharge the i 

colour; but if the dye does not take on agaii. 1 

evenly, more tartar may be added, and the goods \ 
run through as before. 



To re-dye or change the colours of gcmnents, S$c. 

The change of colour depends upon the ingre- 
dients with which the garments have been dyed. 
Sometimes when these have been well cleaned, 
moro. dying stuff must be added, which will afford 
the colour intended; and sometimes the colour al- 
ready on the cloth must be discharged and the ar- 
ticles re-dyed. 

Every colour in nature will dye black, whether 
blue, yellow, red or brown, and black will always 
dye black again. All colours will take the same 
colour again which they already possess; and blues 
can be made green or black: green may be brown, 
and brown green, and every colour on re-dyeing 
will take a darker tint than that at first. 

Yellows, browns, and blues, are not easily dis- 
charged; maroons, reds, of some kinds, olives, &.c. 
may be discharged. 

For maroons, a small quantity of roche alum 
may be boiled in a copper, and when it is dissolv- 
ed, put in the goods, keep them boiling, and prob- 
ably, in a few minutes, enough of it will be dis- 
charged to take the colour intended. 

Olives, greys, Slc. are discharged by putting in 
two or three table spoonfuls, more or less, of oil of 
vitriol: then put in the garment, &c. and boil, and 
it will become white. N If chemic green, either 
alum, pearl-ash, or soap, will discharge it off to 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 05 

the yellow; this yellow may mostly be boiled off 
with soap, if it has received a preparation for tak- 
ing the chemic blue. Muriatic acid used at a hand 
heat will discharge most colours. A black may be 
dyed a maroon, claret, green or a dark brown; and 
it often happens that black is dyed claret, green, 
or dark brown; but green is the principal colour 
into which black is changed. 



To alum silks. 
Silk should be alumect cold, for when it is alum- 
ed hot, it is deprived of a great part of its lustre. 
The alum liquor should always be strong for silks, 
as they take the dye more readily afterwards. 



To dye silk blue. 
Silk is dyed blue by a ferment of six parts of 
bran, six of indigo, six of potass, and one of mad- 
der. To dye it of a dark blue, it must previously 
receive what is called a ground-colour; a red dye- 
stuff, called archil, is used for this purpose. 

To dye cotton and linen blue. 
Cotton and linen are dyed blue by a solution of 
one part of indigo, one part of green sulphate of 
iron, and two parts ot quick-lime 



Yellow dyes. 
The principal colouring matters for dyeing yel- 
low, are weld, fustic, and quercitron bark. Yel- 
low colouring matters have too weak an affinity 
for cloth, to produce permanent colours without 
the use of mordants. Cloth, therefore, before it 
is dyed yellow, is always prepared by soaking it in 
aJumino. Oxide of tin is sometimes used when 



U GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

very fine yellows are wanting. Tan is often em- 
ployed as subsidiary to alumine, and in order to 
fix it more copiously on cotton and linen. Tartar 
is also used as an auxiliary, to brighten the colour; 
and muriate of soda, sulphate of lime, and even 
the sulphate of iron, to render the shade deeper. 
The yellow dye by means of fustic is more perma- 
nent, but not so beautiful as that given by weld, or 
quercitron. As it is permanent, and not much in- 
jured by acids, it is often used in dyeing compound 
colours, where a yellow is required. The mordant 
is alumine. When the mordant is oxide of iron, 
fustic dyes a good permanent drab colour. Weld, 
and quercitron bark yield nearly the same kind of 
colour; but the bark yields colouring matter in 
greater abundance and is cheaper than weld. The 
method of using each of these dye-stuffs is nearly 
the same. 



To dye woollens yellow. 
Wool may be dyed yellow by the following pro- 
cess; let it be boiled tor an hour or more, with 
above one-sixth of its weight of alum., dissolved 
in a sufficient quantity of water as a mordant. It 
is then to be plunged, without being rinsed, into a 
bath of warm water, containing as much quercit- 
ron bark as equals the weight of the alum em- 
ployed as a mordant. The cloth is t«o be turned 
through the boiling liquid, till it has acquired the 
intended colour. Then, a quantity of clean pow- 
dered chalk, equal to the hundredth part of the 
weight of the cloth, is to be stirred in, and the op- 
eration of dyeing continued for eight or ten min- 
utes longer. By this method a pretty deep and 
lively yellow may be given. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. $5 

To dye silks yellow. 
Silk may be dyed of different shades of yellow, 
either by weld or quercitron bark, but the last is 
the cheapest, of the two. The proportion should 
be from one to two parts of bark, to 12 parts of 
silk, according to the shade. The bark, tied up 
in a bag, should be put into the dyeing vessel, 
whilst the water which it contains is cold; and 
when it has acquired the heat of about 100 degrees, 
the silk, having been previously alumed, should be 
dipped in, and continued, till it assumes the wish- 
ed-lbr colour. When the shade is required to be 
deep, a little chalk, or pearl-ash should be added 
towards the end of the operation. 

To dye linens and cottons yellow. 

The mordant should be acetate of alumine, pre- 
pared by dissolving one part of acetate of lead, 
and three parts of alum, in a sufficient quantity of 
water. This solution should be heated to the 
temperature of 100 degrees: the cloth should be 
soaked in it for two hours, then wrung out and 
dried. The soaking may be repeated, and the 
cloth again dried as before. It is then to be bare- 
ly wetted with lime-water, and afterwards dried. 
The soaking in the acetate of alumine may be 
again repeated; and if the shade of yellow is re^ 
quired to be very bright and durable, the alter- 
nate wetting with lime-water and soaking in the 
mordant may be repeated three or four times. 

The dyeing-hath is prepared by putting 12 or 18 
parts of quercitron bark (according to the depth 
of the shade required,) tied up in a bag, into a 
sufficient quantity of cold water. Into this bath 
the cloth is to be put, and turned in it for an hour, 
6* 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

while its temperature is gradually raised to about 
120 degrees. It is then to be brought to a boiling 
heat, and the cloth allowed to remain in it only for 
a few minutes. If it is kept long at a boiling heat, 
the yellow acquires a shade of brown 



To fix a fine mineral yelloiv upon wool, silk, cotton, 
hemp, fyc. 
Mix one pound of sulphur, two pounds of white 
oxide of arsenic, and five parts of pearl-ash; and 
melt the whole in a crucible, at a heat a little short 
of redness. The result is a yellow mass, which is 
to be dissolved in hot water; and the liquor filtra- 
ted, to separate it from a sediment formed chiefly 
of metallic arsenic, in sinning plates, and in a small 
part, oi'a chocolate-colored matter, which appears 
to be asub-sulphuret of arsenic. Dilute the filter- 
ed liquor, then add weak sulphuric acid, which pro- 
duces a floeculent precipitate, of a most brilliant 
yellow colour. This precipitate, washed upon a 
cloth filter, dissolves with the utmost ease in liquid 
ammonia, giving a yellow solution, which colour is 
to be removed bv an excess of the same alkali. 



To prepare realgar. 
The most brilliant and permanent yellow that 
can be imagined, is the su I phu ret of arsenic, or re- 
algar, into which more or less diluted, according to 
the depth of tint required, the wool, silk, cotton, oi- 
lmen, is to be dipped. All metal ic utensils must 
be carefully avoided. When the studs come out 
of this bath they are colorless, but they insensibly 
take on a yellow hue as the ammonia evaporates.. 
they are to be exposed as equally as possible to a 
current oi open air; nnd when the color is well 



GENUINE RECEIPTS 6? 

come out, and no longer heightens, they are to be 
washed and dried. 

Wood should be fulled in the ammoniacal solu- 
tion, and should remain in it till it is thoroughly 
soaked; then, very slightly and uniformly pressed, 
or else merely set to drain of itself. Silk, cotton, 
hemp, and flax,, are only to be dipped in the dyeing 
liquid, which they easily take. They must then 
bo well pressed. 

The sulphurot of arsenic will give every imagin- 
able tint to stuffs, from the deep golden yellow to 
the lightest straw-colour, which has the invariable 
advantage of never fading, of lasting even longer 
than the stuffs themselves, and of resisting all re- 
agents, except alkalies. Hence it is peculiarly 
fitted for costly tapestry, velvets, and other articles 
of furniture which arc not in danger of being 
washed, with alkalies or soap, and to which the 
durability of colour is a most important object. It 
may also be used with advantage in paper-staining. 

Red dyes . 
The colouring matters employed for dyeing red, 
are archil, madder, carthamus, kcrmes, cochineal, 
and Brazil-wood. 

To dye woollens red, crimson, and scarlet. 

Coarse woollen stuffs are dyed red with madder 
or archil: but fine cloth is almost exclusively dyed 
with cochineal, though the colour which it receives 
from kermes, is much more durable. Brazil-wood 
is scarcely used, except as an auxiliary, because 
the colour which is imparts to wool, is not perma- 
nent. 

Wool is dyed crimson, by first impregnating it 



U GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

trith atumine, by means of an aJum bath, and then 5 
boiling it in a decoction of cochineal, till it has 
acquired the wished-colour. The crimson will be 
finer, if the tin-mordant is substituted for alum; 
indeed, it is Usual with dyers, to add a little nitro- 
mtiriate of tin, when they want fine crimsons. 
The addition of archil and potass to the cochineal, 
00th fenders the crimson darker, and gives it more 
feloom; but the bloom very soon vanishes. For 
paler crimsons, one-half of the cochineal is with- 
drawn, and madder substituted in its place. 

Wool may be dyed scarlet, by first boiling it in a 
solution of murio-sulphate of tin, then dying it 
pale yellow with quercitron bark, and afterwards 
crimson with cochinel; far scarlet is a compound 
colour, consisting of crimson mixed with a little 
yellow* 

To curry the colour into the body of ike cloth. 
Make the moistened cloth pass through between 
two rollers placed within and at the bottom of the 
dye-vat; so that the web, passing from one wind- 
lass through the dye-vat, and being strongly com- 
pressed by the rollers in its passage to another 
windlass, all the remaining water is driven out, 
and is re-placed by the colouring liquid, so as to 
receive colour into its very centre. The winding 
should be continued backwards and forwards from 
on© windlass to the other, and through the rolling- 
ing-press, till the dye is of sufficient intensity. 

To dye silks red, crimson, §c. 
Silk is Usually dyed red with cochineal, or car- 
thamus, and sometimes with Brazil-wood. Kermes 
does not answer for silk; madder is scarcely ever 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 69 

used for that purpose, because it does not yield » 
colour bright enough. Archil is employed to give 
silk a bloom; but it is scarcely ever used by itself; 
unless when the colour wanted is lilac. 

Silk may be dyed crimson by steeping it in a 
solution of alum, and (lien dyeing in the usual way 
in a cochineal bath. 

The colours known by the names of poppy, cher- 
ry, rose, and Jlesk colour, are given to silk by 
means of carthamus. The process consists mere- 
ly in keeping the silk as long as it extracts any 
colour, in an alkaline solution of carthamus, into 
which as much lemon-juice, as gives it a fine cher- 
ry-red colour, has been poured. 

Silk cannot be dyed a full scarlet; but a colour 
approaching to scarlet may be given to it, by first 
impregnating the stuff with murio-sulphote of tin, 
and afterwards dyeing it in a bath, composed of 
four ,-mrts of cochineal, and four parts of quercit- 
ron bark. To give the colour more body, both 
the mordant and the dye may be repeated. 

A colour, approaching to scarlet may be given 
to silk, by first dyeing it in crimson, then dyeing 
it with carthamus; and lastly, yellow, without heat. 



To dye linens and colions red, scarlet, §c. 
Cotton and linen are dyed red with madder. 
The process was borrowed from the east; hence 
the colour is often called Adrianople, or Turkey- 
red. The cloth is first impregnated with oil, then 
with galls, and lastly witii alum, It is then boiled 
for an hour in the decoction of madder, which is 
commonly mixed with a quantity of blood. After 
the cloth is dyed, it is plunged into a soda lev 
in order to brighten the colour. The red given 



1$ GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

by this process, is very permanent; and when 
bfdperly conducted, it is exceedingly beautiful. 
The whole difficulty consists in the application of 
the mordant, which is by far the most complicated 
employed in the whole art of dyeing. 

Cotton may be dyed scarlet, by means of murio- 
fctilphiate of tin, cochineal, and quercitron bark, 
used as for silk, but tho colour is too fading to be 
of any value. 

Black dyes. 

The substances employed to give a black colour 
to cloth, are red oxide of iron, and tan. These 
txro substances have a strong affiinity for each 
other, and when combiued, assume a deep black 
colour, not liable to be destroyed by the action of 
air or light. 

Logwood is usually employed as an auxiliary, 
because it communicates lustre, and adds consid- 
erably to the fulness of the black. It is th* wood 
of a tree which is a native of several of tho West- 
India islands, and of that part of Mexico which 
surrounds the bay of Honduras. It yields its col- 
ouring matter to water. The decoction is at first 
a fine red, bordering on violet: but if left to itself, 
it gradually assumes a black colour. Acids give 
it a deep red colour; alkalies, a deep violet, incli- 
ning to brown: sulphate of iron renders it as black 
as ink, and occasions a precipitate of the same color. 

Cloth, before it receives a black colour, is usu- 
ally dyed blue: this renders the colour much fuller 
and finer than it would otherwise be. If the cloth 
is coarse, the blue dye may be too expensive; in 
that case, a brown colour is given, by means o[ 
wa!nut-po«l*. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS, 71 

To dye woollens black. 
Wool is dyed black by the following process 
It is boiled for two hours in a decoction of nut* 
galls, and afterwards kept, for two hours more, in 
a bath, composed of logwood and sulphate of iron, 
kept, during the whole time, at a scalding heat, 
but not boiling. During the operation, it must t)£ 
frequently exposed to the air; because the green 
oxide of iron, of which the sulphate is composed 
must be converted into red oxide by absorbing 
oxygen, before the cloth can acquire a proper col^ 
our. The common proportions, are five parts of 
galls, five of sulphate of iron, and thirty of Jog* 
wood, for every hundred of cloth A little ace-* 
tate of copper is commonly added to the sulphate 
of iron, because it is thought to improve the colour, 



To dye silks black. 
Silk is dyed nearly in the same manner, It is 
capable of combining with a great deal of tan; 
the quantity given is varied at the pleasure of the 
artist, by allowing the silk to remain a longer pf 
shorter in the decoction 



To dye cottons and linens black. 
The cloth, previously dyed blue, is steeped for 
24 hours in a decoction of nut-galls. A bath ig 
prepared containing acetate of iron, formed by sa^ 
turating acetous acid with brown oxide of iron: 
into this bath the cloth is put in small quantities at 
a time, wrought with the hand for a quarter of aa 
hour; then wiring out, and aired again; wrought 
in a fresh quantity of the bath, and afterwards &jr* 
ed. These alternate processes are repeated fcijj 
jthe colour wanted is given: a decoction gf tlfldf 



72 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

bark is usually mixed with the liquor containing 
the nut-galls. 

To dye ivool, Sfc brown. 

Brown, or fawn colour, though in fact, a com 
pound, is usually ranked among the simple colours, 
because it is applied to cloth by a single process 
Various substances are used for brown dyes. 

Walnut-peels, or the green covering of the wal- 
nut, when first separated, arc white internally, but 
soon assume a brown, or even a black colour, on 
exposure to the air. They readily yield their col- 
ouring matter to water. They are usually kept in 
large casks, covered with water, for above a ) :ar 
before they are used. To dye wool brown with 
them, nothing more is necessary, than to skepthe 
cloth in a decoction of them till it has acquired the 
wished-for colour. The depth of the shade is pro- 
portional to the strength of the decoction. 

The root of the walnut-tree contains the same 
colouring matter, but in smaller quantity. The 
bark of the birch also, and many other trees, may 
be used for the same purpose. 

To dye compound colours. 

Compound colours are produced by mixing to- 
gether two simple ones; or whicfeisthe samething 
by dyeing cloth first of the simple colour, arkUhen 
by another. These colours vary to infinity, accord- 
ing to the proportions of the ingredients employed. 
From blue, red, and yellow, red olives and green- 
ish greys are made. 

From blue, red, and brown, olives are made from 
the lightest to the darkest shades; and by giving 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 73 

a greater shade of red, the slated and lavender 
greys are made. 

From blue, red, and black, greys of all shades 
are made, such as sage, pigeon, slate, and lead 
greys. The king's or prince's colour is duller 
than usual; this mixture produces a variety of hues 
or colours almost to infinity. 

From yellow, blue, and brown, are made the 
goose dung and olives of all kinds. 

From brown, blue, and black, are produced 
brown olives, and their shades. 

From the red, yellow, and brown, are derived 
the orange, gold colour, feuillemort, or faded leaf, 
dead carnations, cinnamon, fawn, and tobacco, by 
using two or three of the colours as required. 

From yellow, red/and black, browns of every 
shade are made. 

From blue and yellow, greens of all shades. 

From red and blue, purples of all kinds are 
formed 



To dye different shades of green. 

Green is distinguished by dyers into a variety 
of shades, according to the depth, or the preva- 
lence of either of the component parts. Thus, 
we have sea-green, grass-green, pea-green, &c. 

Wool, silk, and linen, are usually dyed green, 
by giving them first a blue colour, and afterwards 
dying them yellow, when the yellow is first given, 
several inconveniences follow: the yellow partly 
separates again in the blue vat, and communicates 
a green colour to it; thus rendering it useless for 
every other purpose, except dyeing green. Any 
of the usual processes for dyeing blue and yellow, 
may be followed, taking care to proportion the 
7 



74 GENUINE RECEIPTS 

uepth of the shades to that of the green required. 
When sulphate of indigo is employed, it is 
usual to mix all the ingredients together, and to 
dye the cloth at once; this produces what is known 
by the name of Saxon^or English green. 

To d]jc violet, purple, and lilac. 
Wool is generally first dyed blue, and after- 
wards scarlet, in the usual manner. By means of 
cochineal mixed with sulphate of indigo, the pro- 
cess may be performed at once. Silk is first dyed 
crimson, by means of cochineal, and then dipped 
into the indigo vat. Cotton and linen are first 
dyed blue, and then dipped in a decoction of log- 
wood; but a more permanent colour is g'ven by 
means of oxide of iron. 



To dye olive, orange, and cinnamon. 

When blue is combined with red and yellow on 
cloth, the" resulting colour is olive. Wool may be 
dyed orange, by first dyeing it scarlet, and then 
yellow. When it is dyed first with madder, the 
result is a cinnamon colour. 

Silk is dyed orange by means if carthamus: a, 
cinnamon colour by logwood, Brazil-wood, and 
fustic mixed together. 

Cotton and linen receive a cinnamon colour 
by means of weld and madder; and an olive-col- 
our by being passed through a blue, yellow, and 
then a madder bath. 



To dye grey, drab, and dark brown. 
If cloth is previously combined with brown ox- 
ide of iron, and afterwards dyed yellow with quer- 
citron bark, the result will be a drab of different. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 35 

shades, according to the proportion of mordant 
employed. When the proportion is small, the col- 
our inclines to olive, or yellow; on the contrary, 
the drab may be deepened, or saddened, as the 
dyers term it, by mixing a little sumach with tho 
bark. 

To dye a black upon col ton, linen, and mired goods. 
Take tar, iron liquor of the \ery best quality; 
add to each gallon thereof, three quarters of a 
pound of fine flour, and boil it to the consistency 
of a thin paste. Put the liquor or paste above- 
mentioned into a tub belonging to a machine used 
in the process. The goods intended to be dyed 
are wound upon a roJler, and passed through the 
liquor or paste, betwixt the two rollers; thereby 
completely staining or dyeing the whole mass or 
body of the cloth. Pass them into a very hot 
stove or drying-house till dry, then take cow's 
dung, put it into a large copper of water about 
scalding hot, and mix it well together, through 
which pass the piece of cloth until it be thoroughly 
softened. Wash the goods, so dunged, extreme. 1/ 
well in water. Take a quantity of madder, or 
logwood, or sumach, or all of them mixed together, 
as the strength of the cloth and nature of the col- 
our may require, and put them into a copper, or 
tub of of hot water; then enter the goods before 
nientioned in this liquor, and keep rinsing or mov- 
ing them therein, until they are brought up to tire 
strength of colour required. Have the good; 
again well washed and dried. For dyeing black, 
it will be proper to pass the goods a second time 
'through the above operations; adding more or lesi 
of the dyeing-woods as before. If, after the above 
operations the shade of colour is too full, or too 



76 GENUINE REO-JPI &. 

much upon the red hue, it will be necessary to give 
them a little sumach, and then run them through 
a liquor made from iron and owler, or alder bark 



Another method. 
Take common iron liquor, and add three quar- 
ters of fine flour, and by boiling bring it to the 
consistency of a thin paste; or instead of flour, 
add glue or linseed, or gum, or all of them mixed 
together, till it is brought to a proper thickness 
Then pass the goods through the machine, and 
follow the before mentioned operations. 



To dye olives, bottle greens, purples, broivns, cinna- 
mons, or snuffs. 

Take common iron liquor, or common iron 
liquor with alum dissolved therein, in quantity of 
each according to the shade of colour wanted, 
made into a paste or liquid, by adding flour, gum, 
glue, linseed, or one or more of them as before. 
Then put the) liquor or paste above mentioned in- 
to a tub belonging to the machine, and pass the 
goods so intended to be dyed, through the machine. 
Take them from the machine, and hang them up 
in a very cool room, where they are to remain till 
they are thoroughly dry. Take cow's-dung, put 
it into a large copper of hot water, and mix it well 
together; through which pass the cloth or goods 
until thoroughly softened, the quantity of dung 
and time required, being proportioned as before. 

The goods after this process being well washed, 
take a quantity of liquor made from madder, log- 
wood, sumach, fustic, Brazil, woad, quercitron 
bark, peach wood, or other woods, to produce the 
colour wanted, or more of them; and if necessa- 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 77 

y dilute this liquor with water, according to tho 
shade or fulnesss' of colour wanted to be dyed. 
Then work the goods through this liquor, after 
which pass them through cold or warm water, ac- 
cording to colour, the proper application of which 
is well known to dyers, adding a little alum, cop- 
peras, or Roman vitriol, or two or more of them 
first dissolved in water. Then wash them olf in 

-varm water, and dry them. But if the colour is 
not sufficiently lull, repeat the same operations till 
it is brought to the shade required. 



To (life crimson, red, orange, or yellow. 
Take red liquor, such as is generally made from 
alum, and dilute it with water according to the 
strength or shade of colour wanted to dye, bring- 
ing it to the consistency of a paste or liquid, as 
before described. Then pass the cloth through 
the machine; which being dried in a cool room, 
pass it through the operations of dunging ana 
washing as before. Take a quantity of liquor, 
made from cochineal, madder, peach-wood, Brazil, 
logwood, woad, fustic, sumach, or any two or more 
of them proportioned in strength to the shade or 
colour wanted to dye, and work the goods through 
this liquor till they are brought to the shade of col- 
our required; after which wash them in cold or 
warm water, and dry them. 

To dye cotton , wool, and silk, with Prussian blue. 
Immerse the cotton into a large tub of water 
slightly acidulated and charged with prussiate of 
potass. These sorts of stuifs dyed in Prussian 
blue, and then in olive transformed into green, are 
particularly sought after in trade. By processes 



78 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

analagous to tKose employed for cotton stuffs, the 
inventor has obtained the same shades and col- 
ours, on samples of silk; and for many years, he 
has even succeeded in fixing Prussian blue on 
wool, and in producing on cloth the same shades as 
on cotton and silk. 



To precipitate acetates of lead and copper, on wool, 
silk and cotton. 

Soak the stuff which is required to be dyed, in 
a solution of acetate, or rather sub-acetate of lead, 
wring it when it comes out of the bath, drying it in 
the shade, afterwards wash it, and again immerse 
it in water charged with sulphurated hydrogen gas. 
By this process are obtained, in a few minutes, 
rich and well laid shades, which vary from the clear 
vigone colour, to the deep brown, according to the 
force of the mordant and the number of the im- 
mersions of the stufts in the two bathing vessels. 
From the order of affinities, it is the wool which 
takes colour the best, afterwards the silk, then the 
cotton, and lastly the thread, which appears little 
apt to combine with the mordant. 

The different colours above indicated, resist the 
air well, likewise feeble acids, alkalies, and boiling 
soap, which modify their shades in an impercepti- 
ble manner, and these shades are so striking, that 
it will appear difficult to obtain them in any other 
manner. 

This new kind of dye is very economical. The 
sulphurated hydrogen gas is obtained from a mix- 
ture of two parts of iron filings, and one of brim- 
stone melted in a pot; this brimstone is bruised, in- 
troduced into a matt rass> and the gas is removed 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 79 

by sulphuric acid extended in water to a mild heat 
The gas absorbs abundantly in cold water. 



To dye cotton cloth black. 
Take a quantity of Molacca nuts, which, in 
Bengal, are sold at 2s. per cwt., and boil them in 
water, in close earfhern vessels, with the leaves of 
the tree. During the boiling, a whitish substance, 
formed from the mucilage and oil of the nuts, will 
rise to the surface; this must be taken ofFand pre- 
served. The cloth intended to be black, must be 
printed with this scum, and then dyed, after which 
let it be passed through lime water, when the print- 
# ed figures will be changed to o. full and permanent 
black 

To dye wool a permanent blue colour. 
Take four ounces of the best indigo, reduce it to 
a very fine powder, and add twelve pounds of wool 
in the grease; put the whole into a copper large 
enough to contain all the wool to be dyed. As 
soon as the requisite colour is obtained, let the wool 
be well washed and dried. The liquor remaining 
may be again used, to produce lighter blues. The 
colour vvill be as beautiful and permanent as the 
finest blue, produced by woad, and the wool, by 
tfhs method will loose less in weight than if it had 
been previously scoured. 



To produce the Swiss deep and pale red tropical 
mordants. 
When the cotton cloth has been freed by steep- 
ing and boiling in soap and water, from the paste 
used by the weaver, and any other impurities it 
may have acquired, immerse it thoroughly, or, as 



80 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

it is called, tramp or pad it in a solution of any al- 
kali, and oil of grease, forming an imperfect soap, 
or boil it in any of the perfect soaps dissolved in 
water, or in a solution of soda and gallipoli oil, in 
the proportion of 1 gallon of oil to 20 gallons of 
soda' lees, at the strength of 4 degrees and a half; 
then dry the cloth in the stove, and repeat the pro- 
cess several times, which may be varied at pleas- 
ure, according to the lustre and durability of the 
colour wanted, stove-drying the cloth between ev- 
ery immersion. To the above solutions add a little 
sheep, s dung, for the first three immersions; these 
are called the dung liquors; after the cloth has re- 
ceived the dung liquors, it is steeped for 12 hour^ 
in a quantity of water, 110 degrees of Fahrenheit; 
this is called the green steep. The cloth being 
again stove dried, is immersed as above in a solu- 
tion of alkali and oil, or grease, or boiled in per- 
fect soap dissolved, but without the sheep's dung; 
or oftener, according to the brilliancy of colours 
wanted, stove-dying as before, between every im- 
mersion; these are called the white liquors. Steep 
the cloth for twelve hours at 125 degrees Fahren- 
heit, which forms what is called the white steep. 
The cloth being now thoroughly washed in cold 
water, and dried, is ready to receive, first, the pink 
mordant, which is composed as follows: — take 
equal quantities, by measurement, of a decoction 
of galls at the strength of four to six, and a solu- 
tion of alum at one half degree, the alum being 
previously saturated with whitening, or any other 
alkali, in the proportion of 1 ounce to the pound 
weight of alum; mix them together, and raise the 
temperature to 140 degrees of Fahrenheit, or as 
hot as can be handled. By immersion, as former- 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 81 

ly mentioned, in this mixture, the cloth, when dyed 
and cleared, exhibits a beautiful pink, equal, if not 
superior, to that produced by cochineal. 

To dye silks and satins broivn in the small way. 

Fill the copper with river water, when it gently 
boils, put in a quarter of a pound of chipped fustic, 
two ounces of madder, one ounce of sumach, and 
half an ounce of camwood; but if not required to 
be so red, the cam-wood may be omitted. These 
should boil, at least, from half an hour to two hours, 
that the ingredients may be well incorporated. 
The copper must then be cooled down by pouring 
in cold water: the goods may then be put in, and 
simmered gently from half and hour to an hour. 
If this colour should appear to want darkening, or 
saddening, it may be done by taking out the goods, 
and adding a small quantity of old black liquor; a 
small piece of green copperas may be used: rinse 
in two or three water, and hang up to dry. 

To dye silks of fawn colour drabs. 
Boil one ounce of fustic, half an ounce of al- 
der bark, and two drachms of archil. From one 
to four drachms of the best crop madder must be 
added to a very small quantity of old black liquor, 
if it be required darker. 



To dye a silk shawl scarlet. 
First dissolve two ounces of white soap in boil- 
iag water, handle the shawl through this liquor, 
now and then rubbing such places with the hands 
as may appear dirty, till it is as clean as water will 
make it. A second, or even a third liquor may be 



*2 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

used, if required: the snawl must be rinsed out in 
warm water. 

Then take half" an ounce of the best Spanish 
annatto, and dissolve it in hot water; pour this so- 
lution into a pan of warm water, and handle the 
shawl through this for a quarter of an hour; then 
take it out and rinse it in clean water. In the 
meanwhile dissolve a piece of alum of the size of 
a horse bean in warm water, and let the shawl re- 
main in this half an hour; take it out and rinse it 
in clear water. Then boil a quarter of an ounce 
of the best 'cochineal for twenty minutes, dip it 
out of the copper into a pan, and let the shawl re- 
main in this from twenty minutes to half an hour, 
which will make it a full blood red. Then take 
out the shawl, and add to the liquor in the pan a 
quart more of that out of the copper, if there is 
as much remaining, and about half a small wine- 
glassful of the solution of tin: when cold, rinse it 
slightly out in spring water. 



To dye a silk shawl crimson. 
Take about a tabic spoonful of cudbear, put it 
into a small pan, pour boiling water upon it, stir 
and let it stand a lew minutes, then put in the silk, 
and turn it over a shoit time, and when the colour 
is full enough, take it out; but if it should require 
more violet or crimson, add a spoonful or two of 
purple archil to some warm water, and dry it within 
doors. To finish it, it must be mangled or clan- 
dered, and ma*' be pressed, if such a convenience 
is at hand. 



To drje silk lilac. 
For every pound of silk, take one pound and 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 8:3 

half of archil, mix it well with the liquor; make 
it boil a quarter of an hour, dip the silk quickly, 
then let it cool, and wash it in river water, and a 
fine half violet, or lilac, more or less full, will be 
obtained. 

To dye thick silts, satins, silk stockings, fyc. of a 
jlesfo colour. 
Wash the stockings clean in soap and water, 
then rinse them in hot water; if they should not 
then appear perfectly clear, cut half an ounce of 
white soar, into thin slices, and put it into a sauce- 
pan half full of boiling water; when this soap is 
dissolved, doo'I the water in the pan, then put in 
the stockings, and simmer for twenty minutes; take 
them out, and rinse in hot water; in the interim 
pour three table spoorJiful of purple archil into a 
wash-hand basin half full of hot water; put the 
stockings in this dye water, and when of the shade 
called half violet or lilac, take them from the dye 
water, and slightly rinse them in cold; when dry 
hang them up in a close room in which sulphur is 
burnt; when they are evenly bleached to the shade 
required of flesh colour, take them from the sul- 
phuring-room, and finish them by rubbing the 
right side with a clean flannel: Some persons cal- 
ender them afterwards. Satins and silks are done 
the same way. 

To dye silk stockings black. 
These are dyed like other silks, excepting that 
they must be steeped a day or two in black liquor, 
before they are put into the black silk dye. At 
first they will look like an iron grey; but to finish 
and black them, they must be put on wooden legs, 



84 GhiNUlNE RECEIPTS. 

laid on a table, and rubbed with the oily rubber, 
or flannel, upon which is oil of olives, and then 
the more they are rubbed the better. Each pair 
of stockings will require half a table spoonful of 
oil, at least, and half an hour's rubbing, to finish 
them well. Sweet oil is the best in this process, 
as it leaves no disagreeable smell. 

To 'due black cloth green. 
Clean the cloth well with bullock's gall and wa- 
ter, and rinse in warm water; then make a copper 
full of river water boiling hot, and take from one 
pound to one pound and a half of fustic; put it in, 
and boil it twenty minutes, to which add a lump 
of alum of the size of a walnut; when this is dw- 
solved in the copper, put in the coat, and boil it 
twenty minutes; then take it out, and add a small 
wine glass, three parts full, of themic blue, and 
boil again from half an hour to an hour, and the 
cloth will be a beautiful dark green; then wash 
out and dry. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS FOR DY- 
ING, STAINING, &c. 

To turn red hair black. 
Take a pint of the liquor of pickled herrings, 
half a pound of lamp-black, and two ounces of the 
rust of iron. Mix and boil them for twenty min- 
utes, then strain and rub the liquid well into the 
roots of the hair. 



To dye bristles or feathers green. 
Take of verdigris and verditcr, each 1 ounce, 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 85 

gum water 1 pint; mix them well, and dip the 
bristles or feathers, they having been first soaked 
in hot water, into the said mixture. 

Blue. — Take of indigo and risse, each 1 ounce, 
and a piece of alum the size of a hazel nut; put 
them into gum water, and dip the materials into it 
hot, hang them up to dry, and clap them well that 
they may be open, and by changing the colours, 
the aforesaid materials may be in this manner dy- 
ed of any colour; for purple use lake and indigo; 
for carnation, vermillion and smalt. 

Red. — Take an ounce ef Brazil wood in powder, 
half an ounce of alum, a quarter of an ounce of 
vermillion, and a pint of vinegar, boil them up to 
a moderate thickness, and dip the bristles or feath- 
ers, they having been first soaked in hot water, in 
to the said mixture. 



To dye or colour horse hair 
Steep in water wherein a small quantity of tur- 
pentine has been boiled for the space of two hours; 
then having prepared the colous very hot, boil the 
hair therein, and any colour, black excepted, will 
take, but that will only take a dark red or dark 

blue, &c. 

To dye gloves. 
Take the colour suitable for the occasion; if 
dark take Spanish brown and black earth; if light- 
er, yellow and whiting; and so on with other col- 
ours: mix them with a moderate fire, daub the 
gloves over with the colour wet, and let them hang 
till they are dry, then beat out the superfluity of 
the colour, and smooth them over with a stretching 
or sleeking stick, reducing them to their proper 
shape. 

8 



86 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

To dye white gloves purple. 
Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of 
roche alum in three pints of soft water till half 
wasted. Let the liquor stand to cool after strain- 
ing. Let the gloves be nicely mended, then with 
a brush rub them over, and when dry repeat it. 
Twice is sufficient, unless the colour is to be very 
dark; when dry, rub off the loose dye with a 
coarse cloth; beat up the white of an egg, and 
with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye 
will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar 
before they are washed will take it off. 



To prepare wood for dyeing. 

The wood mostly used to dye black, is pear-tree, 
holly, and beach, ail of which take a beautiful black 
colour. Do not use wood that has been long cut, 
or aged, but let it be as fresh as possible. After 
the veneers have had one hour's boiling, and then 
taken out to cool, the colour is always much stron- 
ger. When dyed, they should be dried in the air, 
and not by the fire, nor in a kiln of any kind, as 
artificial heat tends to destroy the colour. 

In order to dye blue, green, red or other colours, 
take clear holly. Put the veneers into a box or 
trough, with clear water, and let them remain four 
or five days, changing the water once or twice as 
occasion may require, the water will clear the 
wood of slime, &.c. Let them dry about twelve 
hours before they are put into the dye; the colour 
will strike quicker, and be of a brighter hue. 

To prepare blue turnsole for staining wood. 
Roil four ounces of turnsole in a pint and a half 
of water, in which lime has been slaked. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 87 

To stain oak a mahogany colour. 
Boil together Brazil wood and Roman alum, and 
before it is applied to tlie wood, a little potash is 
to be added to it. A suitable varnish for wood, 
thus tinged, may be made by dissolving amber in 
oil of turpentine, mixed with a small portion of 
linseed oil. 



EbomjrBlack. 
Steep the wood for two or three days in luke- 
warm water, in which a little alum has been dis- 
solved; then put a handful of logwood, cut small, 
into a pint of water, and boil it down to less than 
•half a pint. If a little indigo is added, the colour 
will be more beautiful. Spread a layer of this li- 
quor quite hot on the wood with a pencil, which 
will give it a violet colour. When it is dry, 
spread on another layer; dry it again, and give it a 
third: then boil verdigris at discretion in its own 
vinegar, and spread a layer of it on the wood: when 
it is dry, rub it with a brush, and then with oiled 
chamois skin. This gives a fine black, and imi- 
tates perfectly the colour of ebony. 

Another method. 
After forming the wood into the destined figure, 
rub it with aqua-fortis a little diluted. Small 
threads of wood will rise in the drying which is to 
be rubbed ofT with pumice stone. Repeat this pro- 
cess again, and then rub the wood with the follow- 
ing composition; put into a glazed earthern vessel 
a pint of strong vinegar, two ounces of fine iron 
tilings, and half a pound of pounded galls, and al- 
low them to infuse for three or four hours on hot 
cinders. At the end of this time augment the fire, 



83 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

and pour into the vessel four ounces of coperas 
(sulphate of iron) and a chopin of water having 
half an ounce of borax, ancTas much indigo dissolv- 
ed in it; and make the whole boil till a froth rises. 
Rub several layers of this upon the wood; and 
when it is dr.y, polish it with leather on which a lit- 
tle tripoli has been put. 

To stain beech-wood a mahohrami colour, 
» Break two ounces, of dragon's blood in pieces, 

and put them into a quart of rectified spirit of wine; 
let the bottle stand in a warm place, and shake it 
frequently. When dissolved it is fit for use. 



Jfiwiker method. 
Boil one pound of logwood in four quarts of wa- 
ter, and add a double handful of walnut peeling. 
Boil it up again, take out the chips, add a pint of 
the best vinegar, and it will be fit for use. 



To slain musical instruments. 

Crimson. 

Boil one pound of ground Brazil-wood in three 

quarts of water for an hour; strain it, and add half 

an ounce of cochineal; boil it again for half an 

hour gently, and it will be fit tor use. 

Purple. 
Boil a pound of chip logwood in three quarts of 
water for an hour; then add four ounces of pearl- 
ash, and two ounces of indigo pounded. 

To stain box wood brown. 
Hold the work to the fire, that it may receive a 
gentle warmth; then take aqua fortis, and with a 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 89 

feather pass it over the work, till it changes to a 
fine brown. Then oil and polish it. 



To dye wood a silver grey. 
Let not the veneers be two dry; when put into 
the copper, pour hot iron liquor (acetate ot iron) 
over them, and add one pound of chip logwood 
with two ounces of bruised nut-galls. Then boil 
another pot of iron liquor to supply the copper, 
keeping the veneers covered and boiling two 
hours a day, until thoroughly penetrated. 

Bright yellow. — A very small bit of aloes put 
into the varnish, will make the wood of a good yel- 
low colour. 

Another method. 
Reduce four pounds of the roots of barbary, by 
sawing into dust, which put into a copper or brass 
pan, add four ounces of tumeric, to which put four 
gallons of water, then put in as many holly veneers 
as the liquor will cover; boil them together for 
three hours, often turning them. When cool, add 
two ounces of aqua-fortis, and the dye will strike 
through much sooner. 

Bright green.-Proceed as before to produce a 
yellow; but instead of aqua-fortis, add as much of 
the vitriolated indigo as will produce the desir- 
ed colour. 

Another method. — To three pints of the strong- 
est vinegar, add four ounces of the best verdigris, 
ground fine, half -an ounce of sap-green, and half 
an ounce of indigo. Proceed in straining as be- 
fore, c* 



90 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

Bright red. — To two pounds of genuine Brazil 
dust, add 4 gallons of water, put in as many ve- 
neers as the liquor will well cover, boil them for 
three hours, and let them cool; then add two oun- 
ces of aqua-fortis, and ke*p it luke-warm until it 
has struck through. 

Purple. — To two ounces of chip logwood, and 
half a pound of Brazil-dust, add four gallons of 
water. Put in the veneers, and boil them well, 
then add six ounces of pearl-ash and two ounces 
of alum: let them boil two or three hours every 
day, till the colour has struck through. 

Fine blue. — Into a pound of oil of vitriol in a glass 
bottle, put four ounces of indigo, and proceed as 
before directed. 

To slain paper or p How. 

Paper may be stained a beautiful yellow by the 
tincture of turmeric formed by an ounce 

or more of the root, d, in a pint, of spirit 

of wine. This may be made to give any tint of 
yellow, from the lightest straw to the full colour, 
called French yellow, and will be equal in bright- 
ness even to the best dyed silks. If yellow be 
wanted of a warmer or redder cast, aunatto, or 
dragon's blood, must be added. The best man- 
ner of using these, and tke following tinctures, i3 
to spread them even on the paper, or parchment 
by means of a broad brush, in the manner of var- 
nishing. 



Crimson. — A very fine crimson stain may be 
given to paper by a tincture of the Indian" Lake, 
which may be made by infusing the lake some 
days in spirit of wine, and then pouring off the 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 91 

tincture from the dregs. It may be stained ted 
by red ink. It may also be stained of a scarlet 
hue by the tincture of dragon's blood in spirit of 
wine, but this will not be bright. 

Gh^een. — Paper or parchment may be stained 
green, by the solution of verdigris in vinegar, or 

by the crystals of verdigris dissolved in water. 

Grange. — Stain the paper or parchment first of 
a full yellow, by means of the tincture of tumer- 
jck; then brush it over with a solution of fixed al- 
kaline salt, made by dissolving half an ounce of 
pearl-ashes, or salt of tartar, in a quart of water, 
and filtering the solution. 

Purple. — Paper or parchment may be stained 
purple, by archil, or by the tincture oflogwood. 

The juice of ripe privet berries expressed will 
likewise give a purple dye. 

To marble Ike edges of books or paper. 

Dissolve four ounces of gum arabic in two 
quarts of clear water: then provide several col- 
ours mixed with water in pots or shells, and with 
pencils peculiar to each colour, sprinkle them by 
way of intermixture upon the gum-water, which 
must be put into a trough, on some broad vessel; 
then with a stick curl them or draw them out in 
streaks, to as much variety as required. 

Having done this, hold the book or books close 
together, and only dip the edges in, oil the top of 
the water and colours very lightly; which done, take 
them off, and the plain impression of the colours 
in mixture will be upon the leaves; doing as well 



92 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

the ends, as the front, of the book the same man 
ner. 



To marble the covers of books. 

This is performed by forming clouds with aqua 
fortis, or spirit of vitriol, mixed with ink, and after- 
wards glazing the covers. 

To colour vellum green. 

Take half a pint of the best white wine vinegar, 
an ounce of verdigris, and half an ounce of sap 
green; dissolve them in the vinegar for a few 
days, having been heated by the fire. Shake 
the bottle frequently before it is used. 

Wash the vellum over with weak potash wa- 
ter, and when dry, colour it with the green three 
or four times, till it has a good colour: when dry, 
wash it over with thin paste water, to give the vel- 
lum a gloss. 

To black the edges of paper. 

Mix black lead with ink, and when the paper is 
cut, colour it thinly over with black ink, with a 
fine piece of cloth; rub on the black-lead, cover 
ing every part; take the dog's-tooth, and bur- 
nish the edge till it becomes well polished. 

When the edge of the paper, after cutting, ap- 
pears rather rough, scrape it over with a piece of 
glass or an iron scraper, with a flat edge. 

To sprinkle the edges of books, tyc. 
The brushes used for book-edges, must be made 
of Russia hog's bristles, of good thickness, tied 
round with cord", glued at the thick end, and half 
covered with a piece of leather: when dry, tye the 
brush again with a waxed cord, within half an inch 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 93 

of the soft part, and cut it very smooth and even. 
Brushes made after this manner are preferable to 
those with a handle. 

Prepare the colour in a cup; dip in the brush till 
it is charged, and then press it out till it will drop 
no longer. The book must be screwed tight in the 
cutting press: hold the brush in the left hand, and, 
with a folding stick in the right, rub it over the 
brush, which will cause the colour to sprinkle fine- 
ly on the edges. The brush must be moved up 
and down over the edge, as you sprinkle, to have 
it regular on every part. After the sprinkling is 
done, the brushes should be carefully washed in 
water, particularly after sprinkling blue, which will 
otherwise soon destroy the brush. 



To dye or stain horn tortoise-shell colour. 
The horn to be dyed must be first pressed into 
proper plates, scales, or other flat form, and the 
following mixture prepared: Take of quick-lime 
two parts, and litharge one part, temper them to- 
gether to the consistence of a soft paste, with soap 
ley. Put this paste over all the parts of the horn, 
except such as are proper to be left transparent, in 
order to give it a near resemblance to the tortoise- 
shell. The horn must remain in this manner, cov- 
ered with the paste, till it is thoroughly dry; when, 
the paste being brushed off, the horn will be found 
partly opaque and partly transparent, in the man- 
ner of tortoise-shell, and when put over a foil 
of the kind of lattern, called orsedue, will be 
scarce distinguishable from it. It requires some 
degree of fancy and judgment to dispose of the 
paste in such a manner as to form r? variety of trans- 
parent parts, of different magnitudes; and figurea 



»4 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

to look like the effect of nature; and it will be an 
improvement to add semi-transparent parts, which 
may be done by mixing whiting with some of the 
paste, to weaken its operation in particular places, 
by which spots of a reddish-brown will be produ- 
ced, which, if properly interspersed, especially on 
the edges of the dark parts, will greatly increase 
the beauty of the work, and its similitude to real 
tortoise-shell. 



Another method. 
Take an equal quantity of quick-lime and red 
lead, and mix it up with strong soap lees. Lay it 
on the horn with a small brush, like the mottle in 
tortoise-shell. When dry, repeat the same two or 
three times. 



To dye horns of different colours. 

Black is performed by steeping brass in aqua 
fortis till it is turned green: with this the horn is 
to be washed once or twice, and then put into a 
warmed decoction of logwood and water. 

Green is begun by boiling it, &c. in alum-water, 
then with verdigris, ammoniac, and white wine vin- 
egar, keeping it hot therein till sufficiently green. 

Red is begun by boiling it in alum water, then with 
verdigris, ammoniac, and finished by decoction in 
a liquor compounded of quick-lime steepod in rain 
water, strained, and to every pint an ounce of 
Brazil wood added. In this decoction the horns 
are to be boiled till sufficiently red. 

Horns receive a deep black stain from solution 
of siilver. It ought to be diluted to such a degree 
as not sensibly to corrode the subject, and applied 
two or three times if necessary, at considerable 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 95 

intervals, the matter being exposed as much as 
possible to the sun, to hasten t-he appearance and 
deepening of the colour. 

To imitate King; or Botany-bay wood. 

Take French berries half a pound, and boil 
them in two quarts 6Y water, till you have a deep 
yellow, and with it boiling hot, give two or three 
coats to your work; let it be nearly dry, then, with 
the black stain form the grain with your brush: to 
be used hot. 

JY. B. You may, for variety, after giving it 
two or three coats of yellow, give one of strong 
logwood liquor which will heighten the colour, and 
then use the black stain as directed. 

Ji common red for bedsteads and common chairs. 

Archil, as sold at the shops, will produce a very 
good stain of itself when used cold; but if, after 
one or two coats being applied and suffered to get 
almost dry, we brush it over with a hot solution of 
pearlash in water, it will improve the colour. 

To imitate rose-wood. 
Take half a pound of logwood, boil it with three 
pints of water till it is of a very dark red, to which 
add about half an ounce of salt of tartar, and 
when boiling hot stain your wood with two or 
three coats, taking care that it is nearly dry be- 
tween each; then with a stiff flat brush c such as is 
used by the painters for graining, form streaks 
with the black stain above named, which if care- 
fully executed, will be very near the appearance ( 
of dark rose wood. 



96 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

Another Method. 

Stain your wood ail over with the black stain, 
and when dry, with a brush as above, dipped in 
the brightening liquid, form red veins in imitation 
of the grain of rose-wood, which will produce, 
when well managed, a beautiful effect. 

JYote — A handy brush for the purpose, will be 
made by taking a flat brush such as is used for 
varnishing, and cutting the sharp points oft' the 
hairs, and making the edge irregular, by cutting 
out a few hairs here and there, you will have a 
tool which, without any trouble, will imitate t\i9 
grain with great accuracy. 



To varnish a piece of Furniture. 
First, observe the work to be clean; then see if 
any knots or blemishes require filling up, which 
must be done with cement of the same colour; 
have your varnish in an earthen pot, with a piece 
of wire diametrically across the top, slackened 
downwards, to stroke the brush v against; then see 
that your brush is clean, and free from loose hairs, 
dip your brush in the varnish, stroking it across 
the wire, and give the work a thin and regular 
coat; soon after that another, and^another, always 
taking care not to pass the brush twice in the 
same place; let it stand to dry in a moderately 
warm place, that the varnish may not chill. 
j When you have given your work about six or 
seven coats, let it get quite hard, (which you will 
prove by pressing your knuckles or, it, if It leaves 
a mark it is not hard enough; ) then with the 
three first fingers of your hand, rub the varnish till 
it chafes, and proceed over that part of the work 
jou mefm to polish, in order to take out all th« 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 97 

streaks, or partial lumps made by the brush; give 
it then another coat, and let it stand a day or two 
to harden. 

Note — The best vessel for holding your varnish 
is commonly sold at colour-shops, called a varnish 
pan; it is constructed of tin with a false bottom; 
the interval between the two bottoms is rilled with 
sand, which being heated over the fire, keeps the 
varnish fluid and flows more readily from the 
brush; there is a tin handle to it, and the false bot- 
tom comes sloping from one end to the other, which 
causes the varnish to run to one end, and with a 
wire across in the same manner as recommended 
in the above directions. 

To keep your brushes in order. 
The brushes used for varnishing are either flat 
in tin, or round tied firm to the handle, and either 
made of camel's hair or very fine bristles; in the 
use of which it is necessary to be very careful in 
cleaning them after being used, for if laid by with 
the varnish in them they are soon spoiled; therefore 
after using them wash them well in spirits of wine 
or turpentine, according to the nature of your var- 
nish ; after which you may wash them out with hot 
water and soap and they will be as good as new, and 
last a great while with care; and the spirits that are 
used for cleaning, may be used to mix with varnish 
for the more common purposes, or the brushes may 
be cleansed merely with boiling water and strong 
yellow soap. 

To make the best white hard Varnish. 
Rectified spirits of wine, two gallons: gum san- 
drach, five pounds; gum mastic, one pound; gum 
9 



98 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

anime, four ounces; put these in a clean can,or bot- 
tle to dissolve, in a warm place, frequently shaking 
it, if (when the gum is dissolved) you strain it 
through a lawn sieve, it is fit for use. 

To make Mastic Varnish proper for varnishing 
Pictures or Drawings. 

To every quart of spirits of turpentine put one 
pound and a quarter of the cleanest gum mastic, 
set it in a sandbath till it is all dissolved, then 
strain it through a fine sieve, and it is ready for 
use; if too thick, you may thin it with spirits of tur- 
pentine. 

To make Turpentine Varnish. 
To one gallon of spirits of turpentine add five 
pounds of clear rosin pounded; put it in a tin can, 
on a stove and let it boil for half an hour; when the 
rosin is all dissolved ; let it cool, and it is fit for 
use. 

To make a Varnish for Violins, &c. 
Take half a gallon of rectified spirits of wine, to 
which put six ounces of gum mastic, and half a pint 
of turpentine varnish; put the above in a tin can, 
keep it in a very warm place, frequently shaking it, 
until it is dissolved; strain it and keep it for use. 
Should you find it harder than you wish, you 
may add a little more turpentine varnish. 

To Varnish Harps and Dulcimers in the Indian 
manner. 

Prepare the work with size and red ochre; then 
take ochre, burnt umber, and red-lead, well ground, 
and mix up a dark brown color in turpentine var- 



GEJNUINE RECEIPTS. 99 

nish, adding so much spirits of turpentine that you 
may just be able to work it, pass over your work 
fair and even; and while it is yet wet, take a muslin 
sieve, and sift as much Dutch metal, (bronze,) up- 
on it as you think requisite to produce the effect; 
after which varnish and polish it. 



To varnish Drawings, or any kind of Paper or 
Card-work. 

Take some clear parchment cuttings,boil them in 
water in a clean glazed pipkin, till they produce a 
very clear size, strain it, and keep it for use. 

Give your work two coats of the above size, pas- 
sing quickly over the work, not to disturb the col- 
ors, proceed as before directed with your varnish. 



Another Method still better. 

Take one ounce of the best isinglass, dissolve it 
in about a pint of water by simmering it over the fire; 
strain it through fine muslin, and keep it for use. 

Try the size on a piece of paper, (heat it to a 
moderate heat,) arid if it glistens it is too thick; 
then add more water,if it soaks into the paper it is too 
thin; add or diminish the isinglass till it merely dulls 
the surface; then take your drawing, and give it two 
or three coats, being careful (particularly in the 
first coat) to bear very lightly on the brush, (which 
should be a flat tin camel's hair,) and plenty of size 
to flow freely from it, otherwise you may damage 
the drawing. 

Then take the best mastic varnish and give it at 
least three coats, and the effect will answer your 
most sanguine wishes. 

•Yofe. — This is the method used by many erni- 



100 GEJNIUJNE RECEIPTS. 

nent artists and is found superior to any that ha* 
been tried. 

Amber Varnish. 
Take amber eight ounces, in powder, and two 
of gum lac: melt the amber by means of the heat, 
by means of a glazed pipkin, with half a pint of the 
best spirits of turpentine; and when melted add the 
gum lac, place it on the fire again, and keep stir- 
ring it with a piece of wood till it is all dissolved, 
then add one ounce of the clearest cold-drawn lin 
seed oil; stir it well together, and strain it for use 



Oil Varnish. 

Take any quantity of the best linseed oil, let it 
boil for an hour, then to every pound of oil add a 
quarter of a pound of the clearest rosin in powder, 
stir it well till dissolved; then add for every pound 
of oil used, one ounce of spirits of turpentine, 
strain it and bottle for use. 

Mote. — This is a cheap and good varnish for 
sash frames, or any work where economy is requir- 
ed; it has besides the property of bearing hot wa- 
ter without being damaged, and is not subject to 
crack or scratch. 



Copal Varnish. 
Take spirits of wine one quart, gum copal one 
ounce, and shell lac half an ounce; reduce the 
gums to powder, put the spirits in a jar or bottle, 
add the gums, place the whole in a warm place, 
with the cork lightly in the bottle; shake it occa- 
sionally, and when the gums are quite dissolved, 
strain and bottle for use. 



GENUINE RECEIPTS. 101 

To tinge bone and ivory red. 

Boil shavings of scarlet cloth in water. When it 
begins to boil, throw in a quarter of a pound of 
ashes made from the dregs of wine, which will ex- 
tract the colour; then throw in a little roche alum 
to clear it, and pass the water through a linen cloth. 
Steep the ivory or bone in aqua-fortis, and put in- 
to the water. If it is necessary to leave white 
spots, cover the place destined for them with wax. 

Black. — Take a double handful of lime, and slack 
it by sprinkling it with water: stir it up together, 
let it settle ten minutes, and pour the water into 
a pan. Then take the ivory, &c. and steep it in 
the lime water twenty-four hours, after which, boil 
it in strong alum water one hour, and dry it in the 
air. 

Another method. 

Steep the bone or ivory during five or six days, 
in water of galls with ashes made with dried dregs 
ofwinii and arsenic \ then give it two or three lay- 
ers of the same black, with which plumtree is black- 
ened in order to imitate ebony. 

Or dissolve silver in aqua-fortis, and put into it 
a little rose water. Rub the ivory with this and 
allow it to dry in the sun. 

Green — This colour is imparted to ivory or bone 
by a solution of copper or verdigris in aqua-fortis, 
or by grinding together two parts of verdigris and 
one of sal-ammoniac. 

Purple. — Take four ounces of aqua-iegia, and 
one of sal-ammoniac. 

Yellow. — ivory, bone, horn, &c. may de staned 
yellow, by previously boiling them in a solution of 
one pound of alum, in two quarts of water, then 
immersing them for half an hour in a liquor, pie- 



102 GENUINE RECEIPTS. 

pared by boiling half a pound of tumeric in a gal- 
lon of water, until it be reduced to hree quarts, and 
afterwards plunging the coloured substance into 
alum water. 

Blue. — All bony matters may be stained blue, by 
first tinging them with green, and then dipping 
them into a hot and strong solution of pearl-ashes. 



INDEX. 



CURIOUS ARTS. 

To Burnish with Gold 

Enamel Picture Glasses 

Wash Iron or Steel with Gold 

Wash Brass or Copper with Silver 
Ornamental Bronze Gilding 
To give wood a Gold, Silver or Copper lostre 

Print Gold Letters on Morocco 

Dye silk a brilliant Gold colour 

Silver colour 

Silver Looking-Glasses 
To write on paper with Gold or Silver 
To make good shining Black Ink 

Blue Ink - 

Red Ink 

Yellow Ink 

Green Ink 

Purple Ink 



9 

4 

4 

4 

9 

8 

6 

6 

7 

19 

14 

14 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 



To write in various colours with the same pea, ink and paper 16 

Invisible Ink for secret correspondence - 16 

Sympathetic Ink - - 10 17 

Luminous Ink - - 17 

To make writing appear and disappear at pleasure - 17 

Make writing vanish and another appear in its place 19 

Restore old writing - - - 18 

A picture that will appear and disappear occasionally 18 

To give Iron the whiteness of Silver - 16 



MEDICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS. 



Astringent for the teeth 

Bread, improvement 

Blacking 

Botts, in a horse 

Bugs 

Beer 

Breath 

Congh, whoeping 

Canker 

Caneers 



47 
28 

24 25 28 
24 
25 

. 27 28 

48 

• 

18 n 



3 



INDEX. 



Carni 
Cuts 
China 
Cordial 
Cement 
Cherries - 
Cream of rosea 
Dropsy 

Dy«, yelloy and green 
Damsons 
Eyes 

Eve sKftnt 
Fliea 
Gravel 
Gout 

Grease spots 
Gloves 
Grapes 
Goosburries 
Horses 
Hair 
Ink 

Iron moulds 
Ink spots 
Jaundice 

Liquid Laudanum 
Looking glasses 
Leather, water proof, tanning 
Meat, preserved 
Ointment, nerve 
bone 
Polypus 
Potatoes 
Ploughing 
Pick* 
Pearl water 
Paste, alum 
Quinsy 

Rattlesnake, bite 
Ricketta 
Rheumatism 
Rye 
Sesatia 
Stone 
Stain* 
Stalk* 



X 21 



UTDKX 



Salve 

Sealing wax 

Strawberries 

Throat 

Teeth 

Tooth ache 

Ulcers 

Worms 

Wines 



4,1 

50 
45 
20 
21 
20 47 
9 

22 25 



BLEACHING AND WASHING. 

To clean buff coloured cloth - - 31 

wash fine linen and lace - - 81 

clean white veils - - 81 

" black « - - 32 

clean black silks - - 31 

clean scarlet cloth - - - 82 

dip scarlet c'.oth j - - 82 

clean gloves - - - 83 

take out writing 351 

clean paper hangings - - 34 

clean gold lace 49 

take out ink spots - - 4£ 



COOKING, &c. 



To fry meats 
pot leg of beef 
make plain pudding 
potatoe pudding 
tansy pudding 
Fast day's dish 
Puff paste 
Short crust 
Steam potatoes 
Paste for tarts 
A rich plum cake 
A rich seed cake 
Plain pound cake 
Gingerbread 
Cream cakes 
Common buns 
Custards 
Cakes 
Biscuits 
Currant jelley 



34 
35 
33 
3(5 
36 



37 
37 
37 
38 
30 
30 
30 
40 
40 
40 
41 
41 
42 



HVDGX 



Raflpbeiry ereo* 


_ 






4* 


Strawberry jam 


. 


m 




48 


Raepberry jam 


— 






48 


To salt hams* 


- 


- 




41 


DYEING. 








Acetite of ahimine 


• 


. 




62 


of lead and copper 


m 






78 


Blue, wool and woolen clock 


_ 


m 




57 


Black dyes 


. . 






70 


Bottle green 


m 


_ 




76 


Brown 


. 






70 


Black cloth, green 


.- 


_ 




64 


Colours, to render holding 


_ 






56 


of garments to change - 


. 


. 




62 


to discharge 


. 






6] 


Cottons, to dye blue 


.» 


- 




6fc 


red, scarlet, &c. 


. 






69 


black 


71, 


76, 


76 


79 


yellow 








65 


Compound coloui 


- 






72 


Cinnamon 


. 


- 




76 


Crimson, red orange, or yellow 


- 






77 


Chemtc, blue and green, to make 


- 




59 


Effect of various waters on various eoloora 






60 


Flesh colour 


. 


. 




83 


Green, different shades 


. 






73 


Grey, drab, aud dark brown 


. 


- 




74 


Linen to dye blue - 


. 






63 


black 


_ 


71 


,75 


,76 


yellow 


_ 






65 


Logwood, the dye of 


- 


- 




55 


Mordants, to prepare 


. 






51 


to chose and apply 


• 


- 




52 


Swiss deep and pale red tropical 






79 


Materials, to purchase 


- 


- 




,T7 


Madder, dye of 
Mnriate of tin 


- 






55 


- 


- 




60 


Mineral yellow upon wool, silk, 


cotton, hemp, &c. 






66 


Mixed cloth, black - 


- 




75 


, 76 


Olive, oil, and crimson 


. 




14 


, 76 


Purple 


- 




14 


, 76 


Prussian blue 


- 






77 
6rt 
67 


Realgar, to prepare 


- 


• 




Red dy«« 


- 







INDEX. 

Solution of tin in aquafortis 
Silk, to alum 

to due blue 

yellow 

red, crimson, &o. 

black 

lilac 

brown 

of fawn colour, drab 

shawl, scarlet 

crimson 
Stockings, blaek - 
Snuff colour 
Tow, &c. 

To carry colour into the body of eloth 
Violet and lilac 
Woollens, red, crimson and scarlet 

black 

brown - 

permanent blue 

yellow - 
Tellow dyes 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

To turn red hair black 

bristles or feathers, green 

colour horse hair - 

dye gloves 

dye white gloves purple 

prepare wood for dyeing 

prepare blue turnsole for staining wood 

stain oak mahogany eolour 

beech do. do. 

stain musical instruments crimson and purple 

stain box-wood brown F p 

dye wood a silver grey, yellow, and green .. 
do. red, purple, and blue . 

■tain paper or parchment yellow and *ri mwB , 
■Jrhl , K ^ en ' or ? n ^ and pnrple - 
marble the edges of paper - 

do. cover of books 
eolour velum green 
black the edges of paper 
•pinkie the edges of books, &e. . 
•ye or stain horn tortoise-shell eolear - 



71 

82 
81 
81 
82 
82 
83 
76 
54 
68 
74 
67 
71 
72 
79 
64 
€3 



84 
84 
85 
85 
86 



86 
87 



90 
91 
91 
92 
92 
92 
92 
9t 



6 INDEX. 

To dye horns of different colours - . 94 

imitate Bottany-bay wood " - 95 

A common vamisb for bedsteads - - 95 

To imitate rose wood 05 

another method - - - 96 

varnish furniture - - 96 

keep brushes in order - - .97 

make white hard varnish - - 97 

varnish pictures and drawings - - 98 

make turpentine varnish - - gg 

varnish for violins, &c. - - 98 

varnish harps, &c. in the Indian manner - gg 

drawing, card work, &c. - _- 99 

Amber varnish - 100 

Oil varnish - Iqq 

Copal varnish - \qq 

To tinge bone and ivory red - iq\ 

do. green ' - 101 

do. purple - - - 101 



LIBRARY 




