V'V 






SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 













*- - 

, i ,. * 1 







THE 

COOK'S OWN BOOK: 

BEING A COMPLETE 

CULINARY ENCYCLOPEDIA: 

COMPREHENDING ALL VALUABLE RECEIPTS 

FOR COOKING MEAT, FISH, AND FOWL, 

AND COMPOSING EVERT KIND OF 

SOUP, GRAVY, PASTRY, PRESERVES, ESSENCES, &c. 

THAT HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED OR INVENTED 

DURING THE LAST TWENTY YEARS. 

PARTICULARLY THE VERT BEST OF THOSE IN THE 

COOK'S ORACLE, COOK'S DICTIONARY, AND OTHER SYSTEMS OF 
DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

WITH 

NUMEROUS ORIGINAL RECEIPTS, 

AMD A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF 

CONFECTIONERY. 



BY A BOSTON HOUSEKEEPER. 



ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED. 



PUBLISHED 
IN BOSTON, BY MUNROE AND FRANCIS ; ' 

NEW YORK, BY CHARLES S. FRANCIS, AND DAVID FELT; PHILADLi .,..1 
BY CAKEY AND LEA, AND GRIGG AND ELLIOT. 

1832. 



Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1832, by 

MCNROE & FRANCIS, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 



PREFACE. 



THE cook exercises a greater power over the public health and 
welfare than the physician, and if he should be a charlatan in his art, 
alas ! for his employers. Hitherto, or until of late years, the cook 
has had to educate himself, while the physician appropriates all the 
knowledge of antiquity, and of every succeeding age; his individual 
cases are all classed according to general principles, while the rules 
that have regulated the preparation of our food, have been discordant 
and unnatural. In the present age, indeed, cookery has been raised 
to the dignity of an art, and sages have given their treatises to the 
world. Very has a monument in the cemetery of Pre La Chaise, 
among the tombs of warriors, poets, and philosophers, recording of 
his life that 'it was consecrated to the useful arts.' Virgil however, 
writes that the best delights of Elysium were showered upon those 
who received wounds for their country, who lived unspotted priests, 
who uttered verses worthy of Apollo, or who, like V3ry, consecrated 
their lives to the useful arts. On the utilitarian principle the cook 
should be much elevated in public estimation, and were he to form a 
strict alliance with the physician, the patriarchal ages would return, 
and men would die of nothing but sheer old age. 

After insanity, the most grievous affliction of Providence, or rather 
of improvidence and imprudence, is Dyspepsy : a malady that under 
different names has decimated the inhabitants of civilized countries, 
and of almost all countries, in which man is a 'cooking dnimal.' To 
the dyspeptic, the sun has no cheering ray, the air no elasticity or 
balm ; the flowers are without fragrance, music is without melody, 
and beauty without charms. Life is a blank ; affection has lost its 
power to soothe, and the blessings scattered by Providence, are con- 
verted into ministers of torment. Food becomes a bane ; the very 
staff that supports life, gives the flagellation that renders life a curse. 
All that can delight is lost, but all that can depress and sting, has a 
tenfold activity and power. 



IV PREFACE. 

\ 

The dyspeptic's ' May of life, has fallen into the sear, the yellow 
leaf.' Sleep that should visit every pillow but that of guilt, is to him 
no friend ; if he slumbers, it is to dream, like Clarence, of hideous 
forms of suffering, and to wake to their reality. This is but a faint 
picture of Dyspepsy. 

' Her gloomy presence saddens all the scene, 
Shades every flower and darkens every green, 
Deepens the murmur of the falling floods, 
And breathes a browner horror on the woods.' 

This malady is beyond the science of the physician, but within the 
art of the cook ; in the proverb, Doctor Diet is ranked above Doctor 
Quiet and Doctor Merryman ; though all are good. 

The late Mr. Abernethy referred almost all maladies to the stom- 
ach, and seldom prescribed any remedy but a proper diet. This it is 
the province of the cook to provide ; and the design of this book to 
indicate. The work is not designed to spread a taste for pernicious 
luxuries: and every recipe has been sanctioned by custom. The 
responsibility of the cook is lightened, and his duty facilitated. He 
has here a dictionary of reference, an encyclopedia of his art. The 
details are full, and the authority is perfect. There were various 
works of merit that it was useful for the cook to study, but here are 
collected ihe best parts of all, with the convenience of alphabetical 
arrangement, and in the compass of a moderate volume. If it is a 
sin to waste the best gifts of Providence, it should be little less than 
a felony to spoil them. When we have collected the materials for a 
house, we never trust the building to an unskilful architect: yet we 
are often obliged to commit the preparation of our feasts as well as 
of our common food, to agents without knowledge. This knowledge 
is now supplied. 

More than health depends on the proper preparation of food : our 
very virtues are the creatures of circumstances, and many a man has 
hardened his heart, or given up a good resolution, under the operation 
of indigestion. Who that knows the world, ever solicits with confi- 
dence a friendly or charitable act of another before dinner. 

The natural and moral world are reciprocally dependent ; soul and 
body are so linked, that when one loses its tone the other is deprived 
of its equanimity. The system of morals therefore becomes identi- 
fied with that of cookery, and the great English moralist, who was 
learned in both systems, thus spoke of the connexion ; ' Some peo- 
ple ' said Doctor Johnson, ' have a foolish way of not minding, or of 
pretending not to mind, what they eat. I for my part mind my belly 
very studiously, and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who 
does not mind his belly will hardly mind any thing else.' 



PREFACE. V 

It has been the study of the author, to make every recipe plain, 
and the proportions certain ; little is left to discretion, that could be 
reduced to measure. The system of confectionery is perfect ; and if 
strictly followed every cook may become a first rate confectioner. 
Labor, care, and expense have been bestowed upon the work, and the 
publishers feel so secure of its merit, and of the public want of such a 
took, that they have caused it to be stereotyped. This would have 
been hazardous with a novel or almost any literary work ; but the 
n umber of those who eat is far greater than of those who read. A 
good book few can estimate; all can enjoy a good dinner, and the 
publishers anticipate a proportionate encouragement. 

Having devised this work for families, we hope that it may offend 
no one, that we give a word of counsel to domestics: our book may 
be every way good, yet will its usefulness be much impaired if do- 
mestics are not docile and faithful. 

We have fortunately, in this country, but one class of people : all 
are free, and all are politically equal. Our domestics are in New 
England designated as help, to indicate that they are the equals, and 
assistants, rather than the inferiors of their employers. Yet the 
feeling of independence may be carried too far, and it may be ungra- 
ciously expressed. There is no disgrace, and there should be no 
shame in filling well a subordinate station; the hired ploughman, 
maid, or cook are not, in an offensive sense, any more the servants of 
their employers, than the merchant and the lawyer. All these engage 
to perform certain services for an equivalent, and it is the duty of all 
to do them faithfully. 

The number of domestics is very large perhaps the average is 
five to four families and it may be even greater. Yet, unfortunate- 
ly for their welfare, interest, or character, they are almost constantly 
shifting, and in few families do they remain long. In England, a 
good domestic is often provided for during life, and it is a desirable 
situation. It might be so here, if our domestics would strive to ac- 
commodate themselves to their situation. There is hardly a family, 
in which a kind, respectful, and faithful domestic might not be retained 
for years, and at the best wages. Here then is a home, comfort, and 
friends. Yet the greater number are contented to live a few month.* 
in a place, till the best years of life have slipped away, without pro- 
vision for age, and without friends, or home. The proverb of the 
rolling stone contains the best lesson for domestics. 

Service in any department is no sacrifice of independence. A 
domestic is in all things as free as any other class, but it is ,. 
bad kind of independence that would lead one, when desired to do . 



VI PREFACE. 

thing in the line of a common employment, to do it ungraciously, 
and rather as an irksome or unjust task, than as a duty. 

Minor vexations, frequently repeated, are equal to greater individ- 
ual calamities ; as many small enjoyments constitute much of the 
pleasures of life. Around the social board every member of the fam- 
ily is collected thrice at least in twenty-four hours. Thither the 
head of the family returns from the labors or cares of his business to 
recruit his strength and to relax his mind. If he return to a table 
constantly and invariably ill spread ; to a dinner to which he could 
invite no friend, and in which he can have no enjoyment; a cloud 
will gather on the calmest brow, and a feeling of dissatisfaction may 
be extended to other things. It is not beneath the solicitude of a 
good wife, who would not suffer any abatement in the affection of 
which she is the object, diligently to study this book, and constantly 
to provide a neat and well dressed repast. 

BOSTON, March, 1832. 



* 4S .* The articles which follow, on Roasting, Boiling, Sfc. are 
selected from the Cook's Oracle. 



MANAGEMENT OF FAMILIES. 



IN* domestic arrangement the table is entitled to no small share 
of attention, as a well r.in<lurt<'tl <v-tem of domestic management 
is the foundation of ev< r\- comfort; and the respectability and 
welfare of families depend in a great measure on the prudent 
conduct of the female, whose province it is to manage the domes- 
tic concerns. 

Hmvever the fortunes of individuals may support a large expen- 
diture, it will be deficient in all that can benefit or grace society, 
and in every thing essential to moral order and rational happiness, 
if not conducted on a regular system, embracing all the objects 
of such a situation. 

In domestic management, as in education, so much must depend 
on the particular circumstances of every case, that it is impossibly 
to lay d )\> 11 a svstem which can be generally applicable. 

The immediate plan of every family must be adapted to its own 
peculiar situation, and can only result from the good sense and 
early good habits of the parties, acting upon general rational 
principles. 

What one family is to do, must never be measured by what 
another family does. Each one knows its own resources, and 
should consult them alone. What might be meanness in one, 
might be extravagance in another, and therefore there can be no 
standard of reference but that of individual prudence. The most 
fatal of all things to private families, is to indulge an ambition to 
make an appearance above their fortunes, professions, or business, 
whatever these may be. 

The next point, both for comfort and respectability, is, that all 
the household economy should be uniform, not displav ing a parade 
of show in one thing, and a total want of comfort in another. Be- 
sides the contemptible appearance that this must have to every 
person of good sense, it is productive of consequences, not only of 
present, but future injury to a family, that are too often irreparable. 

In urea! cities in particular, how common is it that for the vani- 
ty of having a showy drawing-room to receive company, the family 
are confined to aclose'back room, where they have scarcely either 
air or light, the want of which must materially prejudice their 
health. 

To keep rooms for show, where the fortune is equal to having 
a hou~e that will accommodate the family properly, and admit of 
this also, belongs to the 'ni^ln^t sphere of life; but in private fam- 
ilies, to shut up the only room perhaps in the house which is really 
wholesome for the family to live in, is inflicting a kind of lingering 



Vlll FAMILY MANAGEMENT. 

murder upon the inmates; and yet how frequently this considera- 
tion escapes persons who mean well by their family, but who still 
have a grate, a carpet, and chairs, too fine for every day's use. 

Another fruit of this evil is, seeing more company, and in a 
more expensive manner than is compatible with the general con- 
venience of the family, introducing with it an expense in dress, 
and a dissipation of time, from which it suffers in various ways. 

Social intercourse is not improved by parade, but quite the 
contrary; real friends, and the pleasantest kind of acquaintance, 
those who like to be sociable, are repulsed by it. It is a failure 
therefore every way the loss of what is really valuable, and an 
abortive attempt to be fashionable. 

A fundamental error in domestic life of very serious extent, 
involving no less the comfort than the health of the family, arises 
from the ignorance or mistaken notions of the mistress of the house 
upon the subjects of diet and cookery. 

The subject of cookery is thought by too many women to be 
below their attention, or, when practically engaged in, it is with 
no other consideration about it than, in the good housewife's 
phrase, to make the most of every thing, whether good, bad, or 
indifferent; or to contrive a thousand mischievous compositions, 
both savory and sweet, to recommend their own ingenuity. 

If cookery is worth studying, as a sensual gratification, it is 
surely much more so as a means of securing one of the greatest of 
human blessings good health; and we cannot quit this part of the 
subject of domestic management without observing, that one cause 
of a great deal of injurious cookery originates in the same vanity 
of show that is productive of so many other evils. In order to 
set out a table with a greater number of dishes than the situation 
of the family requires, more cookery is often undertaken than 
there are servants to do it well, or conveniences in the kitchen for 
the purpose. Thus some viands are done before they are wanted 
for serving up, and stand by spoiling, to make room for others; 
these are again perhaps to be succeeded by something else; and 
too often are things served up that had better be thrown away, 
than to be used for food. 

The leading consideration about food ought always to be its 
wholesomeness. Cookery may produce savory and pretty looking 
dishes without their possessing any of the qualities of food. It is 
at the same time both a serious and ludicrous reflection that it 
should be thought to do honor to our friends and ourselves to set 
out a table where indigestion and all its train of evils, such as 
fever, rheumatism, gout, and the whole catalogue of human dis- 
eases lie lurking in almost every dish. Yet this is both done, and 
taken as a compliment. We have indeed the " unbought grace 
of polished society, where gluttony loses half its vice by being 
stripped of its grossness." When a man at a public house dies of 
a surfeit of beef steak and porter, who does not exclaim, what a 
beast! 



COOKING UTENSILS. IX 

How infinitely preferable is a dinner of far less show where 
nobody need be afraid of what they are eating! and such a one 
will be genteel and respectable. If a person can give his friend 
only a leg of mutton, there is nothing to be ashamed of in it, pro- 
vided it is a good one, and well dressed. 

A house fitted up with plain good furniture, the kitchen fur- 
nished with clean wholesome-looking cooking utensils, good fires, 
in grates that give no anxiety lest a good fire should spoil them, 
clean good table linen, the furniture of the table and sideboard 
good of the kind, without ostentation, and a well-dressed plain 
dinner, bespeak a sound judgment and correct taste in a private 
family, that place it on a footing of respectability with the first 
characters in the country. It is only the conforming to our sphere, 
not the vainly attempting to be above it, that can command true 
respect. 

COOKING UTENSILS. 

The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of 
food are made either of metal, glass, pottery ware, or wood; each 
of which is better suited to some particular purposes than the 
others. Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, and the 
knowledge of this is necessary to the preservation of health in 
general, and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous 
consequences. 

The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels 
are silver, copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is prefera- 
ble to all the others, because it cannot be dissolved by any of the 
substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms 
a thin brittle crust over it, that gives it the appearance of being 
tarnished, which may be accidentally taken with food; but this 
is not particularly unwholesome, nor is it liable to be taken often, 
nor in large quantities. The discoloring of silver spoons used 
with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. Nitre or 
saltpetre has also a slight effect upon silver, but nitre and silver 
seldom remain long enough together in domestic uses to require 
any particular caution. 

Copper and brass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, 
acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, 
and great caution should be used to prevent accidents of the kind. 
Vessels made of these metals are generally tinned, that is, lined 
with a thin coating of a mixed metal, containing both tin and lead. 
Neither acids, nor any thing containing pearl-ash, should ever be 
suffered to remain above an hour in vessels of this kind, as the 
tinning is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom perfect 
over the surface of the copper or brass. 

The utensils made of what is called block tin are constructed 
of iron plates coated with tin. This is equally to be dissolved as 
the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwhole- 



X DIET. 

some substance, if even a portion of it should be dissolved and 
mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for 
the construction of culinary utensils; and the objection to its more 
extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires 
more cleaning and soon decays. Some articles of food, such as 
quinces, orange peel, artichokes, &.c. are blackened by remaining 
in iron vessels, which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be 
used for milk and cream, if it be ever likely to stand till it become 
sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted 
meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental china, because the 
glazing is a perfect glass, which cannot be dissolved, and the 
whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. 
Many of the English pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the 
glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid put- 
ting vinegar, and other acids into them. Acids and greasy sub- 
stances penetrate into unglazed wares, excepting the strong stone 
ware; or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence 
give a bad flavor to any thing they are used for afterwards. They 
are quite unfit therefore for keeping pickles or salted meats. 
Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery ware but 
oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits 
of it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for the keeping many articles 
of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. 
If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden 
cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be put into it in 
future. It is useful to char the insides of these wooden vessels 
before they are used, by burning wood shavings in them, so as to 
coat the insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must be sure, from 
the repetition of its baneful effects, to injure the health, a due 
precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its 
more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow iron ware 
lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for 
sauces or preserves: indeed it is preferable for every purpose. 



DIET. 

That we require food, as vegetables require water, to support 
our existence, is the primary consideration upon which we should 
take it. But in our general practice of eating, it cannot be said, 
"we eat to live," but are living passages or channels, through 
which we are constantly propelling both solids and fluids, for the 
sake of pleasing our palates, at the severe cost often of our whole 
system. 



DIET. XI 

A reasonable indulgence in the abundant supplies of nature, 
converted by art to the purposes of wholesome food, is one of the 
comforts added to the maintenance of life. It is an indiscriminate 
gratification of our tastes, regardless of the consequences that 
may ensue from it, that is alone blamable. But so great is our 
general apathy in these respects, .that even on the occurrence of 
diseases, from which we are all more or less sufferers, we scarce- 
ly ever reflect on our diet, as the principal, if not the sole cause 
of them. We assign them to weather, to infection, to hereditary 
descent, to spontaneous breeding, as if a disease could originate 
without a cause; or to any frivolous imaginary source, without 
suspecting, or being willing to own, mismanagement of ourselves. 

We derive the renewal of our blood and juices, which are con- 
stantly exhausting, from the substances we take as food. As our 
food, therefore, is proper or improper, too much or too little, so 
will our blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged or deficient, 
and our state of health accordingly good or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever we eat or 
drink, including seasonings; such as salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, 
&c. Stc. Every thing, in short, which we receive into our sto- 
machs. Our food, therefore, consists not only of such particles 
as are proper for the nourishment and support of the human body, 
but likewise contains certain active principles, viz. salts, oils, and 
spirits, which have the properties of stimulating the solids, quick- 
ening the circulation, and making the fluids thinner; thus render- 
ing them more suited to undergo the necessary secretions of the 
body. 

The art of preserving health, and obtaining long life, therefore 
consists in the use of a moderate quantity of such diet as shall 
neither increase the salts and oils, so as to produce disease, nor 
diminish them, so as to suffer the solids to become relaxed. 

It is very difficult, almost impossible, to ascertain exactly what 
are the predominant qualities either in our bodies or in the food 
we eat. In practice, therefore, we can have no other rule but 
observing by experience what it is that hurts or does us good; 
and what it is our stomach can digest with facility, or the contrary. 
But then we must keep our judgment unbiassed, and not suffer it 
to become a pander to the appetite, and thus betray the stomach 
and health, to indulge our sensuality. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as eating too much. 
Neither excess, nor hunger, nor any thing else that passes the 
bounds of nature, can be good to man. 

By loading tli<> stomach, fermentation is checked, and of course 
dii_" <ti-tn iinjpadcd; for the natural juice of the stomach has not 
mom to exert it-i !!', and it therefore nauseates its contents, is 
! v ' i:ition<, the spirits are oppressed, obstructions 
ensue, and flier is the consequence. Besides, that when thus 
overfilled, tlV stomach pre<se< on the diaphragm, prevents tho 
proper plajf^the lungs, and occasions uneasiness in our breath- 



Xll DIET. 

ing. Hence arise various ill symptoms and depraved effects 
throughout the body, enervating the strength, decaying the senses, 
hastening old age, and shortening life. Though these effects are 
not immediately perceived, yet they are certain attendants of 
intemperance; for it has been generally observed in great eaters, 
that, though from custom, a state of youth, and a strong constitu- 
tion, they have no present inconvenience, but have digested their 
food, suffered surfeit, and borne their immoderate diet well ; if they 
have not been unexpectedly cut off, they have found the symptoms 
of old age come on early in life, attended with pains and innume- 
rable disorders. 

If we value our health, we must ever make it a rule not to eat 
to satiety or fulness, but desist while the stomach feels quite easy. 
Thus we shall be refreshed, light, and cheerful; not dull, heavy, 
or indisposed. Should we ever be tempted to eat too much at one 
time, we should eat the less at another. Thus, if our dinner has 
been larger than usual, let our supper be less, or rather quite 
omitted; for there is no man, however careful of his health, who 
does not occasionally transgress in this way. 

With regard to the times of eating, they must to a certain degree 
be conformed to family convenience, but ought to be quite inde- 
pendent of the caprices of fashion. The great things to be guard- 
ed against are, either eating too soon after a former meal, or 
fasting too long. The stomach should always have time to empty 
itself before it is filled again. 

Some stomachs digest their contents sooner than others, and if 
long empty it may destroy the appetite, and greatly disturb both 
the head and animal spirits; for, from the great profusion of nerves 
spread upon the stomach, there is an immediate sympathy between 
that and the head. Hence the head is sure to be affected by 
whatever disorders the stomach, whether from any particular ali- 
ment that disagrees with it, or being overfilled, or too long empty. 
Such as feel a gnawing in the stomach, as it is called, should not 
wait till the stated time of the next meal, but take a small quanti- 
ty of light, easily digested food, that the stomach may have some- 
thing to work on. 

Young persons in health, who use much exercise, may eat three 
times a day. But such as are in years, such as are weak, as do 
no work, use no exercise, or lead a sedentary life, eating twice in 
the day is sufficient ; or, as in the present habits of society, it might 
be difficult to arrange the taking only two meals, let them take 
three very moderate ones. Old and weak persons may eat often, 
but then it should be very little at a time. 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater difficulty than 
the quantity; moderation is an invariably safe guide in the latter 
instance; but though always favorable to prevent ill effects from 
any error in quality, it will not always be effectual. 

To a person in good health, with a strong stomach, and whose 
constant beverage is water, cold or tepid, according to the sea- 



DIET. Xlll 

son, or some aqueous liquor, the niceties of choice in food or 
cookery are less material than to persons with naturally weak sto- 
machs, or to those in sickness, or for children. But all persons 
who would to a certainty preserve their health and faculties, and 
live out the natural term of life, should use plain food, as all high 
seasonings and compound mixtures have an injurious effect, soon- 
er or later, on the strongest constitutions. If a few instances can 
be quoted to the contrary, these, like other anomalies in nature, 
cannot constitute an exception to a well established fact. 

.No part of our aliment is more important than our beverage. 
It is essential to moisten and convey our more solid food into the 
stomach, and from thence to the respective parts of the body. To 
allay thirst, to dilute the blood, that it may circulate through the 
minutest vessels, to dissolve and carry off by the watery secre- 
tions the superfluous salts we take in our food; to answer these 
purposes no liquid is so effectual as pure water, with the exception 
of some few cases. No other liquid circulates so well, or mixes so 
immediately with our fluids. All other liquors are impregnated 
\\itli particles which act strongly upon the solids or fluids, or both; 
but water being simple, operates only by diluting, moistening, and 
cooling, which are the great uses of drink pointed out to us by 
nature. Hence it is evident that water is in general the best and 
most wholesome drink; but some constitutions require something 
to warm and stimulate the stomach, and then fermented liquors 
taken in moderation are proper; such as beer, ale, cider, wine, 
&.c. the choice and quantity of which depend on the age, consti- 
tution, and manner of living of the drinker; and to have them 
pun- is above. .all things essential; as otherwise, instead of being 
of any benefit, they will be highly detrimental. 

Drams, or (iisrilled spirituous liquors, the use of which is unhap- 
pily very prevalent, are of the most poisonous qualities; and from 
their direful effects are the destruction of thousands. From the 
decree of heat they have undergone in distillation they acquire a 
corrosive and burning qualij, which makes them as certain to 
kill as laudanum |r arsenicjf hough not so soon. They contract 
the fibres and oCThe body, especially where they are 

the tenderest, as in fhe brain, and thus destroy the intellectual 
faculties. They injure the coat of the stomach, and thus expose 
tin- nerves and weaken the fibres till the whole stomach becomes 
at last soft, flabby, and relaxed. From whence ensues loss of 
appetite, indigestion, and diseases that generally terminate in 
premature death. Spirituous liquors in any way, whether alone, 
mixed with water, in punch, shrub, noyau, or other liqueurs, are 
all slow poisons. 

It would be endless to enter on an account of the different quali- 
ties of all sorts of wines, but it may be said in general, that all 
the light wines of a moderate strength, due age and maturity, are 
more wholesome for the constitution than the rich, hot strong 

B 



XIV BOILING. 

heavy wines; for the light wines inflame the juices of the body 
less and go off the stomach with less difficulty. 

The last thing to be said concerning liquors is, that wine and 
all other strong liquors, are as hard to digest as solid strong food. 
This is not only evident with respect to persons of weak stomachs 
and digestion, but also from strong healthy people, who only 
drink either water or small beer at their meals, and are able to 
eat and digest almost double the quantity of what they could if 
they drank strong liquors. It appears very plain, therefore, that 
we should not drink strong liquors at our meals, as by their heat 
and activity they hurry the food undigested into the habit of the 
body, and by that means lay a foundation for various distempers. 
An abstinence, in short, from fermented liquors would preserve 
our mental faculties in vigor, and our bodies from many painful 
disorders that afflict mankind, as there is no doubt that we may 
principally ascribe to them the gout, rheumatism, stone, cancer, 
fevers, hysterics, lunacy, apoplexy, and palsy. 



BOILING. 

This most simple of culinary processes is not often performed in 
perfection. It does not require quite so much nicety and atten- 
dance as roasting ; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling 
(the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is required 
for doing the joint, &c., and to take it up at the critical moment 
when it is done enough, comprehends almost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigi- 
lance, of which few persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water really boils all 
the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived in the time ; and 
make up a sufficient fire at first, to last all the time, without much 
mending or stirring. A frugal cook will manage with much less 
fire for boiling than she uses for roasting. 

^When the pot is coming to a boil there will always, from the 
cleanest meat and clearest water, rise a' scum to the top of it, pro- 
ceeding partly from the water ; this must be carefully taken off as 
soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When 
you have skimmed well, put in some cold water, which will throw 
up the rest of the scum. 

The oilener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of the water 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the meat. 
- If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, which, 
instead of looking delicately white and nice, will have that coarse 
and filthy appearance we have too often to complain of, and the 
butcher and poulterer be blamed for the carelessness of the cook 
in not skimming her pot. 



BOILING. XV 

Many put in milk, to make what they boil look white ; but this 
does more harm than good : others wrap it up in a cloth ; but 
these are needless precautions : if the scum be attentively removed, 
meat will have a much more delicate color and finer flavor than it 
has when muffled up. This may give rather more trouble, but 
those who wish to excel in their art must only consider how the 
processes of it can be most perfectly performed : a cook, who has 
a proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make this her 
maxim on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal thickness, or, 
before thicker parts are done enough, the thinner will be done too 
much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in the proportion of about a quart 
of water to a pound of meat : it should be covered with water during 
the whole of the process of boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered with it, the more savory will 
be the meat, and the better will be the broth. 

The water should be heated gradually, according to the thick- 
ness, &c. of the article boiled. For instance, a leg of mutton of 
ten pounds weight should be placed over a moderate fire, which 
will gradually make the water hot, without causing it to boil for 
about forty minutes ; if the water boils much sooner, the meat will 
be hardened, and shrink up as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken 
off as soon as it rises. 

The editor placed a thermometer in water in that state which 
cooks call gentle simmering ; the heat was 212, i. e. the same 
degree as the strongest boiling. 

Two mutton chops were covered with cold water; one boiled a 
gallop, while the other simmered very gently for three-quarters of 
an hour* the chop which was slowly simmered was decidedly su- 
perior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more juicy, 
and much higher flavored. The liquor which boiled fast was in 
like proportion more savory, and when cold had much more fat 
on its surface. This explains why quick boiling renders meat - 
hard, &.c., because its juices are extracted in a greater degree. 

Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. 

The old rule of 15 minutes to a pound of meat, we think rather 
too little : the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter 
it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs), twenty minutes to a 
pound for fresh, and rather more for salted meat, will not be found 
too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire, allowing 
more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and the 
coldness of the weather : to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry ; and when it falls below 40 , tell 



XVI BAKING. 

your cook to give rather more time in both roasting and boiling, 
always remembering, the slower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art ; and cooks 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble or boils a gallop. 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe; and long- 
er in cold than in warm weather : if it be frozen, it must be thawed 
before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh-killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gently. 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of 
Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

The size of the boiling-pots should be adapted to what they are 
to contain : the larger the saucepan the more room it takes upon 
the fire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate 
increase of fire to boil it. 

In small families we recommend block-tin saucepans, Sec. as 
lightest and safest. If proper care is taken of them, and they are 
well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest ; 
the purchase of a new tin saucepan being little more than the ex- 
pense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots fit close, not only to prevent 
unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to prevent the escape 
of the nutritive matter, which must then remain either in the meat 
or in the broth ; and the smoke is prevented from insinuating itself 
under the edge of the lid, and so giving the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavor. 

Beef and mutton a little wider-done (especially very larg,e joints, 
which will make the better hash or broil,) is not a great fault ; by 
some people it is preferred ; but lamb, pork, and veal are uneata- 
ble if not thoroughly boiled ; but do not over-do them. 

A trivet or fish-drainer put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, rais- 
ing the contents -about an inch and a half from the bottom, will 
prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat will be as 
delicately done as the other part ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the pot, without sticking a fork, &.c. into it. 
If you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

BAKING. 

Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of 
dressing a dinner in small families; and, I may say, that the oven 
is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a 
joint of meat. 



BAKING. XV11 

I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting to 
baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satisfaction. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, and many 
other joints, will bake to great advantage, if the meat be good; 
I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fat: if the meat be poor, no 
baker can give satisfaction. 

When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked I have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely 
to be believed. 

Besides those joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have 
its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back 
with, otherwise it will be apt to blister: with a proper share of 
attention from the baker, I consider this way equal to a roasted 
one. 

A goose prepa'red the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A duck the same. 

A buttock of beef the following way is particularly fine. After 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight 
with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper: never 
cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper, the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad 
taste: give it four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in 
a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer 
flavor, than a boiled one. I have been in the habit of baking 
small cod-fish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour, and 
some bits of butter put on them; eels, when large and stuffed; 
herrings and sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little 
spice, and tied over with paper. A hare, prepared, the same as 
for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk 
put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly 
equal to roasting ; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a 
jar or pan, and cover it over and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. In the same manner, I have been in the hab- 
it of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c. prepared with 
a seasoning of onions, turnips, &.c.:jthey will take about four 
hours: let them stand till cold, to skim off the fat; then wa'rm it 
up all together^ or part, as you may want it. 

All these I have been in the habit of baking for the first families. 

The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the state of the oven, and I do consider the baker a suf- 

B* 



ROASTING. 



ficient judge; if they are sent to him in time, he must be very 
neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. 



ROASTING. 

Let the young cook never forget that cleanliness is the chief 
cardinal virtue of the kitchen; the first preparation for roasting 
is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and 
water; nothing else. When it has been well scoured with this, 
dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are wiped clean as soon as the 
meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a very little 
cleaning will be required. The less the spit is passed through 
the meat the better; and, before you spit it, joint it properly, es- 

Recially necks and loins, that the carver may separate them easi- 
/ and neatly, and take especial care it be evenly balanced on 
the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire operate 
equally on each part of it; therefore, be provided with balancing- 
skewers and cookholds, and see it is properly jointed. 

Make up the fire in time; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dressed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be 
done nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to the busi- 
ness she has to do, as a chemist: the degree of heat most desira- 
ble for dressing the different sorts of food ought to be attended 
to with the utmost precision. 

The fire that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin 
will parch up a lighter joint. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can possibly 
avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a 
considerable distance, and allow a little more lime. 

Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper, for this purpose 
called. " kitchen-paper," and tie it on with fine twine; pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed; they are so many taps to 
let out the gravy: besides, the paper often starts from them and 
catches fire, to the great injury of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should 
be little and brisk: when you have a large joint to roast, make up 
a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part, or your meat 
cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform color which 
constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down; 
examine it from time to time while the spit is going round ; keep 
it clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in 
the front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and 
hinder it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the 
other, place th^ qpit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the fire. 



ROASTING. XIX 

Do not put meat too near the fire at first; the larger the joint, * 
the farther it must be kept from the h're: if once it gets scorched, 
the outside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable, empyr- 
eumatic taste ; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into 
it, the meat will appear done before it is little more than half 
done, besides losing the pale brown color, which it is the beauty 
of roasted meat to have. 

Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance 
from the fire as just to catch the drippings: if it is too near, the 
ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. 

If it is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by 
the fetid smoke, which will arise when the fat falls on the live 
cinders. , 

A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes. It 
should not be less than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inch- 
es wide, and have a covered well on the side from the fire, to 
collect the drippings; this will preserve them in the most delicate 
state : in a pan of the above size you may set fried fish, and vari- 
ous dishes, to keep hot. 

The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the 
time it has been kept, and the temperature of the weather; the 
same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in 
cold weather, than it will be in warm; and if fresh killed, than if 
it 1ms been kept till it is tender. 

Everybody knows the advantage of slow boiling. Slow roasting 
is equally important. 

It is difficult to give any specific rule for time; but if your fire 
is made as before directed, your meat-screen sufficiently large to 
guard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat 
is not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the 
pound; a little more or less, according to the temperature of the 
weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with 
which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it will take, 
as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire 
acts with more force upon it. 

Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, but 
to the moment the roasts will be wanted. Supposing there are a 
dozen people to sip soup and eat fish first, you may allow them 
ten or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the 
latter, more or less, according to the temptations the " BON GOUT" 
of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan- 
back, and stir tip your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and 
bright lor the browning; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire, it is a sifrn of its bcinir dom- -M ii^h; but you will 
be the best judge of that, from the time it ha.s been down, the 



XX FRYING. 

strength of the fire you have used, and the distance your spit has 
been from it. 

Half an hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, and 
just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If 
you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour carefully: 
you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light. 
The common fault seems to be using too much flour. The meat 
should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of 
being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the 
froth use butter instead of drippings. 

A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and 
color of her roasts, as a young beauty is to her complexion at a 
birthday ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so even- 
ly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze, i. e. portable soup, put 
four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradu- 
ally by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter 
of an hour; put it on the meat equally all over with a paste-brush 
the last thing before it goes to table. 

Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cook- 
ery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfect- 
ly well than it does to make most made dishes. 

That made dishes are the most difficult preparations, deserves 
to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; in plain roast- 
ing and boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful cook, must 
be unremittingly upon the alert. 



FRYING. 

Frying is often a convenient mode of cookery; it may be per- 
formed by a fire which will not do for roasting or boiling; and by 
the introduction of the pan between the meat and the fire, things 
get more equally dressed. 

The Dutch oven or bonnet is a very convenient utensil for small 
things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, or 
frying-pan. 

A frying-pan should be about four inches deep, with a perfectly 
flat and thick bottom, twelve inches long and nine broad, with 
perpendicular sides, and must be half filled with fat: good frying 
is, in fact, boiling in fat. To make sure that the pan is quite 
clean, rub a little fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it 
out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in fryiug, never to use any oil, butter, lard, 
or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and tree from salt. 
Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad-tasted or stale, 
spoils the flavor; and salt prevents its browning. 

Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying; but the best oil is 
expensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it. 
. 



PRYING. XXI 

For general purposes, and especially for fish, clean fresh lard 
is not near so expensive as oil or clarified butter, and does almost 
as well. Butter often burns before you are aware of it; and what 
you fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. 

Dripping, if nicely clean and fresh, is almost as good as any 
thing; if not clean, it may be easily clarified. Whatever fat you 
use, after you have done frying, let it remain in the pan for a few 
minutes, and then pour it through a sieve into a clean basin; it 
will do three or four times as well as it did at first, t. e. if it has not 
burned: but, the fat you have fried fish in must not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to what 
you are to fry, is the great secret in frying. 

To fry fish, parsley, potatoes, or any thing that is watery, your 
fire must be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you may be 
pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is still. We cannot 
insist too strongly on this point: if the fat is not very hot, you 
cannot fry fish either to a good color, or firm and crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw a little bit of bread into the pan; if it 
fries crisp, the fat is ready; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. 

The fire under the pan must be clear and sharp, otherwise the 
$ fat is so long before it becomes ready, and demands such attend- 
ance to prevent the accident of its catching fire, that the patience 
of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or im- 
patience, throw in what they are going to fry before the fat is half 
hot enough. Whatever is so fried will be pale and sodden, and 
offend the palate and stomachflfet less than the eye. 

Have a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have 
got the right color: a lamp fixed on a stem, with a loaded foot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most useful appendage to kitchen fire- 
places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer opera- 
tions of cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fat from what you 
have fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in 
bread crumbs, or biscuit powder, Stc., your cooking will do you 
no credit. 

The dryness of fish depends much upon its having been fried in 
fat of a due degree of heat; it is then crisp and dry^in a few min- 
utes alter it is taken out of the pan: when it is not, lay it on a soft 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is. This will 
sometimes take fifteen minutes: therefore, always fry fish as long 
as this before you want them, for fear you may find this necessary. 

To fry fish, see receipt to fry soles, which is the only circum- 
stantial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the 
cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon become an 
accomplished frier. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operations, 
is one that is least commonly performed perfectly well. 



XX11 BROILING. 



BROILING. 

Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of cookery. 

Keep your gridiron quite clean between the bars, and bright on 
the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth: just before 
you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton-suet, to prevent the 
meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may burn 
quite clear: a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, or you cannot 
give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection of 
this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive 
any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness; if thicker, they will be done too much on the 
outside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any thing is 
done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Let the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not 
burning hot upon the surface: this is the perfect and fine condition 
of the gridiron. 

As the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it 
is absolutely necessary they should be thoroughly hot before the 
thing to be cooked be laid on them. 

The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in 
a trough to catch the gravy and keep the fat from dropping into 
the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil the broil. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as possible ; set a 
dish to heat when you put your chops on the gridiron, from whence 
to the mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

When the fire is not clear, the business of the gridiron may be 
done by the Dutch oven or bonnet. 

Take care to have a very clear, brisk fire; throw a little salt on 
it; make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat 
from dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires 
more practice and care than is generally supposed to do steaks to 
a nicety; and for want of these little attentions, this very common 
dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom 
comes to table in perfection. 

Ask those you cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly 
done; and what accompaniments they like best; it is usual to put 
a table-spoonful of ketchup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish 
before the fire; while you are broiling, turn the steak, &c. with a 
pair of steak-tongs, it will be done in about tenor fifteen minutes; 
rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles 
and finely-scraped horse-radish. 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. XX111 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

, The cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
stew-pans, soup-kettles, &.c. which should be examined every time 
they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the 
condition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers 
also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stew- 
pans not only on the inside, but abotit a couple of inches on the 
outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair; 
and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain; 
the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and 
poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and 
your credit will be lost. 

The health, and even life of the family, depends upon this, and 
the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's 
bill than the doctor's; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to 
engage the regard of the mistress, between whom and the cook it 
will be my utmost endeavor to promote perfect harmony. 

If she has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
pan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, I ad- 
vise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, 
spoons and ladles. Make it a rule without an exception, never to 
use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any 
stew-pans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, 
and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean 
them from grease, sand, &LC., or any bad smell they may have got 
since they were last used: never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut 
as to wilfully neglect her broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend 
her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 
place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon: attend to 
this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any soup, gravy, &c. in metal utensils; in which 
never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of cookery; the acid, vegetables, fat, &c. employed in 
making soups, &c. are capable of dissolving such utensils: there- 
fore stone or earthern vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, soup-pots, and preserving pans, with thick and round 
bottoms (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as 
long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides 
are soldered to the bottom, for sand and grease get into the 
joined part, and cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. 

Take care that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth, 



XXIV BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

soup, and sauces, Stc. may not waste by evaporation. They are 
good for nothing, unless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in 
and the smoke out. 

Stew-pans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper 
rim, where the fire does not burn them; but to scour them all over 
is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the 
vessels. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; pro- 
cure those pieces which afford the richest succulence, and as fresh 
killed as possible. 

Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat 
is wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear: fat and clarified drippings may be so com- 
bined with vegetable mucilage, as to afford, at the small cost of 
one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fully ade- 
quate to satisfy appetite and support strength: this will open a 
new source to those benevolent housekeepers, who are disposed 
to relieve the poor, will show the industrious classes how much 
they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them 
from being objects of charity dependent on the precarious bounty 
of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abun- 
dant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and fam- 
ilies. 

This soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room. Those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savory, 
and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely ingredients. 

The general fault of our soups seems to be the employment of 
an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. . 

There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as 
an indispensable overture; and believe it an excellent plan to begin 
the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the 
appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. 

We again caution the cook to avoid over-seasoning, especially 
with predominant flavors, which, however agreeable they may be 
to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Zest, soy, cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry powder, savory ra- 
gout powder, soup herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle li- 
quor, beer, wine, and sweet herbs, and savory spice, are very 
convenient auxiliaries to finish soups, &.c. 

The proportion of wine should not exceed a large wine-glass- 
ful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted, 
without the vinous flavor becoming remarkably predominant; 
though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is 
incomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more 
flavor, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even 
veritable cau de vie is ordered in many books, and used by many 
(especially tavern cooks). So much are their soups overloaded 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. XXY 

with relish, that if you will eat enough of them they will certainly 
make you drunk, if they don't make you sick: all this frequently 
arises from an old cook measuring the excitability of the eaters' 
palates by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, 
that to awaken it, requires win? instead of water, and cayenne 
and garlic for black pepper and onion. 

The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the seve- 
ral ingredients one to another, that no particular taste be strong- 
er than the rest, but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that 
the whole is delightful. This requires that judicious combination 
of the materials which constitutes the "cluf d'ceuvre" of culinary 
science. 

In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be per- 
fectly well cleaned ; proportion the water to the quantity of meat 
and other ingredients, generally a pound of meat to a quart of 
water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they 
stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is ex- 
pected at the end; for when the pot is covered quite close, and 
the fire gentle, very little is wasted. 

Gentle stewing is incomparably the best; the meat is more ten- 
der, and the soup better flavored. 

It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle 
should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are 
aware of it. 

Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, which will make the 
witter hot without causing it to boil for at least half an hour; if 
the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and 
cleanse it from the clotted blood, and other matters which ought to 
go off' in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat; 
will shrink up as if it was scorched, and give hardly any gravy: 
on the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating with- 
out boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres arfe dilated, 
and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken off as soon 
as it appears. 

It is not till after a good half hour's hot infusion that we may 
mend the fire, and make the pot boil : still continue to remove the 
scum; and when no more appears, put in the vegetables, &c. and 
a little salt. These will cause more scum to rise, which must be 
taken off immediately; then cover the pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast. 

By quick and strong boiling the volatile and finest parts of tho 
ingredients are evaporated, and fly off with the steam, and the 
coarser parts are rendered soluble ; so you lose the good, and get 
the bad. 

Soups will generally take from three to six hours. 

Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want 
them. This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your 
dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold, the fat may be 

C 



XXVI BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

much more easily and completely removed from the surface of it. 
When you decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the 
bottom of the vessel, which are so tine that they will escape through 
a sieve, or even through a TAMIS, which is the best strainer, the 
soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned 
than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a 
clean tamis or napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the cold- 
ness of this will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth 
to pass through. 

The full flavor of the ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering ; during which take care to prevent 
evaporation, by covering the pot as close as possible: the best 
stew-pot is a digester. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent; thickened soups, 
about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened 
soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. 

To thicken and give body to soups and sauces, the following 
materials are used: they must be gradually mixed with the soup 
till thoroughly incorporated with it; and it should have at least 
half an hour's gentle simmering after: if it is at all lumpy, pass it 
through a tamis or a fine sieve. Bread raspings, bread, isinglass, 
potato mucilage, flour, or fat skimmings and flour, or flour and 
butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. 

To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve. A piece of beef, which has been boiled to make 
broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
and gradually incorporated with the gravy or soup, will be found 
a satisfactory substitute for these more expensive articles. 

Meat from which broth has been made and all its juice has been 
extracted, is then excellently well prepared for POTTING, and is 
quite as good, or better, than that which has been baked till it is 
dry; indeed, if it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual manner, 
it will be an elegant and savory luncheon, or supper, and costs 
nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a 
relish is procured for sandwiches, &c. of what heretofore has been 
by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the CAT. 

Keep some spare broth lest your soup-liquor waste in boiling, 
and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various 
sauces, &c.; for many of which it is a much better basis than 
melted butter. 

T.he soup of mock turtle, and the other thickened soups, will 
supply you with a thick gravy sauce for poultry, fish, ragoutt, &c. ; 
and by a little management of this sort, you may generally con- 
trive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with very 
little trouble or expense. 

If soup is (too thin or too weak, take oFthe cover of your soup- 
pot, and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated, 
or else add some of the thickening materials we have before men- 



OBSERVATIONS. XXVU 

tioned ; and have at hand some plain browning. This simple pre- 
paration is much better than any of the compounds bearing that 
name; as it colors sauce or soup without much interfering with its 
flavor, and is a much better way of coloring them than burning 
the surface of the meat. 

When soups and gravies are kept from day to day, in hot weather, 
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in temperate weather 
every other day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common cook into possession of 
the whole arcana of soup-making, without much trouble to herself, 
or expense to her employers. It would greatly diminish the ex- 
pense, and improve soups, if th agents employed to give them a 
zest were not put in above fifteen minutes before the finish, and 
half the quantity of spice, &c. would do. A strong heat soon dis- 
sipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma and flavor 
of the spices and herbs, which are volatile in the heat of boiling 
water. 

Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better than those that are cold and raw : on this ac- 
count, RESTORATIVE SOUP is the best food for those who are en- 
feebled by disease or dissipation, and for old people, whose teeth 
and digestive organs are impaired. 

After catching cold, in nervous headaches, cholics, indigestions, 
and different kinds of cramp and spasms in the stomach, warm 
broth is of excellent service. 

After intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holyday for a 
day or two by a diet on mutton broth, or vegetable soup, Stc. is the 
best way to restore its tone. " The stretching any power to its 
utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to 
do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do less. A wise 
traveller will never force his horse to perform as much as he can 
in one day upon a long journey." 



OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN ARTICLES. 

We shall conclude these Introductory Observations, with a few 
remarks on the qualities of certain Articles in common use. 

Butler. 

Well made pure butter is lenient and nourishing, eaten cold, 
in moderation, with bread. But upon hot new bread, or hot 
toast, or used as sauce to animal food, it is not wholesome. In 
the two first instances it is very apt to turn acid in the stomach; 
and in the latter, to float uppermost in the stomach, and disturb 
the digestion. If melted thick and carefully, and eaten with 
vegetable food and bread only, it is not so liable to this objection. 

Butter is good for dry, constipated habits, but not for such as 
are bilious, asthmatic, or corpulent. 



OBSERVATIONS. 

Honey. 

Honey is nourishing and wholesome, particularly for persons 
with coughs, weak lungs, and short breath. It is balsamic, 
cleansing, and makes the body soluble. 

Great care should be taken to get it fresh and pure; it is apt 
to turn sour by long keeping. 

Sugar. 

Sugar used in moderation is nourishing and good, but much 
of it destroys the appetite, and injures the digestion. Moist 
sugar is the sweetest, and most opening; refined sugar, of a bind- 
ing nature. The preparations made of sugar, such as barley- 
sugar, sugar-candy, &c. are all indigestible and bad, as the good 
properties of the sugar are destroyed by the process it undergoes 
in the making them. They are particularly injurious to children, 
from cloying their delicate stomachs. Young children are in 
general better without sugar, as it is very apt to turn acid and 
disagree with weak stomachs; and the kind of food they take 
has natural sweetness enough in it not at all to require it. 

Salt. 

Salt, moderately used, especially with flesh, fish, butter, and 
cheese, is very beneficial, as it naturally stimulates weak or dis- 
ordered stomachs, and checks fermentations. But if it be im- 
moderately used it has a contrary effect. Very little salt should 
be used with vegetable food of the grain or seed kind; for the 
less salt that is put to it the milder, cooler, pleasanter, and easier 
or' digestion it will be. Salt excites the appetite, assists the 
stomach in digesting crude phlegmatic substances, is cleansing, 
and prevents putrefaction; but if too much used, it heats and dries 
the blood and natural moisture. It is best for phlegmatic, cold, 
and moist stomachs; and most injurious to hot, lean bodies. 

Salt-petre is particularly bad for bilious persons. 

Vinegar. 

Vinegar is cooling, opening, excites the appetite, assists diges- 
tion, is good for hot stomachs, resists putrefaction, and there- 
fore very good against pestilential diseases. Too much use of it 
injures the nerves, emaciates some constitutions, is hurtful to the 
breast, and makes people look old and withered, with pale lips. 

The best vinegar is that which is made of the best wines. 
Lemon-juice and verjuice have much the same qualities and ef- 
fects as vinegar. 

The commonest vinegar is least adulterated. 

Mustard. 

Mustard quickens the appetite, warms the stomach, assists in 
digesting hard meats, and dries up surperfluous moisture. It sel* 
dom agrees with weak stomachs.. 



OBSERVATIONS. XXIX 

Spices. 

Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and ginger, may be esteemed 
the best of spices. 

Nutmegs, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and allspice, are generally 
productive of indigestion and headache to weak persons. 

Garlic, (fc. 

Garlic, onions, rocambole, shallots, leeks, and horse-radish, 
are occasionally good for strong stomachs, but generally disa- 
gree with weak stomachs. 

Tea. 

The frequent drinking of a quantity of strong tea, as is the 
general practice, relaxes and weakens the tone of the stomach, 
whence proceeds nausea and indigestion, with a weakness of the 
nerves, and flabbiness of the flesh, and very often a pale wan 
complexion. Milk, when mixed with it in some quantity, lessens 
its bad qualities, by rendering it softer, and nutritious; and, with 
a moderate quantity of sugar, it may then be a proper breakfast, 
as a diluent, to those who are strong, and live freely, in order to 
cleanse the alimentary passages, and wash off the salts from the 
kidneys and bladder. But persons of weak nerves ought to ab- 
stain from it as carefully as from drams and cordial drops; as it 
causes the same kind of irritation on the tender delicate fibres of 
the stomach, which ends in low-ness, trembling and vapors. 

It should never be drank hot by any body. Green tea is less 
wholesome than black or bohea. 

Coffee. 

Coffee affords very little nourishment, and is apt to occasion 
heat, dryness, stimulation and tremors of the nerves, and for 
these reasons is thought to occasion palsies, watchfulness, and 
leanness. Hence it is very plain that it must be pernicious to hot, 
dry, and bilious constitutions. If moderately used it may be 
beneficial to phlegmatic persons, but, if drank very strong, or in 
grejit quantities, it will prove injurious even to them. 

The following remarks on Coffee, were published in London, 
by a physician. 1st. The raw coffee should be round and small 
grained, free from dirt and of a light color. It should have no 
appearance of mouldiness, and be kept quite free from any strong 
smell. It should not be long kept in sacks with other provisions, 
as there is no substance more apt to obtain strong and disagree- 
able odors from the presence of its neighbors. Rum injures it; 
and Miller even goes so far as to state that a few bags of pepper 
on board a ship from India upon one occasion spoiled the whole 
cargo. 

C2 



XXX OBSEHVATIONS. 

2nd. When the grains are large, flat, and of a green color, 
they should be kept on hand, in a dry situation, a long time before 
use. Every West India planter knows this fact, although his 
interest often induces him to send the article to market before it 
is old and dry enough. 

3d. Roasting coffee is by far the most difficult operation of the 
housekeeper; when carried far enough, an aromatic oil is formed 
by the heat and forces itself out upon the surface of the grains, 
giving them a glossy appearance, and an odor which is consider- 
ed their perfection; yet too little roasting prevents the aroma 
from appearing, and too much completely volatilizes it. leaving 
nothing but a flat bitter taste. The heat should be strong and 
the operation shortened as much as possible without burning the 
grains. The roaster should be close or well covered all the time, 
and in order to improve the looks and flavor, a small piece of 
butter may be added to the coffee, while parching. 

4th. When thus prepared, coffee may be preserved for use in 
large quantities, without losing niuch of its freshness, provided 
the vessels containing it be well covered. 

5th. An infusion of coffee is better than a decoction, simply 
because the heat, in the last case, b(-ing stronger and more last- 
ing, drives off more of the aromatic oil. It is better, therefore, 
to grind the coffee very fine, and then to expose it, by means of 
a bag or strainer, to the action of boiling water, than to boil it 
any length of time. Heat, though unavoidable, injures the flavor, 
and the best coffee I remember to have tasted was made by ex- 
posing the powder to a pressure of cold water; a^ea-spoonful of 
this extract, thrown into a cup of hot water, was sufficient. It is 
not a bad method to allow the ground coffee to lie in cold water 
between meals, and then prepare it by adding hot water. Just in 
proportion to the continuance of heat, in this and in the last 
operation, the fragrance disappears, and is replaced by a strong 
bitter taste, which, according to the experiments of Chenevix, de- 
pends upon the presence of tannin (resembling that in tan bark). 
Roasting, besides forming this bitter substance, deprives the cof- 
fee of its nutritious qualities. 

Chocolate. 

Is rich, nutritious, and soothing, saponaceous, and cleansing; 
from which quality it often helps digestion, and excites the appe- 
tite. It as only proper for some of the leaner and stronger sort of 
phlegmatic constitutions, and some old people who are healthy, 
and accustomed to bodily exercise. 

Cocoa. 

Is of the same nature as chocolate, but not so rich; and there- 
fore lighter upon the stomach. 



OBSERVATIONS. XXXI 

Fruit. 

Fruits are of different degrees of digestibility. Those of a hard 
texture, as some kinds of apples, melons, apricots, several sorts 
of fleshy plums, and all immature fruits, are difficult of digestion. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, gooseberries, cherries, 
green-gages, peaches, nectarines, melting pears, mulberries, figs, 
grapes, medlars, when all quite ripe, are more easily dissolved in 
the stomach. 

Fruit, moderately eaten, is wholesome, particularly as correct- 
ing the grossness of animal food. But an excess of it, and es- 
pecially of unripe fruit, is productive of many diseases; amongst 
children in particular, it often occasions such as the nettle rash 
and St. Anthony's fire. 

Fruit invariably disagrees with bilious persons; but is a sover- 
eign remedy for the sea scurvy, and for diseases arising from an 
excess of animal food. 

JVu/s and Mmonda. 

Most kinds of nuts, and almonds, from their milky or oily na- 
ture, contain a good deal of nourishment; but they require to be 
well chewed, as they are difficult of digestion. Persons with 
weak stomachs should not eat them. The worst time at which 
they can be eaten is after a meal. 

Olives. 

Olives that have been gathered immature or unripe, and put into 
a pickle to keep them sound, are apt, especially if frequently eaten, 
to obstruct the stomach and passages. The best way of eating 
them is with good bread, when the stomach is properly empty. To 
eat them upon a full stomach is very bad. 



NOTE. 

Receipts for making all kinds of Bread, Biscuits, Blancmange, 
Buns, Broth, Cakes, Creams, Custards, Jams, Jellies, Paste, Pies, 
Puddings, Soups, Sauces, &c., will be found under these general 
beads ; the method of cooking the several meats are arranged under 
the name of each meat. Still there are interspersed throughout the 
book single receipts under the letter of the name, of which many of 
the above articles are composed. We will instance the following, 
viz : 

Cakes, Almond, Crumpets, Echaudes, Fanchonettes, Flemish wa- 
fers, Frangipane, Gateau, Gingerbread, Hedgehog, Jumbles, 
Kisses, Lemon Bonbons, Macaroons, Madelains, Meat, Muf- 
fins, Oat, Orange, Perlingo, Sally Lunns. 
Bread, Almond, Brentford, Filbert, French Rolls, Rusks. 
Creams, Under various fruits of which they are made. 
Veal, Friar's chicken, Gratin, and miuiy articles under Calf. 
Fowls, See also Chickens, Capons. 
Beef, See also Ox. 



XXX11. 



The following Engraving represents the method of dividing an Ox 
for the table, in England, and in most of the southern cities of the 
United States. The method in Boston varies considerably, dividing 
into smaller pieces, and this plan we pursue in the following tables ; 
but the manner of cooking each is nearly the same. 




1. Sirloin. 

2. Rump. 

3. Edge Bone. 

4. Buttock. 

5. Mouse Buttock. 

6. Veiny Piece. 
1. Thick Flank. 

8. Thin Flank. 

9. Leg". 



10. Fore rib: Five ribs. 

11. Middle rib: Four ribs. 

12. Ghuck : Three ribs. 

13. Shoulder or leg-of-mutton piece. 

14. Brisket. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck, or Sticking Piece. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



MARKETING TABLES. 



Sirloin 
Rump 
Edge Bone 

Round 

Veiny Piece 
Thick Flank 
Thin Flank 
Leg Ran 
Leg 


Price per Ib. 
10 to 12 
10 to 12 
6 to 8 

8 to 10 

6 to 8 
6 to 8 
6 
4 
2 


cents 

n 

5> 

n 

n 
n 
n 





BEEF. 
THE HIND QUARTER. 

Method of cooking. 
Roasted. 

Roasted, or Steak, or Stew. 
Boiled. 

f Alamode, Boiled, or savory salt- 

\ ed Beef. 

Steaks or Roast ; or baked or salted. 
Steaks, or corned. 

do. 

Boil ; Soup, or Stew. 
Soup or Stew. 

THE FORE QUARTER. 



First Cut, 2 Ribs 10 cents 

Second Cut, 2 Ribs 10 

Tliird Cut, 2 Ribs 8 

Fourth Cut, 2 Ribs 6 

Chuck Rib 5 

Shoulder of Mutton Piece 5 

Shoulder Clod 3 

Brisket 6 , 



Rattlcran 
Sticking Piece 
Neck 

Shin 

Head (20 cents) 

Tail (2 cents) 

Heels, given with the head 



Roast, 
do. 
do. 
do. 

Boil or Stew, or for making gravy. 
Steaks or Bouilli. 
Boil or Soup, or Beef Sausages. 

( Boil, or Bouilli ; or stewing, or 

( Harricot, or Salted. 
Boil. 

Boil, or Soup. 
Gravy. 

t Soup ; excellent Scotch barley 

\ Broth, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Boiled, Jelly, Soup, s 



MUTTON. 



Leg 
Loin 



8 to 10 cents 
6 to 8 

5 to 6 



K :u- k. neck end 

Rack, best end 

Shoulder 

Breast 

Head 

The Chine or the Saddle, two 
Loins. The Haunch 
Leg and part of the Loin 



6 to 8 
6 
6 
4 



two \ 

is a > 
in, J 



Boil, Roast. 

Chops Roast, Boil, 

I Boil, Roast, Irish Stew, Harricot, 

( Stewed, Broth. 
Chops, or Broth. 
Roast. 

Broth, Grilled. 
Broth. 

Roasted, Venisonified. 



XXXI V MARKETING. 

VEAL. 

Loin 8 to 10 cents Roast. 

Leg ,, Cutlets, Roast, Boil. 

... ( Roasted, Veal Olives, Scotch 

\ Collops. 

Knuckle, or whole Leg 8 Broth, Ragout, Stew, Soup. 



Breast 8 to 10 

Breast and Neck 6 

Rack 6 

Shoulder 6 

Brisket 8 

Cutlets 1 



Roast, 

Roast, Stew, Ragout, Curry. 



Soup Chops to fry. 
Roast, or Bake. 
Stewed, Ragout. 
Fried, Broiled. 
Head, scalded, (50 to 60 cts. each} Broiled plain, Hash. 

BEEF is plentiest and cheapest from October to January; and best 
from January to May. 

VEAL is best from Jlpril to July. 

MUTTON is best from October to June. 

GRASS LAMB is best from June to October. 

The Quality of Butcher Meat varies quite as much as the price of it 
according to its age how it has been fed and especially how it has 
been treated the week before it has been killed. 

PORK. 

Comes into Market. Plentiest. 

Roasting Pigs May June. 

Quarter Pork July August. 

Spare Ribs and Chine Aug. Nov. & Dec. 
Middlings salt, all the year. 
Bacon Hams November, and continue all the year. 

POULTRY. 

Comes into Market. Plentiest. 

Chickens July Nov. 

Fowls All the year do. 

Ducks July October. 

Geese August Nov. 

Turkeys September Nov. & Dec. 

Wild Ducks do. Oct. & Apr. 

Brants April May. 

Partridges September October. 

Quails do. January. 

Woodcocks July August. 

Obs. POULTRY is in greatest perfection, when in greatest plenty. 

The price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it, and the 
supply at market, and the demand for it. 

It is generally dearest from March to July, and cheapest about Sep- 
tember, when the Game season commences, and the weather being colder, 
allows of its being brought from more distant parts. 



MARKETING. XXXV 

The above information will, we trust, lie very acceptable to Economi- 
cal Families, who, from hearing the very high price Poultry sometimes 
costs, are deterred from ever inquiring about it. In the cheap seasons 
we have noted, it is sometimes as cheap as Butcher-meat. 

Those who pay the highest, do not always pay the dearest, price. In 
fact, the Best Meat is the cheapest ; and those who treat a tradesman 
liberally, have a much better chance of being well served, than those who 
are forever bargaining for the Market Penny. In dividing the Joints, 
there is always an opportunity of apportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, 
Sfc. so as to make up a variation of much more than a penny per pound 
in most pieces ; and a Butcher will be happy to give the turn of his knife 
in favor of that Customer icho cheerfully pays the fair price of the arti- 
cle he purchases ; have those who are unwilling to do so any reason to 
complain "? Have they not invited such conduct. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CURING AND COOKING PICKLED FISH. 

The use of Pickled Fish, such as Mackerel, Salmon, Shad, &c. 
is becoming more general than formerly, and would be still more 
extensive if the proper mode of preparing them for the table was 
better understood. These fish constitute not only a salutary diet, 
but in many cases makes a very beneficial change in our food. 

Whoever will give the following directions a fair trial will be- 
come sensible of their value: 

First. The fish should be kept covered by the pickle by means 
of a flat stone or slate, laid on them. The oil, or animal fat, 
which floats on the top of the cask, should not be removed, as it 
prevents the fish from rusting; but in taking the fish from the 
barrel or keg, this oil ought to be put aside, care being taken not 
to let the fish touch it. Secondly The fish should be washed 
clean, then put to soak in a large quantity of water for eight or 
ten hours, with the flesh side down. The time of soaking may be 
varied to suit the palate. It must again be washed clean, put it 
to soak six or eight hours in milk, (if you have it) then dry it by 
the fire. Thirdly When dry lay it on the gridiron, with the flesh 
side downward, over pretty lively coals, for five minutes, or till it 
is moderately browned, then turn it with a plate, or some flat in- 
strument that will not break the skin, and let it remain over the 
coals ten or fifteen minutes, or till it is cocked sufficiently. Slide 
it off the gridiron into the dish, and strip off the backbone with a 
broad knife: pat the fish, to cause the thick part of the fish to 
absorb the fat from the belly part; use no butter then you will 
enjoy all the flavor and juices of the fish. 

If a Mackerel or Shad so prepared does not relish, it must be 
more the fault of the palate, than of the food. How many arti- 
cles, capable of being made into excellent dishes, are lost or 
spoiled from want of care and skill in dressing them. 

i he whole beauty f pickled Fish dep^mls upon the right method of cooking it, we 
inert by itself the rereipt nf C:i|it. Henry I'urkitt, .Mn.-^icliusetts Inspector of Fish, whu 
obligingly handuil it tu the Eilit.ir. 



TABLE 

OF 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



By which persons not having scales and weights at hand may 
readily measure the articles wanted to form any receipt, without 
the trouble of weighing. Allowance to be made for any ex- 
traordinary dryness or moisture of the article weighed or meas- 
ured. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Eggs 

Brown sugar 

White sugar, powdered 

Loaf-sugar, broken 

Butter when soft - 

Indian meal 

Wheat flour 



ten eggs are - one pound, 

one pound, two ounces, is one quart, 

one pound, one ounce, is one quart, 

one pound is - - one quart, 

one pound is - one quart, 

one pound, two ounces, is one quart, 

one pound is - one quart. 



LIQUIDS. 



Four large table-spoonfuls are 
Eight large table-spoonfuls are 
Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are 



half a gill, 
one gill, 
half a pint. 



A common-sized wine-glass 
A common-sized tumbler holds 



half a gill, 
half a pint. 



THE 



ALM 

ABERDEEN CRULLA. (SeeCakei.) 
ALAMODE BEEF. (See Beef.) 
ALAMODE VEAL. (See Veal.) 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (1) 

Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay 
them in cold water all night; the next morn- 
ing blanch them in cold water ; then take them 
out and dry them in a clean cloth, beat them 
very line in a little orange flower water; then 
take MX eggs, leave out four whites, with a 
little Ix-aten mare; lieat them well in a mar- 
ble mortar; take ten (unices of fresh Imtter, 
melt it, add a little grated lemon-jieel, and 
put them in the mortar with the other ingre- 
dients; mix all well together and till ynr 
patty-pans, having lined them with thin puff 
paste. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (2) 

Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, 
and a |i-w hitter with a spoonful of water; 
thru add llnir ou.i.vs of siiLjar [xmnded, a 
spoonful of cream, and I he whites of two eggs 
well beaten ; mix all iis (mirk as; |x>ssil>ie; 
put intip \ery small |xitt\-;>ans, and bake in 
a prettN warm oxen twenty minutes. 

A I. M ( ) N D CHEESECAKES. (3) 

Blanch six i unices of gweet, and lialf an (iiince 
of hitter almonds; let them lie half an hour 
in a drying stoxe, or Ix-fore the fire; pound 
tlicni very line in a mortar, with two tajble- 
spoonliils of rose water, to prevent tliem from 
oiling; set into a stew-pan half a |x>und of 
fresh butter; set it in a warm place, and 
cream it very smooth with the hand, and add 
it to tin- almonds, with six ounces of sifted 
loaf sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, some 
P<HM! cream, and four eggs; nib. all well to- 
gether with the pestle; cover a patty-pan 
with puff paste; fill in the mixture; orna- 
ment it with slices of candied lemon-peel and 
almond- split, and bake it halt' an hour in a 
brisk ..,,11. 

\|.MI)\|) C< >\SF.UVK, BURNT. 
Blanch and cut >ix ounces of sweet almonds 
into -mall stri|is, lay tliem on paper and put 
them into an oven : when tln-\ are brown, 



ALM 

take them out, and throw them into two 
pounds of sugar boiled to petit caste, stir 
the mixture well until it begins to blow, and 
then pour it into paper cases or moulds. 

ALMONDS, ENGLISH FASHION. 
Mix almonds and filberts sca'ded in equal 
quantities ; chop one half very fine, cut the 
rest each into two or three slices ; put the 
whole in double their weight of sugar, 
prepared by boiling it with some lemon- 
peel rasped; stir the almonds very well 
in the sugar, taking it off the fire, and 
add one or two whites of eggs ; pour it in 
paper large enough to contain the whole, ;uid 
cut it in slices for use as you think proper, 
wlieii baked as usual. 

ALMOND FRAZE, Blanch a pound 
of Jordan almonds, and sleep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of < 
take out the almonds and pound them fine in 
a marble mortar; then mix them again in 
tle cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated 
bread, and stir them all lordlier; then put 
some fresh butter into the pan, let it be hot 
and IMIUI- it in, stirring it in the pan till they 
are of a sufficient consistence ; and when 
enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over 
it, and serve it up. 

ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch three 
quarters of a pound of sweet almonds, pour 
over them three table-spoonfuls of rose water, 
and in a quarter of an hour a pint of cream ; 
let them stand two or three hours, then pound 
them in a mortar till they become quite a 
paste ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, two 
or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten 
with pounded loaf sugar, and mix all well 
together ; melt a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter in a frying-pan, and w hen hot, pour in 
the mixture, ami stir it constantly till thick, 
and of a light brown cO(or. Serve it with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top,. 

ALMOND BROWN GINGER. 
BREAD. Beat a quarter of a (xxind of 

blanched almonds with thin gum-water, a 
few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered 
cinnamon, et some ginger finely grated and 



ALM 



ANC 



icercd to give it a brown color; sweeten 
and smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut 
it into squares; dry it in a stove or before 
the fire. 

ALMOND ICEING, for BRIDE CAKE. 
The whites of six eggs, a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan 
almonds blanched and ]>ounded with a little 
rose water ; mix altogether and whisk it well 
for an hour or two, lav it over the cake and 
put it in die oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, BITTER. 
Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them 
well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste 
with the whites of three or four eggs ; then 
put them into an earthen pan with three 
pounds of powder-sugar, mix them together 
well, and if the paste should be too dry, 
moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on 
sheets of paper in lumps about the size of a 
walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, SWEET, 

Are done in the same way- But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pound of almonds. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP. Take half a 
pound of sweet almonds, put them on tlie fire 
with some writer r.ntil near boiling, then 
blanch and throw them into fresh water; 
drain and pound them. Boil a pint of wa- 
ter, a little sugar, salt, cinnamon, coriander, 
and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an hour, and 
rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay 
some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and 
pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as 
possible without boiling. 

ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch two ounces 
of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
orange flower water, whisk the whites of 
three eggs to a high froth, strew in a little 
sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar 
and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick 
as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on 
paper in a cool oven. 

ALMOND RICE. Blanch sweet al- 
!;i-> '<ls. and pound them in a marble mortar; 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
them as long as there is milk in the almonds, 
adding fresh water every time; to every 
quait of almond-juice, put a quarter of a. 
pound of rice and two teaspoonsful of orange 
flower water; mix them all together, and 
simmer it over a slow charcoal fire ; stir it 
repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at 
pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon 
strewed over. 

ALMOND ROLLS, BITTER. Blanch 
and pound eight ounces of almonds five of 



sweet and three of bitter) to a very- fine 
paste; then place ei^lit ounces of tlonr on 
your slab; make a hole in the middle, and 
put into it eight ounces of powder-sugar, the 
yolks of four egg.*, and a grain of salt; mix 
them all well together into a firm smootn 
paste; roll it out and cut it into four equal 
parts; roll each piece to the .same Icii^'h; 
cut them into pieces about the size of a wal- 
nut, and form them to the shape of a wild 
turnip, and as you do them put them on a 
baking-tin lightly buttered ; dorez them and 
bake diem of a proper color in a moderate 
oven. Wlien dies are taken from die oven, 
let diem stand a little while to dry. 

ALMOND PUDDING. (See Pud- 
ding.) 

ALMOND TUMBLES. Blanch and 
pound three ounces of almonds very fine, 
when almost beaten enough, take die white 
of an egg beaten to frodi, one pound of dou- 
ble-refined sugar well beaten, and put it in 
by degrees, working it into a paste with your 
hands, roll it out and bake it on buttered 
plates ui a hot oven. 

AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. (Set 
Blancmange.) 

AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take 

half a pound of fresh butter melted, one pound 
and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yolks and 
whites separately lieaten, one glass of rose 
water, and one of white wine; mix all these 
well togedier, and Ijcat it for an hour ; then 
with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans, 
about die thickness of a penny-piece; bake 
it of a light brown, and while warm, cut it 
into oblong pieces, and place them on end 
till cool, when diey will be very crisp. 

AMERICAN VINEGAR. (See Vin- 
egar.) 

AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil 

some rice in milk till it be swelled and soft; 
pare and carefully scoop out die core of five 
or six good-sized apples, put into each a lit- 
tle grated lemon-peel and cinnamon ; place 
as much of die rice upon a bit of linen aa 
will entirely cover anapplc.and tie each close- 
ly. Boil them two hours, and serve them 
widi melted butter, sweetened widi sugar. 

ANCHOVIES. Wash half a dozen an- 
! chovies, and take the meat from die bones ; 
j cut diem into four fillets, place them on a 
i dish with some sweet herbs, rut small ; and 

the yolks and whites of liard eggs, also cut 

small. 



ANC 



APP 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash your 
anchovies carefully, take out the lames, and 
dry them; then pound them in a mortar 
until they are reduced to a paste; and mix 
this paste with double the quantity of fresh 
butter. 

ANCHOVIES, BUTTER OF. Wash 

from the pickle some fine young unchoxies, 
bone, and take off the heads, then pound tliein 
in a mortar xvitli fresh butteY till quite smooth, 
and rub it through a sieve. 

ANCHOVY PASTE. Pound them in a 
mortar, then rub it through a line sieve; pot 
it, cover it xvith clarified butter, and keep it 
in a cool place. If you hax e essence of ancho- 
vy, you may make anchovy paste extempore, 
by rubbing the essence xvith as much llour as 
will make a paste. Mem. This is merely 
mentioned as the means of making it imme- 
diately ; it xv ill uot- keep. 

AN CHO VY POWDER. Pound the fish 
in a mortar, nib them through a sieve, and 
make them into a paste xvidi (tried tlour, roll 
it into tliin cakes, and dry lii;'in i:i a Dutch 
oven lieforc a slow fire; pounded to a tine 
powder, and put into a well-stopped bottle, it 
will keep for years; it is a very savoury 
relish, sprinkled on bread and butter for a 
sandwich, &c. See Oyster Powder. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (1) Cut some 

thin slices of bread about the length and 
breadth of a linger; fry them in oil. Place 
them on a di-li, and pour on them a sauce 
made i>f 'il. vinegar, whole pepper, \<,-. 
s allion, and slrallols, cut up together. Then 
cut the anehoxies into ihiu slices, and lay 
them on tin- 

AM'HOVY TOAST. (2) Bone and 

xv.i.-h I he anchovies, pound them' in a mortar 
xvith a iitile fresh butter; rub them through a 
sieve and spn ad them on a toast. You may 
add, while pounding the anchovies, a little 
iiuide mn.-tard and curry [xnvder, or a few 
grains of ( 'aycnne, or a little mace or oilier 
.-pic.-, li ma;. In- made still moi e savoury, by 
frying the toast in clariiied butter. N.B. 
Keep your aiichoxies xxell covered; first tie 
doxvn your jar xvith bladder moistened xvith 
vinegar, and then xvi|xd dry; tie leather 
over that: when you ojx-.i a jar, moisten the 
bladder, and it will come oil easily; as soon 
as you have taken out the full, replace the 
coverings; the air soon rusts and spoils 
anchovies. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (3) Bone and 

roll up two or diree anchoivies, place them 
upon pieces of dry toast, and garnish widi 
curled parsley. 



ANGELICA TO CANDY. Cut die 

stalks when thick and tender, put them on 
in txiiling water, and when very tender, drain 
it off, and throw them into cold water; peel 
otTthe skin, and scald them in a thin sirup, 
made with the same proportion of sugar that 
there is of fruit ; heat it twice a day till the 
sirup is almost dried iu, and then dry them 
under garden glasses, or in a stove, and turn 
t lii-in twice a day. 

APPLES. Cooks, in choosing apples for 
Culinary purpeses, should always be guided 
by the xxei^ht, tin- i;eax iest being always the 
best; and ihc.se are particularly to be taken, 
xvhich, upon being pressed by the thumb, 
yield with a slight cracking noise. Large 
apples possessing diese qualities should be 
'akr i in preference to small ones, as there 
niste in jieeling and coring. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (1) Divide 
txxeixi in halves, core diem, and 

place them on a thin patty-pan or mazarine, 
quite C!OM. to , ;l -h other, with tile fiat side 
downwards ; squee/e a lemon into two 
spooMlr.:.- of i ::i :.< i: uer water, which pour 
over them ; shred lino some lemon-peel, throw 
it over them, and grate fine s-ugar all over. 
Set them in a quick oven, and bake them 
half an hour. When served, strew finu su- 
gar all over the dish. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (2) Pare 

the apples, lay them in your pan, strexv a few 
cloves over tlu-m, a little lemon-perl cut very 
small, txx-o or three blades of cinnamon, and 
some ' i he pan xx ith broxvn 

paper, set it in an oven xvith the bread, and 
let it stand till die oven is cold. 

APPLES, TO BAKE WHOLE. Put 
some sound and well chosen apples into a 
pan, widi a small proportion of cloves, a 
little lemon-peel, some IJIMVU sugar, a 
or more of red wine, according to the quan- 
tity of fruit; put them irt a quick oxen, and 
bake diem at least one hour. Tlie sugar tu 
be limited according to the quality of the 
apples. 



APPLES, CHARLOTTE OF. 

Charlotte.) 



(See 



AITLE CHEESECAKES. Pare.core, 
and boil txvrlxe apples with milhcient water 
to niiish them; Ix'at them very gmoodi, add 
six yolks of eggs, die juice of two lemons, 
and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of 
fresh butter liouten to a cream, and sweet- 
ened with [xnvder sii',n.r, U-al it in widi die 
apples. Bake in a pull" crust and serve open. 

APPLES CLEAR. Boil half a pound 



APP 



APP 



of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; take off the 
scum, and put in some large apples, pared, 
cored, and cut into quarters, with the peel 
and juice of a lemon ; let diem boil till clear, 
without a cover upon the sauce-pan. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (1) Cut some 

apples in half, core them, prick the skins with 
a knife and throw them into cold water; 
then put them into a pan with some clarified 
sugar, and stew thrm jjcntly till tender ; place 
the apples in a dish, and pour the simp 
through a sieve over them. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (2) Pare and 
cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put 
them into a pan with a little water and lemon- 
juice ; then clarify half a pound of sugar, and 
when you have skimmed it put in your apples, 
and the juice of a lemon; turn the apples 
frequently. As soon as you find the fork will 
penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out ; strain and reduce the 
syrup ; strain it again, and then pour it over 
your apples, which may be served either hot 
or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red 
apple, cut into various devices, and laid on 
the apples. 

APPLES, WHOLE. The proceeding is 
the same as the last, except that the apples, 
when pared, are not divided, and the cores 
are taken out with a piercer. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. Pare and 

scoop out the core of six large baking apples, 
put part of a clove, and a little grated lem- 
on-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in 
pieces of puff paste ; boil them in nets for 
the purpose, or bits of linen, for an hour. 
Before sen-ing, crt off a small bit from the 
top of each, and put in a tea-spoonful of su- 
gar, and a bit of fresh butter ; replace the bit 
of paste, and strew over them pounded loaf 
sugar. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED. 

Make them in the same way, but instead of 
tieing them in cloths lay them in a buttered 
dish and bake them. 

APPLES, DRIED OR BAKED. Al- 
ways choose the clearest of baking apples, 
prick them rather deep with a pointed knife 
in several places, and put diem in a mode- 
rate oven upon a baking plate ; when half 
done squeeze diem pretty flat with the hands, 
strtw them on bodi sides with powder sugar, 
and put them again into a soaking oven, 
with some more sugar over them. Keep 
them in a dry place. 

APPLES FESTOONED. Peel some 
golden pippins, core diem whole, and stew 



them to three parts with sugar and a litde 
water; make die sirup pretty rich to clog 
to the apples ; wrap them round with a thin 
paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knots 
tir flowers with the same paste to put on die 
top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a very short time. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. 

Bake or scald eight or nine large apples; 
when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, 
beat diis up with fine sugar; put to it the 
whites of four or five eggs that have been 
beaten widi a litde rose water ; mix it a lit- 
tle at a time, and beat it til] it is light; heap 
it on a rich custard or on jelly. 

APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut 
into diin bits, some good stewing apples; 
stew diem till tender, with a little water, 
two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and die peel 
of half a lemon ; pulp ha4f a pound dirough a 
sieve, and add die same weight of brown sugar, 
die juice of a lemon, and die whites of two 
eggs; beat diem all together for an hour. 
Serve it upon rich cream, or a boiled custard, 
in a glass dish. It may be made in die same 
way as die gooseberry fool, as may also stew- 
ed rhubarb. 

APPLE FRAZE. Cut apples into diick 
slices, and fry diem of a clear light brown ; 
take diem from die pan, and lay diem to 
drain ; thev may be pared or not ; then make 
a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two 
whites, beat diem up with cream or flour, 
and a little white wine, make it of the con- 
sistence of pancake batter; pour in a little 
melted butter, mixed with nutmeg and sugar. 
Let die batter be hot, and drop in die fritters, 
laying on every one a slice of apple, and then 
a spoonful of batter on each. Fry diem of 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew double- 
refined sugar all over diem. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (1) Beat the 

yolks of eight eggs, die whites of four, well 
togedier, strain diem into a pan ; dien take 
a quart of cream, make it moderately hot, 
and add two glasses of sack, three-quarters 
of a pint of ale, and mix diem well together 
When it is cool, put to it tin- ruirs, Ix-ating 
it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger 
grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The tet- 
ter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced 
apples, or scraped pippins, and fry diem qiiick 
in butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (2) Pare, 

core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak 
tlwin tor two or three hours in brandy, su^ar, 
green lemon-peel, and orange flower water; 
when they have diorousfhly imbibed die fla- 
vor of diese ingredients, drain, and put diem 



APP 



APP 



into a cloth well sprinkled with floiir, and 
shake them so that tin: lloiir may adhere all 
over them; trv them of ;i good color, glaze 
with sugar ami a hut salamander. 

AI'l'LE FRITTERS. (3) Stew 
some apples cut small, together with a little 
water, MI_;:II, lciiion-|X'cl, and cinnamon; 
when soft, add a little uhite wine, the juice of 
half a lemon, and a bit of fresh butter; when 
cold, mix them with a batter, as for Tun- 
bridge pulls, or enclose them in rounds of puff 
: iv, and serve them with silted loaf 
sugar over them. 

APPLE I-'UITTKUS. (4) IWwell- 
beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, two table 
spoonfuls of yeast, tliree of white wine, and 
two of m.-e water ; half a tea sp.xiiiful of uni- 
ted nutmeg, and of salt ; make it into a thick 
butter with lloitr, |>cel and core two or three 
apple-, i-nt them into thin bits, and mix tliem 
with the ballet-; co\ t -r it over, let it stand, 
placed near the lire, about an hour; drop it 
into boiling lard, and serve theai in a napkin 
with.-ug.ir .-tie wed over them. GoontMMM 
previously stewed may be done in the same 
way. 

APPLES, GLAZED. Peel a dozen of 
apples and leave the tails ; wore at the oppo- 
site side not quite through, and boil them 
with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, 
and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that 
they may not break ; when nearly done, take 
th. in mil , i educe the simp to a caramel, and 
put in the apples, rubbing them all over with 
it; or yon may wrap tliem in a paste, rasp 
MI_!.H over, bake a short time, and glaze with 
a white glaze. 

AI'l'LE MARMALADE. (1) Boil 

some pippins till i hey begin to get tender, then 
put them into cold water; pare and core 
them; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and 
put it over the fire, letting it remain till it lie- 
comes very thick ; then weigh an equal quan- 
tity of fine sugar; I K.I I it till the sugar arises in 
sparkles which clnsiei -togetlu-r ; put the mar- 
malade to it, and .-lir theai well with a wood- 
en spoon till tlte apple begins to boil; then 
take it oil' and when a little eon!, put it into 
pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. 

\ITI.r. MARMALADE. (2) Par.-, 
core, and rut your apples into small pieces, 
put them into water with a little lemon-juice 
to keep them white. Take them out after a 
short time and drain them. Weigh, and put 
them into a. -lew-pan; if for present use, half 
a |xmm! of Mi^ar will ! sufficient for each 
pound of apples, but if tor keeping, double 
that quantity will be necessary . Add to it a 
tick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. 
1* 



Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and cover 
it; when the apples are |Hilped stir the mix- 
ture till of the proper consistence: then put 
the marmalade into pots. 

APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some 
apples verv small, stew tliem with a little 
white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; mash them, and 
spread it over pancakes; roll them up, and 
serve with sifted loaf sugar over them. 

APPLE POUPETON. Pare some 

good baking apples, take out the cores, and 
put them into a skillet; to a pound and a 
luilf of apples, put a quarter of a pound of su- 
gar, and a wine glass of water. Do them 
< i :i -i .w lire, add a little cinnamon, and 
keep them stirring. When of the consist- 
ence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; 
beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four 
table spoonfuls of giated bread, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter ; then form it into 
shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside 
doxv n on a pkite, and serve. 

APPLE PRESERVE. (See Pre- 
erves.) 

APPLES AND RAISINS. Pareand cut 
twelve apples into quarters, and each quarter 
into four pieces, put them into a pan with four 
ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over 
which the zeste of an orange lias been grated, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants well 
washed; toss up these ingredients over a mod- 
erate fire for a few minutes and then let tliem 
cool. Make a round undcr-crust seven inch- 
es in diameter, moisten the edge and put on 
it a band of pi ill' paste three-quarters of an 
inch high and half an inch thick ; put your 
apples, ,vc, in this so as to form a sort of 
dome, cover tliem with the puff paste, taking 
care that it dens not extend Ixiyond tlie band, 
upon which il ni'ist be pressed down ; waah 
it over with while of egg, and bake it 
in a gentle oven for about an jour. When 
a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, 
whipped to a strong froth and mixed with 
two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with 
it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted su- 
gar; then, having drained and dried some 
currants, mix them with sugar, and strew 
them ever the dome; form a crown of small 
meringues with the remai'ider of tlie white 
of egg, and place it on the band ; cover them 
with silied -uirar, and color the whole of a 
u in the oven, and then serve im- 
mediately. 

AITI.ils IN RICE. (1> Scoop om 
the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a doz- 
en good-aized apples ; Ix il them in thin, clari- 
fied sugar ; let them imbibe die sugar, and 



APR 



APR 



be careful to preserve their fbnn. Make a 
marmalade with some other apples, adding 
to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of 
rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar and 
butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; 
put them into a dish for table, surround it 
with a border of rice, and place the whole ap- 
ples in the rice, and marmalade and hake it. 
When done, put into each of the apples a tea 
spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may 
think proper. 

APPLES IN RICE. (2) Pare, core, 
and cut four or five good apples in quarters ; 
boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put 
in the apples, tie it up very loose, and boil 
gently till sufficiently done. 

APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon tin- top, about an 
inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the 
, whites of two or three eggs, with a little sift- 
VL.d loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and bake 
it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instant- 
ly when done. 

APPLE A LA TURQUE. Neatly pare 
and pierce out the cores of eight or ten ap- 
ples, put them on the fire with a thin simp 
of clarified sugar, cover them close and let 
them simmer gently; turn them, that both 
sides may be done. When thoroughly done 
lay them on a dish, with a wet pa|>er over 
them. Put a paste round the dish you serve 
them in, and bake in a gentle oven to harden 
it, then put in a layer of apple sauce, over 
which put the apples, and fill the holes where 
the cores were with dried cherries or ap- 
ricot jam, then cover it with the apple sauce; 
beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, 
and add powder sugar till they appear quite 
smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay die 
white of egg over them, smooth it neatly over, 
and sift some powder sugar over it ; color it 
in a gentle oven. 

APPLE WATER. Cut three or four 
large apples into slices, put them into a jug, 
and pom' a quart of boiling water over them ; 
cover the jug. When quite cold, strain and 
sweeten it, and add a little lemon-juice. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh 
equal quantities of loaf sugar and of apricots ; 
scald them, and take off the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, put the huh into it, arid 
let it remain for two or three days; put the 
apricots into glasses. Mix with the sirup 
the best pale brandy, half and half, and pour 
it over the apricots and keep them closely 
covered. Peaches' 'and nectarines may Iv 
done iu the same wa\ . 



APRICOTS, CHARLOTTE OF. 

Choose twenty-four fine, plump, but not too 
ripe, apricots, pare and divide them into 
eight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm 
butter; in the meantime line a mould as di- 
rected (see Charlotte) ; pour in the apri- 
cots, and finish as usual. When turned on 
your dish, cover it lightly with apricot mar- 
malade, and serve it immediately. 

APRICOTS TO DRY. Pare die apri- 
cots, and carefully take out the st< >nes ; blanch 
the kernels, and put them into the apricots; 
strew over a pound of fruit the same quantity 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let them 
stand till the sugar has extracted the juice, 
then boil all together gently; when the fruit 
is tender, take it out with care, and boil the 
sirup till very rich ; pour it over tlie fruit, 
and in three days put it upon dishes, and dry 
them in the sun under garden glasses, turning 
them once or twice a-day, to keep the shape 
as round as possible. Any inferior apricots 
may be cut down and boiled in the sirup, for 
tarts. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Take 
some fine apricots, and choose from amongst 
diem those which are of the deepest yellow 
and the ripest, (they must not Ix: too ripe.) 
Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them 
up; weigh twelve pounds of them and put 
them into a preserving-pan, with nine pounds 
of powder sugar ; place your pan over a quick 
fire, and keep your preparation constantly 
stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find 
out when tlie marmalade is sufficiently done, 
let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, 
and if they do not spread in tlie water your 
marmalade is ready to put into pots. An- 
other method of ascertaining when your mar- 
malade is done is by taking some on die end of 
your finger and thumb, and just rub them to- 
gether, and if on separating them you find the 
marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently 
done. 

APRICOTS A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in 
half, and take out tlie stones ; place them on 
a silver plate, and pour over some, clarified 
sugar, with a little water; put them on a 
stove without covering them; when suffi- 
ciently done, take them from the fire, and 
strew sus-ar over; then put on the lid of the 
baking-pan under the (ire, to make them of a 
good color. 

APRICOTS, WHOLE. Choose tlie fin- 
est yellow, but not too ripe, apricots; take 
off the stalks, prick them on each side \vitl> 
a pin, make an incision with the point of 
a knife, tlmnigh which extract die stone. 



ART 



ASP 



Then put them on tin; fire with as much wa- 
ter as will cover them, until near boiling, 
when, if soft, the apricots should 1 thrown 
into cold water ; take care tliev are all equal- 
ly tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in 
the meantime clarify and boil some sugar 
to the degree you require; put in a little 
water, and when it boils remove it from tin; 
fire, and add to it the fruit, and having given 
them a few boilings together, let them cool, 
then drain and place them in your compotiers. 

ARTICHOKES AND ALMONDS. 

Take half a pound of sweet almonds blanch- 
ed and beat fine, will) two tea spoonfuls 
of orange-flower or rose water; then take 
a quart of cream, and boil it with a small 
quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it 
with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds ; 
stir them together, and strain it through a 
sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken il 
with the yolks of six eggs; then !^iniish a 
deep dish, and lay paste at die bottom ; then 
put in shred artichoke bottoms, IM-IIII; tilst 
boiled ; uini ii|x>n these a little melted butter. 
shred citron, and candied orange; repeating 
the same until the dish is nearly full, then 
pour in the cream, and bake it without a lid. 
When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and 
serve it hot. Half an hour will serve to 
bake it. 

ARTICHOKES BOILED. Soak them 
in cold water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handful 
of salt, and let them Ixiil gently till they are 
tender, which will take an hour and a half, 
or two hours: the surest way to know when 
they are done enough, is to draw out a leaf; 
trim them and drain them on a sieve; and 
send up melted butter with them, which some 
put into small cups, so that each guest may 
have one. 

ARTICHOKES TO BOIL. Cut off the 

euilks cI'Mse to the bottom, wash them well, 
and let tliem lie for some hours in cold wa- 
ter; put them on in liling water with a 
little salt in it, cover the pan closely, and 
boil them an hour and a half. If they are 
old, and have not been fresh gathered, they 
will take a longer time to boil. Melted but- 
ed with them in a sauce-tureen. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, TO DRY 

AND I'ICKI.K. Half boil the artichokes, 
strip off the leaves, and pull out the i-lmke; 
put the bottoms into small jars, and cover 
them with a cold boiled brine of salt and 
water ; put melted mutton suet on the top to 
exclude the air, and tie bladder over them. 
To dry tliem, they are U.iled as for eating, 
the leaves and choke pulled out , and the bot- 
toms dried upon dishes in an oven, and then 



kept in paper bags. When to be dressed, 
tliey must be laid into warm water, and soak- 
ed for two or three hours ; they may then be 
plain boiled, and eaten with melted butter, 
or stewed in gravy with a little mushroom 
catsup, pepper, and salt, and thickened with 
a bit of butter rolled in flour. They are a 
great improvement to all made dishes and 
meat pies. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, PICKLED. 

Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pull- 
ed off without breaking the bottoms; leave 
on the part called the choke, set them aside 
till cold, then put tliem into wide-mouthed 
bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, pepper, 
mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, when cold, 
pour it over the artichokes ; tie bladder over 
the bottles. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1) 

Are boiled and dressed in the various ways di- 
rected for potatoes. N. B They should be 
covered with thick melted butter, or nice 
white or brown sauce. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (2) 
They must be neatly peeled, and boiled very 
gently by the side of the stove, with a little 
salt in the water ; when done (but not too 
much, or they will not look well) place them 
on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or 
any other sauce you please. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM, TO 
FRICASSEE. Wash and scrape or pare 
them ; boil tliem in milk and water till they 
are soft, which will be from a quarter to half 
an hour. Take them out and stew them a 
f(*w minutes in the following sauce: Roll a 
bit of butter, the size of a walnut, in flour, 
mix it with half a pint of cream or milk ; 
season it with pepper, salt, and grated nut- 
meg. They may be served plain boiled, 
with a little melted Initter poured over 
them. Scorzonera is fricasseed in the same 
manner. 

ARROW -ROOT. Mix with two or 
three tablc-epoonfuls of arrow-root half a 
pint of cold water ; let it stand for nearly a 
quarter of an hour, pour off" the water, and 
stir in some pounded sugar; boil a pint of 
milk, and pour it gradually upon the arrow- 
root, stirring it one way all the time. Or 
it may be made with water in which lemon- 
peel has been boiled, and then a glass of Port 
or white wine and a little nutmeg stirred 
into it. 

ASPARAGUS. Set a stew-pan with 
plenty of water in it on the fire; sprinkle a 
handful of salt in it ; let it boil, and skim it; 
then put in your asparagus, prepared thus: 



ASP 



8 



BAC 



'scrape all the stalks till they are perfectly 
clean ; throw tlicm into a pan of cold water as 
you scrape them; when they are all done, tie 
them up in little bundles, of about a quarter 
of a hundred each, with bass, if you can get 
it, or tape (string cuts them to pieces ; ) cut 
off the stalks at the bottom that they may be 
all of a length, leaving only just enough to 
serve as a handle fur the green part ; when 
they are tender at the stalk, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, they are 
done enough. Great care must be taken to 
watch the exact time, of their becoming ten- 
der ; take them up just, at that instant, and 
they will have their live flavor and color: 
a minute or two mure boiling destroys both. 
While the asparagus is boiling, toast a round 
of a quartern loaf, about half an inch thick; 
brown it delicately on both sides; dip it 
lightly in the liquor the asparagus was boiled 
in, and lay it in the middle of a dish: melt 
some butter, then lay in the asparagus upon 
the toast, which must project beyond the as- 
pari^'V. that the company may see there is 
a teas*. 

ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape and 
lie them in small bundles; cut them even, 
boil them quick in salt and water; lay ti:em 
on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus 
was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Toast a 
slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish; 
butter some eggs thus : take four eggs, beat 
them well, put them into a sauce pan with 
two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until 
of a sufficient consistence, and lay them on 
the toast; meanwhile boil some asparagus 
tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on 
the eggs. 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH. Boil it, and 
chop small the heads and tender part of the 
stalks, together with a boiled onion; add a 
little salt and pepper, and the beaten yolk of 
an egg ; beat it up. Serve it on sippets of 
toasted bread, and pour over it a little melt- 
ed butter. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. (See Soupt.) 

ASPICK. Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if 
they will not make your jelly stilf enough, 
add two calf's feet, or some swards of bacon 
rasped ; put them into a sauce-pan with a pint 
of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till 
reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, 
boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, salt, parsley , seal! inns, tour cloves, 
two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick ; let 
the whole stew fur seven hours, then strain off 
the liquor or consomme. Bre;dt (bur eggs 



into a stewpan, and put to them llie consomme 
when cold, the juiee of two lemons, and two 
spoonfuls of tarragon, and beat it with a 
whisk over the lire till near boiling, and when 
it does so, remove \rnir stew-pan to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid fur half an hour; 
then pass it through a wet napkin doubled. 
If the jelly is not sufficiently clear, clarify it 
a second tiiiip. 1'uta layer of this jelly, about 
half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspick 
mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, 
sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, 
|K)ur in another half inch of the jelly, while 
liquid, with great care, so as not to discom- 
pose jour garnish, then put either calf's 
brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads, 
cocks' coiulis. kidneys, fat livers, or game. 
Be sure to lay \\hale\er \ou may use, as equal 
and smooth as possible, then fill up your mould 
with jelly, and let it stand till t-et. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an in- 
stant, place your dish on the top and turn it 
over. 

ATTELETS, OYSTER. (See Oyt- 



ATTELETS are silver skewens. 

AUNT MARY'S PUDDING. (Se 

Puddings.) 



B. 

BACCHIC CREAM. (See Cream.) 
BACCHIC SAUCE. (See Sauce.) 

BACON . Cover a pound of nice streaked 
bacon or salt pork witli cold water, let it boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hour ; take it 
up, scrape the under side \\cll, and cut off 
the rind: grate a crust (if bread not only on 
the top, but all over it, and put it before the 
fire for a few minutes: it must not be there 
too long, or it will dry it and spoil it. Two 
pounds will require about an hour and a half, 
according to its thickness; the heck or gam- 
mon being very thick, will take more. The 
boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to 
comment u|x>n; but our main object is to 
teach common cooks the art of dressing com- 
mon food in the best manner. Bacon is 
sometimes as salt as salt can make it, there- 
fore Wore it is boiled it must be soaked in 
warm water for an hour or two, changing 
the water mice; then pare oil' the rusty and 
smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, 
and scr:i|x! the rind as clean as possible. 
Mem. Bacon is an extravagant article in 
housekeeping; there is often twice as much 
dressed as need be: when it is sent to ta- 
ble as an accompaniment to boiled poultry 



B AC 



BAR 



or veal, a pound and a half is plenfy for a doz- 
en people. A good (iernian sausatre is a 

very economical BubotiM* far bacmi; or fried 
pork sa'-- 

Note. Bacon in England arid salt 
pork in America are the same thing. 
What we name bacon, the English call ! 
ham. 

HA< < )\ TO BROIL. Make up a sheet 
of pa|>cr into the form of a dripping-pan ; cut 
vour bacon into thin slic<s, cut oil' the rind, 
lay the IKICOII on the paper, put it upon the 
gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will 
Broil cleanly. 

BACON AM) KCfiS. Tut a quarter of 

a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, 

and put tin-in i ; ito ;i stew |in oxer a -low lire, 

Cakin,' can- to turn them frequently; when 

snfhVicntly d.ine, pour the melted III! of the 

to a dub, (breakover it Kven or eight 

ln!< of gravy, a little 

[x-p|KT, and stew the whole oxer a 

slow tire: J;:L-S a salamander over it, and 

serve. 

BACON. <J AM MON.TO BAKE. Lay 
it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, 
and stuff it with all manner of sweet herbe, 
as thyme, sa<je, sax op, , .-wi-et marjoram, pen- 
ny-royal, strawlx-rry leaves, violet leaves, and 
fennel ; chop these small, and mix them with 
the yolks of hard i-'^'^f, pepper and nutmeg 
beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is 
cold pare off thv under side, pull ofi the .-kin, 
with pepper and nutmeg, and pt.l it 
in a pie or pasty, with whole cloves and slices 
of raw Uiciiu laid o\er it, and butter; close it, 
and liaKe it. 

HA CON OK lt\M SLICES. Ham, or 

brv-on. may Ix- fried, or broiled on a gridiron 

- ir lire, or toa-ted u itli a fork: take 

lire it of the same thickness in every 

part. If xoii wish it curled, cut it in slices 

about two incho long (if longer, the. ontside 

will l- done r.Mi much lx-|ore the inside is 

:>i) ; roll it up, and put a little 

ike wer through it: put it maehene- 

l>nt"h oxen. foreign or ten ininufes, 

turning r -p. I'his iscon-idered 

i\iiy of dressi'ii,' liacon; but 

we like it lx---t uncurled, because it isrri-]>er. 

and more equally done. Slices of ham or 

kiro;i should not I*' HKire th.m half a quarter 

of an inch thick, and will eat much more 

mellow if snaked in hot \\ater for a cpiartcr 

of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before 

they arc broiled, &c. 

_ BACON KKI.ISHINC KASHKKS. 
If you have any cold bacon, you may make 



a very nice dish of it by cutting it into slices 
alxuit a quarter of an inch thick ; grate some 
crust of bread, as directed for ham and pow- 
der tliem well with it on Ixith sides; lay the- 
ra.-hers in a cheese-toaster, they will be 
browned on one side in alxuit three, minutes, 
turn them and do the other. These are a 
delicious accompaniment to poached or fried 
the liacon having Ijcen boiled first, is 
tender and mellow. They are an excellent 
garnish round veal cutlets, or sweetbreads, 
or calf's head hash, or green peas or beans, 
&c. 

BAIN MARIE. A flat vessel, contain- 
ing Ixiiling water, meant to hold other sauce- 
pans, either lor purposes of cookery or to keep 
dishes hot. The advantages of preserving 
the heat of dishes by the bain marie is this, 
that no change is effected in the flavor of 
the ingredients. 

BALM BEER. (See Beer.) 
BANBURY CAKES. (See Cakes.) 
BARLEY CREAM. (See Cream.) 

BARLEY WATER. Take a couple of 
ounces of pearl barley, wash it clean with 
cold water, put it into half a pint of boiling 
water, and Jet it boil for five minutes; pour 
off this water, and add to it two quarts of 
boiling water: boil it to two pints, and strain 
it. The almve is simple barley water. To 
a quart of this is frequently added two ounces 
.sliced; the same of raisins, stoned ; 
half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised; 
and a pint of water. Boil it till it is re- 
duced to a quart, and strain. Obs. These 
drinks are intended to assuage thirst in ardent 
I- \er.-and inllamiiiatorx disorders, for which 
plenty of mild diluting liquor is one of the 
principal remedies: and if not suggested by 
the medical attendant, is frequently demanded 
by honest instinct, in terms too plain to be 
misunderstood : the stomach sym|>athizes with 
libre of the human frame, and no part of 
it can be distressed without in some degree 
offending tlie stomach: therefore it is of the 
utmost ini|xirtaiicc to sooth this ijrand organ, 
by rendering everything we offer to it as 
eii L'ant and a^rei able as tin, nature of the 
case will admit of: I!K- bai ley drink prepared 
according to the second receipt, will \>e re- 
ceived with pleasure by the most delicate 



BARLEY BROTH. (See Broth.) 

r.AKI.KV CRUEL. Take three ounces 
of pearl barley, of which make a quart of 
barley water; if it U- not white, shift it once 
or tu ii ; put in two ounces of currants clean 



BEA 



10 



BEE 



picked and washed, and wlien they are plump- 
ed, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little ; 
then put iu the yolks of three eggs well beat- 
en, half a pint of white wine, and of new 
thick cream half a pint, ami l:mon-|>eel; 
then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste ; 
stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as 
cream. 

BARLEY PUDDING. (See Pud- 
ding.) 

BARBERRY JELLY. (See Jelly.) 

BARBERRY CONSERVE. Put a pound 
of ripe burberries and half an ounce of pow- 
dered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a 
glass < if water ; boil them three or four times-, 
and ptvss the juice through a sieve. Replace 
tli<' M'.-s-vl on the (ire with the juice, and add 
to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au 
casse. Boil together a few times, and then 
pour the conserve into cases. 
X 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirup.) 

BARBERRIES TO PICKLE. Boil the 
bruised berries of a few bunches in salt- 
and-water; strain, and put a gill of the 
liquor to a quart of vinegar, with an ounce 
of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger, and 
a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain 
it, then pour it hot over the barberries, die 
fiue.-t b'.mches having been previously select- 
ed and placed in jars ; when cold, cover them 
closely with bladder. They may also be 
kept in a jar, with a strong brine of salt-and- 
water poured over them. When any s"iim 
is observed upon the surface, the brine must 
be pon.ed off, and some fresh added. They 
are kept closely covered. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirup.) 
BASIL VINEGAR. (See Vinegar.) 
BATH BUNS. (See Buns.) 

BATTER FOR FISH, MEAT, FRIT- 
TERS, &c. Prepare it with tine flour, salt, 
a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and 
the whites of eggs teat up; wlien of a proper 
thickness it will drop out of the spoon about 
the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil or 
hog's lard. 

BATTER PUDDING'. (See Pud- 
ding.) 

BEANS. Cut, wash, and boil tin- beans, 
and then throw them into a cullender. Put a 
piece of butter into'your table-dish, lay the 
beans on it, and garnish them with chopped 



parsley laid round like a cord ; heat the dish 
and serve. 

BECHAMELLE. Reduce some sauce 
tournee over a good fire, moisten with chick- 
en broth or consomme, constantly stirring to 
prevent its catching ; when of the proper con- 
sistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, 
continue stirring ; pass it through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. 
Cut in square pieces, half an inch thick, two 
|X)inids of lean veal, half a pound of lean ham ; 
melt in a steupan two ounces of butter; 
when melted, let the wht le simmer unlil it 
is ready to catch at the bottom (it requires 
great attention, as, if it happen to catch at 
tlie bottom of the stewpan, it will s|xjil the 
look of your sauce) ; then add to it three 
table-spoonfuls of flour; when well mixed, 
add to it tliree pints of broth or water (pour 
a little at a time, that the thickening be 
smooth) ; stir it until it boil ; put the stew- 
pan on the corner of the stove to boil gently 
for two hours ; season it with four cloves, 
one onion, twelve pepper-corns-, a blade of 
mace, a few mushrooms and a fagot made 
of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. 
Let the sauce reduce to a quart", skim the fat 
olF, and strain it through a tamis cloth. To 
make a bechamel sauce, add to a quart of 
tlc above a pint of good cream ; stir it until 
it is reduced to a good thickness; a few 
mushrooms give a good flavor to tliat sauce; 
strain it through a tamis cloth. 

BEEF. The names of the various pieces, 
according to the method of dividing the car- 
cass, are as follows: The hind quarter con- 
tains the Sirloin ; Rump; Edge-lxine; But- 
tock, or Round; Mouse Buttock ; Veiny 
Piece; Thick Flank; Thin Flank; Leg 
Ran; Legs; Fore Rib; Fixe [libs. The 
fore quarter contains the Middle Rib of four 
ribs; Chuck of three ribs; Shoulder, or Leg- 
of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the 
Blade-bone'; Brisket; Clod; Neck End, or 
Sticking Piece; Shin; Check. Besides 
these are thy Tongue and Pa!a:e. 'i he En- 
trails consist of die Heart; Sweetbreads; 
Kidneys; Skirts; and three kinds of Tripe, 
the Double, the Roll, and the Red Tripe. 

Ox beef is considered the bust. The flesh 
should feel tender, be fine in the grain, and 
of a bright red color, nicely marbled or mix- 
ed with fat. The fat should be white, rather 
than of a yellow color. 

Heifer beef is excellent when finely fed, 
and is most suitable for small families. The 
bone should be taken out of a round of beef 
Ijeforc it is salted, and it must be washed, 
skewered, ;uid bound round firmly before be- 
ing l>oiled. Salt beef should !>e put on with 



BEE 



11 



BEE 



plenty of cold water, and when it boils the 
cum removed. It is then kept simmering 
for (tome hours. A piece weighing fifteen 
pounds will require three hours and a half to 
boil. Carrots and turnips for garnishing 
should be put on to boil with the beef. If 
in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may 
be boiled with it. 

Wlien beef is to be kept any length of time, 
it should be carefully wi|)ed every day. In 
warm weather, wood vinegar is an excellent 
pivsei \ative: it is put all over the meat with 
a liriu-li. To protect tile meat from flies, it 
max ! .-prinkle/l oxer with pepper. Tainted 
meat may IK- re>t<>rcd by washing in cold 
water, afterwards in strong chamomile tea, 
after which it may IK- sprinkled with salt and 
used thr t'llluu iui: day, first washing it 
in cold water. Roughfy pounded charcoal 
rubbed all over the meat also restores it when 
tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept 
a. fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and care- 
fully wi|M>d every day; and if it should be a 
little tainted, it is soaked some hours before 
it is used, in <>;itm-.il and water. 

These directions equally apply to all sorts 
of meat. The sirloin is the prime joint tor 
Whrii to be used, it should be 
washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and 
the fat covered over with a piece of white (Mi- 
ner tied on with thread. Tile spit should be 
kept at all times exceedingly clean: it must 
lie wiped dry immediately after it is drawn 
from tin- meat, and uaslied and scoured every 
time it is used. Care should be taken to bal- 
ance the roast properly upon the spit, l>ut, if 
\ li.'lil. il is better to make it equal 
by fastening on a leaden-headed skew r linn 
it again. Tlie fire slioulil be pre- 
pired by putting on plenty of coals at the 
back. When put down, it should be about 
ten inches from tli- lire, and gradually drawn 
nearer. It is first basted witli a little butter 
or fresh dripping, and then well basted will) 
iis nun fat all the time it is roasting. Ten 
minute- I let' ne >.-i -\ iii_'. it .-houlil lie sprinkled 
with a little salt, then dredged with flour, and 
basted till it is frothed. When it is drawn 
from the spit some jji-avy will run out, to 
which in;". IK- added a little boiling salt-and- 
watcr poured al .>ng (In- hone: the beef is tlien 
ganiished with plenty of finely scraped horse- 
radish. A sirloin, x\i ijiin.; aliout tiltei-n 
pounds, should lie roasted for three hours and 
a half. A thinner piece of the same weight 
requires only three hours. In cold weather 
meat requires longer roast in;: than in warm, 
and if newly killed tlum if it lias been kept. 

HI. 1.1 \ I. A MODE. (1) Take about 

eleven pounds of the mouse buttock, or clod 
oflxiT, or a l>lade-bonc, or tlu- stirkiic-pifce, 
or the like xxeisjht of the breast of veal; cut 
it into pieces of three or four ounces each ; put 



three or four ounces of beef drippings, and 
mince a couple of large onion?, and put them 
into a large deep stewpan ; as soon as it is 
quite hot. Hour die meat, put it into the stew- 
pan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; 
when it h:is been on about ten minutes, dredge 
it with flour, and keep doing so till you have 
stirred in as much as you think will thicken 
it; then cover it with boiling water (it will 
take about a gallon), adding it by degrees, 
and stirring it together ; skim it when it boils, 
and then put in one drachm of ground black 
pepper, two of allspice, and two bay leaves; 
set the pan by the side of the fire, or at a dis- 
tance over it and let it stew very slowly for 
about three hours; when you find the meat 
sufficiently tender, put it into a tureen, and 
it is ready for table. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (2) Take the 
bone out of a small round of fine ox beef, cut 
some fat bacon in long strips, dip them into 
common and shallot vinegar mixed, and roll 
them in the following seasoning: Grated nut- 
meg, black and Jamaica pepper, one or two 
cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon- 
lliyme, notted marjoram, and savoury, shred 
quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind 
it firmly w ilh ta]>e, and rub die outside with 
the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with 
iln- rind of a lemon, four large onions, die nil 
part of three or f iir carrots, and two turnips 
cut into dice; add a tea-cupful of strong ale 
and one of vinegar; let it stew -f;r six < r eight 
li.uirs, turning it two or three times. Half 
.in hour U'fore serving, takeout die beef and 
ililes, skim oil' the fat, strain the sauce, 
and thicken it with a little flonr-aud-water 
mixed smooth, add a tea-cupful of 1'ort v. irto, 
return it all into tile pot, and let it boil. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (3) Take a rump 
or piece of beef, bone it, beat it well and lard 
it with tat Ixicon, then \M it into a stewpan 
with some rind of baron, a calf's foot, an 
onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay 
leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, 
salt, and pepper, pour over tile whole a glass 
of water, let it stew oxer a slow fire for six 
hours at least. A clean cloth should be 
placed over the stew pan before the lid is 
pit on, which must !* carefully closed. 
When it is done, strain the gravy through a 
sieve, clear off the fat, and serve. 

BEEF ALADAUBE. Take a round, 
a lump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with 
bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown; put it 
into a .-tr\x|<an or a pot that will just hold 
it ; add some gravy, an onion stuck with 
cloves, half a pint nf white wine, a gill of 
vinegar, a bunch of swoet herbs, pepper, 
cloves, mace, ami salt ; cover it down very 
close, let it hut just simmer till it is tender ; 



BEE 



12 



BEE 



lake two ox palates, two sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all 
together in some gravy, atid pour over the 
beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, 
make some long, others round, dip some sip- 
.pets into baiter, fry and cut them three cor- 
ner ways, and stick them into the meat ; lay 
the balls round the dish. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (1) Bone a 
rump of beef; lard it very thickly with salt 
pork seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, 
and allspice, and season the beef with pepper 
and salt ; put some slices of bacon into the 
bottom of the pan, with some whole black pep- 
per, a little allspice, one or two bay leaves, two 
onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it 
some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak 
stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover 
it closely, and let it stew between six and 
seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of 
part of the liquor it has been stewed in, 
strained, and thickened with a little flour and 
butter, adding some green onions cut small, 
and pickled mushrooms. It is poured hot 
over the beef. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (2) After a 
rump of beef has hung for five or six days, 
bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to ap- 
pear upon the surface, with bits of salt pork 
or ham cut about half an inch square, and 
rolled in the following seasoning well mixed: 
Finely minced onion, parsley, thyme, a lit- 
tle garlic, pepper, and salt. What is left over 
of the seasoning add to a pint of vinegar, one 
of Port wine, and a tea-cupful of salad oil ; 
steep the beef in this for one night ; the fol- 
lowing day paper it, and roast it in a cradle 
spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick 
brown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced 
pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish 
with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse- 
radish. 

BEEF ALANGLAISE. Take a rump 
of beef, or any piece you like better of the 
same size ; tie it up neatly with packthread, 
and put it into a stewpan with two or three 
carrots, a parsnip, three or four onions, a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of 
garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil ; moisten 
with some stock or water, season, and let 
the beef stew gently till half done, then put in 
a few small cabbages, prepared in the follow- 
ing manner; boil a large cabbage, and hav- 
ing squeezed it perfectly dry, take off the 
leaves one by one, and put within each leaf 
a little veal or other forcemeat, suirounding 
it with three or four more of tlie leaves, in 
such a manner as to form little cabbages, 
something larger than an egg ; tie these with 
packthread, and let them be stewed with the 



beef. When die whole is done, clean away 
the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a 
dish, cut the little cabbages in half, and place 
them round tile dish, with the cut side out- 
ward. Take a little of the stew, strain it 
through a sieve, and having skimmed off the 
fat, add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce 
this over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, 
serving it over the meat and cabbages. 

BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a 
piece of tender beef, fat and lean } mince an 
onion, with some lx>iled parsley; add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; mix all to- 
gether, and moisten it with an egg beaten ; 
roll it into balls } flour and fry them in boil- 
ing fresh dripping. Serve them with fried 
bread crumbs, or with a thickened brown 
gravy. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (1) In plain Eng- 
lish, is understood to mean boiled beef ; but 
its culinary acceptation, in die French kitch- 
en, is fresh beef dressed without boiling, and 
only very gently simmered by a slow fire. 
Cooks have seldom any notion, dial good soup 
can be made without destroying a great deal 
of meat ; however, by a judicious regulation 
of die fire, and a vigilant attendance on the 
soup-kettle, this may be accomplished. You 
shall have a tureen of such soup as \\ ill satisfy 
the most fastidious palate, and die meat make 
its appearance at table, at the same time, in 
possession of a full portion of nutritious succu- 
lence. This requires nothing more than to 
stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping 
die pot boiling a gallop, as common cooks 
too commonly do), and to take it up as soon 
as it is done enough. See " Soup and 
bouilli," " Beef Shin stewed," " Scotch 
barley broth." Meat cooked in this manner 
affords much more nourishment than it does 
dressed in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion in proportion as it is tender, and an in- 
vigorating, substantial diet, especially valua- 
ble to the poor, whose laborious employments 
require support. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (2) Take a ramp 
of beef, or part of one; bone and tie it togeth- 
er in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with 
any odd bits of butcher's meat you may hap- 
pen to have in die house, eidier beef, veal, or 
mutton; you may add, also, the Ixmes, feet, 
and necks of poultry or game, the meat of 
which has been taken for other dishes ; place 
your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of 
water, and skim gently. When it has boiled 
a short time, put in some salt, turni) s, six 
carrots, and six onions, into oneof which yon 
should stick three cloves; add a bunch of 
leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef 
is perfectly done ; then take it out, and serve 



BEE 



13 



BEE 



it up either with fresh parsley, with a sauce, 
or with onions or other vegetables. 

BEEF BROSE. After any lar.:- piece 
of beef has been taken out i-l'tltr pot it was 
boiled in, skim off (lie fut with part of the 
liquor, and boil it in a .-:uir,-paM. Have 
ready in a Ixml oatineul that has Uvn toasted 
brown beli.re tlie lire, pour in tlic Ixiiling 
liquor and stir it a little; if too thick, add 
more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. 

BEEF BAKED. Let a buttock of beef 
which has U-t-n in salt about a week, be well 
washed and put into an earthen pan, with a 
pint of water; cover the pan tight w ith two 
or three sheets of foolscap paper let it I take 
four or live hours in a moderately healed 
oven. 

BEEF BAKED WITH POTATOES. 

lloil MIMIC potatoes, peel, and pound tiiein in 
i ntoiuir with one or two small unions; 
inni.-ti-ii tin-in with milk and an eg) 
up; add a little salt and |<pi'i- 
slices of beef, or mutton chops, with salt and 
pi-pper, and more union, if the flavor is ap- 
[nnMil; rub the bottom of a pudding dish 
with Ixitter, and put a lajer of tJ,.- 

. which should U' as thick as a but- 
ter, and Uien a layer of meat, and so on al- 
ternately I'll the dish is filled, ending with 

. Bake it in an oven tor one hour. 

I'.Ei'.F TO COLLAR. Cut oft" the end 
of a brisket of U-ef, and bone it; sprinkle it 
with :-alt and salt|>elre, and let it lie 

: 'ier sonic grated nutmeg, Jamaica 

and black |M|)|)er t MHM chopped lemon thyme, 

ijoram, and parsley; Mtrew it over 

, mil it up hard, sew it in a clotli, 

put it into a kirgejar of water, tie it closely, 

and bake it in an oven ; take it out of llie 

jar and press it with a heaiy weight. Wlien 

il is quite cold, take off the cloili, and keep 

it dry. 

BEEF BROTH. (Sic Broth.) 

i.l.l.F, COLD RUMP STEAKS TO 

\V A!;\l. Lay them in a gtewpan, with 

union cut in quarters, six berries 

, the same of black |>epper, cover 

jj with Uiiling water, let lliein stew 

me hour, thicken tin- liquor with Ilour 

aa.l butler mblied together on a plate; if a 

pint of gravy, about one ounce of flour, and 

the like weight of butter, will do; put it into 

the slew pan, shake it well ov< r (he lire for 

live miniii.-.-, and it is ready; lay (lie steaks 

ami onion.- on a iii.-h and pour the gravy 

through a sieve over them. 

BEEF Cl'LLIS. (Set Cullu.) 



BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (1) 

Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of 
beef, brown it all over in a stewfian, then 
add a quart of water, half a pint of Port wine, 
a tea-cupful of strong beer, two table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a large 
union finely minced; cover the pan closely, 
and let it stew till the beef be very tender. 
Garnish with pickles. 

BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (2) 

( 'nt oil' I In- meat, with a little of tlie fat, into 
strips three inches long and half an inch 
thick ; season with pepper and salt, dredge 
them with flour, and fry them brown in but- 
ter ; t hen simmer them in a rich brown gravy ; 
add of mushroom catchup, onion, and shallot 
vinegar, a table-spoonful each. Garnish 
with fried parsley. 

BEEF FILLET IN MADEIRA. Lard 

a good fillet of beef, the same as for roasting, 
join die ends together, and place it in this 
manner in a stew pan, w ith some onions, car- 
rots, and a bouquet garni, some consomme 
and Madeira, cover it with a buttered paper ; 
let i( Ixiil for a moment, and afterwards let 
it boil slowly. Put fire upon tlie top of your 
slew pan. When it is done strain the broth 
through a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it 
as a sauce to your meat. 

BEEF FILLET ROASTED. This fil- 
let lies only in tlie inside of the sirloin next 

to the chini', and is the tenderest part of the 
<>x ; .-pit this on a small spit, but do not run 
it thnuii','h tlie best pan of the meat: roast i; 
. and Imste it with butter ; catch gravy 
in a dish while the beef is roasting; in tin- 
meantime make a sauce for it with sweet 
! .' i ' - and parsley shred fine, tlie yolks of four 
eggs, an onion, and some orange-peel ch>.p- 
ped small ; put these into sweet butter, gravy, 
a |>xiiii"til or two of strong broth and vine- 
gar, stew them all togetlier. Put your beef 
into this sauce, and serve it hot. 

BEEF FRICANDEAU. Take a nke 
bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned 
widi pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all 
sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garliek, a 
.-lullot or two, four cloves, pepper and .-alt. 
Wlien the meat is become tender, cover h 
close; skim the sauce well, and strain it. 
Set it on tlie fire, and let it boil till it is re- 
duced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with 
this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. 

BEEF GOBBETS. .Take about six 

pounds of any piece of beef, except die leg or 

whin, cut it >..to pieces abuut die size of a lien's 

t them into a stewpan, and just cover 



BEE 



14 



BEK 



them with water, put them over the fire, and 
when the scum rises, skim it clear oft", then 
put in some, cloves, mare, allspice, and whole 
pepper, tied in a muslin, six In 'ads of celery, 
cut an inch long and well washed, a carrot 
or two cut iu slices, two turnips cut in dice, 
a bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper and 
salt, and a crust of bread; stew it till the 
-meat is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bread ; have some crusts of French 
roll crisped before the lire, put them in a dish, 
and put the meat, &c. over them. You put 
in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when 
you put in the herbs;* 

BEEF GRAVY. (See Gravy.) 

BEEF H-BONE. Is to be managed in 
exactly the same manner as the round, but 
will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid. 
An H-bone of 201bs. will be done enough in 
about four hours ; of lOlbs. in three hours, 
more or less, aa the weather is hotter or 
colder. Be sure the boiler is big enough to 
allow it plenty of water-room: let it be well 
covered with water: set the pot on one side 
of the fire to boil gently : if it boils quick at 
first, no art can make it tender alter. The 
slower it boils, the better it will look, and 
the tenderer it will be. The same accom- 
panying vegetables as in "Beef Salt Round." 
Dress plenty of carrots, as cold carrots are a 
general favorite with cold beef. Mem. 
Epicures say, that the soft, fat-like marrow, 
which lies on the back, is delicious when hot, 
and the hard fat about the upper corner is 
bt-st when cold. 

BEEF HASHED. (1) Take three or 
four on ions, chop them very fine, and put them 
into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
a little flour ; stir it over the fire till nearly 
done and well browned; then moisten them 
with a little stock and half a glass of wine, 
adding some salt and coarse pepper ; let them 
stew till they are thoroughly done, and very 
little s:mce remains; then put in the cold 
beef, minced small, and let the whole sim- 
mer till it lias taken the flavor of the onion. 
When yon serve, add a spoonful of mustard 
and a little vinegar. 

BEEF HASHED. (2) Cut some of 
the underdone part of the beef, in slices, 
with some of the fat, put it into a small 
stuwpan, with some onion or shallot, (a 
very little will do), a little water, pep|x-r, 
and salt: boil it till the onion is quite soft, 
tlien put some of the gravy of the meat to it, 
and the hash. , Do not let it boil ; have a 
small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, 
and put the hash into it, but first mix a large 
spoonful of vinegar with it; il'sliallu^vinegar 
is used there will be no need of the onion or 



| raw shallot. You may add a spoonful of 
walnut liquor or catchup. Observe, that it 
is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that 
they get hard. All sort* of stews, or meat 
dressed a second time, should be only sim- 
mered ; and this last only hot through. 

BEEF HAM. Rub a little common salt 
over a piece of beef of about twenty pounds 
weight; take out the bone, and in one or two 
days, rub well into the beef the following in- 
gredients, finely pounded and well mixed: 
two ounces of sal-prunella, four oiuices of 
brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, one 
ounce of white pepper, and of cloves and nut- 
meg, a quarter of an ounce each ; then strew- 
over it half a pound of common salt. Let it 
lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It i.s then 
hung up; or when taken out of the pickle, it 
may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold 
in the water in which it was boiled; or it 
may be baked in a deep dish, covered with 
a coarse paste. 

BEEF HEART, TO ROAST. Wash 
it well, and clean all the blood carefully from 
the pipes: parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; drip the water from it; put 
in a stuffing which has been made of bread 
crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet marjo- 
ram, lemon thyme, and parsley, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put it 
down to roast while hot, baste it well with 
butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted 
butter and vinegar; or with gravy in the 
dish, and current jelly in a sauce-tureen. 
To hash it, follow the directions given fijr 
hare. 

BEEF HUNG, BURGESS'S METH- 
OD OF BOILING. Hung beef for grat- 
ing should be put on in boiling water, and, 
to preserve the color, kept boiling as fast as 

Cible. Allow for six pounds of beef one 
and a half. It will keep good for a 
length of time. 

BEEF, HUNTING. Rub well into a 
round of beef weighing about forty pounds, 
three ounces of saltpetre ; let it stand five or 
six hours; pound three ounces of allspice, 
one of black pepper, and mix them with two 
pounds of salt, and seven ounces of brown su- 
gar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and 
spices, let it remain fourteen days, and every 
other day turn and rub it with the pickle ; 
then wash off the spices, and put it into a 
deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of 
beef suet, put some into the bottom of the 
pan, but the greater part upon the top of the 
beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and 
bake it eight hours. When cold, take off 
the crust, and pour off the gravy. It will 
keep good for three months. Preserve the 



I3EE 



15 



BEE 



gravy, as a little of it improves the flavor of 
nashes, soups, or any made dishes. 

BEEF KIDNEY. Take some kidneys, 
cut them into thin slices, and broil them wiih 
apiece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, 
and green onions, and a clove of garlick, the 

whole should Iw shred fine; when they are 
sufficiently done, take them off t lie lire (they 
should not broil too long, or they will become 
tough); add, when you .serve them, a few 
drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef 
kidneys may likewise be served, with shallot 
sauce, or sauce piquante. 



BEEF 
Sauce.) 



KIDNEY SAUCE. (See 



BEEF MINCED. (1) Take some cold 
roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and 
suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, 
and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made 
txiilinu' hot; when ready to serve, add a bit 
of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft 
boiled egga round it, or with pieces of toast- 
ed bread. 

BEEF MINCED. (2) Mince your 
beef MTV small ; put it into a saucepan with 
a little gravy and a little of the fat of 
fowl or any other fat, moisten it with some 
stock and a little white wine; season accord- 
ing to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. 

BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into long 
thin steaks; prepare a forcemeat made of 
bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, chopped 
parsley, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
pep|>er, and salt; bind it with the yolks of 
eggs beaten ; put a layer of it over each steak ; 
roll and tie them with thread. Fry them 
lightly in beef dripping; put them in a stew- 
pan with some good brown gravy, a glass of 
while wine, and a little Cayenne; thicken it 
with a little flour and butter; cover the pan 
closely, and let them stew gently an hour. 
Bctiire serving, add a tahle-spnonnil of mush- 
room catchup; garnish with cut pickles. 

BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. 
Scald three-quarters of a pint of oysters in 
their own liquor; take them out and chop them 
finely ; mince one pound of beef and mutton, 
and three-quarters of a pound of beef suet; 
add the ovstcrs, and season with salt, pepper, 
mace, and two cloxcs |xmuded; Ix-at up tuo 
egifs, and mix them well with the other ingre- 
dients, and (Kirk it closely into ajar. NVheu 
to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- 
sages; dip them into the yolk of .in egg beat- 
en up; strew grated bread crumbs over them, 
or dust with llour, and fry them in fresh 
dripping. Serve themujxm fried bread hot. 



BEEF PRESSED. Salt a piece of bris- 
ket (thin |Kirt of the flank) or the tops of die 
ribs, with salt and s:dl|>cire, five days, then 
lx>il it gently till extremely tender; put it 
under a <>ivat weight, or in a cheese press, 
till peifertK cold. It eats excellently cold, 
and for sandw idles. 

BEEF POTTED. Take three pounds 
of lean beef, salt it two or three days witii 
half a pound of common salt, and half an 
ounce of saltpetre; divide it into pieces of a 
pound each, and put it into an- earthen pan 
just sufficient to contain it; pour in half a 
pint of w;fter ; cover it close with paste, and 
set it in a very slow oven for four hours: when 
taken from the oven pour the gravy from it 
into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with tlie gravy poured from the meat, and 
pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar with 
fresh butter, till it beoomei a fine paste, sea- 
son it with black pepper and allspice, or 
cloves pounded/ or grated nutmeg ; put it in 
pots, press it down as close as possible, put 
a weight on it, and let it stand all night; 
ii.-xt day, when it is quite cold, cover it a 
quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, 
and tie it over with paper. 

BEEF SALT ROUND. As this is 
too large for a moderate family, we shall 
write directions for the dressing half a round. 
Get the tongue side. Skewer it up tight and 
round, and tie a fillet of broad tape round it, 
to keep the skewers in their places. Put it 
into plenty of cold water, and carefully 
catch the scum as soon as it rises : let it boil 
till all the scum is removed, and thru put the 
boiler on one side of the fire, to keep sim- 
mering slowly till it is done. Haifa round 
of 151bs. will take about three hours: ifit 
weighs more, give it more time. When you 
take it up, if any stray scum, &c. sticks to 
it that has escaped the vigilance of your skim- 
mer, wash it off with a paste-brush: garnish 
the dislies with carrots and tuniips. Send 
up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or gteens 
&c. on separate dishes. Peas pudding, and 
MY PUDDING, are all very proper accom- 
paniments. N.B. The outside slices, 
which are generally too much salted and too 
much 1 mi led, will make a very good relish as 
potted beef. For using up the remains of a 
joint of boiled beef, see also Bubble and 
Squeak. 

BEEF RAGOUT. Take a rump of beef, 
cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, 
pour over it a little boiling water, about a 
pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an 
ouion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, 
salt, a piece of lemou-|)ccl, a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let it stew an hour, then add some 
good gravy ; when tin- meat is tender take it 



BEE 



16 



BEE 



out, strain the sauce, thicken it with a little 
flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little 
catchup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or 
the celery may be omitted, and the ragout en- 
riched by adding mushrooms fresh or pickled, 
artichoke-lx>ttoms boiled and quartered, and 
liard yolks of eggs. A piece of Hank, or 
any piece that can Ix; cut free from bone, 
will do instead of the rump. 

BEEF RISSOLES. Chop finely a 
|x>un:l <;f lean tender lieef, and a quarter of a 
pound of beef met; pound them in a marble 
mortar ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of 
grated bread, a little onion, and a head of 
gilt-lick bruised ; season with salt and pepper; 
bind it with three eggs well beaten ; imke it 
up into small cakes, fry them of a light brown, 
then stew them in gravy for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

BEEF RIBS BONED AND ROLLED. 
When you have kept two or three ribs of 
beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and 
skewer it as round as possible (like a fillet 
of veal) : before they roll it, some cooks egg 
it, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the 
meat is more in a solid mass, it will require 
more time at the fire ; a piece of tenor twelve 
pounds weight will not be well and thoroughly 
roasted in less than four and a half hours. 
For the first half hour, it should not be less 
than twelve inches from the fire, that it may 
get gradually warm to the centre: the last 
half hour before it will be finished, sprinkle 
a little salt over it; and if you wish to froth 
it, flour it, &c. 

BEEF RUMP BAKED. Take a rump 
of beef, what size you please, bone and lard 
it, season it with salt and fine spices put it 
into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, 
together with half a pint of white wine, some 
green onions, mushrooms, and shallots ; some 
lean bacon is an improvement. Close the 
edges of the pan with a strong paste ; let it 
stew in an oven for five or six hours according 
to the size of your meat, then serve it with 
its own sauce strained. You may dress a sir- 
loin in die same way. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (1) Bind 
the beef tightly, stick in four cloves, and put 
it in a saucepan, with three quarts of water, 
a quarter of an ounce of black pepper half 
beaten, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three anchovies ; turn it often, and when 
lialf done take it out, pour off the liquor ; put 
in the beef again, with a pint of 1'oit wine 
and half a pint of table beer made scalding 
hot, and some of the liquor strained ; stew it 
till tender, clwir off the fat, and if the sauce 
is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef 
gravy ; thicken it with flour nibbed duwn in 



a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour 
the gravy round it. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (2) Tie 

up the I icrf, and put it on to stew with nearly 
as much cold water as will cover it; add three 
pounds of fat bacon cut into slices, a handful 
of thyme, eight onions, four small carrots, 
two turnips, two or three bay leaves, nn-.i-- 
black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and 
three cloves, a pint of Port wine and one of 
Sherry. Let it stew gently l>etween seven 
and eight hours. Take out the l>eef, strain 
the liquor, and skim off all the fat ; thicken 
it with a little flour rubbed down in cold 
water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. 
Have ready carrots and turnips, cut accord- 
ing to fancy, and boiled tender in weak gra- 
vy, and put diem round die beef before serv- 
ing. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAKS STEWED. 

The steaks must be a little thicker than for 
broiling: let diem be all die same diickness, 
or some will be done too little, and odiers too 
much. Put an ounce of butter into a stew- 
pan, widi two onions; when die butter is 
melted, lay in die rump-steaks, Jet diem stand 
over a slow fire for five minutes, dien turn 
diem and let die odier side of diem fry for 
five minutes longer. Have ready boiled a 
pint of button onions; they will take from 
half an hour to an hour ; put die liquor diey 
were boiled in to die steaks; if diere is not 
enough of it to cover diem, add brodi or boil- 
ing water, to make up enough for that purpose, 
widi a dozen corns of black pepper, and a 
little salt, and let diem simmer very gently 
for about an hour and a half , and then strain 
off as much of die liquor (about a pint and 
a half) as you think will make die sauce. 
Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan; 
when it is melted, stir in as much flour tu 
will make it into a stiff paste; some add 
diereto a table-spoonful of claret, or Port 
wine, die same of mushroom catchup half a 
tea-spoonful of salt and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of ground black pepper: add doe 
liquor by degrees ; let it boil up for fifteen 
minutes; skim it, and strain it; serve up die 
steaks widi die onions round the dish,and pour 
die gravy over. Veal cutlets or mutton chops 
may be done die same way, or as veal olives. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAK BROILED 
WITH ONION GRAVY. Peel and slice 
two large onions, put diem into a quart stew- 
pan, with two table-spoonfuls of water ; cover 
die stew pan close, and set it on a slow fire 
till the water lias INI! led away, and the onions 
have got a little browned ; dien add half a 
pint of good brodi, and boil the onions till 
they are tender ; strain the brodi from diem, 
ami chop diem very fine, and season it with 



BEEF 



17 



BEEF 



mushroom catchup, pepper, and salt : put the 
onion into it, and let it boil gently for five 
minutes; pour it into the dial), and lay over it 
a broiled rump steak. If instead of broth 
you use good beef gravy, it will be super- 
lative. 



BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beef 
steaks alxxit tin- size of two liamls, and the 
thickness ot'u linger; heat them well to make 
them tlat, and pare the edges of them ; then 
mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, 
green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and 
some basil leave.-:, the whole shred fine, and 
mixed into a f >reem:'at with the yolks of tour 
oil;;*; spread this forcemeat on the slices of 

I roll them up in tin- form <>f sausage-" , 
tie ihem up with jxickthrcad, and slew them 
with a little stork, a ula.-s of wine, si imcsalt, 
pcpjxT, an onion stuck with two or three 

carrot, and a parsnip; when they 
are dune, strain the liquor; and, having 
skimmed off the fat, reduce it over the fire 
to the consistence of a since. Take care 
that the sauce is not loo higly flavored, and 
serve it over your san-au r > : or they may lx- 
served with any ragout of vegetables you 
pleaae. To strve dm sausages cold, to make 
a di.-h tor the second course, leduce the sauce 
by lei I ins it boil \\ilii the sausages till almost 
all the f.rt is consumed; then let ihem stand 
to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- 
hering to them, and serve ujxm a napkin. 

BEEF, SHORT OR SPICED. (To 

Ve eaten cold.) Hang up ten or twelve 

pounds of the middle jxirt of a brisket of 
Out fat three or four days, tln-n nib well into 
it llirtv ounces of finely pnwdeivd saltpetre, 
and, if spice is -ipproied of, one ounce of 
alUpici-, ;id half an mince of black pepper; 

.'id all ni^ht, then silt it with throe 
pounds of well-|x>undcd l>ay salt, and half a 
pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten 

Miing il d.iily. When it is to be 
Ixuled, sew it c|,ely in a cloth, let the water 
only Mnmicr. upon no account allowing it to 
Uiil, for nine hours over a slow fire, or u|x>n a 
slo\e. U'hc i taken out of the water, place 
two sticks across ibc |xil,and let the beef stand 
oier die sleam for half an hour, turning il 
from side to Hide, tlten press it with a lieavy 
weight. It must not be taken out of the 
clodi till perfectly cold. 

I'.l. \:V SOUP. (S#eSoMp.) 

I'. I K T, SPRING GARDEN. Cut a 
piece of Ic in leef into thin slices like Scotch 
collopn, lard it thick with bacon, and put il 
into a pan with salt, pcp|>er, mace, two or 
thre.- bay leaves, and a bunch of sue-t herlis ; 
Itike il ; then clear out all the gravy, and (ill 
it up with clarified butter. 
2* 



BEEF TO SALT FOR IMMEDIATE 
USE. Salt a round of beef moderately up- 
on the tops and sides, put it upon sticks, or 
the IIMI^S of a cheese-tub, over a tub of cold 
water, and the silt will be drawn through it, 
so that it will be fit for boiling next day. 

\\OTHER METHOD IS To rub 

for half an hour into any piece of beef a good 
quantity of salt, and let it lie for tlnee or 
four days without touching it, when it may 
be used. 

BKKF SIRLOIN. The noble sirloin of 

alxmt fifteen |x>und>s (if much thicker, the out- 
side u ill lx? done too much before the inside 
is enou.'h), will require to be before the fire 
about three and a half or four hours ; take 
care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier on one side than the other ; put a little 
clean dripping into the drippingpan, (tie a 
sheet of pa|XT over it to preserve the fat), 
baste it well as soon as it is pat down, and 
e\ei\ quarter of an hour all the time it is 
roasting, till tin- last half hour; then take 
off the paper, and make some gravy for it ; 
stir tile fire and make it clear: to brown and 
froth it, sprinkle a little sill o-'er it, baste it 
with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it 
go a few minutes longer, till the froth rises, 
take it up, put it on the dish, kc. Garnish it 
with hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as fine 
as possible with a very sharp knife. A York- 
shire pudding is an excellent accompaniment. 

BEEF SHIN STEWED. Desire the 

butcher to saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with cold wafer; when it simmers, skim 
it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 
a large onion, a head of celery, a do/*n ber- 
ries of black |K<p|N>r, and the same of allspice: 
stew very gently over a sknv fire till the meat 
is tender; this will take from alxnit three 
Iwurs and a half, to four and a half. Take three 
carrots, |x-el an. I cut ihem into small squares ; 
peel and cut ready in small squares a couple 
of turnips, with a couple of dozen of small 
young round silver bulton onions ; boil them, 
till tender; the tnrni|>s and onions will be 
enough in about tiftce-i minutes; the Carrots 
will require alxmt twice as long: drain them 
dry. When tlie beef is quite tender, lake it 
out carefully with a slice, and put it on a dish 
while you thicken apint and a half of the gra- 
vy: to do this, mix three tahle-sptMinfuls of 
Hour with a tea-cupful of the Ix-ef liquor ; stir 
this ill. ii. Highly together till it boils, skim off 
the fkt, strain it through a sieve, and put your 
vcyij|nh|i's in to warm; season will) pepper, 
Kail, and a wine-gfciss of mushroom catchup, 
or Port wine, or both, anu pour 't over the 
beef. Dr. Kitchener commends this dish as 
one of tin; very liest that can he carried to 



BEEF 



18 



BEER 



table, and advises it be called Ragout Beef. 
A LEG OF MUTTON is excellent dre-.-ed 
the sauio way. 

BEEF STEAKS, BROILED. Cut 

the steaks oft'a nimp or the ribs of a fore 
quarter ; beat them well with a rolling-pin. 
Have the gridiron perfectly clean and heated 
over a clear quick (ire ; lay on the steaks, 
and, with meat tongs, keep turning them con- 
stantly, till they are done enough ; throw a 
little salt over them a little before taking them 
oft' the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, 
plain, or with a made gravy and sliced on- 
ion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks 
the moment of sen-ing. Mutton chops are 
broiled in the same manner. 

BEEF STEAKS, STEWED. Fry the 

steaks in a little butler; take them out of the 
pan, and fry in it a minced onion ; return the 
steaks, with a little boiling water or gravy, 
some pepper, salt, and a table-spoonful of vin- 
egar ; stew them gently for two or three hours ; 
thicken tiie sauce with butter rolled in flour ; 
and serve with or without pickles. 

BEEF STEAK PIE. (See Pie.) 

BEEF STEAK PUDDING. (See 
Pudding.) 

BEEF STEAKS, DRESSED. Cut 
thin steaks, longer than they are broad, off a 
rump ; teat them with a rolling-pin ; season 
them with pepper, salt, and finely minced 
onion ; roll and tie them with a thread ; cut 
them even at the ends ; fry them brown with 
a little I nitter ; make a sauce with a piece of 
butter browned with flour, some gravy or 
water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt. 
Boil it, and add the steaks, and let them stew 
an hour. Before serving, add some mush- 
room catchup, and take off the threads. 

BEEF, SCARLET. Mix a little mace, 
cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
petre together, rub it well into two pounds of 
tender lean lxt,-f ; let it lie six days, turning 
it daily, anil rubbing it with the pickle ; then 
roll and tie it firmly with tape; put it and 
the pickl;; intu a small jar, with a slice or 
two of beef suet under and over it; tie it close- 
ly, and bake it an hour. It is eaten cold, 
cut in thin slices, and garnish with parsley. 
If long kept, the color fades. 

BEEF STEWED. (1) Stew in five 
qua ft? c;f water die middle part of a bri.-ket 
of beef weighing ten pounds, add two onions 
stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, 
one large carrot, two turnips cut sn:all, a 
handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of 
black |>epper, and seine salt. Stew it gent- 



ly for six hours. Make a st'.'on? gravy with 
( rrrots and turnips, the MI nip to be scraped 
and fried of a brown color in butter ; add 
pepper, salt, a little Cayenne ; thicken it with 
tluur and butter, and pour it over the beef, 
with the carrots and turnips. 

BEEF STEWED. (2) Take ten 
pounds of a brisket of beef, cut the short ribs, 
and put it into a well-buttered saucepan, with 
two large onions, stuck with three or four 
eluves, two or three carrots cut into quarters, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, a small lemon sliced, 
and five quails of water ; let it stew seven 
hours. Strain and clarify the <jravv thicken 
it with butter and flour. Chop the carrots 
with some eajx-is, mushroom catchup, and 
Cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may 
be added. 

BEEF STOCK. (See Stock.) 

BEEF, MUTTON, OR VEAL TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean gravy meat into thin 
slices ; put it into a quart and half a pint of 
cold water ; set it over a very gentle fire, 
where it will become gradually warm ; when 
the scum rises, let it continue simmering 
gently for about an hour ; then strain it 
through a fine sieve or a napkin ; let it stand 
ten minutes to settle, and then pour off the 
clear tea. N. B. An onion, and a few 
grains of black pepper, are sometimes added. 
If the meat is boiled till it is thoroughly 
tender, you may mince it and pound it and 
make potted beef. 

BEEF TRIPE FRICASSEE. Let 
your tripe be very white, cut it into slips, 
put it into some boiled gravy, with a little 
cream and a bit of butter mixed with flour ; 
stir it till the butter is melted ; add a little 
white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mush- 
rooms, or lemon-juice ; shake all together ; 
stew it a little. 

BEER, SPRUCE. When ten gallons 
of water, six pounds of molasses, and three 
ounces of bruised ginger have boiled togeth- 
er for half an hour, two pounds of the outer 
spriirs i if the spruce fir are to be added, and 
boiled for five minutes; the whole is then to 
lx> strained tliroiigh a hair sieve, and when 
milk-wann, put into the cask, and a tea- 
cupful of good yeast stirred well into it. 
When it has fermented a day or two, it is to 
be bunged up, and the following day bot- 
tled. It will be fit for use in a week. The 
t;ii:^fi- is sometimes omitted, and instead 
of the spruce fir, three ounces of the essence 
may be used, which is to Ix; well whisked, 
together widi the molasses, and a gallon or 
two of warm water; tlien put into the cask, 



BEER 



19 



BIS 



which is to be filled up with water, and the 
\ east added. 

BEER, SPRUCE. (2) The propor- 
tions are ten gallons of water, three quarts 
of molasses, a tea-cupful of ginger, the fame 
of allspice, three ounces of hops, diree 
ounces ;ind .i half of the essence nf spruce, 
and half a pint of good yeast. The hops, 
ginger, and allspice, must be boiled togeth- 
er till the hops fall to the tattom ; tlie molas- 
ses and spruce are then to be dissolved in a 
bucket-full of the liquor, the whole strain- 
ed into a cask, and the _xea?t \\ell stirred in ; 
when the fermentationfCeases, the cask is 
to be bunged up. 

BEER, BALM. Eleven gallons of 
water and ten pounds of brown sugar are 
to be clarified with the whites of twelve 
. carefully skimmed and boiled till 
Ij reduced to ten gallons; two pounds 
anil a half of the yellow (lower of lemon 
balm lieing put into a cask, the liquor, 
when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, 
and four or fixe tal>!e-s|x>oiifuls of thick 
added. The cask must be filled up 
mm niiiLT and evening with what works over 
it, and bunded up when the fermentation 
cca-rs. In .1 month the beer may be tattled, 
and in txvo or three months it will lie fit for 
drinking. Half the quantity of tl>e flower 
of lemon iKilin will probably be found to 
communicate a flavor sufficiently strong, if 
added xvlien tlie fermentation is nearly over. 

BEER, GINGER. For a ten-gallon 
cask, eleven gallons of water, fourteen 
pounds of sugar, the. juice of eighteen lem- 
ons, and one pound of ginger are alloxved ; 
tlie sugar and water are tailed with the 
whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed; 
jn>t b.-t'ore coming to the boiling |H>int, tlie 
., which mn.-t ta bruised, is then ad- 
ded, and tailed for twenty minutes; when 
cold, tlie clear part is put into tlie ca.-k, to- 
getlier willi the k'inon-juice and two s|xxm- 
fuL) of je:ist; when it has fermented for 
three or frtir daxs, it is. lined, bunged up, 
.'i a fortnight bottled. It may be made 
w hunt the fruit. 

;:;;r.K,( MM .KK, QUICKLY MADE. 
A gallon of boiling water is poured over 
-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one 
ounce and a quarter of ginger, and the peel 
of one lemon; xvlien milk-warm, tlie juice 
of the lemon and a s|x>oiil'nl of yeast are ad- 
ded. It .-hould ! made in tin- evening, and 
bottled next morning, in half-pint stone tat- 
tles, and the cork tied down with twine. 

BEER TO BOTTLE. V 

briskness and liveliness of mult li ; 



die cask fail, and they become dead and 
vapid, which they generally do soon after 
they are tilted ; let diem "be tattled. Be 
careful to use clean and dried tattles; leave 
them unstopped for twelve hours, and then 
cork them as closely as possible with good 
and sound new corks; put a bit of lump su- 
as big as a nutmeg into each tattle: 
the beer will be ripe, t. e. tine and spark- 
ling, in about four or five weeks: if the 
weather is cold, to put it up (lie day before 
it is drunk, place it in a room where there 
is a fire. Remember there is a sediment, 
&c. at tlie tattoin of the tattles., which you 
mu>t carefully avoid disturbing; so pour it 
oft" at once, leaving a wine-glassful at the 
bottom. 

%* If beer becomes hard or stale, a few 
grains of carbonate of potash added to it 
at the time it is drunk will correct it, and 
make draught beer as brisk as tattled ale. 

BEET ROOT, May be either baked 
or tailed; it will take from an hour and a 
half to three hours, according to the size of 
the root, to cook properly. 

BEET ROOT PICKLED. Boil the 
roots tender, peel, and cut them in wliat 
shape you please Put them into a jar, and 
pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pep- 
per, ginger, and sliced horse-radish. You 
may add capsicums and Cayenne. 

BENTON SAUCE. (See Sauce.) 
BENTON CAKES. (See Caket.) 
BIRDS POTTED, HOW TO PRK- 

SKKVK VVHKN THEY BKGIN TO GROW 

BAIL \Vlien birds have come a great way 
they often smell so bad that they can scarce- 
ly be tarne from tlie rankncss of the butter, 
by managing them in the follow ing manner 
they may be made as good as ever. Set a 
l.oi,'e saucepan of clean xxatcr on theiire; 
when it tails take oft' the tatter at die lop, 
then take tlie fowls out one by one, throw 
them into that saucepan of water half a 
minute, whip it out, and dry it in a clod) 
inside and out; continue till diey are all 
done, scald die pot clean ; xx hen tlie birds 
are quite cold, season them xvith mace, 
pepper and salt, according to taste, put 
diem down close in a pot, and pour clari- 
fied tatter over them. 

BISCUITS. (1) Weigh eight eggs, an 
equal weight of sugar, and the weight of four 
in (lour; U-ut up the yolks of five, anil put 
them in a:i eailii.-n xi .-.*! xxilh some rasped 
lemon-peel and die sugar, beat them lo^eth- 
i r lor a long time, then add the xvhitrs of 
gs also well beaten, tlien mix in the 



BIS 



20 



BIS 



flour by degrees, pour this into paper cases 
of whatever form and size you please ; strew 
powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool 
oven. 

BISCUITS. (2) Make a pound of flour, 
the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a 
very stiff paste; beat it wejl, knead till quite j 
smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, 
prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and 
crisp. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (1) Blanch 
and pound, a quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine 
sugar; then beat them up for a quarter of an 
hour with an ounce of flour, the yolks of three 
eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding 
afterwards the whites of four eggs whipped to 
a froth : have ready some paper moulds made 
like boxes, about the length of two fingers 
square; butter them within, and put in the 
biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities 
of flour and powdered sugar: bake in a cool 
oven, and when the biscuits are done of a 
good color, take them out of the papers. 
Bitter almond biscuits are made in the same 
manner, with this difference, that to two 
ounces 'of bitter almonds must be added one 
ounce of sweet almonds. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (2) Take 
eight ounces of sweet, and as many bitter al- 
monds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, 
two niinrcs of flour, and two pounds of powder 
sugar, pour boiling water on your almonds, 
and almost immediately after turn that away 
and pour cold water on them ; rub off the 
skins one by one with a napkins-then pound 
them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them 
with the whites of two eggs. Beat the fif- 
teen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks 
with half the quantity of the sugar, and" then 
mix them with the- almond paste; put the 
remainder of the mgar into a basin ; sift some 
flour over it ; stir the mixture till all the in- 
gredients are thoroughly incorporated, and 
pour it into small pajier cases, glaze them 
with the sugar and flour silted over them. 
Bake them in a pretty warm oven. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND ( SMALL). 
Beat up the yolks of three eggs lor ten min- 
utes, with four ounces of powder sugar and 
one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded; 
then add a whole egg, and beat it up five 
minutes longer. Whip the whites to u .-innn; 
froth ; mix them and an ounce and half of 
fine sifted flour with the yolks; work this 
paste well, and then pour it into small well- 
bnttered oopjicr moulds melon-shaped ; glaze : 
them; sprinkle them with powder sugar, j 
and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in i 
a moderate oven. 



BISCUITS, ALMOND (SOUFFLES). 
Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cut 
them into dice and dry them in the oven. 
Make a glaze with the whites of two new- 
laid eggs ; mix tlie almonds and a pinch of 
crisped orange-flowers into this, and put it 
into very small paper cases; do not fill them 
a! HIVC half full, as they rise considerably in 
the oven, and would otherwise fall over and 
spoil their appearance; bake them in a 
moderately heated oven. As soon as they 
are pretty firm, they are done. 

BISCUITS, ANISE (SMALL). Wash 

four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in 
the oven; work up the yolks of five cjrgsand 
a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for 
about ten minutes; whip the whites to a 
strong froth, and mix them lightly with die 
yolks: add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted 
flour and the anise; pour this paste into a 
paper case, eleven inches long by seven wide. 
Bake it in a slow o\en for afx>ut forty or 
fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. As 
soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut 
the biscuits into whatever forms you please: 
dry thorn in the oven until they become 
brittle. 

BISCUIT, BREAD. Dry fine flour and 
powder sugar, of each half a pound, thor- 
oughly: beat up four very fresh eggs for ten 
minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten 
minutes longer, put the flour, and continue 
beating ten minutes more. Butter vour bak- 
ing plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed 
may be added, if you please. 

BISCUITS, BUTTER. Make a paste 
as for sweet biscuits, and when you have 
put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of 
melted butter, alter it has cooled a little; 
mix them together a short time with a wood- 
en spoon, and put into battered moulds, 
which must only be filled three parts, as the 
paste pulfc up considerably, and would rise 
from the moulds, without care. 

BISCUIT CAKE. (See Cake.) 

BISCUITS, CHESTNUT. Take six 
ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a 
little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a half 
of powder sugar, and ten whites of eggs. 
Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then 
beat it up in an earthen pan with the oilier 
ingredients; when your paste is of a proper 
lliic kiu,-s, take it up with a knife, and lay 
it on paper, and form into biscuits wliatevei 
size you please. Bake them in a moderate 
oven, and when of a nice color take them 
out. Do not remove them from the paper 
tiU they are cold. 



BIS 



21 



BIS 



BISCUITS .DROP. (1) Pound and sift 
a pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of seven 
and the whites of ten eggs and beat well sepa- 
rately for an hour. Dry and sift a pound of 
fine flour, and when cold mix it with the 
eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter 
of an hour, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, 
and bake them. 

BISCUITS, DROP. (2) Beat a pound 
of sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of two 
i a little white wine, then put in a 
pound of (lour, and a few seeds, mix all well 
together. Butter a paper, lay your batter 
on in j.|x*JiiUi]--. ire them with line sugar, 
and set them in a gentle oven. 

BISCUITS EN CAPSULE. Put half 
a pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, 
and pour over it the yolks of twelve eggs ; 
put the whites into a preserving-pan, and 
whisk them for half an hour ; in the mean- 
time the sugar and yolks of eggs must be 
stirred with a wooden spoon, and pour them 
n tin- whites; stir them gently, add six 
ounces of fine flour and two of powder sugar 
sifted, and tin- grated rind of a lemon. Mix 
it all well ti>sether, but with great care, lest 
the snow of tlie whites should fall. With 
this fill some small buttered moulds, or pa- 
per cases, and bake them in a quick oven to 
a deep yellow, first sprinkling them with su- 
gar. If they are in moulds, turn them out 
when baked; but tley may remain in the 
paper cases, which need not be buttered. 

I! 1>( TUTS, FILBERT. Take half a 
pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almond*. 
the whites of *ix, and the yolks of three 
eggs, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of 
sugar; blanch and pound the filberts and 
almonds, adding, occasionally, a little white 
of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the 
white* to a snow, then the yolks, mix the 
latter with half the sugar; beat them well, 
and having mixed the other ingredients to- 
gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst 
you are heating, sift them into the white*; 
when all arc thomni^ily incorporated, pour 
ill- 1 preparation into paper rases, and bake 

tlii-iu in a in. nil-rait- oven. A little grated 
ii 

lemon-peel, or any otlier aromatic in^ie- 

ilii-nt added to tin- yolks, greatly improves 
these biscuits. 

lUSCI IT, FRENCH. Weigh five e^. 
a:nt tlu-ir weight in dried and sifted flour, 
ami in fin<-ly-|immded loaf sugar; beat the 
whites i if tin- eggs to a stiff troth, and by 
degrees U-at in (In- sugar and tlur llnnr. :unl 
then add the I > -aten yolks ; with a SJMKMI half 
fill yellow iea-?upH, previously rubimi with 
butter, a. i- i.- 1 H I < <l -'i ;ar over the top. Bake 

them in a quick nven. Or, drop the biscuit 



in a round form upon sheets of white paper 
buttered; sift sugar over them. 

BISCUIT, KING'S. Put half a pound 
of butter into a basin, and work it about 
well with a wooden spoon ; break six eggs 
and whisk them well, add a half pound of 
powder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer, 
and then mix them with the butter ; stir in 
six ounces of currants, and the same of dried 
flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, the 
size of a shilling, on paper, and bake in a 
quick oven. Take them off while hot. 

BISCUIT, LEMAN'S. Sift and dry 
a pound of fine flour ; nib it into a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile 
salt about the size of a nut; mix in as much 
new milk warmed as will make it into a stiff 
paste; work it well together, and let it re- 
main for two or three hours, and then roll it 
out, and make it into small square biscuits, 
and into round balls a little flattened ; prick 
them with a fork, and bake them upon tins 
in a quick oven. Take care they do not 
become brown. 

BISCUITS, NAPLES. Put three- 
quarters of a pound of fine Hour to a pound 
of fine sifted sugar ; sift both together three 
times, then add six eggs beaten well, and a 
spoonful of roee-water; when the oven i 
nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet. 

BISCUIT, THE NUNS. Take the 
whites of two/ve eggs, and beat them to a 
froth ; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and 
beat them with the froth of the whites of 
eggs, as it rises ; then take the yolks, and 
two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well 
together, then mix the almonds with the 
sugar and eggs ; then add lialf a pound of 
flour, with cue peel of four lemons grated, and 
some citron shred small ; put the composition 
in little cakcpans, and bake them in a quick 
oxen, and when they are colored, turn them 
on tins to harden the bottoms: but before you 
set them in tile oven again, sift on them some 
(lonl)le-retined sugar. Let the pans be but- 
tered, and (ill them halfway. 

BISCUITS, POTATO. (1) Beat the 

yolks of fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted 
.-iij.ii , ignite the rind of a lemon on a piece 
of lump Mi-^ar; scrape off the yellow sugar 
with a knile, and having dried it well, add 
it to the aln\e. and continue to beat till it 
becomes quite white; in the meantime whip 
up an equal iniuiU-r of whites, and mix them 
lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a 
l>iiiiii of (Kiiaio (lour; stir it in, and pour 
the preparation into iraper eases, but not to fill 
them ; glaze, and place the case* on paper 



BIS 



22 



BIS 



laid on a clean baking-tin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUIT, POTATO. (2) Beat sepa- 
rately the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and 
with tile yolks beat a pound of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and tlie grated peel of a lem- 
on ; when very light add the whites, and sift in 
through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of 
potatoes; mix all lightly together, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
board, place the paper cases upon it, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament 
them, put here and there upon the top a 
little red-currant jelly, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUEEN'S. Take 
a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a 
half pf fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, 
and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander seeds beaten small at discretion; mix 
these well together, and make them into a 
soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
this paste on paper, or in crusts about two 
inches broad, and four inches long, set them 
in a moderate oven, and when they begin 
to turn brown, take them out, and lay them 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BISCUITS, RICE. Take the grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
apple, and the same of apricot, marmalade, 
and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange-flo\ -era together, 
then add the whites of eggs, whipped to a 
snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a 
quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and 
when well mixed in, add the lemon-peel and 
rice-flour ; work all together, pour the prep- 
aration into paper cases, bake them in a 
moderate oven, and glaze them. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a quarter of a pound of flour, three 
spoonfuls of fine powder sugar, and the same 
of marmalade ; add whites of eggs to work 
it pretty soft; and make this paste to what 
shape and size you please. 

BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat together, 
for half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half a pound of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; 
then mix in lightly six ounces of dried and 
sifted flour, and die grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a 
table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the 
pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded 
sugar over them. Bake them in a quick oven. 

BISCUITS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
ounces of rice-Uour through a tammy into an 



earthen pan, with half a pound of powder 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a little 
sirecn lemon grated ; beat them up together 
for a quarter of an hour: w : hisk the whites 
df eight eggs to a froth and mix them with 
the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or 
paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done take thorn from the mould while 
hot, and ice them in the following manner: 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spoonful! of powder-sugar with a wooden 
spoon, add occasionally a fow drops of lem- 
on-juice; when it becomes quite white lay it 
over the biscuits ; and place them in the oven 
a minute to dry. ^ 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) Theweightof 
eight eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of four in dried flour ; beat separately the 
whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat the 
sugar for half an hour, then add the whites 
and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. * Bake 
them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon 
paper, as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mix together 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
ten well-beaten eggs, and a few pounded 
cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET. One pound of 
flour, half a pound of butter, the same quan- 
tity of finely-pounded sugar, and two eggs, 
without being beaten; make it all into a 
very stiff paste with cool water, roll it out, 
and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the 
paste into a ball about the size of the yolk 
of an egg, flatten it a little, and place them 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put them 
with half a pound of powder-sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half 
a pound of fresh butter; mix them into a 
paste with three eggs, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut them 
into what shapes you please. Bake them of 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter 
oranges till they are of a pale brown color; 
lay them in a tureen, and put over them half 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and three 
glasses of claret; place the cover on tlie 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. When 
required for use, put the tureen into a pan of 
boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, 
and run the juice through a sieve ; then boil 
the remainder of tlie bottle of claret, taking 



BLA 



BLA 



care that it do not burn ; add it to the strain- 
ed juice, and serve it warm in glasses. 

BLANC. A mixture of butter, salt, 
water, and a slice of lemon; also as follows: 
Cut a |xnind of beef met, and the same of 
fet bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, 
the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, one or 
two onion*, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, 
a bay leaf and .-pice. 

111. \\CMANGE. (1) To one ounce of 
picked isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it 
till the i-i.'ijas- i- melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon ; put to it three-quarters of a pint of 
cream, two ounces of suei :t almonds, six 
bitter ones blanched and beati.-n, a bit of 
lemon-|x-el, >\wvti'n it, stir it over the fire, 
let it boil, strain and let it cool, sqiHfzc in 
the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds; 
garnish to your fancy. Blancmange may be 
colored green by adding spinach-juice; red, 
by a bit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand 
half an hour and strain it; yellow with 
saffron. 

BLANCMANGE. (2) Boil for a few 

minutes a pint and a half of new milk, with 
an ounce of picked isinglass (if in summer, 
one ounce and a quarter), the rind of half a 
lemon jx-eled very thin, a little cinnamon, 
and a Made of mace, and two and a half 
ounces of lump suirar: blanch and pound 
eight or ten bitter, and half an ounce of 
almonds \ery line, with a spoonful of 
rose water, and mix them with the milk; 
strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into 
H basin, with half a pint of good cream. 
Let it stand half an hour; pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sediment at the 
bottom, and when nearly cold till it into 
moulds; when wanted, put jour finger round 
the mould; (Mill out tiie blancmange; set 
it in the centre of a dish, and garnish 
with slices of orange. N. B. About hall" a 
gill of noyeau may be substituted for the al- 
monds. 

ULVNCMANGE. (8) Boil till dissolv- 
ed, in a large tea-cupful of wa'er, three-quar- 
ters of an oii'ice of isinglass; when milk- 
wann, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, the perl of a lemon, two or 

three laurel lea\e.-, or a few bitter aln ds ; 

sweeten with |x>undcd loaf sugar; stir it 
over the fire, and let it boil tor two or three 
minutes ; strain it through a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, 
then jxiur it into an earthen-ware mould or 
shape; the following day, dip the mould into 
warm water tor a minute or so, clap it with 
the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass 
or china di.-li oxer the mould, and turn it 
out quickly upon the dish. A much cow- 



heel stock as will half fill the shape may be 
substituted for the isinglass. 

BLANCMANGE. (4) Blanch and pound 
with a little ratafia, or ror-e-water, two 
ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dis- 
solve three-quarters of an ounce of i- 
add it, when milk-warm, to a quart ot'^cxid 
cream; half milk half cream may be used; 
mix in the almonds the peel of a small lem- 
on, and a bit of cinnamon; sweeten it with 
|x>nndcd loaf suspir, let it stand lor two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir it 
constantly, and let it boil for six or eiuht 
minutes ; .strain it through a lawn sieve, and 
stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (5) Blanch and pound 
one ounce of sweet almonds with a irlass of 
sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded loaf 
sugar; add it to three-quarters of an ounce 
of i>in^la-s di:-sol\ed in half a pint of water, 
and boil it till the flavor of the almond.- Ix: 
extracted, stirring it all the time; strain it 
inro'iji a bit of thin muslin, and mix with 
it a ([iiart of gpod cream; stir it till quite 
cold, and pour it into a shape. 

BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 

half a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minute:!, 
pour off the water, and add a table-spoon- 
ihl of laurel water, and a little .sugar ; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, boil it with a little 
cinnamon, and half the |x,vl of a lemon ; pick 
out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
Ixiilin^ milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all die time. I'm it into a mould, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a ludf of boiling water over it, let it 
stand for an hour, and then boil it for twen- 
ty- minutes; strain, and ulien it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna- 
mon, and sweeten uith pounded loaf sugar; 
stir it over die fire till it Ix^in to simmer, 
bni do not allow it to Ixiil ; pick out the 
|xi-l and cinnamon, pour it into H lianin, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a 
shape. 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small 
hole at the end of four or live large eggs, 
and let out all the egg carefully ; wash the 

.-hell, drain, and (ill ill m with Maitrm.mire, 
place them in a deep dish tilled with rice or 
barley to keep tin-in steady, and when quite 
cold, m-ully break and (x-cl ol)' I 
(,'ut the |x-el "f a lemon into delicately fine 



BRA 



BRE 



shreds, lay them into a glass dish, and put 
in the eggs; or serve them in a glass dish 
with a pink cream round them. 

BLACK COCK, MOOR GAME, AND 
GROUSE, Are all to be dressed like par- 
tridges; die black cock will take as, much 
as a pheasant, and moor game and grouse 
as the partridge. Send up with them cur- 
rant-jelly and fried bread crumbs. 

BOILING. See directions at beginning 
of the book. 

BOLAR CAKE. -See Cake. 
BRANDY PUDDING. See Pudding. 

BRAISING PAN. A deep well-tinned 
copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which 
must close hermetically, and have a ledge 
round so that coals or hot ashes may be 
placed on the top when necessary. 

BRAISING. This is a method of 
dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. widiout its 
undergoing any evaporation. It is done by 
lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, 
beef, or veal, upon which place whatever 
you may intend to braise, and also add 
carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, 
pepper and salt. 

BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, 
scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig's 
head, feet, and ears; lay them into salt 'and 
water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. 
To make die collar larger, boil two ox heels, 
with the head, feet, and ears, till all the 
bones can be taken out easily, dien put the 
head round die mould, and the feet and small 
pieces into die middle; put it together while 
hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it 
becomes cold. Boil for half an hour, in as 
much of the liquor as will cover die brawn, 
one handful of salt, one ounce of pepper, 
and one or two bay leaves. When cold, 
pour it over the brawn. 

BRAWN, MOCK. Take die blade bone 
out of the shoulder, and boil it gendy two 
hours or more, according to the age of the 
boar. ' When it is cold, season it very high- 
ly with pepper, Cayenne, salt, a very little 
allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it 
lie a night in this seasoning; die following 
day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounde.d 
veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, 
and an onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nut- 
meg, pepper, and Cayenne; bind it with an 
egg beaten, and stuff where die bone has 
been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with 
die brown side downwards, and lay under it 
twigs or small sticks, to keep it from stick- 



ing to the bottom ; poor in a bottle of beer, 
and put it into the oven. When nearly done, 
take it out and clear off all the fat, add a 
bottle of Madeira and die juice of a large 
lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till 
it become as tender as a jelly, so diat a 
straw will pierce it easily. It the tear is 
an old one, it will require to be liaked six or 
seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. 

BRAWN, TO BAKE. Take raw lean 
brawn, and the same quantity of fat bacon, 
mince them small, then pound them in a 
stone mortar, with a handful of ~au> j . season- 
ed with salt, pepper and ginger, add die 
yolks of egus, and some vinegar, then put 
the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter 
and bay leaves, make your pie round and 
bake it. To be eaten cold. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. See Cake. 

BREAD. (1) Put a quartern of (lour into a 
large basin, with two tea-spoonfuls of salt; 
make a hole in the middle; dien put in a 
basin four table-spoonfuls of good yeast ; stir 
in a pint of milk, lukewarm ; put it in die 
hole of die flour; stir it just to make it into 
a thin batter; dien strew a little Hour over 
die top; dien put it on one side of die 
fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the 
next morning ; dien make it into dough ; add 
half a pint more of warm milk; knead it 
for ten minutes, and dien set jt in a warm 
place by die fire for one hour and a half: 
then knead it again, and it is ready eidier 
for loaves or bricks: bake diem from one 
hour and a half to two hours according to 
the size. 

BREAD. (2) Mix into six pounds of sifted 
flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of 
fresh sweet veast as it comes from the brew- 
ery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk 
to make the whole into a stiff dough ; work 
and knead it well upon a pasteboard, on 
which a little flour" has been strewed, for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, then put it into a 
deep pan, cover it with a wanned towel, set 
it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour 
and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut oft" a 
piece of this sponge or dough ; knead it well 
for eight or ten minutes, together with flour 
merely sufficient to keep it from adhering to 
the board ; put it into small tins, filling diem 
three-quarters full; dent the rolls all round 
with a knife, and let them stand a few min- 
utes before putting diem into die oven. 
The remainder of the dough must then be 
worked up for loaves, and baked eidier in 
or out of a shape. 

BREAD, ALMOND. Take a pound o 
die best almonds, slice diem die round way, 



BRE 



BRE 



beat and sift a pound of double-refined sugar, 
and strew it over the almonds as you cut 
them, stirring them frequently to prevent their 
sticking together ; when all the sugar is used, 
put them into an earthen basin, with a few 
carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dis- 
solved in rose-water and strained), three 
grains of musk and ambergris dissolved in 
fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a very light froth, and two spoonfu's of 
fine flour; when well mixed lay them on 
wafers the size of macaroons; open them 
with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three 
pieces stick together; the quicker you lay 
them, the better they will look; put them 
into a well-heated oven, taking care they do 
not scorch ; when half baked, take tin -in out, 
wash them with the white of an egg beaten 
to a froth, grate a little line sugar over them, 
and bake them about ilalf an hour longer. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDI.VJ. 
See Pudding. 

BREAD, CHESTNUT. Roast a hun- 
dred fine chestnuts, being careful not to 
burn them; peel them well, and pound them 
with butter and double eream ; pass them 
through a sieve; add two egg.*, and then 
strain them again. Weigh your paste, and 
for every pxind, allow half a pound of 
powder, a little vanilla in powder, and two 
ounces of flour; mix these together, and 
form of the preparation a.- many chestnuts 
as it will make; lay them on a sheet of 
wafer paper, Imtter and dorez diem seve- 
ral times, and then Ixike them in a Int oven. 

BREAD rilKI-'.SECAKES. Slice a 
large French roll \ei y thin, jmur on it gome 
boilintr en-am; when cold, add six or eight 
eggs, half a pound of Imtter melted, some 
nutmeg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, 
and half a pound of currant*. 1'ut them in 
pud' paste as oilier clieesecakcs. 

BREAD, TO SERVE WITH COF- 
FEE. Whip up the whiles of ten eggs to 

a thick snow; add to tin 'in the yolk- U-.it.-ii 
with eight ounces of powder-sn^ur, place it 
o\er ;i chin-coal tin-, ami whip it for halt" an 
hour, thru take it from tin- lire, and uhip 
again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of 
sifted flour. Have ready buttered two 
moulds lined with paper, (MMir the paste in- 
to them, and kike them in .1 moderate oven : 
when dune, take tin-in out of the moulds a-id 
remove the paper; when <.!, I, cut them in 
slices about the size of a finger. Place them 
on a plate of copper, o\er a rhaivoal tire, 
and when one side is brown, turn them and 
brown the other side. Tlkt if kept dry 
will be good for a long time. 
3 



BREAD CRUMBS, FRIED. Rub bread 
that has been baked two days, through an 
iron sieve or cullender ; put them into a stew- 
pan with two ounces of butter ; place it over 
a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden 
spoon till of a fine gold color; spread them 
on a sieve, and let them stand ten minute* 
to drain, turning them often. 

BREAD, FRENCH. Take half a bushel 
(or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, 
make a hole in the centre, in which put two 
ounces of yeast ; make your dough with warm 
water, to about the consistence of briocht; 
work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, 
dissolved in a little warm water; cover, and 
set it in a warm place to rise ; on this part 
of the operation depends the quality of the 
bread. Having left the dough one or two 
hours, (according to the season), knead h 
ayain, and leave it as before, for two hours. 
In the meanwhile, heat the oven, divide the 
dough into eight equal parts, of which form 
as many loaves, into any shape you please; 
put them into the oven as quickly as possible. 
As goon as they are done, rub the crusts with 
a little butter, which will give it a fine yellow 
color. 

BREAD, FRENCH, OR ROLLS. 
Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted 
flour, knead it into dough, with two quart* 
of milk, three-quarters of a pound of warm 
Ixitter. half a pound of yeast, and two ounces 
of salt ; when the whole is well worked up, 
cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours 
time, form it into rolls, and lay them on 
tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. 
When they have been in an hour, put them 
into a very hot oven for twenty minute?. 
Rjtsp them as soon as they are baked. 

BREAD FRITTERS. Boil half a pint 
of milk till reduced to half, with a little 
sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange-flower 
w.iter, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; 
have ready some pieces of crumb of bread, 
cut about the size of half-crowns, but thicker; 
put tin-in into ilu- milk to soak a little, then 
drain, flour, and fry them. Glaze them with 
sugar, and pass the salamander over them. 

BREAD, LONDON. To make London 
bread, put a bushel of good flour which has 
been ground a mondi or six weeks, in one 
end of the trough, and make a hole in the 
middle i.f it. Take nine quarts of warm 
wiiter, and mix it with one quart of good 
yeast; put it into tin; flour, and stir it well 
with your hands; let it remain until it rises 
as high as it will go, which will take about 
an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully 
to its ultimate height, and do not suffer it to 



BRE 



26 



BRE 



fall; then make up the dough with eight 
quart.- more of warm water and one pound 
of salt; work it well with vour hands, and 
then cover it over with a sack or other coarse 
cloth. Put the fire into the oven; heat it 
thoroughly, and by the time it is hot, the 
dougli \\iil Ix; ready. Next make the dough 
into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds 
each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in 
the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they 
will be baked in about two hours anda half; 
then <>|K'ii llie oven, and draw the bread. In 
summer the water need not be more than 
blood warm, but in winter it must be a few 
degrees higher in heat. During a hard 
frost, however, the water should be as hot as 
the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently- 
hot to .scald the yeast, as that would spoil 
the whole batch of bread. Oilier quantities 
of bread are made in the same proportion. 

BREAD, PLAIN SHORT. The same 
proportions of flour and butter must be used 
as in the receipt for short bread ; tin's must 
be mixed together, rolled out, but not made 
quite so thick as in the rich kind; but in the 
same form, pricked with a fork, and pinch- 
ed all round. A little sugar may be added. 

BREAD, RICE. Take a pound of rice, 
and let it simmer in two quarts of water till 
it is quite tender; when it is of a proper 
warmth mix it thoroughly with four pounds 
of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as 
for other bread ; the proper quantity of yeast 
to be used, is about four spoonfuls; knead it 
well ; then set it to rise before the fire. A 
portion of the flour should be reserved to 
make up the loaves. If the rice should re- 
quire more water, it must be added, as some 
rice swells more than other. 

BREAD, SPICED, COMMON. (1) 
Boil .three pounds of honey in a gallon of 
water fdr a quarter of an hour; then pour it 
on the flour in the trough ; mix them together 
well, until the flour will imbibe no more li- 
quid; when a little cooled, add three ounces 
of potash, infused the night before in half a 
pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting 
to it some pounded anise. Roll out the 
paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, 
cut it into little figures, lay them on a well- 
oiled tin, and bake them; when done, wash 
them over with milk. With this paste 
spiced nuts are made ; when formed, lay them 
on tins, and leave jn a warm place for two 
or three days before they are baked. 

BREAD, SPICED, (2) FLEMISH. 

The evening before you wish to make 
your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of 
white potash in halt' a pint of milk, and set 
it aside. The next morning put a consider- 



able quantity of sifted flour into a trough, 
make a hole in the heap, into which pour six 
pounds of clarified honey ; whilst lx>iling,stir 
it well with a strong spatula, until the honey, 
reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no more 
j flour, then spread it all over the bottom of 
the trough, and leave it for alxnit ten or fif- 
leen minutes; a! the end of that time, i r the 
paste be sufficiently cool for you tolx-ar your 
hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion 
of]X)tash; then let a strong ix.Tson knead it, 
in the same manner as the bakers knead 
bread. Have readv a number of different- 
sized moulds of |iear tree wood, on which 
are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various di- 
mensions; then cut your paste into as many 
pieces as you have moulds, in the following 
proportions: for the mould containing a 
pound, take eighteen ounces of paste ; for a 
half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of 
a pound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; 
knead each piece separately on the slab, rub 
them with flour to prevent their adhering, and 
then put them into the respective moulds; 
press it down tight; in a minute or two turn 
them over, place them on a tin plate (pre- 
viously rubbed with olive oil), and with a 
soft brush take off what flour, may remain 
on the surface of die spiced bread, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are 
baking, dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient 
quantity of beer, with which, by means of 
a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced 
bread as soon as it is done; and then, while 
it is moist and warm, decorate it with 
blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange 
peel, cut into dice. You may, if you think 
proper, cut these sort of sweet meats into 
very small pieces, and knead them into your 
paste at first. When they are nearly cold, 
separate the pieces with a knife. 

BREAD, SHORT. For two poundsof 
sifted flour allow one pound of butter, salt or 
fresh ; a quarter of a pound of candied orange 
and lemon peel, of pounded loaf sugar, 
blanched sweet almonds, and carraway com- 
fits, a quarter of a pound each ; cut the lem- 
on, the orange peel, and almonds into small 
thin bits, and mix them with a pound and a 
half of the flour, a few of the caraway com- 
fits, and the sugar; melt die butter, and when 
cool, pour it clear from the sediment into the 
flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. 
With the hands, form it into a large round 
of nearly an inch thick, using the remainder 
of the flour to make it up with ; cut it in- 
to four, and with the finger and thumb pinch 
each bit neatly all round the edge ; prick them 
with a fork, and strew the rest of the carra- 
way comfits over the top. Put the pieces 
upon white paper dusted with flour, and 
then upon tins. Bake them in a moderate 
oven. 



BRO 



BRO 



BREAD, TIPSY. Pare off the cnist, 
and cut into thin round slices of four or five 
inches, the crumb of a Uvo|>enny or three- 
penny roll; spread over eacli bit raspberry 
or strawlxTry jam, and place die slices one 
over the other pretty high in :i glass dish, 
and pour over them as miichshcm, .-weelen- 
ed with sugar, as the bread will soak in; 
stick round llic side-:, and over the top, 
blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and 
pour a custard round it. It may IN; made 
the day before, or two or three hours la-lore 
dinner, and with tlie crumb of loaf bread. 

BREAD SAUCE. See SCMCU. 

BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix widi 
two pounds of flour a little silt, two ounces 
of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and 
two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, 
and about a pint of milk ; knead the dough 
well, and set it to rise liefore the fire. Make 
twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them 
before the fire again to rise. When of a 
proper size, bake them for half an hour. 

BRIOCHE. Divide half a quartern of 
flour into three parts, and knead into one of 
them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm 
water, wrap it in a cloth and set it by, in 
summer time for a quarter of an hour, and 
in winter tor u whole hour. Wlien it has 
risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, 
with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, 
half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce 
of salt ; knead them together with your hand 
thoroughly, and then wrap it in a clean nap- 
kin and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut 
the paste into the size you wish to make the 
cakes, moisten, and roll diem in the hand, 
flatten the top, and gild diem with the 
yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be 
sufficient to bake the small ones; large 
cakes will require an hour and a half. 

BROILING. See directions at begin- 
ning of the book. 

BROCCOLI. Set a pan of clean cold 
water on the table, and a saucepan on the 
fire with plenty of water, and a handful of 
salt in it. Broccoli is prepared by stripping 
off all the side shoots, leaving the top; peel 
off the skin of the stalk H itli a knife; cut it 
close off at die bottom, and put it into the 
pan of cold water. When tlie water in the 
yiewjkui boils, and die broccoli is ready, 
put it in; let il boil In i-Uy till the stalks 

feel t lei, from leu to twenty minutes; take 

it up with a slice, that you may not break it; 
let it drain, and serve up. If some of the 
heads of broccoli are much bitter than tlie 
others, put them on to boil first, so that they 
may get ail done together. 06*. It makes 



a nice supper-dish served upon a toast, like 
asparagus. It is a very delicate vegetable, 
and \MI must take it up the moment it is 
done, and send it to table hot. 

BROTH, BARLEY. Chop a leg of 

beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of 
water, with a carrot and a crn.-t of bread, 
till reduced to half; then strain it oft" and 
put it into the pot again with half a pound 
of barley, (bur or five heads of celery cut 
small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a 
little chopped parsley, and a few marigolds. 
Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or 
large fowl and put it into the pot, boil till 
the broth is quite good. Season with salt, 
take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. 
The fowl may be omitted. 

BROTH, OF BEEF. Wash a leg or 
shin of beef very clean, crack die bone in 
two or three places, add to it any trim- 
mings you have of meat, game, or poultry 
(beads, necks, gizzards or feet) and cover 
them with cold water. Watch and stir it 
up well from die bottom, and die moment it 
begins to simmer, skim it carefully. Your 
brodi must be perfecdy clear and limpid 
for on this depends die goodness of the 
soups, sauces, and gravies, of which it is 
die basis. Then add some cold water to 
make die remaining scum rise, and skim 
it again. When die scum has done rising, 
and die surface of die brodi is quite clear, 
put in one carrot, a head of celery, two 
turnips, and two onions. It should not 
have any taste of sweet herbs, spice or gar- 
lic; either of these flavors may be added 
afterward, if desired. Cover it close, set it 
by die side of die fire, and let it simmer 
very gently, so as not to waste die brodi, 
for four or five hours or more, according to 
die weight of die meat. Strain it dirough 
a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and 
set it in the coldest place you have. 

dF* This is die foundation of all sorts 
of soups and sauces, brown and white. 

BROTH, CHICKEN. Take the re- 
maining parts of a chicken from which 
panada has been made, all but die rump; 
skin, and put them into die water it was' 
first boiled in, widi die addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and 
simmer it. When of a good flavor, put to 
it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds 
beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it 
a little while, and when cold, take off die 
fat. 

BROTH, CHICKEN PECTORAL. 

Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and 
put it into a saucepan with two pints and a 
half of wnler, two ouncp of pearl barley, 



BRO 



28 



BRO 



the same of rice, and two ounces of the best 
honey; boil all together, skimming well for 
three hours, until it be reduced to two-thirds. 

BROTH, JELLY. Take a joint of mut- 
ton, a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts 
of water ; put these into an earthen pan, and 
boil them over a gentle fire till reduced to 
half; then squeeze all together, and strain 
the liquor through a napkin. 

BROTH, MUTTON. Take two pounds 
of scrag of mutton; to take the blood out, 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold water; when the water becomes milk- 
warm, pour it off; then put it in four or five 
pints of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a 
table-spoonful of best grits, and an onion ; set 
it on a slow fire, and when you have taken 
all the scum off, put in two or three turnips ; 
let it simmer very slowly for two hours, and 
strain it through a clean sieve. 

BROTH, MUTTON, FOR THE SICK. 
Have a pound and a half of a neck or loin 
of mutton ; take off the skin and the fat, and 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it with cold 
water, (it will take about a quart to a pound 
of meat), let it simmer very gently, and 
skim it well ; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand gently 
stewing for about an hour ; then strain it off. 
It should be allowed to become cold, when 
all the greasy particles will float'on the sur- 
face, and becoming hard, can..jbe easily 
taken off, and the settlings wilF?emain at 
the bottom. N. B. We direct the meat to 
be done no more than just sufficiently to be 
eaten ; so a sick man may have ple'nty of 
good broth for nothing; as by this manner 
of producing it, the meat furnishes also a 
good family meal. This is an inoffensive 
nourishment for sick persons, and the only 
mutton broth that should be given to conva- 
lescents, whose constitutions require replen- 
ishing with restorative aliment of easy di- 
gestion. The common way of making it 
with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c. &c. is 
too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broth 
will agree with a delicate stomach, when 
the least addition of other ingredients would 
immediately offend it. 

BROTH, MEAGRE, OR SOUP WITH 
HERBS. Set on a kettle of water, put in 
two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts of 
good herbs ; season with salt ; put in butter, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it for an 
hour and a half: then strain it through a 
sieve, or napkin. This will serve to make 
lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de aante, 
&c. with herbs. 

BROTH, MULLAGATAWNY, OR 



CURRY. Make about two quarts of strong 
veal broth, seasoned with two onions, a 
bunch of parsley, salt and pepper ; strain it, 
and have ready a chicken, cut in joints and 
skinned; put it into the broth, with a table- 
spoonful of currv -powder ; boil the chicken 
till quite tender, and a little l>efore serving, 
add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a tea- 
cupful of cream. Serve boiled rice to eat 
\vith this broth. 

BROTH, RICE VEAL. Wash clean 
six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it 
in two, put it in a saucepan with four quarts 
of boiling water, half a pound of rice well 
washed, a little mace, white pepper, and 
salt, and a handful of chopped parsley; let 
it boil for two hours. Serve part of the 
meat in the tureen with the broth. The 
thick part of the knuckle may be sent up 
as a separate dish, with parsley and butter 
poured over it. 

BRpTH, WHITE. Boil a fowl, and 
when it is enough, take it up, and put it into 
a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of 
mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put in 
the marrow of one lieef bone, and take some 
of the broth, and mingle them togetlier ; put to 
it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thick- 
en on the fire ; then put the fowl hot out of 
the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, 
and serve it. 

BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING. 

Put into a nicely tinned saucepan alwut a 
pound of fresh butter, melt it slowly, and 
dredge in flour till it becomes like a paste, 
carefully stirring it all the time, put it for 
a ffw minutes ii]xin a quick fire, and then 
return it to where there is less heat, and 
stir it till it assumes a light brown color, 
when it may be put into a jar. These 
thickenings keep for sometime. 

BROWNING, Is a convenient article 
to color those soups or sauces of which it is 
supposed their deep brown complexion de- 
notes the strength and savo'.iriness of the 
composition. Burned sugar is also a fa- 
vorite ingredient with the brewers, who use 
it under the name of " essontia bina" to col- 
or tlieir beer : it is also employed by the bran- 
dy makers, in considerable quantity, to color 
brandy; to which, besides enriching its com- 
plexion, it gives that sweetish taste, and ful- 
ness in the mouth, which custom has taught 
brandy drinkers to admire, and prefer to 
the finest Cognac in its genuine state. When 
employed for culinary purposes, this is some- 
times made with strong gravy, or walnut 
catchup. Those who like a gout of acid 
may add a little walnut pickle. Put half 
a pound of pounded lump sugar, and. a table* 



BUNS 



29 



BUNS 



poonful of water, into a clean iron sauce- 
pan, act it over a glow fire, and keep stir- 
ring it with a wooden spoon till it becomes 
a bright brown color, and begins to smoke; 
thru add to it an ounce of salt, and dilute it 
by degrees with water, till it is tlw thick- 
ness of soy; let it boil, take off die scum, 
and strain the liquor into bottles, which 
ma-it lx> well stopped: if you have not any 
of this by you, and you wish to darken tin- 
color of your sauce*, |xmnd a lea-s|xnful 
of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon, 
with as much water as will dissolve it; 
hold it o\er a quirk tire till it liecomes of a 
very dark brown color; mix it with the 
soup, &c. while it is hot. 

BRUNSWICK TART. Su Tart. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS TO BOIL. 
Trim and wash them |>erfectry clean, and 
let them lie an hour in cold water. Put 
them on in lx>iliug water, with a little salt, 
and boil them till tender. l>r,iiu off tin- 
water, and eerve them hot. 

BUBBLE AM) SQUEAK. Chop small 
some In 1 1 led white cabbage; season it with 
pepper and salt . ami fry it with a little butler ; 
pepper and Itroil some slices of cold boiled 
salted beef; put the fried cabbage into a dish, 
and lay round it the slices of broiled beef, 
and serve it very hot. The beef does best 
when underdone. 

BUNS, BATH. Rub togetlier, with 
the hand, one pound of fine flour and a half 
a pound of butter; beat six eggs, and add 
them to the flour with a table spoonful of good 
yenit Mix them all together with half a tea- 
cup full of milk ; set it in a warm place for 
an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds. Mould them in- 
to buns with a table spoon on a bilking plate ; 
throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, 
and lake them in a hot oven alxuit ton min- 
utes. These quantities should make eight* 
een bung. 

BUNS, COMMON. Rub four ounces of 
butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces 
of sugar, a few Jamaica pepper*, ami a few 
carraway seeds. Put a s|x>onful or two of 
cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good 
milk an will make the alxivo into a huhi 
paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will 
bake quickly on tins ; you may add nutmeg. 



.NS, CROSS. To the above mix- 
ture put one ounce and a half of ground all- 
spins cinnamon ami mace, mixed, and when 
half proved, press the form of a cross with 
a tin mould in the centre, and finish as 
above. 

8* 



BUNS, PLUM. To two pounds of the 
plain bun paste, put half a pound of currants, 
a quarter of a pound of candied orange- 
peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg 
grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, such 
as allspice, cinnamon, &c. Mould them in- 
to buns, jag them round the edges with a 
knife, and proceed as above. 

BUNS, PLAIN. To four pounds of siA- 
ed flour put one pound of good moist sugar ; 
make a cavity in the centre, and stir in a 
gill of good yeast, a pint of lukewarm milk, 
with enough of the flour to make it the thick- 
ness of crca m ; cover it over, and let it lie 
two hours ; then melt to an oil (but not hot) 
one pound of butter, stir it into tile other in- 
gredients-, with enough warm milk to make 
it a soft paste ; throw a little flour over, and 
let them lie an hour; have readv a baking- 
| platter rubbed over with butter; mould with 
] the hand the dungh into buns, about the 
, size of a la rue. tfgl lay them in rows full 
i three inches apart ; set them in a uunn place 
(or half an hour, or till they liave risen to 
double their si/e: bake them in a hot oven 
of a good color, and wash them over with 
a biu-h ilipjx-d into milk when drawn from 
the oven. 

BUNS, RICHER. Put four pounds of 

fine flour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge 

' of it with a gill of yeast and a pint of 

| wann niUJj; then mix with it one |xmnd of 
I sifted MijjR-, one pound of oileil (Ve.-h butter, 
! coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small 
. quantity of each, pounded Hue. Roll the 
. paste into liuns, set them on a baking-plate 

rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate 
I oven to prove; then wash them with a paste- 

bmsh dipped in wann milk, and bake of a 
I good color. 

BUNS, SCOTS CHRISTMAS. Take 

four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half 

of currants well cleaned and dried, half a 

pound ofalnionds Manched, of candied orange 

and lemon-peel a quarter of a pound each, 

cut small; of pounded cloves, |x'|>pcr, and 

U'iuger, half an ounce each, tour pounds of 

Hour, and twenty-two ounces of butter. 

! Then nib the Imiter with the Hour, till well 

1 mixed togetlier; add a little warm water, 

' and a quarter of a pint of fresh gixxd yeast, 

and work it into a light smooth paste; cut 

I off nearly one-third of the paste, to form the 

sheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rert 

work up die fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; 

make it into a round form like a thick cheese. 

I Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the Itnu in the 

centre, and gather it all round, closing it at 

the bottom. h\ wetting tlic edges of the paste, 

i and cutting it so as to lie quit. il.u. Turn 

| it up, and run a wire or small skewer through 



BUT 



30 



BUT 



from the top to the bottom every here and 
there, and prick the top with a fork. Dou- 
ble and flour a sheet of gray (japer, and lay 
the bun upon it; bind a piece round the 
sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the 
bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BUNS, SEED. Take two pounds of 
plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce of 
caraway seeds, butter the insides of tart- 
pans, mould the dough into buns, and put 
one into each pan; set them to rise in a 
warm place, and when sufficiently proved, 
ice them with the white of an egg beat to a 
fijoth, lay some pounded sugar over that, and 
dissolve it with water splashed from the 
icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. * 

BURDWAN STEW. Cut into joints a 
cold fowl or duck, put it into a stewpan, 
with half a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass 
of ale, half a one of white wine, the juice 
of half a lemon, a tea-spooni'ul of soy and 
Cayenne ; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, 
cucumber vinegar, corach esc.avecke, a des- 
sert-spoonful each. Heat all thoroughly be- 
fore serving. 

BUTTER BURNT. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a small frying-pan; when it 
becomes a dark brown color, add to it a 
table-s|X)onful and a half of good vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. Obs. This is 
used as sauce for boiled fish or poached 
eggs. 

BURNET VINEGAR. See Vinegar. 
BUTTER BISCUITS. See Biscuits. 
BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes. 

BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Put the butter 
in a nice, clean stewpan, over a very clear, 
slow lire; watch it, and when it is melted, 
carefully skim off the buttermilk, &c. which 
will swim on the top; let it stand a minute 
or two for the impurities to sink to the bot- 
tom; then pour the clear butter through a 
sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sediment 
at the bottom of the stewpan. Obs. But- 
ter thus purified will be as sweet as marrow, 
a very useful covering for otted meats, &c. 
and for frying fish equal to the finest Florence 
oil; for which purpose it is commonly used 
by Catholics, and those whose reli<(iniis ten- 
ets will not allow them to eat viands fried in 
animal oil. 

BUTTER, FRENCH MELTED. Mix, 

in a stewpan, with a quarter of a |xnmd of 
fresh bulter, a table-s|x>oi>ful of Hour, a little 
salt, half a gill of water, lialf a spoonful c.f 



white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, 
but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste 
of tlie flour. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (1) Dust a little 
flour over a quarter of a pound of butter, put 
it into a saucepan, with about a wine-glass 
of water ; stir it one way constantly till it be 
melted, and let it just boil: a round wooden 
stick, is the best thing to stir butter with in 
melting. If the butter is to l)e melted with 
cream, use the same proportion as of water, 
but no flour j stir it constantly, and heat it 
thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil 
butter, cut about a quarter of a pound into 
slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in 
a pan of boiling water. When oiled, pour 
it off clear from the sediment. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (2) Is so simple 
and easv to prepare, that it is a matter of 
general surprise, that what is done so often, 
is so seldom done right. It is spoiled nine 
times out of ten, more from idleness than from 
ignorance, and rather because the cook won't 
than because she can't do it; which can on- 
ly be the case when housekeepers will not 
allow butter to do it with. Good melted 
butter cannot be made with mere flour and 
water ; there must be a full and proper pro- 
portion of butter. As it must be always on 
the table, and is the foundation of almost all 
our sauces, we have, 

Melted butter and oysters, 

parsley, 

-^ ^ anchovies, 



shrimps, 

lobsters, 

capers, &c. &c. &c. 

I have tried every way of making it; and I 
trust, that I have written a receipt, (3) 
which, if the cook will carefully observe, 
she will constantly succeed in ifivinij satis- 
faclion. In the quantities of the various 
sauces I have ordered. 1 have had in view 
the providing for a family of half a dozen 
moderate people. Never [xmrsance o\er meat 
or even put it into the di.-h; however well 
made, some of the companx may have an 
antipathy to it; tas'.cs iin- as dillerent as 
fiiees: moreover, if it is sent up separate in a 
boat, it will keep hot longer, iiiid what is left 
may be put by for another time, or used for 
another purpo.-c. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (3) Keep a pint 
stew pan; (in- this purpose only. Cut two 
ounces of bulter into little bir^-, that it may 
mi-It more easily, and mix uii-iv readiK ; put 
it into the sk'wpan with a lai ,'; tea-spoon- 
ful (t. e. alxnit three drachms) of flour, 
(some ['refer arrow-root, or potato starch) 



CAB 



31 



CAKE 



and two table-spoonfuls of milk. When 
thoroughly mixed, add six table-spoonfuls 
of water; hold it over the fire, and shake it 
round every minute (all the while the same 
way), till it just Ix-s^ins to simmer; then let 
it stand quietly and boil up. It should ) of 
the thickness of good cream. N. B. Two 
table-spoonfuls of mushroom catchup, instead 
of the milk, will make as good mushroom 
sauce as need be, and is a sii|x-rlativc accom- 
jKiiiinu-nt to either fish, tle.-h, or fowl. 
Obi. This is the best way of preparing 
melted butter; milk mixes with the butter 
much more easily and more int mutely than 
water alone can be made to do. This is 
of proper thickness to be mixed at table 
with flavouring essences, anchovy, mush- 
room, or cavice, &c. If in: li- i.ic.cly t.i 
pour over vegetables, add a little more milk 
to it. X. 1$. If the butter oils, put a 
spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it with 
a spoon; if it is very murh oiled, it must 
be | M Hired Ixickwards, and forwards from 
tlie stew|Vn to the sancel>out till it is ri;ht 
again. MKM. .Melteil Ixjtler mad.- to \x: 
mixed with flavouring essences, catchaps, 
&tr. should )>e of the thickness of light bat- 
ter, tluit it may adhere to tlie fish, &c. 

1U T TKR, OILED. Put two ounces of 
fresh butler into a saucepan ; set it at a dis- 
tance from th<- lire, so that it may melt grad- 
ually, till it comes to an oil; and pour it od 
quietly from the dregs. Ob. This will 
supply the place of olive oil ; and by some is 
preferred to it either for salads or frying. 

BUTTER SAUCE. See Sauce. 



c. 



CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. 
See Soup. 

CABBAGE, TO STEW. Wash a cab- 
bage well, slice it as for pickling, and put it 
into a steupan, with half a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and a bit of butter kneaded in 
flour, a linle salt ami [x-pper; stir it till tlie 
butter is melted : co\er the pan, and let it stew 
a little, Inn not to become too left; as it eats 

. p; a id a tahlr-s|toonful of 
vinegar, give it one lx>il, and serve it hot. 
Tlie w ine may lie omitted. 

(\l',I'.A(ii:,TO PICKLE. Choose two 
middling-sized, well-colored, and firm red 
cabbages, shrrd diem MTV finely, first pulling 
off the out.- ide leaves; mix with them nearly 
half a pi.ii'id nf salt, tie it up in a thin doth, 
and let it haiiu for twelve hours ; then put it 
into small jar.-, and pour over it cold vinegar 



that has been boiled with a few barberries in 
it; tie the jar over closely with bladder; or 
boil, in a quart of vinegar, tlirec bits of gin- 
ger, half an ounce of pepper, and a quarter of 
an ounce of cloves. When cold, pour it over 
tlie red cabbage. 

CAKES. PREPARATORY REMARKS. 

The currants and raisins should be prepared 
as directed under the article headed, Pud- 
dings and I'i-s, and tlie flour dried before 
the fire on a large sheet of white paper, then 
sifted and weighed. Almonds should be 
blanched by pouring hot water over them, 
and, after standing some minutes, taking off 
th. 1 .-kin, then throwing them into rose or 
c >ld xvat.T. When not pounded, they should 
be. cut lengthwise into thin bits. Sugar 
should be roughly pounded, rolled with a 
bottle ii|n white paper,and then sifted. All 
spices, after beinj well dried at tlie fire, should 
li.- finely (xiunded and sifted. Lemon and 
orange-|>eel must be pared very thin, and 
pounded with a little sugar. The butter, 
after being weighed, should be laid into cold 
water, or washed in rose water, and if salt, 
be well washed in several waters. The 
yolks and whites, of eggs should lie separately 
and long beaten, then strained; two whisks 
should be kept exclusively for that pur- 
pose, as tlie whites especially require to be 
managed with tlie greatest care. A horn 
spoon should be used for mixing those cakes 
which are not directed to be beaten with the 
hand. To make cakes light, salvolatile, or 
smelling salts, may be added immediately 
before putting them into the oven, allowing, 
to a sponge cake, made of one pound of flour, 
one tca-epoonfnl ; and two or three to a large 
plum cake. Cheese cakes, queen cakes, 
sponge biscuits, and small sponge cakes, re- 
quire a quick oven till they have risen ; after- 
wards tlie beat should be more moderate. 
Plum, seed cakes, and all large kinds, must be 
well soaked, and therefore do not require a 
brisk oven. To preserve their color, a sheet of 
white piper is put over them, and after they 
have risen and become firm, they are turned 
round. To ascertain if a large cake be 
sufficiently done, a broad bladed knife is 
plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and 
clean when drawn out, file cake is baked; 
1 jut if anything adheres to tlie blade, it must 
in -taut ly lie returned to the oven, and the 
door closed. When the oven is too hot, it 
is better to lessen tlie fire than to open the 
door. 

C VK*K. Take two pounds and a half of 
dried and sifted flour, tlie same of well clean- 
ed and dried currants, two |xmnds of fresh 
butter, two of finely -|x>unded and silted loaf 
sugar, a nutmeg grated, a lea-spoonful of 
pounded cinnamon, one ounce of citron and 



CAKE 



32 



CAKE 



candied orange-peel, cut small, the yolks of 
sixteen, and the whites of ten eggs, beaten 
separately; then with the hand beat the 
butter to a cream, and add the sugar, then 
the eggs by degrees, and the flour in the 
same way, and then the currants, sweetmeats, 
and spice, one glass of orange-flower water, 
and one of brandy. Butter a tin pan, line it 
with white paper buttered, put in die cake, 
and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. 

CAKE, ALMOND. Blanch half a pound 
of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almonds ; 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with 
orange-flower water; add half a pound of 
sifted loaf sugar, and a little brandy; whisk 
separately, for half an hour, the whites and 
yolks of twenty eggs, add the yolks to the 
almonds and sugar, and then stir in die whites, 
and beat them all well together. Butter a 
tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the 
cake into it, over the top of which strew sifted 
loaf sugar. Bake it in a quick oven for 
half or three-quarters of an hour. 

CAKES, ALMOND SMALL. One 

pound of butter beaten to a cream, half a 
pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
half a pound of dried and sifted flour, and 
the same quantity of blanclied sweet almond* 
cut into thin small bits, one well-beaten egg, 
and a little rose water, must be mixed well 
together, and with a spoon dropped upon 
wafer paper or tins, and then baked. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (1) Take eight 
ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter al- 
monds, blanch and pound them very fine; 
then beat in with the almonds die yolks of 
eight eggs, and whisk up die whites to a 
solid froth. Then take eight table-spoonfuls 
of sifted .sugar, live spoonfuls of fine flour, a 
small quantity of grated lemon-peel and 
pounded cinnamon, and mix all die ingre- 
dients. Hub die inside of a mould with 
fresh butter, (ill it with die mixture and bake 
it of a light color. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (2) Put a gill of 
flour upon a pie-lxiard, and make a hole 
in die middle to receive a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a 
pound of (iiie sugar, and six ounces of sweet 
almonds ]x>undud very fine: knead die whole, 
and form it into a cake ; bake, and glaze it 
with sugar and a hot salamander. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (3) Weigh diree 
OUSTS in their shells, take the same weight of 
ftiur, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated 
loaf -:i^ar. Pound with these ingredients 
thre ounces of sweet almonds blanched; add 
a little grated lenion-|xtl, or orange-flower 
water, and die whites and yolks of diree 



eggs. Continue pounding till die whole 
forms a smooth paste. Butter the bottom 
of a baking-pan, and put in the cake widi 
fire above and below. This cake may be 
served either hot or cold, widi grated sugar 
over it. 

CAKES, ANISEED. Put in an earthen 
pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
die yolks often eggs ; stir them togetner with 
a wooden spoon for lialf an hour. In the 
meantime have the whites of your eggs 
whipped to a diick snow, and then pour in 
the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly 
mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, pre- 
viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of 
flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a 
spoon lay it on white pa|ier in eakes alxuit 
die size of a crown-piece ; sprinkle diem widi 
fine sugar, and l>ake. Remove them from 
the paper, while hot, widi a knife. 

CAKE, APPLE. Pare and core a doz- 
en apples, and make them into marmalade, 
with the zeite of a lemon and a little cinna- 
mon, a'id pass them through a bolting; put 
diem into u stewpan, with a spoonful of 
potato ilonr, half a pound of sugar, and two 
ounces of butter; dry it over the fire, and 
when cold add tn it six e<igs, stir them well 
in, and having buttered a mould, pour your 
piepntation into it, and bake it in a slow 
oven ; when done, turn it in a dish and 
serve it. 

CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat 

to a cream a quarter ot "a pound ol fresh butter, 
and mix with it the same quantity of pound- 
ed and sifted loaf sugar, and four well-l>eaten 
eggs; add flour till thick enough to roll out; 
cut the paste into oblong pieces about four 
or five inches in length ; with a paste cutter, 
divide the centre into three or four strips; 
wet die edges, and plait one bar over die 
Other, M as to meet in the centre; dirow 
diem into boiling lard, or clarified suet; 
when fried of a light brown, drain them 
before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, 
widi or without grated loaf sugar sirewed 
over them. 

CAKE, BANBURY. Set a sponge with 
two table-spoonfuls of thick yeast, a gill of 
warm milk, and a pound of ilonr; when it 
has worked a little, mix widi it half a pound 
of currants, washed and picked, half a 
pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut 
small, one ounce of spice, such as ground 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and grated nut- 
meg: mix the whole together with half a 
pound of honey ; roll out pull" paste a quarter 
of an inch thick, cut it into rounds with a 
cutter, about four inches over, lay on each 
widi a spoon a small quantity of die mixture; 



CAKE 



33 



CAKE 



close it round with the fingers in the form 
of an oval ; place the join underneath ; press 
it flat with the hand; sift sugar over it, and 
bake them on a plate a quarter of an hour. 

CAKES, BATH BREAKFAST. Rub 
into two pounds of flour half a pound of but- 
ter, and mix with il one pint of milk a little 
warmed, a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, 
four well-beaten eggs, and a tea-s|xxmlul of 
salt; co\er it, and let it stand before the fire 
to rise for three-quarters of an hour ; make 
it into thick cakes about the size of the 
inside of a dinner plate; bake iln-m in a 
quick o\en, then cut them into three, that 
the middle slice, as also the top and bottom 
may be well buttered. Serve tltem very hot. 

CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To three 

pounds of dried flour allow one pound of 
fresh butter, one |x>imd of good brown sugar, 
two ounces of caraway seede, eight well- 
beateu fggs, three table-spoonfuls of fresh 
yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the 
butter in a pint of milk, so as to make the 
whole into a dough, not very stiff"; work it 
well; cover it u iih a cloth, and set it before 
the fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in 
a buttered tin. When it becomes dry, it 
may be toasted and eaten with butter. 

CAKES, BONNET. Boil in half a 
pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- 
namon, and of lemon-peel ; strain, and mix it 
with thru- table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir 
it over the fire for two or three minutes ; add 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut ; when 
cold, ink in the U-alen yolks of two eggs, a 
little salt ami pepp-r ; I* -at it well, drop a 
dcMcrt i |n infill of the mixture into boiling 
lard, then drain them upon tile back of a 
i when served, throw over pounded 
loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper, a 
little pre.-ei\e max Ix: drooped upon each, 
U-lore tlie sugar is thrown over. 

CAKK. r.AB A. Take the fourth part of 
two pounds of (lour, lay it on your paste- 
board or sL'.h, and having made a hole in 
the middle of it, put in half an ounce of 
yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst with 
the oilier you jxiir in w;irm water; make it 
into ft rather soft paste, put into a wooden 
bowl, first pricking il in a few places, cover 
it with a i -loth and let it stand. When it 
has risen well, take the remainder of the 
flour, and spread it on the first made paste ; 
mix them well toother, adding to them 
half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of 
fresh butter, half a pound of atoned raising, 
two ounces of currants, half a glass of Mal- 
aga wine, and a little saffron in (xiwder. 
Work them up together thoroughly, roll it 
i>nt two or three times, and then let it stand 



for six hours; then having buttered a mould, 
pour in your preparation and bake it. 

CAKE, BOLAR. One pound of flora 
dried in a slow oven, two spoonfuls of yeast, 
some almond milk, and water to mix for a 
sponge ; when raised, beat up three-quarters 
of a pound of clarified butter, three eggs, and 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, well-beat- 
en till the spoon conies clean away; then 
add cinnamon powder, candied orange and 
lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well but- 
tered ; keep it before the fire till put in the 
oven. 

CAKE, BOLAR. When the sponge is 
beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the 
sugar, il is rolled in the sugar and cinnamon. 

CAKE, DUTCH BOLAR. Done, as 
above, without sugar ; then prick holes with 
a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot 
pour in three-quarters of a pound of clarified 
sugar, flavored with cinnamon or orange- 
flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are pre- 
viously put in the cake. Ornament your 
cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was 
a favorite cake of Queen Charlotte. 

CAKE, BREAD. Take the quantity 
of a quartern loaf from the dough when mak- 
ing white bread, and knead well into it two 
ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and 
eight of currants. Warm the butler in a 
tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition 
of an ounce of batter, or sugar, or an egg or 
two, you may make the cake better. A 
tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. 
It Is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as 
a loaf, the outside )>cing less bard. 

CAKE, BRIDE. Take four pounds of 
fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh 
butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded 
and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs; 
to every pound of flour put eight eggs ; wash 
and pick four pounds of currants, and dry 
tii' -in I*-!'. ire the fire; blanch a pound of 
set almonds, and cut them lengthways, 
very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of 
candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, 
and half a pint of brandy ; first work the 
Imtter with your hand to a cream, then 
heat in your sugar a quarter of an hour ; 
beat the whites of vour eggs to a very strong 
froth ; mix them with your sugar and but- 
ter ; beat the yolks half an hour, at least, 
and mix them with your cake; then put in 
your (lour, mare, and nutmeg ; keep beating 
it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, 
and beat the currants and almonds lightly 
in ; tie three glieets of paper round the bot- 
tom of your hoop to keep it from running 



CAKE 



34 



CAKE 



out ; nib it well with butter, put in your 
cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, w itli 
cake between every lay; after it is risen 
and cblored, cover it with paper before your 
oven is stopped up; it will take three hours 
baking. 

CAKE, BRIE. Take some rich cheese, 
knead it with a pint and half of flour, three 
quarters of a |xmnd of butter, and a little 
salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten 
up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand 
for an hour ; then form your cake and bake 
as usual. 

CAKES, BENTON-TEA. Rub into 
a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
three spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a 
paste with new milk; make into biscuits, 
and prick them with a clean fork. 

CAKES, BUTTER. Beat a dish of 
butter with your hands to a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried 
flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave out half 
the whites, and then teat all together for an 
hour; when you are going to put it in die 
oven add a quarter of an ounce of mace and 
a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds 
and currants, if you think proper. 

CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER. Take 
the weight of three eggs in sugar, and the 
weight of two in flour ; when the five eggs are 
well beaten, gradually add the sugar, and 
then the flour, with a little grated lemon- 
peel, or a few caraway seeds. Bake it in 
a tin mould, in rather a quick oven. 

CAKES, CHESHIRE. Beat for half 
an hour the yolks of eight, and the whites 
of five eggs ; add half a pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of dried and sifted flour, and the grated 
peel of a small lemon ; beat all well togeth- 
er, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (1) Three 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter well rubbed into it, a quarter of a 
pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway 
seeds ; make these into a stiff paste with a 
little cold water, roll it out two or three 
times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, 
and bake them upon floured tins. For a 
change, currants may be substituted for the 
caraway seeds. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (2) Mix half 
a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound 
of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
add some caraway seeds; make it into a 
stiff paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and 
3 little rose water ; roll it out thin, cut it 



into round cakes, prick them with a fork, 
and bake them upon floured tins in a quick 



CAKES, CURD CHEESE. Boil, in 
two quarts of cream, the well-beaten yolks 
of four, and the whites of five eggs; drain 
oft" the whey gently, and mix with the curd 
grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, three 
table-spoonfuls of best rose water, as much 
white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf su- 
gar, the same quantity of butter beaten to a 
cream, and of pounded biscuit. Mix all 
these ingredients well together, and stir in 
a quarter of a pound of currants. Bake h 
in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with 
paste ; or it may be baked in a dish previ- 
ously buttered. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (1) Take 
two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, 
one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonfuls 
of white wine, three spoonfuls of caraway 
seeds, two nutmegs', and one pound of cur- 
rants; beat up the butter with your hand 
till it is very thin ; dry the flour well ; put in 
the caraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grat- 
ed; afterwards put them all into your bat- 
ter, with the eirgs, white wine, and rose 
water; mingle them well together; put in 
the currants ; let your oven be pretty hot, 
and as soon as they are colored they will be 
sufficiently done. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (2) Take half a 
pound of cleaned and dried currants, the 
same quantity of dried and sifted flour, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter, four 
yolks, and three whites of eggs, both well 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pound- 
ed cinnamon; then beat the butter to a 
cream; add the sugar, and then the eggs 
and the flour; beat these well for twenty 
minutes, mix in the currants and the grated 
nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form 
upon buttered paper, or bake them in small 
tins in a quick oven. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (3) Take six 
ounces of currants, the same quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, 
half a pound of butter, and three-quarters 
of a pound of dried and sifted flour; nib the 
butter with the flour till they be well mixed, 
then add the other ingredients, and bind 
them with three beaten yolks of eggs, and 
two or three spoonfuls of rose or orange- 
flower water; roll it out, and cut it into 
round cakes with the top of a wine glass or 



CAKE, COMMON. (1) Take 



CAKE 



35 



CAKE 



quart.- of flour, mix with it threr-qnarters 
of a pound of butter, a tea-cupful of fresh 
yeast, one pint of milk, nine well-beaten 
Ciiirs, two |x)iinils of well-cleaned currants, 
our jxmiicl and a h;ilf of jfood brown sugar, 
the grated |>eel of a lemon, and one nutmeg; 
a glass of brandy must be stirred in just be- 
fore it IK' put into a buttered tin. Bake it 
for two hours or more. 

CAKE, COMMON. (2) Rub into one 
pound of llour a quarter of a pound of 
good butter; mix, with two well-beaten 
eggs, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, ;is 
much warm milk as will make the flour into 
a very thick batter. Let this remain near 
the tii,.. oncred with a cloth for an hour, 
then mix into it six ounces of good brown 
sugar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and 
dried currants ; let it stand again for half 
an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for 
an hour. 

CAKE, COMMON*. (3) One pound and 
a lialf uf (lour, one pound of good brown su- 
gar, eij,'lit well-beaten eggs, and one ounce 
of cam way seeds, are to be mixed together; 
then add of troli yeast, milk, and of water, 
one tal)le-s|XMi;it'ul ouch. Let it stand a lit- 
tle time, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, COLD HARBOR. Dissolve 

one ounce of butter in as much milk warmed 
as will make fmr pound^ of flour into a stiff 
paste; alvcit two pints may be required; 
add half a tea-spoonful of salt, one egg 
beaten together with a table-spoonful of 
yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it remain before the fire for 
half an hour; then make it into small 
round balls, and bake them upon tins in a 
quick oven. 

C\KF..S, CREAM. (1) Put a pound of 
flour upon a pie-Niard; make a hole in the 
middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, 
and a little salt; mix the paste lightly, let 
it stand 1'ir half an hour, then add half a 
pound of butter; roll it -out, five times, the 
same as puff paste, and form it into small 
cakes; gild th<-m with the yolk of egg, and 
bake in an oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (2) Sift some 

double-relined sugar; boat the whites of 

S-CM-H or eiijht v.>f*; shake in as many 

It of the sugar; grate in the rind of 

a laix'e li-mou; drop tile froth on n paper, 

laid on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a 

< T them : set them in a 

moderate oven; the froth will rise; just 
color them; yon may put raspberry jam, 
and stick two bottoms together; put them 
in a cool oven to dry 



CAKES, CREAM. (3) Put into, a 
stew|Kin, two jrla-ises of cream, a quarter of 
a |x>und of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut 
small, a quarter of a pound of (xiwdcr-gugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Set it on the. lire, and 
when it Ix-^ins to boil, put it by tin 
the stove; take out the leiiM>n-|>eel, and add, 
by degrees, as iit'iclrtlour as the liquid will 
bear; keep stirring it constantly, and place 
it on the fire again, for five minutes, then 
pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one, 
as many e;^s as will make the |>a-l'' Mick 
to the fingers ; put the paste on a .-lab, and 
make your cakes of a round form. 

CAKES, CANAPES. Roll out three- 
quarters of a pound of puff paste, keeping it 
long and narrow; do not let it !>e more than 
a quarter of an inch thick, and about three 
inches wide. Cut the paste across with a 
sharp knife, in slips three-eights of an inch 
in width, and place them on the cut side, on 
a baking-plate, each two inches apart; bake 
them in a hut oven, and when nicely colored, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and gla/e tlwm. 
When done, remove diem from t. plate; 
and just before they are served, mask them 
with apricot marmalade, or any other you 

nlike better, and arrange them oil your 
en couronne. 

CAKES, CURD. Take a quart of 
curds, ei;;lit e^s, leaving out fintr whites; 
put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour; mix these well togetner, heat butter, 
in a frying-pan, drop them in, and fry like 
fritters. 

CAKES, DERBY OR SHORT. Rub 

in with the hand one pound of butter into 
two pounds of sifted flour; put one pound 
of currants, one pound of good moist s,i<;ar, 
and one egg; mix all together with half 
a pint of milk: roll it out thin, and cut them 
into round cakes with a cutter; lay them on 
a clean baking-plate, and put them into a 
middling-heated oven for about five minutes. 

CAKE, DIET BREAD. Boil, in half 
a pint of water, one pound and a half of 
lump sugar; have ready one pint of eggs, 
three parts yolk?, in a pan ; pour in the su- 
U'ar, and whisk it quick till cokl, or about 
a quarter of an In Kir; then Ftir in two 
pounds of sifted flour ; case the inside of 
square tins with while IKIJXT; till them three 
ports full; sift a little sugar over, and bake 
it in a warm oven, and while hot remove 
i IK-HI from (In- moulds. 

( \KF.. DAII'IIINE. Beat separate- 
ly the whites and yolks of twenty eggs; to 
the yolks add a pound of pounded^ am! .-ifted 
loaf sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and 



CAKE 



36 



two or three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water; then stir in tlie whites, and lightly 
mix in half a pound of dried and sifted lie mr. 
Bake it in a moderate oven. 

CAKE, FASHION. Mix a handftJ of 
flour with a pint of good cream, half a pound 
of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of 
a pound of |x>wder-sugar, half a pound of 
raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of 
orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, 
and salt ; bake it as all other cakes, about an 
hour, and glaze or garnish it. 

CAKE, FOURRES. Make a puff paste, 
form it into two equal parts the size of the 
dish in which you mean to place your cake, 
and the thickness of two crowns each; then 
take one of the cakes and put upon it some 
sweetmeats, leaving about an inch, as a 
border, all round; wet it with water and 
place the other cake upon it, draw up the 
edges carefully with your fingers ; gild them 
with the yolk of egg, and bake them in an 
oven. 

In 

CAKE, FRENCH. Twelve eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten well and separately, 
one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, half a pound 
of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of 
sifted and dried ground rice, four ounces of 
sweet, and one of bitter almonds, pounded in 
a mortar together, with a table-spoonful of 
orange-flower water. Mix all these ingre- 
djenLs gradually, and beat them well. Pa- 
per the pan, and bake the cake for one hour. 

CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and 
flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites offtine eggs, half a pound of lump 
sugar, [xninded and sifted, and half an ounce 
of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one 
hour, bake it for the same time in a quick 
oven. This is a very light cake, and is ve- 
ry proper for young people and delicate 
stomachs. 

CAKES, RICH GINGERBREAD. To 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow 
half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh butter washed in 
rose water, one pound of treacle, one nutmeg 
grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded 
mace, and as much of pounded cinnamon, 
one ounce of pounded ginger, one and a half 
of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small, 
hall' an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut 
it into long thin bits, and two well-lx'atm 
eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and 
when nearly cold, stir in the eggs and the 
rest of the Ingredients ; mix all well together, 
make it into round cakes, and bake them 
upon tins. 



CAKE, GINGERBREAD. Take two 
pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of flour, 
of brown sugar and fresh butter three-quar- 
ters of a pound each, four ounces of caraway 
seeds, the same quantity of candied orange- 
peel cut small, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half an ounce of pearl ashes; beat the butter 
to a cream, and mix it with the rest of the 
ingredients. The next day work it well up, 
and bake it in a buttered tin. 

CAKE, GLOVE. With flour make into 
a paste thick enough to roll out, the beaten 
yolks often eggs, five table-spoonfuls of rich 
sweet cream, a little sugar, and some carda- 
mons; cut it into fanciful forms with small 
tins, and throw them into fresh boiling lard 
or butter ; when of a light brown color, drain 
them before the fire. If fried in butter, add 
a little water to the butter, and make it boil- 
ing hot. 

CAKES, GIRDLE. Rub three ounces 
of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with 
half a tea-spoonful of salt ; moisten with a 
sufficiency of sweet butter-milk to make it 
into a paste ; roll it out, and cut it into cakes 
with a cup or tumbler, and bake them upon 
a girdle. 

CAKES, HONEY. One pound and a 
half of dried and sifted flour, three-quarters 
of a pound of honey, half a pound of finely 
pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
citron, and half an ounce of orauge-peel cut 
small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three 
quarters of an ounce. Melt the sugar with 
the honey, and mix in the other ingredients; 
roll out the paste, and cut it into .small cakes 
of any form. 

CAKES, HEART. With your hand 
work a pound of butter to a cream, then put 
to it twelve egg.s, with only six <>t' the whites 
well-beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound 
of silted sugar, four spoonfuls of good brandy, 
and a pound of currants wa.-hed and dried 
before the fire. As the pans are filled, put 
in two ounces of candied orange and citron, 
and continue beating the cake till you put it 
into the oven. This quantity will be suffi- 
cient to fill three dozen of middling sized 
pans. 

CAKES, IRISH SEED. Beat to a 
cream eight ounces of fresh butter, and a 
quarter of a pint of rose water, putting in a 
tiilile-spooiiful of rose water at a time; by 
decrees, mix into it u pound of sifted loaf 
sugar, and then nine well-lieaten eggs; add 
twelve ounces of flour, and three of flour of 
rice dried and sifted, a quarter of a pound 
of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter al- 
monds, a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, 



CAKE 



37 



CAKE 



and one ounce of caraway seeds ; beat all 
these well together; lke it in a rake tin, 

which must be buttered and liiitil with paper, 
also buttered. It will require alxmt our hour 
and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may 
\x- in i.ir- withoMt tin- a hai nits or the P"^ 
of lumon. 

< \KF.S, LITTLE. T a pound of flour 

!il a [xiuiul of luni]) 

tine, the ]>eel of two lemons chopped Miiall, 
and live ounces of butter; mix them thor- 
oughly; let it stand sometime before tlie fire, 
then add thro- rill's well beaten, the whites 
separately, pick tliem with a fork into small 
lumps, and bake them on a tin: this quanti- 
ty will make about eighty cakes. Instead 
of lcin<in-|xvl you may, if you please, add 
sixty bitter alumm!.-: blanched and beaten 
with white of egg until they are quite fine. 

CAKES, MANON. Form some puff 
an under-crust and cover some 
baking-plates with it; then spread all over 
them some frangipane, or marmalade, of 
wliate\er sort you please; add some sweet- 
meat, and then eo\er witlia \erythin crust ; 
gild and ornament them, then put them in 
the oven ; when diey are three pails done, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. \Vlien 
they are glazed put them to finish baking in 
a more gentle oven, and when done take 
them out of the tin.-, and serve them either 
hot or cold. 

rAKT.S, MOM'ROSE. Of dried and 
sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
and of fresh butler, one |x>und each will Ix- 
required, also t< Ke well-l>eati n c^'.'-S three 
quarters of a pound of cleaned and dried 
currants ; lieat the butter to a cream with the 
, Id the eggs by degrees, and then the 
tiour and currants, with two table-spoonfuls 
of I i i.nly, one of rose water, and half a 
grated nutmeg; U-at all well together lor 
twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be 
put into small buttered tins, half filling them, 
and Inking them in a quirk oven. The 
currants may be omitted. 

CAKES, MEAT. See Meat. 

C V K T. < . \ UNS. Take four pounds of 

veiy line flour, and mix with it three pound* 
ol Joulile-relined suir-ir, linrK U-at and Ml'ted ; 
dr\ them by the lire till \oiir other materials 
are prepared; tike tour pounds of butter, 
beat it in your hands till it is \ery soft like 
cream; beat thn t\-f,ur .-__'-. Ic.ix'e. out six- 
teen wl:.' : reads from all; 
beat the ri^s and butter together till it aj>- 
pears like butter, |x>ur in four ..r li\e 
s|x>ontuls of rnseor nrange- flower water, and 
bc.it it again; then take your flour and sugar 



with six ounces of caraway seeds ; stre'irfC}^ 
in by degrees, beating it up all the while} 
lor two hours togedier; put in as much tinc- 
tme of cinnamon, or amUrirris, as you 
please; butter your hoop, and let it stand 
three hours in a moderate oven. 

CAKES, NUNS' BEADS. Pound in a 
mortar four ounces of good cheese, with a 
little salt, tlie beaten yolks of three- eir^s, and 
some crumbs of bread ; roll them as large as 
walnuts, cover them with puff paste, and fry 
them in butter a light brown cUlor. Serve 
them in a napkin. 

CAKES, OATMEAL. One only shojild 
be made at a time, as the mixture dries 
quickly. Put two or three handfuls of meal 
into a bowl, and moisten it with water 
merely sufficient to fonn it into a cake; 
knead it out round and round with the hands 
upon the paste-board, strewing meal under 
and over it; it may be made as thin as a 
wafer, or thicker, according to taste, and 
put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. 
Bake it till it be a light brown on the under 
side, then take it off, and toast that side 
before the fire which was upjxjrmost on the 
girdle. The toaster is such as is commonly 
used for heating smoothing irons, having a 
back to support the cake. To make these 
cakes soft, they must not be toasted before 
the fire, but both sides done quickly on the 
girdle. 

CAKE, PLUM. Three pounds of flour, 
tliree pounds of currants, three-quarters of a 
pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, 
about half an ounce of them bitter, four 
ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites 
of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of 
butter, half a pint of good ale yeast ; mix the 
eggs and the yeast together, strain them; set 
die cream on the fire, melt die butter in it ; 
stir in the almond.-, and half a pint of sack, 
part of which should be put to the almonds 
while beating ; mix together the flour, cur- 
rants and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves and 
mace are liked : stir these to the cream : put 
in the yeast. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (1) 
Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, 
bruise them in a mortar, and when nearly 
cold drop in die yolk and white of an egg 
at intervals, until four have been added, 
beating the potatoes well all die time; then 
add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread 
crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat 
to a cream six ounces offiesii butter, with 
the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; 
[Nit it into the mortar, with die grated peel 
of one lemon, and mix all thoroughly. Line 
the patty-pans with paste, fill tliem three 



CAKE 



38 



CAKE 



parts full, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (2) 

Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes 
with four of fresh butter, and the same quan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel 
and juice of half a lemon, three well-beaten 
eggs, and a table-spoonful of brandy; mix 
all well together, and bake as before di- 
rected. 

CAKES, PARLIAMENT. Put into a 
sauce pan two pounds of treacle, and when 
it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and pour it upon two pounds of flour; add a 
little alum, and a bit of pearlash about the 
size of a nut, and an ounce of ginger. Work 
it well with the hand till quite smooth; let 
it stand a day and a night, tlien roll it out 
very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. 

CAKE, POUND. (1) Take one pound 
of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity 
of sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter wasli- 
ed in j-ose water ; the well-beaten yolks of 
twelve, and the whites of six eggs ; then 
with the hand beat the butter to a cream, 
by degrees add the sugar, then the eggs and 
the flour; beat it all well together for an 
hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in 
small ones in a quick oven. 

CAKE, POUND. (2) Take of dried 
and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh but- 
ter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound 
each, and twelve eggs; then whisk the volks 
and whites of the eggs, separately, while 
another with the hand beats the butter to a 
cream ; and as the froth rises upon the eggs 
a.dd it to the butter, and continue so doing 
till it is all beaten in ; mix the flour and 
sugar together, and add them by degrees; 
the last thing, mix in the currants, together 
with a glass of brandy. It will require to 
be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. 

CAKE, POUND. (3) To a pound of 
sifted sugar, add a pound of fresh butter, and 
mix them with the hand ten minutes ; put to 
them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well- 
beaten; whisk all well, and add a pound of 
sifted flour, a few caraway seeds, a quarter 
of a pound of candied orange-peel cut into 
slices, a few cuirants washed and picked, 
and mix all together as light as possible. 

CAKE, QUEEN. Beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, with some rose water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted 
sugar, twelve eggs ; beat all well together ; 
add a few currants washed and dried ; butter 
small pans of a size for the purpose, grate 



sugar over them ; they are soon baked. They 

I may be done in a Dutch oven. 

I 

CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- 
peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, a glass 
of water, and four or five spoonfuls of flour; 
stir over the fire till the paste become* thick, 
and begins to adhere to tlie stew pan ; then 
take it ofl", put in an egg, and stir it in the 

i paste till it is well mixed ; continue to add 
one egg at a time, till the paste softens with- 
out becoming liquid ; then put in some 
dried orange flowers, and two bitter almond 
biscuits, the whole shred line; make the 
paste into little cakes, alxnit the size round 
of a half-crown ; put them on buttered paper, 
gild diem with the yolk of an egg beat up, 
and bake half an hour in an oven moderately 
hot. 

CAKE, RICH. To two pounds and a 
half of dried and sifted flour allow the same 
quantity of fresh butter washed with rose- 
water, two pounds of finely-pounded loaf 
sugar, three pounds of cleaned and dried 
currants, one nutmeg grated, half a pound 
of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds pounded \\ itli a 
little ro.-e-water, and twenty eggs, the yolks 
and whites separately beaten. The butter 
must IK- beaten with the hand till it In-come 
like cream; then add the sugar, and by 
degrees the eggs, after these the rest of the 
ingredients, mixing in at last the currants, 
with a tea-cupful of brandy, and nearly as 
much orange-flower water. This mixture 
must be beaten tovther rather more than 
an hour, then put into a cakcpan, which has 
previously been buttered and lined with but- 
tered paper; fill it rather more than three- 
quarters full. It should be baked in a 
! moderate oxen for tlnee hours, and then 
j Cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand 
! sometime at tlie mouth of tlie oven. 

CAKE, RICE. '(1) Whisk ten eggs for 
half an hour, add to them half a |x>und of flour 
of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons; 
mix this into half a pound of fresh butter, 
previously beaten to a cream. Bake tlie 
cake in a buttered tin. 

CAKE, RICE. (2) Take six ounces of 
ground rice, six ounces of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggs, 
the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix 
all well together, grate in tlie rind of a lemon, 
and beat it well half an hour. 

CAKES, LITTLE RICE. Whisk well 
six yolks and two whites of eggs; then with 



CAKE 



39 



CAKE 



a born spoon beat in six ounces of finely- 
pounded loaf sugar, add eight ounces of girt- 
ed ground rice, and (wo tdUMpaooMi of 

oian^e-tlower or roM.- water, or the gi<Ued 
peel of a lemou, and ju-t befoi v tin- mixture 
is to be put into tile tins, stir into it six 
ounces of fresh butter niched ; dust the patty 
pans with tlour, or rub them with butter; 
let tliein be half lilled, and bake the cukes 
in a quirk oven. 

CAKES, SMALL ROUT. Rub into 

one |x<iind of dried and sifted (lour, halt' a 
pound of butter, six ounces of jHiiinded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of two well- 
,'gs; mix them all into a paste with. 
a little rosewater ; di\iile the quantity, |Mit 
a few dried currants or caraway seeds into 
one half; roll out the paste, cut it into small 
round cakes, and bake them upon buttered 
tins. 

CAKE RICE, A SWEET DISH. Wash 
well and drain a quarter of a pound of rice. 
Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel of 
one lemon, and when nearly cold take it out 
and put in the rice ; place the sauce pan over 
a slow fire, and wlien the rice ILL- swollen, 
add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded 
loaf sugar; when the rice is quite tender, add 
the yolks of eight eggs, and mix in gradually 
the beaten whites, with a good bit of fresh 
butter, and pour it into a mould; turn this 
round, that the butter may equally cover 
every part of it, then pour out the butter, and 
strew over the inside a lay t-r of grated bread ; 
with a |>a-te brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle 
all over it some of tin- clarified butter, add 
more grated bread, pour in the rice, and 
bake it in a moderate oven (<>r an hour. 
Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with 
.,r w ithout a garnishing of preserved rasp- 
berries, cherries, or currants. 

CAKES, SPANISH. Rub, till quite 
fine and smooth, one pound of butter with 
two pounds of flour, then add a pound of 
good brown sugar, rolled fin; mix all to- 
gether \\itli fi>iir well-beaten eggs; break 
the paste into -mall bits or knobs, and bake 
them upon floured tins. 

CAKES, SHREWSBURY. Take a 

pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 
(tin, nib it till it is as fine as cream, then 
take one pound of powdered sugar, a little 
cinnamon and mace |xMindcd, and t 
yolks and whites together ; beat them nh 
your hand till it is very linhi ; then take one 
pound and a half of sifted tlour, u<>ik it 
togetlier, and roll it on your die-.-er, to wliat 
ixe you like, only very flat, let your o\en ! 
rather -l,,u. anil let tin-in change their color, 
tl u-n take them out. 



CA KE, SPONGE. ( 1 ) Weigh ten eggs, 
and their weight in very- fine sugar, and that 
of six in flour; heat the yolks with the (lour, 
and the whites alone, to a very stilt' froth: 
tlien by degrees mix the whites and the flour 
with the other ingredients, and beat them 
well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an 
hour. 

CAKE, SPONGE. (2) Take the juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, twelve eggs, 
twelve ounces of tinely-|xmiideil loaf sugar, 
the same of dried and sifted tlour ; then with 
a horn s|XM)ii Ix-at the yolks often c<^s, add 
the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will 
stand wheii'dropped froui the spoon ; put in 
at separate times tile two other eggs, yolks 
and whites; whisk the ten whites for eight 
minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, and 
wlHsn quite stiff, take as much as the whisk 
will lilt, and put it ii|x>n the yolks and sugar, 
which must be beaten all the time; mix in 
lightly the tlour and grated peel, and pour it 
all gradually over the whites; stir it together, 
ami hake it in a buttered tin, or in small 
tins ; do not more than half fill them. 

CAKES, SHORT. Dissolve half a 
pound of fresh butter in as much milk a* 
u ill make a pound and a half of flour into 
a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. 
Do them in a fry ing-pan, and serve them hot. 
They are eaten with butter. 

CAKES, SALLY LUNN. Take. one 

pint of milk quite warm, ,i quarter of a pint 
of thick sinall-iieer yeast; put them into a pan 
with flour sufficient to make it as thick as 
batter, cover it o\er, and let it stand till it 
has risen as high as it will, i. e. about two 
hours: add two ounces of lump sugar, dis- 
solved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk, 
a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into 
your flour very fine ; then make your dough 
the same as for French rolls, &c. ; and let 
it stand half an hour; then make up your 
cakes, and put them on tins: when they nave 
stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. 
Care should be taken never to put your 
yeast to water or milk too hot, or too cold, as 
either extreme will destroy the fermentation. 
In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter 
a little wanner, and in very cold weather, 
warmer still. When it has first risen, if you 
are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand an 
hour. 

CAKES, SUGAR. Take half a pound 
of di yd flour, the same quantity of fresh 
I mtter, washed in rose water, and a quarter 
of ;i pound of sifted loaf sugar; then mix 
togetlier the flour and sugar: rub in the but- 
ter, and add the yolk of an egg beaten with 



CAKE 



40 



CALF 



a table-spoonful of cream ; make it into a 
paste, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, 
which bake ujxjn a floured tin. 

'' CAKES, TEA. With a pound of flour 
rub half a pound of butter ; add the beaten 
yolks of two, and die white of one egg, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds ; mix it to a paste 
with a little warm milk, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it stand before die fire for 
nearly an hour ; roll out die paste, and cut it 
into round cakes with die top of a glass, and 
bake them upon floured tins. 

CAKE, TWELFTH. Two pounds of 
sifted flour, two pounds of sifted loaf su- 
gar, two pounds of butter, eighteen eggs, 
four pounds of currants, one half pound of 
almonds blanched and chopped, one half pound 
of citron, one pound of candied orange and 
lemon peel cut into diin slices, a large nut- 
meg grated, half an ounce of ground allspice ; 
ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corian- 
ders, a quarter of an ounce of each, and a 
gill of brandy. Put die butter into a stew- 
pan, in a warm place, and work it into a 
smooth cream with the haud, and mix it 
with the sugar and spice in a pan, (or on 
your paste board) for sometime ; dien break 
in die eggs by degrees, and beat it at least 
twenty minutes ; stir in die brandy, and then 
the flour, and work it a little; add the fruit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all to- 
gether lightly ; have ready a hoop cased with 
paper, on a baking-plate; put in the mixture, 
smooth it on die lop widi your hand, dipped 
in milk; put die plate on another, widi saw 
dust between, to prevent die bottom from 
coloring too much: bake it in a slow oven 
four hours or more, and when nearly cold, 
ice it widi icing. This mixture would make 
a handsome cake, foil twelve or fourteen 
inches over. 

CAKE, WHITE. Take of dried and 
sifted flour ,of fresh butter and of finely-pound- 
ed loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well-beaten 
eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied 
orange and lemon peel, cut small, three quar- 
ters of an ounce each ; one ounce of cara- 
way seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
brandy, and a little rose water; then beat 
the butter to a cream, and add all the other 
ingredients to it, and at die last mix in one ta- 
ble-spoonful of fresh yeast ; let the cake rise 
before die fire for half an hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. Instantly u|x>n taking it 
out of the oven, with a leather, brush tin- 
top all over widi the beaten white of an egg, 
and then sift loaf sugar upon it. Let it 
stand at die mouth of die oven to harden. 

CAKES, YEAST. Take a pound of 



flour, two pounds of currants, washed and 
picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
a quarter of a pound of List* HI suijar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron and candied orange- 
peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a 
small quantity of each pounded and sifted. 
Make a hole in die centre of die ingredients, 
put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm 
milk, mix all togedier, fill a hoop with it, 
let it remain till it rises, and bake it. 

CAKES, YORKSHIRE. Take two 

pounds of Hour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat 
all well togedier, and let it rise ; then knead 
it, and make it Wo cakes: let them rise on 
tins before you bake, which do in u slow 
oven. Anodier sort is made as above, leav- 
ing ont the butter. The first is shorter, die 
las^ lighter. 

CAKE, BISCUIT. One pound of flour, 
five eggs well-beaten and strained, eight 
ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower 
water, beat the whole dioroughly, and bake 
it for one hour. 

CALF'S BRAINS, WITH OYSTERS. 
Blanch and clean die brains, then wipe diem 
dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll 
them in broad crumbs; fry them in boiling 
lard till of a good color, drain tliem very 
dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either 
white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham 
cut in Small round pieces. 

CALF'S BRAINS. Cleanse two calves' 
brains, and stew them in stock with two or 
diree spoonfuls of vinegar, a bunch of pars- 
ley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three 
cloves, divine, laurel, and basil; when suffi- 
ciently stewed, cut each piece of die brain 
in two, dip diem in a batter made of two 
handfuls of flour, diluted with a little oil, half 
a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in 
lard until the batter is crisp and tlie brains 
of a gold color. 

CALF'S BRAINS, WITH FRIED PAR- 
SLEY. Blanch three or four brains of 
nearlv an equal si/.e; ]. ailx.il them, and 
take off the skin; (lien hoil them ri water, 
with a little salt, vinegar and butter. Serve 
them with a sauce made of a little browned 
butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt 
and pepper, and some parsley fried very 
green. 

CALF'S CHITTERLINGS. Cut them 
open with scissors, wa-li and cleans* 1 them 
thoroughly, lay them for a night into salt- 
and-water, then wash them well, parboil, 
and cut them into small pieces, dip them uv 



CALF 



41 



CALF 



to a thick batter, seasoned with pepper, 
Kilt, anil a little white wine. Fry them of 
a light brown color in beef dripping; serve 

with a fringe i if fried par.-ley. Or, After 
lieing parlxiilnl, they may lx- roasted, when 
they nri.-t ! constantly basted with butter, 
dredged with tluur to froth them nicely; 
I uiih melteil liinter, and lemon 
pickle |x>urcd iiver them. Or, They may 
DC kiked when, after Ix-ing parlniled, they 
are rubbed over with butter, and put into 
(lie .i\i n on an iron frame, which i.- placed 
in a deep dish. This ulilnn^ frame of 
white iron, about two inches hi_'h, will be 
found useful in baking every kind of meat. 



r\i.rsrii.ui>i;<>\, 

Parboil a calf's cluiudrun, and when cold, 
cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts; 
Beacon them \\ith salt, |>ep|>er, undue*.', denes, 
i onion, Hi ra^iin, and par.-lc\ , sined 
line ; fry them in a ladlel'ul of good broth 
anil fresh butter; make a sauce of mutton 
giav\, orange and lemon juice, eggs' yolks, 
and grated nutmeg; lots up these in.ie.il- 

ents witli the diaudron, tliun dish it and 



( ALF'S-FEET PUDDIXG. See Pud- 
dingt. 

CALF'S FEET JELLY. See Jelly. 

CALF'S FEET, POTTED. Boil tire 
feet a.- |i>r jelly, pick all the meat frum the 
bones, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little 
.-ah, pepper, and nutmeg, garlic, a shallot 
and s<ime shred ham; simmer it fur half an 
hour, dip a mould into water, put in a lay- 
er nl the meat, then s une neatly-cut pickled 
beet root, and some boiled mincc-d pai.-lev, 
then a layer <>f meat, and so on, till the 
mould lie filled; when cold, turn it out. 
li.unish with pickled eggs, beetroot, anil 
paisley. 

/ CALF'S FEET, PLALX. Scald, clean, 
/and Munch some caKes' lit-l, lx.il them till 
I the kmes will come out, then stew them in 

a blanc. See ( all".- Head, plain. \Vhcn 

done, drain and serve them with parsley 

and buiti-r. 

CALF'S nr.AP, iiAsiir.i). Boil the 

head almost en. nigh, and lake the meal of 
tlie beat side neatly from the bone, and lay 
it in a xmall dish; wa.-h it o\er with die 
yolks of two eggs, and cover it w ith crumbs, 
a few hcilw nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, all mixed i. _. t!i- i previously. ; 
Set tin- dish In-fore tile lire, and keep lurn- 
iiu il ii'>u and then, that all parts may be 
rimallv l.i In the meantime slice the 
i en. .1 head, aud the tongue, [ 

4 



(peeled) ; put a pint of good gravy into a 
pan, with an onion, a .-mall bunch of herbs, 
(consisting of |>ars ley, kisil, savory, tarra- 
gon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), 
a little salt and ('avenue, a .-ballot, a glass 
of Sherry, and a little oyster liquor: bolt this 
for a lew minutes, anil strain it upon the 
meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. 
Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a 
few n ulih* and morels, and two s|>oonfuU of 
catchup; Ix-at up half the brains, and put 
(hem to the rest, with a bit of butter and 
flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other 
part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a 
little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, 
and an egg ; fry diis in little calies of a fine 
gold color; dip some oysters into die yolk 
of an eg;;, and fry die same way, also some 
good forcemeat balls, and garnish the dish 
widi them. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK 
TURTLE. See Soupe. 

CALF'S HEAD. Widi a sharp knife 
cut all die meat entire from the bone, cut 
out the tongue, and carefully take out the 
!>rains ; lay them all in cold water for two or 
tliree hours. Mince very small two pounds 
of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, 
with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, 
some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
IK P|x-r, and salt ; mix them well together, and 
bind it with the yolks of four eggs beaten up; 
re.-rve a? much of the forcemeat as will 
make twenty small balls: wash the head 
clean, wi|ie it dry, and put the forcemeat in- 
to the inside; close it, and tie it firmly with 
tape; put it into a stcw|>aii with two quarts 
of u'l.ivv, half a pint of white wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs; cover it cliscly, and 
let it stew gentry ; Ixiil the tongue, cut it in- 
to thin .-lire.s, mince the biaius with a little 
par.-lev aud a tablt>S|xinfu! of flour, add 
some |x-p|ier, salt, grated lemon-peel, and 
nutmeg; lieal two eir. 1 -- and mix with the 
p it widi a .-poo n in small cakes 
into a pan of boiling dripping, and fry 
them of a light brown color. Fry the force- 
meat kills, and drain them, w ith the cakes, 
upon the kick of a sieve before the fire ; 
when iln- head has stewed till it be suffic- 
iently tender, put it into a dish and takeoff 
the U|)e, strain the uravy, and thicken it 
with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a 
littk bit of butter; if not well sra-sonen 1 , add 
more salt and pepper, put in the tongue, 
make it all hot, and pour it over die head, 
(larnish with die brain-cake.-, forcemeat 
kills, and cut lemon. 

CALF'S I1DAI), RO \STKH. Wash 
and clean it well, parboil it, take out 
the bone*, brains, and tongue ; make force- 



CALF 



CALF 



meat sufficient for the head, and some 
balls with bread crumbs, minced suet, pars- 
ley, grated ham, and a little pounded veal, 
or cold fowl ; season with pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel; bind it with an 
egg, beaten up, fill the head with it, which 
must then be sewed up, or fastened with 
skewers and tied. While roasting, baste it 
well with butter; beat up the brains with a 
little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minc- 
ed parsley,- a little pepper and salt; blanch 
the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it 
with the brains, forcemeat balls, and thin 
slices of bacon. Serve the head with white 
or brown thickened gravy, and place the 
tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains round it. 
Garnish with cut lemon. It will require 
one hour and a half to roast. 

CALF'S HEAD, PLAIN. Clean a 
calPs head nicely, and cut out the bone of 
the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out 
the pose bone as close to the eyes as possi- 
ble; wash the head well in warm water, 
and let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- 
pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows: One 
pound of beef suet, and one pound of fat 
bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a 
bunch of parsley, a little thyme, two or 
three bay leaves, one or two onions, and the 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, 
mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all this an 
hour in six pints of water, then tie up the 
head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about 
three hours, and drain it; take out the 
tongue, skin and replace it; serve quite 
hot, with the following sauce minced shal- 
lots, parsley, the brains minced, some vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, SOUSED. Scald 
and boue a calf's head, and soak it for sev- 
en or eight hours, changing the water twice ; 
dry it well. Season with salt and bruised 
garlic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and 
boil it in white wine, salt and water ; when 
done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and 
keep it for use. Serve up either whole, or 
in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, BIGAREE. Clean 
and blanr-h a calf's head, boil it till the 
bones will come out easily, then bone and 
press it between two dishes, so as to give it 
an oblong form ; beat with the yolks of four 
egsp a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. 
Divide the head when cold, and brush it all 
over with the Iwaten eggs, and strew over it 
grated bread ; repeat this twice. With the 
grated bread, which is put over one half, a 
good quantity of finely-minced parsley slnmM 
be mixed; place the head upon a dish, and 
bake it of a nice brown color. Serve it 
with a sauce of parsley and butter, and 



with one of good gravy, mixed with the 
brains which have been previously boiled, 
and chopped, and seasoned with a little 
Cayenne and salt. 

CALF'S HEART, ROASTED. Fill 
the heart with the following forcemeat: a 
quarter of a pound of lieef suet, chopped 



. , 

paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. 
Put the heart into a Dutch oven, l>cfi>re a 
clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thor- 
oughly roasted all round. (iaruish with 
slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over 


I CALF LIVER, BROILED. Slice it, 
season with pepper and salt, and broil nice- 
ly: rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve 
hot and hot. 

CALF'S LIVER, LARDED AND 
ROASTED. Lard a fine calf's liver the 
same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for 
twenty-four hours in vinegar, with a sliced 
onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a bay 
leaf, some salt and pepper. Roust, and 
baste it well with butter, then glaze it with 
a light glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, 
or any other sauce. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (1) 

\Vasli and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, 
and stuff it with cmml>s of bread, chopped 
anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, and an r^; sew 
the liver up; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, 
and roast it. Serve with good brown gra- 
vy and currant jellv. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (2) 
Lard a calf's liver with streaky bacon; 
roast and baste it frequently with its own 
gravy. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (3). 
Lard a fine calf's liver, and pickle it in 
vinegar, with an onion, cut into slices, pars- 
ley, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. 
When it lias been snaked fir twenty-four 
hours, fasten it on a spit, roast and baste it 
frequently. Glaze it with a light glaze, as 
it is naturally of a black color. Serve un- 
der it a brown poivrade. 

CALF'S LIVER, SCOLLOPS. Par- 
boil and cut into slices a vei v nice calf's 
liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew 
some fine herbs, parsley, .-ballots, and mush- 
rooms; then add the calf's liver, and let it 
stew over a slow lire; when done on one 
side, turn and season it with pepper and 



CAP 



43 



CAP 



salt; take out the liver, dredge in ;i little 
flour over the herbs, and add some more 
gravy; let this boil fiir ten minutes, then 
neat the liver in the sauce before serving it. 
This may Ix 1 eaten at breakfast. 

CALF'S PLUCK. Wash it very clean, 
and, if liked, stuff the heart with a force- 
meat, made of crumbs of bread, butter, and 
parsley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
grated nutmeg. Fasten it firmly with the 
Iher and lights, tying them to the skewers 
while roasting; baste it well with butter, 
ami truth it the same way in which vc.il is 
done, and serve it with melted butter, mix- 
ed with a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, or 
vinegar poured over it. 

CAPER SAUCE. See Sauce. 

CAPILLAIRE. Take fourteen pounds 
of sugar, thnr (xumds of coarse .-nu.ir. six 
eggs beat in with the shells, three quarts of 
'; boil it up twice; skim it well, then 
add to it a qnailer of a pint of orau^e-liuw- 
er water; strain it through a jellv-bag, and 
put it into Inittles; when cold, mix a 
spoonful or iwr. of this sirup, as it is liked 
for sweetness in a draught of warm or cold 
wat'T. 

r.U'II.OTADE ITALIAN. Cut up 
a cold roast fowl ; then take a good slice 
of butter, and some shred mushrooms and 
potherbs; fry these till they are about to 
turn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour; 
then add to them a large glass of white 
wine. I/el the whole simmer together for a 
quarter of an hour; next put in the pieces 
of fowl, and heat them up for a fe.w minutes. 
<iarnish voiir di.-h with tried .-lices . if bread ; 
ami JMt beftn you ser\e, pour into the 
saucepan two table-spoonfuls of oil, takins; 
care that il docs not boil, and stir it up weU 
with the sauce. 

CM'ONS OR FOWLS, Must be kill- 
ed a coaple of days in moderate, and more 
in col. I wiMlh'T, before they are dressed, or 
tli v will eat tonsil: a good criterion of the 
ripeness of p-uiltry f"r the spit, is the ease 
with which you can then pull out the feathers ; 
when a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help 
you to ascertain this. They are managed 
exact l\ in tin- same manner, ami sent up 
with tin- same Alices as a turkey, niiK they 
require proportionabU 1. -- time at the fire. 
A full-growl live-toed fowl, alniut an hour 
and a quarter. A noderate-Maod one, an 
hour A chicken, from thirty to foru min- 
Here, also, |rk sausages I'ried are 
in general a favorite accoiii] aniiuctit, or 
turkey sliiltin^: sir forcemeats; put in plen- 
ty of it, so as to plump out the lowl, which 



mu>t be tied closely (t*>th at the neck and 
rump), to keep in the stuffing. Some cooks 
put the li\er of ill;- fowl into this forcemeat, 
and others mince it and (Kiunil it, and nib it 
up with flour and melted butter. When 
the bird is stuffed and trussed, score the 
gizzard nicely, dip it into melted butter, let 
il drain, and then season it with < 
and salt; put it under one pinion, and the 
liver under the other; to prevent their get- 
ting hardened or scorched, cover them with 
double paper twittered. Take care that 
your roasted poultry l>e well browned ; it is 
as indispensable that roasted poultry should 
have a rich brown complexion, ai boiled 
poultry should have a delicate white one. 

CAPON, TO CHOOSE. If it is young, 
his spurs arc short and his legs smooth ; if 
a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his 
breast, the comb pale, and a thick Ix-lly and 
rump; if fresh, he will have a close hard 
vent ; if stale, a loose open vent. 

CAPON, THE FRENCH WAY. Take 
a quart of white wine, season the capon 
with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few 
shallots ; and then put the capon in an earth- 
en pan ; you must take care it has not room 
to shake ; it must be covered close, and done 
over a slow charcoal fire. 

CAPON PASTY. Roast a capon, let 
it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and 
slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions 
whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four 
sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- 
son them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and 
mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and 
thyme, minced ; lay a sheet of paper or 
paste in \our pasty-pan, and lay the thighs 
and pinions on the Ixittom, and strew them 
over with sliced onions, then put in the 
flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and die 
oysters, cut in halves ; over these strew a 
handful of chestnuts, boiled and blanclied, 
then put butter over them, close up your pan 
and bake it ; when done, add gravy, good 
stock, draw n butter, anchovies, and" grated 
nninie,'; '.furnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve. Turkey may be done in the same 
manner. 

CAPONS A LA TURQUE. I'ick, 

and clean very nicely, two tine cajHiiis : wash 
the inside |x-rfectlv clean with warm water, 
and let them soak in warm water for a 
quarter of an hour; dry them well, and put 
into them f ,,\ti>- rice which has tx-en lioiled 
till soft ill some rich well-seasoned stock, 
tru.-s and cover them with layers of ICOD, 
wrap them in ]M).<T. a"d roa-t them for an 
hour bv a hanging-jack; serve them, put- 
ting all round the di.-h a part of the rice 



CAR 



44 



CAR 



which was prepared for the stuffing, and 
pour over the fowls a veloute sauce. One 
fine large fowl may be dressed in this 
manner. 

CAPSICUMS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the pods, witli the stalks on, before they turn 
red; cut a slit down the side with a pen- 
knife, and take out all the seeds, but as lit- 
tle of the meat as possible; lay them in a 
strong brine for three days, changing it eve- 
ry day ; then take them out, lay them on a 
cloth, and lay another over them till they 
are quite dry ; boil vinegar enough to cover 
them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat 
small; put the pods into a glass>or jar, and 
when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then 
tie a bladder and leather over them. 

CARDOONS, WITH CHEESE. String 
and cut them an inch long, put them into a 
saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, stew them till they are tender, 
put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
when of a proper thickness pour them into 
a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into 
the sauce, and scrajx; over them some Par- 
mesan or Cheshire cheese, and then brown 
them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high 
a color. 

CARDOONS, TO DRESS. Cut them 
in pieces six inches lung, and put them on a 
string ; boil till tender, have ready a piece 
of butter in a pan, (lour and fry them. They 
may also be tied in bundles, and served as 
asparagus boiled on a toast, and pour but- 
ter over. 

CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut them 
into lengdis of three inches, be careful not 
to use those which are hollow and green; 
boil tlic-in for half an hour, then put them 
into lukewarm writer to cleanse them from 
their slime; then dress them in some stock, 
with a spoo.iful of flour, some salt, onions, 
roots, a bunrh of sueet herbs, a little ver- 
juice, and a little butter; when done, put 
them into a cullis with sonic stock; cook 
them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. 

CARROTS. Let them be well washed 
and brushed, not scraped. An hour is 
enough for young spring carrots ; grown car- 
rots must be cut in half, and will take from 
an hour and a hall" to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off the peels with a clean 
coarse cloth, and slice them in two or four, 
.-according to their size. The best way to 
try if they are done enough, is to pierce them 
with a fork. Many |x?t>ple are fond of cold 
carrot with cold beef; ask if you shall cook 
enough for some to Ix; left to send up v\ ith 
the cold meat. 



CARAMEL, OR BOILED SUGAR. 

Break into a small copper or brass pan, one 
pound of refined sugar, put in a gill of 
spring water ; set if on a fire, and when 
it boils, skim it quite clean, and let it boil 
quick, till it comes to the degree called 
Crack, which may be known by dipping a 
teaspoon or skew er into the sugar, and let 
it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold water; 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that 
decree; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, 
and let it remain one minute longer on the 
fire, then set the pan into anotlier of cold 
water: have ready moulds of any shape, 

rub them over with sweet oil, dip a spoon 
or (I irk into the sugar, and throw it over the 
mould in line threads, till it is quite covered: 

nfRke a small handle of caramel, or stick 
on two or three small gum paste rings, by 
way of ornament, and place it over small 

of any description. 



CARP, BOILED. Scale and clean a 
brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe; 
take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of 
sharp cider, add as much water as will cov- 
er the fish. a piece of horse-radish, an onion 
cut int'i slices, a little salt, and a faggot of 
sweet herbs; boil the fish in this liquor, and 
make a sauce as follows: strain some of 
the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and 
put to it the liver minced, a pint of Port 
wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of 
shallots chop|>ed, some salt and black pep- 
per, a little Cayenne, a table-spoonful of soy; 
boil and strain it, thicken it with flour and 
butter, pour it over the carp hot, garnish 
with the roe fried, cut lemon and parsley. 

CARP, STEWED. Scale and clean 
a brace of carp, reserving the liver and 
roe; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint 
of vinegar, which may IK- elder vinegar, if 
the flavor is preferred, with a little mace, 
three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, 
two onions sliced, a faggot of parsley, basil, 
thyme, and marjoram: let them soak an 
hour, then put them in a stewpan with the 
vinegar, and otln-r things, the liver chopped, 
a pint of .Madeira, and three pints of veal 
stock ; steu them an hour or two accord- 
ing to their siae; takeout the fish and put 
them over a |>an of hot water to keep warm 
while the following sauce is made: Strain 
the liquor, and add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten, half a pint of cream, a large spoon- 
ful of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir it constantly, and just before 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, lioil or fry the roe. 
Plain boiled carp may be served with this 
sauce, and is dished in a napkin. 

CARP, FRIED. Clean and scale a 






CAU 



45 



CHA 



carp; split it up the back; flatten the back- 
bone, sprinkle your fwh with flour, then 
sprinkle tlie roes which have been put aside, 
[Hit the whole into a frying-pan made very 
liot, fry to a rich color, and serve it with 
lemon-juice. 

CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or 
three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; 
add to them six eggs and a handful of flour; 
moisten them with either cream, milk, or 
white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all 
together well, and fry in boiling lard. When 
of a good color, take them off and squeeze 
on them the juice of a Seville orange, and 
strew over fine sugar. 

CARROT PUDDING. See Pudding. 

CASSILE. Mix two table-spoonfuls of 
potato-flour with two or tliree of cream or 
good milk; Ixoil for a few minutes with a 
ream or milk, the peel of a lemon 
and a bit of cinnamon ; stir it with^he flour 
UB] sweeten, and stir it again over 
the fire for three or four minutes; pour it in- 
to a mould ; turn it out when cold. 

CAULIFLOWF.R. ("boose those that 
are close and white, and of the middle size; 
trim off theoutside leaves; cut die stalk off 
flat at tin: bottom; let them lie in salt and 
water an liSar before you boil them. Put 
them into (Milling water with a handful of 
salt in it; skim it well, and let it lx>il slow- 
ly till done, which a small one will l>e in fif- 
livi. a lai-,-e one in about twenty minutes ; 



CAULIFLOWER SALAD. When 
you have prepared and boiled the cauli- 
flowers, drain and let them cool ; cut diem 
in pieces; season diem with salt, pepper, 
oil and vinegar, and cat diem as any other 
salad. 

CAUDLE. (1) Boil up half a pint of 
fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a 
large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, 
die same of white wine, one of capillaire, a 
piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. 

CAUDLE. (2) Make a fine smooth 

gruel of half-grits; when boiled, strain it, 
stir it at times till cold. When wanted for 
use, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with 
some nutmeg. According to taste, yon may 
add, if you please, besides die wine, a spoon- 
ful of brandy, or lemon-juice. 

CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil the gruel 

I die same as for white caudle, with six spoon- 

! fills of oatmeal, and strain jic then add a 

i quart of good ale, not bitterylioil it, then 

! sweeten it according to your taste, and add 

half a pint of white wine. When you do 

not put in die white wine, let it lie half ale. 

CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a quart of 
spring water; when cold, add die yolk of 
an egg, die juice of a small lemon, six sjxxm- 
fuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and 
one ounce of sirup of lemons. 

CECILS. Mix over the fire for a few 
minutes die following ingredients: minced 



, aou weny mnues; i lnues e oowng ngreens: mnce 

put it is enough, a min- meat of whatever kind yon please, bread 



ute or two longer boiling will .-|x,il it. 

CAULIFLOWERS OR BROCCOLI, 
riCKI.KI). Chooee those that are hard, 
yet sufficiently ripe, cut away the leaves and 
stalks. Set on a stew|xin half full of water, 
salted in proportion of a quarter of a pound 
of salt to a quart of water; throw in the 
cauliflower, and let it heat gradually ; wlien 
it Iniils take it up with a spoon fiill of holes, 
and .pre:id them on a cloth to dry lx,-fore 
the fire, t'.r twenty-four hours at least; when 
quite dry, put them, piece by piece, into 
i i;la-s tie-o\eis, and cover them with 
the pickle we have directed for beet roots, 
or make a pickle by infusing three ounces 
of the curry |x > der for three days in a quart 
of vinegar by the side of the fire. Nastur- 
tiums are excellent prepared as above. 



CutZTc 



crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, mit- 
iii- -LT. parsley chopped, j>cpper, salt, a little 
butter, and SMIK; anchovies. When nearly 
cojd, roll them up into balls alxnit the size 
of an e^; moisten tliem with 
bread crumbs o\er ;lie.n, and fry them of a 
good clear color: serve tliem with made 
gravy. 

CELERY, TO STEW. Wash and 
clean some heads of eelerv, cut them into 
pieces of two or three indies long, boil 
them in vtl sto>-k*tiM tender. To half a 
pint of cream add the well-beaten yol 
two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nut- 
meg, and salt, also a bit of butter; make it 
hot, stirring rt <; instantly; strain it upon the 
celery ; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it 
boil. 



CAII. I! LOWERS, PICKLED. Cut7\~ CHARLOTTE. (1) Cut a sufficient 
the canlitl .., -rs in pieces, and throw them number of thin slices of white bread t.. 
into boiling water tor a quarter of an hour; the U.itom and line tJie .sides of a haking- 
then lay them ..a cloth- to drain. I'm tliem dish, linrt mining it thickly with butter, 
in a jar with doves and salt, and cover Put thin sli-., s of apple* into the dish in 
them with tlie beat vinegar. la\em, till the dish is full, strewing sugar 



46 



CHE 



and bits of butter between. In the mean- 
time, soak as many thin slices of bread as 
will cover the whole,- in warm milk; over 
which place a plate, and a weight, to keep 
the bread close upon the apples ; let it bake 
slowly for three hours. For a middling- 
sized dish, you should use half a |xmnd of 
butter for the whole. 

CHARLOTTE. (2) This second course 
may be made of any kind of fruit you please, 
and is eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, 
core, and cut about twenty of them into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan 
with some water, a good piece of fresh but- 
ter, powder-sugar, pounded cinnamon, and 
grated lemon-peel, and stew till the water is 
dried up; then set diem to cool in an earth- 
en ware vessel. Cut some very thin slices 
of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh 
butter, and lay them nes^ly all over the bot- 
tom and round the sides of the stewpan ; 
then pour in the apples, leavjng a "hole in- 
die middle,4ui which ..put apricot marma- 
lade. Coveipbi<? whole witbjferead, sliced 
thin, and buttered 'as above."" Place it in a 
hot oven, bake it an houi* and turn it out. 

CHARLOTTE DBS POMMES. Pare, 
core, and mince fourteen or fifteen French 
rennet apples; put diem into a frying-pan, 
with some pounded loaf sugar, a little pound- 
ed cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and two 
ounces and a half of fresh butter ; fry them 
a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stir- 
ring diem constandy. Butter a shape of 
die size the charlotte is intended to be ; cut 
strips of bread about die widdi of two fin- 
gers, and long enough to reach from die 
bottom to die rim of die shape, so that die 
whole be lined widi bread ; dip each bit in- 
to melted butter, and dien put a layer of 
die fried apples, and one of apricot jam or 
marmalade, and then one of bread dipped 
into butter ; begin and finish with it. Bake 
it in an oven for nearly an hour ; turn it out 
to serve it. It may be boiled, and served 
with a sweet sauce. 

CHEESE, BOILED. Grate a quarter 
of a pound of good cheese, put it into a 
sauce pan, widi a bit of butter the size of a 
nutmeg, and half a tea-cupful of milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boil, and then add a well- 
U-aten egg; mix it all together, put it into 
a small dish, and brown it before die fire. 

CHEESE, CAKE OF. Take about the 
fourth part of a close, fat Brie cheese, pound 
and rub it through a sieve ; mix widi it a 
pint and a half of flour; lay it on the board, 
make a hole in die middle, into which put 
three quarters of a pound of butter, and work 
it in well ; add to it a litde Gruyere cheese 



grated, and six eggs. Knead these all to- 
gether well ; mould it up, and let it stand 
for half an hour ; then roll it out, and make 
it into a cake of about three inches; mark 
it widi a knife on one side in chequers, and 
on die odier in rays ; dcr~ez, and bake it in 
a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CREAM. Warm three hall 
pints of cream with one half pint of milk, 
or according to die same proportion, and 
put a little rennet to it ; keep it covered in 
a warm place till it is curdled; have a pro- 
per mould with holes, either of China or any 
other; put the curds into it to drain, about 
an hour, or less : serve widi a good plain 
cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

CHEESECAKES. (1) Put two quarts 
of new milk into a stowpan, set it near the 
fire, and stir in two table-spoonfuls of ren- 
net: let it stand till it is set (this will take 
alxwt an hour) ; break it well widi your 
hand, ajd let it'remain half an hour longer; 
then poVyftjff thje whey^and put die curd into 
a lokyider-to, drain ; '.vjjLien quite dry, put it 
in a mortar', aml^wmjuBk quite, .smooth; 
then add four oiinceS>fiKar,jwgHided and 
sifted, and three ounWsiif fr<*h butter; oil 
it first by putting it in ai 'fittle pptting-pot, 
and setting it near the fire; stir it all well 
together: beat the yolks of four eiri;> in a 
basin, with a little nutmeg grated, Icnioii- 
peel, and a glass of brandy ; add this to the 
curd, with two ounces of currants, washed 
and picked ; stir it all well togedier ; have 
your tins ready lined with puft' paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick, notch diem all 
round die edge, and fill each with die curd. 
Bake them twenty minutes. When you 
have company, and want a variety, you can 
make a mould of curd and cream, by put- 
ting die curd in a mould full of holes, instead 
of the colander: let it stand for six hours, 
dien turn it out very carefully on a dish, and 
pour over it half a pint of good cream sweet- 
ened with loaf sugar, and a little nutmeg. 
What there is left, if set in a cool place, 
will make excellent cheesecakes die next 
day. 

CHEESECAKES. (2) Put a spoonful 
of rennet into a quart of milk; when turned, 
drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gent- 
ly break the curd, and rub in a quarter of 
a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits 
grated, the yolks of four eggs, and die white 
of one, half an ounce of almonds, half bitter 
and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, 
widi two spoonfuls of rose water, four ounces 
of currants; put in the curd, and mix all 
togedaer. One quart of milk, and tliree 
dessert spoonfuls of rice-flour, six eggs, leave 



CHE 



47 



CHE 



out three of the whites, and currants to 
your taste. 

CHEESECAKES. (3) Beat eight 

eggs well, while ;i quart of milk is on tin- 
fire, ami uln-ii it luils, [Hit in the eggs, and 
Mir tin-in till they come to a curd ; men pour 
it nut, and when it is cold, put in a little 
salt, two spoonfuls of rose water, and three- 
quarters of a pound of currants well washed ; 
put it into pull panic, and bake it. If vou 
use tin patties lo bake in, butter them, or 
you will not be able to take them out; but 
if you bake them in glass or china, only an 
upper crust will be necessary, as you will 
not want to take them out when you send 
them to table. 

CHEESECAKES. (*} Take one pound 
of loaf sugar jxiundcd, six yolks, and four 
whites of eggs beaten, the juice of three fine 
lemon-, the united rind of two, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter; put these in- 
gredients into a saucepan, and stir tin- mix- 
ture gently over a i-low fire till it be of the 
Consistence of honey; pour it into small 
in-, .mil when cold [Mil pa|>er dipfx-d in 
brandy over them. It will keep good for a 
year. 

CHEESE, POUNDED. Cut a pound 

of good mellow cheese into thin bits; add 
to it two, and if the cheese is dry, three 
ounces of fresh butter; (xmnd, and rub them 
well together in a mortar till it is quite 
smooth. When cheese is dry, and for those 
whom digestion is feeble, this is the best 
way of eating it; and spread on bread, it 
makes an excellent luncheon or siipjier. 
Tin- pir/uance of this is sometime- inm-as- 
cd by |>!iiidii>!( with it curry powder, ground 
spire, black |x-p|x-r, ('avenue, and a little 
made mustard; and some moisten it with a 
glass of Sherry. If pressed down hard in 
a jar, and covered with clarified butter, 
it will keep for several days in cool weath- 



< 1IKESE, ROASTED. Grate three 

of fat clieese, mix it with the 

volks of two ei^s, four ounces of grated 

oread, and three ounces of butter ; beat the 

w h-i!e well in a mortar, with a dessert gpoon- 
fil of mustard, and a little salt ami pepper. 
Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces ; 
lav the paste, as above, thick upon them, 
put them into a Dutch oven covered with a 
dish, till hot through, n-ni' \e the di.-h, and 
let tin- cheese brown a little. Se. 
ible. 

Clll. I AKH. M.-lt three- 

quarters of an ounce of butler in a tea-cup- 
am, mix with it a quarter of a 



pound of good clieese finely grated, beat it 
well together ; put a slice of toasted bread 
into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, 
and brown it with a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR RABBIT. 

Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it 
in red wine, put it before the fire; cut some 
cheese in very thin slices, and nib some but- 
ter over tin- 1 >! torn of a plate, lay the cheese 
upon it, and pour in two or three spoonfuls 
of white wine, and a little mustard; cover 
it with another plate, and set it on a chafing- 
dish ot "coals two or three minutes, then stir 
it till it is well mixed ; when it is mixed 
enough, lay it upon die bread, and brown it 
with a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED. Cut a slice of 
bread alx >nt half an inch thick ; pare off die 
crust, and toast it very slightly on one side 
so as just to brown it, without making it 
hard or burning it. Cut a slice of good 
fat mellow cheese, a quarter of an inch 
thick, not so big as the bread by half an 
inch -in each aide: pare off the rind, cut out 
all the species and rotten parts, and lay it 
on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; 
carefully \\atch it tliat it does not bum, and 
stir it \\ith a spoon to prevent a pellicle 
lorming on the surface. Have ready good 
mustard, pepper and salt. If you observe 
the directions here given, the cheese will 
eat mellow, and will be uniformly done, 
and the bread crisp and soft, and will well 
deserve its ancient appellation of a " rare 
bit." This Receipt, as well as every other 
worth extracting, is from the Cook's Oracle. 
The Editor goes on to say. We have noth- 
ing to add lo the directions given for toa-t- 
ini; the chi-esc iii tlie last receipt, except that 
in sending it up, it will save much time in 
|xirt ioniii^ jt out at table, if you have half a 
dozen small silver or tin pan* to fit into the 
clieese-toaster, and do the clieese in these: 
each person may then be helped to a sepa- 
rate pun, and it will keep the clieese much 
liolter than the usual way of eating it on a 
cold plate. Obs. Ceremony seldom tri- 
umphs more completely o\er comfort than in 
the serving out of this dish; which, to be 
presented to the palate in perfection, it is 
imperainely incli-|-nsal)le tli.it it be intro- 
duced to the mouth as soon as it appears on 

the t.dile. 

CHERRY I'.KAMIV. (1) Pick and 
bruise right pounds ofblack maroon*, and the 
Balm-quantity of small black clierries ; let them 
stand lor t\\o months in a cask \\ith six 
gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and a quart of sirk well ctirred to- 
At ih- end <f that time it may b> 
drawn off and lttied. 



CHI 



48 



CHI 



CHERRY BRANDY. (2) Choose 
fine sound morella cherries, and having 
taken off the stalks, place them in layers 
in glass jars ; strew powder-sugar between 
each layer, and cover them with brandy. 
As soon as the cherries have imbibed the 
brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them 
constantly covered. 

CHERRIES, DRIED. Take large 
cherries, not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, 
and take out the stones with a quill cut 
nearly as for a pen: to three pounds of which 
take three pounds or pints of clarified sugar ; 
boil it to the degree of blown ; put in the 
cherries, give them a boil, and set them by 
in an earthen pan till the next day; then 
strain the sirup, add more sugar, and boil 
it of a good consistence; put the cherries in, 
and boil them five minutes, and set them by 
another day: repeat the boiling two more 
days, and when wanted, drain them some- 
time, and lay them on wire sieves to diy in 
a stove, or nearly cold oven. 

CHERRY PUDDING. See Puddings. 

CHERVIL, Is principally used in soups 
and stuffing, and is generally preserved with 
other herbs as follow s : take of sorrel, chervil, 
beet, purslain, and cucumbers, if in season, 
quantities according to your liking; wash 
them well; mince and press them in your 
hand, to squeeze out all the water. Put 
them into a kettle with water, some butter 
and salt, and boil them until the water is 
entirely consumed. Then take them out, 
and when cold, put them into pots; cover 
them with warmed butter. When you 
want to use these herbs, put them into some 
stock that has very little salt in it. If tliey 
are required for a farce or garnish, boil them 
a minute or two in some butter; thicken 
with the yolks of eggs and milk; when so 
prepared, they may be served under hard 
eggs or broiled fish. For sauce, it must be 
chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and 
mixed with melted butter. 

CHESTNUTS, Should be placed on the 
fire in a pan with holes to roast ; first slitting 
or cutting a notch in the skins, to pi-event 
their flying off. When done, serve them in 
dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible. 
Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting 
them, as the skins are then cleaner, but the 
nuts not quite so mealy; the better way 
is to boil them in plenty of water, and 
when nearly done, take them out and roast 
them. 

CHICKENS. Having picked the chick- 
ens, singe them well to remove all the hairs, 
'&c., which may remain on the skin; then 



bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw 
the strings from the thigh. Take out the 
crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck; 
then cut off the neck, leaving skin enough Jo 
turn over the back. Cut off the vent, and 
take out the inside, l>eing careful not to break 
the gall ; break the hack-bone and the two 
bones leading to the pinions ; wi)>e the chick- 
en with a cloth, and put in a little pepper 
and salt. If the chicken is to l)e trussed lor 
roasting, proceed as follows: Turn the legs 
close down to the apron and run a skewer 
through ; run another skewer in the joint of 
one wing through the liody to (he other wing ; 
and Inning washed the liver and <ri/,/.ard, 
place them in the pinions. For boiling, the 
under part of the thigh must he cut, and the 
legs placed under the apron, only letting die 
ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast 
very full. 

CHICKEN BROTH. See Broth. 

CHICKENS, BROILED OR GRILL- 
ED. Pick and singe them nicely, wash 
them clean, and dry them in a cloth ; cut them 
down the hack, truss the legs and wings, as 
for boiling; flatten them, and put them upon 
a cold gridiron; when they become a little 
dry, put them upon a plate, baste them with 
butter, and strew a little salt and pepper 
over the inside, which part is laid first upon 
the gridiron; baste them frequently, and let 
them broil slowly for alxnit half an hour. 
Serve them very hot, with melted butter 
poured over them, or plenty of stewed mush- 
rooms. The livers and gizzards may be 
broiled with them, fastened into the wings, 
or well seasoned, broiled, and served with 
the chickens. 

CHICKEN BAKED IN RICE. Cut 

a chicken into joints as for a fricassee, sea- 
son it well with pepper god salt, lay it into a 
pudding dish lined with slices of ham or ba- 
con, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onion 
finely minced ; fill up the dish with boiled 
rice well pressed and piled as high as the 
dish will hold, cover it with a |>oste of flour 
and w ater ; bake it one hour, and before serv- 
ing lake off the paste. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (1) Put the 

chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and 
boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one 
twenty minutes. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (2) When they 
are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in 
skim milk for alxiut two hours ; then put 
them into cold water, cover them close, and 
set them over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As soon as they have boiled slowly, 
take them from the fire, and let them remain 



CHI 



49 



CHI 



in the water close covered for half ;wi hour ; 
then drain and serve with white sauce. 

CHICKEN, BROILED. Split a couple 
of chic-kens, take out the inside- and back- 
bones, beat them with a wooden s; 
them in clarified hatter, and broil them, the 
in-idc next the lire (which .-hould be of 
charcoal), and only turn them to color them. 
Whr'i done, |xinr on tliem a sauce made as 
folio v\s : Boil some stewed mushrooms with 
k :ui.l plain sauce, an e<|iial quanti- 
t\ of each, until of a pro|>er eoOMtCBDBJ 
flavor it with lemon-juice and Cayenne jiep- 
per. 



CHICKENS CHIRINGATE. Having 
taken oil" the feet, lx;at tile bre:ist bones of 
your chickens flat without breaking the skin, 
flour and fry them in butter ; when of a nice 
brown take all the fat from tlie |xin, leaving 
in llie chickens, over which lay a pound of 
gra\y la-el" cut in thin slices, another piece 
of beef also cut thin, some mace, denes, 
pep|M-r, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of 
il>~: |xmr a quart of boiling water 
t>\er the whole, co\cr it (|ilite do-e, and let 
it stew ; in a qaart'-r of an hour take out 
the chickens, but let the gravy continue 
boiling, and when very rich strain it; then 
put it auain into the pun u ith a little red 
wine and a f-w mushrooms; tlK-n put in the 
chic-kens, and when they are hot, disli them 
up, anil pour the sauce over them; garnish 
with slices of lemon and broiled ham. 

nilCKKNSCRK.ME. (1) Parboil a 

couple of young chic-kens, cut them in pieces, 
and throw into warm water for half an hour; 
then do them over the lire in a little fresh 
butter, with salt, |>arslc-y, pepper, morels, 
&c. sprinkle with llour, and dilute w ith a 
glasa of boiling water; cover the stewpan 
close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the 
water Itts sojike-d into the chicken, then add 
half a pint of cream and a little butter. The 
yilks of tlint- c_'^s may be put in also, but 
in that ca.-e, a .-mall quantity of verjuice 
should be put in before tlie cream. 

CIHCKlvXSCREME. (2) Stuff and 
ro:ut \oiir chic-kens, and wlten you take them 
from the r-pit, rub them with buti< 
ili'-m with bread-crumb*, wrap them in 
I neon. a-id bake them a short time ; 
.- i .. with well thirkened cream-sauce. 

( IIICKKN CROQUETTES. (1) Re- 

dace two :-|Xionfuls of veloute or sauce tour- 
nee r and add to it tlie yolks of f 
put to tins the white meat of a chicken 
niiiic-eil \ery small, and well mixed with the 
.ke it out, and roll it into lulls about 
the size of a walnut ; roll them in bread- 
5 



crumbs, giving them an elongated form ; 
tlien clip them in some well-beaten egg, 
bread tin-in again, and fry them of a light 
brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (2) Mix 

well into some \e-ry thick bechamtlle and 
sonic gla/e the breast of a chicken, some 
lonuue, irutlles and mushrooms all minced 
very small; when quite cold roll them into 
little, balls aljout die size of a nut, and hav- 
ing Ix-alen up three eggs throw the kills into 
tliem. Take them out quickly and roll them 
in bread-crumbs; dip them a second time 
into the eggs, and cover them again with 
bread-cruuibe ; fry them as other croquette*. 
Lay filed parsley on a napkin in a dish, 
place the croquettes on, and round it, and 



CHICKEN CURRY. Take tlie skin 
off, cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in 
curry-powder and flour (mixed together a 
s|xxinf'ul of (lour to half an ounce of curry) 
fry two or three sliced onions in butter; 
when of a light brown, put in die meat and 
fry them together till the meat becomes 
brown; then stew tliem togedier with a lit- 
tle water for two or three hours. More 
w ater may be added if '.oo thick. 

CHICKEN CAPILOTADE. Put into 
a >t upaii a little butter and llour; add 
mushroom-, parsley, and shallots cut small, 
dilute 1 1 ie-.-e with equal quantites of stock, and 
red or white wine. When the sauce is well 
lulled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, 
and put it into this sauce; stew it gently 
for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherk ine 
cut in thin slices. 

CHICKEN, COLD FRIED. Cut the 

chicken in quarters, and take off die skin, 
nib it with an egg beaten up, and cover it 
widi grated bread seasoned with pepper, 
salt, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley, 
fry it in butter, thicken a little brown gravy 
with llour and butter, add a little Cayenne', 
lemon pickle, and mushroom catchup. 

CHICKENS .FRICASSEED. Prepare 
and cut up two chickens; put them in a 
stewpan with some butter, parsley, a bay- 
leaf, thyme, liasil, two cloves, mushroom, 
and a .-lice of ham ; let the.n stew ti 
ly any sauce remains, then add a little flour, 
warm water, salt and pepper; stew it again 
and reduce the sauce. When nearly done 
put in die yolks of three eggs beaten up 
widi a little cream or milk; thicken it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small qtran- 
tiu of li moil-juice or vinegar may be added. 
Place the breasts and bones of the chickens 
on a dish, lay tlie legs and wings over them. 



CHI 



50 



CHI 



and then pour the sauce over the whole ; 
garnish with the mushrooms. Take off the 
skins before you cut up the chickens if you 
wish die fricassee very white. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. Make a bat- 
ter with four eggs, some new milk, and 
rice-flour ; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- 
der-su;ar, candied lemon-peel cut small, 
fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts 
of a roasted chicken shred small; set all 
those together on a stove, and stir well for 
sometime; when done, take it off, roll out 
the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry 
them ; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the 
fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them 
hot. 

CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a 

chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan 
with a little butter; add to it some mush- 
rooms, parsley, sprinkle flour over, and 
shake them; moisten it with stock or water, 
and white wne; when it has boiled once, 
take it from the fire and put in the yolks of 
one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or 
lemon-juice. 

CHICKENS AND OYSTERS. Fill 

your chickens with young oysters cut small, 
truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. 
Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and 
toss them up in some melted butter, with 
chopped herbs and olive oil. When they 
have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, 
add a little white wine and half a glass of 
good stock, thicken it over the fire for an- 
other quarter of an hour, and when the 
chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce 
on them, and garnish the dish with oysters 
and some lemon. 

CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken 
in a quart of water until nearly (lone; then 
skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound 
it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in 
to a thick paste ; season it with salt, nut- 
meg, and lemon-peel; boil it up all together 
for a few minutes. 

CHICKEN AND HAM POTTED. 

Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, 
cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about 
three hours in a close covered pan with 
some water ; then pound them quite small, 
moistening either with melted butter, or the 
liquor they were baked in. Pound also 
some ham, and put this with the chicken in 
alternate layers, in potting pans, press them 
down tight, and cover them with butter. 



legs, break the bones, and boil them hi a 
little water till the strength be drawn out, 
strain it, and when it becomes cold skim 
and put it into a sauce pan with a little mace, 
white pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter 
mixed with flour, and ratlier more than a 
quarter of a pint of cream, then put in the 
meat, and a little mushroom powder ; before 
serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (2) Pick all the 
white meat from the bones of a cold roasted 
fowl, cut off the legs, and keep the back and 
sidesmen in one. Score, and season tlie legs 
and back with pepper and salt, and broil 
them; warm up the white meat in some 
sauce made of the txmes boiled in a little 
water, and which lias been strained and 
thickened with a piece of butter, mixed with 
flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up and seasoned with white pepper 
and salt ; serve the broiled back upon the 
mince, and the legs at each end. 

CHICKEN PIE. See Pie. 
CHICKEN ROASTED. See Fowls. 

"mJICKENS, SCOTCH WAV. Cut 

yoftr chickens into quarters, put them into a 
saucepan, with only just water enough to 
cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chop- 
ped parslev, and a little mace, cover them 
close down, when it boils, add six eggs 
well-beaten ; when the chickens are done, 
take out the parsley, and serve them in a 
deep dish with the sauce. 

CHICKENS AND TOMATA SAUCE. 

Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, 
salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nut- 
meg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chick- 
ens ; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon 
on the breast of the chickens, and lay them 
in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of ba- 
con; cover them witJi tlie same, and stew 
them with fire above and below for three 
quarters of an hour; when done, drain them 
in a cloth ; untie them, tind serve with toma- 
ta sauce. 

CHINA CHILO. Mince a pint basin 
of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and 
some of tlie fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a 
pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of pepper, 
four spoonfuls of water, and two or three 
ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan 
closely covered ; simmer two hours, and serve 
I in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If 
Cayenne is approved, add a little. 



CHICKEN PULLED. (1) Half roast CHILI, OR CAYENNE WINE. Pound 
a chicken or fowl, skin and pull off in small j and steep fifty fresh red Chilies, or a quar- 
flakes all the white meat and tlie meat of the j ter of an ounce of Cayenne pepper, in half 



CHO 



51 



CHO 



a pint of brandy, white wine, or claret, for 
fourteen days. This is a " bonne bouche" 
for the lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes 
up a larger proportion of its flavor than of 
it.- fire: which Ix-ing instantly diffused, it is 
a very useful auxiliary to warm and finish 
soups, sauces, &c. 

CHOCOLATE. According as you wish 
to make this beverage, either w itli milk or 
water, put a cup of one or oilier of these 
liquids into a chocolate-|>oi, with one ounce 
of cake chocolate. Some persons dissoKe 
the chocolate in a little water Ixjfore they put 
it into tin- milk. As soon as the milk or 
water begins to boil, mill it. When the 
chocolate is dissolved, and begins to bubble, 
take it off the (in-, letting it stand near it 
for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again 
to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out 
in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, 
unless it is prewired with cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. See Creams. 

CHOCOLATE FROTHED OR WHIP- 
PED. 1'ut lialf a pound of chocolate to a 
glass of water <.\cr a small (ire, stirring it 
with a wooden s|>oon until perfectly dk-olv- 
ed ; then take it off and add six yolks of 
eggs, a pint of double cream, and three 
quarters of a [xuniil of lewder-sugar. Pour 
tile whole into a pan. and when cold, whip 
it up as directed. SEE Cream Frothed. 

CHOCOLATE WINE. Take a pint of 
Sherry-, or a pint and a lialf of Port, four 
ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of 
fine sugar, and half an ounce of white starch, 
or line lie. in- ; mix, dissolve, and boil all these 
together for almut ten or twelve minutes. 
But if your chocolate is made with sugar, 
take donMe the quantity of chocolate, and 
half the quantity of sugar. 

CHOPS OR STEAKS. Those who 

arc ui:-e al*.ut steaks, never attempt to have 
them, except in weather which ]xTinits the 
meat to ! him? till it is tender, and give the 
butcher .-oine dav-' notii-e of t!i< ir wi.-h fir 
tliciii. If, friendly reader, you wish toenlei - 
tain your mouth wi'th a MiperUt ive U-cf-steak, 
ynii mii.-t have the inside of (lie sirloin cut 
into .-teak*. The next IK--I .-li .iks are tho.-e 
cut from tlie middle ,,f a riiiiip, I hat has Uvn 
killed atle:i>t loin day- ill moderate weather, 
iuid Hindi longer in cold weather, when ihej 
can lx> cut alxuit six inelie- Ion;;, fun i 
wide, and half an inch thick: do not U.it 
tlic.ni, which vulgar U ick breaks the cells in 
which the yr.i\y of the meat is contained, 
and it Ix-comes dry and ta-l.-h ss. V IJ. 
If your butcher semis steak.- which are not 
tender, we do in it insi.-t that \.,ii should 



object to let him be Ixwten. Desire tlie 
Ijutcher to cut them of even thickness; if he 
does not, divide the thicker from tlie thinner 
pieces, and give them time accordingly. 

CHOWDER. I,ay some slices cut from 
the fat part of a Ix-llv-piece of pork, in a 
deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a 
variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the 
|>ork. Bone and cut a fresh cod into thin 
.-liees, and place them on the pork ; then put 
a layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, 
then alternately the other materials until tlie 
pan is' nearly full, season with pepper and 
salt, put in about a pint and a lialf of water, 
lay a paste over the whole, cover tlie stewpan 
very close, and let it stand, with fire above 
as well as below, for four hours; then skim 
it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of 
.Madeira made hot over it, also some Jamaica 
pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and 
oysters; brown the paste slightly, and lay it 
over tlie whole. 

CHOWDER FOR TEN OR TWELVE. 

Take of salt |x>rk cut in thin slices, as much 
as will make half a pint of fat, when tried, 
which will do for two good sized cod or 
haddock. Be careful not to burn the fat 
First, put your fat in the pot. Secondly, 
cut your fish in as large pieces as will go 
into the pot ; then put a layer of fish on the 
fat ; pepper, salt and a few cloves, then a 
layer of the slices of pork, strewed over with 
onions cut fine ; then a layer of shiphread 
or hard crackers dipped in water ; then your 
thickening. Go on again with fish, &c. &c. 
as above, till your |xit is nearly full, then put 
in water until you can just see it, an 1 let it 
stew slowly, so as not to break tlie fish. 
After coming to a boil, it will be done in 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. N. B. Some 
like |x>latocs cut in slices, which may l in- 
troduced between each layer. Likewise 
wine or cider, as you fancy. QCJ- This 
Receipt is according to the most approved 
method, practised by fishing parties in Bos- 
ton harbor. 

CHOWDER, CL \ M , May Iw made in 
the same way, substituting a sufficient 
quantity of clams instead of cod, the heads 
or hard leathery |>art being first cat off. 
.Many prefer clam chowder, nicely cooked, 
to chowder made of cod, had. lock. &C. 
The pilgrim! to Plymouth, it is said, could 
cook this shell lisli and lolisters i.. nearly 
fifty dilli-icnt wa\s, anil even as puddings, 
pancakes, &c. 

C1IOUX. Put a pint of water into a 
slew pan, with half a pound of fresh butler, 
the rim!- of twu lemons grated, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt; 



coc 



COD 



as sxm as the water begins to boil, add as 
much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when 
the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring 
with a spoon until quite done, then let it 
cool. After that, break into it a sufficient 
(after of egg! to make the paste soft ; taking 
rare that it he firm enough to allow you to 
work it up with the hand ; when it may In- 
formed according to fancy. This paste may 
be glazed and garnished either with almonds 
or pistachio nuts; when baking the chour, 
be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. 

CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil a 
pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it 
two eggs well-beaten ; then boil them togeth- 
er until they become a curd. Beat a feu 
blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little 
orange-flower water; put them to the curd, 
and add some Naples biscuits and green cit- 
ron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake 
in tins. 

CITRON PUDDING. See Puddings. 

CLARET PUFFS. Mix together, and 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of 
claret, and rather more than one of rich 
cream; let it stand a night, and then whisk 
it to a froth, which take oft" as it rises, and 
put upon the back of a sieve to drain ; heap 
it upon a dish, sweeten some rich cream, 
and pour it round the froth, to make it float. 

CLOVE, ESSENCE OF. Infuse a 
drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of 
the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary's 
measure. 

CLOVE WATER. Mix a little cinna- 
mon with the cloves, or the scent will l>e 
too strong; allow half a score of cloves to a 
quart of water; put in a good piece of 
sugar; let them infuse some time over hot 
embers, or in a warm place; then strain it 
for use. 

COBBLER. Name given U bread 
toasted on one side only. 

COCHINEAL PREPARED. Pound 
an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, 
pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and 
two drachms of alum; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan with half. a pint of water; 
when it boils take it from the lire, and let 
it cool ; pour it oft' into a bottle, as free from 
sediment as possible, and set it by for use. 

COCOA. Put into a saucepan one ounce 
of good cocoa and one quart of water; cover 
it, and when it boils, set it In the side of the 
fire to simmer for two hours. It is some- 
times made in a larger quantity, poured 



from the sediment, and boiled up as it IB re- 
quired. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (1) 

Cut the nut out of the shell, jvire it carefully, 
and throw it into cold water; then grate it, 
andlxiil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each 
jxjund of the cocoa-nut; until quite thick; 
stir it frequently to prevent its burning. 
Then pour it on a well buttered dish or mar- 
ble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you 
1 think proper. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (2) 

Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar 
so thick by a great deal; then stir into it 
whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must 
be served in jelly gla- 

COD. A cod-fish should be firm and 
white, the gills red, and the eye lively; a 
fine fish is \ery thick alxmt the neck; if the 
flesh is at all flabby it is nut good. Cod la 
in its prime during the months of October 
and November, if the weather be cold; from 
the latter end of March to May, cod is also 
very fine. The length of time it requires 
for boiling depends on the si/.e of the fish, 
which varies from one pound to twenty; a 
small fish, about two or three pounds weight 
will Ix? stitlicientlv boiled in a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the following 
manner: empty and wash it thoroughly, 
scrape ofTall the scales, cut open the Ix-lK*, 
and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt 
inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. 
The simple way of dressing is i>a.~ follows: 
Tic up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, 
with plenty of water and salt in it ; boil it 
gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay 
a napkin under the fish, and garnish with 
slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. 



COD BAKED. (1) Soak a fine piece 
of the middle of fresh cod in melted butter, 
with parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine; 
let it stand over the lire lor sometime, and 
then bake it. I*et it be of a good color. 

COD BAKED. (2) Choose a fine large 
cod, clean it well, and open the under part 
to the bone, and put in a stulYing made with 
i i :ii>!cy, .-wi'd hcibs sliced fine', an 
egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
mace and grated lemon-ix-cl ; put this inside 
the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered pa- 
per, and Iwike it; baste it well with melted 
butter. 

COD, TO CRIMP. Cut a fresh cod in- 
to slices or steaks; lay them for three hours 
in salt-and-water, and a glass of vinegar: 
when they may lx; boiled, fried, or broiled 



COF 



53 



COF 



COD PIE. See Pie. 

COD SOUNDS. This ia the white skin 
of die belly, and is reckoned a great delica- 
cy, and may be either boiled, bruited, or 
fried. Previous to dressing either way, they 
should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a 
little. 

COD SOUNDS, BOILED WITH GRA- 

FY. Scald tin-ill in hot water, and rub them 
well wilh salt ; blanch them, that is, take off 
thi- Marked dirty skin, then set them on in 
cold water, and let them simmer till they 
beuin to 1 tender; take them nut, flour, and 
broil them on tile gridiron. In tile mean- 
time, take a little good gravy, a little mus- 
tard, a little liit of butter rolled in flour, give 
it a lx>il, season it with pepper and salt. 
Lay tile sounds in your dish, and pour die 
sauce over them. 

COD SOI -ND.S, BROILED. Letthem 

lie in (toiling water till it is nearly cold, rub 
them uiih .-alt, and pull off the black and 
dirty skin, Imil them in hot water, drain, 
and dust them with flour, rub them over 
with Uitler, season with white pepper and 
Kilt, and broil them. Put a table-spoonful 
of catchup, half a one of soy, and a little Cay- 
enne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over 
them. 

COD SOUNDS, ROASTED OR BAKED. 

\\ ash and clean four or five cod sounds, and 
bod ill. 'in till nearly done in milk-and-water ; 
when cold, make a forcemeat of bread 
crumbs; a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, 
white |M-ppcr, and some chop|>ed ovsters; 
beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay- 
it over the sounds, roll tin-in up, and la-ten 
wilh a small skewer, baste them with melted 
Imticr. and roll tln-m in finely grated bread 
crumbs seasoned with |u-p|x-r and salt; put 
them on a tin in a Dutch o\en, turn and 
ba-te them wilh a featlier dipped in melted 
butter, and strew over bread crumbs as be- 
fore ; uh'-n done, and ofa nice brown, nerve 
tliem \\ilh oyster sauce in the dish. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, 

To Hon.. Wash it clean; tie it up, and 
dry it with a cloth. All nv in the propor- 
tion of c\i-ry three measures of water, one of 
wilt; wlx-n it Uiils take oflf the scum; put 
in the lish, and kit-p it boiling \ery la.-l fir 
twenty-live or thirty minutes. Serve with 
tin- KM- mid ,,,il( parboiled, cut into slices, 
and fried, and garnish wilh curled parsley 
and In. isc-radish. Sauces: .\>lei, inched 
butter, DI anch..\y luiller. 



TV c,i, .-,>,( should be 
three parts full of lx,jli,i_r u.ii,.,-; tlie milit- 



ia to be added a spoonful at a time, and well 
stirred between each ; then boil gently, still 
stirring to prevent the mixture from boiling 
over as the coffee swells, and to force it into 
combination with tile water, this will be ef- 
fected in a few minutes, after which, the 
most gentle boiling must IK- kept up during 
an hour. The coffee must then be i-cmn\ed 
from the fire to settle, one or two spoonfuls 
of cold water thrown in assists the. clarifica- 
tion, and precipitates die grounds. In about 
an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become 
clear, it is to be poured into another vessel, 
taking care not to disturb the sediment. 
Coffee made in this manner will be of the 
finest flavor, and may tie kept three day* 
in summer, and four or five in winter; when 
ordered for use, it only requires heating in 
die coffee-pot, and may be served up at two 
minutes' notice. Coffee should never be 
roasted but at the precise time of its being 
used, and then it should be watched with 
the greatest care, and made of a gold color 
rather than a brown one ; above all, take care 
not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt 
will be sufficient to communicate a bitter 
and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. 
Jt is the best way to roast it in a roaster, 
(over a charcoal fire), which turns with tlie 
hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which 
often is the case when on a spit before die 
fire. 

COFFEE, FRENCH METHOD OF 
PREPARING. 1st. Let your coffee be dry, 
not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2d. 
Divide the quantity lhat is to be roasted into 
two parts. 3d. Roast the first part in a 
coder- roaster, the handle of which must be 
kept constantly turning until the coffee be- 
comes tile color of dried almonds or bread - 
raspings, and has lost one eighth of its 
weight. llh. I toast the second |>art until 
it assumes the fine br\\n color of clu.-tniits, 
and has lost OIK- tilth of its \\cight. 5th. 
Mix the two parts together, and grind them 
in a coffee mill. 6th. Do not roast or make 
your collee until the day it is u anted. 7th. 
To two ounces of ground coffee, jwit four 
cups of cold water. Draw off this infusion, 
and put it aside. Sth. Put to tlie coffee 
which remains in the biggin, three cups of 
lioilini: water, (hen drain it oil' and add this 
inl'n.-i'/'i to that which has Ix-cii put aside. 
By thi.- method you obtain three cups more. 
When your coffee is wanted, In-at it (|iiickly 
in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let 
it boil, that tlie perfume may not U.- lost by 
undergoing any evaporation. Then pour it 
into cu|M, which each person may sweeten 
according to his taste. Particular care 
shoulil be taken not to make roflit- in a tin 
vessel; it should be made either in a China 
vessel, or one of Delft ware, or in one of 



COL 



54 



cou 



silver. For a long time, the tin bigjins, in- 
vented by .Monsieur de Belloy, were made 
use of; but some person has since improved 
upon Ins plan, by making them of silver or 
porcelain, which are found to lie much tetter. 

COFFEE CREAM. (1) Mix three 
cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, 
and sugar according to taste; boil them to- 
gether, and reduce them about one-third ; 
observe that the codec must be done as- if it 
was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, 
before you mix it with the cream. 

COFFEE CREAM. (2) Boil a calf's 
foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jellv; 
clear oil' the sediment ami lilt. .Make a tea- 
cup of eery strong coffee; clear it with a 
bit of isinglass, to Ix: perfectly bright; pour 
it to the jellv, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lislxi'i sugar as is 
pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into 
tile dish. It should jelly, but not l;e still'. 
Observe that your coffee be fresh. 

COLLOPS. Cut some veal cutlets; fry 
them a good brown, but not too much; take 
some good gravy, thicken it with a little 
flour, bi'il it a few minute.-; add Cayenne, 
catchup, truffles, morels, salt, n 
pickled, "rated lemon-peel; simmer this up, 
just heat th" coli.ips through, add whatgravy 
came iVom them, but do not let them boil, or 
they will lie hard; add I'ueeiaeal halls, hard 
yolk i.f e^gs; lay round little .slice, nf ba- 
con, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. 

COLLOPS, MINCED. Cut two 

pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices 
it is l>est taken from off the rump, or round ; 
mince it very finely; brown two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, dredging it with a 
little Hour, then add the minced meat, and 
1 iling it with a Ix-ater till of a nL-e 

brown color. Have ready some highly-sea- 
soned !>(!' gravy, which, with the minced 
c::!l'>]'s, put into a saucepan, and let it stew 
half a\> h -nr ; and just l>eforc serving, put a 
titble-sjXKunful of mushroom catchup, and, if 
liked, some green pickles. Beef suet is as 
ofieii used as butter to fry the collops in. 

COLLOPS, RUSSIAN. Break four eggs 
, into a stewpan, and mix with them two 
S]X>onfuls of /lour, then half a glass of good 
Cieam, a spoonful of warm butter, and a 
grain of salt ; when these are well mixed to- 
gether, |H)ur some of it into a large frying-pan, 
and fry it of a light color on both sides; 
then take it out, and fry more in the same 
way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen 
very thin, cut each in half, and trim them 
into oblong pieces all the same size: lay on 
each some quenelle, minced fowl or game, 



as if for croquettes; wrap the fried batter 
round it, wetting the edges, that (hey may 
adhere properly, with a little of the batter, 
having reserved some for the purpose; ihen 
have ready beaten, six eggs and a little salt, 
mask till-in with brcad-<Tiiii]l>s, fry them of a 
good color, and serve them quickly. 

COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cut- 
lets (taken from the fillet) into small thin 
pieces, and fry thf-in in a little hoilin<; lard 
till of a light brown color. Drain them dry, 
put them into a stewpan. add eullis. Mewed 
mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, 
pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of 
throat sweetbread.:, and egg balls. Let 
tilt-in simmer over a slow lire till tender, 
season to the palate, and serve them with 
ras!i;Ts of broiled bacon round them. 

COLD MEAT BROILED, WITH 
POACHED EGGS. The inside of a sirloin 
of Iv;.'/' is best tiir this di^h, or a leg of mut- 
ton. Cut the .-licesof even and equal thick- 
ness, and broil and brown them tarofiilly 
ant! slightly over a clear smart (ire, or in a 
Dutch oven; give those slices most fire that 
are least done; la\ them in a dish Ix-fore the 
(ire to keep hot, while you |x>ach the eggs, 
and mash potatoes. 

COLORING FOR JELLIES, CAKES, 
&c. For a beautiful red. boil fifteen grains 
of cochineal in the (ine.-t powder, with a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water very slowly, half an 
hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the 
size of a pea. Or use Ix-ct-root sliced, and 
some liquor poured over. For white, use 
almonds finely powdered with a little drop 
of water ; or us; 1 IT. am. For ycllw-. y .!!- - 
of eggs, or a bit of sa)1ro:i steeped in the li- 
quor, and sq-.ice/ed. For green, |>ound 
spinach-lea-, e>. or bect-lcavcs, esprcss the 
juice, and boil a tea-cupful in a >aucepan 
of water, to take oft' the rawness. 

CONSO.MMF,. Take cbjit or ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eijht old hens, two 
young ones, and fmr knuckles of Viol; put 
o a large pot, and till it with strong 
broth; skim it well, cooling it three or lour 
times to make the scum rise, after which let 
it boil gently; put into the |H>t carrots, tur- 
nips, onions, and three cl'iM's. ^ hen your 
meat is sufficiently done, pass the liquor 
through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it 
may lie very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong broth be used. 

COUGLAUFFLE, GERMAN. Take 

three pounds of (lour, an ounce and a half 
of yeast, an ounce of tine salt, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks of 



cou 



55 



CRA 



twelve more, two pounds of fresh butter, 
three glasses of milk, and a quarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds. Proceed \villi 
these materials in tlic following manner: 
put the twitter (having slightly wanned half 
a pound of it), into a glazed pan, and with 
a l;ir_fc wooden spoon work it up fir six or 
seven minutes; then put in two whole eggs, 
anil stir it two minutes ; then add three yoiks, 
and stir again two minutes; in this manner 
put in the whole number of eggs anil yolks; 
which will produce a kind of smooth cream. 
Then In decrees mix in two pounds of die 
flour, dissolve the yeast in a jjlass. of warm 
milk, strain it through a napkin, stir this in 
well, with another half pound of flour; 
make a hollow in the paste, in \\hu-li put 
the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards 
pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the 
whole together with the remainder of the 
flour; continue to work it up lor ? 

i the whole ingredients are jii|t in, 
adding a small quantity of warm milk, whk'li 
will render it smooth. Havea mould ready, 
butter it, and lay the sweet aim* nds, each 
cut in hail", over the bottom of the muU, in 
firms, 0:1 wliich pour the paste carefully, 
and in small quantities, so as not V) derange 
the almonds. Place your mould in a warm, 
but not a li.it place, that the cake may rise 
pro|>crly ; and when that operation has taken 
place, put it into a moderate oven, which 
phould he Kept closed; in an hour's time 
look nt the Couglaiiffle, and if it !>; flexible, 
and of a 11,'ht coin-, let it remain thirty or 
forty inimues longer; but if it be (inn and 
red it i- .Millirie.itK d .me; whea taken from 
the mould, put it into the oven again for a 

COUGLAUFFLE3, SMALL. To 

m;ikc :i d.i/,1-11 small couglauffles, take three 
quarters of a jmiind of llour, tlui-e drachma 

. uvo of sail. l>vo whole e 
yolk<. two ounces uf .-uijar, a littfe cream, 
and half u |xmud of Imtter. The prepara- 

tion i> mad ill.- .-.i.ue as the (icrmau Cou- 

glaujffl". \Vln-u the past*- is maile, di\ide 

it i-ii p iiu-l\e e.|ii:il (tarts; butter a <\ /.<. \ 

cuuli bi.-cuit iiD.ild.-. and lill e.i.-li \\ith \"iir 

. .'i, and Irl tin-. a stand: u hull risen 

fill tli-- in .uiMs, put tin in into a 

1'i'i-U o\eii, HIM! t.iue ill MI out o.s 80011 as 

of a light ef,l,,r. 



{I'l'.S. Put into a saucepan tin- 
yolk.- i if sixteen eggs, U>e rinds of two lem- 
ons, half an ounce of salt, and t\\ 

;uir a pint of boiling 
cream, .-lining it quick; set it on the tire, 
but do not let it K>il, Mi-iin it through a 
bolting, and then let it cool ; take two 
pounds of Hour, and make a quarter of it 



into Jeaverr with half an ounce of yeast and 
a little warm water, keep it rather moist, 
and put it mto a warm place to rise: in the 
meantime, make the remainder of the flour 
into a paste, with the cream and a quarter 
of a pound of Initter, knead it up five or six 
times; then put in the leaven, and knead it 
again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and 
set it in a warm place. In about two hours 
take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the 
size of an egg, form them to that shape, and 
lay them on a baking tin, and leave them 
for half an hour to rise, then gild and 
Inke them in a hot oven; when done, open 
each on one side, take out a little of the 
crumb, in the place of which put a bit of 
bulier \\.irked n;> with a little salt, and 
serve them. 

COURT BOUILLON. Cut a proper 

quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and ttir- 
:ii: .--. a..id put them into a saucerxin widi 
ns|< \, Liarli,-, thyme, basil, salt, a 
mignonette and cloves; sweat them OUT a 
gentle lire; add white wine, vinegar or 
verjuice ; boil, and then strain it, and servo 
it -with whatever you may require it for. 
It is generally used for fish. 

COURT BOUILLON FOR ALL 
SORTS OF FRESH WATER FISH. Put 
some wafer into a fish-kettle, with a quart 
of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, 
a large bunch of parsley ami young onions, a 
clove of garlic, thyme, Iray-k-aves, and basil 
all tied together, some sliced onions and 
some carrots ; boil the fish in this court 
bouillon, (which will serve for several times) 
and do not scale it ; when the fish will ad- 
mit of it, take care to boil it wrap|:e.d in a 
napkin, which makes it more easy to take 
out without danger of breaking. 

< 'I )\V-I IEEL, In the hands of a skilful 
cook, will furnish several good meals; when 
boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, 
ei;,' and bread-crumb them, and fry them a 
lijil brown; lav them round a dish, and put 
in the middle of it sliced onions tried, or the 
accompaniments ordered for trijx-. The 
liquor they were boiled in will make 
gap* 

CRACKNELS. Mix a quart of flour, 
half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs 
beaten, with four spoonfuls of roscwaler, into 
a stiff p:i>lc, uiih cold water; tlicn nib in a 
l mi id of Uitter, and make into a cracknel 
sha|>e; [Hit theai into a kettle of U)iling 
water, and Ixiil them till the\ swim; then 
take them out. and put them into cold water; 
when ha.d.'ni-d, l:i\ them out to dry, and 
bake thcai oil tin plate*. 



CRE 



56 



CRE 



CRACKIS'ELS, SMALL SOFT. Blanch 
half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a fine paste, adding to them by de- 
grees six eggs ; when thoroughly pounded, 
jxinr on them .1 pound of powder-sugar, the 
same of butter, and tlie rinds of two lemons 
grated ; beat up these ingredients in tlie 
mortar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and 
having poured the almond paste on it, knead 
them together until they are well incorporat- 
ed ; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into 
such forms as you may think proper, rub 
them with yolk of egg, and strew over them 
powder-sugar or cinnamon: then lay them 
on a buttered tin, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven, taking great care that they do not 
burn. When done, put them into glasses, 
and if preserved in a dry place they are tlie 
better for keeping. 

CRANBERRIES, DIFFERENT WAYS 
OF DRESSING. For pies and puddings, 
with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a 
jar, with tlie same ; this way they eat well 
with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus 
done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes 
a fine drink for people in fevers. 

CREAM, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound to a paste, with rose water, six 
ounces of almonds, mix them with a pint 
and a half of cream which has been boiled 
with the peel of a small lemon ; add two 
well-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over 
the fire till it be thick, taking care not to 
allow it to boil ; sweeten it, and when near- 
ly cold, stir in a table-spoonful of orange- 
flower or rose water. 

CREAM, APPLE. (1) Boil twelve 
large apples in water till soft, take off the 
peel, and press the pulp through a hair sieve 
upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar; 
whip tlie whites of two eggs, add them to 
the apples, and beat all together till it lx>- 
comes very stiff, and looks quite white. 
Serve it heaped up on a dish. 

CREAM, APPLE. (2) Peel and core 
five large apples ; boil them in a little water, 
till soft enough to press through a sieve; 
sweeten, and beat with them the whisked 
whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream 
poured round it. 

CREAM, ARROW-ROOT. Mix a ta- 
ble-spoonful of arrow-root with a tea-cupful 
of cold water ; let it settle, and jxnir the wa- 
ter off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk 
with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; 
pick them out, and pour it tailing upon the 
arrow-root, stirring it well and frequently 
till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china 
dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the 



top. It may be eaten with any preserved 
fruit, or fruit tarts. 

CREAM, BACCHIC. Put a pint and a 
half of white wine, with .some lemon-peel, 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three 
ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and let 
them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix 
half a tea-spoonful of Hour with tlie yolks of 
six eggs in another ste\v|>an, and stir in by 
degrees the oilier previously lx>iled ingre- 
dients. When about half cold, strain tlie 
whole through a sieve and put it in a dish 
in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is 
set; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAM, BARLEY. Boil a small quan- 
tity of pearl barley in milk and water, till 
tender, strain off the liquor, and put the 
barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. 
Then take the whites of five eggs and the 
yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of 
flour, and two of orange-flower water. Take 
tlie cream from tlie fire, mix the eggs in by 
degrees, and set it over the fire again to 
thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or 
glasses for use. 

CREAM, BURNT. Boil a pint of cream 
with the peel of a lemon, sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar; teat, with the yolks of 
six, and whites of four eggs, one table-s|x>on- 
ful of flour, the same of orange-flower water 
and of ratafia ; strain the cream, and when 
nearly cold, mix it with tlie eggs and other 
things ; stir it over the fire till it becomes as 
thick as a custard; put it into the dish it is 
to be served in. Boil with a little water 
some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, 
but do not stir it till taken off die fire; by 
degrees pour it in figures over tlie top of tlie 
cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

CREAM CAKES. See Cakes. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (1) Take 

a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of 
three eggs, and five ounces of powder ?iiL;:ir, 
mix these ingredients together, set them on 
the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till 
reduced to a quarter; tlien add two ounces 
of grated chocolate ; and having Ixjiled a lit. 
tie longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve 
it cold. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (2) Take 

about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to 
pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it looks 
smooth and thick; then add a little more 
milk, and stir it again over the fire; con- 
tinue this till it takes the thickness of cream; 



CRE 



57 



CRE 



sweeten it to vour palate with clarified su- 
gar; stir in a little thick cream with a very 
little isinglass, rub it through the tammy, 
and set it in the mould. 

CREAM CUSTARD. See Custard. 

CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a liandf.il 
of flour, with tlir.i- whole ci;^s,and the yolks 
of six, lour pounded macaroons, gome dried 
orange-Hi meis, browned in sugar, a little 
candietl lemon-peel chop|x'd very line, half 
a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a 
lump of sugar; boil the whole OMT a gentle 
fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream 
turns to a thick paste ; then let it cool in a 
dish well floured, shaking Ilour all oxer it. 
When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, 
roll them in your hands till they become 
round, and fry them of a good color; when 
them, powder them all oxer \xitli 
sugar. 

.. M FROTH. Put a pint of fresh 

mi into a stone pan. \vith half a 
pound of (xmder sugar, a pinch of gum 
i llnle crisped orange-flower, and 
I* of cedrat essence; when the su- 
grir is dissolved, place the [Kin in another, in 
which is three p< Hinds of ice beaten up with 
saltpetre; whip the cream in the usual man- 
ner, taking off the froth as it rises with a 
Bkimui'T, lay it gently on a sieve over a 
pan ; if the cream does not froth properly, 
add die whites of two eggs. This cream is 
usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, 
ild IK- prepared two or three hours 
it is x\ anted. 



;i; i : \ M r< >R FRUIT TARTS. Boil 

l, txvo or three peach 

* bruised hitter almonds, in a 

quart of milk; strain, sxxii-len, and mix it, 

-il, xxith three or four well-lx-aten 

,' it constantly oxer the fire till it 

It may ! eaten xvith slewed 

apple*, prunes, damsons, or any other fruit. 

\M. IMI'KRIAL. Boilaquartof 
>tli (! thin rind of a lemon; then 
etir it till nearly cold; have ready in a 
Ixuxl that you are to serve in, 
of three lemons strained, with as 
much siijTir as xx ill sweeten the cream, which 
pour into the dish from a large teapot, hold- 
ing it high, and moving il alxuit to mix with 
the juice. It should be made at least six 
hours In-fore it i served, and will be still 
better if a day. 

CREAM ITALIAN. (1) Boil a pint and 
a half of milk in a stexxpan, then add to it 
the peel of a voting lemon, some coriander 
seed, a bit of cinnamon, ratltcr more than 



half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and txvo 
or three grains of salt; let it t>oil till half is 
consumed ; then let it stand to cool, and 
have ready in anodier atewpan a little (lour, 
beat up with the yolks of six eggs; stir it 
by degrees into the cream; strain it through 
a sieve, and put it in the dish tor table, 
placing the dish in some hot water over the 
lilt- till the cream is set. Before serving, 
brown with a salamander. 

CREAM ITALIAN. (2) Put a gill of 
good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonfuls 
of powder-sugar, and a little orarige-llower 
water, into a pan, and whip them up togeth- 
er; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, 
put it into a deep dish, xvith plenty of pow- 
der-sugar; set it on hot ashes, cox-er it, and 
lay hot ashes on die top, which must be 
renewed until the cream is done enough; 
then let it cool, and serve it. 

CREAM, LEMON. Steep die thinly- 
pared rinds of four large lemons in a pint of 
water for twelve hours ; strain, and dissolve 
in it three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf 
sugar, add the juice of the lemons strained, 
and the well-lx-aten \x i. i, and the 

yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, 
stirring it constantly one way, till it is like 
a thick cream; pour it into a glass or china 
dish. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (1) Squeeze and 
strain the juice of eleven oranges, sweeten 
it well with pounded loaf sugar, stir it over 
a slow fire till the sugar be dissolved, and 
take off the scum as it rises; when cold, 
mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve 
eggs, to which a pint of cream has been 
Mr it again over the fire till thick. 
Serve in a glass dish or custard-cups. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (2) Sweeten, 
with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of good 
cream; mix xxith it a small xxiiu- 
orange-lluxver water, the grated rind and 
the juice of a Seville orange; whisk it till 
quite thick; soak some macaroons in white 
wine, and pile them in the middle of a glass 
or china dish, and heap the whip|x>d cream 
over them a? high as possible. Some hours 
after, ornament it with slices of green citron 
cut into straws, and stuck into the cream. 

CREAM, RATAFIA. In a t.-a-oupful 
of thin cream Ixiil txvo or three large laurel, 
or young peach leaves ; when it has boiled 
them or four minutes, strain, and mix with 
il a pint of rich sweet cream ; add three welK 
Ix-alen whiles of eggs, and sweeten it with 
|XMinded loaf .-r.spir. Put it into a saucepan,. 
and stir it gently one way over a slow fire- 
till it be thick; pour it into a china dish, 



CRE 



58 



CRE 



and when quite cold, ornament it with sweet- 
meats cut out like flowers; or strew over 
the top harlequin comfits. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (1) Mix a 

little pounded Ioafsug-.tr with a pint and a 
half of good cream, about a tea-cupful of 
raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and 
the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well to- 
gether, and, with a syllabub mill, mill it 
slowly for lialf an hour, or till it be thick and 
solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in 
custard glasses. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (2) Put six 
ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream, 
pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the 
juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whi.sk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or 
glasses. Strawberry cream may be made 
in the same way. For common use, substi- 
tute good milk for the cream. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (1) Pick 
the currants from the stalks, put them into a 
jar closely covered, and stand it in a pan 
of cold water; let it boil for two hours, strain 
the juice through a sieve, and sweeten it 
well with pounded loaf sugar. When cold, 
add a quart of cream to a pint of juice, and 
beat it with a whisk till thick. Serve in a 
deep glass dish. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (2) 
Squeeze three-quarters of a pint of juice 
from red currants when full ripe, add to it 
rather more than a quarter of a pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon ; stir it into a pint and a half of cream, 
and wfaiak it till quite thick. 

CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of four eggs ; sweeten and 
boil a pint of good milk, drop about three 
table-spoonfuls of the froth into it, turn it 
over once, or twice with the spoon, take it 
out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve 
placed over a large plate; repeat this till it 
is all done; add to the milk another half 
pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it 
with the beaten yolks of the eggs; stir it 
over the fire till thick ; put it into a basin, 
and stir now and then till nearly cold ; add 
a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of 
brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lav 
the whites of the eggs over the top at equal 
distances. Cut citron and candied orange- 
peel into straws, and put them over the 
whites of the eggs, or strew over them color- 
ed comfits. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. Mix one 

or two table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice 
with a little good slock, ratlier cold than 



hot; add this to some boiling stock, and 
keep stirring till it boils; and let it boil till 
sufficiently thick. The flour of rice may be 
made as follows: Wash in several waters 
a pound of rice ; wipe it in a clean towel, 
and when perfectly dry pound and sift it 
through a sieve. 

CREAM, SNOW. Take a pint of fresh 
cream, and mix with it eight spoonfuls of 
powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
a spoonful of orange-flower water, 6r any 
oilier aromatic ingredient you like better; 
whip it, and remo\e the froth or snow in 
the usual way. This cream may l>e colored 
according to your fancy, with saffron, car- 
mine, or indigo. 

CREAM, SOLID. Squee/e the juice 
of a large lemon upon three or lour table- 
spoonfuls of |x untiled loaf sugar, add two 
table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pint of 
cream; pour it from one cup into another, 
till it lie sufficiently thick. 

CREAM, SPANISH. Boil, in half a 
pint of water, half an ounce of isinglass, till 
dissolved; strain, and mix it with a quart 
of cream or good milk; if cream, not so 
much isinglass; stir il over the tire till it 
come to aboil; when a little cooled, add 
gradually the liealen volks of six eggs, and a 
glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep 
dish, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, stir 
it till cold, and then put it into a shape. 

CREA3I, STONE. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of lemon -juice, and the grated peel 
of one, some preserved apricots, or any other 
svuvtmeat, into a glassor China dish. Boil 
a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little 
water, till dissolved ; add it toa pint of cream, 
sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; 
boil it, and stir it all the time; |ur it into 
a jug, stir it now and then till milk-warm, 
then pour it over the sweetmeat round and 
round. Il may be made the day before 
being served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (1) Boil the grated 
peel of a large lemon, and three-quarters of 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, in a pint of 
cream; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon 
a table-spoonful of liour, work it well togeth- 
er, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, 
and heat it all over the fire; pour it i to a 
basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a 
glass or China dish, and garnish it with 
candied orange-peel, and citron cut into 
straws. This cream requires to be constant- 
ly stirred till it is put into the dish in which 
it is to be served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (2) Whisk upon 



CRO 59 

a hot plate, the yolks of eight eggs, half a 
pound of finely-pounded sugar, the grated 
rind of a lemon, and half a pint of light 
French or Rlienish white wine, and send it 
warm to table. 

CREAM TART. See Tart. 

CREAM, WHIPPED. Sweeten, with 
pounded In. if sugar, a quart of cream, and 
add to it a lump of sugar which has been 
rubbed upon tlie peel of two fine lemons or 
bitter oranges; or flavor it with orange- 
flower water, a little essence of roses, the 
juice of ripe strawberries, or of any other 
fruit. Whisk die cream well in a large pan, 
ami as the froth rises, take it off, and lay it 
upon a sieve placed over another pan, and 
return the cream which drains from the froth, 
till all is whisked, then heap it upon a dish, 
or put it into glasses. Garnish with thinly- 
pared citron, or cednit cut into small leaves, 
or into any fanciful sliajx-. To color the 
rose cream, or to heighten (hat of strawber- 
ry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed 
with tlie cream, which may be iced when 
made. 

CKKAM, WHITE LEMON. (1) Rub, 

with snine lump.- of loaf sugar, the rinds of 
six lemons, and grate off the remainder; 
squeeze and strain tlie juice, and add the 
grated peel and sugar, with three-quarters 
of a IHMIM.I of pounded loaf sugar ; put to this 
a quart of rich cream, and whisk it till very 
thick. The 1'illow in;; day, soak five or six 
sponge biscuits in white wine, and put over 
tin-in tlie cream. 

CREAM, WHITF. LEMON. (2) Boil 

the thin |fl of two lemons in a pint of 
cream; strain, and thicken it with the well- 
Ix-aten \ulk.i of three, and white* of four 
eggs; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, 
stir it till ni-aily cold, and put it into 



CRU 



CROQUANTE OF PASTE. Roll out 
jxi.-ti-. about the eighth of an inch thick ; 
nihn\ei- :i plain mould with a little fresh 
butter; lay on the paste very even, and 
equally thin on Ix.tli sides; pare it round tlie 
rim; then with a small penknife rut out 
.small pieces, as fancy may direct, such as 
diamonds, stars, circles, sprigs, fee. ; or use 
a small tin cutler of any .-lia|ie: k-t it lie to 
dry tometine, and liake it a few minutes in 
a slack oven, of a li>;lit color: remove it 
from the mould, and place it over a tart, or 
any other dish of small pastry. 

< K'HiUE. These are large pieces of 
onmental confectiofltfy, formed of various 
materials, as gimblttles, croquignolts,gen- 



oitet, Sfc., or of oranges, cut into quarters. 
chestnuts, green nuts, &c., arranged with- 
in moulds according to fancy, and cemented 
together with boiled sugar. 

CROQUETS. Pound, in a marble 
mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suet, 
some cliopped lemon-peel, lemon thyine, 
chives, and parsley. Season with nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; mix all well together, and 
add the yolk of an egg well-beaten; roll it 
into hulls, and dip them into an egg beaten 
up, then sift bread crumbs over them, and 
fry them in butter. 

CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. 

Mince some boiled meat very small; add to 
it some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, 
cnmihsj of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet 
Ix'ihs; make them into a paste, and form i. 
into little balLs ; roll them in very- fine rasp- 
ings, and fry them of a nice color. Serve 
them with sauce piquant e. 

CROQUETS OF SWEETBREADS. 

.Mince some cold sweetbreads, which have 
been dressed, and boil them in a sauce ve- 
loute ; when quite cold, form them into halls, 
or into rolls, a) mut two inches long; fr\ and 
MTU- iliem with fried parsley in tin- middle. 
Or, make the croquet meal into a rissole. 
Roll out a piece of thin pnfl" paste, enclose 
tlie meat in it, brush it over w ith a beaten 
ind strew over it grated bread; fry it 
of a light brown color. 

CRUMPETS. (1) Make a pint of 
warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into a strong batter, with a sufficient 
quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a 
warm place to rise ; then add a quarter of 
a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter 
worked up in a little Hour, but only Hour 
enough to prevent tlie liatter from being too 
thin; in a quarter of an hour have the iron 
rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; 
pour the batter into these rings, and kike 
them. 

CRUMPETS, OR PIKELETS. (2) 

Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that 
lull" milk and half water must be used; and 
to every half-quartern of flour, two egga 
must be added; l>eat tlie eggs thoroughly. 
Bake them in rings as usual. 

CRUST, FOR VENISON PASTY. 

Work into a paste with warm water, two 
pounds and a lialf of butter, a peck of fine 
flour, ami four eggs; work it smooth, and 
to a good ri insistence. The paste should be 
put round the inside, but not at the bottom 
of tin- dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, 
to bear tlie long continuance in die oven. 



cue 



60 



CUL 



CRUST, RAISED. (1) Melt, in one 
pint of water, one pound of fresh lard ; weigh 
four pounds of flour, jmt it into a basin, and 
when i In 1 water and lard is hot, with a horn 
spoon stir it by degrees amongst the flour. 
When well mixed, work it with the hands 
till it is a stifl" paste, when it is fit for use. 

CRUST, RAISED. (2) Put into a 
saucepan one pint and a half of water, four 
pounds of flour, and .four ounces and a half 
of butter; stir it till it is a thick paste, take 
it out, and add the yolks of three or four 
beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it 
out rather more than half an inch thick; 
cut out the top and bottom, and a long piece 
of proper depth for the sides. Brush round 
the bottom with well-beaten whites of eggs; 
set on the sides, keeping the paste rather 
within die edge of the bottom ; pinch it all 
round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill 
tlie pie, and brush round the upper sides of 
the crust and the outer edges of the cover 
with egg ; lay on die cover, pinch it round 
neatly, and ornament it according to fancy 
with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings 
made of the paste. 

CRUST SHORT. (1) Pound, sift, 
and dry two ounces of white sugar; then 
mix it with a |x>und of well dried flour, rub- 
bing into it, so fine as not to, be seen, three 
ounces of butter ; then put the yolks of two 
eggs into some cream, and mix die whole 
into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST SHORT, NOT SWEET, BUT 
RICH. (2) Mix into a stirlish paste, us- 
ing as little water as possible, six ounces of 
butler, with eight ounces of fine flour, (rub- 
bing the butter well into the flour, before 
mixing it with the water) lx;at it well, and 
roll it Ulin. This crust is proper as well as 
the alxjve, for Uirls of fresh or preserved 
fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. 

CUCUMBERS STEWED. Peel and 

cat cucuwlx.Ts in quarters, take out die seeds, 
and lay them on a cloth to drain off the wa- 
ter: when they are dry, flour and fry them 
in fresh butter; let the butter be quite hot 
before you put in the cucumbers ; fry them 
till they are brown, then take them out with 
an egg-slice, and lay them on a sieve to 
drain the fat. from diem (some cooks fry 
sliced onions, or some small button onions, 
with them, till they are a delicate light 
brown color, drain them from the fat, and 
then put them into a stewpan with as much 
gravy as will cover them): stew slowly till 
they are tender; take out the cucumbers 
with a slice, thicken the gravy with flour 
and butter, give it a boil up, season it with 



pepper and salt, and put in the cucumbers; 
as soon as they are warm, they are ready. 
Tlie above, nibt>ed through a tamis, or fine 
sieve, will l)e entitled to be called " cucum- 
IXT sauce." See Cucumber Vinegar. This 
is a very favorite sauce with lamb or mutton- 
cutleis, Mewed rump-steaks, &c. &c.: when 
made for tlie latter, a third part of sliced 
onion is sometimes fried with the cucumber. 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS, SLIC- 
ED. Cut full-grown cucumlx-rs into slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and slice 
some onions thin; then lay them into a dish 
together, and strew salt over them ; cover 
them" with another dish, and let them re- 
main for twenty-four hours. Put them in- 
to a cullender to drain, then into a large jar, 
and ]x)iir over diem boiled vinegar, diree 
successive days; the last time of boiling the 
vinegar add pepper and ginger, pour it over 
them hot, and closely cover diem when cold. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. Cut a long 
narrow piece out of die sides of large Tur- 
key cucumbers, scoop out the seeds, and 
with a ]>art of diem mix some mustard seed, 
shred garlic, and grated horse-radish; stuff 
the space as full as it will admit of, and re- 
place the piece which was cut off; bind 
them with a thread; |Mit over them hot 
vinegar three successive da\s, and boil with 
it the last time pepjier, flour of mustard, 
and some salt; put them into jars, and pour 
over them the lx>iling vinegar, and when 
cold, cover them closely. 

CULLIS. (1) To a quart of gravy, put a 
table-spoonful of thickening, or from one to 
two table-spoonfuls of flour, according to 
tlie thickness you wish the gravy to \>e, into 
a basin, with a ladleful of tlie gravy; stir it 
quick; add the rest by degrees, till it is all 
well mixed; then pour it back into a stew- 
pan, and leave it by the side of the fire to 
simmer for half an hour longer, that the 
thickening may thoroughly incorporate with 
the gravy, the stewpan being only half cov- 
ered, stirring it every now and then ; a sort 
of scum will gather on the top, which it is 
best not to take off till you are ready to 
strain it through a tamis. Tuke care it is 
neither of too pale nor too dark a color; if 
it is not thick enough, let it stew longer, till 
it is reduced to die desired thickness; or 
add a bit of glaze, or portable soup to it, 
if it is too thick, you can easily diin it with 
a spoonful or two of warm broth, or water 
When your sauce is done, stir it in the ba- 
sin you" put it into once or twice, while it is 
cooling. 

CULLIS. (2) Lay over the bottom of a 
stew.an as much lean veal aa will cover 



CU R 



61 



CUR 



it an inch thick; then cover the veal with 
some slices of undressed bacon (<jammon if 
the best), three onions, three bay leaves, 
some sweet herbs, two blades of ui:ice, and 
three cloves. 1'ut on the lid of die stewpan, 
and set it over a ."low lire; lint when the 
juices conic out, let tlu-tirc he a little quick- 
er. When the nic.it is of a nice brown col- 
or, fill the stew|ian with ijood beef broth, 
boil anil skim it, then let it simmer fir an 
hour; :nM a little water mi\i 1 with as 
much tli.nr as \\ill make it properly thick; 
boil it hall' an hour, and strain it. You 
uiuy keep this cnllis a week. 

CULLIS, A FAMILY ONE. Roll a 
piece ol'hutter in tlour, and stir it in a stew- 
pan till the Hour is of a tine yellow color. 
Tben put in some thin broth: a little gravy, 
a glass of white, wine, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a 
few mushrooms, [tepper and salt. Let it 
Mew an hour over a slow tire, then skim all 
the fat 'clean off, and strain it tlirough a 
sieve. 

CULLIS, WHITE. Take a piece of 

veal, cut it into small hits, with some thin 
slices of ham, and two onions, each cut into 
four; moisten it w itli broth, seasoned with 
mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, 
three cloves, and so let it stew. Being 
stcweil, take out the meat and roots with a 
skimmer, put in a few einmlis of bread, and 
let it >te\v .-oftly ; take the white of a fowl, 
or two ( -hit-kens, ami put it into a mortar; 
bein<; well pounded, mix it in the cnllis, but 
it inii-i not lil, anil the. cnllis must be very 
white; but if not white enough, pound two 
dozen of sweet almonds blanched, anil put it 
into the cnllis; then \i'i\ a s;las of milk, ami 
add it to the rullis; let it IK' of a good fla- 
vor, and strain it off; then put it into a 
small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be 
used tor white loaves, crust of white bread, 
and biscuits. 

\COA. Put five ounces of thin- 
cut Seville oiaiitie-ptfl, that 1ms been dried 
and poiindi-d. or, which is still better, of 
the fi.-h peel of a fresh shaddock, which 
may ! Um^ht at the orange and lemon 
shops in the. Ix-^iiiiiin^ of .March, into a 
iji MI t nf the finest and cleanest rectified 
spirit; after it has been infused a fortnight, 
strain it, and ad.l a i|iiart of sirup and filter. 
Sec the following receipt. 

(I liACOA; HOW TO MAKK A 

To a pint of the clta 
n ctilied spirit, add two di acinus 
and a half of the >wect oil of orange-peel; 
shake ii up: (li--,,Ue :i pound of i;ood lump 
sugar in a pint of cold water; nuke this in- 
6 



to a clarified simp, which add to the 
spirit: shake it up, and let it stand till the 
following day: then line a funnel with a 
piece of muslin, and that with filtering- 
|Ki|>er, and filter it two or three- times till it 
is quite bright. This li<|ii<.r is an admira- 
ble cordial ; and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler 
of \\;iti'i- is a very refreshing summer drink, 
and a great improvement to punch. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (1) With 
about half a table-spoonful of rennet, turn 
two quarts of milk just from the cow ; drain 
off the whey, and fill a mould with the curd ; 
when it has stood an hour or two, turn it 
out. Strew colored comfits over it, sweeten 
some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it, 
and pour it round the curd. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (2) Put two 

quarts of new milk into the dish in which it 
in to be served, and turn it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of rennet; when the curd has come, serve 
it with cream in a separate dish. 

CURRANTS, AND OTHER FRUIT, 
TO CANDY. Boil the fruit in clarified 
sugar as for preserving ; take it out of the 
sirup and drain it upon sieves ; sift over it 
through a lawn sieve, till quite white, pound- 
ed loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, 
and turn and dust them with sugar till dry. 

CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT 
EGGS. Stir into half a pint of mild ale, 
as much flour as will make it into a thick 
I sitter ; add a little sugar and a fev/ currant* ; 
beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop 
it into boiling lard. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. Take 

some ripe red currants, pick (hem, and 
squeeze out the juice from some of them ; put 
to it some juice of raspberries ; then put to 
this the whole currants, boil them gently; 
and wlien they begin to break, put in an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to candy height ; 
Ixiil them together, mash them as they boil ; 
skim them, put in some rose water, and 
when it becomes ag thick as marmalade, put 
it into pots. 

CURRANT PUDDING. See Pvd- 

ding. 

CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gatlicr 

the fruit perfectly dry, and before it be too 
ripe, pick it from the stalks, and put it into 
clean, dry, w ide-monthcd bottles; if the 
flavor of raspberries is approved, some may 
be added with tlie currants ; tie tightly over 
each Ixitilc a piece of sound bladder previ- 
ously soaked in water; set tliem into a pan 
of cold water with a little straw at the hot- 



CUR 



62 



CUR 



torn, and a little between the Ixmlcs ; put 
them on the fire, and when they begin to 
simmer, keep them in tli;it slate alx>ut three- 
quarters uf an hour, but they must not be 
alloued td boil; take the pan oft" the fire; 
the bladders will be raised, but will fall soon 
after, anil sink into the mouth of the bottle;- ; 
in an hour, take them out, and tie strong 
paper over each, and set them in a dry cool 
place. The bottles may be placed in a 
bottle rack with the neck downwards. 
Damsons, cherries, and gixiselxjrries, may 
be done in this way; any sort will keep for 
a \eai-. Cut off the stalks of the cherries, 
and top and tail tlic gooseberries. 

CURRANT TART. See Tarts. 

CURRIES. Cut fowls or rabbits into 
joints, and wash them clean ; put two ounces 
of butler into u stewpaa : when it is melted, 
put in the meat, and two middling-si/cd 
onions sliced, let them be over a smart fin- 
till they are of a light brown, then put in 
half a pint of broth; let it simmer twenty 
minutes. Put in a basin one or two table- 
spoonfuls of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of" 
flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it 
smooth with a little cold water, put it into 
the stewpan, and shake it well about till it 
boils: let it simmer twenty minutes longer; 
then take out the meat, and rub tJie sauce 
through a tamis or sieve: add to it two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of creiim or milk ; give it a 
boil up; then pour it into a dish, lay the 
meat over it: send up the rice in a separate 
dish. 

CURRY. Cut a fowl into small pieces, 
skin it, and let it blanch in cold water for 
two hours; mince an onion very small, and 
put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of 
butter, and a large table-spoonful of flour 
of rice stirred in by degrees; brown it well, 
and when just boiling, add a quart of cold 
water, with the pieces of fowl and a lar_;e 
table-spoonful of curry powder mixed in it. 
Lst it boil till the fowl be quite tender, and 
just Ijefore serving, squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over the blade of a knife into 
it. Vinegar will answer instead of tlie 
juice; and if it be required very fine, in 
place of rice, thicken it with an ounce of 
sweet .dmo'.ids blanched and pounded. 

CURRY BALLS for Mock Turtle, 
Veal, Poultry, Made Dishes, &c. Are 
made with bread-crumbs, the yolk of an 
egg boiled hard, and a bit of fresh butter 
about half as big, beaten together in a mor- 
tar, and seasoned with curry powder. 

CURRY, DRY. Skin and cut a fowl 
into joints, or take off small cutlets from 



the best end of a neck of veal ; fry in butter 
three or four minced onions, and drain 
them; then fry the fowl or veal, and dust it 
with three tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, 
and a quarter <il'a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. 
1'ut tlie fried ine.it and onions into a stew- 
pan, with a little salt, half a pint of milk, 
and the BOM quantity of water; keep the 
pan closely m\cred, and let it stew till |>er- 
If-ctly tender, and ten minutes U-l'ore serv- 
ing, add two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

CURRY, FISH. After a cod-fish, had- 
dock, or mackerel has lain some hours in 
salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water 
sutiicient to cover it, into uhich a lariri- ta- 
ble spoonful of curry powder has U-en mix- 
ed. Fry in a quarter of a (xiund of" butter, 
a shallot and two or three onions minced, 
a little pepper and salt. When well brown- 
ed, add it to the tish. am! >!ew all together 
till it l)e quite tender. Sprats mak' 
curry, but should be slewed in less water. 

CURRY, INDIAN. Stew in two ounc- 
es of butter, tor ten minutes, a teas|x>ont"ul 
of Cayenne, and one of pepper, a di-.-sert- 
spoonful of pounded coriander s. 
small onions, and two heads of garlic min- 
ced. Cut tlie fowl or rabbit into small 
pieces, and cover it over with the curd of 
sweet milk. Put die whole into a stew pan, 
with as much boiling water as may I* de- 
sired for sauce, and let it simmer till very 
tender. 

CURRY POWDER. (1) Put the follow- 
ing ingredients in a cool oven all night, and 
the next morning pound them in a marble 
mortar, and nib them through a fine sieve. 
Coriander-seed, three ounce*, turmeric, three 
ounces, black pep|x-r, mustard, and ginger, 
one ounce of each, allspice and less carda- 
mons, half an ounce of each, cumin seed, 
a quarter of an ounce. Thoroughly pound 
and mix together, and keep them in a well- 
stopped bottle. Tiii.se who are fond of 
curry sauces, niav steep three ounces of t he- 
powder in a quart of vinegar or white wine 
lor ten days, and will get a liquor impreg- 
nated with all tlie flavor of tlie powder. 

CURRY POWDER. (2) Pound ex- 
tremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of co- 
riander seed, three ounces of pepper, one 
ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one 
ounce of cumin seed, thi-ee ounces of tur- 
meric, and three-quarters of an ounce of 
Cayenne ; sift it through muslin, and put it 
before the fire for four or five hours, stirring 
it every now and then. Keep it in a bottle 
with a glass stopper. 

CURRY OF VEAL, FOWL, &c. Fry 



cu s 



63 



cus 



diced veal, rabbit, fowl, or sweetbreads, in a 
good deal of butter, dusting it with tlnur. 
Dust one side with curry powder; then turn 
and dust the oilier, strewing oxer it tinely- 
miiH-<il onions, taking care not to burn them. 
When the meat is of a light brown, add 
some white stock, with a little salt 
till tender. Before serving, skim oil' tin- fat, 
and add a tca-s|>oonfiil of lemon-juice or 
vinegar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads 
should be parboiled. 

CUSTARD. (1) Sweeten a quart of thin 
cream, or good milk, with pounded loaf 
sugar; boil it with a bit of cinnamon, and 
half the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and when 
a little cooled, mix it gradually with the 
well-beaten yolks of ten eggs; stir it over a 
slow fire till it be pretty thick , pour it into a 
basin, and add a table-spoonful of rose water, 
and one of brandy; keep stirring it every 
now and then till cold, and then put it into 
ghsaes, cups, or a dish. It may be made 
the day before it is used. 

CUSTARD. (2) Boil a pint of milk 
with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint 
of cream, and tin- yolks of five eggs, well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of the season- 
ing, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it well; then give 
the custard a simmer till of a proper thick- 
ness. Do not let it lx>il; stir the whole 
time one way; then season with a large 
spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoon- 
fuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish 
your custards to be extremely rich, put no 
milk, but a quart of cream. 

CUSTARDS. (3) Take six eggs, 
leave out the whites; mix your eggs and 
sugar together with some rose water ; then 
boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs 
(the cream must not boil after the eggs have 
been put in). Stir them to prevent them 
from curdling. 

< 1 <T\RDS, ALMOST). Blanch ami 
pound fine, with half a gill of ran water, MX 

atHtvm of swifl, H'i'l half an ounce of liitler 
almonds; boil a pint of milk, as in Bahed 
Costard swiften it wiili two ounces and a 
half of sii<;ar; rub the almon<)s through a 
B, with a pint of ci.'.iiu; strain 'lie 
milk to the yolks of ei^iit em;-;, and the 
whites of three well-U-aten ; Mir it over a 
fire till it is of a good thickm-s*; take it olT 
unl *iic it till nearly cold, to prevent 
its curdling. .\. B. The above may be 
baked in eii|>s, or in a dish, with a rim of 
puff |u-fe |iiit round. 

\KI>. APPLE. Take thirty 
fine apple*, and pierce out the cores of tan 



of them which are of an equal size; pare 
and ti iin them nealK, anil l>il them in .six 
ounces of sn^ar till pretty firm. Peel and 
cut the remaining apples von. small, and put 
them into the alxive sirup; shred the rind 
of an orange, and mix with them; stir the 
whole constautK to ore\ent their sticking 
to the pan; when sufficiently done nil) the 
marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Pre- 
pare the crust as In I' .re mentioned, lint drew 
the sides a little higher; mix two sjxxinfuls 
of apricot marmalade with that of your 
apples, and then put four spoonfuls of it into 
the custard; place tlie whole appk-s, (hav- 
ing put apricot marmalade in the place of 
the cores), and then add the remainder of 
the apple marmalade, taking care not to 
cover the apples with it. Finish as above. 
At -the instant of serving it mask it with 
apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade, 
cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top 
of each apple with a cherry or verjuice-berry. 
Serve this hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, APRICOT GLAZED. 

f'nt tuenty line apricots in half, take oat 
the stones; toss up twelve apricots in four 
ounces of powder-sugar, and place them in 
a cream according to the directions for 
apple custard; bake and glaze as therein 
directed. Put a glass of water and a quar- 
ter of a pound of powder-sugar with the 
rest of the fruit into a preserving-pan ; when 
die sirup is properly reduced, take the skin 
from the apricots and arrange them in the 
custard; garnish each half apricot with a 
kernel, and when ready to serve, pour the 
sirup on it. Serve Iwt or cold. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (1) Boil a 

pint of cream with mare and cinnamon; 
when cold, take tour eggs, bavin;; out Iwo 
of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower 
water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste ; mix them well together, 
and bake them in china cups. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (2) Boil in a 
pint of milk, a few coi iiuidnr seeds, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel; sweeten with 
tour ounces of loaf sugar, and mix wilh it a 
pint of cold milk; Ix-at well eii;lit eggs for 
ten minutes, and add the other in^iedicnt*; 
[XHir it from out- jin into another six or 
eight times, strain it through a sieve, and 
let it stand some time; skim off the froth 
from the top, till it in earthen cups, and 
liake them immediately in a hot oven, give 
t hem a good color ; about ten minutes will 
do them. 

CUSTARD, BOILED. (1) Boilinapint 

of milk, five minute-, lemon-peel, coriunders, 
anil cinnamon, a small quantity of each, 



cus 



64 



cus 



half a dozen of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and four ounces of loaf sugar: mix 
it with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, 
and the whites of six, well-beaten; pass it 
through a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, re- 
move it from the fire, and continue to stir 
it till nearly cold ; add two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, fill the cups or glasses, and grate 
nutmeg over. 

CUSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 
quart of new milk into a stewpan, with the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated 
nutineg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small 
stick of cinnamon; set it over a quick fire, 
but be carefiil it does not boil over: when it 
boils, set it beside the fire, and simmer ten 
minutes ; break the yolks of eight, and the 
whites of four eggs into a basin ; beat them 
well ; then pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as quick as possible- to pre- 
vent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire 
again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it through a 
tani Is, or fine sieve: when cold add a little 
brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable . to the eater's palate. Serve up 
in glasses, or cups. Custards for baking 
are prepared as above, |)assed through a 
fine sieve; put them into cups ; grate a little 
nutmeg over each: bake them about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMON. Boil a pint 
of milk with a bit of cinnamon and two or 
three laurel leaves; mix with one table- 
spoonfnl of flour, or potato flour, two and a 
half of cold milk, put it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour the boiling milk upon it; let it 
run into a basin, mix in by degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs ; sweeten, and 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes to 
thicken. 

CUSTARDS OR CREAMS, TO ORNA- 
MENT. Whisk for one hour the whites of 
two eggs together with two table-spoonfuls 
of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jellv ; 
lay it in any form U|x>n a custard or cream, 
piled up to imitate rock. It may be served 
in a dish with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and about a third of a pint of mild strong 
ale; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, then |x>ur it into a dish, in the 
bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, 
cut into square bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 
Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line 
it completely with paste, taking care that it 



takes all the form of the mould. Then take 
a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, 
plums, or any otlier fruit you please ; and 
having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, 
mix the fruit up with powder-sugar; put it 
into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. 
When ready for table, mask it with the 
sirup and kernels, blanched and cut in 
halves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) Boil two 

glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, 
and two table-spoonfuls of brandy ; when 
nearly cold, add the grated peel and juice 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six 
eggs; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, 
pour it into a basin, and stir now and then 
till cold; put it into a dish, or cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 
juice of four lemons, with three ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces 
of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, 
and pour it over the juice and sugai. It 
will keep for four days. 

CUSTARD, ORANGE. Sweeten the 
strained juice of ten oranges with (xnmded 
loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till hot, take 
off the scum, and when nearly cold add to it 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint 
of cream; put it into a saucepan, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sift- 
ed ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded with two table-spoon- 
fills of rose water; sweeten with loaf sugar, 
and stir it all together till it nearly boils ; 
add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs; 
stir, and let it simmer for alxnit a minute; 
pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY. Put a txmnd 
and a half of good rice into cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils, take it off and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large sanre- 
|wn, with twelve glasses of good milk, a 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which 
have been rasped the peels of four oranges 
or cedrats, and a grain of salt. Put the 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the 
rice, taking care that none of die grains 
burst; stir it a little, and when done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks 
of twelve eggs, and some spoonfuls of Chan- 
tilly cream; after which mix in the twelve 
whites whipped firm. Prepare the crust in. 



DAM 



65 



DE V 



the usual way ; bake it in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half; when ready for table, 
brown il with a salamander. 

CUSTARD, TURNING OUT. Mix 

with tin; well-beaten yolk* of four e<jgs a 
pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinglass 
dissolved, or enough of calf s-fcet stock to 
stiffen it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten 
with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a 
elo\v tire till it thickens; pour it into a 
basin, and stir it till a little cooled, then 
pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. 
Heat the. yolk* of two eu'.rs with a little 
cream; add it to nearly li.ilf a [xnind of 
brown sugar burnt ; .-train it through a 
sieve, and wlien cold pour it round tile cus- 
tards. 



I). 



1) \MS()\S BOTTLED. Gather tliem 

on a dry day before tliev are ripe, when they 
have ^it-t lurm-.! their color. 1'ut them in 
\vide-iMoutln-d bottles, cork them close, and 
let them stand a fortnight ; then caivfullv 
examine them, and if any of them are 
mouldy or spitted, take them out of the bot- 
tles, and cork the rest close. Put the bot- 
nid, and they will keep good till the 
spring. 

l> \MSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 

good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay il 
in a ba-in, and put in as many damsons as 
you plra.sc. Wet the ed^'e of the paste and 
close it up ; l*l it in a cloth for an hour ; 
(vnir melteii butter over it, i^-ate sugar round 
e of the dish, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. See Jelly. 

I MM SON, OR OTHER PLUM 

('lli:i:si;. Take- damsons that have been 
I without siijrar; |>a^ them through 
a sieve, to take out the r-kins and stones. 
To everv |)..iiiui of pulp of fruit put half a 
pound of loaf su^ai , broke sm:ill; Ixiil them 
together till it Ix-comes Miile stilt'; pom it 
into t'Hir c. ,m. noil i/ed dinner plates, nib! led 
with a little sweet oil ; pni it into ;i warm 
dry, and uln-n quite firm, take il 
from the plate, and cut it into any sha|>e von 
choose. N. l'. I >.i m-on iheese w generally 
used i 

DAMSONS FOK WIVIT.R USE. 

Gatliei ilit ,1.1-n-oii.- when jn-t ri|>c.and per- 
.iinl ; till a two-<;;illon br.iudy kef;, 
and pour oxer tuo|Mlii<ls ol'iii,,l;i:-ses; el, 
tile k,'^ lii ink. ami turn it every day. 

6* 



DEER HORNS. Beat one white, and 

.six yolks of c<;gs; mix them with live table 
s[x>onfuls of pounded and silted loaf sugar, 
the >aine quantity of sweet cream, ten sweet 
almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated 
peel of one lemon, and as much flour as will 
make the whole into a paste sufficiently 
thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins for 
the purpose, into the form of horns, branch- 
es, or any other shape, and throw them into 
boiling lard. 

DE VIL. ( 1 ) Score the leg of a roasted tur- 
key, goose, or fowl; pepper and salt it well, 
broil it, and pour over it the following sauce 
made quite Imt: three table-spoonfuls of gra- 
vy, one of melted butter, and one of lemon 
juice, a large vv -iric-glass of Port wine, of 
mustard, Chili vinegar, Harvey sauce, and 
mushroom catchup, a lea-s|>oonful each ; a lit- 
tle Cayenne and pep|x-r. The: devil may be 
server! without a sauce, and lie more highly 
seasoned. When this dish is to be served 
cold, the fat being carefully removed from the 
L'oose. it may be ornamented or covered with 
cold jelly made as follows : Boil for five 
hours in four quarts of water the bones of the 
yyise, with three nicely cleaned calf's feet, 
strain it, and when cold take oft' all the fat, 
and boil the jelly with .some whole pepper, 
ginger, and salt; add two ounces of dissolv- 
ed isinglass, the juice of two lemons, and 
the beaten whiles of three or (bur eggs; stir 
it while it is ii|x>n the fire, and allow it to 
Ixjil about ten minutes ; then run it through 
a jelly-liag, and re|x.-at this till it becomes 
quite clear. 

DEVIL. (2) The gizzard and rump, or 
legs, &c. of a dressed turkey, capon, or 
gOOM, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, 
peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for a 
relish, being m:ide very hot, has obtained 
the name of a " devil." 

DEVONS mm-; .IC.NKKT. (i> Turn 

some new milk from the covv with a little 
rennet ; sweeten som thick cream, add a 
little founded cinnamon, make it scalding 
hot, and when cold |x>ur il over il> < -nrd, 
and put a little wine and sugar into the bot- 
tom i if tin; dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
some new milk, as for cheese cakes, in a 
wide shallow dish ; when cold, pour over the 
top a pint of rich cream mixed with pounded 
loaf sugar, six dessert spoonful* of brandy, 
and some grated nnim- _. 

DEVONSIlim; WIIITK POT. Beat 
up a pint of r-n am with four eggs, a little 
>.ilt. some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of 



DUC 



66 



DUC 



sugar; then slice very thin, almost the; whole 
of the crnm of a [jenny loaf ; put it into a 
dish ; pour the e^s ;iml cream to it ; a 
handful nf Sim rim raisins boiled, and a 
little sweet butter : bake it. 

DIGESTER. An iron boiler, with a 
top to screw on, to prevent the steam from 
escaping. 

DRIPPINGS, TO CLARIFY. Put 

your dripping into a clean saucepan over a 
stove or slow fire ; when it is just going to 
boil, skim it well, let it boil, and' then let it 
stand till it is a little cooled; then pour it 
through a sieve into a pan. O6*. Well- 
cleansed drippings, and the fat skimmings 
of die broth-pot, when fresh and sweet, will 
baste everything as well as butter except 
game and poultry, and should supply the 
place of biitter for common fries, &c.; for 
which they are cc|iial lo lard, especially it' 
you rc|)oat the clariluag twice over. .V B. 
If you keep it in a cool place, you may 
presi;r\e it a fortnight in summer, and long- 
er in winter. When you have done frying, 
let the dripping stand a few minutes ;<> Mt- 
tie, and then pour it through a sieve into a 
clean basin or stone pan, and it will do a 
second and a third time as well as it did 
the first; only the fat you have fried fish in 
must not be used for any other purpose. 

DRIXK, COOLING. A palatable and 
cooling drink may be made by pouring hot 
water over slices of lemon ; when cold, to 
be strained and sweetened. 

DUCK. Mind your duck is well cleaned, 
and wiped out with a clean cloth: for tile 
stuffing, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green sage; chop tliein very fine, 
and mix them with two ounces, i. e. about 
a breakfast-cupful, of bread crumbs, a bit 
of butter about as big as a walnut, a very 
little black pepper and salt, and the yolk of 
an egg to bind it; mix these thoroughly to- 
getlier, and put into the duck. From half 
to three-quarters of an hour will lie enough 
t.i rast it, uncording to the size: contrive 
to have the feet delicately crisp, as some 
people are very fond of them ; to do this 
nicely you must have a sharp fire. 

DUCK, TO P.OIL. Make a paste, al- 
lowing half a pound of butter to a pound of 
fl-iur. Truss a duck as for l>oiliiig; put in- 
to the inside a little pcp|x>r and sill, one or 
two sage leaves, and a little onion finely 
minced; enclose the duck in the paste, with 
a little jellied gravy. Boil it in a cloth, and 
serve it with brown gravy poured round it. 

DUCKS, TO CHOOSE. Tlrcir feet 



should be supple, and they should 1* hard 
and thick on the breast and belly. The feet 
of a taine duck are thick, and inclining to a 
dusky \cllo\\. The feet of a wild duck are 
reddi.-h, and smaller than the tame ; they 
should lie picked dry. Ducklings should be 
scalded. 

DUCK, DRESSED IN DIFFER KM' 
\\"A VS. Take either a large duck, or two 
ducklings, which truss like a fowl lor boil- 
ing ; put it into a ]xit (just alxmt lar<Te 
enough to hold the duck) with thin slices of 
Uicon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, 
salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a 
ba\-leaf ; when done, take out the duck, 
wipe the fat off very clean, and serve with 
what sauce or ragout \ou choose, such as 
sweetbreads, green-peas, turnips, chestnuts, 
olives, cucumbers, or any sort of .-tewed 
greens, according to the season. 

DUCKS, GEESE, DRESSED, OR 
HASHKD. Cut an onion into small dice; 
put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter; 
fry it, but do not let it get any color; put 
as much boiling water into the stewpan as 
will make sauce for the hash; thicken it 
with a little flour; cut up the duck, and put 
it into the sauce to warm; do not let it 
boil; season it with pepper and salt, and 
catchup. Divide the duck into joints; lay 
it by ready; put the trimmings and stuffing 
into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of 
broth or water; let it lil half an hour, and 
then rub it through a sieve; put half -an 
ounce of butter into a stew pan; as it melts, 
mix a table-s|y.unful of flour with it; stir it 
over the fire a few minutes, tlien mix the 
gravy with it by decrees ; as scion as it boils, 
take oft the scum, and strain through a sieve 
into a stewpan; put in the duck, and let it 
stew very gently for ten or fil'i' en minutes, 
if the duck IB rather under-roasted: if there 
is any flit, skim it oil': line the dish you 
serve it up in with sippets of bread either 
fried or toasted. 

DUCK OR GOOSE FORCED. Cut 

the ifin.se o|X'ii at the back, and farefullv 
take out the lx>nes, excepting those of tlie 
legs and wiu^s. Take out all the meat from 
tile l>ody, leaving the skin perfectly whole. 
With tile meat |xHind three-<|uai leis of a 
pound of lean and tender beef, add three 
handfuls of grated bread, f-\\r well-beaten 
e:;gs, and half a pint of rich .-ueet cream; 
season with pepper, mace, and salt; mix it 
all well together; let it Maud for half an 
hour, and then put it into the ii'xise, which 
sew up, and make it of as natural a form as 
|X)ssible; but take care that it Ix; not t<x> 
much stufied. Boil it for half an hour in 



DUC 



67 



DUM 



k, and then put it into a (hit 

tin baking-pan, with sonic fresh butter over 

iind under it. Bake it in :in oven another 

half IMMI-, and seiv it with the tallowing 

Krown a tnMe-apooaftll <;|" butler 

with flour, .idd alxiut n pint of the sto< k 

in which ih goose has been Killed, three 

ioiw, :w> tdbb-por>nfuls nf r;\; ers 

M pi'-Ue. and a tew 

small pickled onions; lx>il it alxmt a qirar- 
ter of an hour, and just In-fore pouring it 
user the goose, .-:tir in gradually half a pint 
(ij'rivli eiean:. 

IM'CK, HASHKD, Cut a duck in 
pieces, and tlonr it; put in a stew; 

liuli- I'ori \vine, shallots, chop|x-d 
fine, salt, pc-pix-r. anil a liil of lemon ; Ixiil 
this ; then put in the dnrk, toss it up, take 
out the lemon, and serve with toa.-ted sippets. 

DUCKS KOASTKD. Season them 
with sage and onion shred, |x-p|x-r and salt ; 
half an h-nir will roast them. (n.. 
or onion sau, e. Always stew the 
onion in a little water, as it prevents ils 
i ml takes off Uie rawness of 
them. 

l>n K.TOSTI'W. (1) Cut one or two 

duck-i into <|iiarlcrs; fry them a light brown 
in liuttel ; pin them into a saucepan, with 
a pint of gravy, a tea-<-npful of I'ort wine, 
four onions whole, |x-p;x?r and some salt, a 
Ixmch of | xi rs Icy, two sage leaves, a sprig 
of winter savory, and sweet marjoram, 
i'jiver (lie pan cl isely, and stew them till ten- 
di i ; t.ike on I the herl wand pepper; skim it ; 
if the sauce lie not MiliiricntK thick, mix w ill) 
t A., t.il le-s|x>onfuls of it a little Iloiir, and 
stir it into the saucepan ; lx>il it up, and 
: the dish with the four onions. 

1)1 CK.TOSTKW. (2) I'ulmloadmk 

Home jx-pj-. i. .-.ill, a minced onion, and one 

i'-o minced; lialf roast it; 

lnownwith Im ' linlier, a talile- 

F|H)iilMl iil'ii.mi ; add as mneli \\> 

ui water as will half cover the duck, nixl 

<jine | < IIJXT and salt; put in the duck, a.nl 

'. l'ir li.ill 

an hour, .-tin i-:^ il now and then. I'or a 
varii l\ . a d ./. i 'I niiddling^bnd onions 
may ! su!i>lit;ileii lor tlie |MMS, and stew- 
ed tile Fame len^lli of time. Cold roa.-!e,l 
dii'-k m.i\ ! die- -id exactly in 
manner; and I., lia.-li il, cut it into joint.-, 
nnd heat il ihoion^hK in utu\y, adding a 
lilllc BO] . and a ;;i,ui!i of I'oit wine. 

DKCK. \\ II, I). These l)iids.-houldlw 

fat, the ( l.tw- small, reildisli and siippk'j if 

.1, on o|N>ning tlie lx:ak they will 



.nK-II disr.'.'ni-alile ; the lireast and rump 
should l>e firm and he-.ny ; the flesh of the 
hm-hird is the most delicate, though tlx; 
rock iienendlv fetches the hiyln-t price. 
Pick them dry, cut the \\ \n^< \ery clo-e to 
(lie Nr(i\ . take off tlie necks, draw and singe 
them, truss up the le^s and skewer them ; 
and having rnliU-d them with tlie'ir livers, 
spit, and roast them ; take them up with 
the gravy in, and serve with lemons. 

DICK, WILD, SALMIS OF. Cut 

oil' the Ix-st parts of a couple of roasted wild 
ducks, and put the rest of tlie meat into a 
mortar, with six shallots, a little parsley, 
some pep|x?r, and a liay-leaf, pound all these 
ingredients loyelher well, and then put them 
into a saucepan with four ladfesful of stock, 
half a glass of white wine, the same of 
broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce 
: ihese to half, strain them, and having laid 
the pieces on a dish, cover them with tlie 
alxive : keep the whole hot, not boiling, un- 
til wanted lor table. 

DIMl'l l.\(;s, HARD. Mixasfora 
', paste, some flour with small beer or water, 
and a little salt; roll them in balls rather 
larger than an em; ; when the water boils 
put them in: half an hour will Ixiil them; 
currant.* may be added ; they are good boil- 
ed with Ix-ef. They are eaten eitlier with 
cold or melted butter. 

DCMl'LIiVGS, HALF-HOUR. Mince 
finely half a pound of suet, mix it with tlie 
! same proportion of grated bread, and a ta- 
hle-s|M>ontid of tlonr, a quarter of a pound 
of cm ranis, si. me suipir, a little grated lem- 
on-|x-el, nutmeg, and three uell-lx-aten eggs; 
roll the mixture into round Udls, tie them 
in bits, of linen, and lx>il them for half an 
hour. Serve w ith melted butter and 
[xmied over them. 

IH'.M1'I,I.\(;S, NORFOLK. With a 
pint of milk, two egg*, a little salt, and 
.-ome. lloiir, make a Latter; drop this in 
-mall ijiiantilies into a pot of boiling w 
they will Ix; boiled in three minutes; throw 
them into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

IH'MI'l.l.V; I'ASTE. Make a paste 

with (lour, milk, salt and yeast; let it stand 
sometime in a warm place to ti-nnent; then 
cut the pa-le into piecea of wh.ii !/ MHI 
i please, and Ixiil them a good while; let 
them cool; then cut each into two, and 
Hk them in milk, sugar, and lemon-|x>el, 
alxmt an hour, and drain and tlonr them fit 
for fiving; or, yon may dip them in oil or 
inched Uitter to broil, lusting with the 
..ey were, dipped ill. 



EEL 



68 



EEL 



DUTCH CREAM CHEESE. Beat 

the yolks of eight, and the whites of three 
eggs, and mix them with a pint of butter 
milk; add this to three quarts of boiling 
milk just from the cow ; let it boil up once, 
take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand 
a little that the curd may form ; then put it 
into a small hair sieve, and press it witli ;i 
weight for twenty-four hours, when it may- 
be turned out. It is eaten with cream and 
sugar. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (1) Boil, 
with a pint of white wine, some sugar, the 
juice of two, and the peel of one lemon, a 
stick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dis- 
solved isinglass; strain, and mix it with the 
well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over 
the fire till it simmer, but do not allow it to 
boil ; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a 
shape. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (2) Boil for 
ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and 
the same proportion of water, the juice of 
three, and the peel of two lemons, rather 
more dian a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
and an ounce of isinglass dissolved ; strain, 
and mix it gradually with the beaten yolks 
of five eggs ; put it again over the fire, and 
stir it for live minutes; stir it till cold, and 
put it into a shape. 



E. 



ECHAUDE'S. Lay a quartern of flour 
on a pasteboard or slab, make a hole in tlie 
centre, in which put an ounce of salt, and a 
little' water to dissoUe it, a pound of butter, 
twenty eggs; mix the two latter well to- 
gether, then the flour; work it thoroughly 
witli your hands, if it be very firm add more 
eiru's. When perfectly smooth, sprinkle a 
cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set 
it in a cool place for ten or twi-lxe hours. 
The next day heat about three quarts of 
water, and having cut your paste into small 
pieces, about an inch square, and having 
floured each, put them into hot but not boil- 
ing water, shake the kettle the instant after 
you have thrown them in, and as they rise. 
if they are firm to the touch, they are suf- 
ficiently done, and must be taken out of the 
saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let 
them remain two or three hours ; then drain, 
and leave them again for three hours or 
more, and then bake them for about twenty 
minutes. 

EELS AND SOLES, STEWED Wio- 
GY'S WAY. Take two pounds of fine sil- 



ver eels: the l>est are those that are rather 
more than a half-crown piece in circumfer- 
ence, quite fresh, full of life, and " as brisk 
AS an eel:" wash them in several different 
waters, and divide them into pieces alwiit 
four inches long. Some cooks, dredge them 
with a little flour, wipe them dry, and then 
egg and crumb them, and fry them in drip- 
pings till they are brown, and lay tliem to 
dry on a hair sieve. Have ready a qirart 
of good beef gravy; it must be cold when 
you put tlie eels into it : set tliem on a slow- 
fire to simmer very gently for about a quar- 
ter of an hour, according to the si/e of the 
eels; watch them, that they are not done 
too much ; take them carefully out of the 
stewpan with a fish-slice, so as not to tear 
their coats, and lay them on a dish alx>ut 
two inches deep. 

EELS BAKED. Skin and clean some 
eels; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in 
lengths according to tlie depth of tlie pan ; 
put them in, letting them stand upright in 
it; the pan should be filled; put in a little 
water, some salt, pepper, shallots cut small, 
some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut 
small ; set them in the oven to l>ake ; when 
they are done take the liquor that conies 
from them, put it into a saucepan, and thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little white wine. 

EELS BOILED. Small ones are pre- 
ferable. Curl and put them on in lioilhig 
salt-and-water, with a little vinegar. Gar- 
nish with parsley. Sauce ; parsley and 
butter. 

EELS COLLARED. Take an eel, and 
cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut oft' the 
head and tail; lay llie eel flat, and shred 
sage as fine as possible; mix with black 
pepper pounded, nutincL' urated, and salt; 
lay it all over the eel: mil it up hard in a 
cloth; tie it up tight at each end; then set 
over the fire some water, with pepper and 
salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades 
of mace, a bay-leaf or two; boil these uiih 
the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in 
the eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take 
it out, and boil the liquor, and when it is 
cold, put it to the eel ; do not take off the 
cloth till you use them. 

EELS FRIED. Cut tliem into pieces 
of three or four inches long, and then score 
across in two or three places; season them 
with pepper and salt,and dust tliem w ith flour, 
or dip them into an egg U-at up, and sprinkle 
them with finely-grated bread crumbs ; fry 
them in fresh lard or dripping. I-et them 
drain and dry upon the back of a sieve be- 
fore the fire. Garnish witli parsley. Sauce ; 



EEL 



69 



EGG 



melted butter, and lemon pickle. If small, 
they may be curled and fried whole. 

EEL PIE. Take eels alxnit half a [xmnd 
each; cut them into pieces three inches lout:. 
season them with pepper and salt, and till 
your dish. Add a gill of water or veal 
broth, cover it with paste, rub it over with a 
paste-brush dipped in yolk of egg, ornament 
it with some of the same paste, bake it an 
hour; and when done, make a hole in the 
centre, and pour in the fallowing sauce 
through a tunnel: the trimmings boiled in 
half a pint of veal stock, seasoned with pep- 
per anil salt, a table-spixmful of lemon-juice, 
and thickened with flour and water, strained 
through a tine sieve: add it boiling hot. 

EELS POTTED. Bone them; season 
them uell n|>on both sides with pepper, salt, 
a little mace, and Jamaica |>epper; let them 
lie for six hours, then cut them into small 
pieces, and pack them close into a dish; 
cover them with a coarse paste and bake 
ili' in. When quite cold, take off the paste, 
and pour over them clarified butter. 

EEL SOUP. See Soups. 

EELS STEWED. (1) Cut the eels 

into pieces alxnit lour inches long; take two 
onions, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, 
tliMn. . two |M\ leaves, a little mace, black 
and Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, 
of I'ort wine, and the same of vin- 
egar, six ancho\ies liiui-i'il; let all boil to- 
gether for ten minutes; take out the eels; 
txjil the sauce till reduced to a i|iiart; strain 
anil thicken it with a table-s|XMnfnl of floor, 
uooth in a little cold water. Put 
in the 11!-. and lx>il them till they are ten- 
der. Eels may also be roasted with a coni- 

KF.I.S STFAVED. (2) Cut tin eels 

into pieei--, season well two pounds and a 
half u ith salt and Mack |x-|>|>er, put an ounce 
of batter into a stewpan with a large handful 

, three or timr sa^ r e leaves, half an 
onion . 'ii small, a little grated lemon-|>eel, 

and anchovy chopjx-d ; put in tile eels 

and |xmr over half a pint of water, stew 

iiv for half an hour, shaking them 

!K ; Ix-fore serving, add a little 

grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. 

EELS SPITCHCOCKED. This tl>e/ 
French cook* call the English way of dress- 
ing eeL". Take two inid(llin^-si/.cil silver 
eefc, scour tliem with salt, slit thorn on the 
Uhrcide, and lake out the bones and wash 
and wipe them niceJy: then cut them into 
pieces alx.nt tliree inches long, and wipe 
Uiern quite dry ; (Hit two ounces of butter 



into a stewpan with a little minced parsley, 
thyme, sage, pepper, ami salt, and a very 
little chnpjwd eschalot ; set the slewpan 
over the fire ; when the butter is melted, 
stir the ingredients together, and take it off 
tlie fire, mix die yolks of two eggs with them, 
and dip the eel in, a piece at a time, and 
then roll tliem in bread-crumbs, making as 
much stick to tliem as you can ; then rub 
the gridiron with a bit of suet, set it high 
over a very clear fire, and broil your eels of 
a line crisp brown. Dish them with crisp 
parsley, and send up with plain butter in a 
boat, and anchovy and butter. , 

EGGS. (1) Eggs may be preserved for 
twelve month-, in a sweet and palatable state 
for eating in the shell, or using for salads, by 
Ixiiling them for one minute; and when 
wanted for use let tliem be boiled in the 
usual manner: tha white may be a little 
toucher than a new-laid egg, but the yolk 
will show no difference. 

EGGS. (2) Pour a gallon of water 
over a pound of unslacked lime, stir it well; 
tlw following day, pour off the clear water 
into a jar, and put in the eggs as they are 
laid. In this manner they will continue 
perfectly good for six months or more. 

There are so many different ways of 
dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost 
till a volume; we have, therefore, given such 
as we esteem the best, and the most adapted 
to the English taste. 

EGGS AND BACON RAGOUT. 

Boil half a dozen eggs for ten minutes; 
throw them into cold water; peel them and 
cut them into hahes; pound the yolks in a 
marble mortar, with about an equal quantity 
of the white mi-.it of dressed fowl, or \eal, a 
little clio|i|x-d parsley, an anchovy, an escha- 
lot, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catchup, a little Cay- 
enne, some bread-cmnibi, and a very little 
Ix-atcu mace, or allspice; incorporate them 
well togetlier, and till the halves of the 
whites with this mixture ; do them over 
witli (he yolk of an egg, and brown tliem in 
a Dutch oven, and serve them on relishing . 
rashers of bacon or ham. 

,/EGGS AND BREAD. Put half a hand- 
ful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
small quantity of cream, Kilt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and let it stand till die bread has 
i ml n! -d all the cream ; then break ten egge 
into it, and having Ix-aten them up together, 
fry it like an omelet. , 

EGGS AND CREAM. Boil half a pint 
of cream till reduced to half the quantity; 
then add eight eggs, season them with salt 



EGG 



70 



EGG 



and pepper, toil them together, till the eggs 
are partly hard ; pass ;i salamander over tlie 
top, and serve. 

EGGS A LA TRIPE. Cut into thick 
round slices a dozen of hard-lx>iled eggs, 
and put them into the following sauce: cut 
three large white onions into dice, fry tliem 
white in butter, and when nearly done, dust 
them with flour, and moisten them with some 
milk and a few spoonfuls of cream; keep 
stirring with a wooden spoon, to prevent 
their burning. When the sauce is done, 
grate in a little nutmeg, season with a little 
salt and pepper, and put iu the eggs. 

EGG BALLS. Boil four eggs for ten 
minutes, and put diem into cold water; when 
they are quite cold, put the yolks into a 
mortar with the yolk of a raw egg, a tea- 
spoonful of flour, same of chopped parsley, 
ns much salt as will lie on a shilling, and a 
little black pepper, or Cayenne; rub them 
well together, roll them into small balls (as 
the\ suell in boiling); boil them a couple 
of minutes. 

EGGS BOILED, TO EAT IN THE 

SHKLI., OR FOR SALADS. The fresher 
laid the better: put them into boiling water; 
if you like the white just set, about two 
minutes boiling is enough; a new-laid egg 
will take a little more; if you wish the yolk 
to l set, it will take three, and to boil it 
hard for a salad, ten minutes. A new-laid 
egg will require boiling longer than a stale 
one, by half a minute. 

EGGS BOURGEOISE. Spread some 
butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it 
entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, 
on that lay thin slices of cheese, then eight 
or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper 
and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook 
gently till done. 

EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat and strain 

ten or twelve egffs ; nut a piece of butter into 

i i 

a saucepan and keep turning it one way 

till melted ; put in the beaten eggs, and stir 
them round with a silver spoon till they be- 
come quite thick. Serve them in a dish 
upon buttered toast. They may be eaten 
with fish, fowl, or sausages. 

EGGS EN SURPRISE. Take a dozen 
eggs, and make a small hole at each end of 
every egg, through which pass a straw and 
break the yolk ; then blow out the yolk care- 
fully. Wash the shells, and having drained, 
dry them in the open air ; mix the yolk of 
an egg with a little flour to close one of the 
holes of the shells, and when dry, fill half the 
Dumber by means of a small funnel, with 



chocolate cream, and the remaining six with 
coffee or orange-cream ; close the other end 
of your eggs, and put them into a saucepan 
of hot water; set them on the fire, taking 
care they do not boil ; when done, remove 
ilie cement from the ends; dry, and serve 
them on a folded napkin. 

EGGS, FRIED. Eggs boiled hard, cut 
into slices, and fried, may be served as a 
second course dish, to eat with roasted 
chickens. 

EGGS FRIED WITH BACON. Lay 

some slices of fine streaked bacon (not more 
than a quarter of an inch thick) in a clean 
dish, and toast them before the fire in a 
cheese-toaster, turning diem when the upper 
side is browned ; first ask those who are to 
eat the bacon, if they wish it much or little 
done, f. e. curled and crisped, or mellow 
and soft: if the latter, parboil it first. Well- 
cleansed dripping, or lard, or fresh butter, 
are the best fats for frying eggs. Be sure 
the frying-pan is quite clean ; when the fat 
is hot, break two or three eggs into it ; do 
not turn them, but, while they are frying, 
keep pouring some of the fat over them with 
a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to look 
white, which it will in about a couple of 
minutes, they are done enough; the white 
must nut Inse its transparency, but, the yolk 
be seen blushing through it: if they are 
done nicely, they will look as white and 
delicate as if they had been poached ; take 
them up with a tin slice, drain the fat from 
them, trim them neatly, and send them up 
with the bacon round them. 

EGGS FRIED, AND MINCED HAM 

OR BACON. Choose some fine salt pork, 
streaked with a good deal of lean ; cut this 
into very thin slices, and afterward into 
small square pieces; throw them into a 
stewpan, and set it ever a gentle fire, that 
they may lose some of their fat. When as 
much as will freely come is thus melted from 
them, lay them on a warm dish. Put into 
;i sieupan a ladle-full of melted bacon or 
lard ; set it on a stove ; put in about a dozen 
of the small pieces of bacon, then stoop the 
stewpan and break in an egg. Manage this 
carefully, and the egg will presently be done: 
it will l>e very round, and the little dice of 
bacon will stick to it all over, so that it will 
make a very pretty appearance. Take care 
the yolks do not harden ; when the egg is 
thus done, lay it carefully in a warm dish, 
and do i he others. 

EGG FRITTERS. Pound a dozen 
hard boiled eggs with a little cream, and a 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then 
pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter 



EG G 



71 ELD 



almond*, a little sugar, and lemon-peel ; 
mix these with the |x>unded e:. r gs, and form 
them into fritters, dip them into a tauter 
made with Huur, butter, salt, and lemon- 
peel; fry them in very liot hird, sprinkle su- 
g-ar oxer, and serve. 

K< ;< iS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks 
of einht eims ami tile whites of four (set 
aside thr reiiiai'iiiii; whites) with a spoonful 
of water, smile salt, sugar, and tile juice ofa 
leui'in; fry this, and then put it on a dish; 
whip the (i-Hir whites (which were set aside) 
to :i t'.oih with sugar, and place it over the 
%s; hake it in ,1 Dutch oven, or with 
a hiu'h !. >\er lilted for tile purpose. 

1'iiiiS, (Jl.VSS. Butter a dish, ami 
break into it ;i pieee of butter nearly as large 
as an e^: add a tea-<-iipfiil of cream, and 
drop in f.mr or live eggs; put ujxm each a 
little pep|x>r and salt, set the dish upon a 
: x-rxe it xx lieu tin- e.'^s are firm, 
which m i\ ! in ten or liftitMi minutes. 

EG<; MARMALADE. (1) BlaMi-h and 
pound with a little rose water, two ounces of 
sxxectahnond';, the same of orange marmalade, 
and fnir of citron ; add txio -pooufnls of bran- 
dy, and when quite smooth, the beaten yoBu of 
six and the whiles r>f two eggs, with a little 
pounded loafsn^ar; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it till it t>eroines thick, then pour it 
into a sh:i|>e. When quite cold, serve it, 
turned out am! garnished with (lowers. 

K<;<; MARMALADE. (2) clarify a pound 

of sugar, keeping it rather thick ; when cool, 
add to it the xolks of twenty ej;^--, which 
should ! |>ei|.-ctl\ fi>T lioin the whiten, and 
well stirred, Imt not lieaten; aet these on 

tin ing continually tuitil it lioils, and 
then eniiliiine to stir until sufficiently thiek ; 

i.n -h mid arise, it need not } taken 
off, a- the Ixiilini; and stirring uiU effectually 
rem i\e it. ( >i.n'i.'i -ll.nuT water may be 
added, if approved. 

K(iiS. TO I'OACH. The cook who 
wishes t.i disjilay her skill in poaching, 
must endeavour to procure es^s that have 
been laiil a couple of daxs those that are 
i|ni'e new-laid ate .-o inilUx that, take :ill 
the care yon can, your cookiii;; of them will 
seldom procure xmi the piaix- of Ix-in^ a 
prune puncher; you must haxi- I'le-ii ei-,-*, 
or il is e;|iuillx uii|).<sil.le. The U-auly of 
a p inched t^a is for the yolk to be seen 
blushing t!irou<r|i the while, which shoulil 
only IH- |ii>l - illicientlx hiudeneil, to form a 
trail-pare!]- \e|| f,, r the egg. H^i 
boiling water in a tea-kettle; pa-s a< much 
of it throii-h .i rli-aii elolh as will half till a 
Ktexv|>aii; bn jk the egg into a cup, and 



when the water boib, remove the stewpan 
from the stove, and gently slip the egg into 
it ; it must stand till the xvhite is set ; then 
put it oxer a very moderate fire, and as soon 
a* the water boils, the egg is ready; take it 
up with a slice, and neatly round off the 
ragged edges of the xvhite; send them up on 
bread to;isted on one side only, with or xvith- 
out butter; or without a toast, garnished 
with streaked bacon nicely fried, or j-lices 
of broiled beef or mutton, anchoxii >. |n,rk 
sausages, or spinage. The bread should 1 
a little larger than the egg, and aliout a 
quarter of an inch thick; only just u'ixc it a 
yellow color: if you toast it brown, it will 
get a bitter flavour; or moisten it by |xmr- 
mg a little hot water upon it: some sprinkle 
it with a few drops of vinegar, or of essence 
of anchovy. 

K(i(;s POACHED, WITH SAUCE OF 
MINCED HAM. I'oach the eggs as before 
directed, and take two or three slices of 
lx>ilcd ham; mince it fine with a gherkin, a 
morsel of onion, a little parsley, and |>epper 
and salt ; stew all together a quarter of ail 
hour; serve up your saiieealxiul half boiling; 
put the e|,'<;s in a dish, squeeze over the juice 
of half a .Seville orange, or lemon, and JXHIT 
the sauce over them. 

EGG PUNCH. Take a punch--la>.<, 
and put into it a xvinc-gla.-s (if sirup of punch 
(see that article), and the yolk of an egg; 
Ix-at them together xvith a spoon, and then 
fill up the glass with boiling water, stirring 
a little as xou pour it in. 

EGG TOAST. Put a glass of thick 
cream, some sugar, two or three macaroons 
|xinnded, w itli a fexv almonds, a little grated 
lemon, give them a boil; then add the yolks 
of eight and whites of three eggs, Ix-at the 
whole up over a slow fire; and lay on very 
thin slices of fried bread ; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve. 

EGG WINE. Beat up an egg, mix with 
it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a 

glass of xvhite wine, half a l:tss of water, 
.-ii'/ar, and nutmeg. When it Ixiils, |x>ur a 
little of it to the p^g by degree--, till the 
whole is in, stirring it well; then return the 
wliole into the saucepan, set it over a uentle 
fire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer, 
1 for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will cm .lie ; 
SWlll with toast. You may make it as above, 
without xvarmiir^ the (_",'. and it xvill be 
lighter on the stomach, though not so agree- 
able to the palate. 

ELDER Fl.mVI.K FRITTERS. 
They are made whilst tlw elder flowers are 
in blixuii ; and they should marinate three 



END 



72 



ESP 



or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower 
water, and lemon-peel; when drained, dip 
them in a good thick batter to fry, and serve 
with rasped sugar, as in general. 

ELDER ROB. Gather the elderberries 
when quite ripe, put them into a stone jar, 
tie a bladder or paper over the top, and 
plan- the jar in a pan of water ; let it boil 
till the berries are very soft; strain them 
through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of 
juice allow half a pound of good brown su- 
gar; put it into a preserving-pan, stir it, and 
when it boils, take off the scum, and let it 
boil for one hour. 

ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- 
flowers when just blown, lake away all the 
stalks, and when the flowers are alx>ut 
half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar 
with \inegar, close it tight, and let it stand 
in die sun for twenty days ; then draw it off, 
press the flowers, and having filtered the 
whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bot- 
tles closely corked. 

ELDERBERRIES. Can be made to 
produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- 
gallon cask forty pounds of fruit, forty pounds 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. 
When elderberry wine is desired for a warm 
cordial, it is made in the following manner: 
Twenty-five pounds of fruit are to be boil- 
ed for an hour, in eleven gallons of watci , 
and along with it, tied in a piece of linen, 
one ounce of allspice, and two of ginger; 
forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, 
die boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing 
the fruit quite dry ; a quarter of a pound of 
crude tartar, or cream of tartar, is dieu 
added to the liquid. When it has stood two 
days in the tub, it may lie removed to the 
cask, treated, as for sweet wuie, in the usual 
manner, and bottled in March following. 
When to be drank, a portion of it is heated 
with some sugar, two or three cloves, and a 
little nutmeg. 

EM POT AGE. Put into a large sauce- 
pan, three or four pounds of beef-steaks, a 
knuckle of veal, and four old liens ; moisten 
this quantity of meat with two ladlcsful of 
broth ; set it on a stove, and let it boil till 
properly reduced, taking care that none of 
the meat burns, which would make the 
empotage of too high a color ; fill up your 
saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, 
and onions; let all lliese ingredients stand 
over the fire for three hours and a half; then 
strain the whole tlirough a silk sieve, that 
it may be perfectly clear. 

ENDIVE IN VELOUTE. Take off 
all the outer leaves of your endive, and having 



opened tlie hearts, put tliem into cold water 
to wa>h them. In the meanwhile heat a 
kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, 
then throw in the endive ; keep it constantly 
under the water, to prevent their turning 
black. As soon as the endive is tender, 
drain, and then put it into cold water, and 
when quite cold, drain it again ; press the 
water out with your hands ; then chop it 
small, and put it into a saucepan, with some 
butler, sail, and pepper, stir it well, and 
then add five spoonfuls of veloute, the same 
of consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and 
then put it in a dish, with fried bread round 
it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, 
in which case, put two spoonfuls of flour into 
it, and moisten it with cream. 

ENDIVE IN GRAVY OF VEAL. 

Wash and clean thoroughly ten or twelve 
heads of fine endive, take off the outer leaves, 
and blanch the heads in hot w ater ; throw 
them into cold water, and then squeeze them 
as dry as possible. Stew them in as much 
gravy as will cover them; add a tea-spoon- 
ful of pounded sugar, and a little silt . Wlien 
perfectly tender, put in a little veloute sauce, 
and serve quite hot. 

ENTREE. There is no word precisely 
equivalent to this in English. Any dish of 
butcher 's meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed 
for the first course, is called an entree. 

ENTREMET. There is no word equiv- 
alent to this in English. All dishes of veg- 
etables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lob- 
sterV, and, in general, everything that appears 
iu the second course, except the roast, is 
called an entremet. 

ESCHALOT WINE. Peel, mince, and 
pound in a mortar, three ounces of eschalots, 
and infuse them in a pint of Sherry for ten 
days; then pour off the clear liquor on three 
ounces more eschalots, and let the wine 
stand on them ten days longer. This is 
rather the most expensive, but infinitely 
the most elegant preparation of eschalot, 
and imparts the onion flavour to soups and 
sauces, for chops, steaks, or broiled meats, 
hashes, &c. more agreeably than any : 
it does not leave any unpleasant taste in 
die moudi, or to die breath ; nor repeat, 
as almost all odier preparations of garlic, 
onion, &c. do. N. B. An ounce of scraped 
horseradish may be added to die above, and 
a little thin-cut lemon-peel. 

ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl, and 
about fourteen pounds of leg or shoulder of 
veal ; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, 
with very little water, into a large saucepan, 
widi two carrots, three onions, a pound of 



FIL 



73 



FIS 



ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of 
fipice, and a clove of ;:irlic; 1ft this stew 
ovi-r i moderate lire, shaking it freqne:iily, 
till it Ix-co ini'S of a brown color, when you 
m:iy :iilil to it :i snllicietit quantity of hot 
water, to eome alxmt four inches :ilx>ve tlie 
me.it. Set il bv llie side nf the stove tolxiil 
gently, skimming when neei-ssary, till tlie 
meat conies from tin; bones; then "train it 
through ;i silk sieve, and set it by for use. 

! > - I : \ < T.. Take half a Ix.ttle of white 
wine, half a glass of the best vinegar, the 
jui.-e of two lemons, three ounces of salt, 
half an ounce of whole ]x'pper, a little nut- 
Hk".' and ina'-e. four cloves, four bay -leaves, 
thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten 
shallots, |xiundcd, and an o.mce of dry mush- 
room-; put all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk lire; when near 
boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand 
on hot asiies (r six or seven hours; then 
strain it through a coarse sieve, and after- 
wards lilter it. Keep it in closely corked 
i small quantity is sufficient to fla- 
vour a dish. 



P. 



F V \( I K > \ETTE8. Put into a sauce- 
pan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one 
of butter, two of pounded almonds, some 

iuii-|x-cl, two \-iiks-, and one whole 
'', and half a pint of milk ; 
licnts on the fire, and let them 
.et likt; a cream; lin i-tins, or 

moulds, with pnjf pa:-tc, till them with the 
>n; place the moulds on a tin, and 
h;ikc the/ancAonefte*in a brisk oven; when 
about (I n- i , take them out, put 

. sprinkle sn<,'ar over, and re- 
place them in the OM-H to finish the baking. 

V, Like a Fucking pig, should Ix- 
: as soon as killed. When 
ing, it is trussed, stuffed, and sjiit- 
\\uy as, a hare: but they are 
ring when of thf> size of a BOOM 
lamb, u:id arc then roasted in quarters; the 
liind-qir.irtcr is most esteemed. 

They insist lie put down to a very quirk 
either basted all the time they an- 
d with utv 
,-tc it with butter, and 
; . and llour, till 

c froth on it. 

N. I'. We advise our friends to half 
roast a fawn as soon aa they receive it, and 
then main- a hash of it. 

;> M-nimn sauce with it. 



FILBERT ROLLS. 
7 



Having peeled 



h:\lf a pound of filberts, put them into a 

pn-srmng p:ui over ;i moderate fire, and 
stir them constantly with a spntnla until 
the\ become e<|nally coloreil of a li^llt yel- 
low: th'.'ii set them to cool. When cold, 
jxiiiiid till-in with a little white of , 
paste; then mix them with half a [xmnd of 
Hour, the same of po\vder sii^nir, and the 
yolks .if four or five eggs, ami then finish 
tlie operation as directed for almond roUt. 
Froth, and trace on the surtace an ear of 
wheat, or anything else, with the point of a 
knife: take care to dry them well in the 
baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse 
powder sugar may also be strewed over, be- 
fore they are put in the oven. 

FISH. We intert all the beat remark* 
that various culinary authors have made 
on FISH. 

There is a general rule in choosing 
most kinds of fish; if their gills are red, 
their eyes plump, and the whole fi.-h stiff, 
they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills 
are pale, the eyes sunk, and the ti.sh flabby, 
they are stale. The greatest care should 
Ix' taken that the fish is properlv clean-Jtd 
Ix-fore Ix-iiig dressed, but not washed be- 
yond what is absolutely neces>arv for clean- 
ing, as by perpetual watering, the flavour 
is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some salt, and a little vinegar 
should be put into the water, to give it 
firmness. Care should lie taken to ln.il the 
fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, 
whiting, and haddock are much Ix-tter fur 
little salted, and kept fur a day. 

There is "!':en a muddy smell and ta.-ie at- 
tached to iVesh-water li.-h, which may Ixj 
got rid of I iy soaking it, after it has been 
thoroughly cleaned in strong salt and wa- 
ter; or, if the fish is not too lai\'e, scald it 
in the same; then dry, and die-:, it. 

< 'are should l<e taken that the li.-h is put into 
cold nater, anil allowed to do \er\ gently, 
otherwise the outside will break before the 
hi.-ide is done. 

( 'i imp lirh must be put into Ixtilii 
and as soon as it boils up, a little cold 
water should Ix. 1 put in, to check lhe<xr<-s- 
si\e heat, and simmer il for a few minute!. 

If the fish is not taken out of (In 1 water 
the instant it is done, it will become wixil- 
Iv; to ascertain when it is midy, the fish 
plate on which it is drtwed may Ixj drawn 
up, and if s'lilicientiv done, it will leau- the 
bone. To keep hot . ajid to 

prevent it from losing its color, the full 
plate should be plan over the 

lish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be either nicely fried 
plain, or done over with egg and bread 
crumbs, and tlien fried. I'pon the di-n in 
which the fish ie to be served, should be 



FI S 



74 



FIS 



placwl a folded damask napkin, and upon 
this put the fish, with the liver and roe; 
then garnish tle dish with horse-radish, 
parsley, and leinon. Fish is a dish which 
is almost more attended to titan any other. 

To fry or broil fish properly, after it 
is well cleaned and washed, it should be 
wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when 
perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprink- 
led all over with very fine bread crumbs; it 
will look still better to be done over with 
egg and crumbs a second time. Then hav- 
ing on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan, 
with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot ; 
put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably 
quick till it is done, and of a nice brown 
yellow. If it is done before it has obtained 
a nice brown color, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fire, the fish carefully 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
turned upwards, or on the under side of 
a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, 
and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to 
receive the fish. I-'ish fried in oil obtains a 
much finer color than when done in lard or 
dripping. Butter should never be used, as 
it gives a bad color. Garnish your dish 
with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with 
fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broQed, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean 
gridiron; which, when hot, should be rub- 
bed over with suet, to hinder the fish from 
sticking. It should be broiled over a very 
clear fire, to prevent its tasting sjnoky, and 
great care must be taken not to scorch it. 

FISH. This department of the busi- 
ness of the kitchen requires considerable ex- 
perience, and depends more upon practice 
than any other. A very few moments, more j 
or less, will thoroughly spall fish ; which, to 
be eaten in perfection, must never be put j 
on the table till the soup is taken off. 

So many circumstances operate on this 
occasion, that it is almost impossible to 
write general rules. 

There are decidedly different opinions, 
whether (Lsh should be put into cold, tepid, 
or boiling water. 

Fish must by no means be allowed to re- 
main in the water after it is boiled ; if 
therefore it should be ready before it can be 
gent to table, it must be dished, the cover 
put on, and a cloth put over it. The dish 
is then to be set across the fish-kettle. 

Fish should be fried over a clear quick 
fire ; and with dripping, or hog's lard in 
preference to butler. The pan should be 
deep; and to ascertain that it is clean, a 
little fat is first fried in it, poured out, and 
the pan wiped with a clean cloth; as much , 
dripping or lard is then put in as will en- 



tirely cover the fish. When it is boiling 
hot, and begins to smoke, the fish is put in ; 
if small, they may be turned in three or four 
minutes, by sticking in a fork near the head 
with one hand, and with the other support- 
ing die tail with a fish-slice. When they 
arc done, they should be laid before the 
fire upon an old soft towel, and turned now 
and then till they are dry upon both sides ; 
or they may be put upon a large sieve, 
turned upwards, and which is kept for the 
purpose, or put on the under side of a dish. 

The fire for broiling fish must be very 
clear, and the gridiron perfectly clean, 
which, when hot, should be rubbed with a 
bit of suet. The fish, while broiling, must 
be often turned. 

Several respectable fishmongers and ex- 
perienced cooks have assured the editor, 
that they are often in danger of losing dieir 
credit by fish too fresh, and especially tur- 
bot ami cod, which, like meat, require a 
certain time before they are in the best con- 
dition to be dressed. They recommend 
them to be put into cold water, salted in 
proportion of about a quarter of a pound of 
salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is 
best to boil sea-fish in. It not only saves the 
expense of salt, but the flavor is better. Let 
them boil slowly till done; the sign of which 
is, that the skin of the fish rises up, and 
tin- e\es turn white. 

It is die business of the fishmonger to 
clean them, &c. but the careful cook will 
always wash them again. 

(iiunish with slices of lemon, finely scrap- 
ed horseradish, fried oysters, smelts, whit- 
iiiljs or strips of soles. 

The liver, roe, and chitterlings should be 
placed so that the carver may observe them, 
and invite the guest to partake of them. 

Fish, like meat, requires more cooking 
in cold than in warm weather. If it be- 
comes FROZEN, it must be thawed by the 
means we have directed for meat. 

Fish are plenty and good, and in great 
variety, in all tlie towns and cities on the 
extensive coast of the United States. Some 
of the interior towns are also supplied with 
fish peculiar to the lakes and rivers of this 
country. 

All "kinds of fish are best sometime before 
they begin to spawn ; and are unfit for food 
for sometime after they have spawned. 

Fish, like animals, are fittest for the ta- 
ble when they are just full grown ; and what 
has been said i-especting vegetables, applies 
equally well to fish. 

The most convenient utensil to boil fish 
in, is a turbot-kettle. This should be 
twenty-four inches long, twenty-two wide, 
and nine deep. It is an excellent Tessel to 
boil a ham in, &c. &c. 

N. B. The liver of the fish pounded and 



FIS 



75 



FLE 



mixed with batter, with a little lemon-juice, 
&c. is an elegant and inoffensive relish to 
fish. Mushroom sauce extempore or tile 
soup of mock turtle, will make an excellent 
fish gauce. 

For liquids, you have meat gravy, lemon- 
juice, sirup of lemons, essence of anehovy, 
the various vegetable essences, uiuslirixmi 
catchup, and the whites and yolks of eggs, 
win. -, and the essence of spices. 

I'lSH, NBW METHOD OF DRESSING. 
Take any sort of fish you think prujxir, l>e- 
ing very careful that it is (juitc fresh; clean 
it Thoroughly, dry, and season it to your 
taste; then put it (without any moisture), 
into a [Ktn, which may be closely covered, 
with the exception of a small hole, to allow 
uioii. 1'ut it into an oven as soon 
as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until 
the whole is so completely cliss. 

BJ are not perceptible. When cold, 
this makes a very transparent, well-flavored 
jelly. 

F I S 1 1 < '( ).\ s >.M M E. Take carp, tench, 

I--, pike, and other fre.-h-watcr lish 

of the same kind; clean them well, and cut 

them into pieces, as near of a size as may 

be; lay them in a stewpan, on a la\rr of 

as soon as they 

lieu'in d> sweat, put in a bit of butter, and 
leave tlicm lor a quarter of an hour; mois- 
ten them with lish broth, and let them boil 
gently for an hour; keep the pan closely 
. this will afford a very nourishing 
broth. 

FISH KETCHUP. Take rather more 
:<hit of vinegar, three pints of red 
Port, two table-spoonfuls of pepper, pound- 
ed very fine, plenty of shallots and Imise- 
radi.-h, the IMI-I of hall" a lemon, and two or 
three bay-leaves, and a pound of anchovies; 
Jet the whole Imil together until the ancho- 
vies are dissolved, then strain, and when 
cold, put it into bottles. Two or three 
FjyxHifuls are sufficient lor a jyjund of 

batter. 



FISH FOiUT.MF.AT. Take two oun- 
ces of either turUit. . siirim|k<, 
-; free from ski.i, put it in a mor- 
tar with two minces of I', !i butler, one 
.iiini-e of bread-crumbs, the volk of 
Imiled hard, and a little e>.-hal<.;. 
Inou-peel, and parslev, min.-ed very line; 
then jKiiind it well till it is thoroughly mixed 
and quite smooth; season it with ~.i\i and 
Cayenne to your taste ; break in the volk 

IM white of one egg, rob it well toother, 

and it is readv lor use. Ovsfers parboiled 
Uiid minced line, and an anchovy, may Ix; 
added. 



PISH GRAVY. (1) Cut two or three 

little lull of any kind into small pieces; put 
them into a saucepan, with rather more 
water than will cover them, a bit of toasted 
bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-prel, 
whole jM-pper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; 
let it simmer gently till ii is rich and good; 
brown a little bit of Imtter in a stew pan, 
and when it is browned, strain the uravy in- 
to it, and let it boil for a few minutes. 

FISH (Ill.VVV. (2) Put some slices 
of onion into a .-tevtpan, and set them on 
the lire; when they an- completely dissolved, 
add a piece of butter, and some small lish, 
or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other 
you linil convenient. As soon as they begin 
to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put 
a ylas.-|iil of root broth to them, and boil 
them for half an hour; then add a glass of 
white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and 
boil it another half hour, wlien it may be 
pressed through a sieve, with great force. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (1) After pike, 
cod, skate, tin I .1, soli>. or any other white 
fish has Ix^en dressed, pick it from the bones 
into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or 
in the same proportion, half a pint of good 
cream, one table-spoonful of mustard, the 
same of anchovy essence, the same of ketch- 
up, and of Harvey sauce, a little flour, some 
salt, pepper, and butter; make it all hot in 
the xiuce|xui, then put it into the dish in 
which it is to be served up, strew crumbs 
of bread over it, and baste it with butter till 
it is a little moist, then brown it with a 
salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall 
ot ma.-hed potatoes roiuld the dish is an im- 
provement. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (2) Pick from 
the bone in large flakes about two pounds 
of cold salmon, codfish, or soles; melt a 
quarter of a |>ound of butter in half a pint of 
cream, with a little flour and salt; add the 
fish and heat it thoroughly. 

FISH SAUCE. See Sauce*. 



FI.FMISH WAFERS. Put into a 
deep pan half a pound of flour; strain and 
mix wi:ii it half a pint of warmed milk, and 
two talile-s|xjonful.- of fresh yca.-t; work tile 
! paste till it l>e soft and smooth, and pla< < it 
in a stove, ( >r eio.-e to the lire, to rise; then 
add the beaten yolks of six eggs, half a 
|x>nnd of freoli butter Ix-aten to a cream, 
and a lump of sugar which has Ui-n niblied 
upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded; 
last of all, IxMt in lightly the- well-whisked 
whites of the eggs; again place the ><.< in 
a warm |il. ire, and ii nil! i !- I 

double its bulk. Heat and rub (lie iron*, 



FLU 



76 



FOR 



which should be square, with a little butter ; 
fill one side with the mixture, and close 
them ; when one side is done turn the oth- 
er, and when of a fine color, take out the 
wafers ; put them upon a plate, and whilst 
hot, sift over this quantity a quarter of a 
pound of grated loaf sugar. 

FLIP. To make a quart of flip: Put 
the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up 
three or four eggs, with four ounces of moist 
sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or 
ginger, and a quartern of good old ruin or 
brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it 
into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs, &c. in- 
to another ; turn it from one to another till 
it is a smooth as cream. This is called a 
Yard of Flannel. 

FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a 
pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the 
peel of a lemon; when almost cold, strain it, 
and mix with it the beaten white of one, and 
the yolks of three eggs ; stir itover die fire till 
thick, pour it into a dish, and stir it now 
and then till cold. Whisk the whites of 
two eggs, and half a pint of Guava, quince, 
or red currant jelly, till it be a very stiff". 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (1) Put on a 
stewpan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover the flounders which are to be dres- 
sed ; put in some vinegar and horse-radish ; 
when the water boils put in the fish, having 
lieen first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; 
they must not boil too fast for fear they should 
break; when they are sufficiently done, lay 
them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. 
Serve them with parsley and butter. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (2) Wash and 
clean them well, cut the black side of them 
the same as you do turbot, then put them in- 
to a (i.-li-kettle, with plenty of cold water 
and a handful of salt ; when they come to a 
boil, skim them clean, and let them stand 
by the side-of die fire for five minutes, and 
diey are ready. Obs. Eaten with plain 
melted butter and a little salt, you have the 
sweet delicate flavor of die flounder, which 
is overpowered by any sauce. 

FLOUNDERS OR PLAICE, FRIED OR 
BOILED. Flounders are perhaps the most 
(iiiiirult fish to fry very nicely. (.'Iran them 
well, flour them, and wi| them widi a dry 
cloth to absorb all die water from diem; 
flour or egg and bread-crumb them. 

FLUMMERY. Steep three large hand- 

fuls of very small white oatmeal 4 day and 
night in cold water; then pour it oft' clear; 
then add as much more water, and let h 
stand anodier dav and a night. Then 



strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil 
it till it is of the conMstence of hasty pud- 
ding, keeping it well stirred all die time it 
is boiling. When first strained, put to it 
one large s|xniful of white sugar, and two 
of orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- 
low dishes, and scrxe to eat with wine, ci- 
der, milk or ccpam, and sugar. 

FLUMMERY DUTCH. Boil very 

irenlly for half an hour, two ounces of isin- 
;:!a.-.- in three half pints of water; add a pint 
of white wine, the juice of three lemons and 
the thin rind of one, and nib a few lumps 
of sugar on another to obtain the essence, 
and with them add as much more sugar as 
will make it sufficiently sweot ; and having 
beaten up the yolks of se\en eggs, give diem 
and the above, when mixed, one scald; stir 
all the time, and pour the whole into a ba- 
sin; stir it till it is half cold; then let it 
settle, and put it into a melon shape. 

FLUMMERY FRENCH. Beat an 
ounce of isinglass line, put it into a quart of 
cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then 
take it off, sweeten it ith tine powder su- 
gar, put in a s|Mxinfiil of rose and another 
of orange-dower water, strain it through a 
sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into 
a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it in- 
to a dish, and garnish with currant jelly. 

FONDUS. Put some grated cheese into 
a basin, with pepper and a little melted liut- 
ter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them togeth- 
er; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them, a little at a time, to 
the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden 
spoon; half till as many paper OUtt 
can, and bake them, like biscuits, in a 
| moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as 
possible after they are done. 

FORCEMEAT STUFFING. Force- 
meat is now considered an indispensable 
accompaniment to most made dishes, and 
when composed \\illi good taste, gives ad- 
ditional spirit and relish to even that " sove- 
! reign of savouriness," turtle soup. 

It is also sent up in patties, and for stuf- 
fing of veal, game, pnultn 

The ingredients should t>e so proportion- 
ed, that no one flavor pred in 

To give the same stuffing for veal, hare, 
&c. argues a poverty of inu-ntinn; with a 
little contrivance, jou may make as great 
a variety as you have dishes. 

The poignancy of forcemeat should be 
proportioned to the savonriness of the \ iandri, 
to which it is intended to give OS additional 
est. Some dishes require a very delicate- 
ly flavored forcemeat, for others, it must 



FOR 



77 



FOW 



be full and high seasoned. What would U- 
piquantt in a turkey, would be insipid willi 
turtle. 

..pie have an acquired and pecu- 
liar lasic in stiillin^s, fee. anil what exactly 
pleaaes one, M-ldoiu is precisely what an- 
other considers lln- most agreeable. 

Custom is all in matters of ta.-tc: it i- not 
that OIK- person is naturally fond of this or 
that, and another naturally averse to it; Im! 
tluit one is n.-ed to it, and "another is not. 

The consistency of forcemeats is rather a 
difficult thin:; to manage ; they an: almost 
always either too liylit or t'H> heavy. 

Take care to |x>uud it till perfectly smooth, 
and that all the ingredients are thoroughly 
incor|x>raled. 

Forcemeat-halls must not lie larger than 
a small nuiiii.-^. If they arc for brown 
sane:', llour and fry them; if lor while, put 
them into l>iling water, anil !><>il (hem for 
three mimiii-: the latter are In far the must 
delicate. 

If not of sufficient stillness, it falls to 
pieces, and makes soup, &c. grouty and 
very unsightly. 

Swi cfhieads and tongues are the favorite 
material- lor f.nemeat. Forcemeat should 
be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a 
knife, Ixit not dry or heavy. .No one flavor 
should predominate tjreatly ; according to 
what it is wanted for, a selection ma\ lx- 
made from the following list, licing careful 
to use the least of those arlicics which are 
the -nost pungent : 

Coli I fox* I, or veal. scraped ham, fat Iw- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, 
while pcp|irr, salt, nutmeg, yo Iks and whites 
of eggs, we'll beaten, to hind I'M mixture. 

The f.irccin.Mi 'nay be nude with any 

of these articles without any striking llavor; 

therefore any of the following different ingre- 

-. of to vary llie taste. 

Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, |x-n- 
. knotted-ntaijorain, thyme, basil, 
yolks of h.inl e 

Jamaica |'ppcr in line puwiler, or 

two or llllee clo\e>. 

To force or slnll turkeys, geese, ducks, 
under the heads of the ditleivnt 
ways i .:n --ing turkeys, geese, &c. 

Fok< T.MKAT. Take an equal quantity 
of lean veal scraped, and beef met shred; 

U-at them in a niarbl.- mortar; add pep|x-r, 
Kilt, clovui, |xiunded lemon-peel, and imtme- 
l*u-sley and !.w<t-t h'-ili.-. choppi-d 
line, a linle shallot and \onii_- onion, a lew 
brcail-ermnbs grated line, and yolk of e^'i; 
milticicnt to work it li^ht ; roll this into 
lulls- wilii a little llour; if tor white sauce, 
boil them ; if for brow n s:im -c. fry them. 

FOR( i:\ll-.Vr HAI.I.S FOR FISH 
7* 



SOUPS, OR FISH STEWED. Beat th* 

llesh and soft pails of a middling pi/.ed lob- 
ster, half an anchovy, a laii;e piece oflniil- 
ed celery, the yolk of a hard ej;g, a little 
Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, 
with two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 
one spoonful of oyster liquor, two ounces of 
butter warmed, two irus ln-aten fora long 
time; make into lills, and fry them of a 
nice brown color in butter. 

FORCEMEAT-BALLS FOR TURTLE, 
!Ui>i * TURTLE, OR MADE DISHES. 

Pound some veal in a marble mortar; rub 
it through a sie\e with as much of the udder 
4 have veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butler: put some bread-crumbs 
into a stew pan, moisien them with milk, 
add a little chop|>ed pirslev and eschalot, 

i rub them well together in a mortar till they 
form a smooth paste; put it throiujh a sieve, 

i and, when cold, |xmiid, and mix all I 
ei . u nil th'- \olks of tlin-e ejigs boiled hard; 
season it with salt, |>cp|/er, and curry pow- 
der, or Cayenne; add to it the yolk.- of two 
rub it well together, ar.il make 
small balls: ten minutes before your soup is 
ready, put them in. 

FOWLS. When a cock is young, his 
spurs are short ; take care that you are not 

deceived by their having been cut or pared, 
,1 trick that is oftcM practised. If fresh 
their vent will !* close and dark. Hens 
are I >cst, just liefore they la-gin to lay, and 
yel are full i,f e^ ; if they are old, their 
coiulis and Iru's are nni^h. 

All [xMiltry should Ixj very carefully pick- 
ed, ev.-i\ pli.^ 'i "i!..M-d, ami the hair nicely 
singed with pa|)er. 

>k should he careful in drawing 
|H)',iltry of all .-i>-. not I > break the gait- 
bag, for no wa>hini; will take oil' the bitter 
where it has touched. 

If for roasting, Mack-legged fowls are 
the in .-t moist. A uiK'd-Mied fowl will 
take from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour in roaMin^'. a middling-sized one about 
half an hour, and a very small one, or chick- 
Tamo low Is require more roust in*;, and 
| are lunger in heating through than others. 
All sorts .should ! continually Ui.-ted, that 
they may ! .-er\ed with a froth, and apjiear 
of a fine color. The lire must ! very i|nick 
and clear before any low Is are put down. 
Serve with eg',' sance, bread >ai , or gar- 
nished with sausages or scalded [xirsley. 

A large Uini-door fowl, well huajf, shniild 
In- stulleil in the crop with sal. -age-meat, 
and served with gravy in the dish, and with 
bread sance. 

The head should be turned under the 
wiii^', lik a turkey. 



FO W 



78 



FO W 



For boiling, choose those that are not 
black-legged; pick them carefully, singe. 
wash, and truss them. Flour them, and 
put them in boiling water; a good-sized 
one will be done in half an hour. 

Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, 
lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, 
ham, tongue, or bacon, is commonly served 
with them. 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner as 
chickens. (See Chickens). 

Chickens or fowls should be killed at 
least one or two days before they are to he 



Turkeys (especially large ones) should 
not be dressed till they have been killed 
three or four days at least, in cold weather 
six or eight, or they will neither look white 
nor eat tender. 

Turkeys, and large fowls, should have 
the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn 
out. 

Truss them with the legs outward, they 
are much easier carved. 

FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make 

a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity 
of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, 
and some boiled parsley, season with pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an egg 
lieaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a 
good-sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, 
rover the fowl with a piece of white paper 
Iwttered, and roast it rather more than half 
an hour; have ready a thick batter made of 
flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and 
|xnir some of the batter over the fowl; as 
soon as it becomes dry add more, and do 
this till it is all enisled over, and of a nice 
brown color ; serve it with melted butter and 
lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. 

FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew 
a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pep- 
per, and salt. About half an hour before it 
is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice 
well washed and soaked. Simmer till ten- 
der ; then strain it from the broth, and put 
the rice on a sieve before tile tire. Keep the 
fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and 
the rice round it without the broth. The 
less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. 
Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for 



FOWL BROILED. Split diem down 
the back, well salt and pepper them; then 
broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

FOWL CAPILOTADE. Take the re- 
mains of a ready dressed fowl, and put 
them into a slewpan; then do up some 
parsley, shallots, and four mushrooms, all 



slued small, in a little letter; as soon as the 
latter Incomes liquid, add four ladk-fuls of 
espagnole, and two of consomme, reduce, 
and skim it ; pour it on your fowl, set it on 
the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour, 
l>efore you send it to table. 

FOWL CURRY. See Curry. 

FOWLS DRESSED TO DRESS 

AGAIN. Cut them in quarters, beat up an 
egg or two (according to die quantity you 
dress) with a little grated nutmeg, and pep- 
per and salt, some parsley minced fine, and 
a few crumbs of bread; mix these well to- 
gether, and cover the fowl, &c. with this 
batter; broil them, or put them in a Dutch 
oven, or have n-ady some dripping hot in a 
pan, in which fry them a light brown color; 
thicken a little gravy with some flour, put 
a large spoonful of catchup to it, lay the 
fry in a dish, and pour the sauce round it. 
You may garnish with slices of lemon and 
toasted bread. 



Turkey, Goose, Duck, Rabbit, 
Pigeon, are all dressed same way. 

FOWL, GAME, OR RABBIT HASH- 
F.D. Cut them into joints, put the trim- 
mings into a stewpan with a quart of 
the broth thev were boiled in, and a large 
onion cut in tour; let it boil half an hour; 
strain it through a sieve: then put two table- 
spoonfuls of flour in a basin, and mix it 
well by degrees with the hot broth; set it 
on the fire to Iwil up, then strain it through a 
fine sieve: wash out the stewpan, lay the poul- 
try in it, and pour the gravy on it (through 
a sieve) ; set it by tlie side of the fire to 
simmer very gently (it must not Ixiil) for 
fifteen minutes; live minutes before you 
serve it up, cut the stufliii<; in slices, and 
put it in to warm, then take it out, and lay 
it round the edge of the dish, and put the 
poultry in the middle; carefully skim the 
(at off the gravy, then shake it round well 
in the stewpan, and pour it to the; hash. 
N. B. You may garnish the disli \\ ith bread 
sippets lightly toasted. 

FOWL HASHED. Cut a cold roasted 
fowl into pieces as for a fricassee, |it the 
trimmings into a saucepan with two or three 
shallots, a little lemon-|>eel, a blade ol'mace, 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint 
of stock; simmer it for half an hour, strain 
it, put a bit of butter into a saucepan, and 
when melted, dredge in as much flour as will 
dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add 
the gravy, let it boil a minute, and put in the 
fowl, also a little pepper, salt, and a dust of 
sugar. Before serving, squeeze in a little 
lemon-juice. 



row 



79 



FRA 



FOWL MINCED WITH VEAL. 

Mince tin' wliitc part of a cold roaste.l or 
Ixiiled fowl; put it, and sonic thin slices of 
veal, into a saucepan, also some white stock, 
a squeeze of a lemon, a few drops of shallot 
\ iue^ar. a'lil a dust of sugar ; siniiiier it for 
n short time, and serve it ii|xni bread sippets, 
with tin- slices of veal laid on the mince. 

FOWL 1TLLKI). Skin a cold chick- 
en, foul, or turkey; take oft" the lillets from 
the hrea.-ts, and put them into a slew pan 
with tile rest of the white meat and wings, 
side-lxines, and merry-thought, with a pint 
of broth, a larije blade of mace |xmnded, an 
eschalot minced fine, the juice of half a lem- 
on, and a roll of tlie peel, some salt, and a 
few grains of cayenne; thicken it with flour 
and butter, and let it simmer for luo or 
three minutes, till tiie meat is warm. In the 
meantime score the eggs and rump, powder 
them uitli |x-p[xT and salt, broil them nicely 
lirown, and lay them on, or round your |xill<il 
chicken. Three table-spoonfuls of good 
rieam, or the yolks of as many eggs, \\ill ! 
a great improvement to it. 

FOWL OK RABBIT. We can only 
recommend this method of dressing when the 
fire if not good enough for riKisting. Pick 
and truss it the same as for lx>ilin<;, cut it 
ojx'ii down the back, w i]>e tin- inside clean 
with a cloth, season it with a little pepper 
and Kill, have a clc;ir fire, and set the grid- 
iron at a :;o<>d distance over it, fay the 
chicken on with the inside towards the fire 
(yon may e^i; it am) strew some grated 
bread over it), and broil it till it is a line 
lirown: Like care the fleshy siile is not burn- 
ed. Liiy it on a hot dish; pickled mush- 
nMims, or mushroom sauce thrown over it, 
or |>arslev and butter, or melted Uitter fla- 
vored with mushroom ketchup, (iarnishil 
witli slices of lemon ; and the livei and giz- 
y.ard slit and notched, seasoned with |-p|-r 
and sail, and broiled nicely brown, with 
ome slices of lemon. 

FOWLS WITH KICK, CALLED 
I'll I vi F . 1'ioil :i pint of rice in as much 
Mater as will cover it, with black |x-p| er, a 
few blade* of mace, and half a do/en clo\es, 
lied up in a bit i.f cloth; VV!H-!I the i ice i- 
tender, take out llie spice; stir in a piece 
of butter; U>il a fowl and a piece of bacon; 
lay them in the dish, cover (Item wiih tile 
i !: I. iv round ih" dish, and ii|xm (lie rice, 
hard egB, cut in halv.>, q-r.ti lei>. and 
lengthwavs, witli onion.-, lirst lxiili.il, and 
then li 

S KO AST F.I!. Well pepper 

the fowls ! il them ; 

!i llii-in 



up when nearly done, by sprinkling tliem 
over with flour and silt, and -lasting them 
with liullci . When done, be careful in tak- 
in-f out the skewers. Serve them with very 
gixnl clear ifravy in the dish, and bread or 
< in a boat. 

FOWL ROASTED WITH CHEST- 
NUTS. Roast some cliestnuts, very care- 
fiilly, so that they may not be burnt, then 
lake oil' the skins, and peel them. Take 
alxiut a dozen of them, cut them small, and 
bruise them in a mortar. 1'arlxiil the liver 
of a fowl ; brui.se it, and cut about a quarter 
of a |xiiiiid of ham or bacon, and pound it. 
Then mix them all together, with a good 
quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, 
some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When 
these are are all well mixed togetlier,. put it 
into your fowl, and roast it. The Ix'st way 
of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it 
up I iv the legs to roast, witli a string, and 
then baste it with butter. For sauce, take 
the rest of the che.-tnnts, peel and skin them, 
put them into some good gravy, with a little 
white wine; and thicken it with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. Then place your fowl 
in the dish; pour in the sauce; garnish with 
lemon, and serve. 

FOWL WITH ITS OWN GRAVY. 

Truss a fowl the same us for boiling, lard it 
ijiiite through witli bacon, ham, and pars- 
ley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two 
or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 
carrot.-, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a 
gla.-s of white wine; stew them gently till 
they are done ; skim and strain the sauce, 
and serve il with the fowl. 

FOWL, WILD. Tle flavor of wild 
fowl is preserved better bv not stuffing them ; 
put into each, peppT, salt, and a bit of but- 
ter. Wild fowl do not require so much 
dressing as tame ; tliey should be done of a 
line color, and nicely frothed. A rich brown 
niavy sjionld ! served ill the dish, and when 
the breast is cut into slices, bcfiuv it is taken 
from the Ixine, it will lie much improved by 
a -i | nee/i- of lemon, some salt and pepper. 
ll'\ou wi.-h to take oil' the fishy smell which 
tlie-e birds fiii|uently have, pm an onion, 
sail, and hot water into the dripping pan, 
and for the lii.-t ten minutes haste them with 
tin.-; then remove (lie pan, and keep cou- 
stantlv basting w ith U"ler. 

FRAISE. See (Mf* ChiUerlingt. 

FKAVMl'ANF.. Take a -aiu e| K in,and 
put into il live spoonfuls of flour, five eggs, a 
pint of milk, in ounce of Unier and a litil.- 
.silt; set il . :<. li. ;'',e, stirring coa-tantly 



80 



FR1 



Until it lias l>ilcd ten minutes, taking great 
care that il does nut burn; then |xjur it into 
a basi.i. and let it cool. Take a few al- 
monds, (to every six sweet put one bitter), 
bruise them, and some macaroons, and when 
reduced to powder, mix them with a little 
cris|>ed orange-Hour (also in powder), and a 
suiiieieiit quantity of pq wder-0ugar to BweeteH 
il : add these to the above preparation, and 
stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If 
your frangipane be too thick, add anotlior 
etrg or two, and then make whatever use of 
il yon may desire. You may, if you think 
proper, substitute pistachios for the sweet 
almonds, in which case a little spinach es- 
sence must IK- added to color it, tile maca- 
roons and orange-flowers omitted, and three 
bitter almonds only used. 

FRE.\CH BEANS. Cut off the stalk 
end first, and then turn to the point and 
strip off the strings. If not quite fresh, have 
a bowl of spring-water, with a little salt 
dissolved in it, standing before yon, and as 
the beans are cleaned and stringed, throw 
them in. When all are done, put them on 
the fire in boiling water, with some sail in 
it; after they have boiled fifteen or twenty 
minutes, take one out and taste it; as soon 
as they are tender take them up; throw 
them into a colander or sieve to drain. To 
.Bend up the beans whole is much the l>e.-t 
method when they are thus young, and their 
delicate flavor and color are much tetter 
preserved. When a little more grown, they 
must Ix: cut across in two after stringing; 
and for common tables they are split, and 
divided across ; cut them all the same length ; 
but those who are nice never have them at 
such a growth as to require splitting. When 
they are very large tliey look pretty cut into 
kr/enges. 

FRENCH BEANS, NASTURTIUMS, 

&-.(. \Vhen yoii'i^, and most other small 
trrei-ii vegetables, may be pickled the same 
way as gherkins. 

FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER 

CSK. (father them when young, and on a 
di'v day, put a layer of salt into a jar, and 
nf alxmt two inches thick oflx-ans; 
do this till the jar be nearly full ; place a 
small plate upon the top of them, and tie a 
bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a 
cool dry place. When to be used, snak 
them a night in col&Hvater, and change it 
on tin-in repeatedly in die course of the day 
thev are to lx> dressed. Cut them, and put 
them on in lx>iling water. 

FRENCH BEANS TO DRESS 

DR1KD. Boil lor more than two hours, in 
two quarts of water, a pound of the seeds or 



l>cans of scarlet runners ; fill a pint basin 
with onions jx-clcd or sliced, brown them in, 
a saucepan, with rather more than a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter ; stir them con- 
stantly; strain the water from the bonus, 
and mix them with the onions; add a tea- 
s|x>oiiful of pep|xr, some salt, and a little 
uravy. Let them stew for ten minutes, and 
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a 
table-spoonful of vinegar. Serve them hot. 

FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare off 

the crust, and cut one or two slices of bread 
into bits of two or three inches square ; fry 
them in butter; put them upon a hot dish, 
and lay upon each bit some warmed preserve, 
or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wine 
and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, 
and put them upon and round the toast. 
The preserves may lx> heated by placing the 
jars in hot water by the side of the fire. 

FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four pounds 
of a knuckle of veal into four quarts of wa- 
ter; boil it gently tor two hours; strain it 
oft"; cut three chickens, or two younsf fowls 
into joints ; skin them, and when the broth 
boils put them in ; season with white pepper 
and salt; let them boil a short time, and 
add a handful of parsley chop|x-d small ; 
when the chickens are boiled tender, have 
ready six or seven well-leaten e 
them quickly into the broth one way, imme- 
diately before taking it olV the fire. This 
broth may be made entirely of veal instead 
of chickens. 

FRICAN DEI, LANS. Mince about two 
pounds of tender lean beef, and tlmf-quar- 
tci'sofa pound of fresh suet, then pound it 
till it be as smooth as a paste, and earefiilly 
pi'-k out all the threads and sinews ; add four 
woll-liealen cij'js, hall' a pint of rich croam, 
and as much grated and sifter! bread as will 
make it sufficiently consistent to Ibrm into 
rolls resembling corks, and season it with 
salt, and |x,-ppcr. Hoi I the corks in some 
good st.ick, or in boiling water. 

FRICASSEE i',R<)\\\. Take two o* 

three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and 
stew them iu uravy made of l>eet', some whole 
pepper, two shallots, one or two anchovies, 
a bit of horse-radish, and a little sweet mar- 
joram jx)wdereri small. Stew the rabbits 
about a quarter of an hour, then take them 
out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your 
rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of 
claret; you may fry some forcemeat balls, 
made with the livers of the rabbits parlxiilr-d, 
and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg 
trratcd, pepj.er, salt, a few bread crumbs, 
and I wo Ixiltercd i'i;;;s; mix these all to- 
gether, make them up into balls, dip them 



FRI 



81 



FRI 



in the yolk of egg, roll them in flour, 
then fry them, and garnish your dish with 
them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. 

FRICASSEE WHITE. Cut a couple 
of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in 
warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; 
then lay them in a cloth to dry; put them 
intn a .-tr\\ |>aii with milk and water, and let 
them stew till they are tender, and then take 
a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of 
cream. ;enl a quarter of a pound of butter; 
stir them well together till the butler is melt- 
ed ; Ix- careful to keep it constantly stirring, 
or it will !* greasy; put in the rabbits, take 
a little dried mace, a little jxunuied nutmeg, 
and a few mhraooBj shake them together 
for a few minutes, and then put it to the 
rabbit.-. You may add white wine if you 

l-hoo-.-. 

FRIED TOASTS. Cut the crumb of 

a tw[KMiny loaf into round or oblong pieces, 
nearly an inch tliick, and soak them for four 
or live hours in a pint of cream, mixed with 
three ueil-U-aien e^ifs, half a pint of white 
wine, a little iati .1 nutmeg, and sweetened 
with pounded l,.:tl -u^.ir. Fry them in but- 
ter, till of a hi;ht brown color, and serve 
with wine and sugar sauce. 

FRITTERS. (1) Make them ofany of 
the batten directed li>r pancakes, by dropping 
a small quantity into the pan, or make die 
plainer .-cirt, and pit |>ared apples sliced and 
cored in the baiter, and fry some of it with 
each sli'e. Currants or sliced lemon, as 
thin as |x --il.|.\ uro yery nice. 

FR1TTF.RS. (2) Fritters should be sent 
to table sej\ed u|x)ii a folded napkin in tlie 
di.-h. Aiu -MI i. f -\M eimeat, or ripe fruit, 
ma\ l>e made into fritters. 

I I! I I I E R S , E.NGLISH-AND- 

FKF.N* 'II. Take i marrow pudding, and 

when nearly cold, cut it into thin slices, and 

then cut them :i<.;aln into pieces two inches 

iinee-quarters of an inch wide, dip 

hatter, and fry them in the usual 

manner: when drained, glaze them with tine 

tin-in \ery hot. The batter 

lor the ab.i\r Minns i.- made as follows: 

i-it and a half of water, a grain of 

salt, and two ounces of fresh butter into a 

: when it U.i Is stir in a sufficient 

quantity of tlour to make it a rather linn 

I mtter. keep ii stirring three minutes, then 

pour it into another vessel. 

FWITERS A LA DAUI'IIIM:. 
Take a [xmnd of brioche paste, and roll it 
out as thin a* possible, to the form of a lonif 
quart-; on part of this lay small quantities 



of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly 
wet the paste round each piece of preserve, 
and lay over the plain |>art of tlie paste so as 
to cover the other completely, press it down 
lightly that the marmalade may not eseajx- 
in tlie cooking, and cut out your fritters 
with a circular paste-cutter of two inches in 
diameter; flour them a little, and then lay 
them in ratlier a hot friture, when the paste 
will swell them into little balls ; as soon as 
they are of a proper color take them out, 
drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with 
fine sugar, and serve them. 

FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak in 
brandy some leaves and the young and ten- 
der shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter 
made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour, fry 
them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with su- 
gar. Elder flowers are made into fritters in 
the same manner. 

FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix to- 
gether a handful of rice-flour and some milk, 
set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add 
a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange- 
flowers; when it has become of a proper 
consistence, take it from the fire; as soon 
as it is cold, roll it into balls about tlie size 
of a nut, dip them in baiter and fry them. 

FRITTERS BLONDIX. Put some 
butter into a saucepan, and when it is melt- 
ed add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of 
salt, keep it on tlie fire till it boil:- ; then 
mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
it into a consistent paste, which will not 
stick to the fingers; spread it on a table, 
roll it out to the thickness you may require, 
cut it in round, oval, or any other formed 
pieces you may think proper, and fry them of 
a nice color, in the best oil ; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve them. 

FRITTERS, FRENCH, OF BRAN- 
DY FRUITS. Take a dozen apricots 
(or oilier fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, 
and cut them in half: then wrap them in w a- 
I fera cut round and previously moisi, ned, dip 
them in the same kind of batter as that used 
for fritters Engliah-and- French, ami fry 
them ; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. 

FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take 
eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
on the stalks ; cut off about a fourth part of 
the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out 
the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of 
cup with a lid ; put them to soak for two hours 
in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-peel 
and cinnamon ; at the end of that time take 
them out, draiq and fill each apple uitll 
apricot marmalade, or fr.mgi|i!iiie ; mix up 
a little fl.Mir and white of egg to cement tho 



FRO 



82 



FRU 



tops of the apples to the other parts; dip 
them in batter and fry them. When they 
are of a proper color, glaze and serve them. 

FRITTERS MIGNON. Put two good 
spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a 
liith- salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon- 
peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and 
half a tea-epoonful of cream ; stir it over a 
slow fire, and, when done and well thicken- 
ed, spread the cream upon a floured dish, 
shake Hour over it, and, when cold, cut it 
into bits with a paste-cutter, dip each bit 
into a paste made with two spoonfuls of 
flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, 
mixed with two eggs; fry live fritters, and 
serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. 

FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of 
ne\v milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine ; 
then take it off, and let it stand five or six 
minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a 
basin ; l>eat it up well with six < 
season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a 
whisk, and add tlour sufficient to give it the 
pro|x.-r consistence of batter. Put in some 
sugar and fry them quick. 

FRITTERS, SOUFFLES. Make 
some flour and beer into a batter tliat will 
flow a little; take a little of it out with a 
spoon, throw it into a frying-pan with boil- 
ing oil ; the moment it rises, take it out, 
and proceed in the same way till all the bat- 
ter is used; then sprinkle them with sjalt, 
and serve. 

FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound 
of < 'heshire cheese into thin bits, and pound 
it in a mortar; add by degrees die well- 
beaten yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg, and half a pint of cream ; mix it well 
together and bake it for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

FROST OR ICING FOR CAKES. 

Iteat till very light the whites of four eggs, 
and add gradually three-quarters of a pound 
<if double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted 
through a lawn sieve; mix jn the juice of 
half a lemon; beat it till very light and 
white; place the cake before the fire, pour 
over it the icing, and smooth over the top 
and sides with the back of a spoon. 

FROTH TO PUT ON CREAM, CUS- 
TARD, OR TRIFLE. Sweeten half a pound 
of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of 
scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four 
eggs beaten, and Ixsit the pulp with them 
till it will stand as high asS'ou wish, and 
being put on the cream, &c, with a spoon, 



it will take any form ; it should be rough, 
to imitate a rock. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (1) It must first be 
preserved, then dipped in warm water, dried 
with a cloth, and strewed all over with sift- 
ed sugar, and dried in a stove or oven, turn- 
ing as occasion requires. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (2) When the 
fmit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the 
sirup is quite out, dip it into sirup boiled to 
randy height, and dry it again. All dried 
and candied fruit must lie kept in a very 
dry place. 

FRUIT IN JELLY. Have in read mess 
a plain mould, either long or round, about 
three inches deep; then have ready some 
mould jelly, and spread it at the Ixjltom 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; let it be cold ; then put in ripe peach- 
es, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you 
please, preserved fruit, or China oranges 
cut into quarters, or whatever sha|>e. you 
choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it 
stand till it is, cold, to fasten the fruit in its 
place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the 
mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it 
is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and 
garnish it according to your own taste. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, REMARKS 
ON USING. Preserved fruits should not be 
baked long; those that have l>een preserved 
with their full proportion of sugar, require 
no baking; the crust should be baked in a 
tin shape, and the fruit be ^afterward.- added; 
or it may be put into a small dish or tart- 
pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut 
out according to your taste. 

FRUIT, TO PREPARE FOR BRANDY. 

Take the proposed quantity of fruit, gather- 
ed before they are perfectly ripe ; dry them 
carefullv, prick and put them into cold water ; 
when all in, set the vessel over a moderate 
fire, keeping the water, however, constantly 
nearly boiling, until die fruit will give to the 
touch; then throw them, with great care, 
into cold water again; drain away this wa- 
ter, and add fresh; change the water t uice 
more within a quarter of an hour, after 
which, drain them for the last time, and |iut 
them in bottles; if any of the fruit is the 
least broken or bruised, it must be put aside, 
as it would spoil the rest. In the mean- 
while, take a proper quantity of sugar (as a 
pound and a half for twenty-live peache*)j 
clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, 
and put double its quantity of good brandy; 
mix and jiour them into a glazed pan; let 
them stand awhile, and then pour the mix- 
ture on the fruit. 



<; \ M 



83 



GAM 



FRUIT TO PREPARE FOR CHIL- 
DREN. Put apples sliced, or plums, cur- 
rum-, iroonclierries, t v,.. ;,,, : , stone j;ir, and 
sprinkle ;i.- Hindi l.islxin sugar as necessary 
among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, 
or in :i s:iuce|>an of water, and let it remain 
till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of 
bread or riee may Ix^ stewed witli tlie fruit, 
or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry 
bread, or with rice, plain boiled. 



G. 



< i \ M T. In choosing venison, the fat of 
that which is good is thick , clear, and bright ; 
the clift part smooth and close. When the 
veni- ia is |x'ifecily fresh, it is hung in a cool 
place, ami carefully wiped dry every day. 
When extreme tenderness is required from 
long keeping. Ixit without its having a high 
flavor, it is well rubbed over with powdered 
charcoal. 

Tlie haunch is the prime joint, and when 

.aired to be roasted, it is lirst well 
washed in lukewarm milk-and-water, and 
then made i|iiile dry l>ef >re it is spitted. It 
is then co\ered with a slieet of well-buttered 
white pajxT, over which is laiii 
paste of tloiir-and- water, about a quarter of 
an inch thick; thin is again covered with 
buttered white |xi|x-r, and tied on with pack- 
thread. A substantial fire being made, the 
haunch is put d.iwn, and constantly basted 
with freijh beef dripping, till nearly done, 
when the IM.-IC is taken oil", the meat well 
basted with butter, ami lightly dredged with 
flour, till it froths anil becomes of a line lijiht 
brown color. It i> signed with its own gra- 
vy in the dish, if there be enough of it; also 
a sauce tureen of good brown gravy, and 
one of currant jelly sauce beat up, and melt- 
ed with a little I'ort wine and sugar. 

\ : haunch takes about four hours to 
roast. 

A neck and shoulder, when roasted, is 
managed in the tame wav as the haunch, 
omitting the (Kiste; but it is more frequently 
used tin soups, pasties, and colloji-. 

-When fresh, the body is stiff; 
ami if \"iin_', the claws are smooth and 
sharp, the ears tender and easily torn. 
Hares arc kept from a week to a fortnight 
for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have 
been too recently killed. 

Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as 

Wild fowl, in general, is chosen 1>\ tlie 
same rules as tame poultry. Tlie binls 
should In- plump and fat, and hard in tlie 
vent. If the skin comes o(V wlien ruldied 
hard with the linger, they are stale. Old 
birds improve by keeping for sometime; 



young birds are best if dressed soon; and 
small birds, of all descriptions, should be 
immediately dressed. In warm -weather, a 
stop|x-r of charcoal should be put into the 
vent of all game, and a string tied tightly 
round the neck. 

To roast pheasants and partridge.-, they 
are picked, cleaned, and nicely singed; a 
slit is made in the back part of tlie neck, and 
the craw taken out, leaving on the head, tlie 
feet twisted closely to the body, the claws 
cut off, and tlie head turned under the wing. 
Both sorts are roasted by the directions for 
roasting a turkey or a fowl. A pheasant is 
served with gravy in the dih ; partridges 
with a gravy, or laid upon buttered toast, 
and melted Uitter poured round them. Bread 
sauce is served with both. A pheasant will 
require nearly an hour to roast ; partridges 
half an hour. Guinea and pea-tow I arc 
roasted in the same way as pheasants. 

To roast black-cock, follow the directions 
for roast ing pheasants and partri 
will require an hour, and is served with gra- 
vy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, 
and require three-quarters of an hour. They 
may be served upon buttered toast, or with 
ura\y in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

To restore tainted game or poultry, pick 
it carefully, clean, and wash it, then put into 
each bird a little newly-made pounded char- 
coal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before sen ing, 
take out the bag, which will have a most 
olVen.-.ive smell, while tlie bird will be left 
(HTtectly sweet. 

To roast u ild duck. It should he roasted 
by a ((nick lire, well basted with butter, and 
browned. It will require miirly three-quar- 
ters of an hour, and when to be served, some 
beef gravy is poured through the duck into 
the dish, and in a sauce tureen some hot 
Port wine is served. The carver makes 
four cuts along the breast, it is then sprin- 
kled with salt and a little Cayenne, tlie juice 
of half a lemon is squeezed over it, and the 
Port wine is then poured all over. 

To roast a- wild goose, the same directions 
are followed as for wild duck, allowing 
more time to roast it, according to tlie size 
of the bird. 

Widgeons and teal are dressed in the 
same manner as the wild duck, and are 
roasted in ten minutes, and may be serrod 
upon fried bread crumbs. 

Woodcocks and snipes are roasted with* 
out bein<f drawn ; a piece of toasted bread 
buttered is put under each bird, to catch the 
trail; they are well booted with butter, and 
served upon the hot toast over which they 
were roasted ; a rich brown- gravy, or melt- 
ed butter, is poured round them. Wood- 



G A M 



84 



GAT 



cocks will require half an hour, snipes and 
quails fifteen or twenty minutes to roast. 

Ortolans and green plovers are not drawn, 
and are roasted and served in the same 
manner as woodcocks. f 

To roast larks, wheatears, and other 
small birds, tliey are nicely picked, gutted, 
cleaned, and trussed; brushed over with 
melted butter, and rolled in grated bread, 
then spitted on a bird spit, which is fastened 
upon a. larger one. They are basted with 
butter, and sprinkled with some bread 
crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen 
minutes to roast, and are served upon fried 
bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce 
tureen. 

Wild pigeons may be roasted, or made 
into a pie. 

Plovers' eggs are boiled hard, and served 
in a napkin, or with green moss put round 
each in the dish. 

GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four 
rabbits, four partridges, two pounds of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpan, with a bottle of white wine; boil 
them until the whole is entirely reduced to 
a jelly ; then add to it broth, and consomme, 
(equal quantities of each), eight carrots, ten 
onions, three cloves, a little thyme and ba- 
sil; let the whole boil very gently, until the 
meat is quite done ; then strain it through a 
napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the 
broth and consomme are sufficiently season- 
ed to flavor the essence of game. 

GAME FRITTERS. Take any of 
those parts of cold roasted game, which can 
be cut into thin slices, dip them into good 
batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. 
Sprinkle the fritters when done, with salt 
and spices, pounded very fine. 

GAME HASHED. See Fowl. 

GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Pound 
half a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them 
through a silk sieve, with a wooden spoon ; 
put this into a mortar with some butter, and 
beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then 
put this butter into any sauce you please. 

GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an 

earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put 
into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of 
vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves 
of garlic, the same number of cloves, the 
quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: 
when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it 
stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; 
strain it through a coarse sieve, and then 
filter it. Keep it in very closely corked 
bottles. A very small quantity ot this es- 
sence is requisite to impart its flavor to a dish. 



GARLIC GRAVY. Slice a pound and 
a h.ilf nf veal, or U (('; season it with j)op- 
|>er and salt; put it into a stewpan, with 
two carrots split, and four dines of Bailie 
sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, 
and a large spoonful of water; put the stew- 
pan over a gentle fire, ant) watch when the 
meat begins to stick to the pan; when it 
does, turn it, and let it U' very well browned, 
(but take care that it is not in the least 
burnt) ; then dredge it with flour, and pour 
in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a couple of cloves bnii>ed, and slice in a 
lemon; set it on the fire again, then let it 
simmer gently for an hour and a half longer; 
then skim oft' the fat, and strain off the gra- 
vy, by pouring it through a napkin, strain- 
ing and pressing it very hard. 

GATEAU DE COMPIEGXE. Take 

three pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, 
an ounce and four drachms of yeast, an 
ounce of silt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve 
whole eggs, and five or six spoonfuls of 
whipped cream. 

With these ingredients proceed as follows: 
sift the flour, of which put a fourth part on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle, put into 
it a glass of warm water and the \east ; mix 
them together as lightly, and with as much 
despatch as possible, adding more warm 
water if necessary ; when well worked up 
for some minutes, gather it together, (it 
ought to leave the slab and the hand lively) , 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it, and place 
it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. 
Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab 
make a hole in the middle of it, in which 
put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these 
together well, and then put in the eggs, one 
at a time, (break them into a basin, incase 
all should not be good) ; the eg^s lx?ing put 
in, add by decrees the butter, stirring them 
well; then mix the flour, a little at a time, 
with the alxivc, until the wholo is formed 
into a smooth paste; more ei^s must be 
added if it be too stiff; work it up a little, 
and then add the leaven ; work that in; and 
lastly, put in the whipped cream. The 
whole operation being thus [x-rfonned, have 
ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (about 
eight inches in diameter, and nine in height) ; 
butter it by means of a gponge, being care- 
fill that it is done in all parts, otherwise the 
gateau will adhere to it ; place the mould 
in a moderately warm place, but wtere 
there is a free current of air. When the ga- 
teau has risen so as to fill the mould, and 
the surface is a little inflated, it should be 
put into the oven instantly, if not, it falls and 
becomes heavy. The oven must be of a 
moderate heat, and kept closed while the 
gateau is baking ; take it out in about an 



GHE 



85 



hour, and if it be flexible and light colored, 
replace it for thirty or forty minutes; but 
if, on die contrary, it is red, and firm to the 
touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put 
it in the oven till dune; reiimxe the mould 
with care, and the gateau is lini-'ued. If 
die mould does not come away quite so well 
as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. 
When taken out, put it in the oven for a few 
minutes tu dry. 

This gateau is sometimes varied by the 
addition of six omi'-es of sugared anise, and 
the same quantity of dry currants. 

GATEAU DE POMMES. Boil in a 
pint of water one pound and a half of loaf 
sugar till it become a rich sirup ; weigh 
two pounds of apples after they have lieen 
peeled, cored, and cut small ; boil tliem in 
the sirup widi the grated peel and juice of a 
large lemon till they are reduced to a pulp; 
put it into a mould. The fiilloxving day 
serve it, turned out in a glass dish, widi a 
rich custard. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (1) Mixvm- well 
with txxo large table-spoonfuls of flour, a quar- 
ter of a pint of cream, txxo well-lx-aten eggs, 
and a tea-spoonful of grated nut meg. a xery 
litde salt, and one ounce of butter beaten to 
a cream ; bake it in buttered cups for twen- 
ty or thirty minutes; turn them out upon a 
Jisli, and serve them instantly; pour a sweet 
sauce round tliem. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (2) Beat to a 

cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds 
xxith a little rose water, beat lixe yolks ami 
three xxhites of eggs; mix all together xxith 
I ahl> -*[>> ton fills of tlour, and sxxeelen 

it with jxiunded loaf sugar; bake it in but- 
tered cups, and serve them widi a sweet 



GHERKINS OR CUCUMBERS PICK- 
LEU. Choose gherkins very green and 
straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, 
sprinkle diem widi fine salt, then another lay- 
er of gherkins, xxhich sprinkle xx ilh salt also, 
and continue this operation until you IIHXC 
used nearly a bushel of glierkins, leave diem 
in the salt for txveuty-fi uir hours, xxhich will 
draxx all the xxater from diem; at the end 
of that lime drain and place diem in ajar, 
xxith a handful of allspice, the same of tarra- 
gon, a little lialm, ten shallots, six cloves of 
garlic, two or diree long peppers, twenty 
cloxis, H lemon cut in quarters, and two 
small handful* of salt. Boil txxo gallons of 
die I >est xincgar, pour it oxer die gherkins, 
and let them stand till tin- next da\ . \xhen 
boil the vinegar a second lime, and [xxir it 
on again; die following claxU.il the xine- 
t 8 



gar for the third 
the gherkins, - J 
jar with a w 




last time, pour it over 
:n quite cold, cover the 

uncut. 



GIBLET PIE. See Pies. 

GIBLETS STEWED, (.lean tx'vo sets 
of giblets, put them into a saucepan, just 
cover tliem widi cold xxater, and set them on 
tlie tire; when they boil, take off the scum, 
and put in an onion, three cloves, or two blades 
of mace, a fexv berries of black pepper, the 
same of allspice, and half a tea-spoonful of 
salt; cover die stewjian close, and let it simmer 
very gently till the giblets are quite tender: 
this xx ill take from one hour and a half to 
two and a half, according to the age of the 
giblets; the pinions will be done first, and 
must then In- taken out, and put in again to 
xx arm xxhen the gizzards are done: watch 
them that they do not get too much done: 
take them out and thicken the sauce with 
tlour and butter; let it boil half an hour, or 
till there is just enough to eat xxith die gib- 
lets, and then strain it through a tamis into 
a clean stewpan ; cut the giblets into moudi- 
liils ; put them into die sauce widi die juice 
of luilf a lemon, a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup; pour die whole into a soup- 
disli, with sippets of bread at die bottom. 
Ox-tails prepared in die same way are ex- 
cellent eating. 

(JINGERBREAD. Rub one pound of 
Ixittcr well into diree pounds of flour; dicn 
add one pound of powder-sugar, one pound 
ot treacle, and txx o ounces of ginger pounded 
and sifted very tine ; one nutmeg grated very 
fine; then wanna quarter of a pint of cream, 
and mix all together; you may add carra- 
xx ax s and sweetmeats if you choose; make 
it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow 
oxen. It cake or biscuits are kept in paper 
or a drawer, tliey will acquire a disagreeable 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will 
preserve diem long and moist; or if to be 
crisp, laying diem before die fire will make 

thi -m SO. 

GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. See 
American. 

GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUT- 
TER. Mix two pounds of treacle ; of or- 
ange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, 
each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce 
of coriander-seeds, one ounce of canlways, 
and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much 
paste as will make a soft paste; lay it in 
cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick 
ox in. Keep it dry in a covered earthen 
vessel, and it will be good for some months. 

. <.IN<;ERBREAD INDIAN. Tak 



GIN 



86 



GIN 



twelve ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh batter, one pound of 
dried flour, two ounces of pounded ginger, 
and of cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an 
ounce each. Mix the ginger and the spice 
with the .flour; put the sugar and a small 
tea-cupful of water into a saucepan ; when 
it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon 
as it is melted, mix it with the flour and 
other things; work it up, and form the 
paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them 
upon tins. 

GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. 

Five eggs ; half a pound of brown sugar ; half 
a pound of fresh butter ; a pint of sugar-house 
molasses ; a pound and a half of flour ; four 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; two large sticks of 
cinnamon; three dozen grains of allspice; 
three dozen of cloves ; the juice and grated 
peel of two lemons. Stir the butter and su- 
gar to a cream ; beat the eggs very well ; 
pour the molasses at once, into the butter 
and sugar. Add the ginger and other spice, 
and stir all well together. Put in the egg 
and Hour alternately, stirring all the time. 
Stir the whole very hard, and put in the 
lemon at the last. When the whole is mix- 
ed, stir it till very light. Butter an earthen 
pan, or a thick tin or iron one, and put the 
gingerbread in it. Bake it in a moderate 
oven, an hour or more, according to its 
thickness. Take care that it do not burn. 
Or you may bake it in small cakes, or lit- 
tle tins. Its lightness will be much improv- 
ed by a small tea-spoonful of pear lash dis- 
solved in a lea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir- 
red lightly in at the last. Too much pearl- 
ash will give it an unpleasant taste. If you 
use pearlash, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste will Ix; entirely destroyed by the 
pearlash. You may substitute for the lem- 
on some raisins and currants, well floured 
to prevent their sinking. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (1) Take four 

pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, 
an iiunct! of caraway-seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded and sifted, six ounces of 
fresh butter, and two ounces of candied or- 
ange-peel cut into small slices ; then take a 
pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of 
cream, make them warm together; mix it, 
with all the ingredients, into a paste, and j 
let it lay six hours; then roll it out, make it 
into nuts, and kike them in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (2) Take 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, one 
pound of treacle, three ounces of brown su- 
gar, four ounces of fresh butter, one ounce 
and a half of pounded and sifted giner, <>f 
candied orange-peel and citron, cut small, 
three-quarters of an ounce each ; melt the 



butter with the treacle, and when it is about 
milk-wann, add it to the flour and other 
ingredients, and then mix all well together; 
with a spoon drop the nuts upon buttered 
tins, and bake them. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (3) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of butter in three- 
quarters of a pound of treacle, put it into a 
pan large enough to contain the rest of the 
ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of coarse brown sugar, half an ounce 
of caraway seeds, three-quarters of an ounce 
of pounded ginger, and the grated peel of a 
lemon ; mix all these well together, and let 
it stand till it be stiff, or till the following 
day, then make it into nuts, by pinching it 
into pieces with the finger and thumb. 
Bake them upon buttered tins in a quick 
oven. Half an ounce of coriander seeds 
may be added. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (4) Rub 
half a pound of butter into two pounds of 
flour; add one pound of coarse sugar, and 
one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well 
together with one pound and two ounces of 
treacle; form it into nuts, or roll it out, and 
cut it into round cakes; bake them upon 
tins. 

GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sift 
four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it four 
pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown su- 
gar, tlie same quantity of melted butter, and 
three-quarters of an ounce of powdered gin- 
ger. Work it all well together, let it re- 
main for twenty-four hours, and then make 
it into cakes. 

GINGER BEER. See Beer. 

GINGER CAKES. Put four pounds of 
flour upon the dresser; then take a copper 
saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon; add one pint 
of cream to them, and beat them well; put 
the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is warm ; put two pounds of butter into 
the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, 
and keep stirring it over a very slow fire, 
just to melt all the butler; put in four ounces 
of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the 
butter is melted, pour it all into the middle 
of the flour; mix it as well as you possibly 
can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll it 
out with flour under it on your dresser; cut 
them to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a 
quarter of an inch in thickness; and before 
you put them into die oven (which should be 
very hot), place three papers under them. 

GINGER IMITATION. Peel off the 



GL A 



87 



GOO 



outer coat of the tender stems of lettuce that is 
short, cut it into bits one or (wo i <-hy long, 
and llmnv it into cold water; to -ach jxmml 
put in a tea-spoonfiil of Caycin c, and a 
little salt ; let it stand one or two days; al- 
low an equal pro|xntion of line loaf sugar, 
which clarify. Soak some good ginger in 
hot water, slice it, and add il to tlw siiijar, 
allow ing one ounce and a half to the pound, 
and IK >il it lor fifteen minutes; strain off the 
water from tlie lettuce, and pour over it 
the sirup, keeping back the ginger, with 
which the sirup must be boiled three times, 
and poured over the lettuce, two or three 
days intervening between each boiling ; and 
at la.-t add the strained juice of one or two 
lemons. 

GLACE, ROYAL. Put the white of a 
new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a 
sufficient quantity of white powder-sugar to 
make a glace or icing, neither too dry nor 
too liquid; beat it well, and add a little 
lemon-juice to whiten it. By mixing with 
tin- glace, carmine, saffron, indigo, spi- 
nach-juice, &c. ; it will be either rose-col- 
ored, yellow, blue, green, &c. according to 
your tnsto 

GLAZE. (1) Take the remains of 
any liquor in which meat has been cooked, 
and .-train it through a silk sieve until quite 
clear; then put it into a saucepan and re- 
duce it over a brisk fire: as soon as it is 
sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to 
the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, 
and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, 
add a small piece of fresh butter to it, to 
correct iln saJtness. 

GLAZE. (2) Make a consomme with 
whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may 
be in the home; strain it, and then put it on 
the lire with two or three whites of eggs 
beaten to a snow; stir till it boils, and then 
set on tin- side of the stove, and place fire 
on the saucepan lid ; as soon as the eggs are 
set, (KISS the glaze through a wet cloth ; re- 
duce this OUT a lari, r i' lire, stirring it con- 
stantly with a wooden sjxion to prevent its 
ticking; then |xmr it into a pot for use. 
When wanted, put a small quantity of it in- 
to a sanri-|>an, and make it hot over a slow 
fire; and, in this state, lay it gently over 
such articles as may require glazing, In' 
means of a feather. 

(il.A/K. (3) Desire the butcher to break 
the Ixines of a leg or a shin of Iwef, of ten 
pounds weight (tin; fresher killed the better) ; 
put it into a s<Hip-|x>t (a digester is the best 
nten-il lor (his |>irjx.se) that will well hold 
it; just cover it with cold water, and set it 
on the fire to heat gradually till it nearly 



boils (this should U- at least an hour); skim 
it attentnely while any scum rises; |xmr in 
a little cold water, to throw up the scum 
that may remain ; let it come to a boil again, 
and again skim it carefully: when no more 
scum rises, and the broth appears clear (put 
ill neither roots, nor ln-rlis, nor salt), let it 
boil {or eight or ten hours, and then strain 
it through a hair sieve into a l>ro\\n stone 
pan ; set tlie broth where it will cool quicklv ; 
put the meat into a sieve, let it drain, make 
potted beef, or it will be very acceptable to 
many poor families. Next day remove 
every particle of fat from the top of it, and 
pour it through a tamis, or fine sieve, as 
quietly as possible, into a stewpan, taking 
care not to let any of the settlings at the 
bottom of the stone pan go into the stewpan, 
which should be of thick copper, perfectly 
well tinned ; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole black |x-p|r to it; let it boil briskly, 
with the stewpan uncovered, on a quick 
fire ; if any scum rises, take it off with a 
skimmer : when it begins to thicken, and is 
reduced to about a quart, put it into a smal- 
ler stewpan ; set it over a gentler fire, till k 
is reduced. 

GODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or 
breasts of fowl or game, fresh pork or 
sausage meat, beef-marrow or suet, equal 
quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, and mushrooms; season these articles 
with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in 
powder; pound them all together, and 
put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; 
pour in also a little water, pounding con- 
tinually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. 
Make a small ball of it, which Ixiil in a 
little water to ascertain wliethcr it lie suf- 
ficiently salt; sweet lierbs may be added 
when you are about to use it. Tlie gottiveau 
is used as a farce for lourles and hot pie*. 

GOOSE, TO CHOOSE. Be careful 
in choosing a goose, that tlie bill and feet 
are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. When they are 
fresh the feet are pliable; if stale they are 
dry and stiff. Green geese are in < 
from May or June, till they are three montltt 
old; they should Ix' scalded. A stubble 
gootte is good till it is five or six months 
old, and should be picked dry. 

GOOSE ROASTED. A stubble goose 

should lie smiled with sage and onions, 
chopped small, and mixed with |icp|>er and 
salt ; boil the sage and onion in a little w- 
ter before they are chopped, or mix a few 
bread cmmlis with them wlien cho|>ped ; 
either will render them less strong. 1'ut it 
fir.-t at a distaee iVom tlie fire, and by de- 
grees draw it nearer. A slip of paper 



GOO 



88 



GR A 



should be skewered on the breast bone. 
Baste it very well. When the breast is 
rising, take off the paper, and be careful to 
serve it before die breast falls, it will be 
spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve 
it with good gravy and apple sauce, in 
boats. It will take about an hour and a 
half to roast. 

GOOSE TO TRUSS. The goose must 
be first well picked and stubbed, then cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, and the 
feet also. Make a slit in the liack of the 
neck, and take out the throat, cut off die 
neck close to the l>aek and the skin, but 
leave enough to turn over the back ; make a 
slit between the vent and the rump, through 
which draw out the entrails, then wipe it 
clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them 
close to the side, then put a skewer into 
die wing, through the middle of the leg, 
body, and die leg and wing on die odier 
side ; put another skewer dirough the small 
of the leg, which keep close to die sidesmen ; 
nm it dirough, and do the same on die oth- 
er side. Cut through die end of die vent, 
dirough which put die rump, to prevent the 
stuffing from falling out. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one 
quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much 
water as will covet diem: stir in about half 
an ounce of good butter; when they are 
soft, pulp them dirough a sieve; sweeten 
die pulp while it is hot, with sugar, dien 
beat it up widi die yolks of four eggs ; serve 
in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put goose- 
berries into a stone jar, with some fine su- 
gar; put the jar either in a stove, or in a 
saucepan of water, over the fire; if in a 
stove, a large spoonful of water should be 
added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, 
press it through a colander ; have ready a 
sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea- 
cupful of raw cream', boiled togedier, or 
you may use an egg instead of the cream ; 
leave it to get cold, then sweeten well with 
fine sugar, and mix die pulp by degrees 
with it. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE. Boil 
diem a moment, or only scald them in boil- 
ing water, sift diem dirough a sieve ; reduce 
them ova- die fire to half, then mix diem 
with sugar prepared to the nindi degree (a 
la grande plume), half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. See Jam. 

GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Gather, 
when quite ripe, die rough red gooseberries ; 



top and tail them ; put them into a jar, tie 
it over with bladder, and boil it in a pot 
of water till the fruit lie perfectly soft; pour 
off the thin juice, and with a wooden s|K>on 
nib the Kooeeberriea through a fine hair 
sis \e ; allow rather more than half the 
weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, 
mix it together, and boil it till it will jelly, 
which will take almost two hours; stir, and 
skim it, then put it into a dish, and serve 
when cold, to be eaten with cream. The 
thin juice may be Ixjiled with its weight x of 
good brown sugar, and used as gooseberry 
jelly. 

GOURDS FRIED. (1) Cut five or six 
gourds in quarters; take off die skin and 
pulp; stew them in the same manner as for 
table: when done, drain them quite dry; 
beat up an egg, and dip the gourds in it, 
and cover diem well over with bread-numbs ; 
make some hog's-lard hot, and fry them a 
nice light color; dirow a little salt and 
pepper over them, and serve up quite dry. 

GOURDS FRIED. (2) Take six or 

eight small gourds, as near of a size as pos- 
sible ; slice them widi a cucumber-ehce; 
dry them in a cloth, and then fry them in 
very hot lard; throw over a little pepper and 
salt, and serve up on a napkin. Great at- 
tention is requisite to do diese well ; if the 
fat is quite hot diey are done in a minute, 
and will soon spoil ; if not hot enough, diey 
will eat greasy and tough. 

GOURDS STEWED. Take off all 

the skin of six or eight gourds, put them in- 
to a stewpan, widi water, saU, lemon-juice, 
and a bit of butter, or fat bacon, and let 
them stew gently till quite tender, and serve 
up with a rich Dutch sauce, or any odier 
sauce you please dial is piquante. 

GRAPES, COMPOTE. Boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a <;lass of wa- 
ter, till it is reduced to a strong simp ; skim, 
and dien put into it a pound of ^r.i| is, pick- 
ed from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; 
give diem a boil two or three tin. 
then place them in a dessert diMi: if there is- 
any scum IIJKJII them, carefully wi|>e it off 
with white paper. 

GRAPES, PICKLED. The ra|x* 
must be at dieir full growth, but not ripe, 
cut diem in small bunches ; put them in a 
stone jar, with vine leave.- Ix-tween each 
layer of grapes, till the jar is full; then take 
as much spring-water as will cover the 
grapes and die leaves ; as it heats put in ;is 
much salt ag will make a brine sufficiently 
strong to l>ear an egg ; you must use half 
bay salt and half common salt; when it 



GR A 



89 



GRA 



boils, skim it; strain it through a flannel 
bai:, and let it stand to settle; by the limt: it 
IB cold it will be quite settled ; strain it a 
second time through a Manuel bag; then pour 
it into UK- jar, ii|>oii llu- grapi'S, which must 
be well covered ; till tin- jar itli \ ine leaves; 
then tie it OUT with a double cloth, and set 
a plate upon it; let it stand for two days, 
then take off tin- cloth, pour away the brine, 
and take out the leave? nnd the grapes, and 
lay them Ijetween two cloths to dry; then 
take two quarts of vinegar, one quart of 
spring-water, and one |x>iind of coarse sugar, 
lx)il it tor a short time, and skim it very 
clean as it Ixiils ; let it stand till it is quite 
cold; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay 
some fresh vine leaves at tlie bottom, Ix-tween 
every bunch of grapes, and on the top; then 
pour and strain the pickle on the grapes; 
(ill tin- jar ; let the pickle lie alxive the <,'ra|x-s ; 
tie up a thin piece of board in a Manuel, lay 
it on the <riapui to keep them under the 
pickle; tie them down with a bladder, and 
over lh.it a leather. Always keep the grapes 
under the pickle. 

( 1 1! VTI.N. Cut half a pound of fillet of 
real into dice, and put it into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, a few mushrooms, 
jyir.-ley. shallots chopped small, salt, pepper, 
and spices; stir them up with a wooden 
spt>n ; and when the meat has been on the 
fire about a quarter of an hour, take the 
drain off the butter, mince it very- small, and 
put it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or 
game livers, well washed, dried, and par- 
boiled, all the bitter parts taken out, ]xmnd 
them, adding at times as much panada as 
you have meal ; Ixiil .some call's udder, trim, 
and remove all lite skin when cold, and put 
atxMit ;t third of the quantity of meat, and 
pound them together, adding, one at a time, 
three volks, and three whole eggs; season 
with -all, pepper, and spices; when well 
pounded, set it by in an earthen pan for 
use. 



GRAVY. 

Sauces. 



See alto Cullin and 



GRAVIES, DIRECTIONS RESPECT- 
ING. The skirts of beef and the kidney, 
will make quite as good gravy as any other 
meat . it' prepared in the same manner. 

The kidney <>f an ox, or the milt, makes 

excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and pre- 

ther meat; and so will the shank 

end of mutton that has been dressed, if much 

gravy is not required. 

Tiie shank-bones of mutton add greatly to 
the richness of gravy; hut they should be 
first w.-ll soaked, and scoured clean. 

To ohtain the flavor of French cookery, 
and to improve tlie taste of the gravies, tar- 
s' 



ragoo should be used; but it must not be 
added till a short time before serving. 

GRAVY. (1) Take three pounds of beef 
steaks, two rabbits, (excepting the head* 
and breasts), a knuckle of veal, five carrots, 
>i\ onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a 
hunch of par.- ley and scallious ; put all these 
into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, 
and set tliem over a good fire to reduce; 
then cover the stove, and let the stewpan 
stand over it, until the meat begins to give 
out tlie gravy, and adheres slightly ; the jel- 
ly at the liotiom of the stewpan ought to be 
nearly black, and when that is the case, 
take it from the stove, and let it stand for 
ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 
good broth, or water, (if the latter, not so 
large a quantity) ; let this simmer for thre* 
hours; skim and season it well. If water 
is used instead of broth, the gravy must lie 
strained before it is used. Gravy may also 
be made of any pieces of ready dressed 
meat, in die following manner: cut some 
onions into slices, lay them at the bottom of 
the stewpan, and the meat on them, with 
the game ingredients as above, and two or 
three glasses of water; then proceed in the 
same manner as the other, until the bottom 
of the stewpan is nearly black, when add 
water according to die quantity of meat; 
(Hit salt if necessary, and simmer the whole 
for two hours; then strain it through a 
sieve. 

GRAVY. (2) Cut down into slices four 
pounds of lean beef, rub the bottom of the 
pot with Initter, and put in the- meat ; turn it 
frequently till it Ix' well browned, and do it 
slowly, tiieu add four quirts of cold water; 
when it lias boiled two hours, put in two 
dessert-spoonfuls of whole pepper, one car- 
rot, and three onions; let it stew gently for 
four hours longer, strain it, and when it in 
required tor use, take off the fat. This gra- 
vy answer* for all made dishes when brown 
gravy sauce is used. 

GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR 
DUCKS. Boil all the giblets excepting tht 
liver for an hour in a pint of water with a 
chopped on ion, some salt and pepper; strain, 
and add a very little browning, with a tea- 
spoonful of coratch, and one of mushroom 
ketchup; for the stuffing, mince the raw 
liver with two sage leaves, a small onion, 
some pepper and salt, a bit of butter, and 
grated bread crumbs. 

Send your sauces to table as hot as po- 
sible. 

Nothing can be more unsightly than the 
surface of a sauce in a frozen state, or gar- 
nished with grease on the top. Tlie best 
way to get rid of this, Is to pass it through 



GRA 



90 



GRA 



4 tatnis or napkin previous!}' soaked in cold 
water; the coldness of the napkin will coag- 
ulate the fat, and only suffer the pure gravy 
to pass through: if any particles of fat re- 
main, take them off by applying filtering pa- 
per, as blotting paper is applied to writing. 
Let your sauces boil up after you put in 
wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their fla- 
vors may be well blended with the other in- 
gredients; and keep in mind that the 
top- knot of COOKERY is, to entertain the 
mouth without offending the stomach. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. It is of 
as much importance that the cook should 
know how to make a boat of good gravy for 
poultry, &c. as that it should be sent up of 
proper complexion, and nicely frothed. 

We shall endeavor to introduce to her all 
the materials which give flavor in sauce 
which is the essence of soup, and intended j 
to contain more relish in a tea-spoonful 
than the former does in a table-spoonful. 

We hope to deserve as much praise from I 
the economist as we do from the ban vivant; 
as we have taken great pains to'introduce to 
him the methods of making substitutes for 
those ingredients, which are always expen- 
sive, and often not to be had at all. Many 
of these cheap articles are as savory and 
as salutary as the dearer ones, and those who 
have large families and limited incomes, will, 
no doubtj be glad to avail themselves of 
them. 

The reader may rest assured, that wheth- 
er he consults this book to diminish the ex- 
pense or increase the pleasures of hospitality, 
he will find all the information that was to 
be obtained up to 1832, communicated in 
the most unreserved and intelligible manner. 

A great deal of the elegance of cookery 
depends upon the accompaniments to each 
dish being appropriate and well adapted 
to it. 

We can assure our readers, no attention 
has been wanting on our part to render this 
department of the work worthy of their pe- 
rusal ; each receipt is the faithful narrative 
of actual and repeated experiments, and has 
received die most deliberate consideration 
before it was here presented to them. It is 
given in the most circumstantial manner, 
and not in the technical and mysterious lan- 
guage former writers on these subjects seem 
to have preferred ; by which their directions 
are useless and unintelligible to all who have 
not regularly served an apprenticeship at the 
stove. 

It will be to very little purpose that I 
have taken so much pains to teach how to 
manage roasts and boils, if a cook cannot or 
will not make the several sauces that are 
usually sent up with them. 

We have, therefore, endeavored to give 



tlie plainest directions how to produce, with 
the least trouble and ex|iense possible, all 
the unions compositions the English kitchen 
atlords; and lii>|K- to present such a whole- 
some and palatable variety as will suit all 
tastes and all |x>ckets, so that a cook may 
give satisfaction in all families. The more 
combinations of this sort she is acquainted 
with, the better she will comprehend tin; 
management of every one of them. 

Let your sauces each display a decided 
character; send up your plain sauces (oys- 
ter, lobster, &c.) as pure as |x>ssible: they 
should only taste of the materials from which 
they take their name. 

The imagination of most cooks is so in- 
cessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they 
seem to think they cannot make sauce snf'li- 
cii-ntlv .-avory without putting into it every- 
thing that ever was eaten; and supposing 
every addition must bean improvement, they 
frequently overpower the natural flavor of 
their PLAIN SAUCES, by overloading them 
with salt and spices, &c.: but, remember, 
these will be deteriorated by any addition, 
save only just salt enough to awaken the 
palate. 

On the contrary, of COMPOUND SAUCES ; 
the ingredients should be so nicely propor- 
tioned, that no one be predominant; so that 
from the equal union of the combined fla- 
vors such a fine mellow mixture is produced, 
whose very novelty cannot fail of being ac- 
ceptable to the persevering gourmand, if it 
lias not pretensions to a permanent place at 
his table. 

An ingenious cook will form as endless a 
variety of these compositions as a musician 
with his seven notes, or a painter with his 
colors; no part of her business oilers so fair 
and frequent an opportunity to display her 
abilities: SPICKS, HERBS, &c. are c.flen 
very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled to- 
gether. 

Why have clove and allspice, or mace and 
nutmeg, in the same sauce ; or marjoram, 
thyme, and savory; or onions, leeks, es- 
chalots, and garlic'! one will very well sup- 
ply the place of the other, and the frugal 
cook may save something considerable l>? 
attending to this, to the advantage of her 
employers, and her own time and trouble. 

JCJ^ See SAUCES and CULLIS for 
other important particulars. 

GRAVIES, ESSENCE OF HAM 
FOR. Pick off all the bits of meat from a 
ham-bone, pound them, break the bone, and 
put all into a saucepan, together with nearly 
half a pint of water, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs; simmer gently for sometime, stirring 
it occasionally ; then add a pint of gocd beef 
gravy, and some pepper, and continue to 
simmer it till it be well flavored with the 



GRA 



91 



GRA 



herbs; strain, and keep it for improving rich 
gravies and sauces of all descriptions. 

GRAVV FOR BOILED MEAT, .May 

be made with (tarings and Irimmin 1 .;*; nr 
pour fnini :i quarter to half a jiint of the li- 
quor in which the meat was Ixiiled, into tlie 
tii.-h willi it, and pierce the inferior jxirt of 
Uie joint with a sharp skewer. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (1) 

Most joint* will afford sufficient trimmings, 
&.<. to make half a pint of plain jjravy, which 
you may color with a few drops of In-owning: 
for those that do not, about half an hour be- 
fore you think the meat will Itc done, mix a 
salt->|xioiifnl of <alt, with a lull quarter-put 

of Ixiiliug water; drop this by degrees on 
the brown parts of the joint; set a dish un- 
der to catch it (the meat will soon brown 
a<;aiii); srt it li\ ; as it cools, the fat will 
float on thr sin lace; when tlie meat is ready, 
carefully remove the fat, and warm up the 
gravy, a.i.l |x>nr it into the dish. 

The common method is, when the meal 
is in the ii:>!i yon intend to .-mi! it up in, 
to mix half a tca-s|x>onful of salt Ji a quarter 
pint of boiling walur, and to drop some of 
this ovi-i tin- corners and underside of tlie 
meat, and to pour i he rest through the hole 
\he spit came out of: some pierce the infe- 
rior parts of the joints with a sharp skewer. 

The following receipt was given us by a 
very ood COOK: You may make good 
brnwnia:: lor roast meat and poultry-, by 
saving the brown bits of roast meat or broil- 
ed ; cm them small, put tliem into a basin, 
cover them with boiling water, and put them 
away till next day ; tlwn put il into a sauoe- 
jian. let it boil two or three inimili--. -tiain 
it tliroiiu'h a sieve into a basin, and put it 
use. When you want gravy for 
roast meat, put two tahle-|K>onfnls into half 
a pint of Ixn'ling water with a little sail: if 
for rousted veal, put three tahlc-Kpooniul* 
into half a pint of thin melted butter. 

The gravy which comes down in the dish, 
tlie cook (if she is a good hoii>ewife) will 
prir-eive to enrich hashes or little made 
dislie- , xi . 

(iUAVV FOR ROAST MEAT. (2) 

About a ijnartrr of :ui hour before llie meat 
i* taken from the fire, put a common dish 
with a tea-sjxxmnil of salt in it under the 
meal; when it lias all run into the di.-li, re- 
move il, baste and froth the meat, and pour 
the gravy into the dish on which tlie roast is 
rwA 

<;K\VY M\DE FROM BONES. 

Break int < small pieces a pound of beef, 
mutton, or \eal bones, if mixed together o 
much the better ; boil them in two quarts of 



water, and after it boils, let it simmer for 
nearly tluree hours : boil with it a couple of 
onions, a Inim-h of sweet herbs, some salt 
and pepper; strain, and keep it for making 
gravy or sauces. Tile bones of broiled and 
roasted meat being scraped, washed clean, 
and Ixiiled in lees water, answer equally well 
tor this (Hirjwse. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(1) Slice three onions, and fry them brown 
in a little butter; add them to half a pint 
of water, and tlie same of .beer, put in some 
peppercorns, salt, a little lemon peel, three 
cloves, a little mace or pepper, a spoonful 
of wall ml pickle, and one of mushroom 
ketchup, of soy and essence of anchovy a 
dessert-spoonful each, a small bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread 
toasted brown on bodi sides; simmer all to- 
gether in a closely covered saucepan for 
twenty minutes, then strain it for use, and 
when cold take off the fat. It w ill taste 
exactly like a gravy made with meat. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(2) Knead a good deal of flour into a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, fry it in a fry- 
ing-pan over a clear fire, stir it constantly 
with a wooden spoon till it become a nice 
brown color, taking particular care that it 
lie made perfectly smooth; pour in some 
boiling water, add a little finely-minced on- 
ion, some whole pepper and a little salt, put 
it into a small saucepan, cover it closely, 
and simmer it for a short time ; strain, and 
mix with it a little mushroom ketchup, and 
IWt wine. 

GRAVY OR Rial CULLIS. Cut 

into slices gome lean beef, veal, and mutton, 
cover the ItoHoiu of die saucepan with the 
veal, then put in a few slices of salt pork, 
next a lav er of l>eef, add a few onions sliced, 
and the red |>art of one or two carrots, u 
little mace, two or three cloves, some whole 
pepper, and two or three bay-leaves, above 
that the mutton; cover tlie pan closely, MJ| it 
on a slow (ire, and when the meat is a fin* 
brown, mix quite smooth a small quantity 
of Hour in water, stir it in, and then add an 
much Ixiiling water as will cover the inc::t 
well, and a little salt ; cover tlie pan closely, 
and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, 
and keep it for use; it will continue good for 
eight or ten days. 

GRAVY DRAWN. Put a few pound, 
of gravy-beef sliced, and a liltle whole- 
pepper, into ajar with a cover to til closely; 
set the jar into a pot of cold water, and wheu 
it Ixiils, add ;ir il wastes more hot wa!.-i, 
and keep it boiling gently for six 
hours, when the richest gravy in. 



OR A 



HAM 



will be obtained. It may be used in that 
state, or reduced with water. 

GRAVY, TO MAKE A PINT OF 
RICH. Brown a quarter of a |x>n>iil of 
butter, dredging in two lable-spoonfuls of 
flour, and stirring it constantly; add a pound 
of yr.ivy-beef cut into small bits, and two or 
three onions chopped. When it becomes 
brown, add some whole pepper, one carrot, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pints of 
water ; let it boil gently till reduced to one, 
then strain it. This gravy may be served 
with roasted turkey or fowl. 

GRAVY, TO CLARIFY. Clarify gra- 
vy, drawn from beef or veal, with the beaten 
whites of eggs, allowing one white to a 
quart. Gravies and soups which are to be 
clarified should be made very strong, and be 
highly seasoned. 

GRAVY AND SAUCE INGREDI- 
ENTS. Browning for made dishes. Put into 
a saucepan one pound of good brown sugar, 
stir it constantly over a slow fire, boil it 
till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles 
it in color; take the pan off the fire, stir it 
for a minute or two, and pour in very slowlv 
a quart of boiling water, stirring constantly ; 
put it again on the fire, and boil it for a 
little; pour it into a bowl, and when cold, 
bottle it. This browning will keep good 
for a year, and very little of it serves for 
coloring soups, gravies, or sauces. 

To clarify butter. Put the butter cut into 
slices into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, stir it 
gently till dissolved: when it boils, draw the 
pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let 
it boil gently a second time, and if any scum 
again rises, take it off; let it settle for two 
or three minutes, and strain it gently through 
a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid 
into it. 

Fresh beef suet, picked free from skin 
and sinews, is dissolved in the same way; 
it is then strained through muslin into small 
jars, and when cold, covered with bladder, 
or it may be strained into cold water ; and 
tin; cake when cold, wiped dry, folded in 
white paper, and kept in a linen bag. 

Beef suet will keep fresh for sometime 
if finely chopped and dredged with flour, 
and kept in white paper bags in a cool place. 

Beef and mutton drippings are clarified 
exactly in the manner butter is done, and 
each kept in a separate jar. 

To melt hog's-lard, put it into a jar plac- 
ed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it 
into clean bladders or small jars, and cover 
them wilh paper. Thus prepared, it will 
keep good a length of time, and is the best 
tiling for fiying fish in. 

To fry parsley, wash it, pick it clean, 



and put it into fresh cold water; take it out 
and then throw it into boiling lard or drip- 
ping, when it will instantly become crisp; 
it is then taken out with a slice. 

GRUEL. DR. KITCHENER'S. Ask 

those who are to eat it, if they like it 
thick or thin; if the latter, mix well togeth- 
er by degrees, in a pint basin, one table- 
spoonful of oatmeal, with three of cold wa- 
ter; if the former, use two spoonfuls. 

Have ready in a steupan, a pint of boil- 
ing water or milk ; pour this by degrees to i 
the oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into 
the stewpan ; set it on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes; stirring it all the time 
to prevent the oatmeal from burning at tlie 
Ixrtioin of the stewpan ; skim and strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

2d. To convert this into caudle, add a 
little ale, wine, or brandy, with sugar; and 
if the bowels are disordered, a little nutmeg 
or ginger, grated. 

4Jbs. Gruel may be made with broth in- 
stead cf water; and may be flavored with 
sweet hoilis, soup roots, and savory spices, 
by boiling them for a few minutes in the 
water you are going to make the gruel with. 



H. 

HAM. If it is a very dry Westphalia 
ham, it must be soaked, according to its age 
and thickness, from twelve to twenty-four 
hours ; for a green ham, from four to eight 
hours will Insufficient. Lukewarm water will 
soften it much sooner than cold, when suffi- 
ciently soaked, trim it nicely on the under- 
side, and pare off all the rusty ami smoked 
parts till it looks delicately clean. 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put it 
in while the water is cold; let it heat very 
gradually, and let it l)e on the fire an hour 
and a half before it comes to a boil; let it 
be well skimmed, and keep it simmering 
very gently: a middling-sized ham of fifteen 
pounds will be done enough in about four or 
five hours, according to its thickness. 

If not to be cut till cold, it will cut the 
shorter and tenderer for being boiled ubout 
half an hour longer. In a very small family, 
where a ham will last a week or ten days, 
it is best economy not to cut it till it is cold, 
it will be infinitely more juicy. 

Pull off the skin carefully, and preserve it 
as whole as possible; it will fonn an excel- 
lent covering to keep the ham moist; lien 
you have removed the skin, nib some bread 
raspings through a hair sieve, or grate a 
crust of bread; put it into the perforated 
cover of tlie dredging-lwx, and shake it over 



HAM 



93 



U \ M 



it, or glaze it; trim the knuckle with a 

fringe of cut writing-paper. You mav i; .u - 
ni-li with spiuage or turnips, Sec. 

To pol liain is a much more useful and 
economical way of disj>osing of the remains 
of the joint, tlian making essence of it. 

II \M AND EGGS. Cut some ham 
into thin slices, and broil tliem on a gridiron. 

Fry .-'inn- L;^- in butter. Serve it, laving 
an egg on each slice of ham. 

HAM. i:K.\CK OF. Take three or 
four |>ouiids of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
about an inch thick, and lay them in a stew- 
pan, with slices of carrots, |>arsni|>s, and 
tln-ee or four onions; let them stew till they 
stick to tin- pan, hut take care they do not 
burn; lh--u bv decrees pour in some good 
veal ui-ivv. ;i tew fresh mushrooms cut in 
pieces, (or ninshrooiii-|)owder), truffles, mor- 
els, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust 
of bivad ; cover it clow, and simmer till 
prettv thick, then strain it off for use. 

HAM (JRAVY. Take a deep sauce- 
pan, put ini it a piece of fresh butter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal 
the r-i/e of a walnut, and two or thre. 
rvts cut in small pieces; set these over a 
slow tire. :md let them stand till they give 
out their 'juices, and the ham and veal be- 
uiil stick; then put in a little 
.-t'>ck, and let it boil; iii an hour's time add 
a gLiss of white wine, leave it a quarter of 
a:i h Mir, wh"n it will be sufficiently done; 
lake off every particle of fat; strain it into 
id set it l>y for use. 

1 1 V M I .< ) A F. Soak a fine ham in cold 

water for one or two days, acem-dini; to its 
age; tln-n put it into a saucepan just bi^' 

!i to linlil it, with no ur>re water than 

will cover it. and a pint of white wine; let 

it b iii, skimming it carefully, till done. 

take out the h-H-k and under 

. and ill;- skin; jwre away some of the 
. i.l t. i.n it ti an n\al torm as much as 

I . M ike a farce with the |>aringn of 
the f.it, HMie \eal or game, and sweet herbs 
minced and pounded. Take a pan the size 
v>ii wish t i have vour loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (liav- 
in_' cut \ i'ir ham into thin slices) place al- 
ternate' livers of it and the tarce in the pan, 
until it I*- quite full. Put a crust over the 
top, which iim.t unite with that in which 
the ham is; turn it over on a baking plate, 
flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for 
an hour and a half or two hours, according 
to its size. Serve it cold. 

II AM. MINCED, WITH FRIED EGOS. 

See Eggs. 



HAM OMELET. Take a slice oflwiled 

ham, mince it as small as [xissible, and mix 
it with a dozen eggs lieaten with a little veal 
gravy; fry it (keeping it of an equal thick- 
ness) in the usual manner. 

HAM, OR TONGUE POTTED. Cut 

a pound of the lean of cold boiled ham or 
tongue, and pound it in a mortar with a 
quarter of a pound of the fat, or with fresh 
butter (in the proportion of about two ounces 
to a. |xmnd). till it is a line paste (some sea- 
sou it by degrees with a little pounded mace 
or allspice) : put it close down in pots for 
that purpose, and cover it with clarified 
butter, a quarter of an inch thick; let it 
stand one night in a cool place. Send it 
up in the pot, or cut out in thin slices. 

HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA.* 
Take a fine Westphalia or Hayonne ham, 
pare and trim it of as round a form its possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remove 
the rind from the knuckle; then lay the ham 
on a gridiron over the lire, till you can take 
it up with ease; soak it, if neccs,:u v, and 
put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and 
onions, tin me, bay-leaf, and coriander; pour 
a bottle of Madeira ti|>on it, cover it with a 
clean cloth, and close the pan as tight as 
possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours; 
then wrap the liam in very thick (viper, fas- 
ten it with paste, so that it may be com- 
pletely enclosed, tie it on a spit, and put 
it to roast for three hours; tlien make a 
small hole in the paper, and pour in, by 
means of a funnel, {lie .Madeira wine, paste 
paper over the hole, and let it roast anotlier 
hour. When done, take off the paper care- 
: it none of the gravy may escape, 
mix it with some reduced espagnole, glaze 
the ham, and serve it. 

HAM TOAST. Cut some crumb of 
bread into thin slices; then take- an equal 
number of thin slices of ham, lx-at them well 
with a rolling pin, and then soak them in 
warm water for alxmt two hours; lake them 
out, dry them well, and put tliejn into a 
saucc|ian with a little Ixicon, a slice of veal, 
ami half a glass of stock; let them lx.il for 
half an hour, and then add half a glass of 
veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice col- 
or in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each 
.1 slice of die hiiin; pour the sauce 
over them. Take particular care to cot 
die ham as nearly as possible die size and 
shape of die bread. 

HAM TO STEW. Soak die ham in 

lukewarm water tor twelve hours, drain it, 
Aid scrape die rind ; put it into a stewpan 
with some slices of fat bacon round the sides, 
four quarts of weak stock, a good deal of 



94 



H AR 



parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, six large 
onions, four carrots, a little allspice :uul 
pep|)er, a pint of Madeira, and one of Port 
wine. Cover the ham with slices of fat ba- 
con, and put over it a sheet of white paper; 
stew it eight hours, or ten if it IK: a very 
large ham. Before serving, take off the 
rind, strain the sauce, skim it well, and 
boil it till reduced to a glaze, and pour it 
round the ham, or serve it with any other 
sauce tliat may be preferred. 

HAM WITH MADEIRA. Soak in 
water for two hours a Bayonne, or any other 
fine ham, boil it for two hours, trim it quick- 
ly, and then put it into a stewpan, with thin 
slices of veal at die bottom ; add some car- 
rots and parsley, and season with spices. 
Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and 
a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, 
strain and skim the fat off the sauce, 
which, with the ham, must be served quite 
hot. 

HARE. As soon as the cook receives a 
hare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe 
it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it 
up. When wanted for dressing, cut off 
the four legs at the first joint, raise the 
skin of the back, and draw it over the 
hind legs ; leave the tail whole, then draw 
the skin over the back, and slip out the four 
legs; cut it from the neck and head; skin 
the ears, and leave them on. Clean the 
vent. Cut the sinews under the hind legs ; 
bring them forward ; run a skewer through 
one hind leg, the body, and another hind 
leg; do the same with die fore legs; lay the 
head rather back ; put a skewer in at the 
mouth, through the back of the -head and 
between the shoulders ; put in the stuffing, 
and tie it round with a string, passing it 
over the legs to keep them in their places: 
the hare is then ready for roasting. See 
Hare Roasted. 

HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a 
hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and di- 
vide the back into three pieces; nib them 
well with fat bacon, and put them into a 
stewpan with the trimmings, allspice, mace, 
whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two 
bay-leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, 
sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and 
three gills of Port wine; simmer die whole 
till three parts done ; then take out the shoul- 
ders, legs, and back ; put them into another 
stewpan, strain (lie liquor to them, add a 
little flour and butter, stew them till quite 
done; take off the fat, season widi cayenne, 
valt, and lemon-juice, and serve die whole 
in a deep dish. 

HARE ROASTED. Cut die skin from 



a hare that has been well soaked ; put it on 
the spit and rub it well with Madeira, prick- 
ing it in various places that it may iinlulie 
plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a 
]iaste, and roast it. When done, take away 
the paste, rub it quickly over with egg, 
sprinkle bread-cminbs, and baste it gently 
with butter (still keeping it turning before 
the fire) until a mist is formed o\cr it and 
it is of a nice brown color; dish it over 
some espagitole with Madeira wine boiled 
in it ; two or three cloves may be stuck into 
the knuckles if you think proper. 

HASHED HARE. Cut up the hare 
into pieces fit to help at table, and divide 
die joints of die legs and shoulders, and set 
them by ready. Put the trimmings and 
gravy you have left, with half a pint of wa- 
ter (there should be a pint of liquor), and a 
table-spoon fill of currant jelly, into a clean 
stewpan, and let it boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour: dien strain it through a sieve 
into a basin, and pour it back into the stew- 
pan; now flour the hare, put it into die 
gravy, and let it simmer very gently till die 
hare is warm (about twenty minutes) ; cut 
the stuffing into slices, and put it into die 
hash to get warm, about five minutes before 
you serve it; divide the head, and lay one 
half on each side the dish. 



HARICOT BY WAY OF SOUP. 

Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, 
put die scrag into a Mew pan with a quart 
of water, four large carrots, and turnips; 
boil it gently over a slow fire till nil the 
goodness be out of die meat; then bruise 
die vegetables into die soup to diicken it. 
Fry six onions (sliced) in butler, and put 
die other part of die meat to the soup, and 
stew till the latter is tender; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a 
tureen. 

HARICOT MUTTON. Cut die best 
end of a neck or loin of mutton, that 
has been kept till tender, into chops of 
equal thickness, one rib to each ; trim off 
some of the fat, and die lower end of the 
chine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; 
set it o\er a smart fire; if your fire is not 
sharp, the chops will be done before they 
are colored; die intention of frying them 19 
merely to give them a very light browning. 

While die chops are browning, jx.t-1 and 
boil a couple of dozen of young button onions 
in about diree pints of water for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off 
the liquor they were boiled in into the stew- 
pan with die chops: if that is not sufficient 
to cover diem, add as much boiling water a* 
will remove die .-cum as it rises, and be 



HAT 



95 



HER 



careful they are not stewed too fast or too 
much; so take out one of them with a fish- 
slice, and try it: \vln-n they arc tender, 
which will l- in about an hour and a half, 
then pass tlie i;i-i\j through a sieve into a 
basin, set it in the ojx-n air thai it may get 
cold, xoii may then easily and completely 
skim off the fat; in the meantimr set the 
meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, 
and |x>ur some boiling water over the Union 
onions to warm them. Have aU>nt six 
ounces of carrots, and eight ounces of tur- 
nips, peeled and cut into slices, or shaped 
into balls alxmt :is big as a nutmeg; boil 
the carrots about half an hour, the turnips 
about a quarter of an hour, and put them on 
a sie\e to drain, and then put tliem round 
the dish, llie last thing. 

Thicken the <;iuv\ by [Hitting an ounce of 
butter into a siew|m; when it is melted, 
stir in as much Hour as will stiffen it; pour 
the uraiy to it by degrees, stir together till 
it l>oils; strain it through a fine sieve or 
tainis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and 
turnips to get warm, and let it simmer 
gently while yon dish up the meat; lay the 
chops round a dish, put the vegetables in the 
middle, and |X)i:r (he thickened gra\y over. 
S<. IN,- put in capers, &c. minced glierkins, 
fie. 

Kninp-steaks, veal-cutlets, and beef-tails, 
make excellent dishes dressed in the like 
manner. 

ll\S|f, COLD. Mince a nice white 
piece of veal, wash and core some anchovies ; 
take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- 
!!-. anil a lemon; shred and mix them 
with tin- \eal, and place it in a dish; lay 
round il slides of vl, fillets of anchovies, 
pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled 
oysters, muslirooms and capers; lettuces 
sin. ; -mall; |>m in oil and vinegar, salt 
and |x-p|*-r, and serve. 

II VSIII'.s, MADE DISHES, STEWS, 

UA<iol rs.soi "PS, TO WARM. Put 
what MIII ha\e lefi into a deep ha.-h-di-h or 
. it n son want it, set this in a stew- 
pan of U.ilini; water: let it stand till the 
i-iiiiti-ni.- are (juile wiu'in. 

n \TTI;I;I:D KIT. (i) Make two 

(|uarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour 
it ijuickly U|xm li>ur i|iiarts of fresh-made 
bntii-r milk, after which it must not be stir- 
ret 1 ; lit it remain (ill cold and firm, then 
take of)' the top part, drain it in a hair sieve, 
and put it into a shape for half an hour. It 
. served in a separate 

dish. 

HATTF.KKI) KIT. (2) Put into the 
di-h it is to U- served in, one-third of cream 



with two-thirds of Unier-milk, add a little 
potmded loaf sn^ar, and l>eat it well togeth- 
er. Strew over it ;i little pounded cin- 
namon, and let it stand for three or four 
hours. 

1 1 \ \\ THORN LIQUOR. The fall 

blossoms of llie white thorn are to lx> picked 
dry and clean from tle leaves and stalks, 
and as much put into n large bottle as it will 
hold lightly without pressing down; it is 
then to be filled up with French brandy, 
and allowed to stand two or three months, 
when it must be decanted off, and sweetened 
with clarified sugar, or with capillaire. 
Without the sweetening, it is an excellent 
seasoning for puddings and custards. 

HEDGEHOG TO MAKE. Blanch 

two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to 
a piste iii a mortar, moistening occasionally 
w ith ( 'unary and orange-flower water ; beat 
the yolks of twelve, and the whites of seven 
eggs with a pint of cream and some |jowder 
sugar; put this with the almond paste and 
half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, 
set it over a Btove and keep it constantly 
stirring till sufficiently firm to Ix- moulded 
into the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full 
of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into 
slips, and place it in a dish ; beat up the 
yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of 
cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stir them 
over a slow fire till hot, then pour it round 
the hedgehog and let it stand; when cold, 
serve it. A good calf's-foot jelly may be 
poured round, instead of the cream, if pre- 
ferred. 

HERBS, A BUNCH OF SWEET, Is 

made up of parsley, sweet marjoram, winter 
savory, orange and lemon thyme ; the great- 
est proportion of parsley. 

HERBS, SWEET. These in cookery 
are parsley, chil>hol, rocambole, winter sa- 
vory, thyme, Ixu-leal", liasil, mint, borage, 
rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. 
The relishing licrlis or Ravigotte are tar- 
ragon, garden-cress, cliervil, buniet, civet, 
and green mustard. 

HERBS TO DRY, SWEET AND 
SAVORY. It u very important to those 
who are not in tin- constant habit of attend- 
ing the markets to know w lu-n the various 
season* commence fur purchasing sweet 
herbs. 

All vegetables are in the highest state 
of |x-rfei-iion, and fullest of juice and flavor, 
just U- lore tliey begin to flower: the first 
and List crop ha\.- neither the fine flavor, 
nor the pel fume of iho.e which are gathered 
in the height of the season ; that i, when 



HER 



96 



HOG 



the greater part of die crop of each species 
is ripe. 

Take care they are gathered on a dry 
day, by which means they will have a bet- 
ter color when dried. Cleanse your herbs 
well from dirt and dust ; cut off the roots ; 
separate the hunches into smaller ones, and 
dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a 
Dutch oven before a common fire, in such 
quantities at a time, tlrat the process may be 
speedily finished ; i. e. ' Kill 'em quick,' 
says a great botanist; by this means their 
flavor will behest preserved: there can be 
no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, 
&c. hastily by the aid of artificial heat, 
rather than by the heat of the sun. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only cau- 
tion requisite is t<> avoid burning ; and of 
this a sufficient test is afforded by the pres- 
ervation of the color. The common cus- 
tom is, when they are perfectly dried to put 
them in bags, and lay them in a dry place; 
but the best way to preserve the flavor of 
aromatic plants is to pick off the leaves as 
soon as they are dried, and to pound them, 
and put them through a hair sieve, and keep 
them in Irell-atopped lx>!tles. The common 
custom is to put them into paper bags, and 
lay them on a shelf in the kitchen, exposed 
to all the fumes, steam, and smoke, &c.: 
thus they soon lose their flavor. 

N. B. Herbs nicely dried are a very ac- 
ceptable substitute when fresh ones cannot 
be got; but, however carefully dried, the 
flavor and fragrance of the fresh herbs are 
incomparably finer. 

HERRINGS. There are three sorts of 
herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red her- 
rings. They are emptied and cleaned like 
any other li/li ; when fresh, they are broiled, 
and served with melted butler, white sauce, 
&c. 

The salted herring should lie soaked in 
cold water before it is cooked ; this is also 
broiled ; sometimes, however, it is cut in 
pieces, and eaten raw. 

The red hen-ing is split down the back, 
the head and tail are cut off, and the fish 
broiled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as follows: 
when they have lain in cold water a suffi- 
cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, 
then split them down the back ; then have 
ready some melted batter, in which has been 
mixed basil and bay-leaf, minced small, the 
yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg ; nib 
the herrings well with this, bread them; 
broil them over a gentle fire, and serve with 
lemon-juice. 

The best red herrings are full of roe, 
are firm and large, and have a yellow- 
cast. 

Of the fresh herring the scales are bright 



if good, the eyes are full, and the gills red, 
the fish also should I* stiff. 

HERRINGS, FOILED. Scale, and 
otherwise prepare the hen-ings in the usual 
way ; dry them well, and rub them over with 
a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails 
in their mouths, lay them on a fL-h-plate, and 
put them into boiling water; in ten or 
twelve minutes take them out, drain them, 
lay them on the dish, the heads towards the 
middle; serve them with melted butter and 
parsley, and garnish with bonetaduh. 

HERRINGS, RED. Plain broil them, 
or pour over some Ix-er made hot, and when 
it is cold drain and wipe them dry ; heat 
them thoroughly, and rub over a little butter, 
and sprinkle them with pepper. 

HERRINGS TO BAKE. They must 
be perfectly fresh, and well cleaned, but not 
washed ; the heads and fins cut off, and the 
bones cut out; strew over them pepper, salt, 
and a slice of onion minced \eiy finely, to 
each; roll them up tight; pack them into a 
jar, and pour over in the proportion of a 
pint of vinegar to two of water, with half 
an ounce of whole black pepper; tic over 
the jar a piece of bladder or paper, and 
bake them in an oven for an hour. Takti 
off the cover when they are cold, and pom 
over a little cold vinegar, and tie them up. 

HERRINGS TO FRY. Scrape off 
the scales; cut off the lias; draw out the 
gut, keeping in the roes and melts; wipe 
them in a clean cloth; dredge them with 
flour, and fry them in boiling dripping; put 
them before the fire to drain and keep hot. 
Sauces; melted butter, and parsley and 
butter. When herrings are to be broiled, 
they are prepared in the same manner, and 
done upon the gridiron. They must not be 
washed. 

HIPPOCRAS. Take one ounce of 
cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two pen- 
ny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and galangal 
a penny-weight of each. Pound these to- 
gether well, and infuse them in a pint of red 
or white wine, and a pint of malmsey; to 
this, add a pound of, the best loaf sugar. 
These proportions will make a quart of 
the liquor. 

HOG'S HEAD. Put a head into some 
pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, 
take it out and boil it till the bones will 
come out with ease; then skin, bone, and 
chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with 
pepper (black and while), nutmeg, and salt, 
if necessary ; lay part of the skin at the 
bottom of a potting pan, press in the meat, 



HUN 



97 



ICE 



cover it with the remainder of the skin, put > 
on a weight, and let it stand till <|uile cold. 
Then tuni it out. I'.oil the li(|iior it was 
dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, 
and when oil, I put the head into it. 

1I()\EY TO CLARIFY. M. Fou- 
<lUE's METHOD. Take six |x>unds of 
honex , :i pi mud and three-quarters of wafer, 
two onuc. s and a quarter of [xiunded chalk, 
five oniH-es ufroal, (pulverised, washed, and 
well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten 
in three ounces of water, for eacli pound of 
honey. 

Put die honey, water, chalk, and eggs, 
into a cop|x-r vessel, capable of holding 
about one-third more than the above quanti- 
ties ; let them lx>il for two minutes, throw 
in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continue the boiling two minutes longer; 
then take the saucepan from the fire, and 
let it stand nearly a (purler of an hour, that 
the liquor mav cool ; then take a neu sieve 
(which must ix- well u ashed, or it will im- 
part a disa'jree-iMe taste), pass the honey 
through it, taking ft ire to filter the first 
drops twice, ;ts they generally cany with 
them some portion of the i 

ii|> which still adheres to the coal, 
and other materials, may be separated as 
follows: pour boiling water on them until 
they no longer retain any sweetness; then 

put these dilVereiit waters together, set them 
over a large lire to eva|>orate, till the sirup 
only remains. This sirup contracts the fla- 
vor of Inn ley sugar, and must not be added 
to the clarified honey. 

IIOKsr.KADISH POWDER. The 

time to make this is during \ovemtxT and 
December; .-lice it the thickness of a shil- 
ling, and lay it to dn very gradually in a 
Dnii li o\en (a strong heat soon eva[xirates 
its tla\or); when dry enough, pound it and 
bottle it. 

HOI' PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of 
vinegar, a quarter of a |>oimd of salt, two 
ounces of shallots or garlic, and two of gin- 
ger, one ounce of pepper, one of yellow mus- 
i, and a (|itarter of an ounce of 
|Xit into a jar that will hold tour 
two ounces of allspice, and pour on 
it the hot pickle. Whrn cold, put in am 
ildes or fruit, such as 
'-, cauliflower, French beans, radish 
pod.-, unripe apples, gooseberries, currants, 
which may !* added a- tli.' opportunity of- 
fers, and, .1- the pickle wastes, it should be 
I with the aome mixture. 

Il-BON I ! OF BEEF. See Beef. 

HI NG BEEF. See Beef. 
9 



HUNTING BEEF. See Beef. 
HUNTER'S PIE. See Irish Stew. 



I. 



ICE. Sorbetieres or moulds for cream 
or fniit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- 
terials, Mock-tin and |>ewter; of these, the 
latter is the l>est, the substance to be iced 
congealing more gradually in it than in the 
former; an object much to be desired, as 
when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very 
apt to be rough, and full of lumps like hail, 
especially if it be not well worked with the 
spatula ; the other utensils necessary for this 
operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at 
the bottom, and a wooden spatula about 
nine inches long; being so far provided, fill 
the pail with pounded ice, over which spread 
four handfuls of salt; then having filled the 
sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. ; put 
on the cover, and immerse it in the centre 
of the ice-pail; taking care the ice touches 
the mould in all parts; throw in two more 
handfuls of salt, and leave it a quarter of an 
hour; then take the cover from the mould, 
and with the spatula stir the contents up to- 
gether, so that those parts which touch the 
sides of the mould, and consequently congeal 
first, may be mixed w ith the liquid in the 
middle; work this alxnit for seven or eigh'. 
minutes; cover the mould, take the pail by 
tire ears, and shake it round and round for 
a quarter of an hour; o|>eii the mould a sec- 
ond time, and stir as Ix-lore; continue these 
operations alternately, until the en-am, or 
whatever it may l>e, is entirely congealed, 
and |x-rfe<-lly smooth, and free from lumps. 
Take care to let out the water, which will 
collect at the bottom of the pail, by means 
of the cork, and press the ice close to the 
sorlx'ticre with the spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it from the 
|>ail, dip the mould in warm water, but not 
to let it remain an instant; dry it quickly, 
turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. 

All sorts of ices are finished in this man- 
ner ; the preparation of the articles of which 
they are composed, constitutes the only dif- 
ference between them. 

ICE, A VERY LARGE CAKE. I., :,t 

tlin whites of twenty fresh egg-; then, by 
degrees, beat a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve; mix these 
well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of froh lemon- 
peel; do not use more of the orange-flower 
water than is just sufficient to flavor it. 
Whisk it fir three hours till the mixture is 
thick and white; tlicn, with a thin broad 



ICI 



98 



IRI 



bit of board, spread it all over the top and 
sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour 
wiU harden it. 

ICE FOR ICING (HOW TO PRE- 
PARE). Take a few pounds of ice, break 
it almost to powder, and tlirow in among it 
a large handful and a half of salt ; you must 
prepare in the coolest part of the house, that 
as little of the warm air as possible may 
come. The ice and salt lacing in a bucket, 
put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; 
immerse it in the ice, and draw that round 
the |x>t, so that it may touch every part. In 
a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and 
stir it well, removing the parts that ice round 
the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or 
water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, 
and move the whole in the ice, as you can- 
not use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. There should be holes in the buck- 
et, to let the ice off as it thaws. 

ICING FOR CAKES. For a large 
cake, teat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
put it into a mortar, with four spoonfuls of 
rose water, and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather 
in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it 
in the oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
main long enough to discolor. Keep the 
cake in a drv place. 

ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk 
of an egg and some melted butter well toge- 
ther; wash the tarts with a feather, and 
sift sugar over as you put them into the 
oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, 
and sift white sugar. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE 

CAKE. Take one pound of double-refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve; put into a pan quite free from grease; 
break in the whites of six eggs, and as much 
powder bine as will lie on a sixpence; beat 
it well with a spattle for ten minutes? thru 
squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and beat it 
till it becomes thick and trans|>areut. Set 
the cake you intend to ice in an oven or 
warm place five minutes ; then spread over 
the top and sides with the mixture as smooth 
as possible. If for a wedding cake only, 
plain ice it ; if for a twelfth cake, ornament 
it with gum paste, or fancy articles of any 
description. A good twelfth cake, not bak- 
ed two much, and kept in a cool dry place, 
will retain its moisture and eat well, if 
twelve montlis old. 

ICING FOR FRUIT TARTS, PDFFS, 
OR PASTRY. Beat up in a half-pint mug 
the white of two eggs to a solid froth; lay 



some on the middle of the pie with a paste- 
brush ; sift over plenty of pounded sugar, and 
press ii down with the hand, wash out the 
brush, and splash by degrees with water till 
the sugar is dissolved, and put it in the oven 
for ten minutes, and serve it up cold. 

IMPERIAL. Put two ounces of cream 
of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lem- 
ons, into a stone jar, pour on them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. 
When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain 
it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in buttling, 
half u pint to the whole quantity. 

INDIA PICKLE. (1) Take one pound of 
ginger, put it into a pan with salt and wa- 
ter, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, 
and cut it into thin slices; put it into a jjan 
with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay 
till all the following ingredients are prepar- 
ed; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in 
salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, 
then let it lay in salt for another three days, 
then take it out and let it lay in the sun for 
another, till half dry; an ounce of long pep- 
per, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid 
in the sun for three days, a pint of black 
mustard-seed bruised, half an ounce of tur- 
meric, beat very small ; put all these ingre- 
dients together in a jar, then put in as much 
vinegar, as, when tin: cabbage, or whatever 
yon intend to pickle, is put into it, the vine- 
gar will rise to the top of the jar. Then 
t;ike cablwgf, cauliflower, or whatever you 
choose to pickle, and cut them into small 
pieces, throw a good handful of salt over 
them, and set them in the sun (when it is 
very hot) for three days, drain the water 
from them every day, and fresh salt them 
again, turning the leaves till they are dry, 
then put them into the pickle, Ix'ing partic- 
ular that they are completely covered with 
the vinegar; tie it up close, let it stand a 
fortnight, lill it airain with more vinegar, 
carefully watch it from time to time, to fill 
it up with vinegar, ;is it will waste very fast. 

INDIA PICKLE. (2) One gallon of vin- 
egar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a 
pound of long pepper split, half a pound of 
flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scrap- 
ed, and split, and two ounces of turmeric. 
When you have prepared the spice, and put 
it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot 
over it, and stir it every day for a week. 
Then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or 
whatever you intend to pickle. 

INDIAN CURRY. See Curry. 

IRISH PUFFS. Add to five well- 
beaten yolks and two whites of eggs, a large 
table-spoonful of flour, not quite an ounce of 



ISI 



99 



JAM 



melted butter, and half a tea-spoonful of salt ; 
beat it all well for ten minutes, and add half 
a pint of cream; bake it in buttered tea- 
cups; turn them out, and serve them with a 
sweet sauce. 

IRISH ROCK. Blanch a pound of 
sweet iuid an ounce of bitter almonds, pick 
out a few of the sweet almonds, ami cut 
them like straws, and blanch them in rose 
water ; |x >uinl the rest in a mortur with a 
table-spoonful of brandy, four ounces of 
pounded .iiitl silted loaf sugar, and half a 
]x>nnd of salt butter well washed; pound 
them till the mass looks very white, and set 
it in a cool place to stiffen; then dip two 
table-spoons into cold water, and with them 
furm i in- paste, as much like an egg as pos- 
sible ; plan- in tlie bottom of a glass dish, a 
small plate or saucer turned, and lay the 
rock hi-ii up; stick over it the cut almonds, 
with urcen .-wceimeats, and ornament with 
of myrtle. 

IU1S1I STEW, OR HUNTER'S PIE. 
t of a neck of mutton, cut it into 

it well, put it into a stew pan, 
let it l>ia.-e for half. in hour, take two dozen 
-, boil them, mash them, and sea- 
son them, Ixittcr your mould, and line it with 
the potatoes, put in the mutton, bake it for 
half an hour, tlien it will be done, cut a hole 
in the top, and add some good gravy to it. 

llilSH STEW. Take five thick mut- 
ton <:ho|is, or two pounds off the neck or 
loins; two |xniii(l.s of potatoes; peel them, 
and cut them in halves; six onions, or half 
a poii M. I of onions; peel and slice them also: 
first put a layer of (xjtatoc* at the bottom of 
your .-ti-wpun, then a couple of chops and 
he onions ; then a,' lin potatoes, and 
BO on, till the pan is quite full; a M:U|| 
spoonful of white pepper, and alxmt one 
and a kill' of salt, anil three uill- of In-nth or 

O, anil two tca-.-poonfuls of mu.-lirooin 
up; co\er ail very close i,i, - 
prevent the .-learn from Llciliii',' out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a very- 
slow lire. A small .-lice of ham is a great 
addition to this dish. The conk will U- the 
btrt judge w lien it is done, as a great .!-.:! 
..u the liie \.i.ilia\e. (ireat care 
nin.-i ! lakrn not to let it burn, and that it 
does not do in. 

IS I M, LASS, TO CLARIFY. Take 

an ouiH-e and quarter of tlie best isinglass, 
cut it into small pieces, and wash them sev- 
eral times in warm water. Put the isinglass 
into a preserving pan, with five glasses of 
filtered water, .-.-I it on tin- lire, and, as goon 
as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, 

so as to keep up the boiling ; take off the 



scum directly it rises ; and when the whole 
is reduced to three-quarters, strain it through 
a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, in 
clarifying BWglsjBjj, lemon-peel, to remove 
its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass 
ought to have no flavor, and as the luinon- 
peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, 
it is much better left out. 

ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix with near- 
ly half a pound of pounded loaf su^ar, the 
juice of three lemons, two table-spoonfuls 
of white wine, and a quart of cream ; U-at 
it with a whisk till quite thick, which may 
be in half an hour ; put a bit of muslin into 
a hair sieve, and jxnir in tlie cream. In 
twelve hours turn it out, and garnish it with 
flowers. It may be put into a tin shape, 
with holes in it. 



ITALIAN *IACAROONS. Tai 

pound of \ alentia or Jordan almonds, I > 
ed, pound them quite line with the whites 
of four eggs; add two (xjunds and a half of 
sifted loaf sugar, and rub them well togeth- 
er with the pestle ; put in by degrees about 
ten or eleven more whites, working them 
well as you put them in ; but the best, crite- 
rion to go by in trying their lightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find them heavy, 
put one or two more whites ; put the mix- 
ture into a biscuit-funnel, and lay them out 
on wafer-paper, in pieces about the size of a 
small walnut, having ready about two ounces 
of blanched and dry almonds cut into slips, 
put tliree or four pieces on each, and hake 
them on wires, or a baking-plate, in a slow 
oven. Obs. Almonds should IK- blanched 
and dried gradually two or Uiree flays be- 
fore they are used, by which mea'is they 
will work much U-n-r, and win large 
quantities are used, it is advised to grind 
them in a mill provided for that purpose. 



.1. 



JAM, APRICOT. (1) Weigh equal 
quantities of pounded loaf suif.'ir and of ap- 
ricots ; pare and cut them quite small ; as 
they are done, stn w over half of the sugar. 
The following day Ixiil llw; remainder, and 
add the apricots ;" stir it till it boils, take 
off the scum, and when pcrtivtly clear, add 

part of the kernels blanched, and boil it 
two or three minutes. 

JAM, APRICOT. (2) Allow equal 
proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of 
apricots ; pare, and cut them small ; as they 
are done, strew part of Ihe sugar over them, 
and put tlie parings into cold water. Break 
the stones, blanch and pound the kernel* 



JAM 



100 



JEL 



which, with the shells and parings, boil till 
halt' tin- quantity of water is reduced, and 
there is a sufficiency of the liquor, when 
strained, to allow three or four table-spoon- 
fuls to a pound of apricots; put it, with the 
sugar and fruit, into a preserving pan ; mash, 
and take off the scum ; boil it quickly, till 
transparent. 

JAM, APRICOT, OR ANY PLUM. 

After taking away the stones from the apri- 
cots, and cutting out any blemishes they 
may have ; put them over a slow fire, in a 
clean stewpan, with half a pint of water; 
when scalded, rub them through a hair 
sieve: to every pound of pulp put one pound 
of sifted loaf sugar; put it into a preserving- 
pan over a brisk fire, and when it boils 
skim it well, and throw in the kernels of 
the apricots, and half an ounce of bitter al- 
monds, blanched; boil it a -quarter of an 
hour fast, and stirring it all the time; re- 
move it from (he (ire, and fill it into pots, 
and cover them as directed in Raspbeny 
Jam. N. B. Green gages or plums may 
be done in the same way, omitting the ker- 
nels or almonds. 

JAM, BLACK CURRANT. Gather 
your currants on a dry day, when they are 
lull ripe, pick them from the stalks, wash 
them well in a basin, and to every pound 
of currants, put a pound of double refined 
sugar, beaten and sifted; put them into a 
preserving pan, boil them half an hour, skim, 
and keep them stirring all the time: then 
jHit them into pots: when cold, put brandy 
paper over, and tie white paper over all. 

JAM, CHERRY. Having stoned and 
boiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise 
them, and let the juice run from them ; then 
boil together half a pound of red currant 
juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put 
the cherries into these whilst they are boil- 
ing, and strew on them three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very 
fast for half an hour, and then put it into 
pots. When cold put on brandy papers. 

JAM, GOOSEBERRY. Take what 
quantity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- 
berries; take half their quantity of lump su- 
gar; break them well, and boil them to- 
gether for half an hour, of more if necessa- 
ry. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. 

JAM, GOOSKBERRY, FOR PUDDINGS. 

Allow equal weight of tile, red rough goose- 
berries, and of good brown sugar; gather 
the fruit ii|x>n a dry day; top and tail them, 
and put a layer alternately of gooseberries 
and of sugar into a preserving pan; shake 
it frequently, skim it well, and boil it till 



the sirup jellies, which may be ascertained 
by cooling a little in a saucer. Black and 
red currants may I* done in this way for 
common use. 

JAM, PEACH. Gatlier the peaches 
when quite ripe, peel and stone them, put 
them into a preserving-pan, and mash them 
over the fire till hot ; nib them through a 
siexc, and add to a pound of pulp the same 
weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pound- 
ed ; let it boil ten or twelve minutes, stir 
and skim it well. 

JAM, RASPBERRY. Weigh equal 
proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of 
raspberries ; put the fruit into a preserving- 
pan, and with a silver spoon bruise and 
mash it well; let boil six minutes; add the 
sugar, and stir it well with the fruit; when 
it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen min- 
utes. 

JAM, STRAWBERRY. Gather the 
scarlet strawberries when perfectly ripe, 
bruise them well, and add the juice of other 
strawberries ; take an equal weight of lump 
sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly 
into the fmit, and set it on a slow fire; boil 
it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it 
rises; pour it into glasses, or jars, ;uid when 
cold, tie them down. 

JAM, WHITE OR RED CURRANT. 
Pick the fruit very nicely, and allow an 
equal quantity of fine\y-ponnded loaf sugar; 
put a layer of each alternately into a preserv- 
ing pan, and boil for ten minutes ; or they 
may be boiled the same length of time in 
sugar previously clarified and boiled candy 
high. 

JAUNE MANGE. Boil an ounce of 
isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of w'ater 

till melted; strain it, then add the juice of 
two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of 
white wine, the yolks of four erjgs, lieaten 
and strained; sugar according to i; 
it over a gentle fire till it just boils up: when 
cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if 
there should happen to be any sediment, not 
to pour it in. 

JELLY. To a quart of the stock jelly 
put half a pound of loaf surar pounded, a 
stick or two of cinnamon broken into small 
bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of currant 
wine, and one of Sherry or Teneriffe, and the 
beaten whites of live eir^s ; put it all into a 
nicely-cleaned saucepan, stir it gently till it. 
Ixiils, and boil it for three or four minules. 
Pour it into a jelly-bag, with a basin or mug ; 
placed, underneath; run it immediately 



JEL 



101 



JEL 



through the bag again into another basin, 
and repeat this till it begins to drop. It 
will then be :is transparent an possible, and 
may be put into moulds or glasses. When 
all has :ip|Mrently dripped, pnur about a 
pint of boiling water into the Im^, whHi 
will product* a little thin jelly til to drink; 
the stand with the jelly-bag should lx- plac- 
ed near to tin- lire; Sherry alone, or Tene- 
rifTe, may Ix- used. The jelly may l>e (Hit 
into quart IxHtles corked tightly, which will 
nuike it keep good for some weeks; place 
the bottle in warm water when it is requir- 
ed for use. 

JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a 
large sha|x-, put to the prepared stock or 
jelly, more than lialf a Imttle of -iron _' al,- 
or porter, a |x>und of loaf ,-iuar, the [xvl of 
one, and die juice of four large lemons, a 
slick ot'ciiuiamoii, and tlie Ix-alen whiii - . !" 
eight e__ - ; put it ail into a saucepan, stir 
it gently; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and 
pour it into a jelly-bag till it nuia perfectly 
clear. 

JKJ.LV, APPLE. (1) Pare, core, and 
cut thirteen good apples into small bits; as 
they are cut, throw them into two quarts 
of cold water; l>il tlicm in this, with the 
peel of a lemon, till die substance i.- ex- 
tracted, and nearly half the liquor wasted; 
drain them through a hair sie\e, and to a 
pint of tlie liquid add one pound of loaf su- 
gar poiuuled, the juice of one lemon, and the 
Beaten whites of one or two eggs; put it into 
a saucc|>aii, stir it till it luils, take olf the 
eciun, and let it boil till clear, and then pour 
it into a mould. 

JELLY, APPLE. (2) Pare and mince 
three dozen of juicy acid applo, put them 
into a |i.-in. cover them with water, and boil 
them till \cry soli; -train tlieia tlirotrgh a 
tliin cl.ilh or llaimcl \KI; allow a poinul of 
loaf sunar to a pint of juice; clarity and 
boil it; add the apple juice, with the grated 
peel ami juice of six lemons; I mil it for 
twenty minutes; lake oil' tlie scum as it rises. 

JKLLY, AIM'LK. (3) Pare and cut 
into slut- eighteen large acid apples; boil 
them in ;L- much water as will <MU i ihi-m ; 
when (|nite .-oft, dip a coal si- cloth into hot 
water, wring it dry, and strain OK; apples 
through it; to each pint of juice allow tour- 
teen ounces of line loaf MI.: o , clarity it, and 
add, with the apple juice, the \ni-\ of a large 
lemon ; Ixiil it till it jellies, \iliii-h may be in 
twenty minutes; pick out the lemon peel, 
and immediately put it into jars. 

JKLLY, AfRICOT. Take eighteen fine 
apricots, let them be of a nice red color, 
9* 



stone them, and cut them in pieces into some 
sirup, (usually made with twelve ounces of 
sugar, but lor apricot jelly it should be 
rallwr more liquid than for oilier jellies.) 
When the fruit is done put it into a napkin, 
to cxpie-.- out all the juice you possibly can ; 
which you must add to the sirup in which 
tlie apricots have been done, and which has 
Ixvn previously strained through a silk sieve, 
and after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of isinglass to thicken it, finish the 
same as all other jellies. 

JELLY, ARROW-ROOT. Steep for 
some hours, in two table-spoonfuls of water, 
tlie peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter 
almond- |xmnded ; strain, and mix it with 
three tablc-s;x>onfuU of arrow-root, the same 
quantity of lemon-juice, and one of lirandv; 
sweeten, and stir it over the fire till quite 
thick, and when quite cold, put it into jelly 



JELLY, BARBERRY. (1) Pick a 

pint ofbarlicrries, and put them into a stew- 
pan with boiling water, cover it i 
let it stand till nearly Cold. Set on the lire 
some clarified siiirar with a little water, 
(making a quart togetlier ;) when it begins 
to Ixiil, .-kini ii well, pui in die bail-rnes, 
let them Ixiil an hour; squeeze, the juice of 
three lemons through a sieve into a basin, to 
tliis, (KISS tin- liquor from the barberries, and 
then tlie isinglass. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (2) Take some 
very ripe UuU'iiitu (what quantity you 
please) and Ix-lore you seed them lake two 
thirds of their weight in sn-;.ir. Boil your 
sugar, then put your darUnies into it, and 
give tlie whole a few Ixiilinijs, then pass it 
through a silk Me\.- into a pan. pre. iny the 
barberries with a spoon to extract as much 
juice as possible from them; this done, put it 
again our the lire, and when yon perceive 
it begins to Mini the scum, take it off and 
pour it into . 

JELLY, BKKAI) FOR AN INVALID. 

Cut the crnm of a |>eiiny roll into thin slices, 

and to.i.-l liieni equally of a pale brown: boil 

> in a quart of water till it will 

a, which may be known by putting a 
in a .-|KJII to cool; strain it upon a 
bit of lcmon-|xfl, and sweeten it with sugar. 
A little wine may be added. 

, JELLY BROTH. See Broth. 

JELLY. r\| IS FEET. (1) Take 
four feet, slit tliem in two, take away 
die fat from Ix-twcen tlie claws, w.i.-h lliem 
well in l.ikeu.un, water; then put tin-in in 
a large slew pan, and cover them w ith water: 



JEL 



102 



JEL 



when the liquor boils, skim it well, and let 
it boil gently six or seven hours, that it may 
be reduced to about two quarts; then strain 
it through a sieve, and skim off all the oily 
substance which is on the surface of the 
liquor. 

If you are not in a hurry, it is better to 
boil the calf's feet the day before you make 
the jelly; as when the liquor is cold, the 
oily part being at the top, and the other be- 
ing firm, with pieces of kitchen pa[>er appli- 
ed to it, you may remove every particle of 
the oily substance, without wasting any of 
the liquor. 

Put the liquor in a stewpan to melt, with 
a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lem- 
ons, the juice of six, six whites and shells of 
eggs beat together, and a bottle of Sherry or 
Madeira; whisk the whole together until it is 
on the boil; then put it by the side of the 
stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an 
hour; strain it through a jelly-bag: what is 
strained first must be poured into the bag 
again, until it is as bright and as clear as 
rock-water; then put the jelly in moulds, to 
be cold and firm : if the weather is too warm, 
it requires some ice. 

When it is wished to be very stiff, half an 
ounce of isinglass, may be added when die 
wine is put in. 

It may be flavored by the juice of various 
fruits, spices, &c. and colored widi saf- 
fron, cochineal, red beet juice, spinage juice, 
claret, &c. ; and it is sometimes made with 
cherry brandy, or noyeau rouge, or Curacoa, 
or essence of punch, instead of wine. 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (2) Take 

the fiit and bones from eight feet, and soak 
them in water for tliree or four hours; 
then boil them in six quarts of water, skim- 
ming often ; when reduced to a third, strain 
and set it by to cool ; when cold, take every 
particle of fat from the top, and remove 
whatever may have settled at the bottom. 
Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 
two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up 
the whites of twelve eggs with three pounds 
of fine sugar, mix these with the jelly, boil it 
gently, adding the juice of two lemons, and 
thru strain it for use. 

JELLY, CHERRY. Take the stones 
and stalks from two pounds of fine clear 
ripe cherries ; mix them with a quarter of 
a pound of red currants, from which the 
seeds have been extracted; express the 
juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with 
three-quarters of a pound of" clarified sugar, 
and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the .sum- 
as Barberry jelly. 

JELLY OF CURRANTS, GRAPE, 



RASPBERRY, Are all made precisely 
in the same manner. When the fruit is full 
ripe, gather it on a dry day: as soon as it 
is nicely picked, put it into a jar, and covw 
it down very close. 

Set tlie jar in a saucepan alxnit tliree 
parts filled with cold water; put it on a gen- 
tle fire, and let it simmer for about half an 
hour. Take the pan from the fire, and (xnir 
the contents of the jar into a jelly-bag: pass 
the juice through a second time; do not 
squeeze the bag. 

To each pint of juice add a pound and a 
half of very {food lump sugar pounded ; when 
it is dissolved, put it. into a preserving-pan; 
set it on the fire, and boil gently; stirring 
and skimming it the whole time (about thir- 
ty or forty minutes), i. e. till no more scum 
rises, and it is perfectly clear anil line: 
pour it while warm into pots; and when 
cold, cover them with paper welted in 
brandy. 

Half a pint of this jelly, dissolved in a 
pint of brandy or vinegar, will give you ex- 
cellent currant or raspberry brandy or vine- 
gar. 

Obs. Jellies from other fruits are made 
in the same way, and cannot 1*5 preserved 
in perfection without plentv of good sujjav. 

Those who wish jelly to turn out MTV stiff, 
dissolve isinglass in a little water, strain 
through a sieve, and add it in the proportion 
of half :iii ounce to a pint of juice. ajid jnit 
it in widi the sugar. 

The l>est way is the clM-apest. Jellies 
made with two small a proportion of susrar. 
require boiling so long; there is much more 
waste of juice and flavor by e\a|x>ration thau 
the due quantity of sugar costs; and they 
neither look nor taste half so well. 

JELLY, DAMSON. To eight (winds 
of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, 
and half a pint of water; boil them for half 
an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins 
break ; then take them off, and set them by 
for an hour; set diem on the fire again, for 
half an hour more; set them by airain for 
the same time; do so the third time; while 
they stand nt}' the fire, put a weight upon 
them to keep them under the sirup. The 
last time, \on must Ixiil them till you per- 
ceiu 1 the\ are of a very high color in the 
part where the skin is broken; then take 
tliem off, set them by to cool, and when they 
arc coli!, drain off the simp, and make the 
jelly in the following manner: Boil a quan- 
tity of green apples, green goost-U-rries, and 
quince cores, lo a nia.-h ; then strain them 
through a hair sieve. Take an equal quan- 
tity of this jelly and the former sirup, and 
boil them over a gentle fire together till they 
|t ll\ : skim it well, and while it is hot, put 
it into glasses or pots. 



JEL 



103 



JEL 



JELLY FOR ENTREMETS. Harts- 
horn, calf's feet, and isiiiglas*, are the usual 
materials used to coagulate sweet jellies; of 
tliese three, tlie latter is the best, as. when 
properly clarified, (for which see isinglass), 
it is the clearest, and Ir.w no unpleasant 
flavor. 

JELLY FKflT. Clarify half a pound 
of sugar, but the instant before it is quite 
clear, put in a small quantity of cochineal; 
then strain, and mix with it an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lem- 
oiis; add to this the fruit of which your jel- 
ly is to be roni|x>sed; stir them together 
lightly, |x>nr the jelly into a mould quickly, 
and |>iit the mould on ice. Observe I hat the 
sugar and isinglass should tx 1 no more than 
lukewarm when mixed together. These 
jellies may lie made of any kind of fruit, or 
the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or ce- 
drats. 

JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take an 
'f i i i\ the same of sago, pearl-bark-\ , 
hartshoi n-> h;i\ ings, and eringo root; sim- 
mer with ihree pints of water, till reduced 
to oiid |, int. .-train it. When cold it will be 
a jelly ; win n you use it, serve dissolved in 
wine, milk, or broth. 

JELLY. <;ilAPE. Take out the stone?, 
tlwn mash the gra|x-s with your hands, (tliey 
must IK- i i|x-) ^le.n squeeze tliem through a 
cloth to extract all the juice from them, and 
Ixiil and linish the same 98 currant jelK. 
I'se half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit. 

JELL'S . II \KTSHOK.N. lioil half a 
pound of hart-horn .-haunts lor three hours 
and a half in four pints and a half of water; 
strain it through a hit of muslin, and stir in- 
to it three ounces of dissolved isingla-s ; if 
large, (hi- |x-el of one, if small, of two lem- 
ons, arrl their juice, half the |-el of an or- 
ange, iliree pat H of a tea-cupful of bnindy, 
and one of while w iue; swee'.iMi with pound- 
ed loaf sugar, and when lukewarm [Hit it 
into a snuce|ian with the Ixaiten white- c.f 
six eggs : stir it, and let it boil tor two min- 
utes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or 
three limes till |ieifectly clear. 

JELLY, ORANGE. (OSqueezethc juice 

of eight orange- .mil ,-ix lemons, grate the 

peel of half the fruit, and steep it in a pint 

of cold water; mix it with the juice, three- 
qiiarteis of a |xmnd of loaf sugar, one ounee 
and a quarter of isinglass, and the beaten 
whites of 4-\eu e^s; (Hit it into a fuuioe- 
pan, and stir it till it lx>il- ; let it boil a fe 
minutes, and strain it through a jelly-Uiv till 
clear; put it into a mould or I;|;L-S.--. 



JELLY, ORANGE. (2) Boil in a 

pint of water one ounce and a quarter of 
picked isinglass, the rind of an orange cut 
thin, a stick of cinnamon, a lew coriaiiders, 
and three ounces of loaf su;;ar, till the isin- 
glass is dissolved; then sque<-y.e two Seville 
oranges or lemons, and enough oranges to 
make a pint of juice: mix all together, and 
strain it through a (amis or lawn sieve into 
a basin ; H it in a cold place for half an 
hour ; pour it into another basin free from 
.-edimcut ; and \vlieu it begins to congeal, 
till your mould : when wanted, dip the 
mould into lukewarm water ; turn it out on 
a dish, and garnish with orange or lemon 
cut in slices, and placed round. N. B. A 
few grains of saftron put in the water will 
add much to Its appearance. 

JEIXY, OX-HEEL. Slit them in two. 
and take away the fat between the claws. 
The proportion of water to each heel is 
aljout a quart : let it simmer gently for eight 
hours (keeping it clean skimmed); it will 
make a pint and a half of strong jelly, which 
is fre |iieiitly used to make calf's feet jelly, 
or to add to mock turtle and otlier soups. 

JELLY, PEACH. Cut ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, take out the stones and 
peel them ; set a pint of smooth clarified su- 
gar, diluted with water, on the fire; when 
it has boiled and been skimmed, put in the 
peaches, the kernels should be broken and 
put in with them; let them boil, very gently 
for ten minutes, then take out four or five 
i if i lie halves, and lay them on a plate to be 
in readiness for garnishing the jelly; let 
the remainder of the peaches boil for ten 
minutes longer; while they are Ixiiling take 
three lemons, cut off the rind, squeeze the 
juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pas 
i he liquor of the |x-arlivs into it, and then 
the isinglass, running it through the sieve 
two or three times, in order to mix it well; 
fill the mould half full of jelly, and v. lieu set. 
put in llie peaches and a little more jelly, 
and when tli.it is set, (ill up the mould. 
The reason why the lemons are |xvlni lx>- 
lore the\ are sqnee/.ed li>r this jelly is, that 
the oil in the rind would rather sfxiil tile fla- 
vor of the jelly, than be any addition. 

JELLY, QUINCE. Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be quid* ripe, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color; take off the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 

them into a saucepan, with water e i.di to 

cover them; set llw-iu on the fire, and when 
soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pre ing them \er\ slightly; strain the li- 
quor, .oid measure it; clarify, and Imil to 
ensue an <i|iial quantity of sugar; then take 
it i .If. add the liqni r to it, stirring it well; 



JU I 



104 



KAV 



when mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; 
a^ si inn as the jelly spreads over the spoon, 
and tails from it like treacle ; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

JELLY, RASPBERRY. Take two 
thirds of nisberries, and one third red cur- 
rants; pick them, press the juioe through a 
sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a 
cellar, or any other cool place for three days ; 
at the end of that time r.iise the thick skin 
formed at the top, and pour the juice into 
another vessel: weigh it, and put it, with 
half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving 
pan, set it oil the fire; a great deal of scum 
will rise at first, which must all be taken oft ; 
leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a 
few drops on a cold plate, if it cools of the 
proper consistence for jellies, take it from 
the fire and whilst hot pour it into pots ; 
Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are 
covered. 

JELLY, RUM. Clarify, and boil to a 
sirup, a pound of loaf sugar ; dissolve one 
ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, 
strain it through a sieve into the sirup when 
it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir 
in a quart of white wine; mix it well, and 
add one or two table-spoonfujs of old Ja- 
maica rum, stir it for a few minutes, and 
pour it into a mould, or into glasses. 

JELLY, STRAWBERRY. Put some 
fresh-gathered straw lierries into an earthen 
pan, bruise them with a wooden spoon, add 
a little cold water, and some finely-pounded 
loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it 
through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the 
juice a-ld one ounce of isinglass, which has 
been dissolved in half a pint of water, weil- 
skiimned, strained, and allowed to cool; mix 
all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. 

Rasplx'irv jelly, red currant jelly, and red 
currants mixed with raspberries, may be 
ii-tly in the same manner; and the 
bi i^ht red color may lx; improved by mixing 
in a litile carmine or lake. When this kind 
of jelly is to l)e made with cherries, the fruit 
should l>e boiled a few minutes in clarified 
sn'_;>ir, and when cold, tile juice of one or two 
lemons may be added with the isinglass. 

A little lemon juice may be added to any 
of the other jellies, in proportion to the acid- 
ity of the fruit. 

Tliey may be iced by covering and sur- 
rounding tlie mould with ice, without any salt. 

JUICE. The proportion of oranges 
should be double that of lemons; the fruit 
beini: selected free from decay, and wiped 
dry, they are to be squeezed, and the juice 
strained through a sie\e into an earthen pan ; 
to each pint, according to the acidity of the 



fruit, a pound and a half, or a pound and 
three-quarters, of double-refined sugar, bro- 
ken small, is to l>e added. It must Ix- stirred 
and skimmed daily, till the sugar is well in- 
corporated, or as long as the scum rises; 
and when it has been a month in the pan, it 
may be boiled. 

JUICE OF FRESH FRUIT ICED. 

Press through a sieve the juice of a pint of 
pickled currants or raspberries, add to it 
four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a 
little lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It 
may be whisked previous to freezing, and a 
mixture of the juice may be used. 

JULIENNE. This soup is composed 
of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, let- 
tuce, sorrel and chervil ; the roots are cut in 
thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are 
halved and then sliced ; the lettuce and sor- 
rel chopped small; toss lip the roots in a 
little butter, when they are done, add the 
lettuces, &c. moisten them with broth, and 
boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or 
more, if necessary; prepare some bread in 
the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. 

JUMBLES. Mix one pound of fine 
flour with one pound of fine powder sugar, 
make them into a light paste with whites of 
eggs well beaten ; add half a pint of cream, 
half a pound of fresh butter, melted, and a 
pound of blanched almonds, pounded ; knead 
them all together, thoroughly, with a little 
rose water, and cut out the jumbles into 
whatever forma you think proper; and eith- 
er bake them in a gentle oven, or fry tliein 
in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, melt 
fresh butter with a spoonful of mountain, and 
Miew line sugar over the dish. 

JUSTICE'S ORAJVGE SIRUP FOR 
PUNCH OR PUDDINGS. Squeeze the or- 
anges, and strain the juice from the pulp 
into a large pot; boil it up with a pound and 
a half of fine sugar to each pint of juice; 
skim it well; let it stand till cold; then 
bottle it, and cork it well. Obs. This 
makes a fine, soft, mellow-flavored punch; 
and, added to melted butter, is a good lelish 
to puddings. 



K. 

KAVIA. Take the hard roes of several 
sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; 
take away all the fibres as you would from 
a calf's brains, then, with a whisk, beat the 
rocs in the water, shaking off from the whisk 
whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then 
lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after 



KID 



105 



KIS 



which put tin-in into fresh water again ; and 
continue to whip tlietn, ami change tin- wa- 
ter, until the roes are perfectly cleansed anil 
free from lilnv; lay them on sieves tn drain, 
season them \\i-ll with salt and |x-pper; 
wrap them in a coarse cloth, tun;; them up 
like a ball, and let them drain thus till tin- 
next day, when serve tliem with fried bread, 
and shallots chopped small. If they are to 
be kt-pt in- sometime, put more silt to tlirin. 

K KNOBBED VEAL. See Veal. 
KELLY'S SAUCE. See Sauce. 

KERRY BUTTER MILK. Put six 
quart* of butter-milk into a cheese cloth, 
hang it in a cool place, and let the wliey 
drip from it lor two or three days; when it 
is rather thick, put it into a brain, sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass 
of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much 
rosplxjrry j mi, or sirup, as will color and 
give it an agreeable flavor. Whisk it well 
togeth it in a glass dish. 

KI.K 1111', ENGLISH. Peel ten 
clo\<-< of garlic, bruise them, and put them in- 
to a quart of white wine vinegar; takeai|iiart 
of white I'oii, put it ou the lire, and wlien it 
boils, put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, 
washed and cut in pieces; let them simmer 
in the wine till they are dissolved; when 
cold, put i in-ill to the vinegar; then take 
half a pint of white wine, and put into it 
some : ginger sliced, a i,-\\ 

a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them 
boil a little; when almost cold, slice ill a 
whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with 
two or tliri-<- spoonfuls of horse-radish ; add 
it to it close, and stir it once 

or tv. Keep it close stopped up. 

See Mushroom Ketchup. 

Ki:\V MIXC'E. Cut a pound of meat 
from i ..asted mutton, and mince 

it v i her with six oun 

suet,' mix wilii ii three or four iablc->|x>n- 
fuls of cnimlis of bread, the Ix-aU-n yolks of 
lour i-^<, one anchovy chopped, some pep- 
per and -,iii, and half a pint of 1'ort wine; 
put it into a c.iul of veal, and bake it in a 
quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and |>' .in- 
some brown ra\y our it; serve with it 
'e. Wlien a \i-al caul is not to 
be had, the mince, may be done in a sauce- 
pan. 

KID. Kid is good eating uhen it is but 
tin..' or lour months old, its flesh \ then 
delicate ami tender, but is not used after it 

To be good, it in- 

i and -AIM--. It is dressed in the sunic 
manner as lamb or fawn. 



KIDNEYS. Cut them through the long 
way, score them, and sprinkle them over 
with a little jtcpjxT and salt; in order to 
broil all over alike, and to keep them from 
curling on the gridiron, run a wire skewer 
riijht through them. They must lie broiled 
OM-I- a clear fire, being careful to turn them 
frequently till they are done; they will take 
alxnit ten or twelve minutes broiling, provi- 
ded they are done over a brisk fire ; or, if 
MJII choose, you may fry them in butter, and 
make gravy for them in the [Kin (after the 
kidm-vsare taken out), by putting in a tea- 
spoonful of flour; as soon as it looks brown, 
put in a sufficient quantity of water as will 
make gravy ; they will take five minutes 
longer frying than broiling. Garnish with 
fried parsley: you may improve them if you 
think pr<>|X'r, by chopping a few jxirsley 
leaves very fine, mix them with a bit of fresh 
butter, and a little pepper and Kilt, and then 
put some of this mixture over each kidney. 

KISSES. (1) Put the whites of ei-ht 
eggs, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, into a China basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froth, then add half a 
IHiiiiid of sifted sugar, stir it in with 
care by means of a spatula: that done, lay 
small pieces of this mixture on white |>aper; 
make each drop about the size of a ratafia, 
rather conical than flat; place the paper 
which contains them on a piece of wood 
about an inch thick, and put them in a very 
hot oven: watch them, and as soon as you 
\e they begin to look yellowish, take 
tliem out, and detach them MB tin; |>aper 
with a knife as cautiously as possible, fo 
lliey are very tender. Take a small s[x>on, 
and with die end of it remove tlie moist part, 
which is at the bottom, so as to make tliem 
a little hollow, and as you do tic 
on the paper, the hollow side upwards; put 
them on tin; wood into the ou-n again for a 
few minutes to dry; when done, I. iy tliem 
in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm 
place. If they are for table, fill the hollow 
nil a little, whip) nil cream or rasp- 
IK-ITV jam; put them together by couples, 
the cream or jam inside; place them in a 
di-h, and serve them as soon as po- 

KISSKS. (2) One pound of the best loaf 
sujjar, powdervd and sifted. Tin- whites of 
four Ogge. Twelve dr|*i of essence of |i-ui- 
on. A tea-cup of em-ram ji -IK. IVal the 
whites of four eggs till th-\ -t:unl alone. 
Then beat in, gradually, UK: sugar, a tea- 
spoonful at a time. Add tlie essence of lem- 
on, and U-at tlie whole very hard. Lay a 
wet shcvt of |Ki|xTon tin- 1*. itoin ofa square 
tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a 
sin. ill tea-epoonful of stifi' currant jelly. 
With a large spoou, pile some of the beaten 



LAM 



106 



LAM 



white of egg and sugar, on each lump of 
jelly, so as to cover it entirely. Drop on 
the mixture as evenly as possible, so ;LS to 
make tin: kisses of a round smooth shape. 
Set thciii in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, they are done. Then take 
them out and place them two bottoms to- 
gether. Lay them lightly on a sieve, and 
dry them in a cool oven, till the two bot- 
toms stick fast together, so as to form one 
ball or oval. 

KNUCKLES. See the several meats 
to which they belong. 



LAMB. The fore quarter of lamb con- 
sists of the shoulder, the neck, and the 
breast together; the hind quarter is the leg 
and loin. There are also the head and 
pluck, the fry or sweetbreads, skirts, lamb- 
stones, and liver. In choosing the fore 
quarter, the vein in the neck should be rud- 
dy, or of a bluish color. In the hind quar- 
ter, the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidney 
small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it, the 
joints should be carefully wiped every day, 
and in warm weather, sprinkled with a lit- 
tle pepper. The fore quarter is the prime 
joint, and should be roasted and basted 
with butter ; the gravy is made as for beef 
or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce 
tureen, and half a lemon is sent to table 
with it, the juice of which is squeezed upon 
the ribs after die shoulder is cut off, and 
thoj have been sprinkled with salt. If the 
jeunt weighs five pounds, it will require to 
be rVoasted one hour; if ten pounds, one hour 
and three-quarters. The hind quarter may 
be roasted, or the leg of it boiled. The 
loin is then cut into steaks, fried, and serv- 
ed round it ; the outside bones being cover- 
ed with a fringe of fried parsley. A dish 
of spinach is generally served with the 
lamb. 

LAMB, Is a delicate, and commonly 
considered tender meat ; but those who talk 
of tender lamb, while they are thinking of 
the age of the animal, forget that even a 
chicken must be kept a proper time after it 
has been killed, or it will be tough picking. 
To the usual accompaniments of roasted 
meat, green mint sauce, and a salad, is com- 
monly added; and some cooks, about five 
minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a 
little fresh gathered and finely minced pars- 
ley. - Lamb, and all young meats, ought to be 
thoroughly done; therefore do not take either 
lamb or veal off the spit till you see it drop 
white gravy. When green mint cannot be 



got, mint vinegar is an acceptable substitute 
for it ; and crisp parsley on a side plate, is 
an admirable accompaniment. 

Hind-Quarter, Of eight pounds, will 
take from an hour and three-quarters to two 
hours: baste and froth it. The li-<r and 
the loin of lamb, when little, should be 
roasted together ; the former being lean, the 
latter fat, and the gravy is better prr.-ir\Ml. 

Fare-Quarter, Often pounds, about two 
hours. It is a pretty general custom, when 
you take off the shoulder from the ribs, to 
squeeze a Seville orange over them, and 
sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt. 
This may as well be done by the cook be- 
fore it comes to table; some people are not 
remarkably ex|>ert at dividing these joints 
nicely. 

Leg, Of five pounds, from an hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Shoulder, With a quick fire, an hour. 

Ribs, About an hour to an hour and a 
quarter: joint it nicely, crack the ribs across, 
and divide them from the briskut after it ia 
roasted. 

Loin, An hour and a quarter. 

Neck, An hour. QQ 

Breast, Three-quarters of an hour. 

LAMB BREAST. Cut it into pieces, 
and stew it in a weak stock, with a ^lass 
of Port wine; add pepper and salt. \\ hen 
it is perfectly tender, thicken the sauce 
with butter and flour. Have ready cucum- 
bers stewed in gravy, put them over the 
lamb before serving. A bre:ist of mutton 
may be served in the same way. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED. Cut a 

loin or best end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten them, and cut off the fat and skin; rub 
the gridiron with a little fat, and broil them 
on a clear fire. Turn them with steak tongs, 
till quite done. Serve them hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of 
lamb into chops; rub them over with the 
beaten yolk of an egg; dip them into Crated 
bread, mixed with plenty of chopped pars- 
ley, and season with lemon-peel, pepper, 
and salt; fry them alight brown in good 
dripping; make a sauce with the trimming*, 
and thicken the sauce with butter rolled in 
flour; add a little lemon pickle and mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with fried parsley. 
They may be served with or without the 
gravy. 

LAMB CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off 
the loin, into round bits ; trim off the fat and 
skin ; dip them into the beaten yolk of an 
egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed 
with minced parsley, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Fry them a 



LAM 



107 



LAR 



light brown in clarified beef suet; drain 
them on the bark of a sieve before the fire. 
Serve llx-m with melted butter with a little 
lemon pickle in it, or a brown sauce thick- 
ened. Garnish with cut lemon. 

LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. 

Half roast a small lore quarter of lamb; cut 
it into steaks, season thorn with a little salt 
and pepper; lay them into a dish, and pour 
in a little- water. Boil a pound of rice 
with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and 
stir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a 
little salt, add also the greater part of the 
yolk* i if four eggs beaten; cover the lamb 
with the rice, and with a feather put over 
it the remainder of the beaten egifs. Bake 
it in an men till it has acquired a light 
brown color. 

LAMB FEET. Clean, well wash, and 
blanch six lamb's feet; stew them, till they 
'iider, in some white stock, with a 
Klice dt lean ham, one onion, some parsley, 
1 ! \vo blades of mace, a little whole 

pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before 
serving, strain die sauce ; thicken it with 
flour a|d butter, and half a pint of crram; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet 
and the juice of half a small lemon. Gar- 
nish with sip|N-U< of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape. 

LAMB FRY. Fry it plain, or dip it 
: well beaten on a plate, and strew 
some line -t:i!e bread-crumbs over it; gar- 
nish with crisp parsley. 

LAMB, LEG OF, BOILED. It should 

in a cluth, that it may look as 
l>ossible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip them in egg, strew them over with 
bread-numbs, and fry them a nice brown, 
serve theai round the di.-h, and garnish with 
dried or fried parsley ; serve with spinach 
to eat with it. 

LAMB PIE, THE GERMAN' WAY. 
Cut a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard 
MB With small lardons of IKICO;.. 
ed with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a 
Ixiy-li-af; add fat bacon pounded, small on- 
ious, iiutiiie^. and sweet herbs; put these 
into the pie, and let it bake for three hours ; 
when l>aki-d, cut it open, skim oft' all tin- 
fat, |x)iir in a ragout of oysters, and serve 
hot. 

LA M B PIE, A SAVORY ONE. Cut 

the meat into pieces, and season it with 

pep|-r. salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, 

' . M ike a good puff paste 

..it., it, with a few 

.no and sweetbreads, seasoned 



the same as the meat. Then put in gome 
oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of 
hard e^<;s, and the tops of asparagus, about 
two inches long, first boiled green. Put 
Ixittor all over the pie, put on the lid, and 
let it bake tor an hour and a half in a quick 
oven. In the meantime, take a pint of gra- 
vy, the oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and 
a little grated nutmeg. Mix all together 
with the yolks of two or three eggs, finely 
beaten, and keep stirring it tlie same way 
all the time. When it boils, pour it into 
the pie, put on die lid again, and serve it to 
table. 

LAMB, TO ROAST OR BOIL. A 

quarter of an hour is generally allowed to 
each pound of meat ; a leg of lamb of five 
pounds will therefore take an hour and a 
quarter to roast or boil, the other joints in 
the same proportion ; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, string 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw 
or stewed. 

LAMB SHOULDER, GRILLED. Boil 
it ; score it in chequers about in inch square, 
nib it over with die yolk of an egg, pepper 
and salt it, strew it with bread-cnimbs and 
dried par.-ley, or sweet lierlw, and carbo- 
nado, i. e. grill, i. e. broil it over a clear 
fire, or put it in a Dutch oven till it is a 
nice light brown ; send up some graw with 
it, or make a sauce for it of flour and water 
well mixed together with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom or 
walnut ketchup, and die juice of half a lem- 
on. See Grill sauce. Breasts of lamb 
are often done in the same way, and with 
mushroom or mutton sauce. 

LAMB STEAKS FRIED. Fry them 
of the nicest brown; when served, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of 
bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you 

may season them and broil tlu'in in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or 
without, according to ta.-te. 

LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be 
carefully niched in a jar, put into a kettle 
qfMter, and boiled; nm it into bladders 
IM: brt-u particularly well cleaned. 
Ivv best to have tlie bladders small, as toe 
lard will keep better, for, after the air 
reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is 
melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This 
being a very useful article in frying fish, it 
should lie prepared with great care. Mix- 
ed with baiter, it makes a fine crust. 

LARKS. These delicate little birds are 
in high season in November. Wtan they 
arc thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, 



LEI 



108 



LEM 



truss them; do diem over with the yolk of 
egg, and then roll them in bread-crumbs ; 
8j>it them on a lark spit, and fasten that on 
to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will 
lx> sufficient time to roast them in before a 
quick lire; whilst they are roasting, baste 
them with fresh butter, and sprinkle them 
with bread-crumbs till they are well cover- 
ed with them. Fry some grated bread in 
butter, set it to drain before the fire, that it 
may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish 
under the larks, and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

LAVENDER DROPS. Fill a quart 
bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and 
pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; 
let it stand ten days, then strain it, and add 
of nutmeg bruised, cloves, mace, and cochi- 
neal, a quarter of an ounce each, and bot- 
tle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may- 
be taken dropped on a bit of sugar; and in 
the beginning of a bowel complaint, a tea- 
spoonful, taken in half a glass of pepper- 
mint water, will often prove efficacious. 

LAVENDER WATER. Put into a 
large bottle, eight ounces of the best recti- 
fied spirits of wine, three drachms of oil of 
lavender, one drachm of essence of ainlier- 
gris, and threepence-worth of musk ; cork 
it tightly, and shake it well every day, for 
a fortnight or three weeks. 

LEAVES, TO GREEN, FOR ORNA- 
MENTING FRUIT. Take small leaves 
of a pear-tree, keep them close stopped in 
a pan of verjuice and water, give them a 
boil in some sirup of apricots; put them l>e- 
tween two pieces of glass to dry; smooth 
and cut them into the shape of apricot- 
leaves (the leaves should be procured with 
stalks) ; stick them alwut the apricots or 
any other preserved fruit; but the leaves 
must be cut in the shape of the leaf which 
belongs to the fruit you ornament. 

LEEKS. Leeks are most generally used 
for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes, 
they are very rarely brought to table ; in 
which case dress them as follows: Put 
tin-in into the stock-pot till about three parts 
done; then take them out, drain, and soak 
them in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and cloves; drain them again, stuff the 
hearts with afarce, dip them in batter, and 
fry them. 

LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well 
the whites of four, and the yolks of eight 
fresh eggs, and add, by degrees, half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, a pint and a 
half of sweet cream just warmed, half a 
pound of clarified fresh butter, two table- 



spoonfhls of fresh yeast, and a wine-glass fall 
nt spirits i >f wine ; then mix in as much sifted 
(lour as- will make it into a thick butter; 
let it rise for half an hour ; roll it out thin ; 
cut it into rounds or oblong pieces, and lay 
on them jam or marmalade; double them, 
and let them stand again to rise, and fry 
them in boiling fresh lard or butter. 

LEMONADE. To a gallon of spring 
water add some cinnamon and cloves, plen- 
ty of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, and 
a bit of the peel of each ; sweeten well with 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of 
six eggs, and the yolk of one; give it a boil, 
and then let it simmer for ten minutes ; then 
run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand 
till cold, before it is drank. 

LEMONADE TRANSPARENT. The 

peel of fourteen lemons having been soaked 
in two quarts of water for two hours, their 
juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a 
quart of white wine, are to be added ; a 
quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then 
to be mixed with it, and when it has stood 
an hour, it is to be strained through a jelly- 
bag till it rung clear. 

LEMON BONBONS. Take two pounds 
of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to 
caramel; but just Ix'fore it reaches that 
point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in 
it; in the meanwhile molt a little butter; 
skim, and pour it off clear; take a spoonful 
of this butter, and nib it with your hand over 
a copperplate or marble slab, on which pour 
the caramel sugar: then have a sword blade, 
take an end in each hand, and impress lines 
in the sugar about an inch apart ; then im- 
press similar lines across tile first, so as to 
form small cakes ; this operation should be 
performed as quicklv as possible, lest the 
sugar should cool before the whole is mark- 
ed ; when however all is done, pass the 
blade carefully between the sugar and the 
slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and 
when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, 
and wrap each in paper; keep them in a 
dry place. 

LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of 
brandy being put into an earthen jar that is 
fitted with a cover, a pound and three-quar- 
ters of fine loaf sugar, the thin parings of 
six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are to 
be added ; one quart of boiling milk is to be 
poured over the mixture, which must be 
stirred daily for eight days; it is then to be 
run through a jelly-bag and bottled. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Boil the 
peel of two large lemons till they are quite 
tender, and then pound it well in a mortar, 



LEM 



109 



I. KM 



with four or five ounces of loaf sugar, tin: 
yolks of six eg<{s, Imlf a |H>iiud of fre>h but- 
ter, anil :i little curd lieaten line: pound and 
mix altogether, lay a rich aaff paste in some 
pum-pans, till tlicin h.ilf full, and bake them 
carefully. 

LK.MON < 'I I KKSKCAKES. Mix four 
ounces of sifted luiup sugar, and tour ounces 
of Imtier together, and gently melt it; then 
add the yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg. the rind of three lemons shred tine, and 
the juice of one lemon and a half, one sa- 
vory biscuit, some lilanrlu'd almonds, pound- 
ed, three spoonfuls of hrandv ; mix the 
whole well together, and [Kit it to paste 
made with the following ingredients: eight 
ounces of (lour, .-ix ounces of butter, two- 
thirds of which mast be mixed with the 
flour lirst; then wet it with six spoonfuls of 
water, and roll in the remainder of the but- 
ter. 

LF.Mc>\ ( 'HIPS. Take large sroooth- 
rindi d Mala-. i lemons; race or cut off their 
peel into clii|is with a small knife (this will 
require .-..in,- pnriiii; to do it properly) ; 
throw them into >alt and water till next 
day; ha\e rcadv a pan of Imiling water, 
throw ihejii in and Uiil them tender. Drain 
them well: after having lain sometime in 
water to cool, put them in an earthen pan, 
pour over enough U>iling clarified sugar to 
cover them, and then let them lie two days ; 
ih. .1 -train the sirup, put more sugar, and 
reduce it by lulling till tlie sirup is <| r .iite 
thick; put in the chips, and simmei- them a 
few minutes, and net tliem by lor two days: 
repeat it owe more ; let them be two days 
longer, and they will ix- lit to candy, which 
MIII.-I ! done as 1'ollows: lake four pints of 
cLirilied sugar, which will \*> sufficient for 
six poiin<b< of chips, boil it to the degree of 
blown (which may lie known by dipping tin; 
skimmer into ihe. sugar, and blow inn Mroug- 
ly through the holes of it; if little bladders 
appear, it |I;LS attained that degree); and 
when the chips are thoroughly drained ami 
wi|M-.| on a clean cloth, put them into UK; 
sirup, siiirin',' them almut with the skimmer 
tiil you see die sugar liecoine white; then 
take them out with two forks; shake them 
light!} into a wire sieve, and set them into 
.r in a w ai in plai-e to dry. Orange 
done in tiw; same way. 

1 . 1! M ) \ r.SS I : \ CE. Rasp your lem- 
onu all round, v<-ry thin, anil for every Cur- 
ler of a pniiiid of rind, allow one poOOO of 
sugar; mix it well with a large spadille till 
you find it i.- all of the same color, and that 
tile rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone 
jar, and pr< -.-.- i: .|..wn as hard as you can; 
put a bladder over the pa|*-r you cover with, 
10 



and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in 
a month's time it will be fit for use'. 

LEMO.N JUICE TO PRESERVE. 

Squeeze, and strain a pint of lemon-juice; 
put into a China ba.-in one pound of duiihle- 
relincd sugar finely |x>unded and sifted, add 
the lemon-juice, and stir it with a silver 
spoon till the sugar be perfectly dissolved. 
Bottle it, and cork it tightly ; seal the cork, 
or tie bladder over it, and keep it in a dry 
cool place. 

LEMON MARMALADE. Allow to a 
pound of lemons eighteen ounces of tine 
iosif sugar; grate the rind of a few; cut 
them into half; squeeze and strain the juice ; 
boil the skins in the same way as those 
of the orange skins are done; scoop out the 
pulp and white part; cut half into thin chips 
or parings, and pound the other half in a 
mortar ; pound the sugar, and pour over it 
the juice; stir, and let it boil for five min- 
utes; skim it; take it ofTthe fire; put in the 
parings and the pounded skins; boil it for 
five minutes, i hen add the grated peel, and let 
it lil for five minutes more ; take it off, and 
stir it till half cold, before putting it into jars. 

I. KMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze out 
the juice from a large lemon ; boil the out- 
side till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, 
add to it three large apples chopped, and 
four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, 
four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the 
lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as 
("i- other pies. Make a short crust, and fill 
lite patty-pans in the usual manner. 

LEMON-PEEL ESSENCE. Wash 

and brush clean the lemons ; let them get 
l-i fee tly dry: take a lump of loaf sugar, and 
ruli iii. -m till all the yellow rind is taken up 
by the Migar: scrape off tlie surface of the 
sugar into a preserving pot, and press it 
hard down ; cover it very close, and it will 
keep r.r sometime. 

I.KMON-PEEL QUINTESSENCE. 
Best oil of lemon, one drachm, strongest 
rectified spirit, two ounces, introduced by 
deOM till tha spirit kills, and completely 

h tl il. This elegant prepara- 

tion possesses all the delightful fragrance and 
flavor of the freshest lemon-peel. Obs. A 
few drops on tlie sugar you make punch with 
will instantly impregnate it with as much 
ll.ivor a- the troublesome and tedious meth- 
od of grating the rind, or rubbing the sugar 
on il. It will lie found a superlative sub- 
stitute for fresh lemon-peel lor every purpose 
tiiat it is used for: blancmange, jellies, cus- 
tards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies and pud- 
dings', stuffings, soups, sauces, ragouts, &c. 



LEM 



110 



LEM 



LEMON-PEEL TINCTURE. A very 
easy and economical way of obtaining, and 
preserving the flavor of lemon-peel, h to fill 
a wide-mouthed pint bottle half full of bran- 
dy, or proof spirit ; and when you use a 
lemon, pare the rind off very thin, and put 
it into the brandy, &c.: in a fortnight it 
will impregnate tlie spirit with the flavor 
very strongly. 

LEMON PICKLE. (1) Grate off a 
little of the outer rind of two dozen of lem- 
ons; divide them into four rather more than 
half way down, leaving the bottom part 
whole; rub on them equally half a ]xnnid 
of finely-beaten salt, spread them upon a 
large dish, and put them into a cool oven. 
When the juice has dried up, put them into 
a stone jar, with an ounce of cloves and one 
of mace finely Ijeaten, one ounce of nutmeg 
cut into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, 
also half a pint of white mustard-seed bruis- 
ed and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over 
the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, 
stop the jar closely, and let it stand for three 
months; then strain it through a hair sieve, 
pressing it well through ; let it stand till die 
next day, pour off the clear, and put it into 
small Iwttles. Ix>t the dregs stand covered 
somC days, when it will become tine. It 
will keep good for years. When the lem- 
ons are to be used as pickle, no straining is 
necessary. 

LEMON PICKLE. (2) Cut into quar- 
ters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- 
dling sized lemons; put them into a jar, 
strew over them two ounces of well beaten 
salt; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, 
and let it stand three days ; then put to them 
cloves and a quarter of an ounce of mace 
beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shallot, 
two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nut- 
meg sliced. JIake a quart of vinegar tail- 
ing hot, and pour it over the ingredients; 
cover the jar, and in three or four days close 
it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It 
will be fit for use in a week, and is an im- 
provement to most sauces, ;md particularly 
to fish sauce. 

LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the jnice 
of two lemons into a China bowl, or small 
deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten 
it like sirup, add a little brandy ; boil one 
pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel ; 
take out the peel ; when cold, put the cream 
into a teapot, pour it to the sirup, holding 
it high. Make it the day before it is want- 
ed. 

LEMON PUDDING. See Pudding. 



LEMON RINDS MARMALADE. 

Having squeezed tlie juice from your lemons, 
cut out all tlie white part, and put the rinds 
into boiling water: as soon as they begin to 
soften, take them from the fire, and throw 
them into cold water ; then lay them on a 
sieve to drain, and make diem into marma- 
lade, in the same manner as apricots. Or- 
ange rinds are done this way. 

LEMON SPONGE. Boil half an ounce 
of isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; 
strain it, and the following day add the 
juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of 
one; rub through a hair sieve, into the isin- 
glass a uood quantity of rasplxrry jam, that 
has stood Ix'fore the fire some time, and 
whisk it all together till like a sponge; put 
it into an earthen mould, set it in a cold 
I lace lor some hours, and turn it out. Any 
other sort of preserve may be used, and if 
made with only orange or lemon-juice, 
sweeten it with sugar, or make it with 
orange jelly which may have been left the 
day before. 

LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a pint 

of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of 
two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar ac- 
cording to taste ; let it stand some time ; 
mill or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put 
the remainder into glasses, and lay on the 
froth. They should IK; made the day before 
they are wanted. If you should wish them 
to taste ver\ stront; of the lemon, you must 
make use of the juice of six lemons, and 
nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep 
four or five days. 

LKMONS, SIRUP OF. Put a pint of 
fresh lemon-juice to a pound and three- 
quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a 
gentle heat ; skim it till the surface is quite 
clear; add an ounce of thin-rut lemon-]>eel; 
let them simmer (very gently) together for a 
feu minutes, and run it through a flannel. 
When cold, Ixitilc and cork it closely, and 
keep it in a cool place. Or, Dissolve a 
quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of citric, 
i. e. crystallized lemon acid, in a pint of 
clarified sirup; flavor it with tlie peel, or 
dissolve the acid in equal parts of simple 
sirup, and sirup of lemon-peel. 

LEMON WATER. Put two slices of 
thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit 
of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large 
spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stop it close for two hours. 

LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Boil 
a pound of tlie finest sugar, take it off the 
fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon at different times, stirring continually; 



LOB 



111 



LOB 



it will make the sugar as white ad milk if 
properly done; take care not to drop any 
of the seeds into it ; work it well together, 
and when it is of an equal substance (which 
prove in the same manner as any other jelly), 
pour it into a mould. Lemon conserve Is 
made in the same manner, only that the .su- 
gar must he boiled to a greater height than 
lor white lemon conserve. 

LOBSTER. Buy these alive; the lob- 
ster merchant* sometimes keep them till 
they are starved, before they lil them; 
they are then watery, have not half their 
flavor, and like otlier persons that die of a 
consumption, have lost the calf of their legs. 
Choose those that (;is an old co.,k says, are 
"heavy and lively," and) aie full of mo- 
tion, which is the index of their Ireslmr-s. 

Those ofihe middle size are the best. .\c\- 

er take thrrn when the shell is inciiisted, 

which is a -i^n they .ire old. The male 

lerred to eat, and the female 

count of the eggs) to make sauce of. 

distinguished In havinga 

i lull than the male, and less claws. 

i a |K)t, uiih water salted in projxir- 
tion of a lable-|)ixinfiil of salt to a quart of 
water; \ifcen tlie water U.il-. |>nt it in, and 
keep it boiling bri.-kly fr<nn half an hour to 
an hour, according to its .-i/.e; wijx- all die 
scum oil" it, and nib tin- shell with a very 
little Uittcr or sweet oil; break off die 
great claws, crack them carefully in each 
joint, so that they may not l>e shattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily ; cut tlie till 
doun die middle, and .-end up the body 
whole. 

I.OP.STKIIS, to chootf. Tlie heaviest 
are considered the best. \Vhcn alive, if they 
an- quite fresh, the claws will have a strung 
motion when yon put \onr linger on ti, 
and press them. Wln-n yon buy them 
Ixiilni, hv whether their l.iil- are -ii:i anil 
pull up with a spring, otherwise that part 
will IK- flabby. The cock-lobster may lie 
.ii-ii,i-.i|.!i,-o from tin- In ii In the nairow 
,.. ni of tlie tul, and the r.io up|ici niosl 
fins wiiliin it :,M- -lill'anil hard; lint th..-r 
of tin ft, and the tail broader. 

Tile male, though gcncralb lh<- smallest, has 
tlie highest (la\ ir, the tl.-sli is firmer, ami 
lor uiien b-iilcd is a dcejier r.-d. They 
come m aljuiii A|)i il, and i.iin in season 
till tin- oyster* return. M.-n 
preferred for sauces, on account of their 
coral. 

|rC? & I'Obstfri are told in Button, al- 
ready boiled, and are always freth and 
good. 

I.OIISTKK A I.A r.KAISK. I'onnd 
tin- meal of n laige lolistcr very line with 



two ounces of butter, and season it with 
grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add 
a little grated bread, lieat up two eggs, re- 
serve |>art to put over tlie meat, and with 
the rest make it up into the form of a lob- 
ster. Pound the sjiawn and red part, and 
spread it over it; bake it a quarter of an 
hour, and just before serving, lay over it die 
tail and Ixxly shell, with the small claws put 
underneath to resemble a lobster. 

LOBSTERS OR CRABS, BUTTKRKU. 
Pick all the meat from tlie bodies of either, 
mince it small, put it into a saucepan with 
two or three table-spoonfuls of white wine, 
one of lemon-pickle, and three or four of 
rich gravy, a bit of butter, some silt, pep- 
per, and grated nutmeg; thicken it with 
tlie yolks of two ei^s leal up, and when 
quite hot, put it into the lar^e shells,; gar- 
nish them with an edging of bread toasted. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break tlie 
stalls, and take out die meat carefully, cut 
it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, 
adding the spawn; thicken with flour and 
butter some white .-lock, with which the 
shells have been boiled; season it with 
white pepper, mace, and salt, put in the 
lob.-tcr and heat it tip; just Ix-fore serving, 
add a little lemon-juice, or lemon pickle. 
Tlie stock may be made with the shells, only 
boiled in a pint of water, with some white 
pepper, .-all. and a little mace, thickened 
with cream, flour, and butter. 

LOBSTER KETCHUP. Choose a 

ii is lull of sfKiwn, and weighing 
as in .11 U as |*i.-sililc three pounds; pick out 
all (lie meat, and pound the red |>art or co- 
ral in a marble mortar; when completely 
brin.-i il, .i>!<! ihe meal ; |Hiiind. and moisten 
it with a little slierry wine, mix with it a 
tea-s|XHiiifnl of cayenne, add the rest of the 
Uitlle of sherry, and mix it thoroughly; put 
il into two uide-in .iiiiu ,! littles, ami on 
(he top put a -mall talile--|Hiulid of' whole 
|-p|>er, cork the Ixdtlcs tightly, and tie 
them over with leather. It will kc.rp good 
a Iwelxu-month, and exactly resembles fresh 

;. Four table-tpoonfbli heated 
in melted butter arc nulliciunt for a large 

-.ince-tn:cen. 

LOBSTKIl I'ATTir.S. (1) Pick the 
meat and nil U-rries i,m of a li.U-ter, mince 
them finely, add grated bread, < hop|xjd pars- 
ley, and butter; reason with grated nutmeg, 
white |K-p|-r, and salt; add a little white 
stock, cream, and a lal>le-s|MH>iifnl of white 
wine, with a lew chop|-d oy.-lers; heat it 
all together. Line the patt\-p.uis with |HlfT 
paste; put into each a bit of crumb of bread, 
about an inch stjuare, wet tlie edge of the 



LOB 



112 



MAC 



paste, and cover it with another bit; with 
the paste-cutter mark it all round the rim, 
and pare off the paste round the edge of the 
patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, 
and with a knife take out the bread and a 
little of the inside paste, put in the prcjKir- 
ed lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve 
them in a napkin. Another way to pre- 
pare the paste. Roll it out nearly half an 
inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 
tin cutter, and, with one or two sizes less, 
mark it in the middle about half through. 
When they are baked, carefully cut out die 
inner top of the paste, and scoop out the in- 
side, so as to make room for the mince, which 
put in, and place on the top. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (2) Prepare the 
patties as in the last receipt. Take a hen 
lobster already boiled ; pick the meat from 
the tail and claws, and chop it fine ; put it 
into a stewpan, with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till quite smooth, 
an ounce of fresh butter, half a gill of cream, 
and half a gill of veal consomme, cayenne 
pepper, and salt, a tea-spoonful of essence 
faBcfeovy, the same of lemon-juice, and a 
table-spoonful of flour and water: stew it 
five minutes. 

LOBSTER PIE. (1) Boil the lobsters, 
and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take 
out the meat from the claws and bodies, 
pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of 
one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, add three table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar; melt half a pound of butter, and 
mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb 
of a slice of grated bread. Put puff paste 
round the edge and side of the dish ; put in 
the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oys- 
ters with their liquor, and next the pounded 
meat ; cover it with a puff paste, and bake 
it till the paste be done. Before serving, 
pour in some rich gravy, made of a little 
weak stock in which the lobster shells have 
been boiled, with an onion, |>epper, and 
salt, and which has been strained and thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

LOBSTER PIE. (2) Take out, as 
whole as possible, the meat from the tail 
and claws of two or three boiled lobsters ; 
cut them into slices, and season them with 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a force- 
meat of the soft part of the bodies, together 
with grated bread, some parsley, ..and one 
anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, 
salt, and pep|>er, tle yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs bruised, Bad a bit of butter; mix 
it all together with the well-l>eaten yolk of 
an egg, and make it up into Miiall balls. 
Put the lobster into the pie-dish, and cover 
it with the forcemeat ball.", ami hard-boiled 



yolks of eggs; add more than lialf a pint of 
rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and 
a table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. 
Cover it with puff paste, and bake it only 
till the paste be done. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. Choose a fine 
spawny hen lol>ster ; 1* sure it ig fresh, pick 
out the spawn and the red coral into a mor- 
tar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pound 
it quite smooth, and rub it through a hair- 
sieve with the bark of a wooden spoon; cut 
the meat of the lobster into small squares, or 
'pull it to pieces with a fork ; put the pound- 
ed spawn into as much melted buttec as you 
think will do, and stir it together till it is 
thoroughly mixed ; now put to it the meat 
of the lobster, and warm it on the fire; take 
care it does not boil, which will spoil its 
complexion, and its brilliant red color will 
immediately fade. The above is a very easy 
and excellent manner of making this sauce. 
Some use strong beef or veal gravy instead 
of melted butter, adding anchovy, cayenne, 
ketchup, cavice, lemon-juice, or pickle, or 
wine, &c. 

LUNCHEON FOR AN INVALID. 

Put bread crumbs and red currant, or any other 
jelly, alternately into a tumbler, and when 
nearly half full, till it up with milk. 



H. 

MACARONI, TO MAKE. Beat four 
eggs for eight or ten minutes, strain them, 
and stir in flour till stiff enough to work into 
a paste upon a marble, or stone slab ; add 
flour till it be a stiff paste, and work it well ; 
cut off a small bit at a time, roll it out as 
thin as paper, and cut it with a paste-cut- 
ter or knife into very narrow strips ; twist, 
and lay them upon a clean cloth, in a dry, 
warm place; in a few hours it will be per- 
fectly hard; put it into a box, with white 
paper under and over it. It may be cut in- 
to small stars, or circles, to be used for soup, 
and does not require so much tailing as the 
Italian Macaroni. 

MACARONI. The usual mode of dress- 
ing it in England is by adding a white 
sauce, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheeso, 
and burning it ; but this makes a dish which 
is proverbially unwholesome: 'tis bad quali- 
ties arise from t'ie oiled and burnt did M-. 
and the half-dressed flour and butter put into 
the white sauce. Macaroni plain boiled, 
and some rich stock or poitable soup added 
to it quite hot, will be found a delicious dish 
and \ery wholesome. Or, boil macaroni aa 
' directed in the receipt for the pudding, and 



MAC 



113 



MAC 



serve it quite hot in a deep tureen, and let 
each guest add grated Parmesan and cold 
butter, or oiled butter served hot, and it is 
excellent ; this ia the most common Italian 
mode of dressing it. Macaroni with cream, 
sugar, and cinnamon, or a little varicelli 
added to the cream, makes a very nice sweet 
dish. See Macaroni Pudding for the 
Boiling of it. 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 

Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of 
milk, \vitJi a bit of lemon-peel, and a good 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking. Lay 
them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard 
over them hot. Serve cold. 

MACARONI GRATIN. Lay fried 
bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in tin- usual way, and pour it into 
the dish ; smooth it all over, and strew bread- 
crumbs on it, tlten a pretty thick layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melt- 
ed butter on it, and color it with a saJaman- 



MACAROM NAPOLITAINE. Boil 

two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in 
suit anil water; thru put it into a cullender 
to drain. Take three-quarters of a pound 
of cheese grated; put a layer of macaroni, 
in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer 
of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alter- 
nately, till both are used up, making the 
cheese the top; pour over it some gravy, 
melt lull' a pound of fresh butter, and put on 
the whole. Serve it very hot. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (1) Sim- 
mer it in a little stock, \\iili pounded mace 
and salt. When qai i- M-.ider, take it out 
of the liquor, lay it in a ili.-li, grate over it a 
good deal of cheese, then over that put bread 
grated very (inc. Warm some butter with- 
out oiling, and pour it from a boat through 
a little earthen cullender all o\er tlie crums, 
then put the ilisli in a Dutch oven to roast 
he cheese, and brown tin- hivad of a fine 
color. The bread should be in separate 
crums, and look light. 

M V i ' \ K< ).\ I TO SERVE. (2) Wash 

it well, and simmer it in half milk, and 
half of veal or mutton stock, till tile 
macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful 
of tin' liquor, put ID it the volk oi 
beaten in a >-|HM>nful of cream; just maki- it 
hot to thicken, Iwt do rtot let it Ixiil; pour 
it over tlir macaroni, and then grate fine old 
I over it and add bits of butter; 
brown it nicelv with the salamander. 

M \r.YKO.\l STEWED. H.ilaquar- 
10* 



ter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till 
nearly done; then strain it, and add a gill 
of cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoon- 
ful of the essence of ham, three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenne 
pepper and salt ; mix them over a fire for 
five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew 
grated Pai mesan cheese over it, smooth it 
over widi a knife, and color it with a very 
hot salamander. 

, MACARONI TIMBALE. Take some 
puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow 
bands; twist each into a kind of cord, 
which place round the ins ides of buttered 
moulds, snail fashion; fill each mould with 
macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, 
and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of 
each) ; put the Timbales into a warm oven, 
and bake diem three-quarters of an hour ; 
then turn them 91 a dish, and serve. 

MACAROONS. Take a pound of sweet 
almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a 
little rose-water to pi-event their oiling ; add 
a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites 
of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to 
the above; beat all togedier for some time. 
Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop 
the mixture over it separately, the size of a 
shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little 
sugar, and bake them. 

MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, throw them into 
cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty- 
four hours ; at t lie end of that time, pound 
them, a handful at a time, adding occasion- 
ally some white of egg, till the whole is re- 
duced to a fine paste; then take two pounds 
of tlie best lump sugar, pound and sift it, 
then put it to the almonds, with the grated 
rinds of two lemons; beat these ingredients 
together in tlie mortar, adding one at a time, 
as many eggs as you find necessary to moist- 
en the paste, which should lie thin, Ixit not 
too much so, as in that case it would run; 
your |>aste licing ready, take out a little in a 
s|NX)ii,and l.u the macaroons on sheets of 
white pa|r eilltcr round or oval, as you 
please ; lay them at least an inch apart, be- 
cause t In A .-pread in baking, and if (Hit near- 
er would touch. Tlie whole of your paste 
being used, place tlie sheets of paper on 
tins in a moderate oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. ., 

This kind of cake requires great care and 
attention; it will be well therefore to take 
notice of the following rules: 1. To mind 
that the almonds are |>ciTectly dry Ulbre 
you begin to pound them. 2. Take great 
care ill, it not a particle of the yolk is mixed 
with the while of egg, which would entirely 



MAC 



114 



MAI 



spoil the color of die macaroons, and prevent 
their rising in the oven ; to avoid this, open 
each separately, and if perfectly fresh, divide 
the yolk and white with great care. 3. The 
oven must be no more than moderately heat- 
ed, nothing being more liable to burn than 
almonds and sugar; by the least negligence 
in tliis res|x>ct, the surface would be burned, 
whilst the inside would remain unl>aked. 
The best method to obviate any mischief of 
this sort: put two or three macaroons into 
the even to try it ; leave them in tlie usual 
time; and if, when you take them out, they 
are of a clear yellow, the oven is properly 
heated, and the whole of the macaroons may 
then be put in. 

MACKEREL, TO CHOOSE. Their 
gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, 
and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the 
gills are of a faint color, the fish limber and 
wrinkled, they are not fresh. 

MACKEREL BAKED. Cut off their 
heads, open them, and take out the roes and 
clean them thoroughly ; rub them on the in- 
side with a little pepper and salt, put the 
roes in again, season them (with a mixture 
of powdered allspice, black pepper, and 
salt, well nibbed together), and lay them 
close in a baking-pan, cover them with equal 
quantities of cold vinegar and water, tie 
diem down with strong white paper doubled, 
and hake them for an hour in a slow oven. 
They will keep for a fortnight. 

MACKEREL BOILED. This fish 
loses its life as soon as it leaves the sea, and 
the fresher it is the better. Wash and clean 
them thoroughly (tlie fishmongers seldom do 
this sufficiently), put them into cold water 
with a handful of salt in it; let them rather 
simmer than boil; a small mackerel will be 
done enough in about a quarter of an hour; 
when the eye starts and the tail splits, they 
are done; do not let them stand in the wa- 
ter a moment after; they are so delicate 
that the heat of tlie water will break them. 

MACKEREL BROILED. Clean a fine 
large mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and 
cut a long slit down tlie back ; lay it on a 
clean gridiron, over a very clear, slow fire; 
when it is done on one side, turn it; be 
careful that it does not burn; send it up 
with fennel sauce; mix well together a 
little finely minced fennel and parsley, sea- 
soned with a little |x-pper and salt, a bit of 
froh 1 Hitter, and when the mackerel are 
reads l">r the table, put some of this into 
each fi.-li. 

MACKEREL, THE GERMAN WAY. 

Split tin-in down tlie back, and season them 



with pepper and salt ; broil them, and serve 
with tlie following sauce; pick and wash 
some fennel, | sirs ley, mint, thyme, and green 
onions ; but use only a small quantity of each. 
Boil them tender in a little veal stock ; then 
chop them up, and add to them some fresh 
butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a 
little cayenne |>cp|>er, and salt. Ix?t it boil, 
thicken it with Hour, and serve in a sauce 
boat. 

MADE DISHES. Be careful to trim 
off all the skin, gristle, &c. that will not be 
eaten ; and sh;i])e handsomely, and of even 
thickness, the, various articles which compose 
your made dishes: this is sadly neglected by 
common cooks. Only stew them till they 
are just tender, and do not stew them to 
rags; therefore, what you prepare tlie day 
before it is to be eaten, do not dress quite 
enough the first day. We have given re- 
ceipts for the most easy and simple way to 
make HASHES, &c. Those who are well 
skilled in culinary aits can dress up things 
in this way, so as to be as agreeable as they 
were the first time they were cooked. 

MADELAINES. Take nine ounces of 
powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of 
four and six whole eggs, two spoonfuls of 
brandy, and a grain of salt ; put these into 
a saucepan, stirring continually, until the 
paste thickens; after which, stir only one 
minute; clarify ten ounces of good fresh but- 
ter, with which, butter about two and thirty 
madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of tlie 
butter into your preparation; set it on a 
gentle stove, stir till it begins to become li- 
quid, take it off before it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of this into each mould, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. 

M A D E L A I N E S IN SURPRISE. 

Make them in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out 
nearly all the inside; pound four ounces 
of blanched lillxTts, mix them with eight 
spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, which 
mixture put into the madclaincs, and place 
the slice taken from the bottom, and serve 
diem. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL, COLD. Put a 

quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, 
with some parsley and shallots, minced small, 
salt, whole pepper, and lemon-juice; mix 
the whole together with a wooden spoon. 
Pour the Maitrt d' 'Hotel either over, un- 
der, or into whatever meat or fish you in- 
tend to serve. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL MAIGRE. Put 

into some nicely melted butter a little chop- 



MAT 



115 



MIL 



ped parsley, salt, and lemon-juice; one or 
two minced shallots may be added, and heat 
it all together. 

MARCHPANE ROYAL. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw 
them into cold water, drain and pound them, 
moistening with orange-flower and plain 
water, but take care not to put too much at 
once. Hie almonds being reduced to a 

'i them into a preserving pan with 
lialf a |v>nnd of powder sugar, set the pan 
on u moderate fire to dry the paste, which 
will be Mitiiciently so if, when you touch it, 
it no longer sticks to your finger, then take 
it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, 
previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as 
it i.- cold cut it in pieces, which roll in vour 
hand to tin- ,-iw of your little finger; form 
them into rin^s, and lay them on iron grat- 

< and put them into a brisk oven 
t<i color. The above paste may also be em- 
ployed a-s follows: roll it out and cut it in 
half, spread over one piece apricot marma- 
lade, or any other preserve you please, cover 
it with tlie other piece, cut it into lozenges, 
. according to your fancy, lay 
them mi tin- sjr.itirii; as above, glaze and co- 
lor them i:i a quick oven. 

MMMORVM, SWEET, TO PRE- 
SERVE. Beat up very well the white of 
an egg, then lieat very fine and sift some 
doiiljlorefined sugar; take some marjoram 
and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and 
lay it in tin- form of the glass; so do it with 
the egg, thru sear it with the sugar on it, and 
lav it on paper to dry. 

MARM \L\DE. Marmalade may be 
com|n>seii i if almost any fruit*; the best, 
however, tor thispurpoee are, apricots, peach- 
es, oraiiL''--. quince.-, e^-plning, apple*, &c. 
They are usually madi- l>y lioiling tile fruit 
and sugar together to :i kind of pulp, stir- 
ring them constantly whilst on the lire; it is 
kept in jxits, which inns! not be covered till 
d.ide is quite cold. The propor- 
half a pound to each |x.imd 
of fruit. 

|CP f'te Names of Article*, of which 
it is made. 

<>\V |{)).\ES. Chop the bones 

i- to stand steady, then wash 

tin-in ( li-an, saw tliem in halves, cover the 

toji with a diHired cloth: Ixiil tliem, and serve 

with dry toa-t. 

M \Ti:i.OTE MEAT. Take beef, veal, 
mutton. :ind |n>rk, a large lice of each, and 

a small mu- of lei; of lamb; cut them in small 
piece*, which put into a saucepan with equal 
quantities of stock and champaign, salt and 



spices, cover them very close, and set them 
on hot ashes for six hours, then serve it. 

MEAD. (1) To every gallon of water 
put four pounds of honey, boil it an hour. 
Then put it into a tub with some \ea.-t on a 
toast ; cover it over. If it ferments well af- 
ter three or four days, draw it off" clear, and 
put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to 
every gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to eve- 
ry ten gallons. The rind of Seville oranges, 
cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a 
great improvement to the flavor. It is best 
to wash the cask round with part of the 
brandy, before the liquor is put in. 

MEAD. (2) One part of honey is dissolv- 
ed in three parts of water, and boiled over a 
moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds 
of the quantity. It is then skimmed, and 
pit into a barrel, which must be quite full; 
it is allowed to subside for three or four 
days, and then drawn off" for use. To make 
it from the combs from which honey has been 
drained, they are to be beaten in warm wa- 
ter, and after the liquor lias sulisided, it is 
to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland 
make an excellent beer by adding a little 
yeast to the strained liquor, and allowing it 
to ferment, for a few days, in a cask, and 
then bottling it. 

MEAT CAKES. Take whatever meat, 
game, or (xniltry, you may chance to have, 
(it !s the better for being under-done) ; mince 
it fine, adding a little fat bacon or ham, or 
anchovy; season with a little pepper and 
salt ; mix the whole well together, and make 
it into small cakes, about three inches in 
length, an inch and a half in width, and half 
an inch thick ; fry them of a light brown, 
and serve thr-m with good gravy; or put it 
into a mould, ami boil or Like it. 

MEAT, TO KEEP HOT. If your 
!.'.- u i- o M beftn ;."ii are ready to serve, 
take it iij), sol tlic di.-h over a pan of boiling 
water, put a dei^i cover over it, so as not to 
touch the meat, and then put a cloth over 
that. Thi.-i way will nut dry up the gravy. 

MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. 
See Coffee. 

MII.K PUNCH. (1) Bear up two 

e^'gs well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutmeg, and lemon-;**- 1 to your taste; 
l>il it -.'entry, stirring it all tin: time till 
nek i _'h ; lake it off tlie tin; a n 
minutes, ihen add to it a full quarter of a 
pint of nun. It must lie stirred all the time 
tlie rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. 

.MILK 1T.NCH. (2) Eight pounds of re- 



MIN 



116 



MOO 



fined sugar are to be dissolved in the strain- 
ed juice of three dozen lemons, and, when 
quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two 
gallons and a half of cold water, are to be 
added, and also the lemon-peel ; one gallon 
of boiling milk being then poured over the 
ingredients, they are to stand closely covered 
for twenty-four hours ; when, being skimmed 
and run through a very thick jelly-bag, it 
may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for 
immediate use ; but it improves by keeping. 

MINCED COLLOPS. This is a fe- 
vorite Scotch dish; few families are with- 
out it: it keeps well, and is always ready to 
make an extra dish. Take beef, and chop 
and mince it very small; to which add some 
salt and pepper. Put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clar- 
ified butter. When intended for use, put the 
clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fry them. Add 
a little water to it, and then put in the minced 
meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes 
it will be fit to serve up. See Collops. 

MINCE MEAT. Two pounds of beef 
suet, picked and chopped fine; two pounds 
of apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three 
pounds of currants, washed and picked ; one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine; 
one pound of good moist sugar; half a pound 
of citron, and one pound of candied lemon 
and orange-peel, cut into thin slices; two 
pounds of ready-dressed roast beef, free from 
skin and gristle, and chopped fine ; two nut- 
megs, graled; one ounce of salt, one of 
ground ginger, lialf an ounce of coriander 
seeds, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce 
of cloves, all ground fine ; the juice of six 
lemons, and their rinds grated; half a pint 
of brandy, and a pint of sweet wine. Mix 
the suet, apples, currants, meat-plums, and 
sweetmeats, well together in a large pan, 
and strew in the spice by degrees; mix the 
sugar, lemon-juice, wine, and brandy, and 
];our it to the other ingredients, and stir it 
well together ; set it by in close-covered pans 
in a cold place: when wanted, stir it up from 
the bottom, and'add half a glass of brandy 
to the quantity you require. N. B. The same 
weight of tripe is frequently substituted for 
the meat, and sometimes the yolks of eggs 
boiled hard. Obs. The lean side of a but- 
tock, thoroughly roasted, is genera Uy chosen 
for mince meat. 

MI.NUTEN FLEISH. Cut from off a 
leg of veal some slices as thin as the blade 
pf a knife, and about four inches long; sea- 
son them with pepper and salt, lay them in- 
to a deep dish, pour over them nearly half 
a pint of while wine, let it stand for three 
hours. Cover the liottom of u stcwpan with 



butter, dredge each slice of the veaJ on both 
sides with flour; add a little more wine, 
and as much good white stock as will cover 
it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover tlie pan 
closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and 
serve it instantly, otlierwise it will become 
hard. 

MOCK ARRACK. Dissolve two scru- 
ples of flowers of benjamin in a quart of 
good rum, and it will immediately impart 
to it the inviting fragrance of "Vauxhall 
nectar." 



MOCK BRAWN. See Brawn. 



MOCK CAPER SAUCE. 
Caper. 



See Sauce 



MOCK GOOSE, OR LEG OF PORK 

ROASTED WITHOUT THE SKIN. Parboil 

it ; take oft" the skin, and then put it down 
to roast; baste it with butter, and make a 
savory powder of finely minced, or dried 
and powdered sage, ground black pepper, 
salt, and some bread-crumbs, rubbed togeth- 
er through a colander ; you may add to this 
a little very finely minced onion: sprinkle it 
with this when it is almost roasted. Put 
half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and 
goose* stuffing under the knuckle skin; or 
garnish the dish with balls of it fried or 
boiled. 

MOCK ICE. Of preserved strawber- 
ries, raspberries, and red currant jelly, a 
table-spoonful each ; rub it through a sieve, 
with as much cream as will fill a shape; 
dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of isin- 
glass in half a pint of water; when almost 
cold, mix it well with the cream, put it into 
a shape, set it in a cool place, and turn it 
out the following day. 



MOCK, TURTLE. 
Head. 



See Soup Calf' 



MOORFOWL, TO STEW. Truss 
them, keeping on their heads, but draw the 
legs within the body; mix well wmir -.alt 
and pepper with flour and a piece c.t" liuiter, 
and put a small bit into each bird; try llieni 
all over of a nice brown in butter. J'.rowu 
some butter and flour, and add to it some good 
gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and 
two cloves poundpd; boil up the sauce, put 
in the moorfowl, and let tin-in stew very 
slowly till tender. A little before taking 
them off the fire, add a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup. If the birds are old, 
stew them for two hours; if young ones, 
half that time. Cold roasted moorlm\l are 
dressed exactly in the same way only cut 
into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as 



MUS 



117 



M U S 



long. Half an hour lx>fore son ing, a small 
tea-cupful of Port wine should be added. 

Ml TFINS. (1) Take one pint of milk 
quite w:mn., and a quarter of a pint of thick 
small-tx-cr yast ; siniin them into a pan, and 
adil sntiicicnt flour to make it like a batter; 
cover it over, and let it stand in a warm 
place until it ha* risen ; then add a quarter 
of a pint nf warm milk, and one ounce of 
butter ruliljerl in some flour quite fine; mix 
them well together : then add sufficient flour 
to make it into dcin^li, cover it over, and 
let it stand half an hour ; then work it up 
again, and break it into small pieces: roll 
them up quite round, and cover them over 
for a quarter of an hour; then bake them. 

MUFFINS. (2) Mix two pounds of 

lour with a couple of e^'s, two ounces of 
butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or 
: .til!.- of year-l ; l>eat it thoroughly, 

and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake 
it on a hot hearth in li;it cakes, and turn 
\lieii done, on one side. 

M 1 i ! 1 \ > . (3) Take two quarts of 
warm water, two skinfuls of yeast, three 
pounds of ilonr ; Ix-at it well for half an 
hour, and let it stand an hour or two; bake 
them on an iron Iraking-stove (nib it well 
over with mutton-suet as often as they are 
laid on) ; as soon as they begin to color, 
turn tlie m ; they will be sufficiently baked 
when colored on both sides. 

MI'I.1.\<: VTAWNY. Boil slowly in 
two quaris of water one pound of split peas, 
half an ounce of hotter, two onions sliced, a 
little salt, cayime, and two bla.les of mace. 
When t!< -nder, put in a large- 

fowl, cul in joints and skinned, two quarts 
of txiilin -lock, if the soup lx> re- 

quireil \e:v rich ; twenty minutes before 
sen in:.'. a<!d a large table spoonful of curry- 
powder, and tlie same of ground rice. 



or Mullagatawny Soup, see 



Soups. 

MM. !.;:!> WINE. Put into a pint of 
Port wine two or three cloves and a bit of 

.iniiamon: Irtiil it for a few moment*; take 
out tin' spi'-e, -W..NH it with loaf sugar, 
and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a 
slice i :.:ui. the eru.it pared oil", 

and cut into ohloim pieces. Tlie Port wine 
u sometimes boiled with a third of its quan- 
tity of water. 

Ml SIIUOOMS, TO CHOOSE. The 

mushrooms projxT to Ix? used in cookery 
grow in the o|>cii justure land, for tlioee that 



grow near or under trees, are poisonous. 
The eatable mushrooms first appear very 
small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. 
They UTOW very rapidly, and the up|r part 
and slalk are white. As they increase in 
size, the under part gradually opens, and 
shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon co- 
lor, which continues more or less till the 
mushroom has gained some size, and then 
turns to a dark brown. The.-c marks should 
be attended to, and likewise whether the 
skin can be easily parted from tlie edge 
and middle, and whether they have a pleas- 
ant smell. Those which are poisonous have 
a yellow skin, and tlie under part has not the 
clear flesh color of the real mushroom ; be- 
sides which, they smell rank and disagreea- 
ble, and the for is white or yellow. 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. If you 

love good ketchup, gentle reader, make it 
yourself, after the following directions, and 
you will have a delicious relish for made- 
dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces, or hashes. 

Mushroom gravy approaches tlie nature 
and flavor of meat gravy, more than any 
table juice, and is the" superlative siilwtitute 
for it: in meagre soups and extempore gra- 
vies, the chemistry of the kitchen has yet 
contrived to agreeably awaken the palate, 
and encourage the appetite. 

A couple of quarts of double ketchup, 
made according to the following receipt, 
will save you some score pounds of meat, 
lie-ides a vast deal of time and trouble; as it 
will furnish, in a few minutes, as good sauce 
as can be made for either fish, flesh, or fowl. 

I believe the following is the best way of 

ting and preparing the essence of 

mn-hroom-, so as to procure and present 

their flavor liir a considerable length of lime. 

Look out tin- mushrooms from tlie lieu'in- 
nini; of Septcnilier. 

Take care they are the right sort, and 
fre-li gathered. Full-grown tla|)s are tone 
preferred: put a layer of these at the bottom 
of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them 
with salt; then another layer of mushrooms, 
and some more salt on them ; and so on al- 
ternately, s;(lt and mushrooms: let tin-in re- 
main two or three hours, by which time tlie 
salt will have penetrated the muslin 
rendered them easy to break ; then |xiund 
them in a mortar, or mash them well with 
your hands, and let tlicm remain f!>r a coiipl,: 
of dajs, not longer, stirring them rp, and 
mashing them well each day ; then |x>nr them 
.ne jar. and to each quart add an 
ounce and a half of whole black |-pper, and 
half an ounce of allspice; stop tin- jar very 
close, and s< t it in a stewpan of Uiilins wa- 
ter and keep it lx)ilin^' for two hours at least. 
Take out tlie jar, and pour tlie juice clear 



MUS 



118 



MUT 



from the settlings through a hair sieve (without 
squeezing the mushrooms) into a clean stew- 
pan; let it boil very gently for half an hour: 
those who are for superlative ketchup, will 
continue the boiling till the mushroom-juice 
is reduced to half the quantity ; it may then 
be called double cat-sup or dog-sup. 

There are several advantages attending 
tills concentration; it will keep much better, 
and only half the quantity lie required; so 
you can flavor sauce, &c. without thinning 
it: neither is this an extravagant way of 
making it, for merely the aqueous part is 
evaporated ; skim it well, and pour it into a 
clean dry jar, or jug; cover it close, and let 
it stand in a cool place till next da\ ; then 
pour it off as gently as |x>ssible (so as not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
jug,) through a tamis, or thick flannel bag, 
till it is perfectly clear; add a table-spoon- 
fill of good brandy to each pint of ketchup, 
and let it stand as before; a fresh sediment 
will be deposited, from which the ketchup is 
to be quietly poured off, and bottled in pints 
or half pints (which have been washed with 
brandy or spirit): it is best to keep it in 
such quantities as are soon used. 

Take especial care that it is closely cork- 
ed, and sealed down, or dipped in bottle ce- 
ment. 

If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be 
preserved for a long time ; but if it be badly 
corked, and kept in a damp place, it will 
soon spoil. 

Examine it from time to time, by plac- ! 
ing a strong light behind the neck of tin- 
bottle, and if any pellicle appears alx>ut it, I 
boil it up again with a few peppercorns. 

MUSHROOMS TO PICKLE. Cut 

off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold wa- 
ter, some small button mushrooms ; nib them 
with a bit of flannel, then throw them into 
fresh water, and when perfectly clean, put 
them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
and let them boil eight or ten minutes; strain 
off the water, lay them into the folds of a 
cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, a quarter 
of an ounce of pepper, the same of allspice, 
and two or three blades of mace, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; put the mushrooms into a 
jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, 
with the spices, over them. 

MUSHROOMS TO STEW. Fora 
good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock, 
season it with salt, pepper, and a little lemon 
pickle, thicken it with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour; cleanse and peel the mushrooms, 
sprinkle them with a very little salt, boil 
them for three or four minutes, put them into 
the gravy when it is hot, and stew them for 
fifteen minutes. 



MUSTARD. Mix (by degrees, by rub- 
bing together in a mortar) the best floor of 
mustard, with vinegar, white wine, or cold 
water, in which scraped horseradish has 
been boiled ; rub it well together for at least 
ten minutes, till it is perfectly smooth; it 
will keep in a stone jar closely stopped, fora 
fortnight : onlv put as much into the mustard- 
pot as will be used in a day or two. Obs. 
Mustard is the best of all the stimulants that 
are employed to give energy to the digestive 
organs. Some opulent epicures mix it with 
Sherry or Madeira wine, or distilled or fla- 
vored vinegar, instead of horseradish water. 
The French flavor their mustard with Cham- 
]>aigne and other wines, or with vinegar fla- 
vored with capers, anchovies, tarragon, elder, 
basil, burnet, garlic, eschalot, or celery, 
wanning it with cayenne, or the various 
spices; sweet, savory, fine herbs, truffles, 
ketchup, &c. &c., and seem to consider 
mustard merely as a vehicle of flavors. 

MUSTARD IN A MIM'Tll. Mix 
very gradually, and nib together in a mortar, 
an ounce of flour of mustard, with three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of milk (cream is better), half 
a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of sugar; 
nib them well together till quite smooth. 
Obs. Mustard made in this manner is riot 
at all bitter, and is therefore instantly ready 
for the table. 

MUTTON. (1) The pipe that runs along 
the bone of die inside of a chine of mutton 
ought to be taken away ; and if it is to be 
kept any length of time, the part close round 
tlie tail should be rubbed with salt, previously 
cutting out the kernel. 

It is IK-SI for the butcher to take out the 
kernel in the fat on the thick part of tlie leg, 
as that is the part most likely to become 
tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be 
wiped every day ; and the bloody part of tlie 
neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The 
brisket changes tirst in the breast; therefore, 
if it is to IK- kepi, it is Ix-st, should the 
weather be hot, to nib it with a little salt. 

When intended tor roasting, it should hang 
as Ion*,' as it will keep, tlie hind quarter 
particularly ; but not so long as to become 
tainted. 

Mutton for boiling ought not to hang 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a good 
color. 

The greatest care should be taken to pre- 
serve, by paper, the fat of what is roasted. 

MUTTON. (2) As beef requires a large, 
sound fire, mutton must have a brisk and 
sharp one. If you wish to have mutton 
tender, it should be hung almost as long as 
it will keep; and then good eight-tooth, t. e. 



MU T 



119 



MUT 



fcur yean old mutton, is aa good eating as 

venison. 

The teg, haunch, and saddle will ! the 
better tor being hung up in a cool airy place 
for four or five days at least; in temperate 
weather, a week ; in cold weather, ten days. 

A Leg, of eight [XMinds, will take alx>ut 
two hours: let it U; MB boated, and frothed. 

A Chine or Saddle, ('. e. the two loins) 
of ten or eleven pounds, two hours and a 
half: it is the business of the butcher to lake 
olf the .-kin and skoxvcr it on again, to defend 
tin.- incut from extreme heat, and preserve its 
succulence; if this is Baghdad, tie a sheet 
of pajx-r oxer it (baste tlie strings you tie it 
on with directly, or they will burn): about a 
quarter of an hour before you think it will 
lie done, take oft' tile skin or paper, that it 
,i pale brown color, then l>aste it and 
flour it lightly to froth it. N. B. Desire 
the butcher to cut oft' the fla|>s and the tail 
and chump end, and trim away ever)' jwrt 
that lias not indisputable pretensions to ! 
eaten. This \\ ill reduce a saddle of eleven 
pounds weight to alxnit six or seven |x>unds. 

A SAotuoer, of seven pounds, an hour and 
a half. 1'nt the spit in close t<j the shank- 
bone, and mi 1 it along die blade-lx>ne. 
N. B. The blade-lxnic is a favorite luncheon 
or supper relish, scored, pep|x-red and salt- 
ed, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. 

A Loin, of mutton, from an hour and a 
half to an hour and three-quarters. The 
most elegant way of carving this, is to cut it 
lengthwise, as yon do a saddle. N. B. Spit 
il on a skewer or lark spit, and tie that on 
the common spit, and do not spoil the meat 
by running the spit through the prime part 
of it. 

A Neck, alxMit the sairx- time as a loin. 
It inn-it ! carefully jointed, or it is xeix 
difficult to cane. The m-ck and breast are, 
i , -mall families, commonly roasted togvther ; 
the cook will llini crack the Ixmrs across tin- 
middle before the\ are (Hit down to roast : if 
this is not donf carefully, they are very 
troublesome to carve. Tell tin- cook, when 
she take- il from the spit, to sc|>ar:ite them 
More .-In- sends ih.-ni to talde. .\. B. The 
lx>t way to spit this is to nm iron skewers 
across it, and put the spit Itetwcen them. 

A Breast, an hour and a quarter. 

Ml TTO.N. I'.AKKD WITH POTA- 
TOES. See Beef. 

MI'TTO.X I'.ur.AST COLLARED. 
Bone it and take out all the grilles, 
make n . idi crumlw of bread, 

chopped )Kir-!ry, ;\ little lemon thyme, au<l 
ORB anchovy minced; season \\ith salt and 
while | 1 1; i. . , rub llie mutton oxer xxith an 

it witli tin- : 
ri/ll it (irmly; tie it with tape, and put il on 



in boiling water. Make a good gravy of 
the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsley 
and lemon thyme, pepper and salt; strain 
and thicken it xvith a piece of Ixuter mixed 
with flour. A little before serving, add a 
table-spoonful of vinegar and txvo of mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with cut lemon or 
pickles. 

MUTTON, BREAST, ROASTED 
WITH WINE. Skin and bone a breast of 
mutton, then roll it up in a collar like a 
hreu.-t of xeal. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red \vine; when you have used 
up all the wine, finish basting with butter. 
Have a liltle good gravy in readiness, and 
when the mutton is done, set it upright in a 
dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sxxeet sauce 
the same as for venison, and send it up to 
table xx it lion t any garnish. 

MUTTON BROTH. Cut a neck of 

mutton into pieces, preserving a hands >nx.' 
piece to be served up in the tureen; put all 
into a stexxjian xx ith three quarts of cold beef 
stock, or water, xvith a little oatmeal mixed 
in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut 
in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and 
parsley. When it boils, skim it clean, and 
xx lien nearly done, takeout the piece you in- 
tend to serve in the tureen, and let the other 
pieces stexv till tender; then have ready tur- 
nips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a 
cabljage, somr parsley, all cut small, and 
some marigolds; wash them, strain the li- 
quor off the meat, skim it free, from the fat, 
add it to the ingredients xvith tlie piece of 
mutton intended for the tureen, adding a lit- 
tle pearl barley. Season xvith salt, simmer 
all together till done, and serxe xxith toasted 
bread on a plate. 

MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chop 
off a loin or tlie best end of a neck of mutton, 
pare off tlie tat, dip them into a beaten egg, 
ami strexx oxer them grated bread, seasoned 
xvith |X-|>|XT, salt, and some finely minced 
(Kir-Icy ; fry them in a liltle butter, and lay 
them u|xm the back of a sieve to drain be- 
fore th;- lire. Thicken about half a pint of 
gravy, add a lab|c-s|>oonfiil of ketchup, and 
one of Port wine; put the graxy into the dish, 
ami lay in tlio chops; garnish xvith fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a 

nock of mutton into neat chops, so;ison them 
xvith salt and |x-p|xr, Ixttler a dish, lay in 
the cho| s and |x.ur oxer them a batter made 
of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four 
iabli--.-|XHinfiils nf dour, and a liltle salt. An 
hour xx ill bake them. 

MUTTON CHOPS MAI.NTENON. 



MUT 



120 



MUT 



Cut a neck of mutton into chops ; beat them 
flat with a rolling-pin. Bruise the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped 
sweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper. Cover the steaks witli It, and put 
each into a piece of well-buttered paper; 
broil them over a clear fire, turning them of- 
ten. Serve them in die paper, 6r with a 
browned gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cut- 
lets a pound and a half of the thick part of 
a leg of mutton, and beat them; mix with 
grated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and 
finely chopped parsley, lemon thyme, and 
sweet marjoram. Rub die cutlets with nielt- 
cd butter, and cover them thickly with the 
prepared bread; fry them for ten minutes in 
butter, then put them into a saucepan with 
some good gravy diickened with flour and 
butter, and simmer diem for ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

MUTTON FILLET, STEWED. Put 

a fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weigh- 
ing about seven pounds, into a stewpan, with 
a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two 
or du-ee cloves, and a pint of water. Put 
round the edge of the stewpan, a rim of 
coarse paste, that the cover may be kept 
very close, and let it stew gently, three hours 
and a half; take out the meat, skim oft" the 
fat, strain and thicken the gravy, have ready 
some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, 
add them to the gravy, make all hot, and 
serve with a garnish of sliced gherkins. 

MUTTON CUTLETS BREADED AND 
BROILED. Trim and season your cutlets 
with pepper and salt, put them into some 
melted butter, and when diey have imbibed 
a sufficient quantity of it, take them out, and 
cover them completely with bread crumbs; 
give die cutlets a good shape, and broil them 
over a clear fire ; take care not to do die cut- 
lets too much, to burn the bread. 

MUTTON GRAVY FOR VENISON 
OR HARE. The best gravy for venison is 
that made with the trimmings of the, joint: 
if dlis is all used, and you have no undressed 
venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces; 
broil it a little brown; dien put it into a 
clean stewpan, with a quart of boiling wa- 
ter ; cover il close, and let it simmer gently 
for an hour: now uncover die stewpan, and 
let it reduce to diree-quarters of a pint ; pour 
it through a hair-sieve ; take the fat off, and 
send it up in a boat. It is only to be sea- 
soned widi a little salt, that it may not over- 
power die natural flavor of die meat. 

MUTTON, TO HASH. Cut the meat 
into thin slices, trim off all die sinews, skin, 



gristle, &c. ; put in nothing l*it what is to 
lie eaten, lay them on a plate, ready; pre- 
pare your sauce to warm it in, put in die 
meat, and let it simmer gently till it is thor- 
oughly warm: do not let it boil, us that will 
make die meat tough and hard, and it will 
be a harsh, instead of a hash. Select for 
your hash those parts of die joint diat are 
least done. Hashing is a mode of cookery 
by no means suited to delicate stomachs: 
unless the meat, be considerably under-done 
die first time, a second dressinu must spoil 
it, tor what is done enough the first time, 
must be done too much die second. 

MUTTON HAM, TO CURE. Cut a 

hind quarter of IM >d mutton into the sliaj>e of 
a ham, pound one ounce of salt]>etre, with 
one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a 
pound of brown sugar, rub die ham \\ ell with 
this mixture, taking care to stutV the hole of 
the shank well with salt and sugar, and let 
it lie a fortnight, nibbing it well \\ ith the 
pickle every two or three days ; then take 
it out and press it with a weight for one 
day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fif- 
teen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. 
If die ham is to be boiled soon after it has 
lieen smoked, soak it one hour, and if it has 
been smoked any length of time il will re- 
quire to be soaked several hours. Put it on 
in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. 
It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or 
supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured 
with the above quantity of salt and sugar, 
with the addition of half an ounce of pepper, 
a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nut- 
meg. 

MUTTON HAUNCH, LIKE VENI- 
SON. Take a fat haunch of large fine 
mutton, let it hang a week, then pound 
one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamai- 
ca pepper, and rub them over the mutton, 
pour a bottle of Port wine over it, and let it 
remain in this five days, basting it frequent- 
ly every day with the liquor, take it out and 
hang it up four or five days more, or as long 
as die weather favors its keeping; wipe it 
three or four times a day with a clean cloth. 
While it is roasting haste it with the liquor 
it was steeped in, adding a little more Port 
wine ; a quarter of an hour before taking it 
from die fire, baste it well with butter, and 
dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it 
widi sauces as for venison. 

MUTTON HAUNCH. It should 
be kept as long as you can possibly keep it 
sweet by the different modes ; and if neces- 
sary, wash it with warm milk and water, 
or vinegar, and when going to be dressed, be 
careftil to wash it well, to prevent die out- 
side from having a bad flavor from keeping ; 



MUT 



121 



MUT 



before you put the haunch to the fire, fold it 
in a paste of coarse flour, or strong pa|>er; 
then set it a good distance from the tire, and 
allow proportionable time for the paste; do 
not take it off, till about thirty-five or forty 
minutes before serving the inntton, and then 
baste continually; bring the liauneh nearer 
before taking oil' the paste, and tVntli it up 
in the same manner as venison. For gravy, 
take a pound and a half of loin of mutton, 
and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced 
to half, use no seasoning l>m salt: lirown it 
with a little Ixirnt sii!*ar, and serve it up in 
the dish; Inn there should lie a good deal of 
gravy in tile meat, for thu<;h long at the fire, 
the covering and distance \\ill pi-event its 
roasting out. .Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

MUTTON LEG. (1) If your leg 
of mutton is roasted, serve with onion or 
currant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, serve with 
ca|>er-saiice and vegetables, In roasting or 
boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually alloxv- 
ich |xiimd of me.il. 

MI T TON LEG. (2) Cut off (he shank 
!*>ne, and trim die knuckle, put it into luke- 
warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, 
cover it xvith cold water, and let it simmer 
very gently, and skim it carefully. A leg 
of nine pounds \xill take two and a half or 
three hours, if yon like it thoroughly done, 
es|'ciall\ in very cold weather. 

The tit-bits with an epicure are the 
" knuckle," ti>e kernel, railed the "pope's 
eye," and the " gentleman's" or " cramp 
bone." 

When mutton is very large, you may di- 
vide it, and roast thf fillet, i. e. the laiire 
end, and boil the knuckle end; von may 
also cut some fine cutlets oft" the thick end 
of the. !!{, and so have two or three good 
hot dinners. 

The liquor the mutton it boiled in, you 
may convert into uo i soup in five minutes. 
' -arley bn .th. Thug managed, a 
leg of mutton is a most economical joint. 

MITTON LEG STUFFED. Make 

a stuffing xvith a little Uvf-s.net chopped, 
some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little 
grated lemon, miimc<r grated, pepper, salt, 

and a few bread cnnnl*, mix all together 
with the yolk of an e_ r i:. put this under the 
skin in the thickol |>aii of a leu of million 
under the Hap; then roast it, and serve it to 
table- xvith some good ^raxy in the di.-lr 



N I.K ; STI TrT.D xx MM 
OTSTI.- ...it of beefaiet, 

iled eggs, 

with ihi< > an ,. tin me, 

savory,. i fourteen, 



all cut fine, some salt, pepper, grated nut- 
meg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with 
raw eggs; put this forcemeat under the skin 
in the thickest part of the leg of mutton, un- 
der the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauoe, 
s e oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an an- 
chovy, and some more oysters stewed, and 
served under the mutton. 

MUTTON LOIN. Roast it; some 
people think it cats much better if cut length- 
ways like a saddle. It may also be used 
for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care 
to cut off as much fat as possible. 

MUTTON LOIN, STEWED. Bone 
and skin the loin; stew it in a pint of 
water, turning it frequently; when tlie li- 
quor is half wasted, take out the loin and 
strain it, and when cold take off the fat; 
make a rich highly-seasoned gravy of the 
bones; strain and mix it with the liquor the 
loin was stewed in; add a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and some small mushrooms; 
thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; 
put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly; 
garnish with pickles. 

MUTTON NECK. (1) This joint is 
[Kirticularly useful, as so many dislies may 
Ix: made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
short. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, 

and served with turnips; or if" you think 

proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in 

steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. 

) You may stew the scrags in broth ; or in 

a little wafer, with small onions, some pep- 

[MTcorns, and a small quantity of rice, all 

; served together. 

When you wish that a neck which is to 

U- Uiiled should look particularly xvell, saw 

doxxn the chine bone, strip the ribs half 

I way down, and chop off the ends of the 

| bones, about four inches. 

To make the fat look particularly white, 
i the skin should not be taken off till it is 
i boiled. 

The fat belonging to the neck or loin of 
mutton, if chopped very fine, makes a most 
excellent suet-pudding, or crust for a meat 
pie. 

MUTTON NECK. (2) Put four or 
fixe pounds of the best end of a neck (that 
has been kept a few days) into as much cold 
j soft water as will cover it, and about two 
inches over; let it simmer very slowly for 
two hours: it will look most delicate if you 
do not take off the skin till it has been boil- 
ed. 

MUTTON PASTY, TO IAT AS iiicz 



MUT 



122 



MUT 



AS VENISON. Take a fat loin of mutton, 
and let it hang for several days, then bone it. 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub 
ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and pour over it one glass of Port, 
and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five 
days and five nights ; after which, wash and 
wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly 
with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. 
Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put 
one pound of butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edge of the 
dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise 
it will be over-done before the meat is soak- 
ed; it must be b:iked in a slow oven. 

Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with 
just sufficient water to cover them, and one 
glass of Port, a small quantity of pepper and 
salt; by this means you will have a little rich 
gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. 

Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, 
and a tetter flavor than salt, too great a 
quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar 
is quite as great a preservative. 

MUTTON POLPETTES. Take the 
lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare 
off fhe skin, and mince the meat with a little 
grated bacon and calf's udder ; season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and 
parsley, shred small; unite them together 
with the yolks of tliree eggs, and make twelve 
or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, 
and bread them twice. Flatten these balls 
a little, and fry them in clarified butter; 
when done, drain and place them on the 
dish. Serve them with tomato sauce or 
glaze. 

MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder 
of mutton carefully, so as not to injure the 
skin, cut all the meat from the skin, mince 
it small, and season it highly with pepper, 
nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon 
thyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a 
pounded onion, all well mixed, together with 
a well-beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up very 
tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it 
in an oven two or three hours, according to 
the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of tle 
bones and parings, season with an onion, 
popper and salt, strain and thicken it with 
flour and butter; add vinegar, mushroom 
ketchup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table- 
spoonful of each, and a tea-cupful of Port 
wine; garnish with forcemeat balls, made 
of grated bread, and part of the mince. 

MUTTON, COLD SHOULDER BROIL- 
ED. A cold shoulder of roast mutton having 
only a little meat upon the blade bone, may 
be scored, sprinkled with pepper and salt, 
then broiled and served with caper sauce 



poured over it, or melted butter, in -which 
should be mixed of mushroom ketchup, lemon 
pickle, and Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful 
each. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, BAKED. 

Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked 
bacon, put it into an earthen stewpan pro- 
portioned to the size of the joint of meat, 
with two or tliree sliced onions, a parsnip 
and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two 
cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil ; add 
about a quarter of a pint of water or stock 
(stock is the best), some salt and pepper; 
put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an 
oven. When the meat is done, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing 
the vegetables so as to make a thickening for 
your sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEWED. 
(1) Bone a shoulder of mutton with a 
sharp knife, and fill the space with the fol- 
lowing stuffing: grated bread, minced suet, 
parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind 
with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Sew or fasten it with small skewers; brown 
it in a frying-pan with a bit of butter. Break 
the bone, put it into a saucepan, with some 
water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch 
of parsley; let it stew till the strength be 
extracted ; strain, and thicken it with butter 
rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton, and 
a glass of Port wine, into the saucepan ; cover 
it closely, and let it stew gently for two 
I lours. Before serving, add two table-spoon- 
fuls of mushroom ketchup. Garnish with 
pickles. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEW- 
ED. (2) Bone and flatten a shoulder 
of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and 
salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and 
put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, 
pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with 
the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew till tender; before serving, take oft" lie 
tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with 
cut pickles. 

MUITON STEAKS, BROILED. Cut 

some mutton steaks from the loin, about 
half an inch thick, take off the skin, and part 
of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, 
rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn 
the steaks frequently ; when they are done, 
put them into a hot dish, rub them with 
a little butter; slice a shallot very thin into 
a s|joonful of water, and pour it on them ; 
add a little ketchup ; garnish with scraped 
horse-radish, and pickles, and send them up 
hot to table. 



NOU 



123 



OAT 



N. 



NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of 
new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few 
mini:'' -, take out the cinnamon, and stir in 
eight well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful 
of white wine ; when it boils again, strain 
it through a sieve ; beat the curd in a basin, 
together with about half an ounce of butter, 
two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, 
and pounded sugar sufficient to sweeten it. 
Put it into a mould fur two hours before it 
is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and 
cream, may be mixed together, and poured 
round the curd ; or it may be served in a 
sauce tureen. 

NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. As soon 
as the blossoms are off, gather the little 
knobs; put them into cold water with some 
salt; shift them once a day for three suc- 
cessive days ; make a cold pickle of white 
wine vinegar, a little white wine, shallot, 
pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- 
horse-radish ; and put your nastur- 
tium buik into this pickle. 

NEAT'S TONGUE FRESH, IK A 
PLAIN WAY. Lard a tongue with tolera- 
ble-sized lardons, and boil it in broth, or in 
water, with a few onions and roots; when 
it is done, peel it, and serve it with broth, 
sprinkling it over with a little pepper and 
salt; it is also used without larding, and 
being boiled fresh in this manner, is consid- 
ered very good for mince-pie meat. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, ROASTED, A LA 
FRASCAISE. Boil a neat's tongue, and 
Lhnrh it ; set it by til! it is cold, then cut a 
hole in ill-- under part, and take out the 
meat, mince it with two or three hard eggs, 
an apple, beef-suet, and bacon; season with 
salt, Ix-aten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred 
\cry fine; stuff the tongue with this force- 
meat ; then cover the end with a veal caul, 
lard it with bacon, and roast it ; serve with 
a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice 
of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced Jem- 
on-peel and barberries. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almond.*, and ha\ ing drained them 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry ; let them be all equally 
colored of a clear yellow ; in the meantime, 
put three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, stir- 
ring with a wooden spoon until completely 
dissolved ; then take the almonds out of the 
oven, and whil.it hot throw them into the li- 
quid sugar; mix them together well. I In, 
lady a mould well oiled, of any hhape you 



think proper, in the interior of which place 
the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-juice, 
when the whole is covered, remove the mould 
carefully, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU. (1) Peaches and nectarines, 
in equal quantities, are to be bruised, die 
stones broken, and the kernels blanched and 
bruised ; they are then to be put into a jar 
in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and 
one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until 
the jar is full; as much white brandy is 
then to be added as the jar will hold; and 
when it has stood for five or six montlis, it 
is to be filtered and bottled for use. 

NOYAU. (2) One pound of bitter al- 
monds, blanched, is to be steeped three 
months in four quarts of large-still proof 
whisky, or pale brandy, four pounds of loaf 
sugar are then to be clarified and added to 
the strained or filtered spirits, together with 
half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes 
colored with a little cochineal; and may 
also be made, allowing three parts of sweet, 
and one of bitter almond*. 

NOYAU. (3) The rinds of three large 
lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
|x>undfid, are to be mixed into a quart of the 
best Hollands gin, three table-spoonfuls of 
tailing milk being added. It is to be put 
into a bottle or jar, and shaken every day 
for three weeks, and then filtered through 
chamois leather or blotting paper, when it 
will be fit for use. 



O. 



OAT CAKES are made in the same 
manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal in- 
stead of flour, and three gallons of water in- 
stead of two: pull the dough into pieces, 
roll and finish the cakes as directed for muf- 
fins. When wanted, pull the edges apart, 
toast them nicely on both sides, and dien 
open them completely; lay in small piece* 
of butter, until you have as much as}ou may 
want; close them again, set them before 
die fire, and cut each in halves or quarters. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some 
\\.id r iii' a saucepan with a little salt, and 
stir oatmeal into it with a thevil; when of 
a proper thickness, let it boil for four or 
five minutes, stirring it all the time; then 
pour it into a dish, and serve widi it cream 
or milk. It is sometimes eaten with porter 
and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with 
milk instead of water, less meal is requisite, 
and it is then eaten with cold milk. 



OME 



124 



OME 



OLIVE ROYALS. Boil one pound of 
potatoes, and when nearly cold rub them 
perfectly smooth with four ounces of flour 
and one ounce of butter, and knead it to- 
gether till it become a paste; roll it out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of 
cold roasted meat cut into thin small bits, 
and reasoned with pepper and salt ; put a 
very small bit of butter over it, wet the 
edges, and close the paste in the form of a 
half circle. Fry them in boiling fresh drip- 
ping of a light brown color ; lay them be- 
fore the fire, on the back of a sieve, to drain. 
Serve them with or without gravy in the 
dish. For a change, mince the meat, and 
season it as before directed. The potatoes 
should be very mealy. 

OLIVES. There are three sorts, the 
Italian, Spanish, and French; they may 
be had of various sizes and flavors, some 
prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil is made from this fruit, 
for which pui-|x>se they are gathered ripe; 
for pickling they are gathered when only 
half ripe, at the latter end of June ; they are 
put into fresh water to soak for a couple of 
days ; after this they are thrown into lime- 
water, in which some pearl-ashes have been 
dissolved ; in this liquor they lie for six and 
thirty hours ; they are then put into water 
which has had bay-salt dissolved in it; this 
is die last preparation, and they are sent 
over to us in this liquor; they are naturally, 
as they grow on the tree, extremely bitter, 
and therefore all these preparations are nec- 
essary to bring them to their fine flavor. To 
some olives they add a small quantity of es- 
sence of spices, which is an oil drawn from 
cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and 
sweet fennel-seed distilled together for that 
purpose ; twelve drops are sufficient for a 
bushel of olives ; some prefer them flavored 
with this essence. 

OMELETS AND VARIOUS WATS 

OF DRESSING EGGS. There is no dish 
which may be considered as coming under 
the denomination of a made dish of die sec- 
ond order, which is so generally eaten, if 
good, as an omelet; and no one is so often 
badly dressed : it is a very faithful assistant 
in the construction of a dinner. 

When you are taken by surprise^nd wish 
to make an appearance beyond what is pro- 
vided for the every-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some zest and a 
few vegetables, will make a good broth ; a 
pot of stewed veal warmed up ; an omelet ; 
and some apple or lemon fritters, can all be 
got ready at ten minutes notice, ami with 
the original foundation of a leg of mutton, or 
a piece of beef, will make up a very good 



dinner when company unexpectedly arrives, 
in the country. 

The great merit of an omelet is, that it 
should not be- greasy, burnt, nor too much 
done: if too much of the white of the eggs is 
left in, no ait can prevent its l>eing hard, if 
it is done: to dress the omelet, the fire 
should not be too hot, as it is an object to 
have the whole substance heated, without 
much browning the outside. 

One of the great errors in cooking an om- 
elet is, that it is too thin; consequently, in- 
stead of feeling full and moist in the mouth, 
the substance presented is little better than 
a piece of fried leather: to get the omelet 
thick is one of the great objects. With re- 
spect to the flavors to be introduced, these 
are infinite; that which is most common, 
however, is the best, viz. finely chopped 
parsley, and chives or onions, or eschalots: 
however, one made of a mixture of tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley, is a very delicate va- 
riety, omitting or adding the onion or chives. 
Of the meat flavors, the veal kidney is the 
most delicate, and is the most admired by 
the French: this should be cut in dice, and 
should be dressed (boiled) before it is added; 
in the same manner, ham and anchovies, 
shred small, or tongue, will make a *ery 
delicately flavored dish. 

The objection to an omelet is, that it is 
too rich, which makes it advisable to eat 
but a small quantity. An addition of some 
finely mashed potatoes, about two table- 
spoonfuls, to an omelet of six eggs, will 
much lighten it. 

Omelets are often served with rich gra- 
vy ; but, as a general principle, no substance 
which has been fried should be served in gra- 
w, but accompanied by it, or what ou^ht to 
eat dry and crisp, becomes soddened and 
flat. 

In the compounding die gravy, great care 
should be taken dial the flavor does not over- 
come that of the omelet, a thing too little 
attended to: a fine gravy, with a honoring 
of sweet herbs and onions, we think the l>est ; 
some add a few drops of tarragon vinegar; 
but this is to be done only with great care: 
gravies to omelets are in general thicken- 
ed: diis should never be done with (lour; 
potato starch, or arrow-root, is the best. 

Omelets should be fried in a small fry- 
ing-pan made for dial purpose, with a small 
quantity of butter. The omelet' 
merit is to be diick, so as not to taste of the 
outside; therefore use only half die number 
of whites that you do yolks of eggs : every 
care must be taken in frying, even at the 
risk of not having it ([iiite set in die middle: 
an omelet, which has so much vogue 
abroad, is here, in general, a dlin doubled- 
up piece of leadier, and harder dian soft 
leadier sometimes. The fact is, diat as much 



OME 



125 



ONI 



care murt be bestowed on the frying, as 
should be taken in poaching an egg. A 
salamander is necessary to those who will 
have the lop brown ; lx.it the- kitchen shovel 

may be MI!M itnted for it. 

The followim: receipt is tlie basis of all 
omelets, of which you may make an end- 
less variety, by taking, instead of the pars- 
ley and eschalot, a portion of sweet herbs, 
or any of the articles used for making force- 
meats, or any of the forcemeats. 

- are callml by the name of what 
is added to flavor them: a ham or tongue 
onii-let ; an anchovy, or veal kidney ome- 
let, Sic.: the* 1 are prepared exactly in the 
sunn- way a. in the first receipt, leaving out 
the pai>le\ ami eschalot, and mincing the 
ham in- kidnev very tine, See., and adding 
that in the place of them, and then pour over 
them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, 
&c. 

OMKLET. (1) Five or six eggs will 
make a good-sized omelet; break them 
into a li.i-ni. and Beat them well with a fork ; 
and add a salt-s|xMinful of salt; have ready 
two drachms of onion, or three 
drachms of parsley, a good clove of e-chalot 
miiired very line; beat it well up with the 
eg>; then take four ounces of fresh butter, 
and lireak half of it into large bits, and put 
it into tin- omelet, and the other half into 
a very clean fi s ing-pan ; when it is melted, 
pour in die omelet, and stir it with a spoon 
till it begins to set, then turn it up all round 
the edges, and when it is of a nice brown it 
is done: the safest way to take it out is to 
put a plait: on tin- omelet, and turn the pan 
ii|i:-ide-d'iwii: serve it on a hot dish; it 
should never t>e dune till just wanted. If 
maigre, grated cheese, shrimps, m 
If oy-lers, lx.il them tour minutes, and take 
awav tin- lieard ami nri.-ily part; tliey may 
cither be put in whole, or cut in bits. 

OMKLET. (2) Beard and parboil twelve 
or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few 

|n-p|H i corns, .-.train and chop them; beat 
well >ix eggs; (Kirlxjil and mince a little 
par.- lex ; mix all together, and season with a 
little nutmeg, salt, and a (able-spoonful of 
iiiu>hi-iHim ketchup; fry il lightly in three 
i I Miller, and hold it for a minute or 
two U't'ore the fire. 

OMKLET. (S) Beat well and nti.im-i\ 

"Id them to three ounces of butter 

made hot ; mix in s iim- sjrale.l ham, pepper, 

sail, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and 

]vir>le\. l-'iy it of a light brown color. 



some salt and chopped parsley; then beat 
them well, and season them according to 
taste, then have ready some onion chopped 
small ; put some butter into a fry inn-pan, and 
when it is hot (but not to burn) put in your 
chopped onion, giving them two or three 
turns ; then add your eggs to it, and fry the 
whole of a nice brown, you must only fry 
one side. When done, turn it into a dish, 
the fried side uppermost, and serve. 

OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or 
three thin omelets, adding a little sweet ba- 
sil to the usual ingredients; cut them into 
small pieces and roll them into the form of 
olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or 
enclose them in puff paste; fry, and serve 
them with fried parsley. 

OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF 
VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs, add a 
litile salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney 
of veal, finely minced; season with pepper, 
and a little more salt ; melt in a fryinu-pan 
one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in 
the omelet ; fry it gently, and keep the mid- 
dle |>art moist ; when done, roll it equally 
u|Kiii a knife, and serve it very hot. 

OMELET AU NATUREL. Break 
eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them 
up with a whisk; in the meantime put some 
fresh butter into a frying-pan, when it is quite 
melted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, 
&c. with a skimmer; as. it is frying, take 
up the edges, that they may be properly 
done; when cooked, double it; serve \.rv 
hot. 

ONIONS. The small round silver button 
onions, about as big as a nutme<;. make a 
very nice pickle. Take off their topcoats, 
have n adv a stew pan, three pails tilled w ith 
boiling water, into which put as many on- 
ions as will cover the (op: as soon as they 
look clear, immc-diately take them up with 
| a spoon full of holes, and lay them on a cloth 
i three times folded, and cover them with 
another till \oii have ready as many as, you 
wish: when they are quite dry, put them into 
I jars, and cover them with hot pickle, made 
i by infixing an ounce of horseradish, same of 
allspire, and same of lilack [x-pppr, and same 
of salt, in a quart of best white-wine vinegar, 
in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of tlic 
I fire for three days, keeping it well closed ; 
when cold, bun;; them down tight, and cover 
them with bladder wetted with the pickle 
and lea I her. 



OMKLKT. (4) Take as many eggs as OMONS STKXVKI). The large Por- 
you think prnjier (according to the size of tuiral onions are the U-st: take oft the top- 
vour omrlet) break them into a basin with ' coats of half a dozen of these (taking care 



ONI 



126 



OR A 



not to cut off the tops or tails too near, or 
the onions will go to pieces), and put them 
into a ste\v|n broad enough to hold them 
without laying them atop of one another, 
and just cover diem with good broth. Put 
them over a slow fire, and let them simmer 
about two hours; when yon dish them, turn 
them upside down, and pour the sauce over. 

ONIONS TO PICKLE. Peel the onions 
till they look white; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them ; let them 
stand in this twenty-four hours, keep die 
vessel closely covered to retain die steam: 
after that time wipe die onions quite dry, 

and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, 

. . . * . i. 
with singer and white pepper over them. 

Take care the vinegar always covers the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE, YOUNG. Peel a 

pint of button onions, and put diem in water 
till you want to put diem on to boil; put 
them into a stewpan, with a quart of cold 
water; let them boil till tender; diey will 
take (according to their size and age) from 
half an hour to an hour. 

ONION SAUCE. Those who like the 
full flavor of onions only cut off die strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of the 
skins), put diem into salt and water, and let 
diem lie an hour; then wash them, put them 
into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil 
them till diey are tender: now skin them, 

!>ass them through a colander, and mix a 
ittle melted butter widi diem. N. B. Some 
mix the pulp of apples, or turnips, widi die 
onions, others add mustard to diem. 

ONIONS, TO PREPARE FOR SEA- 
SONING. Peel and mince three or four 
onions, put them into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle cold water. Let diem lil till (|iiite 
tender, and then pulp diem with the liquor 
through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed 
widi any made dishes or sauces. 

ONIONS YOUNG, TO PICKLE. 

Choose some of the small silver onions, put 
them on in cold water, and when it is scald- 
ing hot, take them out with an egg slice; 
peel off die skins till they look white and 
clear; lay them into the folds of a cloth. 
Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of 
pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, die 
same of garlic, and one sliced nutmeg; put 
tin- onions into a jar, and pour over them 
the boiling vinegar and spices. When cold, 
tie leather over die jar. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. Peel 
them, and let them lie an hour in fold water, 
put them on in bo i I'm!; milk and water; 



boil diem till tender, and cerve diem with 
melted butter poured over them. 

ONIONS, ROAST. Roast them with 
the skins on in a Dutch oven, that they may- 
brown equally. They are eaten with cold 
fresh butter, pep|>er, and salt. 

ONIONS STEWED. (1) Take a dozen 

of good-sized onions, |>eel and put them on 
in the following sauce : A pint of veal si< n-k , 
a bit of butler rolled in flour, a little pep|ier, 
and salt. Stew them gently for an hour, 
and, just before serving, mix in three table- 
spoonfnls of cream. To stew them in a 
brown sauce, take die same quantity of good 
gravy. In a stewpan brown, of a li . 
lor, a little butter and flour, add tin- ui,i\y 
and onions, with a little pepper and salt, anil 
stew diem gendy one hour. 

ONIONS STEWED. (2) Peel five or 
six large onions, put them into a Dutch oven 
or cheese-toaster to roast, turn them frequent- 
ly, and when they are well browned, put 
them into a saucepan, with a lx>ne of 
or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little 
water, and some pepper. Co\er tlie pan 
closely, and stew them till tender. Take 
out die bone and die bacon; thicken die 
sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. Take the grat- 
ed rind of an orange, six frcr-h 
quarter of a pound of flour, and diree-qnar- 
ters of a pound of powder sugar ; put these 
into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which 
put into cases, and bake like other bis- 
cuits. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. To IK 
made in the same way, as lemon cheese- 
cakes. 

ORANGE CREAM, FROTH F.D. Make 
a pint of cream tery sweet, put it over the 
fire, let it just boil, put die juice of a larye 
orange into a small deep glass, hating pre- 
vioiisK stvj>vd a bit of orange-peel |i>r ; 
short time in the juice, when the cream is 
almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot iijxm 
die juice, holding it as high as possible. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Having toiled 
the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste ; put to it die 
juice of a Seville orange, a spoonfid of die 
best brandy, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
die yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well 
toge'dier ten minutes, then pour in by degrees 
a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it till 
cold ; put it into custard glasses. Set them 
in an eartlicn dish of hot water; let them 
stand till they are set, dien stick preserved 



ORA 



127 



OVE 



orani."'. or orange chips, on the top. 
be >er\ed hot or cold. 



It may 



ORANGE FOOL. Take the juice of 
six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of 
cream, a quarter of ,i pound of siupir, a littk- 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well togeth- 
er; .-tii it OUT a slow fire till thick, then put 
in a Mnall piece of butter, and keep stirring 
it till cold. 

ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift two 
pounds and a quarter of fine tlour, and add 
to it a pound and three-quarters of treacle, 
six ounces of candied orangc-|>ecl cut small, 
three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one 
ounce of Around ^inu'er, and one ounce of 
allspice : melt to an oil three-quarters of a 
pound of butter; mix the whole u 
er, and lay it by for twelve hours; roll it 
out with as little flour as possible, about 
half an inch thick; cut it into pieces three 
inches I. .nt; and two wide; mark them in 
the torn! of checkers with the back of a 
knife; put them on a l>aking-platc about a 
quarter of an inch apart; rub them over with 
a linish di|>|x.-d in the yolk of an egi: l>e,u uj> 
will) a !;- uplhl of milk; bake it in a cool 
oven alxjiit a quarter of an hour: when done, 
wash them slightly over again, divide the 
pieces with a knife (as in baking they will 
tun together). 

O ! ! \ M . i ". LIQUOR. To each orange, 
one quart of strong spirit*, and one pound 
and a quarter ot'loat'.-mgar are allowed; six 
or eight rlo\es are to lie stuck into each or- 
an^e, which, with tlie spirits and sugar, is 
to IM- |xit into a jar. It must ! < i 
cred, and stirred occasionally in tin' i ur-. 
of two months; it is then to be tillered through 
hlotlini: paper, and Ixitflcd t 

Ix-moii liquor ig made in the same way, 
substituting lemons (iir orange*. Instead of 
mixing the sugar with the oilier materials in 
'.lie jar, it may Ix' mad:- into a simp, and 
added to the trained or filtered spirits. 
This, tlioiiuli more troublesome, will be found 
a Ixjtler method. 

OR\N<;K OR LEMON-I'EEL. T- 

MI\ WIIH MI KKIM;. IVel a S.-ville or- 
lemon, very thin, taking off only the 
v rind (without any ..f the white): 
pound it in a mortar with a hit of lump su- 
gar; nib it well with the peel; l>y degrees 
add a little of the forcemeat it is ID be miv I 
with: when it \g well ground and blended 
with this, mix it with tlie whole: there is 
no otln i way of incorporating it so well. 
Forcenr-ai-. Xc. are frequently spoiled by 
tlie instiilicient mixing of the ingredients. 

ORANGE SIRUP, FOR PUNCH OR 
PUDDING. See Juttict. 



ORANGEADE. (1) Squeeze the juice; 
pour some lx>iling water on the peel, and 
cover it closely ; Ixiil water and sugar to a 
thin simp, and skim it ; when all are cold, 
mix the juice, tin: infusion, and tlie sirup, 
with as much water as will make a rich 
sherlx-t ; strain it through a jelly-bag. 

ORANGEADE. (2) This refreshing 
beverage is made precisely in the same man- 
ner as lemonade, only substituting oranges 
for lemons. 

ORANGE PEEL RATAFIA. Put 

the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges 
into a gallon of brandy ; dissolve two pounds 
of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it 
the brandy, and having stirred them togeth- 
er well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it 
for a month ; then strain it off, and bottle it. 

ORGEAT. (1) Pound very fine one 
pound of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter, 
almonds, in a marble mortar, with halt" a gill 
of oranu'e-tlower water to keep them from 
oiling; then mix with ihein one pint of 
rose and one pint of spring-water ; rub it 
through a tamis cloth or lawn sieve, till the 
almonds are quite dry, which will reduce the 
quantity to about a quart : have ready three 
pints of clarified sugar or water, and boil it 
to a iT.ick (which' may be known by dipping 
your fingers into tlie sugar, and then into 
cold water ; and if you find the sugar to crack 
in moving your finger, it has boiled enough) ; 
put in the almonds; boil it one minute, and 
when cold put it into small bottles close 
corked; a table-spoonful of which will be 
sufficient for a tumbler of water: shake the 
Ix.ttk- Ix-lore using. If the orgeat is for 
present use, the almonds may l)e [xiunded as 
I o\e, and mixed with one quart of water, 
one quart of milk, a pint of eapillaire or 
clarified sugar, nibbed through a tamis or 
line ,-ii-ve, au'i put into decanters for use. 

ORGEAT. (2) A quarter of a" pound 
. and one ounce and a half of bitter 
almond*, are tolx< blanched, and thrown into 
cold water, then IXM-CII in a marble mortar, 
and moistened ix-ca.-ioually with a S|u>ouful 
of milk, to prevent tlicir oiling; three pints 
of milk are then to bo mixed uradnaliy with 
them, and after being sweetened, boiled, 
stirred till cold, ami strain* >!, a glass of wine 
or brandy is to Ix- added. 

OVEN, Di:,T.TloNS FOR THE. 
IV \cr\ careful to keep your oven clean, and 
that then- are no remains of sninr or fat that 
may have rim OTOT from any tiling that lias 
I ecu baking. Pull-pastes require a mode- 
rately hot men. but not too hot, or it will 
,-poil the sha|X- and turn it over; tart-|Kite, 



oxc 



128 



OYS 



or short crust, requires a slower oven; pe- 
tits-bhoux, one still slower; hut for raised 
pies, let it be as hot as for puff-paste at first, 
and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. 
Therefore, when you give a dinner where 
pnste is necessary, endeavor to make it in 
the morning; heat your oven first for the 
puff-paste, which must be baked the first; 
then let the oven go gradually down, and 
bake your pastes in rotation, as the heat 
falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, 
and, by degrees, raise the heal as die biscuits 
are baking. For souffles or light puddings, 
have a gentle oven, and contrive BO as to have 
them ready by the time they are wanted, or 
they will fall. The greatest attention should 
also be paid in heating the oven for baking 



cakes, particularly for those that are large. 
If not pretty quick, die batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catching by being too 
quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its 
being burnt. If not long enough lighted to 
have a body of heat, or if it has become 
slack, the cake will be heavy. To know 
when it is soaked, take a broad bladed 
knife that is very bright, and plunge it into 
the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the 
least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and shut up the oven. Il'ihe heat 
was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh 
fuel must be quickly put in, and the cakes 
kept hot until die oven is fit to finish the 
soaking, but this must only be done in a ease 
of great emergency; for those who are em- 
ployed ought to be particularly careful dial 
no mistake occur from negligence. 

OX-CHEEK STEWED. Prepare this 
the day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into soft water just warm; let it lie 
dirce or four haul's, then put it into cold wa- 
ter, and let it soak all night; next day wipe 
it clean, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with water; skim it well when it is com- 
ing to a boil, then put two whole onions, 
stick two or diree cloves into each, three 
turnips quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns of all- 
spice, a head of celery, and a bundle of 
sweet-herbs, pepper, and salt ; to these, 
those who are for a " haut gout " may add 
cayenne and garlic, in such proportion as 
tiii palate that requires them may desire. 
Let it stew gently till perfectly tender, t. e. 
about three hom-s; then take out die cheek, 
divide it into handsome pieces, fit to Help at 
table; skim, and strain the gravy; melt an 
ounce and a half of butter in a slew pan ; M ir 
into it as much flour as it will take up; mix 
with it by degrees a pint and a half of the 
gravy ; add to it a table-spoonful of basil, 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, or die like quan- 
tity of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or cav- 
ice, or Port wine, and give it a boil. 



OX CHEEK, TO BOIL. Wash very 
clean, half a head; let it lie in cold water 
all night; break the bone in two, taking care 
not to break the flesh. Put it on in a pot 
of boiling water, and let it l>oil from two to 
three hours; take out the bone. Serve it 
widi boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. 
The liquor the head has been boiled in may 
be strained and made into Scots barley broth, 
or Scots kale. 

OX FEET JELLY. Put a little hot 
water over the top of the stock, pour it off, 
and wi|>e it dry with a clean cloth ; put a 
quart of it into a saucepan with the beaten 
whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five 
lemons made very sweet with good brown 
sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinna- 
mon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, 
stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, 
and add a pint, or half a pint of white 
\vine, and run it through a jelly-bag till 
clear. 

OX-TAILS STEWED. Divide them 
into joints; wash them; parboil them; set 
them on to stew in just water enough to 
cover them, and dress them in the same 
manner as we have directed in Stewed Gib- 
lets, for which diey are an excellent substi- 
tute. 

OYSTERS. Some piscivorous gour- 
mands diink that oysters are not best when 
quite fresh from their l>eds, and that their 
flavor is too brack isli and harsh, and is much 
ameliorated by giving diem a feed. 

To FEED oysters. diver them with 
clean water, with a pint of salt to alxnit two 
gallons (nothing else, no oatmeal, flour, nor 
any other trumpery); this will cleanse them 
from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed ; af- 
ter they have lain in it twelve hours, change 
it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve 
hours more they will be in prime order for 
the mouth, and remain so two or three days: 
at the time of hi<jh water you may see them 
open their shells, in expectation of receiving 
their usual food. This process of li cding 
oysters is only employed when a gn-a! many 
come up together. 

Common |>eople are indifferent about the 
manner of opening oysters, and the time of 
eating them after they are opened ; nothing, 
however, is more important in the enlight- 
ened eyes of die experienced oyster-eater. 

Those who wish to enjoy this delicious 
restorative in its utmost perfection, must 
eat it the moment it is opened, with its own 
gravy in the under shell ; if not eaten while 
absolutely alive, its flavor and spirit are lost. 

Shell-iish have' long held a high rank in 
the catalogue of easily digestible and sjieedi- 
ly restorative foods; of these the oy=ter cer- 



O YS 



129 



OYS 



tainly deserves the best character, but we 
think it has acquired not a little more repu- 
tation for th<M- qualities than it de^ 
well-die-* '1 chop or sneak, will imigorate 
the heart in a much higher ratio; to recruit 
the animal spirits, and sup|>ort 
there is nothing equal to animal tood; when 
kept till pnnx'iK tender, none will give so 
little trouble to flic- digestive organs, .mil s.i 
much ;iibs.tantial excitement to the constitu- 
tion. 

< IYSTKU ATTELETS. Cut into small 
pieces a sweetbread and a slice or two of 
bacon, U-ard some large oysters, and season 
all liighlv with chopped parsley, shallot, a 
little tin me, [vp[-r and salt. Then fasten 
them alternately upon wire skewers; put 
sifted bread crumbs over them, and broil or 
fry them of a light brown color. Take them 
oft' tint skewers, and serve them with some 
rich gravy, to which add a little ketchup and 
lemon pickle. 

OYSTERS, BAKED. Grate a small 

loaf of ,-tal'- In. -ad. Butteradeep dish well, 
and i "\' r the sides and bottom with bread 
crumbs. 1'ut in half the oysters with a lit- 
and pepper. Cover tliem with 
nl small bits of butter strewed over 
tJicm. Then put in the remainder of the 
oysters. Season them. Cover them as 
U-f ire with crumbs and butter. If the oys- 
ters are fresh pour in tlie liquor. If they 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a 
ver\ short time. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (1) Make a batter 

as fur pancakes, seasoned with grit. ! nut- 
meg, white pepper, and salt, and add sonic 
finely grati-d bread crnmlis; dip in the oys- 
ters, and fry them of a light brown in beef 
jrippi 

Another way is, to dip them into the white 
of an egg beat up, and roll diem in finely 
grated bread crumbs, seasoned with grated 
nutmeg, [>epix.-r ami salt, and fry them as 
directed. 

<nsTERS, FRIED. (2) The largest 
and Hnest oysters are to be chosen for this 
: -imnier them ill their own liquor 
l : i a couple of minutes, take them out and 
lay them on a cloth to drain, beard them and 
dien flour them, egg and bread-crumb them, 
put them into boiling fat, and fry them a 
delicate brown. Ob*. An elegant garnish 
for made dishes, stewed rump-steaks, boiled 
or fried li.-h, Sic.; but they are too hard and 
dry to be eaten. 

OY-TI'KS, FRIED. (3) For frying, 
choose the largest and finest oysters. Beat 
ome yolki of eggs, and mix. with them grat- 



ed bread, and a small quantity of beaten 
nnt:n.-_' and mace, and a little salt. Hav- 
ing t-tirred this batter well, dip your oys- 
ters into it, and fry them in lard, till they 
are of a light brown color. Take- 
to do them too much. Serve them up hot. 
For grated bread, some substitute ei ackers 
|xnim!ed to a powder, and mixed with yolk 
of egg and spice. 

OYSTERS, TO KEEP AND FAT- 
TEN. Put them into water, and wa-h and 
clean them with a birch broom ; lav ing diem 
with the deep shell downwards into a tub or 
broad platter, and then .-prink le them o\ei w ith 
salt. The follow-in;; day pour over them and 
fill the vessel widi clean cold water, in which 
they must remain an hour, then pour it off 
again; sprinkle them with salt, and let this 
be repeated every day. This method will 
keep them good for a fortnight. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (1) Take 

line frc.-h o\strrs; wash them in -their own 
liquor; skim it; pound them in a marble 
mortar; to a pint of o\sters add a pint of 
Sherry; boil them up, ami add an ounce of 
silt, two drachms of ponded mace, and one 
of cayenne; k-t it just boil up again; skim 
it, and nib it through a sieve, and when cold, 
bottle it, cork it well, and seal it down. 

.\. 15. It is the l>esi way to pound the salt 
and spices, Jkc. with the oysters. 

Obs. This composition very agreeably 
heightens the flavor of white sauces, and 
white made-dishes; and if you add a glass 
of brandy to it, it will keep good for a consi- 
derable time longer than oysters are out of 
season. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (2) Boil one 
hundred oysters with tlieir liquor, till the 
strength be extracted from them; strain them 
well, and add to the liquor an equal quanti- 
ty of wine, one half Port and the other 
Sherry, also a quarter of an ounce of mace, 
die same of white pepper and of allspice, a 
dr.icliiu or lea-spoonful of ginger, and six 
- ; boil all together about fifteen 
minute-*. Put into ajar twelve shallots, tlie 
l-i I oi'a lemon, and a piece of horse-radish 
cut small; pour upon diem the boiling li- 
quor, and when cold, bottle it, together with 
die spices. 

OYSTER LOAVES. Cut off the top 
of some small French rolls, take out the 
crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with 
clarified Imlter, tln-n fry some bread crumbs; 
stew tin; requisite quantity of oysters, beard- 
ed and cut in two, in their fiquor, with a 
littli- white wine, some gravy, and seasoned 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pep- 
per, and salt ; add a bit of butter ; fill the 



O YS 



130 



OYS 



rolls with the oysters, and serve them with 
the fried bread crumbs in the dish. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (1) Roll out puff 
paste a quarter of an incli thick, cut it into 
squares with a knife, sheet eight or ten patty 
pans, put upon each a bit of bread die size 
of half a walnut ; roll out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet die edge of die bottom paste, and put 
on die top, pare diem round to die pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with die 
back of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk 
of egg, bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarter of an hour: when done, take a thin 
slice off the top, dien, with a small knife or 
spoon, take out die bread and the inside 
paste, leaving die outside quite entire ; then 
parboil two dozen of large oysters, strain 
them from their liquor, wash, beard, and cut 
them into four, put them into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half 
a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon- 
peel, die oyster liquor, free from sediment, 
reduced by boiling to one half, some cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonfiil of lemon- 
juice ; stir it over a fire five .minutes, and 
fill die patties. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (2) Make some 
rich puff paste, and bake it in very small tin 
patty-pans. When cool, turn diem out upon 
a large i^ish. Stew some large fresh oysters 
widi a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a 
little butter, and as much of the oyster liquor 
as will cover them. When they have stew- 
ed a little while, take diem out of die pan, 
arid set diem away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
of puff-paste. 

OYSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine 
oysters, strain die liquor, and add diem to 
it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a 
loin of veal; season diem with while pep- 
per, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel ; lay 
diem on the bottom of a pie dish, put in die 
oysters and liquor, with a little more season- 
ing ; put over diem die marrow of two bones. 
Lay a border of puff paste round die edge of 
die dish ; cover it with paste, and bake it 
pearly three-quarters of an hour. 

OYSTERS, PRESERVED. Open 

the oysters carefully, so as not to cut diem 
except in dividing the gristle which attaches 
the shells; put diem into a mortar, anc 
when you have got as many as you can con- 
veniently pound at once, add about two 
drachms of salt to a dozen oysters ; pounc 
diem, and jrub diem through die back of a 
hair sieve, and put diem into a mortar again 
with as much flour (which has been pre- 



viously thoroughly dried) as will make diem 
into a paste ; roll it out several times, and, 
lastly, flour it, and roll it out die thickness 
of a half-crown, and divide it into pieces 
about an inch square; lay them in a Dutch 
oven, where diey will dry so gently as not to 
get burnt: turn them every half hour, and 
when they begin to dry, crumble diem ; diey 
will take about four hours to dry; dien 
pound them fine, sift them, and put diem 
into bottles and seal diera over. 

N. B. Three dozen required seven and a 
half ounces of dried flour to make them into 
a paste which then weighed eleven ounces; 
when dried and powdered, six and a quar- 
ter ounces. 

To make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with three 
drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; set it on a slow fire; stir 
it till it boils, and season it with salt. 

This powder, if made with plump, juicy 
oysters, will abound with the flavor of die 
fish; and if closely corked, and kept in a 
dry place, will remain good for sometime. 

This extract is a welcome succedaneum 
while oysters are out of season, and in such 
inland paits as seldom have anv, is a valua- 
ble addition to die list of fish sauces: it is 
equally good widi boiled fowl, or rump steak, 
and sprinkled on bread and butter makes a 
very good sandwich, and is especially wor- 
thy the notice of country housekeepers, and 
as a store sauce for die army and navy. 

OYSTERS, TO PICKLE. Open diem 
carefully, preserving all their liquor; put 
them into a saucepan over die fire, stirring 
them now and then, and when die liquor 
boils take diem off, skim die surface, and 
put die oysters into a bowl ; let die liquor 
settle, pour off die clear part, and put it on 
to boil, widi, to three hundred oysters, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, a litde 
mace and allspice ; boil it ten minutes, dien 
add die oysters, and let diem boil two min- 
utes ; put diem into a jar, and when diey 
are cold, tie a paper over it. 

' OYSTER SAUCE. When your oys- 
ters are opened, take care of all the liquor 
and give diem one boil in it. Then take 
die oysters out, and put to die liquor diree 
or four blades of mace. Add to it some 
melted butter, and some thick cream or 
rich milk. Put in your oysters and give 
diem a boil. 

OYSTERSOUP. (1) Threepintsoflarge 
fresh oysters. Two table-spoonfuls of but- 
ter, rolled in flour. A bunch of sweet herbs. 
A quart of rich milk. Pepper to your taste. 
Take the liquor of diree pints of oysters. 
Strain it, and set it on die fire. Put into it, 



OYS 



131 



OYS 



pepper to your taste, two table-spoonfuls of 
butter rolled in flour, and a bunch of sweet 
marjoram and other pot-herbs. Wbeo ii 
boili add a quart of rich milk and as soon 
as it boils again take out the herl*-, and 
put in die oysters just before you send it to 
table. 

OYSTER SOUP. (2) Boil in water the 
crumb of two twopenny roll-*, with a few blades 
of mure, a tea-spoonful of whole while pop- 
per, and lour onions cut small. Pick out 
the spice, and nib the bread and unions 
through a hair sieve, then add it to three 
ijiian.s <>f \\i 11-x , isotied strong veal stock. 
Kul> down three ounces of butter, with a 
tal>le->|xioutul of Hour, and. mix it gradually 
with half a pint of the soup, and then stir all 
well together. When it has boiled a short 
time, add with the liquor half a hundred or 
more of fine oysters, and let the whole sim- 
mer for ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup 
is not quite salt enough with the liquor of 
the "\-iii-, a little salt may be added. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (1) Put 
them, with their liquor strained, two or three 
blades of m i< e. a lew peppercorns, a little 
cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, kneaded with Hour, into a stewpan. 
Simmer them very gently for half an hour, 
In mi means lettini; them boil; pick out tile 
marc ;UK| |>e|>|>er; have ready, finely grated 
bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and 
salt ; put into the scallop-shells, or into a 
dish, alternately a lajer of bread-crumbs, 
then one of oysters and part of their liquor; 
and s-tirk over the l:i.-t layer of bread-crumbs 
a few bits of butter, and brown them in a 
Dutch o\eii for fifteen or twenty minute:!. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (2) Take 
off the beards, stew tliem in their liquor 
strained, with a little mace, while pepper, 
and .-.ill. Fry in a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, some grated bread-cnimlis, till of a 
nice brown; |>ut them alternately with the 
oysters into a dish. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (3) A 

good way to warm up any cold fish. Stew 

is slowK iii their own liquor for two 
or three minutes, take them out with a spoon, 
lieard them, ami -kim the liquor, put. a bit 
of butter into a slew|>an; when it is melted, 
add as much fine bread-crumbs as will dry 
it up, then put to it the oyster liquor, and 

E'w il a lx>il up, p,,t the Oysters into scal- 
Hs!iell> that you have Ixittered, and strew- 
wilh breaif-crumUi, then a layer ..f oys- 
ters, then of bread-crombe, and i 
more oysters; moisten it with die oyster li- 



quor, cover them with bread-crumbs, put 
about half a dozen little bits of butter on the 
top of each, and brown them in a Dutch ov- 
en. Essence of anchovy, ketchup, cayenne, 
grated lemon-peel, mace, and other spices, 
&c. are added by those who prefer piquance 
to the genuine flavor of the oyster. 

Cold fish may be re-dressed the same way 
N. B. Small scallop-shells, or saucers that 
hold about half a dozen oysters, are the most 
convenient. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (1) Stew with 
a quart of oysters, and their liquor strained, 
a glass of white wine, one anchovy bruised, 
seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let all 
Blew gently a quarter of an hour. Pick out 
the bunch of herbs, and add a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter kneaded in a large ta- 
ble-spoonful of flour, and stew them ten or 
twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with 
bread-sippets and cut lemon. They may be 
stewed simply in their own liquor, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 
thickened with cream, flour, and butter. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (2) Open the 
oysters and strain the liquor. Put to them 
some grated stale bread, and a little pepper 
and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let them 
stew but a very short time, or thev will I*- 
hard. Have ready some slices of buttered 
toast with tlie crust off. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in die liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters and 
liquor upon the toast and send them to ta- 
ble hot. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (3) Large oys- 
ters will do for stewing, and by some are pre- 
ferred. Stew a couple of dozen of these in 
their own liquor; when they are coming to a 
I xiil,.. kim well, take them up and beard them; 
strain the liquor through a tamis-sieve, and 
lay the oysters on a dish. Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
pit to it as, much Hour as will dry it up, the 
liquor of the oysters, and three table-spoon- 
fuls of milk or cream, and a little white pep- 
per and salt ; to this some cooks add a little 
ketchup, or finely-chopped parsley, grated 
lemon-peel, and juice; let it boil up for a 
couple of minutes, till it is smooth, tlien take 
it off tlie fire, put in the oysters, and let them 
get warm (iliey must not tliemselves be boil- 
ed, or they will become hard) ; line the bot- 
tom and sides of a lia.-h-di-h with bread- 
sippets, and |xmr your oysters and sauce 
into it. 



PAN 132 



PAN 



P. 



PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. 

Boil the palates till the black skin can be 
easily peeled off; parboil the sweetbreads 
with tlirin ; skin and cut the palates into 
pieces, and if the sweetbreads are large, cut 
them in two the long way ; dust them with 
flour, and fry them of a light brown, in but- 
ter; then stew them in rather more than a 
pint of the liquor in which they were boiled. 
Brown a piece of butter with flour; add 
it, with a little cayenne, salt, pep|>er, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glass of white 
wine. A little before serving, stir in a 
spoonful of vinegar, or die squeeze of a lem- 



PANADA. (1) Boil some pieces of stale | 
bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water 
to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon- 
peel, and caraways; when the bread is quite 
soft, press out all the water, and beat up die 
bread widi a small piece of butter, a little 
milk, and sugar to die taste; a little spice 
may be added. 

PANADA. (2) Set a little water on 
the fire wid) a glass of white wine, some su- 
gar, a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; 
meanwhile grate seme crumbs of bread: die 
moment die water boils up, put in the bread- 
crumbs (without taking it off die fire), and 
let it boil as fast as it can. When of a 
proper consistence, that is, when just of a 
sufficient thickness to drink, take it off die 
fire. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Break 
three eggs in a basin ; beat diem up widi a 
little nutmeg and salt ; then put to them four 
ounces and a half of flour, and a little milk ; 
beat it of a smooth batter ; dien add by de- 
grees as much milk as will make it of die 
thickness of good cream: the frying-pan muse 
be about die size of a pudding plate, and 
very clean, or diey will stick ; make it hot, 
and to each pancake put in a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut: when it is melted, 
pour in the batter to cover the bottom of die 
pan; make diem die diickness, of half a 
crown; fry diem of a light brown on both 
sides. The above will do for apple fritteis, 
by adding one spoonful more of flour; peel 
your apples, and cut diem in thick slices ; 
take out die core, dip diem in die batter, 
and fry diem in hot lard; put diem on a 
sieve to drain ; dish them neatly, and grate 
some loaf-sugar over diem. 



PANCAKES IN APPLES. Cut some 
apples very small, stew them with a litde 
white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown eugar ; mash them, and 
spread it over pancakes ; roll them up, and 
serve with sifted loaf-sugar over them. 

PANCAKES COMMON. Widi near- 
ly half a pound of flour, mix five* well-beaten 
eggs, and dien add, by degrees, a quart of 
good milk; fry them in I'rcsh lard, and 
serve them with pounded loaf-sugar strewed 
between each. 

PANCAKES FINE. To three table- 
spoonfuls of flour add six well-beaten eggs, 
diree table-spoonfuls of white wine, four 
ounces of melted butter nearly cold, the same 
quantity of pounded loaf-sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a pint of cream; mix it well, 
beating die batter for sometime, and poor 
it dun over the pan. 

PANCAKE, RICE. Add to three well- 
beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of boiled rice, some sugar, and a 
little pounded cinnamon; mix it all well to- 
gether, and fry it in butter; brown the up- 
per side for a minute before die fin 
it, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed 
over it. 

PANCAKE RISSOLES. Mince fine- 
ly some cold veal, season it with grated lem- 
on-peel, nutmeg, jjepper, salt, and a little 
lemon pickle; warm it up with some good 
gravy, and a small bit of butter rolled in 
flour. Have i-eady a batter as for pancakes, 
seasoned widi a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
Fry a thin pancake, turn it, and put into 
the middle two table-spoonfuls of die minced 
veal ; fold it in at each side and at the ends 
in an oblong form, and fry them of a light 
brown color ; lay tliem upon the back of a 
sieve to drain before die fire. Four or six 
will make a dish. They are served as a 
corner or top dish. 

PANCAKES, SCOTCH. Mix with 
six table-spoonfuls of flour a little cream, add 
die beaten yolks of six cu'irs, and then mix in 
a pint of cream, die grated peel of a small 
lemon, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, 
and a litde ratafia; wlien the baiter is very 
well beaten, and just licforc using, mix in 
the whites of die eggs Ix'atcn with a knife, 
to a stiff frodi. Put a little butter or lard 
into die frying-pan, make it hot, pour it out, 
and wipe die pan with a clean clodi; put in 
some butter or lard, and when hot, pour in a 
tea-cupful of die batter: shake it, and when 
firm, prick it a little with a fork, but do not 
turn it; hold it before the fire a minute to 



PAR 



133 



PAR 



brown. Serve them with pounded loaf-su- 
gar strewed over them. 

PANCAKE, THICK. Beat separate- 
Jy the yolks and whiles of two 
with the \olks :i t:ib:e-s|xxmful ;im) a hull" of 
flour, a link' suipir ;iiid white wine, half a 
pint of cream in- :;o'jd milk; add ihe whites, 
and fry it in a broad saucepan, w ith Inittcr 
or clarified met ; brown the upper side be- 
fore the fire; warm any sort of preserve, 
spread it ti|><iii one half, and turn tlie oilier 
over it, and strew upon it |x>undcd loaf su- 
gar. 

I 'A \ \ 1 .< l PETS. Put into a pan, two 
ounces of sifted flour, four of powder-sugar, 

of hitter macaroons, and a spoon- 
ful of dried oranuc-tlowers ; break up all 
these articles, and mix with them the yolks 
often e^'i;s,P(ur large glasses of double cream, 
and a pinch of salt. \Va.-h the bottom of a 
ftying-pan lightly with some warm clarified 
butter, then put in it a s|x>onful of the above 
prepanition, spread it over tlie pan, to make 

as thin as [x.ssible; when the pan- 
nequet liecoines lightly colored, turn it over 
carefully, and dc tlie other side ; then put it 
on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marma- 
lade over, and ha\ ing stre\ved crushed maca- 
roons on that, roll up the pannequel till about 
an inch in diameter; in the meantime put a 
second s|XM>nful of your preparation into the 
pan, and proceed in the alxive manner, gar- 
nishing one pannequet whilst another it 
cooking; taking rare, howe\er, to set tlie 
l>aii over a gentle lire. When all are done, 
cut the punnrtpiets three inches in length, 
glaze, and di^h them. 

P \IISl.r.Y. To preserve parsley through 
the winter: in May, June, or July, take, 
line fresh-gathered sprigs: pick, and wash 
them clean ; set on a stew pan half full of wa- 
ter; put a little salt in it; Ixiil, and skim it 
1. 1 then |>ut in the panley, and let it 
Ixjil lor a couple of minute-; lake it out, and 
lay it on a sieve before the fire, that it may 
\x- dried as i|iiick as |x>ssjlilc; put it by in a 
tin box, and keep it in a dry place: when 
you want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it 
with warm w aier a few myiutes before you 
use it. 

1' \USI.l.y BUTTER. Wash gome 

'an, and pick it carefully leaf 

by leaf; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half 

a pint of boiling water: Ixiil th. 

alxjut ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; 

mince it ipiile tine, and then bruise it to a 

pulp. Tin- deli.-ary and ex> -ellence of this 

jx-mis n|X)i) the 

it into a 

mis with it, by degrees, 
12 



about half a pint of good melted butter, only 
do not put so much Hour to it, as die pars- 
ley will add to its thickness: never |>onr 
p-trsley and butter over boiled tilings, but 
.send it up in u boat. 

PARSLEY, CRISP. Pick and wash 
young parsley, shake it in a dry cloth to 
drain the water from it ; spread it oir a sheet 
nf clean pa|xT in a I Hitch oven !> 
fire, and turn it frequently until it is quite 
crisp. This is a much more easy way of 
prepariiiii it than frying it, which is not sel- 
dom ill done. 

PARSNIPS, TO BOIL. Scrape and 

wash them nicely ; when large, divide them ; 
boil them in milk and water till quite tender; 
tliey will take nearly as long to boil as car- 
rots. They may also be mashed like tur- 
nips. 

PARTRIDGES, TO CHOOSE. When 
they are young the bill is of a dark color, 
and their legs are of a yellowish color; and 
when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part 
will look greenish when stale. The plumage 
on tlie breast of the hen la light, that on the 
cock is tinged with red. 

PARTRIDGES BROILED. Take 
five partridges, cut them in halves, trim and 
dip them in melted butter, and bread them 
twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner 
broil them. 

PARTRIDGES MINCED. Take the 

fillets from eight roasted partridges, minre, 
and put them into a sattcepan ; make a light 
roux, in which put the livers and lights of 
the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shallots, 
and a little sage, give them a few turns, anil 
tlien add two large glasses of stock, reduce 
the saire t.i half, strain and put it to the 
mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth; 
make it hot, but not boiling; serve it over 
fried bread, and garnish your dish, with 
either poached or hard eggs. 

PARTRIDGE IN BREAD. Take a 

nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight ; 
make a hole at one end, through which lake 
out all ilie crumbs, rub the crust over with a 
little butter or lard, and set it in th 
a lew minutes to dry: till this with minced 
partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, 
bottom upwards, into a slew pan; add two 
spoonfuls of veal blond, with any oilier gar- 
nish you plea.se; let it remain on the fire till 
the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to 
it, liien take it out and dish it with 
the sauce round. 

PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. T;ike 



PAR 



134 



PAS 



four partridges, pick and singe them; cut 
off their legs at the knee; season with pep- 
per, salt, chopped pander, tbvme, and muso* 
rooms. Put a veal steak and a slice of haul 
at the bottom of the dish; put in tin- par- 
tridges with half a pint of good consomme. 
Line ilic edges of the dish with pull' paste, 
and rover with the same; do it over with 
egg, and let it bake tor an hour. 

PARTRIDGE TO ROAST. Take 
out the entrails, and singe the partridge over 
die s-tove, then roll a hit of butter in pepper 
anil salt, and put it into the inside of tin- 
bird; truss it neatly with the head turned on 
one side, keeping the breast as full as possi- 
ble; over which should lx? laid slices of fat 
bacon tied on with pack-thread; before it is 
put on the spit, break the back-bode, that it 
may lay the Ix-lter on the dish. A good 
si/.eii partridge will take half an hour; when 
nearly done, lake away the bacon, brown 
die partridge well ; sprinkle it with flour and 
salt, and froth it with butter; serve it with 
water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and 
bread sauce in a boat. 

PARTRIDGE: TO TRUSS. Let it be 

well picked and singed, then cut a slit in 
the back of the nek, and carefully take the 
crop out without breaking it; then cut off 
the vent, and draw out th-.- inside; after this, 
well wi|w the inside, and then put in a little 
pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. 
Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the 
bird, by first cutting off the pinion at the first 
joint, so that the feathers netvl not be picked 
off that part ; break the back-bone, and truss 
it in the same manner as a fowl, bv pressing 
die legs close to the apron, then turn the bird 
on the breast, and run a skewer through the 
end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the 
leg and pinion on the other side, with the 
head fixed on the end of the skewer, and 
over the breast lay a sliee of fat bacon, and 
tie it on with pack-thread. If for boiling or 
stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for 
boiling. 

PARTRIDGES TO -STEW. Truss 
the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; 
pound the livers with double the quantity of 
fat bacon and bread-crumbs boiled in milk; 
and some chopped parsley, thyme, shallots, 
and mushrooms; season with |x-p|XT, salt, 
grated leinou-|>cel, and mace. Stitlf the in- 
side of the bird*, tie them at lx>th ends, and 
put them into a stewpan lined with slices of 
bacon ; add a quart of good stock, half a pint 
of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few blades of mace; let them 
stew gently till tender; take them out, strain 
and thicken the sauce with tlour and butter, 
make it hot, and pour it over the partridges. 



PASTE. Be very particular that your 
slab or paste table, rolling-pin and cutters 
are clean, and free from all old paste, and be 
very careful that both the flour and butter 
are extremely ;n>od. Have a dry sieve al- 
ways in readiness, in or by the tlour tub, 
so as to use none without sifting it; for, 
though it may appear pure and fine, bran, or 
small particles of old paste may ha\e fallen 
into it ; sifting is, therefore, always neces- 
sarv. Weigh one |xmnd of flour, lay it in a 
circle on the slab: break one egg in the cen- 
tre, put a small quantity of salt, and a little 
bit of butter; mix all these together lightly, 
adil a little water, mix them again, then add 
more water, and so proceed until it binds 
into paste; but take rare that yon do not 
make it too still', nor si|ucc/e it much to- 
gether, till yon find there is sufficient water; 
then work it well together, and roll it out on 
the slab, but do not roll it too thin; work -a 
jxxind of butter on the slab, spread it out to 
i the paste, with a knife cut it off 
altogether, and lay it on the paste; then 
double the ends of the paste together, to in- 
close the butter; then give it one turn, dins: 
roll it out till von just perceive the butter 
through the paste; turn the end which is 
next to you half way over, and the oilier end 
over that, roll it once or twice with the roll- 
ing-pin; then let it rfand, this is called one 
turn; then, in three minutes time, turn it 
again, and so proceed until you have given 
it six turns; then roll it out, and cut it for 
patties or any shape you please ; but observe 
not to put over them too much egg, as that 
will prevent their rising; as soon as diey 
are baked, take them oil' the sheet, lay them 
on paper, and when cold, scra|x' the bottoms, 
nealK cut out the insides ready for what- 
ever you mean to put into them. For bak- 
ing, see directions for the oven. 

PASTE, BEEF DRIPPING. Rub 

into one pound of tlour half a pound of 
clarified beef dripping, till it all looks like 
tlour; work it to a stitf paste with cold wa- 
ter, and roll it out two or three times. This 
paste answers Aery well for common pies, but 
must Iw u'd when hot and fresh baked. 

PASTE FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 
Pick and chop very fine half a |x>und of beef 
suet, add to it one pound and a quarter of 
flour, and a little salt: mix it with half a 
pint of milk or water, and l>eat it well with 
the rolling-pin, to incorporate the suet with 
the tlour. 

PASTE FOR CHEESECAKES. Rub 
equal quantities of flour and butter, together 
with a little pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
make it into a paste, with warm milk, roll 
it out, and line die pans widi it. 



PAS 



135 



PAS 



PASTE, CRISP. Rub a quarter of a 
pound of flour, add two table-spoonful- of 
pounded loaf-sugar, and the well-beaten volks 
of two or three eggs, work it well with a 
horn-sjxKin, and roll it out very thin, touch- 
ing it as little us possible with the hands; 
the moment Ix-fore putting into a quick oven 
rub k over with the well-beaten white of an 
egg, ami sift all over the tart fiiicly-|x>unded 
sugar. This crust may be used for any fruit 
tarts. 

PASTE FOR CROQUANTS OR 

fi r PASTRY. To half a pound of fine 
flour put a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf- 
sugar; mix it well together with yolks of 
eggs till of a good stiffness. 

r\<TE FOR A COMMON DUM- 

l'LI\<i'. Rub into a pound of flour six 
' butter, then work it into a paste 
with two well-beaten eggs and a little water. 
This pa-ie ma v be baked, a large table-spoon- 
ful of pounded loaf-sugar being added to it. 

I'\STE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub 
into one |xund and a half of flour half a 
|x>und of butter, wet it with cold water suffi- 
cient to make it into a stiff paste; work it 
well, ami roll it out two or three times. 

PASTE, POTATO. Mash sixteen oun- 
ces of boiled potatoes, while they are warm, 
then rub them lietween the hands, together 
with twelve ounces of flour; when it is well 
mixed, and nil Uiks like Hour, add half a 
<i of .-alt. and, with a little cold 
water, make il into a stiff |ti-te; beat and 
roll it out three or four times, making it very 
thin the I.L-1 time. Lay il over bl.irk cm - 
nml jam. . .,r any sort of preserve, 

rub the edije- with water, roll it up like a 
l>ol.-!er pudding, and Ixiil it in a buttered 
and floured cl.-ih lor three or four hours. 
Serve- it with a sweet sauce. 

I : . I ' I ; FF. Weigh an equal quan- 
nr and butter, rub rather more tlrm 
ihe half of the flour into one third of the 
butter, then add as much cold water a- will 
make it into a still' paste ; work it until the 
butter IN: completely mixi el with the- flour, 
in. ike il round, U-at it willi 

1C rolling-pin, with : 
roll it uut towarel.- the e.p| 
i-lab, or |. making il e.f an equal 

i with the p .ml of a knife- pnl 

lillle- bits of Uim-r all over it, dn-t fl -over 

anel unite r it, fold in the -ides and roll it up, 
du-t il ai;:im with flemr, beat il a lillle, and 
reill il out, always rubbing the rolling-pin 
willi flour, and lliiow hi',' some uneleriieath the 

Jl 'he buu.'i is ; all ca.-ily put in at the 



second time of rolling out the paste, the 
remainder may be put in at the third ; it 
.-In n ild be touched as little as possible with 
the liands. 

PASTE, PYRAMID. Mak 
puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch 
thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces 
with scalloped tin paste cutters, which go 
one within another; leave the bottom and 
top piece entire, and cut a bit out of the 
centre of the others ; bake them of a light 
In-own ii|m buttered pajier placed n|*m ting. 
When served, Ixiild them into a pyramid, 
laving a different preserved fruit upon each 
piece of juste, and oil the top a whole apri- 
cot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or 
green-gnges, ornamented with a bunch of 
barberries. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR SAVORY 
PIES. Sift two pounds of fine flour to one 
and a half of good salt butter, break il into 
small pieces, and wash it well in cold wa- 
ter ; rub gently together the butter and flour, 
ami mix it up with tlie yolk of three eggs, 
beat together with a sjxxjn; and nearly a 
pint of spring-water; roll it out, and double 
it in folds three times, and it is rcadv. 

PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 

four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
and a little silt, mix tlie.se together, adding 
water, a little at a time, taking care not to 
put too much, as this paste must Ijo made as 
stiff as |x*sible; when thoroughly mixed, 
give it two or three turn.", roll it and cut it 
out to die slui|>e you want for your pie. 
Sometimes the butter is melted in warm wa- 
ter, and so mixed with the flour; tin u 
will not require so much wah-r, and the 
paste will stand better; but as yo > work 
your )>usle, when yon lind it get too cold, 
warm it a little; the lii-st method of doing 
it is the best, if intended to be eaten. 

PASTE, RICE. (1) Mix together half 
a |xjimd of filled ground rice and a quarter 
of a pound of lic.-h butter, work it into a 
paste with cold water, diedge flour over the 
-:.'>ard and rolling-pin, roll out the 
. and put over it, ia little bits, another 
qnai ler of a pound of butter; fold and roll it 
out thin tin. :<-h time a little 

(lour ox-r and irider it, as also over the 
lolliiig-pin. (.'over the tart, and glaze it be- 
fore being Ixikod. This paste must be eaten 
tin- day it is linked. 

1' \STI1. UK r. (2) Hoil, in a pint of 

half a pound r.fgdiMi rice; drain off the 

. ami [Hiund tlk! rice in a mortar, with 

bit of Ixitter, and an i-^ beaten; 

I it out to cover anv fruit tart. 



PEA 



136 



PEA 



PASTE, RICH SHORT. Weigh 
equal quantities of flour, of butter, and of 
pounded and sifted loaf-sugar ; rub the but- 
ter with the flour, then mix in the sugar, 
and rub it together till it will roll out; put 
it about half an inch thick over the tart, 
which may be of cherries, raspberries, or 
currants. 

PASTE, SHORT, FOR TARTS. 
Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, 
and in the centre put half a pound of butter,, 
two eggs, a very little salt, and a little wa- 
ter, mix tliem lightly together, and continue 
adding more water, till you find it bind ; mix 
it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, 
it is then ready for use. 

PASTE, SUET. Rub well with half a 
|x>und of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as 
possible, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
and half a tea-spoonful of salt ; make it into 
a stiff" paste with cold water, work it well, 
beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out 
two or three times. This paste answers for 
any kind of boiled fruit pudding. 

PASTE, SWEET. Rub into half a 
pound of flour three ounces of butter and tile 
same of pounded loaf-sugar, add one beaten 
egg, and as much warm water as will make 
it into a paste ; roll it thin for any kind of 
fruit tart, nib it over with tl>e beaten white 
of an egg, and sift sugar over h. 

PASTE FOR STRINGING TART- 
LETS. Mix with your hands a quarter 
of a pound of flour, an ounce of fresh butler, 
and a little cold water; nib it well between 
die board and your hand till it begins to 
string; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, 
and draw it into fine strings, lay them across 
your tartlets in any device you please, and 
bake them immediately. 

PATTIES FOR FRIED BREAD. Cut 

the crumb of a loaf of bread into square or 
round pieces nearly three inches high, and 
cut bits the same width for tops ; mark tlwin 
neatly with a knife ; fry tlie bread of a light 
brown color in clarified beef-dripping or fine 
lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, take 
care not to go too near to the bottom ; fill 
them wilh mince meat, prepared as for pat- 
ties, with stewed oysters, or with sausage 
meat ; put on the tops, and serve them upon 
a napkin. 

PATTIES, LOBSTER. See Lobsters. 

PEACHES, CHARLOTTE OF. Take 
twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut tluan in 
halves, and scafd them in a light simp ; then 
drain and cut each half into three pieces 



(lengthwise) of equal thickness ; pot these 
into a pan with a quarter of a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and half the quantity of warm 
butter; fry them lightly, and having prepar- 
ed your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in 
the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). 
When in the dish for table, cover it com- 
pletely with the sirup, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

PEARS BAKED. (1) Take twelve large 

baking pears ; pare and cut them into halves, 
leaving the stem about half an inch long; 
take out the core with the point of a knife, 
and place them close together in a block-tin 
saucepan, the inside of which is quite bright, 
with the cover to lit quite close; put to them 
the rind of a lemon cut thin, with half its 
juice, a small stick of cinnamon, and twenty 
grains of allspice; cover them with spring- 
water, and allow one pound of loaf-suyar to 
a pint and a half of water: cover them up 
close, and bake them for six hours in a very 
slow oven : they will be quite tender, and of a 
bright color. Obs. Prepared cochineal is 
generally used for coloring the pears; but 
if the above is strictly attended to, it will be 
found to answer best. 

PEARS BAKED. (2) Take half a 
dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, 
and take out the cores; put them into a pan 
with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a 
pound of sugar, and some water. Set them 
in a moderate oven till tender, then put them 
on a slow fire to stew gentlv ; add grated 
lemon-peel, and more sugar if in 
They will be sufficiently red. 

PEARS COMPOTE. Choose your 
fruit carefully, take oft" the tops, .and trim 
the tails, wash and drain them well ; then 
put them into a skillet with sugar, cinna- 
mon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, 
and some water. Set them on a slow fire, 
taking care to skin them. When sufficiently 
done, they will look wrinkled. Peel your 
fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, 
with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, 
sugar to the taste, and a little water ; put in 
also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, 
and set it on hot ashes. When done, the 
pears will be of a fine red color. 

PEARS TO COMPOUND. Take a 
dozen large pears, coddle them ; when ten- 
der, take them out and l.w them in cold wa- 
ter, pare and cut them in halves; take out 
the cores, put them in sirup made thus: 
Two pounds and a half of sugar to fhree 
pints of water, a little lemon-peel pared very 
thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal 
bruised and put into a muslin log: cover 
them, boil them quick till they are tender 



PEA 



137 



PEP 



and of a good color ; when cold, squeeze in 
the juice of two or three lemons. 

PEARS PRESERVED. Take care 
in making this preserve that the fruit be not 
too ripe ; tiny are in a fit state as soon as 
the pips are Llack. Set (lie pears on the 
fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover 
them; take them off when quite soft, and 
throw them into cold w:iti:r; pare them 
lightly, rut oil the stalks, prick each with a 
pin sufficiently long to reach the cere, and 
put tliein again into cold water, with a 
handful of alum; sei them on the fire to boil 
until tlie pears are tender, then take them out, 
and |xit thyin into cold water for the third 
time. Clarifv and Ixiil some su^ar. [iiit .-.>me 
water to it, and when it boils, add (lie |x-ais, 
cover the |ian, and give the whole a boil; j 
fkim and |xmr it into an earthen pan and 
leave it. The next day, drain the sirup 
from tin- pears, add a little more clarified | 
sugar to it, and Ixiil it again; |x>ur it over 
the fruit, and leave it .is before; the next 
and two succf.-.-ive day.-, proceed in the same 
way, each time incieaMng the degree of ' 
boiling, then add tin- p<-ai.-, give the pre- 
serve a boil (covered), .-kirn and pour it into 
a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, 
then drain die fruit, and put it by for use. 

PEARS STEWED. (1) Wash and prick 

some large stewing |x-ars. and set them on 
the fire in a large stewing-pan of water to 
scald ; when scalded, take them out, and 
put them on the lire in a pan w illi a .-miicicnt 
quantity of thin clarified .-ngar to cover them, 
a -ink of cinnamon, a little mace, and two 
or three cloves; let them stew gently till 
they begin to soften and look rather red, 
then pin in a little of 1'ort wine, and let 
them continue .-ten ing until |-it.-|ly done, 
and lo<>k very rich and red; then put them 
in a basin or jar, with the liuuor over them; 
they will be all the better for keeping four or 
five days. 

PEARS STEWED. (2) Pare, cut into 

quarters, and take out the core of six good 
baking [tears; throw them aa they are done 
into water. To a pound of fruit allow a 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three 
I ml them into a saucepan, cover 
them with cold water, keep the pan closely 
covered, and stew them gentry, till red and 
tender ; add, just before serving, a glass of 
Port wine. They may be eaten hot or cold, 
with cream, after dinner or at supper. 

IT. \<. i.KKFA. Young green peas, 

well dressed, are among the most delicious 

delicacie- i.f th. vegetable kingdom. They 

must be young; it is equallv indispensable 

12* 



that they be fresh gathered, and cooked as 
soon as they are stalled (or tley soon lose 
both their color and sweetness. After U-ing 
shelled, wash them, drain them in a cullen- 
der, put them on in plenty of boiling water, 
w itli a tea-spoonful of salt, and one of |xnmd- 
ed loaf sugar; boil them till they become 
tender, which, if young, will be in less AM 
halt' an hour; if old, they will require more 
than an hour; drain diem in a cullender, 
and put them immediately into a dish with 
a slice of fresh butter in it; some people 
think it an improvement to boil a small liuiich 
of mint with die. peas; it is then minced 
finely, and laid in small heaps at the end or 
>idcs of [he dish. If peas are allowed to 
stand in the water after being boiled they 
lose their color. 

PEAS FOR A SECOND COl'USE. 
Put a quart of tine green peas, 'ogether with 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut, into as 
much warm water as will cover them, in 
which let tliem stand for eight or ten min- 
utes. Strain off the water, put them into a 
saucepan, cover it, stir them frequently, and 
wlicn a little tender, add a bunch of parsley, 
and a young onion, nearly a dessert-spoonful 
of loaf-sugar, and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a tea-spoonful of flour; keep stirring 
tlii-iii now and then till the peas be tender, 
and add, if tliey become too thick, a table- 
spoonful of hot water. Before serving, take 
out the onion and parsley. 

PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of 

good split peas, and having waslied, soak 
tliem well in warm water; then lie them in 
a cloth, put the (Kidding into a >auccpan of 
hot water, and l>oil it until quite soft. When 
done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PEAS POWDER. Pound together 
in a marble mortar half an ounce each of 
dried mint and sage, a drachm of celery- 
seed, and a quarter of a drachm of cayenne 
pepper ; rub them through a fine sieve. Thia 
gives a very savory relish to peas soup, and 
to water gruel, which, by its help, if the 
eater of it has not die most lively imagina- 
tion, lie may fancy he is sipping good peas 
soup. Obs. A drachm of allspice, or black 
pfp|M-i , may be (xmnded with die alxivc as 
an addition, or instead of the cayenne. 

PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach 
as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a 
saucepan without any water, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil ; then drain off all the li- 
quor, chop the spinach very fine, and return 
it to the saucepan, with die water ju>t drain- 
ed from it, more water, onions, three or four 



PER 



138 



PIC 



potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut 
small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if 
you have them, and half a pound of bacon ; 
put the whole on the fire, and when it has 
boiled for about an hour, put in a few suet 
dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty min- 
utes longer ; season it well with cayenne, and 
serve. 

PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew 
gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to 
three, three pounds of beef, half a pound of 
lean ham, a bunch of dried thyme, two on- 
ions, two large potatoes pared and sliced; 
then strain it through a cullender, and add 
a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, 
half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the 
meat of one lobster minced, and some small 
suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When 
the fowl is well boiled, add half a peck of 

r'nach, that has been boiled and rubbed 
ough a cullender; season with salt and 
cayenne. It is very good without the lean 
ham and fowl. 

PERCH BOILED. Put them into cold 
water, and let them boil carefully ; serve with 
melted butter and soy. 

PERCH BROILED. Scrape, gut, and 
wash them ; dry them in a cloth, dust them 
with flour, and broil them. Sauce ; melted 
butter. Or they may be broiled without 
gutting them. They may also be stewed as 
carp are done. 

PERCH WITH WINE. Having scal- 
ed and taken out the gills, put the perch into 
a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock 
and white wine, a bay-leaf, a clove of gar- 
lic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two 
cloves, and some salt. When done, take 
out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs 
of which mix with some butter and a little 
flour; teat these up, set them on the fire, 
stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy butter. Drain 
the perch well, and dish them with the above 
sauce. 

PERLINGO. Take a pound and a half 
of sifted flour, and having placed it on your 
slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into 
which put three-quarters of a pound of brown 
sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, the rind 
of two lemons grated, and ten eggs ; knead 
all these ingredients together well, until you 
have a pretty firm paste ; if it should l too 
thin, add a handful more flour. Then rut 
the paste into small pieces, each of which 
roll in the palms of your hands, till they are 
the length and thickness of your finger ; take 
a round stick (about half the diameter of your 



paste), press this down on each of the 
pieces, so that they may be their original 
thickness on one side, and thin on the other ; 
when all are thus pressed, form them into 
little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the 
thin end uppermost), lay them on white pa- 
per, and bake them in a moderate oven ; in 
the meanwhile, make some white sugar var- 
nish or icing, and when the perlingos are 
sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the 
varnish, one by one; then replace them hi 
the oven, a minute or two, to dry. 

PERRY. Perry is a pleasant and whole- 
some liquor, made from the juice of peal's, 
by means of fermentation, somewhat in the 
same manner as cider is made from apples. 

PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, 
and the heart, of a sucking pig, in a little 
water, very gently, then split the feet, and 
cut the meat very small, and simmer it with 
a little of the water till the feet are perfectly 
tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper 
and salt ; give it a boil up, pour it over a few 
sippets of bread, put the feet on die mince. 

PICKLE FOR 3IEAT. Six pounds 
of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces 
of saltpetre, boiled with four gallons of water, 
skimmed, and allowed to cool, forms a very 
strong pickle, which will preserve any meat 
completely immersed in it. To effect this, 
which is essential, either a heavy board or a 
flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided 
it be boiled up occasionally with additional 
salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the 
meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by 
the juices of the meat extracted. By bulling, 
the albumen, which would cause the pickle 
to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form 
of scum, which must be carefully removed. 

An H-bone, of ten or twelve pounds, 
weight will require about tlirce-quarters of a 
pound of salt, and an ounce of moist sugar, 
to be well rubbed into it. It will be ready 
in four or five days, if turned and rubbed 
every dav. 

The lime meat require? .-:illiiiL r depends 
upon the weight of it, and how much salt is 
used: and if it be rubbed in with a heavy 
hand, it will be ready much sooner than if 
only lightly rubbed. 

N. B. Dry the salt, and rub it with the 
sugar in a mortar. 

PORK requires a longer time to cure (in 

proportion to its weight) than beef. A leg 

of pork should be in salt eight or ten days; 

turn it and rub it every day. 

! Salt meat should be well washed before it 



PIE 



139 



PIE 



ra )x)iled, especially if it has been in salt ; 
long, that the liquor in which the meat is 
boiled, may not be too salt to make soup of. 
If it h;is IH-CII in salt a long time, and yon 
fear that it will lie too salt, wash it well in 
cold water, and *>ak it in luke-warm water 
for a couple of hours. If it is very tall, 
by it in water the night before you intend to 
dress it. 

PICKLE FOR TONGUES. To four 
gallon* of water, add two [xnmds and a 
naif of treacle, eight pounds of silt, two 
ounces of *all|x'tre; boil it, and skim it un- 
til cli-.ir, sprinkle salt over the tongue, and 
let it stand two davs, wipe it clean before 
Jim put it into tlie pickle, which must l>e quite 
cold; boil the pickle, every two or mm 
months, adding two or three handfuLs of salt, 
skimming it well. Half the (Hiantity is suf- 
ficient for two tongues. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to four 
gallons of wati-r two pounds of brown sn^ar 
and six (xmnds of salt, boil it alxjnt twenty 
minutes, taking off the scum as it rises; the 
following dav |xuir it over the meat which 
has l;eeii | icked into tin 1 pick I ing-tub. Boil 
it every two months, adding three ounces of 
brown suirar and half a pound of common 
salt. P>\ this means it will keep good a 
y-;ir. The meat must be sprinkled with 
salt, and the next day wiped dry, before 
pouring the pickle over it, with which it 
should always U- coaipletely covered. With 
the addition of two ounces of saltpetre and 
one pound of salt, this pickle answer* t-'i 
pickled pork, ham*, and tongues. The 
tongue* *h'in!d ! nibbed with common - ih. 
to cleaa-e ihein. and afterwards willi a little 
saltpetre, and allowed in li" tour or li<- 
before tln-y are put into the pickle. The 
nie:ii will lie ready fir u.-e in ei^ht or ten 
days, and will keep fur three mouths. 

PICKI.KS. Pickles ought to lie stored 

in a dry place an.l the vessels nuwt appiov- 
ed of for keeping them in, are wiile-mouth- 
'iles, or i. Iron:; .-toiie-\\:ne jars, 
having; cmU* or l"i:i,'*, which mn.-t lie titled 
iu with linen, and coM-ied with bladder or 
leather; and l'< L l;iki,i'_; the pickles out and 
returning thi-m to the jar, a small WMidi-u 
s|xM>n in kept. Tlie strongest vinegar is 
Used for pickling ; that of rider more part ic- 
ularly recommended, Imt MI,' ir vine^rir will 
generally le fixim! sufficiently stniu^. li is 
enentiai to the excellence and beauty of 
pickle-, that they be alw.t\- completely cov- 
ered with \in'ar. 

See Hot l*icklt, India I'ickles, Onions, 
Cucumbers, fyc. 4*c. 

PIE, A.NGLO-FRANCAIS. Take a 



deep dish, line the edge with puff paste like 
a common pie ; stew a quarter of a pound 
of rice with some sugar until quite soft and 
sweet ; take a pound of ripe juicy cherries, 
which pick and roll in a quarter of .a pound 
of powder-sugar, and lay about a quarter of 
them at the Ixrttom of the dish ; cover these 
with a fourth part of the rice, tiien the cher- 
ries again, and so on till your materials are 
need, taking care to keep the pie high in the 
middle; cover it with a layer of puff paste, 
which wash over lightly with some white of 
egg, and strew a little powder-sugar over; 
put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
quarter; then take it out, mask the crust 
with apricot marmalade, and a few maca- 
roons crushed. Serve it either hot or cold. 

PIE, APPLE. (1) Take eight russe- 
tines, or lemon pippin apples; pare, core, 
ana cut not smaller than quarters; place 
them as close as possible together into a pie- 
di.-h, with four clove*; rub together in a 
mortar some lenion-|x-cl, wilh lour ounces 
of good moist sugar, and, if agreeable, add 
some quince jam ; cover it with puff paste; 
bake it an hour and a quarter. (Generally 
eaten warm). 

PIE, APPLE. (2) Pare, quarter, and 

core the apples; cut ihein into thin bits. 
1'ut into the Ixjttom of a pie-dish a table- 
s|xM,nl'ul of brown sugar, with a tea-spoon- 
ful of grated ginger and lemon-] >ecl, then 
a layer of apples, and so on alternately, 
till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. 
The next day wet the rim of tlie dish, line 
it with puff or tart paste, brush it with wa- 
ter, and rover it with paste; press the edge 
all round, notch it with a |>astc-cuticr, and 
make a small hole with the point of a knife 
in the middle. It may be se;isoned with 
two tablc-s|>oonfuls of lemon or orange mar- 
malade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and 
cloven, in addition to tlie ginger and lemon- 
peel. 

I'll'.. \PPLE WITH Mrsr\l>KL 
KAISIN'S. 1'eel twenty reniieting apples, 
cut them in quarters, and then cut each quar- 
ter into five or six pieces; toss them in a 
pan with four ounce* of sn^ir in |x>wder, 
(oxer which should Ix; grated the \->-\ of a 
lemon), four ounce* of Imltcr lukewarm, 
and four ounces of fine miiM-adel plum*. 
Line the edge of a deep dish with a good 
puff jxi-ie, ilu'ii put in your fruit, and 
your di>h with a gixxl puff paste a quarter 
of an inch iu thickness, y\n-u- wilh the white 
of an egg, and strew >n^ar "\ei it. Let it 
kike an h..iir in a m -derate ou-n, ami serve 
it hot. 

PIE, APKIfoT. Line a dish with puff 



PIE 



140 



PIE 



|x\ste, and then put in eighteen fine apricots, 
(cut in halves and the stones taken out,) 
with liiur ounces of sugar in powder, and 
four ounces of butter lukewarm. Then lay 
on the upper crust, glaze with the white of 
egg, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it 
bake in a moderate oven to a nice light col- 
or. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve 
it cold, you must leave out die butter. 

PIE, BEEF KIDNEY. Cut some kid- 
neys into thin slices, and place them in 
the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shal- 
lots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; con- 
tinue this till the dish is full, then cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, then finish your 
pie; bake it in the oven; when done, take 
out the bacon, and skim off the fat ; make a 
sauce with a glass of while wine, a tolerable 
quantity of cullis, and reduce it to the con- 
sistence of a good sauce, then squeeze an 
orange in it. Serve your pie hot. 

PIE, BEEF-STEAK. Cut the steaks off 
a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and 
lean together, about half an inch thick ; beat 
them a little with a rolling-pin, put over 
them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion 
minced; roll them up, and pack them neatly 
into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add 
some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful 
of vinegar. Cover tlie pie with a puff paste, 
and bake it for an hour. It is a common 
but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary 
to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, 
mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously 
dressed, will be found to yield a sufficiency 
of gravy, and the pie will be better without 
any additional liquid. N. B. Large oys- 
ters, parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately 
with the steaks, their liquor reduced and 
substituted instead of the ketchup and wine, 
will be a variety. 

PIE, CHICKEN. Parboil, and then 
cut up neatly two young chickens ; dry them ; 
set them over a slow fire for a few minutes; 
have ready some veal stuffing or forcemeat, 
lay it at the 'bottom of the dish, and place in 
die chickens upon it, and with it some pie- 
ces of dressed ham ; cover it with |>aste. 
Bake it from an hour and a half to two 
hours ; when sent to table, add some good 
gravy, well seasoned, and not too thick. 
Duck pie is made in like manner, only sub- 
stituting die duck stuffing instead of the veal. 
N. B. The above may be put into a raised 
French crust and baked ; when done, take 
off the top, and put a ragout of sweetbread 
to tlie chicken. 

PIE, COD. Lay a fine piece of fresh 
cod in salt for several hours, dicn wash it 



well, season it with pepper, salt, nut meg and 
mace; place it in a dish, with a little but- 
ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, 
and Ijake it; when done, pour in a <;mce, 
made as follows: a spoonful of stock, a 
quarter of a pint of cream, flour fcnd butter, 
grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, and 
a few oysters, boil die whole once. 

PIE, COLD BEEF, VEAL, OR MUT- 
TON. Pound in a mortar some boiled po- 
tatoes; boil a cupful of milk, and while hot, 
mix it with die potatoes, and beat them till 
they become like a light paste ; roll it out, 
cut it with a flat dish, the size of a pie dish, 
so as it may be laid from off it upon the 
pie; cut die meat into slices, season it widi 
pepper and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet 
die edges of die dish, and put over it die 
paste, and bake it till the paste be sufficiendy 
done. 

PIE, DEVIZES. Cut into very thin 
slices, after being dressed, cold calPs head, 
with some of the brains, pickled tongue, 
sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of ba- 
con, and hard-boiled eggs; put them in lay- 
ers into a pie-dish, with plenty of seasoning 
U'lween each, of cayenne, white pepper, 
allspice, and salt; till up the dish with rich 
gravy ; cover it \\ illi a llour and water paste ; 
bake it in a glow oven, and when perfectly 
cold, take off die crust, and turn die pie out 
upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and 
pickled eggs cut into slices. 

PIE, DUCK. Scald a couple of ducks, 
and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, 
pinions, necks, and heads. Take out die 
gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, 
and scald them. Pick out the fat of the in- 
side, lay a good puff-paste crust all o\ er the 
dish, season die ducks both inside and out, 
with pepper and salt, and lay them in die 
dish, with die giblets at each end, projierlv 
seasoned. Put in as much water as will 
nearly fill tlie pie, lay on die crust, and let it 
be well baked. 

PIES, EGG MINCE. Boil six ej-s 
until they are hard, shred diem small ; slued 
double the quantity of suet; then add one 
pound of currants picked and washed, (if 
the eggs were large you must use more cur- 
rants) the peel of one lemon shred very fine, 
and die juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity 
of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. 
Make a light paste for diem. 

PIE, FRENCH. Mince some cold roast 
veal together with a little ham, season it 
highly with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon- 
jx;t.'l ; add a large table-spoonful of mush- 



PIE 



141 



PIE 



room ketchup, and a quarter of a hundred 
of oysters, with their liquor, and three or 
four table-s|x>.iiifiils of rich gravy. Line a 
dish with puff paste, put in the ingredients, 
cover tlie pic, :ind let it remain in the oven 
long enough to bake die paste. 

PIE, GIBLET. Stew the gihlets in a 
little water, with an onion stuck with two or 
three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
salt, and whole, pepper; cut a fowl into 

joint.-, .-kn, .iini u i-li it, season it with pep- 
per, salt, and half an onion finely minced. 
Take out tin- union, herbs, and whole pep- 
per; put the fowl, giblets, and gravy into a 
dish, add a i;h-s of \\hitc wine, and two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; cover 
the dish with pull' paste, and bake it for an 
hour. 

PIE, GOOSE. Prepare a very strong 
raised cin.-t, and make the sides thick and 
stiff. Take the bones out of a goose, tur- 
key, and foul, cutting each down the back; 
season them highly with pepper, salt, mace, 
cloves, and nutmeg, all finely pounded and 
well mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, 
with the breast skin next the dish; lay in 
the turkey, put some slices of boiled ham 
and ton.Mie, and then the fowl; cover it with 
little bits of ham or haeon. Put it all into 
tlie pic, made of an oval form, and the sides 
to .-i ui'l an indi and a lialf above the meat; 
put on the top, and make a hole in the cen- 
tre of it. l>m-h thu outside of the pie all 
over with the Ix-aten whites of eggs, and 
bind it round with three folds of buttered 
paper; paste tin- top over in the same way, 
ami when ii comes out of the oven, take off 
the pa|)cr, and pour in at tlie top, through a 
funnel, u |x>nnd and a half of melted butter. 

1'IK.S, LOBSTER. See Lobster. 

PIE, ITALIAN. Mix together some 

i-hoppcd iliMne. ; :. u -icy, and one or two sage 
leaves, some silt, white and cayenne pep- 
per; lay into the bottom of a dish some thin 
slices of It MII \.-al, -pi inkle them with the 
seasoning, ami add .-I ices of ham, and a few 
ll ball.-; put a layer of seasoned 
veal, .uid of ham and forcemeat balls, till the 
di-h is full, and then add the yolks of five 
liard-boilcd e^ys, and some good while stock ; 
cover tlio di>h with a puff paste, and bake 
ii tin- an hour. Uclore serving, pour in, 
through a funnel at the centre of tlie critt, 
a tea-cupful of rich cream. 

1'll.S. MVKJUKFISH. Salt-fish pie. 
The thick, -t part must be cliosen, ami put 
in cold water to soak tile night U-lore want- 
ed; then lx.il it well, take it up, lake away 
the bones and skin, ami if it is good fish it 



will be in fine Livers ; set it on a fish-drain- 
er to get cold: In tlie meantime, boil four 
eggs hard, pwl and slice them very thin, 
the same quantity of onion sliced thin ; line 
the bottom of a pie-dish with fish forcemeat,, 
or a layer of potatoes sliced thin, then a 
layer of onions, then of fish, and of eggs, and 
so on till the dish is full ; season each layer 
with a little pepper, then mix a tea-spoonful 
of made mustard, the same of essence of an- 
chovy, a little mushroom ketchup, in a gill 
of water, put it in the dish, then put on the 
top an ounce of fresh butter broke in bits ; 
cover it widi puff paste, and bake it one 
hour. Fresh cod may be done in die same 
way, b\ adding a little salt. All li.-h lor 
making pies, whether soles, floun.i 
rings, salmon, lobster, eels, trout, tench, &c. 
should be dressed first; this is the most 
economical way for Catholic families. 

/ PIES, MINCE. (1) Carefully stone and 
cut, but not too small, one pound and a half 
of bloom raisins; cut .-mall half a pound of 
orange-peel, mince finely half a dozen of 
middling-sized good apples, a quarter of a 
pound ot'sueei almonds, pounded to a paste 
with a little white wine, half a nutmeg grat- 
ed, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, one 
head of clove, and a little cinnamon pound- 
ed ; one pound and a half of fresh beef suet, 
finely minced, one pound of good brown su- 
gar; mix all these ingredients extremely 
well, and add half a pint of white wine, and 
one glass of brandy. Pack it closely into 
small stone jars, and tie them over with pa- 
per. When it is to be used, add a little more 
wine. 

PIES, MINCE. (2) Cut the root off a 

neat's tongue, rub the tongue well with salt, 
let it lie four days, wash it perfectly clean, 
and boil it till it becomes tender ; skin, and 
when cold, chop it very finely. Mince as 
small as possible two pounds of fresh beef 
suet from the sirloin, stone and cut small two 
pounds of bloom raisins, clean nicely two 
pounds of currants, pound and sift half an 
ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, grate a large, nutmeg ; mix all these 
ingredients thoroughly, together with one 
pound and a half of good brown sugar. 
Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, al- 
low , for die quantity sufficient to make 
twelve small mince pies, five finely -mi need 
apples, tlie grated rind and juice of a large 
lemon, and a wine-glass and a half of brandy ; 
put into each a lew bits of citron and pre- 
served orange-peel. Three or four whole 
green lemons, preserved in good brown su- 
gar, and cut into thin slices, may bo added 
to the mince meat. 

PIES, BRANDY, MINCE. Clean a 



P IE 



142 



PIE 



pound of currants, mince a pound of non- 
pareil apples, and one of fresh lieef curt ; 
pound a pound of loaf sujrar ; \\cisrli each 
article after being prewired; the po-1 of two 
lemons grated, and llie juice of one ; a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron, t he same of orange- 
peel rninced. Mix all these ingredients 
well with a quart of brandy. 

PIES, LEMON MINCE. Weigh one 
pound of fine large lemon*, cut them in half, 
squeeze out the juice, and pick the pulp from 
the skins ; boil them in water till tender, 
and pound them in a mortar; add half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of 
nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef 
suet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and 
citron cut small. Mix all tliese ingredients 
well, and fill the patts-pans with rather more 
of the mince than is usually put. 

PIE, MUTTON OR VEAL. Cut into 

chops, and trim neatly, and cut away the 
greatest part of the fat of a loin, or best end 
of a neck of mutton (the former the Ix-st), 
season them, and lay them an a pie-dish, 
with a little water and half a gill of mush- 
room ketchup (chopped onion and poi 
if approved) ; cover it with paste, take it 
two hours; when done, lift up the crust from 
die disli with a knife, pour out all the gravy, 
let it stand, and skim it clean; add, if 
wanted, some more seasoning ; make it boil, 
and pour it into the pie. Veal pie may be 
made of the brisket part of the breast ; but 
must be parboiled first. 

PIE, PIGEON OR LARK. Truss 
half a dozen fine large pigeons as for stew- 
ing, season them with pepper and salt ; lay 
at the bottom of the dish a rump-steak Oi 
about a pound weight, cut into pieces and 
trimmed neatly, seasoned, and beat out with 
a chopper: on it lay the pigeons, the \olks 
of three eggs boiled hard, and a gill of broth 
or water, and over these a layer of steaks; 
wet the edge of the dish, and cover it over 
with puflT paste, or the paste as directed for 
seasoned pies; wash it over with yolk of 
egg, and ornament it with leaves of paste and 
tlie feet of the pigeons; bake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate-heated oven: before it 
is sent to table make an aperture in the lop, 
and pour in some good gravy quite hot. 

PIE, RAISED PORK. Make a rais- 
ed crust, of a good size, about four inches 
high ; take die rind and chine bone from -i 
loin of pork, cut it into chops, beat them 
widi a chopper, season diem with |x-p|>er 
and salt, ami till your pie; put on the top 
and close 'it, and pinch it round theedije; 
rub it over widi yolk of egg, and bake it t \vo 
hours \vidi a paper over it, to prevent the 



ciust from burning. When done, pour in 
some good gravy, with a little ready-mixed 
mustard (if approved). N. B. As the 
alioxc is generally eaten cold, it is an excd- 
lent repast for a journey, and will keep for 
several days. 

PIE, POTATO. Peel and slice your 
potatoes very thin into a pie-dish; between 
each layer of potatoes put a little chopped 
onion (three-quarters of an ounce of onion is 

sufficient f> >r a pound of potatws) ; Ijetween 
each layer sprinkle a little pepper and salt; 
put in a little water, and cut about two 
ounces of fresh butter into litlle bits, and lay 
them on the top: cover it close with puff 
paste. It will take about an hour and a half 
to bake it. N. 15. The yolks of tour eggs 
(boiled hard) may lie added; and when 
baked, a table-spoonful of good mushroom 
ketchup |)Oiired in throuuh a funnel. Obs. 
Cauliflowers divided into inouthfuls, and 
button onions, seasoned with curry-powder, 
&c. make a favorite vegetable pie. 

PIES, RAISED, MUTTON OR 
PORK. Put two pounds and a half of (lour 
on tlie paste-board; and put on the lire, in a 
.-aacepan, diree-quarten of a pint of water, 
and half a pound of good lard; when the 
water boils, make a hole in the middle of 
the flour, pour in the water and lard by de- 
grees, gently mixing the (lour with it with 
a spoon; and when it is well mixed, then 
knead it with your hands till it become-; stiff: 
dredi-'e a little tlour to prevent its slicking to 
die Uiiiid, or you cannot make it look smooth: 
do not roll it with the rolliug-pin, but roll it 
with your hands, about the thickness of a 
quart |>ot; cut it into six piece.-, leaung a 
little for the co\ers; put one hand in die 
middle, and keep the other close on the out- 
side lill \oii ha\e worked it either in an oval 
or a round shape: have your meat ready cut, 

Bed with pepper and oah : if pork, 
cut in .small slices; the ^riskin i:- 
for pasties: if \ou use mutton, cut it in very 
neat cutlets, and put them in the pi 
make, them; roll out the covers with the 
rolling-pin just the si/e of the pie. wet it 
round the ed^o, put it on the pie, and press 

r w ilh your thumb and linger, and 
then cut it all round with a pair ol 
quite even, and pinch them inside and out, 
and bake them an hour and a half. 

PIE, RAISED FRENCH. Make 
alxjui two pounds of flour in to a paste; knead 
it well, and into die shajx; of a ball ; press 
your thumb into die centre, ami work it by 
degrees into any sha|>e (oval or round is the 
most general), till about five inches high; 
put it on a sheet of paper, and till it w ith 
coarse flour or bran; roll out a covering for 



PIE 



143 



PIG 



it alxiut the same thickness as the sides; ce- 
ment its sides with the yolk of egg; cut the 
edges quite even, and pinch it round with the 
finger and thumb, nib yolk of egSniver it with 
a paste-brush, and ornament it in any way 

fancy may diivi-t, with the sa kind of 

paste. Bake it of ;i fine brown color, in a 
slow oven; and vvh< n dune, cut out the top, 
'remove the tlonr or bran, brush it quite 
clean, and till it up with a fricassee of chick- 
in, rabbit, or any other entree, most conve- 
nient. Send it to table with a napkin under. 

IMF.. 11 \M KMSKI). Soak a small 
ham tour or live hour.-; \\a.-h:tnd MTa|ie it 
well ; rut off the kniK-kle. and boil it for 
hall" an hour; then take it up and (rim it very 
neatly; tr.ke off the rind and put it into an 
oval .-ie pan, uiih a pint of .Madeira or 
Sheri-y, and enough veal stock to cover it. 
I>et it stew for two hours, or till three pails 
done; take it out anil set it in a cold 
place; then rai<e a ern-t :is in the foregoing 
_:li to receive it; put in 
the ham, and round it th" veal tcirceiueat ; 
rover and ornament ; it will take about an 
hour and a half to buke in a slow oven: 
when done, take off the cover, glaze the top, 
and )><iur round the following sauce, viz. take 
the liquor the ham wa- stewed in; skim it 
"in tin ; thicken with a little flour and 
butter mixed t'^r, (her; a few drops of brown- 
ing, and some cayenne pep|>er. 

I'll'.. ST. \. Skin and cut into joints a 
large fowl; wash and lay it into cold water 
for an hour; cut some -all bi-ef into thin 
. and if it is very .-alt, soak it a short 
time m water; make a pa-<te of (lour and 
butter in the proportion of half a pound of 

butler t e of tloitr, cut it into round pieced 

iinu' to the f\tf of the Ixtltom of the 

pot in which the pie is to be stewed; rub 

with butter tlie Ixittom of a round iron pot, 

and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with 

pepper, and finely-minced onion; then put a 

layer of tin- paste, and then the (owl, highly 

rh pe|>|(er, onion, and a little 

salt; add another liver of paste, and |ur 

in three piuis (,f e,,|d water; cover the |>ol 

. ','cnily lor nearly four 

king care it does not burn, which, 

to do. It is served in 

a pudding dish, and answers well tor a family 
dinner. 

I'M". >K DEVONSIIIUK. 

Take a i inn-apples, pare, core, 

them; chop -nine onion-; very 
small; li.ic a deep dish with paste, put in a 
\\ a little ni'^ar, and 
some ,,t the i M ip|ied onions over them; sea- 
son them, and lay lean mutton chops, also 
seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c. 



as before, and so on till the dish is quite 
full ; cover, and bake the pie. 

PIE, SUUASH. One pint of squash, 
stewed and strained ; one pint of milk, and 
\ one of cream ; ten eggs ; half teacup of rose- 
water; quarter pound of sugar, and one 
grated nutmeg. Bake in plates lined with 
putt" paste. 

PIE, SWEETBREAD. Parboil fire 
or -i\ .-weetbreads ; cut them into two or 
three pieces, stew them ten or fifteen minutes 
in a little white stock, with some chopped 
shallot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some 
salt, and white pepper, and a good many 
mushrooms. Put them into a pie-dish, with 
some asparagus to|>s, forcemeat balls, and 
hard-lxiiled yolks of eggs, and slices of fat 
bacon on tlie top; cover it, and bake it till 
the |>aste be done enough ; or it may be put 
into a vol-aii-vent, and served upon a nap- 
kin ; or baked in a plate. 

PIE, VEGETABLE. Of a variety of 

vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pota- 
j toes, artichoke bottoms, cauliflower, French 
IM-HIIS, peas, and small button onions, equal 
quantities of each; half boil them in good 
broth for a short time, put them into a pie 
dish, cover it with puff paste, and bake it in 
a slow oven ; make a gravy of a bit of veal, 
a slice of ham , pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mush- 
looms, shallots, |i;ir.-lev,and an onion; when 
it has boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix 
in three or four table-spoonfuls of cream, and 
pour it into the pie Ixjfore being served. The 
cream may be omitted. 

PIG, Is in prime order for the spit when 
alxnit three weeks old. 

It loses |>art of it* goodness every hour af- 
ter it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can 
make the crackling crisp. 

To be in perfection, it should be killed in 
the morning to be eaten at dinner: it requires 
very careful toasting. A sucking-pig, like 
a young child, must not be left for an in- 
stant. 

The ends must have much more fire than 
the middle: for this pur|>osc is contrived an 
iron to hang before the middle pait, called a 
pig-iron. If you have not this, use a com- 
mon flat iron, or keep the fire fiercest at the 
two ends. 

For tlie stuffing, take of the crumb of a 
stale loaf about five ounces; rub it through a 
colander; mince fine a handful of sage (t. e. 
about two ounces), and a large onion (about 
an ounce and a half). Mix these together 
with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit 
of butter as big as an egg. Fill the belly of 
tlie pig with this, and sew it up: lay it to 
the tire, and Uiste it with salad oil till it is 



PIG 



144 



PIG 



quite done. Do not leave it a moment: it 
requires the mos* vigilant attendance. 

Roast it at a clear, brisk fire at some dis- 
tance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig- 
eaters, the crackling must be nicely crisped 
and delicately lightly browned, without be- 
ing either blistered or burnt. 

A small, three weeks old pig will be done 
enough in about an hour and a half. 

Before you take it from the fire, cut off the 
head, and part that and the body down the 
middle: chop the brains \fcry fine, with some 
boiled sage leaves, and mix them with good 
veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from 
the pig when ^-ou cut its head off. Send up 
a tureenful of gravy besides. Currant sauce 
is still a favorite with some of the old school. 

Lay your pig Ijack to l>ack in the dish, 
with one half of the head on each side, and 
die ears one at each end, which you must 
take care to make nice and crisp; or you 
will get scolded, and deservedly, as the silly 
fellow was who Ixnight his wife a pig with 
only one ear. 

When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the 
skin long round the ends of the legs. When 
you first lay the pig before the fire, rub it all 
over with fresh butter or salad oil: ten 
minutes after, and the skin looks dry; 
dredge it well with flour all over, let it re- 
main on an hour, then rub it off with a soft 
cloth. 

N. B. A pig is a very troublesome subject 
to roast; most persons have them baked. 
Send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg 
the baker to baste it well. 

PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, then rub it over with 
butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put 
it into die oven. When done enough, take 
it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth ; 
dien put it again into the oven till it is dry, 
then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it 
up, take a little veal gravv, and take off die 
fat in the dish it was baked in, and there 
will lie some good gravy at the bottom; put 
that to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- 
ter, rolled in flour; lx>il it up, and put it in 
a dish in which the pig has been laid, and 
put the brains with some sage into the belly. 
Some persons like a pig to be brought to 
table whole, in which case you are only to 
put what sauce you like into the dish. 

PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, &c., a pig, 
of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing widi a few 
eage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- 
chovies boned, washed, and cut extremely 
small ; put them into a mortar, with some 
bread-Crumby a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a very little cayenne pepper, and half a pint 
of Madeira wine; beat diem to a paste, and 



sew it up in the pig ; lay it at a good distance 
before a large brisk fin;; sin^c it well; put 
two bottles of Madeira wine into die drip- 
ping-pan, and keep testing it all the time it 
is roasting; when half done, put two French 
rolls into die drippingpan ; and if there is not 
wine enough in the drippugpon, add more: 
when the pig is nearly done, take the rolls 
and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, 
with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and die juice of a lemon ; take up die 
pig, send it to table with an apple in its 
mouth, and a roll on each side ; then strain 
the sauce over it. 

Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks 
old, and stick it all over with blanched al- 
monds, and baste it in the same manner widi 
Madeira wine. 

PIG, TO COLLAR. Cut off the feet, 
head, and tail; bone and wash it well, and 
dry it in a cloth. Season it highly with a 
quantity of pepper and sail ; roll it up firmly, 
and bind it with a piece of linen; sew it 
tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the 
bones, let it boil for an hour, dien put it un- 
der a weight to press till it be cold, and take 
off the cloth. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO COLLAR. Strew 

over a pig's face, and a neat's or pii's tongue, 
a little salt and saltpetre; let it stand eight 
or nine days, then Iwil them with two cow- 
heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admit 
of the bones being taken out ; lay upon a 
dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek 
upon it with die rind downwards ; season it 
highly with pepper, cloves, and a little salt; 
add the tongue and cow-heels, with more 
seasoning; roll and sew it up firmly, (Hit it 
into a jar and boil it for two hours, then 
press it widi a homy weight, and when cold 
take off the cloth. The cow-had may be 
omitted, and bodi cheeks used. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO CURE. Strew 

salt over it, and let it lie two or three days, 
then pour over it die following mixture when 
it is cold; half a pound of ba\ salt, half an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a \tound of 
coarse brown sugar, one handful of common 
salt, and a penny-worth of cochineal, boiled 
in a pint of strong beer or porter; let it lie 
in die pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, 
dien hang it to smoke for a week. Wlien 
to be dressed, put it into lukewarm water to 
soak for a night, and in dressing it, follow 
the directions given for boiling hams. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS PICKLED. 
Wash the feet and ears \ery clean, and be- 
tween every foot put a bay-leaf; when diey 
arc well soaked, add some cloves, mace, co- 
riander-seed, and ginger; put a botde of 



PIG 



145 



PIG 



white wine to three pair of feet and ears, 
some hay-leaves, a biinch of sweet herbs; 
let them boil gentry lilt tin 'van; tender, llicn 
take them out of the liquor, lay them in an 
earthen pan ; when cold, lake oil' the fat, 
and strain the liquor over them. Ti 
well cold, or wanned in the jelly, thickened 
with butter rolled in llonr; or take the feet and 

;it of the jellv,dip them in \"lk 
and then in er mule of tread, and broil tliein, 
or fry tlii-ni in butter; lay the ears in the 
middle, and the feet round: or ragout them. 

I'Hi'S IT.KT AND KAKS SOUSED. 

Clean tli, in, and l*iil them till they are ten- 
der; then split the feet, and put them and 
the ears in salt and water. When you use 
them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in 
batter, fry them, and ^end them to table with 
melted butler in a Imat. They may Ix- eaten 
cold, and will keep a considerable lime. 

PI< J 'S FEET, TO STEW, ("lean them 
well, and Ixiil them (ill they are tender. 
Brown some butter with tlonr, and add it to 
a quaitMH of _;ra\y or water Millicir.it to 
die feet in. Season with a minced 
onion, thret -.dt, anil black |x-p- 

per. Cut the li-et iii twi, add them, and 
cover the pan close I \ ; let them stew half an 
lionr. A little liflon- ser\ in^, mix in half 
a tabie-*pOOnfill of lemon pickle or vinegar, 
and pick out the sage leaves. 

Plf/SII \KSI.KT. (1) I'arlx.il the liver 
and lights, slice and fry them along with thin 
bits of ba'-,,n. (iarnish with fried par-ley. 

riC'S II \KSI.ET. (2) Wash and dry 

pome h ids, and some tat and 

ik, Ix-atin^ lie- latter with 

a rolling-pin to make them lend, i 

with |x-pper. <.i\t, and sa,'e, and a little onion 

fine; wln-n mixed, put all into a 

e-awl, and laslen it tight with a needle and 

id rua-t il by a jack, or by a !-lrin^. 

lice*, x\ idi par-ley, fora fry. 

: :h a sauce of 1'ort wine and water, 

and ni'i.-tard, jnst boiled up, and jwit it into 

a dish. 

I'l'.S 11K\I) COLLARED. Very 

ur the head and ears; take off tin- 

hair and snmit. and take out the eyes and 

brain; let it la\ for OIK- niifht in water ; then 

drain it; -alt it i xlremcly well, with com- 

dlpetre, ami let it I 

day-. ('.nil it suhVienlly in take out the 
Ixjiifv. ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the 
thick end ..I'OIIP side of the head toward- ilu- 
thick end "filii- other, to make the roll of an 
eqinl gizi : M inkle it well with 
I it with ihe 
if you think proper, put the iii^'s feel round 



tlie outside, when boned, or the thin parts 
of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, 
bind with a broad ta|>e, a 1 I Ixiil it till quite 
tender; then put it under a weight, and do 
not take off the covering uufd it is quite cold. 
If you wi-h it to be more like brawn, salt it 
. and let the proportion of saltpetre be 
r, and put in also some pieces of lean 
|xirk, and then cover it with cow-heel, to 
Icxik likethi-hc.nl. This may lx- kept either 
in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled 
with vinegar. If likely to s|xiil, slice and fry 
it, either with or without tetter. 

I'Ki'S HEAD, TO POT. Split tlie 

head of a small pig, take out the brains, cut 
off the ear?, ami let it lie in cold water for 
one day, then boil it till all tlie bones come 
out; take off the skin, keeping it as whole 
as pns-ible. Chop the tongue and all the 
meat while it is hot ; season it highly with 
pep|x-r. salt, and nutmeg; place |>art of the 
skin at the bottom of a potting-pan or bowl, 
lay in the chopped meat, and put the rest i.f 
the skill over the top; press it down hard, 
place a small plate upon it, put on that a 
hea\y weight, which must not be taken off 
(ill it Ix- (x-rfectly cold. Boil up part of tlie 
liquor with some vinegar and salt, and keep 
the head in this pickle. It may be served 
tor breakfast or luncheon, and is eaten with 
\ ine^ar and mustard. 

PUTS I1K\I) \\DFEET, SOUSED. 
Clean them extremelv well and boil them; 
take tin- sauce part of the liquor, and add 
\ inegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, 
and |M-p|M-r; put in, either cut down or 
whole, the head and |i-et ; Ixjil all together 
f >r an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. 
It ia eaten cold with mn.-tard and vinegar. 

I'KJ'S KIDNEYS, AND SKIRTS. 

Clean and wash them very nicely, cut the 
kidneys across, and the skirts into small 
square bits; fry them a light brown in beef 
dripping, brown a bit of bulter the size of a 
walnut, with a little tlour, and add as much 
Ixiiling water as may Ix- required of gravy, 
and .in onion minced small. Add the meat, 
a little |x-p|x-r, sail, and mushroom ketchup, 
and let it stew till tender. 

l'ir;EO.\S. Pigeons should !>e extreme- 
ly fresh; when so, and in good order, they 
are plump anil fat at the vent, and their feet 
pliable; but when they are stale, the vent in 
"!-n. ^rei-n, and withered. Tame pigeons 
are considered preferable to tlie wild. 

PIGEONS WHOLE, TO BROIL. 

hem wi-ll. cutoff the wingsand neck, 
leaving skin enough at the neck to tie; make 
a forcemeat with bread crumbs, three or iota 



PIG 



146 



PIK 



of the livers, one anchovy, some parsley 
minced, and a quarter of a pound of butler; 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
bind it with the yolk of an eg:> beaten up, and 
put into each pigeon a piece tlie size of a large 
walnut; tie the neck and rump, rub them 
with butler, and dust them with pep|>er, salt, 
and nutmeg mixed ; broil them over a slow 
fire ; to baste them, put them upon a plate, 
and with a feather brash them over with but- 
ter; broil them of a nice brown color; serve 
them with melted butter and parsley, or a 
thickened brown gravy. 

PIGEON PIE. Chop some parsley and 
lemon thyme, with a few mushrooms; stew 
these in a little butler, into which put half a 
dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt 
in their insides, and their legs turned in; 
stew them for a few minutes and turn them; 
when they begin to fry, put in sufficient con- 
somme to cover them, in which let them stew 
till they are well done; take them from the 
fire to cool ; in the meantime make a good 
puff paste, part of which roll out, and place 
round the edge of a dish; lay the pigeons in 
with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and 
pour over them half of llie liquor lliev were 
stewed in; add a little pepper and salt, then 
lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly 
round, the same as you would any other pie ; 
on the top form a star of leaves, with a hole 
in the centre ; eg, r it lightly over, and put it 
to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that 
it has not too much color ; when done, add 
to the liquor that remained from the pigeons, 
a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and 
[xwr it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for 
a remove or side dish. 

PIGEONS WITH RICE AND PAR- 

M F.SAN CHEESE. Pick and wash clean 
half a dozen nice pigeons, cut them into quar- 
ters; brown some butter with flour, add to 
it a pint of good stock, with three grated 
onions, some pepper and salt, stew the pig- 
eons in this till tender, take them out and 
mix in the juice of one lemon, Ixiii and strain 
the sauce over the pigeons. Boil about three- 
quarters of a pound of whole rice in a pint 
and a half of stock, with half a pound of fresh 
butler, some graled nutmeg anil salt; when 
it is lender, add two liandfuls of grated 1'ar- 
incsan cheese. Put more than Irilf of the 
vice equally round the dish in \\ hich the pig- 
eons are placed, and cover them with what 
remains, brush it over with a well-beaten 
egg, and then strew it thickly with more 
I'anuesan ; <o\er a flat baking-tin with salt, 
place the dish upon this, and bake it for nearly 
three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven ; ii 
should be of a fine gold color. 

PIGEONS, TO ROAST. Pick, clean, 



singe, and wash them well ; truss them with 
three feet on, and put into them some pepper 
and salt. While roasting, baste them with 
butter. A litlle before serving, dust them 
with flour, and froth them with butter. 
Roast them for half an hour. Serve them 
with parsley and butter in the dish, or make 
a gravy of die giblets, some minced parsley, 
seasoned with |>ep|>cr and salt. Thicken 
with a little flou;- and butter; pour it with 
the giblets into the dish, and then put in the 
pigeons. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (1) Clean them nice- 
ly, truss them as for lulling, put into their in- 
side some pepper and salt ; brown in a sauce- 
pan three ounces of butter with u table-spoon- 
ful of (lour, add as much gravy or water as will 
nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with 
the livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and 
some minced par.-lev, spinach may also be 
added; let them stew for three-quarter* of 
an hour; add, a few minutes before serving, 
the yolks of Jour or six hard-boiled eggs. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (2) Wash and clean 
six pigeons, cut them into quarters, and put 
all their giblets with tliem into a stewpan, a 
piece of butter, a litlle water, a bit of lemon- 
|K j el, two blades of mace, some chopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper; cover tlie pan closely, 
and stew them till they lie tender; thicken 
the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up 
with three table-spoonfuls of cream and a bit 
of butter dusted with (lour; let them slew 
ten minutes lunger before serving. 

PIKE, BAKED. Scrape the scales off 
a large pike, take out the gills, and clean it, 
without breaking die skin; stuff llie tish 
with a forcemeat made of two liandfuls of 
grated bread, one of finely-minced suet, some 
chop|>ed parslev, and a little fresh Initter, 
sc-asoued uitli j.epper, sail, mace, grated 
lemon-peel and a nutmeg, pounded all togeth- 
er m a mortar, with two whole r jgg. Fasten 
llie tail of tlie |>ikc into its month with a 
skewer, then dip it, first into a well-beaten 
egg, and then into grated Ixvad, which repeat 
twice; baste it over with butter, and bake 
it in an o\eu. 

If two <>f them are to l>e served, make one 
of them of a green color, by mixing a quan- 
tity of finely-minced parsley with the grated 
bread. When the fish is of a fine brown 
color, cover it with paper until it is done. 
Serve with a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureeu. 

PIKE, BOILED. Wash clean, and 
takeout the gills; stuff them with the follow- 
ing forcemeat : equal parts of chopped oys- 
ters, grated bread crumbs, Ijeefsuet, or butter, 
two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, 



POI 



147 



FOR 



thyme, and savory ; an egg to bind it. Stuff 
the ins ides, and sew them up; put them on 
in boiling salt-and-water, with a gl < 
egar, and let them !x>il half an hour. Sauces ; 
oyster, and meluM butter. Tliey may 
also be broiled. 

P1LI.AU, TO MAKE. \Vash very 
clean two pounds of rioe, stew it till per- 
fectly tender with a little water, half a 
pound of butter, some salt, whole pepper, 
cloves and mace, and keep the ste\\|>an 
closely covered; boil two fowls and one 
poood and a lialf of bacon, put the bacon in 
the middle, and the fowls on eacli side, cov- 
er them all over with the rice, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and fried whole 
onions. 

PLOVERS, TO CHOOSE. Choose 

them by the hardness of the vent, which 

show* .that they are fat; and when new, 

limber-footed. In other respects, 

choose them by the same marks as other 

There are three sorts; the gray, 

green, and bastard plover or lapwing. 

PLOVERS, TO DRESS. Green plov- 
ers should ta dressed the same as wood- 
corks, without drawing, and served on a 
toast Gray plovers should be stewed. 
Make a f'irceiiieat with the yolks of two 
- bruised, some marrow cut fine, 
artichoke bottOM cut small, and sweet 
1 with |x-p|xT, salt, and nut- 
<tf the birds, and put them into a 
saucepan, \\ilh ju-t a sufficient <|iiaii(ily of 
good gravy to cover them, OIK; glass of 
white wine, and a blade of mace; Cover 
them clo-e, and let them MC\V \> 

fa up the plov- 

ihein ill a dish, keep tllem hot; put 

f butter rolled in Hour, to thicken 

-. let it boil till smooth; squeeze 

into it a little- lemon; skim it, and pom- it 

o\er the plo\ 

POINT DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mix ( 

with two handfhls of Hour a u'lasa of sweet | 
wine, a tal.le |:,,,.nfnl of brandy, and warm 
milk, sufficient to make il into a |iu.-tc; add 
I'M- well-lieateii whiles of four e<,'!fn, a little 
minced citron, candied orange-peel or cur- 
it well together, and drop it 
through a wide tin funnel, into lxiiliii<r lard. 
Serve willi pounded loaf sn.'ar ,-trewcd ou-r 
them. 

I'<>|\ KU>K. i' llt int.. a newpan a 
large bunch of parsle\-li-;i\.-. -.,1,1.. scallion-, 
iv-leave-, a little thyme, a dessert- 
spoonful of tine white |x-;>|'i, a i 
vinegar, and a small quantity of hntier; pet 
the pan on tli- lire, and n-diice thy whole 



I ill nearly all gone, when add two ladlcfuls 
of etpagnole, and one of stock; reduce 
im to the proper consistence, and 
strain it lor use. 

PORK. DAIRY-FED pork is the !x-<: ; 
the flesh should look white and smooth, and 
the fat IK- while and line. In preparing a 
hog for bacon, the rilis are cut, with a very 
little flesh on them, from die side, which 
has the fore and hind leg attached to it; 
the bind leg is tlx-n called a gammon of ba- 
con, but il is generally reserved for a ham. 
On each side there is a la rife spare rib, 
which is usually divided into two, one call- 
ed the sweet bone, the oilier the blade Ume. 
There are also grukins, chine, or back 
bone. 

Hog's lard is the inner fat of the bacon 
hog. 

Porkers are not s-) old a? hogs; they 
make excellent pickled pork, but are cho- 
sen more particularly lor roasting. 

To roa-it a le^r, a saiall onion is minced 
together with three sage leaves, - 
with |X'p|K!r and salt, and put under the 
skin at the knuckle Ixmc; the skin is cut 
into stri| nearly half an inch apart, and 
rubbed over with a bit of butter. If weigh- 
ing seven or eight pounds, it will require 
nearly three hours to roast. 

A spare rib should be roasted, is basted 
with butter, and baa sage leaves dried, nib- 
bed to a powder, and mixed with salt and 
pepper, sprinkled over it. 

Both a loin and neck are jointed, the 
skin scored in narrow strips, and inhbed 
with butter. If wei^him; HX - 
fxmnds, it will require rather more than two 
hours to ron.->t. 

A griskin may be either broiled 
ed. 

A chine is smiled here and there ni;h 
bread crumbs, mixed UH|I a liltlc butter, 
and Masoned with some linely shred ML'C, 
jKir.-ley, and lh\me, >..me j-epper and salt. 
The skin is cut into strips and nibbed with 
butter; it is then roasted, and served with 
apple sauce, as are also the preceding 
roaaU. 

A porker's head H ctitfled like a sticking 
pig, sewed (irmly, and huntf on a string to 

Tte shoulder may be roasted, but, being 

very lal, it is generally preferred pickled. 

The breast may 1; made into a pi", or 
broiled. 

To l>oil hams, they should be put on in 
water, the chill taken off, and simmered for 
four or live hours, taking care not to allow 
them lo boil. 

The prime season for pork is from No- 
vemU r to .March. 

Take particular care it be done enough: 



P OR 



148 



FOR 



other meats under-done are unpleasant, but 
pork is absolutely uneatable; the sight of it 
is enough to appal the sharpest appetite, if 
its gravy has the least tint of redness. 

Be careful of the crackling; if this be 
not crisp, or if it l>e burned, you will Ite 
scolded. Pickled Pork, takes Ynore time 
than any other meat. If you buy your pork 
ready salted, ask how many days it lias 
been in salt; if m:Mi\, it will require to be 
soaked in water for six hours before you 
dress it. When you cook it, wash ami 
scrape it as clean as possible; when deli- 
cately dressed, it is a favorite dish with al- 
most everylx>dy. Take care it does not 
boil fast ; "if it does, the knuckle will break 
to pieces, before the thick part of the meat 
is warm through; a \t~ of seven pounds 
lakes three hours and a half Aery slow sim- 
mering. Skim your pot very carefully, and 
when you take the meat out of the boiler, 
scrape it clean. 

\ leg of nice jxirk, nicely salted, and 
nicely boiled, is as fine a cold relish as cold 
ham; esjiecially if, instead of cutting into 
the middle when hot, and so letting out 
it* juices, you cut it at the knuckle: slices 
broiled are a good luncheon, or supper. 

Mem. Some |x?rsoMs who sell pork ready 
sailed have a sillv trick of cutting the knuc- 
kle in two; we sup|xise that this is done to 
s.i.'e their salt; brt it lets all the gravy out 
of the leg; and unless you boil your pork 
iMorely for the sake of the pot-liquor, which 
in this case receives all the goodness and 
strength of the meat, friendly reader, your 
oracle cautions you to buy no leg of pork 
v.-hich is slit at the knuckle. 

1 1" pork is not done enough, nothing is more 
disagreeable; if too much, it not only loses 
'us color and flavor, but its substance be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

It must never apjx-arat table without pars- 
nips; they are an excellent vegetable, and 
deserve to be much more popular; or carrots, 
turnips, and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. 

Obs. Remember not to forget the mus- 
t,ird-|x>t. 

PORK, LEG, Of eight pounds, will re- 
quire about three hours : score tlie sk ins across 
in narrow stri|>cs (some score it in dia- 
monds), about a quarter of an inch apart; 
stuff the knuckle with sage and onion, minced 
fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 

Do not put it too near the fire : rub a little 
sweet oil on the skin with a paste-brush, or 
a goose-feather: this makes the crackling 
crisper and browner than basting it with 
dripping; and it will be a better color than 
all the art of cookery can make it in any 
other way ; mid this is die best way of pre- i 



venting the skin from blistering, which is 
principally occasioned by its being put too 
near the fire. 

PORK Spare Rib, Usually weighs about 
eight or nine pounds, and will take from two 
to three hours to roast it thoroughly ; not ex- 
actly according to its weight, but the thick- 
ness of the meat upon it which varies very 
much. Lay the thick end nearest to the 
fire. 

A. proper bald spare rib of eight pounds 
weight (so called because almost all the meat 
is pared off), with a steady fire, will be done 
in an hour and a quarter. There is so little 
meat on a bald spare rib, that if yon have a 
large, fierce fire, it will be burned Itelorc it 
is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack 
the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. 

When you put it down to roast, dust on 
some flour, and baste it with a little butter ; 
dry a dozen sage leaves, and rub them thr< >u;;li 
a hair-sieve, and put them into the t<>|> of a 
dredging-box ; and about a quarter of an hour 
before die meat is done, baste it with butter ; 
dust with the pulverized sage. 

Obs. Make it a general rule never to 
pour gravy over any thing that is roasted; 
1;>y so doing, the dredging, &c. is wasljcd off, 
and it eats insipid. 

Some jx-ople cane a spare rib by cutting 
out in slices the thick part at the bottom of 
the bones. When this meat is cut away, 
tlie bones may be easily separated, and are 
esteemed verv sweet picking. 

Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good 
mustard are indispensable. 

PORK CHEESE. Choose tlie head of 
a small pig which may weiijli about twelv 
pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it and 
the tongues of four pigs, a little common salt 
and a very little saltpetre. Let them lie 
linn- days, wash them, and tie them in a clean 
cloth; boil them until the bones will come 
easily out of the head, take off the .-kin as 
\\liole as possible, place a bowl in hot water 
and put in the licad, cutting it into small 
pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped 
like a small cheese, lay two strips of cloth 
across each other, they must be loiiif eiiouuli 
to fold over the top when tlie shape is full, 
place the skin round the tin, and nearly half 
fill it with the meat, which has Ixt-n highly 
seasoned with pepper, cayenne and salt ; put 
in some tongue cut into slices, then the rest of 
the meat and the remainder of the tongue, 
draw the cloth tightly across the top; put on 
it a board or a plate that will lit into the sha|x>, 
and place on it a heavy weight, which must 
not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is 
eaten with vinegar and mustard, and served 
for luncheon or supper. 



POT 



149 



POT 



POTATOES. The vegetable kingdom 
affords no food more wholesome, more easily 
procured, easily prepared, or less ex|xMisive, 
than the potato : yet. although this most useful 
vegetable is dressed almost every day, in 
almost . \crv family, for one plate of |>otat<x-s 
that c< Hues' to table as it should come, ten are 
spoiled. 

Wash them, but do not pare or cut them, 

unles.- they are very large. Fill a saucepan 

half full of potatoes of equal size (or make 

them so bv dividin? the laix'er ones), put to 

them as much colil water as will cover them 

abonl an inch: they are sooner lioiled, ami 

cy, than when drowned in water. 

I spoiled bv hav MIL; too 

little water, but [Matoes are often s| toiled by 
too iiincli : they inn-it merely bft Covered, and 
a Mill'- alloweil t : -r waste in Ixiilinu, so thai 
they may be jn<t c,,\ered at the finish. 

Set them on a mrlenite lire till they Ixiil ; 
then take them off, and |Mit them by the side 
of the lire to simmer sl.iwly till they are soft 
enough to admit a fork (place no de|>endence 
Oil tin- usual test of their skins' clacking, 
which, if they are liled fast, will happen to 
some (totatoes when they are if it half done, and 
the insides quite hard). Then jxmr tlt<' wa- 
ter off (if you let the potatoes remain in the 
water a moment after they are done eimiiuli, 
they will become waxy ami watery), uncover 
the saucepan, and set it at such a distance 
from the fire as will secure it from taming; 
tlioir su|x'rt]uous moisture will evaporate, and 
the potatoes will be perfectly dry and mealy. 

You may afterward place a napkin, folded 
op to the size of the saucepan's diameter, 
over the imtators, to keep them hot and 
mealy till wanted. 

This method of managing potatoes is in 
every respect equal to steaming them ; and 
dressed in half the time. 

There is such an inlinite variety of sorts 
and -i/es ofpOtlkMj thai it is ini[is.-il>le to 
nay how Ions; tliey will take duini;: the best 
way i- t try them with a link. Moderate- 
Fixed (xttaUtes will generally ' done enough 
in liftecn or twenty minutes. 

POTATOES, NEW. The best way to 
clean new potatoes is to nib them with a 
i'lth or tlaimel, or scruhhin<;-hru.li. 

.\> w |x>tatocs are poor, watery, and insip- 
id, till they are full two inches in diameter: 
they are not worth tlx* trouble of boiling be- 
fore midsummer day. 

Ob*. Some cooks prepare sauces to pour 

over |>tatocs, made with l)ittter, sail, and 
ppp|n-r, or uravy, or melted tatter and ketch- 
Op; or stew the potatoes in ale, or water 
Reasoned with pepper and -all ; i liake them 
with hen inu- <>i sprat*, mixed with layers 
Of potatoes, sea-oned with pcp|>ei , salt, sweet 
n cut mutton or 

18* 



beef into slices, and lay them in a stewpan, 
and on them potatoes and spices, then anoth- 
er layer of the meat alternately, pouring in 
a little water, covering it up very close, and 
boiling it slowly. 

POTATO BALLS. Mix mashed pota- 
toes with the yolk of an egg ; roll them into 
balls; dour them, or egg and bread-crumb 
them ; and fry them in clean drippings, or 
brown them in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RAGOUT, Are 
made by adding to a pound of potatoes a 
i|itarter of a |x>und of grated ham, or some 
sweet herbs, or chopped pareley, an onion or 
eschalot, sail, pep|x-r, and a little grated 
nutmeg, or other spice, with the yolk of a 
couple of cijus : they are then to be dressed 
as Potato Halls. 

Obs. An agreeable vegetable relish, and 
a good .upper-dish. 

POTATOES BOILED, TO BROIL. 

After tailing potatoes not quite sufficiently to 
send to table, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear lire, and turn them frequently till they are 
of a nice brown color all over; serve them 
hot ; take care they do not become too hard, 
as that spoils the flavor. 

POTATOES, CASSEROLE. Boil and 
peel some good mealy potatoes, pound them, 
and mix with them some butler, cream, and 
a little salt, put them atant an inch and a 
half high upon a flat dish, and leave an open- 
ing in the centre ; bake them of a light brown 
color, and take out as much from the ceiitrt; 
as will admit of a ragout, fricassee, or mac- 
aroni, being put into it. 

POTATOES, COLCANNON. Boil 
potatoes and greens, or spinage, separately ; 
mash the potatoes ; squeeze the greens dry ; 
chop them quite line atxl mix them wilh the 
potatoes, with a little butter, pepper, and 
salt; put it into a mould, buttering it well 
first ; let it stand in a hot oven for ten min- 
utes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. When 

boiled and peeled, allow four large mealy 
potato's, half tlieir weight of butter and of 
(XHinded loaf sugai', two eggs beaten, half 
the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; 
pound tlie potatoes in a mortar with die 
other ingredients; beat the yolks of four 
eggs ; roll up the croquettes ; dip them into 
the U-aieii eggs, and roll them in sifted bread 
cmnib-i; in an hour, roll them again as be- 
iry them in Uilter; put tU'in upon 
the hack of a sieve before the fire to drain. 

POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly 



POT 



150 



POT 



smooth six or seven boiled potato??, add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, the bea- 
ten yolk of an egg, half an onion pounded, 
a little boiled minced parsley, some |>epper 
and salt; make it into the form of small 
eggs or pears, roll them into a well-beaten 
egg, and then into grated bread crammed, 
with pepper and salt ; fry them in plenty of 
lard or dripping till they are of a fine brown 
color, lay them before the fire to drain ; 
serve them with a fringe of fried parsley. 

POTATOES FRIED* IN SLICES 
OR RIBBONS. Peel large potatoes; slice 
them about a quarter of an inch thick, or 
cut them in shavings round and round, as 
you would peel a lemon ; dry them well in a 
clean cloth, and fry them in lard or dripping. 
Take care that your fat and frying-pan are 
quite clean; put it on a quick fire, watch it, 
and as soon as the lard boils, and is still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keep moving 
them till they are crisp. Take them up, 
and lay them to drain on a sieve : send them 
up with a very little salt sprinkled over them. 

POTATOES FRIED WHOLE. When 
nearly boiled enough, put them into a stew- 
pan with a bit of butter, or some nice clean 
beef-drippings; shake them about often (for 
fear of burning them), till they are brown 
and crisp; drain them from the fat. Obs. 
It will be an elegant improvement previous 
to frying or broiling the potatoes, to flour 
them and dip them in the yolk of an eg*;, 
and then roll them in fine-sifted bread- 
crumbs; they will then deserve to be called 

POTATOES FOLL DRESSED. 

POTATOES RAW OR COLD, TO 
FRY. Wash, peel, and put them into cold 
water for one or two hours, cut them into 
slices about half an inch thick, and fry them 
a light brown in boiling clarified beef suet. 
Cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, may be 
done in the same manner. 

POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and 
pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with 
a little salt, a glass of white wine, some 
pounded sugar, cinnamon, and an ounce of 
butter ; roll it out with a little flour, cut 
them the size of a wine glass, and fry tliem 
in Ixiiling clarified dripping. Serve them 
with sifted loaf sugar over them. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (1) When, 
your potatoes are thoroughly boiled, drain 
them quite dry, pick out every s|x-ck, &c. and 
while hot, rub them through a colander into 
a clean stewpan. To a |xmnd of potatoes 
put alxuit half an ounce of butter, and a t.i- 
ble-spoontiil of milk : do not spake them too 
moist; mix them w<ll together. Obs. 



When the potatoes are getting old and 
specky, and in frosty weather, this is the 
!> t way of dressing them. You may put 
them into shapes or small tea-cups; egg 
them with yolk of egg, and brown them very 
slightly before a slow fire. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (2) Boil the 
potatoes, peel and mash them very smoothly ; 
put for a large dish four ounces of butter, 
two eggs beat up in half a pint of good milk, 
and some salt ; mix them well together, 
heap it upon a dish with a table-spoon to 
give it a rough and rocky appearance, or 
put it on a dish and score it with a knife, 
dip a brush or feather into melted butter, 
and brush over the lop lightly ; put it into 
a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually 
for an hour or more. To mash potatoes in 
a plain way, mix with them two ounces of 
butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. 
When mashed potatoes are not browned, it 
is a great improvement to add pepper, salt, 
and one onion minced as finely as possible; 
heat the potatoes in a saucepan, and serve 
them hot. 

POTATOES, ROASTED. Wash and 
dry your potatoes, (all of a size), and put 
them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster: 
take care not to put tliem too near the fire, 
or they will get burned on the outside before 
they are warmed through. Large potatoes 
will require two hours to roast them. 
N. B. To save time and trouble, some 
cooks half boil them first. This is one of 
the l>est opportunities the BAKER has to 
rival the cook. 

POTATOES ROASTED UNDER 
MEAT. Half Ixiil larsfe potatoes, drain the. 
water from them, and put them into an earth- 
en dish, or small tin (KIM, under meat that is 
roasting, and baste them with some of the 
dripping: when they are browned on one 
side, turn them and brown th:- other; si-mi 
tliem up round the meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED. Mash ,*,. 
tatoes as directed, then butter some nice 
clean scollop-shells, patty-|Kins, or te,i-cii|,s 
or saucers; put in your |x>tatocs; make 
tlwm smooth at the top; cross a knife over 
i them; strew a lew tine bread-crumbs on 
them: sprinkle them with a paste-brush 
with a few drops of melted butter, and then 
set them in a Dutch o\en; when they are 
browned on tlie top, take them carefully out 
of the shells, and brown the other side. 

POTATO SNOW. The potatoes must 

I):' lire from sjwiN. and tile whitest you can 
pick out ; put them on in cold water; when 
they Ix'gin to crack, strain the water from 



POT 



151 



POU 



them, and put them into a clean stcwpan by 
of the fire till they are quite dry, 
and fall to pieces ; rub them through a wire 
sieve on the dish they are to lie sent up in, 
and do not disturb them afterward. 

POT POURRI. Gather, when perfect- 
ly dry, a peck of roses; pick off the leaves, 
and strew over them three-qtiarters of a 
pound of << numon salt; let them remain 
two or three days, and if any fresh flowers 
are added, some more salt should be sprin- 
tliem. Mix with the roses half a 
pound of tinely-pounded bay silt, the same 
quantity of allspice, of cloves, and of brown 
i|iiarter of a pound of zuin-henju- 
miu, and two ounces of orris-root ; add a 
glare of brandy, and any sort of fragrant 
flown. Mich as orange and lemon (lowers 
rosemary, and a threat quantity of lavender 
flowers also white lilies: a green orange 
stuck with cloves may be added. All the 
flowers must be gathered perfectly dry. 

l'i I I I Mi BEEF, VEAL, GAME, or 
POULTRY. Take three pound* of lean 
gravy beef, nil) it well with an ounce of 
salt|-tre. and tncn a hanilful of common 
salt ; let it lie in salt for a couple of days, 
rubbing it well each day; then put it into 
11 |>an or stone jar that will just 
hold it; rover it will) the skin and fat that 
you rut oir, and pour in half a pint of wa- 
ter; cover it close with paste, and set it in 
a \er\ >'ow oven (or about four hours. 

\Viieu it comes from the oven, drain the 
gra\v tVoni it into a basin ; pick out the gris- 
tle* and the skins; mince it fine; moisten it 
with a little of the gravy you poured from 
the meat, which is a very strou<; consomme 
(lint rather silt), and it will make excellent 
pease soup, or browning; pound the incut 
patiently and thoroughly in .1 mortar with 
(.-line fn li butter, till it is a line 

< I meat smooth there is nothing 
eijital to plenty of elbow-grease) ; seasoning 
it l>y decrees, as vou are leafing it, with 
a little black jit-ppcr and allspice, or cloves 
p'iunde.1. in- mace, or graleii mi- 

Put it in |vts, pi-ess it down as close as 

I cover it a f|'iartiT of an inch 

thick with clarified l>ntter; and if \ou wish 

' ii.it tie a 

Ke 'p it in a dry place. 
iv mince a liitle h.iai or bacon, or 
an and; > herlw, or an 

eschalot, and a little larni^.-n. chenil. or 
bnniet. >vcc., and (XMind them with tin- incut, 
with a Lrlass of wine, or some mustard, or 

It is a MTV agreeable and cc.-momical 
way of using tlie n in or poul- 

try, or a l.nx'c joint of eillier roasted or 
boiled beef, >eal, ham, or ti.ngnc, &c. to I 



mince it with some of the fat, or moisten 
it with a little butter, and beat it in a mor- 
tar with the seasoning, &c. 

Meat that has been boiled down for 
gravies, &c. (which ha. heretofore been 
considered the perquisite of the cat) and ia 
completely drained of all its succulence, beat 
in a mortar with salt and a little ground 
black [x'pper and allspice, as directed in 
the fore-joing receipt, and it will make as 
good potted beef as meat that hag been 
baked till its moisture is entirely extracted, 
which it must be, or it will not keep two 
days. 

M K M. Meat that has not been previous- 
ly salted, will not keep go long as that 
which has. 

POULTRY. In choosing a turkey, the 
youn<r cock bird is to be preferred ; tlie best 
have black legs, and if young, the toes and 
bill are pliable and feel soft. A hen turkey 
is chi-sen by the same rules. 

l-'owls with black legs are the l>est; if 
fresh, the vent is close and dark ; if young, 
the coml)s are bright in the color, and die 
legs smooth tlie spurs of a young cock are 
short. 

A goose, if young and fine, is plump in 
the breast, the fat white and soft, the feet 
yellow, and but few hairs upon them. 

Ducks may be chosen by the same rules, 
and are hard and thick on the breast and 
belly. 

- should be quite fresh, the breast 
plump and fat, the feet elastic, and neither 
flabby nor discolored at tlie vent. 

To prepare a turkey for dressing, every 
|)|HL' is carefully picked out; and in drawing 
tnrkevs and fowls, care must be taken not 
to break llie gall bair, nor the -,'iit which 
joins tlie gizzard, as it is impossible to re- 
move the bitterness of tin- one, or the gritti- 
ii' of the other. Tlie hairs are si 
with white paper; tlie leg-bone is broken 
close to tlie foot, an<i the sinews drawn on: 
a cloth is then p-.it over the bi> 
tin- Ix.ne flattened with a rolling-pin, the 
liver and gizzard, made delicately < 
f.i-!cned into each pinion. A stnin 
.i'ii sausage meat, adding some grated 
bread, and mixing it with the l>ea;ea yolks 
_'*, or a shilling as for a fillet of 
\i-al. i- tlicn put into the btvast, and the 
turkey, well nibbed over with lloiir, is put 
down to roast. It is basted constantly with 
lMter, and when the steam draws towards 
tile lire, it is nearly done; it is tlicn dredg- 
ed with Hour, and basted -.lith more Uitter, 
served with j;ra\y in the dish, and mi niched 
with sausages, or with f-rcenieat balls if 
veal -tiiMini.' is used, and bread .-auce in a 
sauce tiirtvn. 

To boil a turkey. After being nicely 



POIT 



152 



PRESERVES 



cleaned, it is trussed with the legs drawn in 
under the skin, stuffed with a forcemeat, as 
(or veal, adding a few chopped oysters; 
then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and serv- 
ed with oyster, white or celery sauce, poured 
over it, and alto some in a sauce tureen. 
Boiled ham, tongue, or pickled pork, is eat- 
en with it. A large-sized turkey will require 
more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with 
celery sauce, is stuffed and trussed neatly, 
laid all over with slices of bacon, tied in a 
cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, 
butter, and lemon-juice added. It is served 
thickly covered with celery sauce. 

Turkey poults are stuffed and roasted in 
the same manner as a full-grown turkey. 
They will require rather more than an hour 
to roast. They are dressed with the heads 
t\\ -istcd under the wing, as are also turkeys 
sometimes, but it seems an injudicious cus- 
tom, as the side on which the head is cannot 
Ix? nicely browned, and in carving, the blood 
from the neck is apt to mingle with the 
gravy. 

To roost a fowl. It is picked, nicely 
cleaned, and singed; the neck is cut off 
close by the hick ; the fowl is then washed, 
and if a large one, stuffed with forcemeat. 
It is trussed and dredged with flour; and 
when put down to roast, basted well with 
butter, and frothed up. When the steam is 
observed to draw towards the fire, it is 
sufficiently done ; served with gravy in the 
dish, and bread sauce in a butter tureen. 
A good-sized fowl will require above an hour 
to roast. 

Chickens are roasted as the above, and 
served with gravy in the dish, which is 
garnished with fried eggs, and bread sauce 
in a sauce tureen ; they will require from 
half an hour to three-quarters to roast. 

To boil a fowl. When nicely singed, 
washed, and trussed, it is well dredged with 
flour, and put nit in boiling water, and if a 
large one, boiled nearly an hour. It is 
served with parsley and butter, white, or 
Jiver sauce. 

Two boiled fowls, served with a tongue 
between them, make a handsome top dish. 

Boiled chickens are improved by being 
stuffed, and will require nearly half an hour 
to boil. 

To roast a goose. After being well 
cleaned, picked, and singed, it is washed, 
made jjcrfectly dry, and stuffed with about 
four table-spoonfuls of grated bread, an on- 
ion finely minced, together with three sage- 
loaves, seasoned with salt and |X'p|>er, and 
mixed with a well-beaten egg; or, the j 
stuffing is made of boiled mashed potatoes, 
seasoned in the same way as the other-, and 
mixed with a Ix-aten rj<j. If roasted on a 
spit, each end is tied on tightly; it is basted 
at first with a little bit of butter, after which 



the fat that drops from it is used. It is 
served with tjravy in the dish, and apple 
sauce in a sauce tureen. A large goose will 
require an hour and a half to roast. At ta- 
ble, an opening is cut in the apron, and a 
glass of Port wine, with which is mixed a 
large tea-spoonful of made mustard, is pour- 
ed into the body of the goose. This is also 
an improvement to ducks. 

A green goose, atjout two or three months 
old, is seasoned with pepper and salt only, 
and requires to be basted with butter. It 
requires about an hour to roast. 

To roast ducks. They are nicely 'picked, 
cleaned, singed, and washed, seasoned with 
pepper and salt; or stufled, and served with 
gravy, as directed in pp. 66, 67. A duck 
may be boiled for nearly an hour, and served 
with onion sauce poured over it. 

PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS. &c. 

All sweetmeats should be preserved in a 
brass pan, which must 1x3 well scoured with 
sand and vinegar, washed with hot water, 
and wiped perfectly dry before it is used. 

An iron plate or stove is preferable to a 
fire for preserving on; and by Ixiiling the 
fruit quickly, the form, color, and flavor, 
will be belter preserved, and there will be 
less waste than* in slow boiling. A round 
wooiien stick, smaller at one end than at 
the other, in Scotland called a thevil, is 
lietter adapted for stirring sugar or preserves 
with than a silver spoon, which last is only 
used for skimming. That there may lie no 
waste in taking off the scum, it is put through 
a line silk sieve, or through a hair sieve, 
with a l)it of muslin laid into it; the clear 
part will run into the vessel placed lx j low, 
and may be returned to the preserving- 
pan. 

A silver soup ladle is used for putting pre- 
serves into the jars, which should l)e of 
brown stone, or of white wedtjewood ware. 
After the jellies or preserves are put in, they 
must not be moved till quite cold, when they 
are covered with a piece of white paper, cut 
so as to fit into the jar, and dipped into brandy 
or rum. They are then stored in a cool dry 
place, and should be looked at occaMon.dlv. 
If in a few weeks they be observed to fer- 
ment, the sirup should be first strained from 
the fruit, then boiled till it is thick, and 
again poured over the fruit, previously put 
into clean jars. 

Sugar, low in price, and consequently 
coarse in quality, is far from lx?ing rlieapest 
in the end ; while that which is most refin- 
ed is always the best. White sugars should 
Ix; chosen as shining and as close in texture 
as possible. 

The best sort of brown sugar has a bright 
and gravelly appearance. 

A jellv-bag is made of half a square of 



PRESERVES 



153 



PRESERVES 



flannel folded by PIP corner?, and one side 
sewed up; the \<-\> bound with tape, and 
four loops also of t;i|x j sewed on. 
liang upon a stand made of four Kirs of 
wood, each thirty -six incites in height, fast- 
ened w i : > i the top, each meas- 
uring ten inches uith hooks upon the cor- 
ners. Twelve in -hes from die bottom four 
more bars arc placed. A pan or basin is 
put underneath to receive tlie juice or jelly 
as it drops dirough the bag. 

To save Sugar in Preserving Cher- 
ries, Green Gages, Damsons, Currants, 
and Raspberrii .-.. Gather the fruit perfectly 
dry, and to a ixniiul allow five ounces of finely- 
pounded lo;:f.-u^'ir; put a layer of fruit into a 
wide-mouthed bottle or jar, and then one of 
sugar, till the \essel is full ; tie over it tightly 
two fold* of--' HIM 1 bladder, and put them into 
acop|>cror pan, witli straw in the bottom, 
and water :i- in Ji a.- the necks, and let them 
simmer for three hours. When the water 
':.< out the bottles, and keep them 
in a cool dry . 

FRUIT, WITHOUT 

SHJAi; misons when not too 

k off the stalks, and put them into 
wide-mouihed uU,-s Wtles, taking care not 
to put iii any but what are whole, and with- 
out blemi.-h; shake them well down (other- 
I will not l half full when 
done); .-top the Wiles with new soft corks, 
not too ti^'ht; set them into a very slow oxen 
(nearly e,>li!) four or li\e hours; the slower 
; :n- better; wlx-n they begin 
to ~\\\ ink in the Wll.-s, it H a sure siijii that 
Uie fruit i- thoroughly warm: Like them 
out, an.! ue cold, drive in the 

corks quite 1'uh:; -t them in a hit tie-rack or 
bask, t, uiih ill.- month downwards, and they 
will n- 

. morello cherries, cur- 
rants, green gages, or bullace, may be done 

Obs. lit!,, r.iik- are good, and fit well, 

II IK- no occasion for cemenlini; 
tin in; I.IK -: -ild bungs be used, it will be 
necessary . 

AITI.KS. (1) Pare, core, 

and quarter six (xninds of good hard bak- 
ing apples; finely poinul lour |x>unds of loaf 

i-.er of each alternately, with 
h.ilf n pound of the beat white ginger, into a 
jar; let i: md-foity hour*; iiifn-.-, 

for half (hat time, in a little Ixiili 
half a quarter of a pound of bruised white 
strain and lx>il the liquor with tin- 
apples till thev look clear, ami tin- sirup rich 
and thick, whii h may be in about an hour. 
Take (.tt 'tl -.1 -i-niii as it rises. XV hen to be 
eaten, pick out the whole ginger. 



PRESERVED APPLES. (2 
equal quantities of good brown sugar and of 
apples; peel, cote, and mince them small. Boil 
the su^ar, allowing to every three pounds a 
pint of water; skim it well, and boil it pretty 
thick; then add die apples, the grati-d ]jeel 
of one or two lemons, and two or three 
pieces of white ginger; boil till the apples 
fall, and look clear and yellow. This pre- 
serve will keep for years. 

APPLES, GREEN COD- 
LINGS. Gather the codlings when not 

bilker than French walnuts with the stalks 
and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of 
\ ine lea\es into a piv-n \ ing-pan, then a layer 
of codlings, then vine leaves, and then cod- 
lings and vine leaves alternately, until it is 
full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed 
on the top, and fill the pan with spi 
ter; cover it close to keep in the steam, and 
set it on a slow fire till die apples U-eome 
soft. Take them out, and pare off the 
rinds widi a penknife, and then put them 
into the same water again with the vine 
leaves, but taking care that die water is 
become quite cold, or it will cause them 
to crack; put in a little alum and set 
them over a slow fire till they are green, 
when, take them out and lay them on a 
sieve to drain. Make a good simp and 
give diem a gentle boil three succe-.-ive 
days; then put diem in small jars with 
brandy paper over diem, and tie diem 
down tight. 

APPLES, GOLDEN PIPPINS. 

Take die rind of an orange and boil it \i-ry 
tender; lay it in cold water lor three . 
take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, 
and quarter them, and boil them to a strong 
jelly, and nin it dirough a jelly-bag till it is 
clear; take the same quantity of pippins, 
pare and core diem, and put three jxiunds 
of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan w ith a 
pint and a half of spring water; let it Ixiil ; 
skim it well and put in your pippins, w ith 
the orange rind cut into long diin sli|>s; 
then let diem boil fast till die sugar becomes 
thick and will almost candy; then put in a 
pint and half of pi|>pin jelly, and boil f;ist 
till the jelly is c I ,.;ir; tln-n squec/e in die 
juice of a fine lemon ; gi\c file who lean- 
other !iil, and put the pippins in pots or 

with the oraii!{c-|xvl. 
I>-mon-|x-cl may be; ti.-ed in-tead of or- 
ange, but dien it fiuist only be boiled, mid 
notioaked. 



. Ai'KiroTS. 1'arp your ap- 

ricnt.-, and SI..IH- what you can whole, tlicn 
yive tin-in a li^'lit Wliug in water propor- 
tioned to the quantity of fruit, only just 
enough; dtcn take (!M- weight of die apricoU 



PRESERVES 



154 



PRESERVES 



in sugar, and take the liquor in which they 
have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till 
it conies to a sirup, and give them a light 
boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. 
When the sirup jellies it is enough ; then 
take tip the apricots anil cover them with 
the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay 
them down when cold. 

BLACK CURRANTS. Gather 

the currants upon a dry day; to every 
pound allow half a pint of red currant 
juice, and a pound and a half of finely- 
pounded loaf sugar. With scissors clip off 
the heads and stalks ; put the juice, sugar, 
and currants into a preserving pan; shake 
it frequently till it boils; carefully remove 
the fruit from the sides of the pan, and take 
off the scum as it ri^es ; let it boil for ten or 
fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eat- 
en with cream, and made into tarts. 



CHERRIES. To a pound of 

cherries allow three-quarters of a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar; carefully stone them, 
and as they are done, strew part of the su- 
gar over them; boil them fast, with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear 
and the sirup thick ; take off the scum as it 
rises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes 
in an equal quantity of sugar, which has 
been previously clarified and boiled candy 
high. Part of the kernels may be added. 

CUCUMBERS. Take large 

and fresh-gathered cucumbers; 'split them 
down and take out all the seeds ; lay them 
in salt and water that will bear an egg, 
three days; set them on a fire with cold 
water, and a small lump of alum, and boil 
them a few minutes, or till tender; drain 
them, and pour on them a thin sirup; let 
them lie two days; boil the simp again, and 
put it over the cucumbers; repeat it twice 
more; then have ready some fresh clarified 
sugar, boiled to a blow ; put in the cucumbers, 
simmer it five minutes; set it by till next 
day; boil the simp and cucumbers again, 
and set them in glasses for use. 

< CUCUMBERS, SMALL. 

Weigh equal proportions of small green cu- 
cumbers and of fine loaf sugar, clarify it; 
rub the cucumbers with a cloth, scald them 
in hot water, and, when cold, put them into 
the sirup, witl\ some white ginger and the 
peel of a, lemon ; boil them gently for ten 
minutes. The following day just let them 
boil, and rejxjat this three times, and the 
last, boil them till tender and clear. 



nately a layer of damsons, and one of sugar ; 
tie them over with bladder or strong paper, 
and put them into an oven after the bread is 
withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven 
is cold. The following day strain off the 
sirup, and boil it till thick. When cold, 
put the damsons one by one into small jars, 
and pour over them the sirup, which must 
cover them. Tie them over with wet 
bladder. 



DAMSONS. (2) Prick them 

with a needle, and boil them with sugar 
the same proportion as in the receipt to 
preserve damsons, till the sirup will jelly. 
Carefully take off all the scum. 



DAMSONS. (1) To even, pound 

of damsons allow three-quarters of a pourtd 
of pounded loaf sugar; put into jars alter- 



GREEN GAGES. Put die 

plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, 
and divide them ; take an equal quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, strew half of it over the 
fruit; let it remain some hours, and, with 
(he remainder of the sugar, put it into a 
preserving pan ; boil till the plums look 
quite clear, take off the scum as it rises, 
and a few minutes before taking them off 
the fire, add the kernels. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 

GOOSEBERRIES. (1) Weigh equal pro- 
portions of sugar and of fruit; with a pen- 
knife slit the gooseberries on one side, and 
take out all the seeds; put. them into a pre- 
serving pan with cold water, scald them; 
pour off the water when cold ; put over and 
under therifvine leaves, with more cold water j 
set them over the fire to green. Clarify the su- 
gar ; put die gooseljerries into a deep jar, and 
pour the boiling sirup over them; in two 
days pour it off, boil, and put it over the 
fruit ; repeat this till die sirup becomes thick, 
then put them into small jars. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 

GOOSJEBERRIKS. (2) Gather the largest- 
si/ed <iou.--eben ies, and allow an equal quan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar; cut then- 
ries in half, and take out the seeds; wet the 
siiipir wiih a little water, and put idl together 
into a preserving pan; carefully stir and 
scum them, and boil them till the sirup is 
clear and the fruit soft. 



GOOSEBERRIES. The tops 

and tails being removed from the gooseber- 
ries, allow an e<|iial quantity of finely-pounded 
loaf sugar, and put a layer of each alternate- 
ly into a large deep jar ; pour into it as much 
dripped currant juice, either red or white, as 
will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in 
sugar; the following day put all into a pre- 
serving pan and boil it. 

GREEN PEAS. Put into a 



PUDDINGS 



155 



PUDDINGS 



saucepan of boiling water fresh gathered 
and fresh-shelled peas, but not very \oung; 
as soon as they Ixjil up, |x>r off the water, 
and put them upon a large dry cloth folded, 
and then ujxni atiotlier, that they may be 
perfectly dry w itliout being bruised ; let 
them lie some time, before the fire, and then 
put them into small paper bags, each c"ii- 
taining about a pint, and hang them up in 
the kitchen. Before if ing, soak them for 
two or three hours in water, and then boil 
them as directed for green peas, adding a 
little bit of butter, when they are put on to 
boil. 

I'RKSERVKn JARGONELLE PEARS. 

Gather pears with stalk* lx>fore they are 
quite ri|>e; allow equal quantities of fine 

.r and of fruit. Pare the pear? as 
thinly ;is |xi?.ible, keeping on the stalks; 
can-fully cut out the black top; as they are 
peeled put them into cold water. 1'ut cab- 
BMgl leaves into the bottom of a prexr\ in^- 
pan ; lay in the pears, cover them with 
Cold water and one or two cabbage leaves 
upon (he top; Ixiil them thirty minutes, and 
lay them upon a dish. To six pounds of 

1 1 low a pound of water, boil and 
skim it; then add one ounce of while gin- 
ger, previously soaked in hot water, and 
scraped clean, add the juice and thinly par- 
ed rinds of two lemon*. Hod the sirup ten 
minutes, |xit in the pears, and let them boil 
twenty minutes; take them out, put them 
into a Ixnvl or deep dish, Ixiil the sirup 
cL'ht minutes, and when cold |ur it o\i-r 
the |-ars; coxi-r them with pajx-r; iu four \ 
days JxMirotf the simp, lx>il it eight in 
and |xmr it mer the jx-.irs when cold. In 
four d.us irjK-at this pi-ocrns, and do it a 
third lime; tlien stick a clove in each pear, 
when- the black lop wa-i cut out. I'nt them 
md le:no!i-|x-el, 
and |x>ur on the simp when cold. 

KKI) PKAKS. Parlx.il a doz- 

en of |i ..i . I pears in water; [x-el them. 
ChriU the .-nine weight of fine I 
that then :i of Port 

wine, the juii and rind of one |e-, 
a little i ..iln .1. a lew c|,,\ 
of ciiiiia;non; Ixiil tile |>ears in this till they 
iear ami red; take them out, ln.il 
up tile simp, strain, and put it o\er the 

pri)DlN.;s. PIKS. AM) T\ ; i - 
Great n i pn-par- 

tial used for lx>ilcd or baked 
pnodin 

i 1>T well If 

to be done, a 
whi-k i- used . if t--w, a lii. 
The tin 



are carefully ( .-leaned, by putting them into 
a cullender, and pouring warm water over 
them; if very dirty, this is to be repeated 
two or three times, and after being dried in 
a dish IK -to re the fire, tliey are nibbed in a 
clean coarse cloth, all tin- stalks and stones 
picked (ut, and then a little flour dredged 
over them. The raisins are stoned with a 
small sharp-jxiinted knife ; it is cleansed in 
a basin of water, which also receives the 
seed. Tlie pudding cloth must be kept es- 
pecially clean, or it will impart an unpleas- 
io anything that is boiled in it; 
and when taken off" a pudding, it ouiiht im- 
mediately to 1x3 laid in cold water, and af- 
terwaids well washed with soda or pearl- 
ashes in hot water. Just before lieing used 
for a rice, bread, or batter pudding, it 
should be dipped into hot water, wrung, 
shaken, and well dredged with flour ; and 
for a plum, suet pudding, or any sort of 
fruit pudding in paste, it must be buttered 
Ix-tore being floured. 

The water should Ixiil quick when the 
pudding is [Hit in; and it should lx- moved 
about lor a minute, lor fear the ingredients 
should not mix. 

When the |Mi<ldiiu i* done, a pan of cold 
water should lie ready, and the podding 
dip|x-d into it as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, which will prevent its adhering to the 
cloth. 

A bread pudding should be tied loose; 
if batter, it must be tied tight over, and a 
liatter pudding should be strained through a 
vc when all is mixed. In others, 
the eggs only. If you Ixiil the pudding in 
a basin or |,'in, take care that it is always 
well buttered. 

When you make your puddings without 
e^'s, they nrist have ar- little milk as will 
mix, and must Ixiil lor three or four hour?. 
A few s|XHinlnls of small Ix-er, or one of 
vea-l, ii the ln->t Mil.'stitute for e^s. Your 
puddings will always be much lighter it'\ou 
Ix-at the yolks' and whites of the i 
and separately. You may, if you please, 
instead of ei^s, cither in pudding* 
or pancake?. Two lame s|xi<nifuU w ill siip- 
| ly th:- |:!ace of one c^ ; the snow may lie 
taken up from an\ clean >|x>t lx-|ore it R 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
. i he lx-tier. 

All puddings in pa.-te are tied tightly, but 

oilier puddings linwly, in the cloth. When 

a pudding is to IK- Iniili d in a sha|<-. a pi-ce 

of buttered while [W|>er is put upon tile top 

of it, In-fore (he liomvd cloth is tied on. 

. dish, or shape, in which the pod- 

i Iw either boiled or iKiked, must 

. buttered Ix-tore it is filled. It is 

an improvement to jNiildiugs in general to 

let tlM-ni stand >ome time alt. i U-iui; prepared 

Ixjiling or baking. When a pud- 



PUDDINGS 



156 



PUDDINGS 



ding is to be boiled, it must be put on in a 
covered pot, in plenty of boiling water, and 
never for a moment be allowed to be off the 
boil until ready to be served. As the water 
wastes, more, and always boiling, must be 
added. A plum pudding is the better for 
bein;; mixed the day before it is to 1 boiled. 
It may be useful to observe that this pudding 
will keep for months after it is dressed, if 
the cloth be allowed to remain upon it, and 
if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet of 
foolscap paper, and then hung up in a cool 
place. When about to be used, it must l>e 
put into a clean cloth, and again boiled for 
an hour; or it may be cut into pliers, and 
broiled as wanted. If in breaking eggs a 
bad one should accidentally drop into the 
basin amongst the rest, the whole will be 
spoiled ; and therefore they should be broken 
one by one into a tea-cup. When the 
whites only of eggs are required for a jelly, 
or other things, the yolks, if not broken, will 
keep good for three days, if the basin they 
are in be covered. 

A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is pref- 
erable to wood for rolling out paste on. 
The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other im- 
plement used in these processes, must he 
kept particularly clean; thev should alvvavs 
l>e washed immediately alter Iteing used, 
and then well dried. Before using butter 
for (Kiste, it is laid for some time into cold 
water, which is changed once or twiec. 
When salt butter is used, it is well worked 
in two or three waters. If it should not be 
convenient to make the paste immediately 
liefore it. is baked, it will not suffer from 
standing, if made eaily in the morning, and 
the air excluded from it, by putting first a 
tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and 
above that a folded table-cloth. To ascer- 
tain if the oven be of a proper heat, a little 
bit of paste may be baked in it, before any 
tiling else be put in. Puff paste requires 
rather a brisk oven. If too hot it binds the 
surface and prevents the steam from rising, 
and if too slow it becomes sodden and flat. 
Raised crusts require a quick oven; puffs 
and tartlets, which are filled with preserved 
fruit, are sufficiently done when the paste is 
liaked. When large pies have been in the 
oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over 
them to prevent their being burned. 

PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half 
of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small 
lemon; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, 
and put it into the cream, and boil it for 
eight minutes, stirring constantly ; when 
thick add a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a tea-spoonful of gra- 
ted nutmeg, and four well-lieaten eggs; beat 
it all well together for some minutes. It 
may be baked or boiled. 



APRICOT. Take six-and- 

tliirty nice fine red apricots, cut them in 
halves, and take out the stones, and roll 
them in a pan with four 'nine's of powdered 
sugar. Prepare your crust, line votu- mould 
with it, put in your apricots, and finish the 
same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding a 
la Francaise. 



ALMOND, BAKED. Steep 

four ounces of crumbs of bread sliced 
in a pint and half of cream, or grate the 
bread; then beat half a pound of blanched 
almonds very fine, till they Ijecome a paste, 
with two tea-sp<xmfnls of orange-flower wa- 
ter; beat up the yolks of eight eirgs, and the 
whites of four; mix all well together; put in 
a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir 
in three or four ounces of melted butter; 
put it over the fire, and keep stirring until 
it is thick ; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom 
of a dish, and" pour in the ingredients. To 
bake half an hour. 



ALMOND. Blanch and beat 

a pound of sweet almonds with a litite 
rose-water, mix a |xjuml of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, half a pound of butter, and the 
yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of eream, co- 
lored with a very litl!<- saffron, add it to tile 
eggs and a little flour, knead it well, and 
then put in the almonds, Ix-alini: it up till 
all is mixed together. Boil it for half an 
hour in a buttered cloth. 



AMBER. Put a pound of 

butter into a saucepan, with three-quarters 
of a pound of powder-sugar ; when melted 
and well mixed together, add the yolks of 
fifteen eggs beaten, ami as much candied or- 
ange beaten to a paste as will give color and 
flavor to it. Line the dish with paste for 
turning out, and when lilled \\ith the above, 
lay a crust over, as u>u would a pie, and 
bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot 
or cold. 



APPLE. (1) Weigh one 

pound and three-quarters of apples, pan . 
core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh 
also ten ounces of brown sugar; make a 
suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges 
than in the middle, and Mjtiieiently large to 
lay into a two-quart Ijasin, previously but- 
tered; put in die apple and sugar alternate- 
ly, wet die edges of the pai-te, and lold it 
closely over; dredge it with llour, and tie a 
pudding cloth over the top of a basin; boil 
it for three hours. A li^hl paste may be 
made with flour, half ii.- quantity in bulk of 
grated bread and suei. mixing it with milk 
or water, and, instead of apples, currants, 
damsons, or any otli.-i Ii nil, may be enclos- 
ed in it. 



PUDDINGS 



157 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE. (2) Peel and core 

ix very large apples, stew tliem in six ta- 
We-spoonfuls nl" water, with the riml of it 
lemon; wlien sift, Ix-at them to ;i pulp, add 
six ounces <(' melted iVoli butter, the same 
Of good brown j-u^.ir, six well-beaten eggs, 
half :i \\HK-jli-- of l>ntinly, anil a tea- 
gpoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish with a 
puff paste, and H lieu baked, stick all over 
the top thin chips of candied citron and 
lemon-peel. 

APPLE. (3) Make a batter with 

two egg?, a pint of milk, and three or four 
spoonful.* of (lour; pour it into a deep dish, 
and having |>ared six or eight small apples, 
place them whole in die baiter and bake it. 

APPLE, BOILED. Gimp four 

ounces of beef suet very fine, or two ounces 
of butter, lard, or dripping ; but the suet 
makes the best and lightest crust ; put it 
on the paste-board, with ei^ht ounces of 
flour, and a salt-s|>o<>uful of Kilt, mix it well 
together with your hands, and then put it all 
of a heap, ami make a hole in the middle; 
break one egg in it, stir it well together 
with your finger, and by degrees infuse as 
much water as will make it of a still paste: 
roll it out two or three time*, with the roll- 
ing-pin, and tlien roll it large enough to re- 
ceive thirteen ounces of apples. It will look 
neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, 
than wlx'n Ixiiled in a pudding-cloth, well 
floured; boil it an hour and three-quarters: 
but tile surest way is to stew tl)e apples first 
in a .-tew pan, with a wine-glassful of water, 
and then one hour ill Uiil it. Some people 
like it flavored with cloves and lemon-peel, 
and sweeten il with two ounces of sugar. 
( ii xiscl terries, currants, raspberries, and cher- 
ries, damsons, anil various plums and fruits, 
:ire made into pudding- with the same crust 
directed fur apple puddings. 

APPLE, A LA FRAN- 

C USK. 'J'o make the entremets proper- 
Iv, it is necessary to have a mould in the 
form of a dome lour inches deep and six in 
diameter; this mould and its lid should tx> 
pierced all over, the same 80 a skimmer. 
Tliere should be a rim round the lid of the 
dome tlmt it may cover it so closely that all 
air may lie excluded. 

id thirty small red apples 
and cut them into quarters; toss them in a 
steupan with four ounces of fine sugar 
(over which must be grated the rind of an 
orange), and four ounce* of butter luke- 
warm; then place the stewpan oxer the 
rtove, with lire on die cover. \\- 

re done, pour them into a dish. 
WUhtthej are cooling inix up three-quar- 
ters of a pound of stiff paste ; then roll out 
14 



half of it to the thickness of die eighth of an 
inch. With Uiis crust line die inside of 
your mould, which must be previously well 
battered. Be careful that tlie paste lays 
i|iiite flat, leaving a piece all round de edge 
of tlie mould, then put in die best quarters 
of die apples, and fill up die mould with the 
rest of the apples and their liquor, then roll 
out die rest of tlie paste very thin, into two 
parts, cut in rounds. Slightly moisten the 
paste which you have left round tlie edge of 
die mould, and place upon it one of the 
rounds of paste, pinching die edges carefully 
together, then slighdy moisten, and place 
upon it your other round piece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this widi the others to 
make it quite close, then cover diem widi 
die lid of die mould well buttered. 

Now, turn your mould over into die mid- 
dle of a napkin, and tie up the corners of it 
close over die top of the dome, and put it 
into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine 
wide) full of boiling water; and let il be 
kept constantly Ixiiling for an hour and a 
half; when it has lx>iled for this time, take 
it out of the sauce[>an, untie the napkin, 
take out die mould, remove die lid, place 
the mould on a dish, and thru carefully take 
it off from die pudding; strew fine sugar aH 
over your pudding, and serve it quite hot. 

ARROW-ROOT. From a quart 

of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and 
mix it with two large spoonfuls of arrow- 
root. Boil the remainder of die milk, and 
stir it amongst die arrow-root; add, when 
nearly cold, four well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
w ith two ounces of pounded loaf sugar, 
and the same of fresh butter broken into' 
(mall bits; season widi grated nutmeg. Mix 
it well togedier, and bake it in a buttered 
dish fifteen or twenty minutes. 

AUi\T MARY'S. Of bloom 

raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, suet 
finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, 
and brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
each ; four well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful 
of pounded ginger, half a one of salt, half a 
nutmeg grated, and one glass of brandy; 
mix all the ingredients well, and boil it in a 
doth for two hours. Serve widi a sauce of 
melted butter, a glass of wine, and some 
sugar. 

BARLEY. Take a pound of 

pearl barley well washed, three quarts of 
new milk, one quart of cream, and half a 
pound of double refined sugar, a grated nut- 
meg, and some salt ; mix diem well togedier, 
then put them into a deep pan, and bake it ; 
then take it out of the oven, and nut into it 
six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef mar- 
row, and a quarter of a pound of grated 



' PUDDINGS ; 



158 



PUDDINGS 



bread ; mix all well together, then put it in- 
to another pan, bake it again, and it will be 
excellent. 

BATTER, BAKED OR BOIL- 
ED. Break three eggs in a basin with 
as much salt as will lie on a sixpence; 
leat thorn well together, and then add four 
ounces of flour; beat it into a smooth bat- 
ter, and by degrees add half a pint of milk: 
have your saucepan ready boiling, and but- 
ter an earthen mould well, put the pudding 
in, and tie it tight over with a pudding- 
cloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter. 
Or, put it in a dish that you have well but- 
tered and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 
Currants washed and nicked clean, or rai- 
sins stoned, are good in this pudding, and 
it is then called a black cap: or, add loaf 
sugar, and a little nutmeg and ginger with- 
out the fruit, it is very good dial way; 
serve it with wine satire. 

BATTER. Take six ounces 

of fine flour, a little salt, and three eggs; 
beat it- well with a little milk, added 
by degrees till the batter become smooth; 
make it the thickness of cream; put into 
a buttered pie-dish, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour : or into a buttered and floured 
basin, tied over tight with a cloth: boil one 
and a half hour, or two hours. 



take it up, remove the cloth, turn it down- 
wards in a deep dish, and when wanted take 
away the basin or mould. 



BEEF.STEAK,BAKED. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, 
or, which is much lietter, potatoes boiled and 
mashed through a cullender ; lav a little of 
it at the bottom of die dish ; then put in the 
steaks, prepared as above, and very well 
seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter 
over diem, and bake it. 



BISCUIT. Pour a pint 

of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits 
grated; cover it close; when cold add die 
yolks of four eggs, two whiles, nutmeg, a 
little brandy, half a spoonful of Hour, and 
some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. 



BATTER, WITHOUT 

EGGS. Mix six spoonfuls of flour with a 
small portion of a quart of milk ; and when 
smooth add the remainder of die milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of grated 
ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir 
all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit 
may be added or not. 

BEEF-STEAK. Get mmp- 

steaks, not too thick, beat diem with a chop- 
per, cut them into pieces about half the size 
of your hand, and trim off all the skin, sin- 
ews, &c. ; have ready an onion |x?eled and 
chopped fine, likewise some potatoes peeled 
and cut into slices a quarter of an inch 
diick; rub die inside of a basin or an oval 
plain mould with butter, sheet it with paste 
as directed for boiled puddings, season die 
steaks widi pepper, salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg; put in a layer of steak, then anodier 
of potatoes, atid so on till it is full, occasion- 
ally throwing in part of the chopped onion ; 
add to it half a gill of mushroom ketchup, a 
table-spoonful of lemon -pickle, and half a 
gill of water or veal broth ; roll out a top, 
and close it well to prevent the water getting 
in; rinse a clean cloth in hut water, sprinkle 
a little flour over it, and tie up the pudding; 
have ready a large pot of water boiling, 
put it in, and boil it two hours and a half; 



BOSTON APPLE. Peel one 

dozen and a half of good apples ; take out 
die cores, cut them small, put into a stewpan 
that will just hold diem, with a little water, 
a little cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel 
of a lemon ; stew over a slow fire till quite 
soft, dien sweeten widi moist sugar, and 
pass it through a hair sieve; add to it die 
| yolks of four eggs and one white, a quarter 
I of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, 
die peel of a lemon grated, and die juice of 
one lemon: beat all well together; line die 
inside of a pie-dish with gnod puff paste; 
put in the pudding, and bake half an hour. 

BRANDY. Line a mould widi 

jar-raisins .stoned, or dried cherries, dien 
hy thin slices of French roll ; next put a lay- 
er of ratafias or macaroons, then the fruit, 
rolls, and cakes, in succession, until die 
mould be full, pouring in at times, two 
glasses of brandy. Beat foureggs, jroici and 
whites separately, put to them a pint of milk 
or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, 
and the rind of half a lemon grated. Pour 
it into die mould, and when the solid has 
imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, 
and Ixiil an hour; keep the mould the right 
side upwards. 

BREAD AND BUTTER. 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter, without 
the crust, lay some in the bottom of a dish, 
then put a layer of well-cleaned currants, or 
any preserved fruit; dien more bread and 
butter, and so on till the dish is nearly filled; 
mix with a quart of milk four weli-l)eaten 
eggs, three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower 
or rose water; sweeten it well widi brown 
sugar, and pour it over die bread and butter, 
and let it soak for two or three hours before 
Iteing baked. It will take nearly an hour. 
Serve with a sauce, in a sauce-tureen, made 
widi a tea-cupful of currant wine, a table- 



PUDDINGS 



159 



PUDDINGS 



spoonful of brown sugar, three of water, and 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut, stirred till 
boiling hot. 

BREAD. (1) Cut two or three 

slices of bread rather thin, and without the 
crust, put them in a dish, and pour over 
them half a pint of boiling milk ; let it stand 
till cold, and then mash the bread; lay into 
the bottom of a pudding dish a layer of pre- 
served gooseberries, then add the bread ; 
sweeten well a pint of good milk, and mix 
with it three well-beaten eggs with two ta- 
ble-epoonftild of rose water; pour it over the 
bread, and bake it for an hour. Before 
serving, nutmeg may be grated over the top. 

BREAD. (2) Make a pint of 

bread-cruinbe ; put them in a stewpan with 
aa much milk as will cover them, the peel 
of a lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a 
small piece of cinnamon; boil about ten 
minutes ; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar ; 
take out the cinnamon, and put in four eggs ; 
beat all well together, and bake half an hour, 
or boil rather more than an hour. 



PLAIN BREAD. Make five 

Ounces of bread-crumbs ; put them in a ba- 
sin; jxmr three-quarters of a pint of boiling 
milk over them; put a plate over the top to 
keep in die steam ; let it stand twenty min- 
utes, then beat it up quite smooth with two 
Ounces of sugar and a salt-spoonful of nutmeg. 
Break I'. in eggs on a plate, leaving out one 
white; beat them well, ami add tliem to the 
pudding. Stir it all well together, and put it 
in a mould that has been well buttered and 
floured ; tie a cloth over it, and boil it one 
hour. 

BUTTER-MILK. Turn two 

qnaris of new milk with one of butter-milk; 
drain oil' the \\liey, and mix with the curd 
the grated crumb of a lwo|K-miy roll, the 
grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nut- 
meg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six 
ounces of clarified butter, and the beaten 
yolk< (if nine, and the whites of f 

i! witll, and bake it with or without 
a puff paste, tor three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be boiled. 

CAMP. Put into a saucepan 

half a pint of water, a quarter nf a pomnof 
butter, a tal>le-s|HMinfnl of 'mown m 

the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it 
just come to a txiil. take it off, and stir in u 
quarter of a pound of sifted lloiir ; mix it 
perfect U smooth, and vvhcn eold, beat in 
four well-lx ateii eggs. Half till twelve yel- 
low tea -en | t, and bake them in a quick 
cuen. Sine them witli a sauce of wine, 
sugar, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. 



CARROT. Pound in a mortar 

the red part of two large boiled carrots ; add 
a slice of grated bread, or pounded biscuit, 
two ounces of melted butter, the same quan- 
tity of sugar, a table-spoonful of marma- 
lade, or a bit of orange-peel minced ; half a 
tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well- 
beaten eggs; mix all well together; bake it 
in a dish lined with puff paste. 



CALF'S FEET. Pick all 

the meat off three well-boiled calf's feet; 
chop it finely, as also half a pound of fresh 
beef suet ; grate the cnimb of a penny loaf; 
cut like straws an ounce of orange-peel, and 
the same of citron ; beat well six eggs, and 
grate a small nutmeg ; mix all diese ingre- 
dients well together, with a glass of brandy 
or rum, and boil it in a cloth nearly three 
hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. 



CHERRY, ANGLO FRAN- 

CAIS. Pick two pounds of fine ripe 
cherries, and mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of picked red currants, (having ex- 
tracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder 
sugar. Make your pudding as directed in 
the receipt for apple pudding, with Musca- 
del raisins. You may make use of rasp- 
berries instead of currants ; or mix red or 
white currants and raspberries. 



CHEESE. (1) Grate one 

pound of mild cheese; beat well four eggs, 
oil one ounce of butter ; mix these ingredi- 
ents together with one gill of cream, and 
two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted 
bread, and Lake it in a dish or tin lined 
widi puff paste. 

CHEESE. (2) Grate a quarter 

of a pound of good cheese, |Mit it into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of ^md milk, and nearly 
two ounces of grated bread, and one beaten 

-tir it till the clu e.-c be dissolved; [Kit 
it into a biitten-d di-l>. and brown it in a 
Dutch oven. .Serve it quite hot. 

CITRON. (1) Mix together a 

pint of cream and the \olUs of MX i-^*; add 
to this four ounces of iji-.e me of 

citron, shred line, two s|XH>nfiilsnf flour, and 
a little nutmeg; place this mixture in a deep 
dish, bake it in a hot men, and turn it out. 

CITRON. (2) The yolks of three 

eggs beaten, half a pint i.i -|>oon- 

lul of (lour, two ounces of citron cut thin; 
, M; ilu- iii'o large cups 
buttered; l;:ike them in a t .leralily quick 
oven ; when done, turn them out of the cups, 
and serve. 

COCOA-MT. Quarter pound 



PUDDINGS 



160 



PUDDINGS 



Cocoa-nut grated : same of powdered sugar ; 
three and half ounces butter ; whites of six 
eggs ; half tea-spoon of rose-water, and half 
glass of wine and brandy mixed. Take the 
thin brown skin from off the meat, and wash 
the pieces in cold water, and wipe dry. 
Grate a quarter pound fine. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, and add the liquor 
and rose-water to them. Beat the whites 
of the eggs till they stand alone, and then 
stir them into the butter and sugar ; after- 
wards sprinkle in the grated nut, and stir 
hard all the time. Put puff paste into the 
bottom and sides of the dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
about half an hour. Grate loaf sugar over 
it, when cold. 



COTTAGE POTATO OR 

CAKE. Peel, boil, and mash, a couple of 
pounds of potatoes: beat them up into a 
.smooth batter, with about three-quarters of 
a pint of milk, two ounces of moist sugar, 
and two or three beaten eggs. Bake it 
about three-quarters of an hour. Three 
ounces of currants or raisins may be added. 
Leave out the milk, and add three ounces of 
butter, it will make a very nice cake. 



COTTAGE. Six ounces of 

currants, half a pound of minced suet, and 
the same quantity of grated bread, half a 
grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or rose water ; mix all well together, 
with the beaten yolks of five eggs, to a stiff 
paste, and with floured hands roll it into 
twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form 
of sausages ; fry them gently in butter till of 
a nice brown ; roll them well in die frying- 
pan. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed 
over diem, and widi a sweet sauce. They 
may be boiled. 

CRANBERRY. Stir into a 

quart of batter, made stiffer than for batter 
pudding, about a pint of cranberries, and 
boil as usual. Or, make a paste as for apple 
pudding, and put in die cranberries, with 
molasses sufficient to sweeten dieir acidity. 
Eaten with sweet sauce. 



CURD, BOILED. Rub the 

curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
through a sieve ; then mix with it six eggs, 
a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three 
spoonfuls of flour, and thive spoonfuls of 
bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and 
half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil 
for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. 

CURRANT. A pound of cur- 
rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoon- 



fuls of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of 
ginger, a little powder sugar and a little 
salt; boil diis for three horn's. 



CURRANT DRY. Chop a 

pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of 
Hour, half a pound of currants, (well wash- 
ed), a tra-spooi it'ui of |xninded ginger, half a 
spoonful of tincture of saffron, and a little 
salt ; stir in a sufficient quantity of water, 
to make it a proper consistence; tie it in a 
buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour ; serve 
it with melted tatter, white wine, and sugar. 

CUSTARD. Boil a pint of 

milk, and a quarter of a pint of good cream ; 
thicken with flour and water made perfectly 
smooth, till it is stiff enough to bear an egg 
on it ; break in the yolks of five eggs ; sweet- 
en with powdered loaf sugar; grate in a 
little nutmeg and the peel of a lemon: add 
half a glass of good brandy; then whip the 
whites of the five eggs till quite stiff, and 
mix gently all togedier: line a pie-dish with 
good puff paste, and bake half an hour. 
N. B. Ground rice, potato flour, panada, 
and all puddings made from powders, are, 
or may be, prepared in die same way. 



DAMSON. Make a batter 

with three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, 
and of flour and brown sugar four table- 
spoonfiils each; stone a pint of damsons, 
and mix them with the batter; boil it in a 
buttered basin for an hour and a half. 



EGG. Melt a quarter of a 

pound of tatter, and when nearly cold, mix 
well widi it die following ingredients: ten 
well-beaten yolks and two whites of eggs, 
half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of 
good brown sugar, two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of bran- 
dy; bake it widi or without a lining of puff 
paste. 

FRUIT SUET. Of finely 

minced suet, flour, grated bread, and clean- 
ed currants, a quarter of a pound each ; a 
tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of salt, 
two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea-cup- 
ful of milk; mix all the ingredients well to- 
gether, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. 
Serve with a sweet sauce. 

FAMILY. Mix with a pound 

of flour half a pound of raisins stoned and 
chopped, die same quantity of minced suet, 
a little salt, and milk or water sufficient to 
make it into a stiff batter; tail it for five 
hours. Serve with milted tatter poured 
over it. Two well-beaten eggs may be 
added. 



PUDDINGS 



161 



PUDDINGS 



G9OSEBERRY, BOILED. 

This pudding is made in the same manner 
as Apple pudding. 

1M>I\\. (1) It i? a good plan 

to make this pudding the night before. It 
requires a great deal of boiling, say four 
or five hours. Sifted meal and warm milk 
stirred together pretty stiff; salt and suffi- 
cient molasses added. Boil in a stout bag, 
or tiu'litly covered pan; let not the water 
get in, and be careful in tyinu' to leave room 
for the meal to swell. Ix;t the milk you use 
be warm, not scalding. \ou may add 
chop|x,'d suet, which is. very much liked by 
some, and likewise ginger, if preferred. If 
you have not milk, water will answer. 

INDIAN. (2) Boil in a quart of 

good milk a tea-cupfiil of Indian meal, stir 
it constantly till thick, sweeten it with trea- 
cle or brown Miuar, and stir in two well- 
beaten eirus, and an ounce of butter; bake 
it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Haifa 
grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be 
{8. A boiled Indian meal 
puddinir is made in the same way, and after 
Deng mixed wi;h or without eggs in it, it is 
tied in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil- 
ed for two hours. It is eaten with cold or 
melted butter. 



JELLY. Beat to a light cream 

ten ounces of fresh butter, then add by de- 
grees six well-beaten yolks of eggs, and half 
a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two 
or three table-spoonfuls of rose water; beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, mix 
them in lightly ; bake it five-and-twenty min- 
utes in a dish lined with puff paste. 

JENETON. Butter a mould, 

and ornament it with raisins in festoons, or 
in any other form; line it with sponge bis- 
cuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia 
and sponge biscuit, then pour a rich custard 
over the whole, and let it stand tor two 
hours, adding more custard as it soaks into 
the biscuit. The mould being quite full, tie 
a cloth over it, and boil it for about an hour. 

LEMON. (1) Peel four lemons 

thin; boil them till they are tender; rub 
them through a hair sieve, and preserve the 
fine pulp. Take a pound of \aples biscuits, 
a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of 
fresh I Hitler, and pour over them some boil- 
in.: milk or cream in whir-h a stick of cin- 
naiii'xi In- lieen Ixiiled. Whi-n cold, mix 
with tin-in lh- |Milp of the Ic-in ms, and eight 
eggs well Ix-ateu; sweeten an-..rding to 

ami it" you choose, add brandy. Edge 
a dish with yood puff paste, put in the mix- 
tine; garnish the top with MI in;:- f paste, 
14* 



as for tartlets, and bake it ia a moderately 
heated oven. 



LEMON. (2) Put half a pound 

of fresh Imtter with half a pound of loaf su- 
gar, into a saucepan, and keep it stirring 
over the fire till it boils; put it into an 
earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large 
lemon into it, and let it stand till cold ; beat 
eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon 
on them; mix the sugar and butter with 
them ; put some rich puff paste at the bottom 
of a dish, then put in the preparation, and 
add bits of candied lemon-peel when you 
have put in the preparation. Bake with 
great care. 

LEMON. (3) Boil in water, 

in a closely covered saucepan, two large 
lemons till quite tender; take out the seeds, 
and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
the same of fresh butter ! ream, 

and the yolks of three well-l)eateii e^'.s; mix 
all together, and kike it in a tin lined with 
puff paste; take it out, strew over the top 
grated loaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin. 

MACARONI. (1) Simmer half a 

pound of macaroni in plenty of water, and a 
table-spoonful of salt, till it is tender; but 
take care not to have it too soft ; though ten- 
der, it should be firm, and the form entirely 
preserved, and no part beginning to melt (this 
caution will serve for tlie preparation of all 
macaroni). Strain the water from it; beat 
up five yolks and the whites of two eg!*s ; take 
half a pint of the best cream, and the < 
of a iowl, and some thin slice- of ham. 
Mince the breast of the fowl with the ham; 
add them with from two to three table- 
spoonfuls of finely-grated cheese, and sea- 
son with pep|>er and salt. Mix all these 
with tlie macaroni, anil put into a pudding- 
mould well buttered, and then let it steam in 
a stewpan of boiling water for about an 
hour, and serve quite hot, with rich gravy 
(as in Omelet). 



MACARONI. (2) Take an ounce 

or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it 
into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only 
one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful 
of almond-water, and half a glass of raisin 
wine; lay a nice paste round the edge of the 
dish, and jxit it in the oven to bake. If 
you choose you may put in a layer of orange- 
marmaLtde", or raspberry-jam : in this case 
you must not |xit in the almond-water or 
ratafia. 



MARROW. Put into a 



mug 



PUDDINGS 



162 



PUDDINGS 



the crumb of a pound loaf, and pour over it 
a pint and a half of boiling milk ; cover it 
closely for an hour ; cut into small bits half 
a pound of marrow, stone and cut a quarter 
of a pound of raisins, take the same quantity 
of nicely-cleaned currants, beat well six eggs, 
a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the 
same of nutmeg/; mix all thoroughly with the 
bread and milk, sweeten it well with brown 
sugar, and bake it, with or without a bor- 
der of puff paste round the dish, three-quar- 
ters of an hour. It may be baked in a 
Dutch oven, and after baking it for three- 
quarters of an hour, put a tin cover over 
the top, and place the dish upon a gridiron, 
over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen 
minutes. 



. MILLET. Wash four table- 
spoonfuls of the eed, tisil it in a quart of 
milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of 
fresh butter; sweeten with brown sugar, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of four, and 
the whites of two eggs, and a glass of wine 
or spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish. 

MY. Beat up the yolks and 

whites of three eggs ; strain them through a 
sieve (to keep out the treddles), and gradu- 
ally add to them about a quarter pint of milk ; 
stir these well together. Rub together in a 
mortar two ounces of moist sugar and as 
much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling; 
stir them into die eggs and milk ; then put 
in four ounces of flour, and beat it into a 
smooth batter ; by degrees stir into it seven 
ounces of suet (minced as fine as possible) 
and three ounces of bread crumbs. Mix all 
thoroughly together at least half an hour be- 
fore you put the pudding into the pot. Put it 
into an earthen pudding mould, that is well 
buttered. Tie a cloth over it very tight; 
put it into boiling water, and boil it three 
hours. Half a pound of raisins cut in half 
added to the above, will make a most admi- 
rable plum pudding. Grated lemon-peel is 
also fine. 

Don't let the water cease to boil : it will 
spoil the pudding. And it is always best 
that puddings be mixed an hour or two be- 
fore put into the pot, the ingredients get 
amalgamated, and the whole becomes richer 
and fuller of flavor. 

The above pudding may be baked in an 
oven, or under meat, as \orkshire pudding, 
only add half pint more milk. Should it be 
above an inch and quarter in thickness, it 
will take full two hours; and requires care- 
ful watching; for if die top gets burned, a 
bad flavor will pervade the whole pudding. 
Or, butter some tin patty-pans or saucers, 
fill diem with pudding, and bake alxuit an 
hour in a Dutch oven. 



NASSAU. Put into a sauce- 
pan die whole yolks of eight, and the whites 
of four eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf 
sugar, and one pound of fresh butter; stir it 
over a slow fire for nearly half an hour; line 
a dish with thin puff paste and lay over die 
bottom a diick layer of orange marmalade, 
and then put in the pudding. Bake it for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 

NEW COLLEGE. Haifa pound 

of fresh beef suet, finely minced, the same of 
currants, a quarter of a pound of grated 
bread, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a 
teal-spoonful of salt, a small nutmeg grated, 
an ounce of candied orange-peel minced; 
mix fill together with two or three well- 
beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of a 
light brown; shake the pan, and turn them 
frequently till done enough. Serve widl 
pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over 
diem. 



NEWMARKET. Put on to 

boil a pint of good milk, with half a lemon- 
peel, a little cinnamon, and a bay leaf; boil 
gently for five or ten minutes; sweeten widl 
loaf sugar ; break the yolks of five, and die 
whites of three eggs, into a basin ; beat diem 
well, and add the milk: beat all well togeth- 
er, and strain through a fine hair sieve, or 
tamis : have some bread and butter cut very 
thin; lay a layer of it in a pie-dish, and then 
a layer of currants, and so on till the dish is 
nearly full; then pour the custard over it, 
and bake half an hour. 

NEWCASTLE, OR CABI- 
NET. Butter a half melon mould, or quart 
basin, and stick all round with dried cher- 
ries, or fine raisins, and fill up with bread 
and butter, &c. as in the above ; and steam 
it an hour and a half. 



NOTTINGHAM. Peel six 

good apples; take out the core with the 
point of a small knife, or an apple corer, 
if you have one ; but be sure to leave die 
apples whole; fill up where you took the 
core from with sugar; place them in a pie- 
dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, 
prepared as for batter pudding, and bake 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

OATMEAL. Sift a pound 

of oatmeal, chop three-quarters of a pound 
of suet, mince some onions, and mince all 
together; season well with pcp|>er and salt; 
half fill the skins, and boil and dress diem 
as directed in die receipt for ox-blood pud- 
dings. Some people think a little sugar an 
improvement. 

. ORANGE.(l)The yolks of six 



PUDDINGS 



163 



PUDDINGS 



and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; 
three table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 
a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, 
the game of melted butter ; three table-spoon- 
fiils of grated broad, and a quarter of a pint 
of cream; mix all well together, and liake 
them in a dish lined with puff paste. 

ORANGE. (2) Cut in half 

time !;tr_'r Seville oranges, squeeze and 
strain the juice; boil the skin* till quite 
fiofl in a good deal of water, pound them in 
a mortar, and mix them with nine lx*aten 
yolk.-' and lour whites of eggs, nearly a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of 
the or,in^'i, and half ;i pound of molted 
butter, liake it in a dish lined wi 

paste for half an hour. 

PEAS. Put a quart of split 

pens to soak for two hours into warm wa- 
ter; boil them in soft water, with a bit of 
butter, till sufficiently tender to praMtbrovA 
a sieve; pulp tltein, and add the lx-aten \olk 
of one ciji:. a little |x-pper and salt, ami an 
Oi line of bnH< T. Tie it into a buttered and 
flotirari cloth, and put it on in boiling wa- 
ter; Imil il nearlv an hour. 

PLUM. (1) One pound of fresh 

beef suet, finely iiiineeil. one pound of raisins 
atoned. lite table-spoonfuls of flour, five of 
brown sar, live well-beaten yolks, and 
three white- of eirgs, a tca-epoonful of salt; 
mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil 
it in a rloih tiir lour or live hours. Serve 
with Dialed loaf sugar, and melted butter 
poured over it. 

PLUM. (2) One pound of rai- 
sins, stoned and cut in li.ilf: one pound of cur- 
rant.-, picked, washed, and dried: one |H.und 
beef suet i ho|>|x-d tine: a |xnind of 
bread, or half pound cadi of Crated bread 
and lloin : ei^lu o^* : quarter |x>nod of su- 
gar: nalt-s|xio:i of suit: lablr-s|x>ou of ciuna- 

ind mace mixed: two grated nutmeg: 
each of wine and brandy: quarter 
jxrtiml of -nu'-'i', ami a pint of milk. Pie- 
pare all the day Ix-fore, except the e^s, that 
yon ma\ mix llie-u the next iimniing: ii re- 
quires MX hours Ixiilini;. J5<-at llm eggs 
lightly, tlieu put to them half (he milk and 
Ix-at (ou'i'iher. Stir in the llour and bread; 
tJien (lie "ii^ar by dc^r, . - ; then the suet and 

fruit; tin- fruit to Ix- uell 11 ed to keep it 

from finking. Stir hard. .Now add the 
spice and liquor, and th" remainder of the 
milk. It' it is not thick enough, add more 
bread or llour; but if there ! too much 
liread or llour tlie pnddiui; will ! hi-avy. 
Wet the doth in !> lilinn u.iti i . shake it out, 
and sprinkle it with llour. l.i\ it in a di-li 
ami |xmr into it the pudding Tie it tiuht, 



allowing room to swell. Boil six hours. 
When you turn it out, stick over the out- 
side blanched almonds in slips or slips of cit- 
ron, or both. If you add grated lemon-peel 
to the other ingredients it will much improre 
the pudding. 

PLUM. (3) One pound of the 

best raisins stoned, half a pound of currants 
well cleaned, one pound of fresh beef suet 
finely minced, five table-spoonfuls of grated 
bread, three of flour, two of brown sugar, 
one tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, six well-beaten 
eggs, and three wine-glasses of rum, all to 
lx> mixed thoroughly together the day before 
it is to be boiled. Boil it in a cloth or 
mould for four or five hours. Serve with 
moli.-d butter, or the following sauce: 
Heat two or three table-spoonfuls of sweet 
cream, and mix it gradually with two well- 
Ix-atcu yolks of eggs; add three table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, brandy, or rum, and a 
table-s|xjonful of i-njjar; season with grated 
nutmeu'. and stir it over the fire till quite 
hoi; but do not allow it to Ixjil. 



PLUM. (4) Four ounces of 

apples finely minced, the same quantity of 
currants cleaned and dried, and of grated 
bread, two ounces of raisins, stoned and 
minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a 
nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or 
lemon peel, four well-beaten eggs, one ounce 
and a half of melted butter just warm; mix 
all the ingredients well together, and boil it 
in a buttered sha|>e lor four hours. If the 
pudding docs not fill the ?hape, add a slice 
of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. 

PLUM, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Haifa |xniud of grated bread, a quarter of a 
(Niund of !incly-niiucod snot, a table-spoonful 
of Hour, half a |x>und of currants cleaned, 
rather more than luo ounces of brown sugar, 
a L;!:I-- of brandy; mix all lordlier with a 
.-iilticieiit i|iianlil\ of milk to make it into a 
stiff Icitter; Ixiif it in a cloth for lixir hours. 
It mav lie baked, adding half a |mund of 
stoned raisins, and a little candied orange 
and lemoii-|Xfl. 

POTATO. (1) Boil three 

lar^'e mealy |>ot:itoos mash them very smooth- 
ly, with one oonee of Uilter, and two or 
three table-s|>oontuls of thick cream; add 
three uoll-lx-aioM .:,'s, a little tail, grated 
niitnie^. and a table-s|HMinfiil of brown sugar. 
Beat all well to^dicr, an. I bake it in a Ult- 
torod dish, fir I. all' an hur in an o\en, and 
liter* of an hour in a Dutch oven 
A few ciinant> in i\ l.e addid to tlie pud- 
ding. 



PUDDINGS 



164 



PUDDINGS 



POTATO. (2) Boil half a 

pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, 
with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of 
a lemon; strain it, and stir in gradually 
three table-spoonfuls of potato flour, mix it 
very smoothly, and add six well-beaten eggs ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; stick aU 
round a buttered tin mould, dried cherries, 
or stoned raisins, put in the pudding, and put 
a bit of buttered linen over the top, and then 
die cover of the mouki ; place it in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and 
a half; take care die water does not boil 
over die mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. 

POTATO-FLOUR. Boil some 

cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar, in a quart 
of milk; strain, and stir it with three table- 
spoonfuls of potato flour previously mixed 
smooth with a little cold milk; stir it till it 
be nearly cold; add four well-beaten eggs, 
a glass of sweet wine, or two table-spoonfuls 
of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it 
in a Dutch oven. 



PRUNE. Stew a pound' of 

prunes with half a pint of Port wine, a quarter 
of a pint of water, and a large table-spoon- 
fyl of brown sugar; break the stones, and 
put the kernels with the fruit; spread it 
OVIT a sheet of put! paste, wet the edges, and 
roll it into .the ibrmofa bolster; tie it firm- 
ly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil 
it between two and three hours. Serve 
with sweet wine sauce. 

QUINCE. Take a sufficient 

number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of 
pulp, to which put half a pound of powder- 
sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two 
drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat 
up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, 
add die quince, 8cc. stir the whole together, 
flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. 

RATAFIA. Pound, with a lit- 
tle rose-water, two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, and half a quarter of a pound of 
ratafia cakes, add the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and the whites of two eggs, a pint of 
thick cream, two glasses of white wine, and 
one ounce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it 
in a dish, lined with [tuff paste, for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

REGENT'S. Rub an earthen- 
ware mould with butter, and cover the lx>t- 
tom with bloom niis'ms stoned; cut thin 
slices of the crumb of bread, butter, and lav- 
one or two over the raisi'!. ; ; upon that put 
a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread 
and butter, and raisins; do this till the mould 
is nearly full, and pour over it (lie following 
mixtures: a pint of cream \\ell sweetened 



with pounded loaf sugar, and mixed widi 
four well-beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of 
brandy, and two table-spoonfuls of ruse-wa- 
ter ; let it soak one or two hours ; put over 
die top a piece of writing-paper buttered, 
and tie over it a clodi. Boil it for one hour 
and a half, and serve it with wine sauce. 

GROUND RICE, RICH. (1) 

Stir into a quarter of a pound of ground 
rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; put it 
into a saucepan, and keep stirring it till it 
boils; then add diree ounces of melted but- 
ter, die same quantity of sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a lea-spoonful of grated lemon- 
peel; mix it very well, and when cold, add 
the well-beaten yolks of four, and the white 
of one egg, with a glass of ratafia, and half 
a one of orange-flower or rose/ water; bake 
it in a dish lined widi puff paste for diree- 
quarters of an hour. Before serving, strew 
over die top grated loaf sugar. 

GROUND RICE. (2) Mix 

till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupful of 
ground rice, a quart of good milk, stir it 
over die fire till it boils, and let it lx>il for 
three minutes ; put it into a basin, and when 
nearly cold, add die well-beaten yolks of 
six, and die whites of two eggs, with a tea- 
cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of spirits ; 
put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for 
diree-quarters of an hour, or for one hour in 
a Dutch oven, in die same way as the mar- 
row pudding is done. Any sort of preserve 
may be put into die bottom of die dish, and 
a sweet sauce may be served widi it. 

GROUND RICE. (3) Boil 

in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of 
flour of rice, with two table-spoonfuls of 
rose water, and half die peel of a lemon, stir 
it till diick, take it oft', and mix in a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, half a grated nut- 
meg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the 
whites of three >gs;s; sweeten it with brown 
sugar, pick out die lemon-peel, and boil it 
in a butlei-ed basin, which must be complete- 
ly filled. Serve with a sauce made with a 
glass of white wine, 'boiled in melted butter, 
and sweetened with brown sugar. 

RICE, BAKED OR BOIL- 
ED. Wash in cold water and piek very 
clean six ounces of rice, put it in a quart 
stewpan three parts filled widi cold water, 
set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes; 
pour away die water, and put in one quart 
of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon; let it boil gently till die rice is 
quite tender; it will take at least one hour 
and a quarter; l>e carefiil to stir it every 
five minutes'; take it off the fire, and stir in 
an ounce and a hall" of fresh butter, and beat 



PUDDINGS 



165 



PUDDINGS 



op three eggs on a plate, a salt-epoonful of 
I' sugar; put it into the 
pudding, and stir it till it is quite smooth; 
line a pie-dish big enough to hold it \\illi 
puff paste, notch it round the edge, put in 
your padding, and l<ake it three-quarters of ' 
an hour: this will Ix? a nice linn pudding. 

If you like it to eat more like custard, 
add oin- nioiv e,'g, and half a pint more ; 
milk; it will l*j letter a little thinner when : 
boiled; one hour will boil it. if you like 
it in little puddings, butter small tea-cups, 
and either bake or boil them, half an hour 
will do either: V'iu may vary the pudding 
by putt ing nil raudied lemon or orange peel, 
minced \ery line. <,r dried cherries, or three 
ounces of currants, or raisins, or apples 
minced fine. If the puddings are baked or 
boiled, ser%e them with white wine sauce, or 
butter and sugar. 

RICE. Boil a quarter of a 

pound of rice in water till it is soft, then 
drain it in a .sieve, and pound it in a mor- 
tar; add five wcll-licaleii \olks of eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, the same pro- 
portion of sugar, a small nutmeg, ami half 
die rind of a lemon grated; work them well 
together flu- uunty minutes, and add a 
jMiind of cleaned currants; mix it all well 
and buil it in a pudding clod) for an hour 
and a half. Serve, with wine sauce. 



RICE, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Weii;h six ounces of rice, .-ix of brown su- 
gar, and three and a half of fresh butter; 
break the Uitter into small bits; wa.-h (lie 
rice in scveial aters : put all into a pudding- 
di?h, and fill it up \\i:h I^MM! milk ; let it 
soak some lie. m-. Hake n In a moderate 
oven for neailv two hours, and as the milk 
,11 up the dish with wore, till die 
rici- U- ,-wciJ <\ and s-oft; then let it brown. 



of sago in several waters (warm) ; then pnt 
it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, 
and a little cinnamon; let it boil till thick, 
stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and 
lieat up with it half a jx>nnd of fresh butter; 
add to it the \nlks of eight, and whites of 
four eggs, beaten separately, half a glass of 
white v\ iue, sugar according to taste, and a 
little flour ; mix all together well, and boil 
it. Serve with sweet sauce. 

SALT. Take a pint of milk, 

four dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a little suet, 
shred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded gin- 
ger; mix first the eggs and milk, then add 
the flour, &c. ; put more flour, if necessary, 
to give it consistence ; tie your pudding in 
a buttered cloth, and boil it two hours. 

SCOTCH. Eight well-beaten 

yolks and diree whites of eggs, half a (xmnd 
of pounded loaf sugar, a quartet' of a jwund 
of melted butter, die grated peel and juice 
of one lemon ; mix all together, ami Uike it 
in a dish lined with puff paste; turn it out 
to serve, and strew over die top grated loaf 
sugar. 

SIPPET. Cut a small loaf into 

extremely diin slices, and put a layer of them 
at die bottom of a dish, dien a layer of mar- 
row, or beef suet, a layer of currants, and 
then a la\er of bread "again, kc., and so 
continue until die dish is filled; mix four 
eggs, well beaten, widi a quart of cream, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
pour over; set it in (he oven, it will take 
half an hour baking. 



RICH. Put into a saucepan 

lour ounces of fresh butter, fix ounces of 
pound . six of marmalade, and 

siv on . well U-aten; stir all one 

way till it l>e t!i 'loiighK warmed; it mn.-t 
not U- alloui.l I i l:.,il. Hake it in a dish 

SAGO. (1) Boil five table-spoon- ! 

ful.- of Kigo, well picked and washed, in a 
quart . half I he |xt.'l of a lemon, ; 

ami a Mick of cinnamon; \\Iieii it is i at her 
thick, add half a pint of \\intc wine, and 
sweeten it with good brown sugar; beat six 
yolks and three whites, of eggs, pick out die 
MHO-ped ami cinnamon, mix all well to- 
gedk-r, and liake it in a dish witli or with- 
out 



SHROPSHIRE. Of fresh beef 

suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, 
and of brown sugar, out; |H)iind each, one 
nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy, eiirht 
well-lx'ateii yolks, and lour whites of eggs; 
mix all well" together, and boi) it in a cloth 
or mould for four hours. Serve it with a 
sauce of melted butter, sugar, and twotable- 
s|xx>nfult; of brandy. 

SPRING FRUIT. Peel and 

well wash four do/.en sticks of rhubarb: put 
into a stcHpan with the pudding a lemon, a 
little cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as 
will make it quite sweet; set it over a fire, 
and reduce it to a marmalade ; pass through 
a hair sieve, and proceed as directed for the 
Boston pudding, leaving out the lemon-juice, 
as die rhulKirb will be found sufficiently acid 
of itself. 



SPEAKER'S. Stone and 



weigh ilnee-qnartere of a pound of raisins. 
Rub with butter a plain o\al mould, and 
SAGO. (2) Wash half a pound ' stick upon it some of die raisins, in stripe* 



PUDDINGS 



166 



PUDDINGS 



or circles. Cut some thin slices of bread 
without the crust, dry them awhile before 
the fire, butter, and cut them into strips 
about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the 
mould with part of the bread, then put a 
layer of raisins, and strew over a table- 
spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add a layer 
of the bread and butter; fill the shape nearly 
full, putting bread and butter on the top. 
Mix with a pint of good milk, the well-bea- 
ten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoouful of 
sugar, one and a half of rose-water, and a 
glass of brandy ; pour this over the pudding, 
and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it 
three-quarters of an hour. It may be boiled 
by steam for an hour and a half. 

SQUASH. One good squash 

stewed and well bruised; six large apples 
stewed tender; mix them well together; 
add seven spoonfuls of bread crumbs; half 
pint of milk ; two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
two of wine ; six eggs ; one grated nutmeg ; 
salt and sugar to taste. Beat all together till 
smooth, and put in^a dish lined with puff 
paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

SUET, WIGGY'S WAY. 

Suet, a quarter of a pound; flour, three table- 
spoonfuls; eggs, two; and a little grated 
ginger; milk, half a pint. Mince the suet 
as fine as possible, roll it with the rolling- 
pin so as to mix it well with the flour; beat 
up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and 
then mix all together; wet your cloth well 
in boiling water, flour it, tie it loose, put it 
into boiling water, and boil it an hour and a 
quarter. Mrs. Glasse has it, " when you 
have made your water boil, then put your 
pudding into your pot." 

SUET. Mix six table-spoonfuls of 

grated bread with a pound of finely-minced 
fresh beef suet, or that of a loin of mutton, 
one pound of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, 
six well-beaten eggs, and nearly a pint of 
milk. Boil it in a cloth four or five hours. 
Serve it plain, or with a sweet sauce. 

APPLE SUET. Of finely minc- 
ed fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and 
brown sugar, six ounces each, half a grated 
nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and four well- 
beaten eggs, all well mixed together; boil- 
ed for two hours, and served with a sweet 
sauce. 

SUET, OR DUMPLINGS. 

Chop six ounces of suet very fine; put it in 
a basin with six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; 
stir it all well together: beat two eggs on a 
plate, add to them six table-spoonfuls of 
milk, put it by degrees into the basin, and 



stir it all well together ; divide it into six 
dumplings, and tie them separate, previously 
dredging the cloth lightly with flour. Boil 
them one hour. This is very good the next 
day fried in a little butter. The above will 
make a good pudding, boiled in an earthen 
ware mould, with die addition of one more 
egg, a little more milk, and two ounces of 
suet. Boil it two hours. 

N. B. The most economical way of mak- 
ing suet dumplings, is to boil them without a 
cloth in a pot with beef or mutton ; no eggs 
are then wanted, and the dumplings -are quite 
as light without: roll I hem in (lour Ixioreyou 
put them into the pot ; add six ounces of 
currants washed and picked, and you have 
currant pudding: or divided into six parts, 
currant dumplings; a little sugar will im- 
prove them. 

SWEETMEAT. Slice thin, 

of orange, lemon-peel, and citron, an ounce 
each ; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lin- 
ed with a light puff paste; mix with half a 
pound of butter melted, the yolks of seven 
eggs and the whites of two, and five ounces 
of sugar ; pour this over the sweetmeats, and 
set it in the oven ; it will take rather more 
than half an hour baking. 



TANSY. Pour over a thick 

slice of the crumb of bread a quart of boiling 
milk; cover it till cold. Beat the yolks oi 
four and the whites of two eggs. Pound 
some tansy with two or three leaves of 
spinach; squeeze the juice, and put as 
much of it as will make the pudding a good 
green color, a glass of brandy, half a grat- 
ed nutmeg, and four ounces of fresh butter; 
mix all the ingredients, sweete:i, and put it 
into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till 
it l>e hot. Bake it iu a buttered dish for 
half an hour. Before serving, strew grated 
loaf sugar over the top. 

TRA.NSl'AUENT. Put eight 

eggs wfll-beaten i;ito a stcwpan with half 
a (xjund of sugar, pounded fine, half a pound 
of butler, and some nutmeg grated. Set it 
on the fire, ami keep constantly stirring till 
it thickens. Ti;e:i set it into a basin to 
cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge 
of the dish; pour in die pudding, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. It will cut light 
and clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added, if you think proper. 

TAPIOCA. Put four table- 
spoonfuls of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then put a spoon- 
ful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little 
spice; let mom boil gently, add four eggs, 
and the whites well beaten, and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Bake it. 



PUDDINGS 



167 



QUA 



TREACLE. Mix together a 

pound of stoned raisins, three-quarters of a 

pound of shred suet, a |x>und of flour, a pint of 
milk, a tabfe-opoonful of treacle, grated gin- 
ger, and pmiiidi-d spice; when well stirred up, 
tie it in a (loured cloth, and boil it four hours. 



WEST COUNTRY. Mix, with 

four well-beaten eggs, half a pound of apples 
finely minced, tin- same quantity of grated 
bread, and of well-cleaned currants, a quar- 
ter of a pound of In-own sugar, and half a 
tea-spoon l"n I of grated nutmeg. This pudding 
may be either lx>iled or baked, and instead 
of grated bread, lour ounces of whole rice 
may be used, which iiiu-t lie boiled in milk, 
strained, and allowed to l>e cold before being 
mixed uitli the other ingredients. This 
puddding is Ix/iled one hour and a half, and 
served with a sweet sauce. 



WHITE. Boil in a quart of 

milk two tal>le-s|XMinfuls of rose-water ; add 
to two well-beaten eggs, three tabfe-tpooafe]* 

of flour, and a little salt ; stir it into the 
milk, and if not thick, dredge in a little 
moie lloiir; just Ix-fore it is taken oil" tlie 
fire, put in a l>it of fresh butter the si/.e of ;i 
walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly up- 
on the top of it. 



WHORTLEBERRY. This 

pudding may ! made Ixjth of flour and in- 
dian meal. Use a pint of milk, some mo- 
lasses, and a little salt, stirred quite stiff 
with meal, and a quart of tarries mixed in 
with a g|XN>n. Tie the lug loose, and lei it 
boil lhre' hours. W|K>U made of flour, pre- 
pare it likr lialler puddings, r.itller still' lo 
keep tlie Ix-rries from x-ttling. Jkiil two 
hours. Tie tlie bag loose. 

WILTSHIRE. Mix, with three 

well-beaten e^_'- anil a pint of milk, as much 
flour as will make it a thick batter, and a 
little salt; l>eal it for some minutes, slir in 
gently a large tea-cupful of picke<! red eur- 
' rants; boil il in a cloth lor two hours, turn 
it out upon the dish il is to ! x-rved in, rut 
it into slices about thrce-qti irlers of an inch 
thick, Ixit do not separate tllem; put I ( \\eeii 
each a thin slice of butter, and some brown 
sugar, and serve it hot. 

- YORKSHIRE, CHDER ROAST 
MEAT. This pudding i^ an es|x-cially c\- 
cv llent arrompanimenl to a sirloin of'lx-ef, 
loin of veal, or any tat and jnicv joint. 
Six table-spoonfuls of" tloiir, three em, a 
tea-s|XKMilul of salt, and a pint of milk, so 
as 1. 1 make a middling .-litf baiter, a little 
stiller than \..n would for |vincake-: l-at 
it up well, and take care it is not liunpv ; 
put a di.-.h under tlie meat, and let the drip- 



pings drop into it till it is quite hot and 
well greased; then pour in Uie batter; 
when tlie upper surface is brown and set, 
turn it, that both sides may be brown alike: 
if you wish it to cut firm, and tlie pudding 
an inch thick, it will tuke two hours at a 
good fire. 

N. B. Tlie true Yorkshire pudding is 
about half an inch thick when done ; but it 
is the fashion in London to make them full 
twice that thickness. 

PUFFS. (1) Roll out puff paste nearly 
a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small 
saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it into 
round pieces: place upon one side raspberry 
or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved 
fruit, or stewed apples; wet the exlges, fold 
over the other side, and press it round with 
the linger and thumb. Or cut the paste into 
tlie form of a diamond, lay on the fruit, and 
fold over the paste, so as to give it a trian- 
gular shape. See Paste. 

PUFFS. (2) Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, Ixiil slowly, and'stir in Hour till it 
IK- very thick, like paste; when cold, mix 
with it six well-lx'iiien eggs, a table-spoon- 
ful of sugar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of 
a small lemon grated, and a table-spoonful 
of brandy; beat it well together for fifteen 
minutes, and when quite light, drop it from 
a de.-.-ert-spoon into a pan of ixiiling clarified 
suet or lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar 
slreucd over them. 

PUFFS OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 

Roll out, a quarter of an inch thick, good 
pull" [Kiste, and cut it into pieces four inches 
square; lay a small qiumtilx ofiiny kind of 
jam on each, double them oxer, and cut them 
into square, triangle, or, \\ith a tin cutter, 
hull' moons; lay them x\ ith pa|xT on a Itiking- 
platc; ice them, liake them alxmt twenty 
minute:-, taking care not to color tlie icing. 

PUNCH. See Justice's Sirup. 



Q. 

QUAILS, HUNTERS. Put tlie quails 
in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and |x-p|x-r; set them 
on a fierce fire, and keep -hal.eig them until 
tliey are tender, when add a dessert-spoonful 
of llour, half a glass of white wine, and a 
little stock, when this is thick, and quite 
hot (xvithont boiling) ; take it from die fire 
and serve. 

QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix the juice 



QUE 



168 



QUI 



of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pep- 
per; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff 
them well with the above mixture; then 
fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws 
free ; truss them a good shape, and put them 
into a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover 
them also with slices, add a gravy, moisten- 
ed with equal portions of white wine and 
stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; 
then take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, place each on a piece of fried bread 
the size of the quail, and serve with a clear 
Spanish sauce, with the addition of a little 
glaze. 

QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom 
of it some farce cuite mixed widi the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs ; take eight quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and sweet herbs ; when cold, stuff each with 
some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the 
centre with the remainder tf the farce, season 
it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails ; 
wet die edges of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very thin crust; do it over 
with egg, and decorate it according to fancy. 
Put it into the oven to bake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss the birds, 
and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a 
spit, and put them to the fire; haste with 
salt and water when they fn-st begin to get 
warm; then dredge them with flour, and 
baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or 
three shallots, and the juice of a Seville or- 
ange into a little rich gravy ; set it on the 
fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
from the fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
butter worked up with flour, and a few green 
onions into a slew|xui ; when brown, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bay-leaf, and two orthree cloves ; stew diese 
till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish 
your dish with cock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. 

QUEEN'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
and clean three chickens, or young fowls, put 



them into a stewpan, with a bunch of parsley 
and some well-seasoned boiling veal stock; 
let it stew for an hour ; take out the fowVs, 
and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a 
marble mortar, with the crumb of two penny 
loaves, previously soaked in the soup, and 
the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs; 
rub all through a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirring it well. Put a quart of rich 
cream on the fire, and stir it till it boils, and 
then mix it with the soup and serve it quile 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. One 

pound of sifted sugar, one pound of butter, 
eight eggs, one pound and a quarter of flour, 
two ounces of currants, and half a nutmeg 
grated. Cream the butter, and mix it well 
with the sugar and spice, then put in half 
die eggs, and teat it ten minutes add the 
remainder of the cuns, and work it ten min- 
utes longer stir in the flour lighllv, and the 
currants afterwards, thon take small tin 
pans of any shape (hearts the most usual), 
rub die inside of each with butter, fill and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking plate 
when done, remove them as early as pos- 
sible from the pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave out four 
ounces of flour from tle last receipt, and 
add two ounces more of currant:-, and two 
ounces of candied peel, cut small work it 
the same as in the last receipt, and when 
ready put the mixture into a biscuit funnel, 
and lay them out in dro|H about the size of 
half a crown, on white |)aper, bake them 
in a Iwt oven, and when nearly cold, take 
them from the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take six 

quinces, cut them in halves, and core them; 
scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear 
sirup into a preserving-pan, with the juice 
of a lemon; when hot, add the quinces, and 
give them a boil together; drain the fruit, 
arrange it in the compotier; leave the sirup 
to thicken a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAM. Take four or firo 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to sof- 
ten them; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil diem slowly in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger ; when tolerably 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, and 
flavor it widi rose-water. 

QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color ; take off die 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 
them into a saucepan, with water enough 



QUI 



169 



QUI 



to cover them; set them on the fire, and 
when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 

pressing them very slightly; strain the liquor, 
and measure it; clarify, and !>il to cae 
an equal quantity ut "sujptr; then take, it of)', 
add the liquor to it, stirrim; it well; when 
mixed, put it on the lire, still stirring; as 
Boon as the jelly spreads OUT the >pooii, and 
falls from it like molasses; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 

fruit quite ripe, lmt |>crfcctly sound; rub 
each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove 
the down; then quarter, ami put them into 
bottles, corked ti^ht. (iive them lulf an 
bom's (toil in tin; bain-marie. 

QUINCE .M UIMA1.ADE. Gather 
the fruit when fully ripe, and <! a fine yel- 
low ; p'arc, quarter, and cure it. 1'nt the 
quince- into a saucepan, with a little water, 
set them on tin- lire until tli< \ are quite soli ; 
then lake them out. and la\ them on a sieve 
to drain; nil) them through, wei^h the 
pulp; IKM! an eqn.il ipi.t. 
petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them 
together ou-r the lire, until it will fall from 
the spoon like a jells ; the marmalade is 
then lit to U- pat into |>ts, and svhen cold, 

Co\er them clo-c. 

QUMT.S TO PICKLE. Pare and 
cut half a d'./.cn quinces into .-m.t : l piece*, 
and put them, with a gallon of water, and 
two |X)in;ds of honey, into a lar^e sauce- 
pan; mix llieiu : , and .-et (hem 
on a -l..w lire f.r liali" an hour: Miain the 
liquor into ajar; when quite cold, w i|w the 
quinces |M-rfectls dry, and put them into it; 
coser them MT\ close. 

(l!'IMT.S PI: I s t t;vi;i> is MIIITK 
JMI^. Tike .1- many quinces as you 
; nre, ch.io-e ihem sound; jiare. 
qii.iiiei, and core them, strewing powder- 
sii^ar over as \oii do them, tilling up all the 
ilno\s in a -mall quan- 
tity of \\ .iter, and sshen all an- cut, add more 
Mater, and *( them on a fierce, lire to boil 
quicklv. A- soon a? the quince.-, are tender, 
and the simp cle.ir, add some apple-jellv, 
uholc ..ne U.il, and then pour it 
into glasses; when cold, drain oil the .-imp 
-Mid jelly, put them into a saucepan, and 
let them boil as quick as \ou can; ju-t be- 
f ML- the jelly is taken oii, put in a small 
quantity of musk, or any other ingredient 
you mas wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then pour it in the glasses again, over 
the quinces.-, and when cold cover them. 
This may also he colored red by adding a 
small quantity of prepared cochineal; in 
this care, the jelly should be red too. 
15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAY. 
Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put 
them into a stewpan with a pint and a half 
of water and two pounds of fine sugar, set 
them on a slow fire, and when they begin 
to dry. moisten them with rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; then press the paste 
through a coarse sieve, add two pounds of 
sugar, a little orange-flower and rose water. 
When sufficiently done, it will come off 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then set it 
aside to cool. Put it into .-hall.iw pots, 
strew perfiuned comfits over, and cover 
them close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OF. Pare and 
scrape mme very ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, which put in a 
very iiarm place, or wliere it is exposed to 
the sun, until all the fecnla lalls to the bot- 
tom ; then strain it well, and for every 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them togedier, and lH.il the 
whole to perle; take it off, and sshen the 
.-imp is nearly cold, it may he bottled. 
Take care to keep the bottles well corked. 

QIIXCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quinces, make a sirnp \\ith > < . 
and water, of which, and the preserve, take 

an equal weight^ aod put it iatoapreMnriog- 

IKIII; lx.il, skim, and then put in the fruit; 
when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a 
tart-dir.h with (Hill paste as usual ; cover and 
Uikc it; as soon as il is done raise the top 
gently, pour '" 'I"' sirup, ice it, and serve. 

Q I I \ S SAUCE. See Sauce. 

(il T.\Ti:ssKM'E OF ANCHOVY. 
The goodne.-s of this preparation depends 
aim. .-t entirely on having line mellow fieh, 
that liase IM-CII in pickle loiiii enough (t. t. 
alxint twelve, months) to dissolve easily, yet 
lire not at ;i" rn.-ty. 

Choose those that are in die state they 

c e oser iii, not such as have Ix-cn pul into 

fn-h pickle, mixed with red paint, which 
some add to improve the complexion of the 
li-h; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting anchovy liquor on pickled 
sprats ; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of tin-in, and" tasting the llesh of il, 
which in the tine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and liiuli-tl.iMiivd, and the bone in 
oily. Make only as much as will soon be 
used, the ire- her it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies into a mortar, 
and pound them to a pulp; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or very well 
tinned saucepan; then put a large table- 
spoonful of cold spring-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to die pounded andioviec, 



RABBIT 



170 



RABBIT 



set them by the side of a slow fire, very fre- 
quently stirring them together till they are 
melted, which they will be in the course of 
five minutes. Now stir in a quarter of a 
drachm of good cayenne pepper, and let it 
remain by the side of the fire for a few min- 
utes longer; then, while it is warm, rub it 
through a hair sieve, with the back of a 
wooden spoon. 

, The essence of anchovy, is made with 
double the al>ove quantity of water, as they 
are of opinion that it ought to be so thin as 
not to hang about the sides of the bottle; 
when it does, the large surface of it is soon 
acted upon by the air, and becomes rancid 
and spoils all the rest of it. 

A roll of thin-cut lemon-peel infused with 
the anchovy, imparts a fine, fresh, delicate, 
aromatic flavor, which is very grateful ; this 
is only recommended when you make sauce 
for immediate use; it will keep much better 
without: if you wish to acidulute it, instead 
of water make it with artificial lemon-juice. 



K. 



RABBITS. (1) Truss your rabbits short, 
lay them in a basin of warm water for ten 
minutes, then put them into plenty of water, 
and boil them about half an hour; if large 
ones, throe-quartan; if very old, an hour: 
smother them with plenty of white onion 
sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the 
dish, 01 
a boat. 



dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in 



id lay 
, and 



Obs. Ask those you are going to make 
liver sauce for, if they like plain liver sauce, 
or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. 

N. B. It will save much trouble to the 
carver, if the rabbits be cut up in the kitchen 
into pieces fit to help at table, and the head 
divided, one-half laid at each end, and slices 
of lemon and the liver, choppa-1 very finely, 
laid on the sides of the dish. 

At all events, cut off the head before you 
send it to table, we hardly remember that 
the thing ever lived if we don't see the head, 
while it may excite ugly idens to see it cut 
up in an attitude imitative of life; ta.-ides, 
for the preservation of the head, the poor an- 
imal sometimes suffers a slower death. 

RABBITS. (2) If your fire is clear 
and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a young, 
and forty a full grown rabbit. When you 
lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge 
it lightly and carefully with (lour, that yon 
may have it frothy, and of a fine light brown. 
While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver 
with some pai sley ; when tender, chop them 
together, and put half the mixture into some 
melted butter, reserving the other half for 



garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cat 
off the bead, and lay half on each side of 
the dish. 

Obs. A fine, well-grown (but young) 
warren rabbit, kept sometime after it has 
Ijeen killed, and roasted with a stuffing in 
its tally, eats very like a hare, to the nature 
of which it approaches. It is nice, nourishing 
food when young, but hard and unwholesome 
when old. 

RABBIT, BROILED. Take a couple of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to 
steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed 
with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a 
clove of garlic, all shred line, salt and pepper; 
roll eaeli piece of rabbit in a rasher Of bacon, 
and put them, with a part of the seasoning, 
into pieces of white paper; butter the papers 
inside; broil upon a gridiron over a very 
slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. 

RABBITS, IN A FRICASSEE. Take 

two fine white rabbitr, and cut them in 
pieces, by cutting off the legs, shoulders, and 
back; blanch them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one minute; stir a few trim- 
mings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the 
fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fry, 
then stir in a spoonful of flour; mix into the 
flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart of 
good consomme, which set on the fire, and 
when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let them 
boil gently till done, then put them into 
another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till 
nearly as thick as paste; mix in about half 
a pint of good boiling cream, and when it 
becomes the thickness of bechamelle sauce 
in general, squeeze it through I ho tammy 
to the rabbits; make it very hot, shake in a 
few mushrooms, the yolk of an egg, and a 
little cream, then serve it to table. Rabbits 
]>IH\ also be preserved, white or brown, in 
the same manner as chickens. 

RABBIT, MINCED. Take the re- 
mains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the 
meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Then break the Ixjucs of the rabbit into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 
with a slice of butter, some shallots, half a 
clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; 
give these a few turns over the fire, then shake 
in a little Hour; moisten with a glass of red 
wine, and the same quantity of stock, and 
let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour; 
strain it off, and put in the minced meat, 
adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the 
whole, without boiling, and serve hot: gar- 
nish with fried bread. 

RABBITS IN A MINUTE. Cut your 
rabbits into pieces, wipe them- perfectly dry; 
put a quarter of a pound of butter into a 



RABBIT 



171 



RABBIT 



stewpan, set it on the fire, and when warm, 
put in the rabbit with a little pounded .-pice, 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let the fire 
! brisk, and as goon as toe pieces are 
browned, ;idd a little shred parsley und shal- 
lots, leave it three or four minutes lunger on 
the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen min- 
utes are sufficient to cook this dish. 

RABBIT PIE. Git a couple of young 
rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter 
of a pound of bacon in a mortal', with the 
livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, pars- 
ley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet ba- 
sil ; when these are all beaten fine, line your 
pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer 
of the seasoning at die bottom of the dish, 
and put in the rabbits; pound some more 
bacon in a inortur, mix with it some fresh 
butter, -and cover the rabbits with it, and 
over that lay thin si ices of bacon ; put mi the 
cover, and place it in the oven; it will l>e 
done in about two hours ; when baked, take 
off the cover, take out the bacon and skim 
off the fat, and if there is not a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or 
veal gravy. 

KAl'.RIT PIE, RAISED. Cut your 
rabbits in pieces, and put them into a stew- 
pan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemon-juice, 

pep|T, salt, [Kirsley, thyme, shallots, chopped 
very line, and a little pounded mace. When 
the pieces of rabbit are alxjut half done, lay 
them on a dish, and when cold, raise the 
cm-!-, put li^ht forcemeat at the bottom; 
the rabbit u|>ii it, and more forcemeat ii|xm 
Cover it, and put it in a moderate 
oven to l/ake gently; when done, take oil' 
die cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads 
cock's combs, &c., and serve. 

RABBITS, PORTUGUESE. Cutoff 
the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 

I tack* upward.", tlie two legs stri|>|xil lit tlie 
end, anil tiu.-.-cd with a couple of skewer.* 
in the same manner as chickens, the u 'up- 
turned like the pinions of a chicken; lard 
and n>a.-t them with good gravy ; if they are 
intended for boiling, they should not !* lard- 
ed, but be served with bacon, and greens, 
or celery sauce. 

RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or 

'ing, but full-grown rabbits, cut them 
up, and take off die leg bones at the thigh, 
season them well with pepprr, mace, cav- 
enne, Kilt, and allspice, all in \er\ lih<-p..w- 

: [Kit them into a .-mall pin, placing 
tin-in as closely together us possible. Make 
the top as smooth a you can. Keep out the 
heads and carcawe*, but take off the meat 
abmit the neck. Put plenty of butler, and 
let tlie whole lake gently. 1-et it n-m.iin in 



the pan for two days, then put it into small 
pots, adding butter. The livers should also 
be put in. 

RABBIT PRESERVED. Having 
boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; 
season it well inside and out, roll it up, be- 
ginning with tlie legs, make it tight, and 
tie it. Put it into a stew-pan, with some 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these 
on die fire till done enough (but without 
boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take 
out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then 
cut it into small pieces, which put into bot- 
ties; fill them with oil and cover with wet 
bladders. When required for table, take 
them out, cut them into fillets, and place 
on a dish with shred parsley and oil. 

RABBITS PULLED. Half boil your 
rabbits, with an onion, a little whole |XJD- 
per, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of 
lernon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes; put 
to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butter roll- 
ed in Hour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; 
lx>il this up, shaking it round, and serve. 

RABBITS, ROASTED. Truss them 

lor roasting, and stull them with the liver 
minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter 
or suet, and chopped parsley, seasoned with 
a little lemon thyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and 
pep|KT,and bound with aliens l alen. Sew 
them up, and roast them Ix-lore a quick fire, 
and baste them with butter. Serve them 
with gravy, or melted butter with lemon 
pickle in "it. Two will take an hour to 
i hey may also be fricasseed 01 fried, 
cut into joint*, with plenty of fried parsley, 
and served with a sauce made of die liver 
and some parsley chop|x-d, and mixed in 
melted butter, with a little |>ep|xT and salt, 
or made into a pie tlie same as chickens. 

RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit 

s, put thnii into a quart of water; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat 
die meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; 
add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to 
your ta.-ie; stir it into the liquor tlie rabbit 
was boiled in, \\ ith die addition of a very 
little cream. 

.\. B. The meat of die whole rabbit is 
too much for one quart; query, would it 
not be enough for two! 

RABBITS STEWED, WITH A 

BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITE 
SAUCE. Wash and clean tlie rabbits well, 
let them lie for two or three liours in cold 
water, cut them into joints, wash and dry 
tliem in a cloth, dust them with flour, and 
fry them of a light brown w ith butter, and 



RAG 



172 



R AS 



stew them in the following sance : Brown 
three ounces of butter in a stewpan, with a 
table-spoonful of flour, a minced onion, some 
pepper and salt ; add a pint of gravy and 
the rabbits, stew them till they are tender, 
and a little before serving, stir in a table- 
spoonfiil of ketchup. When it is wished to 
dress with a white sauce, the rabbits are not 
fried, but stewed in while stock, which is 
seasoned with white pepper, and salt, and 
thickened with a piece of butter mixed with 
flour. A few minutes before serving, a little 
cream is added, and a table-spoonlul of lemon 
pickle. 

RADISHES IN BROTH. Take some 
young radishes, pick and scald them, cut 
them into halves or quarters according to 
their size, and boil them with a slice of ba- 
con in some stock. In a little time take 
them out, drain, and put them into another 
stew-pan, with consomme, or veal gravy, 
and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them 
stew gently in this till they are flavored, of 
a good color, and the sauce pretty thick ; 
then serve them. 

RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces 
of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the 
peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville 
orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, half an 
ounce of mace, the same of pepper, and one 
drachm of cayenne, dry them all well before 
the fire, pound tliem to a fine [\vder, add 
one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a 
sieve, and keep it it in a bottle for use. 

RAGOUT OF SNIPES. Pick six or 
eight snipes very nicely, but do not wash 
them ; take out the inside. Roast the birds, 
and cut off all the meat from the breasts, in 
thin slices; pound the bones, legs, and 
backs, in a mortar, and put them into a 
stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon, a little 
flour, and some well-seasoned gravy; boil it 
till it be thick, and well flavored with the 
game, then strain it. Cut half a pound of 
ham into thin long slices, and heat it in a 
little butter, with two minced shallots; put 
it, with the breasts of the snipes, into the 
strained sauce, and let it boil. Pound the 
inside, or trail, with a little salt, spread it 
over thin bite of toasted bread, and hold 
over it a hot salamander. Put the ragout 
upon this, and place the ham round it. 

RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. Either 
a neck, loin, or fillet of veal, will furnish 
thisexcellent ragout with a very little expense 
or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cut- 
lets ; put a piece of butter or clean dripping 
into a frying-pan; as soon as it is hot, flour 
and fry the veal of a light brown : take it 
out, and if you have no gravy ready, make 



some as follows: put a pint of boiling water 
into the frying-pan, give it a boil up for a 
minute, and strain it into a basin while yon 
make some thickening in the following man- 
ner: put about an ounce of butter into a 
stewpan ; as soon as it melts, mix with it aa 
much flour as will dry it up; stir it over the 
fire for a few minute? and gradually add to it 
the gravy you made in the frying-pan; let 
them simmer together for ten minutes (till 
thoroughly incorporated) ; season it with pep- 
per, salt, a little mace, and a wine-glassful of 
mushroom ketchup or wine; strain it through 
a tamis to the meat, and stew very gently 
till the meat is thoroughly warmed. If you 
have any ready boiled bacon, cut it in slices, 
and put it in to warm with the meat. 

RAMEQUINS. Take a quarter of a 
pound of Cheshire cheese, scraped, tlie same 
quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat them 
in a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the 
inside of a French roll, boiled in cream till 
soft; when all i.s lx>aten to a paste, mix it 
with the whites of the eggs, previously beat- 
en, and put tlie paste into small paper cases, 
made rather long than square, and put them 
to bake in a Dutch oven, till of a fine brown, 
They should IK: served quite hot. You mav, 
if you think projjer, add a glass of white wine. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. See Cream. 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take 

some good puff paste, roll it out, and spread 
raspberry jam over it ; roll it up, and boil it 
rattier more than an hour; cut it into five 
slices ; pour melted butter into tlie dish, grate 
sugar round, and serve. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate 

two \aplcs, biscuits, or the crumb of a French 
roll ; put to either a pint of boiling cream. 
When this is cold, add to it the yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten; beat all well together 
with some raspl>erry juice; drop this in very 
small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; 
stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. 

RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix 
with half a pint of white wine vinegar one 
pound of raspberries, or one pound of pre- 
served i-asplxTries, let it boil for three or 
four minutes, stirring it ronstanly; s-train 
it through a hair sieve; dissolve one ounce 
of isinglass in half a pint of water; mix 
with it three-quarters of a pound of pounded 
sugar, add it to the strained raspberries 
stir it all well together; boil, and strain it 
through a bit of muslin, and put it into a 
shape. Turn it out when cold. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. See Jelhf. 



REL 



173 



RICE 



RASPBERRY ICE. Press the juice 
from as many raspberrries as will yield a 
pound and a half; put it into a glazed pan, 
and leave it for four days. Then carefully 
raise the skin that has formed on the top of 
it, pour off the juice into another vessel; 
clarify a |xun<! and a half of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of water, add the juice, and 
give them half a dozen boils; if not suffi- 
ciently red, put in a root of orkanet, which 
leave in till of the proper color; strain the 
preparation through a sieve ; when cold, put 
it into the sabotiere, and freeze it. See Ice. 

I: \SPBERRY SPONGE. Dissolve 
in a little water three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass, add to it three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, and the same proportion of 
new milk, nearly half a pint of raspl>erry 
jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it 
well one wav till ii becomes thick, and looks 
like sponge, then put it into an earthenware 
mould, and turn it out the next day. 

RASPBERRY TART. Line your 
dish with a nice puff paste, lay 
and fruit, put bars across, and bake. 

RASPBERRY TART WITH CREAM. 
Line a patty-pan with thin puff paste, lay 
in some raspberries, and strew sonic very 
finely sifted sugar over them; cover them 
with puff paste, and bake it; when done, 
cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which has been previously beaten the \ulks 
of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a 
little wgar; when this is added to the tart, 
return it to the oven five or six minutes. 

RED CABBAGE. Get a fine purple 
cabbage, lake off the outside leaves, quarter 
it, take out the stalk, shred the leaves into 
a colander, s|>rinkle them ith salt, let them 
remain till the morrow, drain them dry, put 
them into a jar, and cover them with the 
pickle for beet roots. 

RED MULLET. Scrape and wash 
them, fold them in buttered paper, lay them 
into a dish, and bake them gently. The 
liquor that comes from them, boil with a 
piece of butter, dusted with flour, a tea- 
spoonful of s<>y, two of essence of anchovy, 
and a little white wine. Serve the sauce in 
:i butler-tureen. This M\ is called the sea 
woodcock, from being dressed with the 



RELISH FOR CHOPS, &c. Pound 
fine an ounce of black |>epper, and half an 
ounce of ;dl.-|>iee, with an ounce of salt, and 
half an ounre of scraped horseradish, and 
the same of eschalots., peeled and quartered; 
put these ingredients into a pint of inusliroom 
15* 



ketchup, or walnut pickle, and let them steep 
for a fortnight, and then strain it. 

Obs. A tea-spoonful or two of this is 
generally an acceptable addition, mixed 
with the gravy usually sent up for chops and 
steaks, or added to thick melted butter. 

REMOULADE, INDIAN. Pound the 
yolks often hard eggs to a paste, dilute it 
with eight spoonfuls of oil, put in one at a 
time, and continue pounding all the time; 
then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoon- 
ful of saffron, four or five spoonfuls of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole 
perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, 
and sei;\ e it in a sauce tureen. This sauce 
should be rather thick. 

RENNET. (1) As soon as the catf 
is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it 
inside and out with salt, after it is cleared 
of the curd always found in it. Let it drain 
for a few hours, after which sew it up with 
two large handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted; or keep it in the 
salt, wet, and soak a bit, which will do over 
and over by fresh water. 

RENNET. (2) Prepare the maw the 
same as in the above receipt: on the follow- 
ing day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a 
handful of sweet briar, a handful of rose- 
leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- 
joram, and two large spoonfuls of -alt, into 
two quarts of fresh spring water; let them 
tx.il uiTitly till the water is reduced to three 
pints, then strain it off, and when only milk 
warm, |H>ur it on the maw. Slice a lemon, 
and add to it; in two days, strain it again, 
and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may 
be put in also; take care that it is sufficient- 
ly salt. If the maw be again salted for a 
few days, and dried as above, it will be 
quite as fit for use as before; it should be 
kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 

RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off the thin skin, and 
cut them into lengths of four or five inches; 
lay them in a dish, and put over a thin 
sirup of sugar and water; cover with another 
dish, and let it simmer slowly for an boor 
upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block- 
tin saucepan. As soon as cold, make it 
into a tart; wlien tender, the baking the 
crust will l<e sufficient; or you may cut the 
stalks into little hits, the size of gooseberries, 
and make your tart the same as gooseberry 
tart. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. Put a tea- 
cupful of whole rice into the leant water 



RICE 



174 



RICE 



possible, till it almost bursts ; tlien add half 
a pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil 
it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole 
time it is on the fire, that it may not burn ; 
dip a shape in cold water, and do not dry 
it; put in the rice, and let it stand until 
quite cold, when it will come easily out of 
die shape. This dish is much approved of; 
it is eaten with cream or custard, and pre- 
served fruits ; raspberries are best. It should 
be made the day before it is wanted, that it 
may get firm. This blancmange will eat 
much nicer, flavored with spices, lemon-peel, 
&c., and sweetened with a little loaf sugar, 
add it with the milk, and take outthelemon- 
-peel before you put in the mould. 

RICE, TO BOIL. Wash the rice per- 
fectly clean, and put on one pound in two 
quarts of cold water ; let it boil twenty min- 
utes, strain it through a sieve, and put it be- 
fore the fire; shake it up with a fork every 
now and then, to separate the grains, and 
make it quite dry. Serve it hot. 

RICE CASSEROLE. Take a pound 
and a half of rice, wash it thoroughly in 
several waters (warm), and then put it 
into a saucepan, at least eight inches in 
diameter; moisten it with stock, in this pro- 
portion ; if tlie rice lies an inch thick, let 
the stock come two inches above it, and 
four ladlefuls of fowl skimmings; place the 
eaucepan on a hot stove; when the rice 
boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then 
put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil 
slowly lor fifteen to twenty minutes; stir it, 
let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, stir it again ; if by this time 
the rice is perfectly soft, take it off, but if 
not, add a little more liquid, and continue 
boiling until it ia so; place the saucepan 
aslant on the side of the stove that the tilt 
may drain awav and be taken off easily. 
As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it 
into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; 
it can hardly be worked up too much, as 
every grain of rice ought to pass under pres- 
sure (if necessary, add more stuck, a very 
little at a time). When the paste is thus 
thoroughly worked up, form your casserole 
of it, first laving it in a heap, four or five 
inches high, and seven in diameter; do it 
with the hand as you would a raised crust; 
make the ornaments of the outer surface with 
the point of "a knife, or by carrots cut for 
the purpose, taking care that the decorations 
Iv detached from the mass of rice, at least 
nn inch; attention to this particular \\ill 
uot only add to the beauty of the form, Ixit 
t ilie color also, as the raised parts ill be 
lightly colored, while the ground ^ill be 
quite white. When properly formed, mask 
the whole surface with clarified butter, and 



place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, 
by which time it will Iw of a fine clear yel- 
low. Take oil the top of your casserole, 
clear away all the rice from the inside that 
dues not adhere to the crust (which ought to 
be very thin), ami mix it with bechameHe, 
espagnole, or whatever other sauce may be 
proper, put it in again, and then fill your 
casserole, with such ragouts as your fancy 
may dictate; glaze the surface of the outer 
ornaments, and serve it. Water, with but- 
ter and salt, is frequently thought preferable 
to the stock, Sic., as the rice is thereby 
rendered much whiter. 

RICE CASSOLETTES. The rice 
prepared as above may Iv put into smaller 
moulds, those called dariole moulds, and 
it should be quite cold before it is turned out, 
the mince or whatever is put inside being 
also cold ; it must be put in carefully, that 
none of it may mix with the rice, otherwise 
the cassolettes >vould break in the process 
of frying; for the same reason, the dripping 
must l)e very hot. Frying is the best and 
quickest method of doing them, but they may 
also lie browned in the oven as the casserole 
of rice. 

RICE CHEESE. Boil an ounce of 
rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less 
than half a pint of milk (new); pour it hot 
on an ounce and a half of butter, the same 
weight of sugar, mixing it well together; let 
it stand till cold; then add one egg, and the 
yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

RICE CREAM. Mix some rice flour 

with half a glass of cold milk; then by de- 
grees, add a pint more, also cold, and put 
it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it on 
a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain 
and flavor it with orange-flower water, 
sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It 
should he stirred frequently whilst boiling; 
eggs may be added if you think proper. 

RICE CROQUETTES. Wash and 
scald a quarter of a pound of rice, put it 
into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 
shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a little cris|x-d orange- 
llowei-s, an ounce of butter, and half a pint 
of milk; set these on the fire, and when the 
rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, 
stir them in over the fire, but do not let them 
Ixiil; pour the preparation on a large tin or 
slab, spread it equally; let it cool, and then 
divide it into small equal parts; roll these 
into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll 
them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in a 
very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes 
are of a nice color, drain, sprinkle them 
with powder-sugar, and serve them. 



RICE 



175 



RICE 



RICE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of milk 
with pounded loaf sugar, and boil it with a 
Stick of cinnamon; stir in sifted ground 
rice till thick ; take it off the fire, and add 

the welUlxMtfii whites of three i-j--; stir il 
again over ihe (in- (iir two or three minutes, 
then put it into tea-cups previously dipped in 
cold water; turn tliein out when cold, and 
pour rouiul them a custard cream made with 
the yolks of the eggs; place upon the rice a 
little rvil currant jelly or r.isplierry jam. 
This dish may l>e served warm or cold; if 
cold, raspljerry cream or custard may lx> 
poured round it. 

RICE CUSTARDS AVITHOUT 

CKi:\M. One tea-s|x>onful of ri<v-tl-.ur, 
a pint of new milk, the yolks of ih. 
a ta!>le-s|XK>iifu! of ratafia (or tun or three 
laurel leaves lx>iled in), sugar to your taste; 
mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with 
the eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. 
Arrow-root is better than rice. 

RICK FLUMMERY. (1) Boil a pint of 
new milk, with a bit of lemon-|xvl and cin- 
namon: then mix just sufficient rice-flour, 
with a littk> cold milk as will make the 
whole of :i u<>od consistence, sweeten ac- 
cording in taste, flavor with a little pound- 
ed bitter almond; ln.il it, taking care not to 
let it burn ; pour it into a shape or pint ba- 
sin, taking out the spice. When the flum- 
nierx is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve 
with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or 
tern with sweet sauce in a boat. 

RICK II. I MMKKV. (2) Boil in a quart 

of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, half 
an ounce of bitter almoiiits, blanched and 
pounded with two labie-sixvoMluls. of rose- 
water; sweeten, and stir it till very thick, 
ft that the bottom of the saucepan is seen, 
and then put it into a mould; when (jiiile 
cold turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, 
nit into straws, and |x.ur round it some thick 
cream, and a little white wine and sugar 
mixed with it. 

HICK riMTTKKS. 15-.il tlte rice in 

milk with so (Mixvdfr-sugar, oranije-lloxxcr 

water, a pinch oi cniiiamon jxiwiler, ami a 
little Ixitler; when -|iiiie soft put to it a 
Unison of volks of cu^s. |x>nr it into a |KIII 
ti> cool. Make your pieparati-.n into lulls, 
alMHit the f'vu: -if an e'_".', dip them in egg, 
fix them, sprinkle them with su_ 
erve. 



tlien put in the grated rind of a lemon, let 
it cool. Wlien quite cold, stir in four yolka 
and four whole eggs, more if the rice he 
very thick; Ixitter a mould tightly, put the 
rice into it, place the mould in hot a.-hes, so 
tliat it may l>e completely envelojxxl in and 
covered with them; in half an hour the go- 
teau will I*' done enough; then turn it out, 
and serve. If you wish, you can make a 
souffle, by whipping the whites of six eggs; 
like other souffles, in this case it should he 
served in a silver dish. In putting the 
preparation into the mould, be careful not 
to fill it, as the rice would swell and run 
over the edge. 

RICE MILK. Allow an ounce of rice 
for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm 
water; set some milk on the fire, and when 
it boils, put in die rice ; continue to toil it 
over a slow fire, stirring often for two or 
three hours; add salt or sugar according 
to taste, and cinnamon. 

RICE AND MILK. To every quart 
of good milk all-.xv two ounces of rice; 
wash it well in several waters; put it with 
the milk into a closely-covered saucepan, 
and set it over a slow fire; when it boils 
take it off; let it stand till it be cold, and 
simmer it about an hour and a quarter be- 
fore sending it to table; and serve it in 
a tureen. 

RICE PANCAKES. Boil half a pound 
of rice in a small quantity of water, until 
quite a jelly; as soon as it is cold, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in xvith the rest, 
adding to the xvhole as much butter as will 
make the batter thick enough. They must 
lx> fried in as small a quantity of lard as 
possible. 

RICE PASTE. Rub tln-ee ounces of 

lintter well, into half a pound of ground 

rice, moisten it with xvater, and roll it out 
w ith a little Hour. 

RICE, PYRAMIDS OF. Boil some 

whole rice, make it up into the form of pyr- 
amids about three inches hi^h. or prew it 
into small tin frames -if that shajx-; take 
out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the 
space with sausage, or rich forcemeat ; place 
them in a dish, take off the frame . and pour 
round tliein some rich brown gravy. 



ISKT.. <; \TF.AU OF. Hoil a quart RICE SAVOURY. Carefullx wash 

of cream, add to it half a pound of powdar- and pick some rice; set it to slew very 

Wlgar, and three-quarters of a (x.und of gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, 

rice; when the latter is quite soft, di.-x.lxe add an onion, a blade of mace, (M'pper, and 

ill it a quarter of a pound of butter, and .-alt. When it is sxvelle-l it bhould not be 



RIS 



176 



ROLLS 



boiled to mash; put it to dry on the shallow 
end of a sieve before the fire. You may 
serve il dry, or put it in the middle of a 
dish, and pour the gravy round, having first 
heated it. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. Wash and 
pick half a pound of rice very clean, put it 
on in a saucepan with plenty of water ; when 
it boils let it boil ten 'minutes, drain it on 
a sieve till it is quite dry, and then pare six 
apples, weighing two ounces and a half each. 
Divide the rice into six parcels, in separate 
chillis, put one apple in each, tie it loose, 
and boil it one hour; serve it with sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

RICE SOUP. (1) Carefully blanch 
some well picked rice, then drain it on a 
sieve ; put about a tea-cupful in the soup-pot, 
with one head of celery, and a quart of 
consomme, and let it simmer by the side 
of the stove for three hours. If it thickens 
too much add more consomme, season with 
a little salt ; take out the celery, and send 
the soup to table. 

RICE SOUP. (2) Wash your rice 
well in warm water, changing it frequently ; 
then put the rice into a saucepan, with 
some good stock ; set it on the fire, and 
leave it to swell for half an hour, but do 
not let it boil; when the rice has imbibed 
all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to 
cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for 
two hours; in the meantime broil two or 
three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them 
well; when of a nice dark color, throw 
them into the rice soup, to which they will 
impart a rich flavor and a fine color. 

RICE, WHOLE IN A SHAPE. 

Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in .several 
waters, put it into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover it, and when it boils, add 
two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it 
becomes dry; put it into a shape, and press 
it in well. When cold, turn it out, and 
serve with preserved black currants, rasp- 
berries, or any sort of fruit round it. 

RISSOLES. (1) Cut puff paste with a 
round tin cutter, about three inches wide; 
have ready some cold fowl or veal, very 
finely minced, and seasoned with a little 
pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, 
and moistened with a little good gravy- 
Put some of the mince upon a bit of the 
paste, wet the edges, and lay over it anoth- 
er bit; press il gently round the rim; brush 
them all over with a well-beaten egg, and 
strew over them silted bread crumbs; tV\ 
them a light brown in boiling clarified Ixjcf 



dripping, and lay them upon the back of a 
sieve before the fne to drain. Serve them 
in a napkin. The paste may be cut of the 
size of a large breakfast plate, then the 
mince put into the middle of it, the edges 
wet all round, and gathered up into the 
form of a pear, brushed over with < 
strewed over witli bread crumbs. Served 
in a dish garnished with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES. (2) Mi nee very finely some 
cold roasted veal, and a small bit of bacon; 
season it with grated nutmeg and salt; 
moisten it with cream, and make it up into 
good-sized balls; dip them into the yolks 
of eggs beaten up, and then into finely -grat- 
ed bread. Bake them in an oven, or fry 
them of a light brown color in fresh drip- 
ping. Before serving, drain them before 
the fire on the back of a sieve. Garnish 
with fried parsley. 

ROLLS. (1) Dissolve two ounces of but- 
ter in one pint of new milk, and stir it into 
four pounds of flour, as also three table-spoon- 
fuls of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, and the 
well-beaten whites of two eggs; cover the 
pan with a wanned towel, and set it before 
the fire to rise for half an hour, then work it 
one way for fifteen minutes; form it into 
rolls, place them upon tins, and let them 
rise for ten minutes before putting them into 
the oven. 

ROLLS. (2) Warm an ounce of bolter in 
half a pint of milk, then add a spoonful arid 
a half of yeast of small Ijeer, and a little salt. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put 
in the. above. Set it to rise for an hour; 
knead it well ; make it into seven rolls, and 
hake, them in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (1) Mix rather more 

than an ounce of coarse salt with eight 
pounds of sifted flour; make a hole in the 
middle, and pour in alxjut half a pint of 
good yeast, the well-beaten whites of four 
ci^s, a:ul as much new milk warmed as 
will mix it to a middling stiffness; clap 
and work it down one way for hall" an hour, 
but do not knead it; cover it with a wann- 
ed towel, and let it rise before the fire for 
half an hour ; take off the surface, which 
soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be 
made into a roll; work and clap the dough, 
form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and 
let them rise for ten minutes ; bake them 
in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (2) Rub one ounce 
of butter into a pound of llour; then add to it 
one egg beaten, a little \east that is not bit- 
ter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make 
a dough of moderate stiffness. Beat it well, 



RO S 



177 



SAO 



but do not knead it ; let it rise, and bake on 
tins. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (3) Warm three 
spoonfuls of milk, and the same quantity of 
water, with a bit of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, put it to two s|KK>nfuk of thick yeast; 
put this into tlie middle of rather more than 
a quart of flour, mix the whole together to 
the consistence of a batter-|Midding, adding 
more tlour if necessary, to make it the proper 
thickness; strew a little flour over it from 
the side.--, and if the weather is cold, set it at 
a little di-t:tnre from (he fire; do this three 
hours Ix-lore it i- put into the oven ; when it 
breaks a good deal through tl)e tlour and ris- I 
es, work it into a light |>as(e with more warm 
milk ami water: let it. lie till within a quar- 
ter of an hour nf setting into the oven, then 
work them lightly into rolls; flour a tin, and 
drop tin >n nn, handle them as little as possi- 
ble; act them before the fire. Abouttwenty 
minutes will In- sufficient time to bake them ; 
put a little salt into the tlour. Rasp the 
rolls. 

HOI.I.S. SHORT, HOT. Dry -before 

the. lire a siilhcieul quantity of (lour to nuke 

iny-rolls, or larger if you like; add 

to it an cji; well k-alen, a little silt. tv\n 

spoonfuls i.f vea.-t. ami a little warm milk; 

make it into a light dough, let it -land In 

ill night. Bake die rolls in a quick 



-\V V.TER, DOUBLE-DISTILLED. 

The rose generally I-IH.M-H for this purpose, 

is the e.imni'.n r dutihle) ro.-e. 

but the while ruse i" IICM of all. Gather the 

. lwi> hours after siin- 

M- out llie ctlix, and depurate tlte 

I them in a in:irlile mortar to a 

paste, and leave them live or six hours in the 

: it tliem into a large close 

eloth, and let f 'ing it with all 

I Living I iv this operation ob- 

. infuse in it an 

equal weight nf fresh rose-leaves for tvvcntv- 
fourhi.ni.-; :il tin- end of that lime put the 
whole into tin- alembic, which place in a 
pand-hath. ain! di>til it according to rule. 
(Sec Disti/'iiiK)- When you have collect- 
ed aU.ut an ounce "f the wftler, uiiluti: the 
. and if that which i.-sues from the 
till is as odoriferous as that which proceeded 
lh>t, e.iiitinii.- tlm Ufa-ration; Uit if not, col- 
lect it int anotlier vessel, as this second 
and must lie kept sepa- 
rate from the first, which is the Essential 
Water. Should the second water have an 
unplca.-.inl sini II (canx-d In the application 
of tiMi much heal), expose it to the sun for 
a few days. COM u-d milv by a itneet of paper. 
The niuiust care is necessary in distilling this 



and all other odoriferous substances. A still 
more powerful essence than the above may be 
procured by tlte following method: Gather 
as many n >M- as will afford thirty pounds of 
leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; 
when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in 
layers with salt U-tween each, press them 
closely, cork them tight, leave the vessel 
twelve days, and then di-til as usual. 

ROSE-WATER, SINGLE. Put four 
pounds of rose-leaves into a pan, with three 
quarts of river water, and leave it tour-and- 
tvventy lionrs ; then (Mil it into a metal alem- 
bic, and distil from it as much odoriferous 
water as you can, being sure to stop the mo- 
ment you observe the phlegm. Take off 
tlie alembic, throw away its contents, and 
rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two- 
thirds with fresh-gatliered rose-leaves, on 
which |HHir the MOW drawn rose-water; 
distil this, and wlien you have procured as 
much good rose-water as it will vield, let the 
fire go out gradually. 

ROUX. Put a pound of butter into a 

. -hake it about till dissolved, when 
add a stilncient quantity of situ d tlour. to 
make it the coii.-isience of thick bouilli; 
ilieu set it over a fierce stove, and slir it un- 
til it Ix-uins to take color, wlien make a good 
lire i.f cinders, place the roux on it, tad let 
it stand to increase in color; it ought to be 
of a d.-ar li_'lit brown. Set it by, and use it 
-ion may require. 



, WHITE. Prepare v our butter 

and lloiir as alve, place it on a moderately 
Ivated stove, stirring it coitantl\ till very- 
hot; be careful th.it it does not takecolorat 
all, (br the whiter it is the more desirable. 

RUSKS. To three, ponnds and a half 
of flour allow lialf a pound of butter, the 
same quantity of |H.uiided loaf surar, and 
five s|>ooiifuLs of v-a.-l ; mix lln> flour and 
tlier: melt the butter in two pints 
and a h dfof milk, and mix it with the lloiir, 
then add the \.-.i-t and one beaten egg; 
work it well together; cover it, and let it 
Mand lor five or six hours; take it out of 
the pin, and f.rm it into little rolls; place 
Ihi-iii ti|(on tins, and let tin-in rise P>r aU.ut 
an hour; bake them in a quick oven, and 
when they Ixx-onie brown, cut them through 
the middle or into three ,-liees; jxit them 
again into the oven to brown and crisp. 



SAGE GARGLE. Boil quickly in a 
pint of water, a large handful of sage leave* ; 



SAL 



178 



SAL 



cover the pan closely, and when reduced to 
one-half, strain it; when cold, mix it with 
the same quantity of Port wine and of vine- 
gar ; sweeten it with honey, or with brown 
sugar. The decoction of sage may be used 
alone as a gargle, or with vinegar and hon- 
ey, without the Port wine; or gargle with 
vinegar and water. 

SAGO. Let it soak for an hour in cold 
water, to take off the earthy taste; pour 
that off, and wash it well ; then add more 
water, and simmer gently until the berries 
are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add 
wine and sugar according to taste, and boil 
all up together. 

SAGO MILK. When well cleansed, 
boil it slowly with new milk. A small 
quantity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, 
it swells so much, and when done, it should 
Be reduced to about a pint. It requires 
neither sugar nor flavoring. 

SALAD MIXTURE. Endeavor to have 
your salad herbs as fresh as |xissiblc; if you 
suspect they are not "morning gathered," 
they will be much refreshed by lying an hour 
or two in spring water; then fan-fully wash 
and pick them, and trim off all the worm- 
eaten, slimy, cankered, dry leaves; and, 
after washing, let them remain awhile in 
the colander to drain : lastly, swing them 
gently in a clean napkin: when properly 
picked and cut, arrange them in the salad 
dish, mix the sauce in a soup-plate, and put 
it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down 
the side of the salad dish, and don't stir it 
up till the mouths are ready for it. 

If the herbs be young, fresh gathered, trim- 
med neatly, and drained dry, and the sauce- 
maker ponders patiently over the follow ing 
directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame 
of being a very accomplished salad-dresser. 

Boil a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, 
and put them in a basin of cold water for a 
few minutes; the yolks must be quite cold 
and hard, or they will not incorporate with 
the ingredients. Rub them through a sieve 
with a wooden sjnion, and mix them with a 
table-spoonful of water, or line double cream ; 
llie.ii adil two table-spoonfuls, of oil or melted 
butter; when these are well mixed, add, .by 
degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt, or powdered 
lump sugar, and die same of made mustard : 
when these are smoothly united, add very 
gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar; 
rub it with the other ingredients till thor- 
oughly incorporated with them; cut up the 
white of the egg, and garnish the top of the 
naiad with it. Let the sauce remain at the 
bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up ihc 
salad till it is to be eaten: we recommend 
the eaters to be mindful of the duty of masti- 



cation, without the due performance of 
which, all undressed vegetables are trouble- 
some company for the principal viscera, and 
some are even dangerously indigestible. 

SALAD, WINTER. Wash very clean 
one or two heads of endive, some heads of 
celery, gome mustard and cresses; cut them 
all small, add a little shredded red cabbage, 
some slices of boiled Iwet-root, an onion, if 
the flavor is not disliked ; mix them together 
with salad sauce. In spring, add radishes, 
and also garnish die disli with them. 

SALINE DRAUGHT. Salt of worm- 
wood, twenty grains; lemon-juice, a table- 
spoonful; water, two table-spoonfuls; mag- 
nesia, twenty grains ; mix it in a tumbler, 
together with a little pounded sugar, and take 
two or three of these in the day. 

SALLY LUNNS. Take three quarts 
of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient 
quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little salt: make these in- 
gredients into a light dough, let it stand be- 
fore the fire (covered), for an hour to rise, 
and bake in a quick oven. The above may 
be made into small cakes. 

SALMON. When salmon is fresh and 
good, the gills and flesh are of a bright red, 
tl>< .-rales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. 
Wlien just killed, there is a whiteness be- 
tween the flakes, which gives great firmness; 
by keeping, this melts down, and the fish 
becomes richer. 

SALMON, BAKED. Qean and cut 
the fish into slices, put it in a dish, and make 
the following sauce: Melt an ounce of but- 
ter, kneaded in (lour, in a pint and a half 
of <jra\y, with tun glasses 01 Port wine, two 
table-s|>oonfuls of ketchup, two anchovies, 
and a little cavenne. When the anchovies 
are dissolved, strain and pour the sauce over 
the fish, tie a sheet of buttered paper over 
the dish, and send it to the oven. 

SM.MON, BOILED. Put on a fish- 
kettle, with spring water enough to well 
<-over i he salmon you are going to dress, or 
the salmon will neither look nor taste well: 
(Ixiil the liver in a separate saucepan). 
When the water boils, put in a handful of 
salt; take off the scum as soon as it rises; 
have the fish well washed ; put it in, and if 
it is thick, let it boil very gently. Salmon 
requires almost as much boiling as meat; 
about a quarter of an hour to a pound of 
fish : but practice only can perfect the cpok 
in dressing salmon. A quarter of a salmon 
will take almost as long boiling as half a 



SAL 



179 



SAL 



one: you must consider the thickness, not the 
weight: ten pounds of line full-grown salmon 
will ! dune in an hour and a quarter. Lob- 
ster Sauce. 

Obs. The thinnest part of the fish is 
the fattest ; and if sou have a " grand gour- 
mand" at table, ask him if he is for thick 
or thin. 

N. B. If you have any left, put it into 
a pie-dish, and cover it with an equal por- 
tion of vinegar and pump. water, and a little 
salt: it will be ready in three days. 

SALMON, BOILED I.\ WINE. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, some slices of ba- 
con, fat and lean together, a pound of veal 
cut thin, and a |xiund and a half of beef; put 
these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece 
of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then 
pour in just as much water as will cover it, 
and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the 
salmon is almost done, then |xmr the water 
away, and put in two quarts of white wine, 

with an onion cut in slices, some thy , and 

sweet maijoram, picked from the stalks; let 
them stew sjeiuly, and while they are doing, 
cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the 
slices across, and slew them in a - 
with some rich gravy; when they are done 
enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence 
of ham; take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, 
and - i \e witli the sweetbread, and its' sauce 
poured over. 

S \LMON, BOILED, BERWICK RE- 

CF.IPT. The tail of the salmon is tirst cut 
off near and below the last I'm, the tisli is 
then cm up the back, keeping the Ixmo cm 

. and then cut lip into pieces of half 
a jMUiid each, the blood \\ell washed out of 
the tish in culil wavr, but the wales not tol- 
removed; a pickle to In- maile of .-all and 
water, siroiii; enough to Ix-ar an egg, and, 
when boiling, the fish to ! put in, ami Imil- 
ed very quickly for lil'teen minutes. During 
the boiling, the scum to U- taken ofl' carefully 

i- it i i.--<. SaUCei; lobster, nick- 
ed Ixitlcr. and anchovy san-e. 

- i':i haide-t water is preferable 

for boiiin.; salmon. 

S \l.\10\, I'.OILKI), lu.f K.IPT BY AX 
ARKRUKKS KI-HKKM VN. When the wa- 
ter is hot, put salt into it, and stir it well; 

when >iron U ' enough to (in 
cast it from your mouth, it will do; when 
the water boils put in the li.-h; when it U.ils 
tn twenty minute- lor a salmon, am! 
'-tie. NYheii salmon i.- cni 
!i thick, let tiiem b-.iil ten 
ininiites. S.-rve with it a -anc.- 
the liquor the li.-h was boiled in. 

SAL.MO.N SIT.AKS 15KOILED. "Cut 



the steaks from the thickest parts of the fish 
nearly an inch thick ; butter pieces of white 
paper; fold the steaks in them, and broil 
tin-in o\er a slow fire for ten or twelve minutes. 
Take off the |>uper; serve and garnish with 
plenty of fried parsley. Dressed in this 
way, tliey may be put round salmon boiled, 
in slices. Sauces; melted butter, lobster, 
or shrimp sauce. 

SALMON, FRESH BROILED. Clean 

the salmon well, and cut it into -lice- aU>nl 
an inch and a half thick; dry it thoroughly 
in a clean cloth ; rub it over with sweet oil, 
or thick melted butter, and spi inkie a little 
salt over it: put your gridiron over a clear 
fire, at some distance; when it is hot, wipe 
it clean; rub it with sweet oil or lard; lay 
the salmon on, and when it is done on one 
side, turn it gently and broil the other. An- 
chovy sauce, &c. 

Olt. An oven does them best. 

SALMON CAVEACH. Boil in two 
quarts of vinegar three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of whole black |x-p|>er, three cloves, 
two blades of mace, and a little salt. Fry 
the fish, cut in slices, of a liiiht brown color 
in fine oil, or clarified dripping; put them, 
when cold, into a pan, pour over the \ ine^ar 
and spices, and put on the top eight or ten 
spoonfuls of oil. Soles may be done in this 
way, only lay over them sliced onions instead 
of shallots. 

SALMON, DRIED KIPPER. Cutthe 

fish up the hack, and takeout the bone; wipe 
it veiy dean with a cloth; score it, and put a 
handful, of salt on each side, and let it lie 
tor thru' days; then hang it up to dry, and 
it will be fit lor use in two days, and eats 
well with a little pepper put over it, and 
broiled. 

SALMON, DRIED, TO DRESS. Lajr 

. |iii t\\.i ( ,r three hours, tlien broil 
it, .-liaking a little pepper over it. Dried 
salmon is eaten broiled in pa|XT, and only 
just warmed through; e'_ r ^' s-iticc and mashed 
potatoes iitc usually served with it; or it 
may be boiled, especially the bit next the 
liead. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (1) Cut a 

.-almoii into two or three pieces, put it in 
a li-li-kettle, and set it on the fire with a 
Mifticient quantity of water to cover it, am: 
plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boil, 
set it aside to simmer very gently until done; 
then take it oil' the fire, 'and let it stand in 
the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the 
pieces close together in a tub to pickle, and 
M-.IT them live anchovies, a small quantity 
of pounded saltpetre, and a quarter of a 



SAL 



180 



SAL 



pint of sweet oil; being thus prepared, put 
the (op of tlie salmon liquor into a stewpan, 
to which add the same quantity of white 
wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, 
and boil ii for two or three minutes ; take it 
off, and let it cool. When cold, pour it 
over the salmon and 'tie it down ; in three 
days turn it, and in a week's time it will 
be fit for use ; this is merely in a small way ; 
a great quantity being done at once, requires 
neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished 
with fennel. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (2) Cut the sal- 
mon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, and lay 
it on a dry cloth till the following day; boil 
two quarts of good vinegar with one of the li- 
quor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole 
black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and 
four blades of mace. Put the salmon into 
something deep, and pour over it the prepar- 
ed vinegar when cold. A little sweet oil 
put upon tlie top will make it keep a . twelve- 
month. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (3) To a quart 
of liquor the fish has been boiled in, put rath- 
er more than half a pint of good vinegar, and 
half an ounce of whole black pepper; boil 
it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, 
previously laid in a deep dish. 

SALMON, PICKLED, TO DRESS. 
Soak a piece of pickled salmon all night 
in pump-water; then lay it on a fish-plate, 
and put it in a stewpan, with three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, a little mace, some whole 
pejjpcr in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in 
flour; cover the stewpan very close, and let 
it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of 
an hour; then lake up the salmon, lay it in 
a dish, keep it hot liefore the fire; let the 
sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence; 
take out tlie spice, onion, and sweet herbs, 
and serve tlie sauce over die fish. 

SALMON, POTTED. Take off the 
head; cut the salmon in thick slices; wipe it 
dry, but do not wash it; pound half an ounce of 
nutmeg, mace, and cloves, the least part of 
cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and 
some salt; chop fine one onion, six bay- 
leaves, and six anchovies ; season each slice ; 
put it into a pan, with very thin slices of 
butter between each layer; bake it, when 
well done ; drain off the butter, and, when 
cold, pour over some clarified butler. 

SALMON, TO SALT. Cut the fish up 
the back, and cut out llie bone ; wipe il 
clean, and sprinkle il with salt; let it lay a 



night to drain off the liquor ; wipe it dry ; 
rub on it two or three ounces of pounded 
saltpetre; cut it into pieces; pack it close in 
a pot with a thick layer of salt between each 
layer of fish. If the brine does not rise in 
a few days, boil a strong one, and pour it, 
when cold, upon the salmon, which must 
always be covered with it. 

SALMON, STEW. Clean and scrape 
the fish; cut it into slices, and stew it in a 
rich white gravy. A little before serving, 
add two table-spoonfuls of soy, one of es- 
sence of anchovy, and a little salt, some 
chopped parsley and chives. 

SALMON, SPICED. Mix together, in 
the proportion of one third of salt-and-water to 
one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black 
pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Cut 
the salmon into slices, and Ixiil it in this; 
when cold, pack it close in a pan, and pour 
over it the liquor it was boiled in, with the 
spices, so as to cover il completely; cover 
tlie pan closely, to exclude tlie air. 

SALMON, MACKEREL, SPRATS, 
HERRINGS, &c. PICKI.KD. Cut tlie fish 
into proper pieces; do not take oil the scales 
make a brine strong enough to lirar an egg, 
in which boil the fish ; it must lie boiled in 
only just liquor enough to cmer it; do not 
overboil it. When the fish is boiled, lay it 
slant iuj;ly to drain off all the liquor; when 
cold, [Kick it eluse in the kits, and till them 
up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon 
was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), 
and best vinegar ; let them rest for a day; 
fill up again, striking the sides <>f the kit with 
a cooper's adz, until the kit will receive no 
more ; then head them down as close as pos- 
sible. 

Obs. This is in the finest condition 
\\lien fresh. Some sprigs of fresh-gathered 
young fennel are the accompaniment*. 

N. 13. The three indispensable marks 
of tlie goodness of pickled s:ilmon are, 1st, 
The brightness of the scales, and their stick- 
ing fast to the skin ; 2dly, The firmness of 
tlie flesh ; and, 3dly, Its fine, pale-red rose 
color. Without these it is not fit to eat, 
and was either stale before ii was pickled, 
or has been kept too long after. 

Tlie above was given us as the actual 
practice of those who pickle it for the Lon- 
don market. 

N. B. Pickled salmon warmed by steam, 
or in its pickle liquor, is a favorite dish at 
Newcastle. 

SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, 
lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then mix 
with a small quantity of ihe powder, pre- 
viously rubbed smooth, in a little cold water; 



SAL 



181 



SAN 



stir the wlmle well together, and boil for a 
few minutes. 

SALPICON. This is a mixture compo- 
sed of various article.-', such as sweetbreads, 
fet livers, tongue, ham, champignons, truf- 
fles, &c., pivxiously dressed, cut into dice, 
and cooked in some rich since, and 
widi pepjier, siilt, nutmeg, rlou-s, shallots, 
sweet herbs, and a little butter; take care 
that all the artic !>.- are sufficiently boiled l- 
tore they are cm up. .Many things, such a.s 
beetpuate, fowl, cock.-"-comlis, ii 
most an_s article you please, may be added to 
the alxiM'. 

S \ I .T, Is as Plutarch calls it, sauce 

"ice. 

Common salt is more relishing than IKIS- 
ket >:ilt ; it should l>e pre|jared tor the table 
by drying it in a Dutch oven l*-fore the lire; 
then put it mi a clean |>a|>cr, and roll it with 
a rolling pin; if you pound it in a inntar 
till it i> ijuite line, it will look as well as 
basket s;ih. 

%* Select for table-use die lumps of 
salt. 

Obs. Your Kilt-box mn-t have a close 
co\cr. ,ind U- kept in a dry place. 

SALT. SI'ICKD. Take four drachms 
of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two 

of whin- |>rppiT, two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and 
two of tin me (ilii-st- three latlcr articles 
should U- dried in an oven). I'ut them- all 
into a mortar, and |>iind them to an impal- 
pable |>owdi-r, and sift it. Take a pound 
of line white ?ah, dry it thoroughly in an 
oven, or stove, pound it a- line as |x^-il.l.-; 
sift, and mix with it an ounce of tlie above 
mentioned .-piii-: amalgamate them thor- 
oughly, keep llle sj)ii-ed salt ill a tin IKIX, 

which will shut |NT|iftl\ close. Use it in 
the following prn|M>rtion: lour drachms to a 
jmuilii of Ixmed \i-al. 

SAI.TIM; Mi:vr. In the summer 
season, e>|x-cially. mi at is In ,|uvuily sjxiiled 
by the ' ook foi^eilini; to take nut tlie ker- 
in llie ndiler of a round of beef, in 
tlie fat in the middle of the round, those 
a 1 mut the thick cud of ilw- Hank, &c.: if 
tlieK are not taken out, all the salt in the 
world will not keep the meat. 

Tlie art of salting meat is to rub in tlie 
salt thoroughly and e\enlv into every part, 
and to till all ibe holes full of salt whi-n- llie 
kernel- were taken out, and wliere tlie butch- 

ucrs were. 

A round nf la-el" of 25 |x>unds will take a 

pound and a half of salt to be rubtx-d in all 

In- turned and nibbed 

every day witli die brine; it will be ready 
16 



for dressing in four or five days, if you do 
not wish it very salt. 

In summer, the sooner meat is salted after 
it is killed, the better; and care must be 
taken to defend it from the flies. 

In winter, it will eat the shorter and 
tenderer, if kept a few days (according to 
the temperature of the weather) until its 
fibre lias become short and tender, as these 
changes do not take place after it has been 
acted upon by the salt. 

In frosty weather, take care the meat is 
not frozen, and warm tlie salt in a frying- 
pan. The extremes of lieat and cold are 
equally unfavorable for the process of salting. 
In tlie former, tlie meat changes before the 
salt can ailed it: in the latter, it. is so har- 
dened, and its juices are so congealed, that 
the salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- 
petre, in tlie proportion of half an ounce, and 
tlie like quantity of moist sugar, to a pound 
of common salt. 

Von may impregnate meat with a very 
agreeable vegetable flavor, by pounding some 
sweet herbs, and an onion with the salt. 
You mav make it still more relishing by ad- 
ding a little ZEST or savory spice. 

SALT PORK, BOILED. See Bacon. 

SAMPHIRE, TO DRY, OR PRE- 
SERVE. Take it in bunches :is it grows ; 
set a large deep stewpan full of water on the 
fire; as soon as it boils, throw in a little 
.-alt, and put in the samphire; when it looks 
of a fine green, remove tlie pan directly from 
die fne, and take out llie samphire with a 
lork; lay it on sieves to drain ; w lien cold, 
lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well 
over it, next day turn them on a sieve, and 
strew it ajain with su^ar, keep turning dai- 
ly until it is dry; take care tlie stove is not 
too hot. 

SAMPHIRE, TO PICKLE. Lay some 
samphire that is green in a pan, sprinkle 
over it two or three handfuls of salt, and 
cover it with spring water, and let it lay for 
twenty-four hours; then put it into a large 
brass saucepan ; throw in a handful of salt ; 
cover the pan close, and set it over a Tery 
slow fire; let it stand till it is quite green, 
and crisp ; then take it off, for if it becomes 
soft it is spoiled; put it into a jar, cover it 
close, and when it U cold, tie it down. 

S\M)\\ ICIIES FOR TRAVEL- 
LERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon 
die upper part of a stale loaf of liread cut 

very smooth, and then cut oil die slice; now 
cut oflTanoihrr thin slice, but spread it with 
butter on die under side, without which pre- 
caution tlie two slices of bread will not fit 



SAUCES 



182 



SAUCES 



one another. Next take some cold beet, or 
ham, and cut it into very minute particles. 
Sprinkle these thickly over the butter, and, 
having added a little mustard, put the slices 
face to face, and press them together. Last- 
ly, cot the whole into four equal portions, 
each of which is to lie wrap|)ed'in a separate 
piece of paper. 

SANDWICHES. (1) Cat some bread 
into thin slices, pare off the crust, and spread 
a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into 
oblong pieces, put between each gome bits 
of fowl, and then thin bits of ham, both nice- 
ly trimmed; add a little mustard and .-alt. 
Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. 
Serve them for luncheon, garnished with 
curled parsley. 

SANDWICHES, (2) Properly prepar- 
ed, are an elegant and convenient luncheon 
or supper, but have got out of fashion, from 
the bad manner in which they are common- 
ly made : to cut die bread neatly with a 
sharp knife seems to be considered the only 
essential, and the lining is composed of any 
offal odds and ends, that cannot be sent to 
table in any other form. Whatever is used 
must be carefully trimmed from every bit of 
skin, gristle, &e. and nothing introduced 
but what you are alisolntely certain will be 
acceptable to the mouth. 

SANDWICHES, CAKE. Cut a sponge 
cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- 
w iches, and spread strawberry jam or cur- 
rant jelly over them. 

SAUCE. (1) Few things require more 
care than making sauce?, as most of tlieui 
should be stirred constantly, the whole atten- 
tion should be directed to them ; the better 
way therefore, is to prepare the sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand equal 
care; they may be kept hot in the bain- 
marie. 

Butler, and those sauces containing eggs, 
ought never to boil. 

The thickest stewpans should be used for 
making sauces, and wooden-spoons used 
for stirring them. 

SAUCE. (2) Mix together a pint of 
vinegar, two shallots or heads of garlic, a 
teu-spoouful of cayenne, three large table- 
spoonfuls of Indian soy or mushroom ketch- 
up, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand 
a week, shaking it daily; strain, and bottle 
it for use. 



FOR ANY SORT OF MEAT. 

Boil and strain three table-spoonfuls of gra- 
vy, two of vinegar, a blade of mace, a little 
pepper, salt, and a large sliced onion. 



ANCHOVY. Pound three an- 
chovies in a mortar with a little bit of but- 
ter; nib it through a double hair sieve with 
the back of a wooden spoon, and stir it into 
almost half a pint of melted butter ; or stir 
in a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. 
To the above, many cooks add lemon-juice 
and cayenne. 

APPLE. (1) Pare, core, and 

slice some apples; boil them in water, with 
a bit of lemon-peel; when tender, mash them; 
add to them a bit of butter die size of a 
walnut, and some brown sugar. Heat, and 
serve in a sauce-tureen. 



APPLE. (2) Pare and core 

three good->iwd baking apples; put them 
into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water; cover the 
saucepan close, and set it on a trivet over a 
slow fire a couple of hours before dinner 
(some apples will take a long time slewing, 
others will be ready in a quarter of an hour): 
when the apples are done enough, pour off 
the water, let them stand a few minutes to 
get dry ; then beat them up \\ ith a fork, 
with a bit of butter about as biff ns a nut- 
meg, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar. 
N. B. Some add lemon-peel, grated, or 
minced fine, or Ixiil a bit with the apples. 

ATTELETS. Take of finely- 
minced jwrsley, mushrooms, and shallots, a 
table-spoonful each ; fry them with a little but- 
ter, and then dredge in a little flour; moisten 
the mixture with some good stock, season 
it with |X'|>per and salt, and boil it till it 
begins to thicken ; then take it off the tire, 
and add the welUjeaten yolks of two or 

. Stir it well all the time it is 
making. 



BEEF-GRAVY, or Brotcn 

Sauce for Ragout, Game, Poultry, 
Fish, 4'C. If you want gravy immediately, 
see Potato Soup, or (ilaze. If yon have 
time enough, furnish a thick and well-tinned 
stewpan with a thin slice of sail |x>rk, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-sized onion; 
on this lay a pound uf nice, juicy gravy 
beef, (as the object in making gravy is to 
extract the nutritious succulence of the meat, 
it must lx: beaten to comminute the contain- 
ing vessels, and scored to augment the sur- 
face to the action of the water) ; cover the 
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire; when 
the meat begins to brown, turn it about, 
and let it get slightly browned (but take 
care it is not at all burned): then pour in a 
pint and a half of lioiliiig water; set the 
pan on the fire; whin it boils, carefully 
catch tlie scum, and then put in a crust of 
bread toasted brown (don't burn it) a 



SAUCES 



183 



SAUCES 



prig of winter savory, or lemon thvme and 
parsley a roll of thin cut lemon-|>eel, a doz- 
en berries of allspice. :nnl a dozen of black 
pepper. Cover tin- stew|n close, and let 
it stew very gently tor about tun hours, 
then strain it through a sieve into a basin. 
Now, if you wish to thicken it, set a clean 
stewpan mer a .-low lire, with about an 
ounce of Ixitter in it; when it is melted, 
dredge to it, by degrees, as inucli flour as 
will dry it up, stirring them well together; 
when thoroughly mixed, pour in a little 
gravy stir il well together, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees; set it over the fire, let 
it simmer gently fur fifteen minutes longer, 
skim off the fat, kc. as it rises; when it i.s 
about as tliick us cream, squeeze it through 
a tamis. or line .-ieve and you will have a 
fine rich Brown Sauce, nt:i very moderate 
expense, and without much trouble. 



FOR ROILED BEEF. Mince 

a large onion, parboil it, and drain off the 

'.it the onion into a saucepan, with 

a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 

.v, and one ounce of Initter 

with it little lloiir. Let it boil 

a minutes, and add a s|XH>nful of 

cut rajicrs, which must Iw thoroughly heat- 

ed before the sauce is served. 



BROW.V. Take a pound or 

two of ste.iks, two or three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, 
put all then- into a saucepan with a glass 
n|" water, and set it on a brisk lire; when 
..iic:-, put it on a 

slow lire, that the ji-IK may lake color with- 
out burning; and :is soon as it is brown, 
moi.-tcii it with stock (i-r water), add a 
bunch of pi. 

salt it well, and set it (in tile fire I": 
hours, then .-iiai'i; dilute a little roux with 
your liquor, ami I, nil it an hour mer a gentle 
lire, take oil' all the fat, and run il through 
a bolting. 

BO\.\E DOUCHE, FOR 

GOOSE, DUCK, OR RA-I P..KK. .Mix 

-j* lul of mad -[XMin- 

ful of salt, and a l'<-u v.mis of caymie, in a 
large wine-glas.-liil of d nvi ,,r Port wine; 
jKiur it into the goose by a slit in the apron 
ju.-t More serving up ; or, as ail the com- 
pany ma\ not like it, stir it into a quarter 
of a pint of thick melted butter, or thicken- 
ed gravy, and send it up in a Ix>at. A fh- 
vnrite reli.-h lor roast |xnk or u'eese, N 
two uunci - "I l> av. ounce 

"I |Vi>!, I,. ui. ii-|-el pared thin, -ami' of sill, 
minced eschalot, and lialf a drachm of 

me l'|i|-r, ditto of cilric ac-id, steeped 
for a iWlniJht in a pin! >ke it 



up well every day ; let it stand a day to set- 
tle, and decant the clear liquor; bottle it, 
and cork it close ; a table-spoonful or more 
in a quarter pint of gravy, or melted butter. 

BREAD. (1) Boil, in a pint of 

water, the crumb of a French roll or of a 
slice of bread, a minced onion, a 
whole pepper. When the onion is tender, 
drain off the water, pick out the jiepper- 
corns, and nib the bread through a sieve; 
then put it into a .saucepan, with a gill of 
cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. 
Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce- 
tureen. 



BREAD. (2) Mix, in rather 

more than half a pint of milk or water, a 
slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful of 
potato Hour, a small onion pounded, a bit of 
butter the size of a. walnut, a few whole 
pepper corns, a little m:u-e, and salt. Boil 
it well, pick out the spices, and mix it 
smooth. Serve <|iiite hot. 

BREAD. (3) Put a small 

tea-cupful of bread crumbs into a Mrwpan, 
pour on it as much milk as it will soak up, 
and a little more; or instead of the milk, 
take the giblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the jxmltry, &c. and stew them, and 
moisten the bread with this liquor; put it on 
the lire with a middling-sized onion, and a 
down Ijerrit s of jx-pper or allspice, or a fit- 
tie mace; let it Ixiil, then stir it well, and 
let it simmer till it is quite stiff, and then 
put to it aUuit two tiible-s|xKinfuls of cream 
ur melted butter, or a little .K.d brolh; 
take out (he onion and |>epper, and it is 
ready. 

Obi. This is an excellent accompani- 
ment to game and ]>oultry. 

FOR BOILED MEAT, GAME, 

AND POULTHV. Bruise ihr: yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs with a little water and salt ; 
bone one anchovy, and mince it, a small on- 
ion, I wo shallots, a little parsley and tarra- 
oid a few capers; mix them with the 
egg, add a table-s|x>onful of fine oil, a little 
mustard, two table-spoonfuls of lemon, and 
one ol tarragon \inrgar; mix all exceed- 
ingly well together, (Hit it into a -auce-tu- 
reen, and serve it uiih the broil; or it may 
be served with cold u-al. 



CAPER. To make a quarter 

of a pint, take a table-spoonful of capers, 
and two tea-s|xionfnls of vinegar. 

The present liishion of cutting capers is 
to mince, one-third of in. m very line, and 
divide the others in half; put them into a 
i|iiarler of a pint of mrlled butler, or good 
Ihii-kened ^.a\\; >iir them die same way 



SAUCES 



184 



SAUCES 



as you did the melted butter, or it will oil. 
Some boil, and mince fine a few leaves of 
parsley, or chervil, or tarragon, and add 
these to the sauce ; others tlie juice of half 
a Seville orange, or lemon. 

Keep the caper bottle \c\y closely corked, 
and do not use any of the caper liquor: if 
tjie capers are not well covered with it, they 
will immediately spoil; and it is an excel- 
lent ingredient in hashes, &c. The Dutch 
use it as a fish sauce, mixing it with melted 
butter. 

CARRIER. Scrape a small 

stick of horse-radish, cut an onion or two 
in thin slices, put these into a sauce-tureen 
with a little vinegar and whole pepper; set 
the tureen in die dripping-pan under a 
shoulder of mutton whilst roasting ; serve 
this sauce quite hot with die meat. 

CELERY, WHITE. Pick and 

wash two heads of nice white celery; cut it 
iuto pieces about an inch long; stew it in a 
pint of water, and a tea-spoonful of salt, till 
the celery is tender ; roll an ounce of butter 
with a table-spoonful of flour; add this to 
half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. 

CELERY PUREE, for boiled 

Turkey, Veal, Fowls, fyc. Cut small 
half a dozen heads of nice white celery dial 
is quite clean, and two onions sliced; put 
in a two-quart stewpan, with a small lump 
of butter : sweat them over a slow fire till 
quite tender, then put in two spoonfuls of 
nour, half a pint of water (or beef or veal 
broth), salt and pepper, and a little cream or 
milk ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and pass 
through a fine hair sieve with the back of a 
spoon. If you wish for celery sauce when 
celery is not in season, a quarter of a drachm 
of celery seed, or a little essence of celery, 
will impregnate half a pint of sauce with a 
sufficient portion of die flavor of the vege- 
table. 

CHESTNUT, FOR ROAST 

TURKEY. Scald a pound of good chest- 
nuts in hot water for five minutes, skin diem, 
and stew them slowly for two hours in white 
stock, seasoned and diickened with butter 
and flour. Cut a pound of pork sausages 
into bits alxmt an inch long, dust them with 
flour, and fry them a light brown ; lay diem 
into the dish on which die turkey is to be 
served, and pour the chestnuts and sauce 
over them. Some people prefer die fried 
sausages stewed a little with the chestnuts ; 
but diis mediod makes die sauce of a darker 
color. 

CURRANT, FOR VENISON. 

Boil in water for a few minutes an ounce of 



nicely-cleaned currants, add direc table* 
s|xx>nfuls of grated bread, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, four cloves, and a glass 
of Port wine; stir it till it boil, and serve it 
hot. 

CURRY, Is made by stirring a 

sufficient quantity of curry powder, into gra- 
vy or melted butter, or onion sauce, or onion 
gravy. The compositions of curry powder, 
and the palates of those who eat it, vary so 
much, that we cannot recommend any spe- 
cific quantity. The cook must add it by 
degrees, tasting as she proceeds, and take 
care not to put in too much. 

DUTCH. (1) Beat up the yolks 

cf six rii3, mix in a little flour, cream, salt, 
and lemon vinegar. Strain it through a 
sieve, add a small piece of fresh Ixitter, two 
blades of pounded mace, and a little pepper. 
Put it into a saucepan, and stir it till it 
is almost boiling. 



DUTCH. (2) Put into a stewpan 

a tea-spoonful of flour, four table-spoonfuls of 
elder vinegar, a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little 
salt ; keep stirring it over die fire, and work 
it well till thick. If it be not curdled, it 
will not require to be strained. Season 
with pepper. 

DUTCH, FOR FISH OR BOIL- 
ED FOWLS. Mix, with two ounces of 
fresh butter, one tea-spoonful of flour, two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water, tlio same 
quantity of vinegar, and one well-beaten 
egg; put it into a saucepan, and stir it over 
the fire till it be quite hot, but do not allow 
it to boil. 



EGG. (1) This agreeable accom- 
paniment to roasted poultry, or salted fish, 
is made by putting three eggs into boiling 
water, and boiling diem for alx>ut twelve 
minutes, when they will be hard; put them 
into cold water till you want them. This 
will make the yolks firmer, and prevent 
their surface turning black, and yon can rut 
diem much neater: use only two of the 
whites, cut the whiles into small dice, tlie 
yolk? into bits aliout a quarter of an inch 
square; put them into a sauce-boat ; pour 
to them half a pint of melted butter, and 
stir them together. 

If you are for superlative egg sauce, 
pound the yolks of a couple of eggs, and rub 
them with the melted butter to thicken it. 

N. B. Some cooks garnish salt fish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in half. 

EGG. (2) Boil three or four 

eggs about a quarter of an hour, put them 



SAUCES 



185 



SAUCES 



into cold water, take off the shells, cut three 
of tin- whites and four yolks into small 
pieces, mix them with melted butler, and 
heat it well. 



ESCHALOT. Take fmr es- 
chalots. ;uiil make it in the same manner as 
garlir since. Or, you may make this sauce 
more e\lem|x>raiieoiisly by putting: two table- 
spoonl'uls of eschalot wine, ami a sprinkling 
of |x-p|x-r ami nail, into (almost) half a pint 
of thick melted butter. This is .m excellent 
sauce for chops or steaks; many are very 
fond of it with roasted or boiled meat, 
poultry, &c. 

ESCHALOT, FOR BOIL- 
ED Ml TT<>\. This is a very frequent 
and satisfactory .-nlistitute for raper sauce. 
Miner (''in e-.-lialots \cry line, and put them 
into a small sauce|>an, with almost half a pint 
of the liquor the mutton was I mi led in: let 
them hod iij> tor live minutes; then put in a 
tablc-s|XM>nfiil of vinegar, a quarter tea-spoon- 
ful of jx-pper, a little sail, and a bit of butter 
(as big as a walnut) rolled in tlonr; shake 
togetlier till it boils. 

ESCAVEKE SAUCE, FOR 

COLD GAME, FOWL, OR MEAT. Beat, 

ina marble mortar, tin- following ingredients: 
five (loves of garlic, six cloves of shal- 
lot, a? much pounded ginger as will lie upon 
a .-i\|-iic t -, and the same of cayenne, a ta- 
ii'ul of coriander seed, and a little 
salt. 1'oiir upon ilu-m, lx>iling hot, a pint 
of tlie liest white wine \ literal ; add the peel 
of a lemon, cut very thin. When cold, put 
the whole into a bottle, cork it tightly, and 
shake it well before using. 



FOR FISH. (1) The melted 

r lish. should l- thick enough to ad- 
bere to llie fish, and, therefore, must be of the 
thickness of light batter, at it is to be dilut- 
ed with essence of ancho\y, soy, mushroom 
ketchup, cayenne, or Chili vinegar, lemons 
or lemon-juice, or artificial lemon-juice, &c. j 
which are e\|>ected al all well-served tables, j 
Cooks, who are jealous of the reputation of : 
their i.i-ie, and housekeepers who value their 
healih, will prepare these articles at home: 
there are qnin- as many reasons why they 
nhould, as UH-I-C are for the preference usually 
l_'H'"i in home-baked bread. and home-brew- 
fd lx-T. The liver of tin- lish pounded and 
mixed with parsley and butter, with a little 
lemon-juice, ike. is an elegant and inoffensive 
relish to lish. 



!'< )R FISH. (2) Two wine-gbss- 

i, and two of walnut pickle, four of 
mushroom ketchup, half a dozen anchovies, 
|v>uiidcd, the like number of eschalots sliced 



and pounded, a table-spoonful of *oy, and 
half a drachm of cayenne pepper ; let them 
simmer gently for ten minutes ; strain it, and 
when cold, put it into bottles, well corked, 
and sealed over, it will keep for a considera- 
ble time. 

Obs. This is commonly called Quin's 
sauce. 



FOR FISH. (3) A table- 
spoonful of anchovy juice, one of soy, and 
two of mushroom ketchup, mixed in a quar- 
ter of a pound of melted butter. 



FOR FISH. (4) Three ancho- 
vies and an onion chopped, and a small hit 
of horseradish boiled in some stock, then 
strained, and thickened with a piece of but- 
ler rolled in flour. 

FOR FISH. (5) Boil in half a 

pint of water one or two anchovies, two 
cloves, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, 
a few peppercorns, and two table-spoonfuls 
of Port wine; strain and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. 

FOR FISH. (6) Mix well with 

two ounces of melted butter, of mushroom 
ketchup, essence of anchovies, and lemon 
pickle, a table-spoonful each, a tea-spoonful 
of soy, and a little cayenne. Boil it before 
serving. 

FOR FISH. (7) Chop two dozen 

of whole ancho\ie>, mix with them half a 
pint of anchovy liquor, two shallots cut small, 
and three pints of Tort wine, one of vinegar, 
one lemon sliced, one handful of scraped 
horseradish, and ten blades of mace, one 
nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all 
bruised, and one table-spoonful of floor of 
mustard. Boil these togetlier about fifteen 
or twenty minutes; when cold, strain and 
bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep 
good a year. A table-spoonful improves 
oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient 
for a sauce-tureen of melted butter. 

FOR FISH. (8) A quart of Port 

wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound 
of bruised anch\ie-, one ounce of mace and 
one of cloves, half an ounce of pepper, one 
large onion, and the peel of one lemon; boil 
all these ingredients together, over a slow 
fire, till a pint is wasted; then strain, and 
bottle it, and keep it closely stopped. 

FISH < )i; Mi: \T SAUCE, TO MAKE 
A QUART BOTTLE OF. To half a 
bottle of vinegar put one ounce of cayenne, 
two cloven of garlic, one table-spoonful of 
soy, two of walnut, and two of mushroom 
ketchup. Let it stand six days, shaking it 



SAUCES 



186 



SAUCES 



frequently, then add the remaining half of 
the bottle of vinegar; let it stand another 
week, strain, and put it into small bottles. 

WHITE, FOR FISH. Four 

anchovies chopped, two glasses of white 
wine, a large one of vinegar, an onion stuck 
with three cloves, and cut into quarters ; let 
all these simmer till the anchovies dissolve; 
strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of 
butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour. 
When it has melted, stir in gradually, one 
way, half a pint of cream, taking care that 
it do not boil. When thoroughly heated, 
serve in a sauce-tureen. 



LIVER, FOR FISH. Boil the 

liver of the fish, and pound it in a mortar 
with a little flour ; stir it into some broth, 
or some of the liquor the fish was boiled in, 
or melted butter, parsley, and a few grains 
of cayenne, a little essence of anchovy, or 
soy, or ketchup; give it a boil up, and rub 
it through a sieve: you may add a little lem- 
on-juice, or lemon cut in dice. 



PINK, FOR FISH. Put into a 

pan, or wide-mouthed jar, one quart of good 
vinegar, half a pint of Port wine, half an 
ounce of cayenne, one large table-spoonful 
of walnut ketchup, two ditto of anchovy 
liquor, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, 
and six cloves of garlic. Let it remain forty 
hours, stirring it two or three times a-day; 
run it through a flannel bag, and put it into 
half-pint bottles. 

FOR PIKE. Mix with a pint 

of cream a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 
the same of soy, and two of ketchup, a 
piece of butter rolled in flour; put it into a 
saucepan, and stir it one way till nearly 
boiling. 

WHITE, FOR PIKE. Simmer 

till half wasted, two table-spoonfuls of white 
wine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and 
some grated nutmeg ; add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, then a small tea-cupful of 
cream; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all the 
time, and taking care that it do not boil. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY. Boil 

gome green gooscl>erries in water till soft, 
and sweeten them with brown sugar. 



GOOSEBERRY. Top and tail 

them close with a pair of scissors, and scald 
half a pint of green gooseberries; drain them 
on a hair sieve, and put them into half a 
pint of melted butter. Some add grated 
ginger and lemon-peel, and the French, min- 
ced fennel; others send up the gooteberriea 
whole or mashed, without any butler, &c. 



GOOSE STUFFING. Chop 

very fine an ounce of onion and half an ounce 
of^green sage leaves ; put them into a stew- 
pan with four s|x>onftils of water; simmer 
gently for ten minutes; then put in a tea- 
spoonful of pepper and salt, and one ounce 
of fine bread crumbs; mix well together; 
then pour to it a quarter of a pint of broth, 
or gravy, or melted butter, stir well togeth- 
er, and simmer it a few minutes longer. 



GRANDE. Take three or fonr 

slices iVurn the under part of a knuckle of 
veal, and put them into a larire. stewpan 
with two ladleful.s of consomme, set it on a 
fierce (ire, taking care to skim it as much as 
possible, and with a cloth wipe away all 
that adheres to the inside of the stewpan ; 
when the consomme is reduced, prick the 
slices with a knife to let out the gravy ; then 
set the stewpan on a slow fire, that the meat 
and glaze may adhere together, and as soon 
as the latter is of a clear light color, take it 
off, leave it covered for ten minutes, then fill 
it up \\iih rich stock, in which is four or 
five large carrots, and three onions; let il 
boil slowly for two hours. In the meantime 
put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or 
five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with 
cloves), and two ladlefuls of consomme; 
set it on a brisk fire that the liquor may re- 
duce to a jelly; as soon as this jelly begins 
to take color, pour on it the liquor from the 
oilier saucepan to dissolve the jelly gradual- 
ly; then make it boil. Dilute some rorux 
with the above liquor, and add it to the meat 
with some champignons, a bunch of parsley, 
scallions, and two bay-leaves, skim it when 
it begins to boil, and again when the roux 
is added, put in more consomme or roux, 
according as it is too thick or too thin. 

When it has boiled an hour and a half, 
take off all the fat ; and when the meat is 
quite done, strain the sauce through a bol- 
ting-cloth. 

GRILL. To half a pint of gravy, 

add an ounce of fresh butter, and a table- 
spoonful of flour, previously well rublx?d to- 
gether, the same of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, 
one of made mustard, one of minced capers, 
half a one of black pep|>er, a quarter of a 
rind of a lemon grated very thin, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little 
eschalot wine, or a very small piece of min- 
ced eschalot, and a little Chili vinegar, or a 
few grains of cayenne ; simmer together for 
a few minutes; pour a little of it over the 
grill ; and send up tlie rest in a sauce-tureen. 

HARVEY. Chop twelve ancho- 
vies, bones and all, very small, with one 
ounce of cayenne pepper, six spoonfuls of 



SAUCES 



187 



SAUCES 



8<ly, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three 
heads of garlic, chopped not very small, a 
Quarter of an ounce of cochineal, two heads 
of shallots, chopped not very small, one gal- 
Ion of vinegar; let it stand fourteen days, 
stir it well, twice or thrice every day; then 
pass it through a jelly-bag, and repeat this 
till it is perfectly clearj_ then bottle it, and 
tie a bladder over the cork. 

HORSERADISH, TO EAT 

WITH HOT OR COLD MEAT. Mix a tea- 
epoonful of mustard, a table-spoonful of vin- 
egar, and three of cream ; add a little salt, 
and as much finely-grated horseradish as 
will make the sauce the consistence of 
onion sauce. 



FOR HASHES AND MADE 

DISHES. A pint of Port wine, twelve 
anchovies chopped, a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie 
on half a crown, two or three cloves, a 
blade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, 
One small onion minced, two bay-, 
little lemon thyme, marjoram, and parsley, 
and a piece of horseradish about the length 
of a linger split into quarters; put all into a 
saucepan, and let it simmer till the ancho- 
vies are dissolved ; then strain it, and, when 
old, bottle it for use. 

FOR HASHED OR MINCED 

VK.VI.. Take the bones of cold roast or 
boiled veal, dredge them well with flour, 
and put them into a stewpan with a pint 
and a hall" of broth or water, a small onion, 
a little grated or I'mely-minced lemon-peel, 
or the peel of a quarter of a sin. ill lemon, 
pared as thin as possible, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a blade of pmimled mace; to 
thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of Hour into 
half an ounce of butler ; stir it into the 
broth, and set it on the fire, and let it boil 
Ten gently fur alxiut half an hour; strain 
through a i.uiiis or sieve, and it is ready to 
put to the \eal to warm up ; uliii-li in to be 
done by placing the stewpan by the side of 
the lire. Squeeze in hall" a lemon, ami cov- 
er the bottom of the di-h with ti.asted bread 
ippeU cut into triangle*, and garnish the 
diah with slices of ham or bacon. 



FOR IIASHF.S OF MUTTON 

OR BEEF. Unless yon ,ue i|iiite sure you 
perfectly understand the palate ,,f those you 
are working for, show those who are" to 
eat the ha-h tins rn-ript. and !<,' of tln-m to 
direct you how they wish it seasoned. 

Half the number of the ingredient! enu- 
merated will lie more than eiioii-_'h: !><it a it 
U a receipt so often wanted we In 
variety . 

Chop the bones and fragments of the joint, 



&c., and put them into a stewpan; cover 
them with boiling water, six berries of 
black pepper, the same of allspice, a small 
bundle of parsley, half a bead of celery cut 
in pieces, and a small sprig of savory, or 
lemon thyme, or sweet marjoram ; cover up, 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. 

Slice half an ounce of onion, and put it 
into a stewpan with an ounce of butter ; fry 
it over a sharp fire for about a couple of 
minutes, till it take* a little color; then stir 
in as much flour as will make it a stiff 
paste, and by degrees mix with it tlie gravy 
you hare made from the bones, &c. ; let it 
boil very gently for about a quarter of an 
hour, till it is the consistence of cream; 
strain it through a tamis or sieve into a ba- 
sin ; put it back into the stewpan : to season 
it, cut in a few pickled onions, or walnuts, 
or a couple of gherkins, and a table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, or walnut or other 
pickle liquor; or some capers, and caper 
li'liior; or a table-spoonful of ale; or a little 
eschalot, or tarragon vinegar; cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with sippets of bread (that 
they may become savory reservoirs of gra- 
vy), which some toast and cut into triangles. 
Vmi may garnish it with fried bread sippets. 

N. B. To hash meat in perfection, it 
should be laid in this gravy only just long 
enough to get properly warm through. 

O6t. If any of the gravy that was sent 
up with, or ran from the joint when it was 
roa.-ied, l>e left, it will be a great improve- 
ment to the hash. 

If you wish to make mock venison, instead 
of the onion, put in two or three cloves, a 
table-spoonful of currant jelly, and the same 
quantity of claret or Port wine, instead of 

the ketchup. 

You may make a curry hash by adding 
some curry jam. 

.V B. A pint of Beef-gravy Sauce is an 
excellent gravy to warm up either meat or 
poultry. 

KELLY'S, FOR BOILED 

TRIPE, CALF-HEAD, OR COW-HKKI.. 

( iarlic \ ineuar, a table-spoonful ; of mustard, 
brown sugar, and black pepper, a tea-spoon- 
ful each; stirred into half a pint of oiled 
melted butter. 



KELLY'S PIQUANTE. Pound 

a table-spoonful of capers, and one of minced 
parsley, as fine as possible; then add the 
\olk-i of three hard eggs, rub them well to- 
U'etlier 5 ' with a lable-opoonfiil of mustard; 
bone <i\ a'lrlmv ies, and |>o:iiid tlh-in, rub 
them thioiii:h a hair >ie\e, and mix with two 
table. sjnonl'nU of oil, one of vinegar, one of 
eseiial >! ditto, and a few grains f cayenne 
|>c|>|>ei ; rub all !li'-*e well (>:," :her in a 
d; then 



SAUCES 



189 



SAUCES 



stir them into half a pint of good gravy, or 
melted butter, and put the whole through a 
sieve. 

LEMON. Pare a lemon, and 

cut it into slices twice as thick as a half- 
crown piece; divide these into dice, and put 
them into a quarter of a pint of melted but- 
ter. Some cooks mince a bit of the lemon- 
peel (pared very thin) very fine, and add it 
to the above. 



LEMON AND LIVER. Pare 

off the rind of a lemon, or of a Seville orange, 
as thin as possible, so as not to cut off any 
of the white with it; now cut off all the 
white, and cut the lemon into slices about 
as thick as a couple of half-crowns ; pick out 
the pips, and divide the slices into small 
squares: add these, and a little of the peel 
minced very tine to tlie liver, prepared as 
directed above, and put them into the melted 
butter, and warm them together; but do not 
let them boil. 

N. B. The poulterers can always let you 
have fresh livers, if that of the fowl or rabbit 
is not good, or not large enough to make as 
much sauce as you wish. 

Obs. Some cook., instead of pounding, 
mince the liver very fine (with half as much 
bacon), and leave out the parsley; others 
ndd the juice of half a lemon, and" some of 
the peel grated, or a tea-spoonful of tarragon 
or Chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or a little beaten mace, or nutmeg, 
or allspice: if you wish it a little more lively 
on the palate, pound an eschalot, or a few 
leaves of tarragon or basil, with anchovy, or 
ketchup* or cayenne. 

LIVER AND PARSLEY, OR 

LIVER AND LEMON. Wash the liver 
(it must be |>erfectly fresh) of a fowl or rab- 
bit, and boil it five minutes in five table- 
spoonfuls of water; chop it fine, or pound 
or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and nib it through a sieve: 
wash about One-third the bulk of parsley 
leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling 
water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it; lay 
it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very 
fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a 
quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it 
up ; do not let it boil. 

LOBSTER. (1) Bruise the body, 

add it to some thick melted butter; pull the 
flesh into small bits, and mix all together 
with some rich beef gravy ; boil it up, and 
before serving add a little salt, and squeeze 
in a little lemon-juice. 

LOBSTER. (2) Pound very 

finely the spawn of a lobster, rub it through 



a sieve, mix it with a quarter of a pound 
of melted butter, then add the meat of the 
lobster cut into small bits. Make it quite 
hot, but do not allow it to boil. 



LOBSTER. See Lobster. 

FOR LOBSTER. Bruise the 

yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with the back 
of a wooden spoon, or rather pound them in 
a mortal, with a tea-spoonful of water, and 
the soft inside and the spawn of the lobster ; 
rub them quite smooth, with a tea-spoonful 
of made mustard, two table-spoonfuls of 
salad oil, and five of vinegar; season it with 
a very little cayenne pepper, and some salt. 

LOVE-APPLE, ACCORDING 

TO UDE. Melt in a stewpan a dozen or 
two of love-apples (which, before putting in 
the stewpan, cut in two, and squeeze the 
juice and the seeds out); then put two es- 
chalots, one onion, with a few bits of ham, 
a clove, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few 
leaves of mace, and when melted, rub them 
through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfuls of 
good Espagnole or Spanish sauce, and a 
little salt and pepper, with this puree. Boil 
it for twenty minutes, and serve up. 

MINT. (1) Pick and wash 

some green mint ; add, when minced, a 
table-spoonful of the young leaves, to four 
of vinegar, and put it into a sauce-tureen, 
with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. 

MINT. (2) Wash half a hand- 
ful of nice, young, fresh-gathered green mint 
(to this some add one-third tlie quantity of 
parsley); pick the leaves from the stalks, 
mince them very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a lea-spoonful of moist su- 
gar, and four table-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

MOCK CAPER. Cut some 

pickled green pease, French beans, gherkins, 
or nasturtiums, into bits the size of capers; 
put them into half a pint of melted butter, 
with two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, or 
nice vinegar. 



MOCK OYSTER. Put into a 

saucepan two or three chopped and 
quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and 
one or two cloves; let them simmer till the 
anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it, and 
when cool, add a tea-cupful of cream ; thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and heat it up. It may be poured over 
boiled fowls or veal. 

MOCK TOM ATA. Tlie only 

difference between this and genuine love- 
apple sauce, a the substituting the pulp of 



SAUCES 



189 



SAUCES 



apple for that of tomata, coloring it with 
tumeric, and communicating an acid flavor 
to it by vinegar. 

MUSHROOM. Pirk and peel 

half a pint of mushrooms (the smaller the 
better) ; wash them very clean, and put them 
into a saucepan, with half a pirn of veal 
gravy or milk, i little pepper and suit, and 
an ounce of butter rul>l>ed with a table-spoon- 
ful of flour; stir tlxin together, and set tin-in 
over a gentle fire, to stew slowly till tender; 
skim and strain it. 

O6. It will be a great improvement to 
t!ii-, and the two following sauces, to add to 
them the juice of half a dozen mushrooms, 
prepared the day Ivtore, by sprinkling them 
with salt, the ,-ame a- uh. n you make ketch- 
up; or add a large spoonful of good double 
mushroom ketchup. 

See Quintessence of Mushrooms. 

MUSHROOM, FOR BOILED 

TIRKKY OR FOWL. Pick clean and 
wash a pint of small mushrooms, rub them 
with tlaimel, put them into a saucepan with a 
blade of mace, a little salt, grated nutmeg, 
a PI. of butter rolled in flour, and a pint 
of en-am, keep Stirling tliem till they boil, 
then pour them round the turkey, fowl, or 
chicken. 



W I HTE OMON. The follow- 
ing in a more mild and delicate preparation: 

take hall" a down "I" tlie largest and whitest 
onionsi (the Swinish are the mildest, but 
i only IK- had from August to De- 
Oember) ; [x-el them and cut them in half, 
ml lay them in a pan of .spring water for a 
quarter of an hour, and then Imil for a quar- 
ter of an hour ; and then, if you wish them 
to taste very mild, pour off that water, and 
cover them \\ith froh lulling water, and let 
Uiem lioil i ill ilie\ are tender, which will 
sometimes take three-quarters of an hour 
longer. 



O.MON. Boil twelve or more 

union* in water; when it boils, pour it off, 
add more liot water, and when die onions 
T, strain anil mash them in a bowl, 
add a piece of butter, a little salt, and one 
or two spoonfuls of cream. Heat it before 
s-erviiiif. An apple may lie boiled with the 
unions. 



ONION, OR ONION GRAVY. 

Peel and slice the onions .(some put in an 
e<|iial quantity of curmnlx-r or celery) into a 
quart .-tew pan, with an ounce of butler; -ei 
it on a i-|.. u tiie, anil turn the onion alxmt 
till it is very lightly browned; ix>\\ s;racliially 
stir in half an ounee of tlonr ; add a little 
broth, and a little |X-|)|KT and sail; boil up 



for a few minutes; add a table-spoonful of 
claret, or Port wine, and same of mush- 
room ketchup, (you may sharpen it wkh a 
little lemon-juice or vinegar), and rub it 
through a tamis or fine sieve. Curry powder 
will convert this into excellent curry sauce. 

N. B. If this sauce is for steaks, shred 
an ounce of onions, fry them a nice brown, 
and put them to the sauce you have rubbed 
through a tamis; or some very small, round, 
young silver button onions, peeled and boil- 
ed tender, and put in whole when your sauce 
is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

Obs. If you have no broth, put in half a 
pint of water, and just before you give it the 
last boil up, add to it another table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, or the same quantity 
of Port wine or good ale. The flavor of 
this sauce may be varied by adding tarragon 
or burnet vinegar. 



OMON. See Onion. 

ORANGE GRAVY, FOR WILD 

DOCKS, WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, WIDG- 
EON, TEAL, &c. Set on a saucepan with 
half a pint of veal gravy ; add to it half a 
dozen leaves of basil, a small onion, and a 
roll of orange or lemon peel, and let it boil 
up for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put 
to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, 
the same of pepper, and a glass of red wine ; 
send it up hot. Eschalot and cayenne may 
be added. This is an excellent sauce for 
all kinds of wild water-fowl, 

(iiavies should always be sent up in a 
covered boat: they keep hot longer; and it 
leaves it to the choice of the company to 
partake of them or not. 



OYSTER. See Oyster*. 



PIQUANT. Put a little chop- 
ped shallot and a few spoonfuls of gravy in- 
to a saucepan ; let it boil till the gravy be 
nearly I mi led away, but not burned to the 
bottom of tin- saucepan ; add as much 
brai.-e as may be required for the sauce, 
season with pepper and salt, boil it a few 
minutes, then add a little lemon-juice, sugar, 
and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar. 

N. B. Braise is an onion stuck wi'h 
cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and 
white wine. 



PIQUANT, for cold Meat, 

Game, Poultry, Fish, fye. or Salad*. 
Pound in a mortar the yolks of two eggs 
that have been boiled hard with a mu.-lard- 
spoonful of made mustard, and a little pep- 
per and salt : add two table-spoonfuls of sal- 
ad oil ; mix uell, and then add three lable- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; rub it up well till it i* 



SAUCES 



190 



SAUCES 



quite smooth, and pass it through a tamis or 
sieve. 

Obs. To the above, some add an an- 
chovy, or a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, or walnut pickle, some finely-chop- 
ped parsley, grated horseradish, or young 
onions minced, or burnet, horseradish or 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, &c., and cay- 
enne or minced pickles, capers, &c. This 
is a piquante relish for lobsters, crabs, cold 
lush, &c. 

SALAD OR PIQUANT, FOR 

COLD MEAT, FISH, &c. Pound together 
an ounce of scraped horseradish, half an 
ounce of salt, a table-spoonful of made mus- 
tard, four drachms of minced eschalots, 
half a draclun of celery seed, and half ditto 
of cayenne, adding gradually a pint of bur- 
net, or tarragon vinegar, and let it stand in 
a jar a week, and then pass it through a 
sieve. 



POIVRADE, FOR COLD 

MEAT. (1) Chop finely six shallots and a 
handful of picked and washed parsley ; mix 
with it a little vinegar, mustard, cayenne 
some cold gravy, and salt. 

POIVRADE, FOR COLD 

MEAT. (2) Bruise the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg with a little salt and mustard, 
oil, soy, chopped parsley, and chives, and 
pour it over slices of any cold meat. 

PUDDING. Mix with half a 

pint of melted butter two wine-glasses of 
sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded 
loaf sugar; make it quite hot, and serve in 
a sauce-tureen, with grated nutmeg on the 
top. 

QUIN'S. (1) Half a pint of 

mushroom pickle, the same of walnut pickle, 
three whole and three pounded cloves of 
garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne. Mix all together in a 
large bottle, shake it daily lor three weeks, 
then strain, and bottle it for use. 



QUIN'S. (2) One pint of 

Port wine, one of mushroom ketchup, one 
of walnut liquor, one of essence of ancho- 
vies, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne; mix 
all together, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour. If essence of anchovies, i.s not to be 
had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a 
quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, 
and use it. 



REVEREND. Chop up some 

lemon-peel, and two or three piokled cu- 
cumbers; put them into a stewpan with 
two spoonfuls of cullis, a little butter rolled 



in flour, season with salt and pepper, put 
it on the fire, and make it quite hot without 
boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison 
with yolks of eggs, and serve. 

RICE. Steep a quarter of a 

pound of rice in a pint of milk, with uiion, 
pepper, &c. as in the last receipt; when 
the rice is quite tender (take out the spice), 
rub it through a sieve into a clean stcwpan: 
if too thick, put a little milk or cream to it. 

Obs. This is a very delicate white 
sauce; and at elegant tables is frequently 
served instead of bread sauce. 



FOR ROAST BEEF. (1) Mix 

well together a large table-spoonful of 
finely-grated horseradish, a dessert-spoon- 
ful of made mustard, and half a one of 
brown sugar, then add vinegar till it I e as 
dn'ck as made mustard. Serve in a sauce- 
tureen. 

FOR ROAST BEEF. (2) Put 

into a stone jar one gill of soy, two of vine- 
gar, two of water, a good-sized stick of 
horseradish, and two sliced onions. Cover 
the jar closely, and set it into a pan of cold 
water ; when it boils, let it simmer for two 
or three hours. 



ROBART, FOR BEEF STEAKS 

OR MUTTON CHOPS. Put into a saucepan 
a little gravy, two ounces of butter dredged 
with flour, a small slice of raw ham, and 
two or three minced onions ; when the on- 
ions are browned, dust in a little more 
flour, and add nearly a pint of gravy, a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boil 
it for gome minutes, strain and serve it. 



SALAD. (1) B'liise the yolk 

of a hard-boiled egg with a small tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, then add a dessert-spoonful of 
mustard, and stir in gradually a large table- 
spoonful of olive oil, oiled butter, or cream, 
then by degrees mix in two or three table- 
tpoonUiU of vinegar; serve it in a sauce- 
tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead 
of the hard eijij, sonic persons prefer the 
fuuce made with the yolk raw. 
; 

SALAD. (2) Rub smooth a 

hard-boiled egg, beat well a ra\* egg, and 
mix them together with a little water, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, one of 
(jepper, and one of mustard, a table-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, one of essence of anchovies, 
and five of rich cream. 

The artist, as he styled himself, who in- 
vented this salad sauce drove in his carriage 
to his employers, and charged them ten shiU 
lings and sixpence for each visit ! 



SAUCES 



191 



SAUCES 



SAUCES. See alto Gravy, page 89. 



SHALLOT. (1) Boil a few mine- 

ed shallots in a little clear gravy .mil nearly 
as much vinegar, add :i few pcp|* i 
a little salt. Strain, and sent- it in a sauce- 
tureen. 

SHALLOT. (2) Take two spoon- 
fills of the liquor tlie meat was U.iled in, tun 
spoonfuls of \ inegar, two or three shallots rut 
fine, and a liule.-alt; put these ingredients 
into :i saucepan, with a hit of butter rolled 
in flour; let it stow a little;, and serve it up 
with your mutton or beef. 

Sll\i;p, FOR VENISON. 

Put into a silver, or \ery clean and vvell- 
tinned saucepan, half a pint of the Ixjst 
white wiiii- \ iurijar, and a quarter of a 
pound of Inaf-sunar |uinded: sel it over the 

lire, and let it >in r genllv ; skim it care- 

fiillv; |K>ur it through a tamis or fine sieve, 

: it up in a Uisin. 

Obs. Some people like this better than 
the swi^t wine sauces. 

S I IK I M I'. ( I ) Pick some shrimps 

nicely from the shell, put them into melted 
butter, add a taUe-s|>oonful of lemon pickle 
and vim-gar; heat it. 

SlIKIMP. (2) Shell a pint of 

shrimps; pick them clean, wash them, and 
put them into half a pint of good melted 
Inittei-. A pint of imshelled shrimps is about 
enough fir four IXMS..M-. 

Obs. Some MI-VV the heads and shells 
of tlv shrimp, (with or without a Made 
of bruise-i m;;ee), for a quarter of an hour, 
:.i oil' the liquor to melt the butter 
with, and add a little lemon-juice, cayenne, 
and essence of anchovy, or soy, cavire, 
&c. ; but the flavor of the shrimp is so deli- 
cate, that it will Ixj overcome by any such 
additions. 

If vour shrimps are not quite 
fresh, they will eat tough and tliready, as 
other stale lL-h do. 



sorrel, well drain it from water, and then put 
it into a stew pan, well covered with a bit of 
butler, and let it stew very gently over a slow 
tire; \\lien done, put it to drain on a sieve lor 
tlirev minutes, then, with a wooden spoon, 
rub it through a tammy into a dish; put it 
into a stcwpan, with a bit of butter, stir- 
ring it over the fire till thoroughly mixed; 
yon may add, if you choose, three spoon- 
fuls of good consomme, and uhen it has 
lulled lor a lew minutes, add to it half as 
much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if 
I necessary .-easnn with a little salt ; this is 
pro|x>r (or a fricandeau of veal or entrees 
offish. 



SOKUKI,. (1) Pick and w.i>h 

(Some sorrel, put it into a stewpau with a lit- 

. Mir it, to prevent i 

when it is tender, drain and miucc it finely; 
lialf an hour in a M-'Hpan with a 
hide h'lttir, then (Iri-d.'e in a lah!> 
of llonr, inoistem it with Imiling ci . 

Bre l > an hour; .nil a 
little .-all. and if too acid, a little sugar. 

. thirkeu with the U a 
of four eggs. 

SDKKF.I.. (2) Pick and thor- 
oughly wash two double liandlnls of young 



SUPERLATIVE. Claret, or 

Port u ine, and mushroom ketchup, a pint of 
each. Half a pint of walnut or other pickle 
liquor. Pounded anchovies, four ounces. 
Fresh lemon-peel, pared very thin, an ounce. 
Peeled and sliced eschalots, the same. 
Scraped horseradish, ditto. Allspice, and ' 
black |iepper powdered, half an ounce each. 
Cayenne, one drachm, or curry-powder, 
three drachms. Celery-seed bruised, one 
drachm. All avoirdupois weight. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it 
clo-e, shake it up every day for a fortnight, 
and strain it (when some think it improved 
by the addition of a quarter of a pint of sov, 
or thick browning), and you will have a 
"delicious double relish." Dr. Kitchinrr 
says, this coni|Hisition is one of the " chels 
d'n-uvrc " of iiianv experiment! he has made, 
lor tic- purpose of enabling the good house- 
wives of Great Britain to prepare their own 
:i is equally agreeable with fish, 
iramr-, poultry, or ragouts, &c., and as a 
lair lady may make it herself, its relish will 
Ix; not a little augmented, by the certainty 
that all the ingredients are good and whole- 

Obs. Under an infinity of circumstances, 
a cook may Ix- in want of" the substances ne- 
cessary to make sauce: the above composi- 
tion of tlie several articles from which tiic 
jiavies derive their flavor, will br 
found a vei-y admirable extemporaneous sub- 
stitute. By mixing a large table-spoonful 
with a quarter of a pint of thickened melted 
. broth, five minutes will finish a 
luat of very relishing .-ance, nearly equal to 
drawn gravy, and as likely to put your lin- 
gual nerves into good humor as any thing 1 
know. 

To make a boat of sauce for poultry, &c. 
put a piece of butter about as big as an egg 
into a stewpan, set It on the fire; when it 
is in. -lied, jit to it a table-sixionful of flour; 
stir it thoroughly together, and add to it 
two table-spoonfufs of sauce, and by degrees 
almut half a pint of broth, or boiling water, 
let it simmer gently over a slow fire for a 



SAUCES 



192 



SAUCES 



few minutes, skim it and strain it through a 
sieve, and it is ready. 

FOR STEAKS, CHOPS, OR 

CUTLETS. Take your chops out of the 
frying-pan; for a pound of meat keep a ta- 
ble-spoonful of the fat in the pan, or put in 
about an ounce of butter; put to it as much 
limn as will make it a paste; rub it well 
together over the fire till they are a little 
brown ; then add as much boiling water as 
will reduce it to the thickness of good cream, 
and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, or pickle, or browning; let it boil 
together a few minutes, and pour it through 
a sieve to the steaks, &c. 

Obs. To the above is sometimes added 
a sliced onion, or a minced eschalot, with 
a table-s|x>onful of Port wine, or a little 
eschalot wine. Garnish with finely-scraped 
horseradish, or pickled walnuts, gherkins, 
&c. Some beef-eaters like chopped escha- 
lots in one saucer, and horseradish grated 
in vinegar, in another. Broiled mushrooms 
are favorite relishes to beef steaks. 



SWEET, FOR VENISON OR 

HARE. Put some currant jelly into a 
stewpan ; when it is melted, pour it into a 
sauce-boat. 

N. B. Many send it to table without 
melting. 

Tliis is a more salubrious relish than 
either spice or salt, when the palate pro- 
tests against animal food unless its flavor be 
masked. Currant jelly is a good accom- 
paniment to roasted or hashed meats. 



SWEET. Put some cinnamon 

into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover it ; set it on the fire, and when it 
has boiled up once or twice, add two 
spoonfuls of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint 
of white wine, and two bay -leaves; give 
the whole one boil, and then strain it for 
table. 



TART ARE. Pound in a mor- 
tar three hard yolks of eggs ; put them into 
a basin, and add half a table-spoonful of 
made mustard, and a little pepper and salt; 
pour to it by degrees, stirring it fast all the 
while, about two wine-glassfuls of salad oil; 
stir it together till it comes to a good thick- 
ness. 

N. B. A little tarragon or chervil minc- 
ed very fine, and a little vinegar, may be 
added. 



TOMATA. See Tomata. 

TOURNEE. To a little white 

thickening add some stock drawn from the 
trimmings of veal, poultry, and ham; do 



not make it too thick. Boil it slowly with 
a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and 
some green onions; strain and skim it well, 
and use it as required. German sauce is 
made as the saure tournee, adding the beat-- 
en yolks of two or mure eggs, and is used 
fi>r ragouts, fricassees, and any made dish 
which may require a rich white sauce. 

WHITE. Thicken half a pint 

of cream with a little Hour and butter, four 
shallots minced, a little mace and lemon- 
peel; let it boil, and a little before serving, 
add a spoonful of white wine, the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg, the squeeze of a lemon, and 
a tea-spoonful of anchovy liquor. This sauce 
will answer for boiled fowls, or for a fricas- 
see. 



WHITE, FOR FOWLS OR 

TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, 
the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end 
of a neck of mutton, two blades of mace, 
twelve peppercorns, one anchovy, a small 
head of celery, a slice from oft" the end of a 
lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it 
closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly 
half a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter 
of a pound of butter divided with flour; let 
it boil for five minutes, and then add two 
spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix with 
a tea-cupful of cream, the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs, and some grated nutmeg; stir 
this in gradually, ami shake the pan over 
the fire till it is all quite hot, but do not al- 
low it to boil. 



WHITE ITALIAN. Peel 

some mushrooms, and throw them into a 
little water and lemon-juice, to keep them 
white. Put into a stewjian two-thirds of 
sauce tournee, ami one-third of good veal 
stock, two lable-spoonfula of finely-chopped 
mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of 
washed and chopped shallots; let it boil till 
well flavored, ami then serve it. The 
mushrooms should be as white as possible. 



WHITE SHARP. Boil with 

a little tarragon, or tarragon vinegar, if the 
tarragon is not to be had, four table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine vinegar, and about twen- 
ty peppercorns ; reduce this to one-fourth, 
and add it to six table-spoonfuls of sauce- 
tournee, and two of good stock; boil and 
strain it; put it again on the fire, and thick- 
en it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, a 
small bit of butter, a little salt and cayenne. 
Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of 
cream. 



WHITE, FOR BOILED FOWLS. 

Melt in a tea-cupful of milk a large table- 
spoonful of butter kneaded in flour, beat up 



SAU 



193 



SAU 



the yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of 
Cream, stir il inlo the Uiltrr, and heat it 
over the fire, stirring it roustautU : chop- 
-ley improves this sauce. It also 
may be made by melting tlie butler with 
water, anil mixing milk with tin 

S.U Ci:. \VIM-'.. roRVKMS<>\ OK 
HARK. A quarter of a pint 1,1' claret or 
Port wine, tin- same i|ii.iniity <if plain, un- 
favored mint. -II mavy, and a table-*poonful 
of cnrr.int jelly: let it just Ixiil up, anil .-end 
it to table in a sauce-In .at. 

,-\l cT., \VO\V \V(>\\ . FOR STKW KT> 

OR BoUll.l.I 1)KI.K. ( .'llnp some parsley- 

leaves very liiK': quMMr two on thrae pickled 

curuiiiliers, or walnuts, and divide tlicm into 
small .-J|iiares, and set them liv rraiy: put 
into .1 saucepan a lilt of butter as ln\' as an 
egij; when it is melted, stir in it a table- 
spooiifnl of line llmir, and alunt halt" a pint 
of the broth in which the 1 - 
add .1 fable-spoonful nf vinegar, the like 
({uaiility of mushroom ketchup, or l'"i I wine, 
or both, and a MMfWMfol of made mustard ; 
let it simmer together (ill it is as thick as 
you wish it; put in the parsley and pickles 
to get warm, ami |*mr it ovr the Ix-ef; or 
rather -end it up in a sauce-tureen. 

O6. If you think the alio\e not sufii'-ient- 
ly pit/uiiiitf, add to il some capers, or a 
minced i-schalot, or one or two tea-?|xx>nl'nls 
of eschalot wine, or e-sence of anchovy, or 
basil, elder, or tarragon, or btnaradtsh, or 
Ixirnet vinegar ; or.-tiew o\er tin- : 

iirnips cut inlo dice, minced ra|>ers, 
walnut.-. . pickled curuinbers, or 

French IHMII- 

SAI SM.r.S. fl) Art ,..:.,:,-. 
rions kinds of ni"at, eh'.; 
small, with ponndeil spices, and atom.iiic 
herlis, shred line; then- ingredients are put 
into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and 
tied into lengtlis of from two to live infix*. 
S line | i-..ns add to the inixtni 
of Rhenish, Cliampjigix;, Madeini, or oiiier 
wine. 

S\rs.\(iKS, (2) Are Ix-st when fiiiito 

ie. 1'ut a bit of butter, or dripping 

into a clean Irvine-pan; as soon as it is 

melti-il (licfure i; geu hot) put in the 8aU8a- 

_-. and shake liie pan |..r a mi.. 

keep turning them (! c.n. liil not to break 

or prick tliein in so doiny) ; fry them OUT a 

A lire till thes are nicely browned 

s; when they are done, lay them 

i sieve, placed before the tin- i i a 

couple "I min Het to drain the fat from them. 

Tlic ><( -ret of li \ in^' sausages is, to let them 

get hot \ery gradually; they tlien will not 

liur.-t. if tin \ aie n..t .-tale." The connnoii 

17 



practice to prevent their bursting, is to prick 
them with a fork; Imt this !<(. the gravy 
out. Yon may froth them by nilibing them 
with cold fre.-h butter, and lightly 1 1 red go 
them with Iliiiir, and jxit llirni in a cheese- 
toa-ter or l>iiti'n m.-n |or a minute. Some 

nuical rotiks insist that no butter 
or lard, kc. i.- pe(|iiire<l, their own fat 

icient to I'ry them: we have tried 
it; the sausage* were partially scorched, 
and had that piebald ap|K-aramv that all 
fried things ha\e when sufficient fat is not 



. 

Obx. I'oac-hed eggs, pease pudding, and 
mashed |>otatoes, are agreeable acroni|)ani- 
nients t" "nl sausages areas wel- 

come I toiled with roasted pinny or veal, or 
boiled tripe; so are ready-dressed German 
sausages; and a convenient, easily digestible, 
and invigorating food for the aged, and those 
who.-e leelh are defective. 

N. II. Sausages, when finely chopped, 
are :t delicate " bonne bouche;" and require 
vei-y little ii-i-tanr,. fin m the teeth to render 
them (|iiile n-ady for the stomach. 

SM -\(JKS. (3) Take a pound of 

the Kiuard fat of the piu, and half a pound 
of lean [Kirk ; pick them Itoth from skin and 
sinews, mi:iee them very tiuely, -jmtea large 
nutmeg, take its weight of pounded mace 
and cliAes, ih-- largest pro|x>rtion mace, tlie 
weight of aU of pepper, MM twice the weight 
of tlie spici s of >:ilt ; chop finely a ! 

! a little lemon thyme; mix all well 
together with two lar^e talil.'-stxmiiflils of 
^r.iii-d bread and the yolk of an egg beaten. 
It may I x: put into skin.-, or packed into a 
jar and lied closely with bladder. When 
lo !>e used, moisten it with the yolk of an 
i"Z beaten, make it up in tile form of sauea- 
i them, and fry tliem in butter. 

S \l s \<iKS, BEEF AND OYSTER. 
See Beef. 

S \ i SAGES, TO MAKE. Chop to- 
gether two pounds of lean pork, and one 
and a half of the inward fat of the pig, the 
crumb of a penny loaf cut into sli( " and 
soaked in cold water; season wilh pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, and a 
little sage. Mix all tlie iiignslieni- well, 
and half fill tlie skins; boil them half an 
hour. 

SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take the 
legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut 
all the lean, wrape it well, remove all thp 
id nib the meat well with a sea- 
soning made' of salt, pep|ter. coriander, 
cloTes, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. 
When properly flavored, tal- 
Lird, and leaf, and cut the whole into dire; 



S A V 



194 



SCO 



mix the fat and lean together, and put it in- 
to ox-guts, tie up the ends, and lay the 
sausages in a pan of water, with salt, and 
saltpetre ; cover the pan close, and leave it. 
In a week's time take out the sausages 
and drain them. Tie them between two 
pieces of wood, hang them up to dry, and 
smoke. When dry, untie them, and rub 
each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- 
twigs, mixed together. Keep them in a 
dry place. 

SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince small 
the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, 
a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 
a bit of leg of veal ; shred also some parsley, 
chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these 
all together, and season with pepper, salt, 
beaten spice, and garlic; bind the whole 
with the yolks of six, the whites of two eggs, 
and a little cream ; when thoroughly mixed, j 
roll the preparation into thick pieces, which 
wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well 
beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage 
should be about the thickness of a man's 
wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an 
oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin 
beef steaks, put in the sausages, cover them 
with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stew- 
pan very close, and set it on a moderate 
fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it 
stand ten or twelve hours ; then take it off, 
and when cold, take out tlie sausages care- 
fully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with 
a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve 
cold. 

SAUSAGES, SPREADBURY'S. Cut 
from the leg or griskin one pound of nice 
lean pork, free from sinews and skin, mince 
it very finely : mince one pound of the best 
beef suet, mix it with the pork, and pound 
it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; 
add two large table-spoonfuls of stale bread 
rnbted through a sieve, also a good deal of 
pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage, 
mix all together with the yolks of two eg^s 
beaten up. It will keep for sometime, if 
put into an earthen jar and pressed closely 
down. When it is to be used, make it into 
rolls, and as thick as common sausages, and 
three or four inches long: dust them with a 
little flour; have ready a frying-pan made 
very hot, and fry them without any thing 
but their own fat, till they are done quite 
through, taking care not to make them too 
dry. By breaking one of them, the cook 
will know whether they are sufiiciently 
done. They may be fried in lard or fresh 
Iwef dripping. 

SAVORY. CABBAGE. See Cabbage. 
SAVOY BISCUITS, To be made as 



drop biscuits, omitting the caraways, and 
quarter of a pound of flour : put it into the 
biscuit-funnel, and lay it out about the length 
and size of your finger, on common shop 
paper; strew sugar over, and bake them in 
a hot oven; when cold, wet the backs of the 
paper with a paste-brush and water: when 
they have lain sometime, take them carefully 
oflf, and place them kick to back. 

SAVOYS, Are boiled in the same man- 
ner as cabbages; quarter them when you 
send them to table. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH ; -a good 
and substantial dinner for sixpence per 
head. W;isli three-quarters of a pound of 
Scotch barley in a little cold water; put it 
in a soup-pot with a shin or teg of beef, of 
about ten pounds weight, sawed into four 
pieces (tell the butcher to do this (or you) ; 
cover it well with cold water; set it on the 
fire: when it boils skim it very clean, and 
put in two onions of about three ounces 
weight each ; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very gently about two hours ; then 
skim all the fat clean ofl", and put in two lieads 
of celery, and a large turnip cut into small 
squares; season it with salt, and let it boil 
an hour and a half longer, and it is ready: 
take out the meat (carefully with a slice, 
and cover it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before you 
put it in the tureen. 

SCOTCH BROSE. This favorite Scotch 
dish is generally made with the liquor meat 
has been boiled in. Put half a pint of oat- 
meal into a porringer with a little salt, if 
there be not enough in the broth, of which 
add as much as will mix it to the consistence 
of hasty pudding, or a little thicker; lastly, 
take a little of the fat that swims on tlie 
broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it 
in the same way as hasty-pudding. 

Obs. This Scotsman's dish is easilv pre- 
pared at very little expense, and is pleasant- 
tasted and nutritious. 

N. B. For various methods of making 
and flavoring oatmeal gruel, see Gruel. 

SCOTCH BURGOO. This humble dish 
forms no contemptible article of food. It 
- the grand qualities of salubrity, 
pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, 
a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without 
milk ; much used by those patterns of com- 
bined industry, frugality, and temperance, 
the Scottish peasantry; and diis, among 
other examples of the economical Scotch, is 
well worthy of being occasionally adopted 
1>\ all who have large families and small in- 
comes. It is made in the following easy and 
expeditious manner : To a quart of oatmeal 



SCO 



195 



SHE 



add gradually two quarts of water, so that 
the whole may smoothly mix : then stirring 
it continually over the fire, boil it together for 
n quarter of an hour ; alter which, tike it up, 
and stir in a little salt and butter, with or 
without pep|X.-r. This quantity will serve a 
family of five or six persons for a moderate 
meal. 

SCOTS COLLOPS. Cut some very 
thin slices of beef; rub with butter die bot- 
tom of an iron stewpan that h,i- a cover to 
fit quite closely; put in tlie meat, some pep- 
per, and a little silt, a large onion, and an 
apple minced very small. Cover the stew- 
)an, and let it .-immer till the meat is very 
tender. Serve it hot. 

SCOTCH DIMPLING. Make a paste 

with some iiatmcal and butter, form it into 
a dimpling, anil place a haddock's liver 
in tlie middle, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt; it should be boiled in a cloth. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. Make the ha-is- 

bag peilectly clean; parlx>il the diaii^tit; 
boil the liter very well, so as it will :.'i,iie; 
dry the meal before tlie fire; mince the 
draught and a pretty large piece of beef very 
small; grate about half of tin- liver; mince 

plenty of tin- MH-t and soim IOILS small; 

mix all tile*; materials very well together, 
with a handful or two of the dried meal; 
spread them on die table, and season them 
pro|x-ily with salt and mixed spi< 
any of llie -rr.ip- wf !< f that are left from 
mincing i the water that Ixiiled 

jit, and make alxiut a choppin (i.e. 
a quart) of gtid stock of it ; then put all the 
; it into the li;iii, and that liroth in 
it ; then sew up the Ui^' ; ''' 
outall the uin<: A it quite close. 

If you think the Ixig is thin, yon may put 
it in a clolh. If it is a lari;e lia^'is, it will 
tak<- at lea-it two hu 

.V I'.. Tli. '[lied verbatim 

, a celebrated C.ilrd.,- 

111:111 pi'ilr-.-or of the; culinary art, who 
taujlit, and published a Ixjok of cookery, at 
Ediubui-h, A. 1). i: 

- KALE. Put Inrley on in cold 

water, anil when it l*>iU take oil' the .-mm, 
ptit in aii) piece' of fn.-li IHI f, and a little 
salt; let it boil three hom-. h.i\e ready a 
cullender full of kale, cut .-mall and boil them 
till tender. Two or tlnee leeks may be ad- 
ded with die greens, if the tiavi.r i- appro\. d 
of. Thi.- I/roth i.- al.-. in. id.- with salted 
beef, which must be put in water over night 
to soak. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. Take; 
two pounds of Hour, dry, and sift it well; 



then mix with it a pound of powder-sugar, 
three ounces of candied citron and orange- 
peel cut into dice, and half a pound of cara- 
way comfits ; put half a |K>und of butter into a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quite 
melted, mix it with the (lour, &c. ; i 
Ix'iug nicely made, roll it out to the thickness 
of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them 
on white paper, prick and bake them ; they 
should be of a pale color. 

SEA CALE, BOILED. Let it liesome- 
time in cold water, dien clean and trim it 
nicely, cutting off any part that may be at 
all green, and parting it as little as possi- 
ble. Put it on in boiling water, with a lit- 
ii.- -.di. Let it boil half an hour ; drain off 
tlie water. Pare die crust off a slice of 
t. >asted bread, lay it in tlie dish, pour over 
it a little melted butter, and serve the cule 
upon it. 

SEED CAKE. Sift two and a half 
pounds of Hour, with half a pound of good 
white or loaf sugar, pounded into a pan or 

Ixiwl ; make a ca\ ity in the centre, and [xiur 
in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and a ta- 
ble-poonful of thick yeast; mix, tlie milk 
with enough (lour to make it as 
thick as cream (this is called setting a 
swinge); set it by in a warm place for one 
hour; in the meantime, melt to an oil half a 
pound of fresh butter, and add it to die other 
ingredients, with one ounce of caraway- 
seeds, and enough of milk to make it of a 
middling stillness ; line a hoop with paper, 
well rubbed over with butter; put in the 

-et it sometime to prove i.> 
r liefore the lire, and kike it on a plate 
alxnit an hour, in rather a hot oven; when 
done, rub the top over with a pane-brush 
dip|x-d in milk. 

SHKKI-S KIDNDYS, BROILED. 

\Va-h anil dry some uii-e kidneys, cut them 
in half and with a small skewer kc-ep them 
o|NMi in imitation of two shells, season diem 
wiih salt and |>e|>|x-r, and dip (hem into a 
little fresh melted butter. Broil tirst tlie aide 
that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy 
drop in taking them off tlie gridiron. Serve 
ihem in a hot di-h, with Inn K-chopped pars- 
I' > mixed with melted butter, the juice of a 
lemon, |x>pper and salt, puttini; a little upon 
each kidney. This is an excellent break- 
fast for a sportsman. 

SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; 
wash it well, and dry it in a cloth; floor 
and season it w ith ix-pper and salt, and fry 

it in butler, with a good deal of minced 
I u-l.-\ and an onion; adda sufficient quan- 
tity of gravy or hot wulcr to make a sauce, 
and let it *tew a few minutes. It may bo 



SHE 



196 



SHR 



fried quite plain, and when cut into slices, 
should be washed in milk and water. 

SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart 
and lights very clean ; tail them alxiiit half 
an hour; mince them finely ; mix a piece of 
butter with Hour, brown it in a stewpan, and 
add some of the liquor the heart and limits 
were boiled in. Put in the mince with some 
chopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, 
cover it closely, and let it stew half an boor. 
Before serving, add a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. 

Having parboiled the tongues in a little 
stock, split each, give them a few turns in 
some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, 
pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; 
when well covered with the latter, lay diem 
oil a gridiron, and broil Uiein slowly. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES PIE. Line a 
dish with some good puff paste, and lay at 
tile bottom of the dish some good forcemeat, 
made of rousted poultry, suet, parsley chop- 
|K-d, mushroom?, |>epper and salt, and a few 
line spices; upon this place the tongues cut 
in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, 
a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; 
put on the cover and bake it; when done, 
take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the 
fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES ROASTED. 
Take half a dozen sheep's tongues, and hav- 
ing properly prepared them, lard them with 
small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap 
a buttered paper round, and fasten them on 
a spit, and roast them before a moderate 
fire; a little before they are done, take off 
die paper, baste the tongues with butter, 
and make them of a nice color. Serve with 
whatever sauce you may prefer. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS STUFFED. 
Boil the feet in good stock till die bones 
will come out with ease ; fill tlie space left 
by them with a good fowl or chicken farce; 
dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a moderate oven. The space left by die 
bones is sometimes filled up with a bit of 
fried bread ; in this case die feet are only 
previously boiled, and then served with 
cream sauce. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS FRIED. Clean 
some sheep's trotters nicely, scald and wash 
them in hot water; stew them in that sauce 
in which CALF'S HEAD PLAI.N is boiled, 
and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, 
iu a little butter, some carrots, onions, a 
Hide parsley roots, all cut small, thyme, a 
shallot, a small bay leaf, and a clove. When 



they begin to color, moisten them with wa- 
ter ;md viwgar mixed in equal parts, and let 
it all stew till the vegetables are quite ten- 
-"ii with pepper and salt, and strain 
it through a silk sieve over the sheep's trot- 
t MS, then fry the- trotters in this batter; put 
nearly four table-spoonful:; of flour into aft 
earthen pan, with a little salt, a little olive 
oil, and as much good brer or water as will 
moisten the paste ; when well mixed, add 
(he beaten whites of two eggs, dip the trot- 
ters into this, and fry them instantly. The 
marinade cuite, or pickle, into which the 
trotters are laid, and the paste in which they 
are fried, may be used for beef, and other 
meats. The same receipt may be followed 
exactly for calf's feet. 

SHERBET. Tliis is a delicious bever- 
age, composed of cream, mixed with various 
articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, 
coffee, chocolate, &c., and snsrar, and then 
iced. Sherbet may also be made with the 
juice of various fruits, sweetened to the 
taste. When the liquid is sufficiently lim- 
pid and cold, pour it into a silver, or tin 
sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. 

SHERBET, TURKISH. Wash a small 
fore quarter of veal, put it on the fire with 
nine pints of water; skim it well, and let it 
boil till reduced to two pints ; nin it through 
UK! when cold, add to it a pint and 
a half of clear lemon-juice, and two pounds 
<'f loaf MI gar which has been made into a 
sirup widi a pint and a half of water, and 
cleared with the white of an egg. It is 
served in glass mugs for a dessert table, or 
offered at any oUier time as a refreshment. 

SHRUB. (1) One measure of lemon- 
: juice is allowed to five of mm, and to every 
gallon of the mixture, six pounds of loaf su- 
gar, which is to l>e melted in water, and the 
whole strained through flannel. 

SHRUB. (2) To one part of lemon- 
juice, three of good orange are allowed, 
and, to every pint of juice, a pound and a 
half of very finely-pounded loaf sugar ; these 
being well mixed, it is put into a cask, and 
one quart of the best rum added to each pint 
of the juice; the whole to be shaken three 
times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if the 
cask IK: large. It is then allowed to stand 

1 to fine for a month, or till it be sufficiently 
clear to Ixittle. The dregs may be made 
into excellent milk punch, by pouring warm, 
but not boiling, milk on them, allowing diree 

', parts of milk to one of dregs; after being 
well mixed, it is fit for use. 

SHRI'B. (3) Put a quart of Seville 
orange-juice to a gallon of rum, with three 



SIR 



197 



SKA 



pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the 
peel pored extremely thin ; let it stand in the 
cask for three months, then filter it through 
a cloth, and bottle it. 

SHRUB. (4) Take a quart of orange- 
juice, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump 
sugar, four quarts and one pint of nun ; put 
half the peels of the oranges into the rum, 
ami let it stand one night, then mix the rum 
with the orange-juice and sugar, put it into 
a vessel which ha- a spirit, shake it four or 
live times daily till the sugar be all dissolved ; 
when it is clear, whirl) may lie in about a 
fortnight, Ijottle it off for use. If the or- 
anges are very ripe, a pound and a half of 
sugar is snlliciont. 

SHRUB, LEMON OR ORANGE. The 

rind of tlie lemons or oranges being grated 
off, ilicy are to be squeezed, and two |x<unds 
of finefy-pouoded loaf sugar is to be added 
to every pint of the strained juice; when the 
sugar is quite dissolved, two pints of rum 
;ne allowed to every pint of sirup; tlie whole 
is to be well mixed in a cask, and allowed 
to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn 
off. 

SHRUB, WHITE CURRANT. The 

currants are to be bruised and put into a 
Lag to drip; three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar is to be dissolved in two quarts 
of juice, and a quart of rum being added, it 
is to be bottled for use. 

SUM IMIK CURRANTS, RASPBER- 
R1K.S, OR MULBERRIES. Pick the fruit 
from the stalks; squeeze the juice, and let it 
Main! ten days or a fortnight, or till the fer- 
inentali.il) ceax-s, which may lx- known liy 
tile scum cracking; ran fully take off the 
scum, and (Hiiir the juice gently into a fresh 
vessel; let it stand twenty-four hours, and 
again pour it off, to one pound of pounded 
loaf sugar allow thirteen ounces of the juice, 
(nit it into a preserving-pan, and when it lie- 
gins to lx>il, strain it through a jelly-ling, 
and Ixittlc it when cold. Burie pears boiled, 
in a little of the sirup, are beautiful. 

SIRUP OF ORANGE OR LEMON 

IT.r.l.. Offresh outer rind of Seville orange 
or lemon |>eel, three ounces, apothecaries' 
weight; boiling water a pint and a half ; in- 
fuse them for a night in a close vessel; then 
strain the liquor: let it stand to settle; and 
having [xmrcd it off clear from the sediment, 
dissolve in it two pounds uf donhle-refined 
k>af siii;:o , and make it into a sirup with a 
gentle he.it. 

Obs. In making this sirup, if the sugar 
be dissolved in the infusion with as gentle a 
heat as possible, to prevent tin; exhalation 
17* 



of the volatile parts of the peel, this sirup 
will possess a great share of the fine flavor 
of the orange or lemon peel. 

SIRUP, CLARIFIED. Break into bits 
two pounds (avoirdupois) of double-refined 
lump sugar, and put it into a clean stcwpan 
(that is well tinned), with a pint of cold 
spring water; when the sugar is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire: beat aljout half 
the white of an egg, put it to the sugar be- 
fore it gets warm, and stir it well together. 
Watch it ; and when it boils take off the 
scum ; keep it boiling till no scum rises, and 
it is perfectly clear; then run it through a 
clean napkin: put it into a close-stopped 
bottle; it will keep for months, and is an 
elegant article on the sideboard for sweet- 
ening. 

Oo*. Tle proportion of sugar ordered in 
the alxive sirup is a quarter pound more than 
that directed in the Pharmacopeia of the 
London College of Physicians. The quanti- 
ty of sugar must be as much as the liquor is 
capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or 
it will ferment, and quickly spoil: if kept in 
a teni|xTaie degree of heat, the above pro- 
portion of sugar may be considered the basis 
of all sirups. 

SKATE, FRIED. After you have 
cleaned the fish, divide it into fillets; dry 
them on a clean cloth ; Ix-at the yolk and 
white of an egg thoroughly together, dip the 
fish in this, and then in line bread-crumbs; 
fry it in hot lard or drippings till it is of a 
delicate brown color ; lay it on a hair sieve 
to drain; garnish with crisp parsley, and 
some like caper sauce, with an anchovy 
in it. 

SKATE, TO CRIMP. Skin the skate 
on both sides, cut it an inch and a half 
broad, and as long as tin- skate, roll up each 
piece and tie it with a thread ; lay them for 
three hours in salt and water, and a little 
vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling 
salt and water; Ix't'oie serving, cut off the 
threads. Sauces: shrimp, butter and an- 
chovy. When tlie skate are very small, they 
are preferable broiled. 

SKATE, LARGE, DRESSED LIKE 
VEAL CPTLETS. Crimp, or cut the skate 
in square pieces, roll them in beaten eggs, 
and then in grated bread mixed with chop- 
ped | tii .-lev . pepper, and salt ; fry tlmn of a 
nice brown color, and serve with a rich 
brown grav\ . 

SKATE, STEWED. Skin tlie skate, 
art it into square pit-res, ami l>rown it with 
l.iitter in a living-pan; make a rich sauce 
with tlie skin and parings, to be boiled in. 



SNI 



198 



SOL 



three pints of water, with an oninn, some 
pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with 
a little butter mixed with flour, add some 
very finely chopped parsley, and chives ; of 
hot vinegar, mushroom ketchup, and Harvey 
sauce, a table-spoonful each, and a little 
cayenne ; boil it up and put it in the skate 
five minutes before serving it. 

SKATE, Is very good when in good 
eeason, but no fish so bad when it is other- 
wise: those persons that like it firm and dry, 
should have it crimped ; but those that like 
it tender, should have it plain, and eat it 
not earlier than the second day, and if cold 
weather, three or four days old it is better: 
it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. 
Young skate eats very tine crimped and 
fried. 

SKATE, SMALL, TO FRY. Clean, 
wash, and lay them one or two hours in vin- 
egar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced 
onion, some chopped parsley, pepper, and 
salt; drain and dry them well, dip them into 
beaten eggs, dredge them with flour, and fry 
them of a fine brown color; garnish them 
with fried parsley. Sauces ; melted butter, 
and shrimp sauce. 

SKIRRETS. Wash and scrape them, 
put them on in boiling water, and boil them 
for ten minutes; dry them in a cullender, 
and fry them brown in a little butter. They 
are sometimes plain boiled, and a little mel- 
ted butter poured over them. 

SMELTS, TO FRY. This delicate lit- 
tle fish, when perfectly fresh, must not be 
washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and 
dredged with flour, or brushed over with a 
feather, dipped into the yolk of an egg beat- 
en, and rolled in a plate of finely-grated 
bread-crumbs, and fried in boiling dripping, 
or fresh lard. They vary in size, and some 
will be done sooner than others. When of 
a clear yellow brown, take them out careful- 
ly, ;ind lay them before the fire upon the back 
of a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish 
them, heads and tails alternately; garnish 
with fried parsley. Sauce melted butter. 
They may also te broiled. 

SMELTS, ITALIAN. Boil your smelts 
with a large glass of white wine, half a glass 
of water, two spoonfuls of oil, two slices of 
lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. 
When sufficiently done, make a liaison with 
yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve 
your fish with its own sauce. 

SNIPES. When the snipes have been 
picked, they must be singed over a charcoal 
fire; in tracing tliem press the legs close to 



the side, and pierce the beak through them ; 
tie a slice of baron over each bird, run a long 
iron skewer through the sides, apd tie them 
to the spit; in the meantime cut two or three 
slices of bread, according to the number of 
the birds, fry them of a tine brown color in 
butter; put the birds to must, and put the 
fried bread in a dish under them, to receive 
the inside, which will drop after they have 
hung a few minutes; just before they are 
roasted sufficiently, cut off the bacon, that 
they may take color. Serve them on the 
dish with the bread under them, and plenty 
of good gravy. Some prefer eating them 
with butter only, considering that gravy 
takes off from the fine flavor of the bird. 
They should be carved [lie same as fowls or 
pigeons, and the head should be opened, as 
some are fond of the brains. Snipes are 
generally dressed in the same manner as 
woodcocks. 

SNOW-BALLS, BOILED IN BUT- 
TER. Mix with six well-beaten eggs one 
pint and a half of sour cream, and add by 
decrees as much (lour as will make the bat- 
ter thick enough for the spoon to stand in 
it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put 
in a few cardamons; stir into this mixture 
half a pint of beer, beat it all well to- 
gether, and drop it with a dessert-spoon 
into some boiling lard, or butter. Drain 
them upon a towel before the fire, and serve 
them in a napkin, with sugar sifted over 
them. 

SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with poun- 
ded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream ; add 
the strained juice of three lemons, and one 
ounce and a half of blanched sweet 
pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of rose- 
water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a 
whisk till thick, and put it into a shape or 
sieve with a bit of muslin laid into it, ami 
in twelve hours take it out. 

SODA WATER. Tartaric acid half 
an ounce, arated soda, half an ounce. Have 
two tumblers about one-third full of water, 
put a tea-spoonful of the soda into one glass, 
and the same of the acid into the other; 
when dissolved, mix them together, and 
drink it immediately. The two sorts of salts 
must be kept in separate bottles, and should 
be bought ready powdered. 

SOLES OR OTHER FISH, TO FRY. 

An hour before you intend to dress them, 
wash them thoroughly, and wrap them in a 
clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or 
the bread-crumbs will not stick to them. 

Prepare some bread-crumbs, by rubbing 
some stale bread through a colander; or, 
if )ou wish the fish to appear very delicate 



SOL 



199 



SOL 



and highly finished, through a hair sieve; or 
ose biscuit (xiwder. 

Heat the yolk and white of an egg well 
. on a pliitf, with a fork; flour your 
li.-li. to absorb :iny moisture that may remain, 
and wipe it otV with a clean cloth ; dip them 
in tiic CLTU' "ii both sides all over, or, what 
is IM-UIT, c.'ir tin in with a |>aste-lirnsh ; put 
die egg o;i in an even degree over the whole 
fish, or tlie I ii i ad crumbs will not stick 
to it even, and tl>e uneven part will burn 
to the pan. Strew the bread crumbs all 
over tin- ti-h. so that they cover every part, 
take up the fish by the head, and shake off 
the loose crumb-. The fish u now ready 
for the fry ing-pun, into which put a quart 
or more of fre>h sweet olive oil, or clar- 
ified butter, dripping, lard, or clarified drip- 
pings; I*- sine that they are quite sweet 
and perfectly clean (the fat ought to cover 
the fish): what we lien: order is for soles 
about ten inches long; if larger, cut them 
into pieces the proper size to help at table ; 
this will save much time and trouble to the 
carver: when yon send them to table, lay 
them in It:.- - i:;ie firm they were lief.ire they 
were cut, ami you may strew a little curled 
: over them: they are much easier 

managed in the I'.-ying-pan, and require less 
fill: fiy the thick part a few minutes before 
you put in the thin, you can by this means 
only fry the thick part enough, without fry- 
ing till thin too much. Very large soles 
lilionld Ix; Ixiiled, or fried in fillets. Soles 
cut in piece?, crossways, about the size of a 
cinch, make a \eiy pretty garnish for stewed 
fish ami Ixiiled fish. 

Set the fryins-jxin over a sharp and clear 
fire; wati-h it, skim it with an egg-slice, and 
wlietl it Ijoils, t. e. when it lias done bub- 
bling, and the smoke just liegins to rise from 
"e, put in the li.-h: if (lie fat is not 
extremely hot, it la impossible to fry finh 
of a g'xld color, or to keep them firm and 
crisp. 

The liest way to ascertain the heat of tlie 
fat, is to i ry it with a bit of bread as big as 
a nut; it" it i- quite hot enough, the bread 
will brown immediately. Put in tlie fish, 
and it will lie crisp and brown on the side 
next tin- (iie. in about four or live minutes; 
to turn it, suck a two-pronged fork near the 
head, and snp|>ort the tail with a fish-slice, 
and fry the other side nearly the same length 
of time. Fry one sole ;ft a time, except the 
|xm is very large, a ,,,| \,,n have plenty of fat. 

\\ hen the tish are (Vied, lay ilwin on a wilt 
cloth (old table-cloths are best), near enough 
.the fire to keep them warm; turn tliem 
every two or three minutes, till tliey are 
quite dry on Imth sides; this common cooks 
commonly neglect. It u ill take ten or fifteen 
minutes, if the fat you fried tliem in was not 
hot enough; when it is, they want veiv little 



drying. When soles are fried, they will 
keep very good in a dry place for three or 
four days; warm tliem by hanging tliem on 
the hooks in a Dutch oven, letting them heat 
very gradually, by putting it some distance 
from the fire for about twenty minutes, or in 
good gravy, as eels, Wiggy's way. 

Obt. There are several general rules in 
this receipt which apply to all fried fish : 
we have been rery particular and minute in 
our directions; for, although a fried sole is 
io frequent and favorite a dish, it is very 
seldom brought to table in perfection. 

SOLES, TO BOIL. A fine, fresh, thick 
sole is almost as good eating as a turhot. 
Wash and clean it nicely; put it into a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt, and as much 
cold water as will cover it ; set it on tlie side 
of the fire, take off tlie scum as it rises, and 
let it boil gently; about five minutes (accord- 
ing to its size) will be long enough, unless 
it be very large. Send it up on a fish-drain- 
er, garnished with slices of lemon and sprigs 
of curled parsley, or nicely-fried smelts, or 

oyj-ters. 

" Obs. Slices of lemon are a universally 
acceptable garnish with either fried orbroif- 
ed fish: a few sprigs of crisp parsley may IK: 
added, if yon wish to make it look very 
smart ; and parsley, or fennel and butter, are 
excellent sauces, or chervil sauce, or anchovy. 

SOLES, TO DRESS MAIGRE. Put 
the fish into a stewpan, with a large onion, 
four cloves, fifteen berries of allspice, and the 
same of black pepper ; just cover tliem with 
boiling water, set it where they will simmer 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to i he si/.c of the tish; strain off the liqnor 
in another :-tew|>an, leaving the fish to keep 
warm till the sauce is ready. Rub together 
on a plate as much flour and butter as will 
make the sauce as thick as a double cream. 
Each pint of sauce season with a .glass of 
wine, half as much mushroom ketchup, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few 
grains of cavenne; let it boil a few minutes, 
put the fish on a deep dish, strain the gravy 
over it; garnish it with sippets of bread 
toasted or fried. 

SOLE, CARP, TROUT, PERCH. EEL, 
OR FLOUNDER, TO STEW. When the fiah 
lias been pro|x-rly washed, lay it in a stew- 
|ian, with half a "pint of claret or Port wine, 
and a quart of good gravy, a large onion, a 
down lierries of black |x-p|X-r, the same of 
allspice, ami a few cloves, or a bit of mace: 
cover the fish-kettle clone, and let it stew 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to tlie thickness of the fish: take the ti.-h up, 
lay it on a hot dish, cover it up, and thicken 
the li<pior it was .-tewed in with a little 



sou 



200 



SOUPS 



fltmr, and season it with pepper, salt, essence 
of anchovy, mushroom ketchup, and a little 
Chili vinegar; when it has boiled ten min- 
utes, strain it through a tamis, and pour it 
over the fish: if there is more sauce than 
i In 1 dish will hold, send the rest up in a boat. 
The river trout comes into season in April, 
and continues till July; it is a delicious fish. 

SORREL, TO STEW. Strip the leaves 
from the stalks, wash them well, scald them 
in boiling water in a silver saucepan, or in 
an earthern pipkin ; strain and stew them in 
a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 



, IN GRAVY. Mince, and 
put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, 
parsley, and scallions; add a glass of con- 
somme; set it over a moderate fire, and 
when quite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or 
veal blond. Blake the sauce thick, and do 
not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. 

SORREL OMELET. Pick, wash, and 
blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 
fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
parsley and scullions; then put the sorrel 
into a saucepan, with a little cream; season, 
and let it boil slowly; in the meantime make 
an omelet in the u.-ual way, lay it tin a dish, 
thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two egp, 
pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. 

SOUFFLEJ, APPLE. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lav upon the top, about an 
inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to, a stift" froth the 
whiles gf two or three eggs, with a little 
sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and 
bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it 
instantly when done. 

SOUfFLET, RICH. Soak in white 
wine and a little brandy, sweetened with su- 
gar, some slices of sponge cake ; put them 
into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich 
custard ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three or four eggs, and with a table-spoon 
lay it over the top in heaps to look rough ; 
brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. 

SOUFFLET, RICE. Soak in half a 
pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, 
and the peel of a lemon cut thin; put it into 
a saucepan, with a little salt, and add by 
degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of but- 
ter the size of a walnut; stir it till it boil, 
and for five minutes after. When cool, add 
the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two table- 
spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in 
the well-l>eaten whites of the eggs, and dress 
the soufflet in the dish like a pyramid. 



Bake it in an oven. It may 1 made with 
two table-spoonfuls of potato flour, which 
mix with a little milk, and a little salt, and 
then thicken it over the fire with more milk ; 
put a little orange-flower water, or any other 
perfume; whilst in the oven it may l>e glazed 
with sifted loaf sugar. 

SOUFFLET, ORANGE. Mix with a 
table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream, put 
it into a saucepan, with two spoonfuls of 
rose-water, a little cinnamon and orange- 
peel; stir it till it boil ; strain and sweeten 
it, and when cold, mix in two table-spoon- 
fuls of orange marmalade; teat well six 
eggs with a glass of brandy; mix all togeth- 
er; put it in a buttered shape; place it in 
a saucepan of boiling water, over a stove; 
let it boil one hour and a quarter without a 
cloth or cover over it. 

SOUPS. Everv utensil employed in a 

kitchen must be kept scrupulously clean, 
and a cook ought to take especial care that 
all her saucepans be in good order. Brass 
pans are preferable for preserving in, and 
double biock tin are the best sort in use for 
every other ; .nrpose; their covers, should be 
made to lit elosi-ly, and the tinning always 
renewed as soon as it is observed to be 
wearing oil'. While new, they may be 
easily kept clean liv washing them regularly 
in hot water, and rubbing on them when 
quite dry, a little whiting with leather or 
liamu'l. After lon<: use, they will require 
occasional scouring with fine sand ; and be- 
fore they arc used, they ought always to be 
rinsed out with hot water, and wiped with 
a clean cloth. A landlady will find it good 
economy, and for her advantage in other 
respects, to provide plenty of stone ware and 
earthen vessels, and also common dishes for 
the kitchen, that the table set may not be 
used to keep cold meat on. 

In boiling soup, less water is used in a 
digester than in a common pot, as in a di- 
gester no steam can escape. 

To extract the strength from meat, long 
and slow boiling is necessary, but c::ro must 
be taken that the ]x>t is never off" the boil. 
All soups are better for being made the (lay- 
before they are to be used, and they should 
then be strained into earthen pans. When 
soup has jellied in the pan, it should not be 
removed into another, as breaking it will 
| occasion its becoming sour sooner titan it 
would otherwise do; when in danger of not 
keeping, it should be boiled up. It never 
keeps long with many vegetables in it. The 
nwat used for soups or broths cannot be too 
fresh. When any animal food is plain 
bofled, the liquor, with the addition of the 
trimmings of meat and poultry, make good 
soups and gravies, as do also die bones of 



SOUPS 



201 



SOUPS 



Foswted or broiled meat. The gravies left 
in tlie ii for hashes, and (lie 

liquor in which veal IIMS lioen l*>iled, may 
1.' made i'l'o ! lino; it with a 

ham bone till rednce.1 to a third or fourth 
part, and seasoning it with tlv necessary 
herbs and spices. 

In boiliiii; weak soups, the pan should l)e 
tin- watery pani< ]<:> may 
escape. < 'o\v-lu:<:l jelly impr.i'. . 
sort of rich -onp; and for thickening, truf- 
U, ana dried mushrooms, may be 
used with advantage. 

Directions arc given with each of the 

following soups fur thickening with tlmir 

and butter, cream and eggs ; after the cream 

ilded, tlie soup most not be 

to Ixiil. 

Should liriiwii srravy or mock turtle soup 

be qx)iliii2. fresh-made charcnal, roughly 

poimded, tied in a lit; ,iied with 

either, \\ill alt-orb the bad flavor and leave 

i I may be 

made by .-imply putting a bit of wixxl into 
the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a, 
mortar. 



ASPARAGUS. This i.-- made 

with tlie |x>ints nf as|*iragn-. in (lie same 
manner a- the i.'i'een pease soup is with 
: \ half tlie asparagus be rubbed 

through a sieve, and tlie other nil in pieces 
about an inch long, and boiled till dune 

uid sent up in tin; soup: to make 

two ijnarls. there must be a pint of heads 

to thicken it, and half a pint cut in; take 

\e these gre<ii and a little 

'hues made bv 

adding tlie as|>anigns heads to common pease 
soup. 

I!i:i:i', THICK. In eight quarts 

of water Imil <>cmly for MACII hours, skim- 
ming it well, a >hin, or a leg of Ixt-f, and a 
Ixinch nf -UM t heili-; -train it the next dav, 
take oil the fit, and cut all tlx- gristly and 
sinev. . por- from the bones, add them to 
the soup \\ith some leeks, onions, cilery, 
pepper, .-alt. and tell or twelve ounce*) of 
Scotch bailey pirlxiiled; l<oil it jjcntlj for 
two or three hours. This stock or jelly wilfr 
keep good lor weeks in cold weatlter. 

BEEF OR MUTTON. Boil 

very gently in a closely covered saucepan, 
four quarts of water, with two table-spoon- 
fills of sifted bread rasping, three pounds 
of beef cut in small pieces, or die same 
quantity ( mutton chops taken from the 
middle of ihe neck; season with |-pper 
and salt, add two tunii|>, t\\o carrots, two 
onion-, and one head of celery, all cut small; 
let it .-tew iih tln-ae ingredients four hours, 
when it will be ready to sent . 



BEET ROOT. Boil till tender 

two roots of beet, and rub off tlie skin with 
towel, mince them finely, as also 
two or three, onions; add this to live pints 
of rich gravy >"ii|), so as to make it rather 
i!iii-k, then stir in three or four table-spoon- 
fuls of vinegar and one of brown sugar ; let it 
Ixiil, and throw in some fricandellaiis made 
up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour. 

AND BOUILLI. The best 

parts for this purpose, are the leg or shin, 
or a piece of the middle of a brisket of 
'>out seven or eight pounds' weight; 
lay it on a lish drainer, or when yon take it 
up, put a slice under it, which will enable 
you to place it on the dish entire ; put it in- 
to a souppot or deep stewpan, with cold 
water enough to cover it, and a quart over, 
set it on a quick (ire to get the scum up, 
which remove as it rises ; then put in two 
carrots, two turnips, two leeks, or two 
large onions, two heads of celery, two or 
three cloves, and a faggot of parsley and 
sweet herbs; set the pot by the side of the 
lire to simmer very gently, till the meat ia 
just tender enough to eat; this will require 
atut lour or live hours. 

Put a large carrot, a turnip, a large onion, 
and a bead or two of celery, into tlie soup 
whole, take them out as soon as they are 
done enough, lay them on a dish till they are 
cold, then cut them into small squares: 
when the BKKF is done, take it out careful, 
ly, strain tlie SOUP through a hair sieve 
into a clean stewpan, take off the fat, and 
put the vegetables that are cut into tlie 
soup, tin: tlaMir of which joil may heighten, 
by adding a table-spoonful of nm.-hiooni 
ketchup. 

If a Thickened Soup is preferred, take 
lour large table-spoonfuls of the clear fat 
from the top of the pot, and four spoonfuls 
of flour; mix it smooth together, then by 
degrees stir it well into tlie soup, Vkhich 
simmer for ten minutes longer at least, 
skim it well and pass it through a tamis, 
or 6ne sieve, and add the vegetables and 
seasoning the game as directed in tlie clear 
soup. 

Keep tlie beef hot, and send it up (as a 
remove to tlie soup) with finely chopped 
parsley sprinkled on the top, and a sauce* 
iwai of Wow Wow sauce. 



BROWN, WITHOUT MK vr. 

Put three quarts or more of water, with a 

Miliicienl quantity of raspings to thicken it; 
two or three onions cut across, some whole 
pepper, and a little salt; cover it close, am] 
let it boil an hour and a hall'; take it off*, 
and strain it through a sieve; fry in butter 
some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and 
any other lieiiw rut small; then take a. 



SOUPS 



202 



SOUPS 



stewpan (sufficiently largie to hold all the 
ingredients,) and put in a good piece of but- 
ter, stick in a little flour, and keep stirring 
til) it is colored of a nice brown ; then put 
in the hri bs and soup; boil it till the herbs 
are tender, and the soup of a proper consist- 
ence, then pour the soup into a tureen, and 
send to table; serve \viili fried bread, either 
in the soup or in a dish. 

BROWN GRAVY. (1) Take 

fifteen pounds of u leg or shin of beef, cut off 
the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot 
with butter, put in the meat, let it brown 
for nearly an hour, turning it constantly, 
break the bone and take out the marrow, 
which may be kept for a pudding, but it is 
considered better than butter to brown the 
meat with; put to it fourteen quarts of cold 
water, and the bones; when it boils, skim 
it perfectly clean, and add six good-sized 
red onions, one carrot cut in three, one 
head of celery, a good handful of whole 
black and Jamaica pepper mixed; let this 
boil very gently ten or twelve hours closely 
covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a 
hot plate, not to be covered ; strain it through 
a cullender, and then through a hair sieve, 
into a large pan, to be kept for use. Re- 
turn the meat and bones into the pot with 
three or four quarts of hot water ; let it boil 
nearly two hours, and strain it off. This 
make-* good stock for gravies, stews, or 
any made dishes. 

This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for 
three or four weeks. When it is to l>e 
boiled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, 
or macaroni, in a little salt and water, till 
tender; strain it, and add it to the soup 
just before serving. This soup is quite 
pure, and requires no clearing. It is a 
most convenient thing to have in a house in 
cold weather, as it is always ready for use; 
and, served with dry toast to eat with it, 
makes*]) acceptable luncheon. 

The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, 
may be boiled with the beef for this soup. 

BROWN GRAVY. (2) Cut 

down three pounds of gravy beef, and put it 
on in a stewpan will) three onions cut small, 
and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, 
stirring it to prevent the onions from burn- 
ing; then add four quarts of water, one 
head of celery, of carrots and turnips two 
each, with some whole black pep|>cr and 
salt; boil it gently for four hours ; strain it ; 
and the next day Hike off the fat. When 
it is healed, add some vermicelli, previously 
boiled in water, and serve it after boiling 
ten minutes. 



CALF'S HEAD, OR MOCK 

TURTLE. (1) Parboil a calf's head, take 



off the skin and cut it in bits about an inch 
and a half square, cut the fleshy parts in bits, 
take out the black part of the eyes, and cut 
the rest in rings, skin the tongue, and cut it 
in slices, add it all to three quarts of good 
stock, and season it with cayenne, two or' 
three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a 
lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with 
about a dozen of forcemeat balls ; stew all 
this an hour and a half, rub down with a 
little cold water, two table-spoonfuls of flour, 
mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, 
and then stir it into the pot ; put in the 
juice of half a large lemon, and the hard- 
boiled yolks of eight eggs; let it simmer for 
ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. 

CALF'S HEAD. (2) Scald 

and clean thoroughly a calf's head with 
the skin on, boil it an hour gently in three 
(marts of water, and parboil with it some 
sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and 
fry of a light brown in butter two pounds 
of gravy beef, one of veal, and one of mut- 
ton, with five onions cut small ; put all into 
the liquor, adding the bones of the head 
broken ; rinse the frying-pan with two 
(marts of boiling water, and put it to the 
meat, and other things, with two whole on- 
ions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and twice 
their quantity of parsley ; the peel of one 
lemon, limr cloves, a iittle allspice, salt, 
and black pepjier, with a slice of the crumb 
of bread dried before the fire; let all this 
.stew slowly for live hours, strain it, and 
when cold, take off all the fat. Cut the 
meat of the calf's head, tongue, and sweet- 
breads, in small square bits, add them to 
the soup, and when it has boiled, mix very 
gradually with a large table-spoonful of 
flour a cupful of the soup, and stir it gently 
into the pot; twenty minutes before serving, 
add a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, the 
yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled ef 

the .-ame numlicr of forcemeat balls ; a pint 
of white wine, Madeira is the best, and 
just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. 
Forcemeat balls fur this soup are made as 
follows: Mix the brains with five table- 
spuunfuls of grated bread, the same of finely 
minced lieef suet, a tca-spoi infill of salt, one 
of white pepper, the grated peel of a lemon, 
some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped; 
beat the yolks and whites of two eggs, roll 
the balls the si/e of the yolk of an egg, and 
fry them of a light brown in boiling drip- 
ping. 

CALF'S HEAD. (3) Take as 

much as is required of not very strong veal, or 
l>cef stock, in which six onions have been 
boiled, brown a quarter of a pound of butter 
and thicken it well with flour, then add the 
stock by degrees ; when it boils, put in tba 



SOUPS 



203 



SOUPS 



calf's head, cut in small pieces, and some fried 
forcemeat balls; season it with salt and 
pepper. The peel of half a lemon improves j 
it. When it has killed twenty mi, 
add two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, three of i 
essence of anchovies, and as much lemon 
pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To 
give the soup a good color, and to enrich the 
flavor, may ! aij.lcd a larije talile-spoonful 
of flour, mixed perfectly smooth in a tea- 
cupful of cold water, nnd stirred i;radiially 
into the soup, after which let it boil a few 
minutes. 



CARROT. Scrape and wash 

half a do/en larjjf carrots; peel off die red j 
outside (which is the only part used for this 
soup); put it into a gallon stcwpan, with 
one head of celi-ry, and an onion, cut into 
thin pieces; take two quarts of beef, veal, 
or mutton broth, or if you have any cold j 
roast beef l>oiics (or liquor, in which mutton 
or beef has l>een l>oiled), you may make very 
good lirotli for this soup: when you have 
put tlw broth to the roots, cover the stew pan 

:i'ld .-et it on a slow Sto\e tor two 

hours au<l a half, \\iien the canots will l>e 
soft eiiniiu'h (sunn- cooks [Hit ill a tea-cupful 
of bread-crumbs) ; boil for two or three 
inimttes; rub it through a tamis, or hair 
sie\.', with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
brotli as will make it a proper thick 
t. e. almost as thick as pease soup: put it . 
into a clean stcwpan ; make it hot; a 
it with a little sail, and send it up with 
some toasted bread, cut into pieces half an 
inch s<|iiare. Some put it into the soup; 
but the Ix-.-t wav is to send it up on a plate, 
as a side dish. 

' CELERY. Split half a dozen 

heads of celery into slips aljout two inches 
long; wasli them well; lay them on a hair 
i. > drain, and put tliem into three quarts 
of clear graty soup in a gallon soup-pot; set 
it by tlie side of the fire to stew very sentry 
till tin "ler (this will take about 

an hour). If any scum rises, lake it off; i 
season with a little salt. 

O6. When celery cannot be procured, 
half a diaclmi of the seed, pounded line, 
which may ! considered as tl>e essence of 
celen, , put in a quarter of an hour licton- the 
coup is done, and a little ,-n^.ir, will give as ' 
mm li flavor to half a gallon of soup as two 
heads of celery weighing seven ounces, or 
add a link; essence of celery. 

COCKY-LEI:KY. Take a 



an hour: then put in as many more feeks, 
:iiid nive it three-<]oarten of an hour longer: 
this is very good, made of good beef stock, 
and leeks put in at twice. 

- CRAW FISH. This soup is 
sometimes made with l>eef, or veal broth, or 
with fish, in the following manner: Take 
flounders, eels, gudgeons, &c., and set them 
on to boil in cold water ; when it is pretty 
nigh boiling, skim it well; and to three 
quarts put in a couple of onions, and as many 
carrots cut to pieces, some parsley, a do/.en 
berries of black and Jamaica pepper, and 
alxiut half a hundred craw-fish ; take off the 
small claws and shells of the tails; pound 
them fine, and boil them with the brotli 
alxnit an hour; strain off, and break in 
some crusts of bread to thicken it, and, if 
you can get it, the spawn of a lobster ; |xnind 
it, and put it to the soup; let it simmer ver) 
gently for a cou|le of minutes; put in your 
craw-fish to get hot, and the soup is ready. 



CUES3Y. (1) 



clean, 



and cut small, ei;lit carrots, eight turnips, 
three heads of celery, and six onions; put 
them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of butter and a slice of ham, st<-w them 
gently for an hour, stirring tliem constantly: 
when they bejiin to brown add as much 
gravy soup as \\ill fill the tureen; let it boil 
till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to 
pulp with a s|M>on through a sieve, after 
which put it on tlie fire and boil it half an 
hour, skin, and season it with pepper and 
salt. This soup should I* as thick as melt- 
ed butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in 
lour quarts of water till reduced to three, 
will answer for the soup. 

-- - CRESSY. (2) Slice twelve 
lar^e onions, and fry them pretty brown in 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; scrape 
and clean two dozen of good red carrots, 
boil them in four quart.? of water till quite 
soft; pound them in a marble mortar, mix 
them willi the onions and add the liquor in 
which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 
anil t,vo or three cloves; let them all boil 
aliout an hour. then rub them through a hair 
sieve; put it on again to beil rather quickly, 
till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a lit- 
tle dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. If llie carrots are large, 
one dozen will be found sufficient. 



CUCUMBER. Make some 

mutton, in- shank of veal, three broth w ith a neck of mutton, a thick slice 
quarts of \\ati-r (or liquor in which meat has of lean Inco-i, an onion stuck with three 
been lil.-<i), ami a good siwd fowl, with cloves, a c iirot, two turnips, some salt, and 
two in- lin-ri- In-ks cut in pieci-s a'Kint an a bunch of sweet herbs; strain it; brown 
inch long, |>ep|ier and salt; boil skmly abool with an ounce of butter the crumb of a 



SOUPS 



204 



SOUPS 



French roll, to which put four large cucum- 
bers, and two heads of lettuce cut small ; let 
them stew a quarter of an hour, and add to 
them a quart of the broth ; when it Iniils 
put in a pint of green pease, and as il stews, 
a3d two quarts more of the broth. 

CURRY, OR MULLAGA- 

TAAVNY. Cut four pounds of a breast of 
veal into pieces, about two inches by one; 
put the trimmings into a stewpan with two 
quarts of water, with twelve corns of black 
pepper, and the same of allspice; when it 
boils, skim it clean, and let it boil an hour 
and a half, then strain it off; while it is 
boiling, fry of a nice brown in butter the 
bits of veal and four onions ; when they are 
done, put the broth to them ; put it on the 
fire; when it boils, skim it clean; let it 
simmer half an hour; then mix two spoon- 
fuls of curry, and the same of flour, with a 
little cold water and a tearspoonful of salt ; 
add these to the soup, and simmer it gently 
till the veal is quite tender, and it is ready; 
or bone a couple of fowls or rabbits, and 
stew them in the 'manner directed above for 
the veal, and you may put in a bruised esr 
chalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of 
black pepper and allspice. 

CURRY. Mince small three 

or four onions, according to tlieir size, put 
them into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, dredge in some flour, and fry them 
till of a light brown, taking care not to 
burn them ; rub in by degrees a lai-ge table- 
spoonful and a half of curry-powder, till it 
be quite a paste; gradually stir in three 
quarts of gravy soup, mixing it well togeth- 
er; boil it gently till it be well flavored 
with the CUITV -powder ; strain it into anoth- 
er saucepan, and add a fowl skinned and 
cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; 
stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of 
the soup put a large table-spoonful of tama- 
rinds, and stew them so as to separate the 
stalks and stones; strain and stir it into the 
soup with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
boil it for fifteen minutes before serving. 

EEL. To make a tureenful, take 

a couple of middling-sized onions, cut them 
in half, and cross your knife over them two 
or three times; put two ounces of butter 
into a stewpan, when it is melted put in the 
onions, stir them about till they are lightly 
browned; cut into pieces three pounds of 
eels, put them into your stewpan, and shake 
them over the fire for five minutes; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and wlien they 
come to a boil, take the scum off very clean ; 
then put in a quarter of an ounce of the 
green leaves (not dried) of winter savory, 
the same of lemon thyme, and twice the 



quantity of parsley, two drachms of allspice, 
the same of black pepper ; cover it close, 
and let it boil gently for two hours; then 
strain it off, and skim it very clean. To 
thicken it, put three ounces of butter into a 
clean stewpan ; when it is melted, stir in as 
much flour as will make it of a stiff paste, 
then add the liquor by degrees ; lei it simmer 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve; 
then put your soup on in a clean stewpan, 
and have ready some little square pieces of 
fish fried of a nice light brown, either eels, 
soles, plaice, or skate will do; the fried 
fish should be added about ten minutes be- 
fore the soup is served up. Forcemeat balls 
are sometimes added. 



GIBLET. Clean very nicely 

two sets of giblets, parboil them. Take the 
skin off the feet; cut the gizzards in quar- 
ters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pin- 
ions, and livers, in two, the head in two 
also, first taking off the bill; boil them till 
nearly done enough in a quart of weak gravy 
soup with an onion. Have ready boiling 
some rich highly -seasoned brown gravy soup; 
add the giblets and the liquor they have been 
boiled in, with some chopped parsley; take 
out the onion, and thicken the soup with a 
bit of butter kneaded in flour. If tlie giblets 
are not perfectly sweet and fresh, do not add 
the weak soup they were lioiled in. Half a 
pint of wine may lie added a little before 
serving, but it is very good without. 

GOURD, Should be made of 

full-grown gourds, but not those that have 
hard skins; slice three or four, and put them 
in a stewpan, with two or three onions, and 
a good bit of butter; set them over a slow 
fire till quite tender (be careful not to Jet 
them burn) ; then add two ounces of crust of 
bread, anil two quarts of good consomme; 
season with salt and cayenne pepper: boil 
ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour; skim 
off all the fat, and pass it through a tamis ; 
then make it quite hot, and serve up with 
fried bread. 



GRAVY, CLEAR. Cut half a 

pound of ham into slices, and lay them at 
the bottom of a large stewpan or stockpot, 
with two or three pounds of lean l>ccf, and 
as much veal ; break the bones, and lay them 
on the meat; take off the outer skin of two 
large onions and two turnips; wash, clean, 
and cut into pieces a couple of large carrots, 
and two heads of celery; and put in three 
cloves and a large blade of mace. Cover 
the stewpan close, and set it over a smart 
fire. When tlte meat begins to stick to the 
bottom of the stewpan, turn it; and when 
there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of 
the stewpan, cover the meat with hot water: 



SOUPS 



205 



SOUPS 



watch it, and when it is coming to boil put 
in half a pint of cold water; take off the 
scum; tlH-n put in half a pint more cold 
water, ami skim it again, and continue to 
do to till no more scum rises. \ow set it 
on one side of the fire to Ix/il gently f n- :ilnt 
four hours ; strain it through a clean tamis 
or napkin (do not squee/e it, or 
will Ix- thick) into a clean stone pan; let it 
remain till it is cold, and then remove all the 
fit. When you decant it, Ix- caivfnl not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
pan. 

The broth should be of a fine amber color, 
and as clear as rock wat.-r. If it is not 
quite o bright as you wisli it, put it into a 
Mew pan; break two whites and shells of 
eggs into a basin; beat them well together; 
put them into the soup: set it on a quick 
iire, and stir it with a whisk till it bills; 
then set it on one side of ihe lire to settle 
for ten minutes; run it through a fine napkin 
into a Ictsin, and it is ready. 

However, if your broth is carefully skim- 
med, &c. according to the directions above 
given, it will Ix- clear enough without clari- 
fying; which process iiujKiirs UK! flavor of 
it in a higher proportion than it improves 
its appearance. This is the basis of almost 
all gravy soups, which are called bv the 
name of the \egelabli-7. that are put into them. 
Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few 
lea\e> nf chervil, make what is called spring 
soup, or soup saute; to this a pint 

i asparagus pease, 01 1'ieiich Ix-ans 
cut into pieci-<, or a cabbage Ivtlii' 
improvement. With rice or Scotch bale-,, 
with macaroni or vermicelli, or celery cut 
into lengths, it will be the soup usually call- 
ed In iho.-e names. Or turnip- 
round, or young onions, will gi\e you a clear 
turnip or onion soup; an. I all tin - 
bles mixed together, soup GRESSI. The 
roots and vegetables yon n.-c must lie I HI! led 
!ir-t, or they will impregnate the soup with 
too strong a flavor. The seasoning for all 
Uieee soups is the same, viz. salt and a very 
little cayenne pepper. 

GAME. In the game season, it 

.r a ciiok to give a very good soup 
at a very little expense, by taking all the 
meat oil the breasts of any cold birds which 
have been left (he preceding day, and pound- 
i i_' it in a mortar, and lieating to pieces the 
legs ami bones, and lulling them in some 
broth for an hour. Boil six turnips; mash 
tin-in, and -train them through a tamis cloth 
with the meat that has lit-cn (minuled in a 
mortar; strain your broth, and put a little 
of it at a time into the Mini- to help you to 
strain all of it through. Put your -onp-kel- 
rle mar ilie die, Inil do not let it boil: when 
ready to dish jour dinner, liave six yolks of 
18 



egg* mixed with half a pint of cream ; strain 

through a sieve; put your soup on the fire, 
and as it is coming to boil, put in the eggs, 
and stir well with a woo<l^ jsnooii : do not 
let it boil, or it will curdled* 

HARE. Cut the hare in joints 

as for a fricassee, and put it in a stewpan, 
with a little allspice, three blades of mace, 
some salt, UddM^pIe black pepper, a bunch 
of par.-K-y, a spff^ uf lemon thyme, one of 
winter savory, flur quarts of water, a slice 
of ham, and lour pounds of lean beef, two 
carrots, and four onions cut down ; let it 
Ixiil till it \>e reduced to three quarts; sepa- 
rate the hare, and strain die soup over it, 
and add a pint of Port wine; boil it up be- 
fore serving. 

HERB. Wash and cut small 

twelve cabbage lettuces, a handful of chervil, 
one of purslane, one of parslev, eight large 
green onions, and three haudfuls of sorrel; 
when pease are in season omit half the quanti- 
ty of sorrel, and put a quart of young green 
|xa-e; put them all into a saucepan, with 
half a pound of butter and three carrots cat 
small, some salt and pepper; let them stew 
cl -el\ covrred for half an hour, shaking 
thi in occasionally to prevent their adhering 
to the |n ; fry in butter six cucumbers cut 
longways in four pieces; add them with four 
quarts of hot water, half a French roll, and 
a crust of brcj^i toasted U|>on both si.i. - ; 
and let the whole 'boil till reduce;! to life*; 
quarts, then Ktr.iin it through a sie\e; beat 
up the yolks of four eggs with half a pint 
f i reaia, and stir it gently into the soup just 
' before serving. 

. HERB POWDER, OR VEG- 
ETABLE RELISH. Dried parslev, win- 
' ter savory, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, 
of each two ounces; lemon-peel, cut veiy 
thin, and dried, and sweet basil, an ounce 
of each. Some add to the above bay-leave* 
and celery-seed, a drachm each. Dry them 
in a warm, but not too hot Dutch oven: 
when quite dried, pound them in a mortar, 
and pa.-s them through a double hair sieve; 
put them in a bottle closely stopped, they 
will retain their fragrance and flavor for 
several months. 

Obt. This composition of tlie fine aro- 
matic herbs is an invaluable acquisition t.i 
the cook in those seasons or situations when 
fresh heib- cannot be had ; and we pn-t> i it 
to the ragout powder. It impregnates sauce, 
soup, Stc. with .is much relish, anil render* 
it agreeable to the palate, and refreshes the 
nei-ves, without so much risk of 
offending tiw stomach. 

INVALID. Cut in small pieces 



SOUPS 



206 



SOUPS 



one pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; 
boil it gently in two quarts of water; take 
off the .-rum. and wlien reduce, I to a pint, 
strain it. Season with a little salt, and take 
a tea-cupful at a time. 



LOBSTER. (1) Cut. small a 

dozen of common-sized onions, put them into 
a stewpan with a small hit of butler, a slice 
or two of lean ham, and a .slice of lean l>eef ; 
when the onions are (|uiie soft, mix gradu- 
ally with them some rich stock; let it toil, 
and strain it through a fine hair sieve, press- 
ing the pulp of the onions with a wooden 
spoon; then boil it well, skimming it all the 
time. Beat the meat of a boiled cod, the 
spawn and lx>dy of a large lobster, or of two 
small ones, in a marble mortar; add grad- 
ually to it rhe soup, stirring it till it is as 
smooth as cream ; let it toil again anil scum 
it. Cut the tail and the claws of the lobster 
into pieces, and add them to the soup before 
serving it, and also gome pepper, cayenne,- 
white pep|>er, and a gfass of white wine. 
Forcemeat balls may l>e added to oyster soup 
and lobster soup, made as directed under the 
article " Forcemeat for fish."" 



LOBSTER. (2) You must 

have three fine lively young hen lobsters, 
split the tails; take out the fish, crack the 
claws, and cut the meat into mouthfulsr 
take out the coral, and soft part of the tody ; 
bruise part of the coral in a mortar; pick 
out the fish from the chines; beat part of it 
with the coral, and with this make forcemeat 
Ixills, finely-flavored with mace or nutmeg, 
a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy and cay- 
enne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. 

Have three quarts of veal broth; bruise 
the small legs and the chine, and put them 
into it, to toil for twenty minutes, then 
train it; and then to thicken it, take the 
live spawn and bruise it in a mortar wilh a 
little butter and flour; nib it through a sieve, 
and add it to the soup with the meat of the 
lobsters, and the remaining coral; let it 
simmer very gently for ten minutes; do not 
let it toil, or its fine red color will imme- 
diately fade ; turn it into a tureen ; add the 
juice of a good lemon, and a little essence 
of anchovy. 

LORRA1N. Boil in four quarts 

of water a knuckle of veal, one pound of 
lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a car- 
rot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little 
lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper, 
till reduced to three, then strain the liquor; 
pound very finely in a marble mortar, all the 
white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a 
quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, and 
lie volks of four hard-toiled eggs; tod in 
.milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound 



it with tlie other ingredients, and stir it all 
well into the soup; let it toil gently for ten 
minute.- before serving. 

- MAIGRE, OR VEGETABLE 
GRAVY. Put into a gallon stewpan three 
ounces of totter ; set it over a slow fire ; 
while it is melting, slice four ounces of 
onion; cut in small pieces one turnip, one 
carrot, and a head of celery ; put them in the 
stewpan, cover it close, let it fry till they are 
lightly browned; this will take atout twen- 
ty-five minutes: have ready, in a saucepan, 
a pint of pease, with four quarts of water; 
when the roots in the stewpan are quite 
brown, and the |x-ase come to a boil, put the 
|>ease and water to them ; pat it on the fire j 
when it toils, skim it clean, and put in a 
crust of bread about as big as the top of a 
twopenny loaf, twenty-four berries of all- 
spice, the same of black pep|x>r, and two 
blades of mace; cover it close, let it simmer 
gently for one hour and a half; then set it 
from the fire for ten minutes; then pour it 
oftvery gently (so as not to disturb the sedi- 
ment at the bottom of the stewpan) into a 
large basin ; let it stand (about two hours) 
till it is (mite cle.ir: while this is doing, 
shred one large turnip, the red part of a 
large carrot, three omices of onion minced, 
ami one large head of celcty cut into small 
bits; put the turnips and carrots on the fire 
in cold water, let them toil five minutes, 
then drain them on a sieve, then pour off the 
soup clear Hito a stewpan, put in tlie roots, 
put tlie soup on the fire, let it simmer gently 
till the herbs we tender (from thirty to forty 
minutes), season it with salt ami a little 
cayenne, and it is ready. You may add a 
table-spoonful of mmhroom ketchup. You 
will have three quarts of soup, as well color- 
ed, and almost as well flavored, as if made 
wilh gravy meat. To make tins it requires 
nearly five hours. To fry the hcilw requires 
twenty-five minutes; to toil all together, one 
hour and a hull ; to settle, at the least, two 
hum's ; when clear, and put on the fire aguHi. 
half an hour more. 



MACARONI. (1) Boil for three 

hours very quickly, in five quarts of water, 
seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of white pepper, and three or four 
blades of mac?; strain it off, put it into a 
saucepan, and keep it hot upon a stove. 
Mix five table-spoonfuls of flour with two 
ounces of butter, put it into an iron-tinned 
saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it be 
melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, 
and then gradually mix the whole together, 
and keep stirring constantly till it thickens, 
and then add two ounces and a half of mac- 
aroni, previously toiled in milk and water 
for eight minutes; stir it again till it toil. 



SOUPS 



207 



SOUPS 



Take the pan off the stove, and Mir in V>y 
degrees about three-quarters of a pint of rich 
sweet cream, and just let it boil before ser- 
ving. 

MACARONI. (2) Make a good 

clock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet 
marjoram, parsley, some salt, white pepper, 
three blades of mace, and two or three on- , 
ions; strain and boil it. Break in small bits 
a quarter of a pound of macaroni, and genlly 
simmer it in milk and water till il be swell- 
ed and is tender ; strain it, and add h to the ! 
soup, \\liidi thicken with two table-spoonfuls 
of flour, inixe- 1 in half a pint of cream, and 
stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few 
minutes before serving. 

MOCK TURTLE. Endeavor 

to have the head and the broth ready for the 

soap, the day before it is to be eaten. It 

will take eight hours to prepare it properly. 

kaurt. 

Cleaning and soaking the head 1 

To parboil it to cut up 1 

Cooling, nearly 1 

Making the broth and finishing the soup 5 

8 
Get a calf's head with the skin on (the 

fresher tlte heller) ; take out the brains, 
\\a-h the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in spring water, 
then lay it in a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold water, and half a gallon over; as it be- 
comes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, 
which must be immediately removed ; let it 
boil gently lor one hour, take it up, and when 
almost cold, cut the head into pieces about 
an inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, 
and the tongue into mouthful*, or rather 

de-dish of the tongue and brains. 
When the head is taken out, put in the 
stock meat, aliout five pounds of knuckle of 
veal, and as much Ijeef; add lo the stock all 
the trimmings and bones of the head, skim 
it well, and dien cover it close, and let it 
boil fi\e hours (reserve a couple of quarts of 

ike gravy sauces) ; then strain it off, ! 
and let it stand till the next morning; then 
take off the fat, set a large stewpan on the 
fire with half a pound of good fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of onions sliced, and four oun- 
ces of green sage ; chop it a little; let these 
fi\ <>ne hour; then rub in half a pound of 
flour, and by degrees add your broth till it in 
the thickness of cream ;' season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of black pepper ground very 
fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
lemon peeled very thin; let it simmer very 
gervly fir one hour and a half, then strain it 
through a hair sieve ; do not nib your soup 
to yi il through ihe sieve, or it will make it I 
{,'ioutv ; if it docs not run through easily, ! 



knock your wooden spoon against the aide 
of your sieve; put it in a clean stewpan with 
the head, and season it by adding to each 
gallon of soup half a pint of wiiy this .should 
be Madeira, or, if you wish to duiken the 
color of your soup, claret, and two taUo- 
spoonfuls of lemon-juice ; let it simmer gently 
till the meal is tender; this may lake from 
half an hour to an hour: take care it is not 
over-done ; stir it frequently to prevent the 
meat sticking to the bottom of the Mewpun, 
and when the meat is quite tender the soup 
is ready. 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten 
pounds of slock meat, will make ten quarts 
of excellent soup, besides the two quarts of 
stock you have put by for made dishes. 

Obs. If thei e is more meat on the head 
than you wish to put in tlie soup, prepare it 
for a pie, and, with the addition of a calPs 
foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent 
ragout pie; season it with zest, and a little 
minced onion, put in half a tea-cupful of 
stock, cover it with puff paste, and bake it 
one hour : when the soup comes from table, 
if there is a deal of meat and no soup, put il 
into a pie-dish, season it a little, and add 
some little stock to it; then cover it with 
paste, bake it one hour, and you have a 
good mock turtle pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup put 
iwo table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, same of 
mushroom ketchup, and one of essence of 
anchovy, half a pint of wine (this should be 
Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the color 
of your soup, claret), a tea-spoonful of curry 
powder, or a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, 
and the peel of a lemon pared as thin a* 
possible; lei it simmer five minutes more, 
take out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready 
for the tureen. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each 
tureen a dozen and a half of mock turtle 
forcemeat balls, and put them into die tureen. 
Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant ad- 
dition, and are made by boiling the brain* 
for ten minutes, llien pulling ihem in cold 
water, and cutting them into pieces about a* 
big as a large nutmeg ; take savory, or lemon 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg 
grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them 
all together; beat up an egg, dip the brains 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture, and 
make as much of it as possible stick to diem ; 
dip them in the egg again, and then in finely- 
grated and sifted bread-crumbs ; fry them la 
hot fat, and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done of 
il will break, cut into pieces the name size 
as you cut the calf's head, and put in the 
soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, 
is a superb " bonne bouche;" and pickled 
tongue, stewed till very tender, and rut into 
mouthful*, is a favorite addition. We order 



SOUPS 



208 



SOUPS 



(he me:U to be cut into mouthful*, that it 
may be eaten with a spoon: die knife and 
fork have no business in a soup-plate. 

N. B. In helping this soup, the distri- ] 
l>uler of it should serve out the meat, force- 
meat, and gravy, in equal parts; however , 
trifling or needless this remark may appear, , 
the writer ha* often suffered from the want 
of such a hiut l>eing given to the soup-serr- . 
IT, who lias sometimes sent a plate of mere 
gravy without meat, at others, of meat with- 
out gravy, and sometimes scarcely any thing 
1 ut forcemeat balls. 

06s. This is a delicious soup, within 
the reach of those who "eat to live;" but 
if it had been composed expressly for those 
who only " live to eat," I do not know how 
it could have been made more agreeable: as 
it is, the lover of good eating will " wish his 
throata mile long, and every inch of it palate." 

MOCK MOCK TURTLE. Line 

the bottom of a stewpan that will hold five 
pints, with an ounce of nice lean bacon or 
ha:n, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, 
u cow-heel, the inner riiid of a carrot, a sprig 
of lemon thyme, winter savory, three times 
tlie quantity of parsley, a few green leaves 
rf sweet basil, and two eschalots; put in a 
large onion, with four cloves stuck in it, 
eighteen corns of allspice, the same of black 
[>epper ; pour on these a quarter of a pint 
of cold water, cover the stewpan, and set it 
on a slow fire, to boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then, for fear the meat should 
catch, take off the cover, and watch it ; and 
when it lias got a good brown color, fill up 
tlie stewpan with boiling water, and let it 
simmer very gently for two hours: if you 
wish to have the full benefit of the meat, 
only stew it till it is just tender, cut it into 
mouthfuls, and put it into the soup. To 
thicken it, pour two or three table-spoonfuls 
of flour, a ladleful of tlie gravy, and stir it 
(jiiick till it is well mixed; pour it back in- 
to tlie stewpan where tlie gravy is, and let 
it simmer gently for half an hour longer; 
skim it, and then strain it through a tamis 
into tlie stewpan: cut tlie cow-heel into 
pieces alxnit an inch square, squeeze through 
ve the juice of a lemon, a table-spoon- 
f.il of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground black 
r , as much grated nutmeg as will lie 
<;<i ;i six|>ence, and a glass of Madeira or 
Sherry wine ; let it all simmer together for 
five minutes longer. Forcemeat or egg balls 
liii.y be added if you please. 

A pound of vea'l cutlets, or the tally part 
of pickled pork, or nice double tripe cut in- 
to pieces about an inch square, and half an 
inch thick, and rounded and trimmed ner.t- 
ly from all skin, gristle, &c. and stewed till 
tliey are tender, will be a great addition. 



MOOR-FOV,'!.. It may Le 

made with or without brown gravy soup; 
when with the. former, six birds are suffi- 
cient, when with moor-f .v, I <> \\ , boil five in 
four quarts of water, pound the breasts in a 
mortar and rub it through a sieve, put it 
with the legs, backs, and three more moor- 
fowl, cut down in joints, into tlie liquor, 
season with a pint of Port wine, 
and salt, and let it buil an \\.\v. 
only six birds are used, pound the breast* 
of three or four. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (1) Put 

half a pound of fresh butter, with six large 
onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some 
chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into 
a stewpan, let it slew over a slow fire till 
of a light brown color; cut in small pieces 
five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew 
till the gravy be extracted, and then put in 
three quarts of boiling water, and half a 
pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer 
four hours very slowly; mix four table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder with cold water, 
and add it to the stock; take out the beef, 
and rub the barley through a sieve, to thick- 
en the sou]). Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, 
and put it in a stewpan with a piece of but- 
ter, and let it stew till quite tender; the 
stewpan must be kept closely covered: this 
to be added to the soup, the last tiling, with 
a pint of lx>iling milk, and the juice of two 
lemons. Boiled rice uuist always be :-c.\e.l 
with this soup. 

, MULLAGATAWNY. (2) 

Make a strong stock of the bones of masted 
beef, mutton, and fowl ; while it is pi rpar- 
ing, put into a stewpan, with six ounces of 
butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, two 
quarts of carrots, and eight larg r - i.nioiis 
also sliced; let them stew upon the stme till 
tender ; then add three (marts of the pre- 
pared stock, a large slice of the crumb of 
bread, and two table-spoonfuls of curry- 
powder; let them stew four or live hours; 
strain it through a tammy cloth, with 
two wooden spoons, taking care that no 
bones be left amongst the vegetables; if too 
thick to go through, add more stock. Then 
cut a fowl in pieces, fry it in a frying-pan 
with butter, and add it to the soup; after 
it has Ixtiled a little, draw it to the side 
of the stove, and let it simmer, that the 
grouse may be taken "oft". A little good 
I'XT!' .-tuckj in addition to that made of the 
bones will be an improvement. Jt is some- 
times thickened with whole or ground rice, 
instead of bread, and ought to be made 
upon a stove. 

. ON1O.X. Toil in four quarts of 

water six pounds of a knuckle of veal, with 



SOUPS 



209 



SOUPS 



t-spoonful of whole white pepper, 
and a few lihdes of niiire; when the meat 
is si) much boiled as lo leave the !>, strain 
off the slock. The foil iwlng day boil nine 
or ten hirije Spanish onion.-! in milk and 
water, till siimcieutlv tender to p>i!p through 
a sieve; take the fat o(T from the top of the 
nock, lx>il it up, and add the <>< 
about a quarter of a pimnd of lVe.-li butter 
wurke'l xx it!i txxo hcapc'l tali'.---coonfuls of 
silted llmir of rice, ami a littl-- salt; boil it 
gently for half an boor,ftirring it constantly, 
and a little. U'fore serving, .--lir in half a pint 
of rich cream. 

- OX-HEAD, Should be pre- 
pared the day In-line it is to In' calm, as you 
cannot cut the ine.it oil' the itead into neat 
tnoitthfiils unless it is rold: thcrefoie, tlie 
day U'tore you want this soup, put half an 
ox -check into a tub of eold water to soak 
for a couple of hours; (hen break the IMMICS 
that have not been broken at the butcher's, 
and w,i-!i it very well in warm water; put 
it into a p 'I, anil cover it \xilli cold water; 
when it boils, skim it xery clean, and then 
put in one head of celery, a couple of carrots, 
a turnip, two large onions, two dozen tar- 
ries of black pcp|>er, same of allspice, and 
a bundle of sw-et herbs, .-:ich as marjoram, 
lemon ihxme, saxorv, and a handful of ;>ars- 
ley; cover the soiip-|>ot elo-e, and set it on a 
ylow (ire; take off the scum, which will rise 
when i' is coming to a Ixiil, and set it by the 
fireside to stew very gently for about three 
hours; take out tbe head, lay it on dish, 
jxnir tlie soup through a fine sieve into a 
stone- xx are pan, and set it and the head by 
I place till tlie next day; then cut 
(lie meat into neat moutlit'uls, skim and strain 
off the broth, put two quarls of it and the 
meat into a clean Mcwpan, let it simmer xery 
gently fir half an hour longer, and it is 
ready, ll you wish it thickened, put two 
oiirire-j of Ixitte.r into a stewpan ; when it is 
melted, throw in us much Hour as xx ill dry it 
iii): xx hen tliey are all well mixed together, 
and browned by decrees, pour to this your 
soup, and stir it xvell togi ih.-r; let it simmer 
for h.ilf an hour longer; strain it through a 
Lair sieve into a clean stewpan, and put to 
it tlie meat of the head ; let it slew half an 
hour longer, and season it xx ith cayenne 
pepj>er, gait, and a glass of good wine, or a 
table-iinoonful of brandy. It yon serve it as 
Koup for a dozen people, thicken one tureen, 
and mud up the meal in that ; and send up 
the oilier as a clear gravy soup, with wnne 
of the carrots and turnips xhix-dded, or cm 
into shapes. 



- OX-HEEL, Must be made the 
day In-fine it i- to U- eaten. Procure an 
ox-heel nndre.-.sed, or only scalded, and two 



that have been boiled :is tlcy usually are at 
llie tri|>e shops. 

Cut the nie.it off the boiled heels into neat 
mouthfuls, and set it by on a plate; put the 
triflHMan and Ujnes; in a stewpan, xx ith three 
quart* of xxaler, and the unlioiled heel cut into 
quarters; furnish a stexxpan with txvo onions, 
and txxo ttiriiips pared and sliced; pare off 
the red part of a couple of large cnnots, add 
a couple of eschalots cut in half, a bunch of 
savory or lemon thyme, and double the quan- 
tity of parsley ; set this over, or by the side 
of a slow, steady fire, and keep il closely 
covered and simmering very gently (or ihc 
soup liquor xx ill evaporate) for at !'. 
hours: during which, take care to remove 
the fat and scum that xvill rise to the surface 
}>, which must be kept as clean as 

|X)ssil)!e. 

Noxv strain the liquor through a sieve, 
and put txvo ounc *s of butter 'into a clean 
stexvpan ; xvhen it is melted, stir into it as 
much Hour as xxill make it a stiff paste; add. 
to it by degrees the soup liquor; gixe it a 
l*iil up; strain it through a siexe, and pot 
in the peel of a lemon pared as thin as pop. 
sible, and a couple of bay-leaves, and the 
mi ii of ihe I Milled net-Is ; lei it go on s'nn- 
IIH.-I ing for half an hour longer, i. e. till the 
meat is tender. Put in tlie juice of a lemon, 
a jrlass of xvine, and a table-spoonful of mush-! 
room ketchup, and the soup is ready for the, 
tureen. 

Those xvho are disposed to make this a 
more substantial dish, may introduce a 
couple of sets of goose or duck giblets, or 
s-taiK or a pound of voal cutlets, cut into 
mouthfuls. 

OX-TAIL. Three tails, costin- 

alxiut 2il. each, xx ill make a tureen of soup 
(desire the butcher to divide them at tlte 
joints); lay them to soak in xvann xvater, 

j while you get ready the vegetables. 

I'm into a gallon stexxpan eight clove*, 
txvo or three onions, half a drachm of alW 
spice, and the same of black pep|ier, and 
the tails: cover tin-in with cold water; skim 
it carefully, xvhen and as long as you sne 
any scum rise; then cover the pot as clow 
as |isvil)|.-, and set it on the side of the 
fire to keep gently simmering till the meat 
Iwronies tender and will leave tlie bones 
easily , l>ecaiisc it is to be eaten xvith a Fpoon, 
xx ithotit i he assistance of a knife or f >rk ; thn 
xvill require aliout two hours: mind it is not 
done too much: xvben perfectly lender, take 
out the meat and cut it off tlie bones, ! 
neat mouthful* ; skim tlie broth, and strain 
it through a siexe; if yo<i prefer a thicken- 

I ed soup, put Hour and butter, as directed in 
the prill-ding le-eipt; or put txxo lab)f>- 
spoonfuki of tlie fit you have taken off the 

broth int.) a !".ia /-tcxxptP,, with <IS milC^ 



SOUPS 



210 



SOUPS 



flour us will make it into a paste ; set this 
over the fire, and stir them well together; 
then ]x>ur in the broth by degrees, stirring 
it, and mixing it with the thickening; let 
it simmer for another half hour, and when 
yon have well skimmed it, anil it is quite 
smooth, then strain it through a (amis into 
a clean stewpan, put in the meat, with a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass 
of wine, and season it \\illi s;.!t. 

Obs. If the meat is rut off the bones, 
yon must have three tails lor a tureen, some 
put an ox-cheek or tails in an earthen 
pan, u ilh all the ingredients as above, and 
send them to a slow oven for five or six 
hours. 



PEAS, GREEN. (1) A peck of 

peas will make you a good tureen of soup. 
In shelling them, put the old ones in one 
basin, and the young ones in another, and 
keep out a pint of them, and boil them 
separately to put into your soup when it is 
finished: put a large saucepan on the fire 
half full of water; when it boils, put the 
peas in, with a handful of salt; let them 
boil till they are done enough, i. e. from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their 
age and size; then drain them in a colan- 
der, and put them into a clean gallon stew- 
pan, and three quarts of plain veal or mut- 
ton broth (drawn from meat without any 
spices or herbs, &c. which would overpow- 
er the flavor of the soup) ; cover the stewpun 
close, and set it over a slow fire to stew 
gently for an hour ; add a tea-cupful of bread 
crumbs, and then rub it through a tamis in- 
to another stewpan ; stir it with a wooden 
spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little 
more broth: have ready boiled as for eating, 
a pint of young peas, and put them into the 
soup ; season with a little salt and sugar. 

Some cooks, while this soup is going on, 
slice a couple of cucumbers (as you would 
for eating) ; takeout the seeds; lay them 
on a cloth to drain, and then flour them, 
and fry them a light brown in a little but- 
ter ; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

If the soup is not green enough, pound a 
handful of pea-hulls or spinage, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth into the soup: some 
leaves of mint may be added, if approved. 

PEAS, GREEN. (2) Put a 

pint of old green peas into three quarts of 
water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two 
onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pep- 
|x.-r; Imil them till the peas are perfectly 
soft, then pulp them through a sieve; have 
ready two lettuces stewed tender in butter, 
ami a pint and a half of young green peas 
U)iled; put them into the soup with a little 
spinach juice, and a quarter of a pint of 



the juice of the youngest pea pods, and boil 
it all together lx fore serving. 

1'F.AS, GREEN, WITHOUT 

MEAT. Take a quart of green peas (keep 
out half a pint of the ynui^e>l; l,oil them 
separately, and pit them in the soup when 
it is finished); put them on in hailing \\ater; 
boil them tender, anil t!i"ii pour o:i' the wa- 
ter, and set it by t,. make the .-oiip w itl> : put 
the pens into a mortar, and pound them to 
a ma?h; tlie.i put them into two cjii;ats ( f 
the water you boiled the peas in; stir all 
well together; let it Ixiil up (or about fiu> 
minutes, and then rub it through a hair sieve 
or tiimis. If the peas are good, it will be 
as thick and fine a vegetable soup as need 
he sent tu table 

PEAS, OLD. (1) Put a pound 

and a half of split peas on in four quarts of 
water, with roast beef or mutton lx>nes, and 
a ham bone, two heads of celery, and four 
onions, let them boil till the peas be suffi- 
ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, strain it, 
put it into tiie pot with pepper and salt, and 
boil it nearly an hour. Two or three hand- 
fuls of spinach, well washed and cut a litde, 
added when (lie soup is strained, is a great 
improvement ; and in the summer young 
green peas in place of the spinach. A tea- 
spoonful of celerv seed, or essence of celery, 
if celery is not to be had. 

PEAS, OLD. (2) Boil in five 

quarts of water one quart of split peas, an 
ounce of butter, four pounds of beef, two 
carrots, three turnips, four heads of celery, 
three onions, some salt and black pepper; 
boil them till the |jeas are dissolved and 
will easily pnlp, put it all through a sieve, 
then put the soup over the lire with Uiree 
ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, 
and boil a small bit of lean ham in it, till it 
is time to serve; take it out lie(or<; dishing, 
and have ready some celery stewed in butter, 
and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mint 
rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. 

PEAS, OLD. (3) Boil in four 

quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece 
of bacon, and almut half a pound of mutton, 
or salt beef, and a pint of split peas; boil 
all together very gently till the peas are 
quite soft, strain them through a hair sieve, 
and bruise them with the back of a spoon till 
all is pulped through, then Ixiil the soup gent- 
ly for one hour belore serving. Thin slices 
of* bread toasted and cut in dice to be served 
with it, either upon a dish or in the soup; 
if in the soup, it should l>e fried in butter, 
and dried mint rublied line and sent to table 
in a small dish. It may lx: also made with 
fourpeiice worth of bones, boiled for some 



SOUPS 



211 



SOUPS 



hours in four quaits of water, with a carrot, 
a head of celery, three onion?, some pepper 
and salt, strained, anil the next day the fat 
taken of]', :nnl the |x-a.s boiled in (lie liquor 
with a little hit of butter, till sufficiently ten- 
der to pulp through a sieve. 

PEAS, PLAIN. To a quart 

of split peas, and two bead:! of celery (and 
most ciiuks wmilil put a large onion), put 
three quart- of broth or soft water; Irt them 
simmer gently on a trivet over a slow fire 
for three, hum's, stirring up every quarter of 
an hour to prevent the peas burning at the 
bottom of the soii|>-kettle (if the water boils 
away, and the soup gets too thick, add some 
lx)iling water to it) ; when they are well sof- 
tened, work them through a coarse sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve or a tamis; 
wa.-h o'lt your slewpan, and then return the 
Soup into it, and give it a U.il up; take <>']' 
any s-iiin that comes up, and it is ready. 
Piv|>are fri-d bread, and dried mint, as di- 
rected in Old Peas (2) and send them up 
with it on two side dishes. 

Obs. This is an excellent family soup, 
produced with very little tumble or ex|x'iise. 

I'Kil'.ON. (1) Have a strong beef 
stock, highly seasoned, and if for rich soup, 
take six or ei^ht pigeons according to their 
si/j', wa.-h tli'-iu clean, cut off the necks, pin- 
ions, livers and gi/.y.ards, and put them into 
the stock; quarter the pigeons and brown 
them nieelv; after having strained the stock, 

put in the pig is; let them Ixiil till nearly 

readv, which will ! in about half an hour, 
then thi< l.en it with a little flour, robbed 
down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it 
with half a "rated nuline,r. a t.iblt -s|>oiil'iil 
of lemo'i jmee or of vinegar, and one of 
mushroom ketchup; let it Ixiil a lew minutes 
after all these ingredients are put in, nnd 
serve it with the pig-ons in the tureen; a 
better thickening than Hour is to lioil quite 
tender two of the pigeon-, take off all the. 
meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through 
a sie\r, and |xit it, with the cm 
into the -trained soup. To make partridge 
soup, partridfM mav IK- substituted for pig- 
eons, when only four birds will be n-<itiiie.| ; 
pound tlte breast of one. 

PIGEON. (2) Take eight pig. 

eons, cut down two of the oldest, anil put 
them, with the necks, pinions, li\ei.-, .ml 
gizzards of tin- oilier.*, into four quar- of 
water; let it boil till the sulistance 
teil, and strain it; .season the pigeons with 
mixed spices and salt, and truss them as for 
tewing; |iick and w>ish clean a handful of 
panley, dims or young onions, a 1 

deal of spinach ; chop them; |HII in a fivmj;- 
;> r: a ijii. uler of a pound of butler, and when 



it boils, mix in a handful of bread crumbs, 
keep stirring them with a knife till of a fine 
brown; boil the whole pigeons till they be- 
come tender in the stock with the herbs, and 
fried bread. If the soup be not sufficiently 
high seasoned, add more mixed spices and 
salt. 



PORTABLE. Put on, in four 

gallons of water, ten pounds of a shin of 
beef, free from fat and skin, six pounds of a 
knuckle of veal, and two fowls, break the 
bones and cut the meat into small pieces, 
seaoii with one ounce of whole black pep- 
per, quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, 
and tlie same of mace, cover the pot very 
closely, and let it simmer for twelve or four- 
ted, hours, and then strain it. The follow- 
ing day, take off the fat, and clear the jelly 
from any sediment adhering to it; boil it 
gently U|x>n a stove, without covering the 
saucepan, and stir it frequently till it be- 
<->!!,,> very thick and in lumps about the pan. 
Put it into saucers alxmt half full, and when 
cold lay the cakes ii|xin llannel to dr\ Ix-lore 
the tire or in the sun ; keep them in a tin 
lx>x, with white pajx.T between each cake. 
About an ounce weight will make a pint of 
rich soup; pour boiling water ii|X)ii it with 
a little salt, and stir it till it dissolves. It 
also answers well for gravies and all brown 
sauces. 



FOR THE POOR. Wash an 

ox-head very clean ; break the bones, and 
cut the meat in pieces; put it on in thirteen 
gallons of water, and a peck and a half of 
potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same 
quantity of on ions, and some carrots; peel and 
cut them all down. A handful of pot herbe, 
and two quarts of oatmeal ; season with 
pepper ami salt. Cover the pot closely, and 
let it stew till the next morning; add as 
i. inch hot water as ma\ ha\e wasted inboil* 
inn, and let it stew for some hours longer, 
w hen it will be fit for use. This soup will 
be found very good for a family dinner. 

QUEEX. Pound in a marblft 

mortar the white meat of three cold roasted 
low N, and half a pound of sweet almonds 
blanched ; add a little cream whilst pound- 
ing. Boil this with tour quarts of well-sea* 
-oni-il beef stock, then strain it, and just 
before serving stir in a pint of cream. 

SANTE. (1) Peel four larga 

onions, cut them -mall, with lour white let- 
tuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of 
grated bread. Stew all these ingredient* 
lor an hour in .1 quart of broth ami a quarter 

1 of a pound of butler, then add three pints 
I more of broth, nkirn off all the fat, and boil 
I it a quarter of an hour, season ilh pepper 



SOUPS 



212 



SOUPS 



and salt. Before serving, add half a pint 
of good cream. A pint of green |>eas, ad- 
ded will) the other vegetables, is a great im- 
provement. 



SANTE. (2) Lay six or eight 

slices of lean ham, with some beef over them, 
at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, 
with some partridge-legs, or moor game, or 
chicken, salt, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, 
three or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and one 
clove of garlic: let the whole stew together 
till it takes a fine brown color, then fill it up 
with half water, and half good beef stock; 
add three heads of celery, two good turnips, 
parsley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three 
large onions, and a small bunch of winter 
savory; whoa the whole is thoroughly well 
done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a ba- 
sin. Cut two good-sized turnips and three j 
large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness 
of a cjuill, and an inch and a half long; fry 
these together of a nice brown color: next, 
shred two cabbage-lettuces, celery, endive, 
sorrel, and chervil ; and stew them down on 
a very slow fire with a small bit of butter. 
When done, put them in a sieve with the 
turnips; then put them into a soup-pot, and 
pour the son)) from the basin over them; set j 
it on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, 
set it on one side, and let it simmer for two 
hours very gently; take the cmmb of a 
couple of French rolls, and cut it into round 
pieces, which brown in the oven, and put 
them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
them. If you think proper, it may be clari- 
fied, the same as other clear soups; but the 
ixr.il Soup de Sanfcoi'ght not to be clarified. 

SIMPLE. Cut small one pound 

of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a 
pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, 
and a handful of parsley; stew them for 
twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound 
of butter, some salt ami pepper; then put 
them into three quarts of stock, made with 
two pounds of veal, and add one quart of 
green peas, and let it stew for three hours. 
Press it through a sieve, and boil it up before 
sending it to table. 

SPRING. Put on in four quarts 

of water a knuckle of veal cut down, and a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gam- 
mon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; 
cut small three or four onions, three turnips, 
a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek ; 
stew them all together till the jieas are very 
soft ; Like out the meat and press the re- 
mainder through a fine sieve; season the 
soup with pepper and salt. Cut small like 
peas a bunch of the tops of asparagus, the 
licarts of two or three cabbage*, cutting off 
the top part and the outside leaves, and a 



little green mint, stew them till tender, 
keeping them of a good green, and add them 
to the soup a quarter of an hour before serv- 
ing. If it should not be green enough, 
pound some spinach, squeeze the juice 
through a cloth, put about a quarter of a 
pint into the tureen, and pour in the soup. 
This is the best method to make green peas 
soup of a good color. 

STOVE OR SPINACH. Boil 

in two quarts of water three sliced onions. 
Pick and clean as much spinach as will 
make two large dishes, parboil and put it in 
a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from 
it ; let cold water run upon it for a minute 
or two, and then press out the water. Knead 
two ounces of fresh butter, wilh a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, mix it with the 
spinach, which boil for fifteen minutes in the 
water and onions, then put in half a pint of 
cream or good milk, some salt and pepper, 
boil it for fifteen minutes more. In the 
season of green pens, a quart added with 
the spinach is a great improvement. It is 
common to boil a lamb's head and pluck 
with tin; *'x'\i, and send them to table in the 
tureen. The soup is then called Lamb's 
.Stove; but wilh the peas it is quite as good 
without. 



VEGETABLE. Pare and cut 

small one dozen of common-sized onions, 
five large yellow turnips, two heads of celery, 
and the red part of three large carrots ; wash 
and put them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butler, cover it closely; and when the 
vegetables are a little soft, add to them four 
quarts of well-seasoned gravy soup ma.-ie of 
roast beef bones, and let it slew four or five 
hours; rub it through a tammy, put it on the 
fire, boil and skim it before serving. 

WINTER VEGETABLE. (1) 

Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, 
and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of 
butter or very fresh dripping; toast a crust 
of bread brown and hard, put it, with two or 
three heads of celery cut small, some herbs, 
pepper, and salt, with the frhd vc<;ei:ible>-, 
into five pints of water, to stew jiivitiy fa- 
four hours, then strain it through a sieve, 
add a little carrot and celery cut small, and 
some chopped jwrsley, one anchovy or a red 
hen-ing, and a little cayenne; boil it till the 
vegetables are tender. 

WINTER VEGETABLE. (2) 

To every gallon of water allow, when cut 
down small, a quart of the following vegeta- 
bles ; equal quantities of turnips, carrots, and 
potatoes, three onions, two heads of celery, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs; fry them br>>wn 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, add the 



SOUPS 



SOUPS 



cut up in pieces, may be used instead of the 
chickens. 



water with suit and pepper, and boil it till A cow-heel that has been previously boiled, 
reduced to three qnarte, and serve it with 
fried toasted bread. 

VENISON. Boil down in five 

quarts of water two pounds of a shank of 
veal, or fowl, and live pounds of the breast 
of \riii.-on cut small; two or three onions 
chop|x'J, some uh,>!e white |>cp|>er and salt, 
with a quarter of a pound of lean hum. 
Let it stew til! it br completely lulled down, 
when all the Mrcngth will IK: extracted; rub 
it through a -ieve, thicken it with a little 
butter, kneaded in tluur, and add a pint of 
Madeira, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. 

BROWN VENISON. Cut in 

small pieces sik or seven pounds of the 

breast of venison, put it in a stewpan with 
two or three unices of butter; cover it 
closely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew 
an hour. .Mix four quarts of cold water 
with a pint and a half of tin: blood, put it 
on the lire in another .-lew pun, and stir it 
constantly till it Ixjil; tlu-n add the stew to 
it with an union minced small, and a whole 
carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pep- 
per. If the meat l>e \onng, let it boil gent- 
ly for two hums; if old, two and a half will 
be necessary. A little before sen ing, take 
out die carrot and ull the bones, leaving a 
little of tin- meat; mix in half a pint of 
Port wine, and let it boil a short time. It 
may be thickened with a little flour and 
batter. 



VERMICELLI. The day lie- 
tore it is require I make tour (marts of good 
Mock, and lnii in it one carrot, one turnip, 
four onion.-, one or two jiarsley roots, three 
blades ol :>d some w hite pepper j 
strain it, and, U-i'.ie u.-in^, take oil' all the 
fat; Ixiil in somt: of tilt liquor the cnimli of 
three French rolls till soft enough to ma.-h 
gmooth; boil the - "'|> and stir well in the 
mashed rolls; lioil it fur a quarter of an 
hour, an _:. add the yolks of 
two eggs beaten with three i.ilile-spoonfuls 
: Uiil in water two or three ounces 
of \ermii .Hi lor lilut-n or twenty minutes, 
.-train and [Hit it into the tureen, and pour 
the soup upon it. 

WHITE. (1) Boil together a 

knuckle of ve.il, a fowl, or two chickens 
skinned, a carrot, a turnip, , in onion, some 
salt, and a little whole white pepper; tike 
out I he (h:ckeiis ulicn tender, cut (hern ill 
joint-, and add llvm to the soup when 
Ktraini <:. 1 ,: up the \olks of nine eggs, mix 
diem w ilii a pint ol'cieam .nut a table-spoon- 
ful of wi il-i-.ii--.! il'c; siir it giudnally into 
the soup, and lieat it gently before serving. 



WHITE. (2) Take a good 

knuckle of veal, or two or three short skmks, 
I* >il it alxnit four hours, with some whole 
white pepper, a little mace, salt, two onions, 
and a small bit of lean ham; strain it, and 
when cold take off all the fat and sediment ; 
beat up six yolks of eggs and mix them with 
a pint of good cream, then pour the boiling 
soup upon it by degrees, stirring it well, 
and if it is liked, add the best part of the 
gristles. 

WHITE. (3) Put on in four 

quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds 
weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham or 
bacon, two slices of the crumb of bread, one 
ounce of blanched sweet almonds, put in 
whole; six middling-sized onions, two heads 
of celery, some whole white pepper, three 
blades of mace, a bunch of (xnsley, and a 
sprig of thyme; stew all these gently for 
ei-ln hours, strain it, and when cold take 
off all the fat ; boil it, and just before serv- 
ing, take it off die fire, and stir in very 
gradually a pint of thick cream. 

WHITE. (4) Boil in four 

quarts of water four |>oimds of veal, and a 
fowl, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, and three middliug--i/.ed onions whole, 
and a bunch of parsley; let it I 'oil three 
hours, strain it, and put it on again to get 
quite hot, and just liefore serving, stir in 
gradually half a pint of cream with the yolks 
c.f three eggs well beaten. Do not kt it boilj 
as that makes the eggs curdle. 

WHITE. (5) Stew in three quarts 

of Ixjiling water, till quite tender, a knuckle 
of \eal, with a quarter of a jKiund of whole 
rice, three whole onions, a bunch of parsley, 
a little sweet marjoram, and two or three 
blades of mace, and some salt ; a little before 
ili" soup is -li a hied, add two anchovies; 
strain through a hair sieve and Uien through 
a silk one, or tammy, put it again upon the 
fire, and stir in lialf a pint of rich cream, or 
a pint of milk with the yolks of two eggs 
beat up in it; let it be hot but not boiling. 
If it is required to be richer, boil a fowl in 
the stock , w i i h t wo ounces of pounded blanch- 
ed sweet almonds. 



WHITE. (6) Put on in five 

quarts of water, four pounds of a shank of 
>eal, break the DOM well, let it simmer till 
it be reduced nearly half; boil a tea-cupful 

of whole i ice till very lender, pulp it through 
a cullender, strain the liquor, ami add tho 
rice, season w ith salt and white pepper, let 



SPA 



214 



it nirnmer for nearly an hour, and add, a 
little before serving, six yolks of eggs beaten 
extremely well. 

SOUR KROUT. The best cabbage for 
this purpose is the drum, or while Stras- 
burgli, and it should not be used till it has 
endured some severe frost ; the stocks are 
then cut into halves, and shred down as fine 
as possible with a knife, or more properly 
with a plane maiie in the fi inn of a cucumber 
slice. Hum :i little juniper in a cask or tub 
which is perfectly sound and clean, and put 
a little leaven into the seam round the bot- 
tom, flour and vinegar may lie substituted 
for ftie leaven; then put in three or four 
bandittis of cabbage, a good sprinkling of 
salt, and a tea -spoonful of caraway seed, and 
press (his hard with a wooden mallet; next 
add another layer of cabbage, with salt and 
caraway seed, as at first; and soon in the 
same manner until the cask be full, pressing 
down each layer (irmly as, you advance. A 
good deal of water will come to the top, of 
which a part may be taken off. The cask 
being full, put on the head so as to press 
ujion the cabbage, and place it in a warm 
cellar to ferment; when it has worked well 
for three weeks, take off' the scum which 
will have gathered on the top, and lay a 
clean cloth on the krout ; replace the head, 
and put Iwo or three heavy stones upon it. 
The juice should always Maud upon the top. 
Thus in a good cellar it will keep for years. 
When to l>e dressed, it is boiled for five or 
six hours in water, or stewed with a little 
gravy, and may lx also substituted for a 
crust over a l>eef-steak pie, when cheese is 
grated over it. 

SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When 
the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, 
scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them 
into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into 
bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; 
rub some butter upon a dish, and put into 
it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, 
then a layer of pike, and a little sour cream ; 
then krout, and so on till the dish be full. 
On the top put some bits of butter, and 
some good broth or gravy; strew crumbs 
of bread thickly over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 

SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce- 
pan, half a pint of water and a quarter of 
a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and 
mix in four table-spoonfuls of Hour; stir it 
well together, and add six yolks and four 
whiles of eggs, two at a time; let it cool, 
and, with a dessert-spoon, drop it into (wil- 
ing clarified dripping or lard. 

To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of 
pounded ginger may be added. 



SPARE RIB ROASTED. Set Pork. 

SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Pound 

two ounces of pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of mace, grate one nutmeg, and the peel of 
one lemon; mix all together in a bottle. 

SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One 

ounce and a half of pepper, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and 
eight cloves; pound and mix all together in 
a bottle. A little of each kind of spice 
should be well dried, pounded, and kept 
separately in small bottles, which should be 
labelled. 

SPINACH, TO DRESS. Pick the 
spinach with great care; strip the leaves 
from the stalks, and wash it in several wa- 
ters, till perfectly clean ; boil the spinach in 
salt and water; drain it well; pound it in 
a mortar, and put it into a slewpan with a 
little butter and broth, and let it stew over 
a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour, till 
it be very dry ; then add a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, with salt and grated 
nutmeg; work the spinach well, till it is 
thick, but take care the butler does not 
turn to oil. Garnish with fried toasU of 
bread, which may lie cut like cock's combs, 
or in any other form. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (1) Pick it very 
carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or 
three times in plenty of cold water, then put 
it on in boiling water with a little salt; let 
it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a 
cullender, hold it under the water cock, and 
let the water run on it for a minute ; put it 
into a saucepan, beat it perfectly smooth 
with a beater or with a wooden spoon, add 
a bit of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of 
cream; mix it well together, and make it 
hot liefore sen-ing. When dished, it is 
scored in squares with the back of a knife. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (2) After 
being nicely picked and well washed, put it 
into a saucepan, with no more water than 
adheres to it; add a little salt; cover the 
pan closely, and boil it till tender, frequent- 
ly shaking it; beat it quite smooth, adding 
butter and cream, and make it quite hot. 
Spinach may be served with poaclied eggs, 
or fried sausages laid on it. 

When the spinach is bitter, it is prefera- 
ble to boil it in water. 

SPINACH TOASTS. Boil some spi- 
nach for a quarter of an hour ; then squeeze 
out all the water, chop it small, and put it 
into a mortar, with three or four spoonfuls 
of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- 
boiled, and three raw eggs, two biscuits 



SP R 



215 



STO 



oaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; 
pound all these together to a paste, put it 
into a dish, an I mix with it a few dry cur- 
rant;", and three or four spoonfuls of melted 
butter. Cut some slices of bread half an 
inch thirk, four indies long, and two broad; 
toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, 
&c. over them, to the tliickiifss of half an 
inch, wash each over with white of egg; 
place the toasts on a baking-tin (well butter- 
ed) and bake them for half an hour. \Vhun 
done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange-juice 
over theni, and serve. 

SPRATS, TO BAKE. Clean them; 
take off the heads; put them into a deep 
dish, and oner them with vine-jar and wa- 
ter, equal quantities of each. To a quart of 
liquid, pit half an ounce of whole black pep- 
per, a litileallspire, two or three bay-leaves, 
Borne salt, and an onion. Tie paper over 
the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, or 
do them over a slow lire in a water bath. 
Hermits may IK; done in this way. Both 
will keep good some weeks. 

SPRATS, STEWED. Wash and dry 
your sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a Mcwpan, and ln-twcen every layer 
of sprats put three peppercorns, and as many 
allspice, with a few grains of salt; barely 
cover them with vinegar, and stew them one 
hour over a slow fire; they must not boil: 
a bay-leaf is sometimes added. Herrings or 
mackerel may be stewed the same way. 

SPRATS, BROILED. If you have not 
a sprat gridiron, gel a pi<.-ce of pointed iron 
wire as thick as packthread, and as long as 
your gridiron is broad; run this through the 
heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour 
and silt over them, put your gridiron over a 
clear, quick lire, turn them in about a couple 
of minutes; when the other side is brown, 
draw out tlie wire, nnd send up the fi.-h v\ ith 
melted butter in a cup. 

Obs. That sprats are young herrings, is 
evident by tlwir anatomy, in which there is 
no perceptible difference. They ap[jear very 
soon after the lien ins are gone, and seem 
to be the spawn jn>t vivified. 

SI'KIMJ FRUIT A Mock Goose- 
berry Sauce for Mackerel, fyc. Make a 

maim.ilade of llm-e do/j-n Micks ,,f rhllUul), 
weetened with inoi.-t .-u_;ar ; (KISS it through 
a hair -!.',. and serve up in a sauce-boat. 

SI'KINC, FRUIT TART. Prepare 

rhubaib as above: cut it into small pieces 
into a iaii-'ii>h; swi-rten uiili lo.if-sugar 
pounded; cover it with a good -hoi t crust 
paste; sift a litilu .-.ugar over UK top, and 



bake half an hour in a rather hot oven ; serve 
up cold. 

SPRING CREAM, or Mock Goose- 
berry Fool. Prepare a marmalade aa di- 
rected for the pudding: to which add a pint 
of good thick cream; serve up in glasses, or 
in a deep dish. If wanted in a ,-liape, dis- 
MiUe two ounces of isinglass in a little water; 
strain it through a tamis, and when nearly 
cold put it to tlie cream ; pour it into a jelly 
mould, and when set, turn out into a dish, 
and serve up plain. 

SPRING FRUIT SHERBET. Boil 

six or eight sticks of rhubarb (quite clean) 
ten minutes in a quart of water; strain the 
liquor through a tamis into a jug,, with the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, and two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified sugar; let it stand five 
or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

SPRUCE BEER. See Beer. 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 

The receipt for cabbages will answer as well 
for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

STEAKS OR CHOPS. See Chopt. 

STOCK, FOR BROWN OR WHITE 
SOUPS. Take a pound of scale, five floun- 
ders, and two pounds of eels ; cul them in 
pieces, pul them into a stewpan, with aa 
much water as will cover them, a little mace, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, 
two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and 
salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover 
close ; strain it off for use ; if it is for brown 
soup, fry the fish brown iu butter, and then 
put it to stew. 

STOCK, FOR GRAVY SOUP OR 
GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into sli- 
ces, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; pt 
these into a stewpan, with three scraped 
carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two licads of celery, and two quart* 
of water. Let the meat stew till quite ten- 
der, but it must not lie brown. When thus 
prepared it will serve eillicr for soup, or 
brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, 
it must be first colored in the usual manner. 

STOMACHIC TINCTURE. Peruvian 
bark, bruised, one ounce and a half, orange- 
peel, do. one ounce, brandy, or proof spirit, 
one pint. Let tliese ingredients steep for 
ten days, shaking the bottle every day; let 
i in qnict two days, and then decant 
ibc clear liquor. Dotte a tea-spoonful in 



STR 



216 



STU 



a wine-glass of water, twice a day, when 
you feel languid, i. e. when the stomach is 
empty, about an hour before dinner, and in 
the evening. This agreeable aromatic tonic 
is an effective help to concoction ; and we 
are under personal obligations to it, for fre- 
quently restoring our stomach to good tern- j 
per, and procuring us good appetite and good j 
digestion. In low nervous affections arising 
from a languid circulation, and when the j 
stomach is in a state of debility from age, j 
intemperance, or other causes, this is a most 
acceptable restorative. 

N. B. Tea made with dried and braised 
orange-peel, in the same way as common 
tea, and drank with milk and sugar, has 
been taken by nervous and dyspeptic per- 
sons with great benefit. Sucking a bit of 
dried orange-peel about an hour l>efore din- 
ner, when the stomach is empty, is very 
grateful and strengthening to it. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. Put six 
ounces of straw tarry jam to a pint of cream, 
pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice 
of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a 
dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little 
more juice of lemon, and when no more froth 
will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses; and place the froth upon it, well 
drained. 

STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- 
RIES. From either of these fruits agree- 
able wine may be obtained, by following the 
rules given for making currant wine; but it 
will be found a cheaper and a better meth- 
od, to add a little sirup or juice of the fruit 
to any flavorless currant wine; when the 
fermentation begins to decline, currant wine 
may also be flavored with odoriferous flow- 
ers, such aa cowslip, elder, or mignionette. 
The quality of roughness is communicated 
by catechu and keno, chips of oak and of 
beech, and also the sloe; a small quantity 
of these, or of the flowers, is put into the 
cask when the first fermentation is over, and 
as soon a? the wine has acquired the desired 
flavor, it is racked and fined. The flavor- 
ing articles, such as orris-root, cloves, gin- 
ger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into 
a muslin l>ag, and hung in the cask for a 
few days, during the stage of insensible fer- 
mentation, that is, after the first fermentation 
has ceased; care being taken to tuste the 
liquor frequently, so that the flavoring mat- 
ter may be withdrawn as soon as it has pro- 
duced the desired effect. 

STRAWBERRIES, POUNDED, FOR 
STRAWBERRY CREAM. Take equal 
weight of sugar and of strawberries ; pound 
and sift the sugar, add it to the stra \vU-rries, 
and pound them in a marble mortar till per- 



fectly smooth. Put it into jars, and tie 
them over closely with paper. It will keep 
good for several months. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Take 

a basket of very fine strawl>erries, pick, and 
crush them, and then rub them through a 
sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs 
to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a 
half of powder sugar, stir them together as 
lightly as possible ; then mix them with the 
strawberries. I'our the whole into a crotu- 
tade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate 
oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve. 

STRAWBERRY TART. Pick, and 
put into a basin two quarts of the best scar- 
let strawberries, then add to them half a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and half 
a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or 
three lemons; mix these \\i-ll together, with- 
out breaking the strawberries, and put them 
into a puff paste, previously baked; lie care- 
ful to keep them very cool. 

STRING BEANS. See French Beans. 

STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Sea- 
son a quarter of a pound of finely-minced 
beef suet, and an equal quantity of grated 
bread, with grated nutmeg, lemon-peer, lem- 
on thyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper; 
mix it well together, and bind it with a 
weft-beaten yolk of an e%, when it may be 
used for stuffing veal and fowl. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
FOWL. Wash a quart of oysters in their 
own liquor, strain it, and put into it the 
oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, 
and lemon-peel; when parboiled, chop small 
a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of 
grated bread, twice the quantity of finelv- 
minced beef suet, the yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs, one anchovy, a little salt, ]>e|>- 
|>er, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some minced 
parsley; bind it will) the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. For tire sauce, lxil with the 
liquor of the oysters, a pint of white stock, 
half a pint of white wine, one am-hovy, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and 
add a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in 
flour, beat it up with the remainder of the 
oysters. 

STUFFING FOR A HARE. Parboil 
the liver, and mince it; add an equal quan- 
tity of grated bread, double the quantity of 
fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the size 
of a walnut. Season with pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, chopped lemon thyme, and parsley; 
bind with an egg beaten. 

STUFFING FOR VEAL, ROAST 



STU 



217 



SUG 



TURKEY, FOWL, &c. Mim-e a quarter 
of a pound of beef .suet (beef inaiTinv is U-t- 
ter), the same weight of bread cruml>s, two 
drachms of parsley leaves, a dia. -Inn ami a 
half of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, and 
the same of grated leinon-|M-el and onion 
chopped as fine as possible, u little |*-p|>er 
and salt; pound thoroughly togi-tln-r with tin- 
yolk and white of two e^, an '. 
In tin- ve.il with ,i skewer, or sew it in with 
a bit of thread. Make some of it into Iwlls 
JBB; tlur them, and boil, or fry 
them, and send them ii|) as a varnish, or in 
a side dish, with roast poultry, veal, or cut- 
lets, cc. 

.V I!. This is about (lie quantity for a 
turkey poult: u vei-y large turkey will take 
nearly twice as much. To I IIP above may 
be add'-d an ounce of dressed h.tin ; or use 
equal |>ai ts of the alx>\e slutting and pork 
sausage meat pounded well together. 

Obs. flood .tnlfing has always liei-n con- 
sidered a chii-f thing in cookery: it has given 
immortality to 

"Pnor K>:rr fiitalt r,who '(I ;i ei-nemns niiiid, 
Ni>r vMiu'cl siiti-nit to have Ins hand i entiii'd, 
But a line 1 at nil, vet never could excel 
In any tiring hut fluffing o( Ins veal." 

STI FFI.M; FOUHAUE. TWO oun- 
ces of Ijeef suet fhop|N-d line; three ounces 
of 6ue .bread crumbs ; parsley, a drachm; 
eschalot, half a drachiii; a drachm of mar- 
joram, lemon thyme, or winter savory; a 
drachm of |TMH lemon-peel, and the .-,ime 
of pepper an<l salt: mix MH with the white 
and yolk of an e_'i; ; do not make it thin 
it mu.-l IN- nf enhe>i\e i-oiiMslence : if your 
smiting is not .-tilt enoii^li. it will fie good 
for no'hing: put it in the hare, and sew it 
up. If the liur is <|nite - u i.l. you may 
p:iil'il it, and mine- it very fine, and add 
It to the all. in-. 

STI.'KGEON, BAKED. Clean, and 

take tin- >kin from a small sturgeon; split it 
along the Ix-lly, without M-paraling it. Lay- 
it in a Luge hakini; dish, season it With 
all, pepper, pounded sweet herli>; moisten 
will) oil, lemon-juice, and a U.ltle of while 
wine. I'm it in tlK- OM-II, haste ii frequent- 
ly; nuike it a nice color, and serve it with 
its own gravy. 

STI IKiKO.N, Fltl.SII. TO UUOII.. 
Cut it into cutlets; rub them with the yolk 
of Ml esfu lieal up; siren tliem over ivi'li 
one parsley, iMpeed very tine, ami mixed 
i-d bread crumlis, p.epper. 
into piece* of white p.i[-r Ixitteied, 
i geiuU. Sauces; oyster, 
melted butlei , and .n 

STURUE(J.N , KIIESH. Tlie best mode 
19 



of dressing this, is to have it cut in thin 

slices like veal cutlets, and broiled, and rob- 
bed over with a bit of iMitter ami a little 
|X'p|jer, and served very hot, and eaten with 
a squeeze of lemon-juice, (ii cat care, how- 
ever, must be taken to cut off the skin be- 
fore it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if 
burned, imparts a disgusting flavor to the 
fish. The tlesh is very fine, and comets 
nearer to veal, perhaps, than even turtle. 
Siurgeon is frequently plentiful and reason- 
j able in the London shops. We prefer this 
mode of dressing it to llie more savory one 
of .-teiviujf it in rich gravy, like caip, he. 
which overpowers the peculiar flavor of the 
fish. 

STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a 

large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small 
one. clean and skin it projierly; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade, it in a 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, ami roast it, basting frequently with 
the marinade strained. 1/et the fish be a 
nice color, and serve with a jiepper sauce. 

BUI T TO KEEP FOR A TWELVE- 

.MO.Yl'H. Choose tlie firmest part, and 
pick it free from skin and veins. Put it 
epaii, and set it at some distance 
from the lire, in order that the suet may 
melt without (Vying, or it will taste disagree- 
able. Win- i it is .'iieh. -d. pour it into u pan 
of cold watei. Whin il has caked quite 
hard, wij* it verv dry, f.-ld it in fine paper, 
and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a 
dry, but not in a ho! pla.-e. Win n you wish 
to i-.- ii. -.-tape it fine, and it will make a 
-'. either with or without butter. 

SIT.T MILK. Cut into very ctnai 
shav ings one ounce of fn-.-li I eef suet ; die- 
s.'ive il slowly over the lire in one pint of 
milk, together with a bit of k-mon-peel and 
cinnamon; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar. 

SfF.T 1)1 Ml'I.INCS. This batter 
should U- made the same as for suet ptid- 
ding, (H-.-ond receipt), but much thicker, let 
your cloth be wetted, shake it ;>ll over with 
! Hour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, 
as much as it will hold, two or three spoon- 
fuls uf batter. Or you may make (lie batter 
as usual, and [Hit it in tea-cups, well butter- 
ed; tie them in clodis, and lioil an hour. 



STCAR, TO CLARIFY. T,. 

thn-- |mnds of loaf sugar, all iw tlie beaten 

: a pint and a half of 

water; break the sugar small, put it into a 

.nod braes pan, and pour the water 
over it; let it stand sometime In-fore it be 
put upon the tire ; then add the Ix-aten white* 

^s; f tir it till the sugar be entirely 



SWE 



218 



SWE 



dissolved, and when it boiU up, pour in a 
quarter of a pint of cold water; let it boil 
ip a second time; take it offtlie fire and let 
it settle for fifteen minutes; carefully take 
off all the scum ; put it on the fire, and boil 
it till sufficiently thick, or if required, till 
candy high; in order to ascertain which, 
drop a little from a spoon into a small jar 
of cold water, and if it become quite hard, 
it is then sufficiently done; or dip (he thevil 
into the sugar, plunge it into cold water, 
draw off the sugar which adheres to the 
stick, and if it be hard and snaps, the fruit 
to be preserved must be instantly put in and 
boiled. 



SUGAR ORNAMENTS. 

am.fl. 



See Car- 



SUGAR RUFFS. A pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the 
whites of three eggs, and flavored with oil 
of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower wa- 
ter, and baked in the same way as the 
meringues, served in a napkin, or used to 
garnish dishes of preserves. 

SUGAR, TO BOIL. To even pound 
of sugar allow half a pint of water; stir it 
over the fire till the sugar be entirely dissolv- 
ed; when it first boils up, pour in a little 
cold water, and when it boils a second lime, 
take it off the fire; let it settle ten minutes, 
carefully scum it, and boil it for half an hour 
or a little longer, and then put in the fruit. 

SWEETBREADS, ITALIAN ATTE- 
LETS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and 
stew them in a well-seasoned gravy, made 
of meat, and vegetables; when cold, cut 
them into pieces of nearly an inch square, 
put them into a sauce d'atteleU, and let 
them cool. With silver skewers, skewer 
the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dressed 
calf's udder alternately ; make them all as 
much as possible of an equal size, and of a 
square form. Moisten them with the sauce, 
and cover them with grated bread, then 
dip them into four well beaten eggs, strew 
over them some more grated bread, and 
level it with a knife; fry them of a fine 
brown, and serve with an Italian sauce, 
white or brown. 

If the attelets are ready before they are 
required to be fried, strew grated bread 
over the cover of a stewpan, and lay them 
upon it. 

SWEETBREAD, TO BOIL. Parboil 
it, rub it with butter, and broil it over a 
slow fire, turn it frequently, and baste it 
now and then, by putting it upon a plate 
kept warm by the fire with butter in it. 



SWEETBREADS A LA DACPHISK. 

If for a round dish, take four large and fine 
sweetbreads. If for a long dish, three will 
suffice. Pure off the fat and sinews, and 
blanch them in warm water, parboil them, 
and when cold, lard them. Rub a stew- 
I'an with fresh butter, and put into it a few 
sliced carrots and onions, then a layer of 
slices of fat bacon, place the sweetbreads 
upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over 
them, and stew them u ill) a great deal of 
fire on the top, and a very slow one be- 
neath ; when thev are nicely browned, cover 
them with a piece of buttered paper, cut 
round, and lessen the fire upon the top. 
They will require to stew for three-quarters 
of an hour, then drain and put them into a 
pan with some glaze, and the bacon under- 
neath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner 
time. 

SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. 

Parboil them, and let them get cold; then 
cut them in pieces, about three-quarters of an 
inch thic-k ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, 
then in fine bread crumbs (some add spice, 
lemon-peel, and sweet herbs) ; put some 
clean dripping into a fi vintj-pan: when it 
boils, put in the sweetbreads, and fry them 
a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsley 
and for sauce, mushroom ketchup and melted 
butter, or anchovy sauce, or bacon or ham. 

SWEETBREADS, SMALL CASES 

OF SCOLLOPS OF. Blanch and parboil 
Mime sweetbreads, cut them into small scol-' 
! -. Then chop separately, and finely, half 
a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and 
four or five shallots, add a little fat bacon 
rasped, and a piece of fresh butter; season 
the scollops with pepper, salt, and a little 
marc, strw it all together over a slow fire; 
when done, drain off the fat, place the scol- 
lops in small paper cases, which have been 
fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty of 
finely-chopped herbs, and strew over them 
fried bread crumbs; lay the paper cases for 
a moment into the oven, and before serving, 
pour into each a little rich gravy, and a little 
lemon-juice. 

SWEET HERBS. See Herbs. 

SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut 

small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it 
with a bit of fresh butter, some good milk, 
and a little grated lemon-peel ; when quite 
hot, stir in enough of flour to make it into a 
stiff paste, take it off the fire, and work in 
eight, or ten eggs, two at a time; when 
cold, form the fritters, and fry, and serve 
them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
them. 



S YL 



219 



TAR 



SYLLABUBS. Take the juice of a 
large lemon, the peel (pared very tliin), a 
glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of pdwdtr-eugar; put 
these ingredients into a pan, and lease them ; 
the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and 
the whites of two eggs; whip the whole 
well, and pour the syllabub into glasses. 
They arc the better for keeping a day or 
two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite 
so good as the above, raisin or mountain 
wine will do as well as brandy. 

SYLLABUB, SOMERSETSHIRE. Put 
a pint of Port, and a pint of Sherry, or 
any other white wine, into a large bowl, 
sweeten it according to taste ; milk die bowl 
full; in about twenty minutes' time, cover 
it tolerably high with clouted cream; grate 
nutmeg over it ; add pounded cinnamon, and 
nonpareils. 

SYLLABUB, STAFFORDSHIRE. Put 
a pint of cider, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or 
|i"iu warm milk from a large tea-pot some 
height into it. 

SYLLABUB. (1) One pound of ratafia 
cakes pounded anil steeped in two bottles 
of Port wine, one of claret, and one of 
brandy, the grated peel and juice of two 
lemons, one large nutmeg grated, and two 
ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded will) a little rose-water, and pound- 
ed sugar sufficient to make it sneet 1'ut 
all the:*' ingredients, well mixed, into a 
large China Bow^orhowbof an n]iia! sixe. 
and let the milk of a good cow Ixj milked 
U|H>n tlicm ; add a little rich CUMIN :nul .-i ti- 
ed loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. 
It may be: -ened out into glasses with a silver 
ladle. 

SYLLABUB. (2) A large glass of Madei- 
ra, one of rich sweet w ine, and half a one of 
ratafia, half a pound of |x>uiidcd loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice 
of two, and a little |xmndrd cinnamon; stir 
it all together till the sugar l>e dissolved, and 
add a quart of /ich en-am; whisk it well; 
lay some macaroons into the Ixittom of :i 
dish, and pile tlte frothed syllabub high upon 
it. It may l>c kept nine or ten da 
better the third and fourth than when first 
made. 

SYLLABUB, SOLID. A quarter of a 

pint of m iniiiain, the Mine of white wine, 
the grated peel of two, and juice of one 
lemon ; sweeten, and add it to a <|iiart of 
rich cream; whi*k it for an hour, and put it 
into glasses. It will keep a week in cold 
weatW. 



SYLLABUB, COMMON. Half a pint 
of currant, the same of Port or white wine, 
half a gratt-d nutmeg, and the peel of a 
lemon; sweeten well with pounded loaf or 
givxl brown sugar, and mix it together in a 
China bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, 
milk upon it three or four pints of milk. 
Serve it when cold. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (1) Mix to- 
gether half a glass of brandy, a little lemon- 
juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to 
sweeten the whole; stir it into a pint of 
thick cream, and add the well-beaten whites 
of six cg:is; whisk it for an hour, and put 
the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to dram; 
put a little Port and sweet wine into glasses, 
and fill them up with the froth. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (2) Mix with 
a pint of cream, half a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, grat- 
ed nutmeg, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar: 
nearly fill the custard-glasses with tire mix- 
ture, and lay on with a spoon some of the 
whip. 



T. 

TAMIS, a coarse kind of cloth for strain- 
ing soups and gravies. 

TARTE, ROYAL BERLIN. Take 

half a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blanched, |x>ni\d them with six eggs, in a 
marble mortar to a very line paste, add to it 
a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fresh 
bnllei , and the _;:at.d rind of two lemons, 
Ix at it well as each ingredient is put in; 
lay about sixteen or eighteen ounces of r.\(i- 
ed flour on the slab, place the almond paste 
on it, ami kne.id them well together. Di- 
vide this into several pieces, which roll to 
the eighth of an inch in thickness; from 
these cut from twelve to sixteen circular 
layers, tlie largest about seven inches in 
. the rest, each somewhat smaller 
than the other ; wlien all are cut, place them 
on white pa[>er on tins, and bake them in a 
moderate oven to a clear brown, then take 
them out, and let them cool. As soon a* 
cold, place the largest piece on a China 
di.-h, ol'a sufficient size to let it lay tlat, and 
spread over it equally some preserved fruit; 
cover this with the second sized layer, on 
which also spread preserved fruit; then a 
third layer, and .-> on until all the paste is 
uned, taking care to put each layer in its 
proper order, so that the whole may form a 

c , ami th.it U-twi-rn every one must be 

a dilieient kind of preserve; wlien done, 
glaze, and ornament it as follows: cut some 



TARTS 



220 



TARTS 



candied lemon, ;md orange-peel into the 
form of leaves, which arrange in garlands 
round the tart, putting here and there a 
small preserved fruit; when done, replace it 
in the oven for two or three minutes lo dr,, 
and then serve. 

TARTLETS. (1) Butter some small 
tartlet pans; line them with a nice thin 
puff pas'.i', mark it neatly round the edges, 
bake them ; when they are cold, fill them 
with custard, preserve, or a:iy sweetmeat 
you think proper, and if you choose, pour 
custard over. 

TARTLETS. (2) Roll out the paste 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay 
upon it the top part of the patty-pan ; cut it 
round witli the paste cutter. Rub die patty- 
pans with a little butter, and line them with 
the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of 
bread, which take out when they arc baked. 
They may be filled with any preserved fruit, 
and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. 
To make ornaments of paste, roll it quite 
thin, and as even as possible; cut it with 
tin atars, leaves, or any other form, and 
bake them a light brown color, upon flat 
tins dusted with flour. 

TART, APPLE, CREAMED. Use 

green codlings, in preference to any other 
apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. 
When the pie is done, cut out the whole of 
the centre, leaving the edges; when cold, 
pour on the apple some rich boiled custard, 
and place round it some small leaves of puff 
paste of a light color. 

TART, CHERRY. The cherries may 
be stoned, and a few red currants added; 
sweeten with loaf or brow-n sugar, and put 
into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup; 
cover it with paste. 

TART, CRANBERRY. Take cran- 
berries, pick and wash them in several wa- 
ters, put them into a dish, with the juice of 
half a lemon, a quarter of a pound of moist 
or pounded loaf sugar, to a quart of cran- 
berries. Cover it with puff or tart paste 
and bake it three-quarters of an hour ; if 
tart paste is used, draw it from the oven 
five minutes before it is done, and ice it, re- 
turn it to the oven, and send it to table 
cold. 

TART, CURRANT. To a quart of 
red currants add one pint of red raspber- 
ries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them 
well with brown sugar; l>efure putting in 
the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart 
paste, place in it a small tea-nip, put in (he 
fruit, and cover it with paste. 



Four ounces of brown sugar are general- 
ly allowed to a quart of fruit. 

TART OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 

Cover a flat dish, or tourte pan, with tart 
paste, about an eighth of an inch thick; roll 
out puff paste, half an inch thick, and cut it 
out in strips an inch wide; wet the tart 
paste, and lay it neatly round the pan by 
way of a rim ; fill the centre with jam or 
marmalade of any kind, ornament it with 
small leaves of puff paste, bake it half an 
hour, and send it to table cold. 

The al>ove may be filled before the puff 
paste is laid on, neatly strung with paste, 
and the liui (nit over after. 

Tlie most general way of sending tourtes 
to table, is with a croquante of paste, or a 
caramel of spun sugar put over after it is 
baked. 

TARTS, PRESERVED FRUIT. Rub 

over with a little butter an oval dish, or tin 
shape, line it with (Kiste, and fill it w ith any 
sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of 
paste thin, and, with a paste cutter, cut it 
into narrow strips; brush with water the 
rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste 
across and across, and then put round a 
border of paste, and mark it with the paste 
cutter. 

TARTS, RIPE FRUIT. Gooseberries, 

damsons, morello cherries, currants mixed 
with raspberries, plums, green gages, white 
plums, &c. should be quite fresh picked, and 
washed: lay them in the dish with the centre 
highest, and about a quarter of a pound of 
moist or loaf sugar pounded to a quart of 
fruit (but if quite ri|>e they will not require 
sn much); add a little water; rub the edges 
of the dish with yolk of egsj; cover it with 
tart paste, about half an inch thick ; press 
\otir thumb round the rim, and close it well; 
pare it round with a knife; make a hole in 
the sides below the rim; bake it in a mode- 
raie-heated oven ; and ten minutes before it 
is done, take it out and ice it, and return it 
to tiie oven to dry. 

TART, RHUBARB. Strip off the peel, 
and if the rhubarb is large, cut it into two 
or three strips, and then into bits about an 
inch long; sweeten well with broun sugar, 
and cover the dish with paste. 

TART PASTE, FOR FAMILY PIES. 

Rub in with the hand half a pound of batter 
into one p.>und and a quarter of Hour, mix it 
with hall' a pint of water, and knead it well. 

TART PASTE, SWEET, OR SHORT 
AND CRISPKU. To one |xmitd and a quar- 
ter of fine flour add ten minces ot' fresh butter, 



TEW 



221 



TIM 



the yolks of two eggs beaten, and three oun- 

silu-d loaf sugar; mix up together with 
half a pint i if new milk, and knead it well. 
.\. B. This crust i.- frtx|tiently iced. 

TK \ CREAM. Infuse an ounce of the 
best green tea in lialfa pint of boiling milk, 
simmer it fi\e minutes, then strain it through 
a tammy, pie-sin,- the leaves w-ll. I' 
pint of rich it the \olks of f,ur 

. well lie.i'eu, and a sufi'iciem quantity 
i i:i' d .-n^ai ; pour this whilst hot to the 
milk, stir ili !!; put in a* much 

rlanlied i-in,'l;Lss as will set it, and |iur the 
cream into the mould, or gla>.-es ; place them 
on ice; when perfectly cold, turn it out of 
the mould, or serve in the glasses. 

TK \l._ KOASTEI). Shred a little 
lemon-peel, and mix it with a bit of butler, 

p'llt, pepper, ;. id lemon-juice ; stu'Y your 
birds with (his, ei,\er them lir>t wit!) slices 
, then IMP. .11, and lastly, buttered 
! inkle 1 with salt; tit- them up se- 
curely, f.i-ten i|i--m to the -;:ii. ami roast 
them. \Vhen don, let the butter run out, 
remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve 
them w ith a .-.i i .llnws: p"t into 

n^nole, a 

spoonful of consomme, a bit of gla/.e, die 
rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little |>ep- 
per; give them a Ixiil tip tojji-ther, and strain 

it 0\er the te.ll. 

TEVH. They arc a fine-flavored fresh 

wati-r ti.-h ; wlieti < .d. the eves are bright, 
the Ixidy stitT, and the outside flee from >lime. ; 
tench should I- -n :t~ can_'hl. 

TENTH, FKIK!>. Take a couple- of 
large teiH-ll, scale and rlean-e them a- for 
broiling. < 'ill c.lV the tins, split them down 
the back, take mil the Ix.nes; sprinkle them 
with Hour and sail; -q'iee/e a liltle lemon- 
jui.-e over, and fry them in Uitter, and serve 
them dry. 

IT.M II. !{t)\<TK|). Take off scales, 
h.-ads, and tins, of the lench, cleans*- and dry 
them wll, then put into e.ich a little biiller, 
mixed with sweet li.'ibs; lay lliem for a In nit 
live minutes in melted butter, with salt, |*-p- 
|>er, and sweet herbs; wrap each li.-h in |>;i- 
per, fasten them to a spit, and roast them. 

TF.NVAIIDIDltl.i;. A pint of table 
beer (or ale, if you intend it for a supplement 
to your ' nijfht cap"), a tab!e-s|xionlnl of 
brandy , and a tea-s|H.onfm of blown sugar, 
or rlaritied Minp; a little uraie.l mitiiHg or 
(linger may l-adde<l,and a p. II of ver\ tliin- 

CUt leill'.ll.; 

Ob*. HelSre our r-aders make a'iv re- 
maiks on this c..mi-iti..ii, we beg ut them 
19* 



to taste it: if the materials are good, aud 
their palate \il,i.ue> in unison with our own, 
they will liud It "lie i.| tile ple.i^a.iiest bever- 
ages lhf\ e\er put to theii lips; and, as Lord 
Kntlnen s\s, " this is. a right gossip's cup 
that far exceeds all the ale that ever Mother 
liiinch made in her lite-time." 

TMK 'HI-AINU. Clarified butter is beat 
lor this purpose; but if you have none ready, 
put s.mie fresh butter into a ftewpan over a 
.-low, clear lire; when it is melted, add fine 
llotir sullicient to make it tlk- thickness of 
ir it well together with a wooden 
spoon t'.i tifteen or twenty minutes, till it ie 
(|ni'e Mii'.oth, and the color of a guinea: this 
inn-t be done very iri.idnaHy and piitiently; 
if you put it over too fierce a (ire to hurry it, 
it will In-come bitter and empyreumatic: pour 
it into an earthen pan, and keep it lor use. 
It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and 
longer ill winter. 

A large sp<x>nfnl will generally be enough 
to ihicken a <|u:ut of 

Obs. This, in the French kitchen, it 
railed roux. Be particularly attentive in 
making it; if it yets any burnt smell or 
taste, it H ill spoil every thing it is (nit into. 
When cold, it should be thick enough to cut 
out with a knife, like a solid paste. 

It is a very essential article in the kitchen, 
and is the Uisis of consistency in most made- 
('i-li'-, soii|Ki, sauces, and ragouts; if the 
^r, nil's, kc. are too thin, add this thicken- 
ing, more or less, according to the consistence 
yon would wish them to have. 

-In making thickening, the lew 
Inner, and the more Hour you use, the bet- 
ter ; they must IK.- thoroughly worked to- 
gether, and the broth, or soup, cc. you put 
them t ,, addeil by degrees: take especial 
care to incorporate tln;m well together, or 
. will taste floury, and have 
a disgusting, jiivasy appearance: therefore, 
after sou have thickened \onr sauce, add to 
it some broth, or warm waits-, in ihe pro- 
poilioa of two lahle-ipoonfiils to a pint, and 
set it by the side of ihe tin-, to raise any fat, 
Sic. that i.- noi thoroughly incorporated with 
the gravy, which you mu-t carefully reiiKive 
as it come* to the top. This u called 
cleansing, or finishing the sauce. 

1 lalf an ounce of butler, and a table-spoon- 
ful of (lour, are about the proportion for a 
pint oi r-.mee to make it as think as cream. 

,\. IS. The fat skimmings off the top 
o 1 the broth-pot are sometimes substituted 
for butler; some cooks merely thicken their 
sotips and sauces with Hour. 

TIMi'.XLF. I'm a pound of flour on 
the slab, make a hole in tin; middle of it, 
into which jx.ur a little water, three or four 
' oil, a quarter of a (Kjund of but- 



TO A 



222 



TOM 



ter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of 
gait ; knead these ingredients thoroughly into 
the flour, until it becomes a tolerably firm 
paste; roll it out to nearly half an inch in 
thickness, line one large, or several small 
plain round moulds, with this paste; let the 
moulds lie well buttered, and the paste come 
about half an inch above the top of the mould ; 
fill your timbale with any farce, or ragout, 
you think proper, cover it with a layer of 
paste, pressing the edges together; bake it, 
and when done, turn 'he timbale on a dish, 
make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or 
gravy, and serve. 

TINCTURE OF ALLSPICE. Of 
allspice bruised, three ounces, apothecaries' 
weight ; brandy, a quart. Let it steep a 
fortnight, occasionally shaking it up; then 
pour oil the clear liquor: it is a most grateful 
addition in all cases where allspice is used, 
for making a bishop, or to mulled wine ex- 
tem|K>re, or in gravies, &c. or to flavor and 
preserve potted meats. 

TIPSY CAKE. Pour over a sponge 
cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as 
much white wine as it will absorb, and stick 
it all over with blanched sweet almonds, cut 
like straws; or pour wine in the same man- 
ner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover 
the top of it with preserved strawlterries or 
raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. See Cheese. 

TOAST, WITH BUTTER. Spread 
butter over some slices of fried bread ; lay- 
on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted 
butter, and serve. 

TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French 
roll with partly anchovies, and partly liam; 
cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
slice of l>acon, dip them into batter, and fry 
them ; drain, and serve with ravigote. 

TOASTS, GRENADA. Cut some fat 
and lean bacon into dice, give them a few 
turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, 
shallots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three 
eggs; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind 
of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, 
cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. 

TOASTS, ITALIAN. Cut s me slices 

of bread, about half an inch in thickness, 
frv them in sweet oil, let it be dry, and 
crisp, lay them on a dish, and spread over 
them any light good farce you may think 
proper; pour over them an appropriate 
sauce and serve them. 

TOAST AND WATER. Pare the 



crust off a thin slice of stale bread, toast 
it brown upon both sides, doing it equally 
and slowly, thai it may harden without being 
burnt; put it into a jug, and pour upon it 
boiling water; cover the jug with a saucer, 
and set it in a cool place. 

TOASTS, SPANISH. Roll out some 
almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it 
into pieces", alwut two inches square, press 
them down with a square piece of wood, a 
little smaller than the paste, which will leave 
the edges higher than the rest; bake then, 
and when cold, pour in any prepared cream 
you please, as high as the borders; ice, and 
color them with a salamander. 

TOMATA SAUCE. Bake six tomatas 
in an oven till quite soft; with a tea-spoon 
take out the pulp, add salt, cayenne, and 
vinegar, till of the consistence of thick cream. 

TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and 
cut small the red part of three large carroU, 
three heads of celeiy, four large onions, and 
two large turnips, put them into a saucepan, 
with a table-spoonful of butter, and half a 
pound of lean new ham ; let them stew very 
gently for an hour, then add three quarts of 
brown gravy soup, and some whole black 
pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatas ; let 
it boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through 
a sieve ; serve it with (Vied bread cut in dice. 

TOMATA SAUCE, FRENCH. Cut 
ten or a dozen tuinalas into quarters, and 
put them into a saucepan, with four on- 
ions sliced, a little parsley, thy mo, one clove, 
and a quarter of a pound of butler; set the 
saucepan on the fire, stirring occasionally for 
three-quarters of an hour; strain the sauce 
through a horse-hair sie\e, and serve with 
the directed articles. 

TOMATA SAUCE, ITALIAN. Take 
five or six onions, slice, anil put tliem into 
a saucepan, with a little thune, bay-leaf, 
twelve or fifteen lomatas, a bit of butter, 
salt, half a do/en alUpice, a little India saf- 
fron, and a glass of stock ; set tliem on the 
fire, taking care to stir it freqnen ly. as it is 
apt to stick ; when you perceive the sauce is 
tolerably thick, strain it like a p'.irte. 

TO ATA KETCHUP. (1) Take t, m -.- 
tas when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till 
tender strain them, and rub them through a 
sieve. To evei v |xnmd of juice, add a pint 
of Chili vinegar, an ounce of shallots, half an 
oun.e i. f gailic, both sliced, a quarter of an 
ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of 
white pepper, fin"!y powdered; l'il the 
whole till eveiy i;'.:,edii-nl is soft, rub it 
again through the >ieve. To every pound 



TOM 



223 



TON 



add the juice of three lemons; boil it again 
to tin. 1 consistence of cream; when cold, bot- 
tle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on 
each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry 
place. 

TOMATA KETCHUP. (2) Gather a 
peck of (oinatas, pick out the stems, and 
wash them ; put tliem on the fire without 
uutcr; sprinkle on a few spoonfuls of salt ; 
let them txiil .-le.idily an hour, stirring them 
frequently ; .-train them through a colander 
und then throu<r|i a sieve ; put the liquid on 
the fire with half a pint of rhop|>cd onions, 
eighth of an ounce of mure bloke into small 
pieces, and if not sufficiently salt, add a little 
more; one table-spoonful of whole black 
pepper; boil all together until just enough 
to fill two bottles; cork it tight. 

[Tin- seasoning may he varied to suit the 
taste. Allspice iu.-t. ad of mact common 
red |x-pper in.-tead of black pepper, and less 
chopped onion.] 

TOMATO KETCHUP. (3) On, Dil- 
lon skinned tomatas, four table-sp 
Kilt, tour do. black pepper, tuo do. allspice, 
eight pods red pep|x j r, ei^lit table-s|>oons of 
mustard wed. These articles, to be bruised 
tine and simmered r-low ly in a pint of vinegar 
three hours; then strained through a hair 
sieve. To Ix- stewed down to half a gallon 
of ketchup. 

TOMAT\S. MKTHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (1) A sufficient quantity of salt 
U dissolved in spring or river water to make- 
it slroii'.; enough to U-ar an eg;; ; select per- 
feclly ripe tomatas, anil place them well and 
without pres.-hr,' them, in a slo 
eartlien |>ot, uitli a ilee;i |.!.ite in such a 
manner that it presses U|x>n the fruit, and by 
ihi- - loin. it. is ni'i\ lie pr. 

more than a year without attention. Before- 
Cooking them they should lie soaked in fresh 
water for >e\rral hours. 

TOMVTAS. .MKTHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (2) Gather them carefully 
without bruising; |)ni tliem ia a stone jar, 
and |>our ia sirou^ brine, to the tup putting 
on a light weight to keep iheni gently pressed 
down Ix-low the s'nfaee of the bi ine. Soak 
them in fresh water and cook them in the 
usual way, wagoning to suit tlie taste, as 
wlien fresh from die vine. 

TOMATA MAKM M.ADE. Gather 
full-grown lomatas while quite green; take. 
out the stems anil stew them till soft; rub 
them lln.'inli a sieve; put I h- pulp on the 
fire, teaaoitcd highly with pepper, .-alt and 
powdered . : lie, and slew 

all together till thick. It keeps well, and i> 



excellent for seasoning gravies. Besides the 
numerous modes of preparing this delicious 
vegetable for the table, it may be stewed, 
after being peeled, wilh sugar, like cranljer- 
ries and gooseberries, producing a tart equal 
to either of those fruits. Tomatas make 
good pickles, pickled green; to peel them, 
pour boiling water on them, when the skin 
will come off easily. 

TONGUE. (1) " A tongue which has 
not been dried will require very little soak- 
ing, but if dried, it should lie soaked in 
water for three or four hours; then put it 
into cold water, and let it boil gently till 
tender. 

TONGUE. (2) A tongue is so hard, 
whether prewired by drying or pickliii',', that 
it requires much more cooking than a ham; 
nothing of its weight takes so long to dress 
it properly. 

A tongue that has lxn salted and dric-d 
should IK; put to soak (if it is old :md very 
hard, 24 hours More it is wanted) in plen- 
ty of water; a urien one fresh from the pic- 
kle reqniies M liking only a few hours: put 
your tongue into plenty of cold water; let 
it be an hour gradually warming; and give 
it from three und -a half to four hours' very 
slow simmering, according to the size, &c. 

Obs. When you choose a tongue, en- 
deavor to learn how long it has been dried 
or pickled, pick out the plumpest, and that 
which has the smoothest skin, which de- 
notes its Ix'ing young and tender. 

The roots, &c. make an excellent relish 
potted, or peas soup. 

TONGUE, TO STEW. Wash it very 
clean, and rub it well with common salt and 
a little salt|X'fre; let it lie tuo or three days, 
and then boil it till the skin will pull off. 
Put it into a saucepan, with part of the li- 
qnor it has l-en Boiled in, and a pint of 
good stock. Season with black and Ja- 
maica pep|>er, and two or three pounded 
i Id a glass of white wine ami a 
(abl.'-s|>oonfnl of mushroom ketchup, and 
one of lemon pickle; thicken the sauce with 
butter rolled in Hour, and pour it over the 
tongue. 

TONGUE, PICKLED, GLAXI'P. 

Boil a large tongue till it be ten.: 
and gla/e it. an. I serve, it with mashed tur- 
nips on one side, and mashed carrots, or 
carrots and spinach on the other. 

TONGUE, POTTED. See Ham. 

TUMilT.S. TO SALT. Salt two 
and turn them every day f>r four or 
; then rub them with two ounces 



TR I 



224 



TRI 



of common salt, one of brown sugar, and half 
an ounce of saltpetre; turn them daily, and 
in a fortnight they may IK; used. 

The. IK-SI sort of vessel for salting them 
in is an earthen- ware pan, as wide at top 
as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it 
long-ways. 

TRIFLE. (1) Add to a pint of rich 
cream a tea-cupful of white wine, sweeten it 
with pounded loaf sugar, whisk it well, and 
as the froth rises lay it n|x>n a sieve placed 
over a deep dish ; as it drains, pour the 
cream into the pan in which it is whisked 
till all is done ; dip some sponge biscuit, rata- 
fia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine 
and a little brandy; pour over them a lich 
boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on 
the whipt cream, piled as high as possible. 
Colored comfits may be strewed over the 
top. 

TRIFLE. (2) Mix three table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of thick cream; whisk it, 
and take oft" as much froth as will heap upon 
the dish, into which lay some pieces of 
sponge cake, or some sponge biscuit, soaked 
with sweet wine, and covered with preserv- 
ed strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the 
froth upon this, and pour the remainder of 
the cream into the bottom of the dish; gar- 
nish with flowers. 

TRIFLE. (3) Cover the bottom of 
the dish with Naples biscuits, and maca- 
roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and 
white wine, poured over them ; cover them 
with patches of raspberry jam; till the dish 
with a good custard, then wiiip up a sylla- 
bub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on 
the custard, and strew comfits over all. 

TRIPE. Take care to have fresh tripo; 
cleanse it well from the fat, and cut ii into 
l>ieces about two inches broad and four long,; 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
milk and water, and let it boil gently till it 
is tender. 

If the tripe has been prepared a it usual- 
ly is at the tripe shops, it will be enough in 
about an hour, (this depends upon how long 
it has been previously l>oiled at the tripe 
shop); if entirely undressed, it will require 
two or three hours, according to the age 
and quality of it. 

Make some onion sauce in the same man- 
ner as you do for rabbits, or boil (slowly by 
themselves) some Spanish or the whitest 
common onions you can get ; peel tl>em be- 
fore you boil them; when they are tender, 
which a middling-sized onion will be in 
about three-quarters of an hour, drain them 
in a hair oieve, take off the top skins till 



they look nice and white, and put them 
with the tripe into a tureen or soup-dish, 
and take off the fat if any floats on the 
sill lace. 

Obs. Rashers of bacon, or fried sau- 
sages are a very good accompaniment to 
boiled tripe, cow-heels or calf's feet, see 
Kelly's sauce or paisley and butter, or ea- 
per sauce, with a little \inegar and mus- 
tard added to them, or salad mixture. 

Tripe holds the same rank among solids, 
that water gruel does among soups, and the 
former is desirable at dinner, when the lat- 
ter is welcome at supper. 

TRIPE, TO FRY. Cut it into bit* 
three or four inches square; make a batter 
thicker than fir pancakes, of three eggs 
lieaten up with tlour and milk, a little salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; dip in the tripe, and 
fry it in butter, or fresh dripping, of a light 
brown color. Swerve it garnished with pars- 
Icy. Sauce; melted butter with lemon 
pickle in it. 

TRIPE PIE. Lay into the bottom of 
a di.-h some thinly-sliced cold or raw ham, 
then put in a layer of tripe with the jelly 
adhering to it, season with [K'pper and salt, 
and add a bit of butler; fill the dish in this 
manner, and put in a few table-spoonfuls 
of brown stork; cover the dish with puff 
paste. A beefsteak may be substituted for 
the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish 
filled up with tripe. 

TRIPE, TO BOIL. Clean it extreme- 
ly well, and take off the fat; let it lie a 
night in salt-and-water, again wash it well, 
and let it lie in milk-and-water for the same 
length of time; then cut it into small pieces, 
roll and tie them with thread ; put them, 
with a clean-washed marrow-tone, into a 
linen Ixtg; tie it closely, and put it into a 
stewpan lhat has a cover to tit quite close- 
ly, fill it up with water, and let it boil 
"etitly for six hours. Take the tripe out 
if the bag, put it into a jar, and pour over 
it the liquor in which it was boiled. When 
In I*' diesseii. boil some whole small onions 
in a part of the liquor, add a little salt, tlu-n 
put in tin- lri|M' and beat it thoromiliK. 

Or it may be fried in butter fricasseed, or 
stewed in a brown sauce. 

Instead of being boiled in a ba;j, the tripe 
may be put, with some salt and whole pep- 
per, into a stone-ware jar, which must have 
a piece of linen tied over it, and a plate laid 
upon the top. The pot should always be 
kept full of boiling water, taking care that 
it do not boil into the jar. 

TRIPE, TO ROAST. Cut the tripe 
into two oblong pieces, make a forcemeat 



TRO 



225 



TUN 



of bread cruml* ami chopped paisley, sea- 
soned with [lepper ami will; hind it with 
tin- yolks of t\\o i>a^>; spread it ii|x>u the 
fat side of the tripe, and lay on tin- other 
fill fide; then roll it very tightly, and lie it 
with packthread. Roast, and !>astc it with 
iMitter: il will take one hour, or one hour 
and a hall". Serve it with melted butter, 
into which put a table-spoonful of ketchup 
and one of lemon pickle. 

TRIPE, HREADED. Cut your tripe 
into small square pieces, and give them a 
few turns in some butter, with parsley^ wit, 
and pepper; roll each l)it in grated bread, 
and broil them slowly. When done, serve 
them with slices of lemon. 

TROUT. This fish is held in great 
estimation, it is a fiesli water fish, and 
when food, of a tlesh color, and the spots 
upon it are very bright ; (lie female is con- 
sidered the best, and is known by the head 
lieing smaller, and the body being deeper 
than that of the male. 

TROUT, POTTED. Mix together 

the following quantity of finely-powdered 

spices: On< nee of cloves, half an ounce 

of Jamaica |x>pper, quarter of an ounce of 
black pep[>er, quarter of an ounce of cay- 
enne, two nutmegs, a litlle mare, and two 
tea-npoonfnls of ijinu'er; add the weight of 
the spices, and half as much again of salt, 
and mix all thoroughly. <'le:m the tish,and 
cut off the lie;d-, tin-:, and tails; put a t< a- 
f|iouful of the mixed spices into each fish, 
and lay them into a deep earthen jar, with 
the backs d'.wu wards; co\er them with 
elaritied Initter, tie a paper over the mouth 
of tin; jr, and bake them .-lowly for eiylit 
hnis. When the back bone is tender, the 
lish arc done enou-jh. Take them out of 
the jar, and (Hit them into a milkpan with 
the backs upwards; cover them with a 
Ix.ard, and place upon it a heavy weight. 
When |XTl'eclK cold, remove the fish into 
frcr-h jars, smooth them with a knife, and 
cover them with clarified butter. 

TKOI I. TO COLLAR. Wash them 

. split them down the back bone, and 

dry them well in a cloth; season them well 

with finely-|)oiini!ed black pepper, salt, and 

in. ire; roll them tight, and lay them 

into a dish; |>our over an equal quantity of 

ir and I HIT, with two or three liay- 

leaves, and some whole lilaek pepju-r ; tie 

over ill'- lish i -In -ei of buttered paper, and 

Lake them an hour. 

TROUT, TO P.ROIL. Cut off the tins, 
and CHI the fish down the baek, < I >sc to (In- 
bone, ami split the head in tvv>. Another 



way is, after they have been rut open, to 
rub a little salt over them; let them lie three 
or four hours, and then hang them up in the 
kitchen. They will be ready to broil the 

next morning for breakfast. 

TROUT, TO BOIL. Clean and giit 
them ; make the water as salt as for lx>il- 
ing salmon in, and when it boils put in the 
trout, and let them boil fast from fifteen 
to twenty minutes, according to their size. 
Sauce; melted Itutter. 

TROUT, TO FRY. Cut off the fins, 
clean and gut them; dust them wilh flour, 
and dip diem into the yolk of an egg beaten ; 
strew grated bread crumbs over, and fry them 
in fresh dripping; lay them upon the back 
of a sieve before the fire to drain. Sauce; 
melted butter, with a table-spoonful of 
ketchup, and one of lemon pickle in it. 
When they are email, roll them in oatmeal 
Ix'fore they are fried. 

TRUFFLFS. The truffle, like the mush- 
room, is a species of fungus common in 
France and Italy; it generally grows about 
eight or ten inches lielovv the surface of the 
ground ; as it imparts a most delicious flavor, 
it is much used in cookery. lieing dug out 
of the earth, it requires a great deal of wash- 
ing and brushing, before it can be applied to 
culinary purposes; when washed, the water 
should l>e warm, and changed frequency. Tt 
lo.-es much of its flavor when dried. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. Mince two or 
three truffles very small, and toss them up 
! ; ,-|illy, in either oil or butter, according to 
%onr taste; then put to them four or five la- 
dlefuls of veloute and a s|xmufiil of con- 
sommt; let it boil for alxiut a quarter 
of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off all 
the fat; keep ymr sauce hot in the bain- 
marie. 

TRUFFLES TOURTE. Take two 
[xiunds of fine truffles, wash and pick them; 
put them into a .-tew pan, with six thin slice* 
of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced onion, 
i Lav, -leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, am( 
Champagne; lay rashers of bacon over the 
whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly. 
When cold, put the truffles into a crust wilh 
all ihe sea-oiiing; bake the towtt ,and serve 
as usual. 

TUNRRinC.E CAKES. Rub two. 

ounces of butler into half a |x>uud of dried 
flour; add a few caraway seeds, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of pminded loaf sugar; mix 
it to a -ii!) paste with a little water, toll it 
out v,i\ thin, cut it into mm id cakes with 
a ,!. is- Li the top of a diedging box, prick 



TU R 



226 



TUR 



them witli a fork, and bake them upon 
floured ling. 

TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a 
nicely-tinned saucepan a pint of milk, and 
when it b,>ils, stir in as much flour us will 
make it a thick batter; add lliree well- 
beaten eggs, and two or three drops of oil 
of cinnamon, or any other seasoning; dust 
a large tlat plate with (lour, with a spoon 
throw on it the batter, in the form of balls 
or fritters, and drop them into boiling cla- 
rified dripping or lard. Serve them with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed over. 

The batter may be made into a pudding, 
adding with the eggs an ounce of sail but- 
ter. Boil and serve it with a sweet sauce. 

TURBOT. Turbot, when good, should 
be thick and full,' and the belly of a yellow- 
ish while or cream color. 

TURBOT, BAKED. Wash your fish 
in several waters, dry it well, and soak it 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour 
put the whole into a baking dish, envelope 
it completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 

TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a 
small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butter, 
or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with 
bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over 
it, and serve. 

TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. 
Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without cut- 
ting it off; make a farce, with some butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all 
shred, and united together, with yolks of 
eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
spread this all over the under part of the 
fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. 
Dissolve some butter in a saucepan; add to 
it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet 
herbs shred, salt, and pepper; rub the fish 
all over with this, then bread, and bake it.' 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (1) This excellent 
fish is in season the greatest part of the sum- 
mer; when good, it is at once firm and ten- 
der, and abounds with rich gelatinous nu- 
trimenl. 

Being drawn, and washed clean, if it be 
quite fresh, by rubbing it lightly with salt, 
and keeping it in a cold place, you may in 
moderate weather preserve it for a couple 
of days. 

An hour or two before you dress it, soak 
it in spring water with some salt in it, then 



score the skin across the thickest part of 
the back, to prevent its breaking on the 
breast, which will happen from the fish 
swelling, and cracking the skin, if thin pre- 
caution l>e not used. Put a large handful 
of salt into a fish-kettle with cold water, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, put it in, 
and when it is coming to a boil, skim it 
well ; then set the kettle on the side of the 
fire, to boil as gently as possible for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes (if it boils fast, 
the fish will break to pieces); supposing it 
a middling-sized turbot, and to weigh eight 
or nine pounds. 

Rub a little of the inside red coral spawn 
of the lobster through a hair sieve, with- 
out butter; and when the turbot is dished, 
sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the 
dish with sprigs of curled parsley, sliced 
lemon, and finely-scraped horseradish. 

If you like to send it to table in full dress, 
surround it with nicely-fried smelts, gudg- 
eons are often used for this purpose, and may 
l>e bought very cheap when smelts are very 
dear; lay the largest opposite the broadest 
part of the turbot, so that they may form a 
well-proportioned fringe for it; or oysters; 
or cut a sole in strips, crossways, about the 
size of a smelt ; fry them and lay them 
round. Send up lobster sauce, two boats 
of it, if it is for a large party. 

Obs. The thickest part is the favorite; 
and the carver of this fish must remember 
to ask his friends if they are fin-fanciers. 
It will save a troublesome job to the carver 
if the cook, when the fish is boiled, cuts the 
spine bone across the middle. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (2) Put into 
the turbot kettle, with the water, two large 
handfuls of salt, and a tea-cupful of vinegar; 
when it boils very fast, take off the scum; 
put in the turbot, and when it boils again 
keep it boiling fast till the turbot rises from 
the drainer; when it is sufficiently done, 
dish and garnish it with a fringe of curled 
parsley and cut lemon. Sauces; lobster 
and melted butter. 

Cold boiled turbct eats well with salad 
sauce. 

Turbot is generally considered best per- 
fectly fresh ; but some people prefer it kept 
for a few days, hung up by the toil in a 
cool place. 

TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the fish 
down the back, and soak it for sometime, 
with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, 
broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville 
orange-juice. 

TURBOT, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and 



TUR 



227 



TUR 



sweet herbs into a stew-pan, place a small 
turbot on these, strew similar heibs, salt, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in purrs mer it ; 
cover the li.-h wild c<iual quantities of vine- 
gar, and wliilc wine; let it lx>il over a, 
moderate tiie until sufficiently done; in the 
meantime, melt a pound of butter, a. Id ID it 
a couple of boned anchovies, two s|>ooiifuls 
of capers, >liie 1 small, two or three leeks, 
Bait, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, 
and a spi inUlinj of tlotir; in. ike all these 
nha hot, Stirring Cmtantl) till clone; then 
dish the lurbot, |>onr tlie sauce over it, and 
serve. 

TURKEY, BOILED. Make a stuffing 

of bread, herli.. -alt, pepper, nutmeg, lem- 
on-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some suet, and an e^; put this 
into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil 
the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very- 
while. lla\e ready some oyster sauce 
made rich with butler, a little cream, and a 
spoonful of soy, and serve oxer the turkey, 
or you may serve over it a liver and lemon 
sauce. 

TURKKV, Tl RKEY POULTS, AND 
OTHF.K I'ori.iRY. A fowl and a turkey- 
require the same management at the fire, 
only the latter will take longer time. 

Many a Christina.* dinner has Ixjen spoil- 
ed by the turkey having been hung up in a 
cold larder, and Ixicomini; thoroughly fro- 
zen; Jack Front has ruined tlie reputation 
of many a tin key i" 

Ix't them U- carefully picked, &c. and 
break tin- bie.i.-t lione (to make them look 
plump), twist up a sherl of clean writing 
paper, light it, and thoroughly .-in.;, the 
turkey all over, turning it about over tlie 
flame. 

Turkeys, fowls, and capons have a much 
better apix-arancc, if, instead of trussing 
them with the legs close together, and the 
feet cut off, the legs are extended on each 
Side of the bird, and tint toes only cut olT, 
with a -I.ewer thrutigli each foot, to keep 

I pro|XT di- 

Be r.i.i -fill, when yon draw ii, to preserve 
the liie. . an 1 -i < 'H'-.iU ill.- _;;ill-l>ag, as 
no wa-hing will takeoff ihi: bitdr ta.-le it 
gives, where it once tone i 

l'iep..i ii . In i~k lire for it. 

M.ik" stult'ing; istufT it under the breast, 
where I tken out, anrl m..ke 

some ini Uiil or fry them, ,md 

lay them innl the m-.i: tln-\ .<,- hands to 
help, and ion can ih. of the 

inside uitli the cold turkey, 

'ii lo enrii h a hash. 



TURKIC I.N IHIT.r.. TAean old 
turkey, trues it in lite usual way ; roll tome 



large lardons in a mixture of salt, pepper, 
four spires, and sweet iK-ibs, and then lard 
tlie turkey with them; lay slices of bacon 
in a hraising-pan, put tlie turkey on them, 
with two small knuckles of veal, tlie feet of 
the bird, four carrots, six onions, three 
cloies, tuo liiy-le.ives, thyme, a bunch of 
:'id young onions; cover the whole 
with bacon and a piece of buttered paper; 
dilute it with four ladleful.s of stock (or 
more if the turkey be very large), put in a 
little salt, and set the pan on the lire to boil 
slowly for three hours and a half; then take 
it off, but do not take the bird out for at 
least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, 
and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if 
cry thin; break an egg into another sauce- 
pan, Ix-at it up well, and then |Mir the li- 
quor on it, whisk them well together, and 
if it wants flavor, add a few sweet herbs, 
parsley leaves, and a young onion or two; 
put it on the I'm-, stirring it violentlv until 
ready to boil; as soon as it has Killed up 
or twice; set it by Uie side of a stove, 
(Hit (ire on the top of the saucepan, and let 
it simmer half an hour; then strain it care- 
fully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to 
serve it with the turkey. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (1) Cut up the 

remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a 
siewpan, with a glass of white wine, chop- 
|H'd parsley, shallots, mushrooms, truffles, 
salt and pepper, two spoonfuls of cullis, and 
a little stock ; lx>il half an hour, and reduce 
I to a thick sauce; when ready, add a pound 
of anchovi, and a squeeze of lemon ; skim 
off all the fat from the sauce, and serve all 
togetlier. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (2) Stir a 
piece of butter rolled in flour into some 
cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils 
up ; mince some cold roasted or boiled 
turkey, but not tew small; put it into the 
sauce, add grated lemon-peel, while pepper, 
pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or 
mushroom powder ; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters m^v Ixj added. 

TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be 

either stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing 
the Rime as for fillet of veal. As this makes 
a large addition to the si/.e of the bird, lake 
care that the heat of the fire is constantly to 
that pait, as it frequently hapfx-ns that the 
breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of 
paper should ! put on the bone t 
Ha scorching, while the other parts are 
roaming, llaste well, and froth it up 
with i;i .111 in the dis'i, and bread sauce in a 
-.in e mi. en. A few bread crimilM, and a 
IxMteti - . ; -.1 '.ild be added to tlie stuffing 
of Kiiifiage meat. 



TDK 



228 



TUR 



TURKEY, STUFFED WITH SAU- 
SAGES AND CHESTNUTS. Roast 
what quantity f chestnuts you think neces- 
sary, (jeel thorn, and pound a part of them 
to make a farce, with the liver, chopped 
parsley, shallots, a little salt and pe| |,er, a 
bit of (miter, and the yolks of three raw 
eggs, put this farce into the crop, and stmT 
the body with the whole chestnuts, and small 
nausages, first fried in butter till about half 
done ; cover the turkey wild slices ot bacon, 
and put paper over that, then roast it, and 
serve with a chestnut cnllis. 

TURNIPS, TO DRESS YOUNG 
WHITE. Wash, peel, and boil them till 
tender in water with a little salt; serve them 
with melted butter poured over them. Or, 
They may be stewed in a pint of milk thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and served 
with the sauce. 

TURNIPS. Peel off half an inch of the 
stringy outside. FuH-growo turnips will 
take about an hour and a half gentle boiling; 
if you slice them, which m >sl people do, they 
will be done sooner; try them with a fork; 
when tender, lake them up, and lay them on 
a sieve till the waler is thoroughly drained 
from them. Send them up whole; do not 
(lice them. 

TURNIPS, TO BOIL YEM.OW OR 
LARGE WHITK. Wash, pare, and throw 
them into cold water; put them on in boiling 
water with a little sill, and boil them from 
two hours to Iwo and a half, drain them in 
a cullender, pul them into a saucepan, and 
mixing in a bit of butter, with a beater mash 
them very smoothly, add half a pint of milk, 
mix it well with the turnips, and make them 
quite hot before serving. If they are to Ixj 
served plain, dish them us .soon as the water 
is drained off. 

TURN 7 1 P TOPS, Are the shoots which 
grow out (in the spring) of the old turnip 
roots. Put them into cold w^.er an hour 
before they are to be dressed; the more wa- 
ter they are boiled in, the l>ctter they will 
look; if boiled in a small quantity of water 
they will taste bitter: when the water boils, 
put in a small handful of salt, and then your 
vegetables; if fresh and young, they will Ix- 
done in about twenty minutes; drain them 
on the back of a sieve. 

TURTLE SOUP. (1) To dress a 
Turtle weighing one hundred and twenty 
pounds. Having cut off the head close to 
the shell, hang up the turtle till the next 
day, then open it, bearing the knife heavi- 
ly on the back of the animal in cutting it 



off all round ; turn it on its end, that all 
the blood anil water may run out, then cut 
the llesh off air, n^ the spine, sloping the knife 
towards the bones so as to avoid touching 
the gall, and having also cut the flesh from 
the leys and other meinljcrs, wash the whole 
well and drain it. A large \e.-sel of boil- 
ing water Ix-ing ready on the fire, put in 
the breast shell, and when the flutes will 
separate easily take ihem out of the waler; 
Iwil the back and bellv in water till the softer 
parts can \>e taken off easily ; (nit before they 
are sufficiently done, as they are to be again 
boiled in the sauce, lay them to cool singly 
in earthen vessels that they may not stick 
together, let the bones continue to stew for 
some time, as the lii|uor must be used for 
moistening the since*. 

All the (If-sh cut from the body, the four 
legs and head must be stewed in the following 
manner. Lay a few slices of ham on the 
lx>ttom of a large stewpan, and over the ham 
two or three knuckles of veal, then above the 
veal, the inside flesh of the turtle, and that 
of the members over the whole, adding a 
large bunch of sweet herbs, such as 'Sweet 
basil, sweet marjoram, lemon tin me, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and green onions, and a large 
onion stuck with six cloves, '('hen partly 
moisten it with the water in which the sliell 
is boiling, and when it has stewed some 
time, moisten it again with the liquor in 
which the back and belly have been lx>iled. 
When ihe legs are tender, take them out, 
drain, and put them aside to Ix' afterwards 
added tn the sauce; and when the flesh is 
completely done, drain it through a silk sieve, 
and mix with the . ancc Nimi- very thin white 
roux; then cut all the softer parts, now 
sufficiently cold, into pieces about an inch 
square, add them to the sauce, and let them 
simmer gently till they can beca.-ily pierced; 
skim it well. 

Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and 
boil them with a little sugar in lour Ixmle.-i 
of Madeira till reduced to two, then rub it 
through a tammy, mix it with the turtle 
sauce, and let it boil for a short lime. .Make 
some forcemeat balls as follows: Cut off 
ulxmt a pound of meat from the fleshy part 
of a leg of veal free from sinews or flu, soak 
in milk about the same quantity of crumbs 
of bread; when quite soft, squeeze and put 
it into a mortar, together with the veal, a 
small quantity of calf's udder, a little butter, 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a little 
cayenne, salt and spices; pound the whole 
very finely, then thicken the mixture with 
two whole eggs and the yolk of a third, ihrutw 
a bit into boiling water, and if not sufficiently 
firm, add the yolk of another egg, and for 
variety some chopped parsley may Ix: mixed 
with half of the forcemeat. Let the whole 
cool so that it may be formed into bulls about 



TU R 



229 



VEAL 



the size of the yolk of an egg, poach them in 

boiling water, and add them to the turtle. 
Before serving, mix a little cayenne with 
the juice of two or three lemons, .mil ailil it 
to the soup. It i> nencrtlly preh-rahle to 
prepare the soup (he day before it is required 
for use, and it will be Ijesl henle I in a water 
bath, or Hat vessel containing water, which 
is always kept very hot, l.nt not allowed to 
boil. By the same method, sauces, stews, 
and olher made dishes may ta kept fat. 

When the fins cf the turtle are to IK- served 
as it side dish, they mast lx> lirst parboiled, 
then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle 
sauce, with some Port wine, and 
with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice, 
and thickened with butter and Hour. 

Frirandeaux and BlanqueUM may also be 
made of the flesh of (he turtle, in the same 
way as those of veal. 

TURTLE SOUP. (2) The day before 

yon dress a turtle, chop the herb--, au;l make 
the forcemeat ; then, on the preceding eve- 
ning, siis|eiid the turtle by the (wo hind fins 
will) a eord ; anil put one round the neck, 
with a heavy weight attached to it to draw 
out the neck, that the liead may IK- cut oft' 
with more ease; lei the turtle hang all ni^ht, 
in whirl) time the blood u ill !H> well drained 
from the liody. Then, early ill (he morning, 
hauni: vnnr M.IM-, and plenty of hot water 
in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the 
table on its back, and with a strong |x>iuicd 
knife cut all round the under shell, (which is 
the callipee) ; there are joints at earl) end, 
which must lie carefully found, gently scpi- 
mting it from the ralli|>ash (which is the 
upper shell); IN? careful (hat in culling out 
the gut yon do not break (he gall. When 
the calli|XT. and I he callipa.-h are |x-if'-rtly 
separated, lake out (hat part of the ;nit that 
leads In. m tin- throat; that, with the three 
hearts, put into a liasiu of water by them- 
selves; die olher interior |urt put away. 
1'ake (he callipee, and cut off the meat 
which adlieres to it in tour <|iiarters, laying 
it on a clean dish. Take twenty pmnufs of 
veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as 
directed for ttpagnole, (Hitting in tlie flesh 
of (lie tin lie al ihe same lime, with all kinds 
of turtle licrljs, carrots, onions, one pound and 
a half of lean ham, pepper corns, gait, a little 
spire, and two Iwy leaven, leaving it to stew 
till it l.tkes the color of etpagnolt; put tlie 
fins (the skin being scalded off) and IK -at is m. 
half an hour l-|im- yon (ill it, with half wa- 
ter, and Ir.ilf href t.toek ; then carefully skim 
it; put in a bunch of (Ktrsley, and let it boil 
gently, like consomme. While die lurlk- is 
slewmi;, raiethllv x-al I (he li'-ad, (he calli- 
(t of (he callipaxh, at- 

tcnlm-ly obsen ini; to take oil llie -ni.dlr.-t 
particle of skin I hat may remain ; put l!iem 
20 



with the gut into a large pot of water to boil 
till tender; when so, take them out, and nut 
tiiem in .squares, putting them in a basin by 
(hi-iiisi-Ues nil wanted for the soup. The 
next thing is the thickening of the soup, 
which must IK- prepared in the same manner 
as sauce lournee. The turtle being well 
done, takeout the fins and hearts, and lay then) 
on a dish ; tin- whole of the li(|iior must pasH 
through a sie\e into a large pan; then, with 
a ladle, take off all the fat, put it into a ba- 
sin, then mix in the turtle liquor (a small 
i|uan(i(y al a lime) with the thickening made 
the same as sauce tournee; but it does not 
require to, neither must it be, one twentieth 
part BO thick ; set it over a brisk fire, and 
continue stirring till it boils; when it ha* 
boiled two hours, being skimmed all the 
while, squeeze it through the tammy into 
another large stewpan. put it on the fire, and 
stir it as before, till it boils; when it haff 
boiled gently for one hour, put in tlie calli- 
pee and callipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meal and head, all 
cut in squares, with (he forcemeat balls and 
herbs, which you should have ready chopped 
and stewed in espagnole; (the h 
pai>|.-y, lemon ihyme, marjoram, basil, aa- 
vory, ami a few chopped mushrooms). It 
innM U- can-fully attended to and .skimmed, 
and OIK- hour and a half Ix-fore dinner, put in 
a ixillle of .Ma leira wine, and nearly lialf a 
bottle of brandy, keeping it continually boil- 
ing ircutlv, anil skiimnin" it; then take a 
i i i 

basin, pul a little cayenne pepper into it, 

w illi the juice of six lemons squeezed through 
a sieve. \Vlieu the dinner is wanted, skim 
the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little 
.-nit, if necessary; tlien stir in the cayenne 
.rid lemon-jiiii-e, and ladle ii into the tureen. 
This receipt will answer (or a turtle between 
lil'ly anil sixty [minds. 

IC-?* For Mock Turtle and ottor 
Soup, See Soups. 

TWELFTH CAKE ICING. 8<t 
Icing. 



V. 



VEAL. The names of the joints are m 
follows: Ixiin, Ix-st end Loin, chump end 
Fillet Hind Kmickfe Fore knuckle 
Neck, best end Neck, scrag end Blade 
bone Breast, best end Brisket end. 

Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, 
white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The 
finest calves have the smallest kidney, aiH it* 
being well covered with thick white fat, in- 
dicates good veal. The fillet of a cow calf 
is to be preferred, on account of the udder. 
Tlie prime joints arc tlie fillet, tlie loin, the 



VEAL 



230 



VEAL 



chomp end of the loin, and the best end of 
the neck. To keep it, the same directions 
may be followed, which are given for keeping 
beef. 

When tlie fillet is to be roasted, it should 
be WB*bed, well dried, and the bone taken 
oat, and the space tilled with a fine stuffing, 
part of which should he put under the flap, 
then formed into a round and firmly skew- 
ered. That the fire may he dt-aii and strong, 
it should be made up sometime before putting 
down the roast, which should at first be 
placed at some distance from it, and be fre- 
quently and well basted with butler. When 
about half roasted, a piece of white paper is 
tied over the fat; a little before serving, it 
is remove I, the meat is then sprinkled with 
salt, dredged with flour, and well Uisled to 
froth it. When dished, finely melted butter 
is poured over it, with which mayor may 
not l mixed some lemon pickle or brown 
gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. 

Veal is expected to come to table looking 
delicately clean; and it is so easily' discol- 
ored, that you must be careful to have clean 
water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch 
the scum as soon and as long as it rises. 
Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled 
pork, greens, and ]rsley and butter, and 
onion sauce. 

Veal requires particular care to roast it a 
nice brown. Let the fire IMJ the same as for 
beef; a sound large fire for a large joint, and 
a brisker for a smaller; put it at some dis- 
tance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and 
then draw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted; 
baste it again occasionally. When the veal 
ig on tiie dish, pour over it half a pint of 
melted butter: if you have a little brown 
gravy by you, add that to the butter. With 
those joints which are not stuffed, send up 
forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as 
garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages; 
bacon and greens, are also always expected 
with boiled veal. 

Fillet of Veal, Of from twelve to sixteen 
pounds, will require from four to five hours 
at a good fire; make some stuffing or force- 
meat, and put it in under the Hap, that there 
may be some left to eat cold, or to season a 
hash ; brown it, and pour good melted butter 
over it. 

(iarnii-h with thin slices of lemon and 
cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or 
fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacon and 
greens, &c. 

A bit of the brown outside is a favorite 
with the epicure in roasts. The kidney, cut 
out, sliced, and broiled, is a high relish, 
whicji some bans vivants are fond of. 

A Loin, Is the best part of the calf, and 
will take about three hours roasting. I'a- 
per the kidney fat, and the back: some 



cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten 
with the kidney and ihe fat of this part, 
which is as delicate as any marrow. If 
there is more of it than you think will be 
eaten with the veal, before you roasl it cut 
it out ; it will make an excellent suet pud- 
ding; take care lo have your fire long 
enough to brown the ends; same accom- 
paniments as above. 

A Shoulder, From three hours to three 
hours nd a half; stuff it with the force- 
meat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the 
under side. 

Neck, best end, Will take two hours; 
same accompaniments as fillet. The scrag 
parl is Ix-st made into a pie, or broth. 

Breast, From an hour and a half to two 
hours. Let the caul remain till it is almost 
done, then take it off to brown it; baste, 
flour, and froth it. 

This makes a savory relish for a luncheon 
or supper: or, instead of roasting, lx>il it 
enough; put it in a cloth between two pew- 
ter dishes, uilh a weight on the upper one, 
and let it remain so till cold; then pare 
and trim, eg-,', and crumb it, and broil, or 
warm it in a Dutch oven; serve with it 
ca|xrs, or wow wow sauce. Breast of 
mutton may I* dressed the same way. 

VEAL ALAMODE. See Seef Ala- 
mode. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED WITH 

GREEN I'KAS. Make a quart of gravy 
with the scrag end ; strain it; cut the rest 
of the veal into small pieces of nearly an 
equal size; put it into a stewpan with the 
giavy, some pepper, salt, mace, half an 
ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. 
Cover the pan closely, and let it slew nearly 
two hours; then put in a lettuce cut small, 
and let it stew half an hour longer. A lit- 
tle Ix-fore serving, add half an ounce of 
browned butter, mixed with a little flour. 

VEAL BREAST, BROILED. Half 
roast and then score it; season it with pars- 
ley, a few finelv-minced sweet herbs, a lit- 
tle |>epper and salt, and broil it. Make a 
sauce with some gravy seasoned with onion, 
grated nutmeg, mace, salt, and an anchovy; 
boil and strain it; thicken it with llour and 
butter. Add some minced capers and small 
mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal. 
Garnish with sliced lemon. 

VEAL BREAST, COLLARED. Bone 
it, and lay over it a thick layer of force- 
meat, made with bread cruml>s, chopped 
oysters, parsley, and grated ham, MMoned 
with lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
mixed with an egg Ijeaten up. Roll and 
bind it with tape; boil it in a cloth, and put 



VEAL 



231 



VEAL 



k on in boiling water ; let it boil gently for 
three hours. Boil the bones with an onion, 
at bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; 
strain and thicken it with three table-spoon- 
fuU of cream, the volks of two egspi beaten 
up, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. 
Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it 
into an egg, and strew over it grated bread; 
fry it with forcemeat balls. Serve the 
veal with the sauce poured over it. Gar- 
nish with the sweetbread and forcemeat 
balls. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (1) Half 
roast tin- veal till of a light brown, then 
stew it over a stove for two hours, in a 
rich gravy, with a shallot, thi-ee cloves, a 
blade of mace, a little walnut pickle, some 
oyster liquor, and a few small mushrooms. 
Half an hour before serving, add a little 
anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon 
and curled parsley. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (2) Cm 

out tlie blade bone, and stuff the whole with 
a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, 
and make a quart of gravy of the bones and 
trimmings; season it with whole pepper, 
two blades of roace, a bit of lemon-peel, a 
large onion, some salt, and a bunch of pars- 
ley. Strain and thicken it with butter roll- 
ed in flour; put in the veal, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar; let it stew nearly two 
hours. A little before serving, add a table- 
spoonful of lemon pickle, and a glass of 
white wine. Forcemeat balls may be serv- 
ed with it. 

VEAI. HKEAST, STEWKU. (3; On 
off the short bones or gristles op a breast 
of veal ; stew them in a little white stock, 
with a slice of ham, an onion stuck with 
one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a 
bunch of parsley, and a little salt. When 
tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, 
and put it on with a pint and a half of 
green peas; boil them, and add the veal, 
and let them stew for twenty minutes. 
Serve the gristles in the middle, and the 
peas round them. 

VEAL BROTH. See Broth. 

VEAL, BROWN ROLLKLOPS. Cut 
off some thin slices from a fillet of veal, and 
beat them. Take part of the fat from the 
loin and kidney : mince it finely with a 
email bit of veal, and six anchovies; season 
with salt, pounded ginger, and marc ; put 
it over tlie slices of veal, and roll them up. 
Dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, 
and then into (grated breacf; repeat this a 
ecorfd time, and fry them of a nice brown 
color in clarified beef dripping, then stew 



them in some good gravy, adding a little 
walnut pickle and half a pint of white wine. 

VEAL CAKE. Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with salt, 
|>epper, and nutmeg, grated; have ready 
some hant-lxiiled egg?, sliced, and put a 
layer of these at the bottom of a basin 
or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices 
of ham, over this strew marjoram, thyme, 
parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs and lemon- 
peel, chopped small ; then a layer of eggs, 
veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan 
is filled; pour some good gravy over the 
whole, cover the pan with coarse brown 
paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven; an hour will be sufficient 
to bake it; when cold, turn it out upon a 
dish, and serve; garnish with parsley. 

VEAL CAKE, to be eaten cold. Pound 
in a mortar as much cold roasted lean veal 
as will fill a small mould, together with a 
slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb 
of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten 
eggs, a small bit of butter, die same of shal- 
lot, or onion ; season with pepper and salt, 
and mix all well together; butter the mould, 
fill it, and bake it in ay oven for abmit an 
hour; turn it out when cold, and cut it into 



lices. 
ley. 



Garnish with pickled eggs and pars- 



VEAL COLD. Cut some cold veal into 
thin slices, the size and thickness of a half 
crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg 
well beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and 
grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter in- 
to a pan, make it quite hot, fry the veal in 
it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the 
side of the fire; make a little gravy "of a 
bone of veal, shake a little flour into the 
pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little 
lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and gar- 
nish with lemon. 

VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take 

six or seven handsomely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepper, and put them 
into melted butter; when sufficiently soaked, 
put them into beaten eggs, take them out, 
and roll each separately in bread crumbs; 
make the chops as round as you can with 
your hand, and lay them on a dish ; w hen 
all are breaded, broil them slowly over a 
moderate fire, that the bread may not be too 
highly colored. Serve with clear gravy. 

VEAL, TO COLLAR. Bone a breast 
of veal, and beat it flat; cover the inside 
with a nire stuffing moistened with eggs; 
roll it very tightly, bind it, and bake it in an 
oven with some weak stock in the dish. 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



Make a rich gravy; strain and thicken it, 
and pour it over the veal. Serve witli or 
without forcemeat balls, and garnish with 
cut lemon. It will keep for a long time in 
a pickle made \viih bran ami water, a little 
salt, and vinegar, poured cold over it. 

VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound 
and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, 
and a .slice of lean ham; pound them in a 
mortar, and mix, in five (able-spoonfuls of 
cream, two tea -spoonfuls of pepper, one of 
salt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it 
up into cones about three inches high; rub 
them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated 
bread over them, and fry them of a light 
brown color; put fried bread crumbs into 
the dish, an:l place t!ie cones upon them, or 
serve ihem with a brown gravy instead of 
crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit make 
good cones. Half the ingredients will be 
sufficient for a corner dish. 

VEAL, COLD DRESSED. Mince 
finely the fat and lean of cold roast veal, 
season it with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
pepper, and salt; moisten it with a little 
rich white stock, and a Ijeaten egg; butter 
a pudding, shape, put in the mince, and 
press it firmly, cover it closely, and set it 
into a pan of boiling water; let it boil an 
hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy 
thickened, or when turned out of the shape, 
rub it over the top with the beaten yolk of 
an egg; sift bread crumbs thickly oxer, and 
brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a 
little melted butter. Garnish with fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (I) Let your cutlets 
be about half an inch thick; trim them, and 
flatten them with a cleaver; you may fry 
them in fresh butler, or good drippings ; when 
brown on one side, turn them and do the 
other ; if the fire is very fierce, they must 
change sides oftener. The time (hey will 
take depends on the thickness of the cutlet 
and the heat of the fire; half an inch thick 
will take about fifteen minutes. Make some 
gravy, by (Hitting tlie trimmings into a stew- 
pan with a little soft water, an onion, a roll 
of leinon-|)eel, a Made of mace, a sprig of 
thyme and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew 
over a flow fire an hour, then strain it; put 
an ounce of butter into a slewpan ; as soon 
as it is melted, mix with it as much flour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, then add the gravy by degrees till 
it is all mixed, lx>il it lor five minutes, 
and strain it through a tamis sieve, and put 
it to the cutlets; you may add ,some brown- 
ing, mushroom, or walnut ketchup, or lemon 
pickle, &c.: Or, Cut the veal into pieces 
about as big as a crown-piece, beat them 



with a cleaver, dip them in eggs beat up 
will) a little silt, and then in fine bread 
crumbs; fry them a light brown in boiling 
lard; serve under them some good gravy or 
mushroom sauce, which may be made in five 
minutes. Garnish with slices of ham or 
rashers of bacon, or pork sau- 

Veal forcemeat or stuffing, pork sausages, 
rashers of bacon, are very relishing accom- 
paniments, fried and sent up in the form of 
balls or cakes, and laid round as a garnish. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (2) Cut a neck of 
veal into cutlets, or take them off a leg. 
Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded 
mace, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chop- 
ped sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, and pars- 
ley; dip the cutlets into it, sift over them 
grated bread, and fi-y them in clarified butter. 
Serve with a white sauce, forcemeat lialls, 
and small mushrooms. Garnish w id) fried 
purs-ley. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (3) Cut a neck 
of veal into thin cutlets, and beat them; 
brown some butter with an onion and some 
parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets into 
the butler, and then into finely grated bread, 
seasoned with pepper and salt; broil them 
of a brown color ; mince the |>eel of half an 
orange pared very thin ; add it and a grate 
of ginger to some good thickened gravy, and 
pour it hot upon the cutlets. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (4) Cut them off 
a leg, or from the thick part of a loin of 
veal; beat them a little with a rolling-pin, 
and fry them in butter of a light In-own. 
Take them out of the pan. pour off the tat- 
ter, and strew over them grated bread, sea- 
soned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, 
grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pep|x>r, and 
salt. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece 
of fresh butter, and let them fry slowly (ill of 
a good brown. Add a quarter of a pint of 
good gravy, and a small tea-cupful of thick 
cream; let it be made very hot, frequently 
shaking the pan. Serve it garnished with 
cut lemon or forcemeat balls, mushrooms, 
and false eggs. False eggs are made of the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are 
rubbed smooth, and then made up with fresh 
butter into the form of small eggs. 

VEAL CUTLETS, VENITIAN. Cnt 

into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of 
veal; trim and flatten them. Chop sepa- 
rately half a pint of mushrooms, a few shal- 
lots, and a little |>arsley ; stew tliese aver a 
slow fire, with a small bit or' butter and a 
little rasped tiit baron. When done, put in 
the cutlets, and season them well with pepper 
and salt, and let them stew over a slow fire 
till quite tender; skim off the fat, and add 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



a spoonful of sauce tournee, and the yolks 
of three eggs beaten with a little cream, llien 
mix in die juice of a lemon, and a little cay- 
enne. 

VEAL, FILLET, STEWED. Bone, 

lard, mid stuff a fillet of veal ; hull" roast, and 
then stew it with two quarts of white stork, 
a te:i-s|XHinful of lemon pickle and one of 
mushroom ketchup. Before serving, strain 
the gravy, thicken it will) Initler rolled in 
. i a little cayenne, salt, and some 
pickled mii.-hrooins; heal it, and pour it over 
I he \e;d. Have ready two or three dozen of 
forcemeat hall:- to put round it and upon the 
top. (i.unish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FLORENTINE. Take two 

veal kidneys, and mince them with their 
fat, very small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, i ho yolks of four or five eggs, boiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, 
some luead crumb.-, candied lemon-peel, cut 
small, and season with nutmeg, cl 

little ir.'itintain wine, and some 
orange-Mower water; line the Ixittom of a 
dish with a nice pulV|xiMe, put in the above, 
COMT it wilh pull [Kiste, and set it to bake | 
in a j-liw oven. 

VEAL FORCEMEAT. Of undressed 
lean veal (after you have scraped it quite 
fine, and free from skin and sinews), two 
:iie same quantity of beef or veal 
suet, and the same of bread cnimlhi; chop 
fine two drachms of parsley, one of lemon- 
peel, one of sweet herbs, one of onion, and 
half a drachm of mace, or all.-pice, beaten to 
fine powder; |x>und all together in a mortar; 
break into it the yolk and white of an egg; 
rub it all up well lordlier, and mason it with 
a little |jop|n-r and .-alt. Tin- may U- made 
more savory by the addition of cold tailed 
pickled tongue, anchovy, eschalot, cayenne 
t>r curry powder, &c. 

VEAL.FRICANDEAU. (1) Cut a piece 

of veal from llie leg, the same in width and 
depth, and about eight inches in length. 
Make a hole in the under part, and fill it 
with forcemeat; sew it up, lard the lop and 
sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Put into a sauce- 
pan some slices of undressed mutton, three 
onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of 
sweet heilw, an 1 a ijiiart of good stock ; put 
in the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew for three hours. Take out tl)e veal, 
train the ijr.ivv, and take off all the fat; 
add a lal.le-spooriful of lemon pickle, and 
three of white wine; Ixiil it quirk toa glase; 
keep the li : an : m "ver hot water and cov- 
ered, then claw it, and serve with the rest 
20* 



of the glaze poured round it, and sorrel sauce, 
in a sauce tureen. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (2) Cut some 
slices of veal, lard them all through, and put 
them into a saucepan with some wh 
and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace 
and pep|XT. {Stew them gently an hour and 
a half; take lliem out, strain the :;tav\, and 
take off all the fat; boil it up quickly, lay in 
the frit-andean, and stew them till the liquor 
Incomes like a brown jelly; lake care they 
do not bum. Scald in Imiling water three 
handfub of sorrel, chop it, take out the meat, 
and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and 
serve the fi icandeau upon it. 

\T.\I.. riMCANDEAU. (3) Chop very 
finelv one pound of the lean of a loin of veal, 
and half a pound of the kidney fat; season 
it with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, the 
juice of one lemon, and a finely-shred an- 
chovy. Soak, in boiling milk, two rusks, 
or biscuits, and mix it all well together; 
make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry 
iliem of a light brown, in butter, then stew 
them in some highly-ieasoned gravy, dish 
them carefully, and strain the gravy over 
tin-in, (iarnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (4) Take the 
round or part of tlie round of a fillet^ fry it 
in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cut 
in dices, and a little garlic, then set il to 
stew in some very rich gravy or cullis: when 
lender, t.ike it out, thicken the gravv with 
flour, add a little lemon-juice, and* serve 
this sauce over the veal. 

VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remain 
of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, 
round piece*; dip these into a good batter, 
and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When 
done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve 
them. 

VEAL, HASHED OR MINCED. To 
make a hash cut the meat into slices; to 
.,in. -i. I \cal, mince it as fine as 
pos.-ihlo (do not chop it); put il into a stew- 
pan with a few sp lonfuls of veal or mutton 
broth, or make some with the bones and 
trimmings, as ordered for veal outlets, a little 
boon-pad minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream; thicken with luitter and flour, and 
season it with salt, a labk--s|x M infill of lemon 
pickle, or Kne\\ wine, or a pinch of curry 
powder. 

If you have no cream, beat up the yolks 
of a couple of e;",-s with a little milk: line 
the dish with sip|<otsof lightly toasted bread. 

Mi'.iced veal makes a very pretty dish put 
into scollop shells, and bread crumbed over, 



VEAL 



234 



VEAL 



and sprinkled with a little Imtter, and brown- 
ed in a Duicli ovgn, or a cheese-toaster. 

VEAL, KEBOBBED. Cut into thin 
bits the size of a crown-piece some lean veal ; 
season them with tnmeric, |>epper, and sail. 
Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic: 
put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, 
together with thin bits of pickled pork. Fry 
them brown with butler, and garnish with 
plenty of fi ied parsley. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, RAGOUT. Cut 

a knuckle of veal into slices about half an 
inch thick; pep|>er, .salt, and flour them; 
fry them a light brown ; put the trimmings 
into a stewpan, with the done broke in sev- 
eral places; an onion sliced, a head of cele- 
ry, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two blades 
of bruised mace: pour in warm water enough 
to cover them about an inch; cover the pot 
close, and let it stew very gently for a couple 
of hours; drain it, and then thicken it with 
flour and butter ; put in a spoonful of ketch- 
up, a glass of ( wine, and juice of half a lemon ; 
give it a boil up, and strain into a clean 
stewpan ; put in the meat, make it hot, 
and serve up. 

Obs. If celery is not to be had, use a 
carrot instead or flavor it with celery seed. 

VEAL KNUCKLE, STEWED WITH 
RICE. As boiled knuckle of veal cold is 
not a very favorite relish with the generality, 
cut off some steaks from it, which you may 
dress as in the foregoing receipt, and leave 
the knuckle no larger than will be eaten the 
day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, 
wash it clean, and put it in a large stewpan 
with two quarts of water, an onion, two 
blades of mace, and a tea-s|>oonful of sail : 
set it on a quick fire ; when it boils, take 
off all the scum. Wash and pick a quarter 
of a pound of rice; put it into the slewpan 
with the meat, and let it stew very gently 
for about two hours: put the meat, &c. in a 
deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up 
lcon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely 
minced parsley and butter. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, SOUP. A knuckle 
of veal of six pounds, weight, will make a 
large tureen of excellent soup, and is thus 
easily prepared: cut half a pound of bacon 
into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at 
the bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep siewpan, 
and on this place the knuckle of veal, having 
first chopped the bone in two or three places 
furnish it with two carrots, two turnips, a 
head of celery, two large onions, with two 
or three cloves stuck in one of tho.:n, :i doy.cn 
corns of black, and the same of Jamaica 
pepper, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, 
winter savory, and parsley. Just cover the 



meat with cold water, and set it over a quick 
fire till it boils; having skimmed it well, 
remove your soup-kettle to the side of tl>e 
fire ; let il stew very gently till it is quite 
tender, i. e. alxnit four hours ; then take out 
the bacon and veal, strain the soup, and set 
it by in a cool place till yon want it. when 
yon must take off the fat from the surface of 
your liquor, and decant it (keeping back the 
settlings at the bottom) into a clean pan. 

If you like a thickened .soup, put three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of the fat von have laken off the 
soup into a small steu ( >.tn, and mix it with 
four table-spoonfuls of tlour, pour a ladleful 
of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by de- 
grees, and boil it up till it is smooth. 

Cut the meat and gristle of the knuckle 
and the bacon into mouthftils, and put them 
into the soup, and let them get warm. 

You may make this more savory by ad- 
ding ketchup, &c. Shin of beef may be 
dressed in the same way; see Knuckle of 
Veal stewed with Rice. 

VEAL LEG IN SURPRISE. Lard 
the veal with slips of bacon, and a little 
lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stuffing the 
same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it 
half a pint of oysters chopped small, and 
.stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew 
with just sufficient water to cover it; let it 
stew very gently till quite tender; then take 
it up; skim off the fat from the liquor, 
and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom 
ketchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine, half 
a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit 
of butler rolled in Hour; let this sauce thick 
en over the fire, and serve it over the veal ; 
garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in 
butter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted 
bacon. 

VEAL, MINCED. Cut thin slices of 
lean cold veal; mince them verv finely with 
a knife, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; put it into a sauce- 
pan, with a little while stock or water, a 
table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little 
mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let 
it boil; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little milk or cream; put all round 
the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a 
three-cornered shape; or cover the mince 
thickly with grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown 
it with a salamander; or serve with poached 
eggs laid upon the top. 

VEAL OLIVES. Cut thin slices off a 
fillet, and flatten them with a roller; season 
them highly will) pepper, mace, salt, and 
grated lemon-peel; put a bit of fat into each 
roll, and tie them with a thread. Fry them 
of a light brown, and stew them in some 



VEAL 



235 



VEAL 



white stock with two dozen of fried oysters, 
a glass of white wine, a table-spoonful of 
lemon pickle and some small mushroom*. 
Stew ilicin nearly an hour; take off the 
threads befiire serving. 

Beef olives may be dressed in the same 
way. 

VEAL PATTIES. Mince some under- 
ilone veal with a little parsley, one or two 

sai.'f leave-, ;i MTV little onion ; season with 
grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pep|>cr, and salt ; 
add some Dialed lean ham or tongue, moisten 
it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put 
it into the patties. 

VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Chop 
alxiiit six ounces of ready-dressed lean veal, 
and three ounces of ham very small; put it 
into a stew pan with an ounce of butter roll- 
ed into riiinr, half a ^'ill of cream; half a 
(ill of veal -t..ek ; a little grated mi' 
HDOO-fWel, SOUK' e 'venne pepper and salt, a 
.|Xhiiitiil of essence of ham and lemon-juice, 
and stir it over the fire sometime, taking 
care it does not burn. 

VKU, AM) HAM PIE. Take two 
pounds of veal ciulels, cut them in middling- 
sized pi. . iih [M'pper and a very 

f law or dressed 

ham cut in slii -, l.iv ii alternately in the 
dish, ami put some forced or sausage meat 
,i, with some stewed button mu-h- 
rooins, and tin- \olks of three eggs boiled 
liard, ami a u'lll of water; then proceed as 
with rump-sleak pir. 

N. 1!. The I >est end of a neck i* the fine 
part lor a pie, cut into clio|xs, and the chine 
bone taken aw.ij . 

Vi: \L PIE. (1) Cut a neck of veal into 
neat steaks, season them well with white 
pepper, salt, mace, and grated n'ltmcg mix- 
ed ; park them closely into a dish, and put 
in hall' a pint of white stock; live haid-l>oi!- 
6(1 yolks of ejjgs may In- added; put [Miff 
paste mi the edge of the ili.-h, and cover with 
the same. Laml>s' Mi's may be made into a 
pie, w iiii lamb chops seasoned in the same 

VI. \I, PIE. (2) Cut into steaks a 
loin or hrea-t of v. -,d. season them highly 
with pep|N-r, sail, grated nutmeg, m 
a little lemon-p-el mix"d; lay them into 
the Ixittom of a di-ii, and then n few slices 
of sweetbread* seasoned with tin- spiei; 
add Sume oyster.-, forcemeat lull-, and hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs half a pint of while 
Mock, a glass of while wine, and a table- 
spoon fu I <f lemon | irklc; put pntF paste on 
the edge of the dish, ami rover with l]>e 
same; buke it for one h m . 



VEAL PIE. (3) Chop, but not very 
small, the meat of a cold loin of veal, season 
it with minced parsley, pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-|>ecl, and nutmeg; add rather more 
than half a pint of stock made with the 
bones, thickened with a bit of butter rolled 
' in flour, and seasoned with a tea-spoonful 
of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonful of 
while wine; make a paste of the fat of the 
loin, and an e<]iial quantity of tlour, rub it 
together, and mix with it a little cold writer, 
roll it out two or three times, line the sides 
of the dish, put in the meat, and cover it. 

VEAL PIE, SOLID. Stew in veal 
stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a 
jelly, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the 
gristles adhering to it; let it cool, and then 
pull the meat and gristles into small bita; 
Imttcr a pie dish or shape, and lay at regular 
distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
and some of the white part cut into rin^s 
or strips; then put over some bits of tin; 
meat and gristle, and strew over it some 
pep|>er, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, and 
a little of the gravy, and then more < 
with small bits of beet root, green pkl 
and tl>e red part of a carrot cut to fancy; 
add more meal seasoning, and all tlie gravy; 
when tlie shape is full, put it into an oven 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold 
turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a 
glazed appearance, and the variety of col- 
ors look well by candle light. 

VEAL, POTTED. Cut slices off a teg 
of veal, and season them with pcp|>er, pound- 
ed mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices 
of fiesh butter l>etween each layer of meat 
into a potting pan or jar; cover it closely, 
and liake it with bread. When it is cold, 
|H>nnd the meat in a marble mortar, (Kick it 
into a jar, and pour clarified butter 
over it. 



VEAL, COLD, A\ EXCELLENT 

U \< ;< M'T. Either a neck, loin, or fillet of 
veal, will furnish this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the veal into handsome cutlets ; put 
a piece of tauter or clean dripping into a 
i! \ I'M-pan ; as soon as it is hot, Hour and 
Ii v the veal of a light brown: take it out, 
and if you have no i;ia\\ n-ady, make some 
as directed under sauces, or put a pint of 
boiling water into the frying-pan, give it a 
boil up tor a minute, and strain it into a 
basin while yon make some thickening in 
the follow ing manner: put about an ounce 
of butter into a stew pan; as soon as it nielis, 
mix with it .1- nmrli (lour as will dry it up; 
stir it over the fiie for a few minutes, and 
gradually add to it the gravy yon made in 
tlie living-pan; let them simmer together 



VEAL 



236 



VEG 



for ten minutes (till thoroughly incorjxirat- 
ed) ; season it with pep|>er, salt, a little 
mace, and a wine-glassful of mushroom 
ketchup or wine; strain it through a tarnis 
to the meat, and stew very gently till the 
meat is thoroughly wanned. If you have 
any ready-boiled bacon, cut it in slices, and 
put it in to warm with the meat. 

VEAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of 
veal, and spread over it a rich and highly- 
seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled 
eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay 
them in rows, with green pickles between 
each row. Roll up the veal tightly, and 
sew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it 
with tape. Lay a slice of ham over it, and 
put it into a saucepan, together with some 
strong stock, and a little whole pepper, and 
etew it for three hours. Make a rich gru- 
vy, and boil it up with a little white wine 
and lemon-juice or lemon-pickle; po ir it 
over the veal ; add some egg and forcemeat 
balls, and garnish with cut green pickles. 
Thi- dish is very good when cold. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quan- 
tities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful 
of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar, and season well with pepper and 
salt ; when wanted for use, roll and fry it, 
and serve either with fried sippets, or on 
stewed vegetables, or white collops. 

VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a 
fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and give them a 
few turns in a little butter, with a bay leaf. 
Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a very 
thin slice of bacon, and on it one of the 
slices of veal, and continue to lay them in 
alternately, until the whole are used, then 
add a glass of water and some bay leaves ; 
close the saucejian very tight, first putting 
a sheet of pajier over the meat ; stew it on 
hot ashes for four or five hours; take care 
to keep the fire up to the same point all the 
time. 

VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and 
some lean ham into pieces, put them into 
a saucepan, with a quart of water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, Iccks, and celery; 
stew them down till nearly done, but do not 
let it color; then add a sufficient quantity 
of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and 
let it boil for an hour; skim olT all the fat, 
and strain it ; a little game slewed down 
with the above will greatly improve the fla- 
vor; be particularly careful that it does not 
burn. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 
Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three 



minules in a stevvpan of water, with a little 
salt, three Iwart sweetbreads, then tiikethem 
out, and put them into a basin of cold water 
till cool ; have an egg beat up in a di.-h, some 
bread cruml>s, and clarified butter, run a 
skewer through the sweetbread*, and fasten 
them on the spit; egg them all over, shake 
some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread crumbs 
again; put them down to roast again for a 
quarter of an hour, then take them off the 
skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little 
butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful c.f yravy, 
a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lernon- 
juice; let it be hot, but not lx>iling, and 
thin oughly well mixed before it is served 
under the sweetbreads. 

VEGETABLES. There is nothing in 
which the difference between an elegant and 
an ordinary table is more wen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more especially greens. 
They may be equally as fine at first, at one 
place as at another; but their look and 
taste are afterward very different, entirely 
from the careless way in which they have 
been cooked. 

They are in greatest perfection when in 
greatest plenty, i. e. when in (iill soa.-oti. 

By season, I do not mean those early days, 
that luxury in the buyers, and aval ice in tho 
sellers, force . the vegetables; but that time 
of the year in which by nature and common 
culture, and the mere operation of the sun 
and climate, they are in most plenty and 
perfection. 

As to the quality of vegetables, the middle 
size are preferred to the largest or the small- 
est; they are more tender, juicy, and full 
of flavor, just before thev are quite full-grown. 
Freshness is their chief value and excellence, 
and I should as stwn think of roasting an 
animal alive, as of boiling a vegetable after 
it is dead. 

The eye easily discovers if they have been 
kept too long ; they soon lose their beauty in 
all respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, &c. and the various 
productions of the garden, when first gather- 
ed, are plump and firm, and have a fragrant 
freshness no art can give them again, \\ eu 
thev have lost it by long keeping; ii 
will refresh them a little to put them into 
cold spring water for sometime before they 
are dressed. 

To boil them in soft water will preserve 
the color best of such as are green; if you 
have only hard water, put to it a tea-spoon- 
fnl of carbonate of potash. ' 

Take care to wash and cleanse them 
thoroughly from dust, dirt, and insects: this 
requires great attention. Pick off all the 
outside leaves, trim them nicely, and, if not 
quite fresh gathered and have become flaccid, 



VE G 



237 



VEG 



it is absolutely necessary to restore their 
- before cooking tlietn, or they will 
be ton^h and unpleasant: l;iy them in a pan 
of clean water. x\illi a handful of salt in it, 
for an hour before \mi dress tlx-ni. 

They should always l*> Ixiiled in a sauce- 
jn by themselves, and have plents <!' water; 
if moat is boiled with them in I hi/ same pot, 
they will spoil ihr look and teate of each other. 

It' you wish to have vegetables delicately 
cli an, put on \our |)ot, make it Ixiil, put a 
little salt in il, anil skim it |x-ileetU clean 
Ijefore you put in the green<, ^r.; which 
should not lie put in till the water Ixiils brisk- 
ly: the quicker they lioil, the livelier they 
will l>c. When thevcgetable< sink, tJley are 
generally done enough, if tin- water lias been 
kept constantly Ixiiliiiij. Take them up im- 
mediately, or liny will lose their color and 
goodness. Drain the water from them 
thoroughly before you send them to table. 

This branch of cookery requires the most 
vigilant alien! ion. 

If vegetables are a minute or two too long 
over the (ire, they lose all their beauty and 
flavor. 

If not thoroughly boiled tender, they are 
tremendously indigestible, and much more 
troublesome diirii.ir their residence in the 
Btomach, than under-done meats. 

Once for all, take care your vegetables 
are fre-h: lor as the fishmonger often suffers 
for the gins of tlie rook, so (he cook often 
gets undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green -grocer. 

Stroii.- _ . tables should be kept 

apart; leeks, or celery, laid among cauli- 
flowers, kc. will quickly s|x>il them. 

Succulent vegetables are best preserved in 
a cool, shady, and damp plape. 

Potatoes, turnijw, carrots, ami similar 
root-;, intended to U: stored up, should never 
l)e cleaned from the earth adhering to them, 
till they are to be dressed. 

They must be protected from the action 
of the air ami frost, by laving them in heaps, 
l)ur\ini; them in -and or earth, &c., or cov- 
ering them with str.iw or mats. 

When vegetable* are quite fresh gathered, 
they will ii"i require so much boiling, by at 
least a third of the time, aa wlien they have 
been gathered the usual time of those that 
arc brought to public markets. 

Vegetables are always best wlien newly 
gathered, and should be brought in from the 
garden early in the morning; they will then 
have a fragrant freshnov, which they lose by 

keeping. 

Tin \ must be cleaned with tlie greatest 
care, tiie outside leaves of ever)- description 
of greens removed, and they, and all* other 
vegetables, more nrtieularK when not re- 
cently gathered, should lie laid for several 
Uotirs in cold water, and well shaken to 



throw out the insects. A ten-spoonful of 
salt should always ! put into the water in 
which they are to be boiled, and if it is hard, 
a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or (mtash, 
may be added to preserve tlie green color of 
the vegetables. 

All vegetables should be boiled quickly, 
and, with the exception of spinach, in an 
open vessel, skimming them carefully. 

Kitchen u'nrns should be kept in a cool 
and shady place. Potatoes, carrot?, turnips, 
and beet root should be stored up, without 
being cleaned from the earth adhering to 
them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and 
covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and 
skirrets not being injured by frost, are gen- 
erally left in tlie ground, and taken up aa 
wanted. Onions are stored in a warm, dry 
place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes 
strung in bunches, and suspended from the 
roof, and, more effectually to prevent tlieir 
growing, some people select the finest bulbs, 
and singe tlie roots with a hot iron. 

Herbs of all sorts should be gatliered when 
in flower, ami on a dry day, and being well 
cleaned from dust and dirt, tliey are tied up 
in small bunches, and dried before tlie fire in 
a Dutch oven. They may then be kept in 
paper bags labelled ; or rubbed to a powder, 
sifted, and put into bottles. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. The fla- 
vor of tho various sweet and savory herbs 
may be obtained by combining their essen- 
tial oils with rectified spirit of wine, in the 
proportion of one drachm of the former to 
two ounces of the latter, or by picking the 
leaves, and laying them for a couple of 
hoars in a warm place to dry, and then fill-, 
ing a large-mouthed bottle with them, and! 
pouring on them wine, brandy, proof spirit, 
or vinegar, and letting them steep for four- 
teen da\s. 

VEGETABLE MARROW, IB fit for 

use when about the size of a turkey's egg. 
After being washed clean, it is put on in 
boiling water, with a little salt, and when 
tender, it is drained from the water, rut into 
half, and served on toasted bread, over 
which some melted butter has been poured. 
Or, after being boiled in milk and water, 
they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, or stewed like cucumbers. 

VEGETABLES STEW. Pick and 
wash very clean as much spinach as wifl 
make a tlish ; mince finely three small on- 
ions, pick and el nip two handful* of parsley; 
put all into a saucepan, with rather more 
than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butter 
dusted with lloiir, a little salt and pepper. 
< 'i.\rr the pan closely, stir it now and then, 
and when the spinach ' tender, mash it 



VEN 



238 



VEN 



smooth, serve it with slices of broiled ham, 
or with sausages. 

VELOUTE. Take the cuttings and re- 
mains of any joints of veal and fowl you 
maj have in the house, of which take four 
pounds, and put into a large stewpan, with 
some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, 
three I>ay-leave8, three cloves, and a ladle- 
fol of stock; put your stewpan on a fierce 
fire, skim it well, and take care that the 
meat docs not stick; when sufficiently re- 
duced, add as much stock as will nearly fill 
the stewpan, salt it well; give it a noil, 
skim it, and then put it on the side of the 
fire to simmer for two hours; after which 
strain it through a tammy. Make a white 
rottx, stir into it for ten minutes a few 
champignons, then pour on it, a little at a 
time, the ubove liquor; let it boil up once, 
skim it, and set it again by the side of the 
fire lor an hour and a half: take off all the 
fat, str.iin it again, and then out it by for 
use. Take care that the veloute is not in 
the least colored, as, the whiter it is the 
better. 

VENISON. The choice of venison 
should be regulated by the appearance of 
the fat, which, when the venison is young, 
looks thick, clear, and close; as it begins 
to change first towards the haunches, run a 
knife into that part; if tainto! \on will 
perceive a rank smell, and it will have a 
green or blackish appearance. 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by 
careful management and watching, keep it 
fora fortnight by the following method: wash 
it well with milk and water very clean, and 
dry it pei fectly with cloths until there is not 
the Ic'a.-t damp remaining, then dust pound- 
ed ginger over every part ; this is a good 
preventive against the fly. When to be 
dressed, wash it with a little lukewarm 
water, and dry it. Pepper should also be 
added to keep it. 

VENISON COLLOPS. These are 

dressed in the same manner as mince col- 
lops of beef, only that, in place of the sea- 
soning of tlie collops of beef, they have a 
little pepper, salt, and some Port wine. 

VENISON, HASHED. (1) If yon have 
enough of its own gravy left, it is preferable 
to any to warm it up in : if not, take some 
of the mutton gravy, or the lx>nes and trim- 
mings of the joint (after you have cut off all 
the handsome slices you can to make the 
hash) ; put these into some water, and stew 
them gently for an hour; then put some but- 
ter into a stewpan; when melted, put to it 
us much flour as will dry up the butter, and 
Btjr it well together; add to it by degrees 



tlie gravy yon have been making of the trim- 
mings, and some red currant jelly ; give k a 
lioil up; skim it; strain it through a sieve, 
and it is ready to receive the venison: put it 
in, and let it just get warm: if you let it 
boil, it will make the meat hard. 

VENISON, HASHED. (2) Warm it 
in its own gravy; if there is no fat left, take 
some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire 
with a little Port wine and sugar, and let it 
simmer till dry; then add it to the hash. 

VENISON, HASHED. (3) Takesome 

anchovies, boil them till they are dissolved, 
then add some oysters with their liquor, a 
little milk, some red wine, and a little ketch- 
up; put in your venison, let it warm in this, 
but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried 
sippets, and the sauce &c. over it. 

VENISON, MOCK. Hang up, for 
several days, a large fat loin of mutton ; then 
bone it, and take off all the kidney fat, and 
the skin from the upper fat; mix together 
two ounces of brown sugar, and one ounce 
of ground black pepper. Rub it well into 
the mutton ; pour over it two or three wine- 
glasses of Port wine; keep it covered with 
the skin; rub and turn it daily for five days. 
When to be roasted, cover it with the skin, 
and paper it the same way as venison is 
dono Aorvo it u-ith made gravy, and the 
same sauces as for venison. 

VENISON PASTY. (1) Cut a neck or 
breast into small steaks, nib them over with 
a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; fry them slightly in butter; 
line the sides and edges of a dish with puff 
paste, lay in the steaks, and add half a pint 
of rich gravy made with the trimmings of 
the venison ; add a glass of Port wine, and 
the juice of half a lemon, or tea-spoonful of 
vinegar; cover the dish with puff paste, and 
bake it nearly two hours; some more gravy 
may be poured into the pie before serving it. 

VENISON PASTY. (2) Trfke a neck, 
shoulder, or breast of venison, that has not 
hung too long; bone them, trim off all the 
skin, and cut it into pieces two inches square, 
and put them into a stewpan, with three 
gilla of Port wine, two onions, or a few 
eschalots sliced; some pepper, salt, three 
blades of in, ice, about a dozen allspice, and 
enough veal broth to cover it; put it over a 
glow fire, and let it stew till three parts done; 
put the trimmings into another saucepan, 
cover it will) water, and set it on a fire. 
Take ait the pieces yon intend for the pasty, 
ami put them into a deep dish with a little 
of their liquor, and set it by to cool ; then 
add the remainder of the liquor to the bones 



VER 



239 



VIN 



and trimmings, and Ixiil it till the party is 
ready; then cover (Ire pasty with paste, orna- 
mpnt the top, anil bake it lor two houis in a 
slow oven; and before it is sent to table, 
pour in a ,-ance inadi; with tl>e giavy tlie^ 
venison was slewed in, strained and skimmed 
free from fat; some pepper, salt, half a gill 
of Port, (In- juice oflialf a lemon, and a little 
flour and butler to tliirken it. 

\IMS()\ FIE OR PASTY. All 

kinds of UK MI intended t' pies and pasties 
must lie highly spiced when served hot, and 
still more highly spiced when served cold; | 
but the seasoning must be regulated by judg- 
ment and taste. Take one or two breasts 
of venison, (.iccording to the size you wish 
to make your pie or pa-ty ), bone it thorough- 
ly, l>cai it v- i\ lint, aiul lard it through and 
through with lardona, well seasoned witli all 
sorts of spires, anI svv eet hell is finely chop- 
ped; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie 
it up w ilh strong twine. Put into a stewpan 
the bones and trimmings of the venison, w ith 
can of.-. .-|,,ve of gai li.-, 

thyme, bay -leaf, |jep|'i -corns, and allspice, 
and let all >tcvi till nearl\ dry ; fill it up with 
equal qua nl! lie- ol ' I !' . >i mutton biaise, and 
water, which !e' l...il very gently till done, 
then put in the roll i>f vm-i>n ; put paper on 
tlie top, cover veiy clo.-c, and let it Mew 
gently with (ire over and under. When 
sufficiently done, take it off the lire, and lei 
it stand in tlie liquor until neailv cold; then 
pre|>are a plain paste of lour pounds of lloni to 
one pound of butter, the same as for i 
pie, but instead of making it stiff, mix it as 
soft as possible; lay part of this paste as 
thick as yon well can round the edge of the 
dish; cut off the. twine from tlie venison, 
ckin, and lay it in tlie dish, and pour - 
of the gravy it h;ui stewed in; put on the 
cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in 
the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in 
a moderate oven fir three or four honis; 
reduce tlie remainder of the liquor it waa 
slewed in, and when the pie is baked, |>onr 
it in; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely 
be made too thick. 

VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S Blanch 
bout a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in 
boiling water, drain it, and throw it into 
Rome rich well-eeaaoncd stock ; when lender, 
take it out of the soup, ami put it into the 
tureen; thicken the sonp with eight well- 
beaten e-;<, mixed with half a pint of cream. 
ami pour it, wlwa ij'iite hot, upon the \- 



V HUM l< T.I.LI IN MILK. Boil the 
quantity ol milk yon may require, and put 
into it half a pound of vermicelli peeled, and 
sufficient quantity of sugar ; stir it frequent- 



ly that the vermicelli may not form a paste: 
half an hour will be long enough to boil it. 
A little almond milk may be added when 
ready for table. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (1) Boil 

a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a 
little cinnamon, in a quart of milk; in the 
meantime mix a quarter of a pound of melt- 
ed butter w ith a pint of cream, and the yolks 
of four eggs; pour in the vermicelli when 
quite soft ; add a little flour and lieef mar- 
row, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat alt 
up for half an hour, tie it in a Homed cloth, 
and boil it. 

/VERMICELLI PUDDING. (2) Boil 

four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new 
milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two 
of cinnamon. Then add half a pint of thick 
cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
quarter ol a pound of sugar, and the yolks 
of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the 
above in a dish and bake. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. Take as much 
good stock as yon require for your tureen, 
strain, and set it on the fire, and when it 
boils, put in the vermicelli, and let it simmer 
for half an hour by a .-low tire, that tlie ver- 
micelli may not IIIIIM; the soup ought not to 
l>e \e. \ iliirk. Half a pound is sufficient 
for eight or ten persons. 

VINEGAR. Thisisan acid liquor.pre- 
pared by a second fermentation from various 
liquois. such as wine, cider, perry, beer, 
mead, skimmed milk, &c. But tin; most 
common method of making it, in England, 
is from malt, and the process is as follows: 
infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an 
hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. 
Aa Koon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, 
put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and 
leave it to ferment for lour or five days ; after 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a room 
healed w ith stoves, so that a moderate warmth 
may be kept up for six weeks, and the fer- 
mentation continue regularly. By tlie end 
of that time the whole will be completely 
."onred. am! must now be changed into other 
barrels; lay a tile on tlie bung-holes to keep 
out tlie wet, but not so do-e as to prevent a 
free circulation of air, and then place them 
in (he open air for four or five months, ac- 
cording as the weatlieris warmorotlierwise; 
during the whole of this period, the fermenta- 
tion proceeds, and at tlie end, the vinegar is 
nearlv done. The next operation is this: the 
vinegar is poured into large vessels, called 
rapetuns, to which tliere are false bottoms cov- 
ered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, 
or oilier fruit, from which wine has been 
made; fill one of these tuns entirely with 



VIN 



240 



VIN 



the vinegar, and another about tliree-fourtlis 
full, and every day take a portion of the 
liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into 
the other, until the vineg:ir is in a lit stale to 
be drawn off; when it must be closely bar- 
relled. 

Vinegar may also he made in much smaller 
quantities for domestic purposes; (lie mate- 
rials of various kinds, with the addition of 
sugar; raisins, currants, and ripe goose- 
berries, however, are the principal ; some- 
times it is made from brown sugar, and wa- 
ter alone. The proportions are the same as 
those necessary for strong wine; make the 
barrel about three-fourths full, add a toast 
covered with yeast, put in the bung very 
loosely, and place the barrel where it will 
be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, 
near the fire. The fermentation should be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a 
boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle 
it. 

Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mixing 
with the latter its own dowers, or ferment, 
and its tartar reduced to powder, and put 
into a vinegar or any other cask ; if the 
latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, 
full (if the steam from vinegar; in either case 
the liquor should lie stirred frequently ; the 
second fermentation will s|>eedily commence; 
it will become heated, and turn acid by de- 
grees, and in a short time the vinegar will 
be produced. 

It is commonly supposed that wine which 
has become acid, will produce excellent vin- 
egar ; this, however, is a mistaken idea, for 
die stronger and better the quality of the 
wine, the stronger and better will be the 
vinegar. 

The French have several methods of mak- 
ing vinegar, which are subjoined. 

Tlie vinegar makers of Orleans pour the 
wine, of which they intend to make their 
vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which 
are close gratings of lime twigs; these serve 
to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to 
the twigs, leave the liquor perfectly clear. 
They then procure a number of casks, each 
containing a hundred gallons, either new or 
which have previously contained vinegar; 
these are set upright, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, 
these are kept constantly open : tlie last men- 
tioned casks are called Mothers; pour into 
all of them twenty-live gallons of boiling 
vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add 
three gallons of wine, drawn from tlte first 
mentioned casks; continue to add tlsc -.vine, 
at intervals of a week, until the Mothers 
are quite full ; then leave them for a fortnight, 
and at the end of which period they generally 
draw off the vinegar, taking care always to 
leave the Mothers half full, at least, and 



then to fill them with wine as before. The 
method of proving when the vinegar is fit for 
use, is, by plunging a stave into it; if on 
taking it out, a white line is (XTceptible on 
the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. 
The place where the casks are kept should 
be very airy, and in the winter lime, by 
means of stoves tlie temperature should be 
raised to eighteen degrees of Reaumur. 

Paris vinegar varies from the above, and 
the process is veiy simple. A large quantity 
of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and 
laid in tubs, which are placed one upon an- 
other to form a kind of press; by means of 
a screw, every drop of wine is gradually 
squeezed from the lees ; thisoperat ion cannot 
U- |XTlormc<l in less time than a \\cck. The 
wine thus extracted is put into casks; in 
the headings a hole is made, as above, which 
holes are left constantly open; in summer 
time the casks so filled are placed in the sun, 
and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit 
for use in a fortniglrt. In the winter, tlie 
fermentation will last double the time, and 
must be assisted by artificial warmth. It 
sometimes happens that the liquor heats to 
so great a degree that tlie hand cannot be 
borne in it ; in this case, the progress of 
the fermentation must be checked by adding 
more wine, until it proceeds more regularly. 
When the vinegar is made, put it into casks, 
which have the beech twigs at the bottom, 
as above mentioned; let it remain a fort- 
night, by which time it will lie sufficiently 
fermented to draw off into the casks for 
keeping it. 

Another very simple method is also prac- 
tLed in France; a few quarts are drawn 
from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an 
equal quantity of very clear white wine is 
put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, 
and keep it in a place where the heat is 
moderate and regular. In a month's time 
draw off the same quantity as alxjve, and 
pour in an equal portion of white wine. A 
barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a 
constant supply for a length of time without 
leaving the slightest deposit. 

A cask which has not contained vinegar 
before, should have a quart of boiling hot 
vinegar poured into it, shaken till cold, and 
allowed to stand for some hours. 

VINEGAR, BASIL. Sweet basil is in 
full perfection about the middle of August. 
Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the fresh 
green leaves of basil (these give much finer 
and more flavor than tlie dried,) and cover 
:!i. .M with vinegar, or wine, and let them 
steep for ten days: if yon wish a very strong 
essence, strain the liquor, put it on some 
fresh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days 
more. 

Obs. This U a very agreeable addition 



VIN 



241 



VIN 



to sauces, soups, and to die mixture usually 
made fur salads. 

It is a secret the makers of inock turtle 

may tliank us for telling; a table-spoonful 
put" in when the soup is finished will impreg- 
nate a tureen of soup with the basil aod acid 
flavors, at very -mall cost, when fresh basil 
and lemons art: extravagantly dear. 

The flavor of the other sweet and savory 
herbs, celery, &<:. uiay be procured, and pre- 
served in the -a.ne. manner by infusing them 
in wine or \ ine^ar. 

VINEGAR, AMERICAN. Boil six 
gallons of water, and add, while it is hot, 
four quarts of molasses ; put it into a tub to 
cool; when milk warm, stir in a pint of 
i-t ; put it into the cask, and set it 
by the lire lor twenty-fair hours; then put 
it in ilx' sun, uiih a bottle in the bong-hole. 
Botlle it three months afterwards. 

VINEGAR, m'RNET OR CUCUM- 
BER. This is made in precisely lli .-ame 
manner as dint-ted alxive. The flavor of 
buriK-l resembles cucumber so exactly, that 
when infused in vinegar, the nicest palate 

would prom << it to Ix- cucimiljcr. This 

is a \eiy favorite relish with cold meat, sal- 
ads, &c, 

VINE:;\i;. C\MP. Cayenne pepper, 

one (irachin, avohdnjxiis weight. Soy, two 
tahle-^ponnfuls. Walnut krti-hnp, four ditto. 
Six anchovies ehop|x-d. A small <-|o\c of 
garlic, minrrd line. Steep all for a month 
in a pint of lln- IK-SI vinegar, frequently shak- 
ing tin- linllli-: strain through it tamis, and 
keep ii in small bottles, corked as tightly as 
ptMBibie. 

\ [NEC \i:. CHILI. This 'a commonly 

made uiih tlii- foreign bird pepper; but you 
will obtain ,i mrirh liner flavor from inlhsing 
n-d English Chilies (cut in half, or 
pounded) in a pint of the Ix-sl vin. 

. or ;i (jiiai tel of an ounce of avenue 
|H-ppcr. Many people caniiot eat (i>ll with- 
out the addition of an acid unit cayenne 
pep|x-r: to -:i.-li palates this will be an 
agreeable' relish 

. \II, CRESS. Dry and pound 
hall an ounce of cress-M-cd (such as is sown 

VM with mn-lard,) |XMir ii|> .a il a 
)ii:ut of i IK- I . 

tiavs. >li.<Uin;r it up evei y il.iy. 'I'. 
strongly ll.ivon.tl with cn-.-s; and I 

meals, &c. it is u great favorite 
v\ith many . 

Celery vinegar is made in the same 

Vl\Ei;\|{, ELDER FLOWER AND 
21 



TARRAGON. Fill a quart bottle with 
llie flowers of elder, or the leaves of tarragon, 
when it is in flower; pour vinegar upon 
t'eni, and let them infuse for a fortnight; 
then strain it through a flannel bag, and put 
it into small bottles. By the same meaiiv, 
vinegar may be flavored with the fresh gath- 
ered leaves of any sweet herb. 

VINEGAR, GARLIC. Cut small one 

ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nutmeg 
and diree cloves, steep them in a quart of 
vinegar for a week, shaking it daily ; then 
strain and bottle it. Shallot vinegar is made 
in the same manner. 

VINEGAR, GOOSEBERRY. Gather 
yellow gooseberries when quite ripe, crush 
and mash them well in a tub with a large 
wooden pestle; to every two gallons of 
gooseberries, after being mashed, put two of 
water; mix them well together; let it work 
for three weeks, stirring the ma.-s two or 
three times each day; then strain the liquor 
through a hair sieve, and put to every gallon 
one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
treacle, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast; 
let it work lor three or four days in the same 
tub, which has l>een well wasln*! ; then run 
it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand 
twelve months, and bottle it for use. This 
is a very strong vinegar. 

VINEGAR, HONEY. Half a pound 
of honey must be put to a pint of wa- 
ter, and the honey well dissolved. This 
mixture is then exposed to tlie greatest heat 
of (he Min, without closing wholly tlie bung- 
hole of the c;isk, which must be merely cover- 
ed with coarse linen, to prevent the admission 
of insects. In alxmt six weeks, the liquor 
becomes acid, and changes to a very strong 
vinegar, and of excellent quality. 

VINEGAR, HORSERADISH. Horw- 

radish is in highest perfection about Novem- 
ber. Four a quart of best vinegar on threw 
ounces of sciajx-d horseradish, an ounce of 
rninced eschalot, and one drachm of cay- 
enne; let il stand a week, and vou ill have 
an excellent relish fur cold beef, salads, &c. 
costing scarcely any thing. A portion of 
black pepper and miistaid. celery or crett- 
seed, may be added to the above. 

VINEGAR, RASPBERRY. The best 
way to make this, is to pour three pints of 
the best white wine vinegar on a pint and a 
half uf fresh-gatliered ted rasplierries in a 
stone jar, or china bowl (neither glazed 
earthfimat'e, nor any metallic vessel, must 
lie used ; ) the next day strain the liquor over 
a like q-iantity of fresh raspberries ; and the 
day following do the same. Then drain off 



VOL 



242 



WAF 



the liquor without pressing, and pass it 
through a jelly-bag (previously wetted with 
plain vinegar) into a stone jar, with a pound 
of pounded lump sugar to e.ieh pint. When 
the sugar is dissolved, stir il up, cover down 
the jar, and set it in a saucepan 1 of water, 
and keep boiling for an hour, taking off the 
scum; add to each pint a glass of brandy, 
and IxUlle it: mixed in about eight parts of 
water, it is a very refreshing and delightful 
summer drink. An excellent cooling bever- 
age to assuage thirst in ardent fevers, colds, 
and inflammatory complaints, &c. and is 
agreeable to most palates. 

VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take of 

tarragon, savory, chives, eschalots, three 
ounces each; a handt'il of the tops of mint 
and balm, all dry and pounded; put into a 
wide-mouthed liottle, widi a gallon of best 
vinegar; cork it close, set it in the sun, and 
in a fortnight strain off, and squeeze the 
herbs ; let it stand a day to settle, and then 
strain it through a filtering bag. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (1) Cut some cold 
tin-key or veal into small thin slices, season 
it with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, 
pounded mace, and salt ; add one anchovy, 
some garlic and onion pounded, also a little 
good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 
one of white wine, and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour; then make it <)uite hot, but 
do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the 
prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may l>e 
made with the bones, or a little cream, and 
the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted 
for the cream. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (2) In opening the 
oysters, separate them from the liquor, which 
must be strained ; take off the beards, and 
add to them the liquor, together with some 
white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon- 
peel, pepper, and salt ; simmer them for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and a little before putting 
them into tlie vol-au-vent, pick out the lemon- 
|>eel, add a table-spoonful of white wine, and 
three of good cream, and make it quite hot. 
To make oyster patties, when they are to be 
bearded, cut them into three or four bits, 
and prepare them in the same manner. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (3) Roll off tart paste, 
till about the eighth of an inch thick: then, 
with a tin cutler made for that purpose 
(about the size of the bottom of the did) you 
intend sending to table,) cut out the shape, 
and lay it on a baking-plate with paper; 
rub it over with yolk of egg ; roll out good 
puff paste an inch thick, stamp it with the 
same cutter, and lay il on the tart paste; 
then take a cutter two sizes smaller, and 



press it in the centre nearly through the puff" 
paste; rub the top with yolk ot egg, and 
bake it in a quick oven about twenty minutes, 
of a light brown color: when done, take out 
the paste inside the centre mark, preserving 
the top, put it on a dish in a warm place, 
and when wanted, fill it with a white frica- 
see of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweetbread, 
or any other entree you wish. 

VOLDRON . Melt eleven ounces of fresh 
butter in a brass pan, and when quite hot, 
add tlie same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, 
and eight well-beaten eggs; stir constantly 
for six or eight minutes, and [Hit it into a 
dish; the following day, mix with it a nine 
glass of orange- flower water; of citron, 
orange, and lemon-peel, cut fine, half a 
pound; butter a pudding dish, and lay into 
the bottom a sheet of white pa|>er buttered, 
then put in the voldron, and bake it for 
twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it 
with cut citron and orange-peel, and serve 
it in a silver or glass dish. 



W. 

WAFERS. Take a pint of good cream, 
half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of 
powder sugar, and two drachms of orange- 
flower water. Beat the cream with the 
flour, a little at a time, until both are mixed 
perfectly smooth and free from lumps, tlien 
add the other articles; and as much more 
creain as will make the paste nearly us thin 
as milk ; make the iron hot, dip a leather in 
si line melted butter, and rub the iron over 
with it; put on die iron about a spoonful 
and a half of the paste, press them a little 
gently, and place the iron on a stove; open 
the iron a little frequently, to see if it be 
done; when one side is baked, turn the iron, 
and do the other. The wafers should only 
be lightly colored. Take them from the 
mould carefully with a knife. 

* 

WAFERS, GERMAN. Take seven- 
teen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of 
good yeast, which make into a paste, with 
as much warm milk as will malic it run from 
the spoon freely, without being too clear; 
then put it into a warm place. When it has 
risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen 
eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a 
snow, and the grated rind of two lemons. 
The whole being well mixed, pour over it 
seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but 
not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden 
spoon, and put tlie preparation again into a 
warm place to rise a second time; when it 
lias risen sufficiently, and your pan quite hot, 
rub tlie latter with butter, fill it with the 



WAL 



243 



WAL 



paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your 
wafers; make Ixnh sides equally brown; 
when dune, sprinkle them with powder >HL; u 
(and cinnamon, if you like), and serve them 
hot. Be c.irefnl in tuking out the paste to 
fill the |wn, not to disturb, nor to plunge the 
spoon into tlie preparation, when not nsiii^ 
it; the upper jiart nf the pasie should be 
taken off very gently, and the spoon laiil 
across the top of the vessel ; if these precau- 
tions be not attended to, the good appear- 
ance of the wafers will be destroyed. 

\\-\\ T.KS, ITALIAN. Take eight 
eggs, toiirteen ounces of powder sugar, a 
pound of Hour, six ounces of cream, th<- 
of milk, an ounce of oramj- (lowers, and the 
rind of a lemon Dialed. Heat tlie eggs with 
the sugar and (lour first ; then add the cream, 
milk, and oilier materials, by degrees; mix 
them well, and take eare there are not the 
slightest liiui|)s. Make the wafers ;ui di- 
rected. 

WAI.MTS. Make a brine of salt and 
. in ilie |)ro|N)rii,in of a quarter of a 
pound of salt to a quart of waler; put tlie 
walmits into this to soak for a week; or if 
you wish to soften them so that they may 
be soon ready for rating, run a larding 
pin through tiiem in half a il.ixen [/laces 
this will allow the pickle to [jcnetnile, and 
they will be mn:-h softer, and of better (la 
vor, and ready much sooner than if not per- 
!: |)iit them iu|.> a stewpan with such 
brine, and '.'hi- r -imrncr ; put 

them 0:1 i -'n.\e to drain; then lav them <"i 
a !i-li plate. and lei them stand ill the ail till 
they turn Mack this nriy take a couple of 
days; put them into sjla.-s, or nn^la/.' 
jais; (ill tlicse alxnit three |>arts with die 
walnuts, and (ill them up with the following 
pickle. 

a quart of tlie strongest vinegnr put 
two ounces of black (wpper, one of ginger, 
Kime of eschalots, same of salt, half a i 
of allspice, and half a draehm of c a 
J'ut these into a stone jar; cover it with a 
bladder, welted with iiickle, tie o\cr that 
some Icatlter, and set (lie jar on a trivet I A 
the sirle of | he fire lor three days, shaking it 
up three limes a day, and then pour it while 
hot to tlie walnuts, and co\er them down with 
bladder welted with the pickle, leather, &c. 

\V\I.\UTS A\I) BUTTERMTS. 
Gather them fcr pickling when tlie head of 
a pin will pierce them easily; run a lat ,.- 
needle through them here and there, or score 

tin-in on one side with a knife; lay them 
into a brine of salt-and-water lor " i 
days, changing the brine twice in that time; 
strain, and put lliem into a jar, and sprinkle 
a little silt over them. Boil four qua 



vinegar for a hundred walnuts, allowing to 
each quart one ounce of whole pepper, and 
one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced 
nutmeg and whole allspice, a table-spoonful 
of mustard seed, and one of scraped horse- 
radish, one head of garlic, or a small onion; 
|ur it boiling hot over the nuts, and put a 
plate on die jar; when cold, tie it closely 
down. After the nuts are used, the liquor 
may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use 
as a pickle. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (1) Thorough- 
ly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put to them three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vin- 
egar; stir them every day for a fortnight; 
then strain and squeeze the liquor from them 
throtiji a cloth, and set it aside; put to the 
husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand 
: then strain and squeeze them as 
.din;,' the liq.ior which is obtained 
from them to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add lo it one ounce and a 
I" whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, 
hail" an ounce of ginger, and five di -acinus of 
mace, and Ixiil it tor half an hour; tlien 
slrain it off from the spices, and boltle it for 
use. 

W \LNUT KETCHUP. (2) Take six 

- of green walnut-shells, put them 
into a tub, mix them up well with common 
salt, (from two to three pounds.) let them 
stand lor six day-. fie|iiently biding and 
mashing them; by this time the shells be- 
1 pulpy; then by banking it up 
on laie side of the tub, anil at the same liiiiv 
by raising the tub on that side, the liquor 

] will drain clear off to tin- other; then take 
that liquor out: the 'mashing and bunking- 
up may be repeated as often as liquor is 
found. The quantity will be about six 
quarts. When done, let it be simmered in 
an iron boiler as long as any scum arises; 
then Imiise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a 
quarter of a [xnmd of allspice, two ounces of 
long [Helper, two ounces of cloves, with ihe 

; above ingredients; let ii si .wlv boil lor half 
an hour; when bottled, let an equal quantity 

' of tlie spice go into each boltle ; when cork- 
ed, let the bottles I* filk.il quite up: cork 
[ii'-iii tight, seal them over, and put tliem 
into a cool and dry place for one year before 

| they are used. 

WALNUT KETCHUP, FOR FISH 

SAUCE. Take a quart of walnut pickle, 
add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies 
and ihree-qnaiters of a pint of red Port, and 
let it boil till reduced to one-third; then 
strain it, and when cold, put it into small 
Untie.-, and keep them closely corked. 



WEL 



244 



WHI 



WALN UT PICKLE. Put any quanti- 
ty of the outside shells or green rinds of 
ripe walnuts into a tub in which there is a 
tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise 
the tub on one side, that it may stand in a 
sloping direction, place another vessel under 
it to receive the juice as it drops from the 
tap-hole; this it will soon begin to do; and, 
when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, 
to one gallon of this black liquor add two 
large table-spoonfuls of salt, one large onion, 
a stick of horseradish, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two bay leaves, a quarter of an ounce 
of black pepper, the same of allspice and of 
bruised ginger. Boil it slowly for twenty 
minutes; strain it, and, when cold, slir it 
and bottle it for use, putting the spice into 
the bottles. 

WALNUTS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which 
may be known by trying them with a pin; 
Jay them into salt and water nine days, 
changing the liquor every three days; then 
take them out, and dry them in the air on a 
sieve or mat; they should not touch each 
other, and they should be turned, that every 
side may become black alike; then put 
(hem into a jar. When half the nuts are 
in, put in an onion, with about thirty cloves 
stuck into it. and add the rest of the nuts. 
To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint 
of mustard seed, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, half an ounce of peppercorns, and 
sixty bay leaves; boil all the spice in some 
good common vinegar, and pour it boiling 
upon the nuts, observing that they are en- 
tirely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar 
with a cloth, and when cold, cover it with 
bladder or leather. In about six weeks 
they will be fit for use, when they should lie 
examined, and if they have absorbed the 
vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts 
dry, more should be added, but it need not 
be boiled. 

WATER SOUCHY. Make a stock 
with three or four flounders, boiled in three 
quarts of water, two onions, and a bunch of 
parsley, till they are soft enough to pulp 
through a sieve with tlie liquor they were 
boiled in; then season it with pepper, salt, 
and some parsley chopped, and boil in it a 
few flounders, with the brown skin taken 
off, some nicely cleaned perch or tench. 
Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread 
and butter to eat with it. 

\VELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off 
a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in 
two, butter it, and lay upon each half a thin 
slice of cheese which has been toasted in a 
Dutch oven ; if, when put upon the toast, it 
is not sufficiently browned, hold a salaman- 



der, or hot shovel, over the top. Serve it 
very hot. 

WHEY. (1) Make a pint of milk boil; 
put to it a glass or two of white wine ; put it 
on the fire till it just boils again ; then set it on 
one side till the curd has settled ; pour off 
the clear whey, and sweeten it as you like. 

Cider is often substituted for wine, or 
half the quantity of vinegar that we have 
ordered wine. When there is no fire in 
the sick room, this may be put hot into a 
bottle, and laid between the bed and mat- 
tress; it will keep \varm several hours. 

WHEY. (2) Put a very small portion 
of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it 
stand by the side of the fire until turned; 
then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or 
strain the liquor carefully from the curd, 
and serve quite clear. 

WHEY, WHITE WINE. Boil a 
pint of milk, and when it rises in the pan, 
pour in one glass of sherry and one of cur- 
rant wine; let it again boil up, take it off 
the fire, and, when it has stood a few min- 
utes, remove the curd, pour off the clear 
whey, and sweeten it. 

WHIM WHAM. Sweeten a quart of 
cream, and mix with it a tea-cujjful of white 
wine, and the grated peel of a lemon ; whisk 
it to a froth, which drain upon the back of a 
sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish; 
cut some Naples biscuit as thin as |x>?sible, 
and put a layer lightly over the froth, and 
one of red currant jelly, then a layer of the 
froth, and one of the biscuit and jelly; finish 
with the froth, and pour the remainder of the 
cream into the dish, and garnish with citron 
and candied orange-peel cut into straws. 

WHITE BEET, LEAVES. Pick and 
wash ilii'rn clean, put them on in lx>iling 
water with a little salt, cover the saucepan, 
and boil them longer than spinach; drain off 
the water, and beat them as spinach, with a 
bit of butter and a little salt. 

WHITINGS. In choosing whitings, be 
careful that the skin has a silvery appear- 
ance, that tlie body is firm, and the fins 
stiff; these are sure proofs of its fresh- 



WHITINGS, ENGLISH WAY. Put 
into a saucepan two spoonfuls of oil, half a 
lemon sliced (tlie pips and rind taken off), 
salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, 
the same of water, and let them boil nearly 
a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings, 
properly cleaned, cook them in the above, 



WH I 



245 



WOO 



blanch a clove of garlic, and lx>nt it with 
the back of a knife, put it with parsley, 
shallots, and two glatvnof cbampagsjB, into 
avtrvqian ; let it Iwiil live mi'r.ites, tlii'ii add 
some butter, rolled i'l flour, salt, and |>e|i|>er; 
stir it over tin- fire till smo.-ili, then serve. 

WIMTI\(;S, FRIED. (1) Take a? many 

whitings as vim may require; clea 
and wipe i hem dry; then run them through 
u itli a .-kewer, soak them well in 
milk; flour, and fry them of a nice color. 
.(MI on a napkin. 

\VHITI\CS, FRIED. (2) Skin them, 
the liver, and fasten their tail* to 
their months; dip lliem in t-S'4, then in 
bread-cnmibs, and fry them in hot lard, or 
split them, anil fry them like lilL-ts of soles. 
A three-quart .-Tevvpan, half full offal, is t lie 
best utensil to fry whitings. They will lie 
done eii-iugh in alxmt five minutes; but it 
will sometime-- ret|iiire a quarter of an hour, 
to drain the fit from them and dry them (if 
the Lit yon put (hem into was not Ikd enough), 
turning them now and then with a tish- 

WIIITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make 

a rich gravy wi'h a bit ..(' veal, the heads and 
fins of four or five haddocks, three or four 
unions, -oiii-- pai-K, a little c.iyiine, black 
|>ep|>er,ai)d salt, the juice of a lemon, half 
. a tal)le-s|XH)iilnl of ketchup, half a 
pint of white wine, and two quarts of water; 
nimmer them for an lumr, strain, and put to 
it the meat of a lolister or crab minced, and 
forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint 
of cream, llie yolks of three egg* beaten, and 
a pint of butter kneaded in flour. Have 
ready Uided three haddocks skinned and 
without their heads, pour the sauce over 
them in a deep dish. Make tile forcemeat 
balls of a small boiled haddock finely minc- 
ed, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
alt, grated nutmeg, and parsley ; bind (hem 
with the whites of two e^s beaten, and fry 
them in fresh lard of a light brown. 

_ WHITE POT. Beat up the yolks of 
eight, and the whites of four eggx, with two 
quarts uf new milk, a little rose water, a 
nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; cut a small roll into veiy tlim 
. them in a di.-h, anil pour the 
milk, &c. uver them; put : bit of butter on 
the top, ami set it in tin: oven; it will take 
half an hour baking. 

W I IITE ROUX, or W kite Thickening 
for Sauces and Made Dishes. Melt 
Mutually, ovef a slow tin-, a <joo.i piere of 
butter, and diedje in , ,.(' Hour to 

make it like- a thin pa>ie ; k-*,-|i stirring it 
21* 



for a quarter of an hour, and tlien put k into 
a small jar to be kept for use. 

WHITE SAUCE. See Bechamel. 

WIDGEONS AND TEAL, Addressed 

exactlx as llie wild duck ; only that less time 
is requisite for a widgeon, and still less for 
a teal. 

WILD DUCKS. For roasting a wild 
duck, yon must have a clear, l>ri.-k fire, and 
a hot spit ; it must !* browned upon the out- 
side, without being sodden within. To have 
it well frothed and full of gravy is the nicety. 
Prepare the fire by stirring and raking it 
just U'lore the bird is laid down, and fifteen 
or twenty minutes will do it in the fashion- 
able wi\ ; Uit if you like it a little more 
done, allow it a few minutes longer; if it is 
too much, it will lose its, flavor. t 

WINE (MADEIRA)SAUCE. Take a 

tea-spoonful of flour, and a |>reserved green 
lemon, cut into (lice, mix them will) a glass 
of Madeira wine, and a little connomme, 
add an ounce of butter, some sail and nut- 
meg; set these on a very hot stove to boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take it off, 
put in a quarter of a (xnmd of butter, set it 
again on the lire, stirring constantly till the 
butter is melted. 

WINTER HOTCH-POTCH. Take 
the best end of a neck or loin of mutton; 
cut it into neat chops; cut four carrots, and 
as many turnips into slices; put on four 
quarts of water, with half the carrots and 
luriii|>s, and a whole one of each, with a 
[MMiml of' di ted green peas, which must be 
put to soak the night before; let it boil two 
hours, then take out the whole carrot and 
turnip; bruise and return them; put in the 
meat, and the rest of the carrot and turnip, 
some pep|>er and salt, and boil slowly three- 
i|ii.u t(i.-. of HII hour; a short time before 
serving, add an onion cut small and a bead 
of celery. 

WOODCOCKS. (1) The greeted 
possible care .-ln.uM be taken, in picking of 
these birds, to handle them as little an pos- 
sible, on account of the skin being so par- 
ticularly tender, that wlien broken it spoilt* 
tin- beauty of the bird. When picked, cut 
off the pinions tit the first joint, prrat the 
legs clo.-e to llie side, through whic.h, aad 
tlie body, pierce (he beak of the bird ; then 
cross die. It-el, and lay a flice of bacon over 
the bre:ist. Woodcocks and snipes tnajr be 
die**.) according to the same rule*. 

WOODCOCKS. (2) Take a pound 
of lean beef, cut it into piece*, and put it 



woo 



246 



VEA 



into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, 
an onion stuck with clove.*, two blades of 
mace, and some whole pepper, boil all these 
together till reduced to half ; then strain it 
off into another saucepan: draw the wood- 
cocks, and lay the trail in a plate; put tlie 
woodcocks into the gravy, and let them boil 
in it for twelve minutes; while they are 
boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; 
put them into a small saucepan, with a lit- 
tle mace; add four or five spoonfuls of the 
gravy tlie woodcocks are boiled in ; then 
take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine 
into a dish placed before the fire, and put to 
tlie trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint 
of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in finur, 
set it on the fire, and shake it round till the 
butler is melted ; tlien put in the bread- 
crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay 
the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce 
over them, and serve. 

WOODCOCKS. (3) Woodcocks should 
not be drawn, as the trail is by the lovers 
of " haul gout" considered a " bonne 
bouche;" truss their legs close to the body, 
and run an iron skewer through each thigh, 
close to the body, and tie them on a small 
bird spit; put them to roast at a clear fire; 
cut as many slices of bread as you have 
birds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, 
and lay them in the dripping-pan under the 
birds to catch the trail ; baste them with 
butter, and froth them with flour ; lay the 
toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toa.st ; pour some good beef gravy into tlie 
dish, and send some up in a boat, twenty or 
thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. Some epicures like 
this bird very much under-done, and direct 
that a woodcock should be just introduced 
to the cook, for her to show it the fire, and 
then send it up to table. 

WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put 

a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, 
with some butler, shred shallots, grated 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a 
fierce fire, and fry I he woodcocks lightly for 
seven or eight minutes; then add the juice 
of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, 
and some raspings ; and leave them on the 
fire till the sauce has boiled up once; then 
serve altogether. 

WOODCOCK SALMIS. Cut up the 
woodcock on the table, and put tlie pieces 
on a dish, which place on a stand, with a 
lamp under it; add pepper, salt, shred shal- 
lots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice 
t of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew 
Taspings over, and boil slowly for ten min- 
frtes, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of 
wine, for your lamp- 



WOODCOCK SAUCE. Pound the 
bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and 
put them into a stewpan, with two spoon- 
fuls of cullis, and two spoonfuls of red port ; 
reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and 
then strain it; when strained, add pepper, 
salt, and tlie juice of two oranges. 



Y. 

YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best 
for bread, should be strained through a hair 
sieve, and two or three quarts of cold spring 
water poured over it; when it has stood for 
twenty-four hours the water should lie poured 
off, the yeast will then be found at the bottom 
of the vessel, quite thick. To preserve that 
which may be left over the baking, it should 
l>e put into a bottle, corked tightly, and kept 
in a cool place. In cold weather it will 
continue good for a fortnight, but fresh yeast 
is always preferable. When it does not ap- 
pear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar 
may l>c mixed with it, in the proportion of a 
tea-spoonful to half a pint. 

YEAST, BAKER'S. Boil two ounces 
of hops in four quarts of water one hour, 
adding more water as it decreases, carefully 
stirring it all the time, and taking care that 
it do not boil over; strain the liquor, and 
mix well with it two pounds of malt; cover 
it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it 
be milk warm, then stir in half a pint of 
good yeast; when mixed well together, let 
it work for ten hours, and then strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten minutes, 
in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and 
a small handful of good hops; strain it 
through a sieve, and when milk warm, add 
three or four table-spoonfuls of beer yeast, 
and two of brown sugar or treacle: put it 
into a wooden stoupor jug; cover it, and 
place it before the fire to ferment. It may 
be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool 
place. 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a very 
light dough with yeast, the same as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, add salt; 
set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for 
half an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in tlie mean 
lin.e, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot 
water, and as soon as it boils, roll up die 
dough into small balls, and put them into the 
boiling water; keep them continually boiling 
for ten minutes, tlien take them out, and serve 
them immediately, with wine sauce over 
them. To ascertain whether they are suffi- 



YEA 



247 



ZES 



ciently boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it 
cornea out clean, it is done enough. Some 
think the l<est manner of eating them is by 
dividing them from the top by two forks, as 
they become heavy by their own steam, and 
eat them immediately with meat, or sugar 
and butter, or salt. 

YELLOW GLAZE. Make a glaze, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in 

Cowder, the white of an egg, to which add 
y degrees as much lemon-juice as may be 
necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and 
the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), 
add to it a small quantity of infusion of saf- 
fron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or 
two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scrap- 
ed off and pounded; take care, however, 
not to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaze should be hitter. 

YEAST, TO MAKE. Boil for half an 
hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonfuls of fine flour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown 
sugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, 
adding' four spoonfuls of fresh yeas I ; shake 
it well together, let it stand uncovered near 
the fire for a day, to ferment. There will be 



a thin liquor on the top, pour this off; shake 
the remainder, and cork it up for use. To 
make a half peck loaf you should use a quar- 
ter of a pint of the above. 

YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good 
mealy potatoes ; peel and weigh them ; while 
hot, bruise them finely, and mix them quickly 
with boiling water, allowing one quart to 
each pound ; rub it through a hair sieve, 
then add honey or brown sugar in the pro- 
portion of one ounce to each quart of water ; 
boil it to the consistency of batter, and when 
nearly cold, add a large table-spoonful of 
good yeast to every quart of water ; cover it 
with a cloth to rise, and the following day it 
will be ready for use ; keep a bottle of it, 
which may be used instead of beer yeast for 
the next making, first pouring off the thin 
liquid that is on the top. It must be made 
with fresh beer yeast every two or three 
months. Double the quantity of this, as of 
beer yeast, is required to make bread 
light. ' 

ZESTS. Zest (a term of art, used by 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small 
slips or zests, as thin as possible. 



RECEIPTS 



FOR MAKING ALL KINDS OF 



CONFECTIONERY. 



CONFECTIONERY 



ALM 

ALMONDS, BLOWN. Scald a few al- 
monds, and pound them to a! unit half as fine 
as for biscuits, beat them with lemon-juice, 
whites of egjjs anil powder-sugar; drop 
them on paper, about tin- size of almond*, 
and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. 

ALMONDS BLOWN ROYAL. 

Choose four ounce.-, of small thick almonds, 
and put them into an oven until they are 
.-lightly colored. Whilst I hey are cooling, 
mix four (Miners df sii^ar with an egg; 
U'ut them up fir ten minutes; add a little 
carmine to make it a fine rose color; dip i 
the almondii into this: take them out; dis- 
njjajM' (hem from the ?%%, so that tliey may 
he only just covered with it; lay them two I 
and two on a sheet of strong paper three- 
quarters of an inch between each pair; 
they may also lie placed in threes to form 
tlu> tre-foil, on w hich may be added a fourth. ; 
Bake Uiein in a cool oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER. To a quarter j 

of a |xiund of blanched almonds, well beat, '; 
put some new milk and rose water; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs beat well with a little of the 
cream ; ilien add the rest of the cream; put 
a quarter of a pint of new milk to the al- 
monds, and .-tiain them into the cream till , 
there is no strength left ; strain all togeth- 
er into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, 
and stir it till it cornea to a tender curd; 
put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the 
whey is drained out; then take six ounces 
of fine cificd sugar and a little rose water, 
and beat it all into butter with a spoon. 

ALMOND BITTER CAKE. Pound 
three ounce* (half bitter and half sweet) of 
almonds, put them into an earthen pan with 
six ounces of powder sugar; the same of 
sifted (lour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain or two of 
pall ; work these up together for five min- 
ute* and then add six ounces of fresh but- 
ler which is .-lightly wanned, work that in 
for four minutes longer. Then, having 
whipped the whiles of two eggs, mix them 
into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper 



ALM 

mould or paper case, ten inches long, five 
wide, and two high; pour in your prepara- 
tion, and bake it in a cool oven. While bak- 
ipg, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix 
two ounces of powder sugar with them, and 
cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips 
(short wise;) mix them also with two ounce* 
of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of 
PJJ? whipped. In three-quarters of an hour 
take out the cake, and if it be firm and well 
colored, cover it with the whipped egg and 
sugar, and on that strew the almonds equal- 
ly, press ing them in, that all may be colored 
alike. This operation must be performed as 
quick as possible, and when done, turn the 
cake out and cut it in four slips (length- 
wise,) and then divide each into six parts 
lozenge-shaped ; this will give you twenty- 
four cakes, which must be arranged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. They 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, form- 
ed into crescents. The ingredients, and the 
proper quantities for this cake are as follows: 
six ounces of flour, the same of powder 
sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter al- 
monds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six 
ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with 
the w hites of two eggs whipped, four ounces 
of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 

ALMOND CANDY. Blanch a pound 
of the best almonds, and cut them very 
thin, lengthways, put them into a pound of 
clarified sugar to crisp them, stir them over 
the fire till boiled to souffle; then take 
them off and keep stirring till the sugar is 
dry like sand: then silt it, so that the al- 
monds may be left, divide them into four 
parts to color them differently, one part 
red, the second yellow, the third green, and 
the fourth left white as they come from the 
-u.-ar. To color the first, soak a small 
quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and 
lay your almonds in it; do the same with a 
little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and 
spinach juice for the green. Place the col- 
ored almonds on a neve in a stove; when 
dry, mix all together, adding the white 



ALM 



252 



ALM 



ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your 
mould will require to souffle, put it in, and 
when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the 
surface of the sugar with them; do not, 
however, lay them too thick, and just pi-ess 
them down with a fork; put the mould in- 
to a moderate oven for five hours, then drain 
it well, and in another two hours it may be 
taken from the mould. 

ALMONDS CINNAMON SPANISH. 

Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of 
butter tied in a piece of ctolli, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready some clari- 
fied sugar, with powdered cinnamon stirred 
in it, put in the almonds, and when well cov- 
ered with llie sugar and cinnamon, lay them 
separately on tins, and dry in a slow oven. 

ALMONDS TO COLOR. ALMONDS 
ROSE COLORED. Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in small pieces, put them on a bak- 
ing plate, and pour on them a link- of any 
vegetable liquid, of an infusion of cochineal, 
or carmine; then rub them in your hands, 
to mix them well with the color; when all 
are so done, dry them in a stove or in die 
oven. 

ALMONDS VIOLET. Are done in the 
same way, the coloring ingredients are 
cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in 
water, put but a small quantity of die latter 
at a time as it is very powerful. 

ALMONDS GREEN. The same pro- 
ceeding: die color is made with two hand- 
fills of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, 
and then pounded; when very fine, press it 
through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a 
dish, which place on a hot stove; as soon as 
it begins to boil, take it off, stirring it con- 
stantly, till the green curdles, then pour it 
through a horsehair sieve, and when well 
drained strain it through a silk sieve or tam- 
my; the juice thus obtained, will give the 
almonds (which must be put in a lew at a 
time) a clear and even green color. 

ALMONDS BLUE. Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth and 
use it as above mentioned. 



ALMONDS ORANGE 

Mix a little liquid red, and a little infusion 
of saffron togedier, and proceed with die al- 
monds as usual. 

ALMONDS LEMON COLORED. 

Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly 
boiling water for a few minutes; strain and 
follow the above direction. 

ALMONDS CHOCOLATE COLOR- 



ED. Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in 
water and strained. 

The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, 
&c. according to fancy. Observe that die 
color of your almond's should be light and 
delicate; when done, place them, eidier 
separately or mixed together, iu papei 
cases. 

ALMOND COUPEAUX. Blanch and 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds with 
die whites of three eggs into a very fine 
paste, add to it six ounces of powdered su- 
gar and the rind of a lemon grated ; when 
thoroughly mixed togedier, pour over it 
about four spoonfuls of orange-flower water: 
stir up the paste (which ought to be rather 
thin,) once more, and then lay it with a 
spoon on a plate of bright copper, in an 
oval form, about three or four inches in 
length. The plate being quite full, take it 
up by Iwth hands, and strike it steadily upon 
a table, so that the paste may be extended, 
but not much ; then bake them until diey be- 
come of a deep yellow. Take them from 
the copper with a knife, and whilst hot put 
them on a wooden roller, about the diick- 
ness of an arm, and press them widi your 
hand, that they may acquire the form of die 
wood, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep them dry. These coupeaux are very 
brittle. 

ALMONDS CRISPED. Rub a pound 
of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take 
off all the dust, and then put them, with 
a pound of sugar, half a glass of water and 
a little carmine, into a preserving pan; put 
them on the fire, and let them remain; when 
the almonds crackle lake them off and work 
them about until the sugar is detached from 
the almonds, then take away part of the su- 
gar, put the almonds on the fire again, and 
stir them lightly with a spatula, (be careful 
that the fire be not too quick;) and when 
diey have taken the sugar, add that which 
had been removed, and continue to burn 
them till they have unbilled that also. Place 
a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your al- 
monds on it, separate those which adhere 
together, and let them cool. 

ALMOND DRAGEES. Take of the 
best and largest almonds what quantity you 
please, and having washed them in cold wa- 
ter, let them drain and dry on a sieve for 
twenty-four hours. Tin; next day weigh 
them, and for each pound of almonds lake 
diree pounds of sugar; clarifv the latter and 
boil it to the degree petit lissc; then let it 
cool a little. Hau; \onr tossing pan ready; 
on your right hand, a dialing dish to keep 
your pan containing the sirup constantly 
warm; and on your left hand, a table widi 



ALM 



253 



ALM 



a mixture of powder and flour (of each half 
a |xmnd to a pound of almonds). All being 
ready, ptit the almonds into the |m, ami 
punr ou-r tin-in OIK- or two large ipOOflMl 
of tlie pimp, and shake them so that all tlie 
almonds may I* wetted with sirup; then 
take a handful or two of the (lour and pow- 
der, and strew it OUT tin- u-t almonds; 
shake them again, that the Hour may adliere 
all round the almond*. After this, swing 
the pan backwards and forwards, liy which 
means the almonds roll aUmt in e\i-iy direc- 
tion; continue tlii.s motion until they In-come 
dry; then m<>i.-teii and powder them as Ix- 
liuc; swing the pan a^.iin. and when dry, 
rejK-at tlie proce a third, fourth, anil fifth 
time, or more, until they are of a proper 
si/.i-; then pour over them the sirup li*r the 
last time, without tin.- powder, and, having 
MV IMI,' and dried them, take them out and 
place them on sieM-s in a warm place, tliat 
they may dry perfectly before you put them 
l>v f'.r n<e. 

Observe, that after a few layers of the 
sirup, the mpentbooduM parts nt lira and 
the piiwder form a white cnisl at the Ixitloin 
of the pan; a- -.>. .11 as it acquires any de- 
gree of thickne.-s, the pan must le taken 
from the lire, the almonds can-fully icmoved 
\vith an iron .-palnla. anil the crust broken 
off; when tin; pan h,,- I c.-n well washed and 
dried, replace the almond* and pi i 
your woik. This mi'-t ! sti icily attended 
to, not only with this, Imi in making all 
kinds of sweetmeats. The sugar tlms clear- 
ed away may be made useful for many pur- 



Common Almond Dragees are made in 
the same manner; the onlv dilVen-iici; con- 

.-i.-t.-- in having ingredient! of an inferior 
quality. 

ALMONDS (MILK or) FANCHON- 

M.ITKS. r.lanch and pound eight ounce* 
of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and 
when the paste is very line, add to it three 
glasses of nearly tailing milk, then press 
this mixture ihroiigli a napkin to draw out 
tlie. milk. Put into a slewpan four yolks 
tin II- ounces of powder- 
t'our, and a grain of salt, mix them 
well tojciher, and add by degrees tlie al- 
iiii.n i milk, put thin on a moderate fire, stir- 
ring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet 
moulds with thin puff ,i:i-te, and put on them 
a little of tin: aU.xe | ! ; iiation, and bak? 
tlicm in a moderate oven. When properK 
done, t.ike them out and let them cool. Mix 
with the " hites of three hard 

n , siir it well to soften 
v\ 01 k easily ; put some 

of the remainder of your pri para t ion on 
each of tlie fancltonneitcx, and C..UT tliem 
lightly wiili tliu e.;.,' ; .lie of igg 



on tlie blade of a ktrge knife, and with a 
small one ag quirk as possible take off sev- 
en meringues about tlie si/.e of a tilbert, 
and arrange them in the form of a crown on 
each fanchonnette; when you have done 
live or six, cover them with powder-sugar 
very equally, and llicn bake tin i:> in a cool 
oven. When of a reddish brown they are 
done and may be served. 

ALMOND CHEESE, BITTER. Peel, 
wash, and drain, three ounce* of sweet, and 
one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them to 
a paste, moistening with two spoonful of 
water. Put them into an earthen pan, with 
two glasses of nearly Ixjilin;; milk, in which 
eight ounces of sii^'ar have been dissolved ; 
let (his stand an hour, then stiaiu it through 
a fine 8Je\e, and put to it six drachms of 
isinglass lukewarm; place the whole in ice 
and when il U'gins to set, add some whipped 
cream; pour it into a mould which hag been 
kept in ii:e, put it in ice ayaiu for half an 
hour, and then take the fromuge from tlie 
mould. 

ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil three 

ounces of hai t.-hoin in two quarts of spring 
u.iier; let it Dimmer six or seven hours till 
half the wati-r is consumed ; strain il through 
a >ie\e; lieat half a pound of almonds very 
line, with a quantity of orange-flower water; 
mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar 
ith it ; strain it with the rest of the jelly, 
stirring it till it is a little more than blood 
warm ; jxmr it inlo liasius or cups, and stick 
in almonds cut small. 

ALMOND GARLANDS. Take half 
a pound of march-pane paste, the whiten i.f 
two nr three i-^.;s, some [lowiiered cinnamon 
and a little Hour, knead them into a pafte, 
and roll them into the form of sausages with 
your hand on tlie table, first strewing the 
table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; 
so that they may adhere to the sauKip -, 
which ought to lie about the size of jxmr 
finger ; then lonn them into rings or gar- 
ni" what size you please, fixing the ends 
toLjeilK-r with water: place them on paper, 
and bake them in a quick oven until they are 
of a clear brown color. 

ALMOND LITTLE CAKE, BITTER. 

Pound six drachms of bitter almond)', strain 
them through a sie\e, and mix them in an 
earthen \csscl, with nearly the. white of an 
egg, and nix ounces of sugar, stir these with 
a silver ?|Kion for a few minutes. Take 
three-qnai ten: of a pound of puff paste, roll 
it to the thickness of a qnaitcr of an inch, 
and rut out of it thirty oral cake* i\m inciw-w 
and a l.a'f long by two .oui a quarter wi<te 
pointed ai tlie ends ; put on each a quarter 



ALM 



254 



ALM 



of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with 
die blade of a knife spread it equally over 
the surface for about the eighth of an inch, 
and then let them stand for hall' an hour 
before von put them into the oven, which 
must !* moderate. If you bake them imme- 
diately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles 
and shrivels up, which spoils their appear- 
ance, as they ought to be quite smooth and 
even ; the cakes also require considerable 
care in the baking ; they should be slightly 
colored on the top and the lower part red- 
dish. 

ALMOND GENOESE, BITTER. 

Blanch two ounces four drachms of swrd, 
and two ounces and a half of billet' almonds, 
pound them to a paste and then put them 
into the following preparation : blanch and 
pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earth- 
en pan will) six ounces of flour, the same of 
powder-sugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 
Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six 
ounces of butter slightly warmed but not 
melted ; work ihe butter well into the paste 
for four or five minutes. Butler two moulds, 
or paper cases, about nine or ten inches 
square, pour in your preparation, smooth it 
with the blade of a knife and then put them 
to bake in a moderale oven, firsl strewing 
on them four ounces of sweel almonds minced 
and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little white of egg. When done, cul 
them inlo all possible forms, then replace 
them in the oven to dry ; when britlle, lake 
them out, let them cool, and decorate them 
to your fancy. 

ALMOND, GRILLAGE. Blanch 
half a pound of almonds, cut them into four 
or five slips, lengthways, pralinez them 
with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand 
them when they begin to crackle ; then put 
them on the fire again till they are well mixed 
together >and form a mass, which put on 
wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew 
over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white 
nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. 

ALMOND KNOTS. Take two pounds 
of almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; 
beal ihem in a mortar, to a very fine paste, 
will) rose waier, be careful to keep them from 
oiling. Take a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through ft lawn sieve, leave out 
some to make up the knots, put the rest in 
a pun upon the fire, till it is scalding hot, at 
the same time have the almonds scalding 
hot in another pan ; then mix them together 
with the whites of three eggs beaten to froth, 
and let it stand until it is cold ; then roll it 
with some of the stijjar left out for lliat 



purpose, and lay ihem in philters of paper. 
They will not roll into shape, tlierefore lay 
them as well as may be, and bake tlicm in 
a slow oven. 

ALMOND MILK. Take six onnces of 
sweet almonds, and a pinl of milk, four 
drachms of orange-flower water, and five 
ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the 
almonds to a very smooth pasle, moistening 
them occasionally with a few drops of milk ; 
when your paste crumbles, pul il in llie milk 
and mix them well, and boil it till reduced 
to half, then let it boil up once more ; let 
it cool and serve. 

ALMOND MIRLITONS. Blanch an 
ounce of sweel, and the same of biller al- 
monds, and dry ihem in an oven ; when cold. 
pound them with a little white of egg to 
prevent their oiling ; then put them into an 
earthen pan with Iwo ounces of bitter maca- 
roons, five ounces of powder-sugar, four whole 
eggs, and a grain of salt ; when these are 
well mixed together, add two ounces of butter, 
lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of puff 
pasle, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty 
round pieces alxjut Iwo inches and three- 
quarters in diameter, and put each ot these 
into a tartlet mould buttered ; put ihe mirli- 
tons on lliis, and when all are equally full, 
cover them with powder sugar sifted over 
them through a laininy ; as soon :is lliat is 
dissolved strew more (but not such fine) pow- 
der sugar over, and bake diem in a moderate 
oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

ALMOND MONCEAUX. Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, cul them into thin 
slips (lengthways) and roast ihem on an iron 
until they are of a deep yellow color, inclin- 
ing to brown ; beat up the whiles of six or 
eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. 
Pour over ihe almonds a pound of sugar finely 
powdered, (bar ounces of candied orange peel, 
ihe same of candied lemon-peel, also cul into 
thin slips, half a spoonful of |wwdered cinna- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; mix 
these ingredients well in tlie pan, and place 
it on paper in little heaps of a pyramidal 
form, and bake them in a well-healed oven. 

ALMOND PASTE. Blanch two pounds 
of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold 
water for twelve hours, then dry them in a 
napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a 
very fine paste with a litlle water and lemon- 
juice, pass them through a sieve, and then 
pound the remainder (half a (xiiind al a lime.) 
When all are done, mix them with a pound 
of sifted sugar ; place them over a gentle fire, 
stirring it continually, until the paste will 
(low from the spoon ; then pour it into a 
mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm, 



ALM 



255 



ALM 



pound it again with an ounce of gum-dragon 
previously dissolved in a glass of water and 
strained, the juice of two lemons, and a 
pound of sifted sugar. As soon as \"iir | -aste 
is of the pro|>er consistence, take it out and 
lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sn_rar ; 
divide your |>a$te into three (Kills, and color 
each part according to your fancy. The 
coloring or dyes are made of the same 
materials as are used for almonds. 

ALMOND PASTE to keep tix, or 
even twelve months. Ulancli and pound 
a pound of sweet almonds, moistened occa- 
sionally with water, to prevent their oiling; 
when well beaten, add half a pound of fine 
[x>wdered sugar, and mix the whole into a 
pa-te to use when you have occasion. When 
wanted, mix a piece about tlie size of an egg 
with three gills of water, and strain it through 
a napkin. 

ALMOND PRALINFS, (dried, pre- 
served or burnt.) A |>nund of the best 
almonds must be washe'i in cold water ; 
when thoroughly dry, put them into a pre- 
-i i \ ing |>an w ilh a |x>und of .-uu.ir and a pint 
ami a half of water, keep them on the tire, 
stirring (hem continually, until they crackle 
and fly about, and the sugar Ix-gins to color, 
stir them alxuit gently to gather the 
and leave them in the pan to dry about two 
hours, in a stove or any moderate heat. 

ALMONDS, RED CRISPED. Pre- 
pare tliem as alxive until they have taken 
the sugar and are ready to be taken off' the 
fire, put tlie almonds ujwn a sieve with a 
dish under, take the sugar that drops, and 
put it into the same pan, adding a little 
fresh ; refine it till it comes to the twelfth 
degree au caste, then take cochineal, color 
sufficient to tin,-.- the almonds, and put them 
therein ; give them a few turns over the (ire 
jar, ar.it finish as at lir.-t. 

ALMOND SWEETMEATS (YEL- 
LOW.) Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, 
wash them in cold water, and wlien quite dry, 
pound them with a vtithVient quantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a line but rather still' i 
add to them a pound of |x>wdcrrd sugar and 
tl>e rinds of two lemons Crated ; knead tlie 
patte well with your hands, first sprinkling 
tlio table with sugar. Form tlie paste into 
what figures you plea-.-, nidi as fleur-de-lis, 
trefoil, &c. each Iwing about thenize and 
weight of a macaroon. PI. ice tl)em on white 
pajx-r and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- 
deraleU hot sto\e. If tley are of a deep 
yellow, they are sufficiently done. T|ICM- 
i IMI-; ii- 111. iv Ix; still further ornamented 
in tlie follow i ni; manner: I'.oil -oni.- 
in orange-flower water to the degree c-.illud 



grande plume, and as soon as the sweet- 
meat.- are taken from the stove or oven, wash 
them over w ith a light brush dipped in the 
sirup; this will give them a delicious per- 
fume, and they may then be called it la 
glace. When cohi, take tliem from tlie 
(Kiper and put them into glasses for the table. 

ALMONDS, ROCK OF ALICAN- 
TE, SPANISH. Clarify honey, and 
stir into it as many blanched almonds as 
you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This 
makes a pretty crystaline ornament t'lr the 
dessert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. 

ALMOND WAFERS. Take a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, a pinch of 
orange-flowers pralinee, put them into a 
la-in. and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of c^gs to enable you to 
spread the paste on wafer pa|x-r with the 
blade of a Knife (tlie wafer paper must be 
rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay 
tlie pi eviration on as thin as possible ; chop 
some sweet almonds very small, mix them 
with sugar, and strew them over the wafers 
and [Hit them into a hot oven ; when about 
half baked, take them out and cut them in 
squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, 
take them out again, and- press Ihem on a 
stick to give them tlie proper form 1 ; as soon 
a- they are cold, put them on a sievo. Just 
liefore they are served they should be Slightly 
wanned. 

ALMOND COMPOTE, GRF'.V.N. 

Take the peel very carefully from you r al- 
monds, and put them with water on tlie >'irc. 
till they are tender ; then take them o(Ta*nd 
add a little more water ; when nearly co Id 
put tliem on tlie fire again, but do not lei* 
them boil ; as soon as you find the head of 
a pin will penetrate easily, they are then 
sufficiently done, and may be thrown into 
cold water; and when tlie fruit is quite cold, 
drain them. In the meantime put some 
clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils 
put in tlie almonds ; boil them in the sugar 
about twenty times, then remove them, and 
let the almonds stand to take the sugar : in 
about two hours' lime put them on tlie fire 
again, and Ixjil tliem up a dozen times ; after 
which, take them oft, skim, and let. them 
cool. When quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a compotier. If tlie sugar should 
not he sufficiently done, boil as much more 
a- \oii may think necessary ; squeeze in tlie 
juice of an orange, Ixiil it once again, and 
when nearly cold strain it through a cloth 
into the compotier over tlie almond*. 

ALMOND NONPAREILS, GREEN. 

Drain some green almonds that have been 



ANG 



256 



ANG 



preserved in brandy ; dip them one by one 
in sugar prepared an casse, and roll them 
in white, or any other colored nonpareils, 
and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. 

ALMOND (GREEN) PRESERVED. 
Put some water into a saurepan, with two 
liandfuls of bran, and when it has lx>!led up 
twice, throw in some green almonds ; let 
1 them boil up once, then !;ike them out with 
a skimmer, an 1 rub them well in your han.ls 
to take off the down ; as you do this, throw 
them into cold water ; then boil them in 
water till, on pricking them, a pin easily 
enters and they shrink : then clarify some 
svigar, a pound to a pound of fruit ; boil up 
the sirup fjur or five successive days, morn- 
ing and evening, without the fruit, which 
you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put 
the fruit into a pan, and when rather more 
than lukewarm, pour the sirup over it ; when 
they look very green they are sufficiently 
done. 

ANDAYE BRANDY. An ounce of 
bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised corian- 
der seed, two ounces of powdered Florence 
iris, the j'.estes of two oranges ; put them 
with thref quarts of dislillc I brandy into the 
alembic bain-marie ; dissolve two poun Is 
and a lialf of sn^ar in two pints and a half 
of clear river water, ad I them to the distilled 
liquejur, pass the whole through a strainer, 
and put into buttles. 

VGELTCA CAKES. Take four oun- 
octs of angelica powder, and two pounds of 
fi/ne sugar. Beat up the white of an egg 
MI i th a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- 
/sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the sujjar 
/ in a skillet and skim it ; when it has boiled 
a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the 
sugar to petit cassf, then take it from the 
fire, put in half a spoonful of the twaten e:jg, 
and stir it quickly until the sugar i ises, then 
stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till 
it rises a seron,) time ; it may now be pour- 
ed into moulds or papet cases, well oiled and 
sprinkled with sifted sugar. 

ANGELICA (ESSENCE OF) JELLY. 
Having washed and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots ; cut them in pieces and throw 
them into boiling sirup, (three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised 
angelica seeds ; cover the mixture close, and 
when cold, add to it half a glass of kirsch- 
laasser, and pass it through a tammy; then 
filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of 
isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon; 
pound ten pounds of ice, and put it into a 
large sieve or pan, place your mould in the 
middle of the ice, taking care that it touches 
the ice in every part ; pour the jelly into the 



mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, put ice 
on that, and let it stand for three hours ; after 
that time have ready a saucepan large enough 
to take in the moult easily ; fill it with water 
so warm that you can scarcely bear your hand 
in it ; plunge the mould in so as to allow the 
water to pass over the whole, but as quickly 
as possible, anil then turn the jelly into your 
dish for table. This last operation should 
be performed with great agility. Observe, 
in making these kind of jellies, that no tinned 
or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, 
as they impart a violet tinge to your jellies, 
which ought to be of the color of the ingre- 
dients employed, as for instance the, above 
should be a clear light green color. 

ANGELICA LIQUEUR. Wash, 
scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces 
of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian 
angelica roots, and infuse them for a week 
in six pints of brand v and one of water, with 
a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon, 
and twelve cloves ; at the end of that time 
distil it, then dissohe three pounds of sugar 
in three pints of water ; mix it with the 
liqueur, strain it through a jelly-bag, or fil- 
ter it through paper. Observe, that the best 
brandy lor liriuiurs is that which is made 
at Montpelier, EU it yields more in distilla- 
tion than the Cogniac. Take notice also 
that the first drops which Till from the alem- 
bic after it is placed on the stove, must not 
be mixed with the liqueur. A glass should, 
therefore, lie placed under the mouth of the 
alembic to receive them, and when about a 
quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and 
place your bottles or matrass. The phlegm, 
as these droppings are culled, are good for 
nothing. 

ANGELICA PASTE. Take young and 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender, 
drain and press all the water out ; beat them 
in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a 
sieve. Next day dry it over the lire, and to 
every pound of paste put a pound of powder- 
sugar. When the |>aste is hot add the sugar, 
stirring it till thoroughly mixed, over a gentle 
fire. Drop it on plates, ilnst a little sugar 
over them, and dry them in a stove. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED. Take the 
stalks of angelica when of a good size, but 
before they have run to seed ; clear off the 
leaves, and as you cut (he stalks into proper 
lengths throw them into water, and boil them 
till the stalks are soft; take them from the 
fire, and put them into cold water ; take off" 
the skin, and again put them into 'cold water; 
then drain and put them into an earthen pan, 
and pour over a sufficient quantity of clarified 
sugar to float the angelica. In twenty-four 
hours boil the sugar ten or a dozen times, 



ANI 



257 



ANI 



and when lukewarm pour it over tlie stalks. 
Proceed in the same way for four succeeding 
dajs ; alter wliidi, drain tlif stalks, and in 
tlie meanwhile boil the sugar (adding more, 
if necessary ) to the degree grande perlt ; 
put tlie angelica to this, cover it close, and 
let it boil five or six times. Take it from 
tile lire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED DRY. 

Proceed as for the liquid, until you have 
jxjnred (lie sujjar aw grand perlt, over the 
angelica ; leave it for a day in tlie sugar, 
then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plalcs, 
in a stove. - 

.\\cr.I.lCA RATAFIA. Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three 
pound- of sn^ar, two ounces of fresh slithered 
Bageltca-rooU, the sune (jiianlity of angelica 
see.l ; mace and clo\e, a drachm of each. 
\\';t.h and dry the roots well, cut them in 
slices, ami put them, with tlie seeds and 
spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for 
twenty d:i\s ; tlien strain it, and lumng ad- 
ded to it the sugar dissolw-d in river water, 
filler anil Untie your ratafia. 

A N< ;ELJCA RATAFIA, strip tiw an- 

geliea stalks nf their leaves, and cut them 
into .-in. ill pieces, which put into the best 
brandy and water, in the proportion of four 
litiex of U-.tndy and two of water to one 
pound of angelica, and four pounds of sugar 
to the name quantity ; add cloves and cinna- 
mon ; lei it stand six weeks, then filter und 
bottle it. 

ANGELICA WATER. Wash . i.-ht 
handfuls of angelica leaves, cut, and lay tlx-in 
on a table to dry. \Vheii (juite dry, put 
them in an earthen |xit with a gallon of strong 
wine lees. Ijct it stand twenty-four hours, 
stir it twice in dial time, iln-n put it into a 
warm still or alembic ; draw off into bottles, 
< '.\en .1 with p.i | x-r pricked in holes, anil let 
them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten 
it, and when it is settled, bottle, and .-top it 
close. 

ANISEED, OIL OF. Is made like ani- 

wed water, the only dilleience is, that an 
additional pound of sugar is necessary to 
mrikc the simp. 

AMSE PETIT PAINS. Put two 
glasses of water and two ounce? of fresh but- 
ter in'-. i .-(ew|iaii.aiid when the liquid boils 
. take it from the tire, and mix with it six 
Winces of sifted flour; amalgamate it thor- 
oughly, s.i that it may lie quite free from 
lumps ; then t\\y it over the tire. Take i 
out of tlie saucepan, and add to it two eggs 
and two ounces of powder-funr; mix then 
22* 



well in, and then put in two more eggs and 
the ztste of a lemon minced fine : when 
ihese are also well incorporated, add another 
egg or two, if tlie puste (which should lie ra- 
her firm,) will bear them. Sprinkle your 
r.iste slab with flour, cut the paste into 
lieees, each the size of a walnut; roll these 
with as little flour as possible, to about three 
incites long, and as you roll them plnce them 
on a baking-tin, two inches apart; dorez 
and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till 
they are firm. Then cut some anise into 
fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
casse, and the moment it re-aches (hat de- 
gree set it by the side of the fire that the 
sugar may not lose its whiteness; dip the 
top and one side of each petit pain in the 
Mi*ar .is quick as possible, and as you take 
them out, strew the anise over them lightly. 
Red anise is also used for these petit 
pains. 

ANISEED RATAFIA. To make a 

quart of this liqueur, Ixiil a |xiiind of sugar 
with a demisetier of water, until the sugar 
is quite clear; then lieat another demisetier 
of water, and put in it three ounces of anise; 
take it from the lire before it boils; let it 
stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it 
with three pints of brandy into llie sugar; 
mix all well together, and then pour into a 
\e.--el, which must be closed tight, and 
placed in the sun. Let il stand three weeks, 
and then bottle it. 

ANISEED WATER. Choose eight 
minces of new green anise, sift it well to 
free it from the dust, and then infuse in six 
pints of brandy, with the scestes of three 
lemons, and half an ounce of cinnamon; in 
a week's time distil it over a moderate fire, 
put a pint of water into the alembic; take 
care to collect the phlegm Ix-l'.re you draw 
oft'lhe aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds 
of sugar in three pints of water. As the 
anise contains an acid salt, which render* 
this liqueur milky, the following proceeding 
is necessary: Reserve a pint of the water 
from that in which you dissolved the sugar, 
and mix with the white of three or four 
eggs, well whippet], and while the sirup's 
hot put to it this egg-water and the aniseed 
water; stir it over the fire until the whole 
is hot without boiling; then put it into a 
glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the 
next day bottle and filler il. 

ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the 
same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, 
with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alem- 
bic bain-marie. " Then d'issolvo thirteen 
pounds of sugar in two quart* of river water. 



APP 



258 



APR 



which must be put to your liqueur when dis- 
tilled. Filter and bottle it. 

APPLE FRITTERS. Turn twelve 
email apples, cut them into halve*, and boil 
them in simp, then leave them to cool. 
When they are cold, make an extremely 
thin crust with brioche paste. Make a 
fritter for each half apple, then fry them and 
finish the same as Fritters d la Dauphine. 

Pears cut into quarters are made in the 
same manner as the above. 

APPLES AND ALMONDS LITTLE 
CAKES. Proceed the same as above till 
the marmalade is spread over the under- 
crust, then cover it with almonds cut in fil- 
lets, press them in lightly; mask them villi 
powder-sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 
As soon as cold, cut your gateaux accord- 
ing to your fancy, either round, oblong, lo- 
zenge, or crescent-shaped. 

APPLE MARMALADE, LITTLE 
CAKES. Make a marmalade of twenty-four 

apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pot of 
apricots, and the zeste of a lemon, shred 
fine. Make your paste, and proceed as di- 
recte ! lor IVtits (iateaux glares of apricots. 
Sprinkle them (uhen marked) with powder- 
sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven and 
finish them. 

APPLE PETIT GATEAUX WITH 

PISTACHIOS. Make an under-crust of the 
same size and thickness as directed for petits 
g&teanx glacts of apricots, and cover it 
with apple marmalade; when baked, mash 
the apples with a little apricot marmalade, 
and strew over a quarter of a pound of pis- 
tachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put 
it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry 
the apricots. When cold cut them into the 
usual forms. 

APPLES AND PISTACHIOS. Pre- 
pare and toss up a dozen apples for this 
gateau with apples and raisins, with the ad- 
dition of two ounces of sugar, and instead 
of the zeste of an orange, grate that of a 
lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched, in the place of the raisins. Pro- 
ceed in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dome of the gateau 
pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six 
pieces; and when the crown is put round 
the band, place a pistachio nut in the mid- 
dle of each meringue, bake it of a light 
color in a slow oven, and serve it hot. 

APPLE MERINGUEES. Put some 
apple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid: 



whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix 
with them two spoonfuls of powder-sugar 
and a little lemon-peel chopped extremely 
small; decorate your apples with this prep- 
aration, glaze them with sugar, and color 
them in the oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE. Layamta/e 
paste in a tart pan, e<jg and prick it all over, 
and bake it; lay in it a puree of apples, and 
finish with white of egg, as for a la Turque; 
serve it hot. 

APPLES PUREE. Peel and core a 
dozen or more good baking apples ; set them 
over the fire to stew with some clarified 
sugar and a small bit of letnou-peel; when 
soft, stir them well with a wooden spoon, 
and put in a spoonful of apricot jam; stir it 
at times till the jam is mixed and the apples 
thicken, then rub the whole through a 
tammy. 

APPLES, SOUFFLE PARISIEN. 

Make a marmalade of three dozen apples, 
half a poun.l of powder-wigar, the peel of a 
lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much 
as you possibly can, for on that the good ap- 
pearance of the souffle parisien chiefly 
de|H'iids; (lien put it into a large stewpan. 
Whip the whiter! of fifteen eggs to a strong 
froth, with a |x>und of powder-sugar. Mix 
a quarter of this at first, with the apple mar- 
malade, then stir the whole together, and 
pour it into a croustade prepared as usual. 
(See SOUFFLE.) Bake it for an hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possi- 
ble after taking it from the oven. Glaze it 
with powder-sugar. 

APPLE SIRUP. Take six apples, 
pare and cut tlicin into small pieces; put 
them into a matrass with three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar and two glasses of water; 
stop it close and place it in a bain marie, 
and leave it about i\vo hours, letting the 
water be boiling; move the matrass fre- 
quently without taking it out of the water; 
this must be done carefully lest it should 
break on being exposed to the cold air; 
when done put out the fire, and let the mat- 
rass cool before you take it out. When the 
sirup is nearly cold, flavor it with lemon- 
juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon 
or cinnamon, orange-flower water, or what- 
ever else you may choose. If any drega 
should arise, let it stand for some hours 
longer, and then gently pour the sirup into 
bottles. Great care must be taken to pre- 
vent its being muddy. 

APRICOTS BOTTLED. Press die 
quantity of ripe apricots you may require 



APR 



259 



APR 



through a horse-hair sieve; put the pulp into j 
Kittles, cork them very close, anil tie them 
over; place these iMlles upright in a lame 
Kaucepan, with hay between to prevent their 
touching ; put the saucepan on the lire, and 
fill it with water. When the water is near 
boiling, take it off and let it stand till the 
bottles are cold; then put them in a cellar, 
without touching each other, until wanted, j 
when they will be found as good to use as 
frc.-li fruit. The apricots may also be pre- j 
served whole by tin- game means. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Choose 
your apricots wlion quite ri|je, let them l>e 
free from spots, rnli them carefully with a 
linen cloth, to take off the down. Wei^h 
your fruit, and to each pound put a quarter 
of a pound ofsninr. Clarify it, and boil it 
to the decree grand ptrle, tlien put in the 
Hprin>t>: Imil them three or four times, tak- 
ini; c.ue tu turn them fni|iii>ntly, that they 
may lake the suijar in all parts. Take theiii 
off the lire, and put them one by one into 
L r l i-- lili'e<; the sirup In-in^ by this lime i 
nearly col I. jvmr llie brandy (three dfrni't- ' 
tiert to each pound) into it by degrees, stir- 
ring coii-lan!l\ lo mix it well with the .-imp. 
When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into 
the bottles, t!ir fruit at lirst will float; but 
when the brandy and mi-Tar have soaked in 
thcv will sink to the tiottoin; tliey are then 
fit to eat. 

APRICOT COMPOTE, GREEN. 

(ireen apricots are done exactly the same as 
green almonds. See ALMONDS. 

APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, 

nnd take the stones from your fruit, anil |xit 
them on the fire in a little water, and when 
they rixe tliey are muTicieiiily done, and may 
be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then 
put them into a little clarified sugar and give 
them three or f.mr Imilings; skim them well, 
and then put your li nit aside; boil the sugar 
alone fiur or live tim-< more, and pour it 
over (lie apricots. When cold place them 
in the rompn 

Al'RICOT CONSERVE. Take half- 
ripe apn ols, |*-el and cut them into thin 
s till-in iner a gentle fire; to four 
: fruit put one pound of sugar, boil- 
ed to tl? degree la plume forte; when the 
iii: ir IT- nearly col.l put in llic fniit, taking 
tore to K ' it well with a spoon, lh.it they 
may be wj|l incorporated. 

APRICOTS PARISIEN. Take five 
dozen vei\ line apricot.-, "'lit them in h.-ilf, 
and put ill. .n, a few at .1 time, over the fire, 
with half a p. inn 1 of sugar an. I fmr glxsees 
of water; a* soon as you find the peel will 



come off easily, take them out and drain 
them, and put fresh apricots into the sirup, 
and proceed the same until all are pealed, 
then reduce the sirup to the usual consis- 
tence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound 
of butter, the .- HIM- of sugar, on which grate 
t heresies of four lemons, a little i-alt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quarters 
of a pound of raisins, into a saucepan, and 
when it Ixjils take it from the fire and put it 
on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for 
an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix 
the yolks often eggs with it. 

APRICOTS IN JELLY. Pare and 
stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay 
them in a pan, and cover them with clari- 
fied .sugar; next day drain the sinip, and 
boil it smooth, then add the apricots and 
Uiil together; the following day make a 
jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots 
amon-; them, to give a better flavor. When 
the jellv is done put in the other fruit with 
the simp, and boil altogether, skiui it well 
and put it in glasses. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Peel the 
apricots, and take out the stones; to each 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound 
of clarified sugar, boil it to the degree grot 
boulet, then put in the apricots, boil both to- 
gether: when it flows readily it may be put 
into pots. 

APRICOT RATAFIA. Peel and cut 
into pieces as many ripe apricots as you 
may require, and boil them in while wine 
(about a pint to four dozen;) strain and 
mix it with an equal quantity of brandy; 
put the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
bruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, 
then lil;er and bottle it. 

APRICOT SWEETMEAT, WHOLK 

AND DRY. Choose fine firm apricots, make 
a little opening at the top to take out the 
stone, put them into cold water, then blanch 
them over tlie fire; when tliey begin to boil, 
take out those which are soft, throw them 
into cold water, and drain them. In die 
meantime, prc|Kirc some clarified sugar to 
petit listf.. When it boils put in the apri- 
cots, and Ixiil up a few times together. The 
next day separate the sugar from the fruit, 
boil & la nappe, and then pour it over the 
_;.iin; the follow ing day boil tlie su- 
gar petit perl, then add the fruit, and boil 
together; tlie fourth day drain them; and, 
having placed tlviii on iron plates, sprinkle 
them with sugar U-Ioie you put tliem into 
in dry; when dry, place in boxes 
. placing a sheet of paper between 
:\er. 



BAR 



260 



BAR 



n. 



BADIANE, INDIAN. Take a pound 
of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six 
quarts of good brandy for a week, when 
add to it a pint and a half of water, and 
distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a 
half of sugar in seven pints of water, and 
add h to the distilled liqueur. Stir it well, 
strain and bottle it. This is also called 
Badiane Cream. Some persons color it 
with a little cochineal, it is then called Oil 
of Badiane. 

BALM WINE. Boil twenty pounds of 
lump sugar in four gallons and a half of 
water gently for an hour, and put it in a 
tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of green balm, and put them into a 
barrel with a little new yeast, and when 
the Birup is nearly cold pour it on the 
balm. Stir it well together, , and let it 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently ; 
bring il up, and when, it has stood for six 
weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into 
each bottle ; cork it tight. The longer it 
is kept the better it will be. 

BALSAM, SIRUP OF. Put an ounce 
of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring wa- 
ter, and boil them two hours ; add a pound 
of white pounded sugar-candy, and boil it 
half an hour longer. Take out the bal- 
sam, and strain die sirup twice; when cold, 
bottle il. 

BARBADOES CREAM. Take the 

zests of three fine cedrats, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them 
into three quarts of brandy ; close the ves- 
sel hermetically, and let it infuse for a 
week, then distil it in un alembic. Dis- 
solve over the fire three pounds of sugar in 
a quart of pure river water, add to it half a 
pound of orange-dower water, work the 
mixture, and filter it through a straining 
bag into bottles for use. 

BARBADOES WATER. Take the 
outer rind of eight large florcnline citrons, 
half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a 
gallon of rectifed spirit; distil in the bain 
marie; dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water ; mix it with the distilled 
liquor ; filter and bottle it for use. 

BARBADOES WATER AMBER- 
COLORED. Infuse the yellow rind of 
six bergamots. half an ounce of cinnamon, 
and two drachms of doves bruised, for six 



days in a gallon of rectified spirit; then 
add a drachm of saffron, and let the whole 
stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds 
of sugar in a quart of water, add it to the 
infusion, and filter for use. 

BARBERRY BISCUITS. Press the 
juice through a sieve from two pounds of 
barberries, and mix with it five pounds of 
sifted sugar; whisk the whites of four eggs 
and add them to the fruit ; prepare some 
square paper cases, fill them with the jam, 
make them quite smooth, lay them on 
sieves, and put them into a stove, and let 
them remain six or eight days. When 
perfectly dry, take away the papers : keep 
them in a dry place. 

BARBERRIES, TO CANDY. Take 

the barberries out of the preserve, and 
wash off the sirup in warm water ; then 
sift over them some fine sugar, and set 
them in an oven, oftn moving them, and 
strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. 

BARBERRY DROPS. Cut off the 

black tops, and roast the fruit Ijefore the 

fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver 

i i i 

spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 

then set the basin in a saucepan of water 
the size of the top of the basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become thick. 
When cold, put to every pint, a pound and 
a half of the best sugar pounded as fine as 
possible. Beat the fruit and sugar together 
for two hours and a half (or more for a 
large quantity), then drop it on sheets of 
white thick paper. If, when you drop, it 
runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will 
look rough if you put too much. 

BARBERRY ICE. Put some barber- 
ries into a pan without water, set it over 
a gentle fire, stirring them " constantly ; 
when warm, pass them through a sieve, 
into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar ; 
if too thick, put a little water, but no lem- 
on-juice, as the barberries/.'are sufficiently 
acid without ; then put it into the sabotiert 
to congeal. 

BARBERRY ICE CREAM. Put a 
large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint 
of cream ; add the juice of a lemon and a 
little cochineal ; stir it well, and finish as 
directed, see ICE. 

BARBERRY ICE WATER. Mix one 

spoonful of barberry jam with die juice of 
a lemon, a pint of water, and a little coch- 
ineal; pass it through a sieve and freeze it; 
take care that it is thick and smooth be- 
fore you put in moulds. 



BAR 



261 



HER 



HARRERRY MARCHPANE. Tnke 
three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds 
and a half of s-ii^;ir, and u pound of bar- 
berries ; pound the almonds to a paste, mix 
them witli the su^;ir lx>iled to petit boule, 
and then add tlic juice of the bat tarries 
strained ; stir them together well, and place 
them on hot ashes, stirriii^ them continual- 
ly until the paste is formed; then put it on 
a talile sprinkled with sugar and let it cool; 
spread it out nlxwt tlie thickness of a crown 
piece, cut it into various forms, place them 
on sheets of pa|x>r, and bake them in a 
moderate oven and glaze tliem. You may 
use any other fruit you think proper. 

BARBERRY PASTILE. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, strain it in a cloth pr bag, and put 
it into a mortar, with a spoonful of bar- 
berry marmalade ; mix it well, and add as 
much pnu !c i--;i_;:ii as will make it into a 
malleable pasie; you may also put in a lit- 
tle cochineal dissolved ; form it into what 
shapes you ]! 

HAKHF.KUIKS PRESERVED IN 

P.rsi in .s. Clim.se those liailx-rries which 
have tin- '-, which may be ex- 

tracted carefully will* the nib of a pen. 
' \ nir fruit, and mix- it will) an 

equal weight of sugar boiled to petit boule; 
boil them together two or three times, and 
skim it. St t it a*i(U> in an earfi 
until the next (lay, when it may be put in 
pots and covered. 

i:\UriERRY WAFERS. Press out 
the juice In mi as many barberries as you 
may require, and mix it with powder-eu- 
gar, and the white of one egg, and stir it 
up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 

y a sheet of wafer paper on 

a baking pl.ite, an I >pread your paste over 

it very tliin with a knife; cut it into twelve 

nid put them round a stick (the 

; in a hot stove to curl ; when 
half cuile.l, lake them oil" carefully, and set 
them up i i) in ays in asie\e; let them stand 
for a whole day in a hot stove. 

P.AIMIERRY WATER. Put two large 

spoonfuls of barberry jam, the juice of two 
lemons and a gill of sirup in a ! i 
dilute it with water; add a little cochineal, 
and if not rich enough, more sirup; strain 
it through a fine sieve. 

It.\M.i:V srCAIJ. < -larifj -two pounds 
of sugar, nut boil it to caramel height, in 
a deep c ppi i \.-e| with a lip ; pour it in 
Mraii;lit liaes aliout an inch thick, on a 
maioie i-l.il) prc\inn-ly ruhtad with butter. 
Whilst hut, take each end of the stripe of 



sugar and twist it; when cold cut it into 
proper lengths and put them by in glasses. 
They must be kept in a dry place. 

BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. Proceed 
as for barley sugar. Have ready a large 
sheet of white paper, covered with a smooth 
layer of sifted sugar. Pour out the boiled 
sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when 
cold, fold them separately in paper, a few 
drops of tlic essence of ginger or lemon will 
improve the flavor. 

BARLEY SIRUP. Make of a pound of 
barley three quarts of barley water; strain 
out the barley, and put to the water a hand- 
ful of scabious, tonnentil, hyssop, agrimony, 
horehound, maiden hair, panicle, betons, 
burage, buglose, rosemary, marigoi 
violets and cowslips, of each a pint, when 
picked; a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of 
dates stoned; half a (xiund of green liquor- 
ice, caraway, fennel and aniseed, of each 
one ounce, hartshorn, ivy, elecampane 
root?, of each an ounce ; the roots of fen- 
nel, asparagus, couchgrass, polipodium, 
and oak parsley, of each a handful : clean, 
bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all 
into the barley water, cover close, and 
boil gently for twelve hours ; then strain 
and press out the juice, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours ; when clear, add to it 
rose water and hyssop, half a pint of each, 
and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a 
drachm of saffron, three pints of the best 
honey, and as many pounds of sugar as 
quarts of liquor, boil this an hour and a 
half, keeping it clean scummed, then bot- 
tle it, cork it well, and put by for use. 

BARLEY WATER. Put a quarter 
of a pound of pearl-lsu ley into two quarts 
of water, let it boil, skim it very clean, 
boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten 
according to taste, and put in two glasses 
of white wine, or some lemon-juice. Drink 
it warm. 

BERGAMOT DROPS. Mix the iuice 
of four or five lemons, and some sifted su- 
gar, with a wooden spoon; add to this 
twenty dro| of essence of bergamot ; mix 
it well in, and having mined it over the 
fire three or four minutes, drop it about 
the size of a sixpence on writing paper, 
and let them stand till cold. 

BERGAMOT WAFERS. Squeeze 
six lemons into a basin, and mix some 
silied sugar, essence of bergamot, and the 
white of an efg, with the juice ; beat 
them together till very white; if it becomes 
too thick, add the juice of another lemon; 



262 



BIS 



spread your paste, and dry 'diem as bar- 
berry wafers. 

BERGAMOT WATER. To the rinds 
of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof 
spirit, and two quarts of water ; draw off 
one gallon by the tain marie, and sweeten 
with sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATER. Take three 
gills of sirup, the juice of six lemons, and 
-when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it through a fine sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE, Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain 
and freeze it. 

BETONY, CONSERVE OF. Take 
a pound of betony, three pounds of \mf su- 
gar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the 
sugar with two quarts of betony water to 
the thickness of a simp, then mix them to- 

f ether by little and little, over a gentle 
re, make it into a conserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Lny the rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it l>e tender; take half 
-a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch them 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drag- 
on, which soak in fair water; tli*n jw::::,! 
the almonds, putting in as you pound, the 
whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound 
the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, 
and mix them well together; then beat a 
pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon white papers, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES, Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
-and fill some little round or square cases 
with it. TlH-n with the rolling pin crush 
some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and 
trew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a. cop|>er plate, and when the sugar begins 
to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the 
mouth of which put a shovel full of burning 
coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that 
assumes the appearance of little pearls, re- 
move the coals and close the oven. These 
biscuits will require from twenty to twenty- 
live minutes baking. 

BISCUITS ICED. Beat up the white 
of eiglit, and the ^olks of six eggs, with a 



pound of fine powdered sugar, for two hours. 
Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried 
sifted flour ; when the oven is ready and 
your plates buttered, mix the flour as" quick 
as possible with the eggs, &c,, and lay tlie 
biscuits on the plates ; you may add a little 
musk and ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bake a biscuit, 
made like Iced biscuit, in a plain, round 
mould ; cut it across, in slices an inch 
thick ; pour on each slice a spoonful of true 
maraschino, and when they have imbibed 
this, place them in their proper form, and 
mask the whole, either with white of egg and 
sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded 
macaroons. 

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATER. 

Whisk up sis eggs, and an equal weight of 
powder-sugar, for half an hour. Take six 
more eggs and their weight of flour, and mix 
all together, and lay this mixture on paper, in 
cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about 
two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven should 
be hot; five minutes will bake them. When 
cold, wet the under side of the paper, and 
they will then remove easily. 

BISCUITS, JUDGES. Break six 
eggs into a basin, and whisk them well 
for five minutes, add half a pound of pow- 
<!ci' -sugar, hud whisk again for ten minutes' 
longer; put some caraway-seeds and half 
a pound of dry sifted flour; mix them all 
together with a wooden spoon. Drop them 
on paper about the size of a crown-piece, 
and thick in the middle ; sift sugar over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them off the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take ten eggs, 
put the yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange- flowers, the peel of a green 
lemon, both shred fine, and three-quarters 
of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole 
together till the sugar is dissolved and well 
mixed with the eggs. Beat tle ten whites 
to a frotlt, aod add to the sugar, stir in 
lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of flour, 
put them into buttered moulds, powdering 
them with fine sugar, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put into an 
earthen pan half a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, the same of pounded 
almonds, a little salt, and some orange- 
flower water, six yolks, and two whole 
eggs ; beat up these ingredients well ; whip 
tlie .six whites, and mix them gradually 



BIS 



263 



BfS 



with the aboTC preparation ; make a paper 
case, butter and pour in it your biscuit 
paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some 
almonds into either dice or slips, mix them 
with some powder-sugar and white of^egg; 
when the biscuit maiiques la alx>ut tliree 
parts done, dorez and cover it with this 
latter mixture ; then replace it in the oven 
and tinir-li lxikin<;. As soon as it is done, 
take it out and cut it into whatever forms 
your fancy may dictate. 

BISCUITS, MARRLED. Make twen- 
ty-tour eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, and 
three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted 
flour, into a biscuit paste, as directed for 
Spoon Bitcuits; then beat four ounces 
of dis.-ol\cd chocolate in an earthen pan, 
and ad I to it a third of the paste; when it 
is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one 
half mix a quarter of the biscuit-paste, which 
will tinge (hat portion a light chocolate col- 
or. After this, mix togetl>er some vegeta- 
ble red and infusion of saffron to color hull' 
tin- remaining p.iMr orange; then divide 
that again, and mix the la.-t quarter with 
half the orange-color, thus your pa.-tc will 
lx- colored with two shades of chocolate 
anil two of oraiiye. 

Make two pa|T rases, each eight incli- 
w square and three high, pour into one of 
these a large spoonful of the chocolate- 
pastc. ami when it has spread over the bot- 
tom of the case, pour in one of the orange- 
colored, on hich another of the chocolate, 
'i, alternately, until tin- case is half 
full ; then sprinkle it with Hour, and put it 
into a slow oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. I'ut the remainder of your bi.-ruit- 
poste (both colors) into a pan and stir them 
together with a s|x>on till the whole is 
veined, or clouded w ith tlie two colors ; pour 
it into the other case, sprinkle it with Hour 
and bake like the former; when quite cold, 
cut them into slices about two incites thick, 
half of which should Ix- broken, and the other 
half cut in pieces of au equal size, lay them 
on a Uikii'Lj-plate, and dry them in the oven. 
These are generally used to make the rocks 
in ornamental pastry, and may l>e colored 
with tin; usual materials, according to your 
fancy . 

BI8C1 ITS, MARCHPANE. Beat a 
pound of sweet almonds to a very fine 

pa.-tr, moisten them with water, then put 
them and a pund of powder-sugar into a 
saucepan. o\i-r a clear but riot tierce char- 
coal tire, stirring constantly, till the paste 
it ii loyi-tlicr ; put it on a Homed 
slab, and woik it well with \our hands for 
some lime, then roll small piece* of it alxuit 
tliree incho loir.' and half the thickness of' 
your little tinker, join the ends of each and 



make them into round rings, lay tliem on a 
sieve in a dry warm place for two or three 
days. When wanted, mix some powder- 
sugar with the whites of eight eggs, and 
U-at them with a wooden spoon in each 
hand ; add a cup of orange-flower water. 
Put your rings into this icing, and cover 
them completely ; lay them n a sheet of 
paper and bake in a slow oven until the 
icing sets and they begin to change color. 
Do not remove them from the paper till cold. 

BISCUITS, MILLEFRUIT. Take 

preserver] orange and lemon-peel, a quar- 
ter of a pound of each, six ounces of angel- 
ica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of 
bilter almonds; cut all the above ingredients 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, 
sugar and orange-flower water ; put the al- 
monds, &c. into this, and having paper on 
your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of 
whatever size you please; then with a hair 
pencil touch them here and tin-re with a 
little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too 
hot an oven. 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 

weight of six esjifs in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
cinnamon; whisk" the whites to a firm froth, 
and stir them lightly into the yolks; add 
four whole e<;gs, and their weight of dry- 
sifted Hour, mix them well together; take 
this mixture in a spoon, and lav it in about 
the size of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two together with the spoon, and when 
your paper is full, sprinkle powder-sugar 
o\er anil bake, them; a lew minutes will do 
them. Remove them from tlie pa|x>r while 
hot and put tin,- two undersides together. 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA. 
Put tlie whites of twelve eggs into an earth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eight ounces of double refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted; having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of flour, and three 
of powder-sugar sifted, tlie grated rind of 
one or two lemons and half a coffee cup of 
oiani;e-l|iiwer water, stir them well with a 
wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the 
snow: drop them on paper of a larger size 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take 
them from the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, SAVOY. Whip twelve 
whites of eggs to a snow; beat the yolks 
w ith a pound and a quarter of powder-sugar, 
mix them together, with three-quarters of a 
pound of Hour and the grated rind of a lem- 
on, into a paste, rub your mould with melted 
, butter, and bake it. 



BIS 



264 



BI9 



BISCUITS, LARGE SAVOY. Take 

fifly-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the zes- 
tes of four oranges, a pound and three-quar- 
ters of potatoe-flour sifted ; and make your 
biscuit as follows: grate the zestes of the 
oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as 
it becomes colored, scrape it off, and grate 
again until all the zeste is done, then dry 
die sugar perfectly, crush and sift it. 

Break your eggs one by one, (takin'* care 
that all are perfectly fresh ;) put the yolks 
and whites into separate vessels; mix half 
your sugar with the former, stirring it in 
with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then 
add the remainder, and work it well for 
twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite 
firm, pulling in a small quantity of pounded 
alum; when sufficiently whipped, which 
may be known by little points rising when 
the whisk is taken out; mix a little wilh 
the yolks; still, however, keeping the whites 
stirring; then pour the yolks on them very 
gently mixing them together as you pour, 
with the whisk: sift over the whole a pound 
of potatoe-flour, stirring the mixture all the 
time; when ready to put into the mould, 
your paste should be very smooth, and some- 
what of the consistence of treacle. Butter 
Ule mould, and put in a few spoonfuls of 
your paste at first, to prevent any globules 
of air appearing on the top when baked; 
pour in the remainder carefully. Cover a 
baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould 
in the midst of them, and place it in a mod- 
erate oven ; keep it open for an hour, that 
the biscuit mav be watched, and if it takes 
color too quickly, cover it with paper. In 
diree hours time take il from the oven, and 
if it be of a good color, uml linn, turn it on 
a baking-tin, tie round it a band of double 
paper, and replace it in the oven for a quar- 
ter of an hour to dry. 

IBID, WITH ALMONDS. The in- 
gredients for this biscuit are the same as 
above, with the addition of four eggs, and 
half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the 
almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in 
a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs 
in the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it 
through a sieve, and then mix it with the 
additional eggs; add this to die sugar and 
yolks, and proceed as above. 

BISCUITS, SPICE. Take three 
pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut 
in half, three ounces of cinnamon anil mace 
pounded, and one pound of powder-sugar ; 
mix them all together on your slab; lx>il 
three pounds of Lislion sugar with some wa- 
ter; make the above ingredients into a paste 
with this, and roll it to the size of a large 
rolling-pin ; lay it on a sheet of paper, flat 
it down a little wilh your hand, keeping it 



higher in the middle than at the ends; put 
it into a very hot oven ; when done, take it 
out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an 
eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. 

BISCUITS, FINE SPONGE. Break 

twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites; 
to the former put three quarters of a pound 
of powder-sugar, stir them well u itli a wood- 
en spoon, till it rises in large bladders; 
whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and 
then mix them very lightly with the yolks 
and sugar, and when incorporated, add ten 
ounces of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir 
them all together well, and pour the mix- 
ture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar 
over, and bake them in a moderate oven. 
Take them from the tins while hot. 

BISCUITS, SPOON. Break four eggs, 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
basins; add to the former a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar; having grated on 
it the zeste of a lemon, mix these together 
well with a spatula for ten minutes; then 
whip the whites to a froth, and put about 
half of them to the yolks, and when that is 
well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very 
lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, 
make them about three inches long, and the 
breadth of a finger. Glaze them with pow- 
der-sugar, and place them on baking tins, 
add, as the sugar dissolves, and they .-hine, 
put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which 
must be kept open for seven or eight minutes 
then close it until your biscuits are of a pro- 
per color. When col), detach lliem from 
the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay 
them by, in couples, the glazed sides out- 
wards, till wanted 

BISCUITS, SWEET. Take half a 
pound of fine pounded sn^ar, and sift it 
through a tammy. Put the whites of twelve 
eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks 
into an earthenware tureen ; whip the whites 
In a snow, and then carefully pour on it the 
yolks and sugar; stir them gently; place 
your pan over a chafing-dish; continue 
whipping the whole for a full half hour, and 
then, if the drop which falls from the whisk 
lays a little while without spreading, take it 
from the fire, and whisk again till it is cold; 
then add half a pound of tine sifted flour, stir 
it in gently with a wooden sp ion. Drop 
them on paper, sift sugar OM-I-, and bake 
them in a warm oven until of a deep yellow; 
take them from the papers while warm; 
bake them as soon as possible after they are 
dropt on paper. 

BISCUITS, SWEETMEAT. Cut 

softie Naples biscuits into pieces about an 
inch thick, and an inch and a half square, 



BLA 



265 



BOU 



and just crisp them in tlte oven. Make some 
icing with whites of egg*, sugar, and orange- 
flower water; dip one side of the biscuit 
into it; cut some preserved lemon and 
orange-|>eel and angelica into small pieces; 
strew tlicm over the biscuits, and dry the 
icing in the mm. 

BISCUITS, TOAD - IN - A - HOLE. 

iiinil of sweet, and an ounce and a 
half ul' bitter almonds to a line smooth paste, 
iiioi-ti .1 with water, and mix tin- pa.-te, 
winch .-h.niM not I"' IIHI tliin, w iili a pound 
and a ((nailer of while .-UL'.N . l>ay a .-hn-t 
of wi iling-|w;>i.'i cm your baking-plate, and 

wafer-paper, on thai; lay the bucuiu about 

tin- si/.e ul" a hall-crow n piece; put a dried 
cherry in the middle of each; silt sugarover 
and liake (hem in a moderatu.oveii. When 
done, cut (lie water-paper round, but do not 
lake it away. 

IU.ACKiir.ltKV WINE. Put full ripe 

bl.icklx-irir.- inio a large ve.-.-el w itli a cock 
in it, |. in nn as iin.i h liniiing water as 
will cover tiiern, anil as so,,n as the heat 
will permit, liim-e llleiii well with tin- hand 
till all llit- Ix-uii-aie bicken; cover them, 
and in almnl three or lour dav -, w liru tin- l,.-i - 
in llie tup, di aw i., l' [he clear part 
nidi another Vi --i-l: add tu ru-i v trn ijnai Is 
of the liijimr one |KHIIII| of sugar, stir it well 
in, anil lei it stand a wet-k or ten days to 
wuiK. l)iaw il ollihniiigli ajclly-bag. Sleep 
four oiiures of isinglass ill a pint of sweet 
wine !>>i twelve li..nrs, then Ixiil it .-l.iwK 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon of ihcUuck- 
Ixny juice, Imil tliem li-^i-ilier and (hen 
put a" gcdicr; let it stand a few dav>, and 
bottle. 

I ;i. \\r-M \M:E, DUTCH. Put a 

pint of cleared calf's-loot jelly into a slew- 
pau ; mix vvilh it the yolks of six i-j 
it over a file, and whisk till it Ijegins to 
bull; (hen set tile (Kill in cold w aid, and .-(il 
tlie mixiiiie till nearly cold, to prevent it 
fiom cumin-'.', and when it begins to thicken 
fill (lie mould-. 

r.I.AMVM \N<;K, rKF.NCH. Blanch 
one pound 1. 1 Mvi-et, and a score of bitter 
almond-: ihain I|M-III on a sieve, and aflei - 
wards dry them, \,\ nibbing them in a nap- 
kin: pound tin-in in a mortar, continually 
moiMciiini; them w ilh half a tea-spoonful of 
w.iti-r al a time, to pi event their oiling. 
When they are |x.innied a.- Inn- a- |>o.-.-iUi-, 
take tin in out of (he moilat . and put them 
into a |Kin; then with a silver S|XK>II, beat 
tip yiiir .d:ir mi!- graduallv, willi live glasses 
of tillered wain: after lln>, >picad a napkin 
over an oval iii-li. and put your almonds 
ujx)ii it; then gallier up the coiners of your 
23 



napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out 
all the milk from the almonds; then put 
into this milk, twelve ounces of crystallized 
sugar, broken into small pieces; when the 
sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a 
napkin; and then add to it one ounce of 
clarified isinglass*, rather warmer than luke- 
warm; and when the whole is well incorpo- 
rated together, pour il into your mould. 
Vour mould .-honld be previously put into 
ten |X)unds of pounded ice ; w hen your blanc- 
mange is ready to serve, (which will be in 
two hours after it has been put into the 
mould,) you must take it out of the mould 
according to the rule prescribed in Violet 
Jelly. 

BLANC-MAN(!E WITH FRUIT. 

Boil an ounce and a half of isin^lar-s, and 
when (|iiite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool 
for half an hour, skim, and pour it lice from 
sediment into another pan ; then whii-kvvith 
it a table-spoonful of cedr.it, and half a 
imiind of currant jelly, straw Ixrty, or rasp- 
iienvjani; and when it begins to jelly, fill 
(lie moulds. 

I'-I. \\r-M VN(JE, WITHOUT EITHER 

ISINGLASS OR ICING. Prepare your 

almonds in the same manner as in ihc re- 
ceipt for BlMO-tMflge d la Francaise, but 
only using hall die quantity s;x'cilied in that 
receipt, and I ike wist: leaving out (he isinglan. 
Tin n i nt into a pan the whiles of four eggs, 
, and whip them till (hey Lc^iu to whiten, 
then add your Mane-mange, and place your 
pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip 
your preparation until the egg is thoroughly 
iiiiM-.l with the almonds, and the whole be- 
gins to nun to a thick cieam; and when it 
is of a pr, >(,<; ci ,-i-ieiiee, pour into little 
cups, and serve it either hot or cold. 

\\heu yon wi>h to serve this entremet 
in little cups, and of any flavor you pleaae, 
you HUM only make use of two-thirds of the 
(jiiaiiiity of almonds, named in tin- receipt 
for Blanc-mange French. 

BOUCHEES DE DAMES. Mix with 
six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potato-flour, a little rah, 
and a pinch of dried orange-flowers : heat 
them together well, and having buttered a 
tin, lay your | a.-ie on it, and Lake it in a 
gentle oven tin a quarter of an hour; when 
done, cut it in pieces, about the -i/e of a 
ciown pn-ue. and glaze ilieui, mask them 
i ding to your pleasure, and dry them 
in the oven. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, GLACEE8. 
Roll some pnlf paste to about llie eighth of 
an inch in lhickiie>s, and will) a plain round 
|.-i.-ie-eiitiiT, of two inches diametei , cut out 



BOU 



266 



BUT 



as many cakes as you mny retire ; then 
with a smaller cutter, take out the middle 
of half the number, so as to make rings of 
them; moisten the edges of tlie former, and 
lay the rings on them; wet them also as 
you lay them down, cpi inkle them lightly 
with po'.vdur sugar, ami liuke them in a 
liriik <r.eii. These bouchees require great 
attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to 
dissolve and color too quickly ; when done, 
they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill 
them with swealmeats, | -reserves, or whip- 
ped cream, according to fancy. 

BOUCHEES DE MONSIEUR. Pound 
a stick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then sifl it; mix with it 
seven additional ounces of dry powder-su- 
gar, and half a pound of sifted (lour; add to 
this the whites of four eggs, whip|>ed firm, 
and work them together till the paste is 
very smooth and soft. Heat two copper- 
plates, rub them over with wax, and then 
wipe them; when cold, lay the pr.ste with 
a knife, in pieces about the siz.e of a fill>ert, 
shaded tjuite round, leave three-quarters of 
an inch spare between each ; \\ hen the 
plates are full, put them on stool.-- in an oven, 
so that they can receive no heat from below, 
then put a stove with hot coals on the top 
of the oven, and let them remain in this 
state for twenty-lour hours; then put them 
for fifteen or twenty minutes into a mode- 
rate oven. Take them from the plates 
whilst hut, and as soon as cold, finish them 
in the same way as bouchees de dames; 
glaze them with chocolate, a la rose, with 
pistachios, orange, cedrat, he. &o. They 
may also be masked with sugar, pistachios, 
currants, &c. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, MERIN- 
GUES AUX PISTACHES. Make them 
the same as above, strew sugar over with- 
out wetting the rings, and bake them to a 
light color in a moderate oven. Then mix 
a quarter of a pound of pnwder-flBgJur with 
three whites of eggs, well whipped, an, I 
mask the bouchees lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sugar; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blanch- 
ed, and each cut across sloping; place these 
pieces round the edge of the bouchees like 
a crown; and each piece of the pistachios 
being placed on ilia cut side, they stand out 
from the edge of the bouchee: this process 
being finished, put them in tlie oven again a 
few minutes, to color the egg; and in the 
meantime stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
meringuees as you have bouchf.es, sprin- 
kle them witlt sugar, and r..lor lx>:li sides 
of them in a slow oven ; ami when the frou- 
chees are ready for table, fill the-u with 



whipped cream, with pistachios, and cover 
each with half a meringue. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PERLEES. 

Your bouchees being made and baked as 
above, whip the whites of two egu> to a 
firm froth, and mix theai with four >pi>.m- 
fuls of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, 
mask your bouchees with it: then take 
son'e white of egg, and with the point of a 
knife, drop them in pearls about the si/- of 
a grape-stone, round each bouchee, half an 
inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, 
and dry tlie egg in the oven, taking cate 
they do not lose their whiteness. 

When cold, place between each pearl a 
smViler one of red-currant jelly. Fill your 
bouchees with apricot marmalade, apple- 
jelly, &c. ; if, however, the jelly, or what- 
ever else yon may use, lie of a red color, 
your intermediate pearls should I* composed 
of light-colored preserve, such us apricot 
marmalade, &c. The.*e sliMild be pcailed 
a few at a time only. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PI1AU- 
NEES. Having prepared the bouchefsas 
usual, dorez and bake them in a mo;Vrae 
oven ; when they are of the proper color, 
ma.-k them with whites of eggs mixed wi;j 
sugar, and almonds minced very small; re- 
pl;:ee them in the oven a minute or two, 
and then strew red, or any other colored 
sugar on them, but not #o thick as to cover 
the a!:i::;n ,'s entirely. Fill the bouchees 
as usual. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, A LA 

RHINF.. The same as a''ove, only the 
paste must U> cat thicker, and Ittfore you 

: dorez, I-U them stand a few minutes. Bake 

I in a brisk oven. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (1) Gath- 
er the berries in tlie heat of the day, and set 
in an earthen vessel in the oven ; squeeze out 
the juice, and for each peek of Ivrries put 
two pounds of white sugar, and lx>il them 
together a quarter of an hour ; let it cool, 
and then bottle it. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 

three quarts of the juice of clarified buck- 
thorn berries, and four pounds of brown 
sugar; make them into a sirup over 
fire, and while warm, mix with it a diachm 
of tlie distilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a 
lump of sugar. The trite buckthorn may be 
known by the number of its scds, having 
f.iur, the "alder buckthorn lias only two, and 
list; cherry hirklhorn one seed. The for- 
mer is to bu used. 

BUTTER, BLACK. Three pounds of 



CAN 



267 



CAP 



fruit, currant?, gooseberries, raspberries, 
and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, 
txii!d till quite thick. It must waste to 
half die quantity. 



c. 



CAKES MADE OF FLOWERS. R-il 
double refined sugar to a candy height, anrt 
strew in your flower.- and let ll-eiii 1.. il 
: th"-i. wi'h your hand, lightly 
strrxv in a little double refi r-d sirj.ir pifted, 
and |it it directly into little pans 
rani, and pricked full of holes at the hot- 
torn; \oo iiiu*t set the pans on a cushion, 
and \\hen they are cold, take, them out. 

VCOMR. V.,n\ yonr 
.1 ran Iv height; tlirn put in your 
. liii-h iiiu.-t lie rut; haxe little pa- 
h four corners ready; d:<" 
( y on l!:e |>apers, take them off 
id if they ar>> rightly done, 
they XV ill loi.k lull of"!. 



CAKES, I I'-muiCE. T ; ,k- hy----o,, 
and red ro-e u:it.-r, of each half a pi-it, half 
a pound oi't-i.ii- 

>vth a |<c--r!e; 
put to il half a pound i.f an 
it all night in the water; Ixiil it with a 
penile I'm- till ill.- t.i.-te is well out of the 

MI it, |)iit to if (h. 

nf liquorice pov it on a tieu'le 

tire till it i- rom- to the thi- ' 
take it oft', and put to it Irilf a pound of 
whit-- sti-ru- randy >c-ied very fi-ie ; U-:it 
this well together for at lea-t lhre<- II-MI;---. 
and 'lever yiif>i r it to stand s|i!> 
Ix-at il, you inii-t strew in double-refined 

re I, at lea-t three pounds ; 
halt an hour Ik-fore it is finished, put in half 
a tponnfid of gum di 1 in or- 

i'er: when it is verv white 
then i' i j r !l it tip with while 

sujir; and if you want it perfumed, put in 
a past i i or l\vo. 

r\\!\ \\<,. I'rnit intended for can- 

dying iuii>( Ix; fii.-t preM-xi-d, and dii<rd in 

'lie tire, that none of the sii- 

up in.iy temain in it. Sn^ar intended for 

'I ' iMindy in'4 uiih-t Ix- thus prep-ire>l : 

put into a togsing-pan a pound of sugar, 

with half . i pint of wali-r, and -i-t it oxer a 

verv rlear tire. Take oM the scum aa it 

rises; *Miil it (ill it look- rl.-ar and line, and 

take out a little in a silxer Hpoon. \\ hen 

it is -o|,|, if it xxill iltaxv a threail from 

xour s|H..n. it i- '^..ili-.l tMioii-.-li for any Km. I 

i iH.il \.-.r .-iiuii, and 

wlli-n il Ix-^in- to ranilx r ...... i tr 



your pan, it is candy height. It is a great 
mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into 
too thirk a simp, especially at the first, a* 
it wi'hers the fruit, and both the beauty and 
flavor are thereby destroyed. 

CANDY FLOWERS. Take the 
best treble-refined sugar, break it into 
lunijic, and dip it piece by piece into water ; 
put them into a vessel if silxer, and melt 
them oxer the fire; when it just boilf, 
strain k, and s-'t it on the fire again, and 
IH it lr>il till il draws in hairs, which you 
may perceive bv holding up your spoon; 
then put in the I'.oxvers, and set them in cups 
\Vk-n it is of a hard candy, 
break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you 
Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, 
and it will look like sugar-candy. 

CAMlY, ALL SORTS OF I 
When !'.ni.-hed in the sirup, put a layer into 

"re, aad dip it suddenly into hot 
x\at-i, 'o take oflf the sirup that ha 'igs about 
it ; pin it on a napkin lforc live fire to 
drain, and then do some more on the sieve. 
'n!v-!-ifted donble-n-fni' d ugn-, 
xxhirh silt oxer the fruit on al! sides, till 
<|iiite while. Set it on the shallow end of 

- in a lightly-wano oven, and turn 
ii txvo or tlm-o times. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully, and it xvill be 
beautiful. 

CANF.LI.O.NS. Make a FtifT paste, 
with a little melted Ixilter, a spoonful or 

txvo ,i f xxat.-, some rasped lemon-peel, an 
eg, a quarter of a pound <-f flmir, and half 
that quantity of siiyir ; roil it very thin; 
make a little cane of raid-paper, butter it 
well on the outside, and wrap it in some of 
the paste; bake it a few minutes; take ont 
t lie ran!, and fill the paste xvith currant jel- 
ly, or any '.-'her jelly or sweetmeat you 



<\\M. I. I.ONS MERINGUES. Whip 
the whites of two ei{';<, and haxing mixed 
diem xvith txvo s|>ooi!fiils of powrier-eugar, 
then mask tlie cannellons; when baked, 
cni-h a quarter of a jxtund of fine sugar, 
and roll the canm-llons in it; repl.i- 
a lexv mini'tr" in the oven, and then finish. 
The masking of the.-*: rannelloiis may be 

rwied according to t is'e, xxith pistariiion, 

drie<l currants, &e. tlie fonner cut in pieces, 

i the taller xxc II xxaslied, dried and mixed 

xs ith an ("jii.il (j laiihtx of sugar. 

CM'II.LAII.-F.. SIRUP OF. The 

; ra| ill in > <>l < a'laila, altlio'igh ih.il of .Moiit- 

i peiirr is e<|i ally sfixl, is a verx oilorifij- 

vgptalile, ligl't and agreeable, but co 

I exireiueix volaiile, that the gveairst part of 



CAR 



268 



CAR 



it is dissipated during the preparation of 
the sirup. To preserve then the odour of 
the capillaire, when your sirup is sufficient- 
ly done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some 
fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it stand until it 
is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
cloth to separate it from the leaves of tlie 
capillaire. 

Take one ounce of the capillaire from 
Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon 
it four pints of boiling water, leave it to in- 
fuse for twelve hours over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of cupillaire; 
melt in this tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preserving-pan, and 
put it on the fire, and clarify it with the 
white of an egg, continue the cooking ; when 
your sirup is perle, put some fresh capil- 
laire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your 
pan carefully, and let it cool; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork them hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
some good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled tt casse; clarify this sirup with the 
whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; when it rises, take it off the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for 
a quarter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling through a sieve, 
they put int6 it some powder-sugar, and 
clarify their sirup with water, or a whole 
egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
very clear and has boiled an lisse, they 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, four 
pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar ; 
put in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
fire; when it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil quick, till it comes to the degree 
called crack; which may be known by dip- 
ping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
and letting it drop to the bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remains hard, it has 
attained that degree : squeeze in the juice 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire; then set the pan into 
another of cold water : have ready moulds 
of any shape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw it over the mould in fine threads, till 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gum 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and place 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
f. to caramel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and trace on its 
surface the forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it according to those marks. 
This conserve may be colored and flavored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. DissoUe eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of 
water, and three or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untinned 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from 
the spoon into it, and so on till you have all 
the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be three parts 
cold, then pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, run 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, 
and when cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look thick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold color. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 
your cardamums at the chemists, and they 
will be in a shell; put them into the oven to 
dry the skins, and they will break; pick all 
the seeds from them, put the seeds into a 
large' comfit-pan, and have a fire under the 
same as for others; mix your gum, starch, 
and sirup, and finish them the same as cara- 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Dry a quarter 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven; rub a 
pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls of rose water, 
half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, 
and three-quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, 
an I hi' whites of two, and yolks of four 
eggs; mix all these well together, let it lie 



CAS 



269 



CHA 



before the firp, and when vmi make it up 
jHit in a pound ami a half of Naples hisruits, 
and three-quarters of a pnuiui of rani way - 
comfit.-. Hake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway w-ds, sift all the dust frnm 
thf.'in, and have a large copper picseruu:;- 
|uu. .dionf two feet wide, and with two 
luri'ilcs a 'id two pieces c.l iron made as a 
ring on cadi side; llien you must have a 

{Millev fixed lo ill- beam, and a cord with a 
U'<,k to e.e h end, so as to !i\ it :ii i-arli 
side of the pan to let it slinij; then have 
some line .-tairh as white as \oii can i;ii. 
and jii.-t soften it, l>"il some MI up a (frailer 
of an h.iur, and mix i; will ill'- March; 
t.ike some gum arable, put it into some 
wal'-r, then put that into another | an, and 
make ii jn-l \\.i.m; have an iron-jxit with 
charcoal (ire under the large pan, Imt not 
too hot, only jn-t to keep the pan warm ; 
have a large till) to put your pot of lire at 
bottNDi and your laie pan nin.-t lie on the 
top; put the rariwav seeds into your pan ; 
add a lart;e ladleful of jjuin arable, nil) them 
will) your hands until you lind they are all 
dry, then put a ladlcful of starch ami .-imp. 
Mild do the .-ame ovei your |MII of lire, until 
yon find they are all diy; put lh<- uniii onlv 
three or four limes to them at first, ilien the 
March and sugar, lull lx.il your sirup more 
its \oii tin I they come to coal with it, and 
not so much starch ; u hen you hav dried 
them .-e\en nr i-iyhl times, put ihem into 
your sieve; (int them into the slo\e, do 
them the next day , and M>, successively, for 
six or seven days. 

CARANN \Y DK\:KKS. Takenny 
quantity ol c ,ia\\.i\ see I- \mi think pioper, 
put them into a preset \ in^-p.m, and when 
(mite w. u 111, put iii clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, sin 11114 it occasionally, nil of the 
M/e you wish; then piocivd as diierted for 
Almond Dragee*. 

CASSI \ CAMMED. Pound a little 
imi.-k and ami* i :;i i.- with an iuuc.li of the 
powder of . I--M a.- uill lie on two ghil- 
Mg*. 11 n in 1 ,' jKiini-le i them well togpfher, 
take a (jii.u lei .,f a |H und of fine suy.ir, ami 
as inn. h \\ali-r as \\ill uet it, und Uiil it lo 
a candy Iwiylit, then put in your powder 
and mix \\cll t< Aether. Butter gome pew- 
ter saucer", and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound uf bitter 
rheiiics. a ((iiarter of u pound of caaaia 
Icau.-, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
l>riii.-i- tin two flint, cut up tile leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
tnta in lime '(iiaits cf brandy fur iliree 
23* 



weeks. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, 
and let it stand some time longer, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF. 

(irate the rind of a eel nit upon some sugar 
in the u.-ual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water; when (x-rf'-ctly smooth, dilute them 
with five Classes, of water put in by degrees; 
then pour them in a napkin, and j-qncc/.ing 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal |irls, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar with 
the eedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar; as soon 
as Ixith are dissolved, strain I hem, and put 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being place, I in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth; as corn as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a clear yellow ; when thai 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Turnout 
the blancmange ae directed in Blancmange 
French. 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 

the rind of a eedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to oo/e out; this must l>e done by 
inlying it against a huge piece of sugar, 
(alxHit a |xumd;) remove the suifare of 
this sugar, to which the grated rind auheres, 
with a knife, an. I sqiu e/.e to it half (lie juice 
of the cedr.it. l)i.-.-.,l\e tin- remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande plume, 
then take it from the (lie. and when it has 
stood a little while, put in your cedial, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the lop; you may (hen pour your 
i II-IIM- into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take iluee-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the zettt* of two cedrats, 
anil, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and gi ale again, and so 
on until all the zesle is gone; dissolve the 
.-craped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it lo caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
together, and finish in the usual way. 



CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip 

i aiafi.i cake* into clarified sugar boiled to 

I caramel height; place ihein round the in- 



CHE 



270 



CHE 



side of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes 
into squares, dip them also into sugar, and 
pile them corner-ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
sponge biscuit, sweetmeats, blan lied al- 
monds, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the fn>th witli rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over the top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
the stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. In about lull' a:i hour take them out. 
and drain them on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow :t qiianer 
of a pound of sugar; wh-'ii yo<: have clarified 
and liuile.:! it to grand pi-.r'c, pat in the 
fruit, boil them i:p two 01 three tiaies, siir- 
ring them genllv wiih a >ki'n:;iei ; then take 
them from the fire caieMlv, and put thft 
cherries, into billies or glass jars; when 
filled, a Id to each twelve cl ->ves and half an 
ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. I'm 
to the sugar, when nearly col I, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint anil a half to a 
pound of fruit); mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, an I if siitli.-iently 
fiavore I, take out the doves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottled close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered litfore it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified sugar, and 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stall. s from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
Lrui.-e, and s:'( them on the fire with a litlle 
wat : , and half a pound of sugar. When 
they have boiler), pass tlicm through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of the kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice '( uvo lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar au petit lisse, aad strain on 
them the lemon-juice and kernels; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a saboiiere, 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place it in 



CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
stones and all; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ri|iest, largest, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; 



stone and tail ; and then put them on a 
gentle fire, and keep stirring them till re- 
duced to half. Clarify and lx.il your sugar 
to petit canst, then add the fruit to it, and 
stir 'it until you casi see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, 
an I may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a h'alf 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit boule; then hating 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out tlie 
juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish it in the usual way, (See 
MARCHPANK.) StiawU-rries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
useJ in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Crush ten 
pounds of cherries, and put them into ajar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar close, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the fruit into a 
cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil 
five pounds office currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, an 1 Tir every pint allow a 
pint ofbrandy. Add a (mini 1 of the kernels 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of corian- 
der, a litlle mace, some cloxes and cinna- 
iiinn, all well pounded, put them into a jar, 
and pour the liquor over tliem ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks, after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP OF. The l>est 
cherries f<r this purpose are the black sour 
ones; take out the stones and express the 
juice into an earthen pan, where it must 
stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, ami two drachms of cinnamon, pre- 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap the 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it with 
the water into your pan; boil all together 
for half an hour, skimming it carefully. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts us for the table; take off 
the skins ; dip each in the whiles of eggs 
beaten, and then roll them in pMWfer-eu^arj 
lay them separately on paper to dry, in a 
moderate oven ; they may be cut into dif- 



CHE 



271 



CHO 



ferent forms if you think proper, and glazed | boiled a little while, strain it, put it into 
cither white or brow n. a dish, or glass fur table, and let it cool. 



Clir.sTMTS IN CAR \MF.L. (2) 

Cut some- o-ler rods or reeds into pieces 
about two or three inches long, and on the 
point of e.icli put a rousted and skinned 
I'he-tnnt. Take a piece of cry fre.-h but- 
UT, (nlxiut the si/.e of a nut), and nib it 
with the palm of the hand, on an iion plate 
or marble slab, taking fare to rub ciery 
part well. Then haxiny ln.iled some clari- 
; to caramel height; take a piece 
4>f the o.-ior, with a chestnut 0:1 the end. in 
each hand, an 1 dip them in the sugar, txx isl- 

rouud lepeatedly, that the sn,'ar 

may adliere equally about the cher-lmil (ill 

it ln-ij : n> to iMiil, then lay them on the but- 

lb, an I dip in two more, procee:!- 

ixe; w hen all are done and rold, 
take oat the osier twigs, and wrap each 
flu -mm in paper, with a d.-xiiv if xon 
tilink proper. These diesluut> make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, hut they sh-.ul J be eaten 
die day <m which they are made. 

cnr.-TMT COMl'OTE. (1) Take 
llic <i'i: -r .-kin fioin alxmt a hundred 
. and then put them into a sance- 
pan xx illi xvalcr, a Inn m cut in pi 
liirce ii in ll.il- of In an ; put them on the tire 
and hla.ich tiiem: as .-1.011 as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done; 
nib off the second skin, and throw them 
into col I water, with the juice of a leaion. 
ClarilY and l>oil a |>ound an I a half of sugar 
Li pi tit lisse, and haxing drained \oiir 
rhcstnuis, put them into the sugar with die 
juice 1. 1 a lemon, tin- qnai ter of a glass of 
iwrr w.iler; put t!l'-se on die lire 
f ir a .-Ii ii 1 lime, but nol to let theiii boil: 
th'-n lake t!icai oil ;m I set them by. The 
next day drain l!ie chc.-Miits, and boil up 
tin- simp four limes ; then add more sug ir, 
and having U>iled it to toufflr, put in the 
chestnuts; lilanch them instantly aflei wards, 
aii.l put t item into compolicrs. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roat 
your < lir.-tn.ils us for the dessert, and 
when th.-y are |-elnl and .-kimieil, put them 
into a -.uii-ejMii, with a f|'i.irter of a pound 

. and half a glass of water ; let 
them Dimmer 1-n a i|ii.iiter t>{ an hour; 

in a little lemon-juice, ;ind when 
ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. 

! \IT CREAM. (1) Pound 
tweniy-liu- roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a bull- milk ; tln-n put the paste so made 

i pan, with the y>lks of two egg*, 
h.ilfa pint if milk, t wo ounces of butter, and 
four ounces of jxmder-Biigar; wlien it has 



CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 

llicn pound a quarter of a hundred of chest- 
nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to this 
add tlie yolks of two emjs, a pint of milk, 
ii quarter of a pound of powder-mgar, and 
.-ili.'iit an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Takethree 

pi. mi Is of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
KIK h parts as were colored by the fire, and 
pound them with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth paste, add three-quarters of 
a piiun.l of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonful* of whipped cream, the whites 
w hipped firm, ami finish the custard as di- 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade by lioiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade; mix them well up with an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cherry, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till cold, and then adil to it an egg well 
l'i-:iii-ii. With thiii, make four ounces of 
(lour into a very stilf paste ; roll it out aa 
thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
K!OW oven. When cold, take the paste 
from the tins, and join each piece together 
according to the pro|x>r forms, with isin- 
glass and water. The lower part, of 
course, ought to be stronger than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. Tlie pieces also must be cut 
us exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 

pi. mid of chocolate finely grated, and a 
pound and a half of the ln-st augur, finely 
lifted ; soak some gum-dragon in omnge- 
llower water, and work them into what 
form you please ; the paste must be stiff; 
dry them in a Hove. Von may write de- 
vices on paper, roli them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 

quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pound* 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



of sugar to forte perle, put a spoonful or 
two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a 
thin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, 
and boil both together to caramel. In the 
meantime melt a little butter, skim, and 
pour it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
ful of it, and rub it with your hand over a 
marble slab or table: on this pour the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two eivls of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it ; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in 
small squares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar should cool before 
you have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der the latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
murks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a* 
little warm water over the fire; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of masse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether ; then spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If die paste does not apj>ear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bolus Ar- 
menicum. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it int . a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle ; keep the 
tiiigar stirring, and when it boils put the 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of claritied sugar; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
plume, put your chocolate into it, stirring 

\ ..'":. '. 

it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound ami a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stru pan, witli three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar ; 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of s.uall m.irbles, 
put them on white paper, an, I when they 
are all on, take the slieet of paper by euch 
corner, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table earh time, and 
by that means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence ; put 
some stig.tr nonpareils over them, and c.iv< r 
all that are on the paper, lliL-n tli.ike them 
off, and you will see all the chocolate droju 



are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let 
them stand till cold, and they will come off 
well, and then put them in a box paj>ered. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (IX 

Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it over 
the fire in a small pan; uheu melted pour 
it into that in which you are to make your 
cream; break your yolks of eggs into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add some 
pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stirring con- 
tinually; then add your cream by little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly together; then set your 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, then take it off immediate- 
ly, for, from the moment you set your com- 
position over the *ire 'ill that it offers to 
boil, it has MiHicient time to incorporate 
well and thicken sufficiently, without need 
of boiling; and should you let it boil, you 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which 
would do too much. Take great care 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it Continually, from the time you 
set it on the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal 
after the usual manner. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (2) 

Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
with a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of sirup, and half a 
pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it 
thick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Put 

a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis- 
solved pour it on a plate; put to it a sjxx/n- 
ful or two of sweet almond paste, m.ide as 
for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pour 
it upon the remainder of die alm.md paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-s|x>onful of 
powdered cinnamon or v.mill.i, or both: 
beat them together well in a mnrtar, lay 
them on ptiper, and bake them for three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate men. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 
For four bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bits; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cinna- 
mon; you must infuse all in the brandy, with 
two biitlles and half a pint of water, xvidi 



CIN 



273 



CIN 



whites of eggs, and filler it through the pa- 
per. You inn-i lie careful not to lake more 
than two bottles from every four, except 
from the cinnamon, from which \ou are to 
take as much as \<>u can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocolate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it ; stir it with a spoon ; w hen 
it is melted, take half a pound of loaf su- 
gar, pounded in a mortar and silted, which 
dissolve in a little clear water. When that 
is done, put in \onr chocolate; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
(ha! \ .ii may take it up on a knife; then 
take half a sheet of pa|Mr, and cover it with 
little round and flat drops, which we call 
pastils, of the si/.e of a sixj>ence; let them 
dry naturally in a cupljoard; and when dry, 
take (hem oil' fiom the paper, and put them 
in uo> 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 
Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick ; 
sift it through a linen cloth, jx.und it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 

< hocolatc cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine jxiwder-siigar, mixed by de- 

.1 adding either more or less sugar, 
according a~ die paste is malleable; it must 
be pretty firm; firm it into what flowers or 

- .11 please, as shells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or hean., &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 

are made ia the same way as 1'etits Pains 
a la Duchtxse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla; tlwn put three 
! sugar, the same of choco- 
late, ami half tin- white of an egg into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transpaient 
glaze, with which mask the top and sides 
of the petit* pains, spreading it equally 
with the blade, of a knife. 

CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 

Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
mid when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
|x inn. 1 of inarch|iane paste, to which may lie 
added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, 
and then spread it on wafer-|Ki|irr in what 
f.n:i- vou please, and bake them in a mod- 
erate o\.-n. If (he :.we tmeats be not snlh- 
ciently dark colored, add a little bnl-ammo- 
niac. 

CINNAMON CAKES. WbUk up 



half a dozen eggs with three table-spoonfuls 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and a sufficient quantity of flour to 
make it into a paste; roll it on* thin, and 
cut it into whatever forms your fancy may 
dictate, place (hem on paper, and bake 
them. When done, remove them from the 
pa|>er. Keep them dry. 

CINNAMON' CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twentv hours, 
and then cut it into pieces alxmt an inch 
long ; prepare some sugar to grand lissf, 
und give the cinnamon a Ixiil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the pro|>er consis- 
tence ; then put it in the moulds with sugar 
Ixiiled to sovffli, and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, they should In- laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 



CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cut 
some cinnamon into small sticks of alxiut an 
inch or an inch and a half long; then put 
them into thin sugar, and boil ihem as it 
were in a sirup. Then take ofT the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
lake them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry them thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards |nit them in order in tin moulds 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
three rows set one alxive another, se|>arated 
by those grates. In the meantime, ln.il sii- 
. .1 till it is blown, and pour it into your 
mould, so that some of it may lie ii|xjn the 
uppermost grate; then set them in the sine 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; the next morning take notice whether 
llie cinnamon IN; well coagulated; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, w iih a plate underneath; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your slicks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and 
little, gently ; then lay them upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. 

Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to pttit 
castt, throw in the cinnamon, slir it well, 
and tlien take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour tlie conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. 

'CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in wicks, for twelve houra 
in w atcr to soften it ; at the end of that lime, 
cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in a 
warm place for some days. Wlien quite 



CIN 



274 



CIT 



hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the 
degree grand perle; have ready a quantity 
of fine powder, and proceed in the same 
manner aa in doing Almond Dragees, 
until the cinnamon sticks are of the proper 
thickness; those which are to be twisted or 
curled, shoul I not l>e so thick as the others. 
Be equally particolar in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragees. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 
Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in a< i!i:ic:h water ;is will cover it; the next 
day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stirred the whiter it becomes; in rathor 
more than a quarter of r.n hour, add to it 
the caked si'gar which was remo\ed from 
the preserving-pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, :\ S[X>oHiil of cinnamon powder, and, 
by degrees two or three pounds of flow; 
OOKten the whole occasionally wild water; 
when the paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than the eighth of an inch, und 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
or a sieve in a warm place for some days. 
Then buil some common sugar to perle, 
nnd sugar the slips of paste as above direct- 
ed; instead of the fine powder, flour is su!li- 
cient, until the last two layers, when the 
powder may be used to give them whiteness. 
When of the requisite size, lay them on 
sieves to dry. In a few days there may l>e 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon i.j always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is mado by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient 
quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
a proper consistence; form into such figures 
as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
a pound of marchpane (taste, and dilute 
it with as many whites of eggs as will 
make it spread easily with a knife; add to 
this, a spoonful or two of prepared bolt-am- 
moniac, which will give it a fine reJ tinge, 



and half an ounce of cinnamon-powder. 
When all these ingredients are well mixed, 
cut some wafer-paper into such forms as you 
may think proper, and lay on them the paste 
alxntt the thickness of the eighth of an inch ; 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. Wlien done, they may be 
finished in the following manner: Boil 
some sugar in orange-flower water, to la 
plume, and as von take the sweetmeats from 
the oven; dip a h.tir-penril into the sirup, 
and brush thorn over; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves the 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melied fresh butter, the 
same of flour, half an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stirthc.-e up in 
an eartheiman- v.-sel, with a sufficient 
quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but 
not too clear, jiaste. Make an iron plate 
quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of il:o p.iste; fry it, and 
when brown on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a small stick; do this 
until all the paste is ii.-ed. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise 
heiii well, and then put them into three 
quarts of t!ic he.-t I. randy; let the iut'ision 
stand fur sume da\s l-et">re you distil it; 
dissolve four poun Is i.f sugar III tluee pints 
J'.nd a ha'.f of water; mix this sirup wilh the 
liqueur, and then strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrons 
very thin and narrow, and throw them into 
water; these are called faggots; then cut 
the citron imo slices of any thickness yon 
think proper; takeout the inner part with 
great care, so as to leave only the white 
ring, an I put them with the faggots into 
boiling water; when tender, drain them. 
Boil a sufficient quantity uf clarified sugar 
to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil 
them ti;g(her. Take it from the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub the sugar against the 
side of the pre erving-pan with the back of 
a spoon; as soon ;is it becomes while, take 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate to 
drain: boil and proceed with the faggots in 
a similar way; when taken out, cut them 
into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, 
and lay them also on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with all 
the seeds; boil them in some water; and 



CJT 



275 



COF 



when quite fender, tal-:e thorn from the firr, 
and ilirnw tlioin info mid water a moment; 
then, having pressed them in a cloth to get 
the water out, pound and sifl them. To 
e\ery quarter itf a |xuind of this marmalade 
put half a |K)iiiid of clarified sii^ir; simmer 
them together, .-lining constantly imlil well 
mixed ; ilHMi|)iit them inlo moulds, and place 
them in a st .\u to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 

Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours; then, 
having washed them in cold water, boil 
Ui em ; when ten ier, drain, and lay ihern 
into as much clarified siv;ar ,i< wilf cover 
them. The next day drain off the simp, 
and boil it; when <|>iire smooth and col:l, 
pour it on the citrons: let them stand twen- 
ty-four hours; then I nil the sirup again, 
and pi:t in the citrons. The third day, 
Kiil Iwth t. Aether, and put them into moulds 
to candv . 

CITRON J'RKSF.UVKJ) LIQUID. 
Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may lake the sugar as 
well .1- the oiil.-ide, and put them over tin- 
fire in some water; whenever lliey are near 
boiling, put coli) v. ater to them. As soon 
as tin- citrons rie to the top, take them oul, 
and throw tliem into co'.l water. They 
must then I* put on the hre again, in tlie 
same water, and Ixtiled gently until tender; 
tlien take them out. and pnt tliem in Cold 
water. After this, l*>il them seven or eight 
tinifs in clarilird >u;u; |xmr the whole 
into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little, 
more sugar, and (xiiir it over the citrons; 
do this fin' tin. days, increasing 

tlie degree to which yon Ixiil the sugar daily, 
so that at the last U.iling tlie degree may 
he em perle. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To pn-ene them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
tlie fruit into pot-", they should be dried on | 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining su- | 
gar the cilrmi- may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put them into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them inf.i.-e 
for three weeks; thdi add to tins a pound 
of sugar, Ixjiled in half a pint of water, and 
well ?kimmrd; let it stand twelve or fifteen 
days Linger, when it may !>e bottled. 

(Tn:<>\. siurp OF. (i) Put into 

a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
eugar, and citron, pare<{, and cut in very 



thin slices, and let them sfand till the next 
day; ilu-n strain off tlie sirup, and clarify it 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put tlie 
rinds of three citrons into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; pour the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the lire; stir the contents of 
the ha:-m freqaeotl] ; and when the sugar ig 
entirely dissolved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take tlie saucepan fiom the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be boi- 
tled. 

CITRON NELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take tlie 
zestes or rinds of a dozen fine sound lem- 
*ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, 'an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of su- 
gar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
infuse the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

ri.OVF.S, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts 
of lirandv , and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in fin pints cf water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
those of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling 
water into a slew-pan, cover it close, and 
l'il them gently for half an hour; drain the 
cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugar ; be-.it up two eggs in a little 
cl I water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the win Ic. till it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of coffee made wiih water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sugar ; set it on the fire and 
boil it to a high degree; then add u full pint 
of double cream, and let it lx>il again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height ; to know when it is cnme to 
that point, you must have a basin of water 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your sugar, then in tlie water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it ; tak,e a bit of it in your teeth; 
if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it 
la sufficiently done; pour it ii|>on a tin plate, 
which must be rubbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread k with a tolling pin; (observe, the 



CON 



276 



CRE 



rolling pin must likewise be rubbed with 
butter, for fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boil to the first degree a pound of sugar ; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it alxmt until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and dry. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion ; beat up six yolks of eggs, with 
about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour 
this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill them quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan ; cover between twfi 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
the shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil them in two quarts of spring water till 
one fourth is consumed; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick us 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all sorts 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade ; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
skim, and boil it to cause; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
on again, and give it one boil, take it off, 



and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when 
the conserve may be poured into moulds. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 
These are made in the same manner aa 
other conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 

quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over the fire, and let them warm ; 
when they are warm throw in about half a 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in an- 
other pan ; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the corianders are cov- 
ered to the size you want (o have them; 
when that is done, take the corianders out 
from the pan, wash them well, anil put them 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to the first de- 
gree ; when this is done, put it in an instru- 
ment of copper, made on purpose for the 
operation, and at the bottom of \\Miich there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the sugar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where the corian- 
ders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or rough and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix up 

whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with eggs and sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and pour 
the preparation into a mould lightly buttered 
within side. Put this mould into a large 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch of the 
mould ; place the saucepan on hot ashes, 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep the water at the same tempera- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be known 
by touching it with your finger, and observ- 
ing whether it may be easily detached from 
the mould, take it from the bain-marie and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewarm, 
turn it out on your dish. 

It sometimes happens, unavoidably, that 



CRE 



277 



CRO 



bubbles arise on the surface of '.he cream ; 
in such a case, boil a glass of cream, and 

add to it, by degrees, three yolks of eggs; 
stir it constantly with a wooden spoon; mix 
three ounces of line Migar with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the lire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on the point of boiling, 
then take it off arid strain it. When the 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
separate the volks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together ; add to it 
whip|>od cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and tloiir, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 

milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and 
die peel of a yiuns; lemon, into a saucepan, 
and li"il (hem for a quarter of an hour; 
then take it off the lire; and l>il a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it Ix'comes of a nice dark color; 
take it off the Cue, am I mix with the cream; 
then put it mi the tin- again, until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, with some hot water in 
it, over hot a>hcs ; take a di.-h, in which 
you intend serving, and |x>ur into it your 
cream, then place it in the sauce|xin ; put 
on the lid of the saucepan, with fire atiove, 
and let it boil till the cream Is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SXOW. Put to a quart of 

cream the whites of three eggs well lieaten, 

four spoonfuls of swi-et wine, sugar to your 

.d a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 

froth ; remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

CRKAM OF ANY PRESERVED 

FRl'IT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the w hites of two or three eggs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off widi 
a spoon, and lav it heaped on a dish, or 
pla-s s;ihei, with other creams, or put it 
in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHEMSH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Khenish wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, anil half A pound of sugar; while 
this is Iniiling, take w\en \olks and whites 
, lieat them well together with a 
whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, 
and your egjfa 10 a sirup; strike it very 5ut 
with the whi.-k, till it comes to such thick- 
24 



ness that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a little half pound- 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it three- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the 
whole into a sorbetiere, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them ; then I, cat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and aa the snow rises take it up with a 
spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, w ith a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
when it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot a.-lirs; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See Whip- 
ped Cream. 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 

Use the best puff paste ; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as fancy 
leads ; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make diem stick 
as you place them ; then put some currant 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design you please, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Tk 



CUR 



278 



CUR 



A stick of vanilla, pound it with two 
ounces of sugar, and silt both through a 
silk sieve; mix it with seven ounces of 
sugar, well dried and pounded, and half 
a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in the 
whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and 
work the whole together for some minutes. 

Heat two large baking-plates of copper, 
rub them over lightly with virgin wax; when 
they are cold, take a spoonful of the prepa- 
ration, and lay it on the plate the same as 
the spoon-biscuit?, taking care to lay them 
three-quarters of an inch apart ; when both 
plates are full, place them on stools, in the 
oven or stove ; close the top, and lay embers 
oVer it, so that the croquettes may be as far 
removed from the fire as possible ; let them 
remain in this state all night; the next 
morning put them into a moderate oven, and 
bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they 
should then quit the plate easily, and be of 
a clear reddish color; remove them from 
the plates whilst hot. The croquettes 
may be flavored according to your fancy. 

CURACAO. This is a species of bitter 
or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, 
and may be had at the druggists. To make 
the liqueur called by this name, wash a 
pound of curacao several times in warm 
water; then, having well drained, put them 
into a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and 
one of water; let it stand closely covered 
for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil 
it after that in the usual way, and drain the 
curacao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five 
pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in 
three pints of water, mix it with the spirit 
and then filter it. 

CURDS AND WHEY. Take a num- 
ber of the rough coals that line the gizzards 
of turkeys and fowls; clean (hem from the 
pebbles "they contain, rub them well with 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a 
more tender and delicate curd than common 
rennet. When to l)e used, break off some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling 
water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor 
ae you do other rennet. 

CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash 
the currants, either white or red ; to two 
quarts of currants, put one pint of water; 
when boiled, run the juice through a jelly 
bag, do not press the bag ; to one quart of 
juice put three pounds of sugar; boil up the 
juice, and strew in the sugar ; pour it into 
glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, 
then dry the cakes on plates. 

CURRANTS, CONSERVE OF. 
Take tlie seeds from two pounds of red cur- 
rants, and put them on the fire in a silver 



pan, to dry them ; then press them through 
a sieve, and put thorn again on the fire, stir- 
ring constantly until you can see the bottom 
of the pan; then, having dissolved and boil- 
ed three pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on 
the fruit, stirring continually ; in a short 
time take it off, stirring it as before until it 
bubbles ; then pour it into moulds. 

CURRANT ICES. (1) Boil two pounds 
of red currants a moment with a quarter of 
a pound of raspberries ; rub them through a 
sieve, adding a pint of water, and tlien the 

sugar, which must be very well dissolved 
u r 
before icing. 

CURRANT ICES. (2) Pick some cur- 
rants from their stalks, and squeeze them 
through a sieve; then take clarified sugar, 
boil it to a very high degree, add it to your 
currant juice, and, if you choose, squeeze in 
the juice of four lemons, it will make it 
more mellow; strain them through the sieve 
a second time, put them in the icing pot, and 
finish the same as all other ices. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a basin, with half a gill of sirup, 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint 
of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it according to 
custom. 

CURRANT WATER ICE. Take a 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 
two lemons, half a gill of sirup, and a pint 
of water: then freeze it rich. 

CURRANT JELLY FRAMBOISEE. 
Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, 
three of white, and Iwo of white raspber- 
ries, press them through a very cluse horse- 
hair sieve; pour the juice on nine pounds 
of double-refined sugar, broken in small 
pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, tak- 
ing care to remove the scum as soon as it 
appears. When the boilings follow each 
other very quickly, take out the skimmer, 
(which should be of copper) stir it, and let 
the jelly tall from it ; on quitting the skim- 
mer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does 
so, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should 
be rose-colored; by making it entirely of 
red currants and red rasplwrries, the color 
of the jelly will be red. 

CURRANT PASTE. Pick and take 
the seeds from ten pounds of fine red cur- 
rants, crush them, and having pressed out 
the juice, SUM in it through a silk sieve. 
Clarify and boil to casse an equal quantity 
of sugar, |H)ur the currant juice oil it, set the 



DRA 



279 



DRA 



whole over a gentle fire, stirring constantly 
until it becomes of a proper consistence, 
which may lie known by observing when the 
bottom of the pan cun be seen clearly; take 
it off from the fire as soon as that is the 
case, and pour the paste into tin moulds, 
which must be placed on slates, or copper 
plates: smooth the tops with the blade of a 
knife, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and pluce 
them in a stove, H here they must remain till 
next day ; when tl>e paste should l>e turned 
in the moulils; sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them again, and set them in the stove a 
second night; on the following day remove 
them from the moulds, lay it in boxes, \vilh 
white paper between each layer, and keep 
thru, in a dry place. A sixth part of the 
quantity of raspberries added to the currants, 
would greatly improve the flavor of this 
paste. 

CURRANT PASTILS. Take half a 
pound of |x>unded loaf sugar on a plate, then 
a quantity of currants, which squeeze through 
a MI-MS when that is done, add the juice to 
the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and 
thick as you think proper. 

CURRANT SIIRrn. To five pints of 
Currant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, 
put to it one gallon of rum or brandy ; clear 
it through a flannel bag. 

CURRANT SIRUP. Put five or six 
pounds of red, two of white currants, and 
two Ixittles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush 
tlieni, and press the juice through it into a 
pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment; in a 
week's time, pass the juice through a strain, 
ing bag, and having clarified, and boiled to 
fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the 
juice to it, and boil them together once; 
skim, and take it from the lire. It is ne- 
cessary that the currant juice should ferment, 
to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. 



D. 

DRAGEES, COMMON. The paste for 
these dragees is made in lire same manner 
as for the better sort, but the materials differ 
a little: thus to a quarter of a pound of the 
gum, take either equal quantities of sugar 
nnd powder, or one-third of the former to 
two-thirds of the latter. VVIicn these and 
the gum art- well mixed, roll out the paste 
until it is as thin as the back of a knife- 
blade; then take a jiaMr-ciitter, shaped like 
a sugar-loaf, with the tup taken off, with ibe 
ml of which, rut as many piece* of 
the paste us will about two-thirds till the 



cutter ; press these through the smaller end 
into paper cases; set them in a warm place 
for several days. These kind of dragees 
may, if liked, "be sugared in die same man- 
ner as almonds. 

DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These 

dragees are made of the same materials as 
the superfine dragees; the only difference 
consists in their forms, which resemble the 
bonbons: to make them, it is necessary to 
have a number of wooden moulds, (pear- 
tree wood is the best), on which must be 
stamped small squares, with various device* 
engraved on them. Cut your paste into 
small pieces; press each piece on a mould; 
take off alj the super-abundant paste ; then 
dip your finger in water, and with it remove 
the paste from the mould; dry them in case* 
like die other drageet. 

DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put a 

quarter of a pound of die best gum-dragon 
into a pan, with a pint of cold water, cover, 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then 
take a strong close cloth, about two feet 
long, and put a part of your gum into it; 
fold it three times, so as to envelope the gum; 
then wring the cloth, by which means the 
purest gum will be forced through ; scrape 
it off carefully with a knife, and then proceed 
in die same way, until all the gum be train- 
ed ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it 
about with a pestle for half an hour; then 
add to it a pound of double-refined sifted 
sugar; mix them together well, until it be- 
comes a stiff paste; divide this into five 
parts, four of which must be tinged as fol- 
lows: red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual coloring materials. 
Before, however, diey are colored, add to 
each piece, a pound and a half of double- 
refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in 
water occasionally, to enable it to receive 
the additional quantity of sugar. When you 
mix in the coloring materials, add also a 
corresponding perfume: as, to die red, rose- 
water, and a few drops of essence of roses ; 
to die blue, oil of violets ; to the yellow, es- 
sence of cedar; to die green, essence of 
bergamot ; and with die white, mix a little 
orauge-tlower water, and some drops of es- 
sence of Neroli. 

Your paste being dius prepared, form it 
of whatever little ornaments you please, such 
as egg?, balls, turnips, (adding green leaves 
to the*-), 8tc. of die white; of the yellow, 
apricot.-!, pears, carrots, &c. ; plums, &c. 
of the blue; and so on; rolling them in your 
hands to smooth diem, and make them all 
quite small; to those which imitate fruits, 
add tails and tops, cut from cherry-stalks, 
and muck on whilst the paste is damp; and 
with u hair-pencil, dipped in powdered cio- 



EGG 



280 



FIL 



nabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, 
slightly breathing on them to moisten the 
mil-fare. When all are done, put them into 
paper cases, and set them in a warm place 
for several days, to dry. 



E. 



EGGS CARAMEL. Take the yolks 
of a dozen hard eggs, bruise them in a sauce- 
pan, with some powder-sugar, three almond 
biscuits, and half a glass of cream; make 
these into a paste, of which form little eggs, 
dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. 

EGGS DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and 
a half of cream with some sugar, orange- 
flower, candied lemon-peel, marchpane, and 
burn: almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; 
whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and 
then take two or three spoonfuls of them at 
a time, and poach them in the cream ; drain, 
and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble 
eggs poached without the yolks. When all 
the whites are thus used, put the cream on 
the fire, and reduce it, and as the dish is 
gent to table, add the yolks to the cream, 
and pour die sauce gently over the eggs. 

EGGS FILAGRAMME. Take a pint 
of white wine, half a pound of fine powder- 
sugar, 'and make it into a clear sirup with 
the white of an egg; beat up well eight 
eggs, and pour them through a colander 
into the sirup; a very short time is sufficient 
to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS OF SNOW. Break ten eggs, 
and having separated the yolks and whites, 
whip the latter as for biscuits; then add 
two spoonfuls of powder-sugar, and a little 
dried orange-flower in powder. Pour a 
quart of milk, six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little orange-flower, into a saucepan, 
and when it boils put into it, a dessert-s|x>on- 
ful at a time, of the white of egg ; poach ihe 
latter, ami then set them on a sieve to drain. 
Then beat up the yolks, and mix them with 
half the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it 
with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thick- 
en ; then take it off, lay the poached eggs in 
a dish, and cover them with the yolks and 
milk. 

EGGS, WHITE OF. To make a dish 
of these, take the whites of twelve eggs, 
beat them up with four spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter, some lemon-peel grated, and a little 
nutmeg; sweeten them with sugar, mix 
them well, and boil them in four bladders; 
tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil 
them hard; they will take half an hour; 



lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a 
pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and 
the juice of half an orange all together; 
sweeten it with line sugar, and serve it over 



F. 

FILBERT BISCUITS. Take some 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mor- 
tar to break their shells ; pick all the shells 
from them clean, pound them in a mortar 
very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them ; 
take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds 
of powdered-sugar, with the nuts and whites 
of eggs, to a proper thickness ; let your oven 
be of a moderate heat, then with the spaddlc 
and knife, drop small pieces, about half as 
big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of 
paper under them, let them bake of a fine 
brown, and all alike; and let them be cold 
before you take them off the paper. 

FILBERT CANNELLONS. Burn 

and pound six ounces of filberts, moist- 
ening them with white of egg; when well 
pounded, add a quarter of a pound of 
fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an 
egg; dry this paste a little, and then press 
it through a syringe, cutting the cannelloni 
about four inches in length ; make the fri- 
ture quite hot, dip the cannellons in batter, 
and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, 
and glaze them with a salamander. Take 
particular care to keep the cannellons per- 
fectly straight. 

FILBERT BURNT, ICE CREAM. 

Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, 
and pound them a little with some cream; 
put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint 
of cream and two gills of sirup; boil it till it 
Incomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it; then mix the filberts with it be- 
fore you put it into your moulds. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. Take a 
pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them 
into a preserving-pan (immediately after you 
have taken them from the shells,) over a 
moderate fire; stir them continually with a 
silver spoon, until they are colored, and the 
ins to peel off; then take them out; 



skin 

rub off the skin entirely, and when quite 
cold, pound them with a little white of egg: 
proceed in the same manner with the re- 
maining three-quarters; and when all are 
thus pounded separately, put the whole to- 
gether into the mortar, with a pound of 
sugar, and the whites of two eggs, and beat 
them for ten minutes; after which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, previously beat' 



GOO 



281 



GRE 



en up with six whites of eggs ; stir all these 
together well for five or six minutes, when 
the preparation should Insufficiently firm, tu 
prevent its spreadm,- when laid; if, how- 
ever, it ! too firm, add to it mure white of 
egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet 
the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful 
of the preparation to the si/.c and form of a 
miluiei:; when all rlone, dip your hands in 
water, and pass them gently o\er the maca- 
roons, which will make their surface smooth 
and shining; put them into a nearly cold 
oven; close ii ti^ht, and let them remain in 
it for three-quarters of an hour. I.ay the 
macaroons at least an inch apart, and as 
round as possible. 

FLOWERS I.\ ST'GAR. Clarify sn- 
gar to a caramel height, whi<-h may be 
Known liy dipping in a (in k, and if it throws 
the -uj n as line as threads, put ill (he flow- 
ers. I Live re. iily some tea-cups, with the 
insides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each 
cnp four tablc-s|x>otmils of the sugar and 
flower-, and when cold turn them out of tile 
cii|>s, anil sent' them to table piled one upon 
another. 

FIM1T nisrriTS. To the pulp of 
V.I fiuit. put an e<)iial qnautilv of 
snu'ar sifted, Ix-at it two hours; then put it 
into little while paper firms; dry them in a 
roul oven, turn them the next day, and in 
two or tint* days Ixix them. 

FRITC, PUF.SF.KVED, BISCUITS 

OF. Take dried preserved fruits, such as 
apricots, verjuice, gt:i|x-s, plums, oranges, 
and a little onin;;e-llower marmalade; 
pound tliem together, and sift in a sieve; 
then mix it w ilh yolks of ue\\ l.iid 
fine powder-sugar, until it roines to a supple 
paste, not too liquid ; then bike them on 
paper in a moderate oven. 



G. 

GINGER, CANDIED. Put an ounce 
of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of rifted 
migar into a pre-sem-iu-pan with as much 
water as will dissolve it. Stir them well 
together <>\er a slow fire, till the sugar l>e- 
gi'is to boil; then add another pound, stir- 
ring constantly till it thickens. Take it 
from ihe liie, drop it on eailhen i! 
them in a warm place to dry, and tley will 
be hard and laittle and look white. 

GOOSEP.ERRY CAKES. Break the 

Mfeberrien, pic-s out the juice, and strain 

it through a muslin; to one pint of juice a 

pound of nig .11 ; boil up Uie juice; strew in 

24* 



the sugar: stir it well; simmer it well till 
the su_r;ir is unhid; pour it into glasses: 
dry it in a stove till it w ill turn out, then 
dry the cakes on plates. 

GOOSEBERRIES, GREEN, COM- 
POTE OF. Give them a little cut on one 
side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them 
in hot water to scald, till they rise to the 
top; then put cold water to them, adding a 
little salt, to bring them to their natural 
green; simmer them in clarified sugar, and 
lei them remain in sometime to imbibe the 
sweet; take them out, and put th. in in the 
eompotier ; reduce the simp to a good con- 
sistence, and pour it over the fruit. This 
is for green gooselxrries ; but if you make 
use of preserved ones, warm diem in their 
own sirup and a little, water, and serve it 
either hot or cold. These will not keep 
long, particularly if they have been wanned 
again: if exposed to the air any time, they 
will lose their color. 

GRAPE ICE. Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pa.-s them through 
a sieve; mix some sugar widi the juice of 
four lemons squeezed upon it ; pass the 
whole together a second time through a 
sieve, then freeze it. 

GRAPES RATAFIA. Take some 
fine muscadine grapes, pick them from the 
stalks; bruise and press (hem, so as to ex- 
tract all their juice ; then dissolve some su- 
gar in the grape juice, adding to it Iwandy 
and cinnamon; let the whole infuse for a 
fortnight ; then strain it through a filtering 
b:n;, and Ixittle it off. The proper propor- 
tions are one pint of brandy, and ten ounces 
of sugar to one pint of grujie juice. 

GREEN-GAGES TO CANDY. When 
finished in the sirup, (see preen-gaget to 
pretfrve,) put a layer into a new sieve, 
and dip it slid lenly into hot water, to take 
off the sirup that hangs about it ; then put 
it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and 
then do some more on the sieve. Have 
ready some silled double-refined sugar, gift 
this all over every part of the fruit, till it IB 
perfectly while. Set it on the shallow end 
of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully. 

GREEN GAGES TO PRESERVE. 

You must choose the largest, when they b*- 
ginto soften; split without paring them, ami 
having previously weighed an equal quant i- 
1 ir, strew a part of it over them; 
blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife ; 
next day, [.our the sirup from the fruit, and 
boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for 



JUN 



282 



LEM 



six or eight minutes; skim, and add the 
plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, 
taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit 
single into small pots, and pour the sirup 
and kernels upon it. 

GUM PASTE. Put a pound of gum- 
dragon in a basin, with warm water enough 
to cover one inch above the gum ; set this in 
a warm closet for four and twenty hours ; 
have a new tammy ready laid over a dish; 
spread it on it, and squeeze through as 
much as you can at first ; then open the 
tammy, spread the gum out again, and then 
squeeze it; repeat this till the whole is 
through ; then lay it on the slab, work it 
well with your hand, put in nearly all the 
juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best 
double refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as 
you work it; but before you have put in the 
whole of the sugar, begin lo add some of 
the best starch powder; blend them thor- 
oughly together, till the paste lgins to 
take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, 
and let it stand in a damp place for a week 
or ten days, (it is the better for keeping), 
work it will] powder, and it will cut and 
mould to any shape you please, and when 
you want it to harden, set it in a dry place; 
if you wish to color it, to make it red, use 
cochineal or carmine ; fur blue or violet 
color, use indigo; for yellow, saffron; for 
green, the juice of beet leaves, scalded over 
the fire, the thick part mix with the paste. 
When you put in colors, \x careful to blend 
them well, and be particular that the color 
is good. 



H. 

HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three 
pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, 
strain it through a jelly-bag; put it to a 
pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, and give them one boil to- 
gether ; then put it into cii|>s or glasses, and 
let them stand till cold, when turn them out 
on a dish; stick some sliced blanched al- 
monds on the top of each. White wine 
and sugar is. usually eaten with them. 



J. 



JUNIPER BERRIES, ICES OF. In- 
fuse some juniper berries in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the berries, and 
boil them a moment with a pint of water, 
half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinna- 
mon, and sifc them through a sieve with ex- 
pression, and finish the same as all others. 



JUNIPER RATAFIA. Take three 
ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- 
der, cinnamon, and cloves, of each eight- 
een grains; bruise all these ingredients, and 
infuse them, for a month, in three pints of 
brandy ; then strain it, add three-QuarUm> 
of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint 
of water, stir them together, pass the whole 
through a jelly-bag, and bottle it ; keep it 
well corked. 



L. 



LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of 
two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, then strain 
it; Iwil two ounces of loaf sugar in a quar- 
ter of a pint of water; then skim, and let it 
stand till cold; when cold, mix it with the 
brandy. 

LEMON CAKES. Quarter as many 
lemons as you think proper, they must have 
good rinds, and boil them in two or three 
waters, till they are tender, and have lost 
their bitterness; then skin them, and put 
them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take 
all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred 
the peels fine, put them to the pulp, uci^h 
them, and put rather more than their weight 
of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just 
sufficient water to dissolve the sugar; boil 
it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and 
then by degrees put in the peel and pulps; 
stir them well before you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and 
thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed 
glasses; set them in a stove, and keep them 
in a continual and moderate heat, and turn 
them out upon glasses, as soon as they arc 
candied. 

LEMON COMPOTE. Cut them in 
small pieces, and boil them in water till 
they are tender, tl>en change them into cold 
water; then make a sirup with a glass of 
water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and put in the fruit ; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve 
cold. 

LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rind 
of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a 
pound,) scrape off the surface of the sugar 
as the lemon adheres to it, until you have 
rasped the whole of die rind ; squeeze half 
the juice on the scraped sugar, and then 
boil the rest to la grande plume; take it 
from the fire when at this degree, and let it 
stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and 
when it forms a sort of glace on the top of 
the sugar, pour the conserve into moulds ; 



LEM 



283 



LEM 



being careful, however, that it is not too 
hot. 

LEMON' DROPS. Grate three large 

lemons. uiih a large piece of double refined 
ttii<;;ir; thru scrape tlie itigiir into a plate, 
add halt a tBMpowrfU of flour; mix well 
together, and U-at it into a light paste, with 
tlie while nt' an egg. Drop it upon white 
Draper, put them on a tin-plate, and set them 
in a model ale oven. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. Take the juice 
of three or t'mr lemons, and grate lle peel 
t' niie I, iiimi ; adil two gills of .-imp. ami 

r ii i 

one pint o| cream ; mix it all togetlier, pa.<s 
it thi'iiujli a sieve, and freeze it. 



I.r.MONS TO KEEP FOR PUD- 
DINGS. When you squeeze the fruit, 
throw the outside in water, without the 
pulp ; let tin-in remain in the sum- a I'.nt- 
nignt, adding no more; Ixiil them in the 
same til! ii -nder ; strain it from them, and 
when the\ ai-e nearly dry, throw them into 
nny jar of candv you may have remaining 
from iilii sweetmeats; or, if you haxe none, 
boil a small ijiianlily of sirup, of common 
1" il".-i:_;:ir and uater, and (xuir over them ; 
in a week or ten days, lioil them gently in 
it till they look clear; and that they may 
lx- c.ixeie.! xxilh it ill the jar, you may cut 
each half <>f llii' fiuil in two, and they will 
occupy a .-mailer s|>acc. 



..N 1'ASTII.S. Take half a pound 
of |xiiinrVd loaf Mi^ar, sifted as fine as pos- 
sible; put it in a plate, take three or fmir 
lemons, anil squec/.e tlieir juice over tlie su- 
gar; mix it well with a -pnun, till you make 
It rather a ihickish pa.-le, -u tlr.it MUI can 
take it np'iii a knife; then lake half a sheet 
nf |>a|ier. and coxer it with lilile round and 
flat drops, alxint the si/e of a sixpence, place 
them in a -t,.\e u illl a slow tire till they are 
quite dry, then take llk-m oil' from tlie paper; 
you may u.-e, ifyini please, some of tile peel 
grated, lint nut chipped; fi>r, as it is a melt- 
ing pa.-iil, some of the hits would remain in 
tlie mouth. 

LKMOV I'EEI. CANDIED. Take 

pome thick-rinded lemons, pare olT ihe yel- 
low |-el, and throw it into boiling XVJHT till 
soil, when It must lie put intu cold xx.iter. 
Clarify some line sii^ar, and hnil it au petit 
lisse, anil haxin^ drained (lie lem.in-|>eel, 
|vuir mi i! the sirup (whilst hot); the next 
day Ixiil the sirup a^aiu, and return it to the 
peel; (he lliinl and linn llidaxs proceed in 
tlie same manner, adding a small quantity of 
clarified sn^'ar; the last time tlie sirup ig 
boikil, M- M in as it ri.-es to perle, put in 
the peel, coxer and boil the whole together 



once, and when cold, drain and dry them in 



LEMON PEEL, TO CANDY. Take 
some lemon-peels, and clean them well from 
i lie pulp, and let them lay txvo days in salt 
and xvater; then scald and drain them dry, 
then boil them in a thin sirup till they look 
<|itile clear. After which, take them out, 
and have ready a thick sirup made xxith fine 
loaf sugar ; put them into it, and simmer 
them till the sugar-candies about the pan and 
peels. Then lay them separately on a hair 
sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over tliem, 
and eet tliem to dry in a slow oven. 

LEMOiV PEEL, CARAMEL. Take 

some very dry preserved lemon-|>oel, and 
cut it into several small square pieces ; piH 
tltese pieces each on the point of little slick* 
for this purpose, and dip them into caramel 
sugar as directed. See chestnuts au car- 
amel. 

LEMON PEEL SIRUP OF. Take 

five ounces of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a 
ylass cuciirhite, which has been gradually 
heated ; pour on them txvo pounds of nearly 
Ixiilini; xvater; close the vessel very tight, 
and place it on hot ashes for txvelvc hours; 
after which, let the infusion run out gently 
without pressing the peel ; add two pounds 
of poxvder-sugar, and then boil the whole to 
grand perle, when about half cold, put in 
a few drops of spirit of lemon. 

LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take a 
pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with 
as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to 
spread the paste with a knife; add to it a 
sufficient quantity of grated lemon-peel to 
impart the flavor required. The whole 
being well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer 
(taper into such figures as your fancy may 
dictate, and spread tile paste over tliem, 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them on paper, and bake tliem in a 
HUH lei ate ox-en. If you xx ish to laze your 
sweetmeats, Ixiil some SUgiir xvilll oranije- 
tlmver water to la plume, and when they 
are taken out of the oven, wash them ox'er 
with the .-irup, which dries almost immedi- 
ately. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Squeeze aa 

many lemons as will yield alxiul three-quar- 
ters of a |xinml of juice, taking particular 
care that tlie peel of every lemon is perfectly 
found, and that they are none of them in the 
least degree bitter. Set your juice in tlie 
cellar tin four days, and then lilicr it through 
blutiiii^-paper. Break u pound and u half 
of double-refined -n^.ir inin pieces alwiut an 
inch square ; put them into a gallon matraas, 



MAC 



284 



MAR 



pour the lemon-juice over it, dose the mat- 
rass with paper, and place it in a liain ma- 
rie until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; then 
extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool 
gradually ; when cold, add two spoonfuls of 
spirit of lemons, then bottle it, keep it well 
corked. 

LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice 
of six lemons into a basin ; pound and sift 
some double-refined sugar, and mix it with | 
the lemon-juice ; put the white of one egg 
with it, and mix the whole well together 
with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good 
consistence ; lake some sheets of wafer-pa- 
per, and put one sheet of it on a pewter 
sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of | 
the preparation, and spread it all over the 
paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, I 
and put them across a stick in a hot stove, 
with that side the paste is on uppermost, 
and you will find they will curl ; when they 
are half curled, take them oft" very care-fully 
and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that 
they may stand up ; let them l>e in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they will be 
all curled, and then they are done. 

I 

LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and j 
bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice-root, ! 
and boil it in a little water till it is much 
reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it I 
clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce 
of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, 
sift it in a linen bag, and mix sugar with it 
till it is brought to the consistence of :i paste ; 
then cut it into what flowers or designs you 
think proper. 



M. 

MACAROONS, SPICED. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted sugar; make your paste as usual, to 
which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre- 
served lemon and orange-peel (of each a 
spoonful,) chopped small, and the grated 
rind of two lemons; mix them all together 
in the mortar, and then lay your macaroons 
as usual, and bake them with equal care. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. The 

macedoine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fruits en- 
closed in it; for this purpose it should l>e 
done as follows: Have a dome-shaped mould 
six inches and a half in diameter, and four 
in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould 
must be of a similar firm, but only four inrh- 
cs and a half in diameter, and two auJ three- 
quarters high ; to this latter have four bun- 
dles, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in 



the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a 
strawlierry transparent jelly, place the larger 
mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, 
hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly 
into the former; whilst it is congealing, 
pick alxmt twenty fine white strawberries, 
the same numter of very red ones, the same 
of white raspberries, a dozen bunches of red, 
and the same of white currants; wash all 
these well, but touch them as little as possi- 
ble, that they may not lose their freshness; 
when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some 
hot water into the small mould which will 
enable you to remove it with ease; raise it 
with great care, so that the space may be 
found without the slightest flaw; then place 
on the jelly (in thj centre of this spare) two 
hunches of white currants, surround these 
with a ring of white straw-terries, and the 
latter with a crown or ring of white rasp- 
terries; pour over very cart-fully two or 
three spoonfuls of the jelly, and when that is 
eonin-aled, proceed in the same way with 
the red currants, straw terries, and raspber- 
ries, then the jelly, and so on alternately, 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the. mould w ith 
jelly; as soon as ihe whole is congealed, dip 
your mould into a large saucepan of hot 
water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. 
The macedoine may be garnished in this 
manner \\itli any kind of fruit you think 
proper. It may also be filled with two jel- 
lies as follows: white lemon jelly in the 
large mould, and finished with the same 
jelly, tinned with eitlier rose-color or yellow ; 
indeed the moulds may be varied in any way 
your fancy may dictate. 

MALLOWS, SIRUP OF. Take half 
a pound of mallows root, and having scrap- 
ed and washed it wc-ll, cut it into small 
pieces, which set on the fire with three pints 
of water; when sufficiently boiled, the wa- 
ter will te glutinous, strain oft' the decoction, 
and pour into it four pounds of sugar ; clari- 
fy it in the same manner as capillaire; boil 
it to lisse, run it through a jelly-bag, and 
when cold, bottle it. 

MARASCHINO. Take sixteen poun Is 
of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off 
the stalks; put them into five quarts of 
brandy to infuse, covered close for three 
days, then distil the infusion; distil also a 
pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of filter- 
ed river water, from which you will obtain 
about a gallon; dissolve in this four pounds 
and a half of fine sugar; add it to the li- 
queur, with two pints and a half of kirschen- 
wasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits 
of rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jessamine; mix 
them altogether, run it through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it; cork them well. 



MAR 



285 



MEL 



MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OF. 

Pound and sift some of the best lump sugar, 
mix it in a china l>;isin with spirit of maras- 
chino, until it is of the consistence of pastil 
parte; then put it into a skillet over the fire, 
and heat il gently, stirring it constantly (but 
without letting it Ixiil,) till very liquid, when 
it may lx- |X)iired into funnel-shaped tin 
moulds ; put tltese moulds on iron plates, 
and dry the conserve in a stove. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take 

two t|iiarl.- nf cream, twelve eggs, a pound 
of double-refined sugar, and three glasses 
of true maraschino ; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites 
of tl>e eggs to a firm snow, then pour in 
eight yolks, and the sugar pounded and 
sifted, stir them together lightlv, and then 
add by degress the boiling cream, whipping 
continually ; set it on the fire, and do not 
cease whipping until it has boiled up three 
or four times; pour it through a sieve into 
a basin, .-.lining a little to enable it to run 
more freely; when cold put it into the sor- 
betiere with the maraschino; cover it in- 
stantly, ami ice it ad usual. 

MARCHPANE. Take four pounds of 
sweet alnn'ii'!?-, throw them into boiling 
water, let them lay till the skin loosens, 
then put them into cold water, after a few 
minutes Uanch anil throw them again into 
cold water to wash them thoroughly. When 
dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a 
very tine paste, moistening each handful 
with two spoonfuls of water; the whole 
quantity of almonds being pounded, put the 
paste into a large preserving pan, with (our 
pounds of the l>est lump sugar finely |xiuud- 
ed and silled ; set the pan on a coal fire, 
stir and work them up together with a 
idcn spatula, rather sharp at the 
bottom: Ix- very can-fill that none of the 
paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence 
of such neglect would Ix-, that the march- 
pane woiiM lie spotted with yellow, and 
would smell unpleasantly. Whilst winking 
it up, ihc |;:i-tc, which when put in was 
tolerably (inn, will become rather liquid, 
and a great deal of vajior may be olwerved ; 
the tii>i is caused by the sugar dissolved by 
the heat and inoi-ttire, the second by tlie 
eva|x>ration of the water. Continue to stir 
mid work it up in this manner without 
ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of 
that time, \ou can toueh the paste without 
it* adhering to your tiogi-rs, it is .-ufhcicntlv 
dried; in which case lemovc it all to one 
aide of the pan, clean the Ixittom and side 
of the other, sprinkle it well wilh flour, then 
put the pa.-ti- to that pait, clean and .-prin- 
kle that .-!.< also; then lake the pan by 
both cars and move it round and round, so 



that the paste may all unite together; as 
soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of 
paper, or, if you want to use it immediate- 
ly, on a well (loured table. This paste, if 
the almonds he well pounded and then thor- 
oughly dried, will keep good for six months; 
if these two precautions are. not properly 
attended to, it will become sour in ten days. 

MARIGOLDS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
(bur ounces of marigold-flowers, conserve of 
hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms, 
the powder of pearl two ounces, and as 
much sirup of citron as will make them into 
a conserve, mixing and bruising them to- 
gether with refined sugar. 

MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take 

the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo- 
ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or 
bowl; take double its weight of fine sugar, 
boil it with marjoram-water till it is as 
thick as sirup, then put in your beaten mar- 
joram. 

MARSEILLES, OR GINGER. Take 

a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and boil it to fort souffle, add to it an 
ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan 
from the fire, and with a round stick (like 
a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining 
the stick towards the sides of the pan, then 
with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to 
the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then 
work it up again with the stick, remove the 
solid sugar as l*fore, and repeat this opera- 
tion tour times,, when it will have become tole- 
rably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, 
about half an inch thick, and with a fork 
trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges 
of what size you please; afterwards, with 
the point of a knife, mark some of these 
deeper than the others; when quite cold, 
take them out of the papers, and separate 
them, where the lines are deepest. The 
Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry 
place, will keep good for a long time. 

MARSEILLES SPICED. Take a 
|xuind and a half of fine sugar, boil it to 
caste; take a quarter of preserved orange- 
peel, the same of candied lcmon-|icel, (or, 
if you like it better, two ounces of blanched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put 
them with half an ounce of cloves, the same 
of cinnamon (Ixilh pounded) into the sugar, 
stir them in gently, continue to boil your 
sirup to forte plume; then lx?at it up, pour 
it into i a.-e.-, and finish as the Marseilles. 

MI'.l.o.NS, TO PRESERVE LIKE 
< I V 1 1 .U. Half a |xniinl of ginger to one 
pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and 
save the scraping*; pour a quart of boiling 



MIN 



286 



MYR 



water on the ginger, let it stand two days: 
scald the melon (with the scrapings of the 
ginger in the water), t:iking care not to 
make it too soft: cut it into small pieces 
resembling ginger; then prepare a simp, 
half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; 
boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the 
melon, and set it over the fire for a short 
time, but not to boil; let the sirup, with 
the ginger, be boiled every day for a fort- 
night, but not poured upon the melon till 
nearly cold; then boil a rich sirup to keep 
it in. 

N. B. Carrot is equally good with melon. 

MERINGUES. (1) Whisk the whites of 
nine eggs to a solid froth; then add the rind 
of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a 
spoonful of silted sugar; after which, lay a 
sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a 
spoon drop the mixture in little lumps, 
separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put 
them to "take in a moderately heated oven, 
taking care that they are done of a nice 
color. Then put raspl>erry, apricot, or any 
other kind of jam lietween two of these bot- 
toms, add them together, and lay them in 
a warm place, or before the fire to dry. 

MERINGUES. (2) Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump 
sugar, pounded and sifled, and half a pound 
of pistachios; blanch and beat the latter in 
a mortar, with a little while of egg, to a 
very fine paste. Whl.sk the whites of eggs 
to a snow, then add the sugar, and pista- 
chio paste, mix them well, but very lightly, 
and when they are thoroughly incorporated, 
put some sheets of paper ifn tin plates, lay 
your preparation on the pa|>er, with a spoon, 
lay the meringues, at least an inch apart; 
sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put 
them into a moderate oven or stove ; when 
done, detach them gently from the paper 
with a knife, and place them on a sieve in 
a dry place. Just before they are sent to 
table, fill each with a little whipped cream, 
to which add a small quantity of either 
orange-flower, rose, or vanilla water. 

MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, 
grate them after with sugar to obtain the 
flavor. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum 
or brandy, stopped close for four and twenty 
hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of 
migar, add four quarts of water to it, and 
one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the 
rum into the above, and run it through a 
jelly-bag until it is quite clear: bottle and 
cork it close immediately. 

MINT, DISTILLED LIQUEUR OF. 
Take two handfuls of fresh gathered garden 



f mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon 
and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; 
then distil it as usual. Dissolve three 
pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of 
water, mix the sirup with the liqueur, and 
run the whole through a jelly bag. 

MINT WATER. Take four pounds of 
dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof 
spirits, and three gallons of water; distil 
them, and sweeten the water with a pound 
and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS. Put into a pan two 
yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of 
powder-sugar, three ounces of sweet maca- 
roons crushed, half an ounce of crisped 
orange-flowers in powder, and a grain of 
salt; stir these together a minute, then add 
two ounces of melted butter; whip the two 
whites very firm, and put them also to the 
preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with 
puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal 
quantity of the above; cover them with 
sifted sugar, and when that is di.->i>lved, 
strew over a little sugar, a la grele; and 
put them into a moderate oven : serve eithet 
hot or cold. 

MULBERRIES, SIRUP OF. Take 

as many mulberries as will yielil three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving pan 
with three pints of water; boil until this 
quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the 
fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarify throe 
pounds of sugar, boil it to bouille; then add 
the mulberry -juice; give them one boil, and 
skim them. Pour the sirup into a pan, and 
let it stand ; when col.l, bottle it. 

MUSK, TO PREPARE FOR LI- 
QUEURS. Take two grains of musk and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them 
in a mortar and mix them well; keep it in 
a closely stopped bottle. The quantity re- 
quired of this is one pinch to four or five 
quarts of liqueur. Amliergris is prepared 
in a similar manner, but being less powerful 
than the musk, four grains is the proportion 
to a quarter of a pound of sugar. 

MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put two ounces 
of peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg, 
bruised, into six quarts of brandy; distil 
from this in a bain marie alembic your li- 
queur, in which, infuse half a pound of myr- 
tle flowers for four days. Dissolve five 
pounds of sugar in three quarts of pure river 
water; the moment it begins to boil, take it 
from the fire, and let it cool; take the myr- 
tle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the 
sugar ; mix them well, color it with tincture 
of saffron, strain and bottle it. 



NUT 



237 



ORA 



N. 

NONPAREIL. Poppy seeds sugared in 
the manner directed under the articles Su- 
gared Seeds, are called Nonpareils; 
they ait- tiii^'fil of different colors, by the in- 
troduction of the various coloring materials 
into the sugar with which they are cov- 
ered. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
.ilinonds, and having drained them 
well, rut each into tive slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry ; let them be all equally 
coloii-d of a clear y< How; in tile meantime, 
put three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, 
siimns; with a wooden spoon until com- 
pletely dissol\ed ; then take tlie almonds out 
of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the liquid suyai ; mix them together well. 
:;.ould well oiled, of any shape 
you think proper, in the interior of which 
plaee the slips of almond?, hv means of lem- 
on-juice, when the whole is covered, remove 
tin; mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU, ENGLISH. Two gallons of 
gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound 
of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste ; 
six IMHIII Is of lump sugar, pounded (gome of 
it with the almonds.) Let these stand ten 
days in the gin, (hen filler it through blotting 
paper, and bottle it. 

M T BONBONS. Boil a pound of 
Spani.-h nuts; when they are well boiled, 
rub off their skin with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; 
nr nuts very fine on a sheet of pa- 
|.er ; then take a pound of powdered sugar 
to a pound of nuts, put it in a pun over a 
slow fire; when your sugar is all melted 
( yii must stir it constantly with a wooden 
E|xx>n) put your nuts in, and work them well 
till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin 
plate; then spread it with a rolling pin, this 
must be done very quickly, as it cools very 
fast ; when it is cold, cut it into what form 
you please ; you must take care the sugar is 
not loo much melted, for it is very apt to 
soften when die nuts are added to it. 

N I TS PRALLNED. Take a pound 
of Spanish nuts, take them out of their 
shells, and put them into a pan, with a 
pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; let 
them boil till they begin to sparkle; then 
take them off tlie fire, and stir them well 
with a wooden spoon, till you perceive tlie 
sugar turns gravelly; then set them again 



over a slow fire, to dissolve tlie sugar; keep 
stirring, that the sugar may stick to (he nuts, 
and when you see them turn reddish, and 
are well covered with sugar, take them off, 
pour tin-in into a sieve, cover them with a 
clean cloth, and put them into a stove; this 
will preserve their gloss. 

NUTMEGS TO CANDY. Take a 

pound and a half of double refined sugar, 
half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-wa- 
ter, and a very little gum arabic; boil these 
to a candy height ; let your nutmegs be first 
soaked in water; then put them into an 
earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep 
them \ery close covered, set tliem in a warm 
place for about three weeks, and they will 
be of a rock candy. 



O. 



OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarts 
of spirits of wine, flavored with essential oil 
of lemon, the same quantity flavored with 
spirit of cccli ;it ; make a sirup with seven 
pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two 
liottles of Scubac; mix the whole together, 
and by stirring, it will become thick; to 
clarify it, take the whites of two eggs in 
about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards 
put it to the whole; stir it; then put it into 
a still in the bain marie moderately heated ; 
let it remain for twelve hours ; filter tlie pro- 
duce of your distillation, and bottle it. 

OIL OF VENUS. Reduce the follow- 
ing articles to an impalpable, powder: an 
ounce of skirrel seeds, an ounce of caraway 
seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm 
and a half of mace, and the rind of an or- 
.nr..-e; infuse these for five days in a gallon 
of brandy, then distil from it in a bain ma- 
rie, two quarts of liqueur; dissolve over 
tlie fire four pounds of sugar in two quarts 
of pure water; when cold, mix it with the 
distilled liquevr, and color it of a clear yel- 
low, with a little tincture of saffron; filler 
and bottle it ; seal (he corks. 

ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the oranges very round and smooth, pare, 
prick tin-in in the middle, and put them into 
cold water; then blanch them in boiling 
water; when tliey are tender, throw them 
anain into cold water; in a short time give 
them ne\en or eight boils in sugar, a la pe- 
tite nappe, skim, and let them stand till 
next day, when the same process must be 
gone through; skim them again, then put 
(hem into hollies, pour over them equal 
quantities of sirup and water; lake care to 
cork them well. 



ORA 



288 



ORA 



ORANGE, COMPOTE. Cut them 
in small pieces, and boil them !n wa- 
ter until they are tender, then change them 
into cold water; next make a simp with 
one glass of water and four ounces of sugar, 
and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an hour ; serve cold. 

ORANGE, CROQUE EN BOU- 
CHES OF. Pare a dozen fine oranges, 
and divide each into twelve pieces, all of 
the same size ; scrape off every particle of 
the white, without breaking the thin skin 
which contains the juice ; when all are done, 
dip each piece into some sugar boiled to 
casse (and lightly colored,) and place them 
in a plain mould of six inches diameter, and 
five in height ; the first row inclined one way, 
the second the reverse way, and so on ; lay 
them at the bottom in a slar. As soon as 
the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it 
with all possible expedition, as the moisture 
of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, 
that the croque en bouche is liable to fall 
to pieces. 

ORANGE CAKES. Divide the or- 
anges in half, take out the seeds, and put 
the pulp and juice into a basin ; boil the 
rinds in a saucepan of water, closely cover- 
ed; when very tender take them out, and 
dry them upon a cloth ; allow to a pound of 
orange rinds, two of pounded loaf sugar; 
pound the rinds in a mortar; add by degrees 
the sugar, and then the juice and pulp; mix 
it thoroughly till thick and yellow, drop it 
upon tins in small cakes, and dry them un- 
der garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If 
it be too thick to drop, let it stand a night. 

ORANGE SHERBET. Dissolve a 
pound and half of sugar in a quart of very 
pure water; take nine fine oranges and two 
lemons; wipe them well with a napkin, and 
having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze 
on them the juice of these fruits; sweeten 
this juice with the above sirup, run the whole 
through a close hair sieve, and finish in 
the usual way. (See Sherbet.) 

ORANGE SHRUB. Put ten pounds 
of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, 
and boil it until the sugar be dissolved ; skim 
it well, and put it into a tub; when quite 
cold, pour it into a barrel ; add three quarts 
of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange- 
juice (take care there are no pips.) Beat 
up the white of an egg, mix it with the 
shrub, and let it stand for a week ; then 
draw it off* and bottle it. 

ORANGE SUGAR. Rasp on a piece 
of sugar the rinds of the l>est oranges, but 
so lightly that not a particle of tlie white is 



mixed with it; scrape off the surface of tlie 
sugar as it Incomes colored, and continue 
this operation until you have as much sugar 
as you require; then lay it in a stove, or at 
tlie mouth of the oven to dry ; when it is 
perfectly so, pass it through a very fine 
sieve. Lemons and cedrats may be grated, 
and the sugar dried in the same manner. 

9RANGES, GREEN. Scrape out the 
insides of the oranges quite clean, then let 
them lie for three days in cold water, chang- 
ing the water daily, then boil them very 
slowly till the water is bitter; then put 
them into other boiling water, set them by; 
repeating this daily till all the bitterness is 
extracted: make a rich sirup of the last 
water they are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; 
when cold, put them in; the next day boil 
them in the sirup; repeat this till they are 
green and tender; cover with brandy-paper. 

ORANGE, WATER ICE. Take off 
the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine 
and thin ; squeeze the juice into a basin 
with one lemon ; add half a pint of sirup, 
and half a pint of water; pass diem through 
a sieve, and freeze them rich. 

ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. 

Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to grande 
plume, take it from the fire, and pour into 
it a dessert spoonful of orange-Mower water; 
stir them together well, set the mixture on 
the fire, and when warm, pour it into shal- 
low paper-cases; let it cool, and then cut it 
into cakes of any form you please. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pul- 
verise a good pinch of dried orange-flowers; 
pound them with gum-dragon, previously 
dissolved in one glass of plain, and the 
same quantity of orange-flower water; add 
a sufficient proportion of powder-sugar, to 
make the paste of the requisite consistence, 
which form according to your taste into 
cones, lozenges, &c. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PRALINES. 

Take a pound of very fresh white orange- 
flowers, pick, and throw them into cold 
water; clarify, and boil two pounds of sugar 
to touffle, then put in the flowers; stir 
them with a spatula, until your sugar re- 
gains the degree of souffle; take the pan 
from the fire, and continue stirring till the 
sugar is separated from the (lowers, and be- 
comes a powder; set it in a stove to dry, 
then set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar 
may run through and leave the flowers, 
which put into bottles. If preserved in a 
dry place they will keep for twelve months. 

ORANGE-FLOWERS SIRUP. Clar- 



ORG 



289 



ORG 



ify and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, 
then add three-<|u;irters of a pound of frcsli 
orange-flowers picked, and lx>il them once; 
then take the pan from the fire, and let it 
eland for two hour.-', after which, replace, it 
on the fire ; when it has had aliout a dozen 
boilings, pour it through a sieve into anoth- 
er saucepan, boil the sirup to line, and 
put it aside; when quite cold, bottle it. 
The flowers may l>e used as follows: put 
ihein into jxiwder-sugar, with which nib 
them well with your hands, till quite dry, 
then sift and put them in a stove. 

<:I:AN<;F.-FLOWER WATER. Pm 

in!.' a still ten pounds of fresh gathered or- 
ange-flouers, and six quarts of pure river 
water; lake particular care to close up all 
the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it 
on a moderate tire, that the ebullition may 
not be too strong ; be particular in cooling 
it fn-qtieiitly, or, at least, whenever the wa- 
ter in the boiler becomes too warm, change 
it, and put in fresh; much depends on the 
attention paid to this part of the operation. 
From the above quantity, three quarts of 
Orange-Bower water may !* drawn. 

ORANGE-FLOWER DOUBLE 
WATER. Draw four quarts of orange- 
flovver water from six quarts distilled as 
above; put to this water the ?ame quantity 
of fresh (lowers, distil it in the same manner, 
and it will yield five pints. 

ORANGE PEEL TO CANDY. Take 

some orange peel, and let it soak in .-ive- 
ral waters till it has lost its bitten 
lioil it in a solution of double-refined su- 
gar in water, till it becomes tender and 

tiansjjarent. 

ORANGE PEEL TO PRESEUVK. 

Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, 
put the peel in strong salt and spring water, 
to soak for three days, repeat this three 
times, then put them on a sieve to dry; 
take one pound of loaf sugar, add to it one 
quart of spring water, lx>il it, skim it until 
quite clear; let tlie peels simmer until they 
are quite trans|Kiivni; dry them before the 
fire; take loaf-sugar, with just sufficient 
water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring continually 
until all the sugar is candied round them, 
then put them to dry either before the fire 
or in an oven, and when |>crfectly dried, 
put them by for use. 

ORGEAT. Blanch a pound of sweet, 
and twenty-four bitter almonds ; pound them 
to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water 
25 



occasionally to prevent their oiling ; mix a 
gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and 
orange-flower water, with this paste; beat 
them together for some time ; then strain it 
two or three times through a jully-bag, stir- 
ring it with a spatula, and serve it in de- 
canters. 

ORGEAT PASTE. Pound the almonds 
with a little orange-flower water to a fine 
paste, and Uien work up with it an equal 
weight of powder-sugar. This paste uill 
keep a long while, and by dissolving a small 
portion of it in water, and straining it, or- 
geat may be prepared very quickly. An 
ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a 
pint of water. 

ORGEAT SIRUP. Take a pound and 

a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter 
almonds, throw them into boiling water, and 
leave them till the skins ean be removed 
with ease, then throw them into cold water 
for a minute before you blanch them, after 
which, they must again lie put into cold 
water; then pound them, a few at a time, 
in a marble mortar, adding occasionally 
some water to prevent their oiling ; when 
all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this 
with the greater |iarl of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces) ; put the 
paste into a Strong cloth; squee/.e am! wring 
out all the milk from the almonds, put the 
latter into (he mortar, and pound them 
again, adding by degrees the remainder of 
the water, and then squeeze these also in a 
cloth ; |xmr the whole of this milk into a 
nougli to contain, at least, 
one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds 
of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower 
water; cork the matrass tight, and set it 
on a bain marie; wlien die sugar is com- 
pletely dissolved, (which should be accelera- 
ted b\ .-hakins tht! matrass occasionally), les- 
sen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the 
r <]ite cold, put the sirup into bottles. 

If yon should have no matrass, you may 
make your sirup in the following manner: 
boil the above mentioned quantity of sugar 
to forte plume, then add the milk of al- 
monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, 
take it from the fire; when cold, flavor it 
with a pint of orange-flower water. 

Or this sirup may be made in a still more 
simple way, 'as thus: put the milk of al- 
moinis into some pounded sugar, without 
lieing clarified or boiled previously; when 
the simp !>egins to boil, add alxmt a coflfee- 
cupful of orange-flower water, and after it 
has boiled tip two or three times, take it 
from the fire; let it get quite cold before 
you bottle it. Keep it well corked. 



PAS 



290 



PEA 



P. 



PARFAIT AMOUR. Take four very 
fine fresh cedrats, p;ire them very thin, and 
infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinna- 
mon, and four ounces of coriander, in three 
gallons of strong brandy, and a quart of wa- 
ter, for a week or ten days, when distil it 
in the bain marie; this quantity of brandy, 
if good, will yield two gallons and half a 
pint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a 
half of sugar in seven pints of river water, 
color it with cochineal, then add it to the 
spirit, filter, and bottle it. 

PASTILLES. To make these articles, 
it is necessary to have a small copper stew- 
pan that will hold about a pint, rather deep 
than wide, with a pointed lip on die right 
side, and a tolerably long handle, also two 
pieces of wood, one about eighteen inches 
long, and four in diameter, called the bois 
a tabeller, the other about half the length, 
one inch in diameter, and the lower emi, 
pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip of 
the pan ; this is called the bois a egoutter; 
six or eight tin plates about the size of a 
sheet of letter-paper. 

For the best pastilles, take a pound of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an impalpa- 
ble powder; sift it through a tammy on a 
sheet of white paper, put four or five spoon- 
fuls of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a 
little orange-flower water, and beat it well 
with the larger stick, until the preparation 
is sufficiently thin to run from the stick 
without being clear; if it be so, more sugar 
must be added. Put the pan over a chafing- 
dish filled with live coals, and let it stand 
(stirring constantly) till it boils; then take 
it off I he chafing-d'ish, add two more spoon- 
fuls of sugar, work it up well, scrape away 
whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it 
aside, and take the smaller stick in your 
right hand, hold the pan in your left (slant- 
ing) over one of the tin-plates; the sugar 
will, by these means, flow to the lip, then 
strike the point of the stick into the lip of 
the pan, which action will separate the 
liquid, so that each time the stick strikes 
the lip a single drop of the preparation will 
fall on the tin; a little practice will be ne- 
cessarv before this operation can be perform- 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. 
is used," replenish the pan and proceed as 
above directed, until you have as many 
pastilles as you may require. When cold 
and hard, remove them from the tins with 
your hand, and keep them in boxes in a 
dry place. You may, if you please, color 
the pastilles, taking care to perfume them 
with a corresponding odour. 



PASTILLES, COMMON. These are 
made in the same manner as the best sort, 
the difference consists in the materials, 
(which are a quarter of a pound of powder 
to three-quarters of a pound of sugar) and 
the perfumes are omitted . 

PASTILLAGES. Put two ounces of 
well-washed gum dragon into an earthen 
pan, with as much clear hot water as will 
cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep out 
the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; 
then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into 
a marble mortar, and add to it as much 
starch ;uid sugar (both in powder) as the 
gum water will contain ; |xtmid these ingre- 
dients well, and strain them through a tammy 
into a pan which keep covered with a damp 
cloth. This pastillage is used to form the 
ornamental parts of pastry and confection- 
ary, such as temples, baskets, &c., and may 
be tinged of the requisite shades, by mix- 
ing with it any of the coloring materials. 

PEACHES IN A COMPOTE. Cut 

your peaches in half, t.^ke out the stones, 
peel them, then set them on the fire in a 
sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of thick 
clarified sugar to cover them, and let them 
simmer in this gently till done; then take 
them out in a basin, put in the kernels to 
the sugnr, and let it boil until tolerably thick ; 
put in the juice of two or three lemons, and 
pour the sirup over the peaches; serve them 
in a deep hot dish. 

PEARS IN BRANDY. Take some 
beurre pears, not too ripe, put them into a 
saucejxtn with a smTicient quantity of water 
to cover them, set them on the fire, and let 
them .simmer, but not boil, until the pears 
will yield to the pressure of your finger; 
then change them into cold water; pare 
them with the greatest care, so that not a 
single spot may remain ; prick, and put them 
again on the fire in fresh water and the juice 
of a lemon; let them boil very fast. As 
soon as tle pears are soft enough for the 
head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take 
them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay 
them in cold water. In the meantime, hav- 
ing boiled your sugar to lisse, pour the 
boiling sirup on the pears, (previously 
drained from the water,) and leave them. 
The next day drain off the sirup, boil it to 
la nappe, then put in the pears, give them 
a boil also; proceed in die same manner on 
the third day, after which, drain die fruk, 
and put it into bottles. Boil up the sirup a 
few more times, let it cool, and then ^>our 
on it some brandy, (three-fourths of die 
quantity of the sirup;) run die mixture 
through a bag, put it to the pears, and cork 
the bottles well. 



P IS 



291 



P LU 



PEARS CANDIED. Are done like 
apricots. 

PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some 
good sized pears, cut them in halves, ami 
put ilimi into boiling water; when soft, 
change them intci cold water, in which 
squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some 
clarified sugar, drain (lie fruit well from the 
water, and then put them into the simp; i 
boil together until the pears are su!jicj.<iifry 
.iin, and place them in the compo- 
tier. A little Burgundy wine and prewired 
cochineal will give the compote a red color. 

IT, \K .MARMALADE. Take sis 
pounds of small |eais and lour pound- of 
Minar ; put the jicars into a saucepan with 
ii little, water, .-et it on the tire; when the 
fruit is soft, take them out, pate, quarter, 
and core th ..... ; as ym do tills, llnow each 
piece into C"lci water, in another .-.incepan, 
and when all are (lone, set them on the lire. 
As soon a.- they are sufficiently soft, nil) 
them tlnoiiuli having in the 

meantime clarified and loiled tli. 
petit lisse, pour the sirup to the pnlp,.-et it 
on tlie tire, and ~t\r them together until the 
marmalade is of the proper con-i-lence : 
tlien take it otV, put it into pots, and when 
Cold, tie them down. 

I'i:i;>IC\. Cut about one hundred 
peach leaves, put them into a wide-mouthed 
bottle, |x>nr on them a quart of the l>cst 
brandy, cork it close; in three week.- Mi am 
it off, and put to it an equal quantity of ca- 
pillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, 
and ..- a liijumr. 

I'lM! AITI.K CHIPS. Pare and 

trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each 
half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; 
take half the weight of the fruit ill powdcr- 
su^ai : lay the .-lice- in a lia.-in, with suifar 
iii-tween; let it stand till the .-ujj.ir 
Ived, then .-,-t it on a model ale liie 
to simmer till the chips be quite clear, when 
set it In. The next day remove all flu- 
sh-up from the slice?, place them on glasses, 
and dry them in a gentle oven. 



TIM: APPI.F. IN \ 
Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in .-lice-, 
but not too thin; have some sugar on the 
fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices 
of pine, anil let them boil gently till the simp 
is tolcraMy thick, then take out the pine, 
and lay it on a dish; mix with the .-near, 
the jnice of a couple of lemons, and pout it 
over the pine. 

PISTACHIO MAKCHPANE. Put a 
pound and a half of pUlaclnoa into a mortar, 



pound them, moistening with white of egg, 
to a very fine paste; in the meantime clari- 
fy the same quantity of sugar, Ixiil it to petit 
boule; then take the |>an from the fire, put 
in the pi.-lachios, Mir them together well, 
replace the pan on hot ashes, continually 
stirring, till the paste is of a proper consis- 
tence, then pour it on a slab well sprinkled 
with sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into 
whatever firms your fancy may dictate. 

PLF.MS. l\ I',KA\])V. Take twelve 
pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and 
three pounds of sugar; the fruit should be 
turned in color, but notri|M>; prick, and put 
them into a saucepan witJi cold water, set 
them on the lire; when the water boil- and 
the plums rise, lake them out carefully with 
a skimmer and put them into a pan of (old 
water; clarifv and bod the sugar to petit 
lisse, put the plums to it, and give them a 
boil; the two succeeding (lavs, drain off 
and boil the sirup, first alone, and aftcr- 
wanis with the fruit; the third day drain 
the plums, and put them into Uittles; then 
boil the sirup lo la nappe, and when cold, 
add to it three-loin ths of its quantity of the 
Ix-st brandy, stir it well, strain and |xnir the 
mixture over the plums. Cork the littles 
tight. (lYeen-iiaije plums are done like 
apricots. (See slpricots in Brandy.) 

PLUMS CANDIED. Choose your 
fruit of a nice shape and good si/e; cut 
them in halves, lay them on a lame .-hallow 
di>h, strew |)vvder-sii^ar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tightly closed; 
in half an hour's time, take llieni out. and 
place the plums (.ne by one on glass plates 
to dry. 

PI.IMS, CI.r.AR CAKES OF. Fill 
ajar with the white pear plums, yet it in a 
. an of boiling water on the lire ; w hen 
snlticiently done, let the clear juice run 
from it, and to every pint of it, add an equal 
quantity of siiijar, 1 mi led to candy heiyht ; 
put the juice to the sirup, set it on the lire, 
and keep stirring it till the whole is quite 
hot, but not Ixiiling ; then (xuir it into glass- 
es, and dry the cakes in a stove. 



PI.IMS, M.\I;M U.AIU: OF. 

-i\ pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cul- 
lender, U-at it through with a wooden pe.-tle 

into a preMrving-pan, which set on the fire, 

to dry the pulp, -tii riiu i' constantly. In 
the meantime, clarify ;uid IMIJ! the -uyar to 
petit caste, then mix it with the fruit (.-till 
on die lire,) stir it till the whole is of the 
consistence of jelly, then take it off, and 
pour the marmalade into pots. 

If the plums are not quite ripe, they must 



POM 



292 



POU 



be boiled once or twice before they are 
pressed through the cullender. Some of 
the kernels may be added, if approved; 
they should be pounded before putting in the 
marmalade. 

PLUMS PRESERVED, DRY. Gath- 
er die plums when full grown and just turn- 
ing color, pi ick and put them into a saucepan 
of cold water, set them on the fire until the 
water is on the point of boiling; then take 
them out, drain and boil them well in some 
clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil 
diem again ; if they shrink and will not take 
the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, 
and then give them another boil, Siiim and 
set them by: the next day, add some more 
sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit, and 
sirup, then do them together; place them 
in a stove till next day, when drain the 
plums from the sirup, sprinkle a little pow- 
der-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. 

PLUMS, PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Gather the plums green, firm, and when the 
etone may be extracted with ease, cut the 
Btalks close, and prick the fruit in several 
places, especially round the stalk ; then 
place them in a saucepan of water over the 
fire, and as soon as the water is ready to 
boil, take the saucepan from the fire ; in 
four-and-twenty hours, replace the plums in 
the same water on a gentle fire, with a small 
quantity of verjuice to preserve their color. 
Keep the water hot, without allowing it to 
boil, for three hours, stirring it occasional- 
ly ; when the fruit is perfectly green, increase 
die heat till the plums rise to the surface, 
when they must be taken out and thrown 
into cold water, which change frequently till 
die plums are perfectly cold, then drain 
diem. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to 
la nappe, boil them up a few times, adding 
a little water; skim, and dien pour the 
whole into a pan ; the next two days, drain 
off the sirup, and increase the degree of 
boiling each day ; the third and fourth days, 
boil die fruit with the sirup, keeping them 
covered, and increasing the degree, until the 
last time, it reaches to perle. Put the 
preserve into pots, and place them for two 
days in a stove. 

The same fruit may be preserved dry 
also. The operation is die same, but die 
sirup is drained off, and die plums laid on 
tin plates before they are put into die stove. 

POMEGRANATE CLEAR CAKES. 

Pare some good boiling apples, and put them 
into a saucepan with as much water as will 
cover them, set them on the fire, and when 
perfectly soft, press the pulp through a sieve, 
and then strain it. Boil diis jelly with the 



juice of two or diree pomegranates, diat of 
one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of 
each grated; strain it again, and to every 
pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter 
of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks, color it 
with cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking 
off die scum before it becomes cold). Set 
them in a stove, and when the top is dry, 
turn them out, and put them to dry again; 
then cut diem into whatever forms you 
please, put them into the stove or oven to 
harden, then lay them on sieves, and wlien 
thoroughly dry, place diem in boxes widi 
paper between. As they are apt to become 
moist, diey should be looked at frequently. 

POMEGRANATE JELLY, TRANS- 
PARENT. Take the seeds from five 
very fine pomegranates, from which extract 
the juice by pressing it hard through a 
horse-hair sieve ; filter this juice and mix it 
with some sirup tinged of a rose color, will) 
a little cochineal; add the isinglass to this, 
and finish as usual. (See Jelly Fruit.) 

POMEGRANATE SIRUP. Take 

five very ripe large pomegranates, extract 
the seeds (which must be very red) ; crush, 
and put them into a skillet, with half a 
pint of water; set diein on the fire till soft, 
and then squeeze the juice through a new 
coarse cloth ; clarify a pound and half of 
sugar, and boil it to souffle, then add die 
juice, boil them together to the usual con- 
sistence of simps. It must not be bottled 
until quite cold. This number of pome- 
granates will yield a quart of sirup. 

POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan (bur 
glasses of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, die zette of a lemon, and a pinch 
of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon 
as it begins to boil, take it off, and put in 
as much sifted flour as will make a paste 
the consistence of choux, then replace it 
on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries; 
make a similar mixture, and when that 
also is dry, put both into a mortar, with 
half a pound of powder sugar, an ounce of 
orange-flowers, and two eggs at a time, un- 
til five and twenty or thirty are used, by 
which time the paste will l>e of the proper 
consistence, then pour it into a lightly but- 
tered tin; put it into a moderate oven, and 
leave it. In three hours' time, if die 
poupelin is of a nice gold color, take it 
out, cut off die top, and with a spoon re- 
move all die inside, then set it in die 
oven to dry. When cold, spread all over 
the interior apricot marmalade, on which 
strew sweet macaroons crushed, dien turn 
it on a dish, and serve. 



RAS 



293 



ROS 



Q 

QTINCE CAKES. Pare nml core 
half ;i dozen quinces, boil tlifin till quite 
soft ; tlien nib the pulp through a sieve, and 
strain it; mix this with half a pint of simp 
of quinces, and the same of simp of barber- 
ries, and a quarter of a |X)iin<l of line sugar; 
boil the whole io caste, and then pour it 
>ll shallow moulds, of any shajx' 
you please ; Id tin-in cool a little, and then 
dry them in :i 

( l\ I N < T. ( ' A K HS TRANSPARENT. 
Take .1 quart of simp of quinces, and half a 
pint of the sirup of barberries; set them on 
il gentle fire, lioi and skim them well; then 
add tuo p Mini- :ni I a half of I 1 
keep .-tirring imt il it reaches candy height; 
then t.ike il off, and when nearly cold, lay 
il, in any form you please, on tin plates. 
Drv them in a sto\e. 



K. 



KASl'HF.KKY CAKES. Cat her some 
raspberries Ix-fore they are <;uite rijie, pick, 
and lav them in a stove to dry; then Ijeat 
them in a mortar. Take a pound and 
quarter of line sugar, clarity and boil it to 
Caste; then weigh half a pound of rasplx-r- 
ries, dri* : throw them into tile 

sirup, \\ ith half a s|K>onful of white of egg, 
beaten in cream; stir it can fully, give it a 
boil, and pour it in moulds or pap i 

R AS I'l JERRIES OF M ARCH PANE. 

Take a piiimd of marcli|Kinc, the juice of 
four lemons, a quarter of a pound of rasp- 
berry jellv, and a little cochineal; mix these 

with a strong wooden spatula ; then 
add two handfuls of lloiir, and sonn- powdet 
Fugar: when well worked up, roll them into 

Unit the size of a linger, cut these 
into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the 
top into a |K)int, so a.s to resemble the firm 

lierry: then put them one by one 
into pa; liich pi ice in a dry 

warm place, for eight or ten days. At the 
end of that time, put a jxnti >n of .sirup of 
rasplxTrics, a little cochineal, and a small 
quantity of powder-sug:ir into a pan; mix 

ether with a s|.-oou, and then throw 
into it a couple of liandfnls of the raspber- 
ries; take the pun in both hands, and shake 
it abniii, so that the rasplx-rrics may Ix- 
equally covered with tiie red simp; then 

r a la grele on a large .-licet of 

..read it out a little, and while the 
raspberries arc wet wiih the sirup, throw 
25 



them into the sugar; then take the four 
corners of the paper, shake it about well, 
by which means the sugar will adhere to 
the raspberries in all parts, and give them 
a (xrfect resemblance to the real fruit ; take 
them out carefully one by one, lay them on 
paper, and put them in a warm place for 
some days. These artificial raspberries are 
of a pleasant flavor, and will keep several 
years. 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. Take 
double tfte weight of raspberriee to that of 
sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, and 
put the pulp into a saucepan; set it on die 
fire, and stir till it is reduced to half ; then 
jKiur on the sugar, previously clarified and 
boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it 
on the fire, give it a few boils, and then 
pour it into pots. 

RASPP.ERRIES PRESERVED. Take 

(i\e or six pounds of red, but not loo ripe 
rasplierries, pick, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan, with an equal weight of clari- 
fied sugar, Ixiiled to petit boule; when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till the 
next day, then drain the fruit, and put it 
int. i jars; put to the sirup about two glass- 
es uf cherry juice, previously strained; boil 
the sugar to la nappt, and then pour it 
over the raspljerries ; add afterwards, about 
a s|x>onful of currant jelly to each pot, and 
when cold, lay on branJy papers, and tie 
them down. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Tak5 

ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 
and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 
half of red and two pounds of black cur- 
rant-; pick, and mix these fruits together, 
press the juice from them, measure it, and 
for every quart of juice, take half a pound 
of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; 
dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in 
the brandy, a drachm of mace, and two 
drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand 
some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep them 
well corked. 

K< )S ES, CANDIED. Crisp two hand- 
fills of rose-lcau-s in some clarified sugar, 
boil them tu fort toitffle, then lake the pan 
from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let tlie sir- 
up run from the leaves, nibbing the latter in 
your hands, then dry them in a sto\e. 15oil 
your sugar again to' souffle, adding a litUe 
carmine to color it, have a pi<|ii mould 
ready, ]M>ur the .-n^ar into it, and put the 
(lowers on il, push them down lightly with 
u fork, that they may Ije compleu 
ed with the sugar; place the mould in a 
moderate glove or oven for five days, then 



SEE 



294 



STR 



drain off the sirup ; lay a sheet of paper on 
the table, and turn the candy quickly out 
of the mould. 

ROSES, CONSERVE OF. Boil half 
a pound of sugar to fort souffle, pour into 
this sirup the best double-distilled rose 
water; Iwil it again to fort perle, mix 
with it a little prepared cochineal or car- 
mine to color it, and pour your conserve 
into moulds. 

ROSE RED DROPS. Take a small 
quantity of red bastard saffron, and a little 
calcined alum, boil those in some water until 
it is sufficiently tinged for your purpose ; 
then filter or strain it through a very close 
linen cloth; put five or six spoonfuls of sift- 
ed sugar into the pan, dilute it with the 
colored water, work it well with the bois a 
tabeller, and set it over a chafing-dish ; when 
it begins to boil, add two more spoonfuls 
of sugar, and having worked it well, per- 
fume it with some drops of essence of roses, 
and finish as directed. (See Orange-flow- 
er Drops.) 

ROSSOLS. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of picked orange-flowers, a pound 
of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, 
and two of cloves (lx>th bruised); put them 
into a cucurbite with three gallons of pure 
water; on distilling this, it will yield a gal- 
lon and a half, in which dissolve twelve 
pounds of fine sugar broken up; add to it 
an equal quantity of spirit of jessamine, col- 
or it crimson with cochineal, filter and bot- 
tle it. 



S. 



SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done 
in the same manner as sugared almonds. 
The seeds most generally used for this pur- 
pose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 

The l>est method of proceeding is as fol- 
lows: place a small preserving-pan over a 
charcoal fire, on the side of which have a 
chafing dish, on which keep a pan with a 
quantity of sugar boiled to lisse; (this su- 
gar should be kept quite hot, but not boil- 
ing) ; on the other side have some fine pow- 
der. When so far prepared, put your seeds 
into the pan, and as soon as they begin to 
heat, pour over them a large spoonful or 
two of the sirup; stir them alxnit, that all 
may be thoroughly saturated with it; then 
sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, 
still shaking the pan to make the seeds 
equally white. When dry, pour on some 
more simp, then the powder, and continue 
this alternately until your seeds are suf- 



ficiently largo; thon lay them on a sieve, 
keep them in a warm place for some days, 
after which put them into glass bottles. 

SOUFFLE FRANCAIS. Blake a 
croustade eleven inches in diameter, and 
three and three-quarters in height ; put 
round it three sheets of buttered paper, and 
bake it. 

Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in 
which infuse whatever ingredients you may 
think pro|x-r, such as vanilla, coffee, orange- 
flowers, kc. (the proportions will be found 
under the different articles). In the mean- 
time, wash a pound of rice thoroughly in 
warm water, then put it into a saucepan 
of cold water, and when it has Ixiilod a few 
minutes, strain the rice, and put it with 
vout infusion into another saucepan, and 
set it again on the fire; as soon as it boils, 
place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the 
rice may burst gradually ; in three-quarters 
of an hour, add a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quartet's of a pound of fresh butter, 
and a pinch of salt, stir them well in; put 
fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the 
rice mav be kept constantly simmering for 
an hour, by which time it ought to be per- 
fectly soft, and should lie nibbed through a 
bolting-cloth quickly, like a puree; put this 
into another saucepan over hot ashes, U> 
keep it warm. Take sixteen fifgs, sepa- 
rate the yolks and whites, lx?at the former 
well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm; 
then mix the yolks with the rice (taking 
off the ashes,) ; the preparation ought to lie 
of the same consistence as a cream palis- 
siere; add, at first, a quarter, and after- 
wards the whole of the whites; stir them in 
as lightly as for biscuit paste; the whole be- 
ing thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into 
the croustade, and place it in a moderate 
oven for two hours and a half; when done, 
cover a baking tin with red cinders, on 
which place the souffle the moment it is 
taken out of the oven; this prevents its 
falling^ whilst you mask it with powder- 
sugar, and glaze with the salamander; car- 
ry it into the* dining-room on a tin, have a 
dish ready with a napkin folded on it; 
place the souffle on the dish, and let it be 
served immediately. Remember that a 
souffle cannot be served too quickly. 

STRAWBERRY, COMPOTE OF. 
This is made in the same manner as Rasp- 
berries, only that the stnuvlxrries do not 
require being mixed with any other fruit. 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Take 
some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and 
crush them through a tammy. For every 
dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces 
of sugar ; boil this to fort perle, take it 



SUG 



295 



SUG 



off die fire, and pour in the juire; stir lliem 
together with a silver spoon, until the con- 
serve begins to whiten and dry, then pat it 
into moid U or paper case*. If tin- 
be too white, add a little carmine to the 
sirup. 

STRAWBERRY >I \ KCI1I' \ M'.. 
Take twn pounds of sweet almonds, two 
(KMiiids and a half of sn;, r ar. anil a pound of 
picked straw Ix-rries. Heat the almonds to 
a fine |>aste, and mix them with tin; sun-ir 
(Ixiiled to petit boule;) crush, ami strain 
tlw juice i.f tin- tVnit, whicli aild to the al- 
niiiiii) paste an I simp; stir lli<- mixture well, 
set it on hot ashes, and continue still ing until 
tin- pa-le is siilticiciitlv done; this inav 1- 
prmed li\ laying a piece oo the back \ u.-nr 
hand; it' it max ! remou-d without its 
sticking, it is enough; when cold, spread it 
in i-i- a >lal>, and cut it of any si/.c and shape 
you think pro|>er. 

\R. TO CI.AKII'V. T 

ir, and biv.ik it into pieces; 
put into a preserving-pan the whiv of ;m 

.1 glass o( pure spring water; mix 
them \vell with a whisk, add another i;l ass, 
Still whipping, until two quarts of w:ler 
ha\i- li'-eu put in: ulna the pan is lull of 
froth, throw in the su^:-.r. .in I set it on the 
fire, U'ing careful to skim it every time the 
scum rises, which will l>c the case as the 

d> up. After a few Ixiilinus, the 
sni;.o- will iise so high as to run over the 

the pan, to prevent whicli, throw- 
on it a little cold water; this will lower it 
instantly, and giu- time tor the skimming, 

1:11 sh-nild in ver lie taken oil' whilst 

i is bubbling; the cold water stills 

it, and that is tlie moment to skim it. ](<- 

peat this opci alii Hi carel'ullv thn i f.ur 

jena whiti.-h lijlit M-II.II only will 

'i take the pan oil', lay a napkin, 
netted, o\er a ba.-in, and pour the 

uon:;h it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a chimi 
basin; ami when the sugar is clarified, wash 
the pin and the skimmer with a 
water, which put to the scum, and set it 
aside lor more common purposes. 

A U, Different Degree* of Pre- 
paring. The various pur|xis<* to which 
applied, require it t<i Ix- in dilTeix-nt 
'hese are called degree*, and are 
thirl' i-ii in luimlx-r, called as follow-: 

Petit Lisse, or First Degree. Re- 
place the clarified -u^ar iii the p:- 
pan, to lx>il gently, take a drop of it on the 
thuml), touch it with the tore linger; if, on 
opening them, it dr.iw.- to a tine tin 
in breaking, forms two drops on each liu_'i r, 
it is at the right point. 



Liise, Second Degree. A little more 
boiling briii.'s it to this |x>int; when the 
thread will draw further N-l'ore it breaks. 

Petit Perle, Third Degree. At thia 
point the thread may lie drawn as far aa the 
spin will open, without hn-akin^. 

Grand Perle, Fourth Degree. Oo 
still increasing the Ixiiling, little raised balls 
an- lormed on tlie surface of the.-! j 

Petit Queue de Cockon, Fifth Degree. 
Take up some of the suijar on a skimmer, 
and drop it on the rest, when it should form 
a slanting streak on the .-nrlace. Boil it a 
little Liimer, and it will reach the 

(trn.ide Queue de Cochon, or Sixth 
Degree. The streak or tail is now larger. 

Souffle, Seventh Degree. Take out a 
skimmeifi'l of the siiiiar, blow through it, 
and small spaiks of sn^-ir will fly from it. 

J'ltit-J'lume, Eighth Degree. The 
same proof as above; the sparks should be 
larger and stronger. 

iiraade Plume, Ninth Degree. Take 
the sugar in the skimmer, as U-tore, give it 
a shake, and if the sparks are large, and 
adhere together on rising, it is at the right 
point. 

Ptlit Botilet, Tenth Degree. Dip 
your lingers in cold water, and tlien into 
instantly, and again into the wa- 
ter, when the sugar will roll into a ball, 
which will IN- supple when cold. 

(Vros Boulet, Eleventh Degree. At 
tin- point, the ball or bullet will be harder 
when cold than at the last. 

Caste, Twelfth Degree. Prove as 
above; the bullet should crumble between 
the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the 
teeth ; at the next [xiint, 

Caramel, Thirteenth Degree, It 
should snap clean. This point is very diffi- 
cult to attain, for in increasing the height, 
the .-ugar is apt to burn; it is better there- 
fore to try tlie proof \ery fiei|tiently. 

Another caramel is frei|iientK used bv the 
confectioner, and is of a deep color; it id 
made by putting a little water to tlie sugar, 
and Ixiiling it without skimai'm^. or other- 
\\i-e touching the sugar, till of the lii;ht 
color, then lake it off and use immediately. 

If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to 
miss the ri^hl point, add a little cold water, 
and Ixiil once more. 

Observations. The skimmer should 

never be left in the pi i-scn ing-pan after the 

i lai ilied, nor after tlie scum is re- 

I'H MIV can fnl not to stir or disturb the 
sugar, as that would cause its diminution. 

lu boiling the sugar (parlii nlai l\ the two 
linnally rising 

and falling; and on falling, '. 
the sides of the pan, which the heal i.f the 
fire would soon burn, and theu-by spoil the 



TR1 



296 



VAN 



whole of the sugar ; to avoid this, have by 
the side of you. a pan of cold water, and a 
sponge, with which wipe the sides of the 
pan carefully, the instant after the sugar has 
fallen. 

SUGAR LIKE SNOW. Blanch a 
quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, pound 
them to a yery fine paste in a marble mor- 
tar, with the whites of four egg?; when 
perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
lump sugar (in powder), and fiye or six 
more whites of eggs; stir all together well, 
until of such consistence that it may be 
kneaded without adhering to the hands. 
Divide this preparation into two parts, one 
of which, tinge of a red color, either with 
bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it 
with essential oil of roses or bergamot ; 
leave the other portion of paste white, but 
flavor it as fullows: grate the rind of two 
fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, 
scrape off the surface, and when pounded in 
a small mortar, work it into the uncolored 
portion <it sugar-paste, then roll it out to about 
naif an inch in thickness (having previously 
sprinkled the slab with powder-sugar,) cut 
it with a tin-paste cutter about two inches 
diameter; arrange I hem on white paper, 
which place on a baking tin, and put them 
into a moderate oven for about three-quar- 
ters of an hour; proceed in the same manner 
with the colored paste. When cold, detach 
them from the paper. 

SUGAR PASTE. Take a pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, a little salt, one 
egg; mix all together with a little water. 
This paste may be used for any second- 
course dish. 



T. 



TABLET OF PATIENCE. Take 
eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm 
snow ; in the meantime have the yolks 
beaten up with six ounces of powder-sugar; 
(both these operations should be performed 
for at least half an hour) ; then mix the two 
together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and 
when well incorporated, pour in half a pint 
of rose or orange-flower water; stir the 
whole together for some time. Have ready 
some tin plates, well rubbed with butter; 
take a funnel that has three or four tubes, 
fill it with the paste, and push out your 
tablets; when ihe tin plates are full, put 
them into a prctly warm oven. When done, 
take them from the tins whilst hot. 

TRIFLE. (1) Sweeten three pints of 



cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, 
grate in the rind of a lemon, squee/e in the 
juice, and grate in half a nutmeg ; whi.-k this 
up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve 
over a dish that has ratafia cakes, maca- 
roons, sweet almonds, blanched and pound- 
ed, citron, and can. lied orange-peel, cut into 
small pieces, some currant jelly, and rasp- 
berry jam in it, that the liquor may run 
upon them ; when they are soaked, lay them 
in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the 
froth as high as possible, well drained; 
strew over nonpareils, and stick on little 
slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. 

TRIFLE. (2) Lay some macaroons 
and ratafia drops over the bottom of your 
dish, and soak them well with raisin wine, 
when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold 
custard. It must stand two or three inches 
thick ; on that put a layer of raspberry jam, 
and cover the whole with a very high whip 
made the preceding day, of rich cream, the 
whites of two eggs, well lieaten, sugar, lem- 
on-|>eel, and raisin wine, well l>eat with a 
whisk. It is best to make it the day before 
it is wanted, being more solid and better 
tasted. 

TRIFLE. (3) Put half a pound of maca- 
roons into a dish, pour over them some white 
wine, and a pint of custard over that, make 
a whip, and put on it; garnish according to 
your fancy. 



V. 



VANILLA CREAM. Take two 
drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and 
a pint of cream; teat up the eggs well with 
the milk, and then add the other ingredients; 
set the whole on a moderate fine, and stir it 
constantly with a wooden spoon, till the 
cream will adhere to it; then strain, and 
serve it cold. 

VANILLA CREAM, BOLTED. 

Take as much cream as will fill the mould 
you intend to use, and boil it up a few 
times, with the proportionate quantities of 
vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if 
the mould will contain a quart, mix twelve 
yolks and three whole eggs with the cream, 
and run it five times through a bolting cloth. 
Butter the mould, pour the cream into it, 
and place it in the bain marie, but not too 
hot ; when the cream is set, which you may 
know by touching it gently with your finger, 
turn it on a dish; take the remainder of 
the cream, stir it over the fire like white 



VER 



297 



VIO 



sautr, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon 
(which must be of wood), take it off, stir it 
an instant. and then |>our it over the other 
cream, and serve cold. 

VA.MLLA CREAM WHIPPED. Put 
a pinch of gum-dragon into a pint of cream, 
add a BBall qnanttty of orange-flower water, 

powder-sugar to the tate, and a little milk, 
in which sonic vanilla has lcn boiled, and 
the milk strained; whip these in 
with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently 
frothed ; then lay il carefully on a dish, in a 
pyramidal form, and serve it. 

VANILLA CREAM ICE. Whisk the 
- to a firm froth in a 

preserving pan, pour on tliem the yolks of 
eight, and a |w>nnd of sifted sugar, whip the 
whole well with a whisk, and pour in by de- 
grees two quarts of boiling cream; continue 
to whip it f.r sonic little time, anil then put 
it on die lire, with half an ounce of vanilla 
bruised; still whipping, when it has boiled 
up three or four times, strain it, and freeze 
as usual. (See Ice.) 

VANILLA CREAM LIQUEUR. 

Dissolve over the fire two |>oimds ten ounces 
of broken sugar, in three pints of purified 
river water; when it has l>iled up once, 
pour it into a jar, on three drachms of va- 
nilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. 
When quite cold, add three pints of good 
brandy, co\er the \esnel, and when it has 
i it with a little pre- 
pared cochineal ; filter, and bottle the li- 
queur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal die 
corks. 

VANILLA STICKS. Take some 

marchpane paste, a quarter of a pound of 
chocolate, and the same of vanilla; mix 
;! into the paste, and then form it 
into sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
form; lay them on a sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VF.I;|)K. Infuse the rind of three lem- 
ons and four oranges in two quarts of rum 
or braixK , fur fun -anil-twenty hours, close- 
KfftOpped; then s<j'.iee/i: llie juice through 
a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will U- 
half a pint, and if there is not so much, make 
it that; add to il a pound and a quarter of 
sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and 
keep stirring till all the ^u^ar is dissolved; 
when it is dissolved, stir in the peel and 
spirits, and then one pint of en], I new milk; 
pass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. 
It will keep good for twelve mouths. 

VERJl'ICE. (1) Verjuice is the young, 
unripe, and sour grape; it is frequently 



used in French cookery, but yery rarely put 
into English dishes. 

VERJUICE. (2) Take some crab 
apples when the kernels turn black, lay them 
in a heap to sweat; then pick them from 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a 
mash, and press the juice through a bag of 
coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will 
be lit for use in a month's time. If inten- 
ded for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. 
It may be put into sauces when lemon is 
wanting. 

VESPETRO. Take half a [xmnd of 
each of die following seeds: angelica, cori- 
ander, fennel, and caraway, the rinds of 
four lemons, and as many oranges, infuse all 
these in two gallons and a half of the best 
brandy, close the vessel hermetically. In 
five days time, distil it in the bain marie 
alembic, and draw from the alxive ciirautity 
five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven 
pounds of sugar in a gallon of pure river 
water ; add this sirup to the liqueur, filter, 
and bottle it. 

VIOLETS CANDIED. Pick off die 

green stalks from some double violets; boil 
.-iime sugar to souffle; put in the violets-, 
and Keep diem in till die sugar again boils 
to souffle; then nib the sugar against the 
sides of the pan until it is white; stir all 
together till the sugar leaves the violets, and 
(hen sift and dry them. 

VIOLETS TO ROCK CANDY. 

Pick the leaves off die violets; then boil 
some of the Itest, and finest sugar to souffle, 
pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in 
the firm ofadri|>ping-|>an,ahout three inches 
deep; then strew die violet leaves as thick 
as possible on the top, and put it into a hot 
stove, in which let it remain for ten days; 
when it is hard candied, break a hole in one 
corner of it, and drain oil' all die sirup; 
break it out, and place it in heaps upon a 
tin to dry in a stove. 

VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Take 

a quarter of a |xuind of early violets, picked; 
bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds 
of sugar to casse, take it off, put in the pulp, 
and mix them togedier over die fire, and 
when the sugar bubbles up, pour die conserve 
into the moulds. 

VIOLET DROPS. (1) Take a cer- 
tain quantity of sirup of violets, which mix 
with an equal portion of water; use this 
mixture, and make your drops precisely as 
directed. You may, if you please, |>erfume 
it widi oil of violets, but that is not neces- 
sary, as die sirup, imparts sufficient odour 



VIO 



298 



WOR 



VIOLET DROPS. (2) Take the 
juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely 
sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonfuls 
of essence of violets, and color it of a fine 
blue color; mix the whole well together, 
and dry it over the fire, the same as all oth- 
ers, and drop them oft a knife on paper, the 
usual si/.e of drops ; let them stand till cold, 
be careful that your mixture is not too thin; 
when (lie drops are cold, put them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

VIOLETS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
three pounds of violets, and four pounds of 
suifar, put the former into a mortar and 
bniisc lliem to a pulp; in the meantime boil 
the sugar to souffle, then add (he flowers; 
stir them together, add two pounds of apple 
marmalade, and when it has boiled up a 
few times, put the marmalade into pots. 

VIOLETS, SIRUP OF. Pound very 
lightly in a marble mortar, and with a 
pestle, one pound of picked violets; 
warm gradually n glass, or earlhenware ves- 
sel with a small opening, into which put the 
pounded flowers, and pour over them two 
pounds of boiling water; dose (he ve^el 
hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, re- 
newing them when necessary, to keep up an 



equal temperature for twelve hours; after 
that time pass the whole through a close 
cloth, squeezing it well; let it stand for half 
an hour; then pour it oflFvery carefully, that 
all the sediment may remain at the bottom; 
weigh it, and the above quantities will have 
yielded seventeen ounces; put into a matrass 
two pounds of cruched sugar with the infu- 
sion, close the matrass tight, and set it in 
the bain marie, over a moderate fire ; .-hake 
it occasionally to accelerate the dissolution 
of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, 
let the (ire go out and the matrass cool grad- 
ually. When cold, pour the sirup into 
bottles. 



W. 

WORMWOOD CREME LIQUEUR. 

Oislil in the hain-nttirie the zests of two 
oranges, and half a pound of fresh gathered 
wormwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, 
which will produce nearly half the quantity 
of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar 
in as many pints of filtered river water; mix 
tliis sirup with the liqueur; run it through 
a jelly -bag, and bottle it. 



receipts for Confectionery may be found in the first 
part of this Book . 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

Restored with funds 

provided ty 

The Culinary Historians of Boston 



t.i.^v4 



> 



fcl 



> ' 



^ 



/ 



" 

COOK'S OWN BOOK: 

 SIVe  OOMPLKTB 

CVLOrART ElVCTIiOPEDIAt 

OOIIPBBHBinIlia ALL TALUABLB BaOUm 

FOR COOKING MEAT, FISH, AND FOWL, 

A]n ooMvoMiia eyut umv or 

SOUP, GRAVY, PASTRY, PRESERVES, ESSENCES, ke. 

 
THAT HATS BBBlf PUBLISHED OB HCTBIITBD 

DURING THE LAST TWENTY YEARS. 

BABTIOVLABLT THB YBBT BB0T OP TBOflS IH TBB ' 

O00K*S ORACLE, COOK'S DICTIONARY, AND OTHER SYSTEMS OF 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

WITH 

NUMER0USs,p(RI6INAL RECEIPTS, 

ABB A OOMPLBTB BTflTBH OP 

0]VFi:CTIO]Vi:R. 



. BY A BOSTOPr HOUSEKEEPER. 



ALFHABETICALLT ARRANOJED. 






'- 



PUBLISHED 
IN BOSTON, BY MUNROE AND FRANCIS ; 

KBW YORK, BY CHARLES S. FRANCIS, AND DAVID FELT; PHELADBPHIA 
. BY CAREY AND LEA, AND GRI60 AND ELUOT. 

1832. 




s/ 



nAftVARD COLLEGE LISRARY 

BEQUfST OF 

MRS. CHESlCif r.'. (jREEffOUGH 

SCPTEMBLK 20, 1926 



Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1832, by 

MuNRO & Francis, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 



.^MJ*" 



LAX 



V 



STEREOTYPED BY LYMAN THURSTON ft CO. A 

BOSTON. 



Y 



PREFACE. 



The cook exercises a greater power over the public health and 
welfare than the physician, and if he should be a charlatan in his art^ 
alas ! for his employers. Hitherto, or until of late years, the cook 
has had to educate himself, while the physician appropriates all the 
knowledge of antiquity, and of every succeeding age ; his individual 
cases are all classed according to general principles, while the rules 
that have regulated the preparation of our food, have been discordant 
and unnatural. In the present age, indeed, cookery has been raised 
to the dignity of an art, and sages have given their treatises to the 
world. V^ry has a monument in the cemetery of P^re La Chaise, 
among the tombs of warriors, poets, and philosophers, recording of 
his life that *it was consecrated to the useful arts.' Virgil however, 
writes that the best delights of Elysium were showered upon those 
who received wounds for their country, who lived unspotted priests, 
who uttered verses worthy of Apollo, or who, like V^ry, consecrated 
their lives to the useful arts. On the utilitarian principle the cook 
should be much elevated in public estimation, and were he to form a 
strict alliance with the physician, the patriarchal ages would return, 
and men would die of nothing but sheer old age. 

After insanity, the most grievous affliction of Providence, or rather 
of improvidence and imprudence, is Dyspepsy : a malady that under 
different names has decimated the inhabitants of civilized countries, 
and of almost all countries, in which man is a < cooking animal.' To 
the dyspeptic, the sun has no cheering ray, the air no elasticity or 
balm ; the flowers are without fragrance, music is without melody, 
and beauty without charms. Life is a blank ; afiection has lost its 
power to soothe, and the blessings scattered by Providence, are con- 
verted into ministers of torment. Food becomes a bane ; the very 
staff that supports life, gives the flagellation that renders life a curse. 
All that can delight is lost,  but all that can depress and sting, has a 
tenfold activity and power. 



IT nmrAcm. 

The dyspeptic's <May of life, has fallen into the sear, the yellow- 
Sleep that should 'yisit every pillow but that of guilt, is to hlwn 
no friend ; if he slumbers, it is to dream, like Clarence, of hideous 
forms of suffering, and to wake to their reality. This is but a faint 
picture of Dyspepsy. 

' Her gloomy pretenee aaddeM nD tbe aoem, > 
Shades every flower and darkens every graen. 
Deepens tbe nuirninr -of the feUtng floods. 
And breadieA a brownor horror on the woods.* 

This malady is beyond the science of the physician, but within the 
art of the cook ; in the proverb, Doctor Diet is ranked above Doctor 
Quiet and Doctor Merryman ; though all are good. 

The late Mr. Abemetfay referred almost all maladies to the stom- 
ach, and seldom prescribed any remedy but a proper diet. This it is 
the province ef the cook to provide ; and the design of this book to 
indicate. The work is not designed to spread a taste for pernicious 
luxuries: and every recipe has been sanctioned by custom. The 
responsibility of the cook is lightened, and his duty facilitated. He 
has here a dictionary of reference, an encyclopedia of his art. The 
details are full, and the authority is perfect. There were various 
works of merit that it was useful for the cook to study, but here are 
collected the best parts of all, with the convenience of alphabetical 
arrangement, and in the compass of a moderate volume. If it is a 
sin to waste the best gifls of Providence, it should be little less than 
a felony to spoil them. When we have collected the materials for a 
house, we never trust the building to an unskilful architect: yet we 
are oflen obliged to commit the preparation of our feasts as well as 
of our common food, to agents without knowledge. This knowledge 
is now supplied. 

More than health depends on the proper preparation of food : our 
very virtues are the creatures of circumstances, and many a man has 
hardened his heart, or given up a good resolution, under the operation 
of indigestion. Who that knows the world, ever solicits widi confi- 
dence a friendly or charitable act of another before dinner. 

The natural and moral world are reciprocally dependent ; soul and 
body are so linked, that when one loses its tone the other is deprived 
of its equanimity. The system of morals therefore becomes identi- 
fied with that of cookery, and the great English moralist, who was 
learned in both systems, thus spoke of the connexion ; * Some peo- 
ple * said Doctor Johnson, * have a foolish way of not minding, or of 
pretending not to mind, what they eat. I for my part mind my belly 
very studiously, and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who 
does not mind his belly will hardly mind any thing else.* 



It has tMea the study of the author, to make erery l^ipe pMn, 
and the proportioiie eertain ; Uttle is left to discretion, that coold be 
reduced to measure. The system of confectionery is perfect ; and if 
strictly followed eyery cook may become a first rate confectioner. 
Labor, care, and expense have been bestowed upon the work, and the 
publishers feel so secure of its merit, and of the public want of such a 
book, that they have caused it to be stereotyped. This would have 
been hazardous with a novel or almost any literary work; but the 
number of those who eat is fur greater than of those who read. A 
good book few can estimate ; all can enjoy a good dinner, and the 
publishers anticipate a proportionate encouragement. 

Having devised this work for families, we hope that it may offend 
no one, that we give a word of counsel to domestics : o^r book may 
be every way good, yet will its usefulness be much impaired if do- 
mestics are not docile and faithful. 

We have fortunately, in this country, but one class of people : all nj 
are' free, and all are politically equal. Our domestics are in New 
England designated as Ae(p, to indicate tlmt they are the equals, and 
assistants, rather than the inferiors of their employers. Yet the 
feeling of independence may be carried too far, and it may be ungra- 
ciously expressed. There is no disgrace, and there should be no 
shame in filling well a subordinate station; the hired ploughman, 
maid, or cook are not, in an offensive sense, any more the servants of 
their employers, than the. merchant and the lawyer. All these engage 
to perform certain services for an equivalent, and it is the duty of all 
to do them faithfully. 

The number of domestics is very large  perhaps the average is 
five to four families  and it may be even greater. Yet, unfortunate- '^ 
ly for their welfare, interest, or character, they are almost constantly ^ 
shifting, and in few families do they remain long. In England, a 
good domestic is often provided for during life, and it is a desirable 
situation. It might be so here, if our domestics would strive to ac- 
commodate themselves to their situation. There is hardly a family, 
. in which a kind, respectful, and faithful domestic might not be retained 
for years, and at the best wages. Here then is a home, comfort, and 
friends. Yet the greater number are contented to live a few months 
in a place, till the best years of life have slipped away, without pro- 
vision for age, and without friends, or home. The proverb of the 
rolling stone contains the best lesson for domestics. 

Service in any department is no sacrifice of independence. A 
domestic is in all things as free as any other class, but it is a 
bad khid of independence that would lead one, when desired to do a 



thing in the line of a comnaon employment^ to do it ungraeiottsly, 
and rather as an irksome or unjust task, than as a duty. 

Minor vexations, frequently repeated, are equal to greater individ- 
ual calamities; as many small enjoyments constitute much of the 
pleasures of Jife. Around the social board every member of the fam- 
ily is collected  thrice at least in twenty-four hours. Thither the 
head of the family returns from the labors or cares of his business to 
recruit his strength and to relax his mind. If he return to a table 
constantly and invariably ill spread ; to a dinner to which he could 
invite no friend, and in which he can have no enjoyment; a cloud 
will gather on the calmest brow, and a feeling of dissatisfaction may 
be extended to other things. It is not beneath the solicitude of a 
good wife, who would not suffer any abatement in the affection of 
which she is the object, diligently to study this book, and constantly 
to provide a neat and well dressed repast. - 

Boston, March, 1832. 



%^ The articles which follow, on Roasting, Boiling, Sfc, art 
selected from the Cook's Oracle. 



MANAGEMENT OF FAMILIES. 



In domestic arrangement the table is entitled to no small share 
of attention, as a well conducted system of domestic management 
is the foundation of every comfort; and the respectability and 
welfare of families depend in a great measure on the prudent 
conduct of the female, whose province it is to manage the domes* 
tic concerns. 

However the fortunes of individuals may support a large expen* 
diture, it will be deficient in all that can benefit or grace society, 
and in every thing essential to moral order and rational happiness, 
if not conducted on a regular system, embracing all the objects 
of such a situation. 

In domestic management, as in education, so much must depend 
on the particular circumstances of every case, that it is impossible 
to lay down a system which can be generally applicable. 

The inunediate plan of every family must be adapted to its own 
peculiar situation, and can only result from the good sense and 
early good habits of the parties, acting upon general rational 
principles. 

What one family is to do, must never be measured by what 
another family does. Each one knows its own resources, and 
should consult them alone. What might be meanness in one, 
might be extravagance in another, and therefore there can be no 
standard of re.ference but that of individual prudence. The most 
fatal of all things to private families, is to indulge an ambition to 
make an appearance above their fortunes, professions, or business, 
whatever these may be. ' 

The next point, both for comfort and respectability, is, that all 
the household economy should be uniform, not displaying a parade 
of show in one thing, and a total want of comfort in another. Be- 
sides the contemptible appearance that this must have to every 
person of good sense, it is productive of consequences, not only of 
present, but future injury to a family, that are too oflen irreparable. 

In great cities in particular, how common is it that for the vani- 
ty of having a showy drawing-room to receive company, the family 
are confined to a close back room, where they have scarcely either 
air or light, the want of which must materially prejudice their 
health. 

To keep rooms for show, where the fortune is equal to having 
a house that will accommodate the family properly, and admit of 
this also, belongs to the highest sphere of life; but in private fam- 
ilies, to shut up the only room perhaps in the house which is really 
wholesome for the famOy to live in, is inflicting a kind of lingering 



VIU FAMILY MANAOSMBNT. 

murder upon the inmates; and yet how frequently this considera- 
tion escapes persons who mean well by their family, but who still 
have a grate, a carpet, and chairs, too fine r every day's use. 

Another fruit of this evil is, seeing more company, and in s 
more expensive manner than is compatible with the general con- 
venience of the family, introducing with it an expense in dress, 
and a dissipation of time, from which it suffers in various ways. 

Social intercourse is not improved by parade, but quite the 
contrary; real friends, and the pleasantest kind of acquaintance, 
those who like to be sociable, are repulsed by it. It is a failure 
therefore every way  the loss of what is really valuable, and an 
abortive attempt to be fashionable. 

A fundamental error in domestic life of very serious extent, 
involving no less the comfort than the health of the family, arised 
from the ignorance or mistaken notions of the mistress of the house 
upon the subjects of diet and cookery. 

The subject of cookery is thought by too many women to be 
below their attention, or, when practically engaged in, it is with 
no other consideration about it than, in the good housewife's 
phrase, to make the most of every thing, whether good, bad, or 
indifferent; or to contrive a thousand mischievous compositions, 
both savory and sweet, to recommend their own ingenuity. 

If cookery is worth studying, as a sensual gratification, it is 
surely much more so as a means of securing one of the greatest of 
human blessings  good health ; ahd we cannot quit this part of the 
subject of domcistic management without observing, that oiie cause 
of a great deal of injurious cookery originates in the same vanity 
of show that is productive of so many other evils. In order to 
set out a table witli a greater number of dishes than the situation 
of the family requires, more cookery is often undertaken than 
there are servants to do it well, or conveniences in the kitchen for 
^e purpose. Thus some viands are done before they are wanted 
for serving up, and stand by spoiling, to make room for others; 
these are again perhaps to be succeeded by something else ; and 
too often are things served up that had better be thrown away, 
than to be used for food. 

The leading consideration about food ought always to be its 
wholesomeness. Cookery may produce savory and pretty looking 
dishes without their possessing any of the qualities of food. It is 
at the same time both a serious and ludicrous reflection that it 
should be thought to do honor to our friends and ourselves to set 
out a table where indigestion and all its train of evils, such as 
fever, rheumatism, gout, and the whole catalogue of human dis- 
eases lie lurking in almost every dish. Yet this is both done, and 
taken as a compliment. IVe have indeed the ** unbought grace 
of polished society, where gluttony loses half its vice by being 
stripped of its grossness." When a man at a public house dies of 
a surfeit of beef steak and porter, who does not exclaim, what a 
beast! 



.J 



cooKG trrsNtiLs. is 

How tnflniCelj preferable is a dinner of far leM show where 
nobody need be afraid of what they are eating! and such a one 
Ivill be genteel and respectable. If a person can give his friend 
only a leg of mutton, there is nothing to be ashamed of in it, pro- 
vided it is a good one, and well dressed. 

A house fitted up with plain good furniture, the kitchen fur- 
nished with clean wholesome-looking cooking utennls, good fires, 
in grates that give no anxiety lest a good fire should spoil them,> 
clean good table linen, the furniture of the table and sideboard 
good of the kind, without ostentation, and a well-dressed plain 
dinner, bespeak a sound judgment and correct taste in a private 
fiimily, that place it on a footing of respectability with the first 
characters in the country. It is only the conforming to our sphere, 
not the vainly attempting to be above it, that can command true 
respect. 

COOKING UTENSILS. 

 
The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of 

food are made either of metal, glass, pottery ware, or wood; each 

of which is better suited to some particular purposes than the 

others. Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, and the 

knowledge of this is necessary to the preservation of health in 

general, and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous 

consequences. ^ 

The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels 
are silver, copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is prefera- 
ble to all the others, because it cannot be dissolved by any of the 
substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms 
a thin brittle crust over it, that gives it the appearance of being 
tarnished, which may be accidentally taken with food; but this 
is not particularly unwholesome, nor is it liable to be taken often, 
nor in targe quantities. The discoloring of silver spoons used 
with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs.  Nitre or 
saltpetre has also a slight effect upon silver, but nitre and silver 
seldom remain long enough together in domestic uses to require 
any particular caution. 

Copper and brass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, 
acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, 
and great caution should be used to prevent accidents of the kind. 
Vessels made of these metals are generally tinnfed, that is, lined 
with a thin coating of a mixed metal, containing both tin and lead. 
Neither acids, nor any thing containing pearl-ash, should ever be 
suffered to remain above an hour in vessels of this kind, as the 
tinning is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom perfect 
over the surface of the copper or brass. 

The utensils made of what is called block tin are constructed 
of iron plates coated with tin. This is equally to be dissolved as 
the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwhole- 



some substance, if even a portion of it should be diss<^ved and 
mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for 
the construction of culinary utensils; and the objection to its nKHr9 
extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires 
more cleaning and soon decays. Some articles of food, such as 
quinces, orange peel, artichokes, kc. are blackened by remaining 
in iron vessels, which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be 
.used for milk and cream, if it be ever likely to stand till it become 
sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted 
meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental china, because the 
glazing is a perfect glass, which cannot be dissolved, and the 
whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. 
Many of the English pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the 
glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid put- 
ting vinegar, and other acids into them. Acids and greasy sub* 
stances penetrate into unglazed wares, excepting the strong stone 
ware ; or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence 
give a bad flavor to any thing they are used for aflerwards. They 
are quite unfit therefor^ for keeping pickles or salted meats. 
Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery ware but 
oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits 
of it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for the keeping many articles 
. of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. 
If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden 
cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be put into it in 
future. It is useful to char the insides of these wooden vessels 
before they are used, by burning wood shavings in them, so as to 
coat the insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must be sure, froin 
the repetition of its baneful effects, to injure the health, a due 
precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its 
more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow iron ware 
lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for 
sauces or preserves: indeed it is preferable for every purpose. 



DIET. 

That we require food, as vegetables require water, to support 
our existence, is the primary consideration upon which we should 
take it. But in our general practice of eating, it cannot be said, 
"we eat to live," but are living passages or channels, througk 
which we are constantly propelling both solids and fluids, for the 
sake of pleasing our palates, at the severe cost often of our whole 
system. 



I>IBT. XI 

A reasMiable indulgence in the abundant supplies of nature, 
eonyerted by art to the purposes of wholesome food, is one of the 
comforts added to the maintenance of life. It is an indiscriminate 
grs^ificatioD of our tastes, regardless of the consequences that 
saay ensue from it, that is alone blamable. But so great is our 
general apathy in these respects, that even on the occurrence of 
diseases, from which we are all more or less sufferers, we scarce- 
ly ever reflect on our diet, as the principal, if not the sole cause 
of tbem. We assign them to weather, to infection, to hereditary 
descent, to spontaneous breeding, as if a disease could originate 
without a cause; or to any frivolous imaginary source, without 
suspecting, or being willing to own, mismanagement of ourselves. 

We derive the renewal of our blood and juices, which are con- 
stantly exhausting, from the substances we take as food. As our 
food, therefore, is proper or improper, too much or too little, so 
will our blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged or deficient, 
and our state of health accordingly good or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever we eat or 
drink, including seasonings; such as salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, 
&c. &.C. Every thing, in short, which we receive into our sto- 
machs. Our food, therefore, consists not only of such particles 
as are proper for the nourishment and support of the human body, 
but likewise contains certain active principles, viz. salts, oils, and 
spirits, which have the properties of stimulating the solids, quick- 
ening the circulation, and making the fluids thinner; thus render- 
ing them more suited to undergo the necessary secretions of the 
body. 

The art of preserving health, and obtaining long life, therefore 
consists in the use of a moderate quantity of such diet as shall 
neither increase the salts and oils, so as to produce disease, nor 
diminish them, so as to suffer the solids to become relaxed. 

It is very difficult, almost impossible, to ascertain exactly what 
are the predoniinant qualities either in our bodies or in the food 
we eat. In practice, therefore, we can have no other rule but 
observing by experience what it is that hurts or does us good; 
and what it is our stomach can digest with facility, or the contrary. 
But then we must keep our judgment unbiassed, and not suffer it 
to become a pander to the appetite, and thus betray the stomach 
and health, to indulge our sensuality. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as eating too much. 
Neither excess, nor hunger, nor any thing else that passes the 
bounds of nature, can be good to man. 

By loading the stomach, fermentation is checked, and of course 
digestion impeded; for the natural juice of the stomach has not 
room to exert itself, and it therefore nauseates its contents, is 
tifoubled with eructations, the spirits are oppressed, obstructions 
ensue, and fever is the consequence. Besides, that when thus 
overfilled, the stomach presses on the diaphragm, prevents the 
proper play of the lungs, and occasions uneasiness in' our breath- 



log. Hence arise various ill symptoms and depraved, effects 
throughout the body, enervating the strength, decaying the senses, 
hastening old age, and shortening life, ^'hough these effects are 
not immediately perceived, yet they are certain attendants of 
intemperance; for it has been generally observed in great eaters, 
that, though from custom, a state of youth, and a strong constitu- 
tion, they have no present inconvenience, but have digested their 
food, suffered surfeit, and borne their immoderate diet well ; if the^ 
have not been unexpectedly cut off, they have found the symptoms 
of old age come on early in life, attended with pains and innume- 
rable disorders. 

If we value our health, we must ever make it a rule not to eat 
to satiety or fulness, but desist while the stomach feels quite easy. 
Thus we shall be refreshed, light, and cheerful; not dull, heavy, 
or indisposed. Should we ever be tempted to eat too much at one 
time, we should eat the less at another. Thus, if our dinner has 
been larger than usual, let our supper be less, or rather quite 
omitted; for there is ^lo man, however careful of his health, who 
does not occasionally transgress in this way. 

With regard to the times of eating, they must to a certain degree 
be conformed to family convenience, but ought to be quite inde-> 
pendent of the caprices of fashion. The great things to be guard- 
ed against are, either eating too soon after a former meal, or 
fasting too long.  The stomach should always have time to empty 
itself before it is filled again. 

Some stomachs digest their contents sooner than others, and if 
long empty it may destroy the appetite, and greatly disturb both 
the head and animal spirits ; for, from the great profusion of nerves 
spread upon the stomach, there is an immediate sympathy between 
that and the head. Hence the head is sure to be affected by 
whatever disorders the stomach, whether from any particular ali- 
ment that disagrees with it, or being overfilled, or too long empty. 
Such as feel a gnawing in the stomach, as it is called, should not 
wait till the stated time of the next meal, but take a small quanti- 
ty of light, easily digested food, that the stomach may have some- 
thing to work on. 

Young persons in health, who use much exercise, may eat three 
times a- day. But such as are in years, such as are weak, as do 
no work, use no exercise, or lead a sedentary life, eating twice in 
the day is suf&cient ; or, as in the present habits of society, it might 
be difficult to arrange the taking only two meals, let them take 
three very moderate ones. Old and weak persons may eat often, 
but then it should be very little at a time. 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater difficulty than 
the quantity ; moderation is an invariably safe guide in the latter 
instance; but though always favorable to prevent ill effects from 
any error in quality, it will not always1)e effectual. 

To a person in good health, with a strong stomach, and whose 
constant beverage is water, cold or tepid, according to the sea- 



WHiy or some aqueoiis li^vor, Ike nieeties of choice in food of 
cookery are leM material than to persons with naturally weak st^y- 
maehs^ or to those in sickness, or for children. Bat all persons 
who would to a certainty preserve their health and faculties, and 
Uye out the natural term of life, should use plain food, as mil high 
seasonings and compound mixtures have an injurious efiect, soon- 
er or later, on the strongest constitutions. If a few instances can 
be quoted to the contrary, these, like other anomalies in nature, 
cannot constitute an exception to a well established fact. 

No part of our aliment is more important than our beverage. 
It is essential to moisten and convey our more solid food into the 
rtomach, and from thence to the respective parts of the body. To 
allay thirst, to dilute the blood, that it may circulate through the 
nnnutest vessels, to dissolve and carry off by the watery secre* 
tions the superfluous salts we take in- our food ; to answer these 
purposes no liquid is so eflectual as pure water, with the exception 
of some few eases. No other liquid circulates so well, or mixes so 
immediately with our fluids. All other liquors are impregnated 
with particles which act strongly upon the solids or fluids, or both; 
but water being simple, operates only by diluting, moistening, and 
cooling, which are the great uses of drink pointed out to us by 
nature. Hence it is evident that water is in general the best and 
most ivholesome drink; but some constitutions require something 
to warm and stimulate the stomach, and then fermented liquors 
taken in moderation are proper; such as beer, ale, cider, wine, 
&c. the choice and quantity of which depend on the age, consti- 
tution, and manner of living of the drinker; and to have them 
pure is above all things essential; as otherwise, instead of being 
of any benefit, they will be highly detrimental. 

Drams, or distilled spirituous liquors, the use of which is unhap-* 
pily very prevalent, are of the most poisonous qualities; and from 
their direful effects are the destruction of thousands. From the 
degree of heat they have undergone in distillation they acquire a 
corrosive and burning quality, which makes them as certain to 
kill as laudanum or arsenic, though not so soon. They contract 
the fibres and vessels of the body, especially where tbey are 
ike tenderest, as in the brain, and thus destroy the intellectual 
faculties. They injure the coat of the stomach, and thus expose 
the nerves and weaken the fibres till the whole stomach becomes 
at last soft, flabby, and relaxed. From whence ensues loss of 
Bppetiie, indigestion, and diseases that generally terminate in 
premature death. Spirituous liquors in any way, whether alone, 
mixed with water, in punch, shrub, noyau, or other liqueurs, are 
all slow poisons. 

It would be endless to enter on an account of the different quali- 
ties of all sorts of wines, but it may be said in general, that all 
the light wines of a moderate strength, due age and maturity, are 
more wholesome for the constitution than the rich, hot, strong, 

B 



JiK BOIMNO. 

ktavy wines; for tke iight wines inime tke ymoes  the body 
lees aji4 go off tb stonaeh wkh iess diffieuky. 

The \mi tkiiig to be said concerning liquors is, that wine aod 
sU other stsong liquors, are as hard to digest aa solid etrong foodv 
This is not oaHy evident with respect to perseos of weak stomaeha 
and digestion, but also from strong healthy people, who on^ 
drink either water or small beer at their meals, and are able to 
eat and digest almost double the quantity of what they could if 
they drank strong liquors. It appears very plain, thereibre, that 
we should not drink strong liquors at ^our meals, as by their heat 
and activity they hurry the food undigested into the habit of tho 
body, and by that means lay a foundation lor various distempers. 
An abstinence, in short, from fermented liquors would preserve 
our saental faci^ies in vigor, and our bodies from many pain&l 
disorders that afflict mankind, as there is no doubt that we may* 
principally ascribe to them the gout, rheumatism, stone, cancer^ 
fevers, hysterics, lunacy, apoplexy, and palsy. 



BOILING. 

This most simple of culinary processes is not oflen performed i 
perfection. It does not require quite so much nicety and atten* 
daace as roasting ; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiHnff 
(the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is required 
for doing the joint, &c., and to take it up at the critical moment 
when it is done enough, comprehends almost the whole art and 
niystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigi- 
lance, of which few persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water reafiy boils all 
the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived in the time ; and 
make up a sufficient fire at first, to last all the time, without much 
mending or stirring. A frugal cook will manage with much less 
five for boiling than she uses for roasting. 

When the pot is coming to a boil there will always, from ike 
cleanest meat and clearest water, rise a scum to the top of it, pro* 
ceeding partly from the water ; this must be carefully taken off s 
soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When 
you have skimmed well, put in some cold water, which will throw 
up the rest of the scum. 

The oftener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of the water* 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the meat. 
, If let  alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, whiclb, 
instead of k>oking delicately white and nice, will have th-at ooarae 
and ihhy appearance we have too oflen to complain of, and the- 
botoher and poulterer be blamed for the carelessness g the eo^ 
lA 90t skimnung her pot. 



Jfaaj piit IB Mtt, to make wtet tkej Wi 4ok wbke; IriiUlih 
does more harm Uiaa good : others wrap it up ia  deth ; Mt 
Ikese are needless precavtioiis : if the seun 1^ atleotively removed, 
neat will have a miich more delicate color aad finer fl^or than it 
Iftas when muffled up. This may give rather noie trouble, hut 
those who wish to excel in their art must oplv consider liow Iha 
lirocesses of it can he most perfectly performed : a cook, who iiaa 
a proper pride and pleasure in her business^ will make this kar 
maxim on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal thickaesa^ or^ 
before thicker parts are done enough, the thimier wiU be done 4oa 
much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in the proportion of about a quait 
of water to a pound of meat : it should be covered with water during 
the whole of the process of boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered with it, the more savory will 
he the meat, and the better will be the broth. 

The water should be heated gradually, according to the thick- 
aess, &c. of the article boiled. For instance, a leg of mutton of 
ten pounds weight should be placed over a moderate fire, which 
will gradually make the water hot, without causing it to boil for 
about forty minutes ; if the water boils much sooner, the meat will 
be hardened, and shrink up as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
mre dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken 
.<^as soon as it rises. 

The editor placed a thermometer in water in that state which 
cooks call gentle simmering ; the heat was 212^, i. e. the same 
degree as the strongest boiling. ^ 

Two mutton chops were covered with cold water ; one boiled a 
gallop, while the other simmered very gentl;^ for three^uarters of 
sn hour : the chop which was slowly simmered was decidedly su- 
perior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more juicy^ 
and much higher flavored. The liquor which boiled fast was in 
like proportion more savory, and when cold had much more fat 
on its surface. This explains why quick boiling renders meat 
hard, Slc, because its juices are e^^tracted in a greater degree. 

Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. 

The old rule of Id minutes to a pound of meat, we think rather 
too little : the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter 
it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs), twenty minutes to a 
pound for fresh, and rather more for salted. meat, will not be found 
too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire, allowing 
more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and the 
coldness of the weather : to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry ; and when it falls below 40 ^, tell 



xn BAKiire. 

your cods to give rather more time in both roasting* snd boifing, 
always remembering, the slower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art ; and cooka' 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble or boils a gallop. . 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe ; and long- 
er in cold than in warm weather : if it be frozen, it must be thawed 
before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh-killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gent}f. 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it inlo 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of 
Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

The size of the boiling-pots should be adapted to what they are 
to contain : the larger the saucepan the more room it takes upon 
the (ire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate 
increase of fire to boil it. 

In small famihes we recommend block-tin saucepans, &c. as 
lightest and safest. If proper care is taken of them, and they are 
well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest ; 
the purchase of a new tin saucepan being little more than the ex- 
pense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots fit close, not only to prevent 
unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to prevent the escape 
of the nutritive matter, which must then remain either in tlie meat 
or in the broth ; and the smoke is prevented from insinuating itself 
under the edge of the lid, and so giving the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavor. 

Beef and mutton a little under-done (especially very large joints, 
which will make the better hash or broil,) is not a great fault ; by 
some people it is preferred : but Iamb, pork, and veal are uneata- 
ble if not thoroughly boiled ; but do not over-do them. 

A trivet or fish-drainer put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, rais- 
ing the contents about an inch and a half from the bottom, wiN 
prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat will he as 
delicately done as the other part ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the pot, without sticking a fork, &c. into it. 
If you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

BAKING. 

Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of 
dressing a dinner in small families; and, I may say, that the oven 
is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a 
joint of meat. 



lAttllG. 

I do not wmn to denj the superior excellence of romstlng to 
baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satisfactioil. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, and manj 
other joints, will bake to great advantAge, if the meat be good; 
I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fat: if the meat be poor, no 
baker can give satisfaction. 

When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked I have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely 
to be believed. 

Besides those joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have 
its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back 
with, otherwise it will be apt to blister: with 'a proper share of 
attention from the baker, I consider this way equal to a roasted 
one. 

A goose prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A duck the same. 

A buttock of beef the following way is particularly fine. After 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan with a pint of water ; cover the pan tight 
with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper: never 
cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper, the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad 
taste: give it four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in 
a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer 
flavor, than a boiled one. I have been in the habit of bakinff 
small cod-fish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour, and 
some bits of butter put on them; eels, when large and stufied; 
herrings and sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little 
spice, and tied over with paper. A hare, prepared the same as 
for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk 
put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly 
equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a 
jar or pan, and cover it over and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. In the same manner, I have been in the hab- 
it of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c. prepared with 
a seasoning of onions, turnips, &c.: they will take about four 
hours: let them stand till cold, to skim oflT the fat; then warm it 
up all together, or part, as you may want it. 

All these I have been in the habit of baking for the first families. 

The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the state of the oven, and I do consider the baker a suf- 

B* 



ficient judge; if ihej are sent to hun ia time, he most be Terjr 
neglectful if they, are not ready at the time they are ordered. 



ROASTING. 

Let the young cook never forget that cleanlinese is the chief 
cardinal virtue of the kitchen; the first preparation for roasting 
is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and 
water; nothing else. When it has been well scoured with this, 
dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are wiped clean a soon as the 
meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a very little 
cleaning will be required. The less the spit is passed through 
the meat the better; and, before you spit it, joint it properly, es- 
pecially necks and loins, that the carver may separate them easi- 
ly and neatly, and take especial care it be evenly balanced on 
the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the Hre operate 
equally on each part of it; therefore, be provided with balancingf 
skewers and cook holds, and see it is properly jointed. 

Make up the fire in time ; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dressed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be 
dqne nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to propovtion her fire lo the busi- 
ness she has to do, as a chemist: the degree of heat most desira- 
ble for dressing the different sorts of food ought to be attended 
to with the utmost precision. 

The fire that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin 
will parch up a lighter joint. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can possibly 
avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a 
considerable distance, and allow a little more time. 

Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper, for this purpose 
called ^^ kitchen-paper,'* and tie it on with fine twine; pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed; they are so many taps to 
let out the gravy: besides, the paper oAen starts from them and 
catches fire, to the great injury of the meet. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should 
be little and brisk: when you have a large joint to roast, make up 
a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part, or your meat 
cannot be equally ^roasted, nor have that uniform color which 
constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down; 
examine it from time to time while the spit is going round; keep 
it clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in 
the front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and 
hinder it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the 
other, place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the fire. 



BOASTfHO. SIX 

'Do not put meat too near the fire at first; the larger the joint, 
the farther it must be kept from the fire: if once it gets scorched, 
the outside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable, empjrr- 
eumatic taste ; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into 
it, the meat will appear done before it. is little more than half 
done, besides losing the pale brown color, which it is the beautj 
of roasted meat to have. 

Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance 
firom the fire as just to catch the drippings: if it is too near, the 
ariies will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. 

If it is too far fi'om the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by 
the fcetid smoke, which will arise when the fat falls on the live 
cinders. 

A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes. It 
should not be less than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inch- 
es wide, and have a covered well on the side from the fire, to 
collect the drippings; this will preserve them in the most delicate 
state: in a pan of the above size you may set fried fish, and vari- 
OiQs dishes, to keep hot. 

The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the 
time it has been kept, and the temperature of the weather; the 
same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in 
cold weather, than it Mrill be in warm; and if fresh killed, than if 
it has been kept till it is tender. 

Everybody knows the advantage of slow hoUing. Shw roasting 
is equally important. 

It is difiicult to give any specific rule for time; but if your fire 
is made as before directed, your meat-screen sufficiently large to 
ffuard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat 
IS not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the 
pound ; a little more or less, according to the temperature of the 
weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with 
which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it will take, 
as it keeps the meat sofl and mellow on the outside, and the fire 
acts with more force upon it. 

Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, but 
to the moment the roasts will be wanted. Supposing there are a 
dozen people to sip soup and eat fish first, you may allow them 
ten or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the 
latter, more or less, according to the temptations the ** bon gout" 
of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan 
back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and 
bright for the browning; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will 
be the best judge of that, from the time it has been down, the 



strength of th# fire you Jiave uaed, and the distance jour spil has 
been from it. 

Half an hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, and 
Just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If 
you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour carefully: 
you cannot do this delicately u^ce without a very good light. 
The common fault seems to be using too much flour. The meat 
ahould have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of 
being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the 
froth use butter instead of drippings. 

A gopd cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and 
color of her roasts, as a young beauty is to her complexion at a 
birthday ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so even* 
ly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze, i. e. portable soup, put 
four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradu- 
ally by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter 
of an hour; put it on the meat equally all over with a paste-brush 
the last thing before it goes to table. 

Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cook- 
ery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfect- 
ly we]l than it does to make most made dishes. 

That made dishes are the most difficult preparations, deserves 
to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; in plain roast- 
ing and boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful cook, must 
be unremittingly upon the alert. 



FRYING. 

Frying is often a convenient mode of cookery; it may be per- 
formed by a fire which will not do for roasting or boiling ; and by 
the introduction of the pan between the meat and the fire, things 
get more equally dressed. 

The Dutch oven or bonnet is a very convenient utensil for small 
things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, ^or 
frying-pan. 

A frying-pan should be about four inches deep, with a perfectly 
flat and thick bottom, twelve inches long .and nine broad, with 
perpendicular sides, and nrast be half filled with fat: good frying 
is, in fact, boiling in fat. To make sure that the pan is quite 
clean, rub a little fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it 
out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in frying, never to use any oil, butter, lard, 
or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and free from salt 
Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad-tasted or ^ale, 
spoils the flavor; and salt prevents its browning. 

Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying; but the best oil is 
expensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it. 



For general purposes, and especially for fish, clean fresh lard 
is not near so expensive as oil or clarified butter, and does almost 
as well. Butter often burns before you are aware of it ; and what 
jou fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. 

Dripping, if nicely clean and fresh, is almost as good as any 
thing; if not clean, it may be easily clarified. Whatever fat yon 
use, after you have done frying, let it remain in the pan for a few 
minutes, and then pour it through a sieve into a clean basin; it 
will do three or four times as well as it did at first, t. e, if it has not 
burned: but, the fat you have fried fish in nrast not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to what 
you^are to fry, is the great secret in frying. 

To iry fish, parsley, potatoes, or any thing that is watery, your 
6re must be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you may bo 
pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is still. We cannot 
msiet too strongly on this point: if the fat is not very hot, you 
cannot fry fish either to a good color, or firm and crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw a little bit of bread into the pan ; if it 
fries crisp, the fat is ready; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. 

The fire under the pan must be clear and sharp, otherwise the 
fat is so long before it becomes ready, and demands such attend- 
ance to prevent the accident of its catching fire, that the patience 
of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or im- 
patience, throw in what they are going to fry before the fat is half 
hot enough. Whatever is so fried will be pale and sodden, and 
offend the palate and stomach not less than the eye. 

Have a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have 
got the right color: a lamp fixed on a stem, with a loaded foot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most usefiil appendage to kitchen fire- 
places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer opera- 
tions of cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fat from what you 
have fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in 
bread crumbs, or biscuit powder, &.C., your cooking will^ do you 
no credit. 

The dryness of fish depends much upon its having been fried in 
fat of a due degree of heat ; it is then crisp and dry in a few min- 
utes after it is taken out of the pan: when it is not, lay it on a sofi 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is. This will 
aometimes take fifteen minutes: therefore, always fry fish as long 
as this before you want them, for fear you may find this necessary. 

To fry fish, see receipt to fry soles, which is the only circum- 
stantial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the 
cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon become an 
accomplished frier. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culhiary operations, 
is one that is least commonly performed perfectly well. 



BROILING. 

Cleanliness is extreiaelj emential in this mode of cookery. 

Keep your gridiron quite clean between the bars, and bright on 
the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth: just before 
you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton-suet, to prevent the 
meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may bum 
quite clear: a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, or you cannot 
give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection of 
this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive 
any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness; if thicker, they will be done too much on the 
outside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any thing is 
done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Let the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not 
burning. hot upon the surface: this is the perfect and fine condition 
<^the gridiron. 

As the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it 
is absolutely necessary they should be thoroughly hot before the 
tiling to be cooked be laid on them. 

The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in 
a trough to catch the gravy and keep the fat from dropping into 
the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil the broil. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke ; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as possible; set a 
dish to heat when you put your chops on the gridiron, from whence 
to the mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

When the fire is not clear, the business of the gridiron may be 
done by the Dutch oven or bonnet. 

Take care to have a very clear, brisk fire; throw a little salt on 
it; make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat 
from dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires 
more practice and care than is generally supposed to do steaks to 
a nicety; and for want of these little attentions, this very common 
dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom 
4^ome8 to table in perfection. 

Ask those you cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly 
done; and what accompaniments they like best; it is usual to put 
a table-'spoonful of ketchup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish 
before the fire; while you are broiling, turn the steak, &c. with ft 
pair of steak-tongs, it will be done in about tenor fifteen minutes; 
rub a bit of butter ovier it, and umi it up garnished with piekles 
and finely-scraped horse-radish. 



BBOm AKP MOML 



BROTHS ANP SOUPS. 



The cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
stew-pans, sonp^ketties, &c. which should be examined every time 
they are used. .The prudent houaewife will carefully examine the 
condition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers 
also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stew- 
pans not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the 
outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair; 
and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain; 
the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and 
poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and 
your credit will be lost. 

The hesdth, and even life of the family, depends upon this, and 
the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's 
hiiJ than the doctor's; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to 
engage the regard of the mistress, between whom and the cook it 
will be my utmost endeavor to promote perfect harmony. 

If she has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
pan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, I ad- 
vise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident ; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, 
spoons and ladles. Make it a rule without an exception, never to 
use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any 
stew-pans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, 
and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean 
them from grease, sand, &c., or any bad smell they may have got 
since they were last used : never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut 
aato wilfully, neglect her broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend 
her to wafih them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 
piece, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon: attend to 
this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any soup, gravy, &c. in metal utensils; in which 
never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of cookery; the acid, vegetables, fat, &c. employed in 
making soups, &c. are capable of dissolving such utensils: there- 
fore stone or earth em vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, soup-pots, and preserving pans, with thick and round 
bottems (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as 
losg, and are cleaned with half the trotd)le, as those whose sides 
aie soldered to the bottom, for sand and grease get into the 
joined part, and cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebnchadnezzar's. 

XrIka ease that the lids fit as elose as possible, that the broth, 



I 

Boup, and sauces, &c. may not waste by evaporation. They are 
good for nothing,^ unless they fit tight enough to keep the steanoi is 

and the smoke out. 

Stew-pans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper 
rim, where the fire does not burn them; but to scour them all over, 
is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the 
vessels. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; pro- 
cure those pieces which afford the richest succulence, and as fresh 
killed as possible. 

Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat 
is wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear: fat and clarified drippings may be so com- 
bined with vegetable mucilage, ad to afford, at the small cost of 
one penny per .quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fully ade*' 
quate to satisfy appetite and support strength: this will open a 
new source to those benevolent housekeepers, who are disposed 
to relieve the poor, will show the industrious classes how much 
they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them 
from being objects of charity d pendent on the precarious bounty 
of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abun- 
dant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and fam- 
ilies. 

This soup has tl^e advantage of being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room. Those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savoiy, 
and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely ingredients. v 

The general fault of our soups seems to be the employment of 
an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. 

Th^re is no Fjrench dinner without soup, which is regarded as 
an indispensable overture ; and believe it an excellent plan to begin 
the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the 
appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. 

We again caution the cook to avoid over-seasoning, especially 
with predominant flavors, which, however agreeable they may be 
to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Zest, soy, cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry powder, savory ra- 
gout powder, soup herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle li- 
quor, beer, wine, and sweet herbs, and savory spice*, are very 
convenient auxiliaries to finish soups, &c. 

The proportion of wine should not exceed a large wine-glass- 
ful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted, ' 
without the vinous flavor becoming remarkably predominant; 
though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is 
incomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more 
flavor, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even 
veritahle eau de tne is ordered in many books, and used by many 
(especially tavern cooks). So much are their soups overloaded 



relish, that if jou will eat enough of them they will certainly 
Bwke JOU drunk, if they don't make you sick: all this frequently 
arises from an old cook measuring the excitability of the eaters* 
pcLlates by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, 
that to awaken it, requires wine instead of water, and cayenne 
and garlic for black pepper and onion. 

The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the seve- 
ral ingredients one to another, that no particular taste be strong- 
er than the rest, but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that 
the whole is delightful. This requifes that judicious combination 
of the materials which constitutes the "chef d*muvre'* of culinary 
science. 

In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be per- 
fectly well cleaned ; proportion the water to the quantity of meat 
and other ingredients, generally a pound of meat to a quart of 
water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they 
atew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is ex- 
pected at the end ; for when the pot is covered quite close, and 
the fire gentle, very little is wasted. 

Gientle stewing is incomparably the best; the meat is more ten- 
der, and the soup better flavored. 

It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle 
should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are 
aware of it. 

Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, which will make the 
water hot without causing it to boil for at least half an hour; if 
the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and 
cleanse it from the clotted blood, and other matters which ought to 
go ofi* in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat; 
wiJi shrink up as if it was scorched, and give hardly any g^avy:. 
on the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating with- 
out boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, 
and it yields a quantity of acum, which must be taken off as soon 
as it appears. 

It is not tiU afler a good half hour's hot infusion that we may 
mend the fire, and make the pot boil : still continue to remove the 
scum; and when no more appears, put in the vegetables, Slc. and 
a little salt. These will cause more 9cum to rise, which must be 
taken ofiT immediately; then cover the pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance firom the fire, where it wtfl boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast. 

By quick and strong boiling the volatile and finest parts of the 
ingredients are evaporated, and fiy off with the steam, and the 
coarser parts are rendered soluble ; so you lose the good, and get 
the bad. 

Soups will generally take from three to sist hours. 

Prepare your broths and soups the evening before yon want 
them This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your 
diaaer the next day; and when the soup is cold, the fai may be 

C 



SXVl BROTHS AHD 0OUP8. 

much more easily and completely removed from the surfoce of it. 
When you decant it take care not to disturb the settlings at the 
bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through 
a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer, the 
soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned 
than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a 
clean tamis or napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the cold- 
ness of this will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth 
to pass through. 

The full Havor of the ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering ; during which take care to prevent 
evaporation, by covering the pot as close as possible: the best 
stew-pot is a digester. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent; thickened soups, 
about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened 
soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. 

To thicken and give body to soups and sauces, the following 
materials are used: they must be gradually mixed with the soup 
till thoroughly incorporated with it ; and it should have at least 
half an hour's gentle simmering afler: if it is at ail lumpy, pass it 
through a tamis or a fine sieve. Bread raspings, bread, isinglass, 
potato mucilage, flour, or fat skimmings and flour, or flour and 
butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. 

To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve. A piece of beef, which has been boiled to make 
broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
and gradually incorporated with the gravy or soup, will be found 
a satisfactory substitute for these more expensive articles. 

Meat from which broth has been made and all its juice has been 
extracted, is then excellently well prepared for potting, and is 
quite as good, or better, than that which has been baked till it is 
dry; indeed, if it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual manner, 
it will be an elegant and savory luncheon, or supper, and costs 
nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a 
relish is procured for sandwiches, &c. of what heretofore has been 
by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the cat. 

JLeep some spare broth lest your soup-liquor waste in boiling, 
and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various 
sauces, &c. ; for many of which it is a much better basis than 
melted butter. 

The soup of mock turtle, and the other thickened soups, will 
supply you with a thick gravy sauce for poultry yfah, ragouts, &.c.; 
and by a little management of this sort, you may generally con- 
trive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with very 
little trouble or expense. 

If soup is too thin or too weak, take ofl*the cover of your soup- 
pot, and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated, 
or else add some of the thickening materials we have before men- 



OBtBBVATiant. xxfii 

tioned ; and have at hand some {dain browning. This simple pre- 
paration is much better than anj of the compounds bearing that 
name; as it colors sauce or soup without much interfering with its 
flaTOT, and is a much better way of coloring them than burning 
the sar&ce of thp meat. 

When soups and gravies are kept from daj to day, in hoi weather ^ 
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in temperate weather 
every other day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common cook into possession of 
the whole arcana of soup-making, without much trouble to herself, 
or expense to her employers. It would greatly diminish the ex- 
pense, and improve soups, if the agents employed to give them a 
zest were not put in above fifteen minutes before the finish, and 
half the quantity of spice, &c. would do. A strong heat soon dis- 
sipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma and flavor 
of the spices and herbs, which are volatile in the heat of boiling 
water. 

Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better than those that are cold and raw : on this ac- 
<;ount, RESTORATIVE SOUP is the best food for those who are en- 
feebled by disease or dissipation, and for old people, whose teeth 
and digestive organs are impaired. 

After catching cold, in nervous headaches, cholics, indigestions, 
and difiTerent kinds of cramp and spasms in the stomach, warm 
broth is of excellent service. 

After intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holy day for a 
day or two by a diet on mutton broth, or vegetable soup, &c. is the 
best way to restore its tone. '* The stretching any power to its 
utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to 
do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do less. A wise 
traveller will never force his horse to perform as much as he can 
in one day upon a long journey." 



OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN ARTICLES. 

We shall conclude these Introductory Observations, with a few 
remarks on the qualities of certain Articles in common use. 

BuUer. 

Well made pure butter is lenient and nourishing, eaten cold, 
in moderation, with bread. But upon hot new bread, or hot 
toast, or used as sauce to animal food, ij. is not wholesome. In 
the two first instances it is very apt to turn acid in the stomach; 
and in the latter, to float uppermost in the stomach, and disturb 
the digestion. If melted thick and carefully, and eaten with 
vegetable food and bread only, it is not so liable to this objection. 

Butter is good for dry, constipated habits, but not for such as 
are bilious, asthmatic, or corpulent. 



ZXnil OnSRVATlOHS. 

Hone J is nourishing and wholesome, particiilarlj for persons 
with coughs, weak lungs, and short breath. It is balsamic, 
cleansing, and makes the bodj soluble. 

Great care should be taken to get it fresh and pure; it is apt 
to turn sour by long keeping. 

Si^ar, 

Sugar used in moderation is nourishing and good, but much 
of it destroys the appetite, and injures the digestion. Moist 
sugar is the sweetest, and most opening; refined sugar, of a bind' 
ing nature. The preparations made of sugar, such as barley- 
sugar, sugar-candy, &c. are all indigestible and bad, as th^ good 
properties of the sugar are destroyed by the process it undergoes 
in the making them. They are particularly injurious to children, 
from cloying their delicate stomachs. Young children are in 

eneral better without sugar, as it is very apt to turn acid and 
isagree with weak stomachs; and the kind of food they take 
has natural sweetness enough in it not at all to require it. 

Salt 

Salt, moderately used, especially with flesh, fish, butter, and 
cheese, is very beneficial, as it naturally stimulates weak or dis* 
ordered stomachs, and checks fermentations. But if it be im- 
moderately used it has a contrary effect. Very little salt should 
be used with vegetable food of the grain or seed kind; for the 
less salt that is put to it the milder, cooler, pleasanter, and easier 
of digestion it will be. Salt excites the appetite, assists the 
stomach in digesting crude phlegmatic substances, is cleansing, 
and prevents putrefaction; but if too much used, it heats and dries 
the blood and natural moisture. It is best for phlegmatic, cold, 
and moist stomachs; and most injurious to hot, lean bodies. 

Salt-petre is particularly bad for bilious persons. 

Vinegar, 

Vinegar is cooling, opening, excites the appetite, assists diges- 
tion, is good for hot stomachs, resists putrefaction, and there- 
fore very good against pestilential diseases. Too much use of it 
injures the nerves, emaciates some constitutions, is hurtful to the 
breast, and makes people look old and withered, with pale lips. 

The best vinegar is that which is made of the best wines. 
Lemon-juice and verjuice have much the same qualities and ef- 
fects as vinegar. 

The commonest vinegar is least adulterated. 

Mustard, 
Mustard quickens the appetite, warms the stomach, assists- in 
digesting hard meats, and dries up surperfiuous moisture. It sel- 
dom agrees with weak stomachs. 



OSiBftVAtlOlft. SOS 

Spiem. 

Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and ginger, may be esteemed 
the best of spices. 

Nutmegs, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and allspice, are generally 
productive of indigestion and headache to weak persons. 

Garlic, onions, rocambole, shallots, leeks, and horse-radish, 
are occasionally good for strong stomachs, but generally disa- 
gree with weak stomachs. 

Tea. 

The frequent drinking of a quantity of strong tea, as is the 
general practice, relaxes and weakens the tone of the stomach, 
whence proceeds nausea and indigestion, with a weakness of the 
nerves, and flabbiness of the flesh, and very oAen a pale wan 
complexion. Milk, when mixed with it in some quantity, lessens 
its bad qualities, by rendering it softer, and nutritious; and, with 
a moderate quantity of sugar, it may then be a proper breakfast, 
as a diluent, to those who are strong, and live freely, in order to 
cleanse the alimentary passages, and wash off the salts from the 
kidneys and bladder. But persons of weak nerves ought to ab- 
stain from it as carefully as from drams and cordial drops; as it 
causes the same kind of irritation on the tender delicate fibres of 
the stomach, which ends in lowness, trembling and vapors. 

It should never be drank hot by any body. Green tea is less 
wholesome than black or bohea. 

Coffee, 

Coffee affords very little nourishment, and is apt to occasion 
heat, dryness, stimulation and tremors of the nerves, and for 
these reasons is thought to occasion palsies, watchfulness, and 
leanness. Hence it is very plain that it must be pernicious to hot, 
dry, and bilious constitutions. If moderately used it may be 
\>enef]cial to phlegmatic persons, but, if drank very strong, or in 
great quantities, it will prove injurious even to them. 

The following remarks on Coffee, were published in London, 
by a physician. Ist. The raw coffee should be round and small 
grained, free from dirt and of a liffht color. It should have no 
appearance of mouldiness, and be kept quite free from any strong 
smell. It should not be long kept in sacks with other provisions, 
as there is no substance more apt to obtain strong and disagree- 
able odors from the presence of its neighbors. Hum injures it; 
and Miller even goes so far as to state that a few bags of pepper 
on board a ship from India upon one occasion spoiled the whole 
cargo. 

C2 



2nd. When the grains are large^ flat, and of a green color, 
they should be kept on hand, in a dry situation,^ a long time before 
use. Every West India planter knows this fact, although his 
interest often induces him to send the article to market before it 
is old and dry enough. 

3d. Roasting coflee is by far the most difficult operation of the 
housekeeper; when carried far enough, an aromatic oil is formeS 
by the heat and forces itself out upon the surface of the grains, 
giving them a glossy appearance, and an odor which is consider- 
ed their perfection; yet too little roasting prevents the aroma 
from appearing, and too much completely volatilizes it, leaving 
nothing but a fiat bitter taste. The heat should be strong and 
the operation shortened as much as possible without burning the 
grains. The roaster should be close or well covered all the time, 
and in order to improve the looks and flavor, a small piece of 
butter may be added to the coffee, while parching. 

4tb, Wnen thus prepared, coffee may be preserved for use in 
large quantities, without losing much of its .freshness, provided 
the vessels containing it be well covered. 

6th. An infusion of cofl^ee is better than a decoction, simply 
because the heat, in the last case, bting stronger and more last- 
ing, drives off* more of the aromatic oil. It is better, therefore, 
to grind the coffee very fine, and then to expose it, by means of 
a bag or strainer, to the action of boiling water, than to boil it 
any length of time. Heat, though unavoidable, injures the flavor, 
and the best coflTee I remember to have tasted was made by ex- 
posing the powder to a pressure of cold water; a tea-spoonful of 
this extract, thrown into a cup of hot water, was sufficient. It is 
not a bad method to allow the ground coflTee to lie in cold water 
between meals, and then prepare it by adding hot water. Just in 
proportion to the continuance of heat, in this and in the last 
operation,' the fragrance disappears, and is replaced by a strong 
bitter taste, which, according to the experiments of Chenevix, de- 
pends upon the presence of tannin (resembling that in tan bark). 
Koasting, besides forming this bitter substance, deprives the co^ 
fee of its nutritious qualities. 

Chocolate, 

Is rich, nutritious, and soothing, saponaceous, and cleansing; 
from which quality it often helps digestion, and excites the appe- 
tite. It is only proper for some of the leaner and stronger sort of 
phlegmatic constitutions, and some old people who are healthy, 
and accustomed to bodily exercise. 

Cocoa, 

Is of the same nature as chocolate, but not so rich; and tli6i^ 
fore lighter upon the stomach. 



OBSBBFATIOKS. jaOBk 

FruU. 

Fruits are bf different degrees of digestibility. Those of a hard 
texture, as some kinds of apples, melons/ apricots, several sorts 
of fleshy plums, and all immature fruits, are difficult of digestion. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, gooseberries, cherries, 
^tt^n-gages, peaches, nectarines, melting pears, mulberries, figs, 
^Kps, medlars, when all quite ripe, are more easily dissolved in 

Fruit, moderately eaten, is wholesome, particularly as correct- 
ing the grossness of animal food. But an excess of it, and es- 
pecially of unripe fruit, is productive of many diseases; amongst 
children in particular, it often occasions such as the nettle rash 
and St. Anthony's fire. 

Fruit invariably disagrees with bilious persons; but is a sover- 
eign remedy for the sea scurvy, and for diseases arising from an 
excess of animal food. 

JVW and Almonds, 

i Most kinds of nuts, and almonds, from their milky or oily na- 
jive, contain a good deal of nourishment; but they require to be 
^iBll chewed, as they are difficult of digestion. Persons with 

w^ak stomachs should not eat them. The worst time at which 

they can be eaten is after a meal. 

Olives, 

Olives that have been gathered immature or unripe, and put into 
a pickle to keep them sound, are apt, especially if frequently eaten, 
to obstruct the stomach and passages. The best way of eating 
them is with good bread, when the stomach is properly empty. To 
eat them upon a full stomach is very bad. 



NOTE. 

Receipts for making all kinds of Bread, Biscuits, Blancmange, 
Buns, Broth, Cakes, Creams, Custards, Jams, Jellies, Paste, Pies, 
Puddings, Soups, Sauces, &c., will be found under these general 
heads ; the method of cooking the several meats are arranged under 
the name of each meat. Still there are interspersed throughout tke 
book single receipts under the letter of the name, of which many of 
the above articles are composed. We will instance the following, 
viz:  

Cakes,  ^Almond, Crumpets, Echandes, Fanchonettes, Flemish wa- 
fers, Frangipane, Gateau, Gingerbread, Hedgehog, JumUes, 
Kisses, Lemon Bonbons, Macaroons, Madelains, Meat, Muf* 
fins, Oat, Orange, Perlingo, Sally Lunns. 
Breads  ^Almond, Brentford, Filbert, French Rolls, Rusks. 
Creamsy *Under various fruits of wtiich they are made. 
Veal,  ^Friar's chicken, Graiiu, and many articles under Calf. 
Fowls,  See also Chickens, Capons. 
Beefy- See also Ox. 



The following EngraTiDg rpreseoU the msthod of diridin^ an Ox 
Air the rable, in England, and in moBt of the oulhem cities of tiis 
United States. The method in Boston varies conaiderably, dividu); 
into smaller piecea, and this plan we pursue in the following tables ; 
but the manner of cooking each is nearly th same. 



1. Sirloin. 


10. Fore lib* Five ribs. 


2. Rump. 


11. Middle rib: Four ribs. 


S. Edge Bone. 


12. Chuck: Three ribs. 


4. Buttock. 


13. Shoulder or leg-of-mutton piece. 


6. Mouse Buttock. 


14. BriBkfMl 

15. Clod-W^ 


6. Veiny Piece. 


7. Thick Flank. 


16. Neck, or Sticking Piece. 


8. Thin Flank. 


17. Shin. 


9. Leg. 


18. Cheek. 



MARKETING TABLES. 



RufhpW 
Edge Bone 

Round 

Veiny Piece 
Thick Flank 
Thin Flank 
Leg Ran 
TLeg 



Price per lb. 

10 to 12 eetOt 
10 to 12 
6 to 8 



BEEF. 
THE HIND QUARTER. 

Vethod of eooklof . 



n 




to 10 

6 to, 8 

6 to 8 

6 

4 

2 



n 
n 
ft 
n 
n 



Roasted. 

Roasted, or Steak, or Stew. 

Boiled. 

Alamode, Boiled, or savory salt- 
ed Beef. 

Steaks or Roast ; or baked or salted. 
Steaks, or corned. 

do. 
Boil ; Soup, or Stew. 
Soup or Stew. 



{ 



^ .THE FORE QUARTER. 




First Cu] 
Second. 
Third Cufj 
Elpurth Cut, 2 Ribs 
Chuck- Rib 



10 cenU Roast. 



10 
8 
6 
5 



Shoulder of Mutton Piece 5 
Shoulder Clod 



Brisket 

Rattleran 
Sticking Piece 
Neck 

Shin 

Head (20 ctmts) 

Tail (2 cents) 

Heels, given with the head 



3 

6 

6 
3 
2 

2 



> 
n 
n 



do. -- 

do. 

do. 
Boil or Stew, or for making gravy* 
Steaks or Bouilli. 
Boil or Soup, or Beef Sausages. 

SBoil, or Bouilli ; or stewing, or 
Harricot, or Salted. 
Boil. 

Boil, or Soup. 
Gravy. 

{Soup; excellent Scotch barley 
Broth, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Boiled, Jelly, Soup. 



MUTTON. 



Leg 
Loin 



8 to 10 cents 
6 to 8 



Rack, neck end 5 to 6 



w 



n 



Rack, best end 
Shoulder 
Breast 
Head 






6 to 8 

6 
6 

4  

The Chine or the Saddle, two 
LiOins. The Haunch is a 
Leg and part of the Loin, 



} 



Boil, Roast. 

Chops  Roast, Boil, 

!Boil, Roast, Irish Stew, Harricot^ 
Stewed, Broth. 
Chops, or Broth. 
Roast. 

Broth,  Grilled. 
Broth. 

Roasted, Venisonified. 



MARKETING. 



VEAL. 



Loin 
Leg 

FiUet 



8 to 10 eenU 



Roast 

Cutlets, Roast, Boil. 

{Roasted, Veal Olives, Scotch 
CoUops. 
Broth, Ragout, Stew, Soup. 
Roast, . i^ 

Roast, Stew, Ragout, Cuh^ ^ 
Soup- Chops to fry. ^ 
Roast, or Bake. ^^ 
Stewed, Ragout. J^P 
Fried, Broiled. 
Head, scalded, (50 to 60 cts. e<ich) Broiled plain, Hash. 

Beef is plentiest and cheapest from October to January ; and best 
from January to May, , 

Veal is best from AprU to July, 

Mutton is best from October to June, 

Grass Lamb is best from June to October. 

Hie Quality of Butcher Meat varies quite as much\ 
^^according to its age  how it has been fed  and espe 
been treated the week before it has been killed. 



Knuckle, or whole Leg 8 
Breast 8 to 10 

Breast and Neck 6 

Rack 6 

Shoulder 6 

Brisket 8 

Cutlets 10 



n 



99 



n 
n 
w 
n 

w 
n 




(tee of U 
w it has 



Roasting Figs 

Quarter Pork 

Spare Ribs and Chine 

Middlings 

Bacon Hams 



PORK. 

Comes into Market. 
May 
July 
Aug. 
salt, all the year. 
November, and continue all the year. 



Plentiest. 
June. 

August. * 
Nov. & Dec. 



Chickens 

Fowls 

Ducks 

Geese 

Turkeys 

Wild Ducks 

Brants 

Partridges 

Quails 

Woodcocks 



POULTRY. 

Comes into Market. 

July 

All the year 

July 

August 

September 

do. 

April 

September 

do. 

July 



Plentiesi. 

Nov. 

do. 

October. 

Nov. 

Nov. & Dec. 

Oct. & Apr. 

May. 

October. 

January. 

August. 



Obs,  Poultry is in greatest perfection^ when in greatest plenty. 

The price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it^ and iks 
supply at market J and the demand for it. 

It is generally dearest from March to July^ and cheapest about S^ 
temhery when the Game season commences^ and the weather being eMer^ 
aUows of its being brought from more distant parts. 



MARKETING. XlXf 

2%e ahovt inforwuiii&n imU, we tru$tf he wry &eeepiabU to Eeanomi' 
eal TamUieSf who, from hearing the very high price PouUry sometimes 
costs, are deterred from ever inquiring about it. ht the cheap seoions 
wt have noted, it u som^im/es as cheap as Butcher-'meat. 

Those who pay the highest, do not always pay the dearest, price, Jn 
Jact, the Best Meat is the cheapest ; and those who treat a tradesman 
liberally, have a much heUer chance of being well served, than those who 
are forever bargaining for the Market Penny, In dividing the Joints, 
there is glways an opportunity of apportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, 
tfc, so as to make up a variation of much more than a penny per pound 
in most pieces ; and a Buieher will be happy to give the turn of his kntfe 
in favor of that Customer who cheerfully pays the fair price of the arti" 
c2e he purchases ; ha^e those who are unufilling to db so any reason to 
complain ? Have they not invited such conduct, 

DIRECTIONS FOR CURING AND COOKING PICKLED nSH.* 

The use o Pickled Fishy such as Mackerel, Salmon, Shad, &c. 
is becoming more general than formerly, and would be still more 
extensive if the proper mode of preparing them for the table was 
better unf^rstood. These fish constitute not only a salutary diet, 
but in many cases makes a very beneficial change in our food. 

Whoever will give the following directions a fair trial will be- 
come sensible of their value:  

Fh*8t, The fish should be kept covered by the pickle by means 
of a flat stone or slate, laid on' them. The oil, or animal fat, 
which floats on the top of the cask, should not be removed, as it 
prevents the fish from rusting; but in taking the fish from the 
barrel or keg, this oil ought to be put aside, care being taken not 
to let the fish touch it. Secondly  The fish should be washed 
clean, then put to soak in a large quantity of water for eight or 
ten hours, with the flesh side down. The time of soaking may be 
varied to suit the palate. It must again be washed clean, put it 
to soak six or eight hours in milk, (if you have it) then dry it by 
the fire. Thirdly  When dry lay it on the gridiron, with the flesh 
side downward, over pretty lively coals, for five minutes, or till it 
is moderately browned, then turn it with a plate, or some flat in- 
strument that will not break the skin, and let it remain over the 
coals ten or fifteen minutes, or till it is cooked sufliciently. Slide 
it ofiT the gridiron into the dish, and strip ofiT the backbone with a 
broad knife: pat the fish, to cause the thick part of the fish to 
absorb the fat from the belly part; use no butter  ^then you .will 
enjoy all the flavor and juices of the fish. 

If a Mackerel or Shad so prepared does not relish, it must be 
more the fault of the palate, than of the food. How many arti- 
cles, capable of being made into excellent dishes, are lost or 
spoiled from want of care and skill in dressing them. 

* As the whole beauty of pickled Fish depends upon the right method of cooking it, we 
inaert by itself the receipt of Capt. Henry Purkitt, Massachusetts Inspector of Fish, who 
obiigin^j handed it to the Editor. 



TABLE 



OF 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.' 



By which persons not having scales and weights at hand may 
readily measure the articles wanted to form any receipt, without 
the trouble of weighing. Allowance to be made for any ex- 
traordinary dryness or mobture of the article weighed or meas- 
ured. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



li 



Eggs 

Brown sugar 

White sugar, powdered 

Loaf-sugar, broken 

Butter  ^when soft - 

Indian meal 

Wheat flour 



ten eggs are 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound, one ounce,>i8 

one pound is  - 

one pound is - 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound is - ^ 



one pound, 
one quart 
one quart, 
one quarC 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart. 



LIQUIDS. 



Four large table-spoonfuls are 
Eight large table-spoonfuls are 
Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are 



half a gill, 
one ^U. 
half a pint. 



A common-sized wine-glass 
A common-sized tumbler holds 



halfagilL 
half a pint 



THE 



COOK'S OWN BOOK. 



ALM 

ABERDEEN CRULLA. (SeeCakeM.) 
ALAMODE BEEF. (See Beef.) 
ALAMODE VEAL. {See Veal.) 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (1) 

Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay 
them in cold water all night; the next morn- 
ing blanch diem in cold water; then tal^e tiiem 
out and dry them in a clean cloth, beat them 
Tcry fine in a little orange flower water ; then 
take six eggs, leave out four whites, with a 
little beaten mace ; beat them well in a mar> 
ble naortar ; take ten ounces of fresh butter, 
melt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and 
put them in the mortar with the other ingre- 
dieots; mix all well together and fill your 
patty-pans, having lined them with tliin puff 
paste. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (2) 
Blanch and pound fuur ounces of almonds, 
and a few bitter with a spoonful of water ; 
then add four ounces of sugar (KHinded, a 
spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs 
-well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible ; 
put into veiy small patty-pans, and bake in 
a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (3) 
Blanch six ounces of sweet, and lialf an ounce 
of bitter almonds ; let them lie half an hour 
io a drying stove, or before the fire ; poimd 
tl^m very fine in a mortar, with two table- 
qDOonftils of rose water, to prevent them from 
oiling ; set into a stew-pan half a pound of 
fresh butter ; set it in a warm place, and 
cream it very smooth, with the hand, and add 
it to the almonds, widi six ounces of sifted 
loaf sugar, a little grated leraon-peeI some 
good cream, and four eggs; rub all welT t6 
getho- with the pestle; cover a patty-pan 
with puff paste ; fill in the mixture ; orna- 
ment it wiUi slices of candied lemon-peel and 
almonds split, and bake it half an hour in a 
brisk oven. 

ALMOND CONSERVE, BURNT. 
Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds 
into small strips, lay them on paper and pot 
them into an OTen; when they are brown, 



ALM 

take them out, and throw them into two 
pounds of sugar boiled to petit eoMe, stir 
the mixUire well until it begins to blow, and 
then pour it into paper cases or moulds. 

ALMONDS, ENGLISH FASHION. 
Mix almonds and filberts icaMed in equal 
quantities ; chop one half verv fine, cut the 
rest each into two or three slices ; put tht 
whole in double their weight of sugar, 
prepared by boiling it with some lemon- 
peel rasped; stir the almonds very weU 
in the sugar, taking it off the fire, and 
add one or two whites of egffs ; pour it in 
paper large enough to contain we whole, and 
cut it in slices for use as you think proper, 
when baked as usual. 

ALMOND FRAZE. Blanch a pound 
of Jordan almonds, and steep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; 
take out the aJmonds and pound them fine in 
a marble mortar ; then mix them again in 
dte cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated 
bread, and stir them all together; then put 
some fre^ butter into the pan, let it be hot 
and pour it in, stirring it in the pan till they 
nre of a sufficient consistence; and when 
enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar cf^er 
it, and serve it up. 

ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch thie 
quarters of a pound of sweet almonds, pour 
over them three table-spoonfids of rose water, 
and in a quarter of an hour a pint of cream; 
let them stand two or tb^ee hours, then pound 
them in a mratar till they become quite a 
paste; add the beaten yolks of six e^, two 
or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten 
with pounded loaf sugar, and mix all weU 
together ; melt a quarter of a pound of fireob 
butter in a fiyinff-pan, and when hot, pour in 
the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, 
and of a light brown cdtor. Serve it with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

ALMOND BROWN GINGER. 
BREAD. Beat a quarter of a pound of 
blanched almonds with thin gum-water, a 
few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered 
cinnamon, cad some ginger finely g^ted imd 



ALM 



ANC 



abend to ghne it a brown color; iweeCcn 
od imootb k weO, roll it out thin, and cut 
it into qiiam; dry it in a atove or before 
the fire. 

ALMOND ICEING, for Bride Cake. 
Hie whites of six ^gs, a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan 
almonds blanched and pounded with a little 
rose water ; mix altogether and whisk it well 
for an hour or two, ny it over the cake and 
pot it in the oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, BITTER. 
Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them 
well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste 
with the whites of three or four egpps ; then 
put them into an earthen pan with three 
pounds of powder-sugar, mix them togetlier 
well, and if the paste should be too dry, 
noisten it with white of egg. Drop it on 
beets of paper in lumps about the size of a 
walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, SWEET, 
Are done in the same way. But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pound of almonds. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP. Take half a 
pound of sweet almonds, put them on the fire 
with some water until near boiling, then 
Manch and throw them into fi'esh water; 
drain and pound them. Boil a pint of wa- 
ter, a little sugar, sak, cinnamon, coriander, 
and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an hour, and 
lub the almonds through a sieve to this. . Lay 
some slices of toasted bread in a dish, anci 
pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as 
possible without boiling. 

ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch two ounces 
of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
range flower water, whisk the whites of 
three e^ to a high fit)th, strew in a little 
sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar 
aad eggs, and add more sugar till as tlnck 
as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on 
paper in a cool oven. 

ALMOND RICE. Blanch sweet al- 
monds, and pound them in a marble mortar ; 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
them as long as there is milk in the almonds, 
adding (rem water every time; to every 
quart of alnKHid-juice, put a quarter of a 
pound of rice and two teaspoonsfiil of orange 
flower water; mix them all together, and 
simmer it over a slow charcoal fire ; stir it 
repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at 
pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon 
strewed over. 

ALMOND ROU^, BITTBR. Bknch 
and pound ei^t ounces of almonds five of 



sweet and three of bitter) to a Tery fine 
paste ; then place eight owioes of flour od 
your slab ; make a lK>le in the middle, and 
put into it eight ounces of powd(n--fii]ffi;ar, the 
yolks of four eggs, and a grain of san; mix 
them all well together into a firm smoota 
paste ; roll it out and cot it into four equal 
parts ; roll each piece to the same length ; 
cut them into pieces about the size of a wal- 
nut, and form them to the shape of a wild 
turnip, and as yon do them put them on a 
baking-tin lightly buttered ; aorex them and 
bake them of a proper color in a moderate 
oven. When they are taken firom the ofen, 
let them stand a little while to dry. 



ALMOND PUDDING. 

ding.) 



{Set Pd^ 



ALMOND TUAfBLES. Blanch and 
pound three ounces of almonds very fine, 
when almost beaten enough, take the white 
of an egg beaten to fit)th, one pound of dou- 
ble-refined sugar well beaten, and put it in 
by degrees, working it into a paste with your 
hands, roU it out and bake it aa buttered 
plates in a hot oven. 

AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. {Set 
JBlancnumge.) 

AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take 

half a pound of fiiesh butter melted, one pound 
and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded ginger, nine ^^, the yollcs and 
whites separately beaten, one glass of rose 
water, and one of white wine ; mix all these 
well together, and beat it for an hour; then 
with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans, 
about the thickness of a penny-piece ; bake 
it of a light brown, and while warm, cut it 
into oblong pieces, and place them on end 
till cool, when they will be very criq). 

AMERICAN VINEGAR. {See Ftn- 
egwr,) 

AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil 
some rice in milk till it be swelled and soft; 
pare and carefolly scoop out the core of five 
or six good-ized apples, put into each a lit* 
tie grated lemon-peel and cinnamon ; phoe 
as much of the rice upon a bit of linen ae 
will entirely cover an apple, and tie each cloe^ 
ly. Boil them two hours, and serve them 
with melted butter, sweetened with sugar. 

ANCHOVIES. Wash half a dosen an- 
chovies, and take the meat fitun die bonee; 
cut than into four fillets, place them on  
dish with some sweet herbs, cut small ; and 
the voUu and whites of hard ^ggs, alio cot 
smaU. 



ANC 



 PF 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. Warii jotr 
watAanee carefiiSy, take out the bones, and 
drf tbem; tfaeo poaod them in a mortar 
viul tii^ are radnoed to a paete; and mix 
dua paste with dooble the cpiantit^ of fresh 



ANCHOVIES, BUTTER OF. Wash 
from the pickle soow fine youn^ anchovies, 
fcone, and take off the heads, then pound them 
ia a mortar with fresh butter tiii quite smooth, 
jmd rvA> it thniugh a sieve. 

ANCHOVY PASTE. Pound them in a 
BMXtar, then rub it through a fine sieve; pot 
it, cover it with clarified butter, and keep it 
in a cool {^oe. If you have essence c^ancho- 
ty, yoa may make anchovy paste extempore, 
by rubbing the essence with as much Acnir as 
win make a paste. Mem.  ^This is merefy 
mentiooed as die means of making it imme- 
diately; it wifl Qot keep. 

ANCHOVY POWDER. Pound the fish 
in a mortar, rub them throu^ a sieve, and 
make them into a paste with dried flour, roll 
it into thin cakes, and dry them in a Dutch 
oven before a slow fire; pounded to a fine 
powder, and put into a well-stopped bottle, it 
will keep for years; it is a very savowy 
relish, sprinkled on bread and butler for a 
aandwich, &c. See Oyster Powder. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (1) Cut some 
Ihin slices of bread about the length and 
breadth of a finger ; firy them in oil. Place 
them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce 
tade of oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, 
lacallion, and diallots, cut up toeether. Then 
cut the anchovies into thm slices, and lay 
fbem on the toast. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (2) Bone and 
wash the anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with a little finesh butter; rub them through a 
sieve and spread them on a toast. You may 
add, while pounding tlie anchovies, a little 
niade mustaird and cuiry powder, or a few 
grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other 
q>ioe. It may be made still more savoury, by 
^ring the toast in clarified butt^.  N.B. 
Keep your anchovies well covered; first tie 
down your jar with bladder moisteued with 
vulvar, and then wiped dry; tie leather 
ovw thait : when you open a jar, moisten the 
Uadder, and it will come off easily; as soon 
as you have taken out the fish, replace the 
covering; the air soon rusts and spoils 
anchovies. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (8) Bone and 
roll i]qp two or three anchoivies, place them 
upon pieces of dry toost, and gaimieh with 
Civled parsley. 



ANGEUCA TO CANDY. On iht 

stalks when thick and tender, put them on 
in boiling water, and when very tender, drain 
it off, ami throw them into cold water; peal 
off the skin, and scald them in a thin sarup, 
made with the same proportion of^sugar tut 
there is of fruit; heat it twice a 6an till the 
sirup is ahnost dried in, and then dry thea 
under garden gbsses, or in a stovct mm tvn 
them twice a day. 

APPLES. Cooks, mcfaooau^ apples 6r 
culinary purpoaes, should always be guided 
by the weight, the heaviest being always the 
best; and ttioseare partksnlariy to be takai, 
which, vpott being pixao se d 1^ the thumbt 
yieki with a slight cracking noise. Larie 
apples possessing these quuities ahoukl db 
taken in preference to small ones, as then 
is less waste in peeling and corii^. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (1) Divida 

twelve large apples in halves, core them, and 
place them on a thin patty-pan or mazarine^ 
quite close to each otner, with the flat side 
downwards; squeeze a lemon into two 
qxwnfiils of orange flower water, whicJi pour 
ovorthem; shred fine some lemon-peel, throw 
it over thm, and grate fine sucar all over. 
Set them in a quick oven, and bake thea 
half an hour. When served, strew fine mh 
gar all over the dish. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (2) Pare 

the apples, lay them in your pan, strew a few 
cloves over them, a little lemon-peel cut venr 
small, two or three Uades of cinnamon, and 
some coarse sugar ; cover the pan with brown 
paper, s^ it in an oven with the bread, and 
let it stand till the oven is cold. 

APPLES, TO BAKE WHOLE. Pot 
some sound and well chosen apples into m 
pan, with a small pix>portion of cloves, a 
little lemon.peel, some brown sugar, a glass 
or more of red wine, according to the quan* 
tity of firuit ; put tiiem into a quick oyea, and 
baKe than at least one hour. Hie sugar to 
be limited according to the quality of thn 
a(^les ' 

APPLES, CHARLOTTE OF. (S$ 
CharloiU.) 

APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare,cora, 
and boil twelve apples with sufikient water 
to mash them; beat them very smooth, add 
six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, 
and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound or 
fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweet- 
ened with powder sugar, beat it in with tha 
apples. Bake in a puff crustandserve open. 

APPLES CLEAR. Boil half a poMd 



APP 



APP 



of loaf jsusar in a pint of water ; take off the 
seum, ana pot in some lai^ apples, pai^, 
cored, and cut into quarters, with the peel 
and juice of a lemon ; let them boil till clear, 
without a cover upon the sauce-pan. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (1) Out some 
amies in half, core them, prick the skins with 
a Knife and throw them into cold water ; 
then put them into a pan with some clarified 
sugar, and stew them gently till tender ; place 
the apples in a dish, and pour the sirup 
through a sieve over them. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (2) Pare and 
cat half a dozen fine apples in half, and put 
^lem into a pan with a little water and lemon- 
juice ; then clarify half a pound of sugai-, and 
when you have skinuned it put iu your apples, 
and the juice of a lemon ; turn the apples 
fi^uently. As soon as you find the fork will 
penetrate them, th^ are sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out; strain and reduce the 
syrup ; strain it again, and then pour it over 
your apples, which may be sei-ved either hot 
or cold. Garnish with tlie peel of a very red 
apple, cut into various devices, and'laid on 
the apples. 

APPLES, WHOLE. The proceeding is 
the same as the last, except that the apples, 
when pared, ai'e not divided, and the cores 
are taken out with a piercer. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS.' Pare and 
Bcoop out the core of six large baking apples, 
put part of a clove, and a little grated lem- 
on-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in 
pieces of puff paste ;^ boil them in nets for 
the purpose, or bits of linen, for an hour. 
Before serving, cut off a small bit from the 
top of each, and put in a tea-spoonfiil of su- 
gar, and a bit of fi-esh butter ; replace the bit 
of paste, and strew over them pounded loaf 
mgar. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED. 
Make them in the same way, but instead of 
tieing them in cloths lay them in a buttered 
dish and bake them. 

APPLES, DRIED OR BAKED. Al- 
ways choose the clearest of baking apples, 
prick them rather deep with a pointed knife 
in several places, and put them in a mode- 
rate oven upon a baking plate; when half 
done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, 
strew them on both sides with powder sugar, 
and put them again into a soaking oven, 
with some more sugar over them. Keep 
tbem in a dry place. 

APPLES festooned; Peel some 
golden pippins, core them whole, and stew 



them to three parts with sugar and a little 
water; make the sirup pretty rich to clog 
to the apples ; wrap them round with a thin 
paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knots 
or flowers with die same paste to put on the 
top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a very short time. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. 

Bake or scald eie^ht or nine large apples; 
when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, 
beat this up with fine sugar; put to it the 
whites of four or five eggs that have been 
beaten with a little rose water ; mix it a lit- 
tle at a time, and beat it till it is light; heap 
it on a rich custard or on jelly. 

APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut 
into tliin bits, some good stewing apples; 
stew them till tender, with a littSe water, 
two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel 
of half a lemon ; pulp half a pound through a 
sieve, and add the same weight of brovra sugar, 
the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two 
eggs; beat them all together for an hour. 
Serve it upon rich cream, or a boiled cuetard, 
in a glass dish. It may be made in the same 
way as tlie gooseberi-y fool, as may also stew- 
ed rhubarb. 

APPLE FRAZE. Cut apples into thick 
slices, and fry them of a clear light Inrown; 
take them fi-om the pan, and ky them to 
drain ; diey may be pared or not ; then make 
a batter. Take five eggs, lea\'4ng out two 
whites, beat them up with cream or flour, 
and a little white wine, make it of the con- 
sistence of pancake batter; pour in a little 
melted butter, mixed with nutmeg and sugar. 
Let the batter be hot, and drop in the fiitters, 
laying on every one a slice of apple, and then 
a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew double- 
refined sugar all over them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (1) Beat die 
yolks of eight eggs, the whites of fow, well 
together, strain them into a pan ; then take 
a quart of cream, make it moderately liot, 
and add two glasses of sack, three-quarters 
of a pint of ale, and mix them well together 
When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating 
it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger 
grated, salt and flour at pleasiu^. The bat- 
ter should be pretty thick; then put in sliced 
apples, or scraped pippins, and fiy them quick 
in butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (2) Pare, 

core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak 
them for two or three horn's in brandy, sugar, 
green lemon-peel, and oran^ flower water; 
when they have tiioroughly imbibed the fla- 
vor of th^ ingredients, chain, and put them 



APP 



APP 



a doth well fN'inkied with Hour, and 
idiake them so that the flour may adliei all 
OTHT them; fry them of a good color, glaxe 
w^th sugar and a hot salamander. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (3) Stew 
MHDe apples cut small, together witli a little^ 
water f sugar, lemon-poeT, and cinnamon; 
when soft, add a little white wine, the juice of 
half a lemon, and a bit of fresli butter ; wlien 
cold, mix them widi a batter, as for Tun- 
bridge puf&, or enclose Uiem in rounds of puff 
paste. Fry, and serve them witli sifted loaf 
flugar over them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (4) Four^vell- 
beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, two table 
qxMnfiils of yeast, diree of white wine, and 
two of rose water ; half a tea spoonful cf gra- 
ted nntm^, and of salt ; make it into a thick 
batt^ wi& flour, peel and core two or three 
apples, cut them into thin bits, and mix diem 
with the batter ; cover it over, let it stand, 
placed near the fire, about an hour ; drop it 
into boiling lard, and ser\'e them in a napkin 
with sugar strewed over dieui. Goosebeiries 
pcevioiiBly stewed nay be done in the same 
way. 

APPLES, GLAZED. Peel a dozen of 
anJes and leave the tails ; gore at the oppo- 
site side not quite through, and boil them 
with half a pint c^ red wine, some sugar, 
and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that 
they may not break ; wnen ntsur\y done, take 
tfaem out, reduce tlie sinip to a caramel, and 
put in the spgiea, rubbing them all over with 
It ; or you may wmp them in a paste, rasp 
sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with 
a white glaze. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (1) Boil 
some pippins till they begin to get tender, tlien 
put them into cold water; pare and core 
them; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and 
pot it over die fire, letting it i-emain till it be- 
comes very thick ; then weigli an equal quan- 
tity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises in 
sparkles which cluster together; put the mar- 
malade to it, and stir them well with a wood- 
en ^poon till the apple begins to boil ; then 
take it off and when a little cool, put it into 
pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (2) Pare, 
ccare, and out your apples into small pieces, 
put them Into water with a litde kmon-iuice 
to keep them white. Take them out aner a 
short time smd drain them. Weigh, and put 
tbem into a stew^ian ; if for present use, half 
a pound of sugar will be sufScient for each 
pound of apples, but if for keeping, double 
that quantity wiU be necessary. Add to it a 
stick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. 

1* 



Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and oofcr 
it; when the af^les are pulped stir the mix- 
ture till of the proper consistence: then pot 
the marmalade into pots. 

APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some 
apples very small, stew tliem with a littb 
white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; mash ihem, and 
spread it over pancakes ; roll tiiem up, and 
sore with sifled loaf sugar over Uiem. 



APPLE POUPETON. Pare 

good baking apples, take out die cores, and 
put Uiem into a skillet; to a pound and a 
lialf of applet, put a quarter of a pound of su- 
gar, and a wine glass of water. Do them 
over- a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and 
keep tlieui stirrhig. When of the consist- 
oiic^ uf a mannalade, let it stand till cool; 
Ixsit up die yolks of four eggs, and stir in four 
table spoonfiils of grsUed brraid, and a quarter 
of a pound of frera butter ; then form it into 
shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside 
down on a i^te, end serve. 



APPLE 
lervst.) 



PRESERVE. (See Pr^^ 



APPLES AND RAISINS. Pare and cot 
twelve apples into quarters, and each quartar 
into four pieces, put them into a peui with four 
ounces of^good fresh butter, two of sugar, over 
which the ztite of an (Mange has been grated, 
and a quartar of a pound of currants vreU 
washed; toss up these ingredients over a mod- 
eiute fire fur a few minutes and thai 1^ them 
cool. Make a round under-crust seven inch- 
es in diameter, moisten the edge and put oo 
it a band of puff paste three-quarto's of an 
inch high and half an inch thick ; put your 
apples, &c. ill this so as to form a sort of 
dome, cover them with the puff paste, taiaiog 
care that it does nut extend beyond the bant^ 
upon which it must he pressed down ; wash 
it over wiUi white of e^, and bake it 
in a gentle oven for about an hour. When 
a littHe cooled, take die whites of two ^^, 
whipped to a strong firoth and mixed with 
two ounces of pow<ter sugar, and mask with 
it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted su- 
gar; then, iiaving draiiwd and dried some 
currants, mix them wiUi sugar, and strew 
,them over the dome ; form a crown of small 
meringues with the remainder of the wliite^ 
of egg, and place it on the band ; cover them 
with sifl.ed sugar, and color the whole of a 
clear yellow in the oven, and then serve im- 
mediately. 

APPLES IN RICE. (1) Scoop oat 
the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a dos- 
en ffoodnsized apples ; boil Uiem in thin, clari- 
fied sugar ; let them imbibe the sugar , and 



APR 



APR 



be carefid to preserve their form. Make a 
marmalade with some other apples, adding 
to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of 
rice previousiv boiled in milk, with sugar and 
butter, and the yollu of two or three ega[s ; 
put them into a dish for table, sm-round it 
with a border of rice, and place the whole ap- 
ples in the rice, and marmalade and bake it. 
When done, put into each of the apples a tea 
spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may 
think proper. 

APPLES IN RICE. (2) Pare, core, 
and cut four or five good apples in quarters; 
boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put 
in the apples, tie it up vei'y loose, and boil 
gently till sufficiently done. 

APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep disli, and lay upon tlie top, about an 
inch and a half Uiick, rice boiled in ii^w 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth die 
"Whites of two or three eggs, with a little sift- 
ed loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and buke 
it in an oven a light brown. S^'ve it instant- 
ly when done. 

APPLE A LA TURQUE. Neatly pare 
and pierce out the cores of eight or ten ap- 
ples, put them on the fire with a thin sirup 
of clarified sugar, cover them close and let 
them simmer gently ; turn them, that both 
aides may be done. When thoroughly done 
lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over 
them. Put a paste round the dish you serve 
them in, and bedce in a gentle oven to harden 
it, then put in a layer of apple sauce, over 
which put the apples, and fill the holes where 
the cores were with dried ciierries or ap- 
ricot jam, then cover it with the apple sauce ; 
beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, 
and add powder sugar till tliey appear quite 
nnooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the 
white of egg ovef them, smooth it neatly over, 
and sift some powder sugar over it ; color it 
in a gentle ovod. 

APPLE WATER. Cnt three or four 
large apples mto slices, put them into a jug, 
and pour a quart of boilinp; water over them ; 
cover the jug. When quite cold, strain and 
weeten it, and add a little lemon-juice. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh 
equal Quantities of loaf sugar and of apricots ; 
Bcald uiem, and take oif the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, put the finit into it, and 
k it remain for two or three days ; put the 
apricots into glasi^. Mix with the sirup 
the best pale brandy, half and half, and pour 
it over the apricots and keep them closely 
<X)vered. Peaches and nectaiines may be 
done in the same way. 



APRICOTS, CHARLOTTE OP. 

Choose twenty-four fine, plump, but not too 
ripe, apricotd, pare and divide them into 
eight paits, toss tliem up in a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm 
butter ; in the meantime line a mould as <li- 
rected (see Charlotte); pour in the apri- 
cots, and finish as usual. When turned oo 
your dish, covei' it lightly with apricot mar- 
malade, and serve it immediately. 

APRICOTS TO DRY. Pare the apri- 
cots, and carefully take out the stones ; blanch 
the kernels, and put thein into the apricob; 
strew over a pound of fiiiit the same quanti^ 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let then 
stand till the sugar Iras exti-acted Jthe juice, 
then boil all together gently ; when the finut 
is tender, take it out with care, and boil the 
sirup till very rich ; pour it over die fini^ 
and in three days put it upon dishes, and diy 
them in the sim under garden glasses, turning 
them once or twice a-day, to Keep thesfaiqie 
as round as possible. Any inferior apricoto 
may be cut down and boiled in the airtqp, tir 
tarts. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Take 
some fine apricots, and choose firom amongrt 
them those which are of the deepest yeUow 
and the ripest, (they must not be too ripe.) 
Peel them, take out tlie stones, and chop them 
up ; weigh twelve pounds of them and pot 
them into a preserving-pan, with nine ptx^^ 
of powder sugar ; place your, pan over a (fii* 
fire, and keep youi* pi^eparation constanw 
stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find 
out when tlie marmalade is sufficienUy done, 
let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, 
and if they do not spi-ead in tlie water yoV 
marmalade is ready to put into pots. An- 
other method of ascertaining when your mar- 
malade is done is by taking some on the end of 
your finger and thumb, and just rub thn to- 
gether, and if on separating them yoQ fi^^^^ 
marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficfcoBf 
done. 

APRICOTS A LA PORTUGAISE. 
Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them Bi 
half, and take out the stones ; place <1>^*^ 
a silver plate, and pour over some ckiiiwd 
sugar, with a little water; put them oo  
stove without covering them; when suffi- 
ciently done, take them fiom the fire, aw 
strew sugar over ; dien put on the lid ofw* 
baking-pan under the fire, to make them of  
good color. 

APRICOTS, WHOLE. Choose theib- 
est yellow, but not too ripe, apricots; taW 
off" the stalks, prick tliem on each side wft 
a pin, make an incision witli the point oi 
a Knife, through which extt^act the fli<*0 



ART 



ASP 



Hmd pot dmD on the fire with as nmeh wa- 
ter as will cover them, until near boiling, 
when, if aoft, the a{)ricotii should be thrown 
into cold water ; take care tbev ai-e all equal- 
Iv tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in 
the meantime chrify and boil some si^ar 
to the d^^ree you rec^iiire; put in a little 
water, aikl whoi it boib remove it fix>m the 
fire, and add to it tlie fruit, and having ^iven 
them a few boilings together, let them cool, 
then drain and place them in your eoinpo/r. 

ARTICHOKES AND ALMONDS. 
Take lialf a pound of sweet almonds blancii- 
ed and beat fine, with two tea spoonfuls 
of orange-flower or rose water ; tlieu Ud^e 
a quart of cream, and boil it with a suiail 
quantity of cinnamon and mare ; sweeten it 
with fine sugar, and mix it with tiie ahiHinds ; 
stir them together, and strain it through a 
siere. Let the cream cool, and tliit^kcn it 
with the yolks of six eggs; then gsunish a 
deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom ; then 
put in slu'ed artichoke bottoms', Ijei r.g firat 
boiled ; and dpon these a little melted biitter, 
bred citron, and candied orange ; repeating 
the same until the dish is nearly foil, then 
oar in die cream, and bake it without a lid. 
When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and 
serve it hot. Half an hour will serve to 
bnkeit. 

ARTICHOKES BOILED. Soak diem 
in coki water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a haodlid 
of salt, and let them boil gendy till they are 
tender, which will take an hour and a half, 
or two hours: the surest wav to know wlicn 
dwy aie done ioii^h, is'to cliiiw out a leaf; 
trim them and drain them on a sieve ; mid 
send up melted butter wiUi Uiem, which some 
put into small cups; so duit each guest may 
nave one. 

ARTICHOKES TO BOIL. Cut off die 
stalks ck)ee to the bottom, wasli them well, 
and let them lie for some houis in cold wa- 
ter; put them on in boiling water witli a 
fittfe salt in it, cover die pan ckwely, and 
boil them an hour and a half. If they are 
dd, and have not been fresh gathered, they 
wiD take a lonser time to boil. Melted but- 
ler is served widi them in a sauce-tui^een. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, to Dry 
AHD Pickle. Half boil the artichokes, 
strip off the leaves, and poll out the choke ; 
put the bottoms into small jai-s, and cover 
them with a cold boiled brine of salt and 
water ; put melted mutton sjet on die top to 
exclude the air, and tie bladder over them. 
To dry them, tliev are boiled as for eating, 
the leaves and cheke puUed out, and the bot- 
toms dried upon diahee in an oven, and then 



kept in paper Imfg^ When lo be dreMed, 
they must be laid uito warm nvater, and soak- 
ed for two or three hours ; they mav then be 
plain boikid, and eaten with melted butter, 
or stewed in gravv with a little mushroom 
catsup, nepper, and salt, and Uiickened with 
a bit ot mitter rolled in flour. They are a 
great improveroent to all made dislies and 
meat pies. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, PICKLED. 
Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pull- 
ed off without breaking the bottoms; leave 
on the i^ai t called the clmke, set them aside 
till cold, tiien put them into wide-mouthed 
bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, pepper, 
mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, wlien cold, 
pour it over the artichoke ; tie bladder over 
the bottles. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1) 

Aie boiled and dressed in the various ways di* 
reeled fjr potatoes. N. B  ^They should be 
covered with thick melted butter, or a nice 
white or brown 



ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1) 
Thev roust be neatly peeled, and boiled veiy 
gentler by the side of the stove, with a littb 
salt m the water; when dmie (but not too 
much, or they will not look well) pboe them 
on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or 
any other tauoe you please. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM, to 

Fricassee. Wash and scrape or pare 
them ; boil them in milk and water till thcnr 
aie soA, which will be from a quarter to half 
an hour. Take them out and stew them a 
few minutes in the ibilowing sauce:  RoU a 
bit of butter, the sise of a wahmit, in flour, 
mix it with half a pint of nr^am or milk ; 
season it with pepper, salt, and nated nut- 
meg. They may oe served plain boiled, 
with a little melted butter poured over 
them. Scononera is fricasseed in the same 



manner. 



ARROW-ROOT. Mix widi two or 
thi^ee table-spoonfiils of arrow-root half a 
pint of coM water; let it stand for nearly a 
quarter of ao hour, pour off the water, and 
stir in some pounded susar ; boil a pint of 
milk, and pour it gradually upon the arrow- 
root, stirring it one way all the time. Or 
it may be nude with watar in which lemon- 
peel has been boiled, and then a glass of Port 
or white wine and a little nutmeg stirred 
into it. 

ASPARAGUS. Set a stew-pan widi 
plenty of water in it on the flie ; sprinkle a 
handful of salt in it; let it boil, and skim it; 
dien put in your asparagus, prepared thus: 



ASP 



8 



BAC 



crape all the stallu till they are perfectly 
clean ; throw them into a pan of cold water as 
you scrape them ; when they are all done, tie 
them up in little bundles, of about a quarter 
of a hundred each, with bass, if you can get 
it, or tape (strin? cuts them to pieces ; ) cut 
off the stalks at Uie bottom that they may be 
all of a lenffth, leaving only just enough to 
serve as a handle for the ereen part; when 
they are tender at the sta^, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, they ai'e 
done enough. Great care must be talcen to 
watch the exact time of their becoming ten- 
der; take them up just at that instant, and 
they will have their true flavor and color: 
a minute or two more boiling destroys both. 
While the asparagus is boiling, toast a round 
of a quaitem loaf, about half an inch thick ; 
brown it delicately on both sides; dip it 
lightly in the liquor the asparagus was boiled 
in, and lay it in the middle of a dish : melt 
aome butter, then lay in the asparagus upon 
the toast, which must project beyond die as- 
paragus, that the company may see there is 
a toast. 

ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape and 
tie them in small bundles;' cut them even, 
boil them quick in salt and water ; lay theui 
on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus 
was boiled in ; poor over them melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Toast a 
slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish ; 
butter some eggs thus: take tour eggs, beat 
them well, put them into a sauc^ pan with 
two oimces of butter, and a little salt, until 
of a sufficient consistence, and lay them on 
the toast; meanwhile boil some asparagus 
tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on 
the cg^, 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH. Boil it, and 
chop small the heads and tender pait of the 
stalks, together with a boiled onion ; add a 
little sak and pepper, and the beaten yolk of 
an egg; beat it up. Serve it on sippets of 
toasted bread, and pour ovor it a little melt- 
ed butter. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. (See Soups.) 

ASPICK. Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if 
diey will not make your jelly stiff enough, 
add two calPs leet, or some swards of bacon 
ra^)ed ; put them into a sauce-pan with a pint 
of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till 
reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, 
boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four cloves, 
two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick ; let 
the whole stew for seven hours, tlien strain off 
the liquor or conaomme. Break four eggs 



into a stewpan, and pot to them the eonsomiM 
wlien cold, the juice of two lemons, and two 
spoonfuls of tarragon, and beat it with a 
whisk over the fu'e till near boiling, and when 
it does so, remove your stew-pan to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour; 
then pass it through a wet napkin doubled. 
If the jelly is not sufficiently clear, clarify it 
a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about 
half an inch tliick, at the bottom of an aspick 
mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of ^[gs, 
sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, 
pour in another half inch of the jelly, while 
liquid, with great cai-e, so as not to discom* 
pose your garnish, then put either calf's 
brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetlnncads, 
cocks' combs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. 
Be sure to lay whatever vou may use, as equal 
and smootl) as possible, then fill up your mould 
with jelly, and let it sUmd till set. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an in- 
stant, place your dish on the top and turn it 
over, 

ATTELETS, OYSTER. {See Oys- 
ters.) 

ATTELETS ai-e silver skewers. 

9 

AUNT MARY'S PUDDING. {Set 
FuddingM.) 



B. 



BACCHIC CREAM. (See Cream,) 

BACCHIC SAUCE. (See Sauee.) 

BACON. Cover a pound of nice streaked 
bacon or salt pork with cold water, let it boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hour ; take it 
up, scrape tlie under side well, and cut off 
the rind : grate a crust of bread not only on 
the top, but all over it, and put it before the 
fire for a few minutes: it must not be there 
too k)ng, or it will dry it and spoil it. Two 
pounds will require aSout an hour and a half, 
according to its thickness ; the hock or gam- 
mon being very thick, wiH take more. The 
boiling of bacon is a vei'y simple subject to 
comment upon; but our main object is to 
teach common cooks the art of dressing com- 
mon food in the best manner. Bacon is 
sometimes as salt as salt can make it, tliere- 
fore before it is boiled it must be soaked in 
warm water for an hour or two, changing 
the water once ; then pare off the rusty and. 
smoked part, trim it nicely on tlie under side, 
and scrape the rind as clean as possible. 
3Iem.  Bacon is an extravagant article in 
housekeeping ; there is often twice as much 
di-essed as need be: when it is sent to ta- 
ble as an accompaniment to boiled pouhiy 



BAC 



BAR 



er "vca], a pound and a half is pfenty fer a dot- 
en people. A good (xerman sausage is a 
vary ecoDomical substitnte for bacon ; or fried 
pcnrk sausages. 

Note.  Baeim in England and boU 
pork in America art the tame thing* 
What we name bacon, the EngHeh call 
kam. 

BAOON TO BROIL. Make np a sheet 
<^ paper into the form of a dripping-pan ; cut 
vour bacon into thin slices, cut on the rind, 
by the bacon on the paper, put it upon the 
eridiron, set over a .slow fire, and it will 
broil cleanly. 

BACX)N AND EGGS. Cut a quarter of 
a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, 
aDd put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, 
taking care to turn tliem frequently; when 
siiffici^itly done, pour tlie melted fat of the 
bacon into a dish, break over it seven or eiglit 
eggs, add two spoonfuls of gravy, a little 
salt and i)epper, and stew the whole over a 
8k>w fire: pass a salamander over it, and 
serve. 

BACON, GAMMON, TO BAKE. Lay 
it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, 
and stofT it with all manner of sweet herbs, 
as thyme, sage, savory, sweet marjoram, pen- 
Dy-roval, strawberry l^ives, violet leaves, and 
fesnel; chop these small, and mix them with 
the yolks of hard ^gs, peppei* and nutmeg 
beaten, and boil it until teiMier. When it is 
cold pare off tlw under side, pull off the skin, 
season it with pepper and nutmeg, and put it 
in a pie or pasty, with whole cloves and slices 
(^raw bacon laid over it, and butter ; close it, 
and bake it. 

BACON OR HAM SLICES. Ham, or 
bacon, may be fi'ied, or broiled on a gridiron 
over a clear fire, or toasted with a fork : take 
care to slice it of die same thickness in every 
part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices 
about two inches long (if longer, the outside 
will be done too much before the inside is 
done enough); roll it up, and put a little 
wooden skewer through it: put it m a clieese- 
toaster or Dutch oven, for ei^t or ten minutes, 
turning it as it gets ci'isp. This is considered 
the handsomest way of dressing bacon ; but 
we like it best uncurled, because it is crisper, 
and more equally done. Slices of ham or 
bacon ^ould not be more than half a quarter 
of an inch thick, and will eat much more 
mellow if soaked in hot water for a quarter 
of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before 
th^ are broiled, &c. 

BACON RELISHING RASHERS. 
If yon have any cold bacon, you may make 



a Tery nice dish of it by cnttiiw it intostieea 
aboat a quarter of an inch thick; grate sooib 
crust of bread, as directed for ham and pow- 
der them well with it oo both sides; lay the 
rashers in a cheese-toaster, th^ wiU be 
browned on one side in about three roinutes, 
tm-n them and do tlie other. These are a 
delicious accompaniment to poached or fried 
eggs: the bacon having been boiled first, is 
tender and mellow. They are an excel^nt 
garnish round I'eal cutlets, or sweetlHvads, 
or calTs head had), or green peas or beans, 
&c. 

BAIN MARIE. A flat vessel, contam- 
ing boiling water, meant to hold other sauce- 
pans, either for purposes of cookery or to keep 
dishes hot. The advantages of (Niegerving 
the heat of dishes by the bain marie is this, 
that no change is effected in the flavor <^ 
the ingredients. 

BALM BEER. {See Beer,) 

3ANBURY CAKES. {See Caket.) 

BARLEY CREAM. {See Cream.) 

BARLEY WATER. Take a coupfe of 
ounces of pearl barley, wash it clean with 
cold water, put it into half a pint of boiling 
water, and let it boil for five minutes ; pour 
off this water, and add to it two quarts of 
boiling water: boil it to two pints, and strain 
it. The above is simple barley water. To 
a quart of this is firequently added two ounces 
of figs, sliced ; the same of raisins, stoned ; 
half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised ; 
and a pint of water. Boil it till it is re- 
duced to a quart, and strain. 06s.  ^These 
drinks are intended to assuage thii-st in ardent 
fevers and inflammatory disorders, for which 
plenty of mild diluting liquor is one of the 
princijial remedies: and if not suggested by 
the medical attendant, is frc(|uently demanded 
by honest instinct, in terms too plain to be 
misunderstood : tiie stomach sympathizes with 
every fibre of the human frame, and no part of 
it can be distressed without in some degree 
ofiending the stomach : therefore it is of the 
utmost importance to sooth this grand oi^an, 
by rendermg everything we offor to it as 
elegant and agreeable as tlic nature of the 
case will admit of: the barley drink prepared 
according to the second receipt, will be re- 
ceived with pleasure by the most delicate 
palate. 

BARLEY BROTH. {See Broth:) 

BARLEY GRUEL. Take three ounces 
of pearl barley, of which make a quart of 
bailey water ; if it be not white, shift it once 
or twice; put in two ounces of currants clean 



BEA 



10 



BES 



pkked and waa^, and when Utey are pfarop- 
d, poor out the gruel and let it ouol a little; 
then put in the yoika of three e^ well beat* 
D, half a pint of white wine, and of new 
thick cream half a pint, and lemon-peel ; 
then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste ; 
tir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as 
cream. 

BARLEY PUDDING. (See Pted- 
dmg,) 

BARBERRY JELLY. (See Jelly.) 

BARBERRY CONSERVE. Putanuund 
of ripe barberries and half an ounce of pow- 
dered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a 
glass uf water ; boil them tlue or four times, 
and press the juice liiroush a sieve. Replace 
the vessel on tlie fire wilii tlie juice, and add 
to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au 
ccuse. Boil togetlier u few times, and tlien 
pour the OHiserve into coses. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirup.) 

BARBERRIES TO PICKLE. Boil the 
bruised berries of a few bunches in salt- 
and-water; strain, and put a gill c^ the 
liquor to a quart of vinegar, witli an ounce 
of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
a quarter of an ounce uf pounded ginger, and 
a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain 
it, tlien pour it hot over the barberries, the 
finest bunches having been previously select- 
ed and placed in jars ; wlien cold, cover them 
cloeelv with bladder. Tliey may also be 
k^ in a jar, with a strong brine of salt-and- 
water poured over them. When any scum 
is observed upon the sor&ce, the brine must 
be poured off, and some fresh added. Th^ 
are kept closely covered. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sinq>.) 

BASIL VINEGAR. (See Vinegar.) 

BATH BUNS. (See Bmu.) 

BATTER FOR FISH, MEAT, FRIT- 
TERS, &c. Prepare it with fine fiour, salt, 
a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and 
the whites of egss beat up ; wlien of a proper 
thickness it will drop out of the spoon about 
the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil or 
hog's lard. 

BATTER PUDDING. (See Pud- 



parsley bid roandmbe a eord; heattbe^sh 
and 



BEANS. Cut, wash, and boil die beans, 
and then throw than into a cullender. Put a 
piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the 
oeoDs on it, and garnish them with chopped 



BECHAMELLE. Redooe some 
toumee over a good fire, moisten with chick- 
en broth or eomomme, constantly stirring to 
prevent its catching; idienof the'properooiH 
sistence, add two glasses of boilmg cream, 
continue stirring ; pass it through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

. BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. 
Cut in square pieces, half an inch thick, two 
pounds of lean veal, half a pound of lean ham; 
melt in a stewpan two ounces of batter; 
when melted, let the whole simmer until it 
is ready to catch at tlie bottom (it requires 
great attention, as, if it happen to catch at 
the bottom of the stewpan, it will spoil the 
look of your sauce) ; then add to it three 
table-spoonfiils of flour ; when well mixed, 
add to it three pints of broth or water (pour 
a litde at a time, that the thickening be 
smooth) ; stir it until it boil; put the stew- 
pan on the comer of the stove to boil sently 
fiir two hours; seascm it with lour cloves, 
one onion, twelve pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, a few mushrooms and a fiigot made 
of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. 
Let the sauce reduce to a quart, skim the &t 
off, and strain it through a tamis doth. To 
make a bechamel sauce, add to a quart of 
the above a pint of good cream; stir it until 
it is reduced to a good thickness; a few 
mushrooms give a good flavor to that Huioe; 
strain it through a tamis cloth. 

BEEF. The names of the various piece!, 
according to the method of dividing the car- 
case, are as follows: The hind quarter con- 
tains the Sirloin; Rump; Edge4x>ne; ]^t- 
tock, or Round; Mouse Buttock; Vemy 
Piece; Thick Flank; Thin Flank; L^ 
Ran; Legs; Fore Rib; Five Ribs. The 
fore quai'ter contains the Middle Rib of four 
ribs ; Chuck of three ribs ; Shouldo*, or Leg- 
of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the 
Blade-bone ; Brisket ; Clod ; Neck End, or 
Sticking Piece; Shin; Cheek. Besides 
these ai-e the Tongue and Palate. The En* 
trails consist of the Heart; Sweetbreads; 
Kidne}'8; Skirts; and three kinds of Tripe* 
the Double, the Roll, and the Red Tripe. 

Ox beef is considered the best. The fledl 
should feel tender, be fine in the grain, and 
of a bright red color, nicely marblra cr mix* 
ed with fet. The iatshould be white, rather 
than of a yellow color. 

Heifer beef is excellent when finely fed, 
and is most suitaUe for small fiunilies. Hie 
bone should be taken out of a round <^beef 
before it is salted, and it must be washed, 
skewered, and bound round firmly befiire be- 
ing boiled. Salt beef should be put on with 



BSE 



11 



BEE 



yhiity of oold water, aad when k IxHli the 
eam removed. It it tiwn kept mmaKriiig 
far Mome hours. A piece weighing fifteen 
pounds will require three hooniandahsJf to 
Doil. OuTots and tnniips for gamishiiiff 
hoold be fNit on to boil with the beef. If 
in the least tainted, a piece of dianxial nay 
W boiled with it. 

When beef is to be kept any length of time, 
it should be carefiilly wiped every day. In 
warm weathor, wood vinegar is an excellent 
preservative: it is put all over the meat with 
a brudi. To protect the meat fix>m flies, it 
may be sprinkled over with pepper. Tainted 
meat may be restiHed by washing in oold 
water, afterwards in stroi^ chamomile tea, 
after which it ma^ be sprinkled with salt and 
nsed the foUowing day, first washing it 
in cfM water. Roughly pounded charcoal 
rvMaed all over the meat also restores it when 
tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept 
a >rtnigfat smothered in oatmeal, and care- 
fiilly wiped every day ; and if it should be a 
little tainted, it is soaked some hours before 
it is used, in oatmeal amd water. 

These directions equally apply to all sMts 
ef meat. The sirloin is the wime joint ftn* 
roasting. When to be used, it should be 
washed, then dried with a clean ck>th, and 
the it cov^ over with a piece of white pa- 
per tied on with thread. The spit should be 
kept at aU times exceedingly clean: it must 
be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn 
from the meat, and washed and scoured evcFv 
time it is used. Care should be taken to bal- 
ance the roast properly upon the spit, but, if 
not exactly right, it is better to make it equal 
by fiistaung on a leaden-headed skewer than 
to pierce it again. The fire should be pre- 
pared by putting on plenty of coals at the 
Dack. When put down, it should be about 
ten iacbea 6rom the fire, and ^'adually drawn 
nearer. It is first basted with a little butter 
or fi^ei^ dripping, and then well basted with 
its own &t all the tiipe it is roasting. Ten 
minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled 
with a little salt, then diedged with flour, and 
basted tiU it is fi-othed. When it is drawn 
finom the spit some gravy will run out, to 
ishkh may be added a little boiling salt^and- 
water poured along the bone: the mef is then 
garnished with plenty of finely scraped horse- 
radisli. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen 
pounds, should be roasted for three hours and 
a half. A thinner piece of the same weight 
tequires only three hours. In cold weather 
meat requires longer roasting than in wsuin, 
and if newty killed than if it has been kept. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (I) Take about 
cfevoi pounds of the mouse buttock, or clod 
qfbeef, or a blade4x>ne, or the sticking-piece, 
or the like weight of the breast of veal ; cut 
it into pieces of three or four ounces each; pai 



iIhw or foor onMes othmi drtpptngi, md 
uaoe a eoufile of large onions, and pot thm 
intoa hige deep slewpan; as soon as it k 
quite hot, flour the meat, put it into the stew- 
pan, keep stirring it witn a wooden spoon} 
when it tos been on about ten minutes, oredj f B 
it with floor, and keep doing so till you hav 
stirred in as much as you think will thicken 
it; then cover it with boiling water (it will 
take about a galkm), adding it by degrees, 
and stirring it together ; skim it when it boils, 
and then put in one drachm of ground Mack 
pepper, two of allspice, and two bay leaves; 
set the pan by the side of the fire, or at a dis- 
tance over it and let it stew very slowly for 
about three hours; when you find the meat 
sufficiently tender, put it into a tureen, and 
it is ready S table. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (2) Take the 
bone out of a small round of fine ox beef, cut 
some fiit bacon in lon^ strips, dip them into 
common and shallot vinegar nuxed, and roQ 
them in the following seasoning: Grated nut- 
m^, black and Jamaica peppo*, one or tvro 
cloves, and some salt, parsl^, chives, lemon- 
thyme, notted manoram, and savoury, shred 
quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind 
it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with 
the seasoning. Put it into a saucqian, with 
the rind pf a lemon, four large onions, the red 
part of three or four carrots, and two turnips 
cut into dice ; add a tea-cupfiil of strong ale 
and one of vinegar ; let it stew for six or eight 
hours, turning it two or three times. Half 
an hour before Mrving, take out the beef and 
vegetad)leB, skim off the fot, strain the sauce, 
and thicken it with a little flour-and-water 
mixed smooth, add a tea.upful of Port wine, 
retmn it all into the pot, and let it boil. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (3) Take a romp 
or piece of beef, bone it, heaX it well and lard 
it with fot baocMi, then put it into a stewpan 
with some rind of bacon, a calf's foot, an 
onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay 
leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, 
salt, and pepper, pour over the whole a glass 
of water, let it stew over a sbw fire for six 
houra at least. A clean cloth should be 
placed over the stew pan before the lid is 
put on, which must be carefol^y ckwed. 
When it is done, strain the gravy through a 
sieve, clear off the fot, and serve. 

BEEF ALADAUBE. Take a round, 
a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with 
bacon, half roast it, or firy it brown; put it 
into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold 
it; add some gravy, an onion stix^ widi 
cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of 
vinegar, a bunch of sweet horbs, pepper, 
cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very 
close, let it but just simmer till it is tender'; 



BfiE 



12 



B 



tdke two o& palatee, two sweeftbnads, tnif- 
flee, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew tliem all 
together in some graw, and pour over the 
Ibeef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, 
make some long, others round, dip some sip- 
pets into batter, fry and cut them three cor- 
ner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay 
the balls round the dish. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (1) Bone a 
romp of beef; lard it very thickly with salt 
pork seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, 
and allspice, and season the beef with pepper 
and salt; put some slices of bacon into the 
bottom of tlie pan, with some whole black pep- 
per, a litde allspice, one or two bay leaves, two 
onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it 
some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak 
stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover 
it closely, and let it stew between six and 
seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of 
pait of the liquor it has been stewed in, 
strained, and thickened with a little flour and 
butter, adding some green onions cut small, 
and pickled mushrooms. It is poured hot 
over the beef. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (2) After a 
rump of beef has hung fur five or six days, 
bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to ap- 
pear upon tlie surface, with bits of salt pork 
or ham cut about haU* an inch squai'e, and 
rolled in the following seasoning well mixed: 
 ^Finely minced onion, parsley, thyme, a lit- 
tle garlic, pepper, and rait. W hiU is left over 
of the seasoning add to a pint of vinegar, one 
of Port wine, and a tea-cupful of salad oil ; 
steep the beef in this for one night; the fol- 
lowing day paper it, and roast it in a cradle 
spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick 
brown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced 
pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish 
with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse- 
radisli. 

BEEF ALANGLAISE. Take a rump 
of beef, or any piece you like better of the 
same size ; tie it up neatly with packthread, 
and put it into a stewpan with two or three 
carrots, a parsnip, three sr four onions, a 
bunch of pursleyand green onions, a clove of 
garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil ; moisten 
with some stock or water, season, and let 
tfie beef stew gently till half done, then put in 
a few small cwbages, prepared in the follow- 
ing manner; boil a \aScge cabbage, and hav- 
ing squeezed it perfectly dry, take off the 
leaves one by one, and pot within each leaf 
a little veal or other forcemeat, surrounding 
it with three or four more of the leaves, in 
such a manner as to form little cabbages, 
something larger than an egg ; tie these with 
packthread, and let them be stewed with the 



beef. When the wbole is dote, dsaii mtrnf 
the outside loose fat, and put your berf m ft 
dish, cut the little cabbaj^es in lalf, and phofl ' 
them round the dish, with the cut side out* 
ward. Take a little of the stew, strain it 
through a sieve, and having diimmed off die 
&t, add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce 
this over the fire to the consistence of a sauoSi 
serving it over the meat and cabbages. 

BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a 
piece of tender beef, fiit and lean ; mince an 
onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon^eel; mix aU U^ 
getlier, and moisten it with an egg beaten; 
roll it into balls ; flour and firy them in hoit 
ing fresli dripping. Serve them with firied 
bread crumbs, or with a thickooed brown 
gravy. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (1) In plain Engw 
lisfa, is understood to mean boiled beef; but 
its culinary acceptation, in the French kitch- 
en, is freshbeef dressed widiout boiling, and 
only very gently simmered by a slow fire. 
Cooks have seldom any notion, that good soup 
can be made without destroying a great deal 
of meat ; however, by a judicious regulation 
of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on the 
soup-kettle, diis may be accomplished. Yon 
shall have a tureen of such soup as will satisfy 
the most festidious palate, and the meat make 
its appearance at table, at the same time, in 
possession of a full portion of nutritious succu- 
lence. This requires nothing more than to 
stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping 
Xhe pot boiling a gallop, as common oodts 
too commonly do), and to take it up as soml- 
as it is done enough. See " Soup and 
bouilli," " Beef Shin stewed,"  ScotA 
barley broth." Meat cooked in this manner 
affoixis much more nourislunent than it does 
dressed in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion in proportion as it is tender, and an in- 
vigorating, substantial diet, especially valua- 
ble to the poor, whose laborious employmoiti 
require support. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (2) Take a nmip 
of beef) or part of one ; bone and tie it t(^;etb* 
er in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with 
any odd bits of butcher's meat you may hap- 
pen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or 
mutton ; you may add, also, the bones, feet, 
and necks of poultry or game, the meat of 
which has been taken for other dishes ; place 
your pot on a moderate fire, not quite fUI of 
Mrater, and skim gently. When it has boiled 
a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six 
carrots, and six onions, into one of which yoa 
should stick three cloves; add a bunch of 
leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef 
is perfectly done; then take it out, and i 



BSB 



18 



BSB 



jripeillMrwidifiedb 
r with ooiMMi or otiwr 



BEEF BROSE. AAer any luyB pieee 
f beef ham been taken out of the pot it was 
boiled ki, akim flf the &t with pait of the 
liquor, and boil it in a saucepan. Have 
ready in a bowl oatmeal that hae been toasted 
brown bdbre die fire, pour in the boiling 
liqnor and stir it a little; if too thick, add 
me liquor, and send it to tahUe quite hot. 

BEEF BAKED. Let a buttock of beef 
n^icb has bem in eak about a week, be well 
washed and put into an earthen pan, with a 
pint of water; cover the pan tight witli two 
er three sheets fAfooUeap paper  ^let it bake 
four or five hoiuis in a moderately heated 
oven. 

BEEP BAKED WITH POTATOES. 
"BoSl BOOMb potatoes, peel, and pound them in 
a mortar with one or two small onions; 
moisten them with milk and an egg beaten 
im; add a little salt and pepper. Season 
aloes of beef, or mutton chops, with salt and 
pepper, and more onion, if the flavor is ap- 
proved ; nb the bottom of a puddii^ dish 
with butler, and put a layer of the mashed 
potatoes, which should be* as thick as a bat> 
ter, and then a layer of meat, and so on h1- 
teriuaely (iii the dish is filled, ending with 
potatoes^ Bake it in an oven for one hour. 

BEEF TO COLLAR. Cut off the end 
of a brisket of beef, and bone it; sprinkle it 
with salt and saltp^re, and let it lie a week ; 
mix together some grated nutmeg, Jamaica 
and hlajck pqjper, some chopped lemon thyme, 
sweet marjoram, and parsley ; strew it over 
die meat, roU it up hard, sew it in a cloth, 
pot U. into a large jar of water, tie it closely, 
and bake it in an oven ; take it out of the 
jar and press it with a heavy weight. When 
it is quite cold, take off the ck>m, and keep 
udry. 

BEEF BROTH. {See Broth,) 

BEEF, COLD RUMP STEAKS TO 
WARM. Lay them in a stewpan, with 
one ku^ onion cut in quarters, six berries 
of allspice, die same of black pepper, cover 
the steaks with boiling water, let them stew 
gently one hour, thicken the liquor with flour 
and butter rubbed together on a plate; if a 
pint of gravy, about one ounce of flour, and 
the like weight of butter, will do ; put it into 
the stewpan, shake it well over the fire for 
five minutes, and it is ready; lay the steaks 
and onions on a dish and pour the gravy 
through a sieve over them. 



BEEF CULLIS. 



{See CuIUb,) 
2 



KEF, GOLD TEN0EilU>IN. a) 

Oit off entire the inside of a large sirbin ci 
beef, brown it all over in a stevirpan, thn 
add a quart of water, half apint of Port wine 
a tea-^upfol of strong beer, two table-spooofoli 
of vinmr, eome pepper, salt, and a laraa 
onion finely minced; cover the pan ckisefy, 
and let it stew till the beef be veiy lender. 
Garnish with pickles. 

BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (2) 
Oit off tlie meat, with a little of the &t, into 
strips three inches kmg and half an indi 
thick ; season with pepper and salt, dredga 
them with flour, and fry them brown in buU 
ter; then simmer them in a rich brown gravy; 
add of mushroom catchup, cmion, and slmllot 
vinegar, a table<^x)oonil each. Garnish 
with filed parsley. 

BEEF FILLET IN MADEIRA. Lard 
a ^ood fillet of beef, the same as for ronsting^ 
jom the ends tc^ther, and phce it in thu 
manner in a stewpan, with some onions, car* 
rots, and a bouquet garni, some eoneommt 
and Madeira, cover it with a butto^ papar; 
let it boil fen* a moment, and afierwardis let 
it boil sfowly. Put fire upon the top of your 
stewpan. When it is done strain liie broth 
through a silk siei'e, reduce it, and serve it 
as a sauce to your meat. 

BEEF FILLET ROASTED. This fil- 
let lies only in the inside of the sirloin next 
to the chine, and is die tenderest part of the 
ox ; spit this on a somll spit, but do not ran 
it tlirough the best part of the meat: roast it 
gently, and baste it with butter ; catch ^ravy 
m a dish while the beef is roasting ; in the 
meantime make a sauce for it with sweet 
lierfas and parsley shred fine, the yolks of four 
e^;8, an onion, and some orange-peel cho|^ 
ped small; put these into sweet butter, sravy, 
a spoonful or two of strong broth and vine- 
gar, stew them all together. Put your beef 
mto this sauce, and serve it hot. 

BEEF FRICANDEAU. Take a nice 
bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned 
with pepper, ssdt, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stewpan with a pint of brotlK 
a glads of white wine, a bimdle of parsley, aU 
sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a 
shallot or two, four cloves, p^per and salt. 
When the meat is become tender, coyer it 
close; skim the sauce vinell, and sti^ain it. 
Set it on the fiie, and let it boil tiU it is re- 
duced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with 
this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. 

BEEF GOBBETS. Take about six 
pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or 
shin, cut it ^to pieces about the size of a hen's 
^g, put them into a stewpan, and just covo: 



UMM 



U 



SSIC 



lliom wi4i ^irat^r, pat 1M <i><er theiivi ud 
f^M Uie acum riaoi, aHun it dear off, thea , 
put in aoine cloves, mace, allspice, and whole 
pepper, tied in a inwUn, six beads of celery, 
jQUt aa inch long aqd well washed, % carrot 
or two cut in slicea, two turnips cut in dice, 
a bundle of sweet herbs, some p^per and 
ask, aod a crust of bnead; stew it till the 
meat is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bresul ; have some crusts of French 
moU crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, 
and put the meat, ^c. over them. You put 
in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when 
you put in the berbs. 

BEEF GRAVY. {See Gravy.) 

BEF H-BONE. Is to be managed in 
flOEactly the same manner as the round, but 
will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid. 
jAjd H-bone of !^bs. will be done enough in 
about four hours; of lOlbs. in three hours, 
more or less, as tlie weatlier is liotter or 
oolder. Be sure the boiler is big enough to 
allow it plenty of water-room: let it be well 
covered with water: set the pot on one side 
of the fire to boil gentl;^: if it boils quick at 
first, no art can miike it tender after. The 
abwer it boils, the better it will look, and 
the tenderer it will be. The same ^uscom- 

Smying vegetables as in "Beef Salt Round." 
ress plenty of carrots, as cold carrots are a 
general favorite with cold beef. Mem,  
Epicures say, that the so/f , ^-like marrow, 
which lies on the back, is delicious when hot, 
and the hard fat about the ui^per comer is 
best when cold. 

BEEF HASHED. (1) Take three or 
lour onions, chop them very fine, and put them 
into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
a little flour; stir it over the fire till nearly 
done and well browned; then moisten them 
with a little stock and half a glass of wine. 
Adding some salt and coarse pe{^r; let them 
stew till they are thorough^ done, and very 
litde sauce remains; then put in the cold 
beef, minced small, and let the whole sim- 
mor till it has taken the flavor of the onion. 
When you serve, add a qx)OQfi]l of mustard 
and a httle vinegar. 

BEEF HASHED. (2) Cut some of 
the underdone part of the beef, in slices, 
with some- of the aX, put it into a small 
stewpan, with scune onion or diallot, (a 
ery little will do), a little water, pepper, 
and salt: boil it till the onion is quite soft, 
then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, 
and the hash. Do not let it boil; have a 
mall hot dish with sippets of bread ready, 
and put the hash into it, but first mix a large 
i|K>onfiil of vinegar with it ; if sballot vinegar 
is used there will be no need of the onion or 



mw tlpttou Ym mqr d4 mm^mM'^ 
wabut tiquor or calofaup. Ohm^f thiit ^ 
is owing to boiling hashes or minoes, that 
they get hard. Att sorts of ^fltifn, or aimt 
dreaaed a second timea shouU be only mur 
mered; and this bupt only hot tbioii^* 

BEEF HAM. Rub a little oommou n|^ 
ovor a piece of beef of about twenty pouodp 
weight; take out the bone, and in one or <W9 
days, hib well into the beef the jR>Uowii^ inr 
gredients, finely pounded and well mixed: 
-two ounces of aal-prunella, four ouoqw of 
brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, oi^ 
ounce of white pepper, and of cloves and vuff 
TBtdgi a quarter oi an ounoe each ; thi^i strew 
over it half a pound of common salt. Let it 
lie fifteen days, turning it daihr. It is theo 
hang up; <" when taken out of the pickle, it 
may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold 
in the water in which it was boiled; qr it 
may be baked in a deep dish, covered wil^ 
a coarse paste. 

BEEF HEART, TO ROAST. Wash 
it well, and clean all the blood carefiilly fitMS 
the pipes: parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; drip the water finom it; put 
in a eriUifiing which has been made of bre^id 
crumbs, minced suet or, butter, sweet maijc^ 
ram, lemon thyme, and parsley, season- 
ed with salt, pq}par, and nutmeg. Put it 
down to roast while hot, baste it well with 
butter, fix>th it up, and serve it with melted 
butter and vinegar; or with gravy in the 
dish, and oui'rent jelly in a sauce-tureen. 
To hash it, follow the directions given fat 
hare. 

BEEF HUNG, BURGESS'S METH- 
OD OF BOH.ING. Hun^ beef for giat- 
ing should be put on in boiling water, and, 
to preserve the color, kept boiling as fest as 

Cible. Allow for six pounds of beef one 
and a half. It will keep good for a 
length of time. 

BEEF, HUNTING. Rub wdl into a 
round of beef weighing about forty pounds, 
three ounces of sadtpetre; let it8(aiia fivew 
six hours ; pound three oupoes of alla|Moe, 
one of black pepper, and mix them with two 
pounds oi salt, and seven ounces of brown su- 
gar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and 
spices, let it remain fourteen days, and every 
other day turn and rub it with the pickle ; 
then wash off the spices, aqd put it into a 
deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of 
beef suet, put some into the bottom of flie 
pan, but the greater pait upon the top of the 
beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and 
bake it eight hours. When cdd, take off 
the crust, and pour off the gravy. It will 
keep good for three months. Plfeserve the 



OEK 



1ft 



BKS 



K 



uoapBf or aaj 



teiftwrof 



BEBF KUni^r. lUu tome kidneys, 
Mltiien into tluB ilioM,wid broil IlKai with 
mpieee f buClar, sene wk, pmer, PMnlef, 
and graeo cmioiMi and adovsof guruck,toe 
wbokfllmiid be And (be; wfaeq they^are 
Mfliciwily done, take tbem off the liroHthey 
tttoald not broil too long, or tb^ will become 
toogfa); add, when rou serve them, a few 
drops of viwwar and a little cullis. Beef 
kidneys may takewiae be served, with shallot 
Slice, or sanoe piqumUe. 



BEEF 

SatLce.) 



KIDNEY SAUCE. {Set 



BEEF MINCED. (I) Take some cold 
roasted fiUet of beef, cut out all the fiit and 
suet, then chop the meat as fine as posBible, 
and put it into a redjuotd Spanish sauce mnde 
boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit 
of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft 
boiled e^s round it, or widi pieces of toast* 
ed bread. 

BEEF MINCED. (2) Minoe yov 
beef very small; put it into a raoioepan with 
a little gravy aiid a little of the &t of 
Ibwl or any other (at, moisten it with some 
stodi and a little white wine ; season accord- 
ing to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
gentle fire till it is si]^cient)y done. 

BEEF OLIVES. Qit the beef into long 
thin steaks; prepare a forcemeat made of 
bread-crumbs, mmoed beef suet, chopped 
parsley, a httle grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; bind it with the volks of 
eggsbeiUen; pot a layer of it over each steak; 
roll and tie them widi thsead. Fry them 
fightly in berf dripping ; put them in a stew- 
paa with some good mx>wn gravy, a glass of 
white wine, and a little Cayenne; thicken it 
with a little flour and butter; cover the pan 
dosely, and let them stew gendv an hour. 
Before servii^, add a table-simonnil of mush- 
room catchup; garnish with cut pickles. 

BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. 
Scald three-quarters of a pint of oysters in 
their own Kquor; take them out and chop them 
finriy ; minoe one pound of beef and mutton, 
Dd*tiireeK]tBrten of a ponad of beef suet; 
add the oysters, and season with aah, pepper, 
mace, and two cloves pounded; beat up two 
Mgs, and mix them wol widitbe other mgre- 
dientB, and padc it closety into a jar. When 
to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- 
sages; dip diem into the yolk of an egg beat- 
eo m>; strew grated breaa crambs over them, 
or miBt with flour, and fry them in fresh 
dnppiog. Serve tfavmnpon fried bread hot. 



ket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of dto 
ribs, with sak and sahpetre, five days, dm 
boil it gently till extrBSdely tender; pot k 
under a great weight, or ia a cheese presi 

and for sandwiches. 



BEEF POTniD. Take 

of lean beef, salt it two or three days witk 
half a pound of common salt, and half aa 
ounce of saltpetre; divide it into pieces of a 
pound each, and put it into aa earthen mb 
just sufficient to contain it; poor in half a 
pint of water ; cover it close with paste, and 
set it in a very slow oven for four hours: whea 
tak^i fit>m the oven pour the gravy fiiom it 
into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with the gravy poured firom the meat, and 
pound it thorougnlv io a marUe mortar with 
fre^ butter, till it l)ecomc8 a fine paste, sea- 
son it widi black pepper and allspice, or 
cloves pounded, or gi-ated notneg ; put it ill 
pots, press it down as close as possible, put 
a weight on it, and let it stand all night; 
next by, when it is quite cold, cover it a 
quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, 
and tie it over with paper. 

BEEF SALT ROUND. As this  
too large for a moderate family, we shal 
write directions for the dressing Haifa round. 
Gret the tongue side. Skewer it up tight and 
round, and tie a fillet of hrceA tape round it, 
to keep the skewers in their pbces. Put it 
into plenty of cold water, and carefoDy 
catch the scum as soon as it rises: let it bofl 
till all die scum is removed, and then put the 
boiler on one side of the fire, to keep stn^ 
merir^ slowly till it is done. Hhlf a round 
of 15Ibs. will take about three hours: if it 
weighs more, give it more time. When yoa 
take it up, if any stray scum, Stc. sticks to 
it diat has escaped the vigilance of your skim* 
mer, wash it off with a paste-brush : garnish 
the dishes with carrots and turnips. Send 
up carrots, turaips, and parsnips, or greens 
&c. on separate dishes. Peas pudding, and 
MT PODDING, are all very proper accom^ 
panimentB. N. B.  ^The outside slicei^ 
which are generally too much salted and too 
mudi boiled, will make a very good relish aa 
potted beef. For using up the remains of m 
joint of boiled beef, see also Bubble and 
Squeak. 

BEEF RAGOUT. Take a ramp of brn^ 
cut the meat fi^m the bcMie, flour and fry i^ 
poor over it a little boiling water, about a 
pint of smaU beer; add a carrot or two, aa 
onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, 
salt, a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let it stew an hour, then add some 
good gravy; when the meat is tender tilwit 



BEE 



16 



BEE 



out, tntm the iioe, thicken it widi a little 
flour; add a little odery ready boiled, a little 
catchup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or 
the celery may be omitted, and the ragout en- 
riched by addmg mushrooms fresh w pickled, 
artichoke4)ottoms boiled and quartered, and 
hard ^olks of e^s. A piece of flank, or 
any piece that can be cut free fixMn brae, 
wul do instead of the rump. 

BEEF RISSOLES. CSiop finely a 
pound of lean tender beef, and a quarter of a 
pound of beef suet ; pomid them m a marble 
mortar ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of 
grated bread, a little onion, and a head of 
sarlick tnuised ; season with sah and peppor; 
bind it with three ^|gii well beaten ; make it 
np into small cakes, fiy them of a light brown, 
then stew them in gravy for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

BEEF RIBS BONED AND ROLLED. 
When you have kept two or three ribs c^ 
beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and 
skewer it as round as possible (like a fillet 
of veal): before they roil it, some cooks egg 
it, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the 
meat is more in a solid mass, it will require 
more time at the fire ; a piece of tenor twelve 
pounds weight will not be well and thoroughly 
roasted in less than four and a half hours. 
For the first half hour, it should not be less 
than twelve inches from the fire, that it may 

St gradually warm to the centre: the last 
If hour before it will be finished, sprinkle 
a little salt over it; and if you wicdi to firoth 
it, flour it, &c 

BEEF RUMP BAKED. Take a rump 
of beef, what size you please, bone and lard 
it, season it with salt and fine spices put it 
into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, 
together with hafra pint of white wine, some 
ffreen onions, mushrooms, and shallots ; some 
jtean bacon is an improvement. Ckiee the 
edges of the pan with a strong paste ; let it 
tew in an oven for five or six boin according 
to the size of your meat, then serve it* with 
its own sauce strained. You may dress a sir- 
loin in the same way. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (1) Bind 
the beef tightly, stick in four cloves, and put 
it in a saucepan, with three quarts of water, 
a quarter of an ounce of black pe|^)er half 
beaten, some sah, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three anchovies ; turn it often, and when 
half done take it out, pour off the liquor ; put 
in the beef again, with a pint of Port wine 
and half a pint of taUe beer made scalding 
hot, and some of the liquw strained ; stew it 
tin tender, clear off the &t, and if the sauce 
it not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef 
fravy; thicken it with flour nibbed down ta 



a little cold water. Didli the bei^ and poor 
the gravy round it. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (2) Tie 

up the beef, and put it on to stew with nearif 
as mudi cold water as wiU cover it; add three 
pounds of fot bacon cut into slices, a tiafMHiJ 
of thyme, eight onions, four small carrots, 
two turnips, two or tknee bay leaves, aonie 
black peppor, a little aHq)ioe, aiaoe, and 
three cloves, a pint of Port wine and one off 
Sherry. Let it stew gently between eevcB 
and eight hours. Take out the beef, strain 
the liquor, and skim off all the fitt ; diicken 
it with a little flour rubbed ^own in cold 
water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. 
Have ready carrots and turnips, cut accord- 
ing to foncy, and boiled tender in weak gra^ 
vy, and put them round the beef before serv- 
ing. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAKS STEWED. 
The steaks must be a little thicker than fx 
broiling: let them be all die scune thickness, 
or some will be done too little, and othors too 
much. Put an ounce of butter into a stew- 
pan, with two onions; when the butter is 
melted, lay in the rump<steaks, let them stand 
over a slow fire for five minutes, then tnra 
thm and let the other side vi them fry for 
five minutes bimo*. Have ready boiled a 
pint of button onions; they will take from 
half an hour to an hour; put the liquor they 
were boiled in to the steaks; if there is not 
enough of it to cover them, add broth or boil- 
ing water, to make up enough for that purpose, 
with a dozen corns of Uack pepper, and a 
little salt, and let them simmer very gently 
for about an hour and a half, and thai strain 
off as much of the liquor (about a pint and 
a half) as yon think will make the sanoe. 
Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan; 
when it is melted, stir in as much flour as 
will make it into a stiff paste; aome add 
thereto a table^pomful of claret, or Port 
wine, tlie same of mushroom catchup half a 
tea'Sporaifiil of salt and a quaiter of a tea- 
spoonful of ground Uack pepper: add the 
licjuor by degrees ; let it boil up for fifteea 
minutes; skim it, and strain it; serve up the 
steaks with tiie onions round the di8h,and pov 
the gravy over. Veal cutlets or mutton <ops 
may be done the same way, or as vea) oHyes. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAK BROILED 
WITH ONION GRAVY. Peel and slice 
two large onions, put them into a quart stew- 
pan, with two tabte-spopnfiils of wator ; cover 
die stewpan close, oiid set it on a slow fire 
till die water has boiled avray, and the <miani 
have got a little browned ; then add half a 
pint of good broth, and boil the onions til 
they are tender; strain the broth finom them, 
ana chop them vwy fine, and seesoB it 



tT 



il 



htt* 



#nArDom caEtciinp, pepper, and nit: put the 
eiiioB iotb it, and let it boil gently for five 
^nntea ; pour it into the dish, and lay over it 
H broiled rump steak. If instead of broth 

Em use good beef gravy, it will be super- 
tive. 

BEEP SAUSAGES. Take two beef 
flteafcs about the size of two hands, and the 
Sickness of a finger ; beat them well to make 
tbem flat, and pare the edges of thein ; then 
mince the perings with beef suet, parsley, 
green onions, mo^vooms, twi) shallots, and 1 
some basil kave.^, the whtile shred fine, and 
mixed into a forcemeat with the yolks of four 
eggs *, sipread this forcemeat on the slices of 
beef, adftd roll them up in the form of saussiges , 
tie them up with paekthread, and stew them 
with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt, 
pepper, an onion stuck with two or three 
cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip ; wlien they 
are done, strain the liquor; and, having 
skimmed oflT the fot, reduce it over the fire 
to the consifltence of a sauce. Take care 
Aat the sauce ia not too higly flavored, and 
aerve it over your saosages ; or they may be 
' served with any ragout of vegetables you 
please. To serve the sausages cold, to make 
a dish for the second coarse, reduce the sauce 
by letting it boil with the sausages till almost 
aD the fat is consumed ; then let them stand 
to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- 
hering to theift, sCnd serve upon a napkin. 

BEEF, SHCmT OR SPICED. (To 
be eaten cdd.) Hang up ten or twelve 
pounds of the middle part of a brisket of 
beef for three or four dayit, then rub ^vell into 
U three ooooes of finely powdered saltpetre, 
and, if spice is approved of, one ounce of 
allspice, and half an ounce of black pepper; 
let It stand all night, then salt it with three 
pooodsof well-pmindedbay salt, and half a 
pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten 
days, robbing it daily. When it is to be 
boilal, sew it cloeely m a cloth, let the ^^ter 
only simmer, upon no account allowing it to 
boti, for nine hmirs over a slow fire, or upon a 
stove. When taken out of tlie water, place 
two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand 
ovar the steam icNr half an hour, turning it 
finom side to side, then press it with a h^vy 
weight. It must not be taken out of the 
cloth till perfectly cold. 

BEE^ SOUP. (See Soup.) 

BEEF, SPRING GARDEN. Cut a 
piece of lean beef into thin slices like Seotth 
caUops, lard it thick with bacon, and put it 
into a pan with salt, pepper^ mace, two or 
three bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; 
bake it ; tlien clear out all the gravy, and fill 
it im with clarified butter. 

2* 



BEEP TO SALT POR IMMEDUlt 
USE. Salt a round of beef moderately vf- 
on the tops and sides, put it upon sticks, at 
die tonga of a cheese-tub, over a tub of cold 
water, and the salt will be drawn through it, 
so that it will be fit for boiling next day. 

ANOTHER METHOD IS To rub 
for half an honr into any piece of beef a good 
quantity of salt, and let it lie for thiee or 
hiu- days without touching it, when it may 
be used. ' 

BEEF SIRLOIN. The noble sirloin of 
about fifteen pounds (if much thicker, the out- 
side will l)e done too much before the iaside 
is enough), will require to be before the fire 
about tliree and a half or four hours ; take 
care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier on one side than the other ; put a little 
clean dripping into the drippingpan, (tie a 
shetit of paper over it to preserve t!ic fat), 
baste it well as soon as it is put down, and 
every quarter of an hour all the time it is 
roasting, till the last half hour ; tlien take 
ofi* the paper, and make some gravy for ft ; 
stir the fire and make it clear: to lirowa and 
fix>th it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it 
with butter, and dredge it with flom*; let it 
go a few minutes longer, till the froth rises, 
take it up, put it on tlie dish, &c. Garnish it 
witli hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as fine 
as possible with a very sharp knife. A York- 
shire pudding is an excellent accompaniment. 

BEEF SHIN STEWED. Desire the 

butcher to saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put it into a stewpan, and Just cover 
it with cold water; when it simmers, skim 
it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 
a large onion, a head of celery, a do7n ber- 
ries of black pepper, and the same.of allspice: 
stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat 
is tender; tins will take from about three 
hours and a half, to four and a half. Take three 
carrots, ped and Cut them into small squares j 
peel and cut ready in small squares a couple 
of tn^ips, with a couple of dozen of small 
yotmg round silver button onions ; boil them, 
till tender; the turnips and onions will be 
enough in about fifteen minutes ; the carrots 
will iTequrre abotit twice as long: drain them 
dry. When tlie beef is quite tender, lake it 
out carefolly with a slice, and put it on a dish 
while you thicken a pint and a half of the gra- 
vy: to do this, mix three table-epoonfiils d 
fiour with a tea-cupful of tlie beef liquor ; stir 
this dioroughly together till it boils, skim off 
the fat, strain it through a sieve, and put your 
vegetables in to warm; season with pepper, 
sak, and a wine-glass of mushroom catchup, 
or Port wine, or both, and pom' it over me . 
beef. Dr. Kitchener conmiends tills di^ as , 
one of the very best that can be carried to 



BEEJ 



18 



BR 



dbfe, and adnses it be called Ragout Betf. 

A LEO OF Mutton Is exoeUeat dressed 
die same way. 

BEEF STEAKS, BROILED. CW 

the steaks off a nimp or the ribs of a fore 
qaarter ; beat them well with a rolling-pin. 
Have the grtdiron pofectlv clean and heated 
over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, 
and, with meat tongs, keep turning them con> 
stantly, till they are done enoc^ ; throw a 
little salt over tnem a little before taking them 
off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, 
plain, or with a made gravy and sliced on- 
ion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks 
the moment of serving. Mutton dbojpB are 
broiled in the same manner. 

BEEF STEAKS, STEWED. Fry the 

steaks in a little butter; take diem out of the 
pan, and fi^ in it a minced onion ; return the 
st^is, with d little boiling water or gravy, 
some pepper, salt, and a table-^poonfiil of vin- 
csar ; .stew them gentlv ^r two or three boors ; 
tmckcys the sauce wi^ butter roiled io ^ur j 
and serve with or without pickles* 

BEEF STEAK PIE. (See Pu,) 

BEEF STEAK PUDDING. (5ff 

BEF,F STEAKS, DRESSED. Cut 
thin steaks, longer than they are bi-oad, off a 
rump ; beat theni with a rolling-pin ; season 
them with pepper, salt, and finely minced 
OQion ; roll and tie them with a thread ; cut 
them even at the ends ; fi^ them brown with 
a little butter ; make a sauce with a piece of 
butter browned with fiour, some gravy or 
water, a minoed onion, pepper, and salt. 
Boil it, and add the steaks, ana kt them stew 
an hour. Before serving, add some mush- 
room catchup, and take off the threads, 

BEEF, SCARLET. Mix a little mace, 
cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
p^e together, rub it well into two pounds of 
t^er lean beef; let it lie six da^s, turning 
it d^ily, and rubbing it with the pickle ; then 
roll ana tie it firmrjr wth tape ; put it and 
die pickle into a small iar, wiUi a slice or 
two of beef suet under and over it ; tie it close- 
ly, and bake it an hour, It is eaten cold, 
cut in th\tt slioe^, and gamisb with parsley. 
If long kept, tbe polor M^< 

BEEF STEWED, (J) Stew in five 
quarts of water the middle part of a brisket 
of beef weighing ten pounds, add two onions 
stuck with two cloves, one liead of celery, 
one large carrot, two turnips cut small, a 
handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of 
black pepper^ and some salt. Stew it gent- 



ly for six lioun. Blake a etrong mvy wift 
carrots and turnips, the turnips to be scnqped 
and fried of a brown color in butter ; add 
pepper, salt, a little Cayenne ; thicken it with 
flour and butter, and poor it over the bee^ 
widi the carrots and turnips. 

BEEF STEWED. (2) Take ten 

pounds of a brisket of beef, cut tlie short ribs, 
and put it into a well-buttered saucepan, with 
two large onions, stuck with three or ibor 
cloves, two or diree carrots cut into quarten, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, a small lemon slioed, 
and five quarts of wat^ ; let it stew seven 
hours. Strain and clarify the gravy -thicken 
it with butter and flour. Chop the cannoti 
with some capei-s, mushroom catchup, and 
Cayenne. Any otlvr pickle that is liked may 
be adde4 

JBEEF STOCK. (See Stock.) 

BEEF, MUTTON, OR VEAL TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean gravy meat into tfaio 
slices; put it into a quart and half a pint of 
cold water ; set it over a v^ gentle &, 
whei-e it will become gradually warm ; when 
the scum rises, let it continue simmering 
gently for abcxit an hour; then strain it 
through a fine sieve or a napkin ; let it stand 
ten mmutes to settle, and then pour off the 
clear tea, N. Bf  An onion, and a few 
grainp ofbjack pepper, are sometimes added. 
If the meat is boiled till it ia thoroughly 
tender, you may minpe it and pound it and 
make potted beef, 

BEEF TRIPE FRICASSEE. Lei 
your tripe be veir white, cut it into shpi 
put it into some Soiled gravy, with 2^ litde 
ci-eam and a bit of butter mixed with Anv i 
stir it till the butter is melted) add a little 
white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, pickled nnw- 
rooms, or lemon-juice; shake all together; 
stew it a little. ' 

BEER, SPRUCE. When ten yaDoBi 
of water, six pounds of molasses, ana three 
ounces of bruised ginger have boiled togeth- 
er for half an hour, two poundti of the outer 
sprigs of the spruce fir are to be added, and 
boiled for five minutes; Uie whole is then to 
be strained through a hair sieve, and when 
milk-warm, put into die cask, and a t^ 
cupfid of good yeast stirred well into it* 
When it has fermented a day or two, it is to 
be bunged up, and the following day bot- 
tled. It will be fit for use in a week. The 
ginger is sometimes omitted, and instead 
of the spiiKe fii-, three ounces of the eesenoe 
may be used, which is to be well whisked, 
together with die molasses, and a gallon of 
two of warm water; then put into the "^"^ 



BEER 



19 



fits 



wfaicfa is to be filled op with water, and the 
jeaBtadded< 

BEER, SPRUCE.' (2) The propor- 
txons are ten gallons of water, three quarts 
of molasses, a tea-cupful of ginger, the same 
of allspice, three ounces of hops, three 
ounces and a half of the essence of spruce, 
and half a pint of good yeast. Ilie hope, 
gingei', and allspice, must be boiled togetli- 
er till the hops fall to the bottom ; the molas- 
ses and spruce are then to be dissolved in a 
bucket-full of the liquor, die whole' strain- 
ed into a cask, and the yeast well stirred in ; 
when the fermentation ceases, the cask is 
to be bunged up. 

B^CB, BALM. Eleven gallons of 
water and ten pounds of brown sugar are 
to be clariSed with the whites of twelve 
eggs, ^air^ully skimmed and boiled till 
nearly reduced to ten gallons ; two pounds 
and a half of tfie yellow flower of lemon 
baJm being put into a cask, the liquor, 
when milk-warro, is to be poured over it, 
and fovr or five table-spoonfuls of Uiick 
yeast added* The cask must be filled up 
fnoming and evening with what works over 
it and bunged up when the fermentation 
ceases. In a mondi the beer may ba bottled, 
and in two or three mondis it will be fit for 
drinking. Half the quantity of the flower 
of lemon balm will probacy be (bund to 
common icate a flavor sufficiently strong, if 
added when the fermentation is nearly over. 

BEER, GINGER. For a ten-gaUon 
cask, eleven galbns of water, fouiteen 
pounds of ,si^gar, the juice of eighteen lem- 
ons^ and one pound of ginger are allowed ; 
the sugar and water are boiled with the 
whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed ; 
jost before coming to tlic boiling point, the 
ginger, which must be bruised, is then ad- 
ded, and boiled for twenty minutes ; when 
cold, the clear part is put into the cask, to- 
gether with the lemon-juice and two spoon- 
fids of yeast; when it has fermented fer 
three or four days, it is fined, bunged up, 
and in a fortnight bottled. It may be made 
without the fruit. 

BEER, GINGER, QUICKLY MADE. 
A gallon of boiling water is poured over 
tfarpe>quartrB of a pound of loaf sugar, one 
oonoe and a quarter of ginger, and the peel 
of <me lemon ; when milk-warm, the juice 
of the lemon and a spoonfiil of yeast ai-e ad- 
ded. It should be made in the evening, and 
bottled next morning, in half-pint stone bot- 
tles^ and the cork tied down with twine. 

BEER TO BOTTLE. When the 
fariak^ew and liveliness of malt liquors in 



the cask fiiil, and they beoome dead md 
vapid, vdiich they geoeralW do toon ate 
they are tilted ; let them be bottled. Be 
carnul to use clean and dried bottles i leave 
them unstopped for twelve hours, and then 
cork them as closely as possible with good 
and sound new corks ; put a bit of lump so- 
gar as big as a nutn^g into each bottle: 
the beer will be ripe, t. t. fine and qnrk- 
ling, in about four or five weeks: if the 
weather is cold, to put it up the day before 
it is drunk, place it in a room where there 
is a fire. Remember there is a sediment* 
&c. at the bottom of the bottles, which yoa 
must carefully avoid disturbing ; so pour it 
off at once, leaving a wine-^assful at the 
bottom. 

** If beer becomes hard or stale, a few 
grains of carbonate of potash added to it 
at the time it is drunk will correct it, and 
make draught beer as brisk as bottled ale. 

9EET ROOT, May be either baked 
or boiled; it will take firom an hour and a 
half to three hours, according to the siae of 
the root, to cook properly. 

BEET ROOT PICKLED. Boil the 
roots tender, peel, and cut them in what 
shape you please. Put them into a jar, and 
pour over them a hot pickle of vinesar, pep- 
p&r, ginger, and sliced horse-radim. You 
may add capsicums and Cayenne. 

BENTON SAUCE. {See Sauce,) 

BENTON CAKES. {See Caket.} 

BIRDS POTTED, how to pre- 

SERVE WHEN THET BEGIN TO GROW 

BAD. When birds have come a great way 
they' often smell so bad that they can scarce- 
ly De home from the rankness of the butter, 
by managing them in the following maimer 
they may be made as good as ever. Set a 
large saucepan of clean water on the fire ; 
wtien it boils take off the butter at tlie top, 
then take the fowls out one by one, throw 
tliem into that saucepan of water half a 
minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth 
inside and out ; continue till they ^are^ aQ 
done, scald the pot clean; when tlie birds 
are quite cold, season them with mace, 
pepper and salt, according to taste, put 
them down ck>6e in a pot, and pour clari- 
fied butt^ over them. 

BISCUITS. (1) Weigh eight eggs, an 
equal weight of sugar, and the weight of four 
in flour ; beat up die yolks of five, and put 
tliem in an earthen vessel with some rasped 
lemon-peel and the sugar, beat them togeth- 
er for a long time, tiien add the whites of 
eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the 



bib 



90 



BI^ 



'flour by dtigiotiSy pom* this iiflo pspcr cases 
(jI* whatever form and siae you please ; strew 
powder sugar over ibem, and bake in a cool 
oven. 

BISCUITS. (2) Make a pound of floor, 
tbe yOlk of an egg^ and some milk into a 
iry stiff paste ; beat it well, knead till quite 
ADooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, 
prick and bake in a slow oven tiU dry and 
crii^. 

BlSCUn'S, ALMOND. (1) Blanch 
and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds, sprinkling tliem occasionally with fine 
sugar ; then beat them up for a quarter of an 
hour with an ounce of fiour, the yolks of tliree 
eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding 
afterwards the whites of four eggs whipped to 
a froth : have ready some paper moulds made 
like boxes, about the lengtn of two fingers 
square ; butter them within, and put in the 
biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities 
of flour and powdered sugar : bake in a cool 
oven, and when the biscuits are done of a 
good color, take them out of tlie papers. 
Bitter almond biscuits are made in the same 
manner, with this difference, that to two 
ounces of bitter almonds must be added one 
ounce of sweet almonds. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (2) Take 
eight ounces of sweet, and as many bitter al- 
monrls, fifteen whites, and eight yoIJks of eggs, 
two ounces offlour, and two pounds of powder 
sugar, pour boiling water on your almonds, 
and almost imnieaiately after turn that away 
and pour cold water on them ; iiib off the 
skins one by one with a napkin, then pound 
them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them 
with the whites of two eggs. Beat Uie fif- 
teen whites to a snow, and tlie eight yolks 
with half the quantity of the sugar, and then 
mix them with the almond paste; put the 
remainder of die sugar into a basin ; sift some 
flour over it; stir the mixture till all the in- 
gredients are thoroughly incorporated, and 
pom* it into small paper cases, glaze them 
with the su^r and flour sifted over them. 
Bake them m a pretty warm oven. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND (SMALL). 
Beat up the yolks of three eggs hr ten min- 
utes, with four ounces of powder sugar and 
one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded; 
then add a whole egg, and beat it up five 
mhiutes longer. Whip the whites to a sti*ong 
froth ; mix them and an ounce and half of 
fine sifted flour with the yolks; work this 

Cite well, and tlien pour it into small well- 
tered copper moulds melon-shaped ; glaze 
them; sprinkle them with powder sugar, 
and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 



BISCUITS, ALMOND (Bouftlii). 
Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cit 
them into dice and dry them in the oven. 
Make a glaze with the whites of two new- 
laid cfBgB ; mix the almonds and a pinch of 
crispecT orange-tlowerB into this, and put it 
into very small papa* cases ; do not fill them 
above half fiill, as they rise considerably in 
the oven, and would o^rwise fitU over and 
spoil their appearance; bake them in a 
moderately heated oven. As soon as they 
are [nnetty firm, they are done. 

BISCUITS, ANISE (SMALL). Wish 

four dinichms of starred anise, and dry it in 
the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs and 
a quarter of a pound of powder eagatr for 
about ten minutes; whip the whites to a 
strong froth, and mix them lightly with the 
yolks : add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted 
flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a 

giper case, eleven inches long by seven wide, 
ake it in a slow oven for about fiMlyor 
fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. As 
sewn as it is cold remove the paper, and cot 
tlie biscuits into whatever forms you please: 
dry them in tlie oven until they beooop 
brittle. 

BISCUIT, BREAD. Dry fine floor and 
powder sugar, of each half a pound, thor- 
oughly: beat up four very fi-esh eggs for ten 
minutes, then add tlie sugar, beat them ten 
minutes longer, put the flour, and continue 
beating ten minutes more. Butter yoar bak- 
ing plates and bake. Caraway or uuseeo 
may be added, if you please. 

BISCUITS, BUTTER. Make a part 
as for sweet biscuits, and when you have 
put in the flour, pour over it eight oaiices of 
melted butter, after it has cooled a little; 
mix them togedier a short time with a wood- 
en spoon, and put into buttei-ed moolds, 
which must only be filled thi-ee parts, as Ae 
paste puffs up considerably, and would liae 
from the moulds, without care. . 

BISCUIT CAKE. (See Cake.) 

BISCUITS, CHESTNUT. Take six 
oum^ of roasted and skinned chestmils, a 
little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a ha* 
of powder sugar, and ten whites of egp 
Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then 
beat it up in an earthen pan with the other 
ingredients ; when your paste is of a proper 
thickness, take it up with a knife, ^nd lay 
it on paper, and form into biscuits wliatevei 
size you please. Bake them in a moderate 
oven, and when of 'a nice cotor take them 
out. Do not remove them fin>m the pap^ 
aw they are cold. 



BIS 



SI 



BIS 



mBCVTrSyimyP. (I) PomdMidnft 

m pound of fine mgar, tdbe the yoUu of aeven 
ind the whites of ten eg^ ami lieat weU aepa- 
iBtefy for an hour. Dry and sift a ponnd of 
fine floor, and when cold mix it with the 
em and flugar, beat aU tofjether for a quwrter 
<n an hour, dr^ upon paper, nft migar over, 
and bake tiiem. 

BISCUITS, DROP. (2) Beat a pound 
ofangar, the yolks of four, and whites of two 
^gs, with a little white wine, then put in a 
pound of flour, and a few seeda, mix all well 
together. Buttor a paper, lay your batter 
on in spoonfliis, ice them with fine sugar, 
and set them in a gentle oven. 

BISCUITS EN CAPSULE. Put half 
a pound of fine aagar into an earthen pan, 
and pour over it the ydks of twelve eggs ; 
pat the whites into a preserving-pan, and 
whisk them for half an hour; in the mean- 
time Che sugar and yolka of egss must be 
stirred with a wooden spo(Hi, aiMl pour them 
<m the whites; stir them gently, add six 
ounces of fine flour and two of powder snsar 
sifted, 8uad the grated rind of a lemon. Mix 
iA all well together, but with great care, lest 
the snow of the whites bIkmikI foil. With 
this fill some small battered moulds, or pa- 
per cases, and bake them in a quick oven to 
a deep vellow, first sfMrinkling them with su- 
gar, if they are in moulds, turn them out 
when baked; but they may remain in the 
peqier cases, which need not be buttered. 

BISCUITS, FILBERT. Take half a 
pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, 
the vfdiites of six, and the yolks of three 
^IgB, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of 
sugar; blanch and pound the filberts and 
afanmidB, adding, occa8ionaUy> a little white 
of egg to prevent their oihos. Beat the 
whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix the 
httOT with half the sugar; beat them well, 
and having mixed the other ingredients to- 
gether, put diem into a sieve, and whilst 
you are beating, sift them into the whites; 
when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour 
the preparation into paper cases, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. A littte ^ted 
lem(xi-peel, or any other aromatic mgre- 
dient added to the yolks, greatly improves 
these biscuits. 

BISCUIT, FRENCH. Weig^fi^eggs,' 
and their weight in dried and sifted flour, 
and in finely-pounded loaf sv^ar; beat the 
wfaitea o( the e|^ to a stifi' froth, and by 
degrees beat in tito suffar and the flour, and 
tboD add the beaten yolks; witha spoon half 
fin yellow tea-oups, previously rubbed with 
batter, and sift loaf sugar ova* the ti^. Bake 
thorn in a quick oven. Or, drop tbo biacait 



ID a raiBd fonn iipoa sheet! of wUit papor 
buttered; sift sugar over thenu 

BISCUIT, KING'S. Put half a pound 
of butter into a basin, and work it abool 
well with a wooden spoon; break six eg^i 
and whisk them well, add a half pound <tf 
powder-sugar, and wrfaisk ten minutes lon^, 
and then mix them with the butter; stir in 
six ounces of currants, and ihesame of dried 
fiom*. When all is well mixed, drop it, the 
size of a shiding, on paper, and bake in a 
quick oven, "inftkethem off while hoc 

BISCUIT. LEMAN'S. Sift and diy 
a pound of fine flour; rub it into a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile 
salt abont the siie of anut; mix in as much 
new milk warmed as will make it into a stiff 
paste; work it well together, and let it re* 
main for two <nr three hours, and then roll it 
out, and make it into small square biscuits, 
and into round balls a little flattened ; prick 
them with a fork, and bake tiiem upon tins 
in a quick oven. Take care they do not 
become brown. 

BISCUITS, NAPLES. Put three* 
quarters of a pound of fine flour to u pound 
of fine sifted sugar ; sift both together threa 
times, then add six eggs beaten well, and a 
spoonfiil of ixMe-water; when the oven is 
nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet. 

BISCUIT, THE NUNS. Take dm 
whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a 
froth ; a pound of almonds, blanch diem, and 
beat them with the fi'oth of the whites of 
eggs, as it rises ; then take the yolks, and 
two pounds of fine sugar and beat them weU 
together, then mix the ahnonds with the 
sugar and eggs ; then add half a pound of 
flour, with the peel of four lemons grated,.and 
some citron shred small ; put the compoeiticMi 
in little cakepaiis, and bake them in a quick 
oven, and when they are colored, turn them 
on tins to harden the bottoms: but before yoQ 
set them in the oven again, sift on them some 
double-refined sugar. Let the pans be buU 
tered, and fill th^ half way. 

BISCUITS, POTATO. (1) Beattlie 
yolks of fifteen egoB with a pound of sifted 

X, grate the nnd of a lemon on a piece 
up sugar; scrape off the yellow ^iigar 
with a knife, and having dried it well, add 
it to the above, and continue to beat till it 
becomes quite white ; in the meantime whip 
up an equal number of whites, and mix them 
lightly with the rest; then sift into it lialf a 
pound of potato flour; stir it in, and poor 
the preparation into oapesc cases, but not to fill 
them; glaxe, and plaoe the cases on |wpev 



BIS 



3 



BIS 



Moderate oveD. 



m ft 



BISCUIT, POTATO. (2) Beatwpa- 
lately the yolks and wlutee of fifieen eggs, and 
whh tbe voiks beat a pound of pounM and 
frilled loaf sugary and the grated ped of a lem- 
on ; when very light add the whites, and sift in 
through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of 
fwtatoes; mix all lightly together, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
board, place the paper cases upon it, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament 
them, put here and there upon the top a 
iktle red-currant jelly, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUEEN'S. Take 
ft pound and a half of flour, a pound and a 
half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, 
and tiie yolks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander ijeeds beaten small at discretion ; mix 
th^se well togetlier, and make them into a 
soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
this paste on paper, or in crusts about two 
nches broad, and four inches long, set them 
in a moderate oven, and when they begin 
to turn brown, take them gut, and lay them 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BISCUITS, RICE. Take the grated 
jrind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggjs, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
apple, and tlie same of apricot, maiinalade, 
and two ounces of orange*flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange^flowers together, 
then add the whites of leggs, whipped to a 
snow; beat the yolks with the sugar for a 
quaiter of an hour, put them to the rest, and 
when well mixed in, add tlie lemon-peel and 
rice-floiu| ; wwk all tc^ther, pour the prep- 
aration into paper cases, bake them in a 
moderate oven, and glaze them. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a quartel- of a pound of flour, three 
spoonfub of fine powder sugar, and the same 
ojf marmalade; add whites of eggs to work 
it pretty soil; and make this paste to what 
shape and size you please. 

BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat together. 
Cnt half an liour, four well-beaten effgs, and 
half a pound of finely-pounded loafsugar; 
then mix in lightly six ounces of dried and 
ifled flour, and tiiie grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-poonful of essence of lemon, with a 
toUe-spoonful of rose water. Flour the 
pans, fill them half fiill, and sift pounded 
igar over them.^ Bake them in a quick oven. 

BISCUITS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
iMnoes of rice-flow througha tammy into aa 



eudMn pas, wKh hftV a poiaii of ppw lar 
sugar, the yolks of four em, and a lilit 
green lemon grated; beat t^m tip togethw 
ror a quarter of an hour: whid& the wfailet 
of eight eggs to a fix>th and mix them wiA 
the yolks. Put this into buttered mooMs  
paper cases, and bake in a moderate omatt 
When done take them firom the mould whUs 
hot, and ice them in the following; manner; 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spoonfuls of powderHnigar with a wooden 
spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lem- 
on-juice ; vrhea it becomes quite white lay it 
ovr the biscuits ; and place them in theoiHi 
a minute to dry. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) Theweightof 
eight egi^ in fineiy-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of four in dried 'flour; beat separatetytha 
whites and yolks; with the yolks beat tha 
sugar for half an hour, then add the whites 
and the flour, and a little grated nutneg} 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake 
them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon 
paper, as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mixtogethar 
one pound of dried and sified flour, tlie same 
quantity of pounded and sifted kiaf si^, 
ten well-beaten ^gs, and a few pounded 
cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET. One ponid of 
flour, half a pound of butter, tlie samequan* 
tity of finely-pounded sugar, and two eggif 
without bemg beaten; make it all into a 
very stiff paste with cool water, roll it out, 
and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the 
paste into a ball about the size of the voBt 
of an egg, flatten it a little, and place tDen 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of cun-ants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put tbea 
with half a pound of powder-sugar, three- 
quarters of a poupd of sifted flour, and half 
a pound of firesh butter; mix them into a 
paste with three eggs, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eightli of an inch, cut iheffl 
into what shapes you please. Bake them nf 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter 
orsmges till they are of a peue brown cokir; 
lay them in a tureen, and put over them half 
a pound of pounded loafsugar, and throe 
glasses of claret; place the cover < tha 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. When 
re(|uired fi)r use, put the tureen into apan nS 
boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon. 

and run the juioe through a sieve; then boM 
thereoiaiDderoftbeUMl^ofchnty taking 



BC4 



Bt.4 



M lint k AyMtbvas atf k to*Bi 
.W jaiee* and mnt k warn in ffamm, 

BLANC. A mnElnra of butter, all, 
mutetj aad a dice of Iooioq ; alio  IbUowi: 
--Giitftpouiidof beef aoet, and theMmeof 
fia bacoo iato dice, half a pound of bottar, 
(he juioB of a lemon, ante aiMl pepper, one or 
two ooaons,a bunch of poniey, a little ifayaM, 
a bay leaf and ipice. 



aawOiJirir 

for the 



fli*B 



BLANCMANGE. (1) Toonaooneeof 
picked iaiogiaflB, pat a pint of water, boil k 
tiD the iaia^laai is mrited, with a bit of ein- 
aamoo; put to it three^iaarten of a pint of 
cveam, two ounces of sweet ahnonds. six 
fattier ones blancfaed and beaten, a bit of 
iBasoo-pael, aweeCen it, etir it over the fire, 
let it boil, strain and let it oool, squeew in 
Ae juice ci a lemoo, and put into moulds; 
garnish to your fimcy. Blancmange may be 
oolcwed green by adding spinach-jmce ; red, 
by a bit of cochineal in brandy, iel it stand 
half aa hoar and strain it; yellow with 
aaffiron. 

BLANCMANGE. <2) Boil for a few 
siantes a pint and a half of new milk, with 
an ounce ^ picked binglass (if in summer, 
ooe ounce and a quartmr), the rind of half a 
lemon peeled very thin, a little cinnamon, 
and a bbde of mace, and two and a half 
dunces of lump sugar: bkineh and pound 
eight or tea bitter, and half an ounce of 
sweet almonds very fine, with a qMonfiil of 
roae water, and mix them with the milk; 
straio it throt^ a lawn sieve or napkin into 
a basin, with half a pint of good cream. 
Let it stand half an hour;' pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sedunent at the 
bottom, and when nearly cold fill it into 
moulds ; when wanted, put your finger round 
Ifae mould; puU out the blancmange; set 
k in the oenti'e <^ a dish, and garnish 
with slices of orange. N. B.  ^About half a 
giD of noyean may be substituted for ifae al- 



BLANCMANGE. (8) Boil tiU dissolv- 
ed, in a largelea-cupfol of water, three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of isinglass ; when milk- 
warm, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or 
dwee lanrd leaves, or a few bitter almonds ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it 
over the fire, and let it boil for two or three 
minutes; strain it through a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, 
then pour it into an earthen-ware mould cm* 
Aape; the following day, dip the mould into 
warm water for a minute or so, clap it witfi 
die hand to loosen the edge, place the glass 
or ebina. dish over die mould, and turn it 
001 qnaddy upon the dish. As mndi cow* 



BLANCMANGE. (4) Bkuich and poaad 
with a little latafia, or lese-water, two 
oanoasofsweet,aadsixbkteralmomk; dis- 
solve thra4)aartersofaQoanoeof isinglasi; 
add it, when nulk'^warm, t a quart of good 
oraam; half milk half cream mav be used; 
mix in the ahnoads the peel of a small lemr 
on, and a bit of cmnamon; sureeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir k 
constantly, and let h boil for six or eight 
minutes ; strain it through a faiwn sieve, and 
stir it tiU nearly cold, then pour it into a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (5) Bkuich and pound 
one ounce of sweet aknomk with a glass of 
sherry, and a table-spooofid of |)ounded knf 
su^ ; add it to duee-quarters of an ounce 
of isin|[lass dissolved in half a puitofwator, 
and boil it till the flavor of the ahnoods be 
extracted, stirring it all the time ; strain k 
through a bit of ttiin nmslin, and mix witk 
it a quart of good cream ; stir h till quite 
odd, and pour it into a shape. 

BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 

half a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minutesy 
pour off the water, and add a table-spoon* 
fill of laurel water, and a little sugar ; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, boll it with a little 
cinnamon, and half the peel ofa lemon ; pick 
out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a half of boiling arater over it, 1^ k 
stand for an hour, and then boil it for tvren* 
ty minutes; strain, and a^ien it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna- 
mon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; 
stir it over the fire till it b^in to simmer, 
but do not allow it to boil; pick out the 
peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, 
stir it till nearly cold, and pot it into a 
shape. 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small 
hole at the end of four or five lai^ ^&P>9 
and let out all the egg carefolly ; wash me 
shell, drain, and fill them with bhncmange, 
place them in a deep dish filled with rice or 
barley to keep them steady, and when quite 
cold, gently break and peel off the melL 
Ctat ma peel of a lemon mto delicately fine 



fiRA 



t4 



ARC 



tkn^hy^imm fatofe |lMi dMi* ua p 
in the eggs; or aetve tbem in a ghM diab 
with a pink cream round them. 

BLACK COCK, MOOR GAME, AND 
GROUSE, Are all to be dressed like par- 
tridges; the black cock will take as much 
as a pheasant, and moor game and grouse 
as the partridge. Send up with them cur- 
lant-jelly and fried bread crumbs. 



BOILING. 

of the book. 



See du-ecttons at beginaing 



BOLAR CAKE. Set Cake. 

BRANDY PUDDING. See Pudding, 

BRAISING PAN. A deep welUinned 
copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which 
must close hermetically, and have a ledge 
round so that coals or hot ashes maybe 
placed on the top when necessary. 

BRAISING. Tliis is a method of 
dressing meat, poulti;y, &c. &c. without its 
undergoing any evaporation. It is done by 
lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, 
beef, or veal, upon which place whatever 
you may intend to brtdeet and also add 
carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, 
pepper and salt. 

BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, 
crape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig's 
head, feet, and ears; lay them into salt and 
water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. 
To make the collar lai'ger, boil two ox heels, 
with the head, feet, and ears, till all the 
bones can be taken out easily, then put the 
bead round tiie mould, ai^ tlie feet and small 
pieces into the middle ; put it together while 
not, and press it with a heavy weight till it 
becomes cold. Boil for half an hour, in as 
much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, 
one hsmdful of salt, one ounce of pepper, 
and one or two bay leaves. When cold, 
pour it over the brawn. 

BRAWN, MOCK. Take die blade bone 
out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two 
hours or more, according to the age of the 
boar. When it is cold, season it very hi^ 
ly with pe^^MT, Cayenne, salt, a very little 
lulspice, mmced onion, and thyme. Let it 
lie a night in this seasoning-; the following 
day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounded 
eal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, 
and an onion, a little lemon^ieel, salt,' nut- 
meg, pq>per, and Cayenne; bind it with an 
eg^ beaten, and stuff where the bone has 
been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with 
the brown side downwards, and lay under it 
twigs or small sticks, to keep it from ftick- 



ii^toiliebottMB; pew innboldeor 
and put it into the mren. Whenneariyi 
take it out and clear off all the &t, add a 
bottle of Madeira and the juice of a lu|p 
lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it til 
it become as tender as a jelW, so that a, 
straw will pierce it easily. If the boar ii 
an old one, it will require to be baked six or 
seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. 



BRAWN, TO BAKE. Take raw 
brawn, and the same quantity of ftit bacon, 
mince them small, tbesn pound them in a 
stone mortar, with a handful of sage, season- 
ed with salt, pepper and ginger, add the 
yolks of eggs, and some vinegar, then pnC 
the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter 
and bay leaves, make your pie round and 
bake it. To be eaten cold. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. See Cake. 

m 

BREAD. (1) Put a quartern of flour into a 
larse basin, with two tea-spoonfuls of salt; 
make a hole in the middle; then put in a 
basin four table-spoonfuls of good yeast ; stir 
in a pint of milk, Jiikewarm ; put it in the 
hole of the flour; stir it just to make it into 
a thin batter; then strew a litUe flour over 
the top; then put it on one side of the 
fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the 
next morning ; then make it into dough ; add 
half a pint more ci warm milk ; knead it 
Ux ten minutes, and then set it in a warm 
place by the fire for one hour and a half: 
then knead it a^n, and it is ready either 
for loaves or Ix-icks: bake them from one 
hour and a half to two hours according to 
the sixe. 

BREAD. (2) Mix into six pounds of siAed 
flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of 
firesh sweet yeast as it conies from the brew- 
ery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk 
to make the whole into a stiff dough ; woik 
and knead it weU upon a pastebosird, <m 
which a little flour has been strewed, for fif^ 
teen x twenty minutes, then put it into a 
deep pan, cover it with a Hrarmed towel, set 
it before the fire, and let it rise for an boor 
and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut off a 
piece of this qion^ or dough ; knead it wdl 
for ei^t or ten mmutes, together widi floor 
merely sufficient to keep it fmoL adhering to 
the board ; put it into small tins, filling them 
three-quarters fiill; dent the rolls all round 
with, a knife, and let them stand a few min* 
utes before pottii^ them into the oven. 
Hie remainder of the dough must then be 
worked up for loaves, and baked either in 
or out of a shape. 

BREAD, ALMOND. Take a poondo 
the best almondB, shoe them the round waj. 



BRC 



Hi 



BUS 



%Hit andoftapoandofdooble-nfiiiedfliifBr, 
and strew it over tbe almonds as you cut 
dkem, stirriiig them frequently to prevent their 
aticking together; when all the sugar is used, 
pot thoa into an earthen basin, with a few 
carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dis- 
solved in rose-water and strained), three 
grains of DMuk and amba*eris dissolved in 
nne sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a very tight finoth, and two spoonfuls of 
fine flour; when well mixed lay them on 
wafers the size ot macaroons; open them 
with a knife or bodkin, lest two .or three 
pieces stick together; the quicker you lay 
them, the better they will look ; put them 
into a well-heated oven, taking care they do 
Bot scorch; when half baked, take them out, 
wash them with the white of an egg beaten 
to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over them, 
and bake tbera about half an hour longer. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 
See Pudding, 

BREAD, CHESTNUT. Roast a hun- 
dred fine chestnuts, being careful not to 
bum them; peel tliem wll, and pound them 
with butter and double cream; pass them 
through a sieve ; add two eggs, and then 
strain them again. Wei^h your paste, and 
tor every pound, allow oaUf a pound of 
powder, a little vaniUa in powder, and two 
ounces of flour; mix th^ together, and 
form of the preparation -as many chestnuts 
as it will make; lay them on a sheet of 
wafer papor, butter and dorex them seve- 
ral times, axifd then bake them in a hot oven. 

BREAD CHEESECAKES. SUce a 
broe French roH very thin, pour on it some 
bouii^ cream; when cold, add six or eight 
<^gs, half a pound of butter melted, some 
nutm^, a spoonfiil of l>andy, a little sugar, 
and half a pound of currants. Put them in 
puff paste as other cheesecakes. 

BREAD, TO SERVE WITH COF- 
FEE. Whip up the whites of ten eggs to 
a thick snow; add to them the yolks beaten 
with ei^ ounces of powder-sugar, place it 
Gwer a diarcoal fire, and whip it for half an 
hoar, then take it from the fire, and whip 
again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of 
siflied flom*. Have ready buttered two 
moalds lined with paper, poor the paste in- 
to them, and bake them in a moderate av&k; 
wben done, take them out of the moulds and 
remove the paper ; when oolcl, cut them in 
sikes about the size of a finger. Place them 
OB a i^ate of copper, ova- a tharooal fire, 
and when one side is brown, turn them and 
brown the other side. These if kept dry 
mSL be good for a long time. 

3 



BREAD CRUMBS, FRIED. Rid>lna 

that has been baked two days, throa|^ aa 
iron 8te%'eorcnUeoder; rat tneminlo'aslew^ 
pan with two ounces of butter; fdaoe it over 
a moderate fire, and stir them with a woodea 
spoon till of a fine gdd ciAar; spnad them 
on a sieve, and let them stand ten miniU ff 
to drain, turning them often. 

BREAD, FRENCH. Takehalfafanhd 
(or six pounds) of flour, put it on the sbb^ 
make a hole in the centre, in which put two 
ounces of yeast; make your doug^ with warm 
water, to about the consistence of brioches 
woik it up welt, adding two ounces of sah, 
dissolved in a little warm water; cover, and 
set it in a warm place to rise; on this part 
of the operation depends the quality of^ths 
bread. Having left the dough one or two 
hours, (according to the season), knead it 
again, ajid leave it as before, for two hoin. 
In the meanwhile, heat the oven, divide the 
dough into eight equal parts, of which form 
as many loaves, into any shape you please; 
put them into the oven as quidily as possible. 
As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with 
a little butter, which will give it a fine yellow 
color. 

BREAD, FRENCH, OR ROLLS. 

Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted 
flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts 
of milk, three-quarters of a pound of warm 
butter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces 
of salt ; when die whole is well worked vp, 
cover, and leave it to rise. In two hocn 
time, form it into rolls, and lay them on 
tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. 
When they have been in an hour, put them 
into a very hot oven for twen^ minutes. 
Rasp them as soon^ they are baked. 

BREAD FRITTERS. BoU half a pint 
of milk till reduced to half, with a little 
sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange*flower 
water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; 
have ready some pieces of crumb of bread, 
cut about the size of half-crowns, but thicker ; 
put them into the milk to soak a little, dien 
drain, flour, and firy them. Glaze them with 
sugar, and pass the salamander over them. 

BREAD, LONDON. To make London 
bread, put a bushel of good flour which has 
been ground a month or six weeks, in <Mie 
end of the trough, and make a hole in the 
middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm 
water, and mix it with one quart of good 
yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well 
with your bainds ; let it remain until it rises 
as high as it will go, which wiH take aboot 
an famur and a quarter. Watch it carefully 
to its uhunate hei^t, and do not suffer it to 



BR 



26 



BRE 



&11; then make up the dough with eiglit 
(Jjdarts more of warm water and one pound 
of salt ; work it well with your handi*, and 
then cover it over widi a sack or otlier coarse 
doth. Put the fire into the oven; Iieat it 
thoroughly) Lud by the time it in hot, the 
dough wiU be ready. Next make die dougli 
into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds 
each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in 
the loaves. Slmt the oven close, and they 
will be baked in about two hours and a half; 
then o()en tlie oven, and draw the bread. In 
munmcr the water need not be more than 
blood warm, but in winter it must be a few 
degrees higher in heat. During a hard 
frost, however, the water should be as hot as 
the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently 
hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil 
the whole batch of bread. Odier quantities 
of bread are made in the same proportion. 

BREAD, PLAIN.SHORT. The same 
proportions of flour and butter must be used 
as in the receipt for short bread ; this must 
be mixed top^ether, rolled out, but not made 
quite so thick as in the rich kind ; but in die 
same form, pricked with a fork, and pinch- 
ed all round. A little sugar may be added. 

, BREAD, RICE. Take a pound of rice, 
and let it simmer in two quarts of water till 
it is quite tender; when it is of a proper 
warmtli mix it Uioroughly with four pounds 
of flour, adding yeast and salt, tlie same as 
for otlier bread; the proper quantity of yeast 
to be used is about foiu* spoonfuls ; kn^ui it 
well ; then set it to rise before the fii'e. A 
portion of the flour should be reserved to 
make up the loaves. If the rice should re- 
quire more water, it must be added, as some 

rice swells more than odier. 

# 

BREAD, SPICED, COMMON. (1) 
Boil tliree pounds of honey in a gallon of 
water for a quarter of an hour ; dien pour it 
on the flour in die trough ; mix them togedier 
well, until the flour will imbibe no more li- 
quid ; when a little cooled, add three ounces 
of pota^, infused die night before in half a 
pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting 
to it some pounded anise. Roll out the 
paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, 
oat it into Utde figures, lay them on a well- 
oiled tin, and bake thcan; when done, wash 
them over with milk. With this paste 
spiced nuts are made ; when formed, lay them 
on tins, and leave in a warm place for two 
or three days before they are baked. 

BREAD, SPICED, (2) FLEMISH. 
The evening- before you wish to make 
your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of 
^ite potash in half a pint of milk, and set 
it aside. The next morning pot a consider- 



able quantity of sifted flour into a trough 
make a hole in the heap, into which pour at ' 
pounds of clarified honey ; whilst boiling, stir 
it wejl with a strong spatula, until die honey; 
reduced to a firm paste, wMl imbibe no more 
flour, then spread it all over the bottom of 
die ti'ough, and' leave it for about ten or fif 
teen minutes; at the end of that time, if the 
paste be sufficiently cool for you tbbear yoaf 
hand on it, rub its surface with the infieion 
of potash ; dien let a strong person koead it, 
in the same manner as the bakers knead 
bread. Have ready a number of difTereDt- 
sized moulds of pear tree wood, on whidi 
ai-e cut (pretty deep) octagons of various di- 
mensions ; dicn cut your paste into as many 
pieces as you have mouldis, in die followii^ 
proportions;  for die mould containing a 
pound, take eighteen ounces of paste ; for a 
half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter oS 
a pound seven ounces of paste, and so on; 
knead each piece separately on the slab, rub 
them widi flour to prevent their adhering, and 
then put them into die respective moulds; 
press it down tight ; in a minute or two torn 
them over, place diera on a tin plate (pre- 
viously rubbed widi olive oil), and with a 
soft brush take oflT wliat flour may remain 
on the sm-face of the spiced bread, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. Whilst di^ are 
baking, dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient 
quantity of beer, widi which, by means of 
a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced 
bread as soon as it is done ; and dien, nbilo 
it is moist and warm, decorate it widi 
blanciied almonds, candied lemon and orange 
peel, cut into dice. You may, if you think 
proper, cut diese sort of sweet meats into 
very small pieces, and knead them into yow 
paste at first. When they are nearly cold, 
separate the pieces with a Knife. 

BREAD, SHORT. For two poundsof 
sifled flour allow one pouiul of butter, salt or 
fi"esh ; a quarter of a oound of candied orange 
and lemon peel, of^ pounded loaf sugar, 
blanched sweet almonds, and carraway cm- 
fits, a quarter of a pound each ; cut the kb)- 
on, the oranee peel, and ahnonds into saJi 
thin bits, and mix them widi a pound and a j 
half of die flour, a few of die carawav coo^ j 
fits, and the sugar ; melt die butter, and wliffl | 
cool, poor it ctear from the sediment info *^ | 
flour, at the same dme mixing it ^'^^ 
Widi die hands, form it into a large towA 
of nearly an inch diick, using die remainder 
of the dour to make it up widi; cut it - 
to four, and widi die finga- and diumb pin* 
each bit neady all round die edge ; prick tbed 
with a fork, and strew the i-est of the cartar 
way comfits over the top. Put the p^ 
upon white pap&r dusted with ^<^*^ 
then upon tins. Bake them in a modefw 



oven. 



J 



BRO 



n 



BRO 



BREAD, TIPSY. Pare off the crmt, 
wad cut into thin round dices of four or five 
inches, the crumb of a twopenny or thi*ee- 
peony roll ; spread over eadi bit raspberry 
or strawbmry jam, and place tlie slices one 
over the other pretty high in a glass dish, 
and poor over them as much sherry, sweeten- 
ed with susar, as the bread wiU soak in ; 
cdck round the sides, and over die top, 
Uanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and 
pour a custard roond it. It may be made 
the day before, or two or three liours before 
nner, and with the crumb of loaf bread. 

BRBL4D SAUCE. See Saucet, 

BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix with 
two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces 
of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and 
two eggs b^ten with two spooniuls of yeast, 
nd about a pint of milk; knead the dough 
weJi, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve ix>lls, butter tin plates, and set them 
heiare the fire again to rise. When of a 
proper size, bake them for half an hour. 

BRIOCHE. Divide half a (||uartem of 
^our into three parts, and knead mto one of 
(hem half an ounce of yeast and a little warm 
water, wrs^ it in a cloth and set it by, in 
-mamcaeac time for a quarter of an hour, and 
in winter for a whole hour. When it has 
risen, put it to the remainder oi the flour, 
with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, 
half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce 
of salt ; knead them together with your hand 
thoroughly, and then "wrap it in a clean nap- 
Icin and leave it nine or ten hoiurs. Cut 
the paste into the size you wisli to mak& the 
cakes, jnoisten, and roll them in the hand, 
flatten the top, and gild them with tlie 
yolk o( an egg. Half an hour will be 
Aifficient to bake the small ones; large 
cakes will require an hour and a halfl 

BROnJNG. See directions at begin- 
ning of the book. 

BROCCX)LI. Set a pan of clean cold 
crater on the table, and a saucepan <mi the 
Are with {denty of water, and a handful of 
flah in it. Broccoli is prepared by stripping 
off all the side shoots, leaving the top; peel 
off the skin of the stalk with a knife; cut it 
cloae off at the bottom, and put it into the 
pan of cold water. When the water in the 
Btewpan boils, and the broccoli is ready, 
pat It in; let it boil briskly till the stalks 
feel tender, firom ten to twenty minutes ; take 
it up wifli a slice, that you may not break it; 
let it drain, and serve up. If some of the 
heads cS broccoli are much bigger than the 
others, put than on to boil first, so that they 
jsay get all dooe together. Ofr*.' It makes 



a nice supper-dish served opon a toast, likn 
asparagus. It is a very delicate v^etable 
and you must take it up the moment it k 
done, and send it to table hot. 

BROTH, BARLEY. Chop a leg of 
beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of 
water, with a carrot and a crust of bread, 
tin reduced to half; then strain it off and 
put it into the pot again with half a pound 
of barley, four or five heads of celery cot 
small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a 
little cliopped parsley, and a few marigolds. 
Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or 
laige fowl and put it into the pot, boil tiQ 
the broth is quite good. Season with sah, 
take out the onion and herbs, and serve it* 
The fowl may be omitted. 

BROTH, OF BEEF. Wash a leg or 
shin of beef very clean, crack the bone in 
two or three places, add to it any trim- 
mings you have of meat, game, or poultry 
(heads, necks, gizzards or feet) ana cover 
them with cold water. Watch and stir it 
up well from the bottom, and the moment it 
begins to simmer, skim it car^lly. Your 
brotli must be perfectly clear and limpid 
for on this depends the goodness of the 
soups, sauces, and s^ravies, of which it is 
the basis. Then add some cdd water to 
make the remaining scum rise, and skim 
it again. When the scum has done rising, 
and the surface of the broth is quite clear 
put in one carrot, a head of celery, two 
turnips, and two onions. It should not 
have any taste of sweet herbs, q)ice or gar- 
lic; either of these flavors may be added 
afterward, if desired. Cover it close, set it 
by the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
very gently, so as not to waste the broth, 
for four or five hours or more, according to 
the weight of the meat. Strain it through 
a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and 
set it in the coldest place you have. 

ICF* This is the foundation of all sorti 
of soups and sauces, Ixrown and white. 

BROTH, CHICKEN. Take the re- 
maining psuts of a chicken firom which 
panada has been made, all but the rump; 
skin, and put them into the water it waa 
first boiled in, with the addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and 
simmer it. When of a good flavor, pot to 
it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almmidi 
beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it 
a little while, ana when cokl, take off the 
fat. 

BROTH, CHICKEN PECTORAL, 
Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and 
put it into a saucepan with two pints and a 
half of water, two ouoces of pearl barley, 



B&O 



98 



BRO 



^ nme of rioe and two omoM of tbebert 
hoD^; boil aU to^;etber, diiiniBing wdl for 
tfunoe houn* odUI it be reduoed to two^hirds. 

BROTH, JELLY. Take a joint of mut- 
tan, a capmi, a fillet t^\tal, and three qoarts 
of water; put tbeee into an earthen pan, and 
boil them over a gentle fire till reduced to 
half; then squeeze all together, and strain 
the Uqgoor through a napku. 

BROTH, MUTTON. Take two pounds 
of scrag of mutton; to take the blood out, 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
QoU water; when the water becomes milk- 
warm, pour it off; then put it in four or five 
pints of water, with a tea-spoonfiil of salt, a 
tableH^)oonfiil of best erits, and an onion ; set 
it on a slow fire, and when you liave taken 
all the scum off, put in two (w three turnips; 
let it simmer very slowly for two hours, and 
strain it through a clean sieve. 

BROTH, MUTTON, FOR THE SICK. 
Have a pound and a half of a neck or loin 
of mutton; take off the skin and the fat, and 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it with cold 
vrater, (it will take about a quart to a pound 
of meat), let it simmer very gently, and 
skim it well ; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand gently 
stewing for about an hour; then strdin it on. 
It should be allowed to become cold, when 
an the greasy particles will float on the sur- 
fiu%, and becoming 'hard, can be easily 
taken off, and the settlings will remain at 
the bottom. N. B.  ^We direct the meat to 
be done no more than just sufiiciently to be 
eaten ; so a sick man may have plenty of 
good broth for nothing; as by this manner 
of producing it, the meat fiirnishes also a 
good fiunily meal. This is an inoffensive 
nourishmeitf for sick persons, and the only 
mutton broth that should be given to conva- 
lescents, whose constitutions require raplen- 
ishing with restorative aliment of easy di- 
gestion. The common way of making it 
with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c. &c. is 
too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broth 
will agree with a delicate stomach, when 
the least addition of other ingredients would 
immediately offend it. 

BROTH, MEAGRE, or Soup with 
Hkr98. Set on a kettle of water, put in 
two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts of 
good herbs; seascMi with salt; put in butter, 
and a bunch of aweet herbs; boil it for an 
hour and a half; then strain it through a 
sieve, or napkin. This will serve to make 
leMuM soup, asparagus aoup, ioup,cii $aiUe, 
8^. with 0^. 

BBOra. MUtUGATAWNY, OR 



CURRY. Make about two quarto of atrongr 
veal broth, seasoned with two ooionsy a 
bunch of parsley, salt and ^ptspper; strain it 
and have read^ a chicken, cut in joints and 
skinned ; put it into the broth, with a table- 
spoonfiil of curry-powder ; boil the chickaa 
till quite tender, and a little before servingy 
add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a tea- 
cupfiil of cream. Serw boiled rice to eat 
with this broth. 

BROTH, RICE VEAL. Wash clean 
six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it 
in two, put it in a saucepan with four quarts 
of boiling water, half a pound of rice weQ^ 
washed, a little mace, white pepper, and 
salt, and a handful <^ diopped punAey; let 
it boil for two hours. Serve part of tiie 
meat in the tureen with the broth. The 
thick part of the knuckle may be sent v^ 
as a separate dish, with parsley and butter 
poured ov^ it. 

BROTH, WHITE. Bofl a fowl, and 
when it is enough, take it up, and pot it into 
a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of 
mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put in 
the man'ow of one beef bone, and take some 
of tlie broth, and mingle them together ; put to 
it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thick- 
en on the fire ; then put the fowl hot out of 
the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, 
and serve it. 

BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING. 
Put into a nicely tinned saucepan about a 
pound of fi-esh butter, melt it slowly, and 
dredge in flour till it becomes like a paste, 
careuiUy stirring it all the time, put it for 
a few minutes upon a quick fire, and then 
return it to where there is less heat, and 
stir it till it assumes a liglit brown color^ 
when it may be put into a jar. These 
thickenings keep for sometime. 

BROWNING, Is a convenient article 
to color those soups or sauces of which it is 
supposed dieir deep brown complexion de- 
notes the strength and savouriness of the 
composition. Burned sugar is also a & 
vorite ingredient with the brewers, who use 
it under the name of " essentia hina" to col- 
or their beer : it is also employed by tlie bran- 
dy makers, in considerable quantity, to color 
brandy ; to which, besides enriching its com- 
plexion, it gives that sweetish taste, and fiil- 
ness in the mouth, which custom has taught 
brandy drinkers to admire, and prefer to 
the finest Cognac in its genuine state. When 
employed for culinary purposes, this is some- 
times made with strong gravy, or wafaiHt 
catchup. Those who luce a i^tmi of acid 
may add a little walnut pickle. Put half 
 povnd of pouo^^d lump w^^ ^o^ ^ t8^|^ 



btJNS 



 



fiVNS 



Iptoranu tn WtMcTy ittto a deu iran 
pan, set it over a slow fire, and keep stir- 
ring it with a wooden spoon tiD it becomes 
a mght brown color, and begins to onoke ; 
ttien add to it an ounce of salt, and dilute it 
by degrees with water, till it is the thick- 
neas of soy; let it boil, take off die scum, 
and strain the liquor into bottles, which 
Miost be weU stopped: if you have ntot any 
oi this by you, and yon wish to darken the 
ook>r of your sances, poiuid a tea-spoonful 
of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon, 
with as much wator as will dissolve it; 
hold it over a quick fire till it becomes of a 
very dark brown oobr; mix it with the 
soup, &c. while it is hot. 

BRUNSWICK TART. See Tart, 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS TO BOIL. 
IVim and wadi them perfectly clean, and 
let them lie an hour in cold water. Put 
them on in boiling water, with a little salt, 
and boil them tiU tender. Di-ain off the 
water, and serve them hot. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Chop small 
aome boiled white cabbage; season it with 
pqsper and salt, and fiy it with a little bottei* ; 
pepper and Ixoil some slices of cold boiled 
salted beef; put the fried cabbage into a dish, 
and lay round it the slices of broiled beef, 
and serve it vary hot. The beef does best 
wbea underdone. 

BUNS, BATH. Rub togedier, widi 
the hand, one pound of fine fiour and a half 
a pound of butter ; beat six eggs, and add 
them to the flour with a table spoonful of good 
yeast. Mix them all together with half a tea- 
cap fill! of milk; set it in a warm place for 
an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds. Mould them in- 
to buns with a taUe spoon on a baking plate; 
throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, 
and bake them in a hot oven about ten min- 
utes. Tliese quantities should make eigiit- 
een buns. 

BUNS, COMMON. Rub four ounces of 
butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces 
of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few 
canraway seeds. Put a spoonful or two of 
ovam into a cup of yea^, and as much good 
milk as will make the above into a Tight 
paste ; set it by the fire to rise, lliey will 
oake quickly on tins; you may add nutrn^. 

BUNS, CROSS. To the above mix- 
ture put one ounce and a half of ground all- 
spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and when 
kalf proved, press the form of a cross with 
a tin mould in the centre, and fini^ as 
above. 

3 



BUNS, PLUM. To two Mimds of tltt 
plain bun paste, put half a pound of currants^ 
a quarter of a pound of^ candied orange* 
peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmec 
grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, waA 
as allspice, cinnaoMHi) 8cc. Mould them in- 
to buns^ jag than rmmd the edges with a 
knife, and proceed as above. 

BUNS, PLAIN. To four pounds of sift* 
ed flour put one pound of good moist siwar ; 
make a cavity in the centre, and stir m a 
gill of good yeast, a pint of lukewarm milk, 
with enough of the flour to make it the thick* 
ness of cream ; cover it over, and let it lie 
two hours; then melt to an oil (but not hot) 
<Nie pound of butter, stir it into the other in* 
^reaients, with enotigfa warm milk to make 
It a soft paste ; throw a littte flour ova*, and 
let than lie an hour ; have ready a baking- 
plattor rulibed over with butter ; mould wiUi 
the hand the dough into buns, about the 
size of a large egg; lay them in rows full 
three incites apart ; set them in a warm place 
for half an hour, or till they have risen to 
double their size ; bake them In a hot oven 
oi a good color, and wash them over with 
a brusli dipped into milk when drawn from 
the oven. 

BUNS, RICHER. Put four pounds of 
fine flour into a wooden bowl ; set a sponge 
of it with a gill of yeast and a pint of 
warm milk ; wen mix with it one pound of 
sifled sugar, one pound of oiled fivsh butter, 
coriander seeds, cmnamon, and mace, a small 
quantity of each, pounded tine. Roll the 
paste into buns, set them on a baking-pbta 
rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate 
oven to prove ; then wash them with a paste- 
brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a 
good color. 

BUNS, SCOTS CHRISTMAS. Take 
four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half 
of currants well cleaned and dried, half a 
pound of almonds blanched, of candied orange 
and lemon-peel a quartor of a pound eac, 
cut small ; of pounded cloves, pepper, and 

S'nger, half an ounce each, four pounds of 
Hir, and twenty-two ounces of butter. 
Then rub the Ixitter with the flour, till well 
mixed together; add a little warm water, 
and a quarter of a pint of fi^esh good yeast, 
and work it into a lig^t smooth paste ; cut 
off nearly one-third of the paste, to form the 
sheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rest 
work up the fiiiit, sweetmeats, and spices ; 
make it into a round form like a thick cheese. 
Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the 
centre, and gather it all round, closing it at 
the bottom, by wetting the edges of the paste, 
and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn 
it up, and run a wire or small skewer through 



sot 



96 



tsi 



hxm the top to tlie bottom every here ttnd 
there, and prick the top with a fiirk. Don- 
Ue and flour a sheet ot gray paper, and lay 
Uie bun upon it ; bind n piece round the 
sidee, also doubled and floured, to keep the 
bun in a propctt* shape; Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BUNS, SEEDw Take two poundg of 
plain bim dough, and mix in one ounce of 
caraway seeds, butter the insides of tart- 
pans; mould the dougli into buns, and put 
one into each pan; set thein to rise in a. 
warm place, and wlien suiliciently proved, 
ice them with the white of an egg beat to a 
fi^th, lay some pounded sugar over that, and 
dissolve it with water splashed from the 
icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. 

BURDWANSTEW. Cut into joints a 
cold fowl or duck, put it into a stewpan, 
with half a pint of gra\'y, a large wineglass 
of ale, lialf a one of white wine, the juice 
c^ half a lemon, a teanspoonful of soy and 
CayeiHie ; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, 
cucumber vinegar, corach eseavecke, a des- 
sert-spoonful each. Heat all thoroughly be- 
fore serving. 

BUTTER BURNT. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a small fr}'ing-pan ; when it 
becomes a dark brown colur, add to it a 
table-poonful and a half of good vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. 06. /This is 
used as sauce for boiled fish or poached 



BURNET VINEGAR. See Vinegar. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. See Biscuits. 

BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes. 

BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Put the butter 
in a mce, clean stewpan, over a very clear, 
slow fire ] watch it, and wlien it is melted, 
carefully skim off tlie buttermilk, &c. which 
will swim on the top ; let it stand a minute 
(NT two for the impurities to sink to the bot- 
tom; then pour die clear butter through a 
sieve into a clean basin, leaving die sediment 
at die bottom of die stewpan. Obs.  But- 
ter thus purified will be as sweet as marrow, 
a ver^ useful covering for otted meats, &c. 
and tor frying fish equal to the fiunest Florence 
oil; for whidi purpose it is oommcmly used 
by Catholics, and those whose reliffious ten- 
ets will not 2dl9w them to eat viaiM^ firied in 
animal oil. 

BUTTER, FRENCH MELTED. Mix, 
in a stewpan, wiUi a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a little 
salt, half a gill of water, lialf a spoonful of 



while vmeear, aad a little mtod niitef^* 
Put it (Ml the fire, ttir it, and let it thicken, 
but do noiaUow it to boil, lest k should taste 
of the flour. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (1) Dintalktle 
flour ovor a quarter of a pound of bntfer, pot 
k into a saucepan, with about a win&^law 
of water ; stir it one way constantly till it be 
melted, and let it just boil: a round wooden 
stick, is die best thing to stir butter with In 
melting. If the butter is to be melted with 
cream, use the same proportion as of water, 
but no flour ; stir it constantly, and heat it 
thorou^ly, but do not let it boil. To ofl 
butter, cut about a quai'ter of a pound into 
slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in . 
a pan of boiling water. When oiled, pour 
it off clear from die sediment. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (2) Is so simple 
and easy to prepare, that it is a mattor of 
geneiTtl surprise, that what is done so ofteoy 
IS so seldom done right. It is spoiled nine 
times out of ten, more from idleness dian from 
igiiontnce, and rather because the cook won*t 
than because site can't do it; which can on- 
ly be die case when housekeqwrs will not 
allow butter to do it widi. Good melted 
butter cannot be made with maix) flour and 
water ; there iiAist be a full and proper pro- 
portion of butter. As it must be always on 
the table, and is the foundation of almost all 
our sauces, we have. 

Melted butter and oystei-s, 

     ^ parsley, 

 anchovies. 



shrmips, 

 lubiiteni, 

' ' capers, &c. &C. &e. 

I have tried every way of making it; and I 
trust, that I have wntten a receipt, (3) 
which, if the cook .will cai-efiiliy olMsrre, 
she will constantly succeed in giving sutia- 
faction. In the quantities of the various 
sauces I have ordered, I have had in view 
the providing for a imily of half a dozen 
moderate people. Never pour sauce over meat 
or even put it into die dish; however well 
made, some of the c<Mnpany may have en 
antipathy to it; tastes are as different ai 
faces : moreover, if it is sent up separate m a 
boat, it will keep hot longer, and what is left 
may be put by for another time, or used fcr 
another purpose. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (3) Keep a pint 
stewpan; for this purpose only. Gut two 
ounces of butter into little bits, that it mi^ 
melt more easily, and mix more readily; put 
it into the stewpan with a large teanspoon* 
ful (t. e. about three drachms) of flow, 
(some prefer arrow-root, or potato scardi) 



Clfi 



31 



CXKZ 



ind two tabbpooiifob of milk. When 
ihoroughly mixed, aiid six tabiopoooiul8 
of watei* } hold it over the fire, and ahake it 
roand ever^ minate (all the iwlitle the Mune 
way), till It jtMt begins to simmer; then let 
it stand quietly and boil up. It should be of 
the thicknesB of oood cream. N< B.'Two 
fc^)le-6poonfi]]s of mushroom catdinp, instead 
tof the milk, will make as good moBhroom 
teuce as need be, and is a superlative accom- 
paniment to either Hah^ fiesh, or fowl. 
06s ^Tliis is the best way of preparing 
melted batter; milk mixes with the hfXJter 
much more easily and more intimately than 
water alone can be made to do. This is 
of proper thickness to he mixed at table 
with flavouring essences, anchovy, mush- 
room, or cavioe, &c. If made merely to 
poor over veg<^sU)le8, add a little more milk 
to it. N. B.  If die butter oils, put a 
poonibl of c(Ad water to it, and stir it with 
a spoon ; if it is very much oiled, it must 
be poured backwards and Ibrwards fram 
the stewnnn to tiie sauceboat till it is rivht 
asain. Mem.  ^Alelted butter made to be 
mixed with flavouring essences, catchups, 
&c. should be of tlie Uiickness of light bat- 
ter, that it may adhere to the fish, &c. 

BUTTER, OILED. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a saucepan ;' set it at a dis- 
tance from the fire, so tliat it may melt grad- 
ually, till it r4>me8 to an oil ; and pour it off 
riuietly fh>m the dregs. 06.  ^This will 
supply the place of olive oil ; and by some is 
preferred to it eith^ fur salads or frying. 

BUTTER SAUCE. See Sauce. 



C. 



CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. 
See Soup. 

CABBAGE, TO STEW. Wash a cab- 
bage well, slice it as for pickling, and pot it 
into a stewpan, with half a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and a bit of batter kneaded in 
flour, a little salt and pepper; stir it till the 
butter is melted ; cover the pan, and let it stew 
a little, but not to become too soft ; as it eats 
better radier crisp; add a table-spoonful of 
vinegar, give it one boil, and serve it hot. 
Tlie wine may be omitted. 

CABBAGE, TO PICKLE. Choose two 
middling-sized, well-colored, and firm red 
cabbages, shred them very finely, first pulling 
off the outside leaves ; mix witn them nearly 
half a pound of salt, tie it up in a thin cloth, 
and let it bang for twelve hours ; then put it 
into small jars, and pour over it cold vin^ar 



that has been boiled with a frw bMhomM In 
it; tie the jar ver cloaely with bladder; or 
boil, in a quart of vinegar, three bks of gin* 
ger, Iwlf an ounce of pepper, and a qiarler of 
an ouuce of cloves. When cold, pour it ow 
the red cabbage. 

CAKES. PRBPAmATOKT mKMAmX0. 

Hie currants and raisins should be prepared 
as directed under the article headed, Pud- 
dings and Pics, and the flour dried befbrs 
the fire on a large slieet of white paper, then 
sifled and weiglied. Almonds should be 
blanched by pouring hot >valer ofver tliem, 
and, after standing some minutes, taking off 
the skin, then thi\>wing them into rose or 
cold water. When not pounded, they should 
be cut lengthwise into thin bits. Sugar 
should be roughly pounded, rolled with a 
bottle upon white pi^oiier, and dien siibd. All 
iqiices, after being well dried at the ire, should 
be finely pound^ and sifted. Lemon and 
orange-peel must be pared very thin, and 
pounded with a little sugar. The butter, 
afler being weighed, should be laid into cold 
water, or washed in rose wator, and if sak, 
be well washed in several waters. The 
yolks and whites of ^gs should be separatriy 
and long beaten, then strained; two whiake 
should be kept exclusively ibr that pur* 
pose, as the whites especially require to be 
mauaged with the greatest care. A horn 
spoon sliould be usecf for mixing those cakes 
which are not directed to be beaten with the 
hand. To make cakes light, salvolatile, or 
smelling salts, may be added immediately 
before putting theiu into the oven, allowing, 
to asponge csdbe, made of oae poimd of flotur, 
one tea-spo(Mifui ; and two or three to a large 
plum cake. Cheese cakes, qoeoi cakes, 
sponge biscuits, and smaU sponge cakes, r&* 
quire a quick oven till thfw have risen ; after* 
wards the heat should be more moderate. 
Plum, seed cakes, and all large kinds, must be 
well soaked, and tlierelbre do not i^uire a 
brisk oven. To preserve their color, a sheet of 
white paper is put over them, and after they 
have risen and become firm, they are turned 
round. To ascertain if a large cake be 
sufficiently done, a broad bbded knife is 
plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and 
clean when drawn out, the eake is baked; 
but if anything adheres to the lilade, it must 
instantly be returned to the oven, and the 
door closed. When the oven is too hot, it 
is better to lessen die fire than to open (he 
door. 

CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of 
dried and sifted flour, the same <^ well clean- 
ed and dried currants, two pounds of fiesh 
batter, two of finely-pounded and sifted loaf 
sngar, a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonfiil of 
pounded cinnamon, one ounce of citron and 



CAKE 



33 



CAKS 



tUM^ed oraageipedi cat, mmiSi, the yottu of 
ixteeo, and the whites of ten em, beaten 
eparately; then with the hana beat the 
batter to a craun, and add the migar, then 
the eggs by degraes, and the flour in the 
same way, and then the currants, sweetmeats, 
and spice, one glass of orange-flower water, 
and one of kxandy. Butter a tin pan, line it 
with white paper buttered, put in the cake, 
and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. 

CAKE^ ALMOND. Blanch half a pound 
of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almmids ; 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with 
oranse-flower water ; add half a pound of 
sifted loaf sugar, and a little brandv ; whisk 
separately, for half sui horn*, the whites and 
yolks of twenty eggs, add the volks to tlie 
almonds and sugar, and tlien stir m the whites, 
and beat tliem all well tc^ether. Butter a 
tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the 
cake iutu it, over the top of which strew sifted 
loaf sugar. Bake it in a quick oven for 
half or three-quartans of an hour. 

CAKES, ALMOND SMALL. One 

pound of butter beaten to a craam, half a 
pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
naif a pound of dried and sifted flour, and 
the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds 
cat into thin small bits, one well-beaten egg, 
and a little rose water, must be mixed well 
together, and with a spoon dropped upon 
wafer paper or tins, and then baked. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (1) Take eight 
ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bittnr al- 
monds, blanch and pound them very fine ; 
then beat in with the almonds the yolks of 
eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a 
solid firom. Then take eight tablenspoonfiils 
of sifted sugcU', five qpoonfiils of fine flom', a 
small quantity of grated lemon-peel and 
pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingre- 
dients. Rub the inside of a mould with 
fresh butter, fill it with the mixture and bake 
it of a light color. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (2) Put a gill of 
flour upon a pie4x>ard, and make a bole 
in the middle to receive a piece of buttor the 
size of an egg, a little salt, a quarto* of a 
pound of fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet 
ahnonds pounded very fine: knead the whole, 
and form it into a cake ; bake, and glaze it 
with sugar and a hot salamander. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (3) Weigh tliree 
eggs in their sheUs,. take tlie same weight of 
flour, of the finest firesh butter, and of grated 
loaf sugai'. Pound with these ingrraients 
three ounces of sweet ahnonds blanched; add 
a little grated lemon-peel, or orange-flower 
water, and the whites and yolks of three 



CoMtiwia poundiog tiD the wfat^ 
forais a smooth paste. Butter the bottom 
of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with 
fire above and below. This cake may be 
served either hot or cold, with grated sugar 
over it. 

CAKES, ANISEED. Put in an earthen 
pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
the yolks often eggs; stir them togetner with 
a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the 
meantime have tlic whites of your e^a 
whipped to a tliick snow, and then pour in 
the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly 
mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, pre 
vioudly washed and dried, and ten ounces of 
flour ; stir tiie wliole gently, and then with a 
spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about 
the size of a crown-niece ; sprinkle them with 
fine sugar, and bake. Remove them fixxn 
the paper, while hot, with a knifed 

CAKE, APPLE. Pare and core a doz- 
en apples, smd make them into marmabdey 
witli the zeste of a lemon and a little cinna- 
mon, and pass tliem through a bolting; put 
them into a stewpan, with a spoonfhl of 
potato flour, half a pound of sugar, and two 
oimces of butter ; dry it over the fire, and 
when cold add to it six eggs, stir them wdl 
in, and having buttered a mould, pom* your 
preparation into it, and bake it in a slow 
oven; when done, turn it in a disli and 
serve it. 

CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat 

to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
and mix with it the same quantity of pound- 
ed and sifted loaf sugar, and four well-beatoi 
^gs; add flour till Uiick enough to roll out; 
eut the paste into oblong pieces about four 
or five inches in length ; wiUi a paste cutter, 
divide the centre into three or four strips ; 
wet the edges, and plait one bar over the 
other, so as to meet in the centre ; throw 
them into boiling lard, or clarified suet; 
when fiied of a light brown, drain them 
before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, 
with or without grated loaf si]^ar strewed 
over them. 

CAKE, BANBURY. Set a sponge with 
two table-spoonfiils of thick yeast, a gill of 
warm milk, and a pound of flour; when it 
has worked a little, mix with it haJf a pound 
of currants, washed and picked, half a 
pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut 
small, one ounce of spice, such as ground 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and grated nut- 
meg: mix the whole together with half a 
pound of honey ; roll out pofl* paste a quarter 
of an inch diick, cut it into rounds with a 
cutter, about four inches over, lay on each 
with a spoon a small quantity of the mixture ; 



CAKS 



CASE 



doK it iwnid with the ft^en is the Ibnn 
ef an oval; plaoe the join mdeneath; prtm 
h flat with me hand; fift ngar over it, and 
bake than on a pbte a qnaiter ai an hour. 

CAKES, BATH BREAKFAST. Rub 

into two pounds of floor half a pound (Abut- 
ter, and mix with it one pint of milk a little 
^vanned, a quarter q( a pint of fresh ycaet, 
Ibnr weR-beaten ^gs, and a tea^spooofiil of 
salt; bover it,*and let it stand bef(M the ire 
to rise for three-fiiiarters of an hour ; make 
it into diick cakes about the size of tlie 
iwide of a dinner plate; bake them in a 
qoidL oven, then cut than into three, that 
me middle slice, as also the top and bottom 
may be well buttered. Serve them voy hot. 

CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To three 
poonds fj( dried flour allow one pound of 
fi^ butter, one pound of good brown sugar, 
two ounces of caraway seeds, eight well- 
beaten ^[gs, three tafale-spoonfuls of fresh 
yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the 
butter in a pint of milk, so as to make the 
ivhoVe into a dough, not vety stiflf; work it 
weQ; cover it with a ck>th, and set it before 
the fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in 
a battered tin. When it becomes dry, it 
may be toasted and eaten with butter. 

CAKES, BONNET. BoU in half a 
pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- 
namon, and of lemon-peel ; strain, and mix it 
with three table-spoonfiils of flour, and stir 
it over the fire for two or three minutes ; add 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when 
cold, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a 
little salt and pepper ; lieat it well, drop a 
deeaertHspoooful of the mixture into boiling 
lard, then drain them upon the back of a 
neve, and when served, throw over pounded 
loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper, a 
little preserve may be drooped upon each, 
before the sugar is thrown over. 

CAKE, BABA. Take the fourth part of 
two pounds of flour, lay it on your paste- 
board or slab, and having made a hole in 
the middle of it, put in half an ounce of 
yeast, work it i^ with one hand, whilst with 
the other you pour in warm water ; make it 
into a ramer soft paste, put into a wooden 
bowl, fii-st pricking it in a few places, cover 
it with a cloth and let it stand. When it 
has risen well, take the I'onainder of the 
flour, and spread it on the first made paste; 
mix them well together, addiag to them 
half an ounce of salt, six egga, a pound of 
firesh batter, half a pound of stoned laisine, 
two ounces of currants, half a glass of Mal- 
ara wine, and a little safiiron in powder. 
Woi^ them up together thorotighly, roll it 
pqf, two or three txam^ and then let it stand 



Mr tn. homj vmb lisfMg bntlend amMBd^ 
pov in yoar pnfNuration md bdke k. 

CAKE, BOLAR. Ow powd of flow 
dried in a skiw oven, two ipne i tf i h of yeaat, 
some almond milk, and water to mix for a 
sponge ; when raised, beat vp three-quartera 
ofa pound of ekrified butter, three em, and 
three-qnartera of a poondof sugar, weU-bea^ 
en till the epoon ^omes cleaa away ; Amd 
add cinnamon powder, candied orange and 
lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well but- 
tered ; keep it before the fire tiM pot in tfab 
oven. 

CAKE, BOLAR. When dw sponge is 
beat, as for the kMt, instead of mixing the 
sugar, it is rolled in the sugar andcinnamcNfl. 

CAKE, DUTCH BOLAR. Done, as 
above, without sugar ; then prick holes with 
a Aarp pointed knife, and while it is hot 
pour in tnrae-quartersof a pound of cbrified 
sugar, flavored with cinnamon or orange* 
flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are pre* 
viously put in the cake. Ornament yoor 
cake with harlequin sugar^lmns. This waa 
afiivorite cake of Queen Quu*lotte. 

CAKE, BREAD. Take the quantity 
of a quartern loaf fi*om the dough when mak- 
ing white bread, and knead well into it two 
oimces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and 
eight of currants. Warm the butter in a 
tea-cupfiil of ffood milk. By the addition 
of an ounce of batter, or sugar, or an egg or 
two, you may aiake the cake better. A 
tea-cupfiil of raw cream improves it mudi. 
It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as 
a loaf, the outside being less hard. 

CAKE, BRIDE. Tkke four pomids of 
fine flour wdl dried, four pounds of fi-esh 
butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded 
and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs; 
to every pound of floor put eight eggs ; wash 
and pick four pounds of currants, and diy 
them before the fire; blanch a pound ot 
sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways*,. 
very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of 
candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, 
and half a'pant of brandy; first work the 
butter with your hand to a cream, then 
beat in your sugar a quarter oi an hour; 
beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong: 
fit)th; mix them with your sugar aind but-, 
ter ; beat the yolks half an hour, at least, 
and mix them with your eake; then put in 
your flour, mace, and nutmeg; keep beatmg^ 
It tiU the oven is ready ; put in your brandv 
and beat the currants and afanoodi lighoy 
in; tie three^teets of paper roond the hot- 
torn of your hoops to keep it fixxn naming 



CAKE 



^ 



CAKE 



at; rub it well with butter, pot in your 
cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with 
cake between eveiy la^; after it is risen 
and cobred, cover it with paper before your 
oven is stopped up; it will take three unirs 
baking. 

CAKE, BRIE. Take some rich cheese, 
knead it with a pint and half of flour, three 
quarters of a pound of butter, and a little 
salt ; moisten it with five or six eggn beaten 
up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand 
for an hour ; tlien form your cake and bake 
as usual. 

CAKES, BENTON-TEA. Rub into 
a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
three spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a 
paste with new milk; make into biscuits, 
and prick them with a clean fork. 

CAKES, BUTTER. Beat a dish of 
butter with your hands to a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried 
flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave out half 
the whites, and then heat all together for an 
horn*; when you are going to put it in tlie 
oven add a quarter of an ounce of mace and 
a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds 
and currants, if you think proper. 

CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER.- Take 
the weight of tlu-ee eggs in sugar, and the 
weight of two in flour ; when tlie five eggs are 
well beaten, gradually add the sugar, and 
then the flour, with a little grated lemon- 
peel, or a few cai'away seeds. Bake it in 
a tin mould, in rather a quick oven. 

CAKES, CHESHIRE, ^eat for half 
an hour the yolks of eight, and die whites 
of five eggs ; add half a pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
oi dried and sifted flour, and the grated 
peei of a small lemon ; beat all well togeth- 
&Cf and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (1) Three 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter well rubbed into it, a quarter of a 
pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway 
eeeds; make these into a stifi* paste with a 
little cokl water, roll it out two or three 
times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, 
and bake them upon floured tins. For a 
change, currants may be substituted for the 
caraway seeds. 

CAKES. CARAWAY. (2) Mix half 
a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound 
of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
add some caraway seeds ; make it into a 
etifi* paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and 
a little jro99 water; roll it oiit thin^ cot it 



into round cakes, prick them with a Ibrk^ 
and bake them upon floured tins in a quick 
oven. 

CAKES, CURD CHEESE. BoU, in 

two quarts of cream, the well-beaten yollu 
f^ four, and the whites of five eggs ; drain 
oflf the whey gently, and mix with the curd 
grated nutm^, pounded cinnamon, three 
tablc'^poonftils of best rose yater, as mucb 
white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf su- 
gar, the same quantity of butter beaten to a 
cream, and of pounded biscuit. Mix all 
these ingredients well togetlier, and stir in 
a quarter of a pound of cun-ants. Bake it 
in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with 
paste ; or it may be baked m a dish previ> 
ously buttered. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (1) Take 

two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, 
one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonfiils 
of white wine, tliree spoonfiils of caraway 
seeds, two Nutmegs, and one pound of cur- 
rants ; beat up the butter with your hand 
till it is very thin ; dry the flour well ; put in 
the caraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grat- 
ed ; afterwards put them all into your bat- 
ter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose 
water; mingle tliem well together; put in 
the currants ; let your oven be pretty hot, 
and as soon as tliey are colored they will be 
sufficiently done. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (2) Take half a 
pound of cleaned and dried currants, the 
same quantity of dried and sifted flour, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of fi^esh butter, four 
yolks, and three whites of eggs, both w^ 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pound- 
ed cinnamon; dien beat the butter to a 
cream ; add die sugar, and then the egg^ 
and the flour; beat these well far twenty 
minutes, mix in the currants and the erated 
nutmeg. Di'op the cakes in a round focm 
upon JMittered paper, or bake them in small 
tins in a quick oven. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (3) Take six 
ounces of currants, the same quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, 
half a pound of butter, and three-qoarterB 
of a pound of dried and 'sifted flour; rub the 
butter with the flour till di^ be well mixed, 
then add the other ingredients, and bind 
them with three beaten yolks of eggs, and 
two or three spoonfiils of rose cr orange> 
flower water; roll it out, and cut it into 
round cakes with the top of a wine glass or 
a tin. 

CAKE, CpMUfON. (1) Take two 



CAKE 



35 



CAK 



qoarts of flour, mix with it three-qisrtera 
(H a pound of butter, a tea-cupful of finesh 
yeast, one pint of milk, nine well-beaten 
egg9, two pounds of well-cleaned currants, 
one pound and a lialf of good brown sugar, 
the grated peel of a lemon, and one nutmeg ; 
a gla^ of brandy must be stirred in just be- 
fore it be put into a buttered tin. Bake it 
fi>r two hours or more. 

CAKE,C(IMON. (2) Rub into one 
pound of flour a quarter of a pound of 
good butter; mix, with two well-beaten 
^gs, and a tabh-spoonful of fi^esh yeast, as 
much warm milk as will make tiie nour into 
a veiT thick batter. Let tliis remain near 
the fire, covered with a cloth for an houi', 
then mix into it six ounces of good brown 
sugar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and 
dried currants; let it stand again for half 
an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for 
an hour. 

CAKE, COMMON. (3) One pound and 
a half of flour, one pound of good brown su- 
gar, ei^t well-beaten eggs, and one ounce 
of caraway seeds, are to be mixed together ; 
then add of fresh yeast, milk, and of water, 
one table-spoonful each. Let it stand a lit- 
tle time,vand bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, COLD HARBOR. Dissolve 
one ounce of butter in as much milk warmed 
as will make four pounds of flour into a stiff 
paste;' about two pints may be required; 
add half a tea-spoonful of salt, one egg 
beaten together with a table-spoonful of 
yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it remain before the fire for 
half an hour; then make it into small 
round balls, and bake them upon tins in a 
quick oven. 

CAKES, qREAM. (1) Put a pound of 
flour upon a pie-board; make a hole in the 
middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, 
and a little salt ; mix the paste lighdy, let 
it stand for half an hour, then add half a 
pound of butter; roll it out, five times, the 
same as pufi" paste, and form it into small 
cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and 
bake in an oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (2) Sifl some 
donble^^efined sugar; beat the whites of 
seven or eight eggs; shake in as maoy 
qpoonftils of the sugar; grate in the rind of 
a large lemon ; drop the froth on a paper, 
laid on tin, in Jumps at a distance ; sift a 
good deal of sugar over them; set them in a 
moderate oven; the froth will rise; just 
color them; you may put raspberry jam, 
and stick two bottoms together; put them 
in a cool oven to dry. 



CAKES, CREAM. (8) Put into a 
slewpan, two glasses of cream, a quarter of 
a pound of butter, the rind (^ a lemon, cut 
small, a quaiter of a pound of powdcr-tugar, 
and a pinch of sak. Set it on tlic fire, and 
when it begins to boil, put it by tlie side of 
tlie stove ; take out tlie leroon-peel, an^ add, 
by degrees, as much flour as die liquid wiU 
bear ; keep stirring it constantly, and place 
it on tlie fire again, for five minutes, then 
pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one, 
as many eggs as will make the paste stick 
to the fingers ; put the paste on a slab, and 
make your cakes of a round form. 

CAKES, CANAPES. Roll out three- 
quartcra of a pound of pufl^ paste, keeping it 
long and narrow ; do not let it be more than 
a quarter of an inch thick, and about three 
inclies wide. Cut the paste across with a 
sliarf) knife, in slips tivee-eiglits of an inch 
in width, and place Uiem on the cut side, on 
a baking-plate, each two inches apart ; bake 
them in a hot oven, and when nicely colored, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. 
When done, remove tJiem from the plate; 
and just before they are so^ed, mask them 
with apricot marmalade, or any odier yoa 
may like better, and arrange them on your 
disn en eouronne. 

CAKES, CURD. Take a quart of 
curds, eight eggs, leaving out four whites ; 
put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour ; mix Uiese well togetaer, heat butter, 
in a frying-pan, drop them in, and &y like 
fritters. 

CAKES, DERBY OR SHORT. Rub 

in with the hand one pound of butter into 
two pounds of sifted flour; put one pound 
of currants, one pound of good moist sugar, 
and one e^g; mix all together with hedf 
a pint of milk: roll it out in, and cut them 
into round cakes with a cutter ; lay them oa 
a clean baking-plate, and put tliem into a 
middling-heated oven fbr aSout five minutes. 

. CAKE, DIET BREAD. Boil, in half 
a pint of water, one pound and a half of 
lump sugar; have ready one pint of e^s, 
three parts volks, in a pan ; pour in the su- 
gar, and whisk it quick till cold, or about 
a quarter of an houi*; then stir in two 
pounds of sifted flour; case the inside of 
square tins with white paper; fill them three 
parts full ; sifl a little sugar over, and bake 
It in a warm oven, and while hot remove 
them fhn the moulds. 

CAKE, DAUPHINE. Beat separater 
ly the whites and yolks of twenty c^> to 
the yolks add a pound of poundjsd and sifbed 
loaf'^sugar, the grated peel of one leaioa, and 



CAKE 



36 



CAK 



two or three taUe-epoonfub of orange-flower 
water; then stir in the whites, and lightly 
mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour. 
Bake it in a moderate oven. 

CAKE, FASHION. Mix a handful of 
flour |vith a pint of good cream, lialf a pound 
of beef suet,, melted and sifted, a quarter of 
a pound of powder-eugar, half a pound of 
raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of 
orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, 
and salt ; hake it as all other cakes, about an 
hour, and glaze or garnish it. ^ 

CAKE, FOURRES. Make a puff paste, 
form it into two equal psuts the size of the 
dish in which you mean to place your cake, 
and the tiiickness of two crowns each ; then 
take one of the cakes and put upon it some 
sweetmeats, leaving about an inch, as a 
border, ail round; wet it with water and 
place the other cake upon it, draw up tlie 
edses careftiUy with your fingers ; gild them 
with tiie yolk of egg, and bake them in an 
oven. 

CAKE, FRENCH. Twelve eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten well and separately, 
one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a lai^ lemon, half a pound 
of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of 
sifted and dried ground rice, four ounces of 
sweet, and one ofbitter almonds, pounded in 
a mortar together, with a table-spoonful of 
orange-flower water. Mix all these ingre- 
dients gradually, and beat them well, ra- 
per the pan, and bake the cake for oneiiour. 

CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and 
flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump 
sngau*, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce 
of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one 
hour, bake it for tlie same time in a quick 
oven. This is a very light cake, and is ve- 
ry proper for young pe<^le and delicate 
stomachs. 

CAKES, RICH GINGERBREAD. To 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow 
half a pound' of pounded loaf sugar, three- 
quai-ters of a pound of firesh butter washed in 
rose water, one pound of treacle, one nutmeg 
grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded 
mace, and as much of pounded cinnamon, 
one ounce of pounded ginger, one and a half 
of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small, 
half an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut 
it into loi^ thin bits, and two wdl-bcAten 
eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and 
watm nearly cold, stir in the eggs and the 
rat of the mgredients ; mix all well together, 
make it into round cakea, and bake them 
upon tiai. 



CAKE, GINGERBREAD. Take Uto 
pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of floOTy 
oi brown sugar aind fresh batter tfaree-qnar- 
ters of a pound each, fom* ounces of cairBway 
seeds, the same quantity of candied orwq|e- 
peel cut small, four well-beaten esga, and 
half an ounce of pearl ashes; beat the butler 
to a cream, and mix it with the re;^ of the 
ingredients. The next day work it well ip^ 
and bake it in a buttered tin. 

CAKE, GLOVE. With flour make into 
a paste tliick enough to roll out, the beatea 
yolks of ten eggs, five table-spoonftils of rich 
sweet cream, a little sugar, and some cardar 
mons ; cut it into ftunciful forms widi smaH 
tins, and throw them into fiesh boiling lard 
or butter ; when of a light brown color, drain 
them before the fire. If fi'ied in butter, add 
a little water to tlie butter, and make it boil- 
ing hot. 

CAKES, GIRDLE. Rub three ounces 
of fresh butter into one pound of flour, widi 
half a tea-spo(ful of salt ; moisten with a 
sufficiency of sweet butter-milk to make it 
into a paste ; roll it out, and cut it into cakes 
with a cup or tumbler, and bake them wpoa 
a girdle. 

CAKES, HONEY. One pound and a 
half of dried and sifted flour, tiiree-quarters 
(^ a pound of honey, half a pound of finely 
pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
citron, and half an ounce of orange-peel cot 
small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three 

rulers of an ounce. Melt the sugar with 
honey, and mix in the other ingredients; 
rail out the paste, and cut it into small cakes 
of any form. 

CAKES, HEART. With your hand 
work a pound of butter to a cream, then put 
to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites 
well-beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound 
of sifted sugar, four spoonfuls of good brandy, 
and a pound of currants washed and dried 
before tlie fire. As the pans are filled, put 
in two ounces of candied orange and citron, 
and continue beatins^ the cake till you put it 
into the oven. This quantity will be suffi* 
cient to fill three dozen of middling sized 
pans. 

CAKES, IRISH SEED. Beat to a 
cream eight ounces of firesh butter, and a 
quaiier of a pint of rose water, putting in a 
table-spoonful of rose water at a time; by 
d^'ees, mix into it a pound of sifted loaf 
sugar, and then nine well-beaten ^gs; add 
twelve ounces of flour, and three of flour of 
rice dried andsifled,a quarter of a poood 
of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter al- 
monds, a teaFqxxMBfiil of eawnoe of lemon. 



CAKE 



37 



CAKE 



ad ooe ounce of oanwaj seeds; beat all 
these well together; bake it in a cake tin, 
which must be buttered and lined with paper, 
^ao buttered. It will require about one hour 
and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may 
be made without the almonds or the essence 
of lemon. 

CAKES, LITTLE. To a pound of flour 
dried, add a pound of lump sugar roiled venr 
fine, the peel of two lemons <^pped small, 
and five ounces of butter; mix them thor- 
oughly ; let it stand sometime before the fire, 
lb^ add three eggs well beaten, tlie whites 
sqiarately, pick them with a fork into small 
kimps, and bake them on a tin : this quanti- 
ty will make about eighty oakes. Instead 
of lemon-peel you may, if vou please, add 
sixty bitter aknonds blanched and beaten 
with white of egg until they are quite fine. 

CAKES, MANON. Form some puff 
paste into an under-crust and cover aowe 
baking-plates with it; then spread all over 
them some frangipane, or marmalade, of 
whatevo* sort you please ; add some sweet- 
meat, and then covca* with a very tliin crust ; 
gild and ornament them, then put them in 
the oven ; when they are three parts done, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. When 
they ar^ glazed put them to fiiiisii baking in 
a more gentle oven, land when done take 
ibem out of the tins, and serve them eitlier 
hot or cold. 

CAKES, MONTROSE. Of dried and 
sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf su^ar, 
and of fresh butter, one pound each will be 
required, also twelve well-beaten eggs, three 
qnai;|erB of a pouud of cleaned aftd dried 
currants ; beat the butter to a cream with the 
sugar ; add the eggs by degrees, and tlien the 
flour and currants, with two table-spoonfiils 
of brandy, one of rose water, and half a 
grated nutmeg; beat all well together for 
twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be 
put into small buttered tins, half filling them, 
and baking them in a quick oven. The 
currants may be omitted. 

CAKES, MEAT. See Meat. 

CAKES, NUNS. Take four pounds of 
very fine flour, and mix with it three pounds 
of doublenrefined sugai*, finely beat and sifted ; 
dry them by the fire till your other materials 
are prepared; take four pounds of butter, 
beat it in your hands till it is very soft like 
cream ; bit thirty-four ^gs, leave out six- 
teen whites and takeout tlK treads finoma]l; 
beat the e^ and butter toother till it ap- 
pears like butter, pour in four or five 
flpooi^ds of rose or orange-flower water, and 
beat it again; then take your flour and sugar 

4 



with six ooDoes of caraway seeds ; strew it 
in by degrees, beating it up all the while* 
for two hours together; put in as much tinc- 
ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as you 
please; butter your hoop, and let it stand 
three hoan in a modoate oveo. 

CAKES, NUNS' BEADS. Pound in a 
mortar four ounces of sood cheese, with a 
little salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and 
some crumbs of bread ; roll them as large as 
walnuts, cover tliem with puff paste, and fiy 
them in butter a li^t brown color. Ser\'e 
them in a napkin. 

CAKES, OATMEAL. One only should 
be made at a time, as the mixture dries 
quickly. Put two or three handfiils of meal 
into a bowl, and moisten it widi water 
merely suflicient to fonn it into a cake; 
knead it out round and round with the hands 
upon the paste-board, strewing meal under 
and over it ; it may be made as tliin as a 
wafer, or tliicker, according to taste, and 

git it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle, 
ake it till it be a light brown on the under 
side, then take it off, and toast tlmt side 
before the fire which was uppermost on the 
girdle. The toaster is such as is commonly 
used for heating smoothing irons, having a 
back to support the cake. To malve these 
cakes soft, they must not be toasted before 
the fire, but both sides done quickly on the 
girdle. 

CAKE, PLUM. Three pounds of flour, 
three pounds of currants, three-quarters of a 
pound of almonds, blanclied and beat grossly, 
about half an ounce of them bitter, four 
ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites 
of eggs, one pint of ci'eam, two pounds of 
butter,- half a pint of good ale yeast; mix the 
eggs and the yeast togetlier, strain them ; set 
the cream on the fire, melt the butter in it ; 
stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, 
part of which should be put to the almonds 
while beating; mix together the flour, cur- 
rants and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves and 
mace are liked: stir these to uie cream: put 
in the yeast. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (1) 

Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, 
bruise them in a mortar, and when nearly 
cold drop in the yolk and white of an egff 
at intervals, until four have been added, 
beating the potatoes well all the time ; then 
add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread 
crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat 
to a cream six ounces of firesh butter, with 
the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; 
put it into the mortar, with the grated peel 
o( one lemon, and mix all thorou^y. Line 
the patty-pans with paste, fill thoa three 



CAKE 



38 



CAKE 



poiti iiitt, and bake them in a moderate | mgar over them; they are bood baked. They 
A<k j may be done in a Dutch oven. 



oven. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (2) 
Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes 
with four a( firesh buttor, and the same quan- 
tity of pqjinded loaf sugar, the grated peel 
and juice of half a lemon, three well-beaten 
eggs, and a table-^xwniul of brandv ; mix 
aU well togethor, and bake as before di- 
rected. 

CAKES, PARUAMENT. Put into a 
sauce pan two pounds of treacle, and when 
it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and pour it upon two pounds of flour ; add a 
little alum, and a bit of pearlasli about the 
aixe of a nut, and an ounce of ginger. Work 
it well with the hand till quite smooth; let 
it stand a day and a night, then roll it out 
very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. 

CAKE, POUND. (1) Take one pound 
of dried and siAed flour, the same quantity 
of sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh Intter wasli- 
ed in rose water ; the well-beaten yolks of 
twelve, and tlie whites of six eggs ; then 
with the hand beat the butter to a cream, 
by degrees add the sugar, tlien the eggs and 
the flour; beat it all well together tor an 
hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in 
small ones in a quick oven. 

CAKE, POUND. (2) Take of dried 
and sifted flour, sifted loaif sugar, fresh but- 
ter, cleaned and dried cun'ants, one pound 
each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks 
and whites of the e&^ separately, while 
anotlier with the hand beats the butter to a 
cream ; and as the frodi rises upon the eggs 
add it to the butter, and continue so doins 
till it is all beaten in; mix the flour and 
sugar together, and add tliem by degrees; 
the last thing, mix in the currants, togetlier 
with a glass of brandy. It will require to 
be beaten during a wnole hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. 

CAKE, POUND. (8) To a pound of 
sifted sugar, add a pound of firesh butt^, and 
mix them with the hand ten minutes; put to 
them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well- 
beaten ; whisk all well, and add a pound of 
sifted flour, a few caraMray seeds, a quarter 
of a pound of candied cHrange-peel cut into 
flUces, a few currants washed and picked, 
and mix all together as light as possible. 

CAKE, QUEEN. Beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, with some rose water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted 
nwar, twelve eggB; beat all well togeth^; 
add a few currants wariied and dried ; butter 
amall pans of a sise for tlK purpoie, grate 



CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- 
peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of sugar, a small pinch of sak, a 
piece of butter half the size of an e^, a gbos 
of vrato*, and four or five. spoonfuls of flour; 
stir over the fire till the paste becomes thick, 
and begins to adh^:e to the stewpan ; then 
take it ofl^, put in an egg, and stir it in the 
paste till it is well mix^; continue to add 
iHie egg at a time, till the paste softens with- 
out becoming liquid; then put in some 
dried orange flowere, and two bitter almond 
biscuits, the whole shred fine; make the 
paste into little cakes, about the sisce round 
of a half-crown ; put them on buttered paper, 
gild them widi the yolk of an egg b^t im, 
and bake half an hour in an oven moderately 
hot. 

CAKE, RICH. To two pounds and a 
half of diied and sifled flour allow the same 
quantity of ft^sh butter washed with rose- 
water, two pounds of finely-pounded knf 
sugar, three pounds of cleaned and dried 
currants, one nutmeg gi-ated, half a pound 
of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds pounded with a 
little rose-water, and twenty eggs, the yottu 
and whites separately beaten. The butter 
must be beaten with the hand till it become 
like cream; then add the sugar, and by 
degrees the eggs, after these the rest of the 
ingredients, mixing in at last the currants, 
with a tea-cupfiil of brandy, and nea]*]y as 
much orange-flower water. This mixture 
must be b^ten together rather more than 
an hour, Uien put into a cakepan, which has 
previously been buttered and lined wiim hut- 
to^ paper ; fill it rather mcMre than three- 
quarters full. It should be baked in a 
moderate o\'en for three hours, and then 
cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand 
sometime at the mouth of the oven. 

CAKE, RICE. (1) Whisk ten eggs for 
half an hour, add to them half a pound (Mf floor 
of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons; 
mix this into half a pound of finesh butter, 
previously beaten to a cream. Bake the 
cake in a buttovd tin. 



CAKE, RICE. (2) Takesbc omioes of 
ground rice, six ounces of flour, three-quai^ 
ters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine egga^ 
the yolks and whites -beaten separately ; mix 
all well togetho*, grate in the rind o a leoHo, 
and beat it well half an hour. 

CAKES, LITTLE RICE. Whisk wdl 
six yolks and two whites of eggs; then whk 



CAKE 



CAKE 



a bom spoon beat in lix oimoes of finelv^ 
pounded loaf sugar, add eight omces of sift- 
ed ground rice, and two tubl&poonful8 of 
orange-flower or raee water, or the grated 
peel of a lemon, and juBt before the mixture 
n to be pot into the tins, stir into it six 
ounces of fresh butter melted; divttbe patty 
pans with flour, or rub them with butter ; 
^ let them be half filled, and bake the cakes 
in a quick oven. 

CAKES, SMALL ROUT. Rub into 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of butter, six ounces of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of two well- 
beaten eg^ ; mix |hem all into a paste with 
a little rosewater; divide 'the quantity, put 
a few dried currants or caraway seeds into 
one half; roll out the paste, cut it into small 
round cakes, and bake them upon buttered 
tins. 

CAKE RICE, A 9WEET DISH. Wash 
well and drain a quarter of a pound of rioe. 
Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel of 
one lemon, and when nearly cold take it out 
and put in the rice ; place tiie sauce pan over 
a slow fire, and when tlie rice has swollen, 
add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded 
loaf sugar; when the rice is quite tender, add 
the yolks of ei^ht eggs, aud mix in gradually 
the beaten whites, witli a good bit of fresh 
butter, and pour it into a mould ; turn this 
rcMmd, that the butter may etiually 'cover 
every part of it, then pour out the butter, and 
strew over the inside a layer of grated iH'ead ; 
with a paste brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle 
alt over it some of the clarified butter, add 
more CTated bread, pour in the rice, and 
bake It in a moderate oven for an hour. 
Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with 
or without a garnishing of preserved rasp- 
berries, cherries, or currants. 

CAKES, SPANISH. Rub, till quite 
fine and smpoth, one pound of butter with 
two pounds of flour, tlien add a pound of 
good brown sugar, rolled fine ; mix all to- 
gether with four welM)eaten e^; break 
the paste into small bits or knobs, and bake 
them upon floured tins.. 

CAKES, SHREWSBURY. Take a 
pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 
pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then 
take one pound of powdered sugar, a little 
cinnamon and mace pounded, and four eg^^ 
yolks and whites toother ; beat them with 
your liand till it is very light ; then take one 
pound and a half of sifted flour, vfctk it 
together, and roll it on your dresser, to what 
fise you like, only very flat, let your oven be 
lathfor slow, and kst them change their ooksr, 
Iben talce tbem out. 



CAK,SPOIWE. (1) Weight 
and their weight in very fine BO|Br, and (hat 
of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flov, 
and the whites akme, to a very stifi* fitith: 
ihen by degrees mix the whites aad the floor 
with the other ingnsdients, and beat than 
well half an hour. Bake in aquick oven an 
hour. 

CAKE, SPONGE. (2) Take^juiee 
and grated rind of a lemon, twelve egga, 
twelve ounces of finely-pounded baf sugar, 
the same of dried and sifted flour ; then with 
a horn jipoon beat the yoUui of ten eggs, add 
the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will 
stand wlien dropped from the spoon ; put in 
at separate times the two other eggs, yolk* 
and whites ; whisk the ten whiles for eight 
minutes, and mix in the lemon*juioe, iumI 
when quite stifi", take as much as the whisk 
will lift, and put it upon the yolks and sugar, 
which must be beaten all the time; mix m 
li^tly the flour and grated peel, and pour k 
all gradually over the whites ; stir it t(^pether, 
and bake it in a buttered tin, or in small 
tins ; do not more than half fill them. 



CAKES, SHORT. Dismhe half a 
pound of fi^h butter in as much milk as 
will make a pound and a half of flour into 
a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. 
Do them in a fi-ying-pan, and serve them hoC 
Tliey are eaten with butter. 

CAKES, SALLY LUNN. Take one 
pint of milk quite warm, a quarter oi a pint 
)f thick small-beer yeast ; put them into a pan 
with flour sufficient to make it as thick ad 
batter, cover it over, and let it stand till it 
has risen as high as it will, i. e. about two 
hours: add two ounces of lump sugar, dis- 
solved in a quarter of a pint or warm milk, 
a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into 
your flour very fine ; then make your dou^ 
the raroe as for French rolls, &c. ; and let 
it stand half an hour; then make up vow 
cakes, and put than on tins: when they nave 
stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. 
Care should be taken nevo* to pot yoor 
yeast to water or milk too hot, or too cold, an 
either extreme will destroy the fermentation. 
In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter 
a little warmer, and in very ooU weather, 
wanner still. When it has first risen, if voa 
are not prepared, it vrill not hurt to stand an 
hour. 

CAKES, SUGAR. Take half a pooul 
of dried flour, the same quantity ottettk 
butter washed in rose water, and a, qoartar 
of a pound of sifted kaf sugar; then mix 
together the flour and sugar: rub in the but" 
ter, and add the yolk of an egg beetoi with 



CAKE 



40 



CALF 



a tBb]e'po<Hifi]] of oream; make it into a 
paste, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, 
which bake upon a floured tin. 

CAKES, TEA. With a pound of flour 
rub half a pound of butter; sidd the beaten 
yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
and a few caraway' seeds ; mix it to a paste 
with a 'little warm milk, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it stand before the fire for 
nearly an hour; roll out the paste, and cut it 
into round cakes with the top of a glass, and 
hake them upon floured tins. 

CAKE, TWELFTH. Two pounds of 
sifted flour, tvo pounds of sifted loaf su- 
gar, two pounds of butter, eighteen eggs, 
foui' pounds of currants, one half pound of 
almonds blanclied and chopped, one half pound 
of citron, one pound of candied orange and 
lemon peel cut into thin slices, a large nut- 
.meg grated, half an ounce of ground aUsptce ; 
ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corian- 
ders, a quarter of an ounce of each, and a 
gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stew- 
pan, in a wai'm place, and work it into a 
smooth cream with tlie hand, and mix it 
with tlie sugar and spice in a pan, (or on 
your paste board) for sometime ; then break 
m the eggs by degrees, and beat it at least 
twenty minutes ; stir in the brandy, and then 
the flour, and work it a little; add the fruit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all to- 
gether lightly ; have ready a hoop cased with 
paper, on a baking-plate ; put in the mixture, 
smooth it on the top with your hand, dipped 
in milk ; put the plate on another, with saw 
dust between, to prevent the bottom from 
coloring too much : bake it in a slow oven 
four hours or more, and when nearly cold, 
ice it with icing. This mixture would make 
a handsome cake, full twelve or fourteen 
inches over. 

CAKE, WHITE. Take of dried and 
sifled flour,of fresh butter and of finely-pound- 
ed loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well-beaten 
eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied 
M'ange and lemon peel, cut small, three quar- 
ters of an ounce each ; one ounce of cara- 
way seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
brandy, and a little rose water; then beat 
the butter to a cream, and add all the other 
mgredients to it, and at the last mix in one ta- 
ble-spoonflil of fi^esh yeast; let the cake rise 
before the fire for half an hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it 
out of the oven, with a featlier, brush the 
top all over with the beatoi white of an egg, 
and then sift loaf sugar upon it. Let it 
stand at the mouth of Uie oven to harden. 

CAKES, YEAST. Take a powkd of 



flour, two pounds of currants, washed and 
picked, a quarter of a pound of fi-esh butter, 
a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron and candied orange- 
peel cut into slices, cumamon and mace, a 
small quantity of eadi pomided and sifted. 
Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, 
put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm 
milk, mix all together, fill a hoop with it, 
let it remain till it rises, and bake it. 

CAKES, YORKSHIRE. Take two 
pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonfiils of yeast, and two eggs ; beat 
all well together, and let it rise ; then knead 
it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on 
tins before you bake, which do in a slow 
oven. Another sort is made as above, leav- 
ing out the butter. The first is shorter, the 
last lighter. 

CAKE, BISCUIT. One pound of flour, 
five eggs well-beaten and strained, eight 
ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower 
water, beat tlie wliole thoroughly, and bake 
it for one hour. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with Oysters. 
Blanch and clean tlie brains, then wipe them 
dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll 
them in bread crumbs ; fiy them in boiling^ 
lard till of a good colm*, drain them Teiy 
dry, afid serve widi oysters, stewed either 
white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham 
cut in small round pieces. 

CALF'S BRAINS. Cleanse two calves* 
brains, and stew them in stock with two or 
three spoonfols of vinegar, a bunch of pars- 
ley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three 
cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil ; when suffi- 
ciently stewed, cut each piesce of the brain 
in two, dip them in a batter made of two 
handfok of flour, diluted with a little oil, half 
a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in 
lard until the batter is crisp and the brains 
of a gold color. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with fried par- 
sley. Blanch thi*ee or four brains of 
neai'ly an equal size; parboil them, and 
take ofi* the skin ; Uien boil them in water, 
with a little salt, vinegar and butter. Sefve 
them with a sauce made of a little browned 
butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt 
and pepper, and some parsley fried veiy 
green. 

CALF'S CHITTERLINGS. Cut tliem 
open with scissors, wash and cleanse tiiem 
tiioroughly, lay tiiem for a night into sak- 
and-water, then wash them well, parboil, 
and cut thm into small pieces, dip uiem uk* 



CAht 



41 



CALP 



Id a tfnck batter, seaiooed with pepper> 
salt, and a little white wine. Fi-y them of 
a light brown color in beef dripping ; serve 
with a fringe of fried parsley. Or, After 
being parboiled, they may be roasted, when 
they must be constantly basted with butter, 
dredged with flour to froth them nicely; 
then served with melted butter, and leinun 

Eickie poured over them. Or, Tliey may 
e baked  when, after being parboiled, they 
are nibbed over with butter, and put mto 
the oven on an iron frame, which is placed 
in a deep dish. This oblonv fiiuue of 
white iron, about two inches hidi, will be 
fimud useliil in baking every kind of aieat. 

CALF'S CHAUDRON, FRICASSEE. 
Parboil a calf's chaudrtui, and when cold, 
out it in pieces about as big as walnuts; 
eason them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, 
mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsi^-, slired 
ne; fry them in a iadlefid of good brodi 
and fresh butter ; make a sauce of mutton 
gravy, orange and lemon juice, eggs' yolks, 
and grated nutmeg; toss up the^e ingredi- 
ents with the chaudron, then dish it and 
serve. 

CALF'8-FEETPUDDL\G. See Pud^ 

CALF'S FEET JELLY. See Jelly. 

CALF'S FEET, POTTED. Boil the 
feet as for jelly, pick all the meat from the 
bones, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, garlic, a shallot 
and some shred ham ; simmer it for liulf an 
hour, dip a mould into water, put in a lay- 
er of the meat, then some neatly-cut pickled 
beet root, and some boiled minced parsley, 
then a layer of meat, and so on, till the 
mould be filled; when cold, turn it out. 
Gami^ with pickled eggs, beetroot, and 
parsley. 

CALF'S FEET, PLAIN. Scald, clean, 
and blanch some calves' feet, boil them till 
the bones will come out, then stew them in 
a blanc. See Calf's Head, plain. When 
dme, d/ain and serve dwm with parsley 
and birtter. 

CALF'S HEAD, HASHED. Boil the 
head almost enough, and take the meat of 
the best side neatly from the bone, and lay 
it in a small dish ; wash it over with the 
yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, 
a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. 
Set the di& before the fire, and keep turn- 
mg it now and then, that all jiarts may be 
equally brown. In the meantime slice the 
remainder of the head, and the tongue, 

4* 



(peeled) ; pot a pint of good gravy into a 
pan, with an onicHi, a snmll bunch of herbs, 
(consisting of pardey, basil, savory, tarra- 
gon, knotted maijoram, and a little thyme), 
a little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a glass 
of Sberr}-, and a little oyster Uquor: boifthis 
for a few minutes, and strain it upon the 
meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. 
Add some tcenYt or pickled mushrooms, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of 
catchup; beat up half the brains, and put 
tliem to the rest, with a bit of butter and 
flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other 
iiait of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a 
little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, 
and an cg^ ; fry this in little cakes of a fine 
gold color ; dip some oysters into the yolk 
of an egg, and fi^ the same way, also some 
good fuitxaneat balls, and garnish the dish 
with tlicm. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK 
TURTLE. See Soups. 

CALF'S HEAD. Widi a sharp knife 
cut all tlie meat entire from the bone, cut 
out tlie tongue, and carefiilly take out the 
bi'ains ; lay Uiem all in cold water for two or 
three iKiurs. Mince very small two pounds 
of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, 
witli the grated crumb of a penny k>af, 
some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 

1)ep|xsr, and salt ; mix them well loeether, and 
)iud it with die yolks of four ^gs beaten up ; 
reserve as mucii of the forcemeat as wiU 
make twenty small balls: wash the head 
clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat in- 
to the inside; close it, and tie it firmly with 
tape; put it into a stewpan with two quarts 
of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and 
let it stew gently ; boil the tongue, cut it in- 
to thin slices, mince the brains with a little 
parsley and a table-spoonful of flour, add 
some pepper, salt, grated lemon-^ieel, and 
nutmeg; beat two eggs and mix witli the 
brains, drop it with a spoon in small cakes 
into a pan of boiling dripping, and fry 
tliem of a light brown color. Fry the force- 
meat balls, and drain them, with the cakes, 
upon the back of a sieve before die fire ; 
wlien the head has stewed till it be suffic- 
iently tendier, put it into a dish and take off 
the tape, strain the gravy, and thicken it 
with a tablcHspoonful of flour of rice, and a 
litde bit of butter; if not well seasoned, add 
more salt smd pepper, put in the tongue, 
make it all hot, and pour it over the head. 
Garnish with the brain-cakes, forcemeat 
balls, and cut lemon. 

CALF'S HEAD, ROASTED. Wash 
and clean it well, parboil it, take out 
the bones, brains, and tongue; make force- 



CALF 



42 



CALF 



meat sufficient for the head, and eome 
balls with bread crumbs, minced suet, pars- 
ley, erated ham, and a little pounded veal, 
or cold ibwl ; season with pepper, salt, |^rated 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel; bmd it with an 
e^f bitten up, fill the bead with it, which 
must then be sewed up, or fastened with 
skewers and tied. While roasting, baste it 
well with butter ; beat up die brains with a 
little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minc- 
ed parsley, a litue pepper and salt ; blanch 
the tongue, cut it into slices, and ^ it 
widi the brains, forcemeat balls, and thin 
slices of bacon* Serve the head with white 
or brown thickened gi^vy, and place the 
tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains raund it. 
Garaiidi with cut lemon. It will requii'e 
<Hie hour and a half to roast. 

CALF'S HEAD, PLAIN. Clean a 
calTs bead nicely, and cut out the bone of 
the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out 
the nose bone as close to the eyes as possi* 
Ue ; wash the bead well in warm water, 
and let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- 
pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows:  One 
pound of beef suet, and one poimd of &t 
bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a 
bunch of parsl^, a little thyme, two or 
three bay leaves, one or two onions, and the 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, 
mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all tins an 
hour in six pints of water, then tie up the 
head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about 
thi'ee hours, and drain it; take out the 
tongue, skin and replace it; serve quite 
hot, with the foUowing sauce  ^minced shal- 
lots, parsley, the brains minced, some vine- 
gar, sah, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, SOUSED. Scald 
and bone a calPs head, and soak it for sev- 
en or eight hours, changing the water twice ; 
dry it well. Season with salt and bruised 
ffajiic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and 
boil it in white wine, salt and water; when 
done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and 
keop it fin: use. Serve up either whole, or 
in Slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. 

CALF*S HEAP, BIGAREE. Qean 
and blanch a calPs head, boil it till the 
bones win come out easily, then bone and 
|uress it between two dishes, so as to give it 
an oblong form ; beat witli the yolks of four 
^gp a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. 
Divide the head when cold, and brush it all 
over with die beaten ega, and strew over it 
grated bread ; repeat mis twice. Witli the 
grated bread, which is put over one half, a 
good quantity of finely-minced parsley should 
ue mixed ; place the hesid upon a dish, and 
bake it of a nice brown color. Serve it 
with a sauce of parsley and butter, and 



with one of good gravy, mixed with tlis 
brains which have oeen previously boiled, 
and chopped, and seasoned with a little 
Cayenne and sak. 

CALF'S HEART, ROASTED. Fifl 
the heart with tlie following forcemeat: a 
quarter of a pound of beef suet, cliopped 
small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lem- 
on-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk 
of an egg. Lay a veal caul, or a sheet of 
paper on the stuffing to keep it in its pboe. 
Put the heart into a Dutch oven, befoi-e a 
clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thor^ 
oughly roasted all round. Gai-nish with 
slices <^ lemon, and pour melted butter over 
it. 

CALF LIVER, BROILED. Slice it, 
season with pepper and salt, and broil nice- 
ly: rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve 
liot and hot. 

CALF'S LIVER, LARDED AND 
ROASTED. Lard a fine calf's liver the 
same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for 
twenty-four houra in vinegar, v/ith a siloed 
onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a bay 
leaf, some salt and pepper. Roast, and 
baste it well with butter, then glaze it with 
a li^it glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, 
or any otlier sauce. 

CALF'S UVER, ROASTED. (1) 

Wash and wipe it; then cut a k>ng hole in it, 
and stuff it with crumlis of bread, chopped 
anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew 
die liver up ; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, 
and roast it. Sen'e with good bi'own gra- 
vy and currant jelly. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (2) 

Lard a calf's liver witli streaky bacon; 
roast and baste it fi-equently with its own 
gravy. 

CALF'S UVER, ROASTED. (8) 
Lard a fine calf's liver, and pickle it in 
vinegar, widi an onion, cut into slices, panK 
ley, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. 
When it has been soaked for twenty-four 
hours, fasten it on a spit, roast and bauste it 
freqjiiently. Glaze it with a light ^ze, as 
it is naturally of a black color. Serve uo- 
der it a brown poivrade, 

CALF'S LIVER, SCOLLOPS. Par- 
boil and cut into slices a very nice calf's 
liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew 
some fine lierbs, parsley, shallots, and mudk- 
rooms; then add the calf's liver, and let it 
stew over a slow fire ; when done on one 
side, turn and season it with pepper an^ 



CAP 



43 



CAP 



nk; take out tbe liver, dredxe in a Httle 
iloar over the heiim, and add some more 
sravy; let this boil for ten minutes, then 
MAt tlie ]iver in the sauce before serving it. 
This may be eaten at breakfi>st 

CALF'S PLUCK. Wash it very clean, 
and, if liked, stuff the lieart with a force- 
meat, made of crumbs of biTad, butter, and 
parsiev, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
eprated nutmeg. Fasten it 5ruily witli the 
liver and lights, tying them to the skewers 
while roasting; baste it well with butter, 
and frotli it the same way in which veal is 
done, and serve it witli melted butter, mix- 
ed with a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, or 
vinegar poured over it. 

CAPER SAUCE. See Sauce. 

CAPILLAIRE. Take fourteen pounds 
of su^r, thi-ee pounds of coarse siigtir, six 
eggs beat in with tbe shdls, three quarts of 
water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then 
add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flow- 
er walnr; strain it through a jellv-lg, and 
pot it into bottles; when cold, mix a 
spoonful or two of tliis sirup, as it is liked 
for sweetness in a draught ci warm or cold 
ivBter. 

CAPILOTADE ITALLIN. Cut up 
a cold roast fowl; then take a goo<l dice 
of butter, and some shred mushrooms and 
potherbs; fry these till diey are about to 
torn lMX>wn, with a tea-spoonful of flour: 
then add to them a large glass of white 
wine. Let the whole simmer together for a 
quarter of an hour; next put in the pieces 
of fowl, and Iieat them up for a few minutes. 
Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread ; 
and just bef(H% you sene, pour into the 
saucepan two table-spoonfuls of oil, taking 
care that it does not boil, and stir it up well 
with the sauce. 

CAPONS OR FOWLS, Must be kill- 
ed a couple of davs in moderate, and more 
in coki weather, before they are dressed, ch* 
they will eat tougli: a good criterion of tbe 
ripeness of poultry for the spit, is the ease 
with which you can then pull out tlie feathers ; 
when a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help 
you to ascertain this. They ai'e managed 
exactly in the same manner, and sent up 
with iLe same sauces as a turkey, only they 
require proportionably less time at the fire. 
A fiill-grown flve-toed fowl, about an hour 
and a quarter. A moderate-sized one, an 
hour. A chicken, from thirty to'forty rain- 
utes. Here, also, pork sausages fried are 
in general a &vorite accompaniment, or 
torkey stuffing ; see forcemeats ; put in plen- 
ty of it, so as to plump out the fowl, which 



nHBt be tied ckiiely (both at the aeck aad 
rump), to keep in tne stuffing. Some cooks 
put the liver cmT the fowl into this fore euica t, 
and otliers mince it and pound it, and nib it 
up with flour and melted butter. When 
the bii'd is stufled and trmied, 'score the 
^inard nicelv, dip it into melted butter, let 
It drain, ana then season it with Cayenne 
and salt ; put it under one pinion, and the 
liver under the other; to prevent their get- 
ting hardened or scorched, cover them with 
double paper buttered. Take care that 
your roasted poultry be well browned ; it is 
as indispensable that roasted poultry riiould 
have a rich lNx>wn complexion, as boiled 
poultry should have a delicate white one. 

CAPOxN, TO CHOOSE. Ifitisyoun^, 
his spurs are short and his legs smooth ; if 
a true capon, a hi vein on the side of his 
breast, the cond> pale, and a thick belly and 
rump; if fi^esh, be will have a dose hard 
vent; if stale, a loose open vent. 

CAPON, THE FRENCH WAY. Take 
a quart of white wine, season die capon 
with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few 
shalfots ; and then put the capon m an earth- 
en pan ; you must take care it has not roum 
to shake; it must be covered close, and done 
over a slow charcoal fire. 

CAPON PASTY. Roast a capon, let 
it be cold, take the flesh firom the hemes and 
slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions 
whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four 
sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- 
son them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and 
mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and 
thyme, minced; ny a sheet of paper or 
paste in your pasty-pan, and lay tlie thighs 
and pinions on the bottom, and strew them 
over with sliced onions, then put in the 
flesh of the capon, tlie sweetbreads, and the 
oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a 
liandfiil of chestnuts, boiled and blandied, 
dien put butter over them, close up your pan 
and l^e it; when done, add gravv, good 
stock, drawn butter, anchovies, ana grafted 
nutmeg ; garnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve. Tiirkey may be done in the same 
manner. 

CAPONS A LA TURQUE. Pick, 

and clean very nkely, two fine capons ; wash 
the inside penectiv clean with warm watBr, 
and let them soak in warm water for a 
t^uafter of an hour ; diy them well, and pot 
into them some rice which has been boiled 
till soft in some rich well-seasoned stock, 
truss and cover them with layers of bacon, 
wrap them in paper, and roast them for an 
hour by a hanging-jack ; serve them, put- 
ting all* round the dish a part of the rice 



CAR 



44 



CAR 



which was prefred Ibr the' stuffing, and 
pour over the fowls a veioute sauce. One 
fowl may be dressed in this 



fine 



manner. 



lai^ 



CAPSICUMS, TO PICKLE. Gatlier 
the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn 
red ; cut a slit down the side witli . a pen- 
knife, and take out all the seeds, but as lit- 
tle of die meat as possible; lay them in a 
strong brine for three days, changing it eve- 
ry day ; thep take diem out, lay them on a 
cloth, and lay another over them till they 
are quite dry ; boil vinegar enough to cover 
tliem, put in some mace and nutmeg beat 
small ; put the pods into a glass or jar, and 
when die liquor is cold, pour it over, then 
tie a bladder and leather over tiiem. 

CARDOONS, WITH CHEESE. String 
and cut them an inch long, put tliem into a 
saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, stew them till they are tender, 
put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
when of a proper thickness pour them into 
a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into 
tlie sauce, and scrape over them some Par- 
mesan or Cheshire clieese, and tlien brown 
them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high 
a color. 

CARDOONS, TO DRESS. Cut tiiem 
in pieces six inches long, and put diem on a 
stiing; boil till tender, have ready a piece 
of butter in a pan, flour and fiy tliem. Tliey 
may also be tied in bundles, and served as 
asparagus boiled on a toast, and pour but- 
ter over. 

CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut diem 
into lengths of three inclies, be carefiil not 
to use diose which are hollow and green ; 
boil diem for half an hour, dien put them 
into lukewarm water to cleanse them from 
their slime; then dress them in some stock, 
with a spoonfid of flour, some salt, onions, 
roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- 
juioe and a little butter ; wlien done, put 
them into a cuUis with some stock; cook 
them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. 

CARROTS. Let them be well wasbexi 
and iHtished, not scraped. An hour is 
enough for young spring carf ots ; grown car- 
rots must be cut in half, and will take from 
an hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off the peels with a clean 
coarse clodi, and slice tbem in two or four, 
according to their size. The best way to 
try if they are done enough, is to pierce them 
with a fork. Many people are fond of cold 
carrot with cold beef; ask if you shall cook 
enough for some to be left to send up with 
the cold meat. 



CARAMEL, OR BOILED SUGAR. 

Break into a small copper or brass pan, one 
pound of refined sugar,  ^put in a gill of 
spring water ;  set it on a fire, and when 
it boils, skim it quite clean, and let it boil 
quick, till it comes to the degree called 
Crack, which may be known by dipping a 
teaspoon or skewer into the sugar, and let 
it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold water; 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that 
degree; squeeze in the juice of half a leinon, 
and let it remain one minute longer on the 
fire, then set die pan into another of cold 
water:  ^have ready moulds of any i^pe, 
 ^rab them over with sweet oil, dip a spoon 
or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the 
mould in fine direads, till it is quite covered: 
 make a small handle of caramel, or stick 
on two or three small gum paste rings, by 
way of ornament, and place it over smau 
pastry of any description. 

CARP, BOILED. Scale and clean a 
brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe; 
take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of 
sharp cider, add as much water as will cov- 
er the fish, a piece of horse-radish, an onion 
cut into slices, a little salt, and a faggot of 
sweet herbs ; boil the fish in this liquor, and 
make a sauce as follows:  strain some of 
the liquor die fish has been boiled in, and 
put to it the liver minced, a pint of Port 
wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of 
shallots chop})ed, some salt and black pep- 
per, a litde Cayenne, a tablenspoonfid of soy; 
boil and strain it, diicken it with' flour and 
butter, pour it over the carp hot, gamiah 
with the roe fi'ied, cut lemon and parsl^. 

CARP, STEWED. Scale and ckan 
a brace of carp, reserving the liver and 
roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint 
of vinegar, which may be elder vin^ar, if 
the flavor is {ferred, with a little mace, 
three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, 
two onions sliced, a fa^ot of parsley, basil, 
diyme, and marjomm; let them soak an 
hour, then put them in a stewpan with the 
vin^ar, and other things, die liver chopped, 
a pint of Madeira, and three pints of veal 
stock; stew them sm hour or two accord- 
ing to their size; take out the fish and pot 
them over a pan of hot water to keep warm 
while the following sauce is made:- Strain 
the liquor, and add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten, hsdf a pint of cream, a laxge spoon- 
ful of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir it constantly, and just before 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon. Boil or fry the roe. 
Plain boiled carp may be served with this 
sauce, and is dished in a napkin. 

CARP, FRIED. Clean and scale a 



CAU 



45 



CHA 



carp; split it iq> the back; flatten the back- 
bone, sprinkle your fish with floor, tbeo 
^rinkfe the roes which have been put aside, 
put the whole ioto a frying-pan made very 
hot, firy to a rich odor, and nerve it with 
lemon-juice. 

CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or 
diree boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; 
add to them six ^gs and a handful of flour ; 
moisten them widi either cream, milk, or 
white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all 
together weU, and &y in boiling lard. When 
of a good color, take them off and squeeze 
on them the juice of a Seville orange, and 
strew over fine sugar. 

CARROT PUDDING. See Pudding. 

CASSILE. Mix two table-spoonfiils of 
potato-flour with two or three of cream or 
good milk; boil for a few minutes with a 
quart of cream or milk, the peel of a lemon 
and a bit of cinnamon ; stir it with the flour 
and cream ; sweeten, and stir it again over 
the fire for three or four minutes; pour it in- 
to a mould ; turn it out when cold. 

CAULIFLOWER. Choose tliose that 
are close and white, and of the middle size ; 
trim off the outside leaves ; cut the stalk off 
flat at the bottom ; let them lie in sak and 
water an hour before you boil them. Put 
them into boiling water with a handful of 
salt in it; skim it well, and let it boil slow- 
)y till done, which a small one will be in fif- 
teen, a large one in about twenty minutes ; 
take it up the moment it is enough, a min- 
ute or two longer boiling will spoil it. 

CAULIFLOWERS OR BROCCOLI, 
PICKLED. Choose those that are hard, 
yet sufficiently ripe, cut away the leaves and 
stalks. Set on a stewpan half full of water, 
salted in proportion of a quarter of a pound 
of salt to a quart of water ; throw in the 
cauliflower, and let it heat gradually; when 
it boils take it up with a spoon full of holes, 
and spread them on a cloth to dry before 
the fire, for twenty-four hours at least ; when 
quite dry, put them, piece by piece, into 
jars or glass tie-overs, and cover than with 
the pickle we have directed for beet roots, 
or make a pickle by infiising three ounces 
of the curry powder for three days in a quart 
of vinegar by the side of the fire. Nastur- 
tioms are exoellait prepared as above. 

CAULIFLOWERS, PICKLED. C^^t 
the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them 
into boiling water far a quarter of an hour; 
flien lay Hxm on cloths to drain. Put them 
ia a jar with clovea and salt, and cover 
them v^th the beet vinegar. 



CAUUFLOWER SALAD. Wha 
you have prepared and boiled the cauli- 
flowers, drain and let them cool ; cut them 
in pieces; season them with sak, pepper, 
oil and vinegar, and eat them aa any other 
salad. 

CAUDIJS. (1) Boil up half a pint of 
fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a 
large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, 
the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a 
piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. 

CAUDLE. (2) Make a fine smooth 
gruel of half-grits; when boiled, strain it, 
stir it at times till cold. When wanted for 
use, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with 
some nutmeg. According to taste, you may 
add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoon- 
fiil of brandy, or lemon-juice. 

CAUDLE, BR.OWN. Boil the gniel 
the same as for white caudle, with six spoon- 
fuls of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a 
quart of good ale, not bitter ; boil it, then 
sweeten it according to your taste, and add 
half a pint of white wine. When you do 
not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. 

CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a quart of 
spring water; when cold, add the yolk of 
an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoon 
fills of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and 
one ounce of sirup of lemons. 

CECILS. Mix over the fffe for a few 
minutes the following ingredients: minced 
meat of whatever kind you please, kH-ead 
crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, nut- 
meg, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, a little 
butter, and some anchovies. When nearfy 
cold, roll them up into balls about the size 
of an egg; moisten diem with esg, strew 
bread crumbs over them, and firy them of a 
good clear color: serve them with made 
gravy. 

CELERY, TO STEW. Wash and 
clean some heads of celery, cut them into 
pieces of two or three mches long, boil 
them in veal stock till tender. To half a 
pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, gi"ated nut- 
meg, and salt, also a bit of^ butter ; make it 
hot, stirring it constantly; strain it upon the 
celery; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it 
boil. 

CHARLOTTE. (1) Cut a sufficient 
number of thin slices of white bread to cover 
the bottom and line the sides of a baking- 
dish, first rubbing it thickly with batter. 
Put thin slices of apples into the didi ia 
byers, till the diah ia fiiU, attewipg sugar 



CHE 



46 



CHE 



ftnd bitfl of botter between. In the mean- 
time, soak 80 many thin slices of bread as 
will cover the whole, in warm milk; over 
which place a plate, and a weiglit, to ke^ 
the bread close upon the aimles; let it bake 
slowly for three hours. For a middling- 
sized dish, you should use half a pound of 
butter for the whole. 

CHARLOTTE. (2) This second course 
may be made of any kind of fruit you please, 
and is eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, 
core, and cut about twenty of them into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan 
with some water, a good piece of firesh but^ 
ter, powderHsugar, pounded cinnamon, and 
grated lemon-peel, and stew till the water is 
dried up ; then set them to cool in an earth- 
en ware vessel. Cut some very thin slices 
of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh 
butter, and lay them neatly all over the bot- 
tom and round the sides of the stewpan; 
then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in 
the middle, in which put apricot marma- 
lade. Cover the whole with bread, sKced 
thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a 
hot oven, bake it sui hour, and turn it out. 

CHARLOTTE DES POMMES. Pare, 
core, and mince fourteen or fifteen French 
rennet apples; put them into a firying-pan, 
with some pqunded loaf sugar, a little pound- 
ed cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and two 
ounces and a half of fi-esh butter ; fry them 
a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stir- 
ring them constantly. Butter a shape of 
the size the charlotte is intended to be; cut 
strips of bread about the width of two fin- 
sers, and long enough to reach from the 
bottom to the rim of the shape, so that the 
whole be lined with bread; dip each bit in- 
to melted butter-, and then put a layer of 
the fried apples, and one of apricot jam or 
marmalade, and then one of bread dipped 
into butter; begin and finish with it. Bake 
it in an oven for nearly an hour; turn it out 
to serve it. It may be boiled, and served 
with a sweet sauce. 

CHEESE, BOILED. Grate a quarter 
of a pound of good cheese, put it into a 
auce pan, with a bit of butter the size of a 
nutmeg, and half a tea-cupfiil of milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boil, and then add a well- 
beaton eag; mix it all tc^ether, put it into 
a small ifish, and brown it before the fire. 

CHEESE, CAKE OF. Take about the 
fiwrth part of a close, hi Brie cheese, pound 
and rub it through a sieve ; mix with it a 
|Hiit and a half c? flour ; lay it on the boaixl, 
make a hole in the middle, into which put 
three quarters of a pound of butter, and work 
it Ja well; add to it a little Gn^ere cheese 



grated, and six eggs. Knead these all to* 
gether well; mould it up, and let it stand 
for half an hour ; then roll it out, and make 
it into a cake of about three inches; mark 
it with a knife on one side in chequers, and 
on the other in rays; dfr'ez, and bake it ia 
a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CREAM. Warm three half 
pints of cream with one half pint of milk, 
or according to the same proportion, and 
put a little rennet to it; keep it covered in 
a warm place till it is curdled ; have a pro- 
per mould with holes, either of China or any 
other; put the curds into it to drain, about 
an hour, or less: serve with a good plaia 
cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

CHEESECAKES. (1) Put two quarts 
of new milk into a stewpan, set it near the 
fire, and stir in two tal^spoiHifiik of ro^ 
net: let it stand till it is set (this will take 
about an hour); break it well with yoor 
hand, and let it remain half an hour longer; 
then pour ofi'the whey, and put the curd into 
a colander to drain; when quite dry, put it 
in a mortar, and pound it quite smooth; 
then add four ounces of sugar, pounded and 
sifted, and three ounces of fi^sh butter ; oil 
it first by putting it in a little potting-pot, 
and setting it near the fire ; stir it all well 
together: mat the yolks of four eggs in a 
basin, with a little nutmeg grated, lemon- 
peel, and a glass of brandy ; add this to the 
curd, with two ounces of currants, washed 
and picked; stir it all well together; have 
your tins ready lined with pufi* paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick, notch them all 
round the edge, and fill each with the curd. 
Bake them twenty minutes. When yoo 
have company, and want a variety, you can 
make a mould of curd and cream, by put- 
ting the curd in a taiould full of hol^, instead 
of the colander: let it stand for six hours, 
then turn it out very carefiiily on a dish, and 
pour over it half a pint of good cream sweet- 
ened with loaf sugar, and a little nutmqr. 
What there is left, if set in a cool place, 
will make excellent cheesecakes the next 
day. 

CHEESECAKES. (2) Put a spooofiil 
of rennet into a quart of milk ; when Uuned, 
drain the curd thorough a coarse sieve, gent- 
ly break the curd, and rub in a quarter of 
a pound of butter, a quarter ai a peimd of 
sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits 
grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white 
of one, half an ounce of almonds, half bitter 
and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, 
with two spoonfiils of rose water, four oonoes 
of currants; put in the curd, and mix all 
together. One quart oi milk, and three 
deasert spoonfiils of rioe-flour, six eggs, ieavo 



CHE 



47 



CHE 



oat three of Ifas white*, and 
your taste. 



to 



CHEESECAKES. (3) Beat 'eight 
tggs well, while a quart c^ milk u on the 
fire, and when it boib, put in the eggs, and 
stir them till they come to a curd ; then pour 
it out, and whei it is cold, pot in a little 
Bah, two spooniuLB of rose water, and thi-ee- 
quartons of a pound of currantj well washed ; 
pot it into pufT paste, and bake it. If yoa 
nee tin patties to bake in, butter tliera, or 
^roa will not be able to take them out ; but 
if you bake tliem in glass or china, only an 
l^ier crust will be necessary, as you will 
not want to take thorn out when you send 
diem to table. 

CHEESECAKES. (4) Take one pound 
of loaf siffiar pounded, six yolks, and four 
whites ofeggs beaten, die juice of three fine 
lemons, the grated rind of two, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter ; put these in- 
gredients into a saucepan, and stir die mix- 
ture gently over a slow fire till it be of the 
opneistence of honey; \yoar it into small 
jars, and when cold put paper dipped in 
brandy over tliem. It will keep good (or a 
year. 

CHEESE, POUNDED. Cut a pound 
of good mellow cheese into thin bits; add 
to it two, and if the clieese is dry, three 
ounces of fresh butter ; pound, and rub them 
well together in a mortar till it is quite 
smooth. When cheese is dry, and for those 
whoee digestion is feeble, this is the best 
way <^ eating it ; and spread on bread, it 
makes an excellmt luncheon or supper. 
The piquanee of diis is sometimes increas- 
ed by pounding with it curry powder, ground 
flpice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little 
made mustard; and some moisten it with a 
glass of Sherry. If pressed down hard in 
a jar, and covered with clarified butter, 
it will keep f<Nr several days in cool weath- 
er. 

CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate three 
ounces of fiit cheese, mix it with the 
Tolks of two ^gs, four ounces of grated 
bread, and three ounces of butter ; b^t the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert spoon- 
fol of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. 
Toast some Imad, cut it into proper pieces ; 
lay the paste, as above, diick upon them, 
put them into a Dutch oven covered with a 
dish, tin hot through, remove die didi, and 
1^ the cheedb brown a little. Serve as hot 
as possible. 

CHEESE, STE^VED. Melt du-ee- 
onarters of an ounce of butter in a tea-cup- 
nlof cream, mix with it a quarter of a 



poond of good cheese finely jgpled, beat it 
well together; put a slice  toosted bread 
into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, 
and brown it with a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR RABBIT. 

Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it 
in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut some 
cheese in very thin slices, and rub some but- 
ter over die bottom of a plate, lay the cheese 
upon it, and fmur in two at three spoonfiils 
of white wine, and a little mustara; cover 
it with another plate, and set it on a chafing- 
dish of coals two or tliree minutes, then stir 
it till it is well mixed ; wlien it is mixed 
enougli, lay it upon the bread, and brown it 
widi a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED. Cut a slice of 
bread about half an inch thick ; pare off the 
crust, and toast it very slightly on one side 
so as just to brown it, without making it 
liard or burning it. Cut a slice of ^tod 
fat mellow dieese, a quarter of an indi 
diick, not so big as the bread by half an 
inch on eacli side: pare off the rind, cut out 
all tlie specks and rotteu parts, and lay it 
on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; 
carefully watch it that it does not burn, and 
stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle 
forming on the surface. Have ready good 
mustand, pepper and salt. If you observe 
the directions here given, die cheese will 
eat mellow, and will be uniformly done, 
and the bread crisp and soft, and will well 
desaTe its ancient appellation of a ** rare 
bit." This Receipt, as well as every other 
worth extracting, is fiwn the Cook's Oracle. 
Tlie Editor goes on to say. We have noth- 
ing to add to the directions given for toast- 
ing the cheese in die last receipt, except that 
in sending it up, it will save much time in 
portioning it oat at table, if you have half a 
dozen small silver or tm pans to fit into the 
cheese-toaster, and do the cheese in these: 
each person may then be helped to a sepa- 
rate pan, and it will keep the cheese much 
hott^ than the usual way of eating it on a 
cold plate. Ob.  Ceremony seldom tri- 
umplis more completely over comfprt than in 
the serving out of this dish ; which, to be 
presented to the palate in perfectioir, it is 
imperatively indispensable that it be intro- 
duced to the mouth as soon as it appears on 
the table. 

CHERRY BRANDY. (1) Pick and 
iMtiise eight pounds of black maroons, and the 
same Quantity of small black cherries ; let them 
stand for two months in a cask with six 
gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred to- 
gether. At the end of that time it may be 
dravyn off and botded. 



CHI 



.48 



CHI 



CHERRY BRANDY. (2) aiooec 
fine sound morella chenies, and having 
taken ofT the stalks, place diem in layera 
in glass jars; strew powder-sugar between 
each layer, and cover them with brandy. 
Ab soon aa the cherries have imbibed tlie 
brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them 
constantly covered. 

CHERRIES, DRIED. Take large 
cherries, not too ripe ; pick ofT the stalks, 
and take out the stones with a quill cut 
Dearly as for a pen: to three pounds of which 
take three pounds or pints of clarified sugar ; 
boil it to the degree of blown ; put in the 
cherriesi give them a boil, and set them by 
in an eanhen pan till tiie next day; then 
strain the sirup, add more sugar, and boil 
it of a good consistence ; put tiie cherries in, 
and boil them five minutes, and set tliem by 
anotiier day: repeat the boiling two more 
days, and wlien wanted, drain them some- 
time, and lay them on wire sieves to dry in 
a stove, or neaily cold oven. 

CHERRY PUDDING. See Puddings. 

CHERVIL, Is principally used in soups 
and stuffing, and is generally preserved with 
other herbs as follows: take of sorrel, chen'il, 
beet, purslain, and cucumbers, if in season, 
quantities according to your liking; wash 
them well; mince and press them in your 
hand, to squeeze out all die wrater. Put 
them into a kettle widi water, some butter 
and salt, and boil them until the water is 
entirely consumed. Then take diem out, 
and when cold, put diem into pots; cover 
them with warmed butter. When you 
want to use these herbs, put diem into some 
stock that has very litde salt in it. If they 
are required for a farce or garnish, boil them 
a minute or two in some l^utter; thicken 
with the yolks of eggs and milk ; when so 
prepared, they may be served under hard 
eggs or broiled fish. For sauce, it must be 
chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and 
mixed with melted butter. 

CHESTNUTS, Should be placed on die 
fire in a pan with holes to roast ; first slitting 
or cutting a notch in die skins, to prevent 
their flying off. Wlien done, serve them in 
dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible 
Some boil the chestnuts instead of i^)asting 
them, as die skins are dien cleaner, but the 
Buts not quite so mealy; die better way 
is to boil them in plenty of water, and 
-whea nearly done, take them out and roast 
Ihem. 

CHICKENS. Having picked die chick- 
ens, singe them well to remove all the hairs, 
&c., which may remain on the skin; then 



bruise the bone close to the feot, and dra|r 
the strings from die diigh. Take out thfi 
crq? by a slit cut in the back of the neck; 
then cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to 
turn over die back. Cut off the vent, and 
take out die inside, being careful not to break 
the gall ; break the back-bone and the two 
bones leading to the pinions ; wipe the chick- 
en widi a clod), and put in a litde pepper 
and salt. If die chicken is to be trussed for 
roasting, proceed as follows:  Tm-n the legs 
close down to the apron and run a skewer 
through ; run another skewer in die joint of 
one wing dirough the body to the other wing; 
and having waslied the liver and gizzard, 
place them in die pinions. For boiling, the 
under part of die thigh must be cut, ai^ the 
legs placed under the apron, only letting the 
ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast 
very full. 

CHICKEN BROTH. See Broth. 

CHICKENS, BROILED OR GRILL- 
ED. Pick and singe them nicely, wash 
them clean, and dry them in a cloth ; cut them 
down die back, truss the legs and wings, as 
for boiling ; flatten them, and put them upon 
a cold gi'idiron ; when tli^ become a littfe 
dry, put them upon a plate, baste them with 
butter, and strew a litde salt and pepper 
over the inside, which part is laid first upon 
the gridiron ; baste them frequently, and let 
them broil slowly for about half an hour* 
Serve diem vei'y hot, with melted butter 
poured over them, or plenty of stewed miKh- 
rooms. The livers and gizzards may be 
broiled with them, fastened into die wingg, 
or well seasoned, broiled, and served with 
the chickens. 

CinCKEN BAKED IN RICE. Cut 

a chicken into joints as for a fi*icafisee, sea- 
son it well widi pepper and salt, lay it into a 
pudding dish lined widi slices of ham or ba- 
con, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onioB 
finely minced; fill up the dii^ with boiled 
rice well pressed and piled as high as the 
dish will hold, covo: it with a paste of fiocor 
and water ; bake it one hour, ana before serv- 
ing take off the paste. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (1) Put the 
chickens into a saucepan by thenuelves, and 
boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one 
twenty minutes. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (2) Whendiey 
are dravvn and trussed, lay the diickens in 
skim milk for about two hours; then put 
them into cold water, cover them close, and 
set them over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As soon as they have boiled slowhr. 
take them firom the fire, and let them remau 



CHt 



4 



CHt 



ii Ae walar dose co wwd fir Inir  hoar) 
Aen drain and serve with while 



CHICKEN, BROILED. Split  couple 
of dndieiie, take oat tlie ineide and back- 
Iwn e B , beBt tlieni with a wooden spoon dip 
Aem ia cfarified butler, and brail them, the 
Ineide next the fire (wfaidi Aoald be of 
charooal), and <Mily torn them to color them. 
When done, poor (m them a sauce made as 
CiUows : Boil some slewed mnriirooras with 
beef slock and f^in sauoe, an equal qnanti- 
trof each, until of a proper consistence; 
avor it with lemon-juice and Oayenne pep- 

CHICKENS CHIRINGATE. Having 
laken off the feet, beat the breast bones of 
your dhiekens fiat without breaking the akin, 
floor md fry them in butter ; when of a nice 
teown lake all the fat from the pan, leavin? 
B the chickens, over whidi kiy a pound or 
gravy beef cut in thin slices, anotner piece 
 beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, 
pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bundi of 
sweet herbs: pour a quart of boiling water 
over the whole, cover it quite cloee, and let 
it stew ; in a quarter of an hour take out 
Ifae chickens, but let the gravy continue 
boUingt and when very rich strain it; then 
put it affain into the pan with a little red 
wine ana a few mushrooms; tben put in the 
chidcens, and when they are hot, dish them 
l|>, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish 
wkh slices of lemon and broiled Warn. 

CHICKENS CREME. (1) Parboil a 
couple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, 
and throw into warm water for half an hour ; 
itten do them over the fire iii a little fresh 
butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, mcMels, 
fcc. sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a 
glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan 
ekne, and let it stand on hot ashes until the 
water has soaked into the chicken, then add 
half a pint of cream and a Ihtle butter. The 
jolcs of three eggs may be put in also, but 
m that case, a small quantity of verjuice 
riiodd be put in before ^ cream. 

CHICKENS CREME. (2) Stuff and 
roast your chickens, and when you take them 
from the spit, rub them with butter, cover 
Aem with bread-crambs, vmp them m 
lAces (tf bacon, and bake them ariiorttime; 
serve with well thick^ied cream-auoe. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (1) Re- 
dnoe two spoonfiils of oelotile or sauce tour- 
nee, and add to it the yolks of fetv e^js; 
pot to this the white meat of a chicken 
minced yetj small, and well misted with the 
Mce, take it out, and roll it into balls about 
lleiNae of a wahwt; roll than in bread- 

5 



giving fheB an ebngalBu hrb} 
then dip them m aonie welmalen m^ 
bread diem agam, and fry them of a ^fii 
brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES, (t) Ks 

well into some very thidi beehameiU md 
pomt gbae the breast of a chicken, Mne 
tongue, truflfes and mus h roona all nuBoed 
very small ; when quite cold roll them inCio 
littw balls about the siae of a not, and hav- 
ing beaten up three eggs throw die balls imo 
them. Take them out quickly and nrfl then 
in bread'Crumbs ; dip them a second time 
into the egn, aOkl cover them again widi 
bread-crunibs; fry them as other erofiMCfss. 
Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dirii, 
place the croquetUe on, and round H, sad 
serve. 

CHICKEN CURRT. Take die skfai 
off, cut up a chicken, and roU each piece ip 
curry-powder and floor (mixed toffether ft 
spoonful of flour to half an ounce of cony) 
fry two or three sliced onions in hotter; 
when of a light brown, put in the meat and 
fry them ti^ther till the meat beeoase s 
brown ; then stew them together with a lil- 
tle water for two or three hours. Men 
water may be added if too thick. 

CHICKEN CAPILOTADE, Put iaio 

a stewpan a little butter and floor; add 
mushrooms, parsley, and shallots cut mall, 
dilute these with equal quantites of stock, and 
red or white wine. When the sauce is well 
boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, 
and put it into this sauce; stew it gcnt^^ 
fer a quarter of an hour. Add some ghmtins 
cut in thin slices. 

CHICKEN, COLD FRIED. Qn die 
chicken in quarters, and take off the dkin, 
rub it with an e^ beaten up, and cover it 
with grated bi^id seasoned with pepper, 
salt, grated lemon-peel, and chopped paruqr, 
fry it in butter, thicken a little brown gravy 
with flour and butter, add a little OayesBe, 
lemon pickle, and mushroom catehup. 

CHICKENS FRICASSEED. Ihnfut 

and cut up two chickens ; put them m a 
stewpan with some butter, parsley, a bay- 
leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, 
and a sine of ham ; let them stew till scarce- 
ly any sauce remains, then add a little floor, 
warm water, salt and peppo*; stew it again 
and reduce the sauce. When nearly Jioiie> 
put in the yolks of three eggs beaten op 
with a little cream or milk; diicken it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small mmh 
tity of lemon-juice or vinegar may be Mn^d* 
P&ce the brists and bones of the cUdtens 
on a dish, lay the legs and wings ow mem. 



CHI 



M 



! 



and then pour the nnoe over the whole; 

Smiflh with the mushrooinfl. Take off the 
iu before you cut up the chickens if you 
wiih the fricassee very white. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. Make a bat. 
tear with four ep^, some new milk, and 
rice-flour ; to thia, add a pint of cream, pow- 
derHBugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, 
IreBh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts 
of a roasted chicken shred small; set all 
tibese together on a stove, and stir well for 
ometime ; when done, take it. off, roll out 
the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry 
them; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the 
fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them 
hot. 

CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a 
diicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan 
with a little butter; add to it some mush- 
rooms, parsley, sprinklw flour over, and 
idiake them; moisten it with stock or water, 
and white wine; when it has boiled once, 
take it from the fire and put in the' yolks of 
one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or 
lemon-juice. 

CHICKENS AND OYSTERS. Fill 
jour chickens with young oysters cut small, 
truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. 
Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and 
toss them up in some melted butter, with 
diopped herbs and olive oil. When they 
have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, 
add a little white wine and half a glass of 
good stock, thicken it over the fire for an- 

*jjther quarter of an hour, and when the 
chickens are ready to sei've, pour the sauce 
on them, and garnish the di^ with oysters 

. and some lemon. 

CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken 
in a quart of water until nearly done; then 
akin it, cut off the white meat, and pound 
it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in 
to a thick paste; season it with salt, nut- 
meg, and lemon-[)eel; boil it up all together 
lor a few minutes. 

CHICKEN AND HAM POTTED. 

Season some pieces of chicken, widi mace, 
doves, and pepper, and bake them for about 
three hours in a close covered pan with 
ome water; tlien pound them quite small, 
moistening either with melted butter, or the 
liquor they were baked in. Pound also 
aome ham, and put this with the chicken m 
alternate layen, in potting pans, press them 
down tight, an^-^cover thm with butter. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (1) Half roast 
a chicken or fowl, skin and pull off in small 
iakei all the white meatand the meatof the 



legs, hnak the boms^ and boil .4ltaai-fai # 
little water tiU tha atrength be dcawn i% 
strain it, and when it becomes coki Ahm 
and put it into aaaaee paa widi a Ullla nmtm, 
white pepper, and nit; add a bit of faaMv 
mixed with floor, and rather num tbaa a 
quarter of a pint of cream, then put ia the 
meat, and a little mushroom powder ; befcre 
serving, add the squeeie of a leaxM* 

CHICKEN PULLED. (2) Pick all the 
white meat from the bcmes of a coki roasted 
fowl, cut off the legs, and keep the back aod 
sidesmen in one. Score, and season the legs 
and back with pepper and salt, and broil 
them; warm up the white meat in some 
sauce made of the bones boiled in a Uttia 
water, and which has been strained and 
thickened with a piece of Ijutter, mixed with 
flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up and seasoned with white pepper 
and salt; serve the broiled back upoQ the 
mince, and the 1^ at each end. 

CHICKEN PIE. See Pie, 

CHICKEN ROASTED. See FowU, 

CHICKENS, SCOTCH WAY. Cut 
your chickens into quarters, put th^n into a 
saucepan, %vith only just water enough to 
cover them, a bimch of parsl^, some chop- 
ped parsley, and a little mace, cover than 
close down, when it boils, add six egpi 
well-beaten; when the chickens are done, 
take out the parsley, and serve them in a 
deep dish with the sauce. 

CHICKENS AND TOMATA SAUCE. 
Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, - 
salt, pef^r, lemon-juice, and grated nut- 
meg, a sufficient quantity to put in two cbick- 
ens ; tie it in, and lay thin slices <^ lemoa 
on the breast of the aiickens, and lay them 
in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of ba- 
con; cover them with the same, and atew 
them with fire above and below fiir three 
quarters of an hour; when done, drain them 
in a cloth ; untie them, and aerve with tmna- 
ta sauce. 

CHINA CHILO. Mince a pint faeain 
of undressed neck of nuitton, or 1^, and 
some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuoeya 
pint of green peas, a tea-apoonful of pepper, 
four spoonfuls of water, and two or thine 
ounces of clarified butter, into a atewpaa 
closely covered ; sinomer two hours, and aerve 
in the middle of a dish of boiled (fay rice* If 
Cayenne is ajqiroved, add a little. 

CHILI, OR CAYENNE WINE. Pound 
and steep fi(^ fi'esh red Chilies, or a quar- 
ter pf an ounce of Cayenne pepper, ia half 



OHO 



ftl 



CHO 



-ftr llie loveri of Cb^enoe, of which it takoi 
{ a htffer proportHm of ill flnvor ihui of 
lis fires %Hiich Deia^ inrtaatly difiaed, it ii 
 Tery wefel aaxiliary to wam and finidi 
NI|, iMioet, Jcc 

CHOCOLATE. Aoeoidinfaa yoa wiah 

to make diis bevofage, either with milk or 

water, put a cup of ooe or odwr of these 

liqtiidfl into a choooiate-pot, with one oimee 

of cake chocolate. Some perwnis diiawlve 

'die diooolale in a little water before thevput 

it into die milk. As soon as the milk or 

water begins to boil, mill it. When the 

dMxxJate 18 dissolved, and begins to balible, 

fdu! it off the fire, letting it stand near it 

for a qoarter of an iKMn*; dien mill it again 

to make^ it fix>dnr ; afterwards serve it out 

in cops. The erocolate most not be milled, 

mJess it ia prepared with cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. See Cream, 

CHOCOLATE FROTHED OR WHIP- 
FED. Put half a pound of chocolate to a 
gfass of water over a small fire, stirring it 
with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolv- 
ed; then take it off and add six yolks of 
e^^t a pint of double cream, and three 
cmarten of a pound of powder-eugar. Pour 
toe urhole into a pui, and when cold, whip 
ft 1^ as directed. See Cream Prfkked. 

CHOCOLATE WINE. Take a pint of 
Sherry, or a pint and a half of Port, four 
ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of 
fine sugar, and half an ounce of white starch, 
or fine fionr ; mix, dissolve, and boil all these 
together for about tta or twelve minutes. 
But if yota* dwoolate Is made widi sugar, 
take double tlie qumitity of chooobue, and 
Imlf the quaittity of sugar. 

CHOPS OR STEAKS. Those who 
are nice about steaks, never attempt to have 
them, except in weather which permits the 
meat to be hung till it is tender, and give the 
butcher some days' notice of their wish for 
them. If, fi*iendly reader, you wish to enteLv 
tain your mouth widi a superlative beefwrteak, 
you most have the inside oS the sirloiu cut 
mio steaks. Hie next best steaks are those 
cut from the middle of a rump, thathas beoi 
killed at least four day^in moderate weather, 
and much longer in cold weather, when they 
can be cut about six inches long, four inchoi 
wide, and half an inch thick: do not beat 
tfaeoi, which vulgar trick breaks the cells in 
which the gravy of the meat is contained, 
aad it beoonMs dry and tasteless. N. B.  
If your butcher sends steaks which are not 
twMr^ wa ^ iiD( insist that you sboiikl 



lofet hia be 
baidier to eat dwm of even tbiekaesi; likm 
does not, divkle the thiokerfivm the thiaa 
pieces, and giva them time aoootdii^ 

CHOWDER. LayasmasUoaaeutftMi 

the fot part of a beHy^pieoe of pork, in a 
deep stewpaa, mix sliced onions with a 
variety of sweet hertis, and lay them on thi 
pork. Bone and cut a fiwh eod into thki 
slices, and place them on the pork; thenpnC 
a layer of pork, on that a layer oir bisouitt 
then alternately the other materials until tha 
pan M nearly mil, season with pepper ami 
salt, put in about a pint and ahsif of walir 
hy a paste over the whole, cover the stewpna 
very close, and let it stand, with fire abova 
as well as below, for four houra; then skim 
it well, and put it ia a dish, pour a ffbss of 
Madeira matte hot over it, also some ^imaioa 
pepper, sleured mushrooms, tnilBes, and 
oysters; brown the paste sliglitly, and lay il 
over the whole. 

CHOWDER roa teit oa twkltk. 
Take of salt pork cut in diin slices, as much 
as will make half a pint of fat, when tried, 
whicli will do for t%vo good siied cod or 
Imddock. Be carefol not to bum the fat. 
First, put vour fot in the pot. SecomUy* 
cut yoin* fish in as large pieces as will M 
into the pot ; then pot a layer of fish on tn 
fot; pepper, salt and a few cbves, then a 
layer of the slices of pork, strewed over with 
onions cut fine; then a layer of sbipbread 
or hard crackers dipped in water; then yoar 
thickening. Go on again widi fish, &c. &o. 
as above, tiU your pot is nearly foil, then pm 
in water until you can just see it, and let ft 
stew sbwly, so as not to break the fish. 
After coming to a boil, it will be done ia 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. N . B. Somn 
like potatoes cut in slices, which may he in- 
troduced between each layer. Likewin 
wine or cider, as you foncy. 09*Thia 
Receipt is according to (he most approved 
method, practised by fishing parties m Bon* 
ton harbor., 

CHOWDER, CLAM, May be made ui 
the same way, subsdtutiiig a sufficient 
quantity of clams instead of cod, the heads 
or bard leathery part being first cut <^ 
Many prefer chum chowder, nmely cooked* 
to chowder made of cod, haddock, Ihs. 
The pilgrims to Plymouth, it is said, omlhl 
cook this shell fish and lobsters in nearly 
fifty difierent ways, and even as p udd in gs, 
pancakes, &c. 

CHOUX. Put a pmt of water into a 
stowpan, with half a pound of finesh butter^ 
the rinds of two lemons grated, a qnarlSK 
of a pound of aqgar, and a vary little Mlt| 



ooo 



M 



COD 



m the waltr bqgim to boil, add m 
dour m tlw lk$tur wiN iMbibe; whet 
iwpMie bwooMB veiy tluck, keep tirrinpf 
with a noon until qwie deiie, tlien let it 
oool. Alter tliat break into it a sufficient 
mmikmo(eggit>tmkiti^pBamwe^; taking 
oan thut it be firm eoousb to allow you to 
vorii it up with the hand ; when it may be 
famed aeoordingto fiuwy. Tbu paste may 
beglaaed and garnished either widi alinomto 
or piitechio mits ; when bnking the cAoiur, 
ba earefiil to keep the oven tiglitly closed. 

CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil a 
pint of cream, and when ookl, mix with it 
two ms weiMiealen; dien boil them togeth- 
er oatu they become a curd. Beat a few 
hfeiichni ahnonds in a mortar, with a little 
erange-ilower water; pot them to the curd, 
aaA add eaone Naples biscuits and green cit- 
Oi,ch(^>ped vary small. SweetM, and bake 
in tins. 

CITRON PUDDING. See Puddings. 

CLARET PUFFS. Mix together, and 
flwiUen with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of 
darat, and ratlier more than one of rich 
eraam; let it stand a night, and tlien whisk 
k to a fioth, whidi take olTas it rises, and 
pit upon the back of a sieve to drain ; heap 
It upon a dish, sweeten some rich cream, 
mad pour it round the froth, to make it float. 

CLOVE, ESSENCE OF. Infuse a 
drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of 
the strongest f^irits of wine, apothecary's 



CLOVE WATER. Mix a little cinna. 
with the cloves, or the scent will be 
too BtrfHig ; allow hidf a score of cloves to a 
quart of water} pot in a good piece of 
aqgar; let thn infiise some time over hot 
embers, or in a warm pboe; then strain it 
atme. 

COBBLER. Name given to bread 
toasted on one side only. 

COCHINEAL PREPARED. Pound 
I ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, 
pound also an ounoe of cream of tartar, and 
two drachms of i^inn; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan with half a pint of water ; 
when it boils take it from the fire, and let 
it eeel; pour it off into a bottle, as free from 
as peasibte, and set it by for use. 



COCOA. Put into a saucepan one ounce 
ef 9Dod eoQoa and one i|uart of water; cover 
It, and when it boils, set it by the side of the 
in to simnKir fat two houm. It is some- 
in a har^ qoaiiti^, poured 



BKm tfaa wtaiwtBBtf and bmled op te it is iv 
(piired. 

COCOA.NUT SWEETMEAT. (1> 

Qit the not out of die riwil, pare it carefidly, 
and throw it into cold water; then grate i^ 
and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to eadi 
pound oi the cocoa-nut) until quite thick; 
stir it fretjuently to prevait its burning. 
Tlien pour it on a well buttered didi or mar* 
ble slab, and cut it into whatever forme yon 
think proper. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (2> 
Proceed as idve, but do not boil the sugar 
so tliick by a great deal ; then stir into it 
whilst hot the yolks of six ^gs; this must 
be served in jelly gli 



COD. A ood^L^ slMttld be firm aod 
white, tiw gills red, and the eye lively; a 
fine fish is very thick about the neck ; if the 
flesli is at all fiabby it is not good. Cod is 
in its prime during the months of October 
<ind November, if tlie weather be cold ; fixMn 
the lauer end of March to May, cod is abo 
very fine. The length of time it requires 
for boiling depends on the size of the fisb 
which varies fix>m one pound to twenty ; a 
small fish, about two or three pomids weight 
will be sufficient^ boiled in a quarter of aa 
hour or twenty minutes after the water boihu 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the followii^ 
manner: empty and w^ it tboroa|^ 
scrape off all the scales, cut open tlie belly, 
and wash and di*v it well, rub a little salt 
inside, or lay it for an hour in strcmg brine* 
The simple way of dressing it is as folbvira : 
Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, 
with plenty (^ water and salt in it; boil it 
gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Ln 
a napkin under the firii, and gamtdi witti 
slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. 

COD BAKED. (1) Soak a fine piece 
of the middle of fresh cod in melted buttor, 
widi parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine; 
let it stand over tlie fire for sometime, and 
tlien bake it. Let it be of a good ocJor. 

. COD BAKED. (2) Chooeeafinelafgtf 
cod, clean it well, and opm tlie under part 
to tlie bone, and put in a stuffing made widi 
beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs shred fine, an 
egg, and seasoned with sak, pepper, notmeff^ 
mace and grated lemon-peel ; pot this imndB 
the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered pa- 
per, and bake it; baste it well with mehed 
butter. 

cop, TO CRIMP. Cut a (Ksh cod iiN 
to slices or steaks; kiy them for three hoars 
in sak-and-water, aiid a ffhsi of tiiMgai^l 
whaa they may be lioilid, frid, or liroiM- 



cor 



6S 



cor 



COD PIE. Se PU, 

COD SOUNDS. Tkis 18 the white diin 
of die befiy, and is reckoned a great delica> 
ofy and may be either boiled, broiled, or 
fried. Previous to dreaBins either way, they 
should be wdl sooked^ washed, and boiled a 
little. 

COD SOUNDS, BoiLXD with Gra- 
TT. Scald them in hot water, and rub them 
weU with salt ; blanch them, that is, take off 
the blacked dirty dun, thai set them on in 
cold water, and let them simmer till they 
begin to be tender ; take them out, flour, and 
broil them on the gridiron. In the mean- 
time, take a little good gravy, a little mus* 
tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give 
it a boilj season it with peppac and salt. 
Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the 
auoeover them. 

COD SOUNDS, BROILED. Let them 
Ue m boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub 
them with salt, and pull off the black and 
dirty skin, boil them in hot water, drain, 
and dust them with flour, rub them over 
with buttor, season with white pepper and 
salt, and broil them. Put a table-spoonful 
oTcaCchap, half a one of soy, and a little Cay- 
enne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over 
them. 

COD SOUNDS, Roasted or Baked. 
Wadi and clean four or five cod sounds, and 
boil them till nearly done in milk-and-water ; 
when ooM, make a forcemeat o( bread 
cmmbs; a piece of butt^, salt, nutmeg, 
white pepper, and some chof^jed oysters; 
beat tip the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay 
it over the sounds, roll them up, and fasten 
with a small skewer, baste them with melted 
batter, and roll them in finely grated bread 
cramhs seasoned with pepper and sadt ; put 
them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and 
baste them with a feather dipped in melted 
butter, and strew over breaa crumbs as be- 
fcie; kHku done, and of a nice brown, serve 
them with oyster sauce in the dish. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, 
TO Boil. WaiAi it clean; tie it up, and 
dry it widi a cloth. ADow in the propor- 
tion of every diree measures of water, one of 
salt; when it boils take off the scum; put 
in iite fish, and keep it boiling very fast for 
twenty-five <m' thiity minutes. Serve witli 
the roe and milt parboiled, cut into slices, 
and firied, and garnish with curled parsley 
and hone-radish. Sauces ; oyster, melted 
batter, or anchovy batter. 

COFFEE. The coffee-pot should be 
three parts fuD of boiling water; die coffee 

6* 



ia to be ndM n ilpmiM t n tiiw id 
stirred between oaah; then boil gently, nil 
slirriag lo prew in t the mixton fnm boiling 
over as the cofce swelis, and to fovoe it into 
combination with d wnler, thb will be e^ 
fected in a few manoies, aAer which, the 
meet gentle boiling most be kept op dorinr 
an hour. Hie cofiee mnst Iben be win o w q 
from the fire lo settle, one or two snoonfiito 
of coU waler thrown in assists the clarifien- 
tion, and precipitnles the grounds. In about 
an hour, or as soon as the liquor has hecomn 
clear, it is lo be poured into another vesed* 
taking care not to disturb the sediment. 
Cofiee made in this mknner will he of the 
finest flavor, and may be kept three dayn 
in sununer, and fear or five in winter; whea 
ordered for use, it only requires heating in 
the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two 
minutes' notice. Cofiee shookl never bn 
roosted but at the precise time of its beinff 
used, and then it shook! be watched with 
the greatest care, and made of a gold cofer 
raUier than a brown one ; above all, take care 
not to bum it, for a very few grains burnt 
will be sufficient to communicate a bitter 
and rancid taste to several pounds of ooflee. 
It is the best way to i-oast it in a roaster, 
(over a charcoal %re), which turns with the 
hand, as by that means it is not Ibraot, wbieh 
ofien id the case when on a spit beloi>e the 
fire. 

COFFEE, Frkhcb method of 
PREPARING. 1st. Let your cofl^ bo dry, 
not in the least mouldy or damaged. -20* 
Divide Uie quantity that is to be roasted into 
two parts.  3d. Koa^t the fint part in a 
coffee-roaster, the handle of whicii mit be 
kept constantly turning until the cofiee be- 
comes the color of dried almonds or bread- 
raspings, and has lost one eighth of its 
weight.-~4th. Roast the second part until 
it assumes the fine brown color of chestmita, 
and has k)6t one fifth of its weight.  5ch. 
Mix the two parts togedier, and grind them 
in a cofl^ mill. 6th. Do not roast or mako 
your coffee until the day it is wanted.  7th. 
To two ounces of ground coffee, put four 
cups of cold water. Draw off this mfiBion, 
and put it aside.  8th. Put to the oofliM 
which remains in die Inggin, three cups of 
boiling water, then drain it ds and add Ibis 
infusion to dwt which has beea put aside. 
By this method you obtain three cups more, 
when your co^ is wanted, heat it quickly 
in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to 1^ 
it boil, that the perfume may not be lost b^ 
undergoing any evaporation. Then pour it 
into cups, which each person may sweeten 
according to his taste. Particular care 
^lould be taken not to make coffee in a tin 
vessel ; it should be made either in a China 
vessel, or one of Delfl ware, or in one of 



cot 



4 



611 



tXhefi For a img tfane,- the tin b^fghs, in- 
fCMed by Moivieiir de Belloy, inhere made 
Me of; Dot sone peraon htm flinoe improved 
ipoii hie pian, by making tbem of iWer or 
porodain,- which are found to be modi better. 

COFFEE CREAM. (1) Mix three 
eope of good ooflee vith one pint of cream, 
and m^giar aeomrding to taste; boil them to- 
gether, aiid reduce diem about one-third ; 
ofaeerve that the ooflee muit be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, 
before you mix it with the cream< 

COFFEE CREAM/ (2) BoiUcalTs 
foot in water ttli it wastes to a pint of jelly ; 
olear off the sediment and fat. Make a fea- 
enp of very strong coffee; clear it with a 
bit of isingiasB, to be perfectly briglit; pour 
k to die jelly, and add a pint of ffry good 
cnam, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is 
ftleasant; give one boil up, and poor into 
the dish< It shoiikl Jdly, but not be stiff. 
Observe that your co&e be flresbi 

COLlX)PS. Cut some veal cutlets; fry 
them a ^ood brown ^ but not too much ; take 
some good gravyy thicken it with a little 
flottr^ boil it a few minute? ; add Cayenne, 
oatchup^ truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms 
pickled, grated lemon-peel ; simmer this up, 
just heat the collops through, add what gravy 
came from tbem ^ but do not let tbem boil, or 
tbev will be hard ; add forcemeat balls, hard 
yolk of eggs; lay round little slices of ba- 
con, notched and toasted ^ and sliced lemon. 

COLLOPS, MINCED. Cut two 
pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices  
It is best taken from off the rump, or round ; 
mince it very finely; brovtm two ounces of 
butter in a frying->pan, dredging it with a 
little flour, then uld the minced meat, and 
keep beating it with a beater till of a nice 
brewn color. Have ready some bighly-sea- 
sftned beef gravy, which, widi the minced 
collops, put mto a saucepan, and let it stew 
half an hour; and just before serving, put a 
table-spoonfol of mushroom catchup, and, if 
liked, some green pickles. Beef suet is as 
oien used as butler to fry the collops in. 

COLLOPS, RUSSIAN. Break four eggs 
into a stewpan, and mix with them two 
qfioonfiils of flour, then half a glass of good 
cream, a spoonful of wa6-m butter, and a 
grain of salt ; when these are well mixed to- 
gether, pour some of it into a large frying-pan, 
and fry it of a light color on both sides; 
then take it out, mid fry more in the same 
way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen 
very thin, cut each in half, and trim tiiem 
into oblong pieces all the same size: lay on 
each some quetteiU, minced fowl or game. 



as if for eroguetiuf wrap tde iibd iMtki 
round it, wetting the ed^/ that they may 
adhere properly/ with a httte' of the batter^ 
having i asc i u d some for the purpose; thea 
have ready besten, six eggs and a little srit, 
mask ihem with hread'Crumbe, fry them aim 
good cckvy and serve them quiekly. 

COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cab- 
lets (taken from the fillet) into small thin 
pieces, and fi^ them in a little boiling lard 
till of a light brown color. t>rain them diy, 
put them mto a stewpan, add cullis, stewed 
mushrooms, some bkmclied truffles, moreb, 
pieces of artichdce bottoms, some slices of 
throat sweetbreads, and e^ balls. Let 
them simmer over a slow fire till teDdo*, 
season to the palate, and scn-e them wilk 
rashers of broilad bacon romid tbem. 



COLD MEAT BROILED, WITH 
Poaches Eggs. The innde of a airbui 
of beef is best for this disli, or a leg of mat- 
ton. Cut the slices of even and equal thick- 
ness, and broil and btxiwn them car^uOy 
and sligiitly over a clear smart fii, or in a 
Dutch oven ; give those slices meet fire that 
are least done ; lay them in a dish before the 
fire to keep hot, while you poach the eggi, 
and mash potatoes. 

COLORING FOR JELLIES, Caxks, 
&c. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen graina 
of cochineal in tlie finest powder, with a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water rery slowly, lialf an 
hour. Add, in boiling, a bit o^ alum the 
size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and 
some liquor poured over. For white, use 
almonds fiiiefy |M)wdered widi a little drop 
of water ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks 
of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the li- 
quor, and squeezed. For green, pound 
spinach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a tea-cupfiil in a saucepan 
of water, to take off the rawness. 

CONSOMME. Take ei^ht or ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two 
young ones, and four knuckles of veal; put 
these into a large pot, and fill it with strong 
broth ; skim it well, cooling it tbi'ee or four 
times to make the scum rise, after which let 
it boil gently ; put into tlie pot carrots, tor- 
nips, onions, and tliree cloves. Wlien yow 
meat is sufficieutly done, pass the lic|UQr 
through a fine napkin or silk sie\'e, tliat it 
may be very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong lnt)th be used. 

COUGLAUFFLE, GERMAN. Take 

tlu-ee pounds of flour, an ounce and a half 
of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks of ' 



co^ 



66 



CRA 



ttifift nofiB, two pocmdi oi freih butter^ 
tiirae i^asBes of miik, and a quarter of a 
|KNBd of sweet almondis. Proceed with 
tt^ae Bttttoriab in tlie following inamiar:^- 
pQt tte butter (having iiligfatly warmed half 
a pound of it), into a gkxed pan, and with 
a large wooden spoon work it op far six or 
oeven minutes; then pot in two whole e^, 
and sCtr it two minutes ; then add three yolks, 
tittd stir again two minutes ; in this manner 
pot in the whole number of eggs and yolks ; 
which will produce a kind of smooth cream. 
llieQ by degrees mix in two pounds of the 
flocn', dissolve the yeast in a ^lass of warm 
lailk, strain it through a napkin, stir this in 
well, with another half poimd of flour; 
make a hollow in the paste, in which put 
te sak and sugar in fmwder; afterwards 
poor on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the 
whole together with the remainder of tlie 
floor; continue to work it up far some min- 
iiles after the whole ingredients are put in, 
adding a small quantity of warm milk, which 
wis rendor it smooth. Have a mould ready, 
batter it, and lay die sweet almonds, each 
cut in half, ov^ the bottom of the mould, in 
fikrms, on which pour the paste carefully, 
and in snail quantities, so as not V> derange 
the afmoods. Place your mould in a warm, 
hat not a hot place, that the cake may rise 
properly; and wlien that operation has taken 
place, pot it into a moderate oven, which 
should be kept closed; in an hour's time 
kok at the dk^laufflet and if it be flexible, 
9d of a light color, let it remain thirty or 
farty minutes longer; but if it be firm and 
red it is sufficiently done; when taken from 
the mould, put it into the oven again for a 
few minutes. 

OOUGLAUFFLES, SMALL. To 

make a dozen small eouglauffUa, take three 
qnartMiB of a-pound of flour, three drachms 
of yeast, two of salt, two whole egs, three 
yoKs, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, 
and iialf a pound of butter. The prepara- 
tion is made the same as the German Cou- 
ghtuffte. When the paste is made, divide 
it into twelve equal (Huts; butter a dozen 
small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your 
preparation, and let them stand: when risen 
so as to fill the moulds, put them into a 
bridt oven, and take them out as soon aa 
they are of a light color. 

GOUQUES. Pot into a sancepan the 
yolks of sixteen eggf, the rinds of two lem- 
ona, half an ounce of salt, and two ounces 
of sugar; oa these pour a pint of boiling 
cream, stirring it quick ; set it on the fire, 
but do not let it boil, strain it through a 
bolting, and then let it cool; take two 
pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it 



into kavm widi hiJf as omcju of yMt wa4 
a little warm water, keep it rather moisCy 
and pot it nto a warm phce to rise: in tht 
meantime, make die remainder of the ftoar 
into a paste, with the craam mid a qoarttr 
of a pcNind of butter, knead it op five or sht 
times; then pot in die leaven, mid knead it 
again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and 
set it m a warm place. In about tiro horn 
take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the 
size of an egg, form them to that mape, and 
lay them on a baking tin, and leave them 
for half an hor to rise, then gild and 
bake them in a hot oven ; when dmie, open 
each on one side, take out a little of the 
crumb, in die place of which pot a bit of 
butter worked i^ with a little sak, and 
serve them. 

COURT BOUILLON. Cot a proper 
quantity of carrots, onions, eekry, and tur- 
nips, and put them into a saucepan with 
butter, par8%, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a 
mignonette and cloves ; sweat them over a 
gentle fire; add white wine, vinegar or 
verjuice ; boil, and then strain it, and serve 
it with whatever you may require it for. 
It is generally used for fish. 

COURT BOUILLON pob all 
SORTS OF Fresh Water Fish. Pot 
some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart 
of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, p^^ier, 
a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a 
clove of garlic, thyme, bay-lives, and beail 
all tied together, some sliced onions and 
some carrots; boil the fi^ in this court 
bouillon, (which will serve for several times) 
and do not scale it ; when die fish will ad- 
mit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a 
napkin, which makes it more easy to take 
out without danger of breaking. 

cow-heel. In the hands of a skilful 
cook, will furnish several good meals ; wheo 
boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, 
e^ and bread-crumb them, and fry them a 
light brown ; lay them round a diah, and put 
in the middle of it slwed onions fi-ied, or the 
accompaniments ordered for tripe. The 
liquor they were boikd in will make 
soups. 

CRACKNELS. Mix a quart of flour> 
half a nutmeg' grated, die yolks of firargiga 
beaten, widi four spoonfiils of rosewater, into 
a stiff paste, with coM water ; then rub in a 
pound of butter, and make into a cracknel 
shape ; put them into . a kettle of boiling 
water, and boil them till they swim ; thn 
take tliem out, and put them into cold water ; 
when hardened, lay thei^ out to dry, and 
bake tbem on tin plates. 



0H' 



56 



CRC 



CRACKNELS, small soft. Bknch 
Wlf a pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a fine paste, adding to them oy de- 
grees six eggs ; when thoroughly pounded, 
pour on them a pound of powder^ugar, the 
same of butter, and the rinds of two lemcmB 
grated; beat vp these ingredients in tlie 
mortar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and 
having poured the almond paste on it, knead 
them tozelher until they are well incoiporat- 
ed ; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into 
such forms as you may think proper, rub 
tliem with yolk of ^;g, and strew over them 
powder-ugar or cinnamon: then lay them 
on a buttered tin, and bake them in a mode> 
rate oven, taking great care that they do not 
bum. When done, put tliem into glas'ws, 
and if preserved in a dry place they are the 
better for keeping. 

CRANBERRIES, Different ways 
OF DRESSING. Fm* pies and puddings, 
with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a 
jar, with tlie same ; diis way tliey eat well 
witii bread, and are very wholesome. Thus 
done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes 
a fine drink for people in fevers. 

CREAM, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound to a paste, with rose water, six 
ounces of almonds, mix tliem with a pint 
and a half of cream which has been boiled 
with die peel of a small lemon ; add two 
well-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over 
tfie fire till it be thick, taking care not to 
allow it to boil ; sweeten it, and when near- 
ly cold, stir in a tablenepoonful of (H*ange- 
Dower or rose water. 

CREAM, APPLE. (1) Boil twelve 
lai^ apples in water till soft, take off the 
peel, and fNrees the pulp through a liair sieve 
upon half a pound of poimded loaf sugar ; 
whip the whites of two eggs, add tliem to 
the apples, and beat ad together till it be- 
comes very stiflT, and looks quite white. 
Serve it heaped up on a dish. 

CREAM, APPLE. (2) Peel and core 
five large apples; boil them in a little water, 
till soft enough to press through a sieve; 
sweeten, and beat with them the whisked 
whites of five eggs. Senne it with crefun 
poured round it. 

CREAM, ARROW-ROOT. Mix a ta- 

ble-fipoonfiil of arrow-root with a tea-cupfiil 
of cold water ; let it settle, and pour the wa- 
ter off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk 
with the peel of a lemoo and some cinnamon ; 
pick them out, and pour it boiling upcm the 
arrow-root, stirring it well and frequently 
till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china 
dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the 



top. It may be eaten with any 
fruit, or fruit tarts. 



CREAM, BACCHIC. Put a pint and a 
half of white wine, with some lemon-pedy 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three 
ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and leC 
them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix 
half a tea-poonful of flour with the yolks of 
six eggs in another stewpan, and stir in by 
degrees die other previously boiled ingre- 
dients. When about half cold, strain the 
wlmle through a sieve and put it in a didi 
in liot water, over the fire, till the cream is 
set ; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAM , BARLEY. Boil a small quan- 
tity of pearl bailey in milk and water, till 
tender, strain ofl^ the liquor, and put the 
barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. 
Then take the whites of five eggs and the 
yolk of one, beat tliem witli one spoonful of 
Hour, and two of omnge-flower water. Take 
tlie creiun from the fire, mix tlie eggs in faj 
de^'ees, and set it over the fire again to 
thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or 
glasses fur use. 



CREAM, BURNT. Boil a pint of cream 
witli tlie peel of a lemon, sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar; beat, with the yolks of 
'six, and whites of four eggs, one table-spoon- 
ful of flour, the same of orange-flower water 
and of ratafia; sti-ain tlie cream, and when 
nearly cold, mix it with tlie eggs and other 
things ; stir it over tlie fire till it becomes aa 
thick aa a custard ; put it into the disli it is 
to be served in. Boil with a little water 
some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, 
but do not stir it till taken oflf the fire; by 
degrees pour it in figures o\er the top of the 
cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

CREAM CAKES. See Cake8. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (1) Take 
a pint of milk, a gill of cream, tlie yolks of 
three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, 
mix these ingredients together, set tliem on 
the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till 
reduced to a quarter ; then add two ounces 
of grated chocolate ; and having boiled a lit. 
tie longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve 
it cold. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (2) Take 
about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to 
pieces, put it in a stew |)an with a little inilk, 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it looks 
smooth and tliick; tlien add a little more 
milk, and stir it again over the fire; con- 
tinue this till it takes tlie tliickncss of cream; 



Cft 



W 



t to yam pdne wHIi dvtfed 



mt; 0tir in a litde Uuek cream widi a vary 
Ettle isioi^kMi, tub k through the tunoiy, 
wdaet it in themoald. 

CREAM CUSTARD. Set Cmimrd. 

CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handftii 
t flour, ^ith three whole eggs, and the yolks 
fif six, four pounded macarooin, tome dried 
Mange-flowers, browned in ragar, a iittie 
CMidwd letDOD-peel chopped very foe, half 
a fant of cream, half a pmt of milk, and a 
lamp of sugar; boil the whole over a gentle 
ire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream 
tUBB to a. thick paste; then let it cool in a 
dish wdl floured, shaking flour all over it. 
When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, 
voA them in your bands tiU thi^ become 
rocHid, and firy them of a good coLm'; %vben 
jTou serve them, powder them all over with 



CREAM FROTH. Put a pint of fresh 
double cream into a stone pan, with half a 
pound of powder sngar, a pindi of gum 
dragon, a little crisped orange-flower, and 
diree drops of cediat essence; wrfaen the su- 
gar is dissolved, place the pi in another, in 
arfaicb is three pounds of ice beaten up with 
saltpetre; whip the cream in theusual man- 
ner, takinff off the fix>th os it rises with a 
skimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a 
pan; if the cream does not froth properly, 
add the whites of two e^. This cream m 
usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, 
and ^oold be prepared two or three hmirs 
before it m wanted. 

CREAM FOR FRUIT TARTS. Boil 
a stick of cinnamon, two or tluree peach 
leaves, or a few bruised bitter almonds, in a 
qmot of milk ; strain, sweeten, and mix it, 
wktea cool, with three or four wefl-beaten 
c^ggs ; stir it constantly m'er the fire till it 
thickens. It may be eaten with stewed 
s^les, pnmes, damsons, or any other finit. 

CREAM, IMPERIAL. Boil a quart of 
cream with the thin rind of a lemon; then 
sdr it till nearly cold; have ready- in a 
dish or bowl that you are to serve in, 
the juice aC three lemons strained, with as 
mnch sugar as will sweeten the cream, which 
poor into the didi from a lar^ teapot, hold- 
ing it high, and moving it about to mix with 
the juice. It should be made at least six 
bdars befixe it is served, and will be still 
better if a day. 

CREAM ITALIAN. (1) Boil a pmt and 
a Imlf of milk in a stewpan, then odd to it 
the peel of a young lemon, some coriander 
fBsdy a Inl of eianamoa, rath^ more than 



half a qoarttr of a paauA of sqgar, and tfw 
or three mains of salt; let it boil tiU twlf ia 
consumed ; then ]et it liaad Id oeol, and 
have ready in another stewpan a tittle rioisr, 
beat up with Uie yolks ef sia ^gs ; stir it 
by degrees into the cream ; saain it thrtHi^ 
a sieve, and pot it in the dish for tabh*, 
phwinff the dish in some hot water over the 
lire till the cream is set. Before serving, 
brown with a sahunander. 

CREAM ITAUAN. (2) Put a gill of 
good fresh cream, two ^gs, three sptmiifoli 
of powder-sugiir, and a licile oian^> -dower 
water, into a pan, and whip tliem up togeth- 
er; and when the cream is sutficientiy rhick, 
put il into a deep dish, with plenty of pow- 
der-eugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and 
lay hot ashes on the top, wliich must be 
rene%ved until the cream is done enough^ 
then let it cool, and sene it. 

CREAM, LEMON. Steep the thinly 
pared rinds of four btrge lemons in a pint oC 
water for twelve hours; strain, and dissolve 
in it tfaree-quaurters of a pound of fine loaf 
sugar, add the juice of the k!mons strained^ 
and the well-b^ten whites of seven, amd the 
yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, 
sthring it coiisiaatly one way, till it is like 
a thick cream ; pour it into a glam or chins 
di^. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (1) SqoeeseancI 
strain the iuaee <^ eleven oranges, sweeten 
it well with pounded kwf stigar, stir it over 
a riow fire till the so^ar be dissoked, and 
take off the scum as it rises ; when cold, 
imx it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve 
eggs, to which a pint of cream has been 
added ; stir it again over tlie fire till thick. 
Serve in a glam dish or cuBtard-ct^}s. 



CREAM, ORANGE. (2) Sweeten, 
with pounded k>af sugar, a quart of good 
cream; mix with k a small wine-^lasM of 
orange-flower water, the grated rind and 
the juice of a Seville orange ; whisk it till 
quite thick ; soak some macaroons in white 
wine, and pile them in the middle ef a glass 
or china dish, and heap the whipped cream 
over diem as higli as pomible. some hours 
after, oitmment it with slices of creen citroa 
cut into straws, and stuck into me cream. 

CREAM, RATAFIA. In a tea-cupfii! 
of dita cream boil two or three large laurel, 
or young peach leaves; when it has boiled 
three or four minutes, strain, and mix with 
it a pint of rich sweet cream ; add tliree well* 
beaten whites of eggs, and sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar. Put it into a saooepan, 
and stir it ^nuy one way over a slow fire 
till it be. iJi^Kk; imc iK into ai ^liim, djbh 




cms 



CR 



ttd wlien quite eoU,nMn6iit k wkliMraBt- 
Beats cut oat fike ikuren; or etrew over 
the top harieqain comlhfl. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (1) Mix a 
little pounded loafsugnr with a pint and a 
half of good creaoi, about a tea-cupful of 
raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and 
the juice of hilf a lemon ; beat it well to- 
gether, and, with a syHabob mill, mill it 
alowly for half an hour, or till it be thick and 
solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in 
costard glasses. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (2) Put six 
ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream, 
pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the 
juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whi^ it till thick. Serve it in a dish or 
fflasses. Strawbernr creaoB may be made 
m the same way. For common use, substi- 
tute good milk fi>r the cream. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (1) Pick 
the currents from the stalks, put them into a 
jar closely covered, and taiid it in a pan 
of cold water ; let it boil for two hours, strain 
the juice through a sieve, and sweeten it 
well widi poumwd kraf sugar. When cold, 
add a quart <^ cieam to a pint of juice, and 
beat it with a whisk till thick. Serve in a 
deep glass dish. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (2) 

Squeeze three-quarters of a pint of juice 
from red currants when full ripe, add to it 
rather more than a quarter of a pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon ; stir it into a pint and a half of cream, 
and whisk it till quite thick. 

CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of four eggs ; sweeten and 
boil a pint of good milk, drop about three 
table-spoonfuls of the froth into it, turn it 
over once or twiop with the spoon, take it 
out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve 
placed over a larae plate; repeat' tliis till it 
IS all done; add to the milk another half 
pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it 
with the beaten yolks of the eggs; stir it 
over the fire till thick; put it into a faasin, 
and stir now and tlien till nearly cold ; add 
a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of 
brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay 
the whites of the eggs over the top at equal 
distances. Cut citron and candied orange- 
peel into straws, and put them over the 
whites of the ^^> or strew over them oolw- 
ed comfits. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. Mix one 
or two table-spoonfiils of sifted flour of rice 
with a little good stock, rather coki than 



hot; add ttiia to sonn boiKng slMfc, afel 
keep stirring till it boils; and fet it bail < 
sufficiend^ wick. The flour of riee najiM 
made as iolbws: Wash in several uraievt 
a pound of rice ; wipe it in a clean towiri, 
and when perfectly dry poimd and sift it 
through a sieve. 

CREAM, SNOW. Take a pint of fivsh 
oream, and mix with it eight spoonfiib of 
powder-sugar, the whites ol two e^js, vaA 
a spoonfiil of orange-flower vrater, or wlej 
otlier aromatic ingredient vou like better; 
whip it, and remove the (roth or snow m 
the usiislI way. - This cream may becolonsd 
according to your iatncy, with safiVxMi, car* 
mine, or indigo. 

CREAM, SOLID. Squeeze the juioa 
of a large lemon upon three or four tabia- 
spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, add two 
table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pint of 
cream ; pour it from one cup into another, 
till it be sufiiciently thick. 

CREAM, SPANISH. Boil, in half a 
pint of water, half an ounce of isinglass, dfl 
dissolved ; strain, and mix it with a quart 
of cream or good milk ; if cream, not a 
much isinglass; stir it over the fire till it 
come to a boil ; when a little cooled, add 
gi^dually tlie beaten yolks of six eggs, and a 
glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep 
diiedi, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, star 
it till cold, and then put it into a shape. 

CREAM, STONE. Put three tabte- 
spoonfuls of lemon-juice, and the grated pe^ 
of one, some preserved apricots, or any other 
sweetmeat, into a glass or Qiina dish. Boil 
a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a littla 
water, till dissolved ; add it to a pint of cream, 
sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; 
boil it, and stir it all tlie time; pour it into 
a jug, stir it now and thai till milk-warm, 
tlien pour it over the sweetmeat round and 
round. It may be made the day befora 
being served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (1) Boil the grated 
peel of a large lemon, and three-quarters of 
a pound of pounded loaf susar, in a pint of 
cream; squeeze the juice of the lemon upoa 
a table-spoonful of flour, work it well togetb* 
er, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, 
and heat it all over the fire; pour it i ito a 
basin, and when nearly eold, put it into a 
glass or China dish, and garnish it with 
candied orange-peel, and citron cot iaia 
straws. This cream requires to be constant- 
ly stirred till it is put into the dish in wfaidi 
it is to be served. 



CREAM, SWISS. (2) Whiak 



CRO 



W 



cmo 



^0t filal> the yolktaf eight 401, helfa 
pMmd of fineiy-poumied aiipur, the fted 
Dod of a leiiioa and half a pint of light 
f jBBacb or Rheniih while wine, and lend it 
wvrna. to table. 

CREAM TART. Stt Tart. 

CREAM, WHIPPED. Sweetea, with 
pounded loaf tngar, a quart of cream, and 
add to it a lump of MKar which has been 
nibbed upon the ped of two fine lemooe or 
bitter oranges; or flavor it with orange- 
Howar water, a little emeooe of rows, the 
jaioe of ripe strawberries, or of any other 
iiniit. Whisk the cream well in a larae pan, 
and as the frodi rises, take it off, and lay it 
upon a sieve placed over aootlier pan, and 
Blum the cream which drains from the froth, 
tiU all is whisked, dien heap it upon a dish, 
or put it into glasses. Garnish witli diinly- 
pared citron, or oedrat cut into small leaves, 
or into any fenciful shape. To color the 
rose cream, or to bei^ten tliat of strawber- 
ry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed 
with the cream, which may be iced when 



CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (1) Rub, 
with some lumps of loaf sugar, the rinds of 
six lemons, and grate off the remainder; 
acjoeeze and strain the juice, and add the 
grated peel and sugar, with three-quarters 
^a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; put to this 
a quart of rich cream, and whisk it till very 
diick. Tlie followinff day, soak five or six 
nonge biscuits in white wine, and put over 
mem die cream. 

CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (2) Boil 
lhe tbin peel of two lemons in a pint <^ 
cream ; strain, and thicken it with die wdi- 
boiten yolks of three, and whites of four 
^gB ; sweeten it with pounded loaf su^, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it mto 



CROQUANTE OF PASTE. Rollout 
paste, about the eighth of an incli thick; 
mb over a plain mould with a littte fiiesh 
batter; lay on the paste very even, and 
equally thin on both sides; pare it round the 
rim; then with a small penknife cut out 
small pieces, as &ncy may direct, such as 
diamonds, stars, circles, apngSf &c. ; or use 
a email tin cutter of any shape: let it lie to 
dry sometime, and bake it a few minutes in 
a alack oven, of a light color: remove it 
firom the mould, and pmce it over a tart, or 
any other dish of small pastry. 

CROQUE. These are large pieces of 
ornamental confectionary, formed of various 
matcriafa, as gimibUiUi, cr0quig7ioU$,gtn' 



als green auls, kc, arranged 
in moaUs aooardiac to 6acy, and 
logedMr with boifed sugMT. 



CROQUETS. PoimI, in a 
murtar, cold veal and fewl with a little suet, 
some chopped lemon-peel, lenoon diyme, 
Ghivei,aiMl parriey. Season with nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; mix all well together, aad 
add the ydk of an egg well-beaten ; roll it 
into baUs, and dip then into an esg beatea 
up, then sift bread cnanba over ttMm, and 
firy them in butter. 

CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. 
Mince aome boiled meat very small ; add to 
it some sai ge moat, mashed potatoes, 
crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, aiid suveet 
herbs; make them into a paste, and form it 
mto Uttle baUs ; roll diem in very fine rasp- 
ings, and fry them of a nice color. Seriw 
them with sauoe piqwmU, 

CROQUETS OF SWFJBTBREADS. 
Mince soooe cold sweetfaraads, which haw 
been dressed, and boil them m a sauoe ve- 
loute ; when quite cold, form them into balk, 
or into n^, about two inches long ; fr^ and 
serve diem with fried parriey in die middle. 
Or, make the croauet meat into a rissole. 
Roll out a piece or thin puff paste, enclose 
the meat in it, bnidi it over with a beaten 
egg, and strew over it grated bread; fry it 
of a light brown color. 

CRUMPETS. (I) Make a pint of 
warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into astnmg batter, with a sufficient 
qnandty of floor; cover, and set it in a 
warm i^aoe to rise; then add a quarts of 
a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter 
worked up in a little flour, but (Hily flour 
enough to prevent the batter from being too 
thin; in a quarter of an hour have the iron 
rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; 
pour the liatter into these rings, and bake 
them. 

CRUMPETS, OR PIKELETS. (2) 
Set a nx>nge as for bread, excepting that 
half milk and half water must be used; and 
to every hal^qoartem of flour, two eggs 
must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. 
Bake them in rings as usual. 

CRUST, FOR VENISON PASTY. 
Wwk into a paste with warm water, two 
pounds and a lalf of butter, a peck of fine 
flour, and four eggi', work it smooth, and 
to a good consistence. The paste should be 
pot round the inside, bat not at the bottom 
of the dish; let the cover be tolerably thick, 
to bear the long continuance in the oven. 



CDO 



60 



OUL 



CRUST, RAiSED. <1) Mdt, ia one 

aintur watitr,ime pound oCfraifa brd ; weigti 
iwr puiuwk of flour, put it into a bunn, aod 
wlieii tlie water and lard m hut, with a hem 
poon stir it by degrees amunj^ die tlour. 
Wheu weU nixed, work it wteh the hands 
tiil it is a stiff paste, virban it is ill for we. 

CRUST, RAISED. (2) Pm iato a 
flMKepaii one pint aod a liaif of water, four 
pounds of flour, and four ounces and a half 
of butter; stir it tili it is a thick fxiste, take 
it out, and add the yolks of three or fixir 
beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it 
out rattier more than half an inch thick; 
cot out tlie top and bottom, and a \omg piece 
of proper deptli tor the sides. Brash round 
the bottom widi well-beaten whiles of eggs; 
set on die sides, keeping the paste radier 
within die edge of the bottom ; pin^ it all 
round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill 
the pie^ and iNrush round the upper sides of 
die crust and die outer edges of the cover 
with egg ; lay on the cover, pinch it round 
neatly, and ornament it according to iancy 
wiUi leaves, festoons, or chaine o( rings 
made of die paste. 

CRUST SHORT. (1) Pound, sift, 
aod dry two ounces of white sugar; then 
mix it widi a ))ound of well dried nour, rub- 
bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three 
ounces of butter ; then put the yotks of two 
eggs into some cream, and mix die wliole 
into a sinoodi paste; roll it oni diin, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST SHORT, not swekt, but 
RICH. (2) Mix into a stiffish paste, us- 
ing as little water as possible, six ounces of 
butler, widi eight ounces of fine flour, (rob- 
bing die butter well into the flour, befiHie 
mixing it with the water) beat it well, and 
roll it diin. This crust is pn^ier as well as 
the above, for tarts of fi^rah or preserve^ 
firuits. Let it bake in a moda!ate ovra. 

1 

CUCUMBERS STEWED. Peel and 
Cot cucumbers in quarters, take out the seeds, 
and lav diem on a clodi to drain off the wa- 
ter: when they are dry, flour and fiy them 
in finesli butter; let the butter be quite hot 
befcHV you put in the cucumbers ; fiy diem 
till they sue brown, dien take Uiem out widi 
an egg-slice, and lay them on a sieve to 
drain die &t firom them (some cooks fiy 
sliced onions, or some small button onions, 
widi them, till diey are a delicate li^t 
brown color, drain diem from die fot, and 
then put diem into a stewpon itith as much 
gravy as will cover diem) : stew slowly dll 
they are tender; take out die cucumbers 
with a slice, diicken the gravy with flour 
and butter, give it a boil up, season it with 



peppir and sail, and pot hi Iha 
as soon as thev are warm, diey n reaAjfU 
The above, rubbed thraueh a tamia, or mt 
sieve, wiH be entitled to be called ** cnea^ 
ber sauce.*' See Cucumber Vinegar. Thb 
is a very fiirorite sauce with lamb or muttoi^ 
cutlets, stewed nimp-steoks, &c. &c. : when 
made for die latter, a third part of sliced 
onion is stmietimes fried with the cucundbei. 

COJCUMBERS AND ONIONS, SU& 
ED. Oit full-grown cocomhers ^nto rfioei 
thonA a quarter of an inch thick, and sliee 
some onions thin ; then lay them into a diA 
together, and strew sak over them; cover 
them with another dish, and let diera re- 
main for twenty-four hours. Put them in- 
to a cullender to drain, then into a hu^ge jar, 
and poiir over them boiled vimsar, three 
successive days ; the last time vf boilii^ the 
vinegar add pepper and ginger, pour it over 
them hot, and closely cover them when ooM. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. Out a kng 

naiTow piece out of the sides of laroe Tmv 
k^ cucumbers, scoop out the seeds, and 
with a part of them mix smne mustard seed, 
slired garlic, and grated horse-radish ; staff 
the space as foil as it will admit of, aind re- 
place die piece which was cut off; bind 
diem with a thread; put over them hot 
vinegar dwee successive davs, and boil with 
it die last time pepper, tfour of mustard, 
and some sah ; put them into jars, and pov 
over them the boilinff vinegai', and MtbeB 
cold, cover them closely. 

CULLIS. (1) Toac||uartormvy,pata 
table^poonfiil of thickening, or from ooe to 
two taUe-spoonfols of flour, aocordii^ to 
the thickness you widi the gravy to be, into 
a basin, with a ladleful of the giavy; stir it 
quick ; add Uie rest by degrees, till it is afl 
well mixed; then poui* it back inio a stew- 
pan, and leave it by the side of the fire to 
simmer for half an hour longer, that tibe 
thickening may thoroughly incoiporate with 
the gravy, die stewpan being only half cov- 
end, stirring it every now and then ; a aoft 
of scum will gatho* on die top, which it is 
best not to take off till you are ready to 
strain it through a tamie. Take care it is 
neither of too pale nor too dark a coIcm*; if 
it is not thick enough, let it stew longer, tiB 
it is reduced to the desired thickness; or 
add a bit of slaze, or portable soup to it, 
if it is too diick, you can easily thin it with 
a spoonful or two of warm broth, or water. 
When your sauce is done, stir it in Ute ba- 
sin you put it iitt6 once <Nr twice, while it is 
cooling. 

CULLIS. (2) Lay over die bottom of a 
stewpan as much lean veal as will t m m 



CUR 



61 



CUR 




boil 



boU 



% fhoi C99tf Ab von wMi 

8lM6B Of imdltSMBu MUXM (gOIDIBOB M 

best), three onioiii, three bay leaves, 
sweet heibs, two blMdes of naoe, and 
cfeves. PatoB the Kdofthestewpan, 

set it oifer a slow fine ^ but when the 
come out, let the ire be a little (|iMck- 
Whesk the meat is of a nioe brown eol- 

fifl the stewpan with food beef broth, 

and skim it, then let iC simmer for an 

; add a little water mixed with as 
flovr as will make it properly thick; 

it half an hour, and stram it. You 

taeep ibis cuflis a week. 



CULLIS^ A FAMILY ONE. RoB a 

piece of batter in ftwr, and stir it in a stew- 
an tin the floor is of a fine yeOow color. 
Then pot in some thin broth: a little gravy, 
a gbuB of while wine, a bundle of sweet 
beHbs, two cloves, a little mitmeg or maoe, a 
Aw mashrooms, pepper and sah. Let it 
stew an boor over a slow fine, then skim all 
the fit dean off, and strain it through a 
sieve. 

CULLIS, WHITE. Take a pieoe of 
veal, cot it mto small bits, with some ibin 
slices of bam, and two onions, each cut into 
fior; moisten it with broth, seasoned with 
mnshrooms, a bunch of panley* green onions, 
three cloves, and so let it stew. Being 
slewed, take out die meat and roots with a 
skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and 
let it stew softly; take the white of a fowl, 
or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; 
being well pounded, mix it in tlie cuUis, but 
it must not boil, and the cullis must be very '. 
white; but if not white enough, pound two 
doaen of sweet almonds bhnched, and put it 
into the cuJlis; then boil a glass of milk, and 
add it to the cullis ; let it be of a ^ood ila- 
vw, and strain it off; then put it into a 
small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be ' 
used for v^te loaves, crust of white bread, 
and biscuits. 

CURACOA. Put five ounces of thm- 
cot Seville orange-peel, that has been dried 
and pounded, or, which is still better, of 
the fineeh peel of a fresh shaddock, which 
may be bought at the orange and lemon 
^ops in ^ beginning of March, into a 
quart of the finest and cleanest rectified 
spirit; after it has been infused a fortnight, 
stram it, smd add a quart (^ sirup and filter. 
See the following receipt. 

CURACOA; how to make a 
9flJAB.T. To a pint of the cleanest and 
strongest rectified spirit, add two drachms 
and a half of the sweet oil of orange-peel ; 
hake it up: dissolve a pound of good lump 
n^gar in apiat of cold water ; maSe this in- 

6 



to a dvHIed sirup, whieh add to the 
spirit: shdLe it up, and let it stand till the 
Ibllowinr day: tbea line a ftmnel with a 
piece of musHn, and that with filterinff- 
paper, and filler k two or three times till rt 
IS quite bright, lliis Kqoor is an admira- 
ble cordial \ and a tea-spooalhl in a tumbler 
of water is a veiy reftesoing sam aae f drink, 
and a graat improvement to pundi. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (1) Whh 
about half a tablpoonfil of rennet, turn 
two quarts of milk JvBt from the oow; drain 
off^ whey, and fill a mould widi the cord ; 
when it has stood an hov or two, turn it 
out. Strew colored comfits over it, sweeten 
some eream, mix grated nutmeg with it, 
and pour it reond tte curd. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (2) Put two 

quarts of new miHt inta the dish ia whidi it 
is to be served, and turn it with a tea-spooo- 
fiil of rennet; when the curd has come, so-ve 
it with cream in a separate dish. 

CURRANTS, AND OTHER FRUIT, 
TO CANDY. Boil the fruit in clarified 
sugar as for preserving; take it out of tlie 
sirup and drain it upon sieves; sift over it 
through a lawn sieve, till quite white, pound- 
ed loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, 
and turn and dust tbem with sugar tiU dry. 

CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT 
EGGS. Stir into half a pint of mild ale, 
as much flour as will make it into a tliick 
batter; add a little sugar and a few currants ; 
beat it up quickly, and with a Bpoaa drop 
it iato boiling lard. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. Take 
some ripe red currants, pick them, and 
squeeze out the juice from some of them ; put 
to it some juice of raspberries; then put to 
diis the whole currants, boil them gently ; 
and when tliey begin to break, put in an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to candv height ; 
boil them together, mash them as they boil ; 
skim them, put in some rose water, and 
when it becomes as thick as marmalade, put 
it into pots. 

CURRANT PUDDING. See Pud- 
dmg. 

CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gather 
tlie fruit perfecdy dry, and before it be too 
ripe, pick it from the stalks, and put it into 
clean, dry, widennouthed bottles; if the 
flavor of raspberries is approved, some may 
be added with the currants ; tie tiefatly over 
each bottle a piece of sound bladaer previ- 
ously soaked in water; set them into a pan 
of cud water with a little straw at the hot- 



CUR 



6^ 



0A 



tool, and a little between the bottles ; put 
tliem on tlie fire, and when they begin to 
simmer, keep tliem in that state about tliree- 
quarters of an hour, but tliey must not be 
allowed to boil ; take tlie pan oflf tlie fire ; 
tlie bladders will be raised, but will bil soon 
after, and sink into the mouth of llw bottles ; 
in an hour, take them out, and tie strong 
paper over each, and set tiiem in a dry cool 
place. The bottles may be placed in a 
bottle rack witli the neck downwards. 
Damsons, cherries, and gooseberries, may 
be done in tliis way ; any sort will keep for 
a year. Cut off the stains of Uie clierries, 
and top and tail the gooseberries. 

CURRANT TART. See TarU. 

CURRIES. Cut fowls or rabbits into 
joints, and wash them clean ; put two ounces 
of butter into a stewpan : when it is melted, 
put in the meat, and two middling-sized 
onions sliced, let them be over a smait fire 
till tliey are of a light brown, then put in 
half a pint of broth ; let it simmec twenty 
minutes. Put in a basin one or two table- 
spoonfuls of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of 
fiour, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it 
smootli with a little cold water, put it into 
the< stewpan, and shake it well about till it 
boils: let it simmer twenty minutes longer; 
then take out tlie meat, and rub the sauce 
tiirough a tamis or sieve: add to it two ta- 
ble-spooiiiiils of cream or milk ; give it a 
boil up; -then pour it into a dish, lay tlie 
meat over it: send up the rice in a separate 
dish. 

CURRY. Cut a fowl into small pieces, 
skin it, and let it blanch in cold water for 
two hours ; mince an onion very small, and 
put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of 
butter, and a lai^ table-spoonful of flour 
of ripe stirred in by degrees; brown it well, 
and when just boiling^ add a quart of cold 
water, with the pieces oi fowl and a large 
table-spoonful of cm*ry powder mixed in it. 
Let it ooil till the fowl oe quite tender, and 
just before serving, squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over 2ie blade of a knife into 
it. Vinegar will answer instead of tlie 
juice; and if it be required very fine, in 
place of rice, thicken it with an ounce of 
sweet almonc^ blanched and pounded. 

CURRY BALLS for Mock Turtk, 
Veal, Poultry, Made Duihea, fyc. Are 
made with bread-crumbs. Uie ycJk of an 
egg boiled hard, and a bit of ^esh butter 
about half 2^ big, beaten together in a mor- 
tar, and season^ with curry powder. 

CURRY, DRY. Skin and cut a fowl 
10(0 joints, or take off anoall cutlets from 



the belt iid of a neck-of veal ; fry in batter 
three or four minoed onions, and' draiik 
them ',. tlien firy the fowl or veal, and- dust i& 
with three lea-^poonfiils of curry powder^ 
and a quaiter of a tesk^spoonful of Cay^me.^ 
Put the fi'ied meat and onion into a stew* 
pan, with a Uttle salt, Imlf' a> pint of miUc, 
and the same quantity of water ; keep the 
pan closeiv covered, and let it stew tiU per- 
fectly tender,- and ten minutes before eOt^ 
ing, add two tea-spoonfuls o^ lomon^uioe^ 

CURRY, FISH, After a eod-fidi, had- 
dock, or niackeral ha lain some hours la 
salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water 
sul^cicnt to cover it, into'wliich a large ta- 
ble spoonfiil of curry powder has been miX' 
ed. Fry in a quarter of a pound of butter,, 
a sliallot and two or three onions mincedr 
a little pepper and. salt. Wlien well brown* 
ed, add it to tlie fish,- and stew all tc^tlier 
till it be quite tend^. Sprats make a good 
curry, but should be stewed iiw less water. 

CURRY, INDIAN. Stew in two ouwv 
es of butter, for ten minutes, a teaspoonfiil 
of Cayenne, and one of pepper, - tf dessert- 
spoonful of pounded coriander seed, six 
small onions, and two heads of garlic min- 
ced. Cut the fowl or rabbk into smalt 
pieces, and cover it over with the curd g( 
sweet milk. Put the whole into astewpan, 
with as much boiling water as may be de 
sired for sauce, and let it simmer ^ voy 
tender. 

CURRY POWDER. (1) Put die follow- 
ing ingi-edients in a cool oven all night, aod- 
tlie next morning pound them in a marble 
mortar, and nih them through a fine sieve. 
Coriander-seed, three mmces, turmeric, three 
ounces, black pepper, mustard, and ginger, 
one ounce of each, allspice and less carda- 
mons, half an ounce of each, cumin seed, 
a quarter of an ounce. Thorouglily pound 
and mix together, and keep them in a well- 
stopped bottle. Those who are fond oi 
curry sauces, may steep three ounces of the 
powder in a quart of vinegar or white wine 
for ten days, and will get a liquor impreg- 
nated with all the flavor of the powder. 

CURRY POWDER. (2) Pound ex- 
tremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of oo- 
riand^ seed, three ounces of pepper, one 
ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one 
ounce of cumin seed, thi^ee ounces of tur- 
meric, and three-quarters of an ounce d[ 
Cayenne ; sift it through muslin, and put tt 
before the fire for four or five hoars, stirring 
it every now and tbep. Ke^ it in a bottle 
with a glass stopper. 

CURRY OF VEAL, FOWL, fcc. Fry 



C0S 



M 



CUB 



AomI wbI, rabbity feiH, or wMdmAdsy in ft 
flood deal ci butter, dntiog k with flour. 
DuBt one side with curry powder; then tnra 
and dial tlie other, Btrewui^ over it finely- 
minoed oaioDB, taking care net to bum them. 
When the neat is cmT a light brown, ad4 
flouoe white stock, with a little salt ; slew it 
till tendor. Before serving, skim off the fiu, 
and add a tea^flpoonfiil of lemon-juioe or 
ineear. Rabbit, fowl and sweetbreads 
Bhoukl be parboiled. 

jCUSTARD. (1) Sweeten a quart of thin 
cream, or good milk, with pounded loaf 
Migar; boil it with a bit ci cinnamon, and 
faalf the peel of a lemon; strain it, and when 
a little ceoled, mix it gradually with the 
wdl-beatoB yolks of ten eggs; stir it over a 
low fire till it be pretty thick, pour it into a 
basin, and add a tableipoonfii] of rose water, 
and one c^ brandy; keep stirring it every 
now and then tiU cold, and tlien put it into 
glasses, cups, or a dish. It may be made 
ikud day before it is used. 

CUSTARD. (2) Boil a pint of milk 
widi lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint 
of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well 
heAtsa ; when the milk tastes of the season- 
ing, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it well ; then give 
the custard a simmer till of a proper thick- 
ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole 
time one way; then season with a lai^ 
spooofiil of peach water, and two tea-spoon- 
fols of brandy, or a 4ittle ratafia. If you wish 
your custards to be extremely rich, put no 
milkf but a quart of cream. 

CUSTARDS. (8) Take six eggs, 
leave out the whites; mix your eggs and 
su^ar t(^;ether with some rose water ; then 
boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs 
(the cream must not boil after the e^js have 
been pot in). Stir them to (xievent them 
fircMB eardling. 



CUSTARDS, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pqond fine, with half a gill of rose water, six 
ounces of sweet, and lialf an ounce of bitter 
ahnonds ; boil a pint of milk, as in Baked 
Oistard sweeten it with two ounces and a 
half of sugar; rob the almonds through a 
fine sieve, with a pint of cream; strain the 
milk to the yolks of eight e^, and the 
wbiles of three well-beaten ; stir it over a 
five till it is of a ^;ood thickness ; take it off 
the fire, and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent 
its cvdling. N. B.  ^The above may be 
baked in cups, or in a dish, with a rim of 
puff paste put round. 

CUSTARD, APPLE. Take thirty 
fiae apples* and pierce ani the opres of t^s 



of them which are of an eqaal iiae; pvt 
and trim them needy, and boil them in six 
ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and 
cut the remawinff apples i-ery small, and put 
them into the above sirup; shred the nod 
<if an orange, and mix with them; stir the 
whole eonstantly to prevent Iheir stickuig 
to the pun; wlien sufficiently done rub the 
marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Pre- 
pare tlie crust as before mentioned, but dress 
the sides a little higher; mix two spoonfiils 
of apricot mannarade with that of your 
apples, and dien putfow spoonfiils of it wt 
the custard ; plaoe the whole apples, (hav^ 
ing put apricot marmalade in the place of 
the cores), and then add the remainder of 
the apple marmalade, taking care not to 
cover the apples with it. Finish as above. 
At the instant of serving it mask it with 
apple jell^, i^iricot or quince marmalade, 
cherry juice or verjuice. Gamidi the top 
of each apple with a cherry or verjuiee-benry. 
Serve this hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, APRICOT GLAZED. 

Qit twenty fine apricots in half, take out 
the stones; toss up twelve apricots in four 
ounces of powder-sugar, and place them in 
a cream according to the directions for 
apple custard; bake and glaze as therein 
directed. Put a glass of water and a quar- 
ter <^ a pound of powder-sugar with the 
rest of the firuit into a preserving-pan ; when 
the sirup is properly reduced, take the skui 
fixHU the aiMricots and arrange thu in the 
custard ; garnish each half apricot with a 
kernel, ai^ when ready to serve, pour 4he 
sirup on it. Serve hot x>r cold. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (1) Boil a 
pint <^ cream with mace and cinnamon; 
when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two 
of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower 
water, a little while wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste; mix them well together, 
and bake them in china cups. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (2) Boil in a 
pint oi milk, a few coriandor seeds, a Uttle 
cinnamon and lemon-peel; sweeten with 
four ounces of loaf sugar, and mix with it a 
pint of cold milk ; b^t well ei^^t tm for 
ten minutes, and add the other ingredients; 
pour it from one pan into another six or 
eight times, strain it thitragh a sieve, and 
let it stand some time ; skim off the fit>th 
from die top, fill it in earthen cups, and 
bake them immediately in a liot oven, give 
them a good color-; aoouUten minutes will 
do them. 

CUSTARD, BOILED. (1) Boil in a pint 
of milk, five minutes, lemon-peel, corianders, 
n4 cionanifpn, a small quanti^ oi eacb 



CV8 



64 



0S 



Mf a down of bkter doMMMK bhnclMd aod 
pouoded, and fiNirouDceioC loaf ngBr: mix 
It with a pint of cream, the yolks 4^ ten eggt, 
and the whites of six, weU-beatsn; pass it 
thiougb a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk 
wr a slow fire till it begins to thicken,^ re- 
more it finom the fire, and continue to stir 
it till nearly coki; add two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, fill the cups or glasses, and grate 
nutmeg over. 

CUSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 
quart of new milk into a stewpan, with die 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated 
nutmeg, a bay or kturei leaf, and a small 
stick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fire, 
bat be carefiil it does not boil ova*: when it 
boi&, set it beside the fire, and simmer ten 
minutes ; break the yolks of eight, and the 
whites of ibur eggs into a basin ; beat them 
well ; then pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as quick as possible to pre- 
vent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire 
again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it through a 
tamis, or fine sieve: when cold add a little 
teaady, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to the eater's palate. Serve up 
in glasses, or cups. Custards for baking 
are prepared as above, passed through a 
fine sieve; put them into cups ; grate a little 
nutmeg over each: bake them about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMON. Boil a pint 
of milk with a bit of cinnamon and two or 
three laurel leaves; mix with one ta^le- 
spoonfiil of fiour, or potato flour, two and a 
Imlf of cold milk, put it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour the boiling milk upon it; let it 
run into a basin,mix in by deg^rees the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs; sweeten, and 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes to 
thicken. 

CUSTARDS OR CREAMS, to Orna- 
ment. Whisk for one hour tlie whites of 
two eggs togetlier with two tablj^poonfiils 
of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly ; 
lay it in any form upon a custm*d or cream, 
piled up to imitate rock. It may be served 
m a dish with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM, To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two ^gs, 
and about a third of a pint of mild strong 
ale ; sweeten, and stir it aver the fire till it 
nearly boils, then pour it into a dish, in the 
bottom of which is lakl thin toasted bread, 
cut into square bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 
Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line 
it oompletdiy with paste, takin^^ care that it 



takes att the 6rak of dMOMiikL. IVataKt 
a Bofficieat quantity of qgcioots, pwaAesu 
pfaims, or any ether (ruit you pleois; aaa 
taArine taken out the stonesseeds, and stabs, 
mix me 6mt up wMi powder-sugaur; put it 
into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. 
When readv for taUe, mask it with the 
sirup and kemek, blanched and cot in 
halves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) Bod two 

glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, 
and two table-spoonfiils c^ brandy; when 
nearly cold, add the grated peel and juioe 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the weU-beateo yolks of tax 
eggs; stir it o\'er a slow fire till it thickens, 
pour it into a basin, and stir now and then 
till cold; put it into a dish, or cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 
juice of four lemons, with three ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces 
of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, 
and pour it over the juice and sugar. It 
will keep for four days. 

CUSTARD, OR4NGE. Sweeten tba 
strained juice of ten oranges with pounded 
loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till hot, take 
off the scum, and when nearly cold add to U 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and ^ pint 
of cream ; put it into a saucepan, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens* Serve in 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sift- 
ed ground rice, five cm: six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded with two table-spooa- 
fuls of rose wat^ ; sweeten with loaf sugar, 
and stir it all together till it nearly btmi; 
add the well-beaten yolks of tlnree eggs; 
stir, and let it simmei' for about a minute; 
pour it into a dish, or serve it in cupe, with 
sifted loaf sugar over tlie top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY, Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils, take it ofif and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large saoee^ 
pan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which 
have been rasped the peels of four oKaages 
or cedrats, aiid a gram of salt. Pot ths 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swell tba 
rice, taking care that none of the graiiii 
hurst; stir it a little, and whi done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the yoHts 
of twelve e^, and some spoonfids of Chani- 
tUlv cream ; after which mix in the twelve 
whites wlupp4 %! Frepaw ^ qi| iff 



DAlt 



65 



DEV 



m dsaal way; bake k in  nodentB own 
two hourB and a half; when ready fiir taUe, 
brown it with a ttkunander* *. 

CUSTARD, TURNING OUT. Mix 
with the well-beaten yollu c^ Sour egga a 
pint of new milk, half an ounee of isinslaM 
diflBolved, or enoogli of calPs-feet stock to 
Btifka it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten 
widi pounded loaf snear, and stir it over a 
slow fire till it thicfcens; pour it into a 
basin, and stir it till a little cooled, thrai 
pour it into cups to turn out when quite ookl. 
Beat the yolks of. two eggs witli a little 
cream; add it to nearly iKilf a pound of 
brown sugar burnt; strain it tlwough a 
sieve, sum! when cold pour it round the cus* 
tards. 



D. 



DAMSONS BOTTLED. Gather them 
on a dry day before they are ripe, when they 
have just turned their color. Put them in 
wide-moothed bottles, cork them close, and 
let them stand a fortnight ; then carefully 
examine diem, and if any of them are 
mouldy or spotted, take them out of the hot- 
ties, and cork the rest close. Put the bot- 
tles in sand, and tb^wiU ke^ good till the 
spring. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 
CDod hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it 
^basinVand put in as i^ny^dams^^ns' as 
you please. Wet the edge of the paste and 
close it up ^ boil it in a cloth for an hour ; 
poor mlted butter over it, grate sugar round 
the edge of the dish, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. See Jetty. 

DAMSON, OR OTHER PLUM 
CHEESE. Take damsons that have been 
preserved without sugar; pass them diron^ 
a sieve, to take out the skins and stones. 
To every potmd of pulp of fiiiit put half a 
poimd of loaf sugar, broke small ; boil them 
together till it becomes quite stiff ; poor it 
into four eommon-eized dinner plates, rubbed 
w^ith a little sweet oil ; put it into a wann 
place to dry, and when quite firm, take it 
from the i^te, and cut it into any iriiape you 
ciioose. N. B.  Damson cheese is generaUy 
asedin desserts;' 

DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. 

Gather the damsons when just ripe, and per- 
fectly sound ; tiU a two-gallon brandy keg, 
and poor over two pounds of molasses ; close 
the keg fbrmly, and turn it every day. 



DEER HORNS. Beat one white, and 
six ycAu of eggs ; mix them with five tabta 
spoonfols of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the same ouantity of sweet cream, ten sweet 
almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated 
peel of one lemon, and as much fiour as will 
make the whole into a paste sufficiently 
thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins for 
tlie purpose, into the form of Ikmus, branch- 
es, or any other dia|)e, and throw diem into 
boiUng lard. 

DEVIL. (1) Score the leg of a roasted tur- 
key, ^poose, or fowl ; pepper and salt it weU, 
broil It) and pour over it the following sanoe 
made quite hot: three table-spoonfols of gra* 
vy, one c^ melted butter, and one of lemon 
juice, a large wine-glass of Port wine, of 
mustard, Qiili vinegar, Harvey sauce, and 
mushroom catchup, a tea-spoonnl each ; a ht- 
tle Cayenne and pepper. The devil may be 
served without a sauce, and be more highly 
seasoned. When this dish is to be senred 
cold, the fiit being carefolly removed fit>m the 
goose, it may be cMnamented or covered with 
cold jelly made as follows : Boil for fiw 
hours in four qtiarts of water the bones of die 
goose, with three nicely cleaned calf's feet 
strain it, and when cold take off all the fiit, 
and boil the jelly with some whole pepper, 
gin^r, and salt ; add two ounces of dissohr- 
cd isinglass, the juioe of two lemons, and 
the beaten whites of three or four e^ ; stir 
it while it is upcNi the fire, and allow it to 
boil about ten minutes ; then run it through 
a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it becomes 
quite clear. 

DEVIL. (2) The gizzard and rump, or 
legs, &c. of a dressed turkey, capon, or 
goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scnredy 
peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for  
relish, beinff made very hot, has obtained 
the name of a " devil." 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (1) Turn 
some new milk fix>m the cow with a little 
rennet ; sweeten some thick cream, add a 
little pounded cinnamon, moke it scaldiiw 
hot, and when cold pour it over the euro, 
and put a little wine and si^ar into the hot* 
torn of tlie dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
some new milk, as for cheese cakes, in a 
wide sliallow dish ; when cold, pour over the 
top a pint of rich cream mixed with pounded 
loaf sugar, ox dessert spoonfuls of brandy, 
and scHue grated nutm^. 

DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. Beat 

op a pint of cream with four eggs, a little 
salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of 



6* 



DUC 



66 



hve 



tagari thn slice very thiii,aliiioBt ^ whole 
of the cnim of a penny loaf ; put it into a 
dish ; poor the eggs and cream to it ; a 
handful of Smyrna raising boiled, and a 
little sweet butter : bake it. 

DIGESTER. An iron boiler, with a 
top to screw on, to prevent the steam from 
escaping. 

DRIPPINGS, TO CLARJFY. Put 
your dripping into a clean saucepan over a 
stove or slow fire ; when it is jmt going to 
boil, skim it well, let it boil, and dien let it 
stand till it is a little cooled ; then pour it 
through a sieve into a pan. Obs.  Well- 
cleansed drippings, and the fat skimmings 
of tlie brotli-pot, when fresh and sweet, will 
baste everything as well as butter except 
game and poultry, and sliould supply tlie 
place of butter for common fries, &c.; for 
which they are e(}iial to lard, especially if 
you repeat die clarifying twice over. N. B. 
If you keep it in a cool place, you may 
preserve it a fortnight in sununer, and long- 
er in winter. Wbert you lve done frying, 
let the dripping stand a few minutes to set- 
tle, and Uien poor it througli a sieve into a 
clean basin or stone pan, and it will do a 
second and a third time as well as it did 
the fii-st ; only tlie fat you have fried fish in 
must not be used for any odier purpose. 

DRINK, COOLING. A palatabfe and 
cooling drink may be made by pouring hot 
water over slices of lemon ; wlien cold, to 
be strained and sweetened. 

DUCK. Mind vour duck is well cleaned, 
and wiped out widi a clean ck>th: for tlie 
stuffing, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green sage; chop them very fine, 
and mix Uiem widi two ounces, t. e, about 
a breakfcist-cupfiil, of bread crumbs, a bit 
of butter about as big as a walnut, a very 
Mttle blfick pepper and salt, amd die yolk of 
an egg to bind it ; mix these thoroughly to- 
gedier, and put into die duck. From half 
to diree-quarters of an liour will be enough 
to roast It, according to the size: contrive 
to have the feet delicately crisp, as some 
people are very fond of them ; to do this 
nicely you must have a shaip &*e. 

DUCK, TO BOIL. Make a paste, al- 
fowing half a pound of butter to a pound of 
fionr. Trass a duck as for boiling; put in- 
to the inside a little pepper and salt, one or 
two sage leaves, and a little onion finely 
minced ; enclose the duck in the paste, with 
a little jellied gra.\y. Boil it in a clodi, and 
serve it with bt'own gravy poured round it. 

DUCKS, TO CHOOSE. Tlieir feet 



should be siip(^,*afld theyshotid ht 

and thick ob the breast and belly. The feet 
of ^tame duck are thicky and inclininff to t 
diiH^ yellow. The feet of a wild dud( are 
reddish, and smaller tfiah the tame ; they 
should be picked dry. Ducklings should be 
scalded. 

DUCK, DRESSED IN DIFFERENT 
WAYS. Take either a lai^ duck, or two 
ducklings, which truss like a fowl fur boi^ 
ing ; put it into a pot (just about lai^ 
enougli to hold the duck) with diin slices ^ 
bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pqiper, 
salt, onions, carrots, a head of oeleiy sliced, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a 
bay-leaf; when done, take out the dnck, 
wipe the fat off very clean, and serve widi 
wlu&t sauce or ragout you choose, such ai 
sweetbreads, green-peas, turnips, cbestnots, 
olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed 
greens, accordii^ to the season. 

DUCKS, GESE DRESSED, OR 
HASHED. Cut an onion into small dice; 
put it into a stewpan with a bit of batter; 
firy it, but do not let it get any color; put 
as much boiling water into die stewpm ai 
will make sauce for die hash; thkkeo it 
with a little fiour; cut up the duck, and pot 
it into the sauce to warm; do not let i( 
boil; season it with pepfier and salt, and 
catcluip. Divide die duck into joints; by 
it by ready; put die trimmings and Miiffinf 
into a stewpan, widi a pint and a half of 
bi-oth or water ; let it boil half an hour, and 
then rub it through a sieve; put half an 
ounce of butter into a steM-fjan ; as it meltt, 
mix a table-spoonful of fk>iir widi it ; sUr it 
over die fire a few minutes, dien mix ths 
gnivy widi it by degrees ; as soon as it boih, 
take off the scum, and strain through a sieve 
into a stewpan ; put in die duck, mmI let it 
stew very gently for ten or fifteen nriinutw, 
if the duck is rather under-roasted: if there 
is any fet, skim it off: line die du^ yM 
serve it up in widi sippets of bivad either 
filed or toasted. 

DUCK OR GOOSE FORCED. C* 
the goose open at die back, and carefully 
take out die bones, excepting diose of the 
legs and wings. Take out all the meat froa 
the body, leaving the skin perfectly whole. 
With the meat pound diree-quarters   
pound of lean and tender beef, add uir00 
handfuls of grated bread, four wcll-bcsW 
eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet owmj 
season widi pepper, mace, and salt; ww  
all well togedier; let it stand for liatf J 
hour, and then put it into die goose, *** 
sew up, and make it of as natural a fon  
possible; but take care diat it be not lao 
much stufied. Boil it for lialf an Iwur m 



btse 



67 



DUII 



iome good sCockj and theo pot li into a flue 
tia baking-pan; with some meh butter over 
and under il. Bake it io an oven another 
iialf hour^ and serve it with the followinf 
feauioe: Brown a tabienspoonliil of butter 
with flour^ add about a pint of the stock 
in which the gooee has been boiled, three 
grated onions, two table-spoonftils of capers 
cut fine, a littie lemon pickle, and a few 
small pickled onions ; boil It idiout a quar- 
ter of an hour, and just before pouring it 
over the goose^ stir in gradually half a pint 
of rich ci^eam. 

DUCK, HASHED, Qit a duck in 
pieces, and flour it ) put in a stewpan soine 
gravy, a little Port wine,- shallots chopped 
fuaci sa^tf peppery and a bit of lemon ; boil 
this ; then put in the duck, toes it up, take 
tMit the lemon, and serve with toasted aipiwts* 

DUCKS ROASTED. iSeasoit tliem 
^itb sage and oniun slired, pepper and salt ; 
kalf an hour will roast liiem* Giavy^sauce 
or raiion sauce. Always stew the sage and 
onion in a Httle water, as it prevents its 
eating strong) and takes off the rawness of 
them. 

DUCK, TO StEWi (1) Ciitoneortwo 
ducks into quartera ; fry ih^ a light brown 
in butter; put tlietn into a saucepan^ with 
a pint of gravy, a tea-cupful of Port winei 
ioiar onions whole, pepper and soilie suM, a 
hunch of paral^, two sage leaves^ a ipi% 
of winter savory, and sweet marjoithnj 
Cover the pan clooeiy, and stew them till ten- 
der ; take out the herbs and pepper ; skim it ) 
if the sauce be not suliiciently tiuck, mix wiih 
two lable-spoonruls of it a little flour, and 
stir it into the saucepan ; boil it up, and 
garnish the disli with the four onions. 

DUCK, TO STEW. (2) Put into a duck 
some pepper, salt, a ninced onion, and one 
leaf of sage also minoed ; half roast it ; 
brown with two ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of flour; add as much weak stock 
or water as will half cover the duck, and 
some pepper and salt; put in the duck, and 
a quart of ^[reen peas ; let it stew for half 
an hour, stirring it now and then. For a 
variety, a doaen of middling-sixed oni<is 
may ne substituted fur the peas, and stew- 
ed the same length of time. Cold roasted 
duck may be dressed exactly in the same 
manner; and to hash it, cut it into joints, 
and heat it thoroughly in gravy, adding a 
little soy, and a glass of Port wine* 

DUCK, WILD. Tliese birds should be 
it, the daws small, reddish and supple; if 
not fresh, on opening the beak they will 



smell disngreeable ; the breast and nan| 
should be mn and heavy i the flesh of the 
hen-bird is the most delicate, though ths 
cock generally fetches the highest price* 
Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to 
the body take off the necks, draw and singe 
them, truss up the legs and skewer them ) 
and having iiibbed them with their livers, 
spit, and roast them ) take them up with 
the gravy in, and serve with lemons. 

DUCK, WILD, SALMIS OF. Cut 
off tlie best parts of a tiouple of roosted wild 
ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a 
mortar, with six sliallots, a little parsley, 
j some pepper, and a bay-leafy pound all these 
' ingredients together well, ano then put them 
into a saucepan with four ladlesfiil of stocky 
lulf a glass of white wine, the same of 
l>roth, and a little grated nutmeg} reduce 
these to half, strain them, and having laid 
die pieces on a dish, cover Uiem with Uie 
above i k6ep the wliole hot, not boiling, un 
til wanted fur table* 

DUMPUNGS, HARD. Mix as for a 
paste, some flour with small beer or water* 
and a little salt; roll them in balls rather 
larger than an ess ; when the water boib 
put them in : hajf an hour will boil them ) 
cM-iants may be added } they are good Iwil^ 
ed widi lieef. Tliey are eaten ekher with 
cold or melted butter. 

DUMPLINGS, HALF-HOUR. Mince 
f.nely half a pound of suet, mix it with the 
same proportion of grated bread, and a ta-* 
ble-spoonflU of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of (narantSf some susar, a littJe gkated ]em<* 
on-peel, nutm^ and three well-laten eggs) 
roll die mixture iuto round balls, tie wem 
in bits of linen, and boil them for lialf an 
liour Sen'e with melted butter and sugar 
poured oter themi 

DUMPUNGS, NORFOLK. WiOi a 
pint of milki two egra, a little salt, and 
some flour, make a batter; drop this id 
small quantities into a pot of boiling water J 
tliey will be boiled in three minutes; throw 
them into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

DUMPLLNG PASTE. Make a paste 
with flour, milk, saU and yeast; let it stand 
sometime in a waim place to ^ment ; then 
cut tlie paste into pieces of what size yoa 
pleuse, and boil diem a good while; let 
them cool; then cut each into two, and 
soak diem in milk, su^, and lemon-peel* 
about an hour, and dram and flour them fit 
fur frying ; or, you may dip them in oil or 
melted butter to broil, basting with the 
same as diey were dipped in* 



n 



EL 



68 



XL 



BUTCH CREAM CHEESE. Bent 

the yoBiB of eigbt, and the whites of tliree 
egn, and mix them with a pint of butter 
milk; add this to three quarts of boiling 
milk iust from the cow ; let it boil up once 
make It off the fire, cover it, and let it stand 
a little that the curd may form ; then put it 
into a small hair sieve, and press it with a 
iveight for twenty-fijur hours, when it may 
he turned out. It is eaten with cream ancl 



ugar. 



DUTCH FLUMMERY* (1) Boil, 
ivith a pint of white wine, some sugar, llie 
jiii(% uf two, and the peel of one lemony a 
tick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dis- 
solved isinglass; strain, and mix it witli the 
well-beaten yolks of seven eg^, stir it over 
the fire till it simmer, but do not allow it to 
<l)oil ; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a 
hape. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (2) Boil for 
ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and 
tlie same proportion of water, the juice of 
tliree, and tlie peel of two lemons, rather 
more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
and an ounce of isinglass dissolved ; strain, 
and mix it gradually with tlie beaten yolks 
of five eggs ; put it again over the fire, and 
tir it fur five minutes; stir it till cold, and 
|xit it into a shape* 



E. 



ECHAUDE'S. Lay a qoarteni of floor 
on a pestdboard or slab, make a hole in tlie 
centre, in which put an ounce of salt, and a 
little water to dissolve it, a pound of butter, 
twenty eggs; mix the two latter well to- 
gctlier, then the flour; work it thorougliiy 
witl) your hands, if it be vety firm add more 
e^gs. When perfectly smootli, sprinkle a 
clotl) with fiour, lay die paste in it, and set 
it in a cool place for ten or twelve hours. 
The next day heat about three quarts of 
water, and having cut your paste into small 
pieces, aboiA an inch square, and liaving 
floured each, put them into hot but not boil- 
ing water, sliake tlie kettle the instant after 
you have thrown than in, and as they rise, 
if they are firm to the touch, they are suf- 
ficiently done, and must be taken out of the 
saucepan, and thrown into cold wato*; let 
them remain two or three hours ; then drain, 
and leave them again for three hours or 
more, and then bake them for about twenty 
minutes. 

EELS AND SOLES, stewed Wid- 
oi*8 WAT. Take two pounds of fine sil- 



ver eeb: the best ttre thote tfaM am ratber 

more than a hal^rown piece in cireorafer 
ence, quite fredi, fiill of life, and *' as brak 
as an eel:" wash them in several difieraiC 
waters, and divide than into pieces aboat 
four inches long. Some co<4ui, dredge then 
with a little flour, wipe them dry, and theo' 
e^ig and crumb them, and fry tliem in dbrip-^ 
pings till tliey an brown, and by thew to 
dry on n hair sieve. Have ready a qoart 
<^ good beef gravy ; it must be cold when 
you put tlie eeb into it: set them on a sfew 
fire to simmer very gently for about a fjaut' 
ter of an hour, according to the size o tbo 
eels; watcii them, tliat they are not done 
too much ; , take them carefully out of the 
fltewpan with a fish-slice, so at not to tear 
their coats, and lay them on a diah abooL 
two inches deep. 



EEI^ BAKED. Skin and cleam 
eels ; take a shallow pan, and cat tb^ eels in 
lengtlis according to the depth of the pan i 
put them in, letting them stami aprigot ii 
it ; the pan should be fiQed ; pot in a little 
water, some salt, pepper, shattots cut sraaO^ 
some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cot 
small ; set them in the ovoi to hake ; whed 
they are done take the liquor that comes 
from them, put it into a saucepan, and thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in floor, 
and a littk; white wine* 

EELS BOUSED. Small mes arc pre- 
fi9^ble. Curl and put them on in boiling 
sak-and-water, with a little vinegar. Gar- 
nisii with parriey< Sauce j'^-parsley and 
butter. 

EELS COLLAREDi Take an eel, and 
cut it open ; take out the bones ; cot off the 
head and tail; lay tlie eel fiat, and sbred 
sage as fine as possible; mix with bbdL 
pepper pounded, nutm^ grated, and sah; 
lay it all over die eel ; roll it up hard in a 
clotli; tie It up tight at each end ; then set 
over the fire some water, with pepper and 
salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades 
of mace, a bay-leaf or two ; boil these with 
the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in 
the eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take 
it out, and boil the liquor, and when it is 
cold, put it to the eel ; do not take off the 
ck>th till you use them. 

EELS FRIED. Cut them into pieoef 
of three or four inches long, and then aooie 
across in two or three places ; season them 
with pepper and salt,and dust them witb floor, 
or dip them into an egg beat up, and sprinkle 
them with finely-sratM bread crumbs; fcj 
them in fresh lard or dripping. Let them 
drain and dry upon the back of a sieve be- 
fore the fira. Garnish with parsley. Saooe ; 



SSL 



69 



BOO 



^.-oieitedbutter, and hmtm pickle. If anall, 
tbejr may be cwled and fried whole. 

EEL PIE. Take eek about half a pound 
48ch ; cut them into pieces three iDches lomr, 
eeouBon them with pepper aod nalt, and oil 
your dish. Add a gill of wator or veal 
broth, cover it with paate, rub it over with a 
aaste^iruBb dipped m yo& of c^, ornament 
It with some o( the same paste, bake it an 
boor; and when done, msike a hole in the 
centre, and pour in the following sauce 
through a fiiimel: the trimmings boiled in 
half a pint of veal stock, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, a table-poonfi]l of lemon-juice, 
and thickened with flour and water, strained 
ihrou^ a fine sieve: add it boiling hot. 

EELS POTTED. Bone them; season 
them well upon both sides with pepp^*, salt, 
a little mace, and Jamaica pepper ; let them 
Jie^MT six /hours, then cat them into small 
pieces, and pack them cloee into a dish; 
oover them with a coarse paste and bake 
dmn. When quite cold, take off the paste, 
and pour over them clarified butter. 

EEL SOUP. See 5otijw. 

EELS STEWED. (1) Cut the eels 
into pieces about four inches long; take two 
onions, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, 
thyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, black 
ana Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, 
the same of Port wine, and the same of vin- 
egar, six anchovies Ixtiised; let all boil to- 
gether for ten minutes; take out the eels; 
boil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain 
and thicken it with a table-spoonful of fiour, 
mixed smooth in a little cold water. Put 
in the eels, and boil them till the^ are ten- 
dtf . Eels may also be roasted with a com- 
mon stuffing. 

EELS STEWED, (2) Cut the eels 
into pieces, season weH two pounds and a 
half with salt and black pepper, put an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan with a large handfid 
of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, lialf an 
onion cut small, a little srated lemon-peel, 
and one anchovy chopped; put in the eels 
and pour over half a pint of water, stew 
them gent] V for half an hour, shaking them 
occasionalfy ; befora serving, add a little 
grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon, 

EELS SPITCHCOCKED. This the 
French cooks call the Enfflish wayof dress- 
iog eels. Take two miadling-ized silver 
e^, scour them with 9^1t, slit them on the 
bdly side, and take oot the bones and wash 
nod wipe than taotty i then cut them into 
pieces dbout tlieee inches long, and wipe 
Ihem quite dry ; put twfi QMoce^ of butter 



Bite a idjwpaa with a littla flriDeed panley 
thyme, sage, pepper, and salt, and a ecy 
little choppea eschalot ; set the slewpan 
over the fire; when the butter is melted, 
stir the ingredients together, and take it off 
the fire, mix the ^^Iks of two eggs with them 
and dip the eel m, a piece at a time, and 
thai roll them in bread-crumbs, making aa 
much stick to them as you can ; then rub 
the gridiron with a bit of suet, set it high 
over a very clear fire, and broil your eels of 
a fine crisp brown. Dish tliem with crisp 
parsley, mid send up with plain butter in a 
boat, and anchovy and butter. 

EGGS. (1) E^s[s may be preserved fi^r 
twelve months, in a sweet and palatable ctote 
for eating in the shell, or using for salads, by 
boiling them for one minute; and when 
wanted for use let them be boiled in the 
usual manner: the white may be a little 
toucher than a new^id egg, but tlie yolk 
will show no difierence. 

EGGS. <2) Pour a ^lon of water 
over a pound of unslacked lime, stir it well; 
the following day pour off the clear water 
into a jar, and put in the eggB as they are 
laid. In this manner they will continue 
perfectly good for six months <Hr more. 
^ There are so many different ways of 
dressing eg^, that the I'ecipes would almost 
fill a volume ; we have, dierefore, given such 
as we esteem the best, and the most adapted 
to the English taste. 

EGGS AND BACON RAGOUT. 
Boil half a dozen eggs f<Nr ten minutes; 
throw them into cold water; peel diem and 
cut them into halves ; pound the yolks in a 
marble mortar, with almnt an equal quantity 
of the white meat of dressed'fowl, or veal, a 
little diopped parsley, an anchovy, an escha* 
lot, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a table-- 
spoonful of mushroom catchup, a little Cay-^. 
enne, some bread-crumbs, and a very little 
beaten mace, or allspice ; incorporate tliem 
wdl together, and fill the halves of the 
whites with this mixture; do them over 
witli the yolk of an e^, and brown them in 
a Dutcli oven, and serve them on relishing 
rashers of bacon or ham. 

EGGS AND BREAD. Put half a hand- 
fol of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread haa 
imbibed all the cream ; then break ten egg 
into it, and having beaten them up together,, 
firy it like an omelet. 

EGGS AND CREAM. Boil half a pint 
of cream till reduced to half the quanti^ ; 
then add ei^t eggs, season thm witli salt 



EGG 



70 



EGG 



pepper, boil them togedier, till the c^gs 
are partly hard ; pass a salamander over' the 
top, and serve. 

EGGS A LA TRIPE. Cut into Uiick 
.round slices a dozen of hard-boiled eggs, 
fand piit tliem into the following sauce: cut 
'three ku^ white onions into dice, fry them 
< white in butter, and when nearly done, dust 
-them with flour, and moisten them with some 

milk and a few spoonfuls of cream; keep 
'Btirring with a wooden spoon, to prevent 
tlieir burning. When the sauce is done, 

grate in a liltie nutmeg, season with a little 
. salt and pepper, and put in the eggs. 

EGG BALLS. Boil four eggs for ten 
ininutes, and put them into cold water ; when 
jthey ai'e quite cold, put the yolks into a 
-mortar witii the yolk of a raw egg, a tea- 
spoonful of flour, same of chopped parsley, 
.as much salt as will lie on a sliilling, and a 
little black pepper, or Cayenne; rub them 
well together, roll tlicra into small balls (as 
they swell in boiling) ; boil them a couple 
. of minutes. 

EGGS BOILED, to eat in the 
SHELL, OR FOR SALADS. The fresher 
laid the better: put them into boiling water; 
if you like the white just set, about two ^ 
minutes boiling is enough ; a new-laid egg 
will take a little more; if you wish the yolk 
'to be set, it will take three, and to boil it 
hard for a salad, ten minutes. A new>-laid 
egg will re({uire boiling longer tlian a Stale 
one, by half a minute. 

EGGS BOURGEOISE. Spread some 
'butter over tlie bottom of a dish, cover it 
.entirely with tliin slices of crumb of bread, 
on tliat lay thin 'slices of cheese, tlien eight 
or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper 
. and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook 
.gently till done. 

EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat and strain 
- ten or twelve eggs ; put a piece of butter into 
a saucepan and keep turning it one way 
till melted; put in the beaten eggs, and stir 
them round with a silver spoon till they bet- 
come quite thick. Serve them in a dish 
upon buttered toast. They may be eaten 
.with fish, fowl, or sausages. 

EGGS EN SURPRISE. Take a dozen 
eggs J and make a small hole at eacli end of 
 every esg, through which pass a straw and 
break the yolk ; then blow out the yolk care- 
fully. Wash the sliells, and having drained, 
di-y them in the open air ; mix tlie yolk of 
an egg with a little flour to close one of the 
holes of the shells, and when dry, fill half the 
ejmmber by means of a small frumel, with 



chocolate ciiim, and the remaining six widi 
cofiee or orange-cream ; ckwe the other end 
of your eggs, and put them into a saucepan 
of liot watery set them on the fire, taki^ 
care tliey do not boil ; when done, remawe 
tlie cement from the eade^ dry, and serte 
them on a folded na[dcin. 

EGGS, FRIED. Eggs boiled hard, cut 
into slices, and fi'ied, may be served as a 
second course didh, to eat with roasted 
chickens. 

EGGS FRIED WITH BACON. Jakj 
some slices of fine streaked bacon (not mors 
than a quarter of an inch thick) in a clean 
dish, and toast tliem before the fire in a 
clieese-tuaster, turning diem when tlie upper 
side is Inrowned; first ask those who are U> 
eat the bacon, if tliey wish it much or littk 
done, t. e. curled and crisped, or mdbw 
and soft: if the latter, parboil it first. WeB- 
cleansed dripping, or lard, or fresh butter, 
are the best ftits for frying eggs. Be sure 
the frying-pan is quite clean ; when tlie &t 
is hot, break two or three eggs into it ; do 
not turn them, but, while tliey are frying, 
keep pouring some of the fat over them with 
a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to look 
white, which it will in about a couple of 
minutes, they are done enough; tlie white 
must not lose its transparency, but the yolk 
be seen blushing dirough it: if they are 
done nicely, th^ will look as white and 
delicate as if tliey 'had been poached; take 
tliem up with a tin slice, drain die fot from 
tliem, trim them neatly, and send them up 
with tlie bacon round them. 

EGGS FRIED, AND MINCED HAM 

OR BACON. Choose some fine salt poik 
streaked widi a good deal of lean ; cut this 
into very thin slices, and afterward iirte 
small square pieces; tlirow them into a 
stewpan, and set it over a gende fire, diat 
they may lose some of their iat. Wlien as 
much as will freely come is thus melted fixmi 
them, lay diem on a warm dish. Put into 
a stewpan 'a ladle-fiill of melted bacon or 
lard ; set it on a stove ; put in about a dozen 
of the small pieces of bacon, dien stoc^ the 
stewpan and break in an egg. Manage this 
carefully, and die e^ will presently be done: 
it will be very rouiu), and the little dice of 
bacon will stick to it all over, so that it will 
make a very pretty appearance. Take cara 
the yolks do not Wden ; when the ege is 
thus done, lay it car^ully in a warm dish, 
and do the otiiers, 

EGG FRITTERS. Pound a dom 
hard boiled eggs with a little cream, and a 
quarter of a pound of be^ marrow; then 
pound half a aoKco macaroons, some bitler 



G0 



71 



ELD 



afanands, a little aqgar, and lonon-tMiet; 
mix theee with the pounded eggs, and form 
them into fritters, dip them into a batter 
made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon- 
peel ; firy them in very hot lard, sprinkle su- 
gar over, and serve. 

EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks 
of eight eggs and the whites of four (set 
aside the remaining whites) with a spoonful 
of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a 
lemon ; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; 
whip the four whites (which were set aside) 
to a froth with sugar, and place it over tlie 
fried eggs ; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with 
a high cover fitted for tlie purpose. 

EGGS, GLASS. Butter a diifh, and 
break into it a piece of butter nearly as large 
as an eg^: add a tea-cupful of cream, and 
drop in ^ur or five eggs; put upon each a 
little pepper and salt, set the dish upon a 
stove, and serve it when the eggs are firm, 
which may be in ten or fifteen minutes. 

EGG MARMALADE. (1) Blancli and 
pound with a little rose wata*, two ounces of 
Sweet almonds, the same of orange marmalade, 
and four of citron ; add two spoonfuls of bran- 
dy, and when quite smooth, the beaten yolks of 
SIX and the whites of two e^gs, with a little 
pounded loaf sugar ; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it till it becomes thick, tlien pour it 
into a shape. When quite cx)ld, serve it, 
turned out and garnished with flowers. 

EGG MARMALADE. (2) CJlarifVapound 
of sugar, keeping it ratlier thick ; when cool, 
add to it the yulks of twenty e^^, which 
should be perfectly fi-ee firom the whites, and 
well stirred, but not beaten; set these on 
die fire, stirring continually until it boils, and 
then continue to stir until sufficiently thick ; 
if any scum should arise, it need not be taken 
oflf, as the boiling and stirring will eflectually 
remove it. Orange-flower water may be 
added, if approved. 

EGGS, TO POACH. The cook who 
wishes to display her skill in poaching, 
must endeavour to procure eggs that have 
been laid a couple of days  moae that are 
quite new-laid are so milky that, take all 
the care you can, your cooking of them will 
seldom procure you the praise of being a 
prime poacher ; you must have fted^ eggs, 
or it is equally impossible. The beauty of 
a poachea egg is for the yolk to be seen 
bliisbing through the white, which should 
only be just sufficiently hardened, to form a 
trainparent veil for the esg* Have some 
boiling water in a tea-ketulB ; pass as much 
of it through a clean ck>th as will half fill a 
tewpan; break the egg into a cup, and 



when the water boils, rsmove'the slsmpin 
fit>m the stove, and gratfy slip the egg mlo* 
it; it must stand till the white is set; tbsa 
put it over a very moderate fire, and as soon 
as the water boils, the egg is ready ; take it 
up with a slice, and neatly round off the 
railed edges of the wrhite; send them up on 
iN^d toasted <m one side only, with or witl^- 
out butter; or without a toast, garnished 
with streaked baonn nicely fried, or slices 
of broiled beef or mutton, anchovies, nork 
sausages, or spinage. The bread should be- 
a little largfv than the egg, and about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; only just give it a 
yellow color: if you toast it brown, it wiU 
^t a bitter flavour ; or moisten it by pour- 
ing a little hot water opon it: some sprinkle 
it witli a few drops of vinegar, or of esseooe 
of ancho\y. 

EGGS POACHED, with Sauce or 
MINCED Ham. Poach the eggs as befiwv 
directed, and take two or three slices of 
boiled ham ; mince it fine with a gherkin, a 
morsel of onion, a little parsley, and pepper 
dnd salt ; stew all together a quarter of an 
hour ; seiTe up your sauce about half boiling ; 
put tlie eggs in d dish, squeeze over the juice 
of half a Seville orange, or lemon, and pour- 
the sauce over them. 

EGG PUNCH. Take a punch-glass, 
and put into it a wine-dass of sirup of pimch 
(see tliat article), and the yolk of an egg; 
beat them togetlier with a spoon, and thai 
fill up the glass with boiling water, stirring 
a little as you poiur it in. 

EGG TOAST. Put a. glass of thick 
cream, some sugar, two or tluoe macaroons 
pounded, with a few almonds, a litUe grated 
lemon, give them a boil ; tlien add the yolks 
of eight and whites of tliree eggs, beat the 
whole up over a slow fire ; and lay on very 
thin slices of fried bread; spriiiKle sugar 
over, and serve* 

EGG WINE. Beat up an egg, mix with 
it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a 
glass of white wine,> half a glass of water,, 
sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a 
litde of it to the egg by degrees, till the 
whole is in, stirring it well } then return the 
whole into the saucepan, set it over a gentle 
fire, stir it one way (or a minute, not lonser, 
for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle ; 
sei*ve with toast. You may make it as above^ 
without warming the egg, and it will be 
lighter on the stomach, Uiough not so agree* 
able to the palate. 

ELDER FLOWER FRITTERS. 
They are made w;hilst the elder flowers are 
in bloom; and they should marinate three 



KD 



755 



ESP 



r hat hooni in bnndy, sugar 0rai^;e41owier 
water, and lemon-peel; when drained, dip 
them in 'a good think batter to fry, and serve 
with rasped sugar, as in general. 

ELDER ROB. Gather the elderberries 
when quite ripe put them into a stone jar, 
tie a bladder or paper ow the top, and 
place the jar in a pan of water ; let it boil 
till the berries are very soft; strain them 
through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of 
juice aJSow half a pound of good brown ^ 
gar; pot it into a preserving-pan, stir it, and 
when it boils, take off the scum, and let it 
boil for one hoar. 

ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- 
flowera when just blown, take away all the 
stalks, and when the flowers are about 
half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar 
witli vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand 
in the sun for twenty days; tlien draw it off, 
press the flowers, and having filtered the 
whole, bottle it ; take care to keep tlie bot- 
tles closely corked. 

ELDERBERRIES. Oan be made to 
produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- 
gallon cask forty pounds of fruit, forty pounds 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. 
When elderberry wine is desired for a warm 
cordial, it is made in tlie following manner: 
Twenty-five pounds of fruit are to be boil- 
ed for an hour, in eleven gallons of water, 
and along with it, tied in a piece of linen, 
one ounce of allspice, and two of ginger; 
forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, 
the boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing 
the fruit quite dry ; a quarter of a pound of 
crude tartar, or ca^eam of tartar, is dien 
added to the liquid. When it has stood two 
days in the tub, it may be removed to the 
cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in the usual 
manner, and bottled in Msurch following. 
When to be drank, a portion of it is heated 
with some sugar, two or three cloves, and a 
Hide nutm^. 

EMPOTAGE. Put into a large sauce- 
pan, three or four pounds of beef-steaks, a 
knuckle of veal, and four old hens ; moisten 
this quantity of meat with two ladlesful of 
broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till 
]Hroperly reduced, taking care that none of 
the meat bums, which would make the 
empoU^e of too high a color; fill up your 
siiucepan with broth, adding carrots^ turnips, 
and onions; let all these mgredients stand 
over the fire for three hours smd a half; then 
strain the whole through a siflc sieve, that 
it may be perfectly clear. 

ENDIVE IN VELOUTE. Take off 
all the outer leaves of your endive, aad having 



opened die hearts, put them into coM witer 
to wash them. In the meanwhile heat a 
kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, 
then throw in the endive ; keep it constandjr 
under the water, to prevent their turning 
black. As soon as the endive is tender, 
drain, and then put it into cold \^'ater, and 
when quite cold, drain it again ; press the 
water out witli your hands ; then chop it 
small, and put it into a saucepan, with some 
butter, salt, and pepper, stir it well, and 
then add five spoonfuls of veioute, the sams 
of eonsomm; reduce it till pretty thick, and 
then put it in a dish, with fi^ed br^ romd 
it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, 
in which case, pot two spoonfuls of fiour into 
it, and moisten it with cream. 

ENDIVE IN GRAVY OF VEAL 
Wash and clean thorougfaty ten or twehe 
heads of fine endive, take ofif the outer leaver 
and blanch tlie heads in hot virater; throw 
them into cold water, and then squeeze then 
as dry as possibly. Stew them in as modi 
gravy as will cover them ; add a tea-spoon- 
fill of pounded sugar, and a litde salt. When 
perfectly tender, put in a little vebute saocei 
and serve quite fafot. 

ENTREE. There is no word precis^ 
equivalent to this in English. Any dish of 
butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fisli, dresed 
for tttefirat course, is called an entree. 

ENTREMET, There is no word equif- 
alent to this in Englisli. All dishes of vtf- 
etables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lob- 
sters, and, in general, everything that appears 
in tile second course, except the roast, u 
called an eniremet. 

ESCHALOT WINE. Peel, mince, and 
pound in a mortar, three ounces of eschaloti, 
and infuse them in a pint of Slierry for ten 
days ; then pour off the clear liquor on three 
ounces moi'e esdialots, and let the wi 
stand on them ten days longer. .^'?J' 
rather the most expensive, but infini^ 
the most elegant preparation of ^^^'^ 
and imparts die onion flavour to soups am 
sauces, for chops, steaks, or bit)ilcd meats, 
hashes, &c. more agreeably than any' 
it does not leave any unpleasant ^^^^J'' 
the mouth, or to the breath ; nor repmi 
as almost all other preparations of garh^ 
onion, &c. do. N. B. An ounce of serapw 
horseradish may be added to the above, ana 
a little thin-cut lemon-peel. 

ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl, and 
about fourteen pounds of le| or shoulder  
veal ; chop the latter into pieces, and put Hi 
widi veiy little water, into a large sauowjan, 
with two carrots, three onions, a pno " 



FIL 



73 



FI8 



, a fevr {Mnpereomi, a snwll qmntity of 
ipice, and a. CA>ve of garlic; let tbb stew 
over a modRrute fira, shaking it frequently, 
tiH it beoooKs of a brown color, wben you 
may add to it a aufficieat quantity of Imt 
water, to oome about four inches above tha 
meat. Set it by (he side of die stove to boil 
gently, skimming, when neoessai-y, till the 
meat comes from die bones ; then strain it 
dmough a silk sieve, and set it by for use. 

ESSENCE. Take half a bottle of white 
wine, half a gbas of the best vinegar, die 
juice of two lemons, three ounces of salt, 
half an owMSe of whole pepper, a little not- 
m^ and mace, four ck>ves, four bay-leaves, 
, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten 
ahalkiiB, pounded, and an ounce of dry mush- 
rooms; pat all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk fire ; when near 
boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand 
OD hot a^ies lor six or seven hours; then 
strain it through a coarse sieve, and after- 
wards filter it. Keep it in closely corked 
botdes: a small quantity is sufficient to fla- 
vour a dish. 



F. 



FANCHONETTES. Put into a sauce- 
pan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one 
of butler, two df pounded almonds, some 
green lemtm-fjeel, two yolks, and one whole 
egg, a little salt, and half a pint of milk ; 
put these ingredients on die fire, and let diem 
set like a cream ; line some tartlet-tins, or 
mouUs, with puff paste, fill them with the 
nreparatiou; place the moulds on a tin, and 
bake the fanchonetUs in a brisk oven ; when 
about three parts done, take them out, put 
firodied eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and re- 
place thefflu in the oven to finish the baking. 

FAWN, Like a sucking pig, should be 
d r cuaed almost as soon as killed. When 
tery youi^, it is trussed, stuffed, and spit- 
ted the same way as a liare: but diey are 
better eating when of the size of a house 
Samb, and are then roasted in quarters ; the 
hiod-<)uar(er is most esteemed. 

They must be put down to a very quick 
fire, aim either basted all the time they are 
roasting, or be covered with sheets of fat 
bacon; wrhen done, baste it with butter, and 
dredge it with a little salt and flour, till 
yoa make a nice fi'oth on it. 

N. B.- We advise our friends to half 
roast a &wn as soon as diey receive it, and 
then make a hash of it. 

Send up venison sauce with it. 

FILBERT ROLLS. Having tieekd 

7 



half a pcNBd of fiftMi, pttt then iato  
preserving pan over a moderate fira, wad 
stir them constantly with a motuk ontil 
they become equally coktnd of a light yet 
kw: then set them to oool. When cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg to a 
paste ; dien mix them with half a pound of 
flour, the same of powder sugar, and the 
yolks of four or five eggs, and then finirii 
die operation as directed for almond roUt, 
Froth, and trace on the surface an ear of 
wheat, 'or anything else, with the point of a 
knife: take care to dry them well in the 
baking, that th^ may be crisp. Coarse 
powdo* sugar may also be strewed over, b^ 
fore they are put m the oven. 

FISH. We insert all the beat remark 
that variotu culinary authors have made 
on Fish. 

Tliere is a general rule in choosing 
most kinds of fish; if their gills are reo, 
their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, 
they are good ; if^ on the contrary, the gills 
are pale, die eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, 
they are stale. The greatest care should 
be taken that the fish is properly cleansed 
before being dressed, but not washed be- 
yond what is absolutely necessary fdr clean- 
ing, as by perpetual watering, the flavour 
is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some salt, and a little vin^^ar 
should be put into the water, to give it 
finuncss. Cure should be taken to boil the 
fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, 
whiting, and haddock are much better for 
being a little salted, and kept for a day. 

There is uften a inuddv smell and taste at- 
tached to fresh-water fusb, which may be 
got rid of by soaking it, af^er it has beeo 
dioronghly cleaned in sti'ong salt and wa 
tcr ; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it 
in the same ; then dry, and dress it. 

Care should be taken diat the fish is put into 
cold water, and allowed to do very gently, 
odierwise the outside will break before Che 
inside is done. 

Crimp fish must be put into boiling water; 
and as soon as it bolls up, a little cold 
water- should be put in, to check die exoes^ 
siv^ heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. 

If the fish b not taken out of the water 
the instant it is done, it will become wool- 
ly; to asceiiain when it is ready, the fish 
plate on which it is dressed may be drawn' 
up, and if sufficiently done, it will leave the 
bone. To keep hot for serving, and to 
prevent it from losing its color, the fish, 
plate should be placed crossways over the 
fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be either nicely firied' 
plain, or done over with egg and bread' 
crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on, 
which the fish is to be served, should' 1m 



FIS 



74 



FIB 



phoed a folded danMik napkio, and apon 
this put Ibe fivh, with the liver and roe; 
Chen garnkih the dish widi borae-raditih, 
parsley, and kuion. FLih is a dib which 
IS aloKwt more attended to than any other. 

To 7 or broil fish properly, after it 
is well cleaned and washed, it should be 
wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when 
fectly dry, wetted with egg, and spriiik- 
all over with very fine bread crumbs ; it 
will look still better to be done over with 
egg and crumbs a second time. ' Then hav- 
ing on the fire a thick-bottomed fi-ying-pan, 
with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot ; 
put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably 
quick till it is done, and of a nice brown 
yellow. If it is done before it has obtained 
a nice brown color, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fire, the fish carefully 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
turned upwards, or on the under side of 
a dish, and placed before the tire to dram, 
and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to 
receive the fish. Fish fi-ied in oil obtains a 
much finer color than when done in lard or 
dripping. Butter should never be used, as 
it give:! a bad color. Garnish your dish 
with a (jringe of curled raw parsley, or with 
fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broQed, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a vei-y clean 

Kidiron; which, when hot, should be rub- 
d over with suet, to hinder the fish firom 
tickinff. It should be broiled over a very 
dear we, to prevent its tasting smoky, and 
gi^eat care must be taken not to scorch it. 

FISH. This department of the busi- 
ness of the kitchen requires considerable ex- 
perience, and depends more upon practice 
than any other. A very few moments, more 
or less, will thoroughly spoil fish ; which, to 
be eaten in perfection, must never be put 
on the table tdl the soup is taken off. 

80 many circumstances operate on this 
occasion, that it is almost impossible to 
write general rules. 

Th^ are decidedly diflEerent opinions, 
whether fish should be pot into cold, tepid, 
or boiling water. 

Fish must by no means be allowed to re- 
main in the water afler it is boiled; if 
therefore it should be ready before it can be 
sent to table, it must be dished, the cover 
||^ on, and a cloth put over it. The dish 
18 then to be set across the fish-kettle. 

Fish should be firied over a clear quick 
6re ; and with drifting, or bog*s lard in 
preference to butter. The (jan should be 
deep; and to ascertain that it b clean, a 
little it is first fried in it, poured out, and 
ttie pan wiped with a clean cloth; as much 
dii{]^[Mng or lard is then pat in as will en- 



tirely cover the lish. When it ii boflSag 
hot, and begins to sOHdce, the fish is put in ; 
if small, th^ may be turned in three or four 
minutes, by sticking in a fork near the head 
with one liand, and with the other siqipavt- 
ing the tail with a fish-slice. When they 
are done, they should be laid before the 
fire upon an old soft towel, and turned now 
and tlien till they are dry upon both sides; 
or they may be put upon a lai^ aieve^ 
turned upwards, and which is kept for the 
purpose, or put on the under side of a dish. 

The fire for broiling fish must b yeij 
clear, and the gridiron perfectly dean, 
which, wlien hot, shodd be nibbed with a 
bit of suet. The fish, while broiling, must 
be often turned. 

Several respectable fishmongers and ex- 
perienced cooks have assurea the editor, 
that they are often in danger of loeinff their 
credit by fish too fresh, and especially tnr* 
bot and cod, which, like meat, require a 
certain time before they are in the best con- 
dition to be dressed. They reoommeod 
them to be pot into cold water, salted in 
proportion of about a quarter of a pound of 
salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is 
best to boil sea-fish in. It not only saves the 
expense of salt, but the flavor is better. Let 
them boil slowly till done; the sign of which 
is, that the skin of the fih rises up, and 
the eyes turn white. 

It is the business of the fishmonger to 
clean them, &c. but the carefiil co<ml wiM 
always wash them again. 

Garnish with slices of lemon, findy scrap- 
ed horseradish, fi-ied oysters, smelts, wfait- 
inss or strips of soles. 

Tlie liver, roe, and chitterliiws should be. 
placed so that the carvor may observe them, 
and invite the guest tp partake of them. 

Fish, like meat, requires more cooking 
in cold than in warm weather. If it b^ 
comes FROZEN, it must be thawed fay the 
means we have directed for meat. 

Fish are plenty and good, and in great 
variety, in all the towns and cities on the 
extensive coast of the United States. Some 
of the interior towns are also sofi^ied wiA 
fish peculiar to the lakes and rivers of this 
country. 

All Kinds of fiflb are best sometime bdbre 
they begin to spawn; and are unfit (or food 
for sometime after they have spawned. 

Fish, like animals, are fittest for the ta- 
ble when they are just full grown ;^and what 
has been said reniecting v^petables, applies 
equally wdl to fish. 

The most convenient utensil to boil iA 
in, is a turbot-kettle. This shouki be 
twenty-four inches long, twenty-two wide, 
and nine deep. It is an excellent vesed to 
boil a ham in, &c. &c. 

jy, B. The liver of the fish pounded aid 



FIS 



7^ 



PLE 



mixed with batter, with a little lemon-jniep, 
Sec. i an elegant and ioofleneive reluh to 
fish. Muehroom sauce exteoapore or the 
soap of mock turtle, will make an excellent 
udtk sanoe. 

For liqaids, you have meat gravy, lemon- 
juioe, simp of lemoos, esaenoe of anchovy,- 
the various vegetable esBenoee, mudiroom 
catchup, and the whites and yolks of eggs, 
wines, and the essence of spices. 

TISH, NEW KKTHOD OP DRESSING. 

Take any sort of fidi you think proper, be- 
ing very careful that it is quite freidi ; clean 
it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your 
taste; Xh&a put it (without any moisture), 
into a pan, which may be closely covered, 
with tlie exception ofa small bole, to allow 
of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon 
as the bread is di'awn, and let it stand until 
the whole is so completely dissolved, that 
the bones are not perceptible. When cold, 
this makes a very tran^iarent, well-flavored 
jelly. 

FISH CX>NSOMME. Take carp, tench, 
perch, e^, pike, and other fresh-water fish 
xyf tiie same kind ; clean them well, and cut 
them into pieces, as near of a size as may 
he ; /ay them in a stewpan, on a layer of 
aliced onions and carrots ; as soon as diey 
begin to sweat, put in a bit of butter, and 
leave them for a quarter of an hour; mois- 
ten them with fish broth, and let them boil 
gently for an hour; keep the pan closely 
covered ; this will aifford a very nourishing 
broth. 

FISH KETCHUP. Take rather more 
than a pint of vinegar, three pints of nod 
Port, two table-spoonfulis of pepper, pound- 
ed very fine, plenty of diallots and horse- 
radish, tlie peel of half a lemon, and two or 
three bay-leaves, and a pound of anchovies; 
let tile whole boil together until the ancho- 
vies are dissolved, dien strain, and when 
cold, put it into bottles. Two or three 
spoonfuls are sufficient for a pound of 
butter. 

FISH FORCEMEAT. Take two oun- 
ees of either turbot, sole, lobster, shrimps, 
or oysters; free from skin, put it in a mor- 
tar with two ounces of fiesh butter, one 
ounce of bread-crumbs, the yolk of two eggs 
boiled hard, and a little eschalot, grated 
lemon-peel, and parslev, minced very fine; 
dien pound it well till it is thoroughly mixed 
and quite smooth; season it wim salt and 
Oavenne to vour taste ; break in the yolk 
and white of one egg, rub it well together, 
and it is ready (at use. Oysters parboiled 
and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be 



FISH GRAVY. (1) -Cbt two or three 

little fish of any kind into small pieces; pal 
them into a s a ucepa n , with rather more 
water than will cover them, a bit of toasted 
bread, a Made of mace, some lemon-peel, 
whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; 
let it simmer gently till it is rich and good; 
brown a little bit of butter in a stewpaa, 
and when it is browned, strain the gravy ii^ 
to it, and let it boil for a few minutes. 

FISH GRAVY. (2) Put some slioee 
of onion into a stewpan, and set them on 
the fire; when th^ are completely dissolved, 
add a piece of butter, and some small fish, 
or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other 
you find convenient. As soon as they begin 
to difvolve, and give out their moisture, put 
a glassful of root broth to them, and boil 
diein for half an hour; then add a glass of 
white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and 
boil it another half hour, when it may be 
pressed through a si^ve, with great force. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (1) After pike, 

cod, skate, tuiiwt, soles, or any other white 
fish has been dressed, pick it (torn the bonee 
into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or 
in the same proportion, half a pint of good 
cream, one table-spoonful of mustard, the 
same of anchovy essence, the same of ketch- 
up, and of Han'ey sauce, a little flour, some 
salt, pepper, and butter; make it all hot in 
the saucepan, then put it into the dish in 
which it IS to be served up, strew crumfae 
of bread over it, and baste it with butter till 
it is a little moist, then brown it with a 
salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall 
of mashed potatoes round the dish is an im- 
provement. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (2) Pick fiwn 
the bone in large flakes about two pounde 
of cokl salmon, cod fish, or soles; >melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of 
cream, with a little flour and salt; add the 
fish and heat it thoroughly. 

FISH SAUCE. See Saueee, 

FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a 
deep pan half a pound of flour; strain and 
mix with it half a pint of wanned milk, and 
two table-spoonfiils of fresh yeast; work tlie 
paste till it be soft and smooth, and place it 
m a stove, or ckme to the fire, to rise; then 
add the beaten volks of six eggs, lialf a 
pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, 
and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed 
upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded; 
last of alU beat in light ^ the well-whisked 
whites of the eggs ; a^in place the pan in 
a warm place, and it will rise to neariyr 
double its bulk. Heat apd nib the inmf 



FLU 



76 



FOR 



irhich should be square, with a litUe butter ; 
M one side with the mixture, and close 
them ; when one side is done turn the oth- 
er, and when of a fine color, take out the 
wafers ; put them upon a plate, and whilst 
hot, sift over this Quantity a quarter of a 
pound of grated loai sugar. 

FLIP. To make a quart of flip: Put 
the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up 
three or four eggs, witli four ounces of moist 
sugar, a tea-spoonfiil of grated nutmeg or 
ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or 
brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it 
into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs, &c. in- 
to another; turn it from one to another till 
it is as smooth as cream. This is called a 
Yard of Flannel. 

FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a 
pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the 
peel of a lemon; when almost cold, strain it, 
and mix with it die beaten white of one, and 
the yolks of three eggs ; stir it over the fire till 
thick, poqr it into a dish, and stir it now 
and then till cold. Whisk the whites of 
two eggs, and half a pint of Guava, quince, 
or red cun'aiit jelly, till it be a very stiff. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (1) Put on a 
stewpan with a sufficient quantity of waJer 
to cover tlie flounders which are to be dres- 
sed; put in some vinegar and horse-radish; 
when the water boils put in the fish, having 
been first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; 
they must not boil too fast for fear diey should 
brck; when they are sufficiently done, lay 
them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. 
Serve them with parsley and butter. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (2) Wash and 
clean them well, cut tlie black side of them 
the same as you do ti.irbot, then put them in- 
to a fish-kettle, with plenty of cold water 
and a handful of salt ; when they come to a 
boil, skim them clean, and let them stand 
by the side of the fire for five minutes, and 
thev are ready. 06.^Eaten with plain 
melted butter and a lilde salt, you have the 
sweet delicate flavor of tlie flounder, which 
is overpowered by any sauce. 

FLOUNDERS or PLAICE, fried or 
BOILED. Flounders are perhaps the most 
difiicult fish to fry very nicely. Clean them 
well, flour tliem, and wipe them with a di'y 
cloth to absorb all the water from them ; 
flour or egg and bread-rumb them. 

FLUMMERY. Steep thre large hand- 
fids o( very small white oatmeal a day and 
night in cold water; then pour it off clear; 
Uwn odd as much more water, and let it 
taiid another day and a oi^t, Ttwn 



strain it tbroii^ a fine hair sieve, and bofl 
it till it is of the consistence of hasty, pod- 
ding, keeping it well stirred all tlie time it 
is boiling. Wlien first strained, put to it 
one large spoonful of white sugar, and two 
of orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- 
^low dislies, and serve to eat with wine, ci- 
der, milk or cream, and sugar. 

FLUMMERY DUJCH. Boil very 
gently for half an hour, two ounces of isin- 
glass in three half pints of water ; add a pint 
of white wine, the juice of three lemons and 
the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps 
of sugar on another to obtain the essence, 
and with them add as mudi more sugar as 
will make it sufficiently sweet; and liaving 
beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them 
and the above, when mixed, one scald; stir 
all tlie time, and \yo\ir die whole into a ba- 
sin ; stir it till it is half cold ; (hen let it 
settle, and put it into a melon shape. 

FLUMMERY FRENCH. Beat air 
ounce of isinglass fine, put it into a quart of 
cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it stnring all die time. Then 
take it ofl', sweeten it widi fine powder su- 
gar, put in a spoonful of rose and another 
of orange-flower w ater, strain it tliroagfa a 
sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into 
a mould or liasiii, and when cold, turn it in- 
to a dish, and g.imish with currant jelly. 

FONDUS. Put some grated cheese into 
a basin, with pepper and a little melted but- 
ter, and the yulks of eggs; stir them togeth- 
er ; whip Uie whites of tlie eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them, a little at a time, to 
the ciieese, stirring lightly with a wociden 
spoon ; half fill as many fKiper ca^^s as yov 
can, and bake them, like biscuits, in a 
moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as 
possible after they are done. 

FORCEMEAT STUFFING. " Force- 
meat is now considered an indispensable 
accompaniment to most made dishes, and 
when composed with good taste, gives ad- 
ditional spirit and relish to even that " sove- 
reign of savourincss," turtle soup. 

It is also sent up in patties, and for stuf- 
fing of veal, game, poultry, &c. 

The ingredients ^lould be so proportion- 
ed, that no one flavor predominates. 

To give the same stuffing for veal, hare, 
&c. argues a poverty of invention ; with a 
little contrivance, you may make as great 
a variety as you have dish^. 

The poignancy of forcemeat should be 
proportioned to die savouriness of the viands, 
to which it is intended to give an additional 
zest. Some dishes require a vei^ delicate- 
ly flavo^ foi-ce<peat, foe gdiers^ \\ WW4 



roR 



W 



FOW 



W IhII ao^ high MMOMd. What would be 
pi^lu^mU in a turkey, wodd be unipid with 
tartlet 

Most people have ao acquired and pecu- 
liar taste in stufiingB, tec. and what exactly 
pleaaee one, seldom is precisely wluU an- 
other considerB the most agreeable. 

Custom is all io matters of tasle: it is not 
that one person is naturally fond of this or 
that, and anoUier Raturally averse to it; but 
that one is uaed to it, and anotlier is not. 

The consistency of forcemeats is rather a 
difficult thing to manage i they are almost 
always either too light or too heaiT. 

Take care to pound it till perfectly smooth, 
and that all the ingredients are thoroughly 
incorporated. 

Forcemeat-balls must not be larger than 
^ a small nittroeg. If they are for brown 
sauce, floor and fry them ; if for white, put 
them into boiling water, and boil tliem for 
three minutes: the latter are by far the most 
delicate. 

If not of sufficient stifiness, it &lls to 
pieces, and makes soup, Sec. grouty and 
ery unsightly. 

Sweetbreads and tongues are the favorite 
materials for forcemeat. Forcemeat should 
be made snflki^itly consistent to cut with a 
knife, but not di^ or heavy. No one flavor 
iliould predominate greatly; according to 
what it is wanted for, a selection may be^ 
made frcun the following list, being careful 
to use the least of those articles which are 
the most pungent:' 

Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat ba- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of bread, narsley, 
idiite pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites 
of ^gs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. 

tSb foroemeat may be made with any 
rf these articles without any striking flavor; 
therefore any of the following difierent ingre- 
dients may be made use of to vary tlie taste. 

Oysters, anchovies, tairagon, savory, pen- 
ny-royal, knotted-marjoram, thyme, basil, 
yolks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, shallots, 
diives, Jamaica peppor in fine powder, or 
two or three cloves. 

To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, 
&c., see under the heads of the di&rent 
ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. 

FORCEMEAT. Take an equal quantity 
of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; 
beat them in a marble mortar; add pepper, 
salt, cloves, pounded lemon-peel, and nutmee 
grated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped 
fine, a little shallot and young onion, a few 
bread-crumbs grated fine, ^nd yolk of egg 
sufficient to work it light; roll this into 
balls with a little flour ; if for white sauce, 
boil them ; if for brown sauce, fiy them. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH 

7* 



Soupf om FifH STXWXD. Bit ihm 

flesh and soft parts of a middling sised lob- 
ster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boil- 
ed celery, the yolk of a hard ^g, a littlt 
Cayenne, mace, salt, and while pepper, 
with two table-spoonfols of bread-crumbs, 
one spoonfiil o( oyster liquor, two ounces of 
butter wutned, two eggs bedten for a long 
time ; make into balls, and fiy them of a 
nice brown color in butter. 

FORCEMEAT-BALLS for Turtle, 
Mock Turtle, or Made Dishes. 
Pound some veal in a marble mortar ; rub 
it throuffh a sieve with as much of the udder 
as you nave veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butler: put some bread-crumbs 
into a stewpan, moisten them with milk, 
add a little chopped parsley and eschalot, 
rub lliem well together in a mortar till they 
form a smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, 
and, when cokl, pound, and mix all togeth- 
er, with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard ; 
season it with salt, pepper, and curry pow- 
der, or Cayenne ; aad to it the yolks of two 
raw ezgs ; rub it well together, and make 
small mils: ten minutes Mfore your soup is 
ready, put them in.  

FOWLS. When a cock is young, his 
spurs are short; take care that you are 'not 
dieceived by their having been cut or pared, 
' a trick that is often practised. If fi'edi 
their vent will be close and dark. Hent 
are best, just before they begin to lay, and 
yet are foil ot egg; if they are old, their 
combs and legs are rough. 

All poultry should be very carefoily pick- 
ed, every plug removed, and: the hair nicely 
sinsed widi pap^. 

The cook should be cai^l in drawiiv 
pooltrv of all sorts, not to break the ^iC 
bag, for no washing will take off the bitter 
where it has touched. 

If for roasting, bladi-legged fowls art 
the most moist. A gpodniized fowl will 
take from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour in roasting, a middling-eiied one about 
half an hour, and a very small one, or chidcF- 
&k, twenty minutes. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and 
are longer in heating throueh than others. 
All sorts should be continually basted, that 
they may be served with a firoth, and appear 
of a fine color. The fire must be very quick 
and clear before any fowls are put dowa. 
Serve with egg sauce, bread sance, or gar- 
nished with sausages or scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl, well hung, shookl 
be stuflfed in the crop with sausage-meat, 
and served with gravy in the dish, and with 
bread sauce. 

The head should be turned under th* 
wing, like a turkey. 



fOW 



IS 



i-dW 



*or boiling, cfaoofle those that are' not 
iMack-le^ed; pick tliem carefully, singe, 
wash, and tniss them.- Flour them, and 
pot them in boiling water; a good-sized 
'(Hie will be done in half an hour. 

Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, 
lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dmner, 
ham, tongue, or bacon, is commonly served 
with them. 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner as 
chickens. (See Chickens). 

Chickens or fowls should be killed at 
least one or two days before tliey are to be 
dreraed. 

Turkmrs (especially large ones) should 
not be (iressed till they have been killed 
three or four days at least, in cold weather 
six or eight, or they will neither look white 
nor eat tender. 

Turlceys, and large fowls, should have 
the strings or sinews of tlie thighs drawn 
out. 

Trass them with tlie legs outward, they 
are much easier carved. 

FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE, Make 
a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity 
of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, 
and some boiled parsley, season with pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an egg 
beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a 
good-fiized young ibwl, put in the forcemeat, 
cover the fowl with a piece of white paper 
buttered, and roast it i-ather more tlian half 
an hour; have ready a thick batter made of 
flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and 
pour some of the batter over tlie fowl; as 
soon as it becomes dir add more, and do 
this till it is all enlisted over, and of a nice 
brown color; serve it with melted butter and 
lemon picJclc, or a thickened brown gravy. 

FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew 
a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned witli onion, raaoe, pep- 
per^ and salt. About lialf an hour before it 
18 ready, put in a quarto* of a pint cf rice 
well washed and soaked. Simmer tiH ten- 
der; then strain it from the broth, and put 
the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the 
fewl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and 
the rice round it without the broth. The 
lera liquor the fowl is done with, the betten 
Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for 
sauce. 

FOWL BROILED. Split tliem down 
the back, well salt and pepper them ; then 
broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

FOWL CAPILOTADE. Take the re- 
mains of a ready dressed fowl, and put 
them into a stewpan; then do up some 
parsley, ^AuJlots^ and four mushrooms^ all 



shred small, in a little bitter; assoofifliuitf 
latter Mlfiomes liquid, add four ladlefols of 
ewpagHoU, and two of cmuomme, reduce, 
and skim it ; pour it on your fowl, set it on 
the fire to simmer for a quarter of an boor, 
before you send it to table. 

FOWL CURRY. See Curry. 

FOWLS DRESSED TO DRESS 

AGAIN. Cut them in quarters, heat up an 
e^ or two (according to the quantity yon 
dress) with a little grated nutmeg, and pep- 
per and salt, some parsley minced fine, aixl 
a few crumbs of bread ; mix dicse well to- 
getlier, and cover the fowl, &c. with this 
batter ; lxt)il tliem, or put tliem in a Dotdi 
oven, or have ready some dripping hot in a 
pan, in which fiy them a light brown color; 
thicken a little gravy with some flotn-, pot 
a lai^ spoonful of catchup to it, lay the 
fry in a dish, and poor the sauce round it. 
You may garnish with slices of lemon and 
toasted bread. 

ICT' Turkey, Goose, Duck, RabbU, 
Pigeon, are ail dresaed same way. 

FOWL, GAME, OR RABBIT hash- 
ed. Cut them into joints, put the trim- 
ming into a stewpan witli a quart of 
the broth they were boiled in, and a \sarge 
onion cut in tour; let it boil half an hour; 
strain it through a sieve: tlien put two table- 
spoonfols of nour in a basin, and mix it 
well l^ d^rees with the hot broth ; set it 
on the fire to boil up, dien strain it through a 
fine sieve : wash out the stewpan, lay tlie pcw^ 
try in it, and pour the gravy on it (thnx^ 
a sieve); set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very gently (it must not boil) for 
fifieen minutes; five minutes before yo 
sen'e it up, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
pot it in to warm, then take it 'out, and by 
it round the edge of die die^, and put the 
poultry in the middle; carefiilly akim tlie 
fat ofi*^ the gravy, then shake it round weK 
in tlie stewpan, and pour it to the hash* 
N. B.  ^You may garnish the didi with bread 
sippets lighdy toasted. 

FOWL HASHED. Cut a cold roastsd 
fowl into pieces as for a fricassee, pot the 
ti4inming8 into a saucepan with two or dme 
shallots, a little lemon-peel, a bkide of maee, 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint 
of stock; simmer it for baAf an hour, atrani 
it, put a bit of butter into a saucepan, aad 
when melted, dredge in as much flour as wiH 
dry it np, stirring it all the time; then add 
tlie gravy, let it boil a minute, and put in tht 
fowl, also a little popper, salt, and a dnst of 
sugar. Before serving, squeeze in a litde 
lemon-juice 



row 



W 



FRA 



FOWL MlNCED WITH VEAL. 

Mince the white part of a Culd roasted or 
boiled fowl ; put it^ and some thin slices of 
veal, inti) a saucepan^ also some white stock, 
a squeeze of a lemon, a few drops of sliallol 
viD^ar, and a dust of sugar ; simmer it for 
a short time, and serve it upon bread sippets, 
with the slices of veal laid on the mince. 

FOWL PULLED. Skin a cold chick- 
en, fmv\, or turkey ; take off tlie fillets from 
the breasts, and put tliem into a stewpan 
widi the rest of the white meat and win^s, 
side-bones, and merry-tliougiit, with a puit 
of bi-otli, a large blade of mace jwunded, an 
esclialot minced fine, the juice of half a lem- 
on, and a roll of tiie peel, some salt, and a 
Tew grains of cayenne ; thicken it with fluiu* 
and butter, and let it simmer for two or 
three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the 
meantime score the eggs and rump, powder 
them with pepper and salt, broil them nicely 
lM*own, and lay them on, or round your pulled 
chicken. Three taVle-epoonfuls of good 
cream, or the yolks of as many ^gs, will be 
a great improvement to it. 

FOWL OR RABBIT. We can only 
recommend tiiis method of dressing when tlie 
re is not good enough for roasting. Pick 
and trnss it the same as for boiling, cut it 
opoi down' tlie back, wipe the inside clean 
with a cloth, seiison it with a littk) pepper 
and salt, have a cleai* fire, and set the grid- 
iron at a good distance over it, lay the 
chicken on with die inside towards the fire 
(you may egg it and strew some grated 
bread over it), and broil it till it is a fine 
lxx>wn: take care tlie fleshy side isnotlxim- 
ed. Lay it on a hot dish; pickled mush- 
rooms, or mushroom sauce thrown over it, 
or parelev and butter, or melted butter fla- 
vored witli mushroom ketchup. Garnish it 
with slices of lemon ; and the liver and giz- 
zard slit and notched, seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and broiled nicely brown^ with 
some slices of lemon. 

,FOWL8 WITH RICE, CALLED 
Pii.LACS. Boil a pint of rice in as much 
wutor as will cover it, with black pepper, a 
few blades of njace, and half a dozen cloves, 
tied up in a bit of ckrth; when the rice is 
toider, take out the spice ; stir in a piece 
of batter ; boil a fi>wl and a piece of bacon ; 
lay them in the dish, cover them with the 
rice: lay round the dish, and upon the rice, 
bard eg^, cut in halves, quarters, and 
lengthways, with onions, first boiled, and 
then fi-ied. 

FOWLS ROASTED. WeU pepper 
and salt the fowls before you spit them; 
roast them before a clear fire; froth them 



up when nearly done, by sprinkling then 
over with flour and salt, and besting dwrn 
with butter. When done, be carefiil in udi- 
ing out tlie skewers. Serve them with very 
good clear gravy in the dish, and brrad or 
egg sauce in a kwat. 

FOWL ROASTED WITH CHEST-- 
NUTS. Roast some chestnuts very care- 
fully, so that they may not be burnt, then 
take ofi* the skins, and peel them. Take 
about a dozen of them, cut them small, and 
bruise diem in a mortar. Parboil the liver 
of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter 
of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. 
Then mix them all together, with a good 
((uantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, 
some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When 
lhe:e are are all well mixed together, put it 
into your fowl, and roast it. The bn^t wav 
of doing this is to tie tlie neck, and hang it 
up by the logn to roast, with a string, and 
then baste it with butler. For sauce, take 
tiie rest of the chestnuts, peel and skin them, 
put them into some good eravy, with a little 
white wine ; and thicken it widi a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. Then place your fowl 
in the dish ; pour in the sauce ; garnish with 
lemon, and serve. 

FOWL WITH ITS OWN GRAVY. 

Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it 
quite through witli bacon, ham, and pars- 
ley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two 
or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 
can'ots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a 
glass of white wine; stew them sently till 
diey are done ; skim and strain Uie sanoe, 
and serve it with the fowl. 

FOWL, WILD. The flavor of wiW 
fowl is preserved better by not stuffing them ; 
put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of but- 
ter. Wild fowl do not require so mudi 
dressing as tame ; they should be dmie of a 
fine color, and nicely fi'othedl A rich browQ 

Sravy should be served in tlie dish, and when 
le breast is cut into slices, before it is taken 
from the bone, it will be much improved by 
a squeeze of lemon, some salt and oe^pper. 
If you wi^ to take off the fishy smell which 
tliese birds fi'equentl^ have, put an onion, 
salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, 
an(f for tiie first ten minutes baste them with 
this ; then remove the pan, and keep con- 
stantly basting with batter. 

FRAISE. See CkUfs CkUterHngM. 

FRANGIPANE. Take a saucepan, and 
put into it five spoonfols of flour, five e^, a 
pint of milk, an onnce of butter and a little 
salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly 



FR 



80 



FEl 



tmSl it hn bofled ten mtnntei, taking great 
care that it does not bum ; then poor it into 
a basin, and let it coo). Take a few al- 
monds, (to every six sweet put one bitter), 
bruise them, and some macaroons, and when 
reduced to powder, mix them with a little 
crisped orange-flour (also in powder), and a 
suflki^fiCquantity (^powdar-sugar to sweeten 
it: add these to the above preparation, and 
stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If 
your fi^angipane be too thick, add another 
egg or two, and then make whatever use of 
it you may desire. You may, if vou think 
proper, substitute pistachios for uie sweet 
almonds, in which case a little spinach es- 
sence must be added to color it, tlie maca- 
roons and orange-flowers omitted, and three 
bitter almonds only used. 

FRENCH BEANS. Cut off the stalk 
end fii-st, and then turn to tlie point and 
strip off the strings. If not quite fresh, have 
a bowl of spring-water, with a little salt 
dissolved in it, standing before you, and as 
the beans are cleaned and stringed, throw 
them in. When all are done, put diem on 
the fire in boiling water, with some salt in 
it; afler they liave boiled fifteen or twenty 
minutes, take one out and taste it ; as soon 
as they are tender take them up; throw 
them into a colsmder or sieve to drain. To 
send up the beans whole is much the best 
method when they are thus young, and their 
delicate flavor and color are much better 
preserved. When a little more grown, they 
most be cut across in two afler stringing ; 
and for common tables they are split, ajid 
divided across ; cut them all the same length ; 
but those who are nice never have them at 
such a growth as to require splitting. When 
they are very large they k>ok pretty cut into 



FRENCH BEANS, NASTURTIUMS. 
&c. When vouqg, and most other small 
green vegetables, may be pickkd the same 
way as gherkins. 

FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER 
USE. Gather them when young, and oo a 
dry day, put a layer of sah into a jar, and 
dien one of about two inches thick o beaas; 
do this till the jar be nearly full; place a 
small plate upon the top of them, and tie a 
bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a 
cool dry place. When to be used, soak 
them a night in cold water, and change it 
oo them repeatedly in the course of the day. 
they are to be drosed. Oil them, and put 
them on in boiling water. 

FRENCH BEANS TO DRESS 
DRIED. Boil for more than two hours, in 
two quarts of water, a pound of tlie seeds or 



beans of scarieC mmwri) fill a pint btna 
with onions peeled or sliced, brown them in 
a saucepan, with rather more than a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter ; stir them con- 
stantly; strain the water from the beau, 
and mix them with the cMiions; add a tea- 
spoonful of fteppar, some salt, and a little 
graiy. Let them stew (or ten minutes, and 
stir m the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a 
taUe-epoonful of vinegar. Serve them hot. 

FRENCH SUPPER DISH. PareofT 
the crust, and cut one (h* two slices of bread 
into bits of two or three inches sqtiare; frj 
them in butter; put them upon a hot dish, 
and lay upon each bit some warmed preserre, 
or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wioe 
and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raium, 
and put them upon and round the toait. 
The preserves may be heated by placing the 
jars m hot water by the side of the fire. 

FRIARS' CJHICKEN. Put four poinkb 
of a knuckle of veal into four quarts cf wa- 
ter ; boil it gently lor two hours ; strain it 
off; cut three cbickoos, or two young fowk 
into joints ; skin them, and when the broth 
boils put them in ; season with while pepper 
and salt; let thcan boil a short time, and 
add a handful of parsley chopped mall; 
when the chickens are boiled loider, bare 
ready six or seven well-beaten eggij atir 
tliem quickly into the broth one way, inune* 
diately befoi taking it off the fire. Tbi> 
broth may be made entirely of veal instead 
of chickens. 

FRICANDELLANS. Mince about two 
pounds of tender lean bed*, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fresh suet, then pound it 
till it be as smooth as a paste, and carefiiDjf 
pick out all the threads and sinews ; add foar 
well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich creaoi, 
and as much grated and sifted bread ai wiU 
make it sufficiently consistent to form into 
rolls resemUing corks, and season it widi 
sah, and pepper. Boil the corks in soDe 
good stuck, or in boiling water. 

FRICASSEE BROWN. Take two or 
three youn^ rabbits, cut them in pic^'^^ 
stew them m gravy made erf* berf, somewhok 
pepper, two mallots, one or two anchorieii 
a bit of horse-radisli, and a little sweet nar^ 
joram powdered small. Stew the rabbiti 
about a quarter of an hour, then take tbeia 
out of the gravy, strain the lk]Uor,fi7 T'ji 
rdbbits in lard or butter; add a gna> ^ 
claret; you may fry some fbrremeat baWi 
made with the liversof the rabbits parljoiledt 
and a littk parsley shred small, some nutm^ 
grated, pe>ier, salt, a few bread cniii" 
and two buttered eggs; mix tliese aU^ 
getiier, make them up into balls, dip th^ 



Fill 



B1 



PRI 



la the yoQc of egff, roll them in floor, | 
^n fry tlieai, and garnish your dish with 
them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. 

FRICASSEE WHITE. Cut a couple 
of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in 
warm water to cleanse them from tlie blood ; 
then lay tiiem in a cloth to dry; pnt (hem 
into a stewpan with milk and water, and let 
them stew till they are tender, and then take 
a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of 
cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
stir them well together till die butter is melt- 
ed; be careful to keep-it constantly stirring, 
or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits, take 
a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, 
and a few jnushrocjuui ; shake diem together 
for a few minutes, and then put it to die 
rabbits. You may add white wine <jf you 
choose. 

FRIED TOASTS. Cut the crumb of 
a twopenny luaf into round or oblrmg pieces, 
nearly an inch tliick, and soak tliem for four 
or five hfiurs in a pint of cream, mixed with 
three well-beaten eggs, half a pint of white 
wine, a little grated nutmeg, and sweetened 
with pounded loaf sugar. Fry tli^m in but- 
ter, till of a light brown color, and serve 
with wine and sugar sauce. 

FRITTERS. (1) Make them of any of 
the batters directed fur pancakes, by dropping 
a small quantity into the pan, or make die 
plainer sort, and put^red apples sliced and 
cored in die batter, and fry some of it with 
each slice. Currants or sliced lemon, as 
ChiD as possible, are very nice. 

FRITTERS. (2) FrittereshnuklbeBent 
to table sei-ved upon a foMed napkin in the 
dish. Any sott of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be made into fritters. 

FRITTERS, ENGLISH-AND- 
FRENCH. Take a marrow pudding, and 
when nearly cold, out it into thin slices, and 
then cut tliem again into pieces two inches 
long, 1 y three-quarters of an inch wide, dip 
them into batter, and fry them in the usual 
manner ; when drained, glaaee them with fine 
sugar, and serve diem very hot. The batter 
for the above firirters is made as follows: 
Fut a glass and a half of water, a grain of 
salt, and two ounces of fi^esh butter into a 
auoepan ; when it boils stir in a sufficient 
quantity of flour to make it a rather firm 
batter, keep it stirring three muiutes, then 
poor it into another vessel. 

FRITTERS A LA DAUPHINE. 
Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it 
out as thin as possible, to the form of a long 
ponare^ cm part of this lay small (quantities 



of aprioot nrmala<le at interval, sfightff 
wet the paste mond each piece of preserve, 
and lay over the pkiin part of the psiste so as 
to cover the other completely, press it doivn 
lightly that the marmalade may not escape 
in die cooking, and cut out your fritters 
with a circular paste-cutter of two inches in 
diamotcr; flour them a little, and then lay 
them in rather a hot fritiire, when the paste 
will swell them into little balls; as soon as 
they arc of a proper cofor t:ike tliem out, 
drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with 
fine iiugar, and serve them. 

FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak in 
brandy some leaves and the young and ten- 
der shoots of the vine, dip diem in a batter 
made of milk, yolks of eg^y and flotir, fiy 
them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with su- 
gar. Elder flowers are made into firitters in 
the same man-ier. 

FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix to- 
gether a handfiil of rice-flour and some milk, 
set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add 
a little ci-eain, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange- 
flowers; when it has become of a proper 
consistence, take it from the fire ; as soon 
as it is cold, roil it into balls about the size 
of a nut, dip diem in baiter and firy them. 

FRITTERS BLONDIN. Put some 
butter into a saucepan, and when it is melt- 
ed add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of 
salt, keep it on the fire till it boils ; then 
mix in a suflicient quantity of flour to make 
it into a C(m8istciit paste, which will - not 
stick to the fitigerit; spreiid it on a table, 
roll it out to the diickness you may require, 
cut it in round, oval, or any other formed 
pieces you may think proper, and fi-y thctm of 
a nice color, in the best oil ; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve them. 

FRITTERS, FRENCH, OF BRAN- 
DY FRUITS. Take a dozen apricots 
(or other fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, 
and cut them in half: then wrap diem in wa- 
fers cut round and previously moistened, dip 
them in the same kind of batter as that used, 
for fritters EngUsh-and-JFYench, and fry 
them ; sprinkle Uiem widi sugar, and serve.^ 

FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take 
eight midrlling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
on die stalks ; cut ofl' about a fourth part of 
the stalk end of each apple, and scoop oat 
the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of 
cup with a lid ;. put tliem to soak for two hours, 
in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-peel 
and cinnamon ; at the end of that time take 
them out, drain, and fill each apple witb 
apricot marmalade, or fi^ongipane ; mix up 
^ little flour and vybite of e^ to oemeni tha 



FRO 



82 



FRU 



tipi of the aiipks to the oCher parti; dip 
dMo in batter and fry them. When they 
are of a proper color, glaie and serve them. 

FRITTERS MIGNON. Put two good 
spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and volks of two eggt, a 
little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon- 

Cq\ grated, half a teanipoonful of milk, and 
If a tea-poonfiil of cream ; stir it over a 
slow fire, and, when done and well thicken- 
ed, spi^ead die cream upon a floured dish, 
shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it 
into bits with a paste-cutter, dip each bit 
into a paste made witli two spoonfuls of 
flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, 
mixed with two eggs ; fry the fritters, and 
aerve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. 

FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of 
new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; 
then take it off, and let it stand five or six 
minutes, skim offtlie curd, and put it into a 
faasin ; beat it up well with six eggs, and 
season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a 
whisk, an<l add flour suflicient to give it the 
proper consistence of batter. Put in some 
sugar and fry them quick. 

FRITTERS, SOUFFLES. Make 
aome flour and beer into a batter that will 
flow a Tittle; take a little of it out with a 
spoon, tJu'ow it into a frying-pan with boil- 
ing oil; Uie moment it rises, take it out, 
and proceed in the same way till all the bat- 
ter is used; tlien sprinkle them with salt, 
and seiTe. 

FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound 
of Qieshire cheese into thin bits, and pound 
it in a mortar; add by degrees the well- 
beaten yulks of two, and the wliite of one 
egg, and iialf a pint of cream ; mix it well 
together and bake it for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

FROST OR ICING FOR CAKES. 
Beat till very light the whites of four eggs, 
and add gradually three-quartet's of a pound 
of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted 
through a lawn sieve ; mix in the juice of 
half a lemon; beat it till very light and 
white; plac the cake before the fire, pour 
over it the icing, and smooth over the top 
and sides with ue back of a spoon. 

FROTH TO PUT ON Cream, Cus- 
tard, OR Trifle. Sweeten half a pound 
of the pulp of damsons, or any otho* sort of 
scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four 
^Kgs beaten, and beat the pulp with them 
tuTit will stand as high as you wish, and 
being put OQ the cream, &c. with a spoon. 



It win take any htm; k 
to imitate a rock. 



should ba nmnhj 



FRUlT,.CANpiED. (1) ItmiMfiraibB 
preserved, then dipped in warm water, dried 
with a cloth, and strewed all over with sift- 
ed sugar, and dried io a stove or oiven, turn- 
ing as occasion requires. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (2) When the 
fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the 
sirup is quite out, dip it into simp boiled to 
candy height, and di^ it again. All dried 
and candied fruit must be kept in a very 
dry place. 

FRUrriN JELLY. Have in readmeae 
a plain mould, either long or round, about 
three inches deep; then have ready some 
mould jelly, and spread it at the IxMtoni 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; let it be cold ; then put in ripe peach- 
es, grapes, or any sort of ripe fhut yoa 
please, preserved firuit, or China orangee 
cut into quarters, or whatever shape yoa 
clKXMae ; put in a little warm jelly, and let it 
stand till it is cold, to fasten the fruit in its 
place, otherwise it will rise up ; then fill die 
mould up with warm jelly, let it stand tiff ft 
is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and 
garnish it according to your own taste. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, REMARKS 
ON USING. Preserved fruits should not be 
baked long ; those that have been preserved 
with their full |vportion of sugar, require 
no baking; the crust should be baked in a 
tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; 
or it may be put into a small dish or tart- 
pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cot 
out according to your taste. 

FRUIT, TO PREPARE FOR BrANDT. 

Take the proposed quantity of fruit, gather- 
ed before they are perfectly ripe ; dry them 
carefully, prick and put them into cold water ; 
when all in, set the vessel over a moderate 
fire, keeping the water, however, constantly 
nearly boiling, until the firuit will give to the 
touch; then tlirow them, with great care, 
into cold water again ; drain away this wa- 
ter, and add fresh ; change the water twice 
more within a quarter of an hour, after 
which, drain them for the last time, and put 
diem in bottles ; if any of the fruit is 'the 
least broken or bruised, it must be put aside, 
as it would spoil the rest. In the mean- 
while, take a proper quantity of sugar (as a 
pound and a half for twen^-five peaches) ; 
clarify and boil it to fa nappe; measure, 
and put double its quantity of good Ixandy; 
mix and pour them into a glaied pan; wt 
them stand awhile, and then poor ttie mix* 
ture on the fiiiit. 



GAM 



83 



GAM 



FRUIT TO PREPARE FOR OOL- 
DREN. Put apples sliced, or phuns, cur- 
nuts, nxweberries, &c. into a stooe jar, and 
ipriukfe as much Lisbon sugar as necessaiy 
among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, 
or in a sauo^nn of %vater, and let it remain 
till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of 
bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, 
or the firuit may be eateo with slices of dry 
bread, or with rice, plain boiled. 



,G. 

GAME. Id choosing venison, the &t of 
that which iff good is thick, clear, and bright ; 
die clift jiart mnooth and close. When the 
vai'noQ 18 perfectly fresh, it is hung in a cool 
place, and carefiilly wiped dry evefy day. 
When extreme tendemesB is required from 
long^ keeping, but without its having a high 
ftivor, it is well rubbed over with powdered 
charcoal. 

The haunch is the prime joint, and when 
it is required to be roasted, it is first well 
Dvariied in hikewarm milk-and-water, and 
then made quite dry before it is spitted. It 
is then covered with a irfieet of well-buttered 
white paper, ovor which is bid a coarse 
paste of flour-and-water, about a quarter oS 
an inch thick; this is again covered with 
buttered white paper, and tied on with pack- 
thread. A substantial fire being made, the 
haunch is put doMm, and constantly banted 
with fresh beef dripping, till nearly done, 
when the paste is taken off, the meat well 
basied with butter, and lightly dredged with 
floor, till it fi*oth8 smd becomes of a fine light 
brown cok>r. It b served with its own gra- 
vy in the dish, if there be enough of it ; also 
a sance tureen of good brown gravy, and 
one of currant jelly sauce beat up, and meh- 
ed with a little Port wine and sugar. 

A large haunch takes about fiwr hours to 



A neck and dioulder, whoi roasted, is 
manased in the same way as the haunch, 
omitting the paste ; but it is mmie frequently 
Bed for MMip, pasties, and coUops. 

Hare.  ^Whon fresh, the body is stifl*; 
and if young, the claws are smooth and 
sharp, the ears tender and easily torn. 
Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight 
for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have 
been loo recently killed. 

Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as 



Wild fowl, in general, is diosen by the 
ame ndes as tame poultry. The birds 
should be plump and &t, and hard in the 
vent. If the skin comes off when rubbed 
hard with the finger, they are stale. Okl 
*^' ' improve by keeping fiir sometime; 






birds are bust if draind soon* aad 
birds, of all descriptions, shouM be 
ionaiedidilely dresivd. In warm weather, a 
stopper of charcoal shouM be put into the 
vent of all game, and a string tied tightly 
round the neck. 

To roast pheasants and partrid^, they 
are picked, cleaned, and nicely singed; a 
slit is made in the back part of the neck, and 
the craw taken out, leaving on the head, the 
feet twisted cbscly to the body, tlie clawa 
cut off, and the heaid turned undier the wii^. 
Both sorts are roasted by the directiom for 
roasting a turkey or a fowl. A pheasant is 
served with gravy in the didi ; partiklgea 
with a gravy, or laid upon buttered toast, 
and melted butter poured round thetu. Bread 
sauce is served with both. A (iheasant wiU 
reouire nearly an hour to roast ; partrklgea 
half an hour. Guinea and pea-fowl are 
roosted in the same %iray as pheasants. 

To roast black-cock, follow the directions 
for roasting pheasants and partridges; it 
will require an hour, and is served with gra- 
vy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, 
and require three-quarters of an hour. Thej 
may be served upon buttered toast, or with 
gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

To restore tainted game or poultry, j>ick 
it carefiilly, clean, and wash it, then put into 
each birda little newly-made pounded char- 
coal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before serving, 
take out the bag, which will have a most 
oflEeosive smell, while the bird will be left 
perfectly sweet. 

To roast wild duck.  ^It should be roairted 
by a quick fire, well basted witli butter, and 
mowned. It will retjuire nearly three^uar- 
ters of an hour, and when to be ser^-ed, some 
beef sravy is poured through the duck into 
the dish, and ih a sauce tureen some hot 
Port wine is served. The carvor makes 
four cuts along the breast, it is then sprin- 
kled with salt and a little Cayenne, tlie juioe 
of half a lemon is squeezed over it, and the 
Port wine is then poured all over. 

To roast a wild goose, the same directions 
are foUowed as for wiU duck, alk>wing 
more time to roast it, according to the siie 
of the bird. 

Widgeons and teal are dressed in the 
same manner as the wild duck, and are 
roasted in ten minutes, and may be served 
iqx>n firied bread crumbs. 

Woodcocks and snipes are roasted with- 
out being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread 
buttered is put und^ each bird, to catch the 
trail; they are well basted with butter, aad 
serveid up<Hi the hot toast over which thqr 
were roslsted ; a rich brown gravy, or melt* 
ed butter, is poured round them. Wood- 



GAM 



84 



GAT 



fi^skfl wifl nquire half as hour, snipes ami 
quails fifteen or twenty minutes to roast. 

Ortolans and green plovers are not drawn, 
and are roasted and served in tlie same 
manner as woodcocks. . 

To roast larks, wheatears, and other 
mall birds, they are nicely picked, gutted, 
cleaned, and tniaaed; In^iied over witli 
melted butter, and rolled in grated bread, 
then spitted on a biixl spit, which is fastened 
upon a lai^;er one. They are basted with 
butter, and sprinkled with some bread 
crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen 
minutes to roast, and are seived upon fried 
bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce 
tureen. 

Wild pigeons may be roasted, or made 
into a pie. 

Plovers' eggs are boiled bard, and served 
in a napkin, or witli green moss put round 
each in the dish.  

GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four 
rabbits, four partridges, two pounds of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpan, with a bottle of white wine; boil 
tbem until the whole is entirely reduced to 
a jelly ; then add to it broth, and consomme, 
(equal quantities of each), eight carrots, ten 
onions, three cloves, a little Uiyme and ba- 
sil ; let the whole boil very gently, until the 
meat is quite done; then strain it through a 
Bapkiii. No salt need be put into it, as die 
hcoth and consomme ai sufficiently season- 
ed to flavor the essence*of game. 

GAME FRITTERS. Take anv of 
those parts of cold roasted game, which can 
be cut into thin slices, dip them into good 
batter, and fiy them in olive oil, or lard. 
Sprinkle the fritters when done, with salt 
and spices, pounded very fine. 

GAME HASHED. See Fowl 

GARUC BUTTfiR SAUCE. Pound 
half a dozen cloves of gai'lic; rub them 
dirough a silk sieve, with a wooden spoon ; 
put this into a mortar with some butter, and 
boit it until thoroughly incorporated; then 
put this butter into any sauce you please. 

GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an 
earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put 
into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of 
vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves 
of garlic, the same number of cloves, the 
quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: 
when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it 
stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours; 
train it through a coarse sieve, and then 
filter it. Keep it in very closely corked 
bottles. A very small quantity oi this es- 
is requisite to impart its flavor to a dish. 



GARUC GIAVY. Slice a pound and 
a lialf of veal, w beef; season it with pep* 
per and salt; put it into a stewpan, wkh 
two carrots split, and iur cloves of garlie 
sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, 
and a large spoonful of water ; put the stew* 
pan over a gentle tire, and watrJi whim the 
meat begins to stick to tlie pan; when it 
does, turn it, and let it be very well brr^wned^ 
(but take care that it is not in the least 
burnt) ; then dredge it with flour, and pour 
in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a couple of cloves bniised, and slice in a 
lemon ; set it on the .fire again, then let it 
simmer gentiv for an hour and a half lunger; 
then skim ofiP the fat, and strain off tiie gra- 
vyi by^pouring it dux^ugh a napkin, stnda* 
ing Biid pt*essiDg it very hard. 

GATEAU DE COMPIEGNE. TsAe 
three pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, 
an ounce and four drachms of yeast, an 
ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twdve 
whole eggs, and five or six spoonfiils of 
whipped cream. 

Widi tliese ingredients proceed as fiiliows: 
sift the flour, of which put a fourth psu't on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle, put into 
it a glass of warm water and the yeast ; mix 
them together as lightly, and with as much 
despatch as possible, sidding more waim 
water if necessary ; when well worked im 
for some minutes, gaUier it together, (it 
ought to leave die slab and the hand free^); 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it, and pacs 
it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. 
Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the 8]aA 
make a hole in the middle of it, in which 
put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these 
together well, and then put in the eg;^, one 
at a time, (break them into a basin, m case 
all shoukl not be good) ; the eggs being pot 
in, add by degrees the butter, stirring them 
well; then mix the flour, a little at a time, 
with the above, until tl whole is formed 
into a smooth paste; more ^gs nuist be 
added if it be too stiff; work it up a iittl^ 
and then add the leaven ; work that in ; and 
lastly, put in the whipped cream. Tha 
whole operation being thus pedbrmed, have 
ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (abont 
eight inches in diameter, and nine in height); 
butter it by means of a sponge, being care* 
fill that it IS done in all parts, otherwise the 
gateau will adhere to it; place the moidd 
in a moderate^ warm place, but whore 
Uiere is a free current of air. When the gth 
teau has risen so as to fill the mould, and 
the sur&ce is a little inflated, it ehoold be 
pit into dbe oven instantly, if not, it &lis and 
becomes heavy. The oven must be of a 
moderate heat, and kept closed while the 
gaUnmh baking; take itoutio about .aft 



GHfi 



85 



GIN 



r, SMi if it he dsaife Hd U^lil eolMwl, 
Wfiiiirg it iar ikirtf or farij imilai; hut 
iC OM iIk eontnuy, it if nd, and fim to the 
twch, pteee m tm ahle on ike top, and put 
it in tke oven till done; remofe the mould 
widi cure, end the gmUan 'u finished. If 
ike mould does not oome away quite eo well 
an it ought, atrike it fentiv with a apatula. 
When tHun oat, pat it in the oven for a few 
mimilBBto dry. 

T\m gmietm m eometiaKt varied by the 
addition of aix oonom of augared aniae, and 
ihe aame qomtity of dry cunaalB. 



GATEAU DE POMMES. Boil in a 
pint of water one pound and a haJf of loaf 
angar tiU it beoome a rich sinip; weigh 
two poundi of applet after th^ have been 
peeled, cored, and cut small; boil them in 
the simp with the grated peel and juice of a 
hrgc lemoB tiU they are reduced to a pulp; 
put It into a mould. The folbwing day 
eerve it, turned out in a ghus dish, with a 
riehcostut!. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (1) Mix very weH 
wilhtwo large tafale-epuonfids of floor, a quar- 
ter of a pial of cream, two well-beaten eggs, 
and a tea-apoonfiil of grated nutmeg, a very 
little aak, auod one ounce of butter &ten to 
acream; bake it in battered cups for twen- 
hr at thirty minutes; turn them out upon a 
cuh, and serve diem instantly ; pour a sweet 
BBMoe round them. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (2) Beat to a 
cream a quarter of a pound o( (rash batter, 
blanch mid pound one ounce of sweet almonds 
wi& a Uttie rose water, beat five yolks and 
three whites of eggs; mix all together with 
two large table-spooniuls of flour, and sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in but- 
tered axpB, and serve them with a sweet 



GHERKINS om cucumbers pick- 
LKD. Choose i^ierkins very green and 
ilraisbt, brush, and place a layer in a pan, 
qriiude them with fine sak, then anodier lay- 
er <if gherkins, which qjrinkle with salt also, 
and continne this oaerati<m until you have 
wtd nearly a bushel of gherkins, kave them 
in ihe salt for twenty-four hours, which will 
draw all die water finom them; at the end 
of that time drain and place them in a jar, 
with a handfo] of allspice, the same of tarra- 
gon, a Utlk bafatt, ten shallots, six cloves of 
garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty 
dovei, a lanon cut in quarters, and two 
nail handfids of salt Boil two gallons of 
the heat vinegar, pmir it over the gherkins, 
and -let them stand till the next day, when 
boil dm Tinmr a second time, and pour it 
 again; we following day boil the vine- 



gmrforihelUri and iMt tiw^ pov it fw 
the gherkins, and whoi qoati oeU, oovar th0 
jar with a wet parchment. 

GIfiLETPIE. AMJPtfae. 

GIBLETS STEWED. GlauitiiDMlf 
of giblets, put them iaio a saaoapaay jnac 
covar them with cold water, and set themoa 
the fire; when they boil, take oiT the soam, 
and put an an tnion, three cloves, or two blmte 
of mace, a few berries of Mack pepper, the 
saom of allspice, and half a teapoonfiil of 
salt ; cover tbestewpan dose, aad let itsimaser 
very gently till the giblets are quite tender: 
this will take fimn one hour and a half ta 
two and a half, aceordiiw to the age of the 
giblets; the pinions wilTbe done first, and 
must then be taken mtt, and put in again 1o 
warm when the ginards are done: wrartdi 
them that they & not get too much done: 
take them out and thidten the sauce with 
flour and butter; let it boil half an how, or 
till there is just eaou^ to eat with the gtti- 
leU, and then strain it througli a tamis into 
a cfean slewpan; cut the giblels into month- 
fub; put them into the sauce with the juiee 
of half a lemon, a tabl&poonful of uaadi- 
room ketchup ; pour the a^le into a aonp- 
dish, with sippets of bread at the bottom* 
Ox-tails prepared in the same way am ex- 
cellent eating. 

GINGERBREAD. Rub one pound of 
butter well into three pounds of flour; then 
add one pound of powder^Aigar, one pound 
of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded 
and sifted very fine; one nutm^ grsfted veiy 
fine; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream* 
and mix all together ; you mav add carra- 
ways and sweetmeats if you choose; make 
it into a stiff paste, and oake it in a sipv 
oven. If cake or biscuits are kq^ in paper 
or a drawer, they will acquire a disagreeable 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, wiO 
preserve them long and moist ; or if to ha 
crisp, laying them before the fire will make 
them so. 

GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. Ai 



GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BJUT- 
TER. Mix two pounds of treacle; loSxv- 
ange, lemon, citron, and candied gip^ 
each four ounces, aBthinly sliced; one ainoe 
of coriander-eeeds, one ounce of carawaya, 
and one ounce of beaten giager, in aa awwph 
paste as wiU make a soft pate; lay jt in 
cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a qpick 
oven. Keep it dry in a covered eaium 
vcaael, and it will lie good for some moottlb 

GINGERBREAD INDIAN. llWMl 



GIN 



86 



OIN 



twelve ocncee of pounded loaf sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, one pound of 
dried flour, two ounces of poundea ginser, 
and of cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an 
ounce each. Mix the ginger and the spice 
with the flour; put die sugar and a small 
' tea-cupful of water into a saucepan ; when 
it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon 
as it is melted, mix it with tlie flour and 
other things; work it up, and form the 
paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them 
upon tins. 

GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. 

Five eggs ; ludf a pound of brown sugar ; half 
a pound of fresh butter ; a pint of sngar^house 
molasses; a pound and a half offluur; four 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; two large sticks of 
cinnamon ; three dozen grains of allspice ; 
three dozen of cloves ; the juice and grated 
peel of two lemons. Stir the butter and su- 
gar to a cream ; beat the e^gs very well ; 
pour the molasses at once, into the butter 
and stigai'. Add the ginger and other spice, 
and stir ail well together. Put in the egg 
and flour alternately, stirring all the time. 
Stir the whole very hard, and put in the 
lemon at the last. When the whole is mix- 
ed, stir it till very light. Butter an earthen 
pan, or a thick tin or iron one, and put the 
gingerbread in it. Bake it in a modei'ate 
oven, an hour or more, according to its 
thickness. Take care that it do not burn. 
Or ym may bake it in small cakes, or lit- 
tle tins. Its lightness will be much improv- 
ed by a small tea-spoonful of pearlash dis- 
solved in a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir- 
red lightly in at the last. Too much pearl- 
ash will give it an unpleasant taste. If you 
use pearlash, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste will be entirelv destroyed by the 
pearlash. You may substitute for the lem- 
on some raisins and currants, well floui^ 
tp prevent their sinking. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (1) Takefbur 
pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, 
an ounce of caraway-seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded and sifted, six ounces of 
tfesh butter, and two ounces of candied or- 
ange-peel cut into small slices ; then take a 
pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of 
cream, (nake them warm together; mix it, 
with idl the ingredients, into a paste, and 
let it lay six hours ; then roll it out, make it 
into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (2) Take 
<me pound of dried and sifted flour, one 
pouoa of treacle,' three ounces of brown su- 
gar, four ounces of fresh butter, one ounce 
and a half of pounded and sified ginger, of 
caq<Ued orange-peel and citron, cut small, 
ihree-qitartefB of an ounce each; melt the 



butter with the treacle, and wfam k ia abool'' 
milk-warm, add it to the ffciur add otbtr 
in^;redients, and then mix all wdl togeCber; 
with a spoon drop the nut* upon battered 
tins, and bake them. 

GINGERBREAD NtTTS. (3) Dis' 
solve a quarter of a pound of butler in tbree* 
quarters of a pound of ti'eacie, pot it into a 
pan largig enougli to contain the rest of the 
ingredients, and when almost cok), stir in 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of coarse brown sugar, balf an ounce 
of caraway seeds, tliree-quariers of an nonce 
of pounded ginger, and the grated peel ofa 
lemon ; mix ail these well tc^ether, and lei 
it stand tiU it be stiff, or till the foUowii^ 
day, then make it into nuts, by pindiing it 
into pieces' with the finger and thnudft. 
Bake them upon buttered tins in a quidt 
oven. Half an ounce of coriander eeedi 
may be added. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (4) Rob 
half a pound of butter into two pounds of 
floor; add one pound of coarse sugar, and 
one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all wei 
together with one pound and two canoes of 
treacle ; form it into nuts, or roll it- oat, and 
cut it into round cakes; bake them upon 
tins. 

GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sift 
four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it 
pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown 
gar, the same quantity of melted butter, and 
three-quarters of an ounce of powdered gin- 
ger. Work it all well togetner, let it re- 
main for twenty-four hours, and then make 
it into cakes. 

GINGER BEER. See Beer. 

GINGER CAKES. Put four pounds of 
flour upon the dresser ; then take a copper 
saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint 
of cream to them, and beat them weU; put 
the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is %varm ; put two pounds of butler into 
the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, 
and keep stirrine it over a voy dow fire, 
just to melt all ue butter; put in four ouncea 
of pounded ginger, and as soon as aU the 
butter is melted, pour it all into the middle 
of the flour; mix it as well as you poesibl? 
can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll it 
out with flour under it on your draner; cut 
them to the size of the top of a tea-ciq), a 
quarter of an inch in thicknees; and before 
you put them into the ovi (which should be 
very hot), place three papers under thesa. 

GINGER IMFTATICN. Fed off the 



GLA 



87 



GOO 



' ooat of the laader ftoiif of lettuce that is 
i, cut it into bits one or two inches long, 
and tliruw it into cold wiAter ; lo each pound 

ut in a tea^spuonfiil of Cayenne, and a 
ttle flak ; let it Maiid one or two c^ys ; al- 
few an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, 
which claii^. Souk some good ginger in 
hot water, slice it, and add it to the sugar, 
aUowJnv one ounce and a half to the pound, 
and boil it for fifteen minutes ; strain ofi* the 
water from the lettuce, and pour ovor it 
the sirup, keeping back tlie ginger, with 
which the sirup must be boiled three times, 
and poured over the lettuce, two or dinee 
days intervening between each boiling ; and 
at fattt add the strained juice of one or two 



GLACE, ROYAL. Put the white of a 
Bew-laid eg^ into a pan, and mix with it a 
nfficieot quantity of white powder-eugar to 
aaake a glaee or icing, neither too dry nor 
too liquid; beat it well, and add a little 
kmon-juice to whiten it. By mixing with 
this glaee, carmine, saffron, indigo, spi- 
nach-juice, &c. ; it will be either rose-col- 
4Mred, yeUow, blue, green, &c. according to 
viQiir taste. 

GLAZE. (1) Take the remains of 
any liquor in which meat has been cooked, 
and strain it through a silk sieve until quite 
dear; then put it into a. saucepan and re- 
.dooe it over a brisk fire : as soon as it is 
sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to 
the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, 
and set it in the 6an-ffwirie; when wanted, 
add a small piece of fireah butter to it, to 
oorrect its saJtoess. 

GLAZE. (2) Make a coruomme with 
whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may 
be in the house ; strain it, and then put it on 
die fire with two or three whites of egga 
heateo to a snow ; stir till it boils, and then 
aet on the side of the stove, and place fire 
4 the saooepan lid ; as soon as the eggs are 
set, pass the glaze Uirough a wet cbui ; re- 
dooe this over a large fire, stirring it con- 
atantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its 
sticking; then pour it into a pot for use. 
When wanted, pot a small quantity of it in- 
to a sauoqiian, and make it hot over a slow 
fire; and, in this state, lay it gently over 
aach arUcl as may require glazing, by 
i of a feather. 



GLAZE. (3) Desu the butcher to break 
the bones of a leg or a shin of beef, of ten 
pounds weight (the finasher killed the better) ; 
pot it into a soup-pot (a digester is the b^t 
Btensil for this purpose) that will well bold 
Hi just cover it with coki water, and set it 
mm fyptQ heat giadually til) i| nearly 



boHs (this shoald he at leul aa hoar); Am 
it attentively while any scum rises; pour ia 
a little cold' water, to throw up the scum 
that may remain ; let it come to a boil again, 
and again skim it carefiilly: when no more 
scum rises, and the broth appears clear (pot 
in neither roots, nor herbs, nor salt), kt it 
boil for eight or ten hours, and then strain 
it through a hair sieve into a brown stone 
pan ; set the broth where it will cool quickly; 
put the meat into a sieve, let it drain, maka 
potted beef, or it will be very acceptable to 
many poor fiimilies. Next day remove 
eveiy particle of fiu fitHn the top of it, and 
pour it through a tamis, or fine sieve, aa 
quietly as possible, into a stewpan, taking 
care not to let any of the settlings at the 
bottom of the stone pan go into the stewpan, 
which should be oT thidt copper, perfectly 
well tinned ; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole black pepper to it; let it boil briskly, 
with the stewpan uncovered, on a quick 
fire ; if any scum rises, take it off with a 
skimmer: when it begins to thicken, and ia 
reduced to about a quart, put it into a smal- 
ler stewpan ; set it over a gentler fii'e, till it 
is reduced. 

(SODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or 
breasts of fowl or game, fresh pork or 
sausa^ meat, beef-marrow or suet, equal 
quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, and mushrooms; season these article! 
with pepper, cloves, and nutm^, all in 
powder; pound them all togstoer, and 
put in (one at a time) the yolks of ^|gs; 
pour in also a little water, pounding con- 
tinually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. 
Make a small boll of it, which boil in a 
little water to ascertain whether it be md- 
ficiently salt; sweet herbe mav be added 
when you are about to use it. The godivttm 
is used as Afarct for Umrtet and hot piee. 

GOOSE, TO COOSE. Be carefid 
in choosing a |[oose, that the bill and feet 
are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. When they are 
fresh the feet are pliable ; if stale they are 
dry and stiff. Green seese are in seaaoii 
fivm May or June, till uiey are three months 
oM; they should be scalded. A stubble 
goose is good till it is five or six months 
old, and should be picked dry. 

GOOSE ROASTED. A stubble ^wm 
should be studfed with sage and onions, 
chopped small, and mixed with pepper and 
salt ; boil the sage and onion in a little wa- 
ter before they are chopped, or mix a few 
bread crumbs with them when chopped; 
either will render them less strong, rut it 
first at a distace torn the fire, and by de- 
(preed draw it qepuw, A lip of papar 



GOO 



88 



GAA 



hopM b0 ricewWBd on the bffAsC bone* 
BttMe it very well. When the bnefnt in 
Mng, take off the paper, and be careful to 
MTVe it belbre the breast fiilb, it will be 
spoiled by coming to table Battened. Serve 
it with good gravy and apple sauce, in 
boats. It will take about an hour and a 
half to roast. 

GOOSE TO TRUSS. The goose must 
be first well picked and stubbed, then cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, and the 
fiset also. Make a slit m die hack of the 
nedc, and take out the throat, cut off the 
neck ck)se to the back and the skin, but 
leave enough to turn over the bock ; make a 
slit between the vent and the rump, through 
which draw out the entrails, then wipe it 
clean. Draw tber 1^ up, keeping them 
close to the side, then put a skewer into 
the wing, through the middle of the leg, 
body, and the 1^ and wing on the othor 
side ; put another skewer through the small 
of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen ; 
run it through, and do the same on the odi- 
er side. Ckit through the end of tlie vent, 
through which put the rump, to {ttvent the 
stuffing from &lling out. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one 
quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much 
water asi will cover them: stir in about half 
an ounce of good butter; when they are 
soft) pulp them through a sieve; sweeten 
the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then 
beat it up with the yolks of four eggs ; serve 
in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

G<)OSEBERRY FOOL. Put goose- 
berries into a stone jar, with some fine su- 
gar; put the jar either in a stove, or in a 
saucepan of water, over the fire; if in a 
stove, a lai^ spoonful of water should be 
added to the fiiiit. When it is done to pulp, 
press it through a colander; have ready a 
sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea- 
cupfiil of raw cream, boiled together, or 
yon may use an egg instead of the cream ; 
leave it to get cold, then sweeten well with 
fine sugar, and mix the pulp by d^rees 
with it. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE. Boil 
diem a moment, or only scald them in boil- 
ing water, sift them through a sieve ; reduce 
tiiem over the fire to half, then mix tliem 
with sugar prepared to the ninth degree (a 
la grande phtnu), half a gound of sugar to 
B pound of fimit. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. SteJam. 

GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Gather, 
iwhan quite ripe, the rough red gooseberries \ 



top and tail tfwm ; pot liiem into  jar, ffe 
it over widi Uaddo*, and boil it in a pat 
of water till the fruit be perfectly soft; posr 
off the tliin juice, and with a wooden spooo 
rub the ffoosebories throf^ a fine hair 
sieve ; allow rather more dian hidf fks 
weight of the pulp of pounded kMif sngar, 
mix it togetlier, and boil it till it will jdly, 
which will take almost two hoars; stir, and 
skim it, then put it into a disli, and serve 
when cold, to be eaten with cream. The 
thin juice may be boiled widi its weight of 
good brown sugar, and used as goosebeny 
jelly. 

GOURDS FRIED. (1) Cut fiw or ss 
gourds in qusuters ; take off the skin aad 
pulp; stew them in the same manner as fisr 
table: when done, drain them quite dr^; 
beat up 'an e^, and dip the gointls in it, 
and cover them well over with braad-cnmrfis; 
make some hog*s-lard hot, and fry them a 
nice light color; dirow a little sak aad 
pepper over them, and serve up quite dry. 

GOURDS FRIED. (2) Take six er 
eight small gourds, as near of a size as pos- 
sible; slice them with a cucumber-slice; 
dry them in a cloth, and then fry them in 
very hot lard ; dirow over a little pepper and 
salt, and serve up on a napkin. Great at- 
tention is requisite to do these well ; if the 
(at is quite hot they are done in a minute, 
and will soon spoil ; if not hot enough, they 
will eat greasy and tough. 

GOURDS STEWED. Take off dl 
the skin of six or eight gourds, put them in- 
to a stewpan, with water, sah, lemon-juice, 
and a bit of butter, or ^t bacon, and let 
them stew gently till quite tender, and serte 
up with a rich Dutch sauce, or any other 
sauce you please that is piqwtnie. 



GRAPES, COMPOTE. Boil a ( 
of a pound of sugar witli half a glass of wa- 
ter, till it is reduced to a strons simp ; skim, 
and then put into it a pound of grapes, pidt- 
ed from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; 
give them a boil two or three times, and 
then place them in a dessert dish: if thnv is 
any scum upon them, carefiiUy wipe it off 
with white paper. 

GRAPES, PICKLED. The grapes 
must be at their full growth, but not ripe, 
cut them in small bunches ; put them in a 
stone jar, with vine leaves between each 
layer of grapes, till the jar is fiill ; then take 
as* much spnng-water as will cover the 
grapes and the leaves ; as it heats piit in as 
much salt as will make a brine sii^k^iendv 
strong to bear an egg ; you must use hatf 

bay ^t and hiUf cominQQ 8H| when il 



ORA 



89 



OKA 



It; lima it thnMipi a 
laf, mmI Ipt itatuid to aettJe; by tbo Ume it 
ii caid k will be quite wttled ; atrain it a 
noond time thnN^ a flannel bag; then pour 
it into tbe jar, upon the grapes, which nrait 
be weA oorared ; fill die iar with vine leavei ; 
tbea tie it over with a double cloth, and eet 
a plate upon it; let it stand liNr two days, 
dien lake off the cloth, pour away the brine, 
and take out die leaves and the grapes, and 
Inr them between two cloths to d^; then 
take two quarts of vin^ar, one quart of 
ipriag-water, and ooe povuid of coarse sugar, 
boil it Cm* a short time, and skim it very 
dean as it boils; let it stand till it is quite 
odd; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay 
aome finen viae iMves at the bott<Mn, between 
every buocfa of grapes, and on the top; thoa 
pour and strain the pickle <mi the grapes; 
fin tbe jar ; let tbe pickle be above the grapes ; 
tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay 
it OB the grapes to keep them under the 
jMckie; tie them down with a bladder, and 
om-ths^akatber. Always keep the grapes 
the pickle. 



GRATIN. Oit half a pound of fillet of 
veal mto dice, and put it into a stewpan 
with a piece of butler, a few mushrooms, 
panley, ihalbts chopped small, salt, pepper, 
and spices; stir them up with a wooden 

rn ; and wfien tbe meat has been on tbe 
about a quarter of an hour, take the 
drain off the butter, mince it very small, and 
pot it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or 
oaine livers, well washed, dried, and par- 
boiled, all the bitter porta taken out, pound 
tbem, adding at times as much panada as 
you have meat; boil aome calPs udder, trim, 
and reaaove all the skin when cold, and put 
about a third of the quantity of meat, and 
pound them logetlior, adding, one at a time, 
three yolks, and thrae whole eggs; season 
with salt, pepper, and spices; when well 
poonded, aet it by in an earthen pan for 



GRAVY. See qUo CuUU and 



GRAVIES, DIRECTIONS respxct- 
iva^ The skirts of beef and the kidney, 
wifl amko quite as good gravy as any other 
meat, if prepared in the same manner. 

The tudney of an ox, or the milt, makes 
tnanrleat gnvy, out all to pieces, and pre- 
pared as odier meat; and so will the shank 
end of flBBtton that has been dressed, if much 
mivv is BOt required. 

The flhaiik-bfHies of muttcm add gready to 
the richness of gravv; but they snould be 
fint well soaked, and scoured clean. 

To obtain the flavor of French cookery, 
and to improve the taste of the gravies, tar- 

8* 



ngon sboald be wad; but it mm Mt be 
added till a diort tiaae before sernqg. 

GRAVY. (1) Take dufw pomda of beef 
steaks, two rabbits, (exoepUng the beads 
and breasts), a knuckle of al, five carrots, 
six onions, two cbves, two bay leavm, a 
bunch of parsley and scallions; put all tiMM 
into a stewpan, wiUi two kuUesnd of broth, 
and set them over a good fire to reduce; 
dien cover the stove, and let the stewpan 
stand over it, until the meat begins to give 
out the gravy, and adheres sliglitly ; the jel- 
ly at the bottom of the stewpan oucht to be 
nearl;^ black, and when that is the case, 
take it from tbe stove, and let it stand for 
ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 
good broth, or water, (if the kuter, not so 
large a Quantity) ; kit this simmer for three 
hours; akim and aeason it well. If water 
is used instead of broth, the gravy must be 
strained before it is uwd. Gravy may also 
be ms^ of any pieces of ready dressed 
meat, in tbe following manner: cut some 
onions into sUoes, lay than at the bottom of 
tlie stewpan, and the meat on them, with 
the same ingredients as above, and two or 
Uiree glasses of water ; then proceed in tha 
same manner as the other, until the bottom 
of the stewpan is nearly black, when add 
water according to the quantity of meat; 
put salt if necessai^, and simmer the whole 
for two hours; then strain it through a 
sieve. 

GRAVY. (2) Cut down into slices foar 
pounds of lean beef, rub the bottom of the 
pot with butter, and put in the meat; turn it 
fraquendv till it be vrall browned, and do it 
sbwly, then add foiir quarts of cold water; 
when it has boiled two hours, put in two 
dessertHspoonfuls of whole pepper, one caiv 
rot, and three onions ; let it stew gentlj^ for 
four hours longer, strain it, and when it is 
required for use, take off the fot. Hiis gra- 
vy answers for all made dishes when brown 
gravy sauce isused. 

GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR 
DUCKS. BoUaU die giblets exoeptinfc die 
liver for an hour in a pint of water with a 
chopgped onion, some sab and pepper; strain, 
and add a very little browning, with a tea- 
spoonfol of ooratch, and one of mushroom 
ketchup; for the stuffing, mince the raw 
liver with two sage leaves, a small onion, 
some pepper and salt, a knt of butter, and 
grated bread crumbs. 

Send your sauces to table aa hot as poa- 
sible. 

Nothinff can be more unsightly than tha 
surfoce of a sauce in a frozen state, or gar- 
nished with grease on the top. The best 
way to get rid of this, is to pass it through 



6iA 



do 



ank 



ft tttiDik W* nBpkfah i W wi a ualy sMked In eold 
water; ihb w i dna m of die iui()kiivwiU coag- 
ulate die fat, and only mfler the pure gravy 
to pass through: if any partideB of fat re- 
main, take them off by^ apply hi# filtering pa- 
per, as Uottii^if paper is applied to writing. 
Let your sauces boil up after you put in 
wine, andiovyj or lliickeniag, that their fla- 
vors may be well blended with Ut($ other in- 
gredients; and keep in mind diat the 
Utp'knot of COOKERY is, to entertain the 
mouth without oflending the stomach. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. It is of 
as much importance that die cook shddd 
know how to make a himt of good gravy for 
poultry} &cj as that it shoirid oe sent up of 
proper complexion, and nioriy frothed. 

We shall endeavor to introdnoe lo her all 
the materials which give flavor in auee 
which is the eatenee ofaoupi and intended 
to contain more relish in a Ua-spoonfiU 
than the former does in a table-apoonfiJ, 

We hope to deserve as mteb praise from 
the 0e<momsfa8Wedofromthe6<mMMm<; 
as we have taken great pains ttf introduce to 
him tlie methods of midiing Sufaetitntes for 
tfaoee ingredients, which are always expen- 
sive, and often not to be had at all. Many 
of these cheap articles are as savory ami 
as salutary as the dearer ones, and those who 
have lai^ fomiliesand limited incomes, will, 
no doubt, be glud to avail themselves of 
them. 

The reader may rest assured, that wlieth- 
er he consults this book to diminish the ex- 
pense or imrease the pleasures of hospitality, 
he will find all the information tliat was to 
be obtained up to 1882, ccMnmunicated in 
the most unreserved and intelligible manner. 

A great deal of the elegance of cookery 
depends upon the accompaniments to each 
diih being appropriate and well adapted 
to it. 

We can ttssure our readers, no attention 
has been wanting on oar part to render this 
department of the woiii worthy of their pe- 
rusal ; each receipt is the fiutraul narrative 
of actual and repeated experiments, and has 
reoeiv^ die most deliberate consideration 
before it was here presented to them. Itis 
given in the most circumstantial manner, 
and not in the technical smd mysterious Ian- 
gimge former writ on these subjects seem 
to luive prefened ) by which their directions 
are useless and miintell^ble to all who have 
not regularly serted an apprenticei^ip at the 
stove. 

It win be to very little purpose that I 
have taken so much pains to teach how to 
manage roasts and boils, if a cook cannot or 
will not make die several sauces that are 
lUy sent up with them. 

We have, therefore, endeavored to give 



the plainest directions hovr to produce, imai 
the least trouble and expense possible, all 
the various compositions the English kitdieo 
affords ; and hope to present sodi a whole- 
some and palatable variety as will suit all 
tastes and all pockets, so that a cook may 
give satisfiiction in all fiimiliesi The more 
combinations of this sort she is acquainted 
with, the better she will comprdieDd the 
managemmit of every one of them. 

Let your sauces each display a decided 
character; sand up your plain sauces (oys- 
ter, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible: they 
should only taste of the materials from wliicfa 
th^ take their name. 

The imagination of most cooks is so in- 
cessantly on the hunt for a reKsli, that they 
seem to think they cannot make sauce stiffi- 
ciently savory wittiout putting into it every- 
thing that ever was eaten; and supposing 
every addition must beanimpro^'ement, they 
frequently overpower the natural flavor of 
their plain sauces, by overloading thm 
with salt and spices, &c. : but, remember, 
these will be deteriorated by any addition, 
save only just salt enough to awaken the 
palate. 

On the contrary, of COMPOVKD savcss; 
the ingredients should be so nicf^ly propor- 
tioned, that no one be (Mnedominant ; so thtt 
from the equal union of the combined fit- 
vors such a fine mellow mixture is produced, 
whose very novelty cannot foil of being ac- 
ceptable to the persevering gowrmand, if it 
hais not pretensions to a permanent place at 
his table. 

An ingenious cook will form as endless a 
variety of these compositions us a mtisteum 
with his seven notes, or a petinter with hin 
colors; no part of her business ofliers so fiiir 
and frequent an opportunity to display her 
abilities: spices, herbs, &c. are oAa 
very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled to- 
gether. 

Why have dove and allspice, or mace and 
nutm^, in the same sauce; or marjoram, 
thyme, and savory; or cmions, leeks, es- 
chalots, and garlici one will very well si^ 
ply the place of the other, and die fitigal 
cook mi^ save something considerable by 
attending to this, to the advantage fk her 
employa:^, and her own time and troiMe. 

ICF* ^^^ Sauces and C1TL1.I8 Jbr 
other important partieuion, 

GRAVIES, ESSENCE OF HA 
FOR. Pick offaU die bits of met fixMn a 
}m-bone, pound them, break die bone, asd 
put all into a saucepan, together widi iMarfy 
half a pint of water, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs; simmer gentJy for sometime, stirring 
it occasionally; then add a pint of good bea 
gravy, and some pepper, and continue to 
simmer it tiU it be well flavored with the 



OAA 



dl 



CftA 



gmviw and aauoes of all dt ua e i pniom, 

GRAVY FOR BOILED MEAT, May 
be nade with parings and trimmings; or 
powr firoia a qoairter to half a pint of the H- 
aaor io which the meat was boiled, into the 
okli with it, aad pierce the inferior part of 
the joiat with a sharp skewer. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MF-AT. (1) 
Mart joinli will afford sufficient trimmings, 
Iw. to BMke half a pint of plain gravy, which 
yoa aiay eolor with a few drops of tmtwning: 
hr tlioae that do not, about half an hour be- 
Ibre you think the meat will be done, mix a 
aalt-spooalbl of salt, with a ftill quarter-pint 
ct boiXmg water; drop this by degrees on 
the brown parts of the joint ; set a dish on- 
der to ealcb it (the meat will soon brown 
again); set it by; as it cools, tlie fat wiU 
dual m the sar&oe; when the meat is ready, 
eaitaiiifly remove the fat, and warm up the 
gravv, and poor it into the dish. 

The coasmon metliod ia, when the meat 
is in the dish you intend to send it up in, 
to mix half a lea-spoonfiil c^ salt in a quarter 
{lint of boiling water, and to drop sume of 
this orer the comers and underside of the 
meal, and to pour the rest tlvough the hole 
the spit cane out of: some pierce the infe- 
rior parts of the joints with a sliarp skewer. 

The fiillowinff receipt was given us by a 
very good cook:  ^You may make good 
tNniwniag for roast meat and poultiy, bv 
saving the brown bits of roast meat or nail- 
ed; oit them small, put them into a basin, 
cover them with boiling water, and put them 
away tiU next day ; then put it into a sauoe- 
pvui, let it boil two or three minutes, strain 
It through a sieve into a basin, and put it 
away (ait use. When you want ^vy fiir 
roast meat, put two table*spo<Nifuls mto half 
a pint of boiling water witli a little salt: if 
for roasted veal, put three tablenEipoonfuls 
into half a pint of thin melted butter. 

The gravy which comes down in the dieh, 
the oomL (if she is a good housewife) will 
prow v e to enrich hashes or little made 
dishef , &e. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (2) 

Abont a miacter of an hour before the meat 
is taken tram the fire, put a ccnnmon dii^ 
with a teBF<poonfiJ of salt in it under the 
neat; when it has all run into the dish, re- 
move it, baste and froth the meat, and pour 
the gravy into the dish on which the roast is 
to be served. 

GRAVY MADE FROM BONES. 

Break into small pieces a pound of beef, 
mutton, or veal bones, if mixed together so 
much the better ; boil them in two quarts of 



it bails, kt K 
nearly three hoars : boil with it a couple f 
onions, a bunch of tweet herbs, some salt 
and pepper; strain, and keep it for making 
gravy or sauees. The bones of broiled and 
roasted meat being scraped, washed clean, 
and boiled in less waler, wnsaiw equally well 
for this purpose. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(1) Slice three onaona, and fiy them brown 
in a little butter; add them to half a pint 
of water, and die same of beer, put an some 
peppercorns, salt, a little lemon peel, three 
cloves, a Itttle mace or pefiper, a spoonfol 
of walnut pk:kle, and one of saashroom 
ketchup, of sov and fsssnoe of anchovy a' 
dessert^epoonfiu each, a smaU bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread 
toasted brown on both sides ; simmer all to- 
gether in a closely covered saucepan for 
twenty minutes, llien strain it for use, and 
when cold take off the fiit. It wiU taste 
exactly like a gravy made with meat. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(2) Knead a good deal of floor into a pieee 
of butter the siae of an ^g, fi^ it in a fir- 
inp[-pan over a clear fire, stir it constantly 
with a wooden spoon till it become a aiee 
brown color, taking particular cue that it 
be made pcsfoctly smooth; pour in some 
boiling water, add a little finelvHuinced on- 
ion, some whole pefiper and a uttle sak, pot 
it into a small muoepan, cover it ckaely, 
and simmer it for a short time; strain, and 
mix with it a little mushroom ketchup, and 
Port wine. 

GRAVY OR RICH CULUS. Cot 
into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, 
cover the bottom of die saucepan with die 
veal, then put in a few slices of salt pork, 
next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, 
and die red part of one or two carrots, a 
little mace, two or three cloves, some whole 
fwpper, and two or three bay-leaves, above 
that the mutton ; covr the pan cloady, set it 
on a slow fire, and wlien the meat is a fine 
brown, mix quite smooth a small quantky 
of fiour in water, stir it in, and then add as 
much boiliaff water as wiU cover the meat 
well, and a little salt; cover the pan closdy, 
and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, 
and keep it for use; it will conlume good for 
eight or ten days. 

GRAVY DRAWN. Pot a few pounds 
of gravv-beef sliced, and a little whole 
pepper, into ajar with aoover to fitclosely; 
set the jar into a pot of cold water, and when 
it boils, add as it wastes more hot water, 
and keep it boiling gmtly for six or seven 
hours, when the richest gravy imaginable 



GRA 



!tt 



HAM 



mM bt obtaind. It v^r bt 
Hme, or radnoed witk walar. 



n that 



GRAVY, TO MAKE A PINT OF 
KICH. Brown a qonrter of a pound of 
Imtter, drodging in two lablepoonfiib of 
dour, and itimng it eonitandy ; add a pound 
of gravy-berfcut into mall bits, and two or 
throe oniom chopped. When it becomes 
brown, add ome whole pepper, one carrot, 
a bunch of sweet herfaa, and three pints of 
water ; let it boilffently till reduced to one, 
then strain it. Tiiis gravy may be served 
with roasted turkey or IbwL 

GRAVY, TO CLARIFY. Qarify gra. 
vy, drawn from beef or veal, with the beaten 
whites of eg^, allowing one while to a 
quart. Gravies and soups which aro to be 
clarified should be made very strong, and be 
highly 



GRAVY AND SAUCE inorxdi- 
X R TS. Browning for made dishes.- Put into 
a saucepan one pound of good brown sujpr, 
stir it constantly over a slow fire, boil it 
till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles 
it iacokx-; take the pan off the firo, stir it 
for a minute or two, aJnd pour in very sfewly 
a qiart of boiling water, stirring constantly ; 
put it again cm the firo, and boil it for a 
little; pour it into a bowl, and when cold, 
bottle It. This browning will keep good 
fiir a year, and veiy little of it serves fi>r 
coloring soups, gravies, or sauces. 

To cLuify butter. Put the butter cut into 
dices into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, stir it 
gmtly till dissolved: when it boils, draw the 
pan to the side of the firo, skim it, and let 
It boil ^ntly a second time, and if any scum 
again rides, lake it ofi*; let it settle tor two 
or three minutes, and strain it gratly through 
a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid 
mto it. 

Fresh beef suet, pidted finee finom skin 
and sinews, is dissolved in the same way ; 
it is then strained through muslin into small 
jara, and when cohl, covered with bladder, 
or it may be strained into cold water; and 
the cake when ooU, wiped dry, folded in 
white paper, and kept in a linen bag. 

Beef suet will ken fivsh for sometime 
if finely chopped and dredged with fiour, 
and k(it in white paper ba^ in a cool place. 

Beef and mutton drippings are clarified 
exactly in the manner butter is done, and 
each kept in a separate jar. 

I'o melt hflg's-uird, put it into a jar plac- 
ed in a pot of wattf or vrater bath, strain it 
into clean bladders or small jars, and cover 
diem with paper. Thus prepared, it will 
keep good a loigth of time, and is the best 
thiiiff for fryins fish in. 

To fi^ parley, wash it, pick it dean. 



attd put k into finssh ooU water; take koA 
and then throw it into boiling kurd or drip- 
ping, wlien it will instantly become 
it is then taken out with a slice. 



cnsp; 



GRUEL. DR. KITCHENER'S, 
those who are to eat it, if they like it 
thick or thin; if the latter, mix well togeth- 
er by degrees, in a pint basin, one tabb- 
spoonful of oatmeal, with three of cold wa- 
ter ; if the former, use two spoonfiils. 

Have ready in a stewpan, a pint of hHl* 
ing water or milk ; pour this by degrees to 
the oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into 
the stewpan ; set it on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes; stirring it all the time 
to prevent the oatmeal fix>m burning at the 
bottom of tiie stewpan; skim and strain k 
through a hair sieve. 

2d. To convert this into caudle, adds 
little ale, wine, or In^ndy, with sugar; and 
if tlie boweb are disordered, a little nutmeg 
or ginger, grated. 

06.--Gn]el may be made with broth in- 
stead of water ; and may lie flavored with 
sweet herbs, soup roots, and savory ^ioes, 
by boiling them for a few minutes in tlie 
water you are going to make the gnie] with. 



H. 



HAM. If it is a very diy Westphslis 
ham, it must be soaked, according to its age 
and thickness, from twelve to twenty-te 
hours ; for a green ham, from four to eight 
hours will be sufficient. Lukewarm water will 
soften it much sooner than cold, wlien suffi- 
ciently soaked, trim it nicely on the under- 
side, and pare off all the rusty and smoked 
parts till it kwks delicately clean. 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put k 
in while the water is cold; let it beiU veiy 
gradually, and let it be on the fire an hour 
and a haU* before it comes to a boil ; let it 
be well skimmed, and keep it simmering 
very gently: a middlingHBized ham of fifteen 
pouiiOB will be done enough in about Sum or 
five hours, according to its thickness. 

If not to be cut till cokl, it will cut the 
shorter and tenderer for being boiled aboitf 
half an hour longer. In a vei^ smaH family, 
where a ham will last a week or ten days, 
it is best economy not to cut it till it is cold, 
it will be infinitely more juicy. 

Pull off the skin carefully, and preserve it 
as whole as possible; it will fonn an exod> 
lent covering to keep the ham moist; when 
you have removed tlie skin, rub some bread 
raspings through a hair sieve, or grate a 
crust of bread; put it into tlie perforaied 
cover of the dr^gii^-box, and shake it over 



HAM 



HAM 



k, or gfcae it; trin the kimoklB vidi a 
fiinge of cut wrUin^-fMiper. Yon owy gar- 
lueh with spinage or tarnips, Itc. 

To pot ham is a oMMh oiora OMfal and 
eeonomica] way of disponii^ of Uie remaim 
of the joint, than makiDg eaienoe of it. 



HAM AND EGGS. Gut eoroe ham 
into thin slioei, and bfoil diem on a gridiroo. 
Fiy some eggs in butter. Serve it, bying 
an e^ on eadk dice of liam. 

HAM, ESSENCE OF. Take three or 
four pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
dxMit an inch thick, and lay them in a stew- 
pOB, with slices of carrots, parmipe, and 
three or four onions ; let them stew till they 
fldck to the pan, but take care they do not 
bum; then by degrees pour in some good 
veal gravy, a few fredi mushrooms cut in 
pieces, (or mnrinroom-|iowder),tn]|fles, mor- 
els, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust 
of bread; cover it ckise, and siinroer till 
pretty tbidc, then strain it off (or use. 

HAM GRAVY. Take a deep sance- 
pan, put into it a piece of frarii butter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal 
the sixe of a walnut, and two or three car- 
rots cat in small pieces; set these over a 
dow fire, and let them stand till they give 
out their juices, and tlie ham and veal be- 
come crisp and stick; then put in a little 
8tcck, and let it boil; in an hour's time add 
a glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of 
an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; 
lake off every particle of &t; strain it into 
a pan, and set it by for use. 

HAM LOAF. Soak a fine ham in cold 
water for one or two days, according to its 
age; then put it into a saucepan just big 
enougli to hold it, with no more water than 
will cover it, and a pint of white wine ; let 
it Ixjil, skimming it carefully, till done. 
When cold, take out the hock and under 
bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the 
it, and trim it to an oval form as much as 
possible. Make a farce with the parmgs of 
the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs 
minced and pounded. Take a pan the size 
^rou wish to have your loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (hav- 
ing cut your ham into thin slices) place al- 
ternate layers of it and the &rce in tlie pan, 
until it be quite foil. Put a cnist over the 
top, which most unite with that in which 
the ham is ; turn it over on a baking plate, 
floor it, and put it into a very hot oven for 
an boor and a half or two hours, according 
to its stzev Serve it cold. 

HAM, MINCXD, WITQ FRIED EGOS. 



HAM OlffiUBT. TaknariiMdlMHlMl 

ham, niinoe it as saaU m possible, and mix 
it with adoaen aggs beaten with a little veal 
gravy; fry it (keeping it of an etfval thick- 
) is the vsnal WMoer. 



HAM, OR TONGUE POTTED. Ort 
a pound of the lean of ookl boiled ham or 
tongue, and pound it in a mortar with a 
quarter of a pound of the fat, or with finesh 
butter (in the praportmn of about two ounoea 
to a pound), till it is a fine paste (some sea- 
son it hy d^rees with a little pounded mace 
or allspice): put itckise down ir pots fbr 
that purpose, and cover it with clarified 
butter, a quarter of an inch thick ; let it 
stand one night in a cool place. Send it 
up in the pot, or cut out in &ia slices. 

HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. 

Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne haa, 
pare and trim it of as round a form tis possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remi>ve 
the rind from die knuckle; then lay die ham 
on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take 
it up with ease; soak it, if necessary, and 
pot it in a pan, with slices of carrots and 
onions, thyme, ba^-leaf, and coriander ; pour 
a bottle of Madeira upon it, cover it with a 
clean clofh, and close the pan as tight a 
possible, and let it remain twvnfy-four hours; 
then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fiis- 
ten it with paste, so that it may be com- 
pletely enclosed, tie it on a spit, ar^i put 
it to roast fur three hours; then make a 
small hole in the paper, and poor in, by 
means of a fimnel, tlie Madeira wine, paste 
paper over the liole, and let it roast another 
hour. When done, take off the paper care- 
fully, so that none of the gravy may escape^ 
mix it with some reduced etpagnole, glaze 
the ham, and ser^'e it. 

HAM TOAST. Cut some crumb of 
bread into thin slices ; then take an equal 
number of thin slices of ham, beat them well 
with a rollins pin, and then soak them in 
warm water for about two hours ; take them 
om, dry them well, and put them into a 
saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veal^ 
and half a glass of stock ; let them boil for 
half an hour, and then add half a glass of 
veaP blond, Fiy your bi*ead to a nice col- 
or in some lard ; lav it on a dish, and on eadi 
piece lay a slice ot the ham ; pour the sauce 
over them. Take particular care to cut 
the ham as nearly as possible the size and 
shs^of tlie bread. 

HAM TO STEW. Soak the ham m 
lukewarm water fiw twelve hours, drain it, 
and scrape the rind ; put it mto a stewpan 
with some slices of fat bacon round the sides, 
four ()uartB of wes^ stock, a ^ood deajl oC 



HAR 



94 



HAR 



puAjt ft Imidi of wrsGt Mrai} tix Im^ 
onions, four gbitdCs, a little al^Moe and 
pepper, a pint of Madeira, and one of Port 
wine. Cover the ham with slioee of fot ba- 
oon, and put over it a eheet of white paper; 
atew it eight hours, or ten if it be a veiy 
large ham. Before flen'iii|^, take off the 
rind, mrain the Buwe, skim it well, and 
boil it till reduced to a ghae, and pour it 
round the ham, or serve it with anjr other 
aauoe that may be preferred. 

HAM WITH MADEIRA. Soak in 
water fw two hours a Bayonne, or any other 
fine ham, boil it for two hours, trim it quick- 
Iv, and tlien put it into a stewpan, with thin 
aiioes of veal at the bottom ; add some car- 
rots and parsley, and season with qiioes. 
Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and 
a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, 
strain and skim the fat off the sauce, 
which, with the ham, must be served quite 
hot. 

HARE. As soon as the otxk receives a 
iiare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe 
it well, put in a little pepper, and bang it 
up. When wanted (or dressing, cut off 
the four 1^ at the first joint, raise the 
ricin of the back, and draw it over the 
hind legs ; leave the tail whole, then draw 
the dcin ovir the back, and slip out the four 
legs ; cut it fi'om the neck and head ; skin 
the ears, and leave them on. Clean the 
ivent. Cut the unews under the hind legs ; 
iN-ing thfem forward ; ran a skewer through 
jone hind leg, the body, and another hind 
leg ;ylo the same with die fore legs^ lay the 
h^a rather back ; put a' skewer in at the 
mouth, throuffh the back of the head and 
between the Hioulders; put in the stuffing, 
and tie it round with a string, passing it 
over the le^ to keep ibem in theu* places: 
the hare is then ready for roasting. See 
Hare Roaaie4.* 

HARE, JUGGEa Having skmned a 
bare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and di- 
vide the back into three pieces; rub them 
well with fot bacon, and put them into a 
stewpan with the trimmings, allspice^ mace, 
wholie pepper, a small ck>ve of garlic, two 
bay-leaves, three onions, parsl^, t^me, 
aweet marjoram, a qiyut of veal stock* and 
three gills of Port wine^ simmer the whole 
till three parts done; tfaoa take out the f^oul- 
ilers, ^rg, and back> put them into another 
lewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a 
little flour and butter, stew them till quite 
)doner; take off the fot, season with cayenne, 
aal^ and lemon-jiiioe, and serve tike whole 
jnadeepdish. 



a hurt that has been well soaked; pot it an 
the spit and rub it well with Madeira, pric- 
ing it in various places that it may innbibe 
plenty of wi|ie; cover it entirely with a 
paste, and roast it. When done, take avay 
the paste, rab it quickly over with egg, 
sprinkle bread-crumbs, and baste it gently 
with butler ^still keeping it turning before 
the fire) until a crust is formed over it and 
it is of a nice brown color; dish it over 
some e^pagnole with Madeira wine boiled 
in it ; two or three cloves may be stuck into 
the knuckles if you think proper. 

HASHED HARE. Cut up the hare 
into pieces fit to help at table, and divide 
the jotntB of the 1^ and shoulders, and set 
them by ready, rut the trimmings and 
gravy you have left, with half a pint of wa- 
tr (there should be a pint of lii^uor), and a 
tabloHspoonfol of ciorant jelhr, uito a clean 
stewpan, and let it boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour: then strain it through a siete 
into a basin, and pour it back into the slew- 
pan; now flour the hare, put it into the 
pfravy, and let it simmer very gently till the 
hare is warm (about twenty minutes) ; cut 
the stuffing into slices, and put it into the 
hash to get warm, about five minutes before 
vou serve it ; divide the head, and lay one 
half on each side the dish. 

HARICJOT BY WAY OF SOUP. 
Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, 
put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart 
of water, four large carrotB, and turnips; 
boil it gently over a slow fire tiU all the 
goodness be out of the meat; then bruise 
the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. 
Fry six onions (sliced) in butter, and pot 
the other part of die meat to the soup, and 
stew till the latter is tender; seaacm widi 
pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a 
tureen. 

HARICOT MUTTON. Cut the best 
end of a neck or loin of noutton, that 
has been kept till tender, into cfac^ of 
equal thickness, one rib to each ; trim off 
some of the fot, and the lower end of the 
chine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; 
set it over a smart fire; if your fire is not 
sharp, the chops will be done before thqr 
are colored; the intention of firying themv 
merely to give them a very light browning. 

While Uie chops are browning, peel and 
boil a couple of dozen of younz button onioBi 
in about three pints of water for about fiAefli 
or twenty minutes, set them by, and poor off 
the liquor they were boiled in into the stew^ 
pan with the chops: if that is not suflkieal 
to cover thon, and as much boiling wateras 
will remove the scum as it rises, and he 



HAT 



95 



HER 



darefiil they are not Btetred too lasC or too 
mucb ; 00 lake out one of than with a fiib- 
slice, and try it: when they are tender, 
ivhicli will be in about an hour and a half, 
then paas the gravy throng a sieve into a 
basin, a^ it in the open air that it may get 
old, you Hiay then eatfily and oompieleiy 
akiin off the fot ; in the 'meantime aeC the 
meiit and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, 
and puur some boiling water qver the button 
onions to wai*m tliem. Have about six 
ounces of carrots, and eight ounces of tor- 
nips, iieeled and cut into slices, or shaped 
into halls about as big as a nutmeg; boil 
the carrots about lialf an hour, the turnips 
about a quarter of an Iraur, and put them on 
a sieve to drain, and then put them round 
the dish, the last thing. 

Thicken tlie gravy by putting an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan; wlien it is melted, 
stir in as much flotv as will eiiSen it ; pour 
the gravy to it by de^^-ees, stir together till 
It boils; strain it througli a fine sieve or 
tamis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and 
turnips to get warui, and let it sinuner 
gently while you dish up the meat ; lay tlie 
chops round a dish, put the v^petables in tlie 
middle, and pour tlie thickened gravy over. 
Some put b capero, &c. minced glierkins, 
&c. 

Rump-steaks, veal-cutlets, and beef-tails, 
make excellent dishes dressed iu the like 
manner. 

HASH, COLD. Mince a nice white 
piece of veal, wash and core some anchovies ; 
take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- 
bers, and a lemon; shred and mix them 
with the veal, and place it in a dish ; lay 
round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, 
pickled cucumbers sliced, wliole pickled 
oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces 
shred small ; pour in oil and vinegar, salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

HASHES, MADE DISHES, STEWS, 
RAGOUTS, SOUPS, TO WARM. Put 
what you have lefl into a deep hash-dish or 
tureen; when you want it, set this in a stew- 
pan of boiling water: let it stand till the 
contents are quite warm. 

HATTERED KIT. (1) Make two 
quarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour 
it quickly upon four quarts of fresh-made 
butter milk, after which it must not be stir- 
red ; let it remain till cold and firm, then 
take off the lop part, drain it in a hair sieve, 
and put it into a shape for half au hour. It 
is eaten with cream, served in a separate 
dish. 

HATTERED KIT. (2) Put into the 
dish it is to be served in, one-third of cream 



twD4hinfa of famtBrHBiac, add  Kttli 
pounded loaf angar, and beat it well Ingeib* 
er. Straw over it a little poonded cuih 
naaon, and kt it siaad for three or te 



HAWTHORN UQUOR. The fOL 

bloiioiiis of the white thorn are to be picked 
dry and clean firom the leavee and etalke, 
anl as much put imo a laq^ bottle as it will 
hold ligbdy without pramng down; it m 
then to be filled up with French brandy, 
and albwed to stand two or three nonthsy 
when it must be decanted off, and sweetened 
with clarified sugar, or with capillaire. 
Without the sweetening, it is an excellent 
seasoning fiir puddings and costards. 

HEDGEHOG TO MAKE. Bkncb 
two pounds of sweet almoods, beat them to 
a paste in a mortar, moistening oooasionally 
witli Canary andorange-fiowcr water ; beat 
the yolks of twelve, ami the whites of seven 
eggs with a piht of cream and some powder 
sugar; put this with the ahnond paste and 
half a pound of firesh butter inloa saucepan, 
set it over a stove and keep it constantly 
stiiring till sufficiently firm to be moulded 
into the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full 
of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into 
slips, and place it in a dish; beat up the 
yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of 
cream (sweetened to tlie taste) ; stir then 
over a slow fire till hot, then pour it round 
die hedgehog and let it stand: when cold, 
serve it. A good calf 's-foot jelly may ba 
poured round, instead of the cream, if pre- 
ferred. 

HERBS, A BUNCH OF SWEET, b 
made up of parsl^, sweet marjoram, winter 
savory, (uange and lemon thyme; the grea^ 
est proportion of parsley. 

HERBS, SWEET. These in cookery 
are parsley, chibbol, rocambole, winto* sa- 
vory, thyme, bay-kf basil, mint, bcMrage, 
rosonary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. 
The relishing herbs or RavigoiU are tar- 
ragon, garden-cress, chervil, bumet, civet, 
and green mustard. 

HERBS TO DRY, SWEET AND 
SAVORY. It is very important to those 
who are not in the constant habit of attend- 
ing the markets to know when the various 
seasons commence for purchasing sweet 
herbs. 

All vegetables are m the highest state 
of perfection, and fulkst of juice and flavor, 
just before they begin to flower: the first 
and last crop have neitl^r the fine flavor, 
nor the perfume of those which are ^tbered 
in the height of the season; that ig, when 



HER 



96 



HOO 



Cte graafeer pwrt of dw crap of eaehipaein 

iiripe. 

Take cam they ara gathered oa a diy 
day, by which neaaB th^ will have a bet- 
ter color when dried. CleaDBe your herba 
well fi-om dirt and duat; cut oflf the roots; 
aeparate the bunches into siaaller ones, and 
diy them by the heat of a'llove, or in a 
Dutch ovea before a ooibbmni fire, m such 
quantities at a time, that the prooese may be 
speedity finished; s. e, *Kill *em quick,* 
says a great botanist; by this means their 
flavor wiH be best preserved: there can be 
ao doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, 
&c. hastily by the aid of artificial heat, 
noher than by the heat of the sun. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only cau- 
tion requisite is to avoid btuming ; luid of 
this a sufficient test is albrded l^ the pres- 
ervation of the color. The common cus- 
tom is, when they are perfectly dried to put 
tiiem in bags, ancl lay them in a drv place; 
but the be^ way to preserve the invor of 
aromatic plants is to pick oiF die leaves as 
soon as th^ are dried, and to pound them, 
and pot theui through a hair sieve, and keep 
them in wellnstopped bottles. The common 
csustoifi is to put than into paper bags, and 
lay them oa a shetf in die kitchen, exposed 
to all the fumes, steam, and smdke, &c. : 
thus they soon lose their flavor. 

N. B. Herbs aicely dried are a very ac- 
ceptable si^tiCnte when fierii ones cannot 
be got; but, however carefiitty dried, die 
flavor ad fi^granee of the fren heibs are 
incomparably fiao*^ 

HERRINGS. There are diree sorts of 
herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red her- 
rings. Tliey are emptied and cleaped like 
any other fish ; when fireih, they are broiled, 
and served with mekad butter, white sauce, 
&c. 

The salted herring should be soaked m 
ookl water befinre it is cooked; thb is also 
broiled; sometimes, however, it is cat in 
pieces, and eaten raw. 

The red herring is split down die back, 
the head and tail are cut off, imd the fish 
broiled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as Ibllows: 
when tliey liave lain in cold water a soffi- 
cieat time, soak them ht two hours in milk, 
then split them down the back ; then have 
nady some melted butter, in which has been 
mixed basil and bay-leaf, minced email, the 
yolks of two ^gs, pepper and nntm^ ; rub 
' the herrings well with this, bread them ; 
broil them over a gentle fire, and serve with 
lemon-juice. 

The best red herrings are fiiU of roe, 
are film and lai^, and have a yellow 



if good, the eves are fcO, and the gifti m^ 



dKfUialso 



stiff. 



HERRINGS, BOILED. Scafe, and 
otherwise prepare the herrings in the obbbI 
way ; diy them well, and tub them over with 
a little salt and viaemr; skevrer thrir tafls 
in thir moiidis, lay nem on a fish-plate, and 
pot them into boiliaff water; in fen or 
twehre minutes take meas out, drain tfasm, 
lay them on the dish the heads towaufds die 
middle; serve them with mdted batter and 
parsley, and garnish with 



Ofdiefinsshhemagtheeoales ara bright 



HERRINGS, RED. Pbia broil 
or pour over soaoe beer made hot, umI 
it is cdd drain and wipe them dry ; 
them thoroughly, and rvh over a little ' 
and sprinkle than with peppv. 



HERRINGS TO BAKE. Thc^ n 
be perfectly fiesh, and well deaaed, biit not 
washed ; the heads and fins cut off, and the 
bmies cutout; strew over them pepper, sak, 
and a slice of onicm minced very finely, to 
each ; roll tfcem up tif^ ; pack them ima a 
jar, and pour over in the prqxNrtion of a 
pint of vin^r to two <ji water, with half 
an ounce of wIk^ Mack pepper; tie over 
the jar a piece of bladder w paper, sad 
bake them in an oven ibr an hour. Take 
off the cover when they are cold, and poai 
over a little CoU vin^;ar, and tie them vp, 

HERRINGS TO FRY. Scrape off 
die scales; cut off the fins; draw out the 
gut, keeping in the roes and mdls; wipe 
them HI a clean cloth; diedge diem widi 
flour, and fiy them in boiling driming; put 
diem before the fire to drain and keep hoC 
Sauces; melted butter, and parsl^ and 
butler. When herrii^ are to be broiled, 
they are (Mepared in the same manner, and 
done upon the gridiron. They must not be 
washed. 

HIPPOCRAS. Take one ounce of 
cinnamon, two diwdmis of ginger, two pen- 
ny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and galragal 
a penny-weight of each. Pound these to- 
gether well, and infine them in a pint of red 
or white wine, and a pint of aialmfl^; ID 
this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. 
These prap(ti<m8 will make a qoart ef 
the liquor. 



HOG'S HEAD. Putaheedinto 
pickle, and when it has lain scrfficiently Iohn 
take it out and boil it tiH the bones ra 
come out with ease; then skin, bone, sod 
chop the meat, whilst hot; seascm it with 
pqipor (black and white), mitmeff, and adt, 
if necessary; lay part of the win at ths 
bottom of a pottiiig pan, press in the 



HUH 



9T 



ICE 



cover it widi ihe namimiier of the tkm, pot 

OB a weight, and let it staiid till quite oold. 
Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was 
dreaeed in with some vinegar, akim it well, 
and when cold put the heM. into it. 

HONEY TO CLARIFY M, Fou- 
q,ux'8 HXTHOD. Take six pounds of 
hooey, a pound and three-quartera of water, 
two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, 
five ounces of coal, (pulverised, washed, and 
well dried)^ the whites of three eggs beaten 
in thfee ounces of water, for each pound of 
honey. 

Put the honey, water, chalk, and egp, 
into a copper vessel, capable of holding 
about (Mie-third more than the above quanti- 
ties ; let than boil for two minutes, throw 
in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continue the boiling two minutes longer; 
then take the saucepan from the fire, and 
Jet it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that 
die liquor may cool ; then take a new sieve 
(which must be well washed, or it will un- 
part a disagreeable taste), pass the honey 
tfarou^ it, taking ca^re to filter the first 
drops twice, as they generally carry with 
them some portion of dbe coal. 

The sin^ which still adheres to the coal, 
and other materials, may be separated as 
ioUowa: pour boiling water on th^n until 
diey no longo: retain any sweetness; thai 
put these dioerent waters together, set them 
over a lar&e fire to evaporate, till the sirup 
<mly remams. This sirup contracts the fla- 
vor of barlev sugar, and must not be added 
to the darined honey. 

HORSERADISH POWDER. The 
time to make this is during November and 
December ; slice it the thickness of a shil- 
ling, and lay it to diy very gradually in a 
Dutch oven (a strong beat soon evaporates 
its flavor) ; when dry enough, pound it and 
bottle it. 

HOT PIC^KLE. Boil, m two quarts of 
vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two 
ounces of shallots or garhc, and two of gin- 
^, one ounce of pepper, one c^ yellow mus- 
tard seed, and a quarter of an ounce of 
cayome; put into a jar that will hold four 
quarts, two ounces of allspice, and pour on 
It the hot pickle. When cold, put in any 
frodi-eathered vegetables or fruit, such as 
asparagus, cauliflower, French beains, radish 
pods, unripe apples, gooseberries, currantB, 
-wfakh may be added as the oppcnrtuni^ of- 
ftn, and, as the pickle wastes, it shouM be 
r^Ienisbed with the same mixture 

H-BONE OF BEEF. See Betf. 

HUNG BEEF. See Beef, 

9 



HUNTING BEEF. Am B^f. 
HUNTER'S PIE. See iiek Blew. 



I. 



lOE. SoibetieKs or mooUs for 
or fiiiit-ioes, are made of two sorts of ma- 
terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the' 
latter is the best, the substenoe to be iced 
congealing OMxre gradually in it than ia the 
former ; an olqect moch to be desired, as 
when the ice is formed too <]piicUy, it is vcrv 
apt to be rough, and fiiU of lumps like hail, 
especialty if it be not well w<Miied with the 
spatula ; the other utensils necessary for this 
operati<Hi, are, a deep pail, with a omrk at 
the bottom, and a wooden spatula aboot 
nine inches long; beii^ so for provided, till 
the pail with powided ice, over which spread 
four handfols of salt; then having filled the 
sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. ; pot 
on the cover, and immerse it in the oentre 
of the ice-fiail; taking care the ice touches 
the mould in all parts ; throw in two more 
liandfuls of salt, and Imve it a quarter of an 
hour; then take the cover firom the mould, 
and with the spatula stir the contmits up to- 
gether, so that those parts which touch the 
sides of the mould, and co n s e qu e ntly coogeal 
first, may be mixed with the liquid in the 
middle; work this about for seven or eiebt 
minutes; cover the modd, take the pail l)y 
the ears, and shake it round and round toe 
a quarter of an hour ; open the mould a sec- 
ond time, and stir as before; continue these 
operations alternately, until the cream, w 
whatever it may be, is entirely oonfleaJed, 
and perfectly smooth, and free finom lumps. 
Take care to let out the water, which will 
collect at the bottom of the pail, by means 
of the cork, and press the ice close to the 
sorbetiere with the spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it Seom the 
pail, dip the mould in warm water, hot not 
to let it remain an instant; dry it quickly, 
turn it out, and serve it as soon as possibw. 

All sorts of ices are finished in this man- 
ner; the preparation of the articles of which 
they are composed, constitutes the only dif- 
feroioe between them. 

ICX:, A VERY LARGE CAKE. Beat 
the whites of twenty fish eras; then, fay 
degrees, beat a pound <^ doame-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve; mix thsM 
well in a deep earthen pan; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of finesfa lemon- 
peel; do not use more of the oranse-flower 
water than is just siiflkienC to flavor it. 
Whisk it for three hours till the mixture it 
thick and white; then, with a thin hnad 



ICI 



98 



IRI 



bit of board, "P*^ *^ ^ ^^ ^ ^ ^"^ 
aides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour 
will liarden it. 

ICE FOR ICING (HOW to fbk- 
PARE). Take a few poands of ioe, break 
H almost to powder, aod throw in among it 
a large handful and a half of salt; you must 
prepare in the oookat part of the house, that 
as little of the warm air as possible may 
come. The ice and salt being in a bucket, 
nit your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; 
immerse it in the ice, and draw that round 
the pot, so that it may touch every part. In 
a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and 
stir it well, removii^ the parts that ice round 
the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or 
water, be in a (brro, shut the bottom close, 
and move the whole in the ice, as you can- 
not use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. There shouk) be hokis in the ouck- 
et, to let the ice off as it thaws. 

ICING FOR CAKES. For a kirge 
cake, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
pot it into a mortar, with four spoonfuls of 
rose water, and the whites of two e^, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather 
in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it 
in the oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
main long enough to discolor. Keep the 
cake in a dry place. 

ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk 
of an ^g and some melted butter well toge- 
ther ; wash the tarts with a feather, and 
sift sugar over as you put them into the 
oven ; or beat v^ite of egg, wash the paste, 
and sift white sugar. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE 

CAKE. Take one pound o^ double-refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve ; put into a pan quite fi'ee fincoi grease; 
break in the whites of six eggs, and as much 
powder blue as will lie on a sixpence ; beat 
It well with a spattle ior ten minutes; then 

aueeze in the juice of a lemon, and beat it 
1 it becomes thick and transparent. Set 
the cake you intend to ice in an oven or 
warm place five minutes ; then spread ovor 
die top and sides with the mixture as smooth 
as possible. If fix' a weddine cake only, 
blain ice it; if for a twelfth cake, ornament 
It with giun paste, or fyauy articles of any 
description. A eood twelfth cake, not bak- 
ed two much, and kept in a eoai dry (Jaoe, 
will retain its moisture and eat well, if 
twelve months old. 

ICING FOR FRUIT TARTS, PUFFS, 

OR PASTRY. Beat up in a halfpint mug 
te white of two eggs to a solid froth; lay 



aoiBBoa die luidcBeof dw (Me wMi a _ 
brush; sift over (lientvofpoiiiidedaogRr, and 
vnM it down with the hand, wash out the 
bnish, and splash by degrees with water til 
the sugar is dissolved, uid put it in the Ofoi 
for ten minutes, and serve it vp cold. 

IMPERIAL. Put two ouoces of cream 
of tartar, and the juice and ped o^ two leas- 
ons, into a sUxie jar, pour on them nevea 
quarts of boiUng water, stir, and cover ckisek 
When cold, sweeten it with toaf sc^pEu*, straia 
It, bottle and cork it tight. Add m bottling, 
half a pint to the whole quantity. 

INDIA PICKLE. (1) Takeonepomidor 
ginger, put it into a pan with salt and w> 
ter, and let it lay all night, then scrape k, 
and cut it into thin slices ; pot it into a pan 
with half a pound of bay salt, and let it la^ 
till all the fi>Ik>wing ingredients are prenar- 
ed ; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid ia 
salt far three days, then take it out, wash it, 
then let it lay in salt for another tinee dayi^ 
then take it out and let it lay in the son for 
another, till half dry ; an ounce of Vmg pe^ 
per, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid 
in the sun for three days, a pint of black 
mustardHEeed bruised, half an ounce of tur- 
meric, beat very small ; put all these ingr^ 
dients together m a jar, then put in as nradi 
vine^, as, when the cabbage, or whatever 
you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vme- 
gar will rise to die top of the jar. Then 
take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you 
choose to fickle, and cut them into smaH 
pieces, throw a good handful of salt over 
them, and set them in the sun (when it is 
very hot) for three days, drain the water 
finom them everv day, and fresh sah them 
again, turning the leaves till th^ are diy, 
tmn put them into tlie pickle, being partic- 
ular that they are completely covered with 
die vin^ar; tie it up cke, let it stand a 
fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, 
carefiuly watch it Srom time to time, to fill 
it ttp with vinegar, as it will vraste very fest. 

INDIA PICKLE. (2) OnegaUon of vin- 
egar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a 
pound of king pepper split, half a pound of 
flour of mustard, one pound c^ gikiger Earn- 
ed, and split, and two ounces of tunnene. 
When you have prepared the i^ioe, and put 
it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot 
over it, and stir it every day {or a week. 
Then put in voor cabbage, cauliflower, <r 
nduUever you Intend to pickle. 

INDIAN CURRY. See Curry. 

IRISH PUFFS. Add to fire weB- 
beaten yoDcs and tvro whites of eggs, a laige 
taUe-spoonfiil of floor, not quite an ounoeof 



ISI 



9 



JAM 



nehsd butter, and half a m-flpooolul of salt; 
beat it aH well fin* ten minotea, and add half 
a pint of oraam; bake it in buUeied tea- 
etqw; torn them out, and aerre than with a 
sweet aanoe. 

IRISH ROCK, Bknch a pound of 
. aweet and an oirooe <tf bitter almoDds, pick 
out a few ci the sweet ahnonds, and cot 
them like straws, and blaacfa them in rose 
water; pound the rest in a mortar with a 
table-epoonfol of brandy, four oiuioes of 
pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and half a 
pound of salt butter well washed; pound 
them till the mass looks very white, and set 
it in a cool place to stiffen ; then dip two 
taUe<6pooB8 into cold water, and with them 
fiNrm the paste, as much like an egg as pos- 
sible; place in the bottom of a glass dish, a 
small j^te (ht sauoo* turned, and lay Uie 
rock h^ op; stick over it the cut almonds 
with green sweetmeats, aod ornament with 
a sprig of myrtle. 

IRISH STEW, OR HUNTER'S Pie. 
Take part of a neck oi mutton, cut it into 
cbops, season it well, put it into a stewpan, 
let it brase for half an hour, take two dosen 
<^ potatoes, boil them, mash them, and sea- 
aoo them, butter your noould, and line it with 
the potatoes, put in the mutton, bake it for 
half an hour, then it will be done, cut a hole 
in the top, and add some good gravy to it. 

IRISH STEW. Take five thick mut- 
ton chops, or two pounds off the neck or 
Joins; two pounds of potatoes; peel them, 
and cot them in halves ; six onions, or half 
a pound of onions ; peel and slice them also : 
fint pot a layer of potatoes at the bottom of 
your stewpan, then a couple of chops and 
some of the onions ; then again potatoes, and 
so on, till the pan is quite full; a small 
iqK>onful of white pepper, and about one 
and a haJf of salt, and wree gills of broth cm- 
crayy^and two tea-spoonfiils of mushroom 
ftetcbup; cover all very dose in, so as to 
prevent the steam from getting out, and let 
thorn stew for an hour and a half on a very 
dow fire. A small slice of bam is a great 
addition to this dish. The cook will be the 
best judge when it is done, as a great deal 
depends on the fire you have. Great care 
must be taken not to let it bqm, and that it 
does not do too fest 

ISINGLASS, TO CI.ARIFY. Take 
an ounce and auarter of the best isingfass, 
cut it into small pieces, and wash them sev- 
eral times in warm water. Put the isinglass 
into a preserving pan, with five glasses of 
filtered water, set it on the fire, am, as soon 
as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, 
w Ml to keep up the boiiing; take off the 



scon direetly it rises; and when the wholft 
is lednoed lo thre4|UBnen, strain it throaiii 
a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, m 
clarifying isinghss, lemon-peel, to remove 
its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglaM 
'ought to have no flavor, and as the lemoii- 
peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that. 
It is much better wfk out. 

ITALIAN CHEESE. Mn with near- 
ly half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, Ae 
juice of three lonons, two taUe^poonfhlB 
of white wine, and a ouart of cream ; beat 
it witli a whisk till qmte thick, which may 
be in half an hour ; put a bit of muslin into 
a hair sieve, and pour in the cream. In 
twelve hours turn it out, and garnish it with 
flowers. It may be put into a tin shape, 
witli holes in it. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. Take one 
pound of Valentia or Jordan almonds, bkmch- 
ed, pound them quite fine with the whites 
of four eggs; add two pounds and a half of 
sifted loaf sugar, and rub them welt togeth- 
er with the pestle; put in by degrees about 
ten or eleven more whites, working thea 
well as you put them in ; but the best crite- 
rion to go by in trying their lightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find them heavy, 
put one or two more whites ; put the mix- 
ture into a biscuit-funnel, and lay them out 
on wafer-paper, in pieces about the size of a 
' small walnut, having ready about two ounces 
of blanched and dry almonds cut into slips, 
put tlu'ee or four pieces on each, and bake 
tliem on wires, or a baking-plate, in a slow 
oven. Ofrs. Almonds should be blanched 
and dried gradually two or three days be- 
fore they are used, by which means they 
will work much better, and where large 
Quantities are used, it is advised to grind 
them in a mill provided for that purpose. 



J. 



JAM, APRICOT. (1) Weigh equal 
quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of a{^ 
ricots ; pare and cut them quite small ; as 
they are done, strew over half of the sugar. 
The following day boil the remainder, and 
add the aprkots; stir it till it boils, take 
off the scum, and when perfectly clear, add 
part of the kemeb Uanched, and boil it 
two or three minutes. 

JAM, APRICOT. (2) Allow equal 
proportuNis of pounded loaf sugar and <^ 
apncots; pare, and cot them sniall; as they 
are done, strew part of the sugar over them, 
and put the parings into cold water. Break 
the stoQSs* blanch aod ixaind the kemels* 



JAM 



100 



JL 



wliidi, widi die MOb wad purinn, boil m 
half tl quanlaty of water ii raduoed, and 
there m a MifficieDcy of the liquor, when 
trained, to allow three or four tableHRMxin- 
iiib to a pound of apriooCs; iwt it, with the 
iogar ana fruit, into a preeerving pan ; maA, 
and take oflf the eoum ; boil it quickty, tiU 
transparent. 

JAM, APRICOT, OR ANY PLUM. 

AAer taking away the etonee from the apri- 
oota, and eotting out any blemiBhes tney 
may have; put them oTer a slow fire, in a 
dean stewpan, with half a pint of water ; 
when scalded, rub them throng a hair 
sieve: to every pound of pulp put one pound 
of sifted loaf si^iar ; put it into a preserving- 
pan over a brisk fire, and when it boils 
diim it well, and throw in the kernels of 
the afvicots, and half an ounce of hitter al- 
monds, blandied; boil it a Quarter of an 
hour hat, and stirring it all tne time; re- 
move it fipom the fire, and fill it into pots, 
and cover them as directed in Raspbeny 
Jam. N. B.^reen gages or plums may 
be done in the same way, <xnitting the ker- 
nels or almonds. 

JAM, BLACK CURRANT. Gather 
your currants on a dry day, when they are 
full ripe, pick them fi*om the stalks, wash 
them well in a basin, and to every pound 
of currants, put a pound of double refined 
sugar, beaten and sifted; put them into a 
presttring pan, boil them half an hour, skim, 
and keep them stirring all the time: then 
put them into pots: when cold, put brandy 
paper over, and tie white paper over all. 

JAM, CHERRY. Having stoned and 
boiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise 
them, and let the juice run firom them ; then 
boil together lialf a pound of red currant 
juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put 
the chories into tbeee whilst they are boil- 
ing, and strew on them three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very 
&st for half an hour, and then put it into 
pots. V/hea cold put on brandy papers. 

JAM, GOOSEBERRY. Take what 
quantity you please of red, rou|B|fa, ripe goose- 
berries; take half their quantity of lump su- 
gw; break them well, and boil them to- 
gether fcr half an hour, or m<Nre if necessa- 
ry. Put it into poa, ijod cover with paper. 

JAM, GoOSEBERtlT, FOR PUDDIITGS. 

Allow equal weight of the red rough goose- 
berries, and of sood brown sugar; gather 
the finiit npon a dry day ; tt^ oad tail them, 
and put a layer altemately of gooseberries 
and of sugar into a pwaarv ing pan ; shake 
U firequeBdy, skim it well, and boil it tiB 



die sirpp leDies, which may be aseertained 
by oooiing a litde in a saucer. Black and 
red currants may be done in this way fir 
oommonuse. 

JAM, PEACH. Gather die peaches 
when quite ripe, peel and stone them, pot 
them into a preserving^^pan, and mash tlnm 
over the fire till hot; rub them through a 
sieve, and add to a pound of pulp the same 
weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an 
ounce of bitter ahnonds, blanched wad pound- 
ed ; let it boil ten or twelve minutes, stir 
and skim it well. 

JAM, RASPBERRY. Weigh eqad 
proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of 
raspberries ; put the fiuit mto a presenriag- 
pan, and wiUi a silver spoon nruise and 
mash it well ; let boil six minntes ; add (he 
sugar, and stir it well with the firuit ; when 
it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen min- 
utes. 

JAM, STRAWBERRY. Gadier the 
scarlet strawberries when perfi^Ttly ripe 
bruise them well, and add the juice of other 
strawberries; take an equal weTght of lump 
sugar, pound and sift it, stir it tborouebhr 
into the fiiiit, and set it on a slow fire; bou 
it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it 
rises ; pour it into glasses, or jars, and wbea 
cold, tie them down. 

JAM, WHITE OR RED CURRANT. 

Pick the fiuit very nicely, and allow an 
equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar; 
put a layer of each altematehr into a preserv* 
ing pan, and boil for ten minutes; or they 
may be boiled the same length of time b 
sugar previously clarified and boiled candy 
high. 

JAUNE MANGE. Boil an oonoe of 
isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of water 
till .melted; strain it, then add the juice of 
two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of 
white wine, the yolks of finir egga, beaten 
and strained ; sugar acc<miinff to taste; stir 
it ovw a gentle &e till it just ooils up: when 
cold, put it into a mould, takin? care, if 
there should happen to be any sediment, not 
to pour it in. 

JELLY. To a quart of die stock jelly 
pot half a pound of lonf suffar pounded, a 
stick or two of cinnamon broken into snul! 
bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of cinruit 
wine, and one of Sherry or Tenerifie, and the 
beaten whites of Ave eggs; put it all into a 
nicelycleaned sauc^n, stir it gently till it 
boils, and boil it for thiee or four minutes. 
Pour it into a jeOy-bag, with a basin or mi^ 
phoe4 underneath; rua it imniedifttely 



JL 



101 



JL 



llbxj^gh the bag Ags^ into another basin, 
and repeat this till it b^ns to drop. It 
will thai be as transparent as poesiUe, and 
may be put into moulds or glasses. When 
all ' has apparently dripped, pour about a 
pint of boiling water into tlw bag, whirh 
wiU prodnoe a little diin jelly fit to drink; 
the stand with the jelly4n^ should be plac- 
ed near to the fire; Sherry alone, or Tene- 
rifle, may be used. The jeHv may be |iut 
into qoart bottles corked tightfy, which will 
make it keep good for some weeks; place 
the bottle in warm water when it is requir- 
ed for use. 

JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a 
hrge shape, put to the prepared stock or 
jrily, more than half a bottle of strong ale 
or porter, a pound of loaf susar, the peel of 
one, and the juice of four large lemons, a 
stick of cinnamon, and die beaten whites of 
eight eggs ; piU it all into a saucepan, stir 
it gentfy; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and 
pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs perfectly 



JELLY, APn.E. (1) Pare, core, and 
cut thirteen good apples into small bits; as 
they are cot, throw Umn into two quarti 
of oold wator; boil them in diis, with the 
peel o( a Icumhi, till the substance is ex- 
toaeted, and nearly half the liquor wasted ; 
drain them through a hair sieve, and to a 
pint of the liquid add one pound of loaf su- 
gar pounded, the juice of one lemon, and the 
beaten whites of one or two eggs; pot it into 
a saucqiaB, stir it till it boiu, take off the 
icnm, aind let it boil till clear, and then pour 
k into a mould. 

JELLY, APPLE. (2) Pare and mince 
three dozen of juicy acid af^les, pot them 
into a pan, cover them with water, and boil 
Aem till very soft; strain them through a 
thin cloth or flannel bag; allow a poaod of 
loaf sugar to a pint of juice ; clarify and 
bml it; add the apple juice, with the grated 
peel and juice of six leniMis; boil it for 
twenty minutes; take off the scum as it rises. 

JELLY, APPLE. <8) Pare and cot 
into stioes eighteen large acid apfdes; boil 
then in as much water as will cover them ; 
when quite soft, dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring it dry, and strain the apfdes 
tliruugh it; to eadh pint of juice albw nor- 
teeo ounces of fine knf sugar, clarify it, and 
suid, with the ajiple juice, the peel of a brae 
lemon ; boil il till it jellies, which may be m 
twenty minutes; pick out the lemcm peel, 
and immediatefy put it into jars. 

JELLY, APRICOT. Take eighteen fine 
i^oots, let them be of a nice red color, 

9* 



stone themi and cut them in pifsoes intosoaA 
sirup, (uBualhr made with twelve ounces f 
sugar, hut for apricot jdly it diould ha 
rather nfora liquid than for other jellies.) 
When the fruit is done pot it into a napkin, 
to express out all the juice you possibly can ; 
which ;^ must add to the sirup in which 
the apricots have been done, and which has 
been previously strained thrcRu;h a silk sieve, 
and after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity <^ isingbss to thidien it, finish the 
same as all otho* jellies. 

JELLY, ARROW-ROOT. Steep for 
some hours, in two table-spoonfuls ci water, 
the peel of a lemon, and three or foir bttter 
almonds pounded ; strain, and mix it with 
three tabiC'Spoonfols of arrow-root, the saosa 
quantity of lemon-juice, and one ci brandv; 
sweeten, and stir it orer the fire till onitB 
thick, and when quite oold, pot it into jelly 



JELLY, BARBERRY. (1) Piek a 
pint of barberries, and put them into a slew^ 
pan with boiling water, cover it close and 
let it stand till nearly cold. Set on the fire 
some clarified sugar with a little water, 
(making a quart toffethor;) whmi it b^ns 
to boil, skim it weu, put in the barberries, 
let them boil an hour; sqoeeae the juice of 
three lemons tiuroogli a sieve into a basin, to 
this, pass the liquor from the barberries, and 
thai the isinghss. 



JELLY, BARBERRY. (2) Takei 
very ripe barberries (what quantity yoa 
please) and bdbre you seed thcan take two 
thirds of their weight in si^ar. Boil your 
sugar, then put yow barberries into it, aad 
give die whole a few boilings, then pass it 
through a silk sieve into a pan, pressing tka 
barberries with a spoon to extract as mooh 
juice as possible fitxn tliem ; this done, pot it 
agajn over the fire, and when you pei o e i ve 
it b^ns to form the scum, take it off and 
pour it into pots. 

JELLY, BREAD FOR AN INVALID, 

Cut the cmm of a penny roll into thin dices, 
and toast them equally of a pale brown ; hofl 
them gently in a quart of water tiU it wiH 
iellv, which may be known by potting  
little in a spoon tO/ cool; strain it upon a 
bit of lemon-peel, and sweeten it with sugar. 
A little wine may be added. 

JELLY BROTH. See Broth, 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (1) Take 
four feet, slit them in two, take away 
the fat from between the claws, wash them 
well in lukewarm water ; then put them in 
a large stewpan, and cover them with water: 



1L 



102 



iCL 



wbeo the liquor boils, skim it well, and let 
it boil gently six or seven hours, that it may 
be rediKeil to about tvo quarts ; then strain 
it througli a sieve, and skim off all the oily 
suhstanoe which is on the sur^use of the 
liquor. 

If you are not in a hurry, it b better to 
boil tbe calf *s feet the day before you make 
the jelly; as when the liquor is cold, the 
oily part being at the top, and the other be* 
ing nrm, with pieces (^Kitchen paper appli- 
ed to it, you may remove every particle of 
the oily substance, without wastmg any of 
tbe liquor. 

Put tlie liquor in a stewpan to melt, with 
a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lem- 
ons, the juice of six, six whites and sliells of 
2g8 beat together, and a bottle of Sherry or 
adeira ; whisk the whole together until it is 
on the boil ; then pot it by the side of the 
stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an 
hour; strain it through a jelly-bag: what is 
strained first must be poured into the bag 
again, until it is as bright and as clear as 
rwk-water; then put the jelly in moulds, to 
be cold smd firm : if the weather is too waim, 
it requires some ice. 

When it is wished to be very stiff, half an 
otmoe of isinglass may be added when tbe 
wine is put in. 

It may be flavored by tlie juice of various 
firuits, spices, &c. and colored witli saf- 
fipoa, cochineal, red beet juice, spinage juice, 
daret, &c. ; and it is sometimes made with 
cherry brandy, w noyeau rouge, or Curacoa, 
or essence of pimch, instead of wine. 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (2) Take 
the fiit and bones firom eight feet, and soak 
them in water fer three or four hours; 
then boil tliem in six quarts o{ water, slcim- 
ming often; when reduced to a third, strain 
and set it by to cool ; when cold, take every 
particle of fet from the top, and remove 
whatever may have settled at die bottom. 
dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 
two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up 
the whiles of twelve eggi with three pounds 
of fine ausar, mix these with the jelly, boil it 
mtly, adding the juioe of two lemons, and 
UMB strain it fiNrnse. 

JELLY, CHERRY. Take the stones 
and stalks Grom two pounds of fine clear 
ripe cherries; mix them with a quarter of 
a pound of red currants, from which the 
seeds have been extracted; express the 
juice fitHn these fiuits, filter and mix it with 
tfaieeK)uarterB of a poimd of clarified sugar, 
and one ounce of ismglass. Finish the same 
as Barherry jetty, 

JELLY OF CURRANTS, GRAPE, 



RASPBERRY, Are all made prseiselT 
in the same manner. When the firuit is fin 
ripe, gather it on a dry day: as soon as it 
is nicely picked, put it into a jar, and cover 
it down very close. 

Set the jar in a saucepan alxMit three 
parts filled with cold water ; put it on a gen- 
tle fire, and let it simmer for about half aa 
hour. Take the pan fi*um the fire, and pov 
the contents of the jar into a jelly-bag: pass 
the juice through a second time; do not 
squeeze the liag. 

To each pint of juice add a pound and a 
half of very good lump sugar pounded ; when 
it is dissolved, put it into a preser^'ing-pao ; 
set it on the fire, and boil gently; stirring 
and tdcimming it the whole time (about thir- 
ty or forty minutes), t. c. till no more scum 
rife-es, and it is perfectly clear and fine: 
pour it while warm into pots; and whea 
cold, cover them with papor wetted in 
brandy. 

Half a pint of this jelly, dissolved in a 
pint of brandy or vinegar, will give yon 
cellent cuirant or raspberry brandy or 
gar. 

Oha.  Jellies firom other fimits are made 
in the same way, and cannot be preserved 
in perfection without plenty of goon sugar. 

Those who wish jelly to turn out very stil^ 
dissolve isinglass m a little water, strain 
through a sieve, and add it in the {m^xirtioa 
of liaU* an ounce to a pint of juioe, and pt 
it in with the sugar. 

Tbe best way is the cheapest. Jdliei 
made with two small a proportion of sugar, 
recfuire boiling so long; there is muc^ mora 
waste of juice and flavor by eva|XMntion than 
the due quantity of sugar costs ; and thq^ 
neither look nor taste luilf so well. 



JELLY, DAMSON. To eigbt 
of damsons, put eight pounds of fine suoar, 
and half a pint of wata*; boil them for naif 
an hour over a gentle fire, till tbe skina 
break ; then take them off, and set them hj 
for an hour; set them on the fire agaio, for 
half an liour mmv; set them by again fer 
tbe same time; do so the third time; while 
they stand off the fire, put a weight upoa 
them to keep them under the simp. The 
last time, you must boil them till yon per- 
ceive they are of a very hisfa oolor in ihft 
part where the skin is brokui; then tska 
them off, set Hbem by to cool, and when tb^ 
are ooki, drain off the sirup, and make the 
jelly in the following manners Boil a quan- 
tity of green apples, green gooseberries, ani 
quince cores, to a mash ; then strain theei 
tlirough a hair sieve. Take an ec^ual quan- 
tity of this jelly and the former simp, and 
boil them over a sentle fire together till th^ 
jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot, pot 
it into glasses w pots. 



J EL 



103 



JL 



JJBLLY FOR ENTREMETS, tiarti- 
bora, calTs feet, and isinglafls, are the usual 
materials used to coagulate vweet jellies ; of 
these three, the latter is the best, as, when 
properly clarified, (Ant which see isinglass), 
It IS the clearest, and has no unpleasant 
flavor. 

 JELLY FRUIT. Clarify half a pound 
of sugar, but the instant before it is quite 
clear, put in a small quantity of cochineal ; 
then strain, and mix with it an ounce of 
<darified isinglass, and the juice ^ two lem- 
ons; add to this die fruit of which your jel- 
ly is to be composed; stir them together 
lightly, pour the jelly into a mould quickly, 
and put the mould on ice. CHwerve diat tlie 
sugar and isinglass should be no more than 
lukewarm when mixed together. These 
jeUies may be made of any kind of fruit, or 
the gratea rinds of lemon, cMrange, or ce* 
drats. 

JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take an 
wmoe of rioe, the same of sago, pearl-barley, 
faartghom.flhavin^, and eringo root; sim- 
mer with three pmts of water, till redticed 
to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be 
a jelly ; when vou use it, serve dissolved in 
wioe, milk, or broth. 

JELLY, GRAPE. Take out the stones, 
tbeai mash the grapes with your hands, (they 
must be ripe) then squeeae them du*ough a 
ciodi to extract all the juice from them, and 
boil and finish the same as currant jelly. 
Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
Ihiit. 

JELLY, HARTSHORN. Boil half a 
poimd of hartshorn shavings for three hours 
and a half in four pints and a half of water; 
strain it through a bit of muslin, and stir in- 
to it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if 
laife, the peel of one, if small, of two km- 
<MM, and their juice, half the peel of an or- 
anee, three parts of a teacupful of brandy, 
and one of white wine ; sweeten with pound- 
ed kmf sugar, and when lukewarm put it 
into a saucepan with the beaten whites of 
six eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two min- 
Btes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or 
three times till perfectly clear. 

JELLY, ORANGE. (I) Squeezethe juice 
of eight oranges and six lemons, ^^rate the 
peri of half the fruit, and steep it in a pint 
of cold water ; mix it with the juice, three- 
qoarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce 
auid a quarter of isinglass, and the beaten 
whites of seven eggs ; put it into a sauce- 
pan, and stir it till it boils ; let it boil a few 
minutes, and strain it through a jelly-bag till 
cJesr; put it into a mould or glasses. 



JELLY, ORANGE. (2) Boil in m 
pint of water one oune^^md a quarler of 
pisked isinglasB, the rind of an orange out 
thin, a stick of cinnamon, a few ocMriandera 
and three ounces of knf sugar, till the isin- 
glass is dissolved ; thai squeeie two Seville 
oranges or lemons, and enoivfa oranges to 
make a pint of juhse : mix all together, and 
strain it through a tamis or lawn sieve into 
a basin ; set it in a cold place for half  
hour ; pour it into another faasm ' free finon 
sediment ; and when it begins to congeal, 
fill vour mouM : when wanted, dip the 
mouki into lukewarm water ; turn it out oa 
a dish, and garnish with orange or lemon 
rut in slices, and placed round. N. B. >A 
few grains of safiron put in the water will 
add much to its appearance. 

JELLY, OX-HEEL. Slit them in two, 
and take away the it between the claws. 
The proportMHi of water to each heel is 
about a quart: let it simmer gently for eight 
hours (keeping it clean skimmed); it will 
make a pint and a half of strong jelly, which 
is frequoitly used to make calf's feet Jelfy> 
or to add to mock turtle and other soups. 

JELLY, PEACH. Cut ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, take ouf the stmies and 
peel them ; set a pint of nnooth clarified an* 
|;ar, diluted with water, on the fire ; when 
It has boiled and been skimmed, put in the 
peaches, the kernels should foe bnoken and 
put in with them ; let them boil, very gently 
for ten minutes, then take out four or five 
of the lialves, and lay them aa a plate to be 
in readiness for garnishing the jelly; let 
the remainder of the peaches boil for ten 
minutes longer ; while they are boiling take 
three lemons, cut off the rind, squeeze the 
juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pass 
the liquor of tlie peaches into it, and then 
the isinglass, running it through the sieve 
two or three times, in order to mix it well; 
fill die mould lialf full of jelly, and when set, 
put in the peaches and a little more jelly, 
and when that is set, fill up the mould. 
The reason why the lemons are P^led be> 
fore thev are sciueezed f(H' this jeU^ is, that 
the oil m the rind wouM rather spoil the fla- 
vor of the jelly, than be any addition. 

JELLY, QUINCE. Quhices for jellf 
ought not to be quite ripe, they shodd, bow^ 
ever, be of a fine yellow oofor; take off the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, pot 
them into a saucepan, with water enough to 
cover them ; set them on the fire, and whoi 
soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pressing them very slightly; strain the li- 
quor, and measure it ; clarify, and boil to 
caase an equal (|uantit^ of sugar; then take 
it off, add the liquor to it, stirring it weM; 



J^I 



104 



KAV 



%hett ttkixed, pui^^on^ fire, still stinring; 
M soon as the jell?'spreadB over the spoon, 
And iaUs from it like treacle \ take it from 
the fire, and when oold> pour it into pots. 

JELLY, RASPBERRY. Take two 
thirds of rasberries, tuid one third red cur- 
rants; pick them, press the juioe throuffh a 
sieve into a pan, cover^ and place it m a 
cellar, or any other cool place for tliree days \ 
at the end of that time raise the thick skin 
fi>rmed at die top, and pour the juioe into 
another vessel: weigh it, and put it, with 
half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving 
pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of sciun 
will rise at first, which must all be taken off; 
leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a 
few dh)ps on a oold plate, if it cools of the 
proper consistence for jellies, take it from 
the fire and whilst hot pour it into pots ; 
Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are 
covered. 

JELLY, RUM. Clarify, and boil to a 
iinip, a pound of loaf sugar ; dissolve one 
Mnce of isinglass in half a pint of water, 
strain it throi]^ a sieve into the sirup when 
it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir 
in a quart of white wine ; mix it well, and 
add one or two table-spoonfuls c^ old Ja- 
maica mm, stir it fi>r a few minutes, and 
pour it into a mould, or into glasses. 

JELLY, STRAWBERRY. Pnt some 
fi^e^-gathered strawberries into an earthen 
pan, biiise them with  wooden spoon, add 
a little cold water, and some finely-pounded 
loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it 
through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the 
iuice add one ounce of isinglass, which has 
been dissolved in Imlf a pint of wat-, well- 
skimmed, strained, and alk>wed to cool ; mix 
all well, and poor it into an eartlien mould. 

Raspberry jelly, red currant jelly, and red 
currants mixed with raspbories, may be 
made exactly in the same manner ; and the 
briglit red color may be improved by mixinf 
in a little carmine or lake. Whm this kind 
of jelly is to be made with cherries, the fruit 
ihould be boiled a few minutes in clarified 
sugar, and when cold, the juice of one or two 
lemons mav be added with the isinglass. 

A little iemon juioe may be added to any 
of the other jellies, in pn^rtion to the acid- 
ity of the finjut. 

They may be iced by covering and siur- 
nwnding the mould with ice, without any salt. 

JUICE. The proportion of oranges 
shouM be double that of lemons; the finiit 
being selected free from decay, and wiped 
dry, they are to be squeezed, and the juice 
strained through a sieve into an earthen pan ; 
to each pint, according to the acidity of the 



finit, a pound and a half, ot a ptHmd knd 
three-quarters, of double-refined sugar, Inxh 
ken small, is to be addcdi It must be stirred 
and skimmed daily^ till the st^ar is well is* 
corporated) or as long as the scum rises) 
and when it has been a month in the pan, it 
may be boiled. 

JUICE OF FRESH FRUIT ICED. 
Press through ^ sieve the juice of a pint of 
pickled currants or raspberries, add to it 
four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a 
littfe lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It 
may be whisked previous to fi-eezing, and a 
mixtm^ of the juice may be used. 

JULIENNE. This soup is composed 
of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, let- 
tuce, sorrel and chervil ; the roots are cut ia 
thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are 
halved and then sliced ; the lettuce and sor- 
rel chopped small ; toss up the roots in a 
little butter, when they are done, add the 
lettuces, &c. moisten them with broth, and 
boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or 
more, if necessary ; prepare some bread ih 
the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. 

JUMBLES. Mix one pound of fine 
flour with one pound of fine powder sugar, 
make them into a light paste with whites d 
eggs well beaten ; add half a pint of oneam, 
half a pound of finesh butter, melted, and a 
pound of blanched abnonds, pounded ; knead 
them all together, thoroughly, with a little 
rose water, and cut out tbie jumblee iniD 
whatever forms you think proper; and eith- 
er bake them in a gentle oven, or firy them 
in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, meh 
firesh butter with a spoonfol of mountain, and 
strew fine sugar over the dish. 

JUSTICE'S ORANGE SIRUP FOR 
Punch or Puddings. Squeeze the or- 
anges, and strain the juioe fi'om the pulp 
into a large pot ; boil it up with a pomid and 
a half of fine sugar to eadh pint of juice; 
skim it weU; let it stand till coU; thn 
bottle it, and cork it well. 06s. Thk 
makes a fine, soft, meUow-flav(Hd nunch; 
and, added to melted butter, is a good rdiih 
to puddings. 



K. 



KAVIA. Take the hard roes of aevenl 
sturgeon, and lay them m a tub of water; 
take away all tlie fibres as you would fima 
a calfs brains, then, with a whisk, beat the 
roes in the water, shaking ofif 6rom the whisk 
whatever fibres may be adhering to it; thea 
lay the roes on sieves for a diort time; afiv 



KID 



105 



KtS 



which put dmn into freah water agaia ; and 
continoe to whip them, and chmige the wa- 
ter, until the roei are perfectly cletuwed and 
free frwB fibre; lay them on sieres to drain, 
eaeon them wdl with adt and pepper; 
wrap them in a ooane cloth, tying tnem up 
like a ball, and let them drain thue till the 
next day, when eerve them with fiied bread, 
and flhaJlotB cbo|iped amall. If they are to 
be kept for aometime, put more nit to them. 

KEBOBBED VEAL. See Veal, 

KLX.Y*S SAUCE. See Smiee, 

KERRY BUTTER MILK. Put six 
(farts of butler-milk into a cheeee cloth, 
hang it in a cool place, and let the whev 
4np from it for two or three days ; when it 
is rather thick, pot it into a basin, sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass 
of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much 
laqaberry jam, or sirup, as will color and 
give it an agreeable flavor. Whisk it well 
together, and serve it in a glass dish. 

KETCHUP, ENGUSH. Peel ten 
cikyves of garlic, bruise them, and put them in- 
to a quart of white wine vinegar ; take a quart 
of white Port, put it on the Ire, and when it 
boils, put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, 
washed and cut in pieces ; let them simmer 
hi die wine till they are dissolved; when 
eold, put them to the vinegar; then take 
half a pint of white wine, and put into it 
some maoe, SMiie ginger sliced, a few cloves, 
a spoonfiil of whofe pepper bruised ; let dirai 
boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a 
whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with 
two or three spoonfuls of horse^^ish ; add 
it to the rest, stop it close^ and stir it once 
or twice a day. Keep it close stopped up. 

See Muehroom Ketchup. 

KEW MINCE. Cut a pound of meat 
from a leg of cold roasted mutton, and mince 
it very finely, together with six ounces of 
suet, mix with it three or four table-spoon- 
fels of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of 
four eges, one anchovy chopped, some pep- 
per and nk, and half a pint of Port wine ; 
put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a 
quick oven ; turn it out into a diidi, and pour 
aome brown gra^ over it; serve witli it 
venison sauoe. When a Teal caul is not to 
be had, the mhioe may ba done m a sance- 
peo. 

KID. Kid is good eatinjf when it is but 
Ifarae or four monthB old, its flesh is then 
detieateand tender, but is not used after it 
haa done soekiag. To be good, k ought to 
he fot and white. It is drosad IQ die same 
maniNHr w hunb or fewn. 



KIDNEYS. OiC tham through the \a^ 
way, score them, and sprinkle them over 
with a little pepper and sah; in order to 
broil all over alike, and to keep them (ran 
curling oo the nridiron, run a wire skewer 
right through diem. Hiey must be broiled 
over a clear fire, being carefiil to turn them 
fi^uently till they are done; thcnr will take 
about ten or twelve minutes broiling, provi- 
ded they are done over a brisk fire ; or, if 
you chooae, you may fry them in butter, and 
make gravy for then in the pan (after the 
kidneys are taken out), by pcrtting m a tea- 
spoonful of flour; as soon as it looks brown, 
pot in a sufficient quantity of water as will 
make gravy; they will take five minutes 
kmger flying than broiling. Garnish with 
friM parsley : you may improve them if yoa 
think proper, by chopping a few paralev 
leaves very fine, mix than with a bit of fresb 
butter, and a little pepper and salt, and thei 
put some <^ this mixture over each kidney. 

KISSES. (1) Put the whites of eight 
eggSf and two spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, into a Chma basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froth, then add Inlf a 
pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great 
care by means of a spatula: that done, lay 
small pieces of this mixture on white pa()er^ 
make each drop about tlie size c^ a ratafia, 
rather conical than flat; place the paper 
which contains them on a piece of wood 
about an inch thick, and put them in a very 
hot oven : watch them, and as soon as you 
perceive they begin to look yellowish, take 
them out, and detach them fiiom the paper 
with a knife as cautiously as possible, for 
they are very tender. TaKe a small spoon^ 
and with the end of it remove the moist part^ 
which is at the bottom, so as to make tbeiik 
a little holk>w, and as you do diem, lay eacb 
on the pap^*, the hollow side upwards ; put 
them on uie wood into the own again for a 
few minutes to dry i when done, lay them 
in boxes, and keep laemi in a dry and wana 
place. If they are for table, fill the hpUow 
of each with a little whipped cream or rasp% 
berry jam; put them together by conplei^ 
the cream or Jam inside; pbce them in a 
dish, and serve them as soon as possible. 

KISSES. (9) One pound of the best loaf 
sugar, povdered and sifted. The whites of 
four eg^B.. Twelve drops of essence of lem- 
on. A tea-cup of currant jelly. Beat the^ 
whites of four eggs till diey stand akme.. 
Then be^t m. gradually, the sugar, a tea-, 
spoonful at a time. Add the essence of lenK 
on, and beat the whole very hard. Lay i^ 
wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square, 
tin pan^ Drop on it,. M raual distances, i^ 
small tepoonfol of' stiff currant jelly,. 
With a Vkirp poon pUiMoiiK of th9 iNtttei^ 



LAM 



106 



LAM 



ivliite of eg^ and sugar, on each lump of 
jeUy 80 as to cover it entirely. Drop on 
the mixture as evenly as postible, so as to 
make the kisses of a round smooth shape. 
Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, they are done. Then take 
diem out and place them two bottoms to- 

Setber. Lay them lightly on a sieve, and 
ry them in a cool oven, till the two bot- 
toms stick fkai together, so as to form one 
ball or ovaL 

KNUCKLES. Set theeeveral meaU 
to which they belong. 



LAMB. Hie ibre quarto' of lamb con- 
sists of (he shoulder, the neck, and the 
lireast together; the hind quarter is thQ W 
and loin. There are also the head and 
pluck, the 7 or sweetbreads, .skirts, lamb- 
Atones, and livei*. In choosing the fore 
Quarter, the vein in the neck shomd be rud- 
y, or of a bluish color. In the hind quar- 
ter, the knuckle should feel jstiff, the kidney 
mall4 and perfectly fresh. To keep it, the 
joints should be carefully wiped every day, 
and in warm weather, sprinkled witli a lit- 
tle pepper. The fore quarter is the prime 
joint, and should be roasted and basted 
f^ith butter; the gravy is made as for beef 
or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce 
tureen, and half a lemon is sent to table 
with it, the juice of which is squeesEed upon 
Hoe ribs a^fler the should^ b cut off, and 
|hey have been sprinkled with salt. If the 
joint weighs five pounds, it will require to 
qe roasted one hour; if ten pounds^ one hour 
and three-quarters.. The hind quarter may 
1)6 roasted, or the leg of it boiled. The 
Ipin is then ^ut into steaks, frjed, and serv- 
^ round it ; the outside bones being cover- 
ed with 9. Ange of firied parsl^. A dish 
(^ spinach is generally served with the 
lamb. 

LAMB. Is a delicate, and commonly 
considered teqder meat; but diqse vlw talk 
of tender lamb, while they are thinking of 
die age of the ^nimal, forget tk^t even a 
ehicken must ,be kf^pt a proper time afier it 
has been killed, or it will be tough picking. 
To the usual accompaniments of roastra 
meaty green mint sauce, and a salad is cdm- 
qoonly added; and some cooks, about five 
minutes b^re it is done, sprinkle it with a 
little frcsli gathered and finfely minced pars- 
Ipy, Lamb, and all youqg meats, ought to bis 
Ijiorougbly done ; therefore do not take eitlier 
lamb or veal oflf the spit till you see it drop 



got, mint vinegar is ui aooeplable sdbetitolt 
for it ; and crisp parsley on a side plate, is 
an admirable accompaniment. 

Hind-Quarter, Of ei^it pounds, will 
take firom an hour and three-qtMUters to two 
hours: baste and fi'oth it. The 1^ and 
the k>in of lamb, vrhen little, sboiDd bt 
roasted togethei' ; the former being lean, the 
latter fat, and the gravy is better [xneservecL 

Fore'Quarter, Of ten poundB,,dboat two 
hours. It is a (Mretty general custom, when 
you take ofi* the shoulder from the ribs, to 
squeeze a Seville orange over them, and 
NH-inkle them with a little pepper and salt. 
Tliis may as well be done oy the cook b^ 
fore it comes to table ; some people are not 
remarkably expert at dividing tneee joints 
nicely. 

Leg, Of five pounds, from an hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Shoulder, With a quick fire, an hour. 

Ribe, About an hour to an hour and a 
quarter: joint it nicely, crack the ribe across, 
and divide them firom the brisket after it is 
roasted. 

Loin, An hour and a quarter. 

Neck, An hour. OO 

Breast, Three-quarters of an hour. 

LAMB BREAST. Cut it into pieces, 
and stew it in a weak stock, with a gLass 
of Port wine; add pepper and salt. When 
it is perfectly tender, thicken the sauce 
with butter and fiour. Have ready cocom- 
bers stewed in gravy, put them ovor the 
lamb before serving. A breast of muttoa 
may be served in the same way. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED. Cnt a 
loin or best end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten them, and cut off the fot and skin ; mb 
the griduxm with a little fat, and broil them 
on a clear fire. Turn them with steak Uwgi, 
till quite done. Serve them hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or k)in of 
lamb into chops ; rub them over with the 
beaten yolk of an egg; dip them into grated 
bread mixed with plenty c^ chopped para- 
ley, and season with lemon-peel, pepper, 
and salt; fry them a light bix)wn in good 
dripping; make a sauce with the trimmingp, 
ana thicken the sauce witli butter roUed io 
flour; add a little lemon pickle and mwh- 
room ketchnp. Garnish with firied paraley. 
They may be served with or without the 
gravy. 

LAMB CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off 
the loin, into round bits ; trim off the &t and 
skin ; dip them into the beaten yolk of aa 
egg, ana then into bread cnmibs, mixed 
with minced parsley, grated mmnee, wad 
lemoQ^peel, pepper, niid sah. Fry eai  



LAM 



107 



LAR 



I^lit brown in chrified beef met; drain 
tKm on die bock of a sieve before the fire. 
Serve tbem with melted batter with a little 
loDoo pickle in it, or a brown laaoe thick- 
ened. Garnish with cot lemon. 

LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. 
Half roast a small fore c|naner of lamb; cut 
it iota flteaks, aeaaon them with a little salt 
and pepper ; lay them into a dish, and poui* 
- in a little water. Boil a pound of rice 
with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and 
stir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a 
little aak, add also the greater part of the 
yoDcs of^ four ^gs beaten ; cover the hunb 
with the rice, and with a feather put over 
it the remainder of the beaten eggs. Bake 
it in an oven till it has acquired a liglit 
brown cok>r. 

. LAMB FEET. Clean, well wash, and 
blanch six lamb's feet; stew them, till they 
become tender, in some white stock, with a 
sUoe of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, 
diyme, two blades of mace, a little whole 
pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before 
serving, strain the sauce ; thicken it with 
flovDT and butter, and half a pint of cream ; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet 
and the juice of half a nnall- lemon. Gar- 
nisb with sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape. 

LAMB FRY. Fry it plam, or dip it 
in an egg well beati on a plate, and strew 
some fine stale bread-cnimbs over it; gar- 
nish with crisp parsley. 

LAMB, LEG OF, BOILED. ItshoukI 
be boiled in a cloth, that it may lo<^ as 
white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip tbem in egg, strew them over with 
bread<crumbB, and fry them a nice brown, 
aorve than round the dish, and garnish with 
dried or fried parslqr; serve with spinach 
to eat with it* 

LAMB PIE, THE GERMAN WAY. 
Oit a quarts of lamb into pieces, and lard 
them with small lardons cf bacon, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a 
bay4eaf ; add fet bacon poimded, small on- 
ioos, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these 
into the pie, and let it bake for three hours; 
when baked, cut it open, skim ofi^ all the 
fiit, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve 
hot. 

LAMB PEE, A SAVORY ONE. Cut 
iSae meat into pieces, and season it with 
pemr, salt, mace, ckves, and nutmeg, 
(ndy beaten. Make a gjood puff paste 
emst, put the meat into it, with a few 
hmb atones and sweetbreads, seaaoned 



the same as the meat. Then pot in 
oysters and forcemeat balk, the yolks of 
hard egn, and the tops of asparagus, aboot 
two indies kmr, first boiled green. Put 
butter all over die pie, put on die lid, and 
let it bake for an hour and a half in a quick 
oven. In the meantime, take a pint of gra- 
vy, die oyster liquor, a gill of reel wine, and 
a little grated nutmeg. M he oil together 
with the yolks of two or three eggs, fin^ 
beaten, and keep stirring it the same way 
all the time. When it boils, poor it into 
the pie, put on the lid again, and serve it to 
table. 

LAMB, TO ROAST OR BOIL. A 

quarter of an hour is generally allowed to 
each pound of meat ; a leg or lamb of five 
pounos will therefore take an hour and a 
quarter to roast or boil, the other joints in 
the same proportion ; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickies, brocoli, caulifiowers, string 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cucundbers, raw 
or stewed. 

LAiflB SHOULDER, GRILLED. Boil 
it ; score it in chequers about in inch square, 
rub it over with the yolk of an ^;g, pepper 
and salt it, strew it with bread-cnimDs and 
dried parsley, or sweet herbs, and earbo- 
nado, i. e. grill, . e. broil it over a clear 
fire, or put It in a Dutch oven till it is a 
nice light brown ; send up some gravy with 
it, or make a sauce for it of flour and water 
well mixed togedier wiUi an ounce of fresh 
butto*, a table-spoonful of mushroom or 
walnut ketchup, and the juice of half a lem- 
on. See Gnll sauce. Breasts of lamb 
are often done in the same way, and with 
mushroom or mutton sauce. 

LAMB STEAKS FRIED. Fry diem 
of the nicest brown; when sorved, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of 
bread fi^, and cruped parsley. Or yoa 
may season them and broil them in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or 
without, according to taste. 

LARD, HOG*S. The lard should be 
carefiilfy melted in a jar, put into a kettle 
of water, and boiled; run it into bladders 
that have beoi particularly well cleaned. 
It is best to have the bladders small, as the 
lard will keep better, for, after the air 
reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is 
melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This 
being a very useful article in frying fish, it 
should be prepared with great care. Mix- 
ed with batter, it makes a fine <ruBt. 

LARKS. These delicate litde birds ara 
in high season in November. Whoi the? 
are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleaDsed, 



LEI 



108 



LEM 



tnw them; do them ofer with the yolk of 
en, and then roll them in braad-crumbB ; 
pit them on a lark spit, aiMl fiwten that on 
to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will 
be sufficioit time to roast them in before a 
quick fire; whilst they are roastine, baste 
uem with fi:esh butter, and sprinkle than 
with bread-crumbs till they are well cover- 
ed with them. Fr^ some gi-ated bread in 
butter, set it to dram before the fire, that it 
may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish 
under the larks, and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

LAVENDER DROPS. Fill a quart 
bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and 
pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; 
let it stand ten days, theu straui it, and add 
of nutmeg bruised, cloves,' mace, and cochi- 
neal, a quarter of an ounce each, and bot- 
tle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may 
be taken dropped mi a bit of sugar; and in 
the beginning of a bowel compuint, a tea- 
spoonfijl, taken in half a glass of pepper- 
mint water, will oiien prove efiicacious. 

LAVENDER WATER. Put into a 
large bottle, ei^t ounces of the best recti- 
fied spirits of wine, three drachms of oil of 
lavender, one drachm of essence of ambor- 
gris, and threepence-worth of musk ; cork 
It tightly, and shake it well every day, for 
a fi>rtnight or three weeks. 

LEAVES, TO GREEN, FOR ORNA- 
MENTING FRUIT. Take small leaves 
of a pear-tree, keep them close stopped in 
a pan of verjuice and water, give tliem a 
boil in some sirup of apricots ; put them be- 
tween two pieces of glass to dry; smooth 
and cut than into the diape of apricot- 
leaves (the leaves should be procured with 
stalks); stick them about the apricots or 
any other preserved firuit; but the leaves 
must be cut in the shape of the leaf which 
belongs to the firuit you ornament. 

LEEKS. Leeks are most generaDy used 
fiur soups, ragouts, and other made dfishes, 
they are very rarely brought to table ; in 
which case dress them as follows: Put 
them into the stock-fx>t till about three parts 
done; then take them out, drain, and soak 
them in vinegar seasoned with peppor, salt, 
and cloves; drain them again, stuff the 
hearts with B.faree, dip them in batter, and 
6ry than. 

LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well 
the whites of four, and the yolks of eight 
fish eggB, and suld, by degrees, l^df a 
pound <u pounded kiaf sugar, a pint and a 
naif of sweet cream just warmed, half a 
poond of clarified finesh batter, two tabfe- 



spoonfiils of fiwh yeatr, and a wine-ffafli tUB 
of spirits of wine ; then mix in as mwli sifted 
flour as will make it into a thick batter; 
let it rise for half an hour; roll it out thia; 
cut it into ixNmds or oblong pieces, and hj 
on them jam or marmalaoe; double them, 
and let them stand again to rise, and fiy 
them in boiling fiivsh lard or butter. 



LEMONADE. To a gallon of 
water add some cinnamon and cloves, plo^ 
ty of orange and plen^ of lemon-juice, and 
a bit of tlie peel of each; sweeten well with 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of 
six ^gs, and the yolk (^oae; give it a boil, 
and u^n let it simmer for ten minutes; dan 
run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand 
till cold, before it is drank. 

LEMONADE TRANSPARENT. IT* 
peel erf* fourteen lemons having been soaked 
in two quarts of water (or two hours, their 
juice, one pound and a half of sugar,' and a 
quart of white wine, are to be added; a 
quart of new milk, nuule boiling hot, is dan 
to be mixed with it, and when it has stood 
an hour, it is to be strained through a jdly^ 
bog till it runs clear. 

LEMON BONBONS. Take two poon^ 
of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to 
caramel; but just before it reaches dat 
point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in 
It; in the meanwhile melt a little butter; 
skim, and pour it off clear; take a spoonfid 
of this butter, and rub it with your hand over 
a copperplate or marUe slab, on which pov 
the caramel sugar: then have a sword blad^ 
take an end in each hand, and impress linei 
in the sugar about an inch apart ; then im* 
press similar lines across the first, so as to 
form small cakes ; this opnati<m dioiihl be 
performed as quickly as possible, lest the 
sugar shouM cool before the whole is maik* 
ed; when howevor all is done, pass the 
blade carefiilly between the sugar and the 
slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and 
when perfectly coM, separate the oonftoiM, 
and wrap eaoi in paper; keeip them in a 
dry place. 

LEMON BRANDY. Three qoarts cT 
brandy being put into an earthen jar that ii 
fitted with a cover, a pound and th roe - q u r * 
ters of fine kiaf sugar, the thin paringa at 
six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are ts 
be added; one quart of boiling milk is to ha 
poured over the mixture, vraich must be 
stirred daily for eight di^; it is then to be 
run through a jelly-bag and bottled. 



LEMON CHEESECAKES. Bott 
peel of two laige lemons till they are 
teader, and then poud it 'weU in a 



LEM 



109 



LEM 



with fiHBr or five omoes of loaf Mgar, the 
yolks of six eggs, half a poaod oi fi^sh bet- 
ter, and a litde cord beatoi &ie: pound and 
mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste in some 
patty-pans, fill them half full, and bake them 
carefiiUy. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Mix four 
ounces of sifted kanp sugar, and four ounces 
of butter together, and gently melt it; then 
add the yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and 
the juice of one lemon and a half, one sa- 
vory biscuit, some blanched almcHidb, pound- 
ed, three spoonfuls of brandy; mix the 
whole well together,- and pot it to paste 
made with the following ingredients: eight 
ounces of fiour, six ounces of butter, two- 
thirds of which must be mixed with the 
floor first; then wet it with six spoonfuls of 
"water, and roll in the remainder of the but- 
ter. 

LEMON CHIPS. Take large smooth- 
rinded Malaga lemons ; race or cot off their 
peel into chips with a small knife (this will 
require smne practice to do it properly) ; 
throw them into salt and water till next 
day; hare ready a pan of boiling water, 
tlvow than in and boil them tender. Drain 
them well: after havmg lain sometime in 
water to cool, put them in an earthen pan, 
pour over enough boiling clarified sugar to 
taver them, and then let them lie two days ; 
then strain the sirup, put more sugar, and 
reduce it bnr boiling till the sirup is quite 
thick ; pat m the chips, and simmer them a 
few minutes, and set them by for two days : 
repeat it once more ; let them be two days 
logger, and they wiU be fit to candy, which 
must be done as folbws: take four pints of 
clarified sugar, whidi will be sufficient for 
six pounds of chips, boil it to the degree of 
blown (which may be known by dipping the 
skinmier into the sugar, and blowing strong- 
ly throogfa the holes of it; if little bladdera 
appear, it has attained that degree); and 
vvfaen the chips are thorough^ drained and 
wiped on a clean cloth, put them into the 
tirup, stirring them about with the skimmer 
till yoo see the sugar become white; dien 
take them out with two forks; diake them 
lightly into a wire sieve, and set them into 
a stove, CHT in a virarm place to dry. Orange 
chips are done in the same way. 

LEMON ESSENCE. Rasp your lem- 
ons all round, very thin, and for every quar- 
ter of a pound of rind, allow one pound of 
mgar; mix it well with a large spaddle tiU 
yon find it is all of the same color, and that 
the rind is well mixed ; pot it into a stone 
jar, and press it down as hard as you can; 
pot a bladder over the paper yoo cow with, 

10 



and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and m 
a month's time it will be fit for use. 

LEMON JUICE TO PRESERVE. 

Squeexe, and strain a pint of lemon-juioe; 
put into a China basin one pound of double- 
refined sugar finely pounded and sifted, add 
the lemon-juice, and stir it with a silver 
spoon till the sugar be perfectly dissolved. 
k>ttle it, and cork it tightly ; seal the cork, 
or tie bladder over it, and keep it in a dry 
cool place. 

LEMON MARMALADE. AUow to a 
pound of lemons eighteen ounces of fine 
loaf sugar ; grate the rind of a few ; cut 
them into half; squeeze and strain the juice ; 
boil the skins in the same way as those 
of the orange skins are done ; scoop out the 
pulp and white part; cot half into thin chips 
or parings, and pound the other half in a 
mortar ; pound tlie sugar, . and pour over it 
the juice ; stir, and let it boil for five min- 
utes; skim it; take it off the fire; put in the 
parings and the pounded skins; boil it for 
five minutes, then add the grated peel, and let 
it boil for five minutes more ; take it off, and 
stir it till half cold, before putting it into jars. 

LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze out 
the juice from a large lemon ; boil the out- 
side till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, 
add to it three large apples chopped, and 
four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, 
four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the 
lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as 
for other pies. Make a short crust, and fiQ 
the patty-pans in the usi^al manner. 

LEMON-PEEL ESSENCE. Wash 
and brush clean the lemons ; let them get 
perfectly dry: take a lump of loaf sugar, and 
rub them till all the yellow rind is taken up 
by the sugar: scrape off the surfece of the 
mgar into a preserving pot, and press it 
hard down ; cover it very close, and it will 
keep for sometime. 

LEMON-PEEL QUINTESSENCE. 
Best oil of lemon, one drachm, strongest 
rectified spirit, two ounces, introduced by 
d^reea till the spirit kills, and completely 
mixes with the ofl. This elegant prepara- 
tion possesses all the delightful firagranoe and 
flavor of the freshest lemon-peel. 06a.  ^A 
few drops on the sugar you make punch with 
will instantly impregnate it with as mnch 
fiavor as the tro^lesome and tedious meth- 
od of grating the rind, or mbbme the sugar 
on it. It will be found a superiative sub- 
stitute for firesh lemon-peel for every purpose 
that it is used for: blancmange, jellies, cus- 
tards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies and pod-^ 
dings, stuffings, soaps, mioes, ragouts, &c. 



LEU 



110 



LEM 



LEMON-PEEL TINCTURE. A veiy 
easy and economical way of obtaimrif , and 
preserving the flavor of Kmon-peel, is lo fill 
a wideHUouthed pint bottle half full of bi'an- 
dy, or proof spirit; and when you use a 
lemon, pwe the rind off very thjn, and put 
it into the brandy, &c.: in a fortnight it 
will impregnate the spirit with the flavor 
very strongly. 

LEMON PICKLE. (1) Grate off a 

little of tlie outer rind of two dosen of lem- 
ons, divide them into four rather more than 
half wray down, leaving the bottom part 
whole ; rub on them equally half a pound 
of finely-beaten salt, spread them upon a 
lar^ dish, and put them into a cool oven. 
When the juice has dried up, put tliem into 
a stone jar, witii an ounce of cloves and one 
of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutm^ 
cut into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, 
also half a pint of white mustaird-seed bruis- 
ed and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over 
the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, 
stop the jar closely, and let it stand for three 
months ; then strain it through a hair sieve, 
pressing it well through ; let it stand till the 
next day, pour off the clear, and put it into 
small bottles. Let the dregs stand covered 
some days, when it will become fine. It 
will keep good for years. When the lem- 
ons are to be used as pickle, no straining is 
necessary. 

LEMON PICKLE. (2) Cut into quar- 
ters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- 
dling sized lemons; put them into a jar, 
strew over them two ounces of well beaten 
salt ; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, 
and let it stand three days ; then put to them 
cloves and a quarter of an ounce of mace 
beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shallot, 
two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nut- 
meg sliced. Make a quart of vinegar boil- 
ing hot, and pom* it over the ingredients ; 
cover the jar, and in tliree or four days close 
it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It 
will be fit for use in a week, and is an im- 
provement to most sauces, and particularly 
to fish sauce. 

LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the juice 
of two lemons into a China bowl, or small 
deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweets 
it like sirup, add a little brandy ; boil one 
pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel; 
take out the peel ; when cold, put tlie cream 
into a teapot, pour it to the sirup, hokling 
it high. Make it the day befote it is want- 
ed. 

LEMON PUDDING. Set Pudding, 



LEMON RINDS MARMALADE. 

Having squeezed the juice fhwn your lemoan, 
cut out all the white part, and pot the rinds 
into boiling water ; as sooa as they begin to 
soften, take them firom the fire, uid throw 
diem into cold water; then lay them on a 
sieve to drain, and make them into marma- 
lade, in the same manner as apricots. Or- 
ange rinds are done this way. 



LEMON SPONGE. Boil half an 
of isinglass in a pint of vrater till dissolved; 
strain it, and the following day a<)d the 
juice of two lemons, and the grated peel ef 
one; rub 'through a hair sieve, into the isia- 
glass a good quantity of raspberry jam, that 
has stood before tne fire some time, and 
whisk it all together till like a sponge; pot 
it into an earthen mould, set it in a ooid 
f.lace for some hours, and turn it out. Any 
< ther sort of preserve may be used, and  
made with only orange or lemon-juice, 
sweeten it with sugar, or make it with 
orange jelly which may have been left the 
day before. 

LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a pint 
of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of 
two lemons grated, and tlie juice ; sugar u> 
cording to taste; let it stand some time; 
mill or whip it, lay the fr-oth on a sieve; put 
the remainder into glasses, and lay on the 
froth. Tliey should be made the day befeve 
they are wanted. If you should wuh them 
to taste very strong of the lemon, you mart 
make use of the juice of six lemons, and 
nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep 
four or five days. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Put a pint of 
fresh lemon-juice to a pound and tliree> 
quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a 
gentle heat ; skim it till the surfeuse is quite 
clear; add an ounce of thin-cut lemon-pied; 
let them simmer (very ^pntly) together for a 
few minutes, and run it through a fiannd. 
When cold, bottle and cork it cloeely, and 
keep it in a cool pbce^ Or, Diseohre a 
quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of ckrie, 
i. e. crystallized lemon acid, in a pint of 
clarified sirup; fiavor it with the ped, w 
dissolve the acid in equal parts of simpk 
sirup, and sirup of lemon-peel. 

LEMON WATER. Put two slKes of 
thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit 
of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a fause 
spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of bo 
ing water, and stc^ it close for two hours. 



LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. 
a pound of the finest sugar, take it off the 
fire, and squeeze into it the jui^e of one 
lemon at diflerent times, atirriagiwtfmiMllyg 



LOB 



111 



LOB 



it wii) oMke the sugar ai white ai milk if 
|ii m jet'l y done ; take cars not to drop any 
of the feeds into it; wotk it well together, 
SHid when it is of an equal substance (which 
prove inthesamemanoor as any other jelly), 
pour it into a mould. Lemmi conserve is 
made in the same auumer, only that the su- 
gar must be boiled to a greater height than 
far white lemon conserve. 

LOBSTER. Buy these alive; the lob- 
ster merchants sometimes keep them till 
they are starved, before they boil tliem ; 
ihey are then watoy, have not lialf their 
flavor, and like other persons that die of a 
consumptltHi, have lost the calf of their legs. 
Choose those that (as an old cook says, are 
" heavy and lively," and) are fiill of mo- 
tion, which is the index of their freshne^. 
Those of the middle size are the best. Nev- 
er take them when the shell is incrusted, 
which is a sign they are old. Tlie male 
lohster is preferred to eat, and the female 
(on account of the egss) to make sauce of. 
The hen lobster is distinguished by having a 
broader tail than the male, and less claws. 
Set on a pot, with water suited in propor- 
tion of a table-spoonful of salt to a quail of 
water; when tlie water boils, put it in, and 
keep it boiling briskly from half an huur to 
an hour, according to its size; wipe all tlie 
scum off it, and rub tlie shell with a very 
little butter or sweet oil; break off die 
great claws, crack diem carefully in eadi 
joint, so that tliey may not be sliattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily ; cut the tm\ 
down tlie middle, and send up die body 
whole. 

LOBSTERS, to choose, Tlie lieaviest 
are considered the best. When alive, if diey 
are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong 
motimi when you put your finger on the eyes 
and press them. When you buy diem i-eady 
boiled, try whether tiieir tails are stiff and 
puU up with a spring, otlierwise that part 
will be flabby. The cock-lobster may be 
distinguished from the hen by the naii'ow 
back part of the tail, and the two uppermost 
fins within it are stiff and hard ; but diose 
of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. 
The- male, though generally the smallest, has 
the hiffhest flavor, the flesh is firmei*, and 
the color wlien boiled is a deeper red. They 
oonae in about April, and remain in season 
till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are 
preferred for sauces, on account of their 
ooraJ. 

ICJ^ LobHrrs are eoid in Boston, tU- 
ready boiled, and are always fresh and 
gm>d. 

LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound 
the moat of a large lobstar very fine with 



two uu oc M Of bottflTf and nuon it with 
grated nutmeg* salt, anid white pqiper; add 
a little grated bread, beat up two eggs, t^ 
serve part to put over the meat, aiM with 
the rest make it up into the form of a lol> 
ster. Puond the spawn and red part, and 
spread it over it ; bake it a quarter of aa 
hour, and just be^>re sei-ving, lay over it the 
tail and body shell, with the small clani put 
underneath to resemble a lobster. 

LOBSTERS OR CRABS, buttered. 
Pick all the meat from the bodies of either, 
mince it small, put it into a saucepan with 
two 01' three table-spoonfuls of white wine, 
one of lemon-pickle, and three or four of 
rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pep- 
per, and grated nutm^; thicken it with 
the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when 
quite hot, put it into the large sliells; gar- 
nish them with an edguig of bread toasted. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break dw 
shells, and take out the meat carefully, cut 
it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, 
ad<ling the spawn; thicken with flour and 
butter some white stock, with whicli the 
sliells have beei boiled; sesison it with 
white |)epprr, mace, aiul tmlt, put in the 
lobster and lieat it up ; jiist before serving, 
add a little lemon-juice, or lemon pickle. 
The stock may be made wltli Uie shells, only' 
Uiiled in a pint of water, with some white 
pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened 
with cream, flour, and butter. 

LOBSTER KETCHUP. Qioose a 
lobster that ia full of spawn, and weighing 
as nearly as possible three pounds ; pick out 
all the meat, iuid pound (be red part or co- 
ral in a marble mortar; wlien completely 
bruised, add the meat ; pound, and moisten 
it with a little shei-ry wine, mix widi it a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne, add die rest of die 
bottle of slierry, and mix it thoroughly ; put 
it into two wide-moutlied bottles, and on 
the top put a small table-spoonful of whole 
[lepper, cork the bottles tightly, and tie 
them over with leather. It ^i\\ keep good 
a twelve-month, and exactly resembles h-esh 
lobster sauce. Four table-spoonfuls heated 
in melted butter ai-e sufficient for a large 
sauoe-Uu-een. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (1) Pick die 
meat and rad berries out of a lobster, mince 
them finely, add grated bread, cliopped pai's- 
levt aud mitter; season with grated nutmeg, 
white pepper, and salt; add a little white 
stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of while 
wine, with a few chopped oysters ; heat it 
all together. Line the patty-pans with puflT 
paste; put into each a bit of crumb of bread, 
about an inch square, wet the edge of the 



LOB 



112 



Mac 



paste, and cover it with another bit; with 
the paste-cutter mark it all round the rim, 
and pare off the paste round the edge of the 
patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, 
and with a knife take out the bread and a 
little '^of the inside paste, put in the prepar- 
ed lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve 
them in a napkin. Another way to pre- 
pare the paste.  Roll it out nearly half an 
inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 
tin cutter, and, with one or two sizes less, 
mark it in the middle about half tlirough. 
When they are baked, carefully cut out the 
inner top of the paste, and scoop out the in- 
side, so as to make room for the mince, which 
pot in, and place on the top. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (2) Prepare the 
patties as in the last receipt. Take a hen 
lobster ah^ady boiled ; pick the meat from 
the tail and ckws, and t;hop it fine ; pit it 
into a stewpan, with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till quite smooth, 
an ounce of fi'esh butter, half a gill of cream, 
and half a gill of veal consomme, cayenne 
pepper, and salt, a tea-spoonful of essence 
of anchovy, the same of lemon-juice, and a 
table-(^x>onfuI of flour and water: stew it 
five minutes. 

LOBSTER PIE. (1) Boil the lobsters, 
and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take 
out the meat firom the claws and bodies, 
pound it in a mortal*, add the soft pait of 
one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, add three table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar ; melt half a pound of butter, and 
mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb 
of a slice of grated bread. Put puff paste 
round the edge and side of l!he dish ; put in 
the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oys- 
ters with tlieir liquor, and next the pounded 
meat ; cover it with a puff paste, and bake 
it till the paste be done. Before serving, 
pour in some rich gravy, made of a little 
weak stock in which the lobster shells have 
Been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and. 
salt, and which lias beea strained and thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

LOBSTER PIE. (2) Take out, as 
whole as possible, the meat from tlie tail 
and claws of two or three boiled lobsters ; 
cut them into slices, and season tliem with 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a force- 
meat of tbe soft part of tlie bodies, together 
with grated bread, some parsley, and one 
anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, 
salt, and pepper, the yolks of two hard- 
boiled effgs braised, and a bit of butter; mix 
it aU together with the well-beaten yolk of 
an e^, and make it up into small balls. 
'Pot the lobster into the pie-diish, and cover 
,h with the forcemeat baJhi, and hard4x>iled 



yolks of ^gs; add more than half a pint of 
rich white slock, a glass of white wine, and 
a table-spoonful of lemmi-juiee. or vinegar. 
Cover it with puff paste, and bake it osAj 
till the paste be done. 

LOBSTER SAUC. Choose a fine 
spawny hen lobster; be sure it is finesb, pick 
out the spawn and the red coral into a mor- 
tar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pound 
it quite smooth, and rab it through a hair- 
sieve witli the back of a wooden spoon ; cot 
the meat of the lobster into small squares, w 
pull it to pieces with a fork ; put the poimd- 
ed spawn into as much melted butter as yoa 
think will do, and stir it togeth^ till it is 
thoroughly mixed ; now put to it the meat 
of die lobster, and warm it on tlie fire; take 
care it does not boil, which will spoil its 
complexion, and its brilliant red color will 
immediately fade. The above is a very easy 
and excellent manner of making this sanoe. 
Some use strong beef or veal gravy instead 
of melted butter, adding anchovy, cayenne, 
ketchup, cavice, lemon-juice, or pickle, or 
wine, &c. 

LUNCHEON FOR AN INVALID. 
Put bread crumbs and red currant, or any other 
jelly, alternately into a tumbler, and when 
nearly half full, fill it up with milk. 



M. 



MACARONI, TO MAKE. Beat fixr 

eggs for eight or ten minutes, strain them, 
and stir in fiour till stiff enough to work ihto 
a paste upon a marble, or stone slab; add 
fiour till it be a stiff paste, and work it wdl; 
cut off a small bit at a time, roll it out as 
thin as paper, and cut it wiili a paste-col- 
ter or knife into very narrow strips; twisC, 
and lay tliem upon a clean cloth, in a dry, 
warm place; in a few hours it will be per- 
fectly hard ; put it ipto a box, with white 
paper under and over it. It may be cot in- 
to small stare, or circles, to be used for soap, 
and does not recjuire so much boiling as (hei 
Italian Macaroni. 

MACARONI. The usual mode of draw- 
ing it in England is by adding a while 
sauce, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, 
and iraming it; but this makes a dish vduch 
is {Mroverbially unwholesome: its bad qodi- 
ties arise from the oiled and burnt cfaeeie^ 
and the half-dressed flour and butler put into 
the white sauce. Macaroni plain boiled, 
and some rich stock or portable soap addad 
to it quite hot, will be fdund a delicioas didi 
and veiy wholesome. Or, boil macaroni as 
diiectedf in the receipt lor the podding, and 



KAC 



113 



MAC 



it quite IkM in a deep tovoB, and let 
ndi guest add grated Parmesan and cold 
iMrttier, or oiied batter served hot, and it is 
excellent; this is the most common Italian 
mode of dressing it. Macaroni with cream, 
Bogar, and cinnamon, or a little arioelli 
added to thecreafti, maizes a retry nice sweet 
dish. See Macaroni Pudding for the 
JBoiHng of ii. 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 
Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of 
milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking. Lay 
them on.a costardHlish, and pour a custard 
o?er them hot. Serve cold. 

MACARONI GRATIN. La^ fried 
bread pretty closely round a didi, boil your 
macaroni in the usual way, and pour it into 
the dish ; smooth it all ovor, and strew bread- 
crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melt^ 
ed buttor on it, and color it with a salaman- 
der. 

MACARONI NAPOLITAINE. Boil 
two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in 
salt and water; then put it into a cullender 
to drain. Take three-quarters of a pound 
of cheese erated ; put a layer of macaroni, 
in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer 
of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alter- 
nately, till both are used up, making the 
cheese the top; pour over it some gravy, 
melt half a pound of fresh butter, and put on 
the whole. Serve it very hot. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (1) Sim- 
mer it in a little stock, with pounded mace 
and salt. When c^uile tender, take it out 
of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a 
good deal.of clieese, then over diat put bread 
grated very fine. Warm some butter with- 
out oiling, and pour it from a boat through 
a little eartliai cullender all over the crums, 
then put tlic dish in a Dutch oven to roast 
the cheese, and twiown the bread of a fine 
ookir. The bread should be in separate 
crums, and look light. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (2) Wash 
it w<dl, and simmer it in half milk, and 
half of veal or motion stock, till tlie 
macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful 
of the liquor, put to it the yolk of an eg?, 
beaten b a spoonfiil of cream; just make it 
hot to thicken, but do not let it boil ; pour 
it oY&r the macaroni, and then grate fine old 
dieeseall over it, and add bits of butter; 
fanown it nicely with the salamander. 

MACARONI STEWED. Boilaqoar- 
10* 



ter of a pound of aMearooi in beef stock, |9I 
nearly done; then strain it, and add a gil 
of cream, two ounces of batter, a table spoon* 
fill of the eneooe of ham, tinee ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenne 
pepper and sak; mix them over a fire for 
five mmutes, then put it on a dish, strew 
grated Paimesan cheese over it, smooth it 
over widi a knife, and ookir it- with a verf 
hot salamander. 



MACARONI TIMBALE. Take 

puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow 
bands; twist each into a kind of cord, 
which place round the insides of buttered 
moulds, snail foshion ; fill each moukl with 
macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, 
and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of 
each) ; put the Timbalee into a warm oven, 
and bake them three-quarters of an hour; 
then turn them on a dish, and serve. 

. MACAROONS. Take a pound of sweet 
almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a 
little rose-water to prevent Uieir oiling ; add 
a pound of sified sqgar, then whisk the whites 
of ten eggs to a solid finoth, and add to 
the above; beat all together for some time. 
Have ready wafer paper on tin dates, drop 
the mixture over it separately, the siie of a 
shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little 
.sugar, and bake them. 

MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, throw them into 
cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty^ 
four hours; at the end o( that time, poood 
tliem, a handfiil at a time, adding occasion* 
ally some white of egg, till the Mmole is re* 
duced to a fine paste; then take two pounds 
of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it 
then put it to the ahnonds, with the grated 
rinds of two lemons; beat these ingredieoli 
together in the mortar, adding one at a time, 
as many eggs as ^ou find necessary to moists 
en the paste, which shouki be thm, but not 
too mulok so, as in that case it would run; 
your paste being ready, take out a little in a 
spooo,and lay Uie macanxMis on sheets of 
white paptar either round or oval, as you 
pksase; ky them at least an inch apart, be* 
cause they spread in baking, and if put near- 
er wodd touch. Tlie whole of your paste 
bein^ used, place the sheets of paper on 
tins m a moderate oven for three^uarters of 
an hour. 

This kind of cake requires great care and 
attention ; it will be well thearefore to take 
notice of the following rules: 1. To mind 
tliat the ahnonds are perfectly dry before 
you begin to pound them. 2. Take great 
care that not a partkile of the yolk is mixed 
with the white of egg, which would entirely 



MAC 



114 



MAI 



Kfl the color of the macaroonB, and preveat 
ir nsin^ in the oven; to avoid this, open 
each separately, and if perfectly ft^esh, divide 
the yolK and white with great care. 3. The 
oven must be no more than moderately heat- 
ed, nothing being more lidble to born than 
almonds and sugar ; by the least negligence 
in this respect, the eurfyuce would be oumed, 
whilst the ineide would remain unbaked. 
The best method to obviate any mischief of 
this sort:  put two or three macaroons into 
the oven to try it; leave them in tiie usual 
time; and if, when you take them out, they 
are of a cleaur yellow, the oven is property 
heated, and the whole of the macaroons may 
then be put in. 

MACKEREL, TO CHOOSE. Their 
gills should be of a fine red, dieir eyes full, 
and the whole fish stiff and bright ; if the 
gills are of a fiiint cofer, the fish limber and 
wrinkled, they are not fresh. 

MACKEREL BAKED. Qit off their 
heads, open them, and take out the roes and 
elean them thoroughly ; rub them on the in- 
side with a little pepper and salt, put the 
roes in again, season them (with a mixture 
of powdered allspice, black pepper, and 
alt, well rubbed together), and lay them 
ckNBe in a baking-pan, cover them with equal 
quantities of cokl vinegar and water, tie^ 
them down with strong white paper doubled, 
and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. 
They will keep for a fortnight. 

MACKEREL BOILED. This fish 
kiees its life as soon as it leaves the sea, and 
the fresher it is die better. Wash and clean 
them thoroughly (the fishmongers seldom do 
this sufficiently), put tliem into cold water 
witli a liandfui of salt in it; let them rather 
simmer than boil ; a small mackerePwill be 
done enoc^ in about a quarter of an hour ; 
when the eye starts and the tail splits, they 
are done ; do not let them stand in the wa- 
ter a moment after; they are so delicate 
that the heat of the water will break them. 

MACKEREL BROILED. Oean a fine 
lai^ mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and 
cut a long slit down the back ; lay it on a 
clean ^idiron, over a very clear, slow fire ; 
when It is done on one side, turn it; be 
careful that it does not haAi; send it up 
with fennel sauce; mix well together a 
little finely minced fennel and parsley, sea- 
soned witn a little pepper and salt, a bit of 
fresh butter, and when the mackerel are 
ready for the table, put sbnpe of this into 
each fish. 

MACKEREL, THE GERMAN WAY. 
Split them down the back and season them 



with pepper and sah; hro3 ibetf^ MhA flen% 
with the following saooe; pick and wash 
some fennel, parsW, mint, thyme, and greoi 
onions; butuseonjy a small quantity of cadi* 
Boil them tender in a little veal stock ; (hen 
chop them up, and add to fhem some finah 
butter, the liquor they weie boiled in,, some 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a 
fittk; cayenne peppo', and salt. Let it boil, 
thicken it with flour, and serve in a sauce 
boat. 

MADE DISHES. Be carefiil to trin 
off all the skin, gristle, &c. that will not be 
eaten ; and shape handsomely, and of evea 
thickness, the various articles which compose 
your made dishes: this is sadly neglected bf 
common cooks. Only stew tiiem till they 
are just tender, and do not stew them to 
rags; therefore, what you prepare the day 
before it is to be eaten, do not dress quite 
enough (he first day. We have given re- 
ceipts fer the most easyand simpte way to 
make hashes, &c. Those who are wett 
skilled in culinary arts can dress up things 
in this way, so as to be as agi-eeable as th^ 
were the first time th^ were cooked. 

MADELAINES. Take nine ouoces of 
powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of 
four and six whole eggs, two spoonfuls of 
brandy, and a grain of salt ; put these into 
a saucepan, stirring continually, mitii the 
paste thickens ; after which, stir only one 
minute ; clari5^ ten ounces of good fresh but- 
ter, wiUi which, buttei* about two and thirty 
madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of the 
butter into your preparation; set it on a 
gentle stove, stir till it begins to become li- 
quid, take it off before it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of this into each mould, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. '' 

MADELAINES IN SURPRISE. 

Make them in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slice from tlie bottom, take out 
nearly all the inside; pound four ounces 
of bbnched filberts, mix them with ei^ht 
spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, which 
mixture put into the raadelaines, and place 
tlie slice taken from the bottom, and aerve 
tliem. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL, (X)LD. Put a 

quaiter of a pound of butter into a saooepan, 
with some parsley and shalbts, minced small, 
salt, whole pepper, and lemon-juice; mix 
ijie whole together with a wooden spocn. 
Pour the Maitre fTHotel either over, un- 
der, or into whatever meat or fish you in* 
tend to serve. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL MAIGRE. Pot 
into some nicely melted butter a little chop- 



MAT 



115 



MIL 



ped panlMy nit, and lemoMiiio*; one or 
two minced ahRDotB may be added, and heat 
it all together. 

MARCHPANE ROYAL. Take a 
povid of sweet afanonds, blanch and throw 
them into cold wa^r, drain and pound them, 
moistening with orange-flower and plain 
water, hot take care not to put too much at 
once. The ahnonds being reduced to a 
paste, put than into a preserving pan with 
naif a poand of powder susar, set the pan 
on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which 
will be sufficiently so if, wiien you touch it, 
it no longer sticks to your fingn*, then take 
it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, 
previously Bprinkled witli sugar: as soon as 
It is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your 
hand to the size of your little finder ; form 
them into rings, and lay them on iron gtut- 
ii^, gfaze and put them into a brisk oven 
to color. The above paste may also be em- 
pkyed as follows: roll it out and cnt it in 
half, spread over one piece apricot manna* 
lade, or any other preserve you please, cover 
it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, 
crescents, &c., according to yorar fiuicy, lay 
them on the grating as above, glaze and co- 
lor them in a quick oven. 

MARJORAM, SWEET, TO PRE- 
SERVE. Beat np very ^vell the white of 
an egg, then beat very fine and sifl some 
double-refined sugar; take some marjoram 
and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and 
by it in the form of the gbss ; so do it with 
tlieegg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and 
lay it oo papor to dry. 

MARMALADE. Marmalade may he 
composed of almost any fruits; the best, 
however, for this porpose are, apricots, peach- 
es, oranges, quinces, ec^g-phinis, appl^, &c. 
Tli^ are usually made by Imiling llie fruit 
and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stir- 
ring them constantly whilst on the fire; it is 
kept in pots, which must not be covered till 
the n&rmalade is quite cold. The propor- 
tion of si^ar is half a poand to each pound 
ofiimit. 

fCT^ See Numm ofArtielee, of which 
it is made, 

MARROW BONES. Chop the bones 
at eadi end so as to stand steady, then wash 
tbiem dean, saw them in halves, cover the 
top with a floored cloth: boil them, and serve 
with dry toast. 

MATELOTE MEAT. Take beef, veal, 
matton, and pork, a large slice of each, and 
asmalloneof legof lanril>; cut them in small 
pieces, which put into a saucepan with equal 
quantities of stock and champaign, salt and 



i, oafar dbm nty thm, sad ni 
oil hot ashes for six houn, thou terve it. 



MEAD. (1) To every galkm of water 
pot four pounds of. hooey, boil it an boor. 
Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a 
toast ; cover it over. If it ferments well af- 
ter three or four days, draw it oflT clear, and 
pot it into a cask, with one lenvNi sliced to 
every gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to eve- 
ry ten gallons. The rind of Seville orangea 
cut very thin, suspended in the bnrrd, is a 
great improvement to the flavor. It is best 
to wash the cask round with part of tha 
brandy, before the liquor is put in. 

MEAD. (2) Onepartofhonesrisdissolv* 
ed in three parts of water, and boiled over a 
moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds 
of the quantity. It is then skimmed, an4 
put into a bairel, which must be quite full; 
It is allowed to subside for three or four 
days, and tlien drawn ofi* for use. To make 
it firom tlie combs fitxn which honey has beea 
drained, they are to be beaten in warm wa- 
ter, and afler the liquor has subsided, it is 
to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland 
make an excellent beer by adding a little 
yeast to the strained liquor, and allowing it 
to ferment, for a few days, in a cask, and 
then bottling it. 

MEAT CAKES. Take whatever meat, 
game, or poultry, you may diance to have, 
(it is tlie better for being under-done) ; mince 
it fine, adding a little mt bacon or ham, or 
anchovy; season with a little peppor and 
salt ; mix the whole well together, and make 
it into small cakes, about three inches iu 
loigth, an inch and a half in width, and half 
an inch thick ; fi^ them of a light brown, 
and serve thorn with good gravy; or put it 
into a mould, and boil or bake tt. 

MEAT, TO KEEP HOT. If your 
meat is done before you are ready to serve, 
take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to 
touch the meat, and then put a cloth over 
that. This way will not diy up the gravy. 

MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST, 
See Coffee. 

MILK PUNCH. (1) Beat up two 
e^ well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutnieg, and lemon-peel to your taste; 
boil it gently, stirring it all the time till 
thick enough; take it off the fire a very few 
miniUes, then add to it a ftill quarter of a 
pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time 
the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. 

MILK PUNCH. (2) Eight pounds of r&. 



MIN 



116 



MOO 



Aked mgar ai to be dkMlved in the stiaiii- 
ed juice of three dozen lemons, and, when 
quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two 
gallons and a half of cold water, are to be 
added, and also the lemon-peel ; <Hie gallon 
of boiling milk being then poured over the 
ingredients, tliey are to stand closely a>Tered 
for twenty>fourlioorB; when, being skimmed 
and run through a vei^ thick jelly-bag, it 
may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for 
iimnediate use; but it improves by keeping. 

MINCED (X)LLOPS. This is a fe- 
vorite Scotch dish ; few families are with' 
out it: it keeps well, and is always ready to 
make an extra dish. Take beef, and chop 
and mince it very small ; to which add some 
salt and pepper. Put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clar- 
ified butter. When intended for use, put the 
clarified butter into a fi-ying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fry them. Add 
a little water to it, and then put in the minced 
meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes 
it will be fit to serve up. See CoUops. 

MINCE MEAT. Two pounds of beef 
suet, picked and chopped fine ; two pounds 
of apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three 
pounds of currants, washed and picked ; cme 
pound of raisins, stoned and diopped fine; 
one pound of good moist sugar; Imif a pound 
<^citron, and one pound of candied lemon 
and oranse-peel, cut into thin slices; two 
pounds of ready-dressed roost beef, fi^ fitHn 
skin and gristle, and chopped fine; two nut- 
megs, grated; one ounce of salt, one of 
ground ginger, half an ounce of coriander 
seeds, half an ounce of albpice, half an ounce 
of, cloves, all ground fine ; die juice df six 
lemons, and tl^ir rinds grated; lialf a pint 
of brandy, and a pint of sweet wine. Mix 
the suet, apples, currants, meat-plums, and 
sweetmeats, well tc^ther in a large pan, 
and strew in the spice by degrees; mix the 
sugar, lemon-joioe, wine, and lirandy, and 
pour it to the other ingredients, and stir it 
well tosed)er ; set it by in close-covered pans 
in a cold pbce : when wanted, stir it up firom 
the bottom, and add half a elass of brandy 
to the quantity you require. N. B.The same 
weight of tripe is fi^uently substituted for 
the meat, ana sometimes the yolks of eggs 
boiled hard. Ob.  ^The lean side of a Ixit- 
tock, thoroughly roasted, is generally cliosen 
for mince meat. 



MINUTEN FLEISH. 

I^ of veal some slices as 
ofa knife, and about four 
ion them with pepper and 
to a deep dish, pour over 
a pint of white wine, let 
mrs. Cover the bottom 



Cut from oflf a 
thin as the blade 
inches long; sea- 
salt, lay them in- 
them nearly half 
it stand for three 
of a stewpan with 



butter, dredn eadi slioe of die veal oa bodi 
sides with floiir; add a little more wine, 
and as much good white stock as will oover 
it, and the iuioe of a lemon. Cover the pan 
closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and 
serve it ingtantly, otherwise it will beoone 
hard. 



MOCK ARRACK. Dionlve two 
pies of flowers of benjamin in a quart i^ 
good rum, and it will immediatolv import 
to it the invitii^ firagranoe of <*VauxfaaU 
nectar." 

MOCK BRAWN. See Brawn. 

MOCK CAPER SAUCE. See Swee 
Caper, 

MOCK GOOSE, OR LEG OF PORK 

ROASTZD WITHOUT THK SkIN. Paibofl 

it ; take o^ the skin, and then pot it down 
to roast; baste it with butter, and make a 
savory powder <^ finely minced, or dried 
and powdered sage, groond black pe|^ier, 
salt, and some brd>cmmbe, rubbed togeth- 
er through a colander; you may add to this 
a little very finely minced onion: sprinkle it 
with this when it is almost roasted. Put 
half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and 
goose stuffing under the knuckle dcin; or 
sarnisli the dish with balls ai it firied or 
boiled. 

MOCK ICE. Of preserved strawber- 
ries, raspberries, and red currant jellv, a 
table-spoonfid eadi ; mb it throogfa a sieve, 
with as much cream as wiU fill a shape; 
dissolve three-quarters of an oonce of isin- 
glass in half a pint of water; when almost 
cold, mix it weil with the <aam, put it into 
a shape, set it in a cool plaoe, and tim it 
out the following day. 

MOCK TURTLE. See Smtp Calfe 
Head, 

MOORFOWL, TO STEW. Trow 
them, keeping on their heads, bat draw the 
legs withm the body; mix well some salt 
am) pepper with floor and a piece of butter, 
and pot a small bit into each bird; fry them 
all over of a nice brown in batter. Brown 
some batter and floor, and add to it ome good 
gravy, seasoned with pepper, sak, mace, and 
two cloves pounded ; boil up the saiice, pot 
in the moorfowl, uid let them stew very 
slowly till tender. A little before takiqt 
them oflf the fire, add a tablenspoonfiil of 
mushroom ketehup. If the birdi are dd, 
stew them for two hoars; if yooiur ones, 
half that time. Cold roasted moorfowl are 
dressed exactly in the same way only oat 
into joints, and stewed very gentfy neoriy as 



MUS 



117 



MUS 



long. Half an hoar before Benring, a small 
tea-cvqsful of Port wioe sboald be added. 

MUFFINS. (1) Take one pint of milk 
quite warm, and a quarter of a pint of thick 
amall-beer yeast ; strain them into a pan, and 
add Bufficient flour to make it like a batter ; 
cover it over, and let it stand in a warm 
place until it has risen ; then add a quailer 
of a pint of warm milk, and one ounce of 
battel' rubbed in some flour quite fine ; mix 
them well together : then add sufficient flour 
to make it iut dough, cover it over, and 
let it stand half an hotu* ; then work it up 
again, and break it into small pieces: roll 
them up quite round, and cover them over 
for a quarter of an hour ; then bake them. 

MUFFINS. (2) Mix two pounds of 
flour with a couple of eggs, two ounces of 
butter melted in a pint of milk, und four or 
five spoonfuls of yeast ; beat it thoroughly, 
and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake 
it on a hot heartli in flat cakes, and turn 
than, when done, on one side. 

MUFFINS. (3) Taketwo quartof 
warm water, two spoonfuls of yeast, three 
pounds of flour; beat it well for half an 
boor, and let it stand an hour or two; hake 
them on an iron baking-stove (rub it well 
over with mutton-suet as often as they are 
laid on) ; as soon as they be^in to cok>r, 
turn tbcan'; they will be sufficiently baked 
when colored on both sides. 

MUIXAGATAWNY. Boil slowly in 
two quarts of waVsr one pound of split peas,, 
half an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a 
little salt, cayenne, and two blades of maoe. 
When tile peas are tender, put in a lai^ 
fowl, cut in joints and skinned, two quttts 
of boiling water, or stock, if tlie soup be re- 
quired very rich; twenty minutes before 
serving, add a large table spoonful of curry- 
powder, and the same of ground rioe. 

|e3^ For MtUlagatnony Soup, ue 
8oup9^ 

MUIXED WINE. Put into a pint of 
Port wine two or three cloves and a bit of 
cinnamon; boil it for a few moments; take 
oat the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, 
and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a 
elice of toasted bread, the cmst pared off, 
and cut into oblong pieces^ The Port wine 
is sometimes boiled with a third of its quan- 
tity of water. 

MUSHROOMS, TO CHOOSE. The 
muBbroami pn^iwr to be used ia cookery 
grow ia the open pasture lands for thoie that 



grow near or under trees, aro poisonous. 
The eatable mushrooms first appear very 
small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. 
They grow very rapidly, and the upper part 
and stalk are white. As they increase in 
size, die under part gradiully opens, and 
shows a fi'inged fiir of a very fine salmon co- 
lor, which continues more or less till the 
mtishroom has gained some size, and then 
turns to a dark brown. These marks shouki 
be attended to, and likewise wlieUier the 
skin can be easily parted from the edge 
and middle, and wliether they have a pleas- 
ant smell. Those which are poisonous have 
a yellow skin, and the under part has not the 
clear flesh cofor of the iieal mushroom ; be* 
sides which, they smell rank and disagreea- 
ble, and the fiir is white or .yellow. 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. If you 

love good ketchup, sentle reader, make it 
yoiuilf,> after the following directions, and 
you will have a delicious relish for made- 
dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces, or hashes. 

Mushroom gravy approaches the nature 
and flavor of meat gravy, more than any vege- 
table juice, and is die superlative substitute 
for it: in mea^ soups and extempore gra- 
vies, the chemistry of^ the kitchen has yet 
contrived to agreeably awaken the palate, 
and encourage the appetite. 

A couple of quarts of double ketchup, 
made according to the following receipt, 
will save you some score pounds of meat, 
besides a vast deal of time and trouble ; as it 
will furnish, in a few minutes, as good sauce 
as can be made for either fish, flesh, or fowl. 

I believe the following is the best way oT 
extracting and preparing the essence of 
mushrooms, so as to procure and preserve 
their flavor for a considerable length of time.- 

Look out for mushrooms fi'om the begin- 
ning of September. 

Take care they are the right sort, and 
iiesh gathered. Full-grown flaps are to be 
preferred: put a layer of these at the bottom 
of a deep earthen pan, and spi'inkle them 
with salt; then another layer of mushrooms, 
and some more salt on than ; and so on al- 
ternately, salt and mushrooms: let them re 
main two x three hours, by which time the 
salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and 
rendered them easy to break; then pound 
them in a mortar, or mash them well with 
your hands^ and fet them remain for a couple 
of davs, not longer, stirring them up, and 
mashing them well each day ; then pour them 
into a stone jar, and to each quart add aa 
ounce and a half of whole black pepper, and 
half an ounce of allspice; stop the jar veiy 
dose, and set it in a stewpan of boiling wa^ 
ter and keep it boiling for two hours at leasts 
Take out the jjar^ aid pour the juise dmj^ 



MUS 



lis 



MUT 



fitMn thesettlings tlirougba hair sieve ( witlMMJt 
squeezing the niiuhrooins) into r clean stew- 
pan; let it boil very gently for half an hour: 
those who are for superlative ketchup, will 
continue the boiling till the mushroom-juice 
it reduced to half the quantity ; it may then 
be called double cat-sup or d(^-sup. 

There are several advantages attending 
this concentration ; it will keep much better, 
and only half the quantity be required; so 
you can flavor sauce, &c. without thinning 
It: iieiilier is this an extravagant way of 
making it, for merely the aqueous part is 
evaporated ; skim it well, and pour it into a 
clean dry jar, or jug ; cover it close, and let 
it stand in a cool place till next day ; i then 
pour it off as gently as possible (so as not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
jug,) through a tamis, or thick flannel bag, 
till it is perfectly clear ; add a table-spoon- 
fiil of good brandy to each pint of ketchup, 
and let it stand as before; a fi'esb sediment 
will be deposited, from which the ketchup is 
to be quietly poured off, and bottled in pints 
or half pintH (which have been waslied witii 
brandy or i^irit): it is best to keep it in 
such quantities as are soon used. 

Take especial care that it is closely cork- 
ed, and sealed down, or dipped in bottle ce- 
ment. 

If kept in a cool, dry place, it may Jle 
preserved for a long time ; but if it he Iratdlv 
corked, and kept in a damp place^ it will 
eoon spoiL 

Examine it from time to time, by plac- 
ing a strong light behind the neck of Uie 
bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, 
boil it up again with a few pepperconis. 

MUSHROOMS TO PICKLE. Cut 
/off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold wa- 
ter, some small button mushrooms ; rub them 
wilii a bit of flannel, tlien throw them into 
fresh water, and when perfectly clean, put 
them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
and let them boil eight or ten minutes ; strain 
joff the water, lay them into tlie folds of a 
doth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, a quaiter 
of an ounce of pepper, the same of allspice, 
fuid two or three blades of mace, and a tea- 
jspoonful of salt ; put the mushrooms into a 
jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, 
with the spices, over them. 

MUSHROOMS TO STEW. For a 
good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock, 
seawMi it witlisalt, pepper, and a little lemon 
pickle, thicken it with a bit of butter rolled 
m flour; cleanse and peel the mushrooms, 
Bprinkle them witli a very little salt, boil 
them for thi^eeor fijur minutes, put them into 
the grav]^ when it is hot, and stew them for 
fifteen mioqies* 



MUSTARD. Mix (by deeraes, by n^ 
bmg toffetlier in a mortar) the best ikiiir of 
mustard, with vinegar, white wine, or cold 
water, in which scraped horwradish has 
been boiled ; nib it well together for at least 
ten minutes, till it is' perfectly smooth; it 
will keep in a stone jar closely stopped, for ft 
fortnigtit : only pot as much into the mnstard* 
pot as will be used in a day or two. 0^,^^ 
Mustard is the best of all the stimolftiitB that 
are employed to give ener^ to the digestive 
organs. Some opulent, epicures mix it with 
Sheny or Madeira wine, or distilled or fla- 
vored vinegar, instead of horseradish water. 
The Fi-ench flavor their mustard with Qiam- 
paigne and other wines, or with vinegar fla* 
vored with capers, anchovies, tarragon, elder, 
basil, hornet, garlic, eschalot, or celery,. 
warming it with cayenne, or the various 
spices; sweet, savory, fine herbs, truffles,, 
ketchup, &c. &c., and seem to ocmsider 
mustard merely as a vehicle of flavors. 

MUSTARD IN A MINUITE. Mfac 

very gradually, and rub together in a mortar, 
an ounce of flour of mustaxd, with three ta* 
ble-spoonfuls of milk (ci'eam is better), half 
a tea-poonful of salt, and the same of sugar ;- 
rub them well together till quite smooth.. 
Obs.  Mustard made in this manner is not' 
at all bitter, and is therefore instantly readjy 
for the table. 



MUTTON. (1) The pipe that nMwaiong' 
the bone c^ the inside of a chine of mutton- 
ought to be taken away ; and if it is to be- 
kept any length of time, the part close roond 
the tail should be rubbed with salt, previously 
cutting out the kernel. 

It is best for the botcher to take cot the 
kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg,. 
as that is the part most likely to become 
tainted. The chine and rib-bones shoald be 
wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the 
neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The 
brisket changes first in the breast; therefore,, 
if it is to be kept, it is best, should the 
weather be hot, to rub it with a little Rait 

When intended for roasting, it ^HNild hang: 
as long as it will keep, the hind quarter 
particularly; but not so long as to become 
tainted. 

Mutton for boiling ought not to hang 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a good 
color. 

The greatest care should be taken to pre- 
serve, by paper, the fat of what is roasted. 

MUTTON. (2) As beef requires a large 
sound fire, mutton must have a brisk wid 
sharp one. If you wish to have muttoa 
tender, it should be hui^ ahnott as long aa 
it will k^ep; and dm ^od eight40otb, t. e. 



MUT 



119 



MOT 



CmryoBTiokliiiiilloB, k ai good eating ot 
venkson. 

The leg, baimch, and saddle will be die 
better for beiiig hung up in a cool airy place 
for four or five days at leaAt; in temperate 
weatho', a week ; in eold weather, ten days. 

A Legf of eiffbt pounds, will take about 
two hours: let it be well bairted, and frothed. 

A Chine or Saddle, (u e, the two bins) 
of ten or elevoi pounds,* two hours and a 
half: it is the business of the butcher to Uike 
off the skin and skewer it on again, to defend 
the meat firom extreme heat, and presene its 
succulence; if this is neglected, tie a sheet 
of paper over it (baste the strings you tie it 
on with directly, or they will bum) : about a 
quaiter of an hour before you think it will 
be done, take off the skin or paper, that it 
may get a pale brown color, then baste it and 
flour it lightly to froth it. N. B. Desire 
die butcher to cut off the flaps and the tail 
and chump end, and trim away every part 
that has not indisputable pretensions to be 
eaten. This will reduce a saddle of eleven 
pounds weight to about six or seven pounds. 

A Sktmider, of seven pounds, an hotur and 
a half. Put the spit in close to the eliank- 
bone, and run it along the blade^bone. 
Ji, B. The blade-bone is a &vorite luncheon 
or supper relbh, scored, peppered and salt- 
ed, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. 

A Ltoin, of mutton, from an hour and a 
half to an hour and three-quarters. The 
iDoet elegant way of carving this, is to cut it 
lengthwise, as you do a saddle. N. B. Spit 
it on a skewer or lark spit, and tie Uiat on 
the common spit, and do not spoil the meat 
by running the spit tlirough the prime part 
of it. 

A Neck, about the same time as a loin. 
It must be carefully jointed, or it is \ery 
difficult to carve. The neck and breast are, 
in small families, commonly roasted toother ; 
the cook will then crack the IxMies across the 
middle before they are put down to roast: if 
this ia not done carefoUy, they are very 
trouUesome to carve. Tell the cook, when 
she takes it from the spit, to separate them 
before she sends them to table. N. B. The 
best way to spit this is to run iron skewers 
acrosB it, and pot the spit betwera them. 

A Breast, an hour and a quarter. 

MUTTON, BAKED WITH POTA- 
TOES. See Beef, 

MUTTON BREAST COLLARED. 
Bone it and take out all the gristles, 
make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, 
chopped parsley, a little lonon thyme, and 
one anchovy minced ; season with salt and 
white pepper, rub the mutton over with an 
egg b^en up, cover it with the forcemeat, 
rou it firmly; tie it with tape, and put it on 



in boUing wator. Make a good graty if 
the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsltj 
and lemon thyme, pq)per and salt; strain 
and thk^cen it with a piece of batter mixad 
with flour. A Hule before serving, add a 
table^poonfiil of vinegar and two of miarii- 
room ketchup. Garmsh with cut lemon r 
pickles. 

MUTTON, BREAST, ROASTED 
WITH WiitK. Skin and bone a breast of 
mutton, then roll it op in a collar like a 
breast of veal. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red wine ; when you have used 
up all the wine, finish basting with butter. 
Have a little good gnivy in readiness, and 
wlien the mutton is done, set it upright in a 
dish, pour in the grai^, |Hpare sweet same 
the same as for venison, and send it up to 
table without any garnish. 

MUTTON BROTH. Out a neck of 

matton into pieces, preserving a handsome 
piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all 
into a stewpan with three quarts of cold beef 
stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed 
in it ; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut 
in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and 
panley. When it boils, skim it clean, bjoA 
when nearly done, take out the piece you in- 
tend to serve in the toreen, and let the other 
pieces stew till tendor ; then have ready tur- 
nips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a 
cabbage, some parsW, all cut small, and 
some marigolds; wash them, strain the li- 
quor off the meat, skim it fie from tlie fat, 
add it to the ing^redients with the piece of 
mutton intended for the tiveen, adding a lit- 
tle pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer 
all together till done, and serve with toasted 
bread on a plate. 

MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops 
off a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, 
pare off the fat, dip them into a beaten e%^, 
and strew over them grated bread, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and some finely minced 
parsley ; fry them in a little butter, and lay 
them upon the back of a sieve to drain be- 
fore the fire. Thicken about half a pint of 
gravy, add a tablenspoonful of ketchup, and 
one of Port wine ; put the gravy into the dish, 
and lay in the chops; garnish with fried 
parslqr or cut lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Oit a 
neck of mutton into neat chops, season them 
with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in 
the chops and pour over them a batter made 
of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four 
table-spoonfiils of floor, and a little salt. Al 
hour will bake them. 

MUTTON CHOPS MAINTENON. 



MUX 



120 



MUT 



Cut a neck of mattoo into chops; beat tliem 
flat with a rolling-pin. Bruise the volk of 
a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped 
sweet hei-be, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper. Covar the steaks with it, and put 
each into a piece of well-buttered paper; 
broil them over a clear fire, turning tliem of- 
ten. Serve them in the paper, or with a 
browned gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cut- 
lets a pound and a half of the thick part of 
m leg of mutton, and beat them ; mix with 
grated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and 
nnely chopped parsley, lemon tliyme, and 
sweet marjoram. Rub the cutlets witli melt- 
ed butler, and cover them thickly with tlie 
nrepared bread ; fry them for ten minutes in 
butter, tlien put them into a saucepan witli 
some good gravy thickened with iiour and 
butter, and simmer tliem for ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

MUTTON FILLET, STEWED. Put 
a fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weigh- 
ing about seven pounds, into a stewpan, with 
a carrot, a tuniip, an onion stuck with two 
or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put 
round the edge of the stewpan, a rim of 
coarse paste, that the cover may be kept 
v&ry close, and let it stew gently, three hours 
and a half; take out the meat, ekim off the 
&t, 8ti*ain and thicken the gravy, have ready 
some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, 
add tliem to the gravy, make all hot, and 
serve with a garnish of sliced gherkins. 

MUTTON CUTLETS Breaped and 
Broiled. Trim and season your cutlets 
with pepper and salt, put them into some 
melted batter, and when they have imbibed 
a sufficient quantity of it, take them out, and 
cover them completely with brrad crumbs ; 
give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them 
over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cut- 
lets too much, to bm'n the bread. 

MUTTON GRAVY FOR VENISON 
OR Hare. The best gravy for venison is 
that made with the trimmings of the joint: 
if this is all used, and you have no undressed 
venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces ; 
broil it a little brown ; then put it into a 
clean stewpan, with a quart oi boiling wa- 
ter; cav&c it close, and let it simmer gently 
for an hour: now uncover the stewpan, and 
let it reduce to three-quarters of a pint; pour 
it thrcHugh a hair-sieve ; take the &t off, and 
send it up in a boat. It is only to be sea- 
aoned with a little salt, that it may not over- 
power the natoral flavor of die meat. 

MUTTON, TO HASH. Cut the meat 
into thin stioes, trim off all the aiiiews, skin. 



sristle, &c. ; pat in nothing but what k to 
be eaten, lay them on a plate, ready ; pi^ 
pare your sauce to warm it in, put in flie 
meat, and let it simmer gently till it is tfaor* 
oughly warm: do not let it boil, as that wiQ 
make the meat toog^ and hard, and it wiQ 
be a harsh, instead of a hash. Select lor 
your hash those parts of the joint that are 
least done. Hashing is a mode of cookefy 
by no means suited to delicate stomachs: 
unless the meat, be cfuisiderably under-done 
the first time, a second dressing must spoO 
it, for what is done enough the fiirst tune, 
must be done too much the second. 

MUTTON HAM, TO CURE. Cut a 

hind quarter of good mutton into the shape o[ 
a ham, pound one ounce of saltpetre, with 
one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a 
pound of brown sugar, rub the ham -well wi^ 
this mixture, taking care to stuff the bole of 
the shank well witli salt and sugar, and let 
it lie a fortnight, rub|)ing it well with the 
pickle every two or three days ; then take 
It out and press it with a weight for one 
day ; smoke it with saw-dust fen* ten <- fif- 
teen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. 
If the iiam is to be boiled soon after it has 
been smoked, soak it one hour, and if it has 
been smoked any length of time it will re- 
quire to be soaked several hours. Put it oo 
in cold water, an'd boil it gendy two hours. 
It is eaten cold at break&st, luncheon, or 
supper. A mutton ham is somedmes cored 
with the above quantity of salt and sugar, 
with the addition of half an ounce of pepper, 
a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nut- 
meg. 

MUTTON HAUNCH, LIKE VENI- 
SON. Take a fat haundi of large fine 
mutton, let it hang a week, then pound 
one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamai- 
ca pepper, and rub them over the mutton, 
pour a bottle of Port wine over it, and let it 
remain in this five days, basting it frequent- 
ly every day with the liquor, talce it oat md 
Dane it up four or five days more, or as kng 
as the weather favors its keying; wipe H 
three or four times a day with a dean clodi. 
While it is roasdng baste it with die liquor 
it was steeped in, adding a little mcnre Port 
wine; a quarter of an hour before taking it 
firom the fire, baste it well widi butter, and 
dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it 
with sauces as for venison. 

MUTTON LAUNCH. It shonU 
be kept as lonff as you can possiMy keep it 
sweet by the omRerent modes; ul if neoes- 
saiy, urash it with warm milk and water, 
or vinegar, and when sobg to be dressed, be 
carefiil to wash it well, to prevent the oat- 
side firom having a bad flavor firam keepiag; 



MUT 



121 



MOT 



iielbre yon pot liie IhubkIi to the fire, Ibid il 
u  pfluMe of ooane flour, or strong paper; 
then set it a good difltanoe from the firej-and 
aOow propMtionable time for the paste; do 
not take it off, tiU about thirty-five or forty 
miiHites befi serving the mutton, and then 
baste cootinoany; bring the haunch nearor 
before taking off ihs paste, and froth it ap 
in the same manner as venison. For g^vy, 
take a pound and a half of k>in of mutton, 
and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced 
tolKilf, use no seasoning but salt: brown it 
with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in 
tile dish ; but there should be a good deal of 
gravy in the meat, for though long at the fire, 
the covering and distance will prevent its 
roasting oat. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

MUTTON LEG. (1) If your leg 
of mutton is roasted, serve with onion ur 
currant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, serve with 
eaper-eauoe and vegetables. In roasting or 
boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually allow- 
ed for each pound of meat. 

MUTTON LEG. (2) Cut off the shank 
bone, and trim the knuckle, put it into luke- 
warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, 
cover it with cold water, and let it simmer 
very geatly, and skim it carefiilly. A leg 
of nine pounds will take two and a half or 
three hours, if you like it thorou^ly done, 
eq^ecially in very cold weather. 

The tU-bitt with an epicure are the 
*' knuckle," tlie kernel, called the 
eye" and the " geniUmanU" or 
b(me." 

When mutton is very large, you may di- 
vide it, and roast the fillet, i. e. the mrge 
emi, and boil the knuckle end; you may 
also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end 
of the leg, and so ha^e two or three good 
hot dinners. 

The liquor the mutton is boiled in, you 
may convert into good soup in five minutes, 
> and Scotch barley broth. Thus managed, a 
I^ of mutton is a most economical joint. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED. Make 
a stuffing with a little beef-suet chopped, 
Mfne parsley, thyme, marjoram, a utile 
.grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, 
and a few bread crumt, mix all together 
with the yolk of an egg, put this uncfer the 
skin in the thickest part of a leff of mutton 
iiDd the flap; then roast it, ana serve it to 
table with some good gravy in the dish. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED with 
Oysters. Make a forcemeat of beefnBuet, 
cbopped smafl, the yolks of hard boiled e^, 
with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, 
saTory, and some oysters, a dozen or foai1eo. 



it. 



pope s 
" cramp 



aD rat funtf Mnoa nit, pepper, grated nut* 
meg, and crambe oi breao, mixed up widi 
raw eggs; pot this forcemeat under the skin 
in the thickest nart of the leg of mutton, un- 
der the flap, and at the knuckle. For same} 
some oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an an- 
chovy, and some more oysters stewed, and 
sorved under die mutton. 

MUTTON LOIN. Roast it; some 
people think it eats much better if cut length- 
ways like a saddle. It may also be used 
for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care 
to cut off as much fat as possible. 

MUTTON LOIN, STEWED. Bone 

and skin the loin; stew it in a pint of 
water, tuiiiing it frequently; when the li- 
quor is half wasted, take out tlie loin and 
strain it, and when cold take off the &t; 
make a rich highly-seasoned gravy of the 
bones; strain and mix it with the liquor the 
loin was stewed in; add a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and some small mushrooms; 
thicken the sauce witli bolter rolled in flour; 
put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly; 
garnish with pickles. 

MUTTON NECK. (1) This joint is 
particularly useful, as so many dishes may 
be made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
short. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, 
and served with turnips; or if you think 
proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in 
steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. 

You may stew the sci'agB in broth ; or in 
a litde water, with small onions, some pep- 
percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all 
served together. 

When you wish that a qeck which is to 
be boiled mould look particularly well, saw 
down the chine bone, strip the ribs half 
way down, and chop off the ends of the 
bones, about four inches. 

To make the fat look particularly white, 
the skin should not be taken off till it is 
boiled. 

The &t belonging to the neck or loin of 
mutton, if chopi^d very fine, makes a most 
excellent suet^xiddiog, or crust for a meat 
pie. 

MUTTON NECK. (2) Put four or 
five pounds of the best end of a neck (that 
has beoi kept a few days) mto as much ookr 
sofl water as will cover it, and about two 
inches over; let it simmer very slowly for 
two hours: it will look most delicate ii yoa 
do not take off the skin till it Ium been boil- 
ed. 

MUTTON PASTY, to sat ai iriCB 



MUT 



18S 



MUT 



AS Vkvisoit. Take a fiit loio of motloii, 
and let it hang for Beveral days, then bone it. 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub 
ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and pour over it one glass of Port, 
and one glass of vin^ar. Let it lie for five 
days and five nights ; after which, wash and 
wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly 
witli Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. 
Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put 
one pound of butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edge of the 
disl), and cover with a thick crust, otherwise 
it will be over-done before the meat is soak- 
ed; it must be baked in a slow oven. 

Put tlie bones in a pan in the oven, with 
just sufficient water to cover them, and one 
glass of Port, a small quantity of pepper and 
salt ; by this means you will have a little rich 
gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. 

Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, 
and a better flavor than salt, too great a 
(|uantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar 
is quite as great a preservative* 

MUTTON POLPETTES. Take die 

lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare 

( off liie skin, and mince the meat with a little 

( grated bacon and calPs udder ; season with 

( salt, pepper, nutme?, a few mushrooms and 

, parsley, shred small; unite them together 

t witli tne yolks of three eggs, and make twelve 

', or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, 

and bread them twice. Flatten these balls 

h little, and fry them in clarified butter; 

i wlien done, drain and place them on tlie 

C dish. Serve them with tomato sauce or 

f glaze. 

[ MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder 
; of mutton carefiilly, so as not to injure the 
skin, cut all the meat from the skin, mince 
it small, and season it highly with pepper, 
nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon 
thyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a 
pounded onion, all well mixed, together with 
a well-beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up very 
tiglitly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it 
in an oven two or three hours, according to 
the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the 
bones and parings, tfeason with an onion, 
pepper and salt, strain and thicken it with 
flour and butter; add vin^ar, mushroom 
ketchup, Boy, and lemon pickle, a table- 
spoonful of each, and a tea-cupful of Port 
wine; garnish with forcemeat balls, made 
of gratM bread, an^ part of the minoe. 

MUTTON, COLD sbouldkr broil- 
xj>. A cold riioulder of roast mutton having 
only a little meat upon the blade bone, may 
be scored, sprinkled with pepper and salt, 
then broiled aod served with caper sauce 



poured over it, or melted butler, in which 
should be mixed of mushroom ketdiap, lenoa 
pickle, and Harvey sauce, a taUe^pooofid 
each. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, BAKED. 
Lard a shoulder of mutton with streakfsd 
bacon, put it into an earthen sCewpaui prs- 
portioned to the size of the joiot of me^ 
with two or three sliced onions, a pannip 
and carrot sliced, one ckwe of garlic, two 
cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil; add 
about a quarter of a pint of walo* or stock 
(stock is the best), some salt and pepper; 
put the meat into the sauce, and set it in on 
oven. When the meat is done, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and skim it, sq^ieexii^ 
the vegetables so as to make a thickening fur 
your sauce: serve the sauce with the meaL 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEWED. 
(1) Bone a shoulder of mutton with a 
sharp knife, and fill the space with the fol- 
lowing stuffing:  grated Ivead, minced suet, 
parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind 
with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Sew or fasten it with small skewers; brown 
it in a frying-pan with a bit of buttei*. Break 
the bone, put it into a saucepan, with some 
water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch 
of parsley; let it stew till the strength be 
extracted ; strain, and thicken it with butler 
rolled in flour; put it, with the mutU, and 
a glass of Port wine, into the saucepan ; cover 
it closely, and let it stew gently for two 
liours. Before serving, add two tawle-spom- 
foLs of mushroom ketchup. Garnish intk 
pickles. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEW- 
ED. (2) Bone and flatten a shonlder 
of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and 
salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and 
put it into a stewpan that will just bold it, 
pour over it a well-eeasoned gravy made wkh 
tlie bones, cover the pan cloBely, and let it 
stew till tendor; before serving, take (^the 
tape, thicken the gravy, and gami^ widi 
cut pickles. 

MUTTON STEAKS, BROILED. CW 
some mutton steaks from the loin, about 
half an inch thick, take oflf the skin, aadpart 
of the fot. As soon as (he gridiroo is hot, 
rub it wiUi a little suet, lay on the steaki 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), tan 
the steaks fi-equently; when they are done, 
put them into a liot dish, rub them with 
a little butter; slice a shallot veiy thlainlo 
a spoonfol of water, and pour it oo thev; 
add a litdie ketchup; garnish with a ct aped 
horse-radish, and piekkw, and send them op 
hot to table. 



IfOU 



ISS 



OAT 



N. 



NAPLES CURD. Put iDto a qimrt of 
new milk a atick of ciimunoo, boil it a few 
ainotflB, take oat the cinnamoa, and stir in 
eight weB-beaten eggs, and a taUc'epoonfiil 
of white wioe; when it boib again, strain 
it throiigb a sieve; beat the curd in a basin, 
together with about half an oance of butter, 
two table-epoonfub of orange-flower water, 
and poonded su^ar sufficient to sweeten it. 
Pot It into a m]]d for two hours before it 
is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and 
cream, may be mixed together, and poured 
round the curd; or it may be serv^ in a 
suioe tureen. 

NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. As soon 
as the blossoms are off, gather the little 
knobs; pot them into cold water witli some 
salt; shift them once a day for three suc- 
cessive days; make a cold pickle of white 
wine vinegar, a little white wine, shallot, 
pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- 
ters, and horse-radish ; and put your nastur- 
tium buds into this pickle. 

iVEAT^S TONGUE Fresh, in a 
Tlaih Way. Lard a tongue with tolera- 
ble-sized lardons, and boil it in bi'olh, or in 
water, with a few onions and roots ; when 
it is done, peel it, and serve it with brotli, 
sprinkling it over with a little pepper and 
salt;, it is also used without lairding, and 
being boiled fresh in this manner, is consid- 
ered veiy good for mince-pie meat. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, Roasted, A la 
Francaise. Boil a neat's tongue, and 
blanch it; set it by till it is cold, dien cut a 
'hole in the under part, and take out the 
meat, mince it with two or three hard eg^, 
an apple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season wiUi 
salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred 
very fine; stuff the tongue with tliis force- 
meat ; then cover the end with a veal caul, 
lard it with bacon, and ruest it; sei*ve with 
a sauce made of ^vv, butter, and the juice 
of oranges, garnish dfie dish with sliced lem- 
on-peel and baiberries. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
ci sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cut eadi into five slips, which place in 
a Rentle oven to dry; let than be all equally 
colored <^ a clear yellow; in the meantime, 
pat three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar 
loto a preserving nan, set it im a stove, stir- 
rkig with a wooden moon until completely 
dissolved ; then take the almonds out of the 
oveo, and vrfiikt hot throw them into the li- 
quid sogar ; mix them together well. Have 
ready a mould well oiled, o( any dtupe you 




timk pM|Mr ! the uHeriar of which 

the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-Jaioey 
when the whole is covered^ remove the mould 
carefiiDy, and serve the Nougat, 

NOYAU. (1) Peaches and nectarines, 
in equal quantities, are to be bruised, the 
stones broken, and the k^nels bhmched and 
bruised ; they are then to be put into a jar 
in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and 
one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until 
the jar is full; as much white brandy it 
thai to be added as the jar will hold ; "and 
wlien it has stood for five or six othff, it 
is to be filtered and bottled for use. 

NOYAU. (2) One pound of bitter al- 
monds, blanched, is to be steeped .three 
months in four quarts of large-still proof 
whisky, or pale brandy, four pounds of loaf 
sugar are Uien to be clarified and added to 
the strained or filtered spirits, together with 
half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes 
colored widi a little cochineal; and may 
also be made, allowing three parts of sweet, 
and one of bitter almonds. 

NOYAU. (3) The rinds of three large 
lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, are to be mixed into a quart of the 
best Hollands gin, three tablenspoonfuls of 
boiling milk being added. It is to be put 
into a bottle or jar, and shaken every dav 
for Uiree weeks, and then filtered througn 
chamois leather or blotting paper, when it 
will be fit for use. 



O. 



OAT CAKES-re nrnde in the same 
manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal in- 
stead of flour, and three oallons of water iiw 
stead of two: pull the dou^h into pieces, 
roll and finish the cakes as directed for muf- 
fins. When wanted, pull the edges apart, 
toast them nicely on ooth sides, and then 
open them completely; lay in small pieces 
of butter, until you have as much as you may 
v.-ant; close them again, set them bef(we 
the fire, and cut each in halves or quarters, 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. BoU some 
water in a saucepan with a little salt, and 
stir oatmeal into it with a thevil ; whoi of 
a proper thickness, let it boil for four or 
five minutes, stirring it all the tinie; thai 
pour it into a dish, and serve with it creaai 
or milk. It is sometimes eaten with porter 
and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with 
milk instoid of water, lees meal is requisite, 
and it is then eaten with oold milk. 



QMS 



1S4 



0H 



OLIVE ROYAI^. Boil one pound of 
potatoes, and when nearly cold rvh than 
perfectly smooth with four oonoes of flour 
and one ounce of butto*, and knead it to- 
gether till it become a paste; roll it out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of 
cold roasted meat cut into thin small bits, 
and seasoned with pei^aer and salt; pot a 
ery small bit of batter over it, wet the 
edges, and close the paste in the form of a 
half circle. Fry them in boiling fiesh drip- 
ping of a light brown color ; lay them be- 
fore the fire, cm the back of a sieve, to drain. 
Serve them with 'or without gravy in the 
dish. For a change, mince the meat, and 
season it as before directed. The potatoes 
should be very mealy. 

OLIVES. There are three sort?, the 
Italian, Spanish, and French; they may 
be had of various sizes and flavors, some 
prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil is made tram this fruit, 
for which purpose they are gathered ripe; 
for pickling they are gathered when only 
half ripe, at the latter end of June; they are 
put into fresh water to soak for a couple of 
days; after this they are thrown into lime- 
vtrater, in which some pearl-ashes Iiave been 
dissoh'ed ; in this liquor they lie for six and 
thirty hours ; they are then put into w^ter 
which has had bay-salt dissolved in it; this 
is the last preparation, and they are sent 
over to us in this liquor; they are naturally, 
as they grow on the tree, extremely bitter, 
and therefore all these preparations are ntic- 
essai^ to bring them to their fine flavor. To. 
some olives they add a small quantity of es- 
sence of spiced, which is an oil drawn fix>m 
cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and 
sweet fennel-seed distilled together for that 
purpose; twelve di-opp are sufficient for a 
bushel of olives; some prefer them flavored 
with this essence. 

OMELETS AND VARIOUS WATS 

OF DRKSSIN6 Eggs. There is no dish 
which may be considered as coming under 
the denomination of a made dish of the sec- 
ond order, which is so gen^lly eaten, if 
good, as an omelet; and no one is so oflen 
badly dressed: it is a very faithfol assistant 
in the construction of a dinner. 

When you are taken bj- siu*pri8e, and wisli 
to make an appearance beyond what is pro- 
vided for the every-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some zest and a 
few vegetables, will make a good broth ; a 
pot of stewed veal warmed up ; an omelet ; 
and some apple or lemon firitters, can all be 
got ready at ten minutes notice, and with 
the original foundation of a leg of mutton, or 
a piece of beef, witt make up a very good 



^linner when compuiy ooeipectedl^ aiii^m, 
in the country. 

The great merit of an omelet i8 that it 
should not be greasy, burnt, nor too brkIi 
done: if too nnich of the white of the eggs m 
left in, no art can prevent its being hara, if 
it is done: to dress the omelet, the fire 
should not be too hot, as it is an dbject to 
have the whole substance heated, withoqt 
much bit>wning the outside. 

One of the great errors in cooking an om- 
det is, that it is too thin ; consequently, in> 
stead of feeling fiill and moist in the nxxith, 
the substance presented is little better than 
a piece of firied leadier: to get the omelet 
thick is one of the gi'eat objects. With re- 
spect to the flavors to hA mtroduced, these 
are infinite; that which is most common, 
however, is the best, viz. finely chopped 
parsley, and chives or onions, or eschaJots; 
however, one made of a mixture of tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley, is a very delicate va- 
riety, omitting or adding the onion or chives. 
Of die meat flavors, the veal kidney is the 
most delicate, and is the most admired fay 
the French: this should be cut in *dioe, and 
should be dressed (boiled) before it is added; 
in the same manner, liam and anchovies, 
shred small, or tongue, wiU make a veiy 
delicately flavored dish. 

The objection to an omelet is, that it is 
too rich, which makes it advisable to eat 
but a small quantity. An addition of some 
finely masiied potatoes, about two taUe- 
spoonfuls, to an omelet of six ^;gs, will 
much lighten it. 

Omelets are often served with rich gra- 
vy ; but, as a general principle, no substance 
which has been fi*ied should be served in gra- 
vy, but accompanied by it, or what ought to 
eat dry and crisp, becomes soddened and 
flat. 

In Uie compounding the gravy, great care 
should be taken tliat we flavor does not over- 
come that of the omelet, a thing too little 
attended to : a fine gravy, with a fla vorii^ 
of sweet herbs and onions, we think the best ; 
some add a few drops of tarragon vin^ar; 
but this is to be done only with great core: 
gravies to omelets are in general thicken- 
ed: this should never be done with floor; 
potato starch, or arrow-root, is the best. 

Omelets i^ould be fi-ied in a smaH fty- 
ing-pan made for that purpose, with a smaH 
quantity of butter. Tlie omeletis ^"eat 
merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of the 
outside ; therefore use only half the nrnnber 
of whites that you do yolks of eggs : every 
care must be taken in fiying, even at 1M 
risk of not having it quite set in the middle: 
an omelet, which has so much vogue 
abroad, is here, in general, a thin doubM- 
up piece of leath^ , and harder tlian soft 
let^lther sometimeB. The foct is^ that as mnob 



OME 



125 



ONI 



cue mart be batoned on the fiyiiig> u 
should be takea in poaching an esg* A 
sakAnander n neoesgary to mme who will 
haTe the top brown; hit the kitchen riwvd 
m^be AiQBtituted for it. 

The following receipt ie the baeia o[ all 
CHoelets, of which ^ou may make an end- 
less variety, by taking, instead of the pars- 
ley and eschalot, a portion of. sweet herbs, 
or any of the articles nsed for making foroe- 
meats, or any of the forcemeats. 

Omelets are called by the name of what 
is added to flavor them: a ham or tongue 
omelet; an anchovy, or veal kidney ome- 
let, &c. : these are prepared exactly in the 
same way ba in the first receipt, leaving out 
the parsley and eschalot, and mincinf the 
ham or kidney very fine, &c., and oading 
that in the place of them, and then pour over 
them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, 
&c. 

OMELET. (I) Five or six eggs will 
make a good-sixed omelet; break tliem 
into a basin, and beat them well with a fork ; 
and add a salt^spoonfiil of salt; have ready 
chopped two drachms of onion, cmt three 
drachms of parsley, a good clove of eschalot 
minced very fine ; beat it well up with the 
eggs ; then take four ounces of fresh butter, 
and break half of k into large bits, and put 
it into the omelet, and the other half into 
a very clean fiyingpon ; when it is melted, 
pour in the omelet, and stir it with a spoon 
till it b^ins to set, then turn it up all round 
the edges, and when it is of a nice brown it 
is done: the safest way to take it out is to 
put a plate on the omelet, and turn tlie pan 
ppeide-down: sei've it on a hot dish; it 
should never be done till just vranted. If 
maigre^ grated cheese, shrimps, or oysters. 
If oystera, boil them four minutes, and take 
away the beard and gristly pait ; tli^ may 
eidier be put in whole, or cut in bits. 

OMELET. (2) Beard and parboil twelve 
or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few 
peppercorns, strain and chop tliem; beat 
wdi six eggs ; parboil and mince a little 
parsley ; mix all t(^;ether, and season with a 
Uttle nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of 
muduioom ketchup; fry it lightly in three 
ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or 
two before the fire. 

OMELET. (3) Beat well and sU-ain six 
eggs; add them to three ounces of butter 
made hot ; mix in some grated ham, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and 
parsley. Fry it of a ligtit brown color. 

OMELET. (4) Take as many e^ as 
you think proper (according to the size of 
your omelet) break thera into a basin with 

11* 



some Mh wd chopped pusky; (hen beal 
them well, and season them aooordisg to 
taste, dien have nady mmm onion chopped 
small; put some butler into a fiyii9^)an,and 
whoi it is hot (but not to burn) put in voor 
chopped onkm, giving them two or three 
tivne; then add your eggs to it, and fry the 
whole of a nice brown, you mart only firy 
one side. When done, tnm it into a dish, 
the firied side oppenaost, snd serve. 

OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or 
three thin omelets, addii^ a little sweet ba- 
sil to the usual ^ingredients; cut them into 
small pieces and roll them into the form of 
olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or 
enclose them in puff paste; firy, and serve 
them with firied parsley. 

OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF 
VEAL. To eight welMwatan eggs, add a 
little salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney 
of veal, finely minced ; season with pepper, 
and a little more sah ; melt in a fniug-pan 
one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in 
the omelet ; fry it gently, and keep the mid- 
dle part moist ; wTien done, roll it equally 
upon a knife, and serve it very hot. 

OMELET AU NATUREL. Break 
eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of cola water, bait tnem 
up witli a whisk; in tlie meantime put some 
fi^esh butter into a fiyinf[-pan, when it is quite 
melted and nearly boilmg, put in the egffs, 
&c. with a skimmer; as it is fi^'ing, take 
up die edges, that tliey ma^ be properly 
done; when cooked, double it; sene very 
hot. 

^ ONIONS. The small round silver button 
onions, about as biff as a nutmeg, make a 
very nice pickle. Take off their top coats, 
liave ready a stewpan, three parts filled wiUt 
boiling water, into which put as many cm- 
ions as will cover the top: as soon as tbev 
look clear, immediately take them up wiUi 
a spoon full of lioles, and lay them on a cloth 
tiiree times folded, and cover them with 
another till you have ready as many as ^ou 
wisii: when they are quite dry, put tliem into 
jars, and cover them widi hot pickle, made 
by infusing an ounce of horseradish, same of 
allspice, and same of black pepper, and same 
of salt, in a quart of best white-wine vinegar, 
in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the 
fii^e for tiiree days, keeping it well closed; 
when cold, buns them down ti^t, and cover 
them with bladder wetted with the pickle 
and leather. 

ONIONS STEWED. The large Por- 
tugal onions are tlie best: take off the top- 
coats of half a dozen of tiiese (taking care 



ONI 



136 



ORA 



Bt to cat off Ae (opi or taib too Mar, or 
the oBHNw will oo to pieom), and put them 
into a atewpan uoad anoogh to hold them 
without laying them atop of one another, 
and juat oover them with sood broth. Put 
them over a slow fire, and let them simmer 
about two hoars; when you dish them, turn 
them upside down, and pour the sauce over. 

ONIONS TO PICKLE. Peel the onions 
till they look white; boil aomt strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them; let them 
stand in this twenty-firar hours, keeplhe 
vessel closely oovctm to retain the steam: 
after that time wipe the onions quite dry, 
and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, 
with ginger and white pepper over tbmi. 
Take care the vin^;ar always coven the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE, YOUNG. Peel a 
pint of button onions, and put them in water 
till you want to put them on to boil; put 
them into a stewpan, with a quart of cold 
water; let them boil till tender; they will 
take (according to their sise and age) from 
half an hour to an hour. 

ONION SAUCE. Those who like the 
full flavor of onions onhr cut off the strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of the 
skins), put them into salt and water, and lei 
them lie an hour; tlien wash them, put them 
into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil 
them till they are tender: now skin them, 
pass them through a colander, and mix a 
little melted buttr with them. N. B. Some 
mix the pulp of apples, or turnips, with the 
onions, others add mustard to them. 

ONIONS, TO PREPARE FOR SEA- 
SONING. Peel and mince three or four 
onions, put them into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle oold water. Let them noil till quite 
tender, and dien pulp them with the liquor 
through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed 
with any made dishes or sauces. 

ONIONS YOUNG, TO PICKLE. 
Chooae some oi the small silver onions, put 
them on in oold water, and when it is scald- 
ing hot, take them out with an egg slice ; 
peel off the skins till they kmk white and 
clear; lay them into the ibkb of a clotli. 
Boil, in a quart of vin^ar, half an ounce of 
pepper, a quarter of an ounc^ of allspice, the 
same of garlic, and one sliced nutmeg; pot 
the onions into a jar, and pour over thiem 
the boiling vinegar and spices. When cold, 
tie leather over the jar. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. Peel 

them, and let ihem lie an hour in cold water, 
put them on in boiling milk and water; 



boil them till tender, and sene ten wMl' 

melted butter poured over them. 

ONIONS, ROAST. Roast them with 
the skins on in a Dutch ovma, that tb^ maj 
brown equally. Th^ are eaten with ooU 
finesh butter, pepper, and sak. 



ONIONS STEWED. (1) Taken 
of good<siied onions, peel and put them en 
in the following sauce:  A pint of veal stodL, 
a bit of butter rolled in ilour, a little pepper, 
and salt. Stew them gently for an hosr, 
and, just before serving, mix in three tabie- 
spoonfiils of cream. To stew them in a 
brown sauce, take die same quantity of good 
gravy. In a stewpan brown, of a light co- 
lor, a little butler and flour, add the gravy 
and onions, with a little pepper and salt, and 
stew them gently (me hour. 

ONIONS STEWED. (2) Peel 6ve or 
six large onions, put them into a Dutch oven 
or cheose-toast^ to roast, turn than frequent- 
ly, and when they are well browned, pot 
them into a saucepan, witli a bone of dressed 
or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little 
water, and some pepper. Cover tlie pan 
closely, and stew them till tender. Take 
out the bone and the bacon; thicken the 
sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. Take die grat- 
ed rind of an orange, six firesh ^gs, a 
quarter of a pound of flour, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of powder sugar; put these 
into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which 
put into cases, and bake like other bis- 
cuits. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. To be 
made in the same way, as lemon cheese- 
cakes. 

ORANGE CREAM, FROTHED. Make 
a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the 
fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large 
orange into a small deep glass, having pre- 
viously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a 
short time in the juice, when the cream is 
almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon 
the juice, holding it as hi^ as possible. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled 
the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the 
juice of a Seville orange, a spoonfiil of the 
best brandy, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
the yolks of (bur eggs ; beat them all wdl 
together ten minutes, then pour in b^ d ey i pcs 
a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it till 
cold ; put it into custard glaEses. Set them 
in an eartlien dish of hot water; let them 
stand till they are set, then stick preserved 



ORA 



187 



OVE 



orangey or orange lAtifm, od the top. It may 
be served hot or cold. 

ORANGE FOOL. T^e the jaioe of 
BIX oranges, six ^ss well beaten, a pint of 
oeam, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a IKtle 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well tc^tli- 
er ; stir it over a slow fire till thick, then put 
io a smaU piece of batter, and keep stimng 
it till cokl. 

ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift two 
pounds and a quarter of fine fiour, and odd 
to it a pound and three-quarters of treacle, 
six ounces of candied orange-peel cut small, 
three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one 
ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of 
a&pice: melt to an oil three-qtmrters of a 
potmd of butter; mix the whole well tc^th- 
er, and lay it by for twelve hoora; roll it 
out with as littke flour as possible, about 
half an inch thick; cut it into pieces three 
inches long and two wide; mark them in 
the form of checkers with the back of a 
kaife ; put them on a baking-plate about a 
quarter of an inch apart ; rab them over with 
a brush dipped in the yolk of an eg| beat up 
with a tea-cupful of milk; bake it in a cool 
oven about a quarter of an hour: when done, 
wad tlieitt slightly over again, divide tlie 
|ueces witli a knife (as in baking tiiey will 
run together). 

ORANGE LIQUOR. To each orange, 
oqe quart of strong spirits, and one pound 
and a quarter of loaf sugar are allowea; six 
or eight cloves are to be stuck into each or- 
ange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is 
to be put into a jar. It must be closely cov- 
ered, and stirred occasionally in the course 
of two montlis ; it is then to lie filtered dirough 
blotting paper, and bottled for use. 

Lemon liqucn* is made in tlie same way, 
nd)6tituting lemons for oranges. Instead of 
mixing tlie sugar with the other materials in 
the jar, it may be made into a sirup, and 
added to tlie strained or filtered spirits. 
This, though more troublesome, will be found 
a better method. 

ORANGE OR LEMON-PEEL, TO 
MIX WITH sTifFFiNG. Peel a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, veiy thin, taking off only die 
fine yellow rind (witliout any of the white) ; 
pound it in a m<Hlar with a bit of lump su- 
gar; rub it well with the peel; by degrees 
add a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed 
with: when it is well ground and blended 
with this, mix it witli the whole: there is 
no other way of incorporating it so well. 
Forcemeats, &c. are fi'equently spoiled by 
the insufficient mixing of the ingredients. 

ORANGE SIRUP, for Punch or 
Pudding. See Justice, 



ORANGEADE. (1) Sqneeaeflieinees 
pour some boiling water on the ped, and 
cover it ck>sely ; boil water and wgar to ft 
thin simp, and skim it ; when all are cokly 
mix tl)e juice, the inliaion, and the sinipy 
with as much water as will make a ridi 
sherbet ; strain it throogh a jelly4ng. 

ORANGEADE. (2) This refinhing 
beverage is made precisely in die same man- 
ner as lemonade, <N)ly substituting (Mrangei 
for lemons. 

ORANGE PEEL RATAFIA. Put 

the peels of a doien thick-skinned orangei 
into a galkui of brandy ; dissolve two pounds 
of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it 
the brandy, and having stirred them togeth- 
er well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it 

It off, I 



for a month ; then strain 



and bottle it* 



ORGEAT. (1) Pound very fine one 
pound of Jordan,, and one ounce of bitt^. 
almonds, in a mafi>le mortar, with half a giU 
of orange-fiower water to keep them fi^m 
oiling; then mix with them one pint of 
rose and one pint of spring-water; rub it 
tiirough a tamis ck>tb or lawn sieve, till the 
almonds are quite dry, which will reduce the 
quantity to about a quart : have ready three 
pints of clarified sugar or water, and boil it 
to a crack (which may be known by dipping 
your fingers into tlie sugar, and then into 
cold water ; and if you find the sugar to craok 
in moving your finger, it has boiled enough) ; 
put in the almonds; boil it one minute, and 
when cold put it into small bottles ck)ee 
corked; a table-spoonful of which will be 
sufficient for a tuihbler of water: shake the 
bottle before using. If the oigeat is for 
present use, the almonds may be pounded as 
above, and mixed with one quart of water, 
one quart of milk, a pint of capillaire <Mr 
clarified sugar, rubbed through a tamis or 
fine sieve, and put into decanters Ibr use. 

ORGEAT. (2) A quarter of a pound 
of sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter 
almonds, are to be blanched, and thrown into 
cold water, tlien beaten in a marble mortar, 
and moistened occasionally with a spoonfiil 
of milk, to prevent their oiling; three pints 
of milk are then to be mixed gradually with, 
them, and after being sweetened, boiled, 
stirred till cold, and strained, a glass of wine 
or brandy is to be added. 

OVEN, DIRECTIONS FOR THE. 

Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and 
that there are no remains of susar or fat that 
may have run over from any thing that has 
been baking. Puff-pastes require a mode- 
rately hut oven, but not too hot, or it will 
spoil the shape and turn it over; tart-paste. 



oxc 



128 



OYS 



or idiort crust, requires a skiver oren ; pe- 
tits-bhoux, one still slower; Ixit ibr raised 
pies, let it be as hot as for puff-paste at fii^st, 
and well closed, so that tlie pics may not fall. 
Thcrefiire, when you give a dinner where 
paste is necesmi-y, endeavor to niake it in 
the morning; heat your oven first for die 
puff-paste, which must be baked the first; 
tiien let the oven go gradually down, and 
bake your pastes in rotation, as the heat 
fiills. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, 
and, by degrees, raise the lieat as the biscuits 
are baking. For souffles or light puddings, 
have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have 
them rea.(\\ by tlie time tliey are wanted, or 
tliey will mil. The gi'eatest attention sliould 
also be paid in lieating the oven for baking 
cakes, particularly for those tliat are large. 
If not prctty quick, tlie batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catching by being too 
quick, put paper over the aike to prevent its 
being Iximt. If not long euougli liglited to 
have fi body of lieat, or if it has become 
Black, die cake will be bsavy. To know 
when it is soaked, take a broad bladed 
knife tliat is very bright, and plunge it into 
tlie centre ; di-aw it instantly out, and if die 
least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and sliut up the oven. If die heat 
ynui sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresli 
fuel must be quickly fxit in, and the cokes 
kept hot until die oven is fit to finish die 
soaking, but diis must only be done in a case 
of gi^eat emergency ; for tiiose who are era- 
ployed ougtit to \je porticuharly careful diat 
no mistake occur from negligence. 

OX-CHEEK STEWED. Prepare diis 
tlie day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into suft water just warm; let it lie 
three or fcHir hours, Uieii put it into cold wa- 
tei', and let it soak alt night; next day wipe 
it clean, {Hit it into a stcwpan, and just cover 
it widi water ; skim it well when it is com- 
in^ to a boil, dien put two whole onions, 
stick two or diree cloves into each, Uiree 
turaiiM quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns of all- 
spice, a liesid of celery, and a bundle of 
sweet-lierbs, pepper, and salt; to diese, 
those who are for a " liaut gout " may add 
cayenne and garlic, in such proportions as 
tlie ixilute that reqtures -them may desire. 
Let it stew gently tdl perfectly tender, t . e. 
alx)ut three hours ; then take out the cheek, 
divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help at 
table ; skim, and strain die gravy ; melt an 
ounce and a lialf of butter in a stewpan ; stir 
into it as much fiour as it will take up; mix 
ivith it by degrees a pint and a half of the 
gravy; add to it a table-spoonful of basil, 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, or the like quan- 
tity of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or cav- 
ice, or Port wine, and give it a boil. 



OX CHEEK, TO BOIL. Wash very 
clean, half a liead ; let it lie in cold water 
all night ; breiik the lione in two, taking care 
not to break Ihe flesh. Put it on iu a pot 
of boiling water, and bt it boil fi-om two to 
Uiree hours; take out the bone* Serve iC 
with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. 
The liquor die head has been boiled in may 
be strained and made^into Scots barley brodi, 
or Scots kale. 

' OX FEET JELLY. Put a little hot 
water over die top of die stock, pour it olS, 
and wipe it dry with a clean cloth; put a 
quart of it into a saucepan with the beaten 
whites of five or six eggs, die juice of five 
lemons made very sweet with good brown 
sugar, a clove or two, and a Tittle cion- 
mon pounded; let it boil twenty miDotn, 
stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, 
afid add a pint, or half a pint of white 
wine, and nm it through a jelly4]ag tifl 
clear. 



OX-TAILS STEWED. Divide 
into joints; wash them; parboil them; 
tliem on to stew in just water enou^ to 
cover diem,  and dress diem in the sane 
manner as we have directed in Stevied G9- 
lets, for which they are an excellent suhsti* 
tute. 

OYSTERS. Some piscivorous goor- 
mands diink that oysters are not best w h en 
quite fresh from tlieir beds, and diat their 
flavor is too bi'ackish and liai:sh, and is nmdi 
anicliordted by giving diem a feed. 

To FEED oysters.  Cover them with 
clean water, witli a pint of salt to about two 
gidlons (notliing else, no oatmeal, floor, nor 
any other trumpery) ; this will cleanse them 
from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed; af- 
ter they have lafia in it twelve hours, change 
it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve 
hours more they will be in prime order for 
the moudi, and remain so two or three days: 
at die time of high water you may see them 
open dieir shells, in expectation of receiving 
their usual food. This process of fiseding 
oysters is only employed when a great many 
come up togetbo*. 

Cbmmon people are indifferent about the 
manner of opening oysters, and the time of 
eating them after di^ are opened ; nothing, 
however, is more important in the enlight- 
ened eyes of the experienced oysta*-eater. 

Those who wisn to enjoy this delicioai 
restorative in its utmost perfection, mmt 
eat it die moment it is opened, with its own 
gravy in the under shell ; if not eaten wbfle 
absolutely alive, its flavor and spirit are kwU 

Shell-nsh have long held a high rank in 
the catalogue of easily digestible and speedi- 
ly restorative foods; of these the oyster oer- 



OYS 



129 



0T8 



Uuoiy dowrves the beit character, bat we 
dunk it has acquired not a little mote repa- 
tatioa for these qiialitiee than it deaerves ; a 
weU-dreaaed chop or steak, will invigorate 
the heart in a miich higher ratio; to recruit 
the animal spirits, and support strenstb, 
ibere is nothing equal to animal food ; wlien 
kept till properly tender, none will give ao 
little trouble to the digestive organs, and so 
much subetantial excitement to the ooostitu- 
tion. 

OYSTER ATTELETS. Cut into smaU 
pieoes a sweetbread and a slice or two of 
jbaoon, beard some large oysters, and season 
all highly with chop{^ parsley, shallot, a 
little thvme, pepper and salt. Thai uten 
them alternately upon wire skewers; put 
silted bread crumbs over them, and broil or 
fry them of a light brown color. Take them 
off the skewers, and serve them with some 
rich gravy, to which add a little ketchup and 
lemon pickle. 

OYSTERS, BAKED. Grate a small 
loaf of stale bread. Butter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom wiib bread 
crumbs. Put in half tlie oysters with a lit- 
tie mace and pepper. Cover them with 
oumbs and small bits of butter strewed over 
them. Then put in the remainder of the 
oysters. Season them. Cover them as 
before with crumbs and butter. If the oys- 
ters are fresh pour in die liquor. If tliey 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a 
very short time. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (1) Make a batter 
as for pancakes, seasoned witlt grated nut- 
meg, white pepper, and salt, and add some 
finely grated br^d crumbs; dip in the oys- 
ters, and fry tliem of a light brown in beef 
dripping. 

Another way is, to dip tliem into the white 
of an Cg beat up, arid roll them in finely 
grated bread crumbs, seasoned with grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, and fiy them as 
directed. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (2) The largest 
and finest oysters are to be chosen for this 
purpose; simmer them in their own liquor 
for a couple of minutes, take them out and 
lay them on a cloth to drain, beard them and 
then fiour them, egg and bread-crumb them, 
put them into boiling fat, and fry them a 
delicate brown. CX&s.- An elegant garnish 
for made dishes, slewed rump-steaks, boiled 
or fried fiah, &c. j but they are too hard and 
dry to be eaten. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (3) For flying, 
cboose the larg^ and finest oysters. Beat 
tone yolks of eggs, and mix ivith them grati 



ed liraad, and a nail qouticy ^ beala 
nutaoe^ and maoe, and a little salt. HaT* 
ing surred this batter well, dip your oym 
ters into it, and fry them in lard, till ihef 
are of a liglit brown color. Take care not 
to do them too much. Serve them op boC 
For grated bread, some Mibstituie crackers 
pounded to a powder, and mixed widi yolk 
of egg and spice. 

OYSTERS, TO KEEP AND FAT- 
TEN. Put them into water, and wash and 
clean diem with a birch broom ; layii^ them 
with tlie deep shell downwards into a tub or 
broad p}atter,and then sprinkle them over with 
salt. Tlie following day pour over them ancl 
fill the vessel with clean cold water, in which 
they must remain an hour, then pour it off 
again ; sprinkle them with salt, and let thw 
be rqjealed every day. This method will 
keep them good for a fortnight. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (1) Take 
fine fredi oysters ; wash them in their own 
liquor; skim it; pound them in a raarUs 
mortar ; to a pint of oysters- add a pint of 
Sherry ; boil th^n up, and add an ounce of 
salt, two dracimis of pounded mace, and one 
of cayenne ; let it just boil up again ; skim 
it, and rub it through a sieve, and when cold, 
bottle it, cork it well, and seal it down. 

N. B. It is the best way to pound thesak 
and spices, &c. with the outers. 

i06.  This composition very agreeaUy 
hei^iens the flavor of white sauces, ana 
white made-dishes ; and if you add a glass 
of brandy to it, it will keq) good for a 0(msi- 
derable time kmger than oystars are out of 
season. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (2) Boil one 
hundred oysters with their liquor, till the 
strength be extracted firom them; strain them 
well, and add to the liquor an equal quanti- 
ty of wine, oae half Port and the other 
Sherry, also a quarter of an ounce of mace, 
the same of white pepper and of allspice, a 
drachm or tea-spoonful of ginger, and six 
anchovies; boil all together about fifteen 
minutes. Put into a jar twelve shaUots, the 
peel of a leiiKHi, and a pioc of horse-radish 
cut small; pour upon them the boiling li- 
quor, and when cokl, bottle it, togedier with 
the spices. 

OYSTER LOAVES. Out off the top 
of some small French rolls, take out mo 
crumb, and firy them brown and crisp with 
clarified butter, then fiy some bread crumbs; 
stew the requisite quantity of oysters, beard- 
ed and cot in two, in their liquor, with a 
little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pep 
per, smd eaU} add a Int of butter; fiill tM 



OTS 



130 



ors 



roOi with the oyilera and aerve them with 
the fried bread cnudiw in the diah. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (1) Roll out puff 
fmste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares with a knife, sheet eight or ten patty 
pans, put upon each a bit of bread the size 
Gf half a walnut; roll out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom paste, and put 

^ on the top, pare them round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with the 
bank of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk 
of ^g, bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarter of an hour: when done, take a thin 
dice off the top, thfi, with a small knife or 
spoon, take out the bread and the inside 
paste, leaving the outside quite entire ; then 
parboil two dozen of large oysters, strain 
them fi'om their liquor, wash, beard, and cut 
them into four, put them into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half 

. a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon- 
peei, the oyster liquor, free from sediment, 
reduced by boiling to one half, some cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a teanspoonful of lemon- 
juice ; 'stir it over a fire five minutes, and 
fill the patties. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (2) Make some 
rich puff paste, and bake it in very small tin 
patty-pans. When cool, turn them out upon 
a large dish. Stew some large fresh oysters 
with a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a 
little butter, and as much of the oyster liquor 
as will cover thmn. When they have stew- 
^ a little while, tsAie them out of tlie pan, 
and set them away to cool. When quite 
<x>ld, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
o{ puff-paste; 

OYSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine 
oysters, strain the liquor, and add thsm to 
it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a 
loin of veal; season them with while pep- 
per, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel; lay 
them (Ml the bottom of a pie dish, put in the 
oystens and liquor, with a little more season- 
ing ; put over them the marrow of two bones. 
Lay a border of puff paste round the edge of 
the dish; cover it with paste, and beJLe it 
nearly tbrae-qunrten of an hour. 

OYSTERS, PRESERVED. Open 
the oysters carefiilly, so as not to cut them 
except in dividing oie gristle which attaches 
the shells; put them imo a mortar, and 
when you have got as many as vou can con- 
veniently pound at onoe, add about two 
drachms of ssdt to a dozen oysters; ponnd 
them, and rub them through the back of a 
hair sieve, and pot them into a mortar again, 
with as much flour (which has been pre- 



ioasly thoroughly dried) as will make them 
into a paste ; roll it out several tiroes, and, 
lastly, flour it, and roll it out the thicknes 
of a half-crown, and divide it into pieces 
about an inch square ; lay them in a Dutch 
oven, whore they will dry so gently as not to 
get burnt: turn them every half hour, and 
when they begin to dry, crumble them ; they 
will take about feur hours to dry; then 
pound them fine, sifl tliem, and put them 
into bottles and seal them over. 

N. B. Three dozen required seven and a 
half ounces of dried flour to make them mto 
a paste which then weighed eleven ounces; 
when dried and powdered, six and a quar- 
ter ounces. 

To make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with three 
drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfuls of milk; set it on a slow fire; stir 
it till it boils, and season it with salt. 

This powder, if made with plump, juicy 
oysters, will abound with the flavor of the 
fish; and if closely corked, and kept in a 
' dry place, will remain good fur sometime. 

This extract is a welcome succedaneum 
while oysters are out of season, and in such 
inland paits as seldom have any, is a valua- 
ble addition to tlie list of fish sauces: it is 
equally good with boiled fowl, or rump steak, 
and sprinkled on bread and butter makes a 
very good sandwich, and is especially wor- 
thy the notice of country housekeepers, and 
as a store sauce for the army and navy. 

OYSTERS, TO PICKLE. Open them 
carefiilly, preserving all their liquor; put 
them into a saucepan over the fire, stirring 
them now and tlien, and when the liquor 
boils take tliem off, skim the surfece, and 
put the oysters into a bowl ; let the liquor 
settle, pour off the clear part, and put it on 
to boil, with, to three hundred oysters, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper,' a little 
mace and allspice ; boil it Um minutes, thai 
add the oysters, and let them boil two min- 
utes ; put them into a jar, and when they 
are cold, tie a paper over it. 

OYSTER SAUCE. When your oys- 
ters are opened, take care of all the liquor 
and give them one boil in it. Then bike 
the oysters out, and put to the liquor three 
or feur blades of mace. Add to it some 
melted butter, and some thick cream or 
rich milk. Put in your oysters and giv9 
them a boil. 

OYSTERSOUP. (1) ThreepHifsofiargs 
fresh ovsteis. Two table-spoonfiils of but* 
ter, roUed in flour, A bunch of sweet horfai* 
A quart of rich milk. Pei^ier to your taste* 
TaKfi the liquor of three pints of ovsten. 
Strain it, and set it iw the fire. Pm mto it, 



OYS 



131 



OTS 



upper to yoat taste, two table-cpooufiib of 
batter rolled in flour, and a bunch of sweet 
joarjoram and otiier pot-herbs. When it 
boils add a quart of rich milk and as soon 
as it boils again take out the herbs, and 
put in the oysters just before you send it to 
table. 

OYSTER SOUP. (2) Boil in water die 
crumb of two twopoiny roUz), with a few blades 
of mace, a tea-spoonfiil of whole white pep- 
per, and four onions cut small. Pick out 
the spice, and rub the bread and onions 
through a liair sieve, then add it to three 
quarts of well-seasoned strong vesil stock. 
Rub down three ounces of butter, with a 
table-^KMinful of flour, and mix it giaduallv 
with Inilf a pint of Uie soup, and then stir all 
well together. Wlien it has boiled a sliort 
time, add with the liquor hal^ a hundred or 
more of fine oysters, and let tlie whole sim- 
mer for ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup 
is not quite salt enough with the liquor of 
the oysters, a little salt may be added. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (1) Put 
diem, with their liquor strained, two or three 
blaules of mace, a few peppercorns, a little 
cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, kneaded with flour, into a stewpan. 
Simmer them very gently for half an hour, 
by no means letting them boil ; pick out the 
mace and pepper ; have ready, finely grated 
iHread-ciiimbs, seasoned with pepper and 
salt; put into the scallop-shells, or into a 
dish, alternately a layer of bread-crumbs, 
then one of oysters and part of their liquor; 
and stick over the last layer of bread<4:nunbB 
a few bits of butter, and brown them in a 
Dutch oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (2) Take 
oflf the beards, stew them in their liquor 
strained, with a little mace, white pepper, 
and salt. Fry in a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, some grated bread-crumbs, till of a 
nice tn^Mm; put them alternately with the 
oysters into a dish. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (8) A 
good way to toarm up any cold fish. Stew 
the oysters slowly in their own liquor for two 
<* three minutes, take them out with a spoon, 
beard them, and skim the liquor, put a bit 
of butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
add as miich fine bread-crumbs as will dry 
it up, then put to it the oyster liquor, and 
give it a boil up, put the oysters into scal- 
E>phells that you have buttned, and strew- 
ed with bread-crumbs, then a layer of oys- 
ters, then of bread-crumbs, and then some 
more oysters; moisten it with the oyeiar li- 



iftor, cover them with braad-cnmibs, prt 
about half a dooen little bits of butter on the 
top of each, and brown them in a Dutoh ot- 
eo. Essence of anchovy, ketchi^, cayemie, 
grated lemon-peel, mace, and other spicesy 
&c. are added by those who prefer piquanoe 
to the genuine fttvor of the oyster. 

Cold fish may be re-dressed the same way. 
N. B. Small scalk>p-sbells, or saucers that 
hold about half a doien oysters, are the most 
convenient. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (1) Stew with 
a quart of oysters, and their liquor strained, 
a glass of white wine, one anchovy bruised, 
seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let aU 
stew gently a quarter of an hour. Pick out 
the bunch of lierbe, and add a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter kneaded in a lai^ ta- 
ble-spoonful of flour, and stew lliem ten or 
twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with 
bi^ead-sippets and cut lemon. Tliey may be 
stewed simply in their own liquor, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 
thickened with cream, flour, and butter. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (2) Open die 
oysters and strain the liquor. Put to them 
some grated stale bread, and a little pepper 
and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let tliem 
stew but a very short time, or diey will be 
hard. Have ready some slices of buttered 
toast wiUi tlie crust oflf. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters and 
liquor upon the toast and send them to ta- 
ble hot. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (8) Large oys- 
ters will do for stewing, and by some are pre- 
ferred. Stew a coopfe of dozen of these in 
their own liquor ; when they are coming to a 
boil, skim well, take them up and beard them ; 
strain die liquor through a tamis-sieve, and 
lay the oysters on a diw. Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan; wlien it is melted, 
put to it as much nour as will dry it up, the 
liquor of the oysters, and three table<spoon- 
fids of milk or cream, and a littfe white pep- 
per and salt ; to this some cooks add a little 
Ketchup, or finely-chopped parsley, grated 
lemon-peel, and juice; let it boil up for a 
couple of minutes, till it is smoodi, then take 
it oflf the fire, pot in the oysters, and let them 
get waim (tbcw tanut not themselves be boil- 
ed, or they wiU become hard) ; line die botf 
tom and sides of a hash-dish with bread- 
sippets, and pour your oysten and sawse 
into it. 



. 



PAN 



13S 



PAir 



p. 



PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. 
Boil die palates till the black akin can be 
eaiHly peeled off; parboil the sweetbreads 
with them; skin and cut the palates into 
pieces, and if tlie sweetbreads axe large, cut 
them in two the long way ; dust them witii 
flour, and fry them of a light brown, in but- 
ter; then stew them in rather more than a 
Sint of the liquor in wbicli they were boiled, 
rown a- piece of butter with flour; add 
it, witl) a little cayenne, salt, pepper, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glass of white 
wine. A little before serving, stir in a 
qx>onful of vinegar, or the squeeze of a lem- 

OB 

PANADA. (1) Boil SOUK pieces of stale 
bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water 
to cover them, with a Uttle cinnamon, lemon- 
peel, and caraways ; when the bread is quite 
soft, press out all the water, and beat up tlie 
breaid with a small piece of butter, a little 
milk, and susar to the taste; a little spice 
nmy be added. 

PANADA. (2) Set a little water on 
the fire with a glass of white wine, some su- 
gar, a vei^ little nutm^, and lemon-peel ; 
meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : the 
moment the wat^ boils up, put in the bread- 
crumbs (without taking it off the fire), and 
let it boil as &st as it can. When of a 
proper consistence, that is, when just of a 
sufficient thickness to drink, take it off the 
fire. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Break 
three eggs in a basin ; beat them up with a 
little nutmeg and salt ; then put to them four 
ounces and a half of flour, and a little milk ; 
beat it of a smooth batter} then add by de- 
grees as much milk as will make it of the 
thidcness of good cream: the frying-pan must 
be about the size of a pudding plate, and 
Yei^ clean, or they will stick ; make it hot, 
and to each pancake put in a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut: when it is melted, 
pour in the batter to covor the bottom of the 
pan; make them the thickness of half a 
crown; fry them of a light Ixrown on both 
aides. The above will do for ^iple fritters, 
by adding one spoonful nKH <^ floor; peel 
your a{^e8, and cut them in thick slices; 
take out the core, dip them in the batter, 
imd fry tbefs ui hot isurd; pot them on a 
sieve to dram ; dish them neatly, and grate 
some loaf.fii]tgar over them. 



PANCAKES IN APPLES. Ohmm 

apples very small, stew them witli a litdo 
white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded ciiH 
namoa, and brovm sc^gar; msMi them, and 
spread it over pancakes; roU them up, mA 
serve with sifled bal^sugar over them. 



PANCAKES COMMON. With 
ly half a pound of flour, mix five well-faealBS 
eggB, and then add, by degrees, a-quait of 
good milk; firy them in fresh lard, and 
serve them with pounded k>af-flc^ar sti'eiPid 
between each. 

PANCAKES FINE. To three table- 
spoonfuls of flour add six well-beaten ef^ 
tliree table-spoonfuls of white wine, hm 
ounces of melted butter nearly cold, the sane 
quantity of pounded loafnsugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a pint of cr^un ; mix it wel, 
,beating the batter for sometime, and poar 
it thm over the pan. 

PANCAKE, RICE. Add to thnse wdU 
beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three ti^l^ 
spoonfuls of boiled rice, some sugar, and a 
little pounded cinnamon ; mix it all wdl to- 
gether, and fry it in butter ; brown the np> 
pejT side for a minute before the fire; Bene 
It, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed 
over it. 

PANCAKE RISSOLES. Minoe fins- 
ly some cold veal, season it with grated ksa- 
on-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little 
lemon pickle ; warm it up with some good 
gravy, and a small bit of butter roiled is 
flour. Have ready a batter as for pancakes, 
seasoned with a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
Fry a thin pancake, turn it, and put into 
the middle two table^poonfiils of the minced 
veal ; fold it in at each side and at the endi 
in an oblong#form, and fry them of a li^ 
brovm color ; lav tliem upon the back m a 
sieve to drain before the fire. Four or sis 
will make a dish. They are served as a 
comer or top dish. 

PANCAKES, SCOTCH. Mix with 
six table-spoonfuls of flour a little cream, add 
the beaten yolks of six e^, and then mix ki 
a pint of cream, the grated peel of a smaS 
lemon, a tablenspoonral of pounded sugar, 
and a little ratafia; when the batter is voy 
well beaten, and just before using, mix is 
the whites of the eggs beaten with a knifi^ 
to a stiff froth. Put a little butter or kid 
into the frying-pan, make it hot, pour itoat^ 
and wipe the pan with a clean cloth; pot ia 
some butter or lard, and when hot, pour iot 
tea-cupfiil of the batter ; shake it, and vriiea 
firm, pick it a little with a fask, but do not 
turn It; hold it before the fire a minnte to 



>AII 



138 



fi* 



ipv BCIVIVM OfV flR9n 



PANCAKE, THK9C Beat 
Ijp dM yottts aMl whkea of two e^; mix 
widi tM yoXkB a tabie-flpooofid id a half of 
flmr, a little wgar and white wine, half a 
fkA of cream or good milk ; add die whitee, 
wad irfh in a broad saucepan, widi batter 
er ch rified ooet; brown die tipper side be- 
fim the fire; warm any sort of preserve, 
ayMMd it upon one half, and turn the odier 
over it, and stKw upon it pounded knf sa- 

PANNEQUETS. Pot into a pan, two 
 inj i of sifted iloar, four erf* powderugar, 
dtt sane of bitter macaroons, and a spoon- 
fiil of dried orange-flowers; break up all 
these articles, and mix widi them the yolks 
often e^gs, four large glasses of double cream, 
and a pinch of sak. Wash the bottom of a 
fiyiog-pan lightly with some warm clarified 
batter, tfaeo put m it a spoonfiil of the above 
pfqMiFatioo, sfN^ead it over the pan, to make 
ibib paste as diin as possible; when die ptm- 
maqiut becomes lighdy colored, torn it over 
caiefiiUy, and do the other side ; then put it 
mi a tin plate, spread a little apricot marma> 
lade over, and having strewed crushed maca- 
roons on that, roll up the pannequet till about 
an inch in diameter ; in the meantime j)ut a 
second spoonfiil of your preparation into the 
pan, and proceed in the above manner, gar- 
iflbingf one pannequet whilst another is 
oookii^; takinff care, however, to set the 
pan over a gentfe fire. When a\\ are done, 
cat the pamneqneU three inches in length, 
glaaeand dish them. 

PARSLEY. To preserve parsley duxHish 
the winter:  ^in May, June, or July, take 
fine fresh-gathered ^igs; pick, and wash 
diem clean ; set on a stewpan half ftill of wa- 
ter; pot a little salt in it; boil, and skim it 
dean, and then put in the parsley, and let it 
boil for a couple of minutes ; take it out, and 
kgr it on a sieve befiire the fire, that it may 
be dried as quick as possible; put it by in a 
tin box, aad keep it in a dry place: when 
you want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it 
vitb warm water a fiiw minutes before you 
it. 



PARSLEY BUTTER. Wash some 
panley very dean, and pick it carefiilly leaf 
ny leaf; put a tea-spoonfiil of sak into half 
a pint of boiling water: boil the parsley 
about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; 
aunoe it quite fine, and then bruise it to a 
pulp. The deKcai^ and excdlenoe (^ this 
dc^gaitt and innocent relish depends upon the 
parsley being minced vei^ fine: pnt it into a 
smoeHtMat, and mix with it, oy decrees, 

12 



aboot half a pint ofgood neltod batter, oolj 
do not pot so modi doar to it, as the pan- 
ley win add to its thickness: never poor 
parsley and batter over boiled things, bat 
send it up in a boat 

PARSLEY, CRISP. Pick and wash 
yoang parsley, shake it in a dry cloth to 
drain the vmter from it; spread it on a sheet 
oi clean paper in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, and turn it fi^equently until it is quite 
crisp. This is a much more easy way of 
preparing it than firying it, which is not sd- 
dom 111 done. 

PARSNIPS, TO BOIL. Scrape and 
wash them nioelv ; when lai^, divide them ; 
boil them in milk and water till quite tender ; 
they will take nearly as long to boil as car- 
rots. They may also foe mashed like tur- 
nips. 

PARTRIDGES, TO CHOOSE. When 
they are young the bill is of a dark color,, 
and their legs are of a yellowidi color; and 
when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part 
will look greenish when stale. The plumage 
on the breast of the hen is light, that ontne 
cock is tinged with red. 

PARTRIDGES BROILED. Take 
five partridges, cut them in halves, trim and 
dip them in melted butter, and bread them 
twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner 
broil them. 

PARTRIDGES MINCED. Take die 
filleta from eight roasted partridges, mince, 
and put them into a saucepan ; make a light 
rcuXy in which put the livers and lidits o^ 
the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shallots, 
and a little sage, give them a few turns, and 
then add two large glasses of stock, reduce 
the sauce to half, strain and pnt \t to the 
mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth; 
make it hot, but not boiling; serve it over 
firied bread, and garnish your dish, with 
either poached or hard eg^. 

PARTRIDGE IN BREAD. Take a 
nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight; 
make a Dole at one end, trough which tdke 
out all the crumbs, rub the crust over with a 
litde butter <x lard, and set it in die oven for 
a few minutes to dry: fill this with minced 
partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, 
bottom upwards, into a stewpan ; add two 
spooofiik of veal blond, with any other gar- 
nish you please ; let it remain on die fire till 
the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to 
penetrate it, then take it oat and dish it with 
the aauoe round. 

PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. THike 



SAH 



134 



TA% 



four partridges, pick and magd them; cut 

otf their less at tne knee; aeason with pep- 
per, salt, chopped parsley, thynie, and inusb- 
rooms. Put a veai steak and a slice of ham 
at the bottom of the dish; put in the par- 
tridges with half a pint of good eoruomme. 
Line the edges of tne dish with puff paste, 
and cover with tlie same; do it over with 
egg, and let it bake for an hour. 

PARTRIDGE TO ROAST. Take 

out tlie entrails, and singe tlie partridge over 
tlie stove, tlien roll a bit of butter in pepper 
and salt, and put it into the inside of the 
bird ; truss it neatly with the head turned on 
cue side, keeping the breast as full as possi- 
ble ; over which should be laid slices of ftit 
bacon tied on with pack-thread ; before it is 
put on tile spit, break the back-bone, that it 
may lay the belter on the dish. A good 
sized partridge will take half an hour ; when 
nearly done, take away the bacon, brown 
the paitridge well ; sprinkle it with flour and 
.salt, and froth it with butter; serve it with 
water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and 
bread sauce in a boat. 

PARTRIDGE TO TRUSS. Let it be 
well picked and singed, then cut a slit in 
the back of the neck, and carefully take the 
erop out witiiout breaking it ; then cut off 
the vent, and draw out the inside; after tliis, 



well wipe tlie inside, abd then put in a little 

Eipper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter, 
aving cleansed it, proceed to truss the 



bird, by 6rBt cutting off the pinion at the 6rBt 
joint, so tliat the feathers need not be picked 
off that part; break the back-bone, and truss 
it in the same manner as a fowl, by pressing 
the legs close to tlie apron, tiien turn the bird 
on the breast, and run a skewer thi*oiigfa the 
end of the pinion, the leg, tlie body, and the 
leg and pinion on the other side, with the 
hNui fixed on the end of the skewer, and 
over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and 
tie it on with pack-thread. If for boiling or 
stewing, truss tliem the same as a fowl for 
boiling. 

PARTRIDGES TO STEW. Tmss 
the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; 
pound the fivers widi double the quantity of 
fat bacon and bread-crumbs boiled in milk; 
and some chopped parsley, th}'me, shalbts, 
and mushrooms ; season with pepfier, salt, 
grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff the in- 
side of tlie bu^s, tie them at both ends, and 
Kt them into a slewpon lined with slicei of 
oon ; add a quart of good stock, half a pint 
of white wine, two onions, a bunch c^ sweet 
herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let them 
stew gently till tender ; take them out, strain 
and thicken the sauce with flour and butter, 
make it hoC and pour it over the partridgas. 



PASTE. Be w&ry partiate thai 

slab or paste table, roluitf-pin and 

are clean, and free from alTold paste, and b 
very careful that both the floor and butler 
are extremely good. Have a dry sieve al* 
ways in reauliness, in or by the floor txAtf 
so as to use none without sifting it; for, 
though it may appear puce and fine, bran, or 
small particles of old paste may have fidlea 
into it; sifting is, therefore, always neces- 
sary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a 
circle aa the slab: break one egg in theeen- 
tre, put a small quantity of sak, and a little 
bit of butter; mix all these together ligfathr, 
add a little water, mix them again, then add 
more water, and so proceed until it binds 
into pajste; but take <!are that you do not 
make it too stiff, nor squeeze it much an 
gether, till you find there is sufficient water; 
then werk it well together, and roll itoutoa 
the slab, but do not roll it t<x> thin ; work a 
pound of butter on ihe slab, spread it out Is 
the size of the paste, with a knife cot it off 
altogether, and lay it on the paste; then 
double the ends of the paste together, to ia- 
ck)ee the butter ; then give it one turn, thos: 
roll it out till you just perceive the butter 
dirough the paste; turn the end whidi is 
next to you half way over, and the other end 
over that, roll it once or twice with the roU* 
ing-pin ; then let it stand, this is called one 
turn; then, in three minutes time, turn it 
again, and so proceed until you have giveo 
it six turns; then roll it out, and cut it for 
patties or any shape you please ; but observe 
not to put over than too much egg, as dat 
will prevent their rising; as soon as thqf 
are baked, take them off the sheet, lay thest 
on paper, and when cold, scrape the bottoms, 
neatly cut out the insides ready for wfaal- 
evor you mean to put into them. For bak- 
ing, see directions for the oven. 

PASTE, BEEF DRIPPING. Bxh 

into one pound of flour half a poond of 
clarified beef drippin^^, till it all looks like 
flour; work it to a stiff paste with cold wa- 
ter, and roll it out two or three times. This 
paste answers very well for oommoD pies, bat 
must be used -when hot and fiedi baked. 

PASTE FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 

Pick and chop veiy fine half a pound of beef 
suet, add to it one poond and a quarter of 
flotu*, and a little salt: mix it with half a 
pint of milk or water, and beat it well 
the rolling-pin, to inoorporate the suet 
the floor. 

PASTE FOR CHEESECAKES. lUb 
ec^ual quantities of floor and batter, togedMf 
with a little poonded and sifled loaf magu, 
make it into a paste, with warm milk, rol 
it out, and line the pans with it. 



PAS 



135 



FAB 



PASTE, CaUBF. Sub a qnrler of a 
fiMDil of flour, add two table>pooDfiik of 
fMNnded loafogBr,aiid the wefi-beateo^olkt 
of two or three egx>> work h well with a 
hom-BpooD, and rau it out very thin, toudi- 
ID^ it as Iktie as possttile . with the hands; 
the macoeat befiire pottini into a quidt oven 
tub it over with the welMwaten white of an 
egg, and sift all over the tart finely-pounded 
sugar. This crmt may be used mr any fruit 
terts. 

PASTE FOR CROQUANTS OR 
Cut Pastry. To batf a pound of fine 
flour put a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf- 
sugar; mix it well together with yolks of 
eggs till (^ a good stiffiness. 

PASTE FOR A COMMON DUM- 
PLING. Rub into a pound of flour six 
ounces of batter, then work it into a paste 
with two well-beatm eggs and a little water. 
This paste may be baked, a large table-spoon- 
fill of pounded loaf-sugar being added to it. 

PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub 
into one pound and a half of flour half a 
pound (Abutter, wet it with oold water suffi- 
cient to make it into a stiff paste ; work it 
well, and roll it out two or three times. 

PASTE, POTATO. Mash sixteen oon- 
ea of b9iled potatoes, while they are warm, 
then rub them between the hands, together 
with twelve ounces of floor; when it is well 
mixed, and all looks like flour, add half a 
lea-spoonful of salt, and, with a little cold 
water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and 
roll it out three or four times, making it very 
thin the last time. Lay it over black cur- 
rant jam, raspberries, or any sort of preserve, 
rub the edges with water, roll it up like a 
bolster pudding, and boil it in a buttered 
and floured cloth lor three or four hours. 
Serve it with a sweet sauce. 

PASTE, PUFF. Weigh an equal quan- 
tity of flour and butter, rub rather more than 
the half of the flour into one third of the 
fantter, then add as much oold water as will 
make it into a stiff paste; work it until the 
butter be completely misted with the flour, 
make it roinid, beat it with the rolling-pin, 
dust it, as also the rolling-pin, with floor, and 
roll it out towards the opposite side of the 
slab, or paste4)Qard, making it of an equal 
thickness; then with the point of a knifi put 
little bits of butter all over it, dust flour over 
and under it, fold in the sides and roll it up, 
dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and 
n>ll it out, always rubbing the roUiiw-pin 
with flour, and throwing some undemeau the 

rite, to prevent its sticking to the board. 
t]e butter is ot all easi^ put ^ at tba 



eeowl time of roDni^ out the paste, tte 
remainder may be put in at the thihl; it 
dKMild be touoied as little as possible witfi 
the hands. 

PASTE, PYRAMID. Make a rich 
puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch 
chick, and cut it into five or seven pieces 
with scalloped tin paste cutters, which go 
one within another ; leave the bottom and 
top piece entire, and out a bit out of the 
centre of the others; bake them of a light 
brown upon buttered papr placed upon tins. 
When served, build them mto a pyramid, 
hyii^ a difl^nt preserved fruit upon each 
piece of paste, and on the top a ^hole apri- 
cot, with a sprig of myrtle nuck into it, or 
ffreen-gages, ornamented with a bunch of 
barberries. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR SAVORY 
PIES. Sift two pounds of fine flour to one 
uid a half of good salt batt^, break it into 
small pieces, and wash it well in oold wa- 
ter ; rub gently together the butter and flour, 
and mix it up with the yolk of three eggs, 
beat together with a spoon; and nearly a 
pint of spring-water; roll it out, and double 
it in folds three times, and it is ready. 

PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 

lour pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
and a little sah, mix these together, adding 
water, a little at a time, taking care not to 
put too much, as this paste must bo made as 
stiff as poflsiUe; when thoron^ly mixed, 
give it two or three turns, roll it and cut it 
out to the shape you want fer your pie. 
Sometimes the butter is melted in warm wa- 
ter, and so mixed with the flour; then it 
will not require so much water, and the 
paste will stand better; but as you work 
your paste, when you find it get too odd, 
warm it a little ; the first method of doing 
it is the best, if intended to be eaten. 

PASTE, RICE. (1) Mix together half 
a pound of sifted ground rice ana a quaiter 
of a pound of fiieen butter, work it into a 
paste with cold water, dredge flour over the 
paste-board and rolling-pin, roll out the 
paste, and put over it, in litde bits, another 
quarter of a pound of butter ; fold and roll it 
out three times, strewing each time a little 
flour over and under it, as also over the 
rolling-pin. Cover the tart, and glaze it be- 
fore Iwing baked. This paste must be eateo 
the day it is baked. . 

PASTE, RICE. (2) Boil, in a pint of 
water, half a pound c^good rice ; drain off the 
water, and pound the rice in a mortar, wifli 
a small bit of butter, and an egg beatca s 
then n^ it out to cover any finit tart. 



frmA 



136 



. PASTE, RICH fiHElORT. Weigh 
equal qnantitmi of flour, of tiatter, aid of 
fiaunded and sifted loaf-Migar; rub the but- 
ter with the floor, then mix in the iwgwr, 
and rub it together till it wiD roll oat; pot 
it about half an inch thick over the tart, 
which may be of oherriee, raepbenries, or 



PASTE, SHORT, FOR TARTS. 
Take oae pound of flour, lay it on the slab, 
and in the centre put half a pound of butlier, 
two ^ge, a v&y httle sak, and a little wa- 
ter, mix them lightly together, and continoe 
adding mcMre water, till you And it bind ; mix 
it on uie slab a little, and give it two turns, 
it is then read^for use. 

PASTE, SUET. Rub well with half a 
pound of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as 
poeeible, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
and half a tea-spoonfld of salt ; make ii into 
a stiff* paste with oold water, work it well, 
beat it with the rolling-iun, and roll it out 
two or three times. This pafite emswers for 
any kind of boiled fruit pudding. 

PASTE, SWEET. Rub into half a 
pound of flour three ounces of butter and the 
same of pounded loaf-sugar, add one beaten 
c^, and as much warm water as will make 
it mto a paste; roll it tliin for any kind of 
firuit tart, rub it over with the beaten white 
o( an egg, and sift sugar over it. 

PASTE FO(l STRINGING TART- 
LETS. Mix with your hands a quarter 
of a pound of flour, an ounce of fresh butter, 
and a little cold water; rub it well between 
the Jboard and your hand till it begins to 
stfine; cut it into cBnall pieces, roll it out, 
and draw it into fine strings, lay them across 
your tartlets in any device you (dease, and 
bake them immediately. 

PATTIES FOR FRIED BREAD. Cut 
the crumb <^a loaf of bread into square or 
round pieces nearly three indies high, and 
cut bits the same width for tope ; mark them 
neatly with a kntfe ; fry tlte nread of a light 
brown color in clarified beef-drippins or fine 
lard. Scoop out the inside cronm, take 
care not to go too near to the, Iwttom ; fill 
them with mince meat, prepared as for pat- 
ties, with stewed oysteni, or with sausage 
meat; put on the tops,, and sen'e them u^n 
a niqpkm. 

PATTIES, LOBSTER. Se Lobsters, 

PEACHES. CHARLOTTE OF. Take 
twenty tx^erably ripe ^ches, cut them in 
halves, and flcaU them in a light sirup; then 
drain and out caeh half into Ifane pieces 




PSA 



of equal QAtkatm; fnt 
mto a pan with a qaarter of a ponnd 
der6ogar,. and hf the quumy of 
butter; 'ty them K^tly, and having 
ed your CharhtU m tne UBOai way, psor in 
the peaches and finish it (aee ChturlmiU^ 
When in the -dish for laUe, cover it cooi. 
pletely with the simp, and warn iuMe di' 
alely. 

PEARS BAKED. (1)1^0(0 twelve hofe 
baking pears ; pare and cut them into baJfes, 
leaving the stem about lialf an inda IodCf 
tidce out the core with the point of a hiUR, 
and place them close toge^er in a falack<tai 
saucepan, the inside of which is cfoite br^gh^ 
with the cover to t quite slafle; pittolMBi 
the rind of a lemon cut thin, with half il 
juice, a small stick of cinnamon, and twentf 
grains of aNspice; cover them with spra^ 
water, and allow one pound of loaf-ngar le 
a pint and a half of vrater: cover than ^ 
close, and bake them for six hoars in a veiy 
slow oven : they will be quite tender, and of a 
bright color. Obs.  ^Prepared codiineal is- 
^nerally used for coloring the peara; bat 
if the above is strictly attended to, it wiD be 
found to miswer best* 

PEARS BAKED. (2) TVdte half a 

dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in haheS) 
and take out the cores; put them into a pan 
with a little red  wine, a few cloves, hau a 
pound of sugar, and some water. Set them 
m a moderate oven till tender, Uien pot tlKm 
on a slow fire to steW gently; add grated 
lemoniieel, and more sugar if neoessaiy. 
They will be soffi^entty red. 

PEARS COMPOTE. Choose ymr 
finit carefoliy, take off" die tops, and trim 
the tails, wash and drain them well ; then 
put dietn into a skillet with sugar, cinna- 
mon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, 
and some water. Set them on a slow fire, 
taking care to skin them. When sufficioitly 
d<me, they will look wrinkled. Ped your 
firuit, and pot it into a well gtased pipkin, 
with a glass of wine, a little cinnamoa, 
sugar to the taste, and a little water; put m 
also a pewter spoon ; cover the pif^in ckise, 
and set it on hot adics. When done, Uie 
pears will be of a fine red color. 

PEARS TO COMPOUND. Take a 
dozen large pears, coddle them; when tOK 
der, take them out and lay them in oold wa- 
ter, pare and cut them in halves ; take osl 
the cores, put them in sirup made dms: 
Two pounds and a half of sugar to Aires 
pints of water, a little lemon<peel pared veiy 
thin, boiled in them, and a uttle cochineal 
Inruised and |iut into a muslin bag; cover 
them, boil them quick tUA ihe^ we tender 



fta^ d^a good color; when cold, 
die jkiice of two or three lemooi. . 



1S7 



tzv 



qoMie m 



PEARS PRESERVED. Take care 
in making this preeerre that the fruit be not 
too ripe; they are in a fit state as soon as 
tihe pips are black. Set the pears on the 
fire in a sofficient quantity of water to cover 
fhem; take them off when quite soft, and 
throw them into cold water; pare them 
Uffhtfy, cut off the stalks, prick each with a 
pin sufficiently k>n^ to reach the core, and 
pot them again mio cold water, with a 
handfiil of alum; set them on the fire to boil 
until the pearsare tender, then take them out. 
and pot them into cold water for the third 
time. Clarify and boil some sugar, put some 
water to it, and when it boils, suld the pears, 
cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; 
dLim and poor it into an earthen pan and 
leave it. The next day, drain Ihe sirup 
firom the pears, add a little more clarified 
si^ar to It, and boil it again ; poor it over 
thefiruit, and leave it as before; the next 
and two successive days, proceed in the same 
way, each time increasing the degree of 
boiling, then add the peturs, give the pre- 
serve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into 
a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, 
then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. 

PEARS STEWED. (1) Wash and prick 
some large stewing pears, and set them on 
the fire in a large stewing-pan of water to 
scald; when scalded, take them out, and 
pot them on the fire in a pan with a sufficient 
quantity of thin clarified sugar to cover them, 
a stick of cinnamon, a littR mace, and two 
or thre^ cloves; let them stew gently till 
th^ begin to soften and look lather red, 
then put in a bottle of Port wine, and let 
diem coiuinue stewing until 4)erfectly done, 
and look very rich and red ; tjien put them 
in a basin or jar, with the liqnKNr over thn ; 
they will be all the better for Keeping four or 
five days. 

PEARS STEWED. (2) Pare, cut into 
quarters, and take out the core of six good 
baking pears; throw them as they are done 
into water. To a pound of firuit allow a 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and Uiree 
cbves; put them into a saucepan, cover 
them with cold water, keep the pan closely 
covered, and stew them gently, tiU red and 
tender; add, just before serving, a glass of 
Port wine. They may be eaten hot or ccid^ 
with cream, after dinner or at supper. 

PEAS, GREEN. Young green peas, 
well dressed, are among the most delicious 
delicacies of > the vegetable kingdom. They 
must be young; it is equally indispensable 

12* 



that they be fiih gathered, and cooked ai 
80(xi as they are shelled for they soon \om 
both their color and sweetness. After being 
shelled, wash them, drain them in a cullen- 
der, put them on in plenty of boiling water, 
with a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and one of pound* 
ed loaf si^ar; boil ihem till they become 
tendor, which, if youne, will be in less than 
half an hour ; if old, they will require mare 
than an hour; drain tHem in a cullender, 
and put them immediately into a dish with 
a slice of fresh butter in it; some people 
think it an improvement to boil a small bunch 
of mint with the peas; it is then minced 
finely, and laid in small heaps at the end or 
sides of the dish. If peas are allowed to 
stand in the water after being boiled they 
lose their color. 

PEAS FOR A SECONd CX)URSE. 
Put a quart of fine green peas, together with 
a bit ot butter tlie size of a walnut, into as 
much warm water as will cover them, in 
which let them stand for eight or ten min- 
utes. Strain off the water, put them into a 
saucepan, cover itstir thein frequently, and 
when a little tender, add a bunch of parsley, 
and a young ooioo, nearly a dessert-spoonful 
of loafnBugar, and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a tea-spoonfiil of flour; keep stirring 
them now and then till the peas be tender, 
and add, if they become too thick, a iable> 
spoonfiil of hot water. Before serving, take 
out the onion and parsley. 

PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of 
good q)Ht peas, and having washed, soak 
them well in warm water; men tie them in 
a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan o 
hot water, and boil it until quite soft. When 
done, beat it up with a Gttk butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PEAS POWDER. Pound together 
in a marble mortar half an ounce each of 
dried mint and sage, a drachm of celery- 
seed, and a quarter of a drachm of cayenne 
pepper ; rub them through a fine sieve. This 
gives a very savory relish to peas soup, and 
to water gmel, which, by its helf), if the 
eater of it has not the most lively imagina- 
tion, he may foney he is sipping good peas 
soup. Obs. A cvachm of allspice, or black 
pepper, may be pounded with the above aa 
an addition, or instead of the cayenne. 

PEPPER POT. Take as much spinacli 
as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a 
saucepan without any water, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil ; ttien drain off all the li- 
quor, chop the spinach very fine, and return 
it to the saucepan, with the water justdrain- 
ed from it, more water, onions, three or four 



FR 



138 



FIC 



potato^, a lettuce or head of endive cot 
small, tbe bones of any oold roast meat, if 
you have them, and half a pound of bacon ; 
put the whole on the fire, and when it has 
fwiled for about an hour, put in a few suet 
dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty min- 
utes longer; season it well with cayenne, and 
serve. 

PEPPER POTIN A TUREEN. Stew 
gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to 
three, three pounds of beef, half a pound of 
lean ham, a bunch of dried thyme, two on- 
ions, two large potatoes pared and sliced ; 
then strain it through a cullender, and add 
a lai*ge fowl, cut into joints and skinned, 
half a pound of pickfed |X)rk sliced, the 
meat of one lobster minced, and some small 
suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When 
tbe fowl IS well boiled, add half a peck of 
n>inach, that has been boiled and rubbed 
tnrough a cullender; season witli salt and 
cayenne. It is very good without tiie lean 
ham and fowl. 

PERCH BOILED. Put them mto cold 
water, and let them boil caicfiilly ; serve with 
melted butter and sov. 

PERCH BROILl^. Scrape, gut, and 
wash them; dry them in a cloth, dust them 
with flour, and broil tiiem. Sauce ;  melted 
butter. Or th^ may be broiled widiout 
gutting them. They may also be stewed as 
curp are done. 

PERCH WITH WINE. Havmg scal- 
ed and taken out tlie gills, put the perch into 
a stewpan, with ecfoal quantities of stock 
and white wine, a Iny-leaf, a clove of gar- 
lic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two 
doves, and some salt. When done, take 
out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dress 
of which mix witli some butter and a little 
flour; beat diese up, set them on the fire, 
stirring till quite done, adding pepper, nated 
nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy butter. Drain 
die perch well, and dish them with the above 
saooe. 

FERLINGO. Take a pound and a half 
of sifted flour, and having placed it on your 
slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into 
which put three-quarters of a pound of Ix-own 
mgar, half a pound of fi-esh butter, the rind 
of two lemons grated, and ten e^ ; knead 
all these ingredients together weU, until you 
have a pretty firm paste ; if it should be too 
thin, add a handfiil oMHpe flour. Then cut 
the paste into small pieces, each of which 
roll ra the palms of your hands, till they are 
die length and thickness of your finger ; take 
a round stick (about half the diameter of your 



paste), press thia down ott each af ik8 

pieces, so that they may be their orinml 
thickness on one side^ and thin on theouier; 
when aU are ihus pressed, form thera into 
little crowns (the flat side inwards, and dw 
thin end uppermost), lay them on white pa- 
per, and biake them in a moderate oven; ii 
the meanwhile, make some white sugar tu^ 
nish or icins, and when the perlingos an 
sufficiently (Lne, dip them carefiiliy in the 
varnish, one by one; then replace them in 
the oven, a minute or two, to dry. 

PERRY. Perry is a pleasant and whole- 
some liquor, made frqm the juice of pears, 
by means of fermentation, somewhat in the 
same manner as cidor is made finom apples. 

PETTITOES.' Boil the feet, the liver, 
and tlie heait, of a sucking pig, in a litdt 
water, very gently, then split the feet, and 
cut the meat very small, and simmer it with 
a little of ilie water till the feet are perfectly 
tender; thickra widi a bit of butter, a Iittie 
flour, a spoonfid of cream, and a little pepper 
and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few 
sippets (thread, put the feet on the mince. 

PICKLE FOR MAT Six poondft 
of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces 
of saltpetre, boiled with four gaflnos of water, 
skimmed, and allowed to cool, forma a vary 
strong pickle, which will preserve any meat 
completely immersed in it. To eflect this, 
whi<:h is essential, either a heavy board or a 
flat stone must be laid upon the meat. Tbe 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided 
it be boiled up oocasionally witli additional 
salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the 
meat, and by the dilution of the pid&le fay 
tlie juices of the meat extracted. By boiline, 
the albumen, which would cause tne pickle 
to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in tbe fonn 
of scum, which must be carefully removed* 

An H4x>ne, of ten or twelve pounds, 
weight will require about three-quartefa of a 
pound of salt, and an ounce of moist sqgnr, 
to be well nibbed into it. It wilt be ready 
in four or five days, if turned and rubbed 
everv day. 

llie time meat requu:es salting depends 
upon the weight of it, and how nmch salt ii 
used : and if it be rubbed in with a hearr 
hand, it will be ready much sooner than il 
only liditly rubbed. 

N. B. D17 the salt, and rub it with the 
sugar in a inortar. 

Pork requires a longer time to cure ( 
proportion to its weight) than beef. A kg 
of pork should be in salt eight or ten dajfs; 
turn it and rub it every dav. 

Salt meat should be well washed before U 



PIE 



139 



PIC 



If boifecl eapeckjly if it has been In wak 
kNv, that die liquor m niiicfa the meat is 
fwiled, may not be too salt to make soup of. 
If it lias been in salt a long time, and vou 
fear that it will be too salt, wadi it well in 
cold water, and soak it in luke-warm water 
for a couple of hours. If it is very tali, 
lay it in water the night before you intend to 
dre9 it. 

PICKLE FOR TONGUES. To foor 
^llons of water, add two pounds and a 
lialf of treacle, eight pounds of sah, two 
cHmcea of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it un- 
til clear, sprinkle suit over the tongue, and 
let it stand two days, wipe it clean before 
you put it into die pickle, which must be quite 
cold; boil tlie pickle, every two or diree 
inooths, adding two or three handfuls of sah, 
skimming it well. Ilalf the quantity is suf- 
ficient for two tongues. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to feur 
gallona of water two pounds of brown sugar 
and six pounds of salt, boil it about twenty 
minutes, taking oflftlie scum as it rises ; tKe 
following day poor it over tlie meat which 
hasbeen packed into Uie pickling-tub. Boil 
-k e^'ery two mondis, adding three ounces ^ 
brown sugar and half a pound of common 
salt. By tliis means it will keep good a 
year. Tlie n>eat must be sprinkl^ with 
ssdt, and the next day wiped dry, before 
pouring the pickle over it, with which it 
should always be completely covered. WiUi 
the addition of two ounces of saltpetre and 
one pound of salt, tliis pickle answers for 
pickled pork, hams, and tongues. The 
tongues sliould be ruUbed with common salt, 
to cleanse them, and afterwards with a little 
saltpetre, and allowed to lie four or five days 
beiore tliey are put into the pickle. Tbe-^ 
meat will be ready for use in eight or ten 
days, and will keep for three months. 

PICKLES. PickloB ought to be stored 
in a dry place and the vessels most approv- 
ed of for keeping them in, are wide-moutl^ 
ed ^lass bottles, or strong stone-ware iars, 
havmg corks or bungs, which must be fitted 
in widi linen, and covered with bladder or 
leather; and for taking the pickles out and 
r^uming Uiem to the jar, a small wooden 
i^won is kept. The strongest vinegar is 
osed for pickling; that of cider more partic- 
ularly recommended, but su^r vinegar will 
generally be found sufficiently strong. It is 
essentia] to llie excellence and beauty of 
pickles, tliat tliey be always completely cov- 
et^ with vinegar. 

See Hot Pickles, India Pieklee, Oniana, 
CiuMmbere, fyc. ^. 

PIE, AT^G^O-FRANCAIS. Take a 



deep dash, fine the edge with poff pMte lib 
a common pie; stew a qouter or a powd 
of rice with some sugar until quite soft and 
sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy cherrie^ 
which pick ana roll in a quarter of a pound 
of powder-sugar, and kv about a quarter of 
them at the bottom of tne dish ; cover these 
with a fourth part of the nee, then the cher- 
ries again, and so on til^ your materials are 
used, taking care to keep the pie high in the 
middle; cover it with a hyer of paflrpesley 
which wash over li^tly with some white of 
egg, and strew a little powder-sugar over; 
put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
qitarter; tlien take it out, iinsk the crust 
with apricot marmalade, and a few maca- 
roons cnislied. Serve it either hot or cold. 

PIE, APPLE. (1) Take eight mw- 
tinss, or kmon pippin apples; para, cora 
and cut not smaller than quaiters; pbuse 
tliem as close as possible together into a pi^ 
dish, with four cloves; rub tcether in a. 
mortar some lemon-peel, with four ounce* 
of good moist sugar, and, if agreeaMe, add 
some quince jam; cover it wiUi puff paste; 
bake it an hour and a quarter. (Geoenllj 
eaten warm). 

PIE, APPLE. (2) Para, quarter, and 
core die apples; cut them mto ihin bits. 
Put into the bottom of a pie-dish a table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, with a tea-spoon- 
fol of grated ginger and lemon^ieel, then 
a laver of apples, and so on sikemateW, 
till the dish is piled as full as it will bold. 
The next day wet die rim of the didi, line 
it with puflf or tart paste, brush it with wa* 
ter, and cover it with paste; press the edge 
all round, notch it with a paste-cutter, and 
make a small bole with die point of a knife 
in die middle. It may be seasoned with 
two table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange mar- 
malade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and 
cfoves, in addition to the ginger and lemon- 
peel. 

PIE, APPLE WITH MUSCADEL 
RAISINS. Peel twenty renneting apples, 
cut them in quarters, and then cut Mch quar- 
ter into five or six pieces; toss them in a 
pan with four ounces of sugar in powder, 
(over which should be grated the oeel of a 
lemon), four ounces of butter lukewarm, 
and four ounces of fine muscadel phims. 
Line the edge of a deep disli with a good 
-puff paste, then put in your fioiit, and Cover 
your disli with a good puflf paste a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, glaae with the white 
of an egg, and strew sugar over it. Let it 
bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve 
it hot. 

PIE, APRICOT. Line a dish widi puff 



nt 



140 



i^iii 



]|tete, and then pot in eighteen fine apricots, 
(cut in halves and the stones taken oat,) 
with four punces of sugar in powder, and 
^nir ounces of butter lukewarm. Then lay 
on the upper crust, elaze with the white of 
egSy ana strew sifted sugar all over. Let it 
bake in a moderate oven to a nice light col- 
or. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve 
it cold, you must leave out the butter. 

PIE, BEEF KIDNEY. Cut some kid- 
neys into thin slices, and place them in 
the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shal- 
lots, mushrooms, pepper, and Kilt; con- 
tinue this till the dish is fiill, then cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, then finish your 
pie ; bake it in die oven ; when done, take 
out the bacon, and skim off the fal ; make a 
sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable 
quantity of cullis, and reduce it to the con- 
sistence of a good sauce, then squeeze an 
orange in it. Serve your pie hot. 

PIE, BEEF-STEAK. Cut tlie steaks off 
a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and 
lean t^ether, about half an inch thick ; heat 
them a little with a rolling-pin, put over 
them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion 
minced ; roll them up, and pack them neatly 
into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add 
some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful 
of vinegar. Cover tlie pie with a puff paste, 
and bake it for an hour. It is a common 
but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary 
to pot stock or water into meat pies. Beef, 
mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously 
dressed, will be found to yield a sufficiency 
of gravy, and the pie will be better without 
any additional liquid. N. B.  Large oys- 
ters, pai*boiled, bearded, and laid alternately 
with the steaks, their liquor reduced and 
svibstituted instesul of tlie ketchup and wine, 
will be a variety. 

PIE, CHICKEN. Parboil, and then 
cut up neatly two young chickens ; dry them ; 
aet them over a slow fire for a few minutes; 
have ready some veal stuffing or forcemeat, 
lay it at the bottom of the dish, and place in 
the chickens upon it, and with it some pie- 
ces of dressed ham ; cover it with paste. 
Bake it from an hour and a half to two 
hours ; when sent to table, add some good 
gravy, well seasoned, and not too thick. 
Duck pie is made in like manner, only sub- 
stituting the duck stuffing instead of the veal. 
N. B.  The above may be put into a raised 
French crust and baked ; when done, take 
off the top, and put a ragout of sweetb'ead 
to the chicken. 

PIE, COD. Lay a fine piece of fresh 
cod in salt for several hours, then wasli it 



well, season it with pepper, salt, mitmeg vbA 
mace; place it in a dish, with a little birt- 
ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, 
and bake it; when done, pour in a sauccy 
made as follows:  a spoonfiil of stock, a 
quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, 
grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, and 
a few oysters, boil the whole once# 

PIE, COLD BEEF, VEAL, OR MUT- 
TON. Pound in a mortar some lx>iled po- 
tatoes; boil a cupful of milk, and while hot, 
mix it with the potatoes, and beat them til! 
tliey become like a light paste; roll it oat, 
cut it with a fiat dish, the size of a pie dish, 
so as it may be laid from off it upon the 
pie ; cut the meat into slices, season it widi 
pepper and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet 
the edges of the dish, and pat over it the 
paste, and bake it till the paste be sufficiently 
done. 

PIE, DEVIZES. Cut into very thin 
slices, aflo* being dressed, cold calPs head, 
with some of the brains, pickled toiujoe, 
sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a tew slices cnba- 
con, and hard-boiled eggs; put them in lay- 
ers into a pie-dish, w\m plenty of seasoning 
between each, of cayenne, white pepper^ 
allspice, and salt; fill up the dish with rich 
gravy ; cover it with a flour and water paste ; 
bake it in a slow oven, and when perisc\\j 
cold, take off the crust, and turn the pie our 
upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and 
pickled eggs cut into slices. 

PIE, DUCK. Scald a couple of dodcs, 
and make them very ckn ; cut off the feet, 
pinions, necks, anil heads. - Take out the 
gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, 
and scald them. Pick out the fat of tlie in- 
side, lay a good puff-paste crust aQ over the 
dish, season the ducks both inside and out, 
with pepper and salt, and lay them in the 
dish, widi the giblets at each end, inropedly 
seasoned. Put in as mudi water as will 
nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it 
be well baked. 

PIES, EGG MINC^. BoH six eggs 
until they are hard, shred them small ; shred 
double the quantity of suet; then add one 
pound of currants picked and washed, (if 
the eggs were lar^e you must use more cur- 
rants) the peel of one lemon shred very fine, 
and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity 
of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candieo. 
Make a light paste for them. 

PIE, FRENCH. Mince some cold roast 
veal together with a little ham, season it 
highly witli pepper, salt, mace, and lemon- 
peel ; add a large table-spoonfiii of mush- 



PIfi 



141 



fl% 



toom ketcbup, aad m aoHrter firi*  fauMkwd 
of oysters, wkk their liquor, and three or 
fixir tabJe-dpoonfuJs of rich grav^- Line a 
diah with- {MB .paste, ^ in Uie lagredieole, 
oover the pie, and let it nmaia in the oveo 
long moc^ to bake the paste. 

PIE, GIBLET. Stew ibe jpUets ia a 
Uttle water, with an omon stock with two or 
three doves, a hunch of sweet herbs, seme 
aab, and whole pep^; cat a fowl into 
joints, skin and wuh it, season it with pep- 
per, i]t and half an onion finely raiooed. 
Take out the onioo, heHbs, and whole pep- 
per; put the fowl, ffiblets, and gray? into a 
dish, add a glass of white wine, and two ta- 
Ue-epoonfok of mushrooni ketchup; oofcr 
die dish with poff paste, and bake it for an 
hour. 

PIE, GOOSE. Prepaie a very atnmff 
raised crust, and make the sides tluck and 
rtiff. Take the bones oat of a goose, tinrw 
key, and fowl, cottii^ each down the back ; 
season them highly with pepper, salt, mace, 
cioves, and nutm^, all finety pounded and 
well mixed. Lay the goose upon a didi, 
with the breast skia next the dish ; lay in 
the torkqr, put some slices of boiled ham 
and tof^ue, and then the fowl; cover it with 
little bits of ham or bacon. Put it all into 
the pie, made of an oval form, and the sides 
to stand an inch and a half above the meat; 
put on the top, and make a hole in the oen- 
tre of it. Brush the outside of the |Ne all 
over with the beatoi whites of eggs, and 
bind it round witlr three foMs of Ixittered 
paper; paste the top over in the same way, 
and ^^en it comes out of the oven, take off 
the paper, and pour in at the top, through a 
fonnel, a pound and a half of melted butter^ 

PIES, LOBSTER. See Lobeter. 

PIE, ITALIAN. Mix togeUier some 
diopped thyme, parsley, and one or two sage 
leaves, some salt, white and ca^ne pep* 
per; ki.y into the bottom of a dish some dim 
slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the 
seasoning, and add slices of ham, and a few 
forcemeat balk; put a layer of seasoned 
veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, tiU the 
dish is foU, and then add the yolks of five 
hard-boiled eggs, and some good white stock ; 
cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake 
it for an hour. Before serving, pour in, 
through a fUnnd at the cetrtre of die crust, 
^ tea-cuf^l oC rich cream. 

PIES, MAIGRE FISH. Salt-fish pie. 
The thickest pert must be chosen, and put 
in cM vrater to soak the night bdbre want- 
ed; then boil it well, take it up, take awa^ 
tho bomp dud skia* aad if U is good fish it 



wiU he M fine laven; set it n a firfi-drani* 
cr to get cold: m the memitime, boil foor 
cggi hard, peel and slice them very thin, 
tlw same quantity of onion sliced thin ; line 
the bottom of a pie^dish with fish forcemeat, 
or a la}'er of potatoes slwed thin, then m 
layer of onions, then of fish, and of egas, and 
so on till the dish is foil ; season each byer 
with a little peppo*, than mix a tea-epoonfiil 
<if made mostaro, the same of esseace of an>- 
cfaovy, a little mushroom ketchop, in a gil 
of water, put it in the dish, tktta put on the 
top an ounce of finesh butler broke in bits; 
cover it with puff paste, and bake it one 
hour. Frerii cod may he done in the 8am 
wav, by adding a little sak. AH fish for 
making pies, whether soles, fiounden, her-^ 
rings, saimon, bbster,eels, trout, tench, &c. 
shoud be dressed first; this is the meet 
economical vray for GathoKe fiwiilies. 

PIES, MINCE. (l)ClufoOy stone and 
cut, but not too small, one pound and a half 
of bloom raisins ; cot small half a pound af 
onuige-peel, mince finely haX a doam <^ 
middlii^-sized good apples, a quarter of a 
pound (^ sweet ahnonds, pounded to a pasto 
with a little whito wine, hidf a nutmeg grat* 
ed, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, one 
head of dove, and a little cinnamon pound* 
ed; one pound and a half of (resh beef suet, 
finely minced, one pound of good brown so 
gar; mix all these ingredients extremely 
well, and add half a pint of white wine, and 
one glass of brandy. Pack it closely iutoi 
small stone jars, and tie them over with pa* 
per. When it is to be used, add a little mor 
wine. 

PIES, MINCE. (2) Cut the root off a 
neat's tonjgue, rub the ton^ well with salt 
let it lie war days, wash it po-fecdv clrany 
and boil it till it becomes tender; skin, and 
when cold, chop it very finely. Mince as 
small as possible two pounds of fi^h beef 
suet finom the sirloin, stone and cut small two 
pounds of bloom raisins, clean nicely two 
pounds of currants, pound and sift half an 
oimce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, grate a large nutm^; mix all these 
ingredients thorouzhly, together with one 
pound and a half of go(Kl brown sugar. 
Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, al* 
low, for the c^uantity sufficient to make 
twelve small mmce pies, five finely-minced 
apples, the grated rind and juice or a larg 
lonon, and a wineglass and ai half of brandy ;: 
put into each a few bits of citron and pre-^ 
served orange-peel. Three or four whole! 
green leoKHis, preserved in good brown su^ 
gar, and cut into diin slices, may be added 
to tiie mince meat. 

PIES, BRANDY, MINCE, deaa li 



PIS 



142 



PIS 



fXMaid dT Gumnti, minoe a poand of non- 
fiareil ap(des, and one of freah bed* wet; 
pound a powid of loaf Migar; weigh each 
4urticle after being prepared; the peel of two 
leiDons gmted, and the juice of one ; a quar- 
ter of a pound (^citron, the sane of orange- 
peel minced. Mix all these ingredienti 
well with a quart of brandy. 

PIS LEMON MINCE. Wei^gh one 
pound of fine iarge lemons, cut them in half, 
squeeze >out the juice, and pick the pulp from 
the skins^ boil them in water till trader, 
and pound theia in a mortar; add half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of 
nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef 
suet minced, a little grated nutm^, and 
citron cut^small. Mix all these insredients 
well, and fill the patty-pans with rawer mote 
of tlie mince than is usually put. 

PIE, MUTTON OR VEAL. Cut into 
chops, and trim neatly, and cut away the 
greatest part of the &t of  loin, or best end 
of a neck of mutton (the former the best), 
aeaaon them, and lay them in a pie-dish, 
with a little water and half a gill of mush* 
room ketchup (chqsped onion and potatoes, 
if approved) ; cover it with paste, bake it 
two hours ; when done, lift up the crust from 
the dish with a knife, pour out all tlie gravy, 
let it stand, and skim it clean; add, if 
wanted, some more seasoninff ; make it boil, 
and pour it into the pie. Veal pie may be 
made of the brisket part of the breast; but 
must be parboiled first. 

PIE, PIGEON OR LARK. Truss 

half a dozen fine large pigeons as for stew- 
ijBg, season thmi with pepper and salt; lay 
M. the bottom of the dish a rump-steak of 
about a pound weight, cut into pieces and 
trimmed neatly, seasoned, and beat out with 
a chopper: on it lay the pigeons, the yolks 
of three eggs boiled hard, and a gill of broth 
or water,. and over tliese a layer of steaks; 
wet the edge of the dish, and cover it over 
with puff paste, or the paste as directed for 
seasoned pies; wash it over with yolk of 
egg, and ornament it with leaves o[ paste and 
the feet of the pigeons ; bake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate-lieated oven : before it 
is sent to table make an aperture in the lop, 
and pour in some good gravy quite hot. 

PIE, RAISED PORK. Make a rais- 
ed crust, of a good size, about four inches 
high ; take the rind and chine bone from a 
lom of pork, cut it into chops, beat them 
with a chopper, season them with pepper 
and salt, ana fill your pie; put on tne top 
and close it, and pinch it round the edge ; 
rub it over with yolk of eg^, and bake it two 
buufi with a paper over it, to prevent die 



cnist fifom burning. vVhen done, poor ill 
some good gravy, with a little ready-mixed 
nustard (if approved). N. B.  ^As the 
above is generally eaten ookt, it is an exod* 
lent rqpest for a joum^, and w9l keep for 
several days. 

PIE, POTATO. Peel and slice yoor 
potatoes very ihin into a pie-dish ; between 
each layer of potatoes pot a little chopped 
onion (three-quarters of an eonoe of onioo is 
sufficient for a pound of potatoes) ; between 
each layer sprinkle a little pepper and sah; 
put in a little water, and cut abofut two 
ounces of finesh butter into little bits, and Im 
them on the top: cover it cloee with puff* 
paste. It will take about an hour and a half 
to hake it. N. B. The yolks of four eggv 
(boiled hard) may be added; and what 
baked, a table-spoonful of good mushroom 
ketchup poured in through a funnel. 06*. 
Cauliflowers divided into mouthfals, toad 
button onions, seasoned with eunry-poiftder, 
&c. make a fovorite vegetable pie. 

PIES, RAISED, MUTTON OR 
PORK. Put two pounds and a half c^ floor 
on tlie paste-board ; and put on the fine, io a 
saucepan, three-quarters of a pint of water,, 
and half a pound of good lard ; when the- 
water boils, make a hole in the middle oC 
tlie flour, pour in the water and lard by de> 
grees, gently mixing the flour with it with 
a spoon ; and when it is well mixed, the 
knead it with your hands till it becomes stiffr 
dredge a little flour to prevent its sticking to 
the board, oryou cannot make it loc^ smoMir 
do not roll it with the rolling-pin, but rell k 
with your bands, about the thickness of a 
quart pot; cut it into six pieces, leaving a 
little for the covers; put one hand in the 
middle, and keep the other close on the out- 
side till you liave worked it either in an oval 
or a ixMind sliape: have your meat ready cut, 
and seasoned with pepper and sak : if poik, 
cut in small slices; the griskin is the best 
for pasties: if you use mutton, cut it in Tsiy 
neat cutlets, and put them in the pies as you 
make them; roll out the covens with the 
rolling-pin just the size of the pie, wet it 
round the ed^, put it on tlie pie, and prai 
it together with your thiunb and finger, and 
then cut it all round with a pair of scisson 
quite even, and pinch tliem inside and oat 
and bake tliem an hour and a half. 

PIE, RAISED FRENCH. Hal 

about two pounds of flour into a paste; kaend 
it well, and into the shape of a ball; pnHi 
your thumb into the centre, and worit it fay 
degrees into any sliape (oval or round is m 
roost general), till about five inches high} 
put it on a sheet of paper, and fill it with 
coane 4oMr fMT bnm; rw oK a oaw ri if for 



PIC 



143 



PIO 



it abot the nme tfaickiini m theudM; oe- 
anent ks sides with the yolk of egg; cut the 
edges quite eveo, and pinch it round with the 
finger and thumb, rub yolk of egg over it with 
a paste-brush, and (Nrnaaient it in any way 
&ncy may direct, with the same kind of 
paste. Bake it of a fine brown color, in a 
8k>w oven; and when done, cut out the top, 
remove the flour or bran, brush it quite 
clean, and fill it up witlia fi-icassee of chick- 
en, rabbit, or any otlier entree most conve- 
nient. Send it to table with a napkin under. 

PIE, HAM RAISED. Soal^ a small 
ham four or five hours ; wash and scrape it 
well ; cut off the knuckle, and boil it for 
half an hour ; then take it up and trim it very 
neatly ; take off the rind and put it into an 
oval stewpan, with a pint of Madeira or 
Sheny, and enough veal stock to cover it. 
Let it stew fijr two hours, or till three parts 
done; take it out and set it in a cokl 
place ; then raise a crust as in the foregoing 
receipt, large enough to receive it; put in 
the ham, and round it the veal forcemeat ; 
cover and ornament; it will take about an 
hour and a half to bake in a slow oven: 
when done, take off the cover, glaze the top, 
and pour round the following sauce, viz. take 
the liquor the ham was stewed in ; skim it 
free froni &t; thicken with a little flour and 
butter mixed together; a few drops of brown- 
ing, and some cayenne pepper. 

PIE, SEA. Skin and cut into joints a 
hi^ge fowl ; wash and lay it into Cold water 
for an hour; cut some salt beef into thin 
slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short 
time in water; make a paste of flour and 
butter in the proportion of half a pound of 
butter to one of flour, cut it into round pieces 
according to the size of the bottom of the 
pot in whidi the pie is to be stewed; rub 
with butter the bottom of a round iron pot, 
and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with 

Eipper, and finely-minced onioo; then pot a 
yer of the paste, and then the fowl, hi^Iy 
seasoned with pepper, onion, and a little 
salt; add another laver of paste, and pour 
is three pints of cola water; cover the pot 
dose^, and let it slew gently for nearly rour 
hours, taking care it does not burn, which, 
if neglected, it is apt to do. It is served in 
a pudding didb, and answers well for a femily 
dinner. 

PIE, SQUAB, OR DEVONSHIRE. 
Take a few good bakii^-af^les, paro, core, 
and slice tnem; chop some onions very 
small ; line a deep dish with paste, put in a 
kyer of the apples, strew a little sugar, and 
soine of the cnopped onions over than; sea- 
son them, and lay lean mutton chops, also 
aeeaonedy more onions, then Uie appleSf &c. 



as bfrfbra^and so on tiH tfaa dish is ipilv 
fiill; cover, and bake the pie. 

PIE, SQUASH. One pint of squash 
stewed and strained; one pint of milk, and 
one of cream; teneggs; half teacup of nM- 
water; quarter pound of sugar, and cos 
grated nutmeg. Bake in plates lined widi 
puff paste. ^ 

PIE, SWEETBREAD. Parboil fiw 
or six sweetbreads; cut them into two or 
three pieces, stew them ten or fifteen minute* 
in a little white stock, virith some chopped 
shallot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some 
salt, and white pepper, and a good many 
mushrooms. Put them into a pie-dish, witn 
Bosae asparagus tope, fi>roemeat balls, and 
bard-boiled yolks of ^gs, and slices of fiut 
bacon on the top ; cover it, and bake it till 
the paste be done enough ; or it may be put 
into a vol-au-vent, and sarved upon a nap- 
kin ; or baked in a plate. 

PIE, VEGETABLE. Of a variety of 
vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pota- 
toes, artichoke bottoms, cauliflower, French 
beans, peas, and small button onions, equal 
quantities <^ each ; half boil them in good 
broth for a short time, put them iiUo a pie 
dish, cover it with puff paste, and bake it in 
a slow oven ; make a gravy of a bit of veal, 
a slice of ham , pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mush- 
rooms, shalbts, parsley, and an onion; whoi 
it has boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix 
in three or four table-spoonfiils of cream, and 
pour it into the pie before being snrved. Tlie 
cream may be <nitted. 

PIG, Is in prime order for the spit when 
about three weeks old. 

It loses part of its goodness every hour ai^ 
ter it is killed ; if not quite firesh, no art can 
make the crackling crisp. 

To be in perfection, it shouM be killed in 
the mmrning to be eaten at dinner: it requirea 
very carefiil roasting. A sucking-pig, like 
a young child, must not be left for an in- 
stant. 

The ends must have much more fire than 
the middle: for this purpose is contrived an 
iron to hang before the middle part, called a 
pig-iron. If you have not this, use a com- 
mon flat iron, or keep the fire fiercest at the 
two ends. 

For the stuffing, take of the crmnb of a 
stale k)efabout five ounces; rabittfaroq^a 
colander; mince fine a handfiil of nge (t. tf. 
about two ounces), and a large onion (about 
an ounce and a half). Mix these together 
with an egg, some pe|^per and sak, ana a bit 
of butter as big as an egg. Fill the belly of 
the pig with uis, and sew it up: lay it to 
the fire, and baste it with salad oil tUl it ia 



PIO 



144 



Fid 



doM. Do net leave it a moment: it 
nquires the most vigilant attendance. 

Roast it at a clear, brisk fire at some dis- 
tance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig- 
eaters, the cracklinsf must be nice^ crispml 
and (felicately lightly browned, without be- 
ing eidier blistered or burnt. 

A small, Uiree weeks old pig will be done 
enough in about an hour and a half. 

Before you take it from the fire, cut off the 
bead, and part that and the body down the 
middle: chop the brains very fine, with some 
boiled sage leaves, and mix them witli good 
veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from 
the pig when you cut its head off. Send up 
a tureenful of gravy besides. Currant sauce 
is still a favorite with some of the old school. 

Lay your pi| back to back in the dish, 
with one half of tlie head on each side, and 
the ears one at each end, which you must 
take care to make nice and crisp; or you 
will, get scolded, and deservedly, as the silly 
fellow was who houglit his wife a pig witn 
only one ear. 

When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the 
skin long round the ends of the legs. When 
you first lay the pig before the fire, rub it all 
over with fi*esh butter or salad oil: ten 
minutes after, and the skin looks dry; 
dredge it wett with flour all over, let it re- 
main on an hour, then rub it off with a soft 
cloth. 

N. B. A pig is a very troublesome subject 
to roast; most persons have them baked. 
Send a quarter of a pound bf butter, and beg 
the bak^ to baste it well. 

PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, then rub it over with 
batter ; butter the dish you lay it in, and put 
it into the oven. When done enough, take 
it out, and rob it over with a butter cloth; 
then put it again into the oven till it is dry, 
then take it out and lay it in a dish ; cut it 
up, take a little veal gravy, and take off the 
fat in the dish it was baked in, and tliere 
will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put 
that to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- 
ter, rolled in flour; boil it up, and put it in 
a dish in which the pig has been had', and 
pot the brains with some sage into the belly. 
Some persons like a pig to be brought to 
table whole, in which case you are only to 
pat what sauce you like into the dish. 

PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, &c., a pig, 
of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing with a few 
sageJeaves, the liver of tlie pig, and two an- 
chovies boned, washed, and cut extremely 
small ; put them into a mortar, with some 
bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
/py little cayenne pepper, and haJf a pint 
of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and 



ew it op m the pig; lay it at a good distance 
before a lai^ brisk fire; singe it weH; ^ 
two bottles of Madeus wine into the dnp> 
ping-pan, and keep basting it aH the time it 
18 roasting ; when half done, pat two FrewA 
rolls mto die drippingpan ; and if there is not 
wine enough in the drippingpan, add more: 
when the pig is nearly done, take the rob 
and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, 
with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up dw 
pig, send it to table with an apple in its 
mouth, and a roll on each side ; then, strain 
the sauce over it. 

Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weda 
old, and stick'it all over with blanched al- 
monds, and baste it in the same manner widi 
Madeira wine. 

PIG, TO COLLAR. Cot oflf the feeL 
head, and tail; bone and wash it well, and 
dry it in a clodi. Season it highly with a 
quantity of pepper and salt; roll it up firmly, 
and bind it with a piece of linen ; sew it 
tiglitly. Put it on in boiling water, with the 
bones, let it boil for an hour, then put it im* 
der a weiglit to press till it be cold, and take 
off die cloth. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO COLLAR. Strew 
over a pig's fece,and a neat's or pig's ton^ui^ 
a little salt and saltpetre ; let it stand ei(^ 
or nine days, then ooil tliem witht two cow- 
heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admU 
of the bones being taken out; lay upon a 
dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek 
upon it with tlie rind downwards ; season it 
hidily witli pepper, cloves, and a little sah; 
add the tongue and cow-heels, with more 
seasoning ; roil and sew it up firmly, put it 
into a jar and boil it for two hours, then 
press it with a lieavy weight, and when ooU 
takeoff the cloth. .The cow-heel maybe 
omitted, and both cheeks used. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO CURE. Strew 
salt over it, and let it lie two or three days, 
then pour over it the following mixture when 
it is cold; half a pound of \^y salt, half an 
ounce of sdltpetre, a quarter of a pound of 
coarse brown sugar, one handfol of common 
salt, and a penny-worth of cochineal, boiled 
in a pint of stron? beer or porter ; let it lie 
in the pickle a fortnight, tumin? it dadj, 
then hang it to smoke for a week. What 
to be dre^ed, put it into lukewarm wa^or to 
soak for a night, and in dressing it, ftdkm 
tlie directions given for boiling hams. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS PICKLED, 
Wash the feet and ears very clean, and be- 
tween every foot put a bay-leaf; when diey 
are well soaked, add some cloves, mace, co- 
riander-eeed, and ginger; pat a bottle of 



PIG 



145 



PIG 



wftitt wine to thne pair of feet wad esn, 
ikjme faay4eaTe8, a banch of sweet herbi; 
let them boil gently till they are tender, then 
take them out of the liquor, lay tliem in an 
earthen pan ; when cold, take off the &t, 
mad strain the liquor over them. Tliey eat 
wdi cold, or wanned in die jelly, thickened 
with butter rolled in flour; or take the feet and 
ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of e^, 
and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, 
mt fry them in butter; lay the ears in the 
middle, and the feet round: or ragout them. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS SOUSED. 
Clean them, and boil them till they are ten- 
der; then split the feet, and put them and 
the ears in salt and water. When you use 
Ifaem, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in 
batter, fry them, and send them to table with 
mehed butter in a boat. They may be eaten 
oold, and will keep a considerable time. 

PIG'S FEET, TO STEW. Clean tlicm 
well, and boil them till they are tender. 
Brown some butter with flour, and add it to 
a qnaintity of gravy or water sufficient to 
tew the feet in. Season with a minced 
onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black pep- 
per. Oit die feet in two, add tliem, and 
eover the pan closely ; let tliem stew half an 
hour. A'little before serving, mix in half 
a table-spoonfiil of lemon pickle or vinegar, 
and pick out the sage leaves. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (I) Parboil the liver 
and lights, slice and fry them along with thin 
bits of bacon. Garnish witii fried parsley. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (2) Wash and dry 
some livoiB, sweetbreads, and some fat and 
lean pieces of pork, baiting die latter with 
a rolling-pin to make them tender; season 
with pepper, salt, and sa^e, and a little onion 
sfareddeid flne ; when mixed, put all into a 
eawl, and festen it tight with a needle and 
diread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. 
Or, serve in slices, with parsley, for a firy. 
Serve with a sauce of Port wine and water, 
and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into 
adidi. 

PIG'S HEAD COLLARED. Very 
nicely scour the head and ears ; take off the 
hair and snoot, and take out the eyes and 
brain ; let it lay for one night in water ; then 
drain it; salt it extremely well, with com- 
mon sak and sakpetre^and let it lie for five 
days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the 
bones; then lay it on a duresser, turning the 
thick end of one side of die head towards the 
Aide end of the other, to make the roU of an 
eqin] size; sprinkle it well with salt and 
white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, 
if mo thmk pnmer, put the pig's feet rotuMf 

IS 



the outtids, wheo boned, or dw thn partR 
of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a ck>th, 
bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite 
tender; then put it under a wei^t, and do 
not take off the covering until it is quite cold. 
If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it 
longer, and let the propiMtion of saltpetre be 
greater, and put in also scmie pieces of lean 
poH(, and then cover it with cow-heel, to 
look like the horn. This may be kept either 
in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled 
with vin^ar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry 
it, either with or without batter. 

PIG'S HEAD, TO POT. Split die 
head of a small pi?, take out die brains, cot 
off the ears, and let it lie in cold water fer 
one day, then boil it till all the bones come 
out; take off tlie skin, keeping it as whole 
as possible. Chop Uie tongue and all the 
meat while it is hot ; season it highly with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; place pait of the 
skin at the bottom of a potting-pan or bowl, 
lay in tiie chopped meat, and put the 'rest of 
tlie skin over tlie top; press it down hard, 
place a small plate upon it, put on that a 
heavy weight, which must not be taken <^ 
till it be perfectly cold. Boil up part of the 
liquor wiUi some vinegar and salt, and keep 
tile head in this pickle. It may be served 
fur breakfast or luncheon, and is eaten with 
vinegar and mustard. 

PIG'S HEAD AND FEET, SOUSED. 

Clean them extremely well and boil diem; 
take for sauce part of the liquor, and add 
vin^ar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, 
and pepper; put in, eidier cut down or 
wliole, tlie head and feet ; boil all togetlier 
(i>r an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. 
It is eaten cokl wiUi mustard and vinegar. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS, AND SKIRTS. 
Clean and wasli diem very nicely, cut the 
kidneys across, and the skirts into small 
square bits; fiy diem a light brown in beef 
dripping, brown a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, with a little flour, and add as much 
boiling water as may be required of grary, 
and an onion minced small. Add die meat, 
a little pepper, salt, and mushroom ketcliup, 
and let it stew till tender. 

PIGEONS. Pigeons should be extreme- 
ly fi*esh ; wlien so, and in good order, diey 
are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet 
pliable; but when they are stale, the vent is 
open, green, and widiered. Tame pigeons 
are considered preferable to the Wild. 

PIGEONS WHOLE, TO BROIL. 
Clean them well, cutoff the wings and neck, 
leaving skin enoosh at the neck to tie ; make 
a ferc^neot with bread crumbs, three or four 



PIG 



146 



PIK 



of the liven, one anchovy, Bome pmley 
minced, and a quarter of a pound of outler; 
season with salt, pepper, and grated noting, 
bind it with the yolk of an egg beaten up, ami 
put into each pigeon a piece the size of a large 
walnut; tie the nock and rump, rub them 
witli bikler, and dust them with pqiper, salt, 
and nutmeg mixed ; broil them over a slow 
fire ; to baste them, pot tliem upon a plate, 
and with a feather brush them over with but- 
ter; broil them of a nice brown color; serve 
them widi melted butter and parsley, or a 
thickened brown gravy. 

PIGEON PIE. Oiop some parsley and 
lemon tliyme, with a few mushrooms; stew 
these in a little butter, into which put half a 
dozen young pigeons, with peppo* and salt 
in their insides, and their legs turned in; 
stew tliem for a few minutes and turn them ; 
when they begin to fry, put in sufficient cari' 
Mommt to cover them, in which let them stew 
till they ai-e well done ; take them from the 
fii*e to cool ; in the meantime make a good 
puff paste, part of which roll out, and place 
round tlie edge of a dish ; lay the pigeons in 
with the yolks of four eggs, boiled bard, and 
pour over them half of die liquor tliey were 
stewed in ; add a little pepper and salt, then 
lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly 
round, the same as you would any otho* pie ; 
on the top form a star of leaves, witli a hole 
in the centre ; e^g it lightly over, and put it 
to bake in a moderate oven, taking care tliat 
it has not too much color ; when done, add 
to the liquor that remained from the pigeons, 
a little butler sauce, make it very hot, and 
pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for 
a remove or side didi. 

PIGEONS WITH RICE AMD Par- 
mesan Cheese. Pick and wash clean 
half a dozen nice piseons, cut them into quar- 
ters; brown some cutter with flour, add to 
it a pint of good stock, with three grated 
onions, some pepper and salt, stew tlie pig- 
eons in tliis till tender, take thon out and 
mix in tlie juice of one leAon, boil and strain 
the sauce over the pigeons. Boil about three- 
quarters of a pound of whole rioe in a pint 
and a half of stock, with half a pound of fresh 
butter, some grated nutmeg andsak; when 
it is tender, add two handfuls of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Put more dian half of the 
rioe equally round the dish in which tlie pig- 
eons are pUoed, and cover them with what 
remains, brush it over with a well-beaten 
agg> and then strew it thickly with more 
Parmesan; cover a flat baking-tin witli sak, 
place the dish upon this, and bute it for nearly 
tfaree^aarters of an hour in a slow oven ; it 
should be of a fine gold color. 

PIGEONS. TO ROAST. Pick, dean. 



tD|pe, and wash then weU ; tPiee them vidi 
tliree feet on, and put into diem some peppsr 
and salt. While roasting, baste them wiA 
butter. A little b^nre serving, dust then 
widi flour, and froth them with butter. 
Roast them for half an hour. Serve iSuam 
with parsley and butler in the dish, or make 
a gravy of the giblets, some minced pairiey, 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Thidkca 
with a little flour and butler; pour it with 
the giblets into the dish, and dien put in the 
pigeons. 



PIGEONS,STEW. (1) Cksantbemi 
ly, truss then as for boiling, put into their in* 
side some pepper and sah ; brown in a saaoe- 
pan three ounces of butter with a tabte^spoon- 
ful of flour, add as much gravy or water as will 
nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with 
die livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and 
some minced parsley, spinach may also he 
added ; let them stew for three-quarters of 
an hour; add, a few minutes before serving, 
the yolks of four or six hard4)oiled ^gs. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (2) Wash and dean 
six pigeons, cut thn into quarters, and pat 
all their giblets with them into a stewpan, a 
piece of butter, a little water, a bit of lenuD- 
peel, two blades of maoe, some diopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper; cover the pan closely, 
and stew them till they be tender; thidtes 
tile sauce with the yolk of an ^g beaten op 
with diree table-spoonfiils of cream and a bk 
of butter dusted with flour; let than stew 
ten minutes longer before ser\'ing. 

PIKE, BAKED. Scrape the acaks off 
a large pike, take out the^lls, and clean it, 
witiiout breaking the skm; stuff the firii 
with a forcemeat made of two handliils of 
grated bread, one of finely-minoed suet, some 
chopped parsley, and a little fresh butler, 
seasoned wiUi pepper, salt, mace, grated 
lemon-ped anda nutmeg, pounded all tqgfidh 
er in a mortar, with two whole ^^. Fasin 
the tail of the pike into its mouth with a 
skewer, then dip it, first into a well-beatei 
egg, and thm into grated bread, which repeat 
twice; baste it over with butter, and bake 
it in an oven. 

If two of them are to be served, make one , 
of them of a green color, by mixing a qnan- 
tily of finely-minced parsley with the gialed 
bread. When the fish is of a fine orowi 
color, cover it with paper until it is done. 
Serve widi a Dutch/auce in a i 



PIKE, BOILED. Wash chsan, sad 
take out the gills; sUiff them with the foflow- 
ing forcemeat : equal parts orf* chopped qy> 
ters, grated bread cnunns, beef suet, or butler, 
two andiovies, a little onion, pepper, sak, 
nutmeg, minoed parsley, sweet marjoram, 



POI 



147 



POR 



Ihyme, and nvoiy; an tggtohioA k, Stuir 
m& jnsides, and sew them up; put than od 
ki boilinff a]t-aod-vnier, with a glaai of vin* 
cgar, and let them boil hatf an hour. Sances; 
oyster, and mehed batter. Th^ may 
be broiled. 



PILLAU, TO MAKE. Wash vwy 
dbaa two poands of rioe, stew it till per* 
fectly tender with a little water, half a 
pound of butior, some salt, whole peppo*, 
doves and maoe, and keep the stewpan 
closely Govered; boil two fowls and one 
pound and a half of bacon, put the bacon in 
the middle, and the fowls on each side, cov- 
er them all over with the rice, and garnish 
with bard4joiled eggs and fried whole 



PLOVERS, TO CHOOSE. Choose 
them by the hardness of the vent, which 
shows that they are fiit; and when new, 
they are limber-footed. In other respects, 
diooee them by the same marks as other 
fewls. There are diree sorts; the gray, 
grena, and bastard plover or lapwing. 

PLOVERS, TO DRESS. Green plov- 
ers should be dressed the same as wood- 
cocks, without drawing, and served on a 
toast. Gray ^Aovens should be stewed. 
Make a forcemeat with the yolks of two 
hard eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, 
artichoke botUxns cut small, and sweet 
herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg: stuff the birds, and put than into a 
saucepan, with just a sufficient quantity of 
good gravy to cover them, one glass of 
white wine, and a blade of mace; cover 
them close, and let them stew vei^ gently 
till they are tender; then take vxp the pk>v- 
eiB, lay them in a dish, keep them hot; pot 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, to Uiicken 
the sauce, let it boil till smooth; squeeze 
into it a little lemon; skim it, and pour it 
over the plovers.. 

POINT DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mi* 

with two bandiuls of flour a glass of sweet 
wine, a table-spoonful of brandy, and warm 
milk, suflicient to make it into a paste ; add 
the well-beaten whites of foui* eggs, a little 
^minced citron, candied orange-peel or cur- 
rants; beat it well together, and drop it 
flirougfa a wide tin fonnel, into boiling lard. 
Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
them. 

POIVRADE. Put into a stewpan a 
lai^ boncfa of parskr^-leaves, some scallions, 
two bay-leaves, a little tl^me, a dessert- 
noonfiil of fine white pepper, a glass oi 
vinegar, and a small quantity of butler; set 
the pao on the fire, and reduce the whole 



tin nearly all gone, when add two hdleMi 
of etpagiufk, and one of slock; reduoa 
these again to the proper coosisteooe, and 
strain it for use. ^ 

PORK. Dairt-fkd porit m the bvt; 
the flesh shoukl kmk white and smooth, and 
the fot be white and fine. In preparing a 
bog for baooo, the ribs are cot, with a very 
little flesh on them, from the side, which 
has the fore and hind leg attadied to it; 
the hind leg is then called a gammon of ba- 
con, but it is generally reserved for a ham. 
On each side there is a large spare rib, 
which is usually divided into two, one call- 
ed the sweet bone, the other the blade bone. 
There are also griskins,- chine, or back 
bone. 

Hog*s lard is the inner fiit of the baeoo 
hog. 

rorken are not so old as hogs; they 
make exoeUmi pickled pork, but are cho- 
sen mwe particularly for roasting. 

To roast a leg, a small onion is minoed 
together with three sage leaves, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and put under the 
skin at the knuckle bone; the skin is cut 
into strips nearly half an inch apart, and 
nibbed over with a bit of butter. If weir- 
ing seven or eight pounds, it will require 
nearly three hoturs to roast. 

A spare nb should be roasted, is basted 
with buttor, and has sage leaves dried, rub- 
bed to a powder, and mixed with salt and 
pepper, sprinkled over it. 

Both a loin and neck are jointed, the 
skin 8C(Nred in narrow strips, and rubbed 
witli butter. If weighing six or seven . 
pounds, it will require rather more than two 
notuvto roast. 

A griskin may be either broiled or roast- 
ed. 

A chine is stufled here and there with 
bread crumbs, mixed with a little butto*, 
and seasoned with some finely shred sage, 
parsley, and thyme, some pqiper and salt. 
The skin is cut into stripe and rubbed with 
butter; it is then roasted, and served with 
apple smice, as ai'e also the preceding 
roasts. 

A porker's head is stufled like a sucking 
pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to 
roast. 

The shouMer may be roasted, but, being 
very fot, it is generally preferred pickled. 

The breast may be made into a pie, or 
broiled. 

To boil hams, they should be put on in 
water, the chill taken off, and simmered for 
four or five hours, taking care not to allow 
them to boil. 

The prime season for pork is from No- 
vember to March. 

Take partknilar care it be done enough: 



FOR 



148 



FOR 



other meati mder-dooe are onpleBssuit, but 
pofk is abBohitdy uneatable; the sigbt of it 
la eomigfa to appal the sharpest appetite, if 
Itssravy has me least tint c^ rediwn. 

Bie carefol of the crackling; if this be 
not carisp, or if it be burned, you will be 
scolded. Pickled Pork, takes Inore time 
than ai^ other meat. If you boy your pork 
ready saltied, ask how many dajrs it has 
been in sak; if many, it will reouire to be 
soaked in water fix* six hours oefore you 
dress it. When you cook it, wa^ and 
scrape it as clean as possible; when deK- 
cately dressed, it is a favorite dish with a^ 
most everybody. Take care it does not 
boil fturt ; if it does, the knuckle will- break 
to pieces, before the thick part of the meat 
is warm through; a leg of seven pounds 
takes three hours and a half very slow sim- 
mering. Skim your pot very careful^, and 
when you take the meat out of the boiler, 
scrape ic clean. 

A leg of nice pork, nicely saked, and 
nicely boiled, is as fine a cold relish as cold 
ham; especially if, instead of cutting into 
the middle wti^ hot, and so letting out 
its juices, you cut it at the knudde: slices 
broiled are a good luncheon, or supper* 

Jllinfi.<Some persons who sett pork ready 
salted have a siHy trick of cutting the knue- 
kleintwo;we suppose that this is dbne to- 
save their sak; mt it lets all the gravy ont 
of the leg; and unless you boil your pork 
merely for the sake of die pot-liquor, vimich 
in this case receives all the goodness and 
strength of the meat, friendly reader, your 
oracle cautions yon to buy no leg of pork 
which is siit at the knuckle. 

^ If pork is not dooeenough, nothing is more 
disagreeable ; if too much, it not only loses 
its color and flavor, but its sobstaikoe be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

It must never appear at table without pan- 
nips; tliey are an excdilent v^etable, and 
deserve to be much soore popular; or carrots, 
turnips, and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c 

06s.  Remonber not to forget the mus- 
tard-poi. 

PORK, LEG, Of eiglit pounds, wffl re- 
quire about three hours : score the skins across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in dia- 
monds), about a quarter of an inch apait; 
sfiuflf the knuckle with sase and onion, minced 
fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 

Do not put it too near the fire : rub a litde 
sweet oil on the skin with a paste-brush, or 
a goose-^ther: this makes the craoklin? 
crisper and browner than basting it with 
dripping; and it will be a better color than 
all toe art of cookery can make it in any 
other way j and this is the best way of pre 



^ 



venting the skin from blisferm^, JtfAA i 
principally oocaskxKi^ ^ ^ being put toir 
near the&re 

PORK Spare Rib, Usually weighs abont 
eight or nine potmds, and will take from tw9 
to three hours to roast it thoroughly ; noteK- 
actly according to its weight, but the fbidb- 
ness of the meat upon it which variea vfSf 
much. Lay -the Aick end oeareaC fo the 
fire. 

A proper bald spare rib of cfi;riit pomir 
weiglit (so called because almost sul the meat 
is fered oflT), with a steady fire, will be done 
in an hour and a quarter. There is so little 
meat on a bald spare rib, that if you have a 
large, fierce fire-, it will be homed belbre if 
is warm throv^. Joint it nicely, and crack 
the ribs across as you do ribs of kunb.. 

When you put it down to roast, dosC ov 
some flour, and baste it with a little butter; 
dry a dozen sage leaves, and rubtbeas diroiKb 
a hair-eieye, wid put them into the top of  
dredging-box ; ana about a quarter of an hoar 
beforetoe meat is done, baste it wkb butler; 
dust with the pulverized sage. 

06s.  ^Make it a seneral rule never to 

nr gravy over any thing that is roasted; 

so doing, the dredging^ &c* is wadhed tilBf 
and it eats insipid. 

Some people earve a spore- rib by cntliiME 
oat in slices the thick part at tiie bottbm or 
the bones. When this meat iacol away> 
the bones may be easily separated, and am 
esteemed very sweet picking. 

Apple sauce, inasbed potatoes, and good 
mustsird are indispensaUe. 

PORK CHEESE. Choose die head of 
a small pig which may weieh about tweba 
pcwDids the quarter. Sprimde over it ami 
the tongues of four pif^, a IktfecoBBsnoB soil 
and a very little saltpetre^ Let them ha 
four days, wash them,and tie them in a detts 
cloth ; boil them until the bones win eona 
easily out of the head, take off the skin aa 
whole as possible, plince a bowl in hot water 
and put in tlie head, cutting it into snail 
pieces^ In the bottom of a round tin, shaped 
like a smaH cheese, lay two strips of elodi 
across each other, they must be long enough 
to fokl over the top when the sliape is fiiH^ 
place the skin itmnd the tin, and narW half 
fill it with tlie meat, which has been highlf 
seasoned with pepper, cayemie and sak } fiii 
in some tongue cut into shoes, then the rest of 
the meat and the remainder of the tongue^ 
draw the cbth tightly aoross the top ; put oa 
it a board or a plate that will fit into the shspt;, 
and place < it a heainr wei^, which nMl 
not be taken off till it be quite oold, Itis 
eaten with vin^;ar and mustard, and aerff^ 
for InnehQOD or sqpper. 



POT 



149 



POT 



< POTATOES. The vegetable kingdon 
affiNnds no food more wholeeome, more easily 
procured, easily prepared, or lets expensive, 
tiian the potato : yet, althou^ this most usefiil 
^WgetaUe is dressed almost every day, in 
almost every fiunily, for (xie plate of potatoes 
that comes to tsdble as it should come, ten are 
spoiled. 

Wash them, but do not pare oir cut them, 
mless they are very large. Fill a saucepan 
half foil of potatoes of equal size (or make 
them so by dividing the loiter ones), put to 
them as much cold water as will cover them 
about an Inch: th^ are sooner boiled, and 
more savory, than when drowned in water. 
Most boiled things are spoiled by imviiig too 
little water, but potatoes are often 8|>oiie(i by 
too much : they must merely be covered, and 
a little allowed for waste in boiling, so that 
they may be just covered at the finish. 

Set them on a moderate fire till thev boil ; 
then take them off, and put them by the side 
of the fiire to simmer slowly till they are soft 
enough to admit a fork (place no dependence 
on the usual test of their skins' cracking, 
which, if they ai'e boiled fost, will happen to 
some potatoes when they ore not half done, and 
the insides quite hard), llien pour the wa- 
ter off (if you let the potatoes remain in the 
water a moment after they are done enough, 
tbey will become waxy and watery), uncover 
the saucepan, and set it at such a distance 
from the fire as will secure it from buitiing; 
their superfluous moisture will evaporate, and 
the potatoes will be peifoctly dry and mealy. 

You may afterward place a napkin, folded 
up to the size of tlie saucepan's diameter, 
over the potatoes, to keep them hot and 
mealy till wanted. 

This method of managing potatoes is in 
every respect equal to steaming them ; and 
th^ are dress^ in half the time. 

There is such an infinite variety of sorts 
and sizes of potatoes, that it is impossible to 
say how long they will take doing: the best 
way is to try them with a fork. Moderate- 
sized potatoes will generally be done enough 
ia fifteen or twenty minutes. 

FOTATOES, NEW. The best way to 
dean new potatoes is to rub them with a 
coarse cloth or flannel, or scrubbing-brush. 

New potatoes are poor, watery, and insip- 
id, till tliey are foil two inches in diameter: 
they are not worth the trouble of boiling be- 
fore midsummer day. 

068. Some cooks prepare sauces to pour 
over potatoes, made with butter, salt, and 
pepper, or gravy, or melted butter and ketch- 
up; or stew the potatoes in ale, or water 
fleasoned with pepper and salt ; or bake them 
with herrings or sprats, mixed with layers 
of potatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, sweet 
herbs, vinegar, and water ; or cut mutton or 

13* 



bflefintodiant^iuidky themina stewpaa, 

and on them potatoes and spices, then anoth- 
er laya: <^ the meat alternately, pouring in 
a little water, covering it up very close, and 
boiling it slowly. 

POTATO BALLS. Mix mashed pota. 
toes with the yolk of an egg ; roll them into 
balk; flour them, or egg and bread-crumb 
them ; and fry them in clean drippings, or 
brown them in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RA(K)UT, Are 

made by adding to a pound of potatoes a 
quarter of a pound of grated ham, or some 
sweet lierbs, or chopped parsley, an onion or 
eschalot, salt, pepper, and a little grated 
noting, or other spice, with the yolk of a 
couple (^ wgs : they are then to be dressed 
as Potato Balls. 

Oba, An agreeable vegetable relish, and 
a good supper-^lish. 

POTATOES BOILED, TO BROIL. 
After boiling potatoes not quite sufficiently to 
send to table, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear fire, and turn them fireqoently till they are 
of a nice brown color all over; serve them 
hot; take care thev do not become too hard, 
as that spoils the flavor. 

POTATOES, CASSEROLE. Boil and 
peel some ^ood mealy potatoes, pound them, 
and mix with them some butter, cream, and 
a little salt, put them about an inch and a 
half hiffh upon a flat dish, and leave an open- 
ing in die centre ; bake them of a light brown 
c(jTor, and take out as much from the centre 
as will admit of a ragout, fi'icassee, or mac- 
aroni, being put into it. 

POTATOES, (X)LCANNON. BoU 
potatoes and greens, or spinage, separately ; 
mash the potatoes; squeeze the greens diy; 
chop them quite fine and mix them with the 
potatoes, with a little butter, pepper, and 
salt; put it into a mould, buttering it well 
first; let it stand in a hot oven for ten min- 
utes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. When 
boiled and peeled, allow four large mealy 
potatoes, half their weight of butter and of 
pounded loaf sugar, two eggs beaten, half 
the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; 
pound the potatoes in a mortar witli the 
other ingnredients; beat the yolks of four 
eggs ; roil up the croquettes ; dip them into 
tlie beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread 
crumbs; in an hour, roll them again as be- 
fore, aiid Cry them in butter; put them upon 
the back of a sieve before the fire to drain. 

POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly 



POT 



150 



POT 



nnooth six or ieven boiled potatoes, add a 
piece of butter tlie size of a walnut, the bea- 
ten yolk of an egg, half an onion pounded, 
a little boiled minced parsley, some |)epper 
and salt; make it into the form of small 
eggs or pears, roU them into a well-beaten 
egg and then into grated bread seasoned, 
with pepper and salt ; fiy them in plenty of 
lard or dripping till they are of a fine brown 
color, lay them before the fire to drain; 
serve tliem with a fringe of fried parsley. 

POTATOES FRIED IN SLICES 
OR RIBBONS. Peel large potatoes; slice 
them about a quarter of an inch thick, or 
cut them in shavings round and round, as 
you would peel a lemon ; dry them well in a 
clean cloth, and fry tliem in lard or dripping. 
Take care that your fat and frying-pan are 
quite clean ; pdt it on a quick fire, watch it, 
and as soon as the lard boils, and is still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keep moving 
them till they are crisp. Take tliem up, 
and lay them to drain on a sieve : send them 
up with a very little salt sprinkbd over them. 

POTATOES FRIED WHOLE. When 
nearly boiled enou^, put tliem into a stew- 
pan with a bit of butter, or some nice clean 
beef-drippines; shake them about (^n (for 
fear of burnmg tliem), till tliey are brown 
and crisp; drain them from the fat. Obs.  
It will be an el^ant improvement previous 
to frying or broilin? the potatoes, to flour 
them and dip them m the yolk of an egg, 
and then roll them in finc-siftod bread- 
crumbs ; tliey will then deserve to be called 

POf ATOES FULL DRESSED. 

POTATOES RAW OR COLD, TO 
FRY. Wash, peel, and put them into cold 
water for one or two hours, cut them into 
slices alx>ut half an inch thick, and fry them 
A light brown in boiling clarified beef suet. 
Cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, may be 
done in the same manner. 

POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and 
pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with 
a little salt, a glass of white wine, some 
pounded sugar, cninamon, and an otmce of 
butter; roll it out with a little flour, cut 
them the size of a wine glass, and fry tliem 
in boiling clarified dripping. Serve them 
with sifted loaf sugar over tliem. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (1) When 
your potatoes are thoroughly boiled, drain 
them quite dry, pick out every speck, &c. and 
while hot, rub them through a colander into 
a clean stewpan. To a pound of potatoes 
put about half an ounce of butter, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of milk: do not make them too 
moist; mix them wrll together. Obs.  



When th6 (Mfatoes ftfe ^ing old and 
specky, and in fiposty weather, diis is dv 
faes^ way of dressing them. Yon may poc 
them into shapes or small tea-cup^; egg 
them with yolk of egg, and brown thiem very 
slightly before a slow fire. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (2) BoiltliB 
potatoes, peel and ma^ them very smoothly; 
put for a lai^ dish four ounces of batter, 
two eggs beat up in half a pint of good miJk, 
and some salt; mix them well togetirer, 
heap it upon a dish with a table-spoon tt> 
give it a rough and rocky appearance, or 
put it on a dish and score it with a knife, 
dip a brush or feather into melted butler, 
and brush over the top lightly ; put it into 
a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually 
for an hour or more. To mash potatoes in 
a plain wav, mix with them two ounces of 
butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. 
When mashed potatoes are not browned, it 
is a gr^t imfn^vement to add pepper, sah, 
and one onion minced as finely as possible; 
lieat tlie potatoes in a saucepan, and serve 
them hot. 

POTATOES, ROASTED. Wash and 

dry your fiotatoes, (all of a size), and pot 
them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster: 
take care not to put tliem too near the fire, 
or they will get burned on the outside before 
they ai-e warmed through. Large ]iotatoe3 
will require two hours to roast them. 
N. B. To save time and trouble, soinc 
cooks half boil them first. 'Hiis is one of 
the best opportunities tlie baezr Ikis to 
rival the cook. 

POTATOES ROASTED UNDER 
MEAT. Half boil large potatf les, drain the 
water fi'om them, and |Mtt tliem into an earth- 
en dish, or small tin pan, under meat that is 
roasting, and baste them with some of the 
dripping: when tliey jire browned on one 
side, turn them and bro-\vn the other; send 
them up round tlie meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED. Mfish po- 
tatoes as directed, then butter some nice 
clean scollop-shells, patty-pans, or tea-cni'S 
or saucers; put in your potatoes; make 
tliem smooth at the top; cress a knife over 
them; strew a few fine bread-crumbs on 
them: sprinkle them with a paste-brush 
with a few drops of melted butter, and then 
set them in a Dutch oven ; when they are 
browned on the top, take them carefliHy out 
of the shells, and brown the other side. 

POTATO SNOW. The potatoes mist 
be free from spots, and tlie whitest you cao 
pick out ; put them on in cold water; when 
they begin to crack, strain die water from 



POT 



151 



POU 



dxHii, and )Mit dwm into ft clean gtewpan by 
ttie side of die fife till diey are quite dry, 
and &U to pieces; nib them through a wire 
sieve on the diah they are to be sent np in, 
and do not disdnrb than afterward. 

POT POURRI. Gather, when perfect- 
ly dryi, a peck of roees; pick off the leaves, 
and strew over them three-quarters of a 
pound of oonmion salt; let them remain 
two or three days, and if any finesh flowers 
are added, some more salt should be sprin- 
kled over them. Mix with tiie roses half a 
ponnd of finely-pounded bay salt, the same 
quantity of allspice, of cloves, and of brown 
BO^, a quarter of a pound 6f gum-beiija- 
rain, and two ounces of orris-root ; add a 
^ass of iH-andy, and any sort of fragrant 
flow^, such as <Hange and lemon flowers, 
rosemary, and a ^reat quantity of lavender 
ftiwers  also white lilies: a green orange 
atuck with cloves may be added. All the 
flowers most Be gathered perfectly dry. 

POTTING BEEF, VEAL, GAME, or 
POULTRY. Take three pounds of lean 
gravy beef, rub it well with an ounce of 
0akpetre, and then a handful of common 
aalt; let it lie in salt for a couple of days, 
nibbing it well each day ; then put it into 
an earthen pan or stone jar that will just 
liold it ; cover it witli die skin and fat diat 
you cut off, and pour in half a pint of wa- 
ter; cover it close with paste, and set it in 
a very slow oven for about four hours. 

When it comes from the oven, drain the 
gravy from it into a basin ; pick out the gris- 
tles and the skins; mince it fine; moisten it 
with a little of the gravy you poured from 
the meat, which is a very strong consomme 
(but rather sak), and it will make excellent 
pease soup, or browning; pound tlie meat 
{xitiently and thoroughly in a mortar with 
some fresh butter, till it is a fine paste (to 
make potted meat smooUi there is nothing 
equal to plenty of elbow-grease) ; seasoning 
it by degrees, as you are lxting it, with 
a little black pepper and allspice, or cloves 
pounded, or mace, or grated nutmeg. 

Put it in pots, pi'ess it down as close as 
possible, and cover it a quarter of an inch 
tliick with clarified butter; and if you wish 
to preserve it a long time, over that th a 
bladder. Keep it in a dry place. 

You may mince a little ham or bacon, or 
an anchovy, sweet or savory herbs, or an 
eschalot, and a little tarragon, chervil, or 
bumet, &c., and pound them with the meat, 
with a glass of wine, or some mustard, or 
farcemeaLt. 

It is a very agreeable and economical 
way of using Uie remains of game or poul- 
try, or a large joint of either roasted or 
boiled beef, veal, ham, or tongue, &c. to 



mince it with some of the fat, or moiita 
it with a little butter, and beat it in a mor* 
tar with the seasoning, Bk, 

Meat that has been boiled down for 
gravies, &c. (which has heretofiNre beeo 
considered the perquisite of the cat) and if 
completely drained of all its succulence, beat 
in a mortar with salt and a little ground 
black pepper and allspice, as dire<Sed in 
die foregomg receipt, and it wiD make as 
good potted beef as meat that has been 
baked till its moisture is enturely extracted, 
which it must be, or it will not keep two 
days. 

Mex.  Meat that has not been previous- 
ly salted, will not keep so long as that 
which has. 

POULTRY. In choosing a turkey, the 
young cock bird is to be preferred ; the best 
have olack legs, and if young, die toes and 
bill are pliable and foci m(i. A hen turkey 
is chosen by the same roles. 

Fowls witli black legs are the best; if 
fresh, the vent is close and dark; if young, 
the combs are bright in the color, and tbie 
legs smooth  die spurs of a young cock are 
short. 

A goose, if young and fine, is plump in 
the breast, the fat white and soft, the feet 
yellow, and but few hairs upon them. 

Ducks may be chosen by the same rules, 
and are hard and thick on the breast and 
belly. 

* Pigeons diould be quite fresh, the breast 
plump and fat, the feet elastic, and neither 
flabby nor discolored at the vent. 

To projiare a turkey for dressing, every 
plug is carefully picked out ; and in drawing 
turkeys and fowls, care must be taken not 
to break the gall bag, nor the gut which 
joins the gizzard, as it is impossible tp re- 
move the bitteroess of the one, or tlie gritti- 
ness of the other. Tlie hairs are sin^d off 
witli white paper; the Icg-lione is oroken 
close to the foot, and tlie sinews drawn out 
 ^a clodi is then put over the breast, and 
the bone flattened with a rolling-pin, the 
liver and gizzard, made delicately clean, are 
fastened into each pinion. A stuffing made 
with sausage meat, adding some grated 
bread, and mixing it with die beaten yolks 
of two egg*, or a stuffing as for a fillet of 
veal, is tlien put into the breast, and die 
turkey, well robbed over with flour, is i>ut 
down to roast. It is basted constantly with 
butter, and wlicn the steam draws towards 
the fire, it is nearly done ;  it is then dredg- 
ed with flour, and basted with more butter, 
sen'ed with gravy in the disli, and garnislied 
with sausages, or with forcemeat balls if 
veal stuffing is used, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. 

To boil a turkey. After being nicely 



n 



POC 



m 



PR9EB?ES 



fJeaned, it in trumd with the feg* drawn in 
mder tiie akin, stuffed with a fiircemeat, as 
for veal, adding a few chopped oysters; 
then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and serv- 
ed with oyster, white or oeleiy sauce, poured 
over it, and also some in a sauce tureen. 
Boiled liam, tongue, or pickled pork, is eat- 
en with it. A large-sized turkey will require 
more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with 
celery sauce, is stuffed and trussed neatly, 
laid all over witli slices of bacon, tied in a 
cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, 
butter, and lemon-juice added. It is served 
thickly covered with celery sauce. 

Turkey poults are stuffecl and roasted in 
the same manner as a full^own turkey. 
Tliey will requii-e rather more than an hour 
to roast. Tliey are dressed widi the heads 
twisted undei' the wing, as are also turkeys 
sometimes, but it seems an injudicious cus- 
tom, as tlie side on which the bead is cannot 
he nicely browned, and in carving, the, blood 
from the nesk is apt to mingle widi llie 
gravv. 

To roast a fowl. It is picked, nicely 
cleaned, and singed; tlie neck is cut off 
close by the back ; tlie fowl is then washed, 
and if a large one, stuffed willi ftMtxmeat. 
It is trussed and dredged with flour ; and 
when put down to roast, basted well witli 
butter, and frothed up. When tlie steam is 
observed to draw towards tlie fire, it is 
sufliciently done ; served with gravy in die 
disli, and bread sauce in a butter tureen. 
A good-sized fowl will require above an hour 
to roast. 

Chickens are roasted as tlie above, and 
served with gravy in tlie dish, which is 
^nished with fried eggs, and bread cauce 
in a sauce tureen; they will require from 
half an hour to three-quarters to roast. 

To boil a fowl. Wlien nicely singed, 
waslidd, and trussed, it is well dredged with 
flour, and put on in boiling water, and if a 
large one, boiknl neai-Iy an liour. It is 
served with parsley and butter, white, or 
liver sauce. 

Two boiled fowls, served with a tongue 
between them, make a handsome top dish. 

Boiled chickens are improved by being 
stuffed, and will require nearly lialf an hour 
to boil. 

To roast a goose. After being well 
cleaned, picked, and singed, it is washed, 
made perfectly drv, and stuffed with about 
four table-spoonfuu of grated bread, an on- 
ion finely minced, together with three sage- 
leaves, seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
mixed witli a well-beaten e^; or, the 
stuffing is made of boiled mashed potatoes, 
seasoned in the same way as tlie other, and 
mixed with a beaten egg. If roasted on a 
spit, each end is tied on tightly ; it is basted 
at first with a little bit of butter, after which 



the fill thftt drapi from it is Med. It h 
served with gravy in the diib, and ap|il 
sauce in a sauce tureOD. A hurge gooee wifl 
require an hour and a half to roast. At t^ 
ble, an opening Is cut in the apnm, and  
glass of Port wine, with which is naixed a 
mr^ tea-epoonful oi'made mostard, is poor- 
ed mto tlie body of the goose. .Thie is also 
an improvement to duclu. 

Aereen gooee, about two or three moodit 
old, is seasoned with pepper and salt oiily 
and requires to be basted with batter. It 
requiis about an hour to roast. 

To roast ducks. The^ are niody picked, 
cleaned, singed, and washed, seascxied with 
pepper and salt ; or stuffed, and sia*ved with 
gtavy, as directed in pp. 66, 67. A duck 
may be boifed for nearly an hour, and served 
with onion sauce poured over it. 

PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS. MJ. 
All sweetmeats sbouki be preserved in a 
brass pan, which must be well scoured with 
sand and vin^pu', washed with hot water, 
and wiped perfectly dry bdbre it is need. 

An iron plate or stove is preferable to a 
fire fur preserving on; and by boilmg the 
fruit quickly, the fyrm, cokir, and mnarp 
will be better preserved, wad there will be 
less waste than in sbw boiling. A roood 
wooden stick, smaller at one end than at 
the other^ in Scotland called a thevil, is 
better adapted for stirring su^r or preserves 
witli than a silver spoon, which last is only 
used for skimming. That there may be no 
waste in taking off the scum, it is put ihroqgh 
a fine silk sieve, or tlirougb a hair sieve, 
with a bit of muslin laid into it; the dear 
port will run into the vessel placed bdow 
and may be i^eturued to the preserving* 
})an.> 

A silver soup kidle is used dor putting pre> 
serves into the jars, which shouki be of 
bi*own stone, or of white wedgewood ware. 
After tlie jellies or preserves are put in, tfaqr 
must not be moved till quite cold, when they 
are covered with a piece of white paper, cut 
so as to fit into the jar, and dipped into brandy 
or nim. They are then stored in a cool dry 

fkce, and sbouki be kxiked at occasionally, 
f in a few weeks thev be observed to fir- 
ment, the sirup should be first strained finom 
the fruit, then boiled till it is tbuk, and 
again poured over the fruit, previously put 
into clean jars. 

Sugar, low in pnob, and consequentFjr 
coarse in quality, is for from being cheapest 
in tlie end ; while that which is most refin* 
ed is always the best. White sugars abould 
be dioeen as shining and as ckise in te&tara 
as possible. 

The best sort of brown sugar has a hrigbt 
and gravelly appearance. 
A jelly-bag is made of half a square oC 



PRE8SIIVSS 



16S 



PRESERVES 



luuct foided hy the eorMn, aad one lUe 
Mhived np; the lop bonod with tape, and 
hat kMjpB also of tape wwed oa eo as to 
huag upon a etaad made of four ban of 
nood, each thirty^eix inches in height, fost- 
eiied with four bars at the top, each meas- 
oring ten inches, with hooks npcm the cor* 
nen. Twelve inches from the bottom foor 
more bars are pboed. A pan or basin is 
put imdemeath to receive the juice or jelly 
M it drope through the bag. 

To save Sugar in Preteromg Cher" 
riesy Green Chigest Vameons, CurranU, 
and Raapberriee. Gather the frait iierfectly 
iry, and to a pound allow five ounces (^finely* 
poonded loaf sugar ; put a layer of fruit into a 
wide-fnoothed bottle or jar, and tbenone of 
sn^ar, till the vessel is fiUl; tie over it tightly 
two folds of sound bladder, and put them into 
aeopperor pan, with straw in the bottom, 
and water as high as the necks, and let them 
ennmer for tiwee hours. When the water 
eoole, take out the bottles, and keep them 
in a cool dry place. 



FRUIT, WITHOUT 

SUGAR. Take damsons when not too 
ripe; pick oflF the stalks, and put them into 
Wide-mouthed gbss bottles, taking care not 
to put in any but what are whole, and with- 
out blemish; shake diem well down (other- 
wiee the bottles will not be half full when 
done) ; stop the bottles with new soft corks, 
not too tight; set them into a very slow oven 
(nearly ooM) four or five hours ; the slower 
they are done the better; when they ^leffin 
to rfurink in the bottkss, it is a sure sign that 
the fruit is thoroughly vrarm: take them 
oat, and before they are cold, drive in the 
corks <)uite tight ; set them in a bottkMrackor 
badtet, with Uie moqth downwards, and they 
wil) keep good several years. 

Green gooseberries, morello cherries, eor- 
iwitB, green gages, or biillaee, may be done 
^ same way, 

Obs,  ^If uie corks are good, and fit well, 
there will be no occasion (or cementing 
them; bntshottkl bungs bansed^it will be 



APPLES. (1) Pare, core, 

lind quarter six pounds of good hard bak- 
ing apples; finely pound four pounds of kmf 
Wisar } put a layer of each alternately, with 
iKuf a pound of the best white ginger, into a 
Jar; ktit remaiBeight-and-forty mwrs ; infiise, 
for half that time, in a little boiling water, 
half a quarter of a pound of bruised white 
gjneer; strain and boil the liquor with the 
apfHes till they kx^ clear,, and the sirup rich 
and thick, which may be in about an hour. 
Take ofi* the 9Com as it risep. When to be 
wieDy pick (mt ib wbiilie (|^w|er^ 



PRESERVED APPLES. (S) Wei^ 

equal qoaatitiesof (pood brown sugar and of 
apples; peelfOme, and mince them small. Boil 
the tnmu, alkwing to every three pooods a 
pint or water ; skim it well, and boil it prettf 
thick; then add die apples, the grated peel 
of one or two lemons, and two or three 
pieces of white ginger; boil till die apples 
fall, and kwk clear and yelk>w. This pre- 
serve will keep for years. 



APPLES, GREEN (ID- 
LINGS. Gather the codling when not 
bigger than French walnuts with die stalks 
ai^ a leaf or two on each. Put a handfiil of 
vine leaves into a preserving-pan, then a kyer 
of codlinss, then vine leaves, and then cod- 
lings and vine leaves alternately, until it is 
fiill, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed 
on the top, and fill the pan with spring wa- 
ter; cover it ckise to keep in the steam, moi 
set it on a sk>w fire till the apples become 
soft. Take them out, and pare oflF the 
rinds with a penknife, and then put them 
into the same water again with the vino 
leaves, but taking care that the water is 
become quite oold, or it will cause them 
to crack; pot in a little abm and set 
them over a sk>w fire till they are greeny 
when, take them out and lay them on  
sieve to drain. Make a good sirup and 
give them a gentle boil Uiree successive 
days; then put them in smaU jers with 
brandy paper over them, and tie them 
down tight. 



  APPLES, GoLDKii PiPPins. 
Take the rind of an orange and boil it .very 
tmder ; lav it in cokl water for three days; 
lake two down golden pippins, pare, core, 
and quarter them, and boil them to a strong 
jelly, and run it throu^ a jelly-bag till it is 
ckttur; take the same quantity of pippins, 
pare and core them, and put three pounds 
of k)af sugar in a preserving-pan with a 
pint and a half (^spring water; let it boil ; 
skim it well and put in your pippins, with 
the orange rind cut into long thin slips ; 
dien let them boil fiist till the sugar becomes, 
thick and will almost candy ; tjben put in a 
pint and half of pippin jelly and noil last 
till die jelly is clear ; then squeexe in the. 
juice oi a fine lemon ;> give the whole an-, 
other boil, and put die pippins in pots or 
glasses widi the- orange-peel. 

LeoKNi-peel may bo used instead ci *-. 
ange, but then it must only be boiled, ami 
not soaked. 



, APRICOTS. Pare your ap% 

ricots, and stone what you can ^raole, thcQ 
give them a light boiling in wat propor- 
tioned to the Quantity of fivit, only jnrt 
enouj^^ thealsKethpwei^of theapioMft 



PRESERVES 



154 



PRESERVES 



In sugar, and take the liquor in which diev 
have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till 
it comeB to a Binip, and give diem a light 
boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. 
When the sirup jellies it is enough; then 
take up the apricote and cover them with 
the jelKr; put cut paper over them, and lay 
them down when cold. 



BLACKCURRANTS. Gather 

the currants upon a dry day; to every 
pound allow half a pint of red currant 
juice, and a pound and a half of finely- 
pounded loaf sc^;ar. With scissors clip off 
the lieads and talks; put the juice, sugar, 
and currants into a preserving pan ; simke 
it frequently till it boils; caralidly remove 
tlie fruit from the sides of the pan, and take 
off the scum as it rises; let it boil for ten or 
fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eat* 
eo with cream, and made into tarts. 



 ; CHERRIES. To a pound of 

cherries allow three-quarters of a poond 
of pounded loaf sugar; carefully stone dieni, 
and as they are done, strew part of the su- 
^ar over them ; boil them fai^ with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, till the fruit is dear 
and the sirup thick; take off the scum as it 
rises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes 
in an equal quantity of sugar, which has 
bemi fNTevioiisly clarified and boiled candy 
high. Part of tlie kernels may be added. 



CUCUMBERS. Take hrge 



nately a layer of damsons, and one of sugar; 
tie tnem over with bladder or strong paper, 
and put them into an oven after the oread is 
withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven 
is cold. The folbwing day stram off the 
simp, and boil it till thick. When eoM, 
put the damsons one hy one into small jars, 
and pour over them the simp, which must 
cover them. Tie them over with 
bkidder. 



DAMSONS. (2) Prick them 

with a needle, and boil them with snigar 
tlie same proportion as in the receipt ta 
preserve damsons, till the shrop will jelly. 
Carefiilly take off all the scum. 



GREEN GAGES. Pot the 



plums into boiling water, pare off thcp , 
and divide them ; take an equal quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, strew half of it over thv 
fivit; let it remain some hours, and, vritb 
the remainder of the suear, put it into a. 
preserving pan; boil till the plums look 
quite clear, take off the scum as it nses, 
and a few minutes before taking them off 
the fire, add the kemds. 



and fresh-gathered cucumbers; split them 
jdown and take out all the seeds; lay them 
in salt and water that will bear an m, 
three days; set them on a fire with cokl 
water, and a small lump of alum, and boil 
them a few' minutes, or till tender; drain 
them, and pour on them a thin sirap; let 
them lie two days; boil the simp again, and 
put it over the cucumbers; repeat it twice 
more; then have ready some nsh clarified 
Algar, boiled to a blow ; put in the cucumbers, 
aimmer it five minutes; set it by till next 
4ay; boil the sirup and cucumbers again, 
and set them in giajBses for use. 



LARGE SWEET GREEN 

GoosEBERRiBS. (1) Weigh equal pro- 
portions of sugar and of fruit ; with a pen- . 
knife slit the gooseberries on one side, and 
take out aU the seeds; put them into a pre- 
serving pm with cold water, scakl them; 
pour off the water when cold; put over and 
under them vine leaves, with more cold water; 
set thorn over the fire to green. Churifythesn- 
gar ; put the gooseberries into a deep jar, and 
pour the boilii^ sirup over them; in tw* 
days pour it off, boil, and put it over the 
fruit ; repeat this till the simp becomes tbick, 
then put than into small jurs. 



CUCUMBERS, SMALL. 

Weigh equal prc^rtions of small green cu- 
cumbers and of fine kaf sugar, cwrify it; 
rub tlie cucumbers with a cloth, scaki them 
In hot water, and, when cold, put them into 
the sinip, with some white ginger and the 
peel of a lemon ; boil them gently for ten 
minutes. The following day just let them 
boil, and repeat this thiiee times, and the 
)ast, boil them till tender and clear. 



-^^^ DAMSONS. (1) To every pound 
lof dunsons allow three-quanns of a pound 
of poimded hnf sugar; |Nit ioto jary altar* 



LARGE SWEET GREEN 

Gooseberries. (2) Gather the kirgest- 
siied goosebories, and allow an equal quan- 
tity ot pounded kttf sugar; cut the gooseber- 
ries in half, and take out the seeds ; wet tha 
sugar with a little wator, and put aU together 
into a preserving pan; carefulhr stir and 
scum them, and boil them till the sinqp ia 
dear and the finuit soft. 



GOOSEBERRIES. The tope 

and taib being removed from the gooeebo^ 
ries, alk)w an equal quantity of fioely-oounded 
kiaf sugar, and put a layer of eai^ aMennlo* 
Iv into a huge deep jar; poarinloitasaandk 
dripped currant juice, either red or white an 
will dissolve the sugar, adding i|^ wei^ an 
sugar; the Iblbwiiw day pnt aU into a pie* 
serving pan and bou it. 



GREEN PEAS. Put into a 



FO0DllfOS 



155 



PDDDIIfGS 



iiirfpan of boiling waler freili gathered 
and fiiBBh-beUed pew, but not very young ; 
as toon aa tbey boil iqi* pour off the waler, 
nd put them upon a large dry cloth folded, 
and then upon another, that they may be 
perfecdy dry without being bniieed; let 
them lie sooie time befoie the fin, and then 
put tliem into anall paper bags, each coo- 
taining about a pint, and hang them up in 
the kitchen. Before using, soak them for 
two or three houra in water, and then boil 
them as directed for green peas, adding a 
little bit of butter, when they are put on to 
boil. 

PRESERVED JARGONELLE PEARS. 
Gather pears with stalks before they are 
<|uile ripe ; allow equal quantities of fine 
loaf sugar and of firuit. Pare the pears as 
thinly as poesiUe, keeping on the stnlks; 
careniUy cut out the black top; as they are 
peeled put them into cold water. Put cab- 
bage Iraves into the bottom of a preserving- 
pao; hy in the peani, cover them with 
cold waier and one or two cabbage leaves 
mpon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and 
lay them upon a dish. To six pounds <^ 
si^ar, allow a pound of water, boil and 
skim it; then add one ounce of white gin- 
ger, previously soaked in hot water, and 
scraped clean, add the juice and thinly par- 
ed rinds of two lemons. Boil the sirup ten 
miootes, put in the oears, and let them boil 
% twenty mmutes ; take them out, put them 
iMo a bowl or deep dish, boil the sirup 
eight minutes, and when cold pour it over 
the pears; eover them with paper; in four 
days pour off the sirup, boil it eight miimles, 
and pour it over the pears when odd. In 
four days repeat this process, and do it a 
third time ; then stick a clove in each pear, 
where the bbbck top was cut out. Put them 
into jars, divide the ginser and lemon-peel, 
and pour on the sirup watba cold. 



RED PEARS. Parboil a doc 

en of pound pears in water; peel them. 
Clarify the same weight of fine loaf sugar 
that there is of peam ; add a puit of Port 
wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with 
a little cochineal, a few cloves, and a stick 
of cinnamon ; boil the peam in this till they 
become clear and red; take them out, boil 
up the simp, strain, and put it cnw the 



PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 
Great nicety is to be observed in prepar- 
ing eveiy material used for boiled or baked 
puddings. 

The 9ggB require to be well beaten, iat 
whidi purpose, if many are to be done, a 
whisk 18 used; if few, a three-pronged fork. 
The floor it dried and sifted. The cumnta 



are carefidly cleaned, fay patting them irito 
a cullender, and pouring warm water ow 
them; if very dirty, this is to be repeated 
two or tliree times, and after beinff dried hi 
a dish before the fire, they are nibbed m a 
clean coarse clodi, all the stalks and stones 
picked out, and then a little flour dredssd 
over them. The raisins are stoned with a 
small sharp-pointed knife ; it b cleansed in 
a basin of water, which also receives the 
seed. The pudding cloth must be kept es- 
pecially clean, or it will impart an unpleas- 
ant taste to anything that is boiled in it; 
and wlien taken off a pudding, it ought im- 
mediately to be laid in cold water, and af- 
terwaids well washed with soda r pearl- 
aslies in hot water. Just before being used 
for a rice, bread, or batter puddii^, it 
should be dipped into hot water. Mining, 
shaken, and well dredged with flour; ami 
for a phim, su^ pudding, or any sort of 
fiuit pudding in paste, it must he buttered 
before being floured. 

The virater should boil quick when the 
pudding is put in ; and it should be moved 
about for a minute, for fear the ingredients 
should not mix. 

When the pudding is done, a pan of cold 
water should be rdy, and the pudding 
dipped into it as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, which will (Hvent its adhering to the 
cloth. 

A bread podding should be tied loose; 
if batter, it must he tied tight over, and a 
battor pudding should be strained throi^ a 
coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, 
the esgs only. If you boil the podding ia 
a basin or pan, take care that it is always 
well buttered. 

When you make your puddings wvthoot 
e^, they most have as little milk aa wiH 
mix, and must boii for three or four hours. 
A few spoonfuls of small beer, or one of 
yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Yoor 
puddings will always be much lighter if yoo 
beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long 
and separately. You may, if you please, 
use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfols will sup- 
ply the place of one esg; tJie snow may be 
taken up (torn any ciran spot before it is 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
the sooner it is used the better. 

All puddings in paste are tied tightly, but 
other puddings kxMeljr, in the cloth. When 
a pudding is to be boiled in a shape, a piece 
of buttered white paper is put upon the top 
of it, before the tioiired cloth is tied oo. 
The pan, dish, or shape, in which the pod- 
ding is to be either boiled or baked, murt 
always be buttered before it is filled. It is 
an improvement to puddings in general to 
let them stand some time after being prepared 
for boiling or baking. When a pod- 



FfTDDIiroS 



156 



PUDDmOB 



ding i to be boiled, it imnt be pot on io a 
covered pot, in plenty of boiling water, and 
never for a moment be allowed to be off the 
boil antil ready to be served. Ai the water 
wastes, more, and always boiling, must be 
added. A plum pudding is the better for 
beingnnixed the day before it is to be boiled. 
It may be useful to observe that this pudding 
will keep for months after it is dressed, if 
the cloth be albwed to remain upon it, and 
if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet ot 
foolscap paper, and dien hung up in a cool 
place. Wben about to be used, it must be 
pot into a clean cloth, and again boiled for 
an hour ; or it may be cut inta slices, and 
broiled as wanted. If in Ix'eaking eggs a 
bad one should accidentally drop into the 
basin amongst the rest, the whole will be 
spoiled ; and therefore they should be broken 
one hy one into a tea-cup. When the 
whites only of eggs are required for a jelly, 
or other things, the yolks, if not broken, will 
keep good for tliree days, if the btsln they 
are in be covered. 

A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is pref- 
erable to wood for rollin? out paste on. 
The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other im- 

Element used in these processes, must be 
ept (mrticularly clean ; tliey should always 
be washed immediately after being used, 
and tlien well dried. Before using butter 
for paste, it is laid for some time into cold 
water, which is clianged once or twice. 
When salt butter is used, it is well worked 
in two or tliree waters. If it should not be 
convenient to make the paste immediately 
before it is baked, it will not sufler from 
standing, if made early in the morning, and 
the air excluded from it, by putting lirst a 
tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and 
above tliat a folded taole-clotli. To ascer- 
tain if the oven be of a proper heat, a little 
bit of paste may be bakeld in it, before any 
tiling else be put in. Puff paste requires 
radier a brisk oven. If too hot it binds the 
surface and prevents the steam from rising, 
and if too slow it becomes sodden and flat. 
Raised crusts require a quick oven; pufis 
and tartlets, which are filled with preserved , 
fruit, are sufficiently done when the paste is 
baked. Wlien lai^ pies have been in the 
oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over 
them to prevent their hieing burned. 

PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half 
of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small 
lemon ; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, 
and put it into the cream, and boil it for 
ei|bt minutes, stirring constantly; when 
thick add a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a tea-epoonfol of gra- 
ted notmes, and four well-beaten eggs; beat 
h all iK-ell together for some minutes. It 
nnyba baked or boiled. 



APRICOT. Take six 



thirty nice fine red apncoCs^ cut them m 
halves, and take out the stones, and rafl 
them in a pan with four ounces of powdered 
siwar. Prepare your crost, line your mould 
with it, put in your apricots, and finish die 
same as in the receipt for Apple Padding a 
la Drancaiae, 



ALMOND, BAKED. Steep 

four ounces of crumbs of bread sliced 
in a pint and half of cream, or grate dn 
bread; thrni beat half a pound of Dlancked 
almonds very fine, till they become a paste, 
with two tea-spoonfuls of orange-dower wa- 
ter; beat, up the yolks of eight eggs, and the 
whites of four ; mix all well togeroer ; pat in 
a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir 
in three or four ounces of melted butter; 



pot it over the fire, and keqs stirring onifi 
it is thick ; lay a sheet of paper at the bottam 
of a dish, and pour in the ingredicDts. To 
bake half an hour. 

ALMOND. Bfonch and beat 



a pound of sweet almonds with a litUe 
rose-water, mix a pound of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, lialf a pound of butter, and the 
yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream, cth 
lored with a very little saffron, add it to the 
eggs and a little fiour, knead it well, and 
Xnea put in the almonds, beating it up tiH 
all is mixed together. Boil it for half aa 
hour in a' buttered ckith. 



AMBER. Put a poond of 



butter into a saucepan, with tbree-ciuartas 
of a pound of powder-ei^r; when oodted 
and well mixed together, add the yolks of 
fifteen ^gs beatai, and as mnch candied or> 
ange beaten to a paste as will givecoksranl 
flavor to it. Line the dish with paste fir 
turning out, and whoi filled with the above, 
lay a crust over, as you would a pie, aad 
bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot 
or cold. 



APPLE. (1) Weigh one 



pound and three-quarters of ap pl es , pire, 
core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh 
also ten ounces of brown sugar; make s 
suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edgei 
than in the middle, and sufficiendy large ts 
lay into a two-quart basin, prevtoiMiy fast* 
tered ; put in the apple and sugar altemnto> 
ly, wet tlie edges of the paste, and fold k 
closely over; dredge it with floor, and ties 
pudding cloth over the top of a Inain; bd 
it for three hours. A light paste mm ht 
made with flour, half its quantity in biuE sf 
grated bread and suet, mixing it with myk 
or water, and, instead of apples, cantum, 
damsons, or any other firuit, mi^ be 
ad in it. 



9nmH0B 



iw 



BODMMNI 



I. .  APPLE. i%) Ftal and UQK 
mat very brge apples, tew tbem in nx ta- 
UBHBpoonfiiki of watfer, with the rind of a 
leoMNi; when aoA, beat them to a pulp, add 
six, omoee <^ melted finerii butter, the aame 
f good fafown augar, six weU-beateo tgffi, 
half a wioe-gbsB of brandy, aad a tea- 
apoonfiii of lemoo-juioe; line a dish with a 
fNiff paste, and when baked, stick all over 
the top thin chips of candied citron and 



APPLE. (8) Makea batter widi 

two cfSB, a pint of milk, and three or four 
^qpooiwila <^ flour; pour it into a deep disb. 
Hid having pared six or eight small ap|^, 
pfawse tbem whole in the ba^r and bake it. 



APPLE, BOILED. CSiopfour 

Omioes of beef suet very fine, or two ounces 
of batter, lard, or dripping ; but the suet 
makes the best and lightest crust ; put it 
on the paste-board, with eight ounces of 
flour, and a salt-spoonftil of aak, mix it well 
together with vouir hands, and then put it all 
ef a heapj ana make a hole in the middle ; 
break <Hie ^g in it, stir it well together 
with your fisj^, and by d^^rees iniuw as 
mgch water as wilt make it of a stiff paste: 
nil it out two or three times, widi the roll- 
in^-pia, aad then roll it larse enough to re- 
oeive thirtem ounces of appws. It will look 
neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, 
than when boiled in a pudding-cloth, well 
floored; boil it an hour and three-quarters: 
but the sorest way is to stew the apples first 
in a stewpaa, with a wine-glassful c^ water, 
aad then one hour will boil it. Some people 
like it flavored widi cbves and lemon-peel, 
aad sweeten it with two ounces of sugar. 
Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, and cher- 
ries, damsoos, and various pfaims and fruits, 
are made into puddings with the same crust 
directed for apple puddings. 



APPLE, A LA FRAN- 

CAISE. To make the entrem^ proper- 
hr, it is neoeasary to liave a mould in the 
torm of a dome four inches deep and six in 
diameter; this mould and its lid should be 
mreed all cfwr, the same as a skimmer. 
Then sfaookl be a rim round the lid of the 
dome that k may cover it so closely that ail 
air may be excluded. 

Feel six and thirty small red apples 
and cut them into quarters; toss them in a 
fltewpan with four ounces of fine sugar 
^ofver which amst be grated the rind of an 
orange), and four oenoes of butler luke- 
warm; then place the stewpan over the 
fltove, with fire on the cover. Wiien your 
apples are done, pour them into a dish. 
Whilst they are cooling mix up three-cniar- 
tenof apoandof stiff paste; then roU out 

14 



half eC it ta the ihiefaHM of ihi ^Mi<rffl| 
inch. With this onist line the uHide ol 
voor mouU, which must .be peevMiasly ml 
buttered. Be carefld that the paste Iqra 
quite flat, leaving a piece aV raond the edge 
of the moakl, then pot ia the best quartan 
of tlie appkis, and fill op the aioaki with the 
rest of the apples and their lainor, then raB 
out the rest of the paste verv tarn, iato two 
parts, cut in rounds. Sligatly moislen the 
paste which you have left round the edoe of 
the mould, and p lace upon it one of the 
rounds of paste, pmching the edges carefii^y 
together, thea aiightly moislen, and plaoa 
upon it your other round piece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this with the others to 
make it quite close^ then cover them with 
the lid of die mouU well buttered. 

Now, turn your mould over into the mid- 
dle of a napkin, and tie up the oomers of it 
ckwe over the top bf the dome, and put it 
into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine 
wide) foil of boiling water; ana let it be 
kept constantlv boihng for an hour and a 
half; when it has boileid fin* this time, take 
it oitt of the saucepan, untie the napkin, 
take out the mould, remove the lid, phwe 
the mould on a dish, and then oarefoUy take 
it off from the pudduig; strew fine sugar all 
over your pudding, aiu serve it quite hot. 

ARROW-ROOT. From a quart 

of new milk take a small tea-cu|^u], aad 
mix it with two lar^ spoonfols of arrow- 
root. Boil the remainder of the milk, aad 
stir it amongst the arrow-root; add, whoi 
nearly cold, four well-beaten yolks of eggi, 
with two ounces of pounded loaf su|^, 
and Uie same of fresh butter broken into 
small bits ; season with grated autm^. Mix 
it well together, and Ittke it in a buttoiad 
dish fifteen or twenty minutes. 



AUNT MARY'S. Of bkwm 



raisins stoned, currams nicely cleaned, 
finely minced, bread gnAed, apples minced, 
and Drown sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
each ; four welUbeaten eggs, a tea-qxxmfid 
of pouslded ginger, half a one of salt, half a 
nutmeg giated, and one glass of brandy; 
mix aU the ingredients well, and boil it in a 
ck>th for two hours. Serve with a sauce of 
melted butter, a gbss of wiae, and some 
sugar. 

BARLEY. Take a pound of 



pearl barley well washed, three quarts of 
new milk> one quart of cream, and half a 
pound of double refined siigar, a grated not- 
meg, and some salt; mix them well together, 
then put them into a deep pmi, and be^e it ; 
then take it out of the oven, and pot into it 
six eggs well beat^, six ounces of beef mar- 
row, and a quarter of a pouod of i^ated 



9V9mwm 



UBS 



fiOeMMM 



farilQd; nhcdl^miHto^ieaiiwklhMiWiik? in- 
to another pan, bake it again, and it will be 
encellent. 

 ^ BATTER, BAKBD OR BOIL- 

XD. Break ifai-ee aps in a basin with 
M much ealt as wilf lie on a sixpence; 
beat them w^ together, and then aad four 
oances of ^Ur. ; beat it into a smooth bat- 
ter, and by degrees add half a pint of milk: 
kave your eaneepan ready boiKng, and bat- 
let an earthen vaoiffld well, put the podding 
in, and tie it tight oiver with a  podding- 
cbth, and boll it one hor and a quarter. 
Or, put it in a dish that you have well bat- 
tered and bake it three-quarters of an boar. 
Gnrraoits washed and picked clean, or rai- 
sins stoned, are good in this pudding, and 
It is then called a black cap: or, add loaf 
sugar, and a Kttle nutmeg and ginger with- 
out tlie fruit, -^ it is very good that way; 
serve it with wine sauce. 



 BATTER. Take six ounces 

of 6ne flour, a little sah, and tliree eggs ; 
beat it well with a little milk, added 
by degrees till the batter become smooth; 
make it the thickness of cream ; put into 
a buttered pie^ish, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour: or into a buttered and floured 
basin, tied over tight witli a cloth: boil one 
and a half hour, or two hours. 



BATTER, Without 

Mix six spoonfuls of floor with a 



kp vteove: tbe.iOdAr^lHrfrit 
wards in a deep dish, and when wwrted 
away the bttsin or mould. 



EGGS. 

small portion of a quart of milk; and when 
snoooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfols of grated 
ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir 
all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit 
may be added or not. 



BEEF-STEAK. Get rurap- 

tteaks, not too thick, beat them with a chop- 
per, cut them into pieces about half the size 
of your hand, and trim off" all the skin, sin- 
ews, &c. ; have ready an onion peded and 
chopped fine, likewise some potatoes peeled 
and cut into slices a qwuter of Im inch 
thick ; nib ^ inside of a basin or an oval 
plain mould with butter, sheet it witli paste 
hs directed f^r boiled puddings, season the 
Meaks with pepper, salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; put in a layer of steak, then ano^^r 
of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasion- 
Idly throwing in part of the chopped onion ; 
luid to it half a gill of mushroom k^chup, a 
table-spoonful of iemon-pickle, and half a 
gill of water or veal brotli ; roll out a top, 
and close it well to prevuit the water getting 
in ; rinse a clean ckMh in hot water, sprinkle 
a little flour over it, and tie up tlie pudding; 
have ready a hu^ pol of water boiling, 
9^ k b, wMl<boil it two boors and a hatf; 



BEEF.STAK,BA&D. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and floor, 
or, whieb is much better, potatoes boiled aad 
nashed through a cuUender; lay a liale f 
it at the bottom of thedish; then put in the 
steaks, prepoied as above, and very wril 
seasoned; poiu* the remainder of tbe 
over them, and bake it. 



BISCUIT* Pour a 



of boiling milk over three Naples 
grated; cover it close; when cold add the 
yolks of four ms, two whiles, notmeg, si 
little brandy, half a spocmfiil of flour, and 
some sugar. Boil it an hour in a baMB^ 



- BOSTON APPLE. Peel 



dosen and a half of good apples; take oat 
the cores, cirt them raiall, piit ioio a slewpn 
that will just hold than, with a little water, 
a Utile cinnamon, two cloves, And the psd 
of a lonon ; stew over a slow fire till qoite 
soft, then sweeten with moist sugar, and 
pass it through a hair sieve; add to it the 
ydks of four eggs and one white, a quarter 
of a pound of good batter, half a notiaeg, 
the peel of a lonon grated, and tlie juiced 
one lemon: beat all well together; line 'the 
inside of a pie-dish with ^K>d puff paste; 
put in tlie padding, and bake half an hoar. 



~ BRANDY. Line a mould widi 

jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, tfaea 
lay thin slices of Freochroll ; next pot a Iw- 
er of ratafias or macaroons, then the firait, 
rolls, and cakes, in soooession, ontil the 
mould be foil, pouring in at times, two 
glasses of brandy. BeM four eggs, yolks and 
whites sepantfefy, put to them a pint of oulk 
or cream, liglitly sweetened, half a natnrg, 
and the rind of half a lemon grated. Poor 
it into the mould, and whi the -solid has 
imbibed it aU, flour a doth, tie it tight over, 
and boil an hour; keep the nMNdd the ri^ 
side upwards. 



BREAD AND BUTTEH 

Cut tliin slices of bread and batter, wilhoit 
the crust, lay some in the bottom oif a diib, 
then put a byer of well-deaaedoarnuits,r 
any preserved fruit; then more bread and 
butter, and so on till the dish isaearW iU; 
mix with a quart of milk four weU-beaMi 
eggs, three tableHspoonflils of orange-floMr 
or rose water; svreeten it well wiUi he wn 
sngar, and poor it over ibe bread and bolMr, 
ai^ let it soak for two or three hoosa 
being baked. It will take oeaify an 
Serve witli a sauce, in a saooe4aMea, 
with a tea^uipM of canraat wiae, a 



PUBB1K08 



Ufi PUBBlHOa 



ipMnHVvTBnimi H^pVy wvo oi wmr^ ana 
Mt'of batter the gize of a walinit, stirred till 
boiling hot. 



 BREAD. <1) CM two or Arae 

d i ccB of bread rather thin, and without the 
orast, pot them hi a dish, and poyr over 
them half a pint of boiling milk; kst it stand 
taXL cold, and then maah the bread; lay into 
the bottom of a pudding dib a layer of pre- 
served goosebenries, then add the brrad; 
sweeten well a pint of good milk, and mix 
with it three well-beaten eg^ with two ta- 
Me-epooniiils of rose water ; pour it over tlie 
bread, and bake it for an hour. Before 
serving, notm^ may be grated over the top. 



BREAD. (2) Make a pint of 



bread-crambs; put them in a stewpan with 
as much milk as will cover tlMNu, the peel 
of a lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a 
small piece of cinnaraon; boil about ten 
minotes ; sweeten w ith powdered kraf sugar ; 
take out the cinnamon, and put in four eggs ; 
beat all well together, and bake half an hour, 
or boil rather more than an hour. 



PLAIN BREAD. Make five 

ounces of bread-crumbs ; put them in a ba- 
sin ; poor threeK|uarter8 of a pint of boiling 
milk over them ; put a plate over the top to 
keep in the steam ; let it stand twenty min- 
ntfls, then beat it up quite smooth with two 
oances of sugar and a salt-spoonful of nutmeg. 
Break lour eggs on a plate, leaving out one 
white; beat them well, and add them to the 
poddii^. Stir it all well together, and put it 
IB a mould that has been well buttered and 
floored; tie a ckith over it, and boil it one 
hour. 



BUTTER.MILK. Turn two 

quarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; 
dmiu off the whey, and mix with the curd 
the grated crumb of a twopenny rf>ll, tlie 
grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nut- 
B^ grated, lialf a pint of rich ci'eam, six 
ouBoes of clarified butter, and the beaten 
yolks of nine, and the whites of fimr eggs; 
sweeten it well, and bake it with or witlioot 
a puff paste, for three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be boiled. 



. CAMP. Put into a saocepan 

half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, add 
tfau peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it 
just come ta a boil, take it off, and stir in a 
qoarler of a pound of sifted flour ; mix it 
perfectly smooth, and when cold, beat m 
fyoF well-beaten ef^. Half fill twelve yel- 
Uw tea-cups, and bake them in a quick 
oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, 
r, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. 



  GAR|IOT. Flduad v a mttm 
die red part of two large boiled carreu; atU 
a alk of grated faraad, or pounded biacqit 
two minces of meked butler, the same quaor 
titv of M^ar, a table-spoonfiil of marmap 
lade, or a bit of oranos-peel minced ; half a 
tea-epoonfoi of ^ted nutmeg, and ft>ur welU 
beaten egss ; mix all well together ; bake it 
in a dish lined with puff paste. 



CALF'S FEET. Pick al 

the meat off tliree well-boiled calTs feet; 
chop it finely, as also half a pound of fi-esh 
beef suet; grate the crumb ota penny loaf; 
cut like straws an ounce of orange-peel, and 
the same of citron ; beat well six eggs, and 
grate a small nutmeg ; mix all these ingre* 
dients well toeetlier, with a glass of brandy 
or mm, and noil it in a cloth nearly three 
hours. Serve widi a su'eet sauce. 



CHERRY, ANGLO FRAN- 

CAIS. Pick two pounds of fine ripe 
cherries, and mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of picked red currants, (having ex 
tracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder 
sugar. Make your pudding as directed in 
the receipt for appk^ pudding, with Musca- 
del raisins. You may make use of rasp- 
berries instead of currants ; or mix red or 
white currants and raspberries. 



CHEESE. (1) Grate om 

pound of mild cheese; beat well four eggs, 
oil one ounce of butter; mix these ingredt-- 
ents to^tlier with one gill of cream, and 
two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted 
bread, and bake it in a dish or tin lined 
with puff paste. 



CHEESE. (2) Grate a quarter 

of a pound of good cheese, put it into a sauce- 
pan widi half a pint of good milk, and nearly 
two Ounces of grated bi'ead, ai1<l one beaten 
egg; stir it till the cheese be dissolved ; put 
it into a buttered disli, and brown it in a 
Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. 



CITRON. (1) Mix together a 

pint of cream and Uie yolks of tix eggs ; add 
to this four ounces of fine sugar, the same of 
citlv>n, shred fine, two spoonfiils of fiow, and 
a little nutmeg ; place tliis mixture in a deep 
dish, bake it m a hot oven, and turn it out. 



CITRON. (2) The yolks of three 

eggs beaten, half a pint of feream, one spoon* 
fol of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin ; 
sugar to the taste; put this into large cups 
buttered; bake them in a tolerably quick, 
oven ; when done, turn them out of the cups, 
and serve. 



COCOA-NUT. Quarter pound 



PUDDI1908 



MO 



CbootFiait grated: aaine of powdered nr; 
dm and teJf oimoes twtier; whitei of six 
fggs; half tnpoon<^raae-water, and half 
Sm of wine and farandy mixed. Take the 
ttun brown skin from on the meat, and wash 
tile pieces in cold water, and wipe dry. 
Grate a quarter poond fine. Stir the butter 
and sii^ar to a cream, and add the liquor 
and roee- water to them. Beat the whiles 
of the egga till they stand alone, and then 
tir them into the butter and sugar; after- 
wards sprinkle in the grated nut, and stir 
hard all the time. Put puff paste into the 
bottom and sides of the dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
about half an hour. Grate loaf sugar over 
it, when cold. 



COTTAGE POTATO OR 

CAKE. Peel, boil, and mash, a couple of 
pounds of potatoes: beat them up into a 
smooth batter, with about three-quarters of 
a pint of milk, two ounces of moist sugar, 
and two or three beaten eggs. Bake it 
about three-quarters of an. hoar. Three 
ounces of currants or raisins may be added. 
Leave out the milk, and add three ounces of 
butter, -it will make a very nice cake. 

. . COTTAGE. Six ounces of 



currants, half a pound of minced suet, and 
the same quantity of grated bread, half a 
grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or rose water ; mix all well together, 
with the beaten yolks of five eggs, 'to a stiff 
paste, and with fioured hands roll it into 
twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form 
of sausages; fry tliem gently in butter till of 
a nice brown; roll tliem well in tlie fiying- 
pan . Serve witli pounded loaf sugar stre wl 
over diem, and with a sweet sauce. They 
may be boiled. 

CRANBERRY. Stir into a 



quart of batter, made stiffer than for batter 
podding, about a pint of cranberries, and 
Soil as usual. Or, make a paste as for apple 
pudding, and put in the cranberries, with 
molasses sufficient to sweeten their acidity. 
Eaten with sweet sauce. 



CURD, BOILED. Rub the 

card of two gallons of niilk, well drained, 
tbroush a sieve ; then mix with it six eggs, 
a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three 
spoonfub of flour', and three spooufiils of 
bread'Cmmbs, half a pound of currants, and 
half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil 
fer one hour, in a thick cloth well floiud. 

CURRANT. Apoundofcm> 

rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoon- 



ftwOf flOBT, MBi a IHltBMg,4l 

ginger, a little powder sugar and 
salt; boil this for three boon. 



CURRANT DRY. Chop a 

pound of suet, and mix it with a povnd of 
floor, half a pound of oumuHs, (wrbJI waab* 
ed), a tea-spomfiil o( pounded gingar, balf a 
spoonful of tincture of saffixm, and a Iktk 
salt; stir in a sufficient quantity iji wator, 
to make it a proper oonsiMeooe ; tie it n a 
buttered cloth, and boil it for an bom*; 
it with mdted butter, white wiae> and 



CUSTARD. Boil a pint # 




milk, andaquarter of apiot of goodcreaoi; 
thickoi with flour and water made perfectly 
smooth, till it is stifle enough to bear an egg 
on it; break in the yolks of five eg^; umuAr 
en with powdered loaf sugar; grate ia a 
little nutmeg and the peel of a temoa: add 
half a glass of good brandy ; then whip tha 
whiles of the five eggs till quite stiflT, and 
mix gently all togetlir: line a pie-dish widi 

rd pun paste, and bake half an bami 
B.  Ground rice, potato floor, panadaj 
and all puddings made from powdcra, are 
or may be, prqiared in the same way. 



DAMSON. Make a battor 

with three weli-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, 
and of flour and brown sugwr four table- 
spoenfiils each; stone a pint of 
and mix them with the batter; boil it 
buttered basin for an hour and a half. 



EGG. Melt a quarter of a 



pound of butter, and when nearly cold, mil 
well with it the following ingredieots: lea 
well-beaten yolks and two whites of egSH 
half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of 
good brown sugar, two table-epoonfiils of 
flour, a grated nutmeg, and a g^aw of bran- 
dy; bake it with or without ahaingi^paff 
paste. 



FRUIT SUET. Of fine^ 



minced suet, flour, grated bread, and cj 
ed currants, a quarter of a pouiid each; a 
tea-spooniiil of pounded ginger, one of sidt, 
two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea-cnp" 
ful of milk ; mix all the iwvedioMa well to- 
gether, and boil it in a clou for two boon* 
Serve with a dweet sauce. 



FAMILY. Mix with a poi^ 



of flour balf a pound of raisins stoned 
chopped, the same Quantity of minced sueit 
a little sak, and milk or water sufl&cieat It 
make it into a stiff batter; boil it for fin 
hours. Serve with melted batter poiaai 
over it. Two weU-beatea eggs may to 
added. 



WT>W^ 



'Hi 



PUDDtNGS 



k ^ /OOOSEBEftRV, BOILED. 

An puddin? is made in the same manner 
9B Apple pudding. 

INDIAN. (1) It 18 a good plan 

l make this podding the ni?ht before. It 
leqoires a great deal of boiling, say four 
^ five hoars. Siiied meal and warm milk 
stirred together pretty stiff; salt and suffi- 
cient molajases added. Boil in a stoat bag, 
r tightly covned pan; let not the water 
get in, and be careful in tying to leave room 
for the meal to swell. Let the milk you nse 
Iw warm, not scalding. You may add 
diopped suet, which is very much liked by 
dome, and likewise ginger, if preferred. If 
yon have not milk, water will answer. 

INDIAN. (2) Boil in a quart of 

|ood milk a tea-cupful of Indian meal, stir 
X constantly till thick, sweeten it with trea- 
de or brown sugar, and stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, and an ounce of butter; bake 
ie in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Haifa 
gmted ttotmeg may be added, and it may be 
made without egga. A boiled Indian meal 
podding is made in the same way, and after 
beinff mixed with or without eggs in it, it is 
tied m a buttered and floured cloth, and boil- 
ed for two hours. It is eaten with cold or 
melted batter. ^ 



as fer taitlets, and bake it m a modentdt 
heated otob. 



LEMON. (2) Pothalfapoooa 



of fresh butter with half a pound of kiaf su- 
gar, into a saucepan, and keep it stirring 
over the fire till it boib; put it into air 
earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large 
lemon into it, and let it stand till cold; beat 
eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon 
on diem; mix the sugar and butter with 
them ; put some rich puff paste at the bottom 
of a dish, then put in the pi'eparation, and 
add bits of candied lemon-peel when yoa 
have put in the pi-eparation. Bake with 
great care. 



LEMON. (8) Boil in water. 



1  JELLY. Beat to a light cream 

ten oonces of fresh butter, then add by de- 
grees six well-beaten yolks of eggs, and half 
a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two 
or three table-spoonfuls of rose water ; beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of six e^s, mix 
them in lightly ;^ bake it five-and-twenty min- 
ntes in a dish lined with puff paste. 



JENETON. Butter a mould. 



in a closely covered saucepan, two large 
lemons till quite tender; take out the seeds, 
and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
die same of fresh butter beaten to a cream, 
and the yolks of three well-beaten e^s; mix 
all togedier, and bake it in a tin lined with 
puff paste; take it out, strew over the top 
grated loaf sugai', and serve it upon a napkin. 

MACARONI. (1) Simmer Haifa 



and ornament it with raisins in festoons, or 
in any other form ; line it with sponge bis- 
cait, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia 
and sponge biscuit, then pour a rich custard 
over the whole, and let it stand for two 
hoars, adding more custard as it soaks into 
the biscuit. The mould being quite full, tie 
a cloth over it, and boil it for about an hour. 



LEMON. (1) Peel four lemons 

thm; boil them till they are tender; rub 
them through a hair sieve, and preserve the 
fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, 
a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of 
fresh batter, and pour over them some boil- 
ing milk or cream in which a stick of cin- 
namon has been boiled. When cold, mix 
with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight 
eggs well beaten; sweeten according to 
taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge 
a dish with good puff paste, put in the mix- 
ture; gamii^ the top with strings of paste, 

14* 



pound of macaroni in plenty of water, and a 
taljle-spoonfnl of sah, till it is tender ; but 
take care not to have it too soft ; tliough ten- 
der,, it should be firm, and the form entirely 
preserved, and no part beginning to melt (thiB 
caution will serve for the prepai*ation of all 
macaroni). Strain the water from it; beat 
up five yolks and tlie whites of two eggs ; take 
half a pint of die best cream, and tl^ breast 
of a fowl, and some Uiin slices of ham. 
Mince tlie breast of the fowl with the ham; 
add tliem with from two to tliree table- 
spoonfuls of finely-grated cheese, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Mix all these 
widi the macaroni, and put into a pudding- 
mould well buttered, and then let it steam in 
a stewpan of boiling water for about an 
hour, and serve quite hot, widi rich gravy 
(as in Omelet). 



MACARONI. (2) Take an ounce 



or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender ; put it 
into a dish, with milk, tliree eggs, but only 
one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful 
of almond-water, and half a glass of raisin 
wine; lay a nice paste round the edge of the 
dish, ana put it in die oven to bake. If 
you choose you may put in a layer of orange- 
marmalade, or I'aspberry-Jam : in this case 
you must not put in the almond-water or 
ratafia. 



MARROW. Put into a mug 



PUBDmOS 



ifi 



jpfTDomas 



tbe cmmb of a ppond loaf, and pour oyer it 
i pint and a half of boiling milk; cover It 
closely for an hour; cut into small bits half 
a pound of marrow, stone and out a qnarier 
era pound of raisins, take the same cjuantily 
of nicely-cleaned currants, beat well six eggs, 
a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the 
same of nntmeg ; mix all dioroughly with the 
bread and milk, sweeten it well witli brown 
Bbgar, and bake it, widi or without a bor- 
der of puff paste round the dish, three-quar- 
ters 01 an hour. It may be baked, in a 
Dutch oven, and after baking it for three- 

3uarters of an hour, put a im cover over 
le top, and place the dish upon a gridiron, 
over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen 
minutes. 

MILLET. Wash four table- 



tpoonfijls of the seed, boil it in a quart of 
milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of 
firesh butter; sweeten with brown sugar. 
and add the well-beaten yolks of four, and 
the whites of two egcs, and a glass of wine 
or spirits. Bake it m a buttered dish. 



MY. Beat up the yolks and 



NASMU. Ptat into a 



^ihites of three eggs ; strain them through a 
sieve (to keep out the treddles), and gradu- 
ally add to them about a quarter pint of milk ; 
stir these well together. Rub togetlier in a 
mortar two ounces of moist sugar and as 
much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling; 
stir them into the eg^s and milk ; then put 
in four ounces of ftour, and beat it into a 
smooth batter; by degrees stir into it seven 
ounces of suet (minced as fine as possible) 
and three oimces of bread crumbs. Mix all 
thoroughly together at least half an hour be- 
fore you put the pudding into the pot. Put it 
into an eartlien pudding mould, that is well 
buttered. Tie a cloth over it very tight; 
pot it into boiling water, and boil it thrle^ 
flours. Half a pound of raisins cut in half 
added to the above, will make a most admi- 
rable pkHn pudding. Grated lemon-peel is 
also fine. 

Don't let the water cease to boll : it will 
spoil the pudding. And it is always Ijest 
tpat puddmgs be mixed an lK>ur or two be- 
finre put into the pot, the ingredients get 
amaleamated, and the whole becomes richer 
and fuller of flavor. 

The above pudding may be baked in an 
oven, or under meat, as Yorkshire pudding, 
only add half pint more milk. Should it be 
above an inch and quarter in thickness, it 
will take fiiU two hours; and requires care- 
ful watching ; for if tlie top gets burned, a 
bad flavor will pervade the whole pudding. 
Or, butter some tin patty-pans or saucers, 
fill them with pudding, and bake about an 
hour in a Dutch oven. 



pan the whole yolks of eight, and the whites 
of four ^gs, half a pound o( poiuided Wmf 
sugar, and one pound of fresh butter ; stir it 
over a slow fire for neariy half an liour; line 
a dish with thin puff paste and lay ovor the 
bottom a thick layer of cHrange mannsiade^ 
and then put in the poddii^. Bake k fx 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 



NEW COLLEGE. Haifa ponnd 



of fresh beef suet, finely minced, the same of 
currants, a quarter of a pound of grated 
bread, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a 
tea-spoonfiil of salt, a small nutnoeg greled 
an ounce of candied orange-peel minoed; 
mix all together with two or three welt* 
beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of a 
Ught brown ; shake the pan, and tmn then 
finequently till done enough. Serve with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed thickJy oier 
them. 

NEWMARKET. Put on l 



boil a pint of ^ood milk, with half a 
peel, a little cmnamon, and a bay leaf; Ixnl 
gently for five or ten minutes ; sweeten wi4i 
loaf sugar; break the yolks of five, and the 
whites of three eggs, into a basin ; b^t tfaeoi 
well, and add the milk : beat all well togedh- 
er, and strain through a fine hair sieve, or 
tamis: have some bread and biitt^r cot very 
tliin ; lay a layer of it in a pie-diah, and tbm 
a layer of currants, and so on till the diA is 
nearly full; tlien pour the custard over it) 
and bake half an hour. 



NEWCASTLE, OR CABI- 
NET. Butter a half melon mould, or qusut 
basin, and stick all round witli dried chei^ 
ries, or fine raisins, and fill up with bread 
and butter, &c. as in the above ; and steaoi 
it an hour and a half. 

NOTTINGHAM. Peel sfat 



good apples; take out the core with lbs 
point of a small knife, or an apple eonf^ 
if you have one ; but be sure to leave tbe 
apples whole; fill up where you took tbfr 
core from widi sugar ; place them in a fiie^ 
dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, 
prepared as for batter padding, and fades 
an hour in a moderate oven. 



OATMEAL. 8ifl a pomd 



of oatmeal, chop three-quarters of a pesfld 
of suet, mince some onions, and minos d 
togetho- ; season well with pepper and ask; 
half fill die skins, and boil and dress ikm 
as directed in the receipt for ox-blood p&t- 
dings. Some people think a little sugar a 
improvement. 



ORANG.(l)Tbe yolks of sn 



90iimiias 



m 



FUDPWM 



Mid tHa vhilB.of Hmm tgh mil bnlea; 
liiree table-eoooafiils of orange marmalade* 
^ qjoart^ of a pound of loaf sogar pounded, 
die same of rodted batter; three tabW-spoon- 
fiib of grated breed, and a quarta* of a pint 
f cream; mix all well together, and bake 
them in a dish lined with poff paste. 



ORANGE. (2) Cut in half 

three large Seville oranges, squeeie and 
train the juice; boil the skins till quite 
oft. in a good deal of water, pound them in 
a mortar, and mix them with nine beaten 
jfjIfkB and four whites of eggs, nearly a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of 
the oranges, and half a pound of melted 
butter. Bake it in a didii lined with puff 
paste fi>r half an hour. 



PEAS. Put a quart of split 



peas to BOftk for two hours into warm wa< 
ter; boll them in soft water, with a bit of 
butter, till sufficiently tend^ to press through 
m sieve; pulp them, and add the beaten yolk 
of one e^, a little pepper and salt, and an 
ounce of butler. Tie it into a buttered and 
floured cloth, and put it on in boiling wa- 
ter; boil it nearly an hour. 

PLUM. (1) One pound of fi^sh 



beef su^, finely minced, one pound of raisins 
famed, five taUe^spoonfuls of flour, five of 
brown sitgar, five well-beaten yolks, and 
three whites t^ eggs, a teanspoonful of salt; 
mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil 
it ia a cloth for fijur or five hours. Serve 
with grated loaf sugar, and melted butter 
poured over it. 



PLUM. (2) One pound of rai- 



sins, 0toned and cut in half: one pound of Gur< 
nnle, picked, wariied, and dried: one pound 
beef suet chopped fine: a pound of grated 
bread, or haLf pound each of grated bread 
and floor: eight eggi : quarter pound of su* 
gar: salt-^iofm of salt: table-spoon of cinna- 
BMNi and mace mixed: two grated nutm^s: 
a glass each of wine and brandy: quaiter 
ppuod of sugar, and a pint of milk. Pre- 
ppre all the day before, except the eggs, tliat 
you may mix them the next morainff: it re- 
quires six hours boiling. Beat the eggs 
li^Uy, then put to them half the milk and 
bwt tt^tber. Stir in the flour and bread; 
itm the sugar by degies; then the suet and 
firoit^ the finiit to be well floured to keep it 
from sinking. Stir hard. Now add the 
^ioe and liquor, and the remainder of the 
lilk. If it is not thick enough, add more 
bvead or flour; but if there be too mucii 
bread or flour the pudding will be heavy. 
Wet the cloth in boiUng water, shake it out, 
and sprinkle it with flour. Lay it in a dish 
jBnd pour iaio it the pudding Tie it tight. 



allowing room to swdL Boil 
Wbod you torn it out, stick over the oui* 
ide blanched abnonds in slips or slips of cit* 
ron, or both. If you add grated lemon-peol 
to the other ingredients it will much improva 
the pudding. 



-> PLUM. (3) One pound of tl 

best raisins stoned, half a pound of curranla 
well cleaned, one pound of finesh beef suet 
finely minced, five table-spoonfiils of grated 
breaud, three of flour, two of brown sugar, 
one teampoonful of pounded ginger, one of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, six well4)eaten 
eggs, and three wine-glasses of rum, all to 
be mixed tiiorooghly together the day beAMB 
it is to be boiled. Boil it in a ck>th or 
motUd for four or five boors. Serve with 
melted butter, or the folbwine sauce:-- 
Heat two or three table-spoonfuls of sweet 
Cfeam, and mix it gradually willi two well- 
beaten yolks of eggs; add three table-spoon* 
fills of white wine, brandy, or mm, and a 
table-spoonfiil of sugar ; season with grated 
nutm^, and stir it over tlie fire till quite 
hot; twit do not allow it to boil. 



PLUM. (4) Four 



apples finely minced, the same quantity of 
currants cleaned and dried, and of grated 
bread, two ounces of raisins, stoned and 
minced, two of pounded baf sugar, half ft 
nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or 
lemon peel, four well-beaten eggs, one ounce 
and a half of melted butter just warm; mix 
all the ingredients well together, and boil it 
in a bitttered shape for fixir hours. If the 
pudding does not fill the shape, add a sliou 
of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. 



PLUM, WITHOUT EGGS. 



Haifa pound of ^ted bread, a quarter of a 
pound of Aoely-mtnGed suet, a table-epooiifid 
of flour, half a pound of currants cleaned, 
rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, 
a glass of brandy ; mix all together with a 
sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a 
stifl" batter; boil it in a ck>th for four houn. 
It may be baked, adding half a pound of 
stoned raisins, and a little candied orange 
and lemon-peel. 

POTATO. (1) Boil three 



large mealy potatoes, mash them very smooth- 
ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or 
three table-spoonfuls of thick cream; add 
three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, grated 
nutm^, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. 
Beat all well together, and bake it in a but- 
tered diab, for half an hour in an oven, and 
three-quarters of an hour in a Dntch oven 
A few currants may be added to the pud* 
ding. 



9mMM 



164 



. ....^^ POTATa <2) Boa bulf'a 
piot of milk, and the aarae quantity of cream, 
with a stick of cinnamon, smd the peel of 
ti lemon; strain it, and stir in gradually 
three table-spoonfuls of potato 6our, mix it 
very smoothly, and add six well-beaten eggs ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; stick all 
round a buttered tin mould, dried clierries, 
or stoned raisins, put in the pudding, and put 
a bit of buttered linen over the top, and tiien 
the cov^ of the mould ; place it in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and 
a half; take care die water does not boil 
' over the mould. Serve with a sweet saxioe. 



POTATO-FLOUR. Boil some 

cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar, in a quart 
of milk; strain, and stir it with three table- 
spoonfuls of potato flour previously mixed 
nnooth with % little cold milk ; stir it till it 
be nearly cold; add fixir well-beaten eggs, 
a glass of sweet wine, or two table-spoonfuls 
of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it 
in a Dutch oven. 



PRUNE. Stew a pound of 

prunes witli half a pint of Port wine, a quarter 
of a pint of water, and a lai^e tablenspoon- 
ful of brown sugar ; break tlie stones, and 
pot the kernels with the fruit; spresid it 
over a sheet of puff paste, wet the edges, and 
M>ll it into the form of a bolster; tie it firm- 
ly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil 
it between two and three iiours. Serve 
with sweet wine sauce. 



QUINCE. Take a sufficient 

innnber of ripe quinces to yield a pound of 
pulp, to which put half a pound of powder- 
sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two 
drachms, pound^; mix tliem well. Beat 
up the yolks of eight egn^s in a pint of cream, 
add the quince, &c. stir the whole together, 
flour a cloth, tie tlie pudding in, and boil it. 



RATAFIA. Pound, with a lit- 

tie rose-water, two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, and half a quarter of a pound of 
ratafia cakes, add the well-beaten .yolks of 
six, and the whites of two eggs, a pint of 
thick cream, two glasses of white wine, and 
one oimce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it 
in a dish, lined with puff paste, for three- 
quarters uf an hour. 



REGENT'S. Rub an earthen- 
ware mould with butter, and cover the bot- 
tom witli bloom raisins stoned; ut thin 
slices of the crumb of bread, butter, and lay 
<me or two over tiie raisins ; upon that put 
a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread 
and butter, and raisins ; do this till the mould 
ia nearly full, and pour over it the following 
mixtui'es: a pint of cream well sweetened 



-^ 



four well-beaten yolks of ogsP't a i^aas'^ 
braody, and two tabfe^poonftils of t ' uacj nw 
ter; let it soak one en* two boors; putoici 
the top a piece of writing-paper buttered^ 
and tie over it a cloth. Boil it for one [ 
and a half, and serve it with wine 



GROUND RICE, RICH. (1) 



Stir into a quarter of a pound of _ 
rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; pot iC 
into a saucepan, and keep stirring it tiB it 
boils ; then add three ounces oi melted bo^ 
ter, the same quantity of sugar, half a graleA 
nutmeg, and a tea-poonful of grated leaio 
peel; mix it very wel!^ and when cold, add 
the well-beaten yolks of foor and the wluls 
of one eegt with a glass of ratafia, aad half 
a one of orange-flowor or rose wato*; bake 
it in a dish lined with puff peslie tor dweo* 
quarters of an hour. Befix% serving, strew 
over die top grated loaf sc^ar. 



GROUND RICE. (2) Mix 

till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupfiii of 
ground rice, a quart of good milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boils and let it boil Ibr 
three minutes ; put it into a basin, and vHm 
nearly cold, add the well-beatoi yolks of 
six, and tlie whites of two ^gs, with a tee* 
cupfiil of sweet wine, or a glass of spwita; 
put it into a buttered dish, and l|ake k for 
three-quarters of an hour, or for one hoar in 
a Dutcli oven, in the same way as the nv- 
row pudding is done. Any sort ot p i ma t e 
may be put into the bottom of the dish, and 
a sweet sauce may be served with it. 



 ;  GROUND RICE. (3) Boil 
in a pint of milk a quarter of a poond of 
flour of rice, with two taUe^pooniiils of 
rose water, and half the peel of a lemon, stir 
it till tliick, take it off, and mix in a quar* 
ter of a pound of butter, half a grated mt- 
m^, the well-beaten yolks of four, and die 
whites of tliree ^gs; sweeten it with hrowm 
sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boU it 
in a buttered basin, which nujst be oompleto- 
ly filled. Serve with a saace made vm' 
glass of white wine, boiled m mdted batters 
and sweetened with tsrown aogar. 



^ RICE, BAKED OR BOIL- 
ED. Wash in cold water and pi(^ veiy 
clean six otances cf rice, pot it in a qoart 
stewpan three parts filled w4th cold walsr, 
set it on the fire, and let it boil five minuies; 
pour away the water, and pot in one qont 
of milk, a roll oi lem(M>peel, and a bit l' 
cinnamon ; let it boil gently till the nee ir 
quite tender; it will take at least one bsor' 
and a quarter; be car^i to stir it e w ery 
five minutes ; take it off the fire, and stir in 
an ooBca and a half <^fiih butter, aad beat 



roraiiia* 



ls 



FVDD119Q9 



up liiaBe egg* on  plMB, a nll-fliMoiiM of 
mttaoegt two oanceBofw|;ar; put it into the 
wHingy end stir it till it is quite loiootli ; 
e a pie-diflb bi|[ enough to hold it with 
pnff paste, notch it round the edge, put in 
jour padding, and bake it three-quartera oi 
aa hour: this will be a nice firm pudding. 

If you like it to eat more like custard, 
add oae more egg, and half a pint oHMne 
milk; it will be better a little thinner when 
boiled ; one hour will boil it. If you like 
it in little puddings, butter small tea-cups,' 
and mther bake or boil them, half an hour 
will do either: you may vaiy the padding 
by patting in candied lemon or orange peel, 
Miaoed very fine, or dried cherries, or three 
onnoes of curtants, or raisins, or apples 
BHiiw*^ fine. If ihe puddings are baked or 
hofled, serve them with white wine sauce, or 
Imtflr and sugar. 



RICE. Boil a quarter of a 

pound of rice in water till it is soft, then 
drain it iki a sieve, and pound it in a mor- 
tar; add five weU-beatoi yolks of eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, die same pro- 
portion of sueaur, a small nutmeg, and half 
the rind of a lemon grated ; work them well 
together for twenty minutes, and add a 
pwod of cleaned currants ; mix it all well 
tad boil it in a pudding cloth for an hour 
and a half. Serve with wine sauce. 



: RICE, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Weigh six ounces of rice, six of brown su- 
gar, and three and a half of fresh butter; 
break the butter into small bits; wash the 
rice in several waters ; put all into a pudding- 
didi, and fill it up with |^ood milk ; let it 
soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate 
oe& lor nearly two hours, and as the milk 
wastes, fill up the dish with more, till the 
rice be swelled and soft; then let it brown. 



 ~ RICH. Put into a saucepan 
four ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, six of marmalade, and 
six ounces of e^rg, well beaten; stir ail one 
aiay till it be tbwo^zlily warnied ; it must 
not be alk>wed to boil. Bake it in a dish 
lined witli pofi* paste. 



SAGO. (1) Boil five table-spoon- 



fids of ago, well picked and washed, in a 
quart of water, also half the peel of a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon; when it is rather 
thick, add half a pint of white wine, and 
sifieeten it with good brown supur; beat six 
yolks and three whites of eggs, pick out the 
Innon-peel and cinnamon, mix all well to- 
gether, and bake it in a disli with or with- 
out puff paste. 



SAGO. (2) Waahhalfapound 



of sago in levenl watms (warn) ; liMn pat 
it into a saucepan with a pint of good milky 
and a little cinnamon; let it boil till thick, 
stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and 
beat up with it half a pound of fiiedi butter; 
add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of 
four ^;gB, beaten separately, half a glass of 
white wine, su^r according to taste, and a 
little flour ; mix all together well, and 'boil 
it. Serve With sweet sauoe. 



SALT. Take a pint of milk. 



four dessert-spoonfuls of flotu*, a little suet, 
shred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded gin- 
ger ; mix first the eggs and milk, then add 
the flour, &c. ; put more flour, if necessary, 
to give it consistice ; tie your pudding in 
a txittered cloth, and boil it two hours. 



SCOTCH. Eight well-beaten 



yolks and three whites of eggs, half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of melted butter, the grated peel and juice 
of one lemon ; mix all together, and bake it 
in a dish lined with puff paste ; turn it out 
to serve, and strew over the top grated loaf 
sugar. 

SIPPET. Cut a smaU loaf into 



extranely thin slices, and put a layer <tf them 
at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of mar- 
row, or beef suet, a layer of currants, and 
then a layer of fcMread a^ain, &c., and so 
continue until the dish is filled ; mix four 
eggs, well beat^, with a quart of cream, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
pour over; set it in the oven, it will take 
half an hour baking. 

SHROPSHIRE, Of fresh beef 



suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, 
and of brown sugar, one pound each, one 
nutmeg grated, a tea-cupfiil of brandy, eight 
well-beaten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; 
mix all well together, and boil it in a cloth 
or mould for toav hours. Serve it with a 
sauce of inelted butler, sugar^ and two table* 
spoonfiils of brandy. 

SPRING FRUrr. Peel and 



well wash four dozen sticks of rhubarb: put 
into a stewpan with the pudding a lemon, a 
little cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as 
wiU make it quite sweet; set it over a fire, 
and reduce it to a marmalade ; pass throush 
a hair sieve, and proceed as directed for U^ 
Boston pudding, leaving out the lanun-juice, 
as the rhubarb will be found sufficiently acid 
of itseU: 



. SPEAKER'S. Stone and 

weigh three-quarters of a pound of raisins. 
Rub with butter a plain oval mould, and 
stick upon it 0ome ot the raisinsi in stripen 



^ I 



FCI^DINOSt 



f6 



mmtfmd^ 



w circlee. Cut some thin slice* of bread; 
without the crust, dry them awhile before 
the fire, Initter, and cut them into stritx 
about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the 
mould with pait of the bread, then put a 
layer of raisins, and strew over a table- 
epoontul of pounded loaf su^r ; add a layer 
of the bread and butter; fjlfthe shape nearly 
full, putting bread and butter on the top. 
Mix with a pint of good milk, the well-bea- 
ten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of 
sugar, one and a half of rose-water, and a 
glass of brandy ; pour this over tlie pudding, 
and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it 
three-quarters of an hour. It may be boiled 
by steam for an hour and a half. 



SQUASH. One good squash 



stewed and well bruised; six large apples 
fifcewed tender; mix them well together; 
add seven spoonfuls of bread crumte; half 
pint of milk ; two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
two of wine ; six eg^ ; one grated nutmeg ; 
salt and sugar to taste. Beat aH together till 
smooth, and put in a dish lined with puff 
paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 



SUET, WIGGY'S WAY. 

Suet, a quarter of a pound ; flour, three table- 
spoonfuls; eggs, two; and a little grated 
ginger; milk, half a pint. Mince the suet 
-as fine as possible, roll it witli the rolling- 
pin so as to mix it well with the flour ; beat 
up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and 
then mix all together; wet your cloth well 
in boiling water, flour it, tie it loose, put it 
into boiling water, and boil it an hour and a 
quarter. Mrs. Glasse has it, " when you 
have made your water boil, then put your 
pudding into your pot." 

S UET. Mix six table-spoonfuls of 

grated bread with a pound of flnely-minced 
fresh beef suet, or that of a loin of mutton, 
one pound of flour, two tea-6poonfi|ls of salt, 
six well-beaten eggs, and nearly a pint of 
milk. Boil it in a cloth four or five hours. 
Serve it plain, or with a sw^et sauce. 



APPLE SUET. Of finely minc- 
ed fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and 
brown sugar, six ounces each, half a grated 
nutmeg, ii tea-spoonflil of salt, and four well- 
beaten eggs, all well mixed together; boil- 
ed for two hours, and served with a sweet 
sauce. 



SUET, OR DUMPLINGS. 

Oiop six ounces of suet very fine ; pot it in 
A basin with six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread crunil)s, and a tea-spoonful of salt; 
stir it all well together: beat two eggs on a 
plate, add to tliem six table-spoonfuls of 
imlk^ put it fay degrees into the basin, and 



stir ft att wen together; diWde it into sht 
dumplings, and tie them separate, prerioosV 
dredging the cloth lip;htly with flour. Bmt 
them one hour. This is very good tbe next 
day fried in a little butter. 'Hie above w^ 
make a good pudding, boiled in an earthen 
ware mould, with the addition of one more 
egg, a little more milk, and two ounces of 
suet. Boil it two hours. 

N. B.  ^The most economical way of mak- 
ing suet dumplings, is to boil them without a 
cloth in a pot with beef or mutton ; no eg^ 
are then wanted, and tbe dumplings are quite 
as light without: roll them in nour before joa 
put tliem into the pot; add six ounces of 
cnrrants washed and picked, and you have 
currant pudding: or divided into six parts, 
currant dumplings; a little sugar will im- 
prove them. 

SWEETMEAT. Slice thm. 



   ^ ^.._, 

of orange, lemon-peel, and citron, an ounce 
each ; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lio- 
cd with a light pufF paste; mix with half a 
pound of butter melted, the yolks of seten 
e^ and the whites of two, and five ounces 
of sugar ; pour tliis over the sweetmeats, and 
set it in the oven ; it will take rather more 
than half an hour baking. 

TANSY. Pour over a thick 



slice of the crumb of bread a qum-t of boilmg- 
milk; cover it till cold. Beat tiie yolks of 
four and the whites of two eggs. Pound 
some tansy with two or three leaves of 
spinach; squeeze the juice, and put as 
much of it as will make the pudding a good 
green color, a glass of brandy, half a grat- 
ed nutmeg, and four ounces of fresh butter; 
mix all the ingredients, sweeten, and put it 
into a saucepan, and stir it over tiie fire till 
it be hot. Bake it in a buttered dish he 
half an hour. Before serving, strew grated 
loaf sugar over the top. 



TRANSPARENT. Put eight 



e^ well-beaten into a stewpan widi Intf 
a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half a pound 
of butter, and some nutmeg gi*ated. Set it 
on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till 
it thickens. Then set it into a basm to 
cool; put a rich puff paste round the edse 
of the dish ; pour in die pudding, and le 
it in a moderate oven. It will cut ligU 
and clear. Candied orange and citron waj 
be added, if yon think proper. 



TAPIOCA. Put four tabb* 

spoonfuls of tapioca into^ a quart of milki 
and let it remain all night, then put a spoon- 
ful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a litdn 
spice ; let them boil gently, add four ^gi, 
and the whites M'ell Ineaten, and a quartcf 
of a pound of sogau-. -Bakte it. 



P91I9INGS 



M7 



QtJA 



 *  TREACpLE. Mhc togMher a 
fxmnd of stoned nusins, three-quarters ci a 
 pound of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of 
milk, a tabfe-poonful of treacle, grated gin- 
Iper, and pounded spioe; when well stirred up, 
tie it in a 6oured cloth, and boil it ibur hours. 



WEST COUNTRY, Mix,widi 

)ar well-beaten eggs, half a pound of apples 
finely minced, tlie same quantity of grated 
bread, and of well-Gleaaed curranlB, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a 
tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. This pudding 
may be either boiled or baked, and instead 
of grated bread, four ounces of whole rice 
may be used, which must be boiled in milk, ' 
traioed, and allowed to be cold before being 
mixed with the other ingredients. This 
.puddding is boiled one hour and a half, and 
B&nred with a sweet sauce. 



WHITE. Bbil in a quart of 

milk two table-spoonfuls of rose-water ; add 
to two well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls 
of flour, and a little salt; stir it into the 
milk, and if not thidi, di-edge in a little 
more flour; just before.it is taken off the 
fii-e, put in a bit of fresh butter the size of a 
walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly up- 
on the top of it. 



 WHORTLEBERRY. This 

pudding may be made both of flour and In- 
dian meal. Use a pint of milk, some mo- 
lasses, and a little salt, stin-ed quite stiff 
with meal, and a quart of hemes mixed in 
irith a spoon. Tie the bag loose, and let it 
boil three hours. When made of flour, pre- 
pare it like batter puddings, rather stiff to 
keep the berries from setding. Boil two 
hoivB. Tie the bag loose. 



WILTSHIRE. Mix, with three 



well-beaten e^s and a pint of milk, as much 
^ur as will make it a thick batter, and a 
Uttle salt; beat it for some minutes, stir in 
gendy a large tea-cupful of picked red cur- 
xants; boil it in a cloth for two hours, turn 
It out upon the dish it is to be served in, cut 
it into slices about three-quarters of an inch 
thick, but do not separate them ; put between 
each a thia slice of butter, and some brown 
sugar, and sore it hot. 



YORKSHIRE, under ro^st 



MEAT. This pudding is an especially ex- 
cellent aocompaniment to a sirloin of beef, 
 loin of veal, or any &t and juicy joint. 
Six table-spoonfiils of flour, three eggs, a 
tea-spoonful of kak, and a pinlT of milk, so 
as to make a middlinc^ stiff batter, a little 
stifler than you would for pancakes; beat 
it up well, and take care it is not lumpy; 
put a dish under t^ weai, aod let the dnp- 



pin drop iolo it till it is quite hot uid 
well greased; tlien pour in the batter; 
when the upper surface is brown and aet, 
tiim it, that both tides may be brown alike: 
if you wish it to cut firm, and the pudding 
an inch thick, it will take two hours al a 
^ood fire. 

N. B.  ^Tbe true Yorkshire pudding is 
about half an inch thidc when done ; birt it 
is the fashion in London to make them fall 
twice that thickness. 

PUFFS. (1) Roll out puff paste neariv 

a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small 
saucer, or tin cuttPT of that size, cut it into 
round pieces: place upon one side raspberry 
or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved 
fruit, or stewed apples ; wet the edges, fokl 
over the odier side, and press it round with 
the finger and tliumb. Or cut the piiste into 
the furm of a dianwnd, lay on tlie fiuit, and 
fold over tlie paste, so as to give it a trian* 
gular shape. See Paste. 

PUFFS. (2) Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, boil slowly, and stir in flour till it 
be very thick, like paste; when cold, mix 
with it six well-beaten eggs, a table.poon- 
ful of sii^ar, lialf a nutm^, and the peel of 
a small lemon grated, and a table-epoonfu! 
of brandy ; beat it well together for fifteen 
minutes, and when quite light, drop it fit>m 
a dessert-spoon into a pan of boiling clarified 
8iiet or lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar 
strewed over them. 

PUFFS OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Roll out, a quarter of an inch diick, good 
puff paste, and cut it into pieces four inches 
square ; lay a small quantity of any kind of 
jam on each, double tliem over, and cut them 
into square, triangle, or, with a tin cutter, 
half moons ; lay them with paper on a baking- 
plate; ice them, bake them about twenty 
minutes, taking care not to color die icing. 

PUNCH. See Jtutice*s Sirup, 



Q. 



aU AILS, HUNTERS. PutUiequaib 
in a saucqjan, with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them 
on a fierce fire, and keep shaking diem until 
diey are tender, wlien add a dessert-spoonfid 
of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a 
little stock, when this is thick, and qdite 
hot (widiout boiling); take it fiiom the firt 
and serve. 

aUAILS, SPANISH. Mix die juioe 



QUE 



168 



QOl 



of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pep- 
|Kr; pick, and prepare eight quails, atuff 
Cbeui well with the above mixture; then 
fiuten the legs to the body, leaving the claws 
free; truss them a good shape, and put them 
into a saoo^n on slices <^ bacon, cover 
them also with slices, add a gravy, moisten- 
ed with equal portions of white wine and 
stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; 
then take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, place each on a piece of fried bread 
the size of the quail, and sorve with a clear 
apanidi sauce, with the addition of a little 

QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom 
of it some/arc cutie mixed with the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs ; take eieht quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and sweet iierbs ; when coki, stuff each with 
some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and tlie 
centre with the remainder of the ^rce, season 
it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; 
wet the edges of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very lliin crust ; do it over 
with e^g, and decorate it according to fiincy. 
Put it into die oven to bake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss the birds, 
and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
h-b8, both shred very small, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; fasten them to a 
spit, and put them to the fire; haste with 
salt and water when they first begin to get 
warm; tlien dredge them with flour, and 
baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or 
three shallots, and the juice of a Seville or- 
ange into a little rich gravy ; set it on the 
1*6, shake it about, and when tlie anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
from the fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
butter worked up with flour, and a few green 
onions into a stewpan; wlien brown, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bav-leaf, and two or tliree cloves ; stew these 
till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish 
your dish with cock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. 

QUEEN'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
nd clean three chickens, or young fowls, put 



them into a stewpan, with a bunch of panhf 
and some well-seasoned boiling veal mock; 
let it stew for an bmir; take oat the fbwl^ 
and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a 
marble mortar, with the crumb of two pensv 
loaves, previously soaked in the soup, aao 
the yolks of three or fotu: hard boiled eggi; 
rub all through a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirring it well. Put a quart of riA 
cream on tne fire, and stir it till it boils, and 
then mix it with the soup and serve it qoife 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. Oim 

pound of sifled sugar, one pound of butter^ 
eight eggs, one pound and a quarter of fioor, 
two ounces of currants, and half a nutmw 
^ted. Cream the butter, and mix it wol 
with the sugar and spice, then pot in haJf 
the e^gs, and beat it ten minutes  add the 
remanider of the eggs, and work it ten min- 
utes longer  stir in the floor lightly, and the 
currants afterwards,^ then take small tm 
pans of tiny shape (hearts the nooet usual), 
rub the inside of each with butter, fill and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking pblB 
 when done, remove them as early as pos* 
sible from the pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave out four 
ounces of flour from the last receipt, and 
add ''two ounces more of currants, and tifo 
ounces of candied peel, cut small -work it 
the same as in the last receipt, and when 
ready put the mixture into a biscuit found, 
and lay tliem out in drops about the siieof 
half a crown, on white paper,  bake them, 
in a hot oven, and when nearly cold, take 
them from the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take m 
quinces, cut them in halves, and core them; 
scald and pare them neatly. Put some dear 
sirup into a preser^'ing-pan, with the joioe 
of a lemon ; when hot, add the quinces, and 
give them a boil together; drain the 6mt, 
arrange it in the eompoUer; leave the sinip 
to thicken a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAM. Take four or fiie 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to soA 
ten them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil tliem slowly in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger; when tolerablv 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, ana 
flavor it with rose-water. 

QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jely 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, bow- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color; take oflf Om 
dovim which covens them, quarter, core, put 
them into a saucepan, with water euMigh 



J 



^Vl 



169 



QUI 



IP eover tlieai; et iheoi oo tbe fire, aad 
'when aoft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pressing them very sliglitly ; strain the liquor, 
pnd measure it; darify, and boil to ca9e 
an equal quantity of sugar ; then take it oflF, 
add the liquor to it, stirring it well ; when 
mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; as 
-0oon as the jeliv spreads over the spoon, and 
dl8 from it like inolaases; take it firom 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 
fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub 
each carefiilly witli a clean cloth, to remove 
die down ; then quarter, and put them into 
bottles, corked tight. Give th^n half an 
hour's boil in tlie 6atn-marte. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. Gather 
the fruit when fiilly ripe, and of a fine yel- 
low; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the 
quinces into a saucepan, witli a little water, 
set the:n on the fire until tliey are quite soA ; 
Aen take them out, and lay them on a sieve 
to drain; rub tiiem through, weigh the 
pulp; boil an equal quantity of sugar to 
petit ca9e, then add .the pulp, stir them 
together over tbe fire, until it will fiill from 
tbe spdto like a' jelly; tlie marmabde is 
then 6l to be put into pots, and when cold, 
cover them close. 

QUINCES TO PICKLE. Pare and 
out half a dozen quinces into small pieces, 
and put tliem, with a gallon of water, and 
two pcHmds of honey, into a large sauce- 
pan ; mix them together well, and set them 
on a slow fire for half an hour: strain the 
liquor into a jar; when quite cold, wipe the 
quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; 
cover them very close. 

QUINCES PRESERVED IN WHITE 

JKLLT. Take as many quinces as you 
may require, choose them sound; pare, 
quarter, and core them, strewing powder- 
Bugar over as you do them, filling up all the 
holes also with sugar ; throw in a small quan- 
tity of water, and when all are cut, add m6re 
water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil 
quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, 
and the sirup clear, add some apple-jelly, 
eive the whole one boil, and then pour it 
into glasses; when cold, drain off the sirup 
and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and 
let them boil as quick as you can ; just be- 
fore the jelly is taken off, put in a smaU 
quantity of musk, or any odier ingredient 
you may wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then pour it in the glasses again, ovor 
lUbe quinces, and when cold cover them. 
Hiis may adso be colored red by adding a 
nnaO quantity of prepared cochineal; in 
tjiis case, the jelly aDould be red too. 

15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAT. 

Pare and core tm pounds of quinces, pot 
them into a stewpan with a pint and a faaif 
of wato* and two pounds of fine 8i^;ar, set 
them on a sk)w fire, and when th^ begin 
to dry, moisten them with rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; then press the paste 
through a coarse sieve, add two pounds c^ 
siffiar, a little orange-fiower and rose water. 
When sufficiently done, it will come off 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then set it 
aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, 
strew perfumed comfits over, and cover 
them close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OF. Pare and 
scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, which put in m 
very warm place, or where it is exposed to 
the sun, until all the fecula folk to the bot- 
tom; then strain it well, and for evfsry 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them tosether, and boil the 
wliole to perle; take it off, and when the 
sirup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. 
Take care to keep the bottles well corked. 

QUINCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quim^s, make a sirup with some sugar 
and water, of which, and the preserve, take 
an equal weight, and put it into a pr^erving- 
pan; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; 
when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a 
tart-dish with puff paste as usual ; cover and 
bake it ; as soon as it is done raise the top 
gently, pour in tlie sirup, ice it, and serve* 

QUIN'S SAUCE. See Sauce, 

QUINTESSENCE OF ANCHOVY. 

The goodness of this preparation depends 
almost entirely on liaving fine melk)w fish, 
that have been in pickle long enough (t. e, 
about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet 
are not at all rusty. 

Choose those that are in the state they 
come over in, not such as have been put into 
firesh pickle, mixed with red paint, which 
some add to improve the complexion of the 
fish; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting anchovy liquor on pickled 
sprats; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of diem, and tasting the flesh of it, 
which in the fine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and hirii-flavored, and the bone moist and 
oily. Make only as much as will soon be 
used, the friraher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies into a mortar, 
and pound them to a pulp ; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or very weD 
tinned saucepan; then put a large table- 
spoonfiil of cold spring-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to the pounded anchovies, 



QUE 



168 



QO! 



of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pep- 
|Kr; pick, and prepare eight quails, atuff 
theitt well with die above mixture; then 
fiuten the len to the body, leaving the claws 
free; truss mem a good stupe, and put them 
into a saoo^u on slices <^ bacon, coyer 
them also with slices, add a gravy, moisten- 
ed with equal portions of white wine and 
stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; 
thai take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, place each on a piece of fried bread 
the size (^ the quail, and sorve with a clear 
raanidi sauce, with the addition of a little 
glaze. 

QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
crust in tlie usual way, spread over the bottom 
of it some yarc cutte mixed with the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs; take eisht quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and sweet herbs ; when cokl, stuff each with 
some of the above-mentioned &rce, arrange 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and tlie 
centre with the remainder uf the &rce, season 
it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails ; 
wet the edges of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very thin crust; do it over 
with e^, and decorate it according to fiincy. 
Put it into the oven to bake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fiit, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss the birds, 
and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
h-b8, both shred very small, seasoned with 
sajt, peMier, and nutmeg ; fasten them to a 
spit, and put them to the fire; Inste with 
salt and water when they first begin to get 
warm; tlien dredge them with flour, and 
baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or 
three shallots, and the juice of a Seville or- 
ange into a little rich gravy ; set it on the 
fii'e, shake it about, and when tlie anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
fivm the fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
iMittn- worked up with fiour, and a few green 
onions into a stewpan; wlien brown, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bav-leaf, and two or tliree cloves; stew these 
till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish 
your dish with oock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. 

QUEEN'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
and clean thrae chickens, or young fowls, pat 



them into a stewpan, with a bundi of panh^ 
and some well-seasoned boiling veal stodk; 
let it stew for an bnur; take out the foirb 
and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a 
marbb mortar, with the crumb of two penvr 
loaves, previously soaked in the soup, and 
the yolks of three or four hard boiled egp; 
nib all through a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirring it well. Put a quart of rich 
cream on the fire, and stir it till it boils, and 
then mix it with the soup and serve it qnife 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. Ou 
pound of sifted si^ar, one pound of batter^ 
eight eggs, one pound and a quarto* o(6oar, 
two ounces of currants, and half a nutmeir 
^'ated. Cream the butter, and mix it wcS 
with the sugar and spice, then pat in Half 
the e^gs, and beat it ten minutes add the 
remainder of the eggs, and work it ten min- 
utes longer  stir in the fiour lightly, and the 
currants afterwards,^  then take small tie 
pans of any shape (hearts the most usual), 
rub the inside of each with butter, fiA and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking plate 
 when done, remove than as early as pos* 
sible firom the pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave oat foor 
ounces of flour fixnn the last receipt, and 
add two ounces more of currants, and two 
ounces of candied peel, cut small-~-work H 
the same as in the last receipt, and whet 
ready put the mixture into a biscuit funnd, 
and lay tliem out in dr(^ abuot the size of 
lialf a crown, on white paper,  bake then, 
in a hot oven, and when nearly cold, take 
them from the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take sis 
quinces, cut diem in halves, and core tbem; 
scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear 
sirup into a preserving-pan, with the jnioe 
of a lemon ; when hot, add tbe quinces, and 
give them a boil together; drain tbe fiuit, 
arran^ it in the eompoHers leave tbe simp 
to thickoi a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAM. Take foor or fiie 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to soA 
ten them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil tliem slow^ in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger; when toieraUf 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, aad 
fiavw it with rose-water. 



QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jelf 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, hoil^ 
ever, bed a fine yelfow cokir; take ^ the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 
thn into a aaucepan, with water efloafh 






J 



<iut 



169 



QUI 



tp tx>Ter tben; et theoi on tbe fire, aad 
*when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pnesping them very sh'glitly ; strain the liquor, 
9nd meafewe it; cbrify, and boil to caue 
an equal quantity of siirar; then take it off, 
ttdd the liquor to it, stirring it well; when 
mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; as 
-Boon as the jellv S|)read8 over the spoon, and 
&}]s from it like inolaaees; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 
fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub 
each carefiiUy with a clean cbth, to remove 
die down ; then Quarter, and put them into 
bottles, corked tight. Give them half an 
hour's boil in tbe oam-marie. ' 

QUINCE MARMALADE. Gather 
the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yel- 
low; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the 
quinces into a saucepan, witli a little water, 
set them on the fire until they are quite sofl ; 
Aen take them out, and lay them on a sieve 
to drain; rub them through, weigh the 
palp; boil an eqil quantity of sugar to 
petit caste, then add tlie pulp, stir them 
together over the fire, until it will fiiil from 
the spoon like a' jelly; the marmalade is 
then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, 
cover them close. 

QUINCES TO PICKLE. Pare and 
out half a doaen quinces into small pieces, 
and put them, with a gallon of water, and 
two pounds of honey, into a large sauce- 
pan; mix them togedier well, and set them 
oa. a slow fire for half an hour: strain the 
liquor into a jar; when quite cold, wipe the 
fpinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; 
cover them very close. 

QUINCES PRESERVED IN WHITE 

jei.lt. Take as many quinces as you 
may require, choose them sound; pare, 
quarter, and core them, strewing powder- 
gogar over as you do them, filling up all the 
holes also with sugar ; throw in a small quan- 
tity of water, and when all are cut, add mbre 
\mter, and set them on a fierce fire to boil 
quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, 
and the sirup clear, add some apple-jelly, 
give the whole one boil, and then pour it 
mto glasses; when cold, drain off the sirup 
and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and 
let them boil as quick as yoa can ; just be- 
fore the jelly is taken off, put in a small 
quantity of musk, or any other ingredient 
you may wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then pour it in tbe glasses ag^in, over 
the quinces, and when cold cover them. 
This may also be colored red by adding a 
nnall quantity of prepared cochineal; in 
this case, the jelly Booiud be red too. 

15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAT. 

Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, pot 
them into a stewpan with a pint and a half 
of wato* and two pounds of fine sugar, set 
them on a skiw fire, and when th^ begin 
to dry, moisten them with rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; tfien press the paste 
through a coarse sieve, add two poun<u <^ 
sugar, a little orange-flower and rose water. 
When sufficiently done, it will come off 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then set it 
aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, 
strew perfiimed comfits over, and cover 
them close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OP. Pare and 
scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, which put in m 
very warm place, or where it is exposed to 
the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- 
tom; then strain it well, and for evY 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them tosether, and boil the 
wliole to perle; take it off, and when the 
sirup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. 
I'ake care to keep the bottles well corked. 

QUINCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quinces, make a sirap widi some sugar 
and water, of which, and the preserve, take 
an equal weight, and put it into a preserving- 
pan; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; 
when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a 
tart-dish with puff paste as usual ; cover and 
bake it ; as soon as it is done raise the top 
gently, pour in die simp, ice it, and serve. 

QUIN'S SAUCE. See Sauce. 

QUINTESSENCE OF ANCHOVY. 

The goodness of this preparation depends 
almost entirely on having fine melk)w fish, 
that have been in pickle long enough (t. e. 
about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet 
are not at all rusty. 

Choose those that are in the state they 
come over in, not such as have been put into 
firesh pickle, mixed with red paint, which 
some add to improve tbe complexion of the 
fish; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting ancho\7 liquor on pickled 
sprats; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of them, and tasting the flesn of it, 
which in the fine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and high-flavored, and tHe bone moist and 
oily. Make only as much as will soon be 
used, the fVesher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies into a mortar, 
and pound them to a pulp ; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or yery weO 
tinned saucepan ; then put a large table- 
spoonful of cold sfHring-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to the poimded anchoviei. 



RABBIT 



170 



RABBIT 



it ikma bv the side of a slow ilr, nry fre- 
quenilv sUrring them together till they are 
Melted, which they will be in the courae of 
five minutes. Now stir in a quarter of a 
drachm of oood cayenne pepper, and let it 
temain by the side of the fire for a few min- 
utes longer; then, while it is warm, rub it 
tfiroagh a hair sieve, with the bock of a 
wooden spoon. 

The essence of anchovy, is made with 
double the al>uve quantity of water, as they 
are of opinion that it ouglit to be so thin as 
not to hang about the sides of the bottle; 
when it does, the large surface of it is soon 
acted upon Inr the air, and becomes rancid 
and spoils all the rest of it. 

A roll of thin^cut lemon-peel inftised with 
Uie anchovy, imparts a fine, fresh, delicate, 
aromatic flavor, which is vei^ grateful ; this 
is only recommended when you make sauce 
fix* immediate use ; it will keep much better 
without: if you wish toacidulute it, instead 
of water make it with artificial lemon-juice. 



R. 



RABBITS. (1) Truss your rabbits short, 
lay them in a bsisin of warm water for ten 
inmutes, titen put them into plenty of water, 
and boil them Bbout half an hour; if large 
ones, three-quarters; if very old, an hour: 
mother them with plenty of white onion 
sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the 
dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in 
a boat. 

Obs.  ^Ask those you are goin^ to make 
liver sauce for, if th^ like plain liver sauce, 
or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. 

N. B.  It will save much trouble to >he 
carver, if the rabbits be cut up in the kitchen 
into pieces fit to help at table, and the head 
* divided, one-half laid at each end, and slices 
of lemon and the liver, chopped very finely, 
laid on the sides of the dish. 

At all events, cut off the head before you 
send it to table, we hardly remember that 
the thing ever lived if we don't see tlie head, 
while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut 
Vp in an attitude imitative of life; besides, 
for the preservation ai the head, the poor Jem- 
imal sometimes suflfera a slower deatn. 

RABBITS. (2) If your fire is dear 
and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a ^oung, 
and forty a full gromn rabbit. When you 
lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge 
it li|^tly and oarefolly with floor, that you 
May have it frothy, and of a fine li^t brown. 
While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver 
with some parsley ; when tender, chop them 
togethor, and put half the mixture into some 
ipahed battier, reasnring the other half for 



9Uiii8h divided into little bSUocka. C^ 
off the head, and lay half on each ttde of 
the dish. 

06. A fine, wdUgrown (but yoiaig) 
warren rabbit, kept sometime after it Ins 
been killed, and roasted with a stufiing ia 
its belly, eats very like a hare, to the natm 
of whicli it approaclies. It is nice, nourishing 
food when young, but hard and unwholesome 
when old. 

RABBIT, BROILED. Take a couple of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and pat then to 
steep for a few hours in a little oil, miiiad 
with parsley, leeks, a few roushrooma, anda 
cbve of garlic, all slired fine, salt and pepper; 
roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of fancoe, 
and put them, with a part of the seasoDJog, 
into pieces of white paper ; butter tlie papers 
inside ; broil upon a gridiron oTer a vefj 
slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. 

RABBITS, IN A FRICASSEE. Take 
two fine white rabbits, and cut them m 
pieces, by cuttii^ off tlic le^, ahoukierB, and 
back; blanch them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one mimite; stir a fisw trim- 
mings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the 
fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fry, 
then stir in a spoonfiil of flour ; mix into the 
flour, a little at a time, nearly a qaart of 
good consommey which set on the fire, and 
when it boils, put the raU)its in, and let them 
boil gently till done, then put tliem into 
another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till 
nearly as thick as paste; mix in about half 
a pint of good boiling cream, and wheo k 
becomes the thickness of beehameiU sasee 
in general, squeeze it through the taBuoy 
to the rabbits; make it very hot, shake iaa 
few mushrooms, the yolk of an ^g, and a 
little cream, then serve it to table. Rabbits 
may also be preserved, white or brows, in 
the same manner as chickens. 

RABBIT, MINCED. Take the le- 
niains of a roasted rabbit, cut otf all the 
meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Then break the bones of the rabbit into 
small pieces, and pot them into a atewpaa, 
with a slice of buttor, some shallots, half a 
clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and baal; 
^ive these a few turns over the fire, then shake 
w a little flour; moisten with a giasa of red 
wine, and the same quantity of stock, and 
let it boil over a dow fire for half an boor; 
strain it off, and put in the minced mea^ 
adding salt and coarse pepper; heat As 
whole, without boiling, aaid aervie hot: ga^ 
nish with fi-ied bread. 

RABBITS IN A MINUTE. CM vmi 

rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfeotly dry; 
put a quarter of a pound of butliv into a 



RABBIT 



171 



RABBIT 



ftewpaD, oet it OB the'l!re and when fnura, 
put in the rabbit with a ]ittla pounded pice, 
lt, pepper, and grated nutn^; let the fire 
be brisk, and bb booh as the piece are 
browned, add a little shred parsley and shal- 
k>tB, leave it three or four mioutee longer on 
the fire, and then aeafve. Ten or fifteen inin> 
utes are sufi^ient to cook this dish. 

RABBIT PIE. Oit a couple of young 
rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter 
of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the 
fivers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, pars- 
ley, cut small, and a few leaves of uweet ba- 
sil ; wlien diese are all beaten fine, line your 
pie-dish with a nice crust, then pot a layer 
of the seasoning at the liottom of the dish, 
and pot in the rabbits; pound some more 
bacon in a mortar, mix with it some fresh 
butter, and cover the ral)bits with it, and 
over that lay thin slices of bacon ; put on the 
eover, and place it in the oven ; it will be 
done iu about two hours ; when baked, take 
off the cover, take out die bacon and skim 
off the fat, and if tliere is not a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or 
veal graTy. 

RABBIT PIE, RAISED. Cut your 
rabbits in pieces, and put them into a stew- 
pan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemon-juice, 
pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shallots, chopped 
very fine, and a little puunded mace. When 
the pieces of rabbit are about half done, lay 
them on a dish, and when cold, raise tlie 
crust; put light forcemeat at the bottom; 
the rabbit upon it, and more forcemeat upon 
the top. Cover it, and put it in a moderate 
oven to bake gently; when done, take off 
the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads 
cock's cx>mb6, &c., and serve. 

RABBITS, PORTUGUESE. Cutoff 
the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 
backs upwards, tlie two legs stripped to the 
Old, and trussed with a coiiple of skewers 
in the same manner as chickens, die wings 
turned like the pinions of a chicken ; lard 
and roast them with good gravy ; if they are 
intended for boiling, they should not be lard- 
ed, but be served with bacon, and greens, 
or celery sauce. 

RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or 
three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them 
up, and cake off the leg bones at the thigli, 
season them well with pepper, mace, cay- 
enne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine pow- 
der, and put them into a small pan, placing 
them as ckwely together as possible. Make 
the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the 
heads and carcasses, but take off the meat 
abunt the neck. Put plenty of butter, and 
Jet tlie whole bake gendy. Let it remain in 



the ptn fiir Iipo dtjn, then put it into hmI 
poto, adding bntttr. The liven should !> 
bepiii ie. 

RABBIT PRESERVED. Having 
board e rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; 
season it well inside and out, roll it up, } 
ginning with the legs, make it ti^t, aad 
tie it. Put it into a slew-pan, with some 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set theai 
on the fire till done enough (but withoqt 
boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take 
oat the rabbit, draiu, let it cool, and thea 
cut it into small pieces, which put into bot> 
ties; fill them with oil and cover with wet 
bladders. When required for table, take 
them out, cut them into fillets, and piaee 
on a dish with shred parsl^ and oil. 

RABBITS PULLED. Half boil your 
rabbits, widi an onion, a little whole pep* 
per, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of 
temon-peel ; pull the flesh into flakes ; put 
to it a little of the liciuor, a bit of butter roll- 
ed in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, and tiie liver boiled and bruised; 
boil this up, shakihg it round, and serve. 

RABBITS, ROASTED. Tnm them 
for roasting, and stuff Uiem with the liver 
minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter 
or suet, and oiopped parsley, seasoned with 
a little lemon Uiyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper, and bound w ith an e|g beaten. Sew 
them up, and roast them before a quick fire, 
and baste tliem with butter. Serve them 
with gravy, or melted butter witli lemon 
pickle in it. Two will take an hour to 
roast. They may also be fricasseed or fried, 
cut into joint's, with plenty of fried pai-sley, 
and served with a ssmce made of tlie Viy&r 
and some parsley chopped, and mixed in 
melted butter, with a little pepper and salt, 
or made into a pie the same as chickens. 

RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit 
into pieces, put them into' a quart of water ; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat 
the meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; 
add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to 
yfjur tas'e; stir it into the liqwM* the rabbit 
was boiled in, with the addition of a v^ 
little cream. 

N. B. The meat of the whole rabbit ifei 
too much for one quart; query, would it 
not be enough for twol 

RABBITS STEWED, WITH A 

BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITB 

SAUCE. Wash and clean the rabbits well, 
let them lie for two or three hours in cokl 
water, cut them into joints, wash and dry 
them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and 
firy them of a light brown with butter, and 



RAO 



172 



RAS 



stew them in the followiag sauce: Brown 
Ihree ounces of butter in a stewpan, with a 
table-spoonful of floor, a minced onion, some 
pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and 
the rabbits, stew them till they are tender, 
aad'k little before serving, stir in a talHe- 
qpoonilil of ketchup. Wli^i it is wished to 
dress with a white sauce, the rabbits are not 
fried, but stewed in while stock, which is 
seasoned with white pepper, and salt, and 
thickened with a piece of butter mixed widi 
flour. A few minutes before serving, a little 
cream is added, and a table-spoonful of leiiion 
pickle. 

RADISHES IN BROTH. Take some 
young radishes, pick and scald them, cut 
them into halves or quarters according to 
their size, and boil diem with a slice of ba- 
eon in some stock. In a little time take 
them out, drain, and put them into another 
stew-pan, with conMmmef or veal gravy, 
and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them 
stew gently in this till they are flavcnned, of 
a good -color, and the sauce pretty thick; 
then serve them. ' 

RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces 
<^ truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the 
peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville 
orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, half an 
ounce of mace, the same of pepper, and one 
drachm of cayenne, dry them all well before 
the fire, pound them to a fine powder, add 
one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a 
sieve, and keep it it in a bottle for use. 

RAGOUT OF SNIPES. Pick six or 
eight snipas very nicely, but do not wash 
them ; take out the inside. Roast the birris, 
and cut off all the meat from the breasts, in 
thin slices; pound the bones, legs, and 
backs, in a mortar, and put ihem into a 
stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon, a little 
flour, and some welI-sea$*oned gravy ; boil it 
till it be thick, and well flavored with the 

me, then strain it. Cut half a pound of 
m into diin long slices, and heat it in a 
little butter, widi two minced shallots ; put 
it, with the breasts of the snipes, into the 
strained sauce, and let it boil. Pound the 
inside, or trail, with a little salt, spread it 
over diin bits of toasted bread, and hold 
over it a hot salamander. Put the ragout 
upon this, and place the ham round it. 



. 



RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. Either 
a neck, loin, or fillet of veal, will furnish 
this excellent ragout with a very little expense 
or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cut- 
lets; put a piece of butter or clean dripping 
into a frying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour 
and fry the veal of a light brown: take it 
out, and if you have no gravy ready, make 



some as follows: put a pint of boiling waller 
into the frying-pan, give it a boil up icH* a 
minute, and strain it into a basin while yoa 
make some thickening in the following man- 
ner: put about an oimoe of butter into a 
stewpan ; as soon as it mehs, mix with it u 
much flour as will dry it up ; stir it over the 
fire for a few minutes and gradually add to it 
the gi'avy you made in the frying-pan; let 
them simmer together for ten minutes (tiS 
thoroij^hly incorporated); season it with pep- 
per, salt, a little mace, and a wine-glassfel of 
mushroom ketchup or wine ; strain it throodi 
a tamis to the meat, and stew very eendy 
till the meat is thorouphty warmed. If yov 
have any ready boiled Bacon, cut it in slices, 
and put it in to warm with the meat. 

RAMEQUINS. Take a quarter of a 
pound of Cheshire cheese, scraped, die samo 
quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat them 
in a mortar, widi a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, and tho 
inside of a French roll, boiira in cream till 
soft ; wlien all is beaten to a paste, mix it 
with the whites of the eggs, previously beat- 
en, and put the paste into small paper cases, 
made rather long than square, and put them 
to bake in a Dutch oven, till of a fine brow% 
They should be served quite liot. You may, 
if you diink proper, add a glass of white wine. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. See Cretan 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take 
some good puff paste, roll, it out, and spread 
raspberry jam over it; roll it up, and boil it 
rather more than an hour; cut it into five 
slices ; pour melted butter into the dish, grate 
sugar round, and serve. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate 
two Naples biscuits, or tlie crumb of a Freoch 
roll; put to either a pint of boiling cream. 
When this is cold, add to it the yolks of four 
^gs, well beaten; beat all well together 
with some raspberry juice; drop this id very 
small quantities, into a pan of boiling Ian}; 
stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. 

RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix 

with half a pint of white wine vin^;ar (me 
pound of raspberries, or one pound of pre- 
served raspben'ies, let it boil for three or 
four minutes, stirring it constanly; strain 
it through a hair sieve; dissolve one ounce 
of isinglass in half a pint of %vater; mix 
with it three-quarters of a pound of pimnded 
sugar, add it to the strained raspberrief 
stir it all well togedier; boil, and sti'ain it 
throng a bit of muslin, and put it into a 
shape. Turn it out when cold. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. See Jelhf. 



BEL 



173 



RICE 



RASPBEBRY ICE. Fran ^ joke 
from 88 maaty raspberrries as will yreld a 
pound and a half; put it into a glazed pan, 
and leave it for four days. Then careffally 
raise the skin that has fanned on the top of 
k, pour off the juice into another vem ; 
cWify a pound and a half of BOfpur, with a 
pint and a half of water, add the juice, and 
give them half a dozen boils; if not ml^ 
cientiy red, put in a root of oi-kanet, which 
leave in till of the proper color; strain the 
preparation throi;^li a sieve ; when cold, put 
It into the H^tiere, and freeze it. See lee. 

RASPBERRY SPONGE. Dissolve 
in a little water three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass, add to it three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, and the same pi'oportion of 
new milk, nearly half a pint of raspbernr 
jellv* and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it 
well one way till it becomes thick, and loc^s 
like sponge, then put it into an earthenware 
mould, and ttini it out the next day. 

RASPBERRY TART. Line your 
dish with a nice puff paste, lay in sugar 
and fruit, put bars across, and buie. 

RASPBERRY TART with cream. 
Line a patty-pan with thin puff paste, lay 
in some ra8(werries, and strew some very 
finely sifted si^ar over them; cover them 
witli puff paste, and bake it ; wlien done, 
cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which has been inreviously beaten the yolks 
of two or three eggs, and swe^ened with a 
little sugar; when this is added to the tart, 
return it to the oven five or six minutes. 

RED CABBAGE. Get a fine purpks 
cabbage, take oS tlie outside leaves, quarter 
it, take out the stalk, shred the leaves into 
a colander, sprinkle them with salt, let them 
remain till tlie morrow, drain them dry, put 
them into a jai*, and cover them with the 
pickle (or beet roots. 

RED MULLET. Scrape and wash 
them, fold ihem in buttered paper, lay them 
into a ditdi, and bake them gently. The 
liquor that comes from them, boil with a 
piece of butter, dusted with floor, a tea- 
spoonful of soy, two of essence of anchovy, 
and a lilUe white wine. Serve the sauce m 
a butter-tureen. This fish is called the sea 
woodcock, from being dressed with the 
inside. 

RELISH FOR CHOPS, &c. Pound 
fine an ounce of black pepper, and half an 
ounce -of allspice, with an ounce of salt, and 
half an ounce of sci'aped horseradish, and 
the same of eschalots, peeled and quartered ; 
put these ingredients into a pint of mushroom 

15* 



ketchup, or walnut picUe, and let them steep 
for a fortnight, and then strain it. 

06.  A tea-spoonful or two of this is 
generally an acceptable addition, mixed 
with the gravy usually neat up for chc^ and 
steaks, or added to thkk melted butter. 

REMOULADE, INDIAN. Pound the 
yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute it 
with eight spoonfuls of oil, put in one at a 
time, and continue pounding all the time; 
then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoon- 
fill of saffron, four or five spoonfuls of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper ; amalgamate the whole 
perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, 
and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce 
should be rather thick. 

RENNET. (1) As soon as the calf 
is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it 
inside and out with salt, atler it is cleared 
of the card always found in it. Let it drain 
for a few hours, afbr which sew it up with 
two brge handfols of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted; or keep it in the 
salt, wet, and soak a bit, which will do over 
and over by fresh water. 

RENNET. (2) Prepare the maw the 
same as in the above receipt: on the follow- 
ing day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a 
handful of sweet briar, a handful of rose- 
leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- 
joram, and two large spoonflils of salt, into 
two quarts of fresh sprmg water ; let them 
boil gently till the water is reduced to three 
pints, tlien strain it off, and when only milk 
warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, 
and add to it; in two days, strain it again, 
and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may 
be put in also ; take care that it is sufficient- 
ly salt. If the maw be again salted for a 
Kw days, and dried as almve, it will be 
quite as fit for use as before ; it should be 
kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 

RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off the thin skin, and 
cut them into lengths of four or five inchei^; 
lay them in a dish, and put over a thin 
simp of sugar and water ; cover with another 
dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour 
upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block- 
tin saucepan. As soon as cold, make it 
into a tart; when tender, the baking the 
cniM will be sufficient; or you may cut the 
stalks into little bits, the size of gooseberries, 
and make your tart the same as gooseberry 
tart. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. Put a tea- 
cupful of whole rice into the least water 



AICE 



174 



RlCfi 



possible, till it almost bursts; then add half 
a pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil 
it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole 
time it is on the fire, that it may not biim ; 
dip a shape in cold water, and do not dr^ 
it; put in the rice, and let it stand until 
quite cold, when it will come easily out of 
the eAiape. This dish is much approved of; 
it is eaten with cream or custard, and pre- 
served fnilts ; raspberries are best. It should 
be made the day before it is wanted, tliat it 
may get firm. This blancmanee will eat 
much nicer, flavored with spices,Temon-pee], 
&c., and sweetened with a little loaf sugar, 
add it with the milk, and take out the femon- 
peel before you put in the mould. 

RICE, TO BOIL. Wash the rice per- 
fectly clean, and put on one pound in two 
quarts of cold water; let it bou twenty min- 
utes, strain it through a sieve, and put it be- 
fore the fire ; shake it up with a fork every 
DOW and then, to separate the grains, and 
make it quite dry. Serve it hot. 

RICE CASSEROLE. Take a pound 
and a half of rice, wash it thoroughly in 
several waters (worm), and tlien put it 
into a saucepan, at least eidit inches in 
diameter; moisten it with stock, in this pro- 
portion ; if the rice lies an inch tliick, let 
the stock come two inches above it, and 
four ladlefuls of fowl skimmings ; place tlie 
saucepan on a hot stove; when tlie rice 
boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then 
put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil 
slowly fi)r fifteen to twenty minutes ; stir it, 
let it boil as before ; in twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, stir it again ; if by this time 
the rice is perfectly sott, take it oflf, but if 
not, add a little more liquid, and continue 
boiling until it is so; place tlie saucepan 
aslant on tlie side of the stove that the &t 
may drain away sgid be taken off easily. 
As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it 
into a firm, smooth, paste, witli a spatula; 
it can hardly be worked up too much, as 
every grain of rice ought to pass under pres- 
sure (if necessary, add mtjire stock, a very 
little at a time). When the fraste is thus 
thoroughly worked up, form your casserole 
of it, first laying it m a heap, four or five 
incites high, and seven in diameter; do it 
with the band as you would a raised crust; 
make the ornaments of the outer surface with 
the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for 
the purpose, taking care that the decorations 
be detached from the mass of rice, at least 
an inch; attention to this particular will 
not only add to the beauty of the form, but 
to the color also, as the raised parts will be 
lighdy colored, while the ground will be 
quite white. When properly formed, mask 
the whole surface with clarified butt^, and 



pkice it in a hot oven ibr.an bodr sind a foM^ 
by which time it will be of a fine clear jA~ 
low. Take off the top of your easseraU, 
clear a%vay nil the rice firom the inside that 
does not adhere to the crust (which ought t 
be very thin), and mix it with bechamtihy 
espagJwU, or whatever other sauce may be 
proper, put it in again, and then fill ^ov 
casserole, with such ragouts as your fancy 
may. dictate; glaze the surface of the outer 
ornaments, and serve it. Water, with but- 
ter and salt, is frequently thought preferabfe 
to the stock, &c., as the rice is thereby 
rendered much whiter. 

RICE CASSOLETTES. The riwy 
prepared as above may be put info smaller 
moulds, those called dariole moulds, and 
it should be quite cold before it is turned out, 
the mince or whatever is pat inside being 
also cold ; it must be put m carefully, that 
none of it may mix with the rice, otlierwise 
the cassolettes would tHreak in the process 
of fi'ying; for the same reason, the dripping 
must be very hot. Frying is tlie best and 
quickest method of doing them, but tb^- may 
also be browned in the oven aa the casseroe 
of rice. 

RICE CHEESE. Boil an ounce of 
rice, thick as has^ pudding, in rather less 
than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it bat 
on an ounce and a half of butter, the same 
weight of sugar, mixing it well together; let 
it stand till cold; then add one egg, and the 
yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

RICE CREAM. Mix some rice flov 
with half a glass of cold milk ; then by de- 
grees, add a pint more, also cold, and pot 
It with a bay-leaf into a sancepan, set it on 
a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain 
and flavor it with orange-flower water,' 
sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It 
should be stirred fi^uently whilst boiling; 
eg^ may be added if you think, proper. 

RICE CROQUETTES. Wash ami 
scald a quarter of a pound of rice, pot it 
into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 
shred small, a qoarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orai^ 
flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pint 
of milk ; set these on the fife, and when the 
rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, 
stir tliem in over the fire, liut do not let theoi 
boil ; pour the preparatimi on a large tin or 
slab, spread it equally ; let it cool, and then 
divide it into small equal parts; roll these 
into balls, dip them into an omelet, rdl 
diem in bread-crumbs, and fry them in a 
very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes 
are of a nice color, drain, sprinkle theffl 
with powder-sugar, and serve them. 



mcE 



176 



RIC 



fttCE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of milk 
\rith poudded loaf sugar, and boil it with a 
sdck of cinnamon; stir in sifted ground 
rice till thick ; take it off the fire, and add 
the weil-beatm whites of three ^gs ; stir it 
again over the fire for two or three minutes, 
then put it into tea-cups previously dipped in 
cold water; turn them out when cold, and 
pour round them a custard cream made with 
the yolks of the eggs ; place upon the rice a 
little red currant jelly- or raspberry jam. 
This disli may be served warm or cold ; if 
old, raspberry cream or custard may be 
poured round it. 

RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT 
CREAM. One tea-spoonful of rice-flour, 
a pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, 
a table-spoonful of ratana (or two or three 
laurel leaves boiled in), sugar to your taste; 
mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with 
the ^gs into the boiling milk, until tliick. 
Arrow-root is better tlian rice. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (1) Boil a pint of 
new milk, with a bit of lemun^ieel and cin- 
namon: then mix just sufficient rice-tlour, 
with ai little cold milk as will make tlie 
whole of a good consistence, sweeten ac- 
cording to taste, flavor with a little pound- 
ed bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to 
let it bum ; pour it into a sliape or pint ba- 
gin, taking out the spice. When the flum- 
mery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve 
with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or 
serve with sweet sauce in a boat. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (2) Boil in a quart 
of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, lialf 
on ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose- 
water; sweeten, and stir it till very thick, 
BO tiiat the bottom of the saucepan is seen, 
and then put it into a mould; when quite 
cold turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, 
out into straws, and pour round it some thick 
cream, and a little white wine and sugar 
mixed with it. 

RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in 
milk with some powder-sugar, orange-flower 
water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a 
little butter; when quite soft put to it a 
liaison of volks of eggs, pour it into a pan 
to cool. Make vour preparation into balls, 
stboot the size of an egg, dip them in egg, 
firy them, spriokie them with sugar, and 
serve. 

RICE, GATEAU OF. Boil a quart 
of cream, add to it half a pound of powder- 
sugar, and three-quarters of a pound of 
rice; when the latter is quite soft, dissolve 
in it a quailer of a pound of butter, and 



dien put in the grated rind of a lemon, ht 
it cool. Wlien quite cold, stir in four yollw 
and four whole eggs, more if the rice be 
very thick; butter a mould lightly, put the 
rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so 
that it mav be completely enveloped in and 
covered wuh them ; in half an hour the go- 
teau will be done enoovh; then turn it ooty 
and serve. If you wish, von can make a 
touffie, by whipping the whites of six esgs; 
like other iouffles, m this case it should be 
served in a silver dish. In putting the 
preparation into the mould, be careful not 
to fill it, as the rice would swell and run 
over the edge. 

RICE MILK. Allow an ounce of rice 
for eadi person, wah it thoroughly in warm 
water ; set some milk on the fine, and when 
it boils, ptit in tlie rice; continue to boil it 
over a slow fire, stiiring often for two or 
three hours; add salt or sugar according 
to taste, and cinnamon. 

RICE AND MILK. To every quart 
of good milk allow two ounces of rice; 
wash it well in several waters ; put it with 
the milk into a closely-covered saucepan^ 
and set it over a slow fire; when it boils 
take it ofl*; let it stand till it be cold, and 
simmer it about an hour and a quarter be- 
fore sending it to table; and serve it in 
a tureen. 

RICE PANCAKES. Boil half a pound 
of rice in a small quanti^ of water, until 
quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in witli the rest, 
adding to the whole as much butter as will 
make ihe batter thick enough. They must 
be fried in as small a quantity of lard a 
possible. 

RICE PASTE. Rub dii-ee ounces of ? 

butter well, into half a pound of ground 

rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out 
with a little flour. 

RICE, PYRAMIDS OF. Boil some 
whole rice, make it up into the form of pyr* 
amids about three inches high, or press it 
into small tin frames of that shape; take 
out part of the rice at tlie bottom, and fill the 
space with sausage, or rich forcemeat ; place 
them in a dish, take off the fiame, and pour 
round them some rich brown gravy. 

RICE SAVOURY. Carefully wash 
aiid pick 8i>me rice; set it to stew very 
gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, 
add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and 
salt. When it is swelled it should not be 



RI8 



176 



BOLLS 



boiled to maib; pot k to dnr on the ahallow 
end of a sieve before the fire. Yoa may 
serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a 
dish, and pour the gravy round, having first 
heated it. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. Wash and 
pick half a pound of rice very clean, put it 
on in a saucepan with plenty of water ; when 
it boils let it boil ten minutes, drain it on 
a sieve (ill it is quite dry, and then pare six 
apples, weighing two ounces and a half each. 
Divide tlie rice into six parcels, in separate 
cloths, put one apple in each, tie it loose, 
and boil it one hour; ser^e it with sugar 
and butter, or wine suice. 

RICE SOUP. (1) Carefully blanch 
eome well picked rice, then drain it on a 
sieve; put about a tea-cupful in tlie soup-pot, 
with one head of celei^, and a quart of 
consomme, and let it simmer by the side 
of the stove for three hours. If it tliickens 
too much add more consomme, season with 
a little salt ; take out the ceka'y, and send 
the soup to table. 

RICE SOUP. (2) Wash your rice 
well in warm water, changing it frequently ; 
tlien put the rice into a saucepan, with 
some good stock; set it on tlie fire, and 
leave it to swell for half an hour, but do 
not let it boil ; wlien the rice has imbibed 
all the stock, add a sufficient (]uantity to 
cover tlie rice, cover, and boil it slowly fur 
two hours; in tlie meantime broil two or 
tliree slices of beef, and pepper and salt diem 
well; when of a nice dark color, throw 
them into the rice soup, to which they will 
impart a rich flavor and a fine color. 

RICE, WHOLE IN A SHAPE. 
Wash a lai'ge tea-cupful of rice in several 
waters, put it into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover it, and when it boils, add 
two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it 
becomes dry; put it into a shape, and press 
it in well. When cold, turn it out, and 
serve with preserved black currants, rasp- 
berries, or any sort of fruit round it. 

RISSOLES. (1) Cutpuffpastewitha 
round tin cutter, about three inches wide; 
have ready some cold fiiwl or veal, very 
finely minced, and seasoned witli a little 
pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, 
and moistened with a little good gravy.. 
Put some of the mince upon a bit of the 
pa^ te, wet the edges, and lay over it anoth- 
er bit ; press it ^Uy rounci the rim ; brush 
them all over with a well-beaten esg, and 
strew over them sifted bread crumbs; fi-y 
them a light brown in boiling clarified beef 



drippiof , and lay them upon the back of m 
sieve before the fire to drain. Serve then 
in a nai^in. The paste may be cut of the 
size of a large breakfast plate, tlien the 
mince put into the middle of it, the edge* 
wet all round, and gathered up into the 
form of a pear, brushed over with e^, ancl 
strewed over with bread crumbs. Served 
in a dish garnished with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES. (2) Mince verjr finely BOOK 
cold roasted veal, and a small bit of bacon; 
season it witli grated nutmeg and salt; 
moisten it with cream, and make it up into 
good-sized balls; dip them into the yolks 
of effgs beaten up, and then into findy^rat- 
ed bread. Bake them in an oveo, or fry 
tliem of a light brown color in fresh drifH 
ping. Before serving, drain them befie 
the fire on the back of a sieve. Garniili 
with fried parsley. 

ROLLS. (1) Dissolve two oanoes of bat- 
ter in one pint of new milk, and stir it into 
four pounds of flour, as also three table-tpoon- 
fuls of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, aiid the 
well-beaten whites of two eg^; cover the 
pan witli a warmed towel, and set it before 
the fire to rise for half an hour, then work it 
one way for fifteen minutes; form it into 
rolls, place them upon tins, and let them 
rise for ten minutes before putting them into 
the oven. 

ROLLS. (2) Warm an ounce of butter b 
half a pint of milk, then add a spoonfol and 
a half of yeast of small beer, and a littlesak. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pen, and put 
In the aliove. Set it to rise for an hour; 
knead it well ; make it into seven rolls, and 
bake tliem in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (1) Mix rather more 
tlian an ounce of coarse salt with eight 
|)ounds of siAed flour; make a hole in the 
middle, and pour in about half a pint of 
good yeast, tlie well-beateii whites of four 
egffs, and as much new milk warmed at 
will mix it to a middling stiflbess; clap 
and work it down one way for half an hour, 
but do not knead it; cover it with a warm- 
ed towel, and let it rise before the fire for 
half an hour; take off tlie surfoce, which 
soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be 
made into a roll ; work and clap the dough, 
form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and 
let tliem rise for ten minutes; bake them 
in a quick oven. 

ROLI.S, FRENCH. (2) Rnboneounov 
ofbuiter into a pound of flour ; then add to it 
one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bit- 
ter, and a sufficient ({uantity of milk, to make 
a dough of moderate stiffiiess. Beat it weiJ 



ROS 



177 



SAG 



but do not knead it; let it riie, and bake oo 
ting. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (3) Warm tbrae 

apooofuls of milk, and the same quantity of 
^water, witb a bit of butter tbe size of a wal- 
nut, put it to two spootifula of thick yeauSL; 
put this into tbe middle of rather more than 
a quart of flour, mix the whole together to 
tJie consistence of a batter-pudding, adding 
more flour if necessary, to make it the propor 
thickness; strew a little flour over it from 
the sides, and if the weather is cold, set it at 
a littJe distance from the fire ; do this thi-ee 
hours before it is put into the oven ; when it 
tveaks h ^ood deal ihrough the flour and ris- 
es, work It into a light paste with more warm 
milk and water ; let it lie till within a quar- 
ter of an hour of setting into the oven, then 
work them lightly into rolls ; flour a tin, and 
drop tliem on, handle them as Utile as possi- 
ble; set them before the fire. About twenty 
minutes will be sufficient time to bake diem ; 
pot a little salt into the flour. Rasp the 
tolls. 

ROLLS, SHORT, HOT. Dry before 
the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
three penny-rolb, or larger if you like; add 
to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two 
spoonfuls of yeast, and a little warm milk ; 
make it into a light dough, let it stand by 
tbe fire all night. Bake the rolls in a quick 
oven. 

ROSE-WATER, double-distilled. 
Tbe rose generally chosen for this purpose, 
is the common pale (single or double) rose, 
but tbe white rose is best of all. Gather the 
flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun- 
rise ; take out the calix, and separate the 
leaves, pound them in a nuurble nioriar to a 
paste, and leave them five or six hours in the 
mortar; then put them into a large close 
doth, and let two persona wring it with all 
dieir strength. Having by this operation ob- 
tained four pounds of juice, infuse in it an 
equal weight of fresh rose-leaves for (wenty- 
four hours; at the end of that time put the 
whole into the alembic, which place in a 
sand-badi, and distil it according to rule. 
(See DisUlling). When you have collect- 
ed about an ounce of the water, unlute the 
receiver, and if that which issues from the 
still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded 
first, continue the operation ; but if not, col- 
lect it into another vessel, as this seamd 
water is only single, and must be kept sepa- 
rate from the first, which is the EstenHal 
Water. Should the second water have an 
unpleasant smell (caused by the application 
o too much heat), expose it to the sun for 
a few days, covered only by a sheet (^ paper. 
The utmost care is necessary in distilling this 



and all other odoriferous substances. A still 
more powerful essence than the above may be 
procured by the following method:  Gather 
as many roses as will aflbrd thirty pounds of 
leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; 
when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in 
layers with salt between each, press them 
closely, cork them light, leave the vessel 
twelve days, and tlien distil as usual. 

ROSE-WATER, SINGLE. Put four 
pounds of rose-leaves into a pan, wiih three 
quarts of river water, and leave it four-and- 
twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alem- 
bic, and distil fix>m it as much odorifeitMM 
water as you can, being sure to stop the uio* 
ment you observe the phlegm. Take off 
the alembic, throw away its contents, and 
rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two- 
thirds with fresh-gathered rose-leaves, otk 
which pour the ab()ve drawn rose-water; 
distil this, and when you have procured 89" 
much good rose-water as it will yield, let the* 
fire go out gradually. 

ROUX. Put a pound of butter into a 
saucepan, shake it about till dissolved, when 
add a sufficient quantity of sifted flour, to 
make it the consistence of thick bouilUs 
then set it over a fierce stove, and s^r it un- 
til it begins to take color, when make a good 
fire of cinders, place the roux on it, and let 
it stand to increase in color ; it ought to be 
of a cleaur light brown. Set it by, and use it 
as occasion may require. 

ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your butter 
and flour as above, place it on a moderately 
heated stove, stirring it constantKr till very 
hot; be careful that it does not take color at 
ail, for the whiter it is the more desirable. 

RUSKS. To three pounds and a half 
of flour allow half a pound of butter, the 
same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and 
five spoonfiils of ^ast; mix the flour and 
sugar together; meli the butter in two pinta 
and a half of milk, and mix it with the nour,, 
then add the yeast and one beaten egg; 
work it well together; cover it, and let it 
stand for five or six hours ; take it out of 
the pan, and form it into little rolls; place 
them upon tins, and let them rise for about 
an hour; bake tliera in a quick oven, and 
when they become brown, cut them ihrough 
the middle or into tliree slices; put thaaa^ 
again into the oven to brown and crisp. 



S. 



SAGE GARGLE. Boil quickly in at 
pint of wateTi a brige handful of sage leaves i 



SAL 



178 



SAL 



Dover the pan chweW, and when redueed to 
one-half, fltrain k; when cold, mix it with 
the same qiianti^ of Port wine and of \'ine- 
gur; sweeten it with honey, or with brown 
sugar. Tlie decoction of sage may be uwd 
mione as a gargle, or with vinegar and hon- 
Wf witlKMit tte Port wine; or gai-gle with 
Tin^gar and water. 

SAGO. Let it soak for an hour in cold 
water, to take off the earthy taste; pour 
that off, and wash ii well ; then add more 
water, and simmer gently until the berries 
are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add 
wine and sugar according to taste, and boil 
all up togetlKT. 

SAGO MILK. When well cleansed, 
boil it slowly with new milk. A small 
<]uantity will be sufficioit for a quart of milk, 
it swells so much, and when done, it sliould 
be reduced to about a pint. It requires 
neither sugar nor flavoring. 

SALAD MIXTURE. Endeavor to have 
your sahid herbs as fresh as possible ; if you 
fluspect they are not " morninff gatliered," 
they will be much refineshed by Tying an hour 
or two in spring wato* ; then carefully wash 
and pick them, and trim off all the worm- 
aten, slim^, cankered, diy leaves; and, 
after washing, let them remain awhile in 
the colander to drain: lastly, swing them 
gently in a cloan napkin: when properly 
picked and cut, arrange them in the salad 
<liBh, mix the sauce in a soup-plate, and put 
it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down 
the side of tlie salad dish, and don't stir it 
up lill the mouths are ready for it. 

If the herbs be young, fr^ gathered, trim- 
med neatly, and drained dry, and the sauce- 
maker ponders patiently over the following 
directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame 
of being a very accomplished salad-dresser. 

Boil a couple of eg^ for twelve minutes, 
and put them in a basm of cold water for a 
few minutes; the yolks must be quite cold 
and hard, or tliey will not incorpoiate with 
the ingredients. Rub them through a sieve 
with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a 
table^poonful of water, or fine double cream ; 
then add two table-spoonftils of oil or melted 
butter; when these are well mixed, add, by 
degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt, or powdered 
lump sugar, and the same of made udustard: 
when these are smoothly united, add very 
gradually three tablenspoonfuls of vinegar; 
rub it with the other ingredients till Uior- 
ouglily incorporated with them; cut up the 
white of the egg^ and garnish the top of the 
salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the 
bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the 
salad till it is to be eaten: we recommend 
the eaters to be mindiiil of the duty of masti- 



lion, without fhe due perionmnoe al 

lich, all undressed ycgetanles are trouble 



cation, 

which, 

some company for the principal viaoera, and 

some are even dangerously indigestible. 



SALAD, WINTER. Wash rery dkm 

one or two heads of endive, some heads flf 
celery, some mustard and cresses ; cot thea 
all small, add a little shredded red cabbigQ^ 
some slices of boiled lieet-root, da ooioa, if 
the flavor is not disliked ; mix them togelher 
witli salad sauce. In sprii^, add radiahes, 
and also garnish the dish with tbem. 



SALINE DRAUGHT. Salt of 
wood, twenty grains ; lemon-juicse, a tahln- 
spoonful ; wato*, two teUe-^oonluk; mag- 
nesia, twenty grains ; mix ii in a tumbkr, 
tc^ether with a little pounded sugar, and take 
two or three of these in the day. 

SALLY LUNNS. Take thiw quarts 
of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient 
quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little salt: make tliese iar 
gredients into a light doti^, let it stand be- 
fore the fire (covered), for an hour to nap, 
and bake in a quick oven. The above may 
be made into small cakes. 

SALMON. When sahnon is fieah and 
good, the gills and flesh are of a bri^ red, 
the scales clear, and the whole fish is sti 
When just killed, there is a whiteness be- 
tween the flakes, which gives great firmnem ; 
by keeping, this melts down, and the fidi 
becomes richer. 

SALMON, BAKED. Clean and eat 

the fish into slices, put it in a dish, aod make 
the followinff sauce:  Melt an ounce of but- 
ter, kneaded in flour, in a pint and a half 
of gravy, with two glasses of Port whae, two 
ta0ie.poonful8 of ketchup, two anchovies^ 
and a little cayenne. When the anchovies 
are dissolved, strain and pour the sauce over 
the fishji tie a sheet of buttered paper 01 
the dish, and send it to the oven. 



SALMON, BOILED. Put on a 
kettle, widh spring water enough to wcil 
cover the salmon you are going to dress, or 
the salmon will neither lode nor taste well: 
(boil the liver in a separate saucepan). 
When the water boils, put ui a liandnil of 
salt; take off die scum as soon as it rises; 
have the fish well washed; put it in, and if 
it is thick, let it boil very gently. SahniNi 
requires almost as much boiling as meat; 
about a quarter of an hour to a pound of 
fish : hue practice only can perieot tke aok 
in dressing salmon. A quarter of a salmon 
will take akuost as long boiling as half a 



SAL 



179 



SAL 



9m: yoa tamt oowider the thiduHM, noC the 
weignt: ten pounds of fine fuii-growe salmoa 
will he done in an faour and a quarter. Lob* 
ler Saiioe. 

Ob$,-^The ttiinnest part of the fiah is 
the fattest ; and if joi have a ** grand gour- 
DanH" at table, aw him if he is fi>r thick 
or thin. 

N. B.  If you have |iny lefl, put It into 
a pie-dish, and cover it with an equal por- 
tion of vinegar and pump water, and a little 
aalt: it will be ready in three days. 

SALMON, BOILED IN WINE. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, some slices of ba- 
con, fat and lean together, a poand of veal 
eat thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put 
these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece 
of fresh ralmon cut out of tlie middle, then 
pour in just as much water as will cover it, 
and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the 
aahnon is almost done, then pour the water 
away, and put in two quarts of white wine, 
with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and 
sweet roaijoram, picked from the stalks ; let 
them stew gently, and while they are doing, 
cot a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut tlie 
dices across, and stew them in a saucepem, 
with some rich gravy ; when they are done 
enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence 
of luun ; take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, 
md serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce 
poured over. 

SALMON, BOILED, Berv^ick re- 
CEiPT. The tail of the salmon is first cut 
off near and below the last fin, the fish is 
then cut up the back, keeping the bone on 
oae side, and then cut up into pieces of half 
a pound each, the blood well washed out of 
the fish in coKd water, but the scales not to be 
removed ; a pickle to be made of salt and 
water, strong enough to bear an egg, and, 
when boiling, the &h to be put in, and boil- 
ed very quidily for fifteen mmutes. During 
the boiling, the scum to be taken off carefiilly 
as soon as it rises. Sauces; bbfter, melt- 
ed batter, and anchovy sauoe. 

N. B.  ^The haitlest water is preferable 
for boiling salmoa. 

SALMON, BOILED, receipt bt an 
Aberdeen FISHERMAN. When the wa- 
ter is lioC, put salt into it, and stir it well ; 
taste it; when stroi^ enough to force you to 
eaaH it from ^our mouth, it will do; when 
the water boils put in the fish ; when it boib 
a||ain, give twenty minutes for a salmon, and 
sixteen for a gristle. When salmon is cut 
in slices an inch thick, let them boil ten 
iMMrtes. Serve with it a sauce tureen of 
de liquor the fiah was boiled in. 

SALMON STEAKS BROILED. Cut 



the steaks nm the thickt parti of the fiA 
nearly an inch thick ; butter pieces of while 
paper; foki die steaks in them, and broil 
them over a sbw fire for ten or twelve minutes. 
Take off tlie paper; serve and gamirth with 
plenty of firied parsley. Drened in thi 
way, they may be put round salmon boiled, 
in slices. Sauces; melted batter, lobster, 
or shrimp sauoe. 

SALMON, FRESH BROILED, dean 

the salmon well, and cut it into slices aboot 
sm inch and a half thick ; dry it thoroughly 
In a clean cloth; rub it over with sweet oil, 
or thwk melted butter, and sprinkle a little 
salt over it: put your gridiron over a clear 
Bve, at some distance ; when it is hot, wipe 
it clean ; rub it witli sweet oil or lard ; lay 
the salmon on, and when it is done on one 
side, turn it gently and broil the other. An- 
chovy sauce, &c. 

OoB.  ^An oven does them best. 

SALMON CAVEACH. Boil in two 
quarts of vin^^ar three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, diree cloves, 
two blades of mace, and a little salt. Fry 
the fish, cut in slices, of a li^t brown ool<v 
in fine oil, or clarified dripping; put them, 
when cold, into a pan, pour over the vinegar 
and spices, and put onHbe top eight or ten 
spoonfuls of oil. Solus may be done in this 
way, only lay over them sliced onions instead 
of shallots. 

SALMON, DRIED KIPPER. Cut the 
fish up the back, and take out the bone ; wipe 
it verv clean with a cfoth ; scMne it, and put a 
handuil of salt on each side, and let ii lie 
for three days ; then hang it up to dry, and 
it will be fit for use in two days, and eats 
well with a little pepper put over it, and 
broiled. 

SALMON, DRIED, TO DRESS. Lay 

it in soak for two or three hours, then broil 
it, shaking a little pepper over it. Dried 
salmon is eati broiled in paper, and only 
just warmed through ; egg sauce and moahea 
potatoes are usuuiy served with it; or it 
may be boiled, especially the bit next the 
head. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (1) Cut a 

salmon into two or three pieces, put it in 
a fish-kettle, and set it on the fire with a 
suflkient quantity of water to cover it, and 
plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boil, 
set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; 
then take it off the fire, and let it stand in 
the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the 
pieces dose together in a tub to pickle, and. 
over them five anchovies, a small quantity 
of pounded nltpetre, and a qmrler of a 



SAL 



180 



SAL 



pint of wet oil; beikig tbut pteputed, pot 
the tc^ of the falmon iiqnor into a stewpui, 
to which add the aame qoaottty of white 
wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, 
nd boil ii for two or three niinutes ; take it 
off, and Jet it cool. When cold, pour it 
over the ralmon and tie it down ; in thie 
days turn it, and in a week's time it will 
be fit for use ; this is merely in a small way ; 
a ^;reat quantity being done at once, requires 
neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished 
with fennel. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (2) Cut the sal- 
mon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, and lay 
it on a dry ck>th till the following day ; boil 
two quarts of good vinegar with one of the li- 
quor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole 
black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and 
four blades of mace. Put tlie salmon into 
sometliing deep, and pour over it tlie prepar- 
ed vinegar when cold. A little sweet oil 
put upon the top will make it keep a twelve- 
month. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (8) To a quait 
of liquor the fish has been boiled in, put rath- 
er more tlian half a pint of good vinegar, and 
half an ounce of whole black pepper ; boil 
it, and when it is cold pour it over tlie^ fish, 
previously laid in aflleep dish. 

SALMON, PICKLED, TO DRESS. 
Soak a piece of pickled salmon all night 
in pump-water; then lay it on a fish-plate, 
apd put it in a stewpan, with threfe spoon- 
fiils of vinegar, a little mace, some whole 
pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemoM-peel, 
and a quarter of a pound of biitter rolled in 
flour ; cover the stewpan very close, and let 
it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of 
an hour; then take up the salmon, lav it in 
a dbh, keep it hot before the fire ; let the 
sauce ^tl till it is of a proper consistence ; 
take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, 
and serve the sauce over the fish. 

SALMON, POTTED. Take off the 
head ; cut the salmon in thick slices; wipe it 
dry, but do not wash it ; pound half an ounce of 
nutm^, mace, and cloves, tlie least part of 
cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and 
some salt; chop fine one onion, six bay- 
leaves, and six anchovies ; season each slice ; 
put it into a pan, with very thin slices of 
butter between each layer; bake it, when 
well done; drain off the butter, and, when 
ooM, pour over some chirified butter. 

SALMON, TO SALT. Cut the fish up 
the back, and cut out the bone; wine it 
dean, and sprinkle it with salt; let it lay a 



nioht to drain off the liqpKHr; wipe it Ary; 
rub on it two or three ounces of pomiMl 
saltpetre ; cut it into pieces ; pack it dose in 
a pot with a thick layer of salt between eadi 
layer of fish. If, tlie brine does not rise in 
a few days, boil a stroi^ one, and pour i^ 
when cold, upon the salmon, which mMk 
always be covered witli it. 

SALMON, STEW. Clean and scrape 
the fish ; cut it into slices, and stew it in a 
rich white gravy. A little before serving, 
add two tablcHspoonfuls of sov, one of e* 
sence of anchovy, and a little salt, some 
cho|^)ed parsley and chives. 

SALMON, SPICED. Mix tontber, in 
the proportion of one third of salt-and-water to 
one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black 
pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Qit 
the salmon into slices, and boil it in this; 
when oold, pack it cloee in a pan, aixf poor 
over it the liquor it was boiled in, with the 
spices, so as to cover it completely; cover 
tlie pan closely, to exclude tlie air. 

SALMON, MACKEREL, SPRATS, 
HERRINGS, &c. pickled. Cut tlie fieli 
into proper pieces ; do not take off the scales; 
make a brine strong enougb to bear an egg, 
in which boil tlie fish ; it most be boiled m 
only just liquor enough to cover it; do not 
oveiix)II it. When the fish is boiled, lay it 
slantingly to drain off all the liquor ; when 
cold, pack it ckise in llie kits, and fifl them 
up with equal parts of the liquor the salinoa 
was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), 
and liest vinegar; let tliem rest for a daw; 
fill up again, striking the sides of the kit wmh 
a cooper's adz, until the kit will receive no 
more ; then head tliem down as close as pas- 
sible. 

06.  ^This is in the finest condition 
when fresh. Some sprigs of fresli-gatliered 
young fennel are the accompanimoits. 

N. B.  The three indispensable marks 
of the goodness of pickled ssdmrai are, 1st, 
The brightness of the scales, and their stick- 
ing fast to the skin ; 2dly, The femneas c^ 
the flesh; and, 3dly, Its fine, palenred loae 
color. Without tlieae it is not fit to eat, 
and was either stale before it was pickled, 
or has been kept too long after. 

The above was given us as the adod 
practice of those who pickle it for the Lon- 
don market. 

N. B.  Pickled salmon wanned by'steaa, 
or in its pickle liquor, is a fovorite dish at 
Newcastle. 

SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, 
lemon-peel, and sugar, together; thai mis 
with a small quantity of the powder, pro* 
viousl^ roUbed smooth, in a little ooM 



SAL 



181 



8AIf 



Mir the whole weQ tocethor, aad boil far a 



SALPIGON. Tins is a mixbire ecmipo- 
sed of variooB articles, such as sweetlMvads, 
fiit liven, tongue, ham, champignonB, truf- 
fles, ftc., previously dressed, cut into dice, 
and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned 
with pepftet, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shallots, 
weet herbs, and a little butter ; take care 
that all the articles are sufficiently boiled be- 
Ibre th^ are cut up. Many things, such as 
berf-paute, fowl, cocks'-combs, indeed al> 
Boat any article you please, may be added to 
the above. 

8ALT; Is as Plutarch calls it, sauce 
iir aanoe. 

Common salt is more relishing than bas- 
ket salt; it should be prepared for the table 
by clryii^ it in a Dutch oven before the fire; 
ven put it on a clean paper, and roll it with 
a rolling pin ; if you pound it in a mortar 
till it is quite fine, it will look as well as 
basket (sait. 

**,* Select for table-use the lumps of 
salt. 

Ob.  Your salt-box must have a close 
cover, and be kept in a dry place. 

SALT, SPICED. Take four drachms 
of grated nutmeg, the same of cbves, two 
of white pepper, two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and 
two of thyme (dieae three latter articles 
ahould he dried in an oven). Pot tliese all 
into a mortar, and pound them to an impal- 
pable powder, and sift it. Take a pound 
of fine while salt, dry it thoroughly in an 
oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible; 
nft, and mix with it an ounce of the above 
moitioned spices; amalgamate them thor- 
iig^ly> keq) the spiced salt in a tin box, 
which will shut perfectly close. Use it m 
4he following proportimi: four drachms to a 
pound of boned veal. 

SALTING MEAT. In the $ummer 
eason, especially, meat is frequently spoiled 
by the cook foi^etting to take dut the ker- 
nels; one in the udder of a round of beef, in 
the fot in the mtddle of the round, those 
about the thick end of the flank, &c.: if 
these are not iakea out, all the sak in the 
world will not keep the meat. 

The art of salting meat is to rub in the 
nit thfMTOOgfafy and evenly into every part, 
and to fill all the holes fiill of sak where the 
kernels were taken out, and where the butch- 
erVi skewers were. 

A round of beef of 25 pounds will take a 
pound and a half of salt to be rubbed in aU 
at first, and requires to be turned and rubbed 
every day with the brine; it will be ready 

16 



for dresm; in four or five days, if you 4b 
not wish it very salt. 

In sufiimer, the sooner meat is salted ate 
it is killed, the better; and care must be 
taken to defend it fitxn dw flies. 

In i0mfr, it will eat the shorter and 
tenderer, if kept a few days (according to 
the temperature of the weather) until ka 
fibre has become short and tender, as these 
cfaanses do not take place after it has been 
actedf upon by the salt. 

In fi^ty weather, take care the meat is 
not fit>9Ben, and warm the salt in a firing- 
pan. The extremes of heat and cold are 
equally unfavorable for the process of salting. 
In the former, the meat changes before the 
sak can aflect it: in the latter, it is so har- 
dened, and its juices are so congealed, that 
the salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with sak- 
petre, in the proportion of half an ounce, and 
the like quantity of moist sugar, to a pound 
of common salt. 

You may impregnate meat with a yerf 
agreeable vegetable flavor, by pounding some 
sweet bethe, and an onion with tfae saH. 
You ma^ make it still more relishing by ad- 
ding a little ZE8T or savory tpice. 

SALT PORK, BOILED. See Bacon, 

SAMPHIRE, TO DRY, OR PRE- 
SERVE. Take it in bunches as it grows ; 
set a large deep stewnan full of water on the 
fire; as soon as it boils, throw in a little 
salt, and put in die samphire ; when it looks 
of a fine green, remove the pan directly firmn 
the fire, and take oat the samphire with a 
fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, 
lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well 
over it, next day torn them on a sieve, and 
strew it again with sugar, keep turning dai- 
ly until it is dry; take care the stove is not 
too hot. 

SAMPHIRE, TO PICKLE. Lay some 
samphire that is green in a pan, sprinkle 
over it two or three handfols of salt, and 
cover it with spring water, and let it lay for 
twenty-four hours ; then put it into a large 
hraaa saucepan; throw in a handfiil of salt; 
cover the pan close, and set it over a very 
slow fire; let it stand tiU it is quite green, 
and crisp; theft take it oft", for if it beocMnes 
soft it is spoiled; put it into a jar, cover it 
dose, and when it is cold, tie it down. 

SANDWICHES FOR TRAVEL- 
LERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon 
the upper part of a stale loaf of bread cut 
very smooth, and then cut off the slice; nojir 
cut ofi* another thin slice, but spread it wira 
butter on the under side, without which pre- 
caution the two slices of bread will not fit 



sincES 



182 



SAUCES 



one another. Next take some cold beef, or 
ham, and cot it Into very mimite particles. 
Sprinkle these thickly over the batter, and, 
having added a little mustard, put the sliees 
fiux to fiice, and press them together. Last- 
ly, cut tlie whole into four equal portions, 
each of which is to be vnrapped in a separate 
piece of papa*. 

SANDWICHES. (1) Cut some bread 
into tliin slices, pare off the emit, and spread 
a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into 
oblong pieces, put between each scHue bits 
of fowl, and then thin bits of liam, both nice- 
ly trimmed; add a little mustard and salt. 
Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. 
Serve thmn for luncheon, gamidied with 
curled parsley. 

SANDWICHES, (2) Properly prepaid 
ed, are an elegant and convenient luncheon 
or supper, but have got out of fashion, from 
the bad manner in which they are common- 
Iv made : to cot the bread neatly with a 
marp knife seems to be considered the only 
essential, and the lining is composed of any 
ofial odds and ends, tliat cannot be sent to 
table in any other form. Whatever is used 
must be carefully trimmed from every bit of 
skin, gristle, &c. and nothing introduced 
but what you are absolutely certain will be 
acceptable to the moutli. 

SANDWICHES, CAKE. Cut a sponge 
cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- 
widies, and spread strawben-y jam or cur- 
rant jelly over them. 

SAUCE. (1) Few things require more 
care than making sauces, as most of tliem 
sliould be stirred constantly, the whole atten- 
tion should be directed to tliem ; tlie better 
way therefore, is to prepare die sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand equal 
care ; they may be kept hot in tlie 6am- 
marie. 

Butler, and those sauces containing egga, 
ought never to boil. 

The thickest stewpans should be used for 
making sauces, and wooden-spoons used 
for stirring them. 

SAUCE. (2) Mix together a pint of 
vinegar, two shailbts or heads of garlic, a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne, three large table- 
qioonfiils of Indian soy or mushroom ketch- 
up, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand 
a week, shaking it daily; strain, and bottle 
it for use. 

FOR ANY SORT OF MEAT. 



ANCHOVY. Pondthrae m- 

chovieB in a mortar with a little bit of bsl- 
ter ; rub it through a doable hair sieve wkk 
tlie back of a wooden spomi, and sdr it into 
almost lialf a pint of melted butter ; or stir 
in a table-epoonfiil <^ essence of anchofj. 
To the above, many cooks add lemoD-joise 
and cayenne. 



Boil and strain three table-spoonfuls of ^ra- 
y, two of vinegar, a blade of mace, a htUe 
pepper, salt, and a lai-ge sliced onion. 



APPLE, (1) Pare, core, and 

slice some aisles ; boil them in water, wilk 
a bit of lemon-peel ; when tender,imi3h them; 
add to them a bit of butter the sixe of a 
wahiut, and some brown sugar. Heat, and 
serve in a sauce-turem. 



APPLE. (2) Pare and core 

three good-sized baking apples; put then 
into a well-tinned pint sauoepony with tiro 
table-epoonfiils of cold water; cover lbs 
saucepan close, and set it on a triv^ over a 
slow fire a couple of hours hehre dimter 
(some apples will take a long time slewing, 
others will be ready in a quarter of an hour): 
when tlie apples are done enough, poor off 
the water, let tliem stand a few minotes tD 
get dry ; dien beat them up with a fork, 
with a bit of batter about as big as a not- 
mcs, and a tea-spoonful of powdered smv. 

N. B.  Some add lemon-peel, gratedl or 
minced fine, or boil a bit with the apples. 



ATTELETS. Take of finely- 



minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallots, a 
table-spoonfiil each ; fry them with a little bulp 
ter, and tlien dredge in a little flour ; raoistta 
tlie mixture with some good stock, seasoi 
it with peppor and salt, and boil it dll it 
begins to tliicken ; then take it off the fire, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of two or 
three eggs. Stir it well aU the time it ii 
making. 



BEEF-GRAVY, or Bromi 

Sauce for Ragout, Game, PouUrff, 
FUhy fyc. If you want gravy immediately, 
see Potato Soup, or Glaxe. If yoa bavp 
time enough, furnish a thick and ireU-timied 
stewpnn witli a tiiin slice of salt pork, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-eized omoa; 
on this lay a pound of nice, ysacj graiy 
beef, (as the object in making gravy is to 
extract the nutritious succuloioe of the meat, 
it must be beaten to comminute the contui^ 
ing vessels, and scored to angmmt the M> 
face to the action of the water) ; cover thi 
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire; wlM 
the meat begins to brovra, torn it aboa^ 
and let it get slijzbtly browned j[but tiki 
care it is not at aU biuned) : then poor iiA 
pint and a half of boiling water; set ite 
pan on the fire; when it boils, carefidb 
catch the scum, and tlien pot in a cruit of 
bread toasted brown (doo't bom it) a 



SAUCES 



183 



SAUCES 



ipriff of wnter aavory, or lemon thyme and 
paraley---a roll of thin cut lemon-peel, a doz- 
en berries of allspice, and a dozen of black 
pepper. Cover (he stewpan close, and let 
It stew Tei^ gently fen- about two hours, 
then strain it through a sieve into a basin. 
Now, if you wish to thicken it, set a clean 
stewpan ova: a slow fire, with about an 
ounce of butter in it; when it is melted, 
dredge to it, by degrees, as much fiour as 
will dry it up, stirring ihem well together; 
when thoroughly mixed, pour in a little 
gravy  stir it well togetlier, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees ; set it over the fire, let 
it simmer gently for fifteen minutes longer, 
fllcim off the fat, &c. as it rises ; when it is 
about as thick as cream, squeieze it through 
a tamis or fine sieve  and you will have a 
fine rich Brown Sauce, at a very moderate 
expense, and without much trouble. 



FOR BOILED BEEF. Mince 

a large onion, parboil it, and drain off the 
water; put the onion into a saucepan, witli 
a table-spoonful of finely-chopped pursley, 
some good gravy, and one ounce of butter 
dtedeed with a little flour. Let it boil 
nearly ten minutes, and add a spoonfiil of 
cut capers, which must be thoroughly heat- 
ed before the sauce is served. 



BROWN. Take a pound or 

two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, 
put all these into a saucepan with a glass 
of water, and set it on a brisk fire ; when 
scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a 
slow fire, that the jelly may take color with- 
out burning; and as soon as it is brown, 
moisten it with stock (or water), add a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay- 
leaves, two cloves, and some champignons, 
salt it well, and set it on the fire for three 
hours, then strain ; dilute a little roux with 
your liquor, and boil it an hour over a gentle 
fire, take off all the &t, and run it through 
a bolting. 



BONNE BOUCHE, FOR 

Ctoosx, Duck, or roast Pork. Mix 
a tea-epoonfiil of made mustard, a 8alt-si)oon- 
fid of salt, and a few grains of cayenne, in a 
large wioe-glassfiil of claret or Port wine ; 
pour it into the goose l^ a slit in the apron 
jnst belore serving up ; or, as all the com- 
pany may not like it, stir it into a quarter 
of a pint of thick melted butter, or thicken- 
ed gravy, and send it up in a boat. A fiai- 
Torite relish for roast pork or geese, &c. is, 
two ounces of leaves of green sage, an ounce 
of finesh lnon-ped pared thin, same of salt, 
minced eschalot, and half a drachm of 
cayenne peppo*, ditto of citric acid, steeped 
foK a fcMinight in a pint of cbret ', shake it 



up well every day ; let it stand a day to set* 
tK, and decant the clear liquor; liottle U 
and cork it close ; a tablenipoonfiil or more 
in a quarter pint of gravy, or melted butter. 



BREAD. (1) Boil, in a pint of 

water, the crumb of a French roil or of a 
slice of bread, a muioed onion, and some 
whole pepper. When the onion is tender, 
drain off the water, pick out the pepper- 
corns, and rub the bread through a sieve; 
then put it into a saucepan, with a gill of 
cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. 
Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce- 
tnreen. 



BREAD. (2) Mix, in rather 



more than half a pint of milk or water, a 
slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful ijt 

Eotato flour, a small onion pounded, a bit (A 
utter the size of a walnut, a few whole 
pepper corns, a little ma(%, and salt. Boil 
it well, pick out the spices, and mix it 
soKwth. Serve quite hot. 



BREAD. (3) Put a small 



tea-cupfiil of bread crun^ into a stewpan, 
pour on it as much milk as it will soak up, 
and a little more; or instead of the milk, 
take die giblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the poultry, &.c. and stew them, and 
moisten the bread with this liquor; put it on 
the fire with a middling-sized onion, and a 
dozen berries of pepper or albpice, or a lit- 
tle mace; let it boil, then stir it well, and 
let it simmer till it is quite stiff, and then 
put to it about two table-spoonfuls of cream 
or melted butter, or a little good broth; 
take out the onicm and pepper, and it is 
readv* 

OoM.  ^This is an excellent accompani- 
ment to game and pbnltry. 

FOR BOILED MEAT, Game, 

AKD Poultry. Bruise the yolks of two 
hard-boiled esgs with a little water and salt; 
bone one anchovy, and mince it, a small on* 
ion, two shallots, a little {larsley and tarra- 
gon, and a few capers; mix them with the 
egg, add a table-spoonful of fine oil, a little 
UMiMard, two table-spoonfiils of lemon, and 
one of tarragon vinegar; mix all exceed- 
ingly well together, put it into a sauce-tu- 
reen, and serve it with the broil; or it may 
be served with cold veal. 



CAPER. To make^ quarter 



c^ a pint, take a table-spoonfiil of capers, 
and two tea-spooofiib of vinegar. 

The pfresent iashion of cutting capers ii 
to mince one-third of them very fine, and 
divide the others in half; put tnem into a 
quarter of a pint of m^ted butter  or good 
thickened gravy; stir them the same way 



SAUCES 



184 



SAUCES 



as ]poa did the meked bottar, or it wiH oO. 
Some boil, and minoe fine a fisw leavee of 
paraley, or diervil, or tarragon, and add 
tbese to the mnoe; otbera tlie juice of half 
a Seville orange, or lemon. 

Keep the caper bottle very clowly corked, 
and do not uae any of the caper liquor: if 
the capera are not wdl covered with it, they 
will immediately noil; and it is an excel- 
lent ingredient m hashes, kc. The Dutch 
ose it as a firii sauce, mixing it with melted 
butter. 



..; CARRIER. Scrape a small 

stick of horsen^ish, cut an onion or two 
in thin slices, put these into a sauce-tureen 
with a little vin^^ar and whole peppo- ; set 
the tureen in the dripping-pan under a 
shoulder of mutton whilst roasting; serve 
this sauce qoite hot with the meat. 



CELERY, WHITE. Pick and 

wash two heads of nice white celery; cut it 
into pieces about an inch long; stew it in a 
pint of wator, and a tea-spoonful of salt, till 
the celery is tender; roll an ounce of butter 
wkh a table-spoonful of flour; add this to 
half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. 



CELERY PUREE, for boiled 



Tkirkey, Veal, Fowls, Sfc, Cut small 
half a dcnen heads of nice white celery that 
is quite clean, and two miions sliced; put 
in a two-quart stewpan, with a small lump 
of butter: sweat than over a slow fire till 
quite tender, then put in two spoonfiils of 
nour, half a pint of water (or beef or veal 
broth), salt and pepper, and a little cream or 
milk ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and pass 
through a fine hair sieve with the back of a 
spoon. If yoo wish for celery sauce when 
celery is not in season, a t]uarter of a drachm 
of celery seed, or a little essence of celery, 
will impregnate half a pint of sauce with a 
sufficient portion of the flavor of the vege- 
table. 



CHESTNUT, FOR ROAST 



TURKEY. Scald a pound of good chest- 
nuts in hot water for five minutes, skin them, 
and stew them slowly for two hours in white 
stack, seasoned amf thickened with batter 
and floor. Cut a pound of pork sausages 
into bits about an inch Ions, dust them with 
flour, and fiy them a li^t nrown; lay them 
into the dish on which the turkey is to be 
served, ai|^ pour the chestnuts and sauce 
over them. Some people prefer the fiied 
sausages stewed a little with the diestnutB; 
bat this method makes the sauce of a darker 
color. 



nioely-deaned cnrfBoti, add 

rmfiils of grated bread, a piece of buttor 
site of a walnut, four o1dis, and a ^asi 
of Port wine; stir it till it boil, and aerre it 
hot. 



CURRY, Is made by scirriqg a 



7-; CURRANT, FOR VENISON. 

Boil in water for a few nunutes an ounce of 



sufficient quantity of curry powder, into gi> 
vy or melted butter, or onion sauce, or otam 
gravy. The compositions of curry powder, 
and the palates ot tlioee who eat it, vaiy so 
much, that we cannot recommend any wpf 
cific quantity. The cook must add it fay 
degrees, tasting as she proceeds, and take 
care'not to put in too miidi. 

DUTCH. (1) Beat op the y*i 

of six eggs, mix in a little floor, cream, sak. 



and lemon vinegar. Strain it throng a 
sieve, add a small piece of iresh butler, two 
blades of pounded mace, and a little pepper. 
Put it into a saucepan, and stir h dU h 
is almost boiling. 



DUTCH. (2) Put into a stewpan 

a tea-spoonful of flour, four lablenipoonfols of 
elder vinegar, a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a litde 
salt; keep stirring it over the fire, and work 
it well till thick. If it be not cordled, it 
will not requu'e to be strained. Seainn 
with pejqser. 

DUTCH, FOB Fish oit Boil- 
ed Fowls. Mix, with two ounces of 
fish butter, one tea-spoonfol of floor, tiro 
table-spoonfols of cold water, the same 
quantity of vinegar, and one weU-beatea 
esg; put it into a saucepan, and stir it over 
the fire till it be quite h(^, but do not aBow 
it lo boil. 



EGG. (1) This agreeable 



paniment to ittasted poultry, or salted fish, 
IS made by putting three eggs into boiling 
water, and boiling them for about twehe 
minutes, when tliey will be hard ; put than 
into cold water till you want them. This 
will make the yolks firmer, and prevent 
their suHace turning black, and yoo can col 
them much neater: use only two of the 
whites, cut the whiles into snoall dice, the 
yolks into bits about a quarter of an iaeb 
square; put them into a sauce-boat; poor 
to them half a pint of melted butter, and 
tir them tugeiher. 

If you are for soporlative ^g sauee, 
pound the yolks of a couple of eggs, and rib 
them with the melted butter to tbi<^Q it 

N. B.  Some cooks garnish salt fish wHk 
hard4miied eggs cut in half. 



EGG. (2) Boil three or Asr 

eggs about a quarter of an hour, pot tbcA 



SAUCES 



185 



SAUCES 



liitA t1d Watnr, take off the sheik, cat three 
c^ the whites and four yolka into small 
tMeoes, mix them with melted butter, and 
neat it welL 



ESCHALOT. Take four 



chalots, and make it in the same manner as 
garlic sauce. Or, you may make this sauce 
more extemporaneously by putting two table- 
qx>onful8 of eschakjt wine, and a sprinkling 
of pepper and salt, into (almost) half a pint 
6i thick melted butter. This is an excellent 
Bailee for chops or steaks; many are very 
fond of it with roasted or boiled meat, 
poultry', &c. 



ESCHALOT, FOR BOIL- 
ED MUTTON. This is a very fivquent 
and satisfoctocy substitute for caper sauce. 
Mince four eschalots vei^ fine, and put them 
into a small saucepan, with almost half a pint 
of the liquor the mutton was boiled in: let 
them boil up for five minutes ; then pot in a 
table-poonful of vinegar, a quarter tea-spo(m- 
ioi of pepper, a little salt, and a bit of butter 
(as big as a walnut) rolled in flour; shake 
together till it boils. 



ESCAVEKE SAUCE, rdn 



Cold Gams, Fowl, or Meat. Beat, 
in a marble mortar, the following ingredients : 
five cloves of garlic, six cloves of shal- 
lot, as much pounded ginger as will lie upon 
a sixpence, and the same of cayenne, a ta- 
ble-spoonfol of coriander seed, and a little 
mk. Four upon them, boiling hot, a pint 
of the best white wine vinegar ; add the peel 
of a lemon, oA very thin. When cold, pot 
tbe whole into a bottle, cork it tightly, and 
ihake it well before using. 



FOR FISH. (1) The mehed 

batter for fish, should be thick enoush to ad- 
here to the fish, and, therefore, must be of the 
thickness of light batter, as it is to be dilut- 
ed with essence <^ andiovy, soy, mushroom 
ketchup, ca^ne, or Chili vinegar, lemons 
or lemon-joice, or artificial lemon-juice, &c. 
which are expected at all well-served tables. 
Cooks, who are jealous o( the reputation of 
their taste, and housekeepers who value their 
health, will prepare these artwles at home: 
there are ouite as manv reasons why th^ 
ifaoald, as there are for toe prefonce usually 
given to home4)aked bread, and home-brew- 
ed beer. The livo: of the fish pounded andi 
nhced with parsley and butter, with a little 
lemon-juice, &c. is an elegant and inofiensive 
relish to fish. 



FOR FISH. (2)Twowine-^laa8. 

m of Port, and two of walnut pickle, four of 
mriiroom ketchup, half a dozen andiovies, 
pou n ded, tbe like number of eschabts slked 

16 



and pounded, a table-spoonfol of soy, and 
lalf a drachm of cayenne pepper ; let them 
simmer gendy for ten minutes ; strain it, and 
when coki, put it into bottles, well corked, 
and sealed over, it will iieep for a considera- 
ble time. 

06.  This is commonly called Quin*i 
sauce. 



FOR FISH. (3) A table- 

spoonfiil of anchovy juice, <Hie of soy, and 
two of mushroom ketchup, mixed in a quar- 
ter of a pound of melted butter. 



FOR FISH. (4) Three ancho- 
vies and an onion chopped, and a small bit 
of horseradish boiled in some stock, then 
strained, and thickened with a piece of but^ 
ter rolled in flour. 



FOR FISH. (5) Boil in half a 

pint of water one or two anchovies, two 
cloves, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, 
a few peppercorns, and two tablo'^xxHifols 
of Port wine ; strain and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. 



FOR FISH. (6) Mix well widi 

two ounces of melted butter, of mushroom 
ketchup, essence of anchovies, and lemon 
pickle, a table-spoonful each, a tea-fipoonfiil 
of soy, and a little cayenne. Boil it before 
serving. 



FOR FISH. (7) Chop two doien 

of whole anchovies, mix with them half a 
pint erf" anchovy liquor, two shallots cot small, 
and three pints of Port wine, one <jf vinegar, 
one lemon sliced, one handfiil of scraped 
horseradish, and ten blades of mace, one 
nutmeff, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all 
bmised, and one table-spoonfiil of flour of 
mustard. Boil these together about fifteen 
or twenty minutes; when cold, strain and 
bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep 
good a year. A table-spoonful improves 
oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient 
for a sauce-tureen of melted batter. 



FOR FISH. (8) A quart of Port 



wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound 
of bruised anchovies, one ounce of mace and 
one of cloves, half an ounce of pepper, one 
large onion, and the peel of one lemon; boil 
all these in^[redients together, over a slow 
fire, till a pint is wast^ ; then strain, and 
bottle it, and keep it closely stopped. 

FISH OR MEAT SAUCE, TO MAKE 
A aUART BOTTLE OF. To half a 
bottfe of vinegar put one ounce of cayenneii 
two ck>ve8 of garlic, one table-spoonfol of 
soy, two of walnut, and two of moriiroom 
ketchup. Let it stand six days, shaking it 



8AUCE9 



186 



8A0C9 



fivqaentky then add the remainiiiff half of 
the bottle of vinegar; let it etana another 
wvkf atnun, and pnt it into aniaU bottlea. 



WHITE, FOR FISH. Four 

ancbovieB chopped, two glanes of white 
wine, a hi^ge one of vinegar, an onion stack 
with three cloves, and cut into quarters; let 
all these simmer till the anchovies dissolve ; 
strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of 
batter kneaded in a tabl e e p oonfiil of floor. 
When it has melted, stir in gradually, one 
way, half a pint <^ cream, taiLii^ care that 
it do not boil. When thoroughly heated, 
serve in a sauoe-tureen. 



LIVER, FOR FISH. Boil the 



liver <^ the fish, and poond it in a mortar 
with a little flour; stir it into some broth, 
or some of the liquor the fish was boiled in, 
or melted butter, parsley, and a few grains 
of cayenne, a little essence of anchovy, or 
oy, or ketchup; give it a boil up, and rub 
it thraogb a sieve: yoo may add a little lem- 
nn-jaice, or lemon eat in dice. 



PINK, FOR FISH. Put into a 

pan, CMT widenmouthed jar, on^ quart of good 
vin^ar, half a pint a[ Port wine, half an 
oanoe of cayenne, one laree table^-spomiful 
i walnut ketchup, two ditto of anchoiy 
liquor, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, 
and six cloves (^ garlic. Let it remain forty 
hours, stirring it two or three times a-day ; 
nm it through a flamiel bag, and put it into 
half-pini bottles. 



FOR PIKE. Mix with a pint 

Kii cream a taUe^poonfiil of anchovy sauce, 
the same of soy, and two of ketchup, a 
piece of butler rolled in flour; put it into a 
saucepan, and stir it one way till nearly 
boiling. 



WHITE, FOR PIKE. Simmer 

till half wasted, two taUe-spotnifiils of white 
vine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and 
ome grated nutmeg; add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, tlKn a small tea-cupfiil of 
Ofvam; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all die 
time, and taking care that it do not boil. 



GREEN GOOSEBERRY. Boil 

some green gooseberries in water till soft, 
and sweeten them with brown sugar. 



GOOSEBERRY. Top and tail 

them close with a pair of scissors, and scald 
half a piitf of green gooseberries ; drain them 
on a hair sieve, and put them into half a 
pint of melted butter. Some add grated 
ginger and lemon-peel, and the French, min- 
ced fennel; others send op the gooseberries 
whole or mashed, without any butter, &c. 



GOOSE STUFFING. 



very fine an ounce of onion and h^an 
of green sage leaves; pat them into a 
pan with tour spoonfiils of water; m 
gently for ten minutes; then put in t 
spoonfid of pepper and sak, and one 
of fine bread crumbs; mix weD 
then pour to it a quarter of a pint of farodiy 
or gravy, or melted batter, stir vrell togedi- 
er, and nmmer it a few minutes longor. 

GRANDE. Take daree or fear 



slices fit>m the under part of a knockle of 
veal, and put them into a large stewpaa 
with two ladlefiiki of eonoimn, set it on a 
fierce fire, taking care to skim it aa nucfa as 
possible, and with a cloth wipe away aD 
that adheres to the inside of the stewpan; 
when the eomomme is ledooed, prick die 
slices with a knife to let out the gravy; then 
set the stewpan on a slow fire, tlmt the meat 
and glaze ma^ adhere together, and as soon 
as the latter is of a clear light oi^, take It 
off", leave it covered for ten minutes, then fill 
it up with rich stock, in which is four or 
five large carrots, and three omons; let il 
boil slowly for two hours. In the neantime 
put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or 
five carrots, as many oaiwis (one slock with 
cloves), and two ladlefiils of etauommes 
set it on a brisk fire that the Ikpior nay r^ 
duce to a jelly ; as soon as this jelW begins 
to take color, pour on it the liquor fiean the 
other saucepan to dissolre the jelly gradmW 
ly; tben make it boil. Dilute some nmt 
with the above liqtior, and add it to the meat 
with some champignons, a bunch of panl^, 
scallione, and two nay-leaves, skim it vdiei 
it begins to boil, and again wheD the met 
is added, put in more eonsomme or rtmt, 
according as it is too thick or too thin. 

When it has boiled an hoar and a half, 
take off" all the fat; and when tlie meat ii 
q|uite done, strain the sauce throogh a bo^ 
ting-cloth. 



GRILL. Tohalfapintofj 



add an ounce of finesh butler, and a 
spoonfiil of floor, previoialy wefl roUbed to* 
setber, the same of mushroom or wafaml 
ketchup, two teanspoonfels (^ femon^nieey 
one of made mustand, one nf minoed capen^ 
half a one of black pepper, a qoarter of ft 
rind of a lemon grated very via, a lea* 
spoonfiil d* essence of anchovies, and a littb 
Eschalot wine, or a very small piece of mia- 
oed eschalot, and a little Chili vinegar, or ft 
few grains of ca}-enne ; simmer tdgedmr lor 
a few minutes ; pour a little of it over the 
grill; and send up the rest in a 



HARVEY. Chop tvrehe ante- 



vies, bones and all, veiy small, with 
oance of cayenne pepper, six spoonfiili of 



h. I 



SAUCE9 



187 



BAVCZ9 



Wtf, m ditto of ffood walout pickle tirae 
iieda of garlic, chopped not veiy amall, a 
qnurter of an ounce of eochineal, two heads 
of shallots, chopped Dot very Bmall, one gal* 
Vm of. vinegar; let it stand fourteen days, 
tir it well, twice or thrice every d^; tliien 
pass it through a jelly-bag, and repeat this 
till it is perfectly ckear ; thai bottle it, and 
tie a bladder over the cork. 

HORSERADISH, TO EAT 

WITH Hot or Cold Mkat. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a table-spoonful of vin- 
egar, and three of cream ; add a little salt, 
and as much fiaely-grated horseradish as 
will make the sauce the consistence of 
onion sauce. 



FOR HASHES AND MADE 

DISHES. A pint of Port wine, twelve 
anchovies chopped, a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie 
on half a crown, two or three cbves, a 
Uade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, 
OUB small onion miliced, two bay-leaves, a 
lUtle lemon thyme, marjoram, and parvley, 
and a piece of horseradish about the length 
1^ a finger split into quarMrs ; put all into a 
saucepan, and let.it simmer till the ancho- 
vies are dissolved ; tlien strain it, and, when 
eold, bottle it for use. 

FOR HASHED OR MINCED 



VEAL. Take the bones of cold roast or 
boiled veal, dredge them well with floor, 
and put them into a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of broth or water, a small onion, 
a little grated or finely-minced lemon-peel, 
or the peel of a qiwrter of a small lemon, 
pared as thin as pomible, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a blade of pounded mace ; to 
thicken it, rvi> a table-spoonfiil of flour into 
half an ounce of butter; stir it into the 
broth, and set it on the fire, and let it boil 
very gently for about half an hour ; strain 
tfaroogh a tamis or sieve, and it is ready to 
pot to the veal to warm up ; which is to be 
done by placing the stewpan by the side <^ 
the fire. Squeeze in half a leinon, and cov- 
er the bottom of the dish with toasted bread 
sippets cot into triangles, and garnish the 
duh with slices of ham or bacon. 

FOR HASHES OF MUTTON 

OR BEEF. Unless you are quite sure you 
perfectly understand the palate of those you 
aia working for, show those who are to 
eat the hash diis receipt, and beg of thenkto 
direct yoo how they wish it seasoned. 

Half the number of the ingredients enu- 
inerated wiQ be more than enough : but as it 
is a receipt so often wanted we have given 
variety. 

Chop the bones and firagments of the joint. 



Sec, and pot tbem into a sItfvpBD; cow 
them with boiling water, six berries of 
black pepper, the same of allspice, a smaD 
bundle of parsley, half a head of celery cat 
in pieces, and a small sprig of savory, or 
lemon tb^ne, or sweet marjoram ; cover upy 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. 

Slice half an ounce of onion, and put it 
into a stewpan with ui ounce of buttN*; fir 
it over a sliwrp fire fiM- about a couple (t 
minutes, till it takes a little color; then stir 
in as much flour as will make it a stiff 
paste, and by d egre e s mix with it the gravj 
vou have made nam the bones. Ice. ; let it 
boil very |[ently for about a quarter of aa 
hour, till it is the consieleiice of cream; 
strain it throtish a tamis or sieve into a bs^ 
sin ; pot it back into the stewpan: to seasoa 
it, cot in a hw pickled onions, or walnuts^ 
ot a couple of sherkins, and a table-spoonfol 
of mushromn ketchup, or wahiut or other 

1>idk]e liquor; or some capers, and caper 
iquor; or a table'poonfiil (^ ale; or a littlt 
esdialot, or tarragon vin^far ; cover the bot 
torn of the dish with sippets of bread (that 
they may become savor^ reservoin of 0ta 
vy), which sraie toast and cut into triangW 
You may garnish it with firied bread sippetk 

N. B. To hash meat in perfection, it 
should be laid in this gravy only just long 
enough to get properly warm through. 

0S. If any of the gravy that was seal 
ap with, or ran from the joint when it was 
roasted, be left, it will be a great improva- 
ment to the hai^. 

If you wish to make mock venison, instead 
of the onion, put in two or three cloves, a 
table-spoonfiil of currant jelly, and the sama 
quantity of claret or Port wine, instead of 
the ketchup. 

Yon may make a cony hash by adding 
some curry iam. 

N. B.  ^A pint of Beef'gravy Sauce is aa 
excellent gravy to warm up either meat or 
poultry. 

KELLY'S, FOR BOILED 

Tripe, Calf-head, or Cow-heel. 
Garlic vinegar, a table-spoonlbl ; of mustaidy 
brown sqgar, and black pBomx, a tea-spooi^ 
fol each; stirred into half a pint of oiled 
mdted batter. 

KELLYS PIQUANTE. Pound 



a table-spoonfiil of capers, and one of minoed 
pai-sl^, as fine as possible; then add the 
yolks of three hard eggs, mb them well to* 
gether with a tabfe-epoonfnl of mustard { 
bone six andiovies, and pound them, mb 
them through a hair sieve, and mix with tiea 
table-spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one of 
eschalot ditto, and a few grains of cayenne 
pepper; rob all theee well togeth^ in a 
mortar, till thoroughly incorporated; then 



SAUCES 



188 



SAUCES 



idr tiiem into iuJf a pint of good gravy, or 
loehed butter, and put the whole through a 
iere. 

LEMON. Pare a lenx>n, and 

cot it into diceB twice as thick aa a half- 
crown piece; divide these into dice, and put 
them into a quarter of a pint of melted mit- 
Cer. Some cooks mince a bit of the lemon- 
peel (pared v7 thin) very fine, and add it 
to the above. 



LEMON AND LIVER. Pare 

off the rind of a lemon, or of a Seville orange, 
as thin aa possible, so as not to cut off any 
of the white with it; now cot off all the 
white, and cut the lemon into slices about 
as thick as a couple of half-crowns ; pick out 
the pipe, and divide the shoes into small 
squares: add these, and a little of the peel 
minced very fine to the liver, prepared as 
directed above, and put them into the melted 
butter, and warm them ti^ther; but do not 
let them boil. 

N. B.  ^The poulterers can always let you 
have fredi livers, if that of the fowl or rabbit 
is not good, or not larse enough to make as 
much isaooe as you widi. 

06s. Some co(^, instead of pounding, 
mince the liver very fine (with half as much 
bacon), and leave out the parslev; odiers 
add the juice of half a lemon, amf some of 
tile peel grated, or a leanepoonful of tarragon 
or Oiili vinegar, a table-spoonfiil of white 
wine, or a little beaten mace, or nutmeg. 
Or al^pice: if you wish it a litde nKM*e lively 
on ihe palate, pound an nwhalot, or a few 
leaves of tarra^ or basil, with anchovy, or 
ketchup, or cayenne. 



LIVER AND PARSLEY, OR 

LIVER AND LEMON. Wash the liver 
(it must be perfectly iirah) of a fowl or rab- 
bit, and boil it five minutes in five table- 
^)oonfuls of wator; chop it fine, or pound 
<Mr bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve: 
wash about one-third the bulk of parsley 
leaves, put than on to boil in a little boiling 
wat^", with a tea-spoonfiil of salt in it; lay 
it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very 
fine; -mix it with the liver, and put it into a 
quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it 
li^; do not let it boil. 



LOBSTER. (I) Bruise the body, 

add it to some thick melted butler; pull the 
flfsh into small bits, and mix all t(^ther 
with scMue rich beef gravy ; boil it up, and 
before serving add a little salt, and squeeze 
IB a little leinon-juice. 



 LOBSTER. (2) Pound very 

finely the spawn of a lobster, rub it through 



a sieve, mix it with a qoarfeer of a pomd 
of melted butter, tlien add the meat of the 
lobster cut into small bits. Make it quite 
hot, but do not albw it to boil. 



^ LOBSTER. 8 Lobtster. 



FOR LOBSTER. Bruise As 

yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with the badl 
of a wooden spoon, or rather pound them in 
a mortar, with a t^i-spoonful of wiater, and 
the soft inside and the spawn of the lobeier ; 
rob them quite smooth, with a tea-cpoonftl 
of made mustard, two -table-spooofiils of 
salad oil, and, five of vinegar; season it widi 
a very little cayenne pepper, and some sab. 

LOVE-APPLE, ACCORDING 

TO UDE. Mek in a stewpan a down or 
two of love-apples (which, before potting in 
the stewpan, cut in two, and sqoeeae tbs 
juice and tlie seeds out) ; then pot two ea 
chalots, one onion, with a few bits of ham, 
a clove, a little thyme, a bay-lesf, a few 
leaves of mace, and when melted, rub theoi 
through a tamis. Mix a few i^xmniIoIs of 
good Espagnole or Spanish sauce, and a 
little sak and pepper, with this puree. Boil 
it for twenty minutes, and serve op. 

MINT. (1) Pick and wash 

some green mint; add, when minced, a 
table-spoonful of the youi^ leaves, to fear 
of vinegar, and put it into a 
with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. 



MINT. (2) Wash half a hand- 

fol of nice, youn?, firesh-eathered green mint 
(to this some add one^hird the quanti^ of 
parsley); pick the leaves from die stafts, 
mince Unm very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a tea-spoonful of moist su- 
gar, and four taUe-spoonfuk <^ vinegar. 



MOCK CAPER. Cut 



pickled green p^ue, Frendi beans, gfaerkn., 
or nasturtiums, into bits the siae of capera; 
put them into half a pint of mdtsd batter, 
with two tea-spoonfiils of lemcm-juioe, or 
nice vinegar. 



MOCK OYSTER. Pot into a 

saucepan two or three ch(^>ped andtovies, a 
quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and 
one or two cloves ; let them simmer till the 
anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it, and 
when cool, add a tea-cu|^l of cream ; thidt* 
emit with a piece of butter rolled in floor, 
and heat it up. It may be poored onff 
boiled fowls or veal. 



MOCK TOMATA. The only 

difference between this and genuine loia- 
apple sauce, is the substituting the pulp of 



SAUGSa 



189 



SA0CB9 



apple fat that of tomala, coloring H with 
tHUflric, and oommttDicatmg an acid flayor 
t it by vinegar. 



MUSHROOM. Pick and peel 

half a pint of muBhrooms (the smaller the 
better) ; wash them very clean, and pat tilem 
iato a saucepan, with half a pint of veal 
gtsivy or milk, a little pepper and salt, and 
an ounce of butter rubbed with a table-spoon- 
fid of flour ; stir them together, and set them 
over a gentle fire, to stew slowly till tender ; 
ikim and strain it. 

06s.  ^It will be a great improvement to 
tfiis, and the two following sauces, to add to 
them the juice of half a dozen mushrocMns, 
prepared the day before, by sprinkling them 
with salt, the same as when you make ketch- 
up; or add a large spoonfiil of good double 
mudiroom ketchup. 

See ^ioteesenoe of Mushrooms. 

MUSHROOM, FOR BOILED 

TuRKET OR Fowl. Pick clean and 
wash a pint of small mushrooms, rub them 
with flannel, pot them into a saucepan with a 
blade of mace^ a little salt, grated nutmeg, 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pint 
of cream, keep stirring them till they boil, 
then pour them round the turkey, fowl, oe 
chicken. 



-_ WHITE ONION. Thefolkw- 

ine is a more mild and delicate preparation: 
take half a dozen of the largest and whitest 
onions (the Spanish are the mildest, but 
these can only be had from August to De- 
cember) ; peel them and cut them in half, 
and lay them in a pan of spring water for a 
quarter of an hour, and then boil for a quar* 
ter oiaia hour; and then, if you wish them 
to taste very mild, pour oflf tliat water, and 
cover them with fresli boiling water, and let 
them boil till they are tend^, which will 
sometimes take diree-quarlen of an hour 
longer. 



ONION. Boil twelve or more 

onions in water; when it boils, pour it off, 
add more hot water, and when die onions 
are tender, strain and mash tliem in a bowl, 
add a piece of butter, a little salt, and one 
or two spoonfuls of cream. Heat it before 
serving. An ef^le may be boiled with the 
OPions. 



  ONION, OR ONION GRAVY. 

Peel and slice the onions (aome put in an 
equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a 
quart stewpan, with an ounce of butter; set 
it on a slow fire, and turn the onim about 
till it is very lightly browned ; now gradually 
0tir in half an ounce of flour; acM a littK 
broth, and a little pepper and salt; boil np 



for a few miiMlia; add a taMe-epaoalhl # 
claret, or Port wine, and same of mob* 
room ketchup, (you ma^ sharpen it with a 
little lemoQ-joice or vinegar), and rub it 
through a tamia or fine sieve. Ctarry powder 
will convert this into excellent curry sauce. 

N. B.  ^If this sauce is for steaks, shred 
an ounoe of onions, fry them a nice brown, 
and put them to the sauce you have rubbed 
throi^ a tamis; or some vc^ small, round* 
young silver button onions, peeled and boil- 
ed tender, and put in whole when your sauce 
is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

06t. If yon have no broth, put in half a 
pint of water, and just before you give it the 
last boil up, add to it another tableHspoonfid! 
of mushroom ketchup, or the same quantitf 
of Port wine or good ale. The flavor of 
this saoee may be varied by adding tarragon 
or buniet vinegar. 



ONION. See Onion. 

ORANGE GRAVY, for wili> 

Ducks, Woodcocks, Snipes, WiDe* 
son. Teal, &c. Set on a saucepan with 
half a pint oif veal ^vy; add to it half a 
dozen leaves of basil, a small rniion, and a 
roll of orange or lemon peel, and let it boil 
up for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put 
to die clear gratvy Che jiiioe of a Seville or- 
al^, or lemon, Iwif a tea-spoonfol of salt, 
the same of pepper, and a glass of red wine ; 
send it up hot. Eschabt and cayenne may 
be added. This is an excellent sauce foir 
all kinds of wild watei^fowl. 

Gravies should adways be sent up in a 
covered boat: they keep hot longer; and it 
leaves it to the dioice of the company to 
partake of than or not. 



OYSTER. See Oyttert. 



PIQUANT. Put a little chop- 

ped shallot and  few spoonfiils of gravy in- 
to a saucepan; let it boil till die gravy bo 
neaiiy hoi Jod. away, but not burned to tha 
bottom of the saucepan; add as much 
braise as may be required for the sauce, 
season with pepper and salt, boil it a few 
minutes, then add a little lemon-juice, B0gar 
and a tea-spoonfol of garlic vinegar. 

N. B.  Braise is an onion stuck' wi'h 
ckves, and boiled till tender in gravy and 
white wine. 

PIQUANT, for cold Meat^ 

Gome, Poultry f FUh, ^e, or Salade, 
Pound in a mortar the yolks of two egn 
that have been boiled hard with a mustord- 
spooofol of made mustard, and a little pep- 
per and salt ; add two table-spoonfols of sal- 
ad oil ; mix well, and then add three table- 
pooofuls of vinegar 2 rub it up well till it is 



SAUCES 



190 



SAUCES 



f^ MMOlli, a^ pBM it tfarangh a tamn or 
leve. 

Obt,  To the aboTe, some add an an- 
chovy, or a table-epoonful of rooshroom 
ketchup, or wahiut pickle, some finely-chop- 
ped paraley, grated horaeraduli, or youog 
oniona minced, or bumet, lioraeradish or 
tarragoo, or ekler vinegar, &c., and cxy- 
enne or minced pickles, capers, &c. This 
is a piquante relish for lobsters, crabs, cold 
fish, &c. 

SALAD OR PIQUANT, FOR 



COLD Meat, Fish, &c. Pound together 
an ounce of scraped horseradish, half an 
ounce of salt, a table-spoonfid of made mus- 
tard, four drachms of minced eaclialots, 
half a drachm of celety seed, and half ditto 
of cayenne, adding gradually a pint of bur- 
net, or tarragon vinegar, and 1^ it stand in 
a jar a we&n, and then pass it through a 
sieve. 



POIVRADE, FOR COLD 



MEAT. (1) Chop finely six shallots and a 
handful of picked and washed parsley ; mix 
with it a little vinegar, mustard, cayenne 
some cold gravy, and salt. 

POIVRADE, FOR COLD 

MEAT. (2) Bruise the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg with a little salt and mustard, 
oil, soy, clionped parsley, and chives, and 
pour it over slices of any cold meal. 

PUDDING. Mix with half a 



pint of melted butter two wine-glasses of 
sherry, and a table-spoonfiil of pounded 
loaf sug&r ; make it quite hot, and serve in 
a sauce-tureen, with grated nutmeg on the 
top. 

aUIN'S. (1) Half a pint of 



mushroom pkJde, the same of walnut pickle, 
three whole and three poinded cloves of 
garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea- 
spooufiil of cayenne. Mix all together in a 
laige bottle, make it daiW tor three weeks, 
then strain, and bottle it Ktr use. 



QUIN'S. (2) One pint of 



Port wine, one of mushroom ketchup, mie 
of walnut liqwNT, one of essence of ancho- 
vies, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne; mix 
aU togetlier, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour. If essence <^ anchovies, is not to be 
had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a 
quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, 
and use it. 



in floor, season with tah and pepper, pot 
It on the fire, and make it quite hot widioaK 
boiling, stirring all the time, make a " ' 
with yolks of eggs, and serve. 



RICE. Steep a quarter of a 



REVEREND. Chop up some 

lemon-peel, and two or three pickled cu- 
cumbers; put them into a stewpan with, 
two ^loonfuls of cnllis^ a little butler rolled 



pound of rice in a pint of milk, with union, 
pepper, &c. as in the last receipt; when 
the rice is quite tender (take out the spice), 
rub it diroiigli a sieve into a clean stewpan: 
if too thick, put a little milk or cream to it. 
06.  This is a very delicate white 
sauce; and at elegant tables is fi^uoitly 
served instead of bread sauce. 



FOR ROAST BEEF. (1) Mix 



well together a large table-fipoonfiil o 
finely-grated horseradish, a deraert-pooii> 
ful of made mustard, and half a one of 
brown sugar, then add vinegar till it i e as 
thick as made mustard. 'Serve in a sauoe- 
tureen. 

FOR ROAST BEEF. (2) Put 



into a stone jar one gill of soy, two of vine- 
gar, two of water, a good-sized stick of 
horseradish, and two sliced onions. Cover 
the jar closely, and set it into a pan of cold, 
water; when it boils, let it simmer for two 
or three hours. 

ROB ART, FOR Beef Steaks 

OR Mutton Chops. Put into a 



a little gravy, two ounces of butter dredged 
with flour, a small slice of raw ham, and 
two or three minced onions ; when the on- 
ions are browned, dust in a little more 
flour, and add nearly a pint <^ gravy, a lit' 
tie salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of mns- 
tard, and a table-spoonful of vin^ar. Bml 
it for some minutes, strain and sen-e it. 



SALAD. (1) Bruise the yolk 



of a hard-boiled egg with a small tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, then add a dessert-spoonful of 
mustard, and stir in gradually a large table- 
spoonful of olive oil, oiled batter, or cream, 
then by degrees mix in two or three table- 
spoonrals of vinegar; serve it in a sanoe- 
tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead 
of the hard egg, some persons prefer ths 
sauce made with the yolk raw. 



SALAD. (2) Rub smooth a 



hard-boiled egg, beat well a raw egg, and 
mix them together with a little water, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, one of 
pei^per, and one of mustard, a tablepooo- 
ful of vinegar, one nf essence of anchoTies, 
and five of rich cream. 

The aitist, as he styled himself, who in- 
vented this salad sauce drove in his carriaM 
to his employers, and charged them tea plul* 
lings and sixpence for each visit \ 



SAUCES 



101 



SAUCES 



SAUCES. See olto Qravy, page 89. 



SHALLOT. (l)Boilafewininc. 

ed shallots in a little clear gravy and nearly 
as miich vinegar, add a few peppercorns and 
a little salt. Strain, and serve it in a saoce- 
ture^i. 



SHALLOT. (2) Take two spoon- 
fids of the liquor the meat was boHed in, two 
spoonfuls of vinegar, two or three shallots cut 
fine, and a little salt ; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour; let it stew a little, and serve it up 
with your mutton or beef. 



SHARP, FOR VENISON. 

Put into a silver, or very clean and well- 
tinned saucepan, half a pint of the best 
white wine vinegar, and a quarter of a 
pound of loaf-sugar pounded : set it over the 
fire, and let it simmer gently ; skim it care- 
fiil^ ; pour it through a tamis or fine sieve, 
and send it up in a basin. 

Obs,  Some people like this better than 
ibte sweet wine sauces. 



SHRIMP. (1) Pick some shrimps 

nicely from the shell, put them into melted 
butter, add a tablenspoonful of lemon pickle 
and vinegar; heat it. 



SHRIMP. (2) Shell a pint of 

shrimps ; pick them clean, wash them, and 
put them into half a pint of ^ood melted 
butter. A pint of unshelled shrimps is about 
enoush for four persons. 

oEs.  Some stew the heads and shells 
of the shrimps, (with or without a blade 
of bruised mace), for a quarter of an hour, 
and sti'ain off the liquor to melt the butter 
with, and add a little lemon-juice, cayenne, 
and essence of anchovy, or soy, cavice, 
&c. ; but the flavor of the shrimp is so deli- 
cate, that it will be overcome by any such 
additions. 

Mem. If your shrimps are not quite 
firesh, they wiU eat tough and thready, as 
other stale fish do. 



SORREL. (1) Pick and wash 

some sorrel, put it into a stewpan ^th a lit- 
tle water, stir it, to prevent its burning, and 
when it is tendef , drain and mince it finely ; 
fry it for half an hour in a stewpan with a 
little buttrr, then dredge in a table-spocmfiil 
of flour, moisten it with boiling cream, and 
let it stew on a slow fire for an hour ; add a 
little salt, and if too acid, a little sugar. 
Before serving, thicken with the beaten yolks 
of four eggs. 



sorrel, well drab it fixmi water, and then pot 
it into a stewpan, well covered with A bit of 
butter, and let it stew very gently over a slow 
fire ; when done, put it to drain on a sieve for 
three minutes, then, with a wooden spoon, 
rub it through a tammy into a dish ; put it 
into a stewpan, with a bit of butler, stir- 
ring it over the fire till thoroughly mixed; 
you may add, if you choose, thi-ee spoon- 
fuls of good consomme, and when it has 
boiled for a few minutes, add to it half as 
much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if 
necessary season^ with a little salt; this is 
proper for a frieandeau of veal or entrees 
offish. 



SORREL. (2) Pick and thor- 
oughly wash two dottUe haodfuls of young 



SUPERLATIVE. Qaret, or 

Port wine, and moriiroom ketdmp, a pint of 
each. Half a pint of walnut or other pickle 
liquor. Pounded anchovies, four oumxi. 
Fresh lemon-peel, pared very thin, an ounce. 
Peeled and sliced eschalots, the same. 
Scraped horseradish, ditto. Allspice, and 
black pepper powdered, half an ounce each. 
Cayenne, one drachm, or curry-powder, 
three drachms. Celery-seed Inruised, one 
drachm. All avoirdupois weight. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it 
close, shake it up every day for a fortnight, 
and strain it (wnon some think it improved 
by the addition of a quarter of a pint of soy, 
or thick browning), and you will have a 
"delicious double relish." Dr. Kitchiner 
says, tliis composition is one of the ** che6 
d'ceuvre " of manv experiments he has made, 
for the purpose or ensu>ling die good house- 
wives of Great Britain to prepare their own 
sauces: it is equally agreeable w|th fish, 
game, poultry, or ragouts. Sec, and as a 
feir lady may make it herself, its relish wilt 
be not a little augmented, b^ tlie certainty 
that all the ingredients are good and whol^ 

SCMDe. ^ 

Obe.  ^Under an infinity of circumstances, 
a cook may be in want of the substances ne- 
cessary to make sauce: the above composi- 
tion of the several articles from which the 
variow( gravies derive their flavor, will be 
found a very admirable extemporaneous sub- 
stitute. By mixing a large tablenspoonfiil 
with a quailer of a pint of thickened melted 
butter, or broth, five minutes will finish a 
boat of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to 
drawn gravy, and as likely to put your lin- 
sual nerves into good humor as any thing I 
know. 

To make a boat of sauce for poultry, &c. 
put a piece of butter about as big as an e^ 
into a stewpan, set it on the fire ; when it 
is melted, put to it a table^poonfol of flour; 
stir it thoroughly together, and add to it 
two taJble-spoonfiiu of sauce, and by degrees 
about half a pint of Jbroth, or boiling water, 
let it simmer gently over a slow me fix* a 



BADGES 



192 



SAUCES 



Sm mioutei, flkim it aad flttmn it through b 
Meve, and it is ready. 



FOR STEAKS, CHOPS, OR 

CUTLETS. Take yow ohope out of the 
firing-pan ; for a pound of meat keep a ta- 
lle<poonful of the it in the pan, or put in 
about an ounoe of butter; put to it as omcb 
flour as will make it a paite; rub it well 
togetlier over the Are till thev are a little 
Imwn ; then add as much boiling water as 
will reduce it to the thickness of good cream, 
and a table-spoonfiil <^ mushroom or wabut 
ketchup, or pickle, or browning; let it boil 
together a few minutes, and pour it through 
a sieve to the steaks, &c. 

Ob.  ^To the above is sometmies added 
a sliced onion, or a auoced eschabt, with 
a table-qwonfiil of Port wine, or a little 
eschalot wine. Garnish with finely-scraped 
horseradish, or pickled wakiuts, gherkins, 
&c. Some beef-eaters like chopped escha- 
lots in one saucer, and hotrseradish grated 
in vinegar, in another. Broiled musluooms 
are &vorite relishes to beef steaks. 



SWEET, FOR VENISON OR 

HARE. Put some currant jelly into a 
atewpan ; when it is mdted, pour it into a 
aauce-boat. 

N. B.  ^Many send it to table without 
mekiag. 

This is a more salubrious relish than 
ither spice or salt, when the palate pro- 
tests against animal food unless its flavor be 
masked. Currant jelly is a good accom- 
paniment to roasted or hashed meats. 



SWEET. Put some cinnamon 

into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover rt; set it on the fire, and when it 
has boiled up once or twice, add two 
Mxxnifals of powder sugar, a quarter (^ a pint 
of white wine, and two bay-leaves ; give 
the whole one boil, and then strain it for 
table. 



TARTARE. Pound in a mor- 

tar three hard yolks of eggs; put them' into 
a basin, and add half a table-apoonful of 
made mustard, and a little pepper and sak; 
pour to it by d^cees, stirrmg it fast all the 
w^ile, about two wine-glassfuls of salad oil; 
itir it together till it comes to a good thick- 



N. B.  ^A little tarragon or diervil minc- 
ed veiy fine, and a litOe vinegar, may be 



 TOM ATA. See Tomato, 

TOURNEE. To a littfe white 

thickening add some stock drawn firom the 
<riiBmiags of veal, poukiy, and ham; do 



not make it toe thick. Boil it sbwly wi& 
a few mushrooms, a bunch of peunsWy, and 
some green ooions ; strain and wmd it wefl, 
and use it as required. German sanee ia 
made as the sauce tournee, acMing the beat' 
en yolks of two or more ^gs, and is used 
for ragouts, fricassees, and any made 
which may require a rich white sauce. 



WHITE. Thicken half a 



of cream with a litde flow and butter, fiior 
shallots minced, a little mace and leraen* 
peel ; let it boil, and a little before serving, 
add a spoonfol of white wine, the weU-bealen 
yolk of an egg, the sqoeese of a leiaoo, and 
a tea-spoonfol of ancho^ liquor. This i 
will answer for boiled fowls, or fixr a ~ 



WHITE, FOR FOWLS OR 

TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, 
the necks of fowls, a piece of die scrag^'eod 
of a neck of mutton, two Uades of maee, 
twelve peppercorns, one andiovy, a snudl 
head of cekary, a slice firom off the end of a 
lemon, and a bunch of sweet hertis; cover it 
closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly 
half a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter 
of a pound of butter drea|ged with floor; let 
it boil for five minotes, and then add two 
spoonfob of pickled mushrooms. Mix with 
a tea-cupfiil of cream, the well-beaten yolkfl 
of two eggs, and some grated nutmeg; stir 
this in ^fradualfy, and shake the pan over 
the fire till it is aU quite hot, bat do not al- 
low it to boil. 



WHITE ITALIAN. Peel 

some mushrooms, and throw them into a 
little water and lemon-juice, to keep thorn 
white. Put into a stewpan two-thirds cf 
sauce tournee, and <Hie-third of good leal 
slodL, two table-spoonfiils of finety-chcmped 
mushrooms, and half a table-spoonnl af 
washed and chopped diallotB ; let it boil tiB 
well flavored, and then serve it The 
mushrooms should be as white as poasihle. 



WHITE SHARP. Boil wkh 

a little tarragon, our tarragon vinegar, if the 
tarragoo is not to be had, four tabb-spoon- 
fols of white wine vinegar, and about twen- 
ty peppercorns; reduce this to aae4burth, 
and add it to six table.poooia]B of sanoa- 
tournee, and two of good stock; boil and 
strain it; put it again on the fire,and tUek- 
en it with the beaten yolks of two ^ggs, a 
small bit of butter, a httle salt and cayeva. 
Just before senriag, stir in a qpooond if 



 ;  WHITE, FOR Boiled Fowu. 
Melt in a tea-cupfiil of milk a large tabis- 
spoonfiil of butter kniwdrd in flour, beni up 



&AO 



10 



8ilU 



dbe yolk of an egg with a tea^pooaAil of 
cream, stir it into the butter, and heat it 
over the fire, stimng it constantly; chop- 
ped parsley improves this sauce. It also 
may be made by melting the butter with 
water, and mixing milk with the egg. 

SAUCE, WINK, FOR VENISON OR 
HARE. A quarter oi a pint of claret or 
Port wine, tlie same (yutntity of plain, un- 
flavored mutton ffniv^, and a tablenspoonful 
of cnrrant jelly: let it just boil up, and send 
it to table in a sauce-boat. 

SAUCE, WOW WOW, pom Stiwid 
OR BouiLLi Bkjef. Chop some parsley- 
leaves very fine; quart^ two oi* thiee pickled 
CQCiunbers, or walnuts,^nd divide them into 
email squares, and set them by ready: pot 
into a saucepan a bit of butter as big as an 
egg; when it is melted, stir to it a table- 
epoonfiji of fine fiour, and about half a pint 
m the broth in which the beef was boiled ; 
add a table-spoonful of vinegar, the like 
quantity of mushroom ketchup, or Port wine, 
or both, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; 
let it simmer together till it is as thick as 
yoa wish it; put in the parsley and pickles 
to get warm, and pour it over the beef; or 
ratiier send it up in a sauce-tureen. 

Obi.  If you think the above not sufficient' 
ly piquarUe^ add to it some capers, or a 
minced eschalot, or one or two tea-spoonfuls 
of eschalot wine, or essence of anchovA-, or 
basil, elder, or tarragon, or horseradish, or 
Iwmet vinegar; or strew over the meat car- 
rots and turnips cut into dice, minced capers, 
walnuts, red cabbage, pickkd cucuodbers, or 
French beans, 8(c 

SAUSAGES, (1) Are composed of va- 
rious kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly 
nftall, with pounded spices, and aromatic 
herbs, shred fine; these ingredients are put 
into skins, or guts (thorougiily washed), and 
tied into lengths of from two to five inches. 
Borne persons add to the mixture a glass 
of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other 
wioe. 

SAUSAGES, (2) Are best when quite 
firesh made. Put a bit (^ butter, or drippin|[ 
into a clean frying-pan; as soon as it is 
melted (before it gets hot) put in the sausa- 

K, and shake the pan for a minute, and 
ip turning them (be carefiil not to break 
or prick them in so doing) ; fry them over a 
very slow fire till they are nicely browned 
OD all sides; when they are done, lay them 
on a hair sieve, placed before the fire for a 
couple of minutes to drain the &t fixMU them. 
The secret of frying sausaces is, to let them 
let hot very gradually ; &ey then will not 
DurBt, if they are not stale. The common 
^ 17 



pncdo ta fnvwt thsir favidif  iato prMk- 
them with a fotk; faaC this bli the givrf 
out. You may froth them by nibbing them 
with cold finssh butter, aad li^y dnedga 
them with flour, ami pat iheos m a chome 
toaster or Dittck uscn for a minute. Soma 
over-eoooomical cooks insist thai no bottar 
or lard, &c. is required, their own fiit 
being sufficient to fry themi we hav* tried 
it; the sausages were pwttally searched, 
and had that piebald appearance that all 
fried things have when sufficient fot is Mt 
allowed. 

Ob;  Poached eggs, pease podding, ami 
maslied potatoes, are agreeafaie aooompam- 
inents to saumffes; and samsoes are as wet 
come boiled with roasted poubry or vqU or 
boiled tripe; so are ready-dremed (jermaa , 
saumges ; and a convenient, easily digestible* 
and invigorating food for the aged, and tbeia 
whose teeth are defective. 

N. B.  Sausages, when finely chopped, 
are a delicate " botum brntth^i" and reqoiro 
veiy little assistance from the teeth to reiider 
them quite ready for the stomach. 

SAUSAGES. (8) Take a powid of 
the inward fiit of the pig, and half a pomid 
of leaa pork ; pick them both from skin ami 
sinews, rainoe them verv finely, grate a large 
nutmeg, take its weight of pounded maoe 
and cloves, the largest proportion mace, the 
weight of all of pepper, and twioe the weight 
of die spices of mk; chop finely a few sage 
leaves and a little lemon thyme ; mix all wm 
together with two large table-spoonfuls of 

f rated bread and the yolk of an egg beaten, 
t may be put into skins, or packed into a 
jar and lied closely with bladder. Whn 
to be used, moisten it with the yolk of aa 
egg beaten, make it up in the form of Ba* 
ges, flour them, and fry them ia batter. 

SAUSAGES, BEEF AND OYSTER. 
Set Betf, 

SAUSAGES, TO MAKE. Chop to- 
gether two pounds of leaa poik, ami one 
and a half of the inward fo4 of the pig, the 
crumb of a penny loaf cot into slices aad 
soaked in cold water; seasoe with pepper, 
salt, grated nutm, lemoe thyme, ami a 
little sage. Mix all the ingredients weU, 
and half fill the ikins; boil them half aa 
hour. 

SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take Dm 
lees and shouldon of a pis, fiwm which cot 
all the lean, scrape it weU, remove all the 
sinews, and rub the meat well with a iMp 
soning made of salt, pepper, coriander, 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bavlnef 
When properly flavored, take some baooe, 
lard, and feaf, and cot the whofe into dimi 



SAV 



IM 



SCO 



nU the fiit and leao togedMr, aad put it in- 
to ox-guts, tie op the ends, and lay the 
auaages in a pan of water, with aah, and 
aJtpeIre; oover the pan cloee, and leave it. 
In a weelt'fl time take out the faunges 
and drain them. Tie them between two 
pieces of wood, hang them up to dry, and 
smoke. When dry, untie them, and rub 
each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- 
twigs, mixed toge^btar, Ke^ them in a 
dry place. 

SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince smaH 
the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, 
a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 
a bit of k^ of veal; shred also some parsley, 
chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these 
all together, and season witli pepper, salt, 
beaten spioe, and garlic; bind the whole 
with the voIkiB of six, the whites of two eggs, 
and a little cream ; when thoroij^bly mixed, 
roil the preparation into thick pieces, which 
wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well 
beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage 
should be about the Uiickness of a man's 
wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an 
oval stewpan widi slices of bacon and thin 
beefsteaks, put in the sansages, cover them 
with beefsteaks and baoon, shut the stew- 
pan very close, and set it on a moderate 
fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it 
stand ten or twelve hours ^ then take it off, 
and when cokl, take out the sausages cai- 
fiilly, remove the veal, and all the &t, with 
a norp knife cut them into slices, and serve 
ooM. 

SAUSAGES, SPREADBURY'3. Oit 
firom the 1n[ fflr griskin one poond of nice 
lean pork, me firom sinews and skin, mince 
it very finely : mince one pound of the best 
beef suet, mix it with the pork, and pound 
it as finelv as possible in a maii>le mortar; 
add two large taUe-spoonfnIs of stale bread 
nibbed through a sieve, also a good deal of 
pepper, salt, and a little finely-dioroed sage, 
mix all together with the yolks ot two eg^ 
beaten up. It will keep ibr sometime, if 
pot into an earthen jar and pressed ekeel^ 
down. When it is to be used, make it into 
rolls, and as thick as common sausages, and 
three or ibur iochdB long: dust them with a 
little floor; have ready a frving-pan made 
very hot, and fiy than without any thing 
bat their own &t, till they are d<e <piite 
through, taking care not to make ihem too 
dr^. By broking one of them, the cook 
will know whettor they are soflicientlv 
done. They may be firied in lard or fresh 

heefdripS. 
SAVORY CABBAGE. See Cabbage. 

SAVOY BISCUITS. To be made aa 



drop biseoiti, omitting the cafaa^, m^ 
quarter of a pound of flour: put it into the 
biscuit-funnel, and lay it out about the lengfir 
and size of your finger, on coomion stop 
paper; strew sugai* over, and bake tliem ia 
a hot oven; when cokl, wet the backs of tha 
paper with a paste-brush and water: when 
they have lain sometime, take them carefiil^ 
off, and place them back to back. 

SAVOYS, Are boiled in the same man- 
ner as cabbages; quarter them when yon 
send them to table. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH ;- good 
tmd tubstantial dinner for aixpence per 
head. Wash threeK]narters of a pound of 
Scotch barley in a little cold water ; pot it 
in a soup-pot with a shin or 1^ of beef, of 
about ten pounds weight, sawed into loor 
pieces (tell the batcher to do this for you) ; 
cover it well with coM water; set it on the 
fire: when it boils skim it venr clean, and 
put in two onions of about tnree ounces 
vraight each ; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very gently about two hours; thi 
skim ail the fiit clean off, anfl put in two heads 
of celery, and a large turnip cot into small 
squares; season it with salt, and let it boU 
an hour and a half longer, and it is ready: 
take out the meat (carefiiUy with a slioe, 
and cover it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before you 
put it in the tureen. 

SCOTCH BROSE. This favorite Scotdi 
dish is generally made with the 1ic|uor meat 
has been boiled in. Put half a pint of ootf' 
meal into a porringer with a little salt, if 
there be not enou^ in the broth, of wbick 
add as much as will mix it to the consistence 
of hasty pudding, or a little thicker; hsdy, 
take a little of the hi that swims on the 
broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it 
in the same way as has^-pudding. 

O&s.-^This Scotsman^ dish is easily pre- 
pared at very little expense, and is pleasant- 
tasted and nutritious. 

N. B.  For various medioda of making 
and flavoring oatmeal gruel, see GrueL 



SCOTCH BURGOO. Hiisbombfe 
forms no contemptible article of food. It 
possesses the grsmd qualities of salubritf , 
pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fiu^ 
a s(Nt of oatmeal hasty padding without 
milk ; mudi used by those pottems of ooin> 
bined industry, frugality, and taaperaaee, 
the Scottish peasaotiy; and diis, amoqf 
other examiAeB of die econcmiical Scotch, ii 
well worthy of being occasimially adopted 
by all who have lar^e families and small in- 
oomes. It is made in the following easy asd 
expeditious manner:  ^To a quart of oacnMl 



SCO 



195 



SHE 



add graduBlly two queurtg of water, lo tbat 
4he whole inay smootbly mix : then stirring 
it continually over the fire, boil it together for 
a quarter of an hour; after which, take it up, 
and stir in a littJe salt and butter, with or 
without pepper. This quantity will serve a 
fymi\y of five or six persons for a moderate 
meal. 

SCOTS COLLOPS. Cut some very 
thin slices of beef; rub with butter the bot- 
tom of an iron stewpan that has a cover to 
fit quite closely ; put in the meat, some pep- 
per, and a little salt, a large onion, ami an 
apple minced very small. Cover the stew- 
jian, and let it simmer till the meat is very 
tender. Serve it hot. 

SCOTCH DUMPLING. Make a paste 
^vith some oatmeal and butter, form it into 
a dumpling, and place a haddock's liver 
in tiie middle, well seasoned witli pepper 
4iDd salt; it sliould be boiled in a cloth. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. Make the haggis- 
i>ag peifectly clean; parboil the draught; 
lx>U the liver very well, so as it will grate ; 
. dry the meal before the fire; mince the 
draught aud a pretty lai^ piece ef beef very 
small ; grate about half of the liver ; minoe 
plenty of the suet and some onions small : 
mix all these materials very well together, 
with a handfol or two of the dried meal; 
spread them on the table, and season them 
properly with salt and mixed spices; take 
any of the scraps of beef that are left from 
mincing, and some of the water that boiled 
the draught, and make about a choppin ('. e. 
a quart) of good stock of it; then put all the 
baggis meat into the bag, and tliat broth in 
it ;. tlien sew up the bag ; but be sure to put 
out all the wind before you sew it quite close. 
If you think the bag is tliin, you may put 
it in a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will 
take at least two hours boiling. 

N. B.  ^The above we copied verbatim 
from Mrs. Maciver, a celebrated Caledo- 
nian professor of the culinary art, who 
taught, and published a book of cookery, at 
Edinburgh, A. D. 1787. 

SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold 
water, and when it boils take off the scum, 
put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little 
salt; let it boil three hours, have ready a 
cullender full of kale, cut small and boil them 
till tender. Two or three leeks may be ad- 
ded with the greens, if the flavor is approved 
of. This broth is also made with salted 
beef, which must be put in water ovee night 
tOBoak, 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. Take 
tfFO pounds of fiour, dry, and sift it well; 



then mix with it a poond of pawder-n^, 
three ooooei of candied citron and orAnf> 
peel cut into dice, and half a pound of cara- 
wayoomfits; patlalf a pound of butter into a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quite 
mdted, mix it with the flour, &c ; the pasts 
being nicely made, roll it out to the thicknew 
of lulf an inch, cot it into cakes, by them 
on white paper, prick and bake ihem ; thej 
should be of a pale color. 

SEA CALE, BOILED. Let it lie some- 
time in cold wato*, then clean and trim it 
nicely, cutting off any part that may be at 
all green, and parting it as little as possi- 
ble. Put it on in boiling water, with a lit- 
tle salt. Let it boil half an hour; drain off 
the water. Pare the cnist off a slice of 
toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over 
it a little melted butter, and serve the calo 
upon it. 

SEED CAKE. Sift two and a half 
pounds of flour, with half a pound of good 
white or loaf sugar, pounded into a pan or 
bowl ; make a cavity in the centre, and poor 
in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of thick yeast; mix the milk 
and yeast with enough flour to make it as 
thick as cream (this is called setting a 
sponga) ; set it by in a warm place for one 
hour; in tlie meantime, melt to an oil half b 
pound of fresh butter, and add it to the other 
ingredients, with one ounce of caraway* 
seeds, and enough of milk to make it of a 
middling stiffness; line a lioop with paper, 
well rubbed over with butter; put in the 
mixture ; set it sometime to prove in a stove, 
or before the fire, and bake it on a plate 
about an hour, in rather a hot oven ; whea 
done, rub the top over with a paste-bruah 
dipped in milk. 

SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, BROILEa 

Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them 
in half and with a small skewer keep them 
open in imitation of two shells, season them 
with salt and pepper, and dip them into a 
little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side 
that is cut, and be carefiil not to let the gravy 
drop in taking them off the eridirmi. Serve 
them in a hot dish, with finelysshopped pars- 
ley mixed with melted butter, the juice of a 
l^Euon, pepper and salt, putting a little upon 
each kidney. This is an excellent br^- 
fast for a sportsman. 

SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; 
wash it well, and dry it in a ck>th; flour 
and season it with peppw and salt, and fiy 
it in btitter, with a good deal of minced 
parsk^ and an onion ; add a sufficient quan* 
tity of gravy or hot water to make a sauoe^ 
and let it stew a few minutes. It may ba 



%B% 



196 



8HR 



AmdifoStB phis, uri wlm eat ini bImw, 
^hMld be waited in milk and water. 

SHEEP'S MINCE. Waah the heart 
nd lighle very dean; boil tiieiD abnot half 
aa hoar; miaoe them finely; nix a piece of 
hotter with flour, brown it m a slewpan, and 
mdd Boiae of the liquor the heart and lights 
were boiled in. Pot b the mince with some 
chopped onion; seaeon with nilt and pepper, 
cover it cloeely, and let it-ntew half an hour. 
Before eerving, add a table-epoonfiil of mush- 
ketehup. 



SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. 
Having parboiled the tongues in a little 
Block, split each, give them a few turns in 
aome melted bacon, strewing over them sak, 
pepper, shred parsl^, and bread crumbs; 
when well covered with the latter, lay them 
on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. 

SHEEP'S TONdtJES PIE. Line a 
diah with some good puff paste, and by at 
the bottom of the dish some good forcemeat, 
Bade of roasted poultry, suet, parsley chop- 
ped, mushrooms, pepper and sak, and a few 
line spices; upon this place the tongues cut 
IB t^vo, and upon them a good slice of ham, 
 little butter, and a few slices of bacon; 

put on the covet and bak it} -when -clone, 

teSsfi out the bacon and ham, skim off all the 
fiit, and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES ROASTED. 
Take half a doaen sheep's tongues, and hav- 
ing properly prepared them, lard the'm with 
email lardan, tie them to a skewer, wrap 
 buttered paper round, and fasten them on 
a spit, ana roast them before a moderate 
lire; a little Iwfore they are done, take off 
the paper, baste the tongues with butter, 
fnd make them of a nice color. Serve with 
'*^* * ' seta|c^3f>oo may ptefer. 




SHIP'S TROTTERS STUFFED. 
Boil the feet in good stock till the bones 
will oome out with ease; fill the space left 
by them with a good fowl or chicken farce; 
dip tftem in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a moderate oven. The space Idl by (he 
hones is sometimes filled up with a bit of 
filed bread ; in this case the feet are onW 
fNrevioosfy boiled, and 'then served with 
sauce. 



SHEEP'S TROTTERS FRIED. Clean 
aome sheep's trotters niodv, scald and wash 
them in hot water; stew them in that sance 
in whMsh calf'b hxad plain is boiled, 
ad \Mme them. Fry, but not till brown, 
ia a litlle butter, some carrots, onions, a 
Ikde pardey roote, all out soaall, thyme, a 
ihBttot,aamattbayiHf,aadaohvTC. When 



they begin to color, moisten them with wa- 
ter and vin^zar mixed in equal parta, and let 
it all stew till the vegeteUes are quite teo- 
der; season with pepper and salt, and atnus 
it through a silk iieve over the siieep's trot- 
ten, thra fiy the trotters in this batter; pel 
neariy four tebfe^epoonfois of flour into an 
eailfaien pan, with a little salt, a little otive 
oil, and as much good beer or water as wiH 
moisten the paste; when vrell mixed, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs, dip -the trot- 
ters into this, and by them instantly. The 
marinade cuile, or pickle, into wnich ^ 
trotters are laid, and tlie paste in which they 
are fried, may be used K>r beef, and otfier 
meats. The same receipt may be followed 
exactly for calf's feet. 

SHERBET. This is a delicioos bever- 
age, composed of cream, mixed with varioiB 
articles, such as almonds, tea, pisCacfaiaa^ 
coffise, chocolate, &c., and si^;ai*, and tlien 
iced. Sherbet may also be made with dm 
juice of various fruits, sweetened to the 
taste. When the liquid is sufficiently fioa- 
pid and cold, poor it into a silver, or tin 
wrbetiere, and ice it as usual. 

SHERBET, TURKISH. Wash asnnH 
fore quarter of veal, put it on the fire with 
mno pf4e of water; skim it well, nad let il 
boil till itsduced to two pints; run it throqgfa 
a sieve, and when cold, add to it a pint and 
a half of clear lemon-juice, and two pounds 
of loaf sugar which has been made into a 
sirup with a pint and a half of wrater, and 
cleared with the white of an egg. It is 
served in glass mugs for a dessert table, er 
oflfered at any other time as a lefreshmeat. 

SHRUB. (1) One measrnv oTiemM^ 
juice is allowed to five of rum, and to enrj 
gallon of the mixture, six pounds of loaf su- 
gar, which is to be meked in water, and the 
whole su'aiiied through fiannel. 

SHRUB. (2) To one part of lemoo- 
joice, three of good orange are allowed^ 
and, to every pint of juice, a pound and a 
half of very finely-pounded loaf sugar ; titese 
being well mixed, it is put into a cask, and 
one quart of the best-rum added to each pint 
of the juice; the whole to be shakoa three 
times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if tht 
cask be large. It is then allowed to stand 
to fine for a month, or till it be sofficientlf 
clear to bottle. The dregs may be nam 
into excellent milk punch, by pomring wano^ 
but not boiling, milk on them, aUovring tlwM 
ports of milk to one of dregs; after beiif 
well mixed, it is fit for use. 

SHRUB. (8) Put a quart of SevHb 
orange-juiee to a galkm of ran, vnOk thni 



SIR 



197 



SKA 



' JXNiiMH or hiuip mgar) md & imdHd of no 
peel pared esctran^ thin ; let it stand in the 
cask for three montm, then fiher it through 
a doth, and bottle it 

SHRUB. (4) Takeaqoartoforaogo- 
Jutoe, strain it, put to it two poonds of lamp 
0Ugar, ibor quarts and one pint of mm ; put 
balf die peek of the oranses into the rum, 
and let it stand one night. uien mix the mm 
with the orange-juioe and suffar, put it into 
a Teasel which has a spigot, make it four or 
five times daily till the si^r be all dissolved ; 
when it is clear, which may be in about a 
ftHtnight, bottle it off for use. If the or- 
anges are very ripe, a pound and a half of 
sugar is sufficient. 

SHRUB, LEMON OR ORANGE. The 
rind of the lemons or oranges being grated 
off, th^ are to be squeezed, and two pounds 
of fineiy-pounded loaf sugar is to be added 
to every pint of the strained jnioe; when the 
eogar is quite dissolved, two pints of rum 
are allowed Co every pint of sirup ; the whole 
is to be well mixed m a cask, and allowed 
to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn 
off. 

SHRUB, WHITE CURRANT. The 
tMrrants ai to be braised and put into a 
bag to drip; three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar is to be dissolved in two quarts 
of juice, and a quart of ram being added, it 
is to be bottled fiHr we. 

SIRUP OP CURRANTS, RASPBER- 
RIES, OR Mulberries. Pk^ the finit 
from the stalks; squeeze tlie juice, and let it 
stand ten days or a fortnight, or till the for- 
mentation ceases, which may be known by 
the scum cracking; carefoily take off the 
acum, and pour the juice gently into a fresh 
vessel; let it stand twenty-four hours, and 
again pour it off, to one pound of pounded 
Iwif su^r allow thirteen ounces of the juice, 
pot it mto a preserving.pan, and when it be- 
gins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bae, 
and bottle it when cold. Bune pears boiled, 
in a little of the strap, are beautiful. 

SIRUP OP ORANGE OR LEMON 
PEEL. Of Iresh outer rind of Seville orange 
or lemon peel, three ounces, apothecaries' 
weight ; boiling water a pint and a half; in- 
fose them for a night in a close vessel ; th^ 
strain the liquor: let it stand to settle; and 
having poured it off clear from the sediment, 
dissolve in it two pounds of double-refined 
loaf sugar, and make it into a sirap with a 
gentle heat. 

068.  In making this siru]), if the sugar 
be dissolved in the infusion with as gentle a 
heat as possible, to prevent the exhalation 

17* 



of the vohKtile pnlr of the neel, this simp 
will pos w s s a great share or the fine flavor 
of the orange or lemon peel. 

SIRUP, CLARIPIED. Braak into bits 
two pounds (avoirdupois) of double-refined 
hunp SQgar, and put it into a clean stewpon 
(that is well tinned), widi a pint of cold 
spring water; when the sumr is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire: oeat about half 
the white of an egg, pot it to the sugar be- 
fore it gets warm, and stir it well tc^iether. 
Watch it; and when it boils take off the 
scum ; keep it boiling till no scum rises, and 
it is perfectly clear; then run it throi:^ a 
clean napkin: put it into a dose-stopped 
bottle; it will keep for months, and is an 
elegajrt article < the sideboard for sweet- 
ening. 

(mu,  The proportion of sugar ordered in 
the above sirup is a quarter prand more than 
that directed in the Phnranoopcsia of the 
Londm College of l^ysicians. The quanU- 
ty of si^r must be as much as the liquor is 
capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or 
it will ferment, and quickly spoil: if kept in 
a temperate degree of heat, the above pro- 
portion of sugar may be considered the basis 
oi all sinqif . 

SKATE, FRIED. After you have 
cleaned the fish, divkle it into fillets; dry 
them <Hi a clean cloth ; beat the yolk and 
white of an egg thoronghlv together, dip the 
fish in this, and then in fine bread-crumbs; 
fry it in hot ktrd or drippings till it is of a 
delicate brown color; lay it on a hair siere 
to drain; garnish with crisp pjuvley, and 
some like caper sauce, with an anchovy 
in it. 

SKATE, TO CRIMP. Skm the skate 
on both sides, cut it an inch and a half 
broad, and as long as the skate, roll up each 
piece and tie it with a thread ; lay them for 
three hours in sak and water, and a little 
vinegar; boil them fifteen mimites in boiling 
sak and water; before serving, cnt off the 
threads. Sauces:  shrimp, butter and an- 
chovy. When the skate are veiy small, they 
are preferable broiled. 

SKATE, LARGE, DRESSED LIKE 
Veal CJutlets. CVimp, or cut the skate 
in square pieces, roll them in beaten egge^ 
and thm in grated bread mixed with ch^ 
ped parsley, pepper, and salt; fiy them of a 
nice brown color, and serve with a rich 
brown gravy. 

SKATE, STEWED* Skin die skate^ 
cut it into square pieces, and brown it with 
butter in a fryins-pan ; make a rich sauce 
with the skin and parings, to be boiled in 



et 



190 



eoL 



phti f 

pepper and ok; lmiD and tbickm k with 
A little buttor aiMd wMi fkmr, wdd aoroe 
veiy finely diopped paraley, and chives; uf 
boC vimgar, muelirooni kclchiip, aod Hwvey 
BBiriii, a table-apoonfal eacb, and a Aiufe 
cayenne; boil it op and put it in the skate 
five minntfls before senrk^ it. 

SKATE, Is very good wbeo in good 
eason, but no fish so bad vphen it is otber- 
wise: those penoos diat like it firm and dry, 
should have k crimped; bat tbow that like 
it tender, should have it plain, aod eat it 
not earlier than the second day, and if cold 
weather, three or four days old it is better: 
it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. 
Young skate eals very fine crimped and 
fried. 

BKATE, SMALL, TO FRY. Clean, 
wash> and lay tbrai one or two hours in vin- 
^ar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced 
onion, some chopped parsley, pqvper, and 
alt; drain and dry them well, dip them into 
beaten tggt, dredge them with fiour, and 6ry 
them of a fine mown color; garnish them 
ivitb fi'ied pauisley. Sanoes ;  melted butter, 
and shrimp sauce* 

6K1RRET8. Wash and scrape them, 
put them on in boiling water, and noil Uiem 
Ibr ten mintttes; dry thein in a cullender, 
and firy them brown m a little butter. The^ 
are sometimes plain boiled, aud a little mel- 
ted butler powed over them. 

SMELTS, TO FRY. This deliolte Ik- 
tie fish, when perfectly finesh, must not be 
washed, but wiped willi a clean cloth, and 
dredged with flour, or brushed over with a 
feathery dapped into the yolk of an egg beat- 
en, and rolled in a pfate of fiDely-grated 
bread-crumbs, and fried in boiling dripping, 
or fivsb lard. They vary in size, and some 
will be done sooner than othen. When of 
a clear vellow brown, take them out careful- 
)y, and lay them belbre the fire upon the back 
oif a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish 
them, heads and tails alternately; garnish 
vrith fried parslqf. Sauce melted butter. 
They may also be broiled. 

SMELTS, ITALIAN. BoUyoursmeks 
with a- large glass of white wine, hidf a glass 
of water, two spoonfuls of oil, two slices of 
lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. 
When sumeientiy done, make a Uai$on with 
yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve 
jfoat fish with its own sauce. 

SNIPES. When the snipes have been 
picked, they must be singed over a charcoal 
fiw; in truseiog tliem press the legs close to 



Itoaide, and piane tke beak ^bM|(b 
tie a siiee of bacon over eaeb bird, IWB  
iron skewer thraugh the sides, and tie 
to the spit; in the meantime cut twoar i 
slices of bread, acoordinff to the ntniber of 
the birds, firy them of a fine brown oobr in 
butter; put the birds to roast, and put the 
fried bread in a dish under them, to raaeive 
the inside, which will drop after they faave 
hung a few minutes ; Just b^ore they an 
roamed sufficiently, cut off the baoon, that 
they may take color. Serve them on the 
dish witii the bread under them, and plenty 
of good gravy. Some prefer eating them 
with butter only, considering that gnny 
takes off from the fine flavor of the birdl 
They should be carved the same as Ibwls or 
pigeons, and tlie head should be opened, an 
some are fond of the brains. Snipes are 
generally dressed in the same manner as 
woodcocks. 

SNOW-BALLS, BOILED IN BUT- 
TER. Mix with six welMieatea eggs oon 
pint and a half of sour cream, and add by 
d^rees as nuich floor as will make the bntp 
ter thick enough for the spotm to stand in 
it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put 
in a few cardamons; stir into this nu'xtnre 
half a pint of beer, beat it all weU Cd 
gether, and drop it with a de8Bert.flpoon 
into some boiline lard, or butter. Drain 
tliem upon a towel before the fire, and serve 
them in a napkin, with sugar sifted, over 
them. 

SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, vrith pom- 

ded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream; add 
tlie strained juice of three lemons, and one 
ounce and a half of blanched sweet almonds 
pounded, and two table-spoonfiils of rasa* 
water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a 
whisk till tliick, and put it into a shape or 
sieve with a bit of muslin laid into it, and 
in twelve hours take it out. 

SODA WATER. Tartaric acid half 
an ounce, arated soda, half an ounce. Have 
two tumblers about one-third fuU of vratert 
put a tea-spoonful of the soda into one gias^ 
and the same of the acid into the other; 
when dissolved, mix them together, and 
drink it immediately. The two sorts (Mf salli 
must be kept in separate bottles, aod should 
be bought ready powdei^. 

SOLES OR OTHER FISH. TO FRY. 
An hour before you intend to dreas them, 
wash them dioroughly, and wrap them ta a 
clean cloth, to make them perfectly diy, 1K 
the bread-crumbs will not stick to them. 

Prepare some bread-cnanbs, by rubbing 
some stale bread through a colaodei'; or, 
if you wish the fish to appear veiy delicUa 



SOL 



t9 



SOL 



ittMhad, diroagh abur lieTO; or 
biseuit powder. 

Beat the yolk and white of an egg well 
together, on a plate, wkh a fork ; flour yoyr 
fieb, to absorb nny moistiire thai may remain, 
nd wipe it off with a clenn cloth ; dip them 
in the egg on both sides all over, or, what 
is better, e^g diem with a paste-brush ; put 
the e^ on in an even degree over die i^le 
fishy or the bread crumbs will not stick 
to it e\'D, aad the uneven pait will bum 
to the pan. Strew the bread crumbs all 
er the iish, so that theiy cover every part, 
take up the fidi by the head, and shake off 
the loose crambs. The fish is now ready 
for the frying-pan, into which put a quart 
or more of IreA sweet olive oil, or clar- 
ified butter, dripping, lard, or clarified drip- 
pings; be sure that they are quite sweet 
and perfectly clean (the fiu oa%ht to oover 
the fish): what we here order is for soles 
about ten inches long; if kirger, cut them 
into pieces the proper size to help at table ; 
this will save much time and trouble to the 
carver: when yon send tliem to table, lay 
ikeva in the same form tli^ were belbre they 
were out, and you may strew a little cm-led 
paraiey over them: they are much easier 
managed in the frying-pan, and require lees 
fiit: fry die thick part a few minutes before 
yon put in the thin, you can by this means 
only fry the tiiick part enot^h, without fry- 
ing the tbin too mudi. Very large soles 
riKHiid be boiled, or fried in fillels. Soles 
cut in pieces, crossways, about the size of a 
smelt, make a very pretty garnish for stewed 
fish and boiled fish. 

Set the frying-pan over a sharp and clear 
fire ; wsoch it, skim il witli an e^^slice, and 
when it boils^ i. e. wlien it has done bi^ 
blingf, and the smoke just be|;ins to rise from 
die sur&ce, put in the fish: if tlie fat is not 
extremely hot, it is impossible to fry fish 
of a good color, or to keep them firm and 
crisp. 

Tlie best way to ascertain die heat of the 
fat, is to tiy it with a bit of bread as big as 
a nut; if it is quite hot enough, the bread 
will brown immediately. Put in the fish, 
and it will be o'isp and brown on the side 
next the fire, in about four or five minutes ; 
to torn it, stick a two'pronged f<Nrk near the 
head, and support the tail with a fish-slice, 
and fiy the other side nearly the same length 
of time. Fry one sole at a time, except the 
pan is very large, and you have plenty of fat. 

When the fish are fried, lay diem on a soft 
cloth (old table-clotfis are best), near enough 
the fire to keep diem warm; turn them 
tivery two or diree minutes, till they are 
quite dry on both sides; this common cooks 
commonly neglect. It will take ten or fifteen 
minutes, if the fat yon fried Uiem in was not 
hot enough ; when it is, they want very Utile 



diyiag. Wkn foies uw Iried, llwy tt 
keep very good in a drv plaoe for tfaraear 
four davs; warm them by ban^^ing them on 
the hookc in a Dutoh oven, letting them hmt 
very giadually, by putting it some distance 
from the fire fiw aboitt twenty minutes, or io 
good ga\'y, as eels, Wiggy's way. 

06. -There are several general rules io 
this receipt which apply to all fried fish: 
we have been very partknilar and mini^ in 
our directions ; ftir, although a fried sole ia 
so frequent and fiivmrite a dish, it is veiy 
seldom brought to table in perfection. 

SOLES, TO BOIL. A fine, fish, diiek 
sole is almost as good eating as a turbot* 
Wash mid clean it nicely; pot it hito a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt,* and as much 
cold water as will cover it ; set it on the side 
of the fire, take off the scum as it rises, and 
let it boil gently ; about five minutes (aooord- 
ing to its size) will be long eooiwh, ua]e 
it he ver^ large. Send it up on a mli-draia* 
er, garnished with slices of lemon and sprigs- 
of curled parsley, or nicely-fried smelts, or 
oysters. 

06s. Slices of lemon are a universally 
acceptable garnish with either fried or broiJ* 
ed fish: a few sprigs of crisp par8% may be 
added, if you wiidi to make it look very 
smart ; and parsley, or fennel and batter, are- 
excellent sauces, or chervil sauoe, or anchovy. 

SOLES, TO DRESS MAIGRE. Put 
die fish into a stewpan, with a laiige onion, 
four cloves, fifteen berries of allspice, and dte* 
same of black pepper; just cover them with 
boiling water, set it where they will simmer 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according' 
to tlie size of the fish ; strain off the liquor 
in another stewpan, leaving the fish to kee(> 
warm till the sauce is ready. Rub together 
on a plate as much flour and butter as will 
make the sauce as thick as a double cream.. 
Each pint of sauce season with a gkiss of 
wine, half as much mushroom ketohup, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few 
giains of cayenne; let it boil a few minutes^ 
put the fish on a deep dish, strain the gravy 
over it; garnish it widi sippets of bread 
toasted or fried. 

SOLE, Carp, Trout, Perch. Eel,. 
OR Flounder, to stew. When the fish 
has been properly washed, lay it in a stew- 
pan, with lialf a pint of claret or Port wioe 
and a quart of good eravy, a large onion, a 
dozen berries of black pepper, the same of 
allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of maoer 
cover die fish-kettle ckiee, and let it stew 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the diickness of the fish: take the fish up, 
lay it on a hot di^h, cover it up, and thicken 
the liquor it was stewed in with a litiki 



BDtJ 



soo 



soul's 



fmir, aad nmoii It with pepper, nh, ttnnoe 
<if anehofy, mnBhroom ketcmip, and a little 
Chili inegar; when it has boiled ten min- 
vteB, etrain it thraogh a tamil, and pour it 
over the fifeh: if there is man eauoe than 
the dish will hold, eend the rest np in a boat. 
The river trout comes into season in April, 
smd continues ti0 July; it is a delicious fish. 

SORREL, TO STEW. Strip the leaves 
from the stalks, wadi them well, scald them 
in boiling water in a silver saucepan, cr in 
an earthon pijAin ; strain and stew them m 
a little gravy till tender. Sen'e with hard- 
boiled e^ cut in quarters. 

SORREL, IN GRAVY. Mince and 
put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, 
parsley, and scallions; add a glass of con- 
somme; set it over a moderate fire, and 
when quite soft, put to it some fowl gi^vy, or 
veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do 
not let it boil, cover the sorrel when ser^'ed. 

SQRREL OMELET. Pick, wash, and 
blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 
dry it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
pnrsl^ and scallions; then put tlie sorrel 
into a saucepan, with a little cream ; season, 
and let it boil slowly; in tlie meantime make 
an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, 
thicken the sorrel witli the yolks of two eggs, 
poor it <m the omelet, and ser\'e it very hot. 

SOUFFLET, APPLE. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
inch and a half diick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff frotli the 
whites of two or three eggs, with a little 
sifted kiaf sugar, by it upon the rice, and 
bake it in an oveifa light brown. Serve it 
instantly when done. 

SOUFFLET, RICH. Soak in white 
wine and a little brandy, sweetened with su- 
|rar, some slices of sponge cake; put tbn 
into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich 
custard; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three or four eggs, and with a table-spoon 
hy it over the top in heaps to look roo^; 
brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. 

SOUFFLET, RICE. Soak in half a 
pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, 
and the ped of a lemon cut thin; put it into 
a saucepan, with a little salt, and add by 
degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of but- 
ter the sise of a walnut; stir it till it boil, 
and for five minutes after. When cool, add 
the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two table- 

rmfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in 
well4)eaten whites of the eggs, and dress 
the soufflet in the dish like a pyramid. 



Bake It hi an oven. It may be nade 
two table-spoonfuls of potato flour, w^idi 
mix with a little milk, and a little salt, and 
then thkiken it over the fire with more i 
put a little orange-fiower water, or any 
perfome ; wbifet in the oven it may be gfamed 
whh sifted loaf si^jar. 

SOUFFLET, ORANGE. MixvHdta 

table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream> pal 
it into a saucepan, with two spooKfiih^ of 
rose-water, a little cinnamon tmd orange- 
peel ; stir it till it boil ; strain and sweeten 
it, and when cold, mix in two taUe-epoon- 
fuls of orange marmalade; beat well six 
eg^ with a glass of brandy; mix all togeth- 
er; put it in a buttered shape; place it in 
a saucepan of boiling water, over a stove; 
let it boil one hour and a quarter without a 
cloth or cover over it. 

SOUPS. Every utensil employed in a 
kitchen must be kept scrupuloa^ clean, 
and a cook ought to take especial care that 
all her saucepans be in good order. Braaa 
pans are preferaUe for preserving in, and 
double block tin are the best sort in use for 
every other prnTxise ; their covers, dioukl be 
made to fit closely, and the tinning alwam 
renewed as soon as it is observed to tm 
wearing off. While new, they may be 
easily kept clean by washing them regularly . 
in hot water, and ruUl>ing on them vriien > 
quite dry, a little whiting with lettdwr or 
flannel. After long use, they will retfiiire 
occasional scouring with fine sand; and be- 
fore they are used, they ought ahvays to be 
rinsed out with hot water, and wiped with 
a clean cloth. A landhuly will find it good 
economy, and for her advantage in odier 
respects, to provide plenty of stone ware and 
eaithen vessels, and also common dnfaes for 
the kitchen, that the taUe set may not he 
used to keep cold meat on. 

In boiling soup, less water is used in a 
digester than in a common pot, as in a di- 
gester no steam can escape. 

To extract tlie strength fit>m meat, long 
and slow boiling is necessary, but care must 
be taken that tbe pot is never off the boiL 
All soups are better for being made the day 
before they are to be used, and th^ sbonU 
then be strained into earthen paiis. Whan 
soup has jellied ixt the pan, it should not be 
removed into another, as breakii^ it wiU 
occasion its becoming sour sooner than k 
would otherwise do; when in danger of not 
keeping, it should be boiled up. It newr 
keeps long with many vegetabh^ in it. Us 
meat used for soups or broths cannot be tw 
fresh. Wlien any animal food is |ihii ^ 
boiled, the liquor, willi the addition of tks 
trimmings of meat and poultry, make good 
soups and gravies, as do also the bones of 



sours 



Ml 



SOUPS 



mmatad or broiled meat.' The gravief left 
in the diahes aoawer finr haafaee, and the 
Jiqaor in which veal has been boiled, nray 
be Boade iato a glase by boiling it with a 
bam bone till reduced to a thii'd or fourth 
jpartf and aeasoaiog it with the Deceeniry 
Lerbfl and spioeB. 

In boiling weak soups, the pan should be 
tmoovered tlmt the wateiy particles may 
escape. Cow-heel jelly improves eveiy 
flort of rich soup; and for thickening, truf- 
fles, morels, and dried mushrooms, may be 
seed with advantage. 

Directi<s are given with each of the 
Allowing soups for thickening with flour 
and butter, oream and eggs; after the ci'eam 
and eggs are added, the soup must not be 
llowed to boil. 

Should brown gravy or mock Unrtle ^oup 
be spoiling, fresh-made charcoal, roughly 
pounded, tied in a little bag and boiled with 
either, will absorb the bad flavor and leave 
k sweet and good. The charcoal may be 
made by simply putting a bit of wood into 
the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a 
mortar. 



ASPARAGUS. This is made 

with the points of asparagus, in the same 
manner as the green pease soup is with 
pease: let half the asparagus be rubbed 
through a sieve, and the otlier cut in pieces 
about an inch long, and boiled till done 
enough, and sent up in tiie soup: to make 
two quarts, there must be a pint of heads 
to thicken it, and half a pint cut in ; take 
care to preserve tliese green and a little 
crisp. This soup is sometimes made by 
adding the asparagus heads to common pease 
oup. . 



BEEF, THICK. In eight quarts 

of water boil gently for seven hours, skim- 
ming it well, a sliin, or a leg of beef, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; strain it the next day, 
take off* the fat, and cut all tlie gristly and 
sinewy parts fix>m the bones, add them to 
the soup with some leeks, onions, celery, 
pepper, salt, and ten or twelve ounces of 
Scotch barley parboiled; boil it gently for 
two or three hours. This stock or jelly will 
keep good for weeks in cold weather. 



BEEF OR MUTTON. Bofl 

nry gently in a closely covered saucepan, 
fimr quarts of water, with two table-poon* 
fills of sifted bread raspings, three pounds 
of beef cot in small pieces, or tlie same 
quanti^ of muttoa chops takm from the 
middle of the neck; season with pepper 
and salt, add two turnips, two carrots, two 
onions, and one head of celery, all cut small ; 
let it stew with these ingredients four homn, 
vAnBtk it will be ready tQ serve. 



BEET ROOT. Boil tifl tmAtt 

two roots of beet, and mb off* the skin with 
a coarse towel, minoe them finely, as abo' 
two or three onions ; add this to five pinta 
of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather* 
thick, then stir in three or fijor table-spooa* 
fuls of vinegar and one of brown sugar ; let it 
boil, and throw in some fi-icandnllans made- 
up in the form of corks, and rolled in fk>ur. 



AND BOUILLI. The best 

parts for this pnrpoae, we the hs or shin,, 
or a piece of die middle of a brisket of 
beef, of about iieven or ei^^it pounds' weigtu ; 
lay it on a fish drainer, or when you take it 
up, put a dice under it, which will enable^ 
yuu to place it on the dish entire ; put it in- 
to a souppot or deep stewpan, with cold 
water enough to cover it, and a qoart over^ 
set it on a quidi fire lo get the scorn up, 
which remove as it rises ; then put in twa 
carrots, two turnips, two leeks, or twiv 
large onions, two heads of celery, two or 
tlu-ee cloves, and a feggot of paraley and 
sweet herbs ; set the pot by tlie side of the 
fire to simmer ^-ery gently, till tlie meat is 
just tender enoqgli to eat ; this will require 
aboia four oi* five hours. 

Put a brge carrot, a turnip, a large onion, 
and a head or two of celery, into the soup 
whole, take them out as soon as they are 
done enough, lay them on a dish till they are 
cold, tlien cut them into small squares: 
wlien the Beef is done, take it out careful- 
ly,  strain the Soup through a hair sieve 
into a clean stewpan, take off tlie fat, and 
pot the vegetables that are cut into the- 
soup, the flavor of which you may heighten^ 
by adding a table-cpoonful of mushromn 
ketchup. 

If a Thickened Soup is preferred, take- 
four laige tablenspoonfuis of the clear &t 
from the top of tlie pot, and fiair spoonfuk 
of flour; mix it smooth together, then'bv 
degrees stir it well into the soup, which 
simmer for ten minutes longer at least, ^ 
skim it well and pass it thi-ougb a taniia,, 
or fine sieve, ana add the vegetables and 
seasonii^ the same as directed in the dear 
soup. 

hjeep the beef hot, and send it up (as a. 
remove lo the soup) with finely chopped 
paraley sprinkled on the top, and a sauce* 
boat of Wow Wow sauce. 



BROWN, WITHOUT Meat*. 

Put three quarts or more of water, with a. 
sOfficient quantity of raspings to thicken it; 
two or three onions cut across, some whole- 
pepper, and a little salt; cover it close, and 
let It boil an hour and a half; take it off^ 
and strain it through a sieve; fi^ in butter 
some celery* endive, lettuce, spinach, and 
any other oerbB cot imsJl; then take .%. 



BOUPS 



202 



SOUPS 



Mewpan (Mflicieiilty Iwrge to hold all the 
'ifigredientt) and put in a good pieoe of bat- 
ter, stick in a little flour, and keep stirring 
till it is colored of a nice brown; then put 
in the herbs and soup; boil it till the herbs 
.are tender, and the soup of a proper consist- 
>ence, then pour the soup into a tiween, and 
49end to table; serve with fried bread, either 
in the soup or in a dish. 



BROWN GRAVY. (1) Take 



fteen pounds of a leg or shin of beef, cut off 
tlie meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot 
with butter, put in the meat, let it brown 
ibr nearly an hour, turning it constantly, 
hveak the bone and take out tlie marrow, 
which may be kept for a pudding, but it is 
considered better than butter to brown the 
meat with ; put to it ibuiteen quaits of cold 
water, and the bones ; when it boils, skim 
it perfectly clean, and add six goofi-sized 
red onions, one carrot cut in three, one 
iiead of celery, a good handful of wliole 
black and Jamaica pepper mixed; let this 
boil very gently ten or twelve hours closely 
^vered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a 
liot plate, not to be covered ; strain it through 
a cullender, and then through a hair sieve, 
into a large pan, to be kept for use. Re- 
turn tlie meat and bones into tlie pot with 
three or four quarts of hot water ; let it boil 
nearly two hours, and strain it off. This 
makes good stock ibr gravies, stews, or 
any made dishes. 

This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for 
tliree or four weeks. When it is to be 
trailed to send to table, first boil vermicelli, 
or macaroni, in a little salt and water, till 
tender; strain it, and add it to the soup 
just before serving. This soup is quite 
pure, and requires no clearing. It is a 
most convenient thing to have in a house in 
cold weather, as it is always ready for use ; 
and, sen'ed with dry toast to eat with it, 
makes an acceptaUe luncheon. 

The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, 
may be boiled with the beef for this soup. 



BROWN GRAVY. (2) Cut 

down three pounds of gravy beef, and put it 
wi in a etewpan with three onions cut small, 
and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, 
Miiring it to orevent the onions from burn- 
ing; then aad four quarts of water, one 
head of celery, of carrots and turnips two 
each, with some whole black pepper and 
gait ; boil it gently for four hours ; strain it ; 
and the next day take off the fot. When 
it is heated, add some vermicelli, previously 
boiled in water, and aerve it after boiling 
fiBQ minutes. 

 ^Zr- CALF'S HEAD, OR MOCK 
TURtLB. (1) ParfooiiatwlTBtieadftake 



off Uie skin and cut it in bits about aa iach 
and a half square, cut the fleshy parts in bito, 
take out the black part of the eyea, and eaC 
the rest in rings, skin the tongue, and cut it 
in dices, add it all to three quarts 6f good 
stock, and season it with cayenne, two r 
three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a 
leoHHi, and half a pint of white wine, with 
about a dosen of forcemeat balls; stew dl 
tliis an hour and a half, rab dovm with a 
little cold water, two table-spoonfuls of flov, 
mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, 
and tiien stir it into the pot ; pot in the 
juice of half a bi^ lemon, and the bard- 
boiled yolks of eight eggs ; let it simmer for 
ten minutes, and then put it all in the 



CALF'S HEAD. (2) ScaM 

and clean thoroughly a calf's farad with 
the skin on, boil it an hour gently in threa 
quarts of water, and parboil with it smae 
sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and 
frv of a light brown in butter two pounds 
of gravy beef, one of veal, and one of mut- 
ton, with five onions cut small ; put all into 
the liquor, adding the bones ak the head 
broken; rinse the frying-pan with two 
quarts of boiling water, and put it to the 
meat, and other things, with two whole on- 
ions, and a btmch of sweet herbs, and twice 
their quantity of parsley ; the peel of one 
lemon, four cloves, a little allspioe, salt, 
and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb 
of bread diied before the fire ; let all this 
stew slowly for five hours, strain it, and 
when cold, take off all the fat. Cut the 
meat of the calf's head, tongue, and sweet* 
breads, in small square bits, add them to 
the soup, and when it has boiled, mix veiy 
gradually with a large table-spoonfiil of 
flour a cupful of the soup, and stur it gently 
into the pot; twenty minutes before senrii^, 
add a small tea-spoonfol of cayenne, the 
yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, and 
the same number of forcemeat balls ; a pint 
of white wine,  Madeira is the best,  and 
just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. 
Forcemeat balls for this soup are made as 
follows:  Mix the brains with five table- 
spoonfuls of grated bread, the same of finely 
minced beef suet, a iea-spoonfiil of salt, out 
of white pepper, the grated peel of a Wnoa, 
some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped; 
beat the yolks and whites of two eggSy toB 
the balls the size of the yolk of an egg, and 
fry them of a light brown in boiling dr^ 
pmg. 



CALF'S HEAD. (3) Takem 

much as is required of not very stroi^ ved, or 
beef stock, in which six onions luiTe bean 
boiled, brown a quartorof a poondof bomr 
and thicken it well with flour, then add Am 
jBtpipK by decrees; when H boik, pat io tte 



SOUPS 



SOS 



SOUPS 



ealf 8 haul, cot in small piooes, and ome fried 
forcemeat Imlb; waflon it with aatt and 
pef^xr. The peel of half a lemon improveB 
It. When it has boiled twenty mimites, 
wid two table-spoonfiik of ketchup, three of 
tsue oce of anchovies, and as much lemon 
pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To 
give the soup a good color, and to enrich the 
flaTor, may be added a large table-spoonftil 
of Boiw, mixed perfectly smooth in a lea- 
capful of cold water, and stirred gradually 
into the soup, after which let it boil a few 
mimites. 



CARROT. Scrape and wash 

half a doaen lar|;e carrots ; peel off the red 
outside (which is the only part used for this 
soap); put it into a gallon stewpan, with 
one head of celery, aiMl an onion, cut into 
thin pieces; take two quarts of beef, veal, 
or mutton broth, or if you have any cold 
roast beef bones (or liquor, in which mutton 
or beef has been boiled), you may make very 
good broth for this soup: when you have 
put the broth to the roots, cover the stewpan 
dose, and set it on a slow stove for two 
bours and a half, when the carrots will be 
soft enough (some coaka put in a feea-cupfol 
of bread-crumbs) K boil for two or three 
minutes; rub it through a tamis, or hair 
neve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
broth as will make it a proper thickness, 
u e. almost as thick as pease soup: put it 
into a clean stewpan; make it hot; season 
it with a little salt, and send it up with 
some toasted bread, cut into pieces half an 
inch square. Some put it into the soup; 
but the best way is to send it up on a plate, 
as a aide dish. 



CJELERY. Split half a dozen 

heads <^ celery into dips about two inches 
long; wash them wdl; lay them on a hair 
sieve to drain, and put them into three quarts 
of clear gravy soup in a gallon soup-pot ; set 
it by the side of the fire to stew very gently 
tiA the celery is tender (this will take about 
an hour). If any scum rises, take it off; 
season with a little salt. 

O&t.- When celery cannot be procured, 
half a drachm of the seed, pounded fine, 
which may be considered as the essence of 
celery, put in a quarter of an hour before the 
soup is done, and a little sugar, will give as 
much flavor to half a gallon of soup as two 
heads of celery w^ighinf seven ounces, oir 
add a little essence of eefery. 



COCKY-LEEKY. Take a 

erag of mutton, or shank of veal, three 
J qoarts of water (or liquor in which meat has 
J been boiled), and a good sized fowl, with 
I two or three leeks cut in pieces about an 
, inch loi^, P^IV^ '^ ^^  ^i^ slowly about 



an hour: then pot in as many more leeksy 
and ^ve it three4]uarten of an hour longer; 
this IS very good, made of good beef stock, 
and ledu put in at twice. 



CRAWFISH. This soup i 



sometimes made with beef, or veal broth, or 
with fifdi, in the following manner: Take 
flounders, eeb, sndgeons, 8ic., and set them 
on to boil in ookl water ; when it is pretty 
nigh boiling, diim it well; and to three 
quarts put in a couple of onions, and as many 
carrots cut to oieoes, some parsley, a doaen 
berries of black and Jamaica pepper, and 
about half a hundred craw>fi^ ; take off the 
small claws and shells of tfie tails; pound 
them fine, and boil them with the broth 
about an hour; strain off, and break in 
some crusts of bread to thicken it, and, if 
you can get it, die spawn (^ a lobster ; pound 
It, and put it to the soup; let it simmer very 
gently for a coa|^ of minutes; put in your 
craw-fish to get hot, and the soup is ready. 



CRESSY. (1) Wash clean, 

and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, 
tliree heads of celery, and six onicms ; put 
them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of butter and a slice of ham, stew diem 
gently for an hour, stirring them constantly: 
when they begin to brown add as much 
gravy soup as will fill the tureen ; let it boil 
till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to 
pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after 
which put it on the fire and boil it half an 
hour, sKin, and season it with pepper and 
salt. This soup should be as thick as melt- 
ed butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in 
four quarts of water till reduced to three, 
will answer for the soup. 



CRESSY. (2) Slice twelve 

large onions, and fry them pretty brown in 
a quarter of a pound of (rem butter ; scrape 
and clean two dozen of good red carrots, 
boil them in four quarts of water till quite 
soft; pound them in a marble mortar, mix 
them with the onions and add die liquor in 
which the carrots were boiled, a buiich of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 
and two or three cloves; let them all boil 
about an hour, then rub them through a hair 
sieve; put it on again to boil rather quickly, 
till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a lit- 
tle diy boiled rice in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. If the carrots are large, 
one dozen will be found sufficient. 

CUCUMBER. Make some 

broth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice 
of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; strain it; brown 
with an ounce of butter the Grumb of % 



SOUPS 



S04 



S0UF8 



Frendi roll, to which piU (bur burge cucoia* 
bers, and two heads of lettuce cut nuiU; let 
theiu stew a quarter of an hour, and add to 
them a quart of the brolb; when it boib 
put in a pint of green .nease, and as it stews, 
add two quarts more of the broth. 

CURRY, OR MULLAGA. 

TAWNY. Cut four pounds of a breast of 
Teal into pieces, about two inches by one; 
put the trimmings into a stewpan with two 
quarts of water, witli twelve corns of black 
pepper, and the same of allspice ; when it 
Doiis, i^ira it clean, and let it boil an hour 
and a half, tlien slrain it off; while it is 
boiling, fry of a nice brown in butter the 
bits of veal and four onions ; when they are 
done, put tlie broth to them ; put it on tlie 
fire; when it boils, skim it clean; let it 
simmer half an hour; tlieu mix two spooa- 
fu]8 of curry, and tlie same of ikxir, with a 
little cold water and a tea*spoonful o salt ; 
add these to the soup, and simmer it gently 
till the veal is quite tender, and it is ready ; 
or bone a couple of fowls cnr rabbits, and 
stew them in the manner directed above for 
the veal, and you may put in a bruised esr 
, ohalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of 
black pepper and.alkpice. 



CURRY. Mince small three 

or four onions, according to their size, put 
them into a saucepan with two oimces of 
butter, dr^dffe in some flour, and iiry them 
till of a li^it brown, taking care not - to 
bum them; rub in by degrees a lai^ table- 
spoonful and a half of curry-powder, till it 
be quite a paste; gradually stir in three 
quarts of ^vy soup, mixing it well togeth- 
er; boil It gently till it be well flavored 
with the curry-powder; strain it into anoth- 
er saucepan, and add a fowl skinned and 
cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; 
stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of 
the soup put a large table-spoonful of tama- 
rinds, and stew them so as to se^^arate the 
stalks and stones; slrain and stir it into the 
soup with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
boil it for fifteen minutes before serving. 

 EEL. To make a tureenful, take 



 -   -'  -~-    i " -" 

a couple of middling'sized onions, cut them 
in half, and cross yoor knifo over them two 
or thi-ee times; put two ounces of bimer 
into a stewpan, wlien it is melted put in the 
onions, stir them about till they are lightly 
browned; cut into pieces three pounds of 
eels, put them into your stewpan, and shake 
them over the 6re for five minutes ; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and when they 
come to a boil, take Uie scum off very ckan ; 
then put in a quarter of an ounce of the 
green leaves (not dried) of winter savoiy, 
the same of lemon thyme, and twice the 



quMtity oTpiirslMr, two dracfams of allipM^ 
the same of black pepper; cover it dose 
and let it boil geody for two boors; dm 
strain it off, am skira it venr cfean. To 
tliickeo it, put three oonoee of butler into a 
clean stewpan; when it is melted, stir in  
mdi flour as will make it <^ a stiff pasl^ 
then add the liquor by degrees; lei it simmr 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve; 
then put your soup on in a clean Btewpaa, 
and have ready some little square pieces of 
fish fried of a nice light tyown, either eek, 
soles, plaice, or skate will do; the firied 
fish shoukl be added about ten nninutes b^ 
fore die soup is served op. Forcemeat bab 
are sometimes added. 



GIBLET. Clean very nieeif 

two s^B of giblets, parboil them. Take A* 
skin off the feet ; cut the i^zxards ia qoBr> 
ters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pin* 
ions, and livers, in two, th head in two 
also, first taking off the bill ; boil tbem till 
nearly done enough ia a quart of weak gravy 
soup with an onion. Have ready boiling 
some rich highly seasoned brown gravy soup; 
add the giblets and the liquor th^ have beoi 
boiled in, with some chopped peurdey ; take 
out the onion, and thicken the soup widi a 
bit of butter kneaded in flour. If the gibleti 
are not perfectly sweet and fresh, do not add 
the weak soup they were boiled in. Hidf a 
pint of wine may be added a little before 
serving, but it is very good wilhom. 



GOURD, Should be made ef 



foU-fprowo gowds, but not thoee that have 
hard skins; slice three or four, and put Abu 
in a stewpan, with two or three onions, sod 
a good bit of butter; set them over a dow 
fire till quite tender (be careliil not to kt 
them burn); then add two ounces of crust of 
bread, and two quarts of good eamMmmti 
season with salt and cayenne pqiper: boO 
ten minutes, or a quarter of an hoar; skin 
off all the fat, and pass it through a taoiie; 
then make it quite hot, and serve up wilb 
firied biead. 



GRAVY, CLEAR. GttV^m 



pound of ham into slices, and ky th^ it 
the bottom of a large stewpan or stodqxiCy 
with two or three pounds of lean beef, and 
as much veal; break the booesy and lay tfasm 
on the meat; take off the oater skin of two 
lai^ onions and two turnips; wash, cleaa 
and cut into pieces a couple of lai^ carroty 
and two beads of celory; and put in three 
cloves and a large blade of mace. Cow 
the stewpao ckiee, and set it over a snaeit 
fire. When the meat begins to stick to da 
bottom of the stewpan, turn it ; and iHioi 
there is a nke brown ghuee at the botioeB ef- 
the stewpan, cover the meat with hot 



8O0P8 



fiOS 



BODPe 



wateh It, and when it 10 eoamg to boil pot 
aa lialf a piet of eoU water; take off the 
scum ; then put in lialf a piot more oold 
water, and sKim it again, and continue to 
do o till no more scum riaee. Now set it 
>Q one side of tbe tire to boil fentlv for about 
four houre ; strain it through a clean tamie 
or napkin (do not equeese it, or the soup 
will be thick) into a clean stone pan ; let it 
remain till it is cold, and tlien remove aU the 
iL Whea you decant it, be caiieful not to 
disturb the settlings at the bouom of tbe 
pan. 

The broth should be of a fine amber color, 
and as clear as rock water. If it is not 
quite so bright as you wish it, put it into a 
stewpan; break two whites and shells of 
eggs into a basin; beat them well together; 
put them into. the soup: set it on a quick 
fire, and tftir it with a whisk till it buils; 
then set it on one side of tlie fire to settle 
lor ten minutes; run it through a fine napkin 
into a basin, and it is i^eady* 

However^ if your broth is carefully skim* 
med, &c. according to the directions above 
given, it will be clear enough witliout clari- 
fying; which process impaira the flavor of 
it in a higher proportion than it improves 
its sq)pearanee. This is the basis of almost 
all gravy soaps, which are called by the 
name of the vegetables tiiat are put into tiiem. 
Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few 
leaves of chervil, make what is called spring 
soap, or soup sante ; to this a pint of green 
pease, or asparagus peate, 01 French beans 
cut into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, are an 
tmprovemeot* Widi rice or Scotcii barley, 
with macaroni or vei'micelli, or celery cut 
into lengths, it will be the soup usually call- 
ed by those names. Or turnips scooped 
rouody or young ooions, will give you a clear 
turnip or ooion soup ; and all these vegeta- 
bles mixed together, soup 6 res si. The 
roots and v^^ables you use must be boiled 
first, or they will impr^[nate the soup with 
too strong a flavor. The seasoning for all 
these soups is the same, viz. salt and a very 
little cayeone pepper. 



' GAME. Id the game season, it 
is easy for a 000k to give a very good soup 
at a veiy little expense, by taking all the 
meat off the breasts of any cold binis which 
have been left the pieced ing day, and pound- 
ing it in a mortar, and beating to pieces the 
1^ and bon6B, and boiling diem in some 
broth for an hour. Boil six turnips; mash 
them, and strain then throqgh a tamis cloth 
with the meat that has been poimded in a 
mortar; strain ^pour broth, and put a little 
c^ it at a tine mto the tamis to help yon to 
strain all < it diroiigh. Put your soup-ket- 
tle near the fire, but do not let it boil: when 
ready to dish voor dinner, have six yoUui of 

18 



eggs roixfid with half a pint of cream; ginlt 
through a sieve; put your soup on the ihe, 
and as it is coming to boil, put in the eggs, 
and stir well with a wooden spoon: do not 
k|t it boil, or it will curdle. 



HARE. Cut the hare in joinCa 

as for a fricassee, and put it in a stewpan, 
with a little altsptoe, three blades of mace, 
some salt, and whole black pepper, a bunch 
of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of 
winter savory, four quarts of water, a slice 
of ham, and four pounds of lean beef, twa 
carrots, and four onions cut down; let it 
boil till it l)e reduced to three quarts; sepa- 
rate the hare, and strain the soup over it, 
and add a pint of Port wine; boil it up be- 
fore serving. 

HERB. Wash and cut shmH 



twelve cabbage lettuces, a handful of chervil, 
one of purslane, one of parsley, eight larffe 
green onions, and three handfuls of sorrel; 
wlien pease are in season omit half the quanti- 
ty of sorrel, and put a quait of young green 
pease; put Uiem all into a saucepan, with 
half a pound of butter and three carrots cot 
small, some salt and pepper ; let them stew 
cioeely covered for half an hour, shaking 
tliem occasionally to prevent their adhering 
to the pan ; fry in butter six cucumbers cat 
longways in four pieces ; add them with four 
quarts of liot water, half a French roll, and 
a crust of bread toasted upon both sides; 
and let the wliole boil till reduced to three 
quarts, tlien strain it through a sieve; beat 
up the yolks of four eggs with lialf a pint 
of cream, and stir it gently into the soup just 
before serving. 



HERB POWDER, OR VEG- 



ETABLE RELISH. Dried pareley, wm- 
ter savory, sweet marjoram, lemon thyrae, 
of each two ounces; lemon-peel, cut very 
thin, and dried, and sa'eet basil, an onnoe 
of each. Some add to tlie above bay-leaves 
and celery-seed, a drachm each. Dry them 
in a warm, but not too hot Dutch oven: 
wbea quite dried, pound them in a mortar, 
and pass them throu^ a donUe hair sieve ; 
pat them in a bottle ckisely stopped, they 
will retain their fragrance and flavtur for 
several months. 

Ofrs.  This composition of the fine aro- 
matic herbs is an invaluable acquisition to 
tbe cook in those seasons or situations when 
fresh herbs cannot be had ; and we prefer it 
to the ragout powder. It impregnates saose, 
soop, &c. with as much relish, and renders 
it agreeable to the palate, and refreshes the 
gustatory nerves, without so much risk <tf 
ofliending the stomach. 



INVALID. Cot io ODftU piMW 



SOUPS 



206 



SOUPS 



Me pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; 
boil it gently in two quarts (^ water; take 
^ the 8CUU1, and wlien reduced to a pint, 
train it. Season with a little salt, and take 
a tea-cupful at a time. 



LOBSTER. (1) Qit small a 



doEen of common-sized onions, put tliem into 
a stewpan with a small bit of butter, a slic^ 
w two of lean ham, and a slice of leah beef; 
when the onions are quite soft, mix gradu- 
ally with them some ricl^stock ; let it boil, 
and strain it through a fine hair sieve, press- 
ing the milp of the onions with a wooden 
n>oon ; then boil it well, skimming it all the 
time. Beat tlie meat of a boiled cod, tlie 
pawn and body of a large lobster, or of two 
small ones, in a marble mortar ; add grad- 
ually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as 
smooth as cream ; let it boil again and scum 
it. Cut the tail and the claws of the bbstei' 
into pieces, and add them to the soup before 
serving it, and also some pepper, cayenne, 
white pepper, and a glass of white wine. 
Forcemoit balls may be added to oyster soup 
and lobster soup, made as directed under the 
article " Forcemeat for fish." 



LOBSTER. (2) You must 

have tliree fine lively young hen lobsters, 
split the tails; take out tlie fish, crack the 
claws, and cut the meat into mouthfuls: 
take out the coral, and soft part of tlie body ; 
bruise part of the coral in a mortar ; pick 
out the fish from die chines ; beat part of it 
with the coral, and with this make forcemeat 
balls, finely-fiavored with mace or nutmeg, 
a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy and cay- 
enne ; pound these with the yolk of an eg^. 

Have three quarts of veal brotli ; ^hiiiise 
the small legs and the chine, and put them 
into it, to boil for twenty minutes, then 
strain it; and then to thicken it, take die 
live spawn and bruise it in a mortar with a 
little butter and tlour; rub it throc^h a sie\'e, 
and add it to the soup with the meat of the 
lobsters, and the remaining coral; let it 
simmer v^ gently for ten minutes; do not 
let it boil, or its fine red color will imme^ 
tf'.sltely fade; turn it into a tureen; add the 
juice of a good lemon, and a little essence 
c^ anchovy. 



LORRAIN. Boil in four quarts 



of water a knuckle of veal, one pound of 
lean beef, and one poand of mutton, a car- 
rot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little 
lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper, 
till reduced to three, then strain die liquor ; 
pound very finely in a marble mortar, all tlie 
white meat of a laiige roasted fowl, with a 

rrter of a pound of blanched almonds, and 
yolks of four hard-boiled eegs; bo.il in 
nSk the crumb of a French roll, and pound 



it with tlie other ingredients, and stir it ! 
well into the soup ; let it boil gently for tea 
minutes before ser^'ing. 



MAIGRE, OR VEGETABLE 

GRAVY. Put into a galkin stewpan diree 
ounces of butter; set it ov* a slow fire; 
while it is melting, slice four ounces of 
onion ; cut in small pieces one tin^ip, one 
carrot, and a head of celery; put thera in the 
stewpan, cover it close, let it-fry till the}* are 
lightly browned; this will take about twen- 
ty-five minutes: have ready, in a saucepan, 
a pint of pease, with four quarts of water; 
when die roots in the stewpan are qnite 
brown, and the pease come to a boil, put the 
pease and water to them ; put it on the fire ; 
when it boils, skim it clean, and put in a 
crust of bread about as big as the top of a 
twopenny loaf, twenty-four berries of all- 
spice, the same of black pepper, and two 
blades of mace ; cover it close, let it simmer 
gently for one hour and a half; then set it 
from the fire for ten minutes ; then pour it 
off very gently (so as not to disturb the sedi- 
ment at the bottom of the stewpan) into a 
large basin ; let it stand (about two hours) 
till it is quite clear: while this is doing, 
shred one large turnip, tlie red part of a 
large carrot, thi'ee ounces of onion minoed, 
and one large head of celery cut into small 
bits; put the turnips and carrots on the firs 
in cold water, let tliem boil five minutes, 
then drain them on a sieve, then poor off the 
soup clear into a stewpan, put in the roots, 
put the Boup on the fire, let it simmer gentfy 
till the herbs are tender (from thirty to forty 
minutes), season it with salt and a little 
cayenne, and it is ready. You may add a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. You 
will have diree quarts of soup, as wellcoior- 
ed, and almost as well fkvored, as if made 
wiUi gravy meat. To make this it requires 
nearly five hours. To fi*y the herbs requires 
twenty-five minutes ; to boil all together, one 
hour and a half; to settle, at the least, two 
hours ; when clear, and pot <hi the fire again, 
half an hour more. 



MACARONL (1) Bofl for thrae 

Iiours very quickly, in five quarts of water, 
seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert- 
spoonful^f white pepper, and three or focr 
blades of mace ; strain it off, put it into a 
saucepan, and keep it hot upon a stoves 
Mix five table-spoonfols of floor with two 
ounces of butter, put it into an iron>tiraied 
saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it be 
melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, 
and then gradually mix the whole tooelher, 
and keep stirring constantly till it tltickens, 
and then add two ounces and a haU* of m 
aroni, previously boiled in milk nod water 
for eight minutes; stir it again till it bA 



SOUPS 



207 



SOUPS 



l^BdLe the pan off the stove, and rtir in br 
&egteeB about thfee-quartera of a pint of ricb 
wet cream, and jurt let it boil before aer- 

MACARONI. (2) Make a good 

stock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet 
marjcHram, parsley, some salt, white pepper, 
three blades of mace, and two or three on- 
icHW ; strain and boil it. Break in small bits 
a quarter of a poimd of macaroni, and gently 
nnmier it in milk and water till it be swell- 
ed and is lender; strain it, and add it to the 
soup, which thicken with two talile-spoonfuls 
of fiour, mixed in half a pint of cream, and 
stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few 
minutes before serving. 

MOCK TURTLE. Endeavor 

to have the head and the broth ready for tlie 
soup, the day before it is to be eaten. It 
will take eight hours to prepare it properly. 

kourt. 

Cleanini; and soakinx the head I 

To parbml it to cut up 1 

Cooling, nearly 1 

Making the broth and finishing the soup 5 

8 
Get a ca1f*s head with the skin on (the 
fresher the better); take out the brains, 
wash the head several times iu cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in spring water, 
then lay it in a stewpan, and cover it witli 
oold water, and half a gallon over ; as it be- 
comes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, 
which must be immediately removed ; let it 
boil gently for one hoar, take it up, and when 
almost cold, cnt the b^d into pieces about 
an inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, 
and the tongue into mouthfuJs, or rather 
make a side-dish of the tongue and brains. 

When the head is taken out, put in the 
stock meat, about five pounds of knuckle of 
veal, and as much beef; add to tlie stock all 
the trimmings and bones of the liead, skim 
it well, and then cover it close, and let it 
boil five hours (reserve a coaple of quarts of 
this to make gravy sauces) ; then strain it off, 
and let it stand till the next morning ; then 
take off the (at, set a large stewpan on the 
fire with bcdf a pound -of good fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of onions sliced, and four oun- 
ces of green sage ; chop it a little ; let these 
fry one hour ; thai nib in half a pound of 
floor, and by deerees add your broth till it is 
the thickness of cream ; season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of bladL pepper ground very 
fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
kmrni peeled very thin ; let it simmer veiv 
gently for one hour and a half, then strain it 
through a hair sieve f do not rub your soup 
to get it through the sieve, or it wul nuke it 
{jraoty; if it does not run thiw^ easily, 



knock your wooden spoon against the 

of your sieve ; pat it in a clean stewpan with 

the head, and season it b^ adding to each 

Elkm of soup half a pint of wine ; mis sboukl 
Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the 
color of your soup, claret, and two taUe- 
spoonfols of lemou-juioe; let it simmer gently 
tdl the meat is tender; this may take from 
half an liour to an hour: take care it is not 
over-done ; stir it frequently to prevoit the 
meat sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, 
and when the meat is quite tender the soup 
is ready. 

A head weisliing twenty pounds, and tea 
pounds of slock meat, will make ten quarts 
of excellent soup, besides the two quarts of 
stock you have put by (or made dishes. 

Obs.  If tb^i e is more meat on tlie head 
than you wish to put in the soup, prepare it 
for a pie, and, with the addition of a calf's 
foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent 
ragout pie; season it with zest, and a little 
minced onion, put in half a tea-cupful of 
stock, cover it with puff paste, and bake it 
one hour: when the soup comes from table, 
if there is a deal of meat and no soup, put it 
into a pie-dish, season it a little, and add 
some little stock to it; then cover it with 
paste, bake il one hour, and you have a 
good mock turtle pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup put 
two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, same of 
mushroom ketchup, and one of essence of 
anchovy, half a pint of wine (tills ^ould be 
Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the color 
of your soup, claret), a tea-spoonful of ciiny 
powder, or a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, 
and the peel of a lemon pai-ed as thin as 
possible; let it simmer five minutes more, 
take out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready 
for the tureen. ' 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each 
tureen a dozen ^nd a half of mock turtle 
forcemeat balls, and put them into tlie tureen. 
Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant ad- 
dition, and are made by boiling the brains 
for ten minutes, tlien putting them in cold 
water, and cutting them into pieces about as 
big as a large nutmeg ; take savory, or lemon 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg 
grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them 
all together; beat up an egg, dip the brains 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture, and 
make as much of it as possible stick to them ; 
dip them in the egg again, and then infinely- 
erated and sifted bread-cnimbs; fry them in 
hot fot, and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done or 
it win break, cut into pieces the same size 
as you cut the calPs head, and put in the 
soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, - 
is a superb " bonne boucke;" and pickled 
tongue, stewed till very tender, and cut into 
mouthfub, is a fiivorite addition. We order 



SOUPS 



308 



SOUPS 



die meat to be cut into moiithfula, that it 
mar be eaten with a spoon: the knife and 
fcrfc hare no bwineM in a soap-plate. 

N . B. In helping this soup, the distri- 
bMer of it should serve oot the meat, force- 
meat, and graw, in equal parts ; however 
trifling or needfess this remark may appear, 
die writer has often suflered from the want 
of such a hint being given to the soup-erv- 
er, who has sometimes sent a plate of mere 
gmvy without meat, at others, of meat with- 
oot gravy, and sometimes scarcely any thing 
but forcemeat balls. 

068.  This is a delicious soup, within 
the reach of those who " eat to live ; " but 
if it had been composed expressly for those 
who only " live to eat," I do not know how 
it could liave been made more agreeable: as 
it is, the lover of good eating Wn\ ** wish his 
throat a mile long, and every inch of it palate." 



MOOR-FOWL, It may U 

made with or without brown gravy aoopjf 
when with the former, six' birds are aun- 
cient,'when with moor-fuwf only, boil five ii 
four quarts of water, pound the breasts ia  
mortar and rub it through a sieve, put it 
with the less, backs, and itn^ee more moor* 
fowl, cut ^wn in joints, into the liquor, 
season with a pint of Port wine, pe|;|.er, 
and sail, and fet it boil an hc>i r. ^\'l)ea 
only six birds are used, pound the breasts 
of three or four. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (1) Pot 



MOCK MOCK TURTLE. Line 

the bottom of a stewphn that will hold five 
pints, with an ounce of nice leah bacon or i 
ham, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, 
a cow-heel, the inner rind of a carrot, a sprig 
of lemon thyme, winter savory, three times 
the quantity of parsley, a few green leaves 
of sweet basil, and two eschalots; put in a 
large onion, widi four cloves stuck in it, 
eighteen corns of allspice, the same of black 
pepper ; pour on these a quarter of a pint 
of cold water, cover tlie stewpan, and set it 
on a slow fire, to boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then, for fear the meat should 
catch, takp off the cover, and watch it ; and 
when it has got a good brown color, fill up 
the stewpan with boiling waler, and let it 
simmer very gently for two hours: if you 
wbh to have the foil benefit of the meat, 
only stew it till it is ^ust tender, cut it into 
mouthfols, and put it into the soup. To 
thicken it, pour two or three tabk}poonfols 
of flour, a ladlefol of the gravy, and stir it 
quick till it is well mixed ; pour it back in- 
to the stewpan where the gravy is, and let 
it simmer s^itly for half an hour longer; 
skim it, ana then strain it through a tamis 
into the stewpan: cut the cow-heel into 
pieces about an inch squai'e, squeeze through 
a sieve the juice of a lemon, a table<poon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonlul of 
salt, half a tea-spooiiful of ground black 
pepper, as much grated nutmcs as will lie 
on a sixpence, and a slass of Madeira or 
Sherry wine; let it all simmer together for 
five minutes longer. Forcemeat or egg balls 
may be added if you please. 

A pound of veal cutlets, or the belly part 
of pickled pork, or nice double tripe cut in- 
to pieces about an inch square, and half an 
tntii thick, and rounded and trimmed oeat- 
lyfrom all skin, gristle, &c. and stewed till 
they we tander, will be a great addition* 



half a pound of fresh butter, with six large 
onions sliced, three cbves of garlic, soma 
chopped parsley, and sweet mai'joram, into 
a stewpan, let it stew over a sk>w fire till 
of a light brown color; cut in small pieces 
five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew 
till the gravy be extracted, and then put in 
three quarts of boiling water, and iia/f a 
pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer 
four hours very slowly; mix four table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder with cold water, 
and add it to the stock ; take out the beef^ 
and rub the barley throush a sieve, to thick- 
en the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, 
and put it in a stewpan with n piece of but- 
ter, and let it stew till quite tender; the 
stewpan roust be kept closely covered: tarn 
to be added to the soup, the last thing, with 
a pint of boiling milk, and the juice of two 
lemons. Boilea rice must always be eened 
with this soup. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (2) 

Make a strong stock of tlie b(mes of roasted 
beef, mutton, and fowl ; while it is prepar* 
ing, put into a slcMrpan, with eix oanoes of 
butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, to 
quaits of carrots, and eight Iat:ge ooioos 
also sliced ; let tliem stew upoo the stote till 
tender ; tlien add three quarts of the pre- 
pared stock, a large slice of the cruo^ of 
Lread, and two table^tpoooiuk of cuny- 
powder; let them stew four or five hours; 
strain it through a tammy clotii, with 
two wooden spoons, taking care that m 
bones be left amongst the vegetablea; if toa 
thick U> go through, add more atock. Thea 
cut a fowl in pieces, fijy it in a frying>paD 
with butter, and add it to the aoup; aftsr 
it has boiled a little, draw it to the sidv 
of the stove, and let it siamaery tliat ths 
fi;reaae may be taken off. A little good 
beef stock, in addition to that made of tht 
bones will be an improvemuit. It is souif 
times thickened with whdb or ground rice, 
instead of bread, and ought to be 
upon a stove. * 



ONION. Boil in four qmrlitf 



waMr tix pounds oC a kaucUe oCveal* wiA 



soopd 



S09 



800PS 



Ik oMtft rt ^poiwiM ct whofe whilB pcppnTy 
and a few bbdeB (^ maoe; when the meat 
is flo much boiled as to leave the bone, strain 
off the stock. Tlie foHowing day boil nine 
or ten large Spanish onions in milk and 
inrciter, till sufficiently tender to palp throosh 
at sieve; take the fet off from the top of the 
stock, boil it op, and add the onions with 
about a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
ifirorked with two heaped table^poonfuls of 
siAed flour of rice, and a little salt ; boil it 
gently for half an hour, stirring it constantly, 
and a little before serving, stir in half a pint 
of rich O'eaib. 



OX-HEAD, Should be pi- 

pared the day be^Nie it is to be eaten, as you 
cannot rut the meat off the head into neat 
mouthfuls unless it ia cold: therefore, the 
day before you want this soup, put half an 
oxHJieek into a tub of cold water to soak 
for a couple of hours \ then break the bones 
diat have not been iMviken at tite butcher's, 
and wash it very well in %varm water; put 
it into a pot, and cover it with cold water; 
when it boils, skim it very clean, and tliea 
put in one head of celery, a couple of cairots, 
a turnip, two large onions, two doien ber- 
ries of black pepper, same of allspice, and 
a bundle of sweet herbs, such as marjoram, 
lemon thyme, savory, and a handfnl of pars* 
ley ; cover the soup-pot clone, and set it (n a 
slow fire; take off tlie scum, which will rise 
when it is coming to a boil, and set it by the 
fireside to stew very gently for about tliree 
hours; take out the liead, lay it on a dish, 
pour the soup throi;^h a fine sieve into a 
stone-ware pan, and set it and the head by 
in a cool place till the next day ; then cut 
die meat into neat mouthfuls, skim and stniin 
oflT the broth, put two quarts of it and the 
meat into a clean 8tew|n, let ir simmer very 
gently for half an hour bnger, and it is 
ready. If you wish it thickened, put two 
ounces of butter into a stewpan ; when it is 
melted, throw in as much flour as will dry it 
up; when tliey are all well mixed toother, 
and lMx>wned by degrees, pour to this your 
soup, and stir it well together ; let it simmer 
for half an hour longer; strain it through a 
hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and put to 
it the meat of the head; let it stew Imlf an 
hoar longer, and season it witli cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a glass of good wine, or a 
tabie-fipoonibl of brandy. If you serve it as 
soup for a dozen people, thicken one tureen, 
and send up the meat in that ; and send up 
the otlier as a clear gravy soup, with some 
of the carrots and turnips shredded, or cut 
into shapes. 

OX-HEEL, Must be made the 

day before it is to be eaten. Procure an 
OK-heel undressed, or only scalded, and two 

18* 



that have beea boiled m they nmlly are at 
the tripe shops. 

Oit the meat off the boiled heehi into neat 
moothfiils, and set it by on a plate; put the 
trimmirits and bmies in a stewpan ^ with threa 
quarts of water, and the unboiled heel cut into 
qoartere } furnish a steH'pan with two onions, 
and two turnips pared and sliced ; pare off 
the red part of a couple of large carrots, add 
a couple of esdialots cut in half, a bunch of 
savory or lemon thyme, and double the quan- 
tity of parsley ; set this over, or by the side 
of a dow, steady fire, and keep it closely 
covered and simmering very gently (or the 
soup liquor will evaporate) for at least seven 
hours: during whidi, take care to remove 
the fot and scum that will rise to tlie surface 
of the soupi which must be kept as clean as 
possible. 

Now strain the liquor through a sieve, 
and put two ounces of butter into a clean 
stewpan ; when it is melted, stir into it as 
much flour as will make it a stiff paste ; add 
to it by dq^rees the soup liquor; give it a 
boil up; strain it througn a sieve, and pu| 
in tlie peel of a lemon pared as thin as pos- 
sible, and a couple ot bov-leaves, and the 
meat of the boiled necis ; let it go on sim- 
mering for half an hour longer, t. e. till the 
meat is tender. Put in the juice of a lemon, 
a glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, and the soup is ready for the 
tureen. 

lliose who are disposed to make this a 
more substantial dish, mav introduce a 
couple of sets of goose or auck giblets, or 
ox-tails, or a pound of veal cutlets, cut into 
moutlifuls. 



OX-TAIL. Three tails, ooeting 

about 2d. each, will make a tireen of soup 
(desire the butcher to divide than at the 
joints) ; lay them to soak in warm wateri 
while you get ready the vegetables. 

Put into a gallon .stewpan eiffht ck>ves, 
two or three onions, half a draoim of all- 
spice, and the same of black pepper, ^nd 
tne tails: covethem with cold water; skim 
it carefully, when and as king as you see 
any scum rise; then covor the pot as close 
as possible, and set it on the side of the 
fire to keep gently simmering till the meat 
becomes tender and will lcve the bonet 
easily, beoemse it is to be eaten with a spoon, 
without the assistance of a knife or fork ; this 
will require about two houi-s: mind it is not 
done too much: when perfectly tender, take 
out the meat and cut it off tlie bones, in 
neat mouthfiils ; skim the broth, and 'strain 
it tlirougli a sieve; if you prefer a thicken- 
ed soup, put flour and butter, as directed in 
the preceding receipt; or put two table- 
spoonfuls of the fat you have taken off the 
broth into a clean stewpan, with as mnch 



SOOPS 



310 



dO0M 



ilour AS will make it into  paste ; set this 
over the fire, and stir tliem well together; 
then pour in tlie broth hv degrees, stirring 
it, and mixing it with the thickening; 1^ 
it simmer for anotlier half hour, and when 
you have well skimmed it, and it is quite 
smooth, then strain it through a tamis into 
a clean stewpan, put in the meat, with a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass 
of wine, and season it with salt. 

06s.  If the meat is cut off the bones, 
yea must have thi'ee tails for a tureen, some 
put an ox-cheek or tails in an earthen 
pan, with all tlie ingredients as above, and 
send them to a slow oven for five or six 
hours. 



J- PEAS, GREEN. (1) A peck of 

peas will make you a good tureen of soup. 
In shelling them, put the old ones in one 
basin, and tlie young ones in another, and 
keep out a pint of them, and boil them 
separately to put into your soup when it is 
finished: put a large saucepai^ on the fire 
half full of water ; when it boils, put the 
peas in, with a handful of salt; let them 
ix>il till they are done enough, i. e. from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their 
age and size; then drain them in a colan- 
der, and put them into a clean gallon stew- 
|)an, and three quarts of plain veal or mut- 
ton brotli (drawn from meat without any 
spices or herbs, &c. which would overpow- 
er the flavor of the soup); cover the stewpan 
close, and set it over a slow fire to stew 
gently for an hour ; add a tea-cnpful of bread 
crumbs, and tlien rub it through a tamis in- 
to another stewpan ; stir it with a wooden 
spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little 
more broth: have ready lx)iled as for eating, 
a pint of young peas, and put tliem into tlie 
soup ; season with a little salt and sugar. 

Some cooks, while this soup is gomg on, 
slice a couple of cucumbera (as you would 
for eating) ; take out the seeds ; lay them 
on a cloth to drain, and then flour tliem, 
and fry them a light brown in a little but- 
ter ; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

If the soup is not green enough, pound a 
handful of pea-hulls or spinage, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth into the soup: some 
leaves of mint may be added, if approved. 



. PEAS, GREEN. (2) Put a 

pint of old green peas into three quarts of 
water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two 
onions, a t^prig of mint, some salt and pep- 
per; boil them till the peas are perfectly 
soft, then pulp them through a sieve ; have 
ready two lettuces stewed tender in butter, 
A and a pint and a half of young green peas 
boiled; put tliem into the soup with a little 
spinach juice, and a quarter of a pint of 



the kiioc of the youngest peapodiy 
it all together before serving. 



MdbsS 



PEAS, GREEN, WITHO0T 

MEAT. Take a quart of green peas (kxtp 
out half a pint of the youngest ; boil than 
separatelv, and put them in the ooup when 
it is finished) ; put them on in boiling water; 
boil them tender, and then pour off the mK 
ter, and set it by to make the soap with: pat 
the peas into a mortar, and poand them Is 
a mash ; then put them into tM-o quarts of 
tlie water you boik^d tlie poaa in; stir al 
well together; let it Imil up for about five 
minutes, and then rub it tiiroagh a hair sieve 
or tainis. If the peas are g<M)d, it will be 
as thick and fine a vegetable soup as need 
be sent to table. 



PEAS, OLD. (1) Putaponod 

and a half of split peas on in four qnails of 
water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and 
a ham bone, two lieads of ce)ery, and fom 
onions, let them boil till the pens be soffi* 
ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, strain ic, 
put it into the f>ot witli pe]:^per and saU, and 
boil it nearly an hour. Two or three Imnd- 
fiils of spinach, well washed and cot a little, 
added wlien the sou|) is strained, is a great 
improvement; and in tlie sumnoer young 
green peas in place of the spinach. A tea- 
spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery^ 
if celery is not to be had. 



PEAS, OLD. (2) Boil io fi%e 

quarts of water one quart of split peas, an 
ounce of butter, four pounds of berf, two 
carrots, three turnips, four lieads of celeiy, 
tliree onions, some salt and Uack pepper; 
boil them till the pea^ are dissolved aad 
will easily pulp, put it all through a sieve, 
tlien put the soup over the fire with three 
ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, 
and boil a small bit of lean ham in it, till it 
is time to serve ; take it out before dicing, 
and have ready some celery stewed in butter, 
and fried bread cut in dice, and dried ana/L 
rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. 



PEAS, OLD. (8) Boi\ m fov 

quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece 
of bacon, and about half a pound of mutton, 
or salt beef, and a pint of split peas; boil 
all together very gently till tlie peas an 
quite soft, strain them through a hair sieve, 
and bruise them with tlie back of a spoon till 
all is pulped through, then boil the soup geot* 
ly for one hour belore serving. Thin slioei 
of bread toasted and cut in dice to be serred 
with it, either upon a dish or in the soap; 
if in the soup, it should be firied in butler, 
and dried mint rubbed fine and sent to table 
in a small dish. It may be also made wiA 
fourpence worth of bones, boiled for 



SOUFS 



311 



SOUPS 



in tarn qoMrts of water, wicfa  camt, 
a liead of celery, three ooiooe, MMne pepper 
and salt, straioed, and the next day the fiit 
lakea off and ihe peas boiled in the liquor 
with a little bit of butter, till sufficieotly ten- 
der to pulp ihaxMigh a sieve. 



;  PEAS, PLAIN. To a quart 

of split peas, and two headii of celery (and 
most cooks would put a large onion), put 
three quarts of broth or soft water; let them 
aiuuncr gently on a trivet over a slow fire 
for three hours, stirring up every quarter of 
ao hour to prevent the peas burning at the 
bottom of tlie soup-kettle (if the water boils 
aiva^, and tlie soup gets too thick, add some 
ixkiling water to it) ; when tlicy are well sof> 
tened, work tliem tiiroogh a coarse Meve, 
and then tlirough a fine sieve or a tamis; 
wash out ^our stewpan, and tlien return the 
soup into it, and give it a boil up ; take off 
any scum tliat comes up, and it is ready. 
Prepare fried bread, and dried mint, as di- 
rected in Old Peas (2) and send them up 
with it on two side dislies. 

Obs.  ^This is an excellent family soup, 
produced witii very little trouble or expense. 



PIGEON. (1) Have a strong beef 



stock, highly seasoned, and if for rich soup, 
take six or eight pigeons according to tlieir 
size, wash them clean, cut off the necks, pin- 
ions, livers and gizzards, and put tliem into 
tlie stock; quarter tlte pigeons and brown 
them nicely; afler having strained the stock, 
put in the pigeons; let them boil till nearly 
ready, which will be in al)uut half an liour, 
then tliicken it witli a little fiour, rubbed 
down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it 
with half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful 
of lemon juice or of vinegar, and one of 
mushi-oom ketchup; let it boil a few minutes 
after all tliese ingredients are put in, and 
serve it witli the pigeons in tlie tureen; a 
better thickening than fiour is to boil quite 
tender two of the pigeons, take off all the 
meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it tlirough 
a sieve, and put it, witli the cut pigeons, 
into tlie strained soup. To make partridge 
soup, partridges may be substituted for pig- 
eons, when only four birds will be required ; 
pound the bi*east of one. 



PIGEON. (2) Take eight pig- 



eons, cut down two of the oldest, and put 
them, will) the necks, pinions, livers, and 
gizzards of the others, into four quarts of 
water; let it boil till the substance be extrac- 
ted, and strain it; season tlie pigeons with 
mixed spices and salt, and truss tnem as for 
Btewing ; pick and wush clean a handful of 
parsley, chives or young onions, and a good 
deal of spinach ; chop Uiem ; put in a frying- 
pan a quarter of a pound of butter, and wlien 



H boib, mix m a haniHiil of hnad omAt, 
keep tirring tben with a knife tiO of a fiao 
brown; boil the whole pigwrns tiO they be- 
come tender in the stock with the herbs, aod 
fi-ied bread. If the soup be not sufficiently 
bish seasooed, add oiore nixed spnei aad 




 PORTABLE*. Poc OQ, m four 



galfena of water, ten pounds of a shin of 
beef, free from (at and skm, six pounds of a 
knuckle of veal, and two fbwb, break the 
bones and cut the meat into small piecee, 
season with one ounce of whole blacK pep* 
per, quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, 
and (lie same c^ mace, cover the pot very 
ckieely, and let it simmer ftir twelve or fbor* 
teen hours, and then strain it. The Iblkiw- 
ipg day, take off the fat, and clear the jei^ 
from any sediment adhering to it; boil it 
gently upon a stove, without oo^voring the 
saucepan, and stir it fi^nentW till it be- 
comes very thick and in lumps about the pan. 
Put it into saucers about half fiill, and when 
cold lay the'cakes upon flannel to dry before 
tlie fire or in the sun; keep them m a tio 
box, with white paper between each cake. 
About an ounce wei^t will make a pint CMf 
rich soup; pour boilii^ water upon it with 
a little salt, and stir it till it duaohres. It 
abo answers well for gravies and all brown 
sauces. 

FOR THE POOR. Wash an 



ox-liead very clean ; break tlie bones, and 
cut the meat ui pieces; put it on in thirteen 
gallons of water, and a peck and a half of 
potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same 
quantity of onions, and some carrots ; peel and 
cut tliem all down. A handfiil of pot herbs, 
and two Quarts of oatmeal; season with 
pepper and salt. Oover the pot closely, and 
let It stew till the next morning; add aa 
much hot water as may have wasted in boiU 
ing, and let it stew for some hours longer, 
when it Will be fit for use. This soup wiO 
be found veiy good for a fomily dinner. 

QUEEN. Pound in a rnarUe 



mortar the white meat of three oold roasted 
fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds 
blanched ; add a little cream whilst pound- 
ing. Boil this with four quarts of well-sea- 
soncj beef stock, tlien strain it, and jort 
before serving stir in a pint of cream. 

SANTE. (1) Peel four krge 



onions, cut them small, with four white let- 
tuces, a handful of spinach, and a^ slice of 
grated bi'ead. Stew all these ingredienta 
for ao hour in a quart of broth and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, then add three pints 
more of broth, skim off all the fat, and boU 
it a quarter of an hour, season with pef^itf 



noon 



313 



SOtPS 



IMra Mnriog, add Inlf  |hM 
Ugoodenmu A pint of gram peM,ad- 
dscT wiih the otber vcfetaUes, it a grant' 



SANTE. (2) Uy six or eight 

dices of lean ham, with some beef over them, 
at tiie bpttoiD of a stewpan, then some veal, 
with BoiQe partridge-Ie|^, or moor game, or 
diickeo, gait, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, 
three or foar cloves, a bay-leaf, and one 
dove of garlic ; let the whole stew tooether 
till it takes a finie brown color, then fill it np 
with half water, and half good beef stock ; 
add three lieads of celery, two good turnips, 
paraley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three 
large onions, and a small biinch of winter 
savory ; when the whole is thoroughly well 
done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a hsy- 
in. Cut two good*sized turnips and three 
large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness 
of a quill, and an inch and a half long; fry 
these together of a nice brown color: next, 
hied two cabbase-lettuces, celery, endive, 
aorral, and chervil; and stew them down on 
a very slow fire with a small bit of butter. 
When done, put them in a sieve with the 
turnips; then put them into a soup-pot, and 
ttour the soup from the basin over them ; set 
It on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, 
set it on one side, and let it simmer for two 
hours veiy gently; take the crumb of a 
couple of French rolls, and cut it into round 
pieces, which brown in the oven, and put 
them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
them. If you think proper, it may be cUri- 
fied, the same as other clear soups ; but the 
real Soup de Sante oi^ht not to be clarified. 



' SIMPLE. Cut small one pound 
of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a 
pound of onkms, one lettuce, a little celery, 
and a handful of parsley; stew tliem for 
twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound 
of buUer, some salt and pepper; then put 
them into three quarts of stock, mbde with 
two pounds of veal, and add one quart of 
ereen peas, and let it stew for three hours. 
rasB It through a sieve, and boil it up before 
feoding it to table. 



SPRING. Put on in four quarts 

of water a knuckle of veal cut down, and a 
qaarter o( a pound of lean ham, or a gam- 
mon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; 
cot small three or four onions, tluiee turnips, 
a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek ; 
stew them alf together till the peas are very 
soft; take out the meat and press the re* 
mainder through a fine sieve; season the 
soup with pepper and sah. Cut small like 
peas a bunch of the tope of asparagus, the 
nearts of two or three cabbages, cutting off 
the top part and the outside leaves, and a 



littfe gran nmit, slew tMB till tcodcf, 
kflmbg them of a good green, and add Asm 
to ue soi^ a quarter of an hcNir bel<H nrv- 
ing. If It rinnikl not be gneen eiiiNi^, 
pmuid some spinach, squeeste the joiee 
throo^ a ck>th,^pirt about a quarter of a 

?int into the tui%i, and poor in tlie soap. 
*his is the best mediod to make green pen 
oup of a good ookNT. 



STOVE OR SPINACH. Bsi 

in two quarts of water three sliced oniom. 
Pick and clean as much q>inacfa as wil 
make two large didies, parboil and pot it  
a cullender, to let the bitter water drip fnm 
it ; let cold water run upon it ibr a minole 
or two, and then press out the water. Knead 
two ounces of fresh butter, with a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, mix it with the 
spinach, whicli boil for fifteen minutes in the 
water and onions, tbea put in haJf a pint of 
cream or good milk, some sak juid pepper, 
boil it for fifteen mimites more. In the 
season of gireen peas, a quart added with 
the spinach is a great improvement. It ii 
common to boil a hunb's head and islnck 
with the soup, and send them to table in the 
tureen. The soup is then called Lamb's 
Stove ; but widi the peas it is quite as good 
without. 



VEGETABLE. Pare and cot 

small one dozen of oommon-siaed onions, 
five large yellow turnips, two heads of celery^ 
and the red part of three lan;e carrota; warn 
and put them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter, cover it closely; and when the 
v^etables are a little soft, add to them ibar 
quarts of well-seasoned gravy soup made of 
roast beef bones, and let it stew four or five 
hours; rub it throu^ a tammy, pot it on the 
fire, boil and skim it before serru^. 



WINTER VEGETABLE. (1) 

Peel and slice six lai^ onions, six potatoesy 
and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of 
butter or very fresh dripping ; toast a crust 
of bread brown and hanl, pot it, with two or 
three heads of celery cut small, smie herbs, 
pepper, and salt, with the fried vegelahles, 
into five pints of water, to stew gently for 
foar hours, then strain it through a sieve, 
add a little carrot and celery cut small, and 
some chopped parsley, one anchovy or a red 
horrinff, and a little cayenne; boil it till te 
vegetalrfes are tender. 



WINTER VEGETABLE. (2) 

To every gallon of water allow, when cii 
down small, a quart of the following vegeir 
Ues; equal quantities of Uimipe, carrots, asi 
potatoes, three onions, two heads of oelerfi 
and a bunch of sweet herbs ; fry them broKl 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, add lk 



SOUPS 



S13 



SOUPS 



wkh adt and ptipet, aad boH it till 
tedaced to three quarts, and serve ii with 
fiaad toasted liMad. 



- VENISON. BoH down in .fire 



f|aartfl of water tvo poends of a sliairic of 
veal, or fowl, and five pounds of the breast 
f venison eut small; two or tliree onions 
diopped, some whole white pepper and salt, 
wkh a quarter of a ponna of lean ham. 
Let it stew till k be completely boiled down, 
wiwn all the strength will be extracted ; rub 
k fhroogb a sieve, thicken it with a little 
fagtter, kneaded in flour, and add a pint of 
Madeira, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. 



BROWN VENISON. Qrt in 

ill pieces six or seven pounds of tlie 
bresat of venison, put it in a stewpon with 
two or three ounces of butter; cover it 
doeely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew 
an hour. Mix four quarts of cold water 
with a pint and a half of tlie blood, pot it 
on the fire in anotlier stewpan, and stir it 
constantly till it boil ; then add the stew to 
k with an onion minced small, and a whole 
carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pep- 
per. If the meat be youn^, let it Iwil gent- 
ij for two hours; if old, two and a half will 
be neoessai'y. A little before serving, take 
out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a 
Httie of tlie meat; mix in half a pint of 
Port wine, and let it boil a short time. It 
may be thickened with a little floor and 
butter. 



VERMICELLI. The day be- 
fore it is required make four quarts of good 
stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, 
four onions, one or two parsley roots, three 
blades of mace, salt, and some white pepper ; 
strain it, and, before using, take ofi* alt the 
fot ; boil in some of the liquor the crumb of 
three French rolls till soft OKNigh to mash 
smootli ; boil tlie soup and siir well in the 
nasbed rolls; lx>il it for a quarter of an 
hour, and, before serving, add the yolks of 
two eggs beaten with tliree table-spoonfuls 
of cream; lioil in water two or three ounces 
of vermicelli for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
strain and put it into the tureen, and pour 
tbe aoup upon it. 



WHITE. (1) Boiltog^a 

knuckle ci veal, a fowl, or two chickens 

skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, some 

salt, and a litde whole white pepper ; take 

out the chidienB when tender, cut them in 

' jowts, and add them to the soup when 

^ Mraned, beat up the yolk* of nine eggsj mix 

' ihem with a pint of cream and a table^poon* 

' fid of well-boiled rice; stir it gradually into 

' the ioiip, ad beat k gmdy before Berving^. 



A cow-heel that has been prevMNMly boRed, 
cut op in pieces, may be used instead oi tin 

chickens. 



WHITE. (2) Take a gnod 

knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks^ 
boil it about four hoars, with some whole 
white pepper, a little mace, sah, two onions^ 
and a small bit of lean haia; strain it, and 
when cold take off all the fat and sediment ; 
lieat op six yolks of eggs and mix tliem with 
a pint of g(MDd cream, then pour the boiling 
soup upon it by d^ees, stirrkig it well, 
and if it is liked, add the best pait of the 
gristles. 



WHITE. (8) Put on in four 

quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds 
weigiit, a quarter of a pound of lean bam or 
bacun, two slices of the crumb of bi^ead, one 
oHm of blanched sweet almonds, put in 
whole; six tniddling-gixed onions, two lieade 
of celery, some whole white pepper, tliree 
blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a 
sprig of thyme; stew all these gently for 
eigtu hours, strain it, and wlien cold take 
ofl' all tbe fat; boil it, and just before serv* 
ing, take it off tlie fire, and stir in very 
gradually a pint of thick cream. 



WHITE, (4) Boil in four 



quarts of water four pounds of veal, and a 
fuwl, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, and three middling-sized onions whole 
and a bunch of parsley; let it I toil three 
hours, strain it, and put it on again to get 
quite hot, and just before serving, stir in 
gradually lialf a pint of cream with the yolks 
of three eg*^s well beaten. Do not let it boil 
as tliat makes the eggs curdle. 



WHITE. (5) Slew in three quarte 

of boiling water, till quite tender, a knuckle 
of veal, witii a quarter of a pound of whole 
rice, tliree whole miions, a btinch of parsley^ 
a little sweet marjoram, and two or three 
blades of mace, and some salt ; a little before 
the soup is strained, add two anchovies; 
strain through a hair sieve and tiien ihrough 
a silk one, or tammy, put it agnin upon the^ 
fire, and stir in hal< a pint of rich cream, or 
a pint of milk with tlie yolks of two eggs 
beat up In it; let it be hot but not boiling. 
If it is required to be richer, boil a fowl id 
the stock, wilh two ounces of pounded blanch- 
ed sweet almonds. 



WHITE.' (6) Put OD in five 



quarts of water, four pounds of a shank of 
veal, iHneak the bone well, let it simmer til) 
it be redooed nearly half; boil a tea-cupfid 
of whole rice till very tender, pulp it throiiah 
a cullender, strain the liquor, and add the 
rice, season with flak and while pepper, kl 



SPA 



214 



SPI 



It siniiner for nearly an hoar, and add, a 
little before serving^ six yolka of eggs beaten 
extremely well. 

SOUR KROUT. The beet cabbage for 
tliis purpose is the dram, or white Straa- 
burgh. and it sliould not be used till it has 
endured some severe frost; the stocks are 
then cut ifito halves, and shred down as fine 
as possible with a knife, or more properly 
witli a plane made in the form oi a cucumber 
slice. Bum a little juniper in a cask or tub 
which is perfectly sound and clean, and put 
a little leaven into the seam round the bot- 
tpm,  flour and vinegar may be substituted 
for the leaven ; then put in three or four 
handfub of cabbage, a good sprinkling of 
salt, and a tea-spoonful of caraway seed, and 
press this hard with a wooden mallet; next 
add another layer of cabbage, with salt and 
caraway seed, as at first ; and so on in the 
same manner until the cask be full, pressing 
down each layer firmly as you advance. A 
good deal of water will come to the tup, of 
which a part may be taken off. The cask 
being full, put on the head so as to press 
npon llie cablnge, and place it in a warm 
cellar to ferment ; wlien it has worked well 
for three weeks, take off the scum which 
will have gathered on the top, and by a 
clean cloth on the krout ; replace the head, 
and put two or three heavy stones upon it. 
The juice should always stand upon tiie top. 
Thus in a good cellar it will keep for years. 
When to be dressed, it is boiled for five or 
six hours in water, or stewed with a little 
gravy, and may be also substituted for a 
crust over a beef-steak pie, when cheese is 
grated over it. 

SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When 
tlie krout is boiled, clean a large pike, 
scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them 
into. the beaten yolk of an egg, then into 
bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; 
rub some butter upon a dish, and put into 
it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, 
then a layer of pike, and a littk sour cream ; 
then krout, and so on till the dish be full. 
On the top put some bits of butter, and 
some good brotli or gravy ; strew crumbs 
of bread thickly over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 

SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce- 
pan, half a pint of water and a quarter of 
a pound of butter ; stir it till it boils, and 
mix in four table-spoonfub of flour; stir it 
well together, and add six yolks and four 
whites of ^gs, two at a time; let it cool, 
and, with a dessert-spoon, drop it into boil- 
ing clarified dripping or lard. 

To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonfiil of 
pfHinded finger way be added. 



SPARE RIB ROASTED. 8tePm%. 

SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Fani 
two ounces of pepper, a quarter of aa oodob 
of mace, grate one nutmeg, and the ped of 
one lemon ; mix all togetl^ in a bottle. 

SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. Om 

ounce and a half of pepper, cinnamoa, nol- 
raeg, and ginger, half an oanoe each, uid 
eight cloves ; pound and mix all together m 
a Ijottle. A little of each kind of ifucB 
should be well dried, pounded, uid kept 
separately in small bottles, which dioidd be 
labeled. 

SPINACH, TO DRESS. Pick the 
spinadi with great care; strip the leaves 
from the stalks, and wash it in several wa- 
ters, till perfectly clean ; boil the spinach ia 
salt and watw; drain it well; pound it io 
a mortar, and pot it into a stewpan with a 
little butter and broth, and let it stew over 
a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour, titt 
it be very dry ; then add a quarter of m 
pound of fresh butter, with salt and grated 
nutm^; work the spinach well, till it is 
thick, but take care the butter does not 
turn to oil. Gai'nish with fried toasts ai 
bread, which may h& cut like cock's comfas, 
or in any ottier form. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (l)Pickitveiy 
carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or 
three times in plenty of cold water, then pot 
it on in boiling water with a Utile sak; let 
it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a 
<;ulleuder, hold it under the water cock, and 
let the water ran on it fcMr a minute ; put it 
into a saucepan, beat it perfectly smooth 
with a beater or with a wooden spoon, add 
a bit of buttra*, and three table-spoonfiih of 
cream; mix it well together, and make it 
hot before serving. When dished, it ia 
scored in squares with tlie back of a knUe* 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (2) After 
being nicely picked and well washed, put it 
into a saucepan, with no moire water thai* 
adheres to it; add a little salt; cover iha 
pan closely, and boil it till tendo', fii^qnenlk 
ly shaking it ; beat it quite smooth, adding 
butter and ci^eam, and make it quite hoC 
Spinach may be served with poached egp 
or fried sausages laid on it. 

When the spinach is bitter, it if 
ble to boil it in water. ^ 



SPINACH TOASTS. Boil 
nach for a quarter of an hoar; theo 
out all the water, chop it ^small, and fMit it 
into a mortar, with tliree or four apooirfik 
of apple marmalade, the yoDu of ibor ha^ 
boiled^ and three nm eggiy two bmat 



SP R 



216 



STO 



iked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt ; 
pcNRid all tlieae Co^iether to a paste, put it 
mio a didb, and mix with it a few dry cur- 
rants, and three or four spoonfuls of melted 
imtter. Cot some slices of bresid half an 
inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; 
toast them nicely, and sfwead the spinach, 
^c. over them, to the thickness of half an 
inch, wash each over with white of egg; 
place the toasts on a baking-tin (well btitter- 
-ed) and bake them for half an hour. When 
done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange-juice 
'Over them, and serve. 

SPRATS, TO BAKE. Clean Uiem; 
lake oflf the beads; put them into a deep 
dish, and cover tliem with vin^ar and wa- 
ter, equal quantities of each. To a quart of 
liquid, put half an ounce of whole black pep- 
per, a little allspice, two or three bay-leaves, 
Bonoe salt, and an onion. Tie paper over 
the dish, and bake tliem in a cool oven, or 
do them over a slow fire in a water bath. 
Hen-ings may be done in this way. Both 
will keep good some weeks. 

SPRATS, STEWED. Wash and dry 
yoar sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a stewpan, and between every layer 
of sprats put three peppercorns, and as many 
allspice, with a few grains of salt ; barely 
cover them with vinegar, and stew them one 
hour over a slow fire; they must not boil: 
a bay-leaf is sometimes added. Herrings or 
mackerel may be stewed the same way. 

SPRATS, BROILED. If you have not 
a sprat gridiron, gel a piece of pointed iron 
wire as thick as {lacktliread, and as long as 
vour gridiron is broad ; rnn this throi^h the 
heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour 
and salt over them, put your gridiron over a 
clear, quick fire, turn tliem in about a couple 
of minutes ; when die other side is brown, 
draw out the wire, and send up the fish with 
aielted butter in a cup. 

O&s.  ^That sprats are 3^oui^ herrings, is 
evident by their anatomy, in which ibae is 
no perceptible di fference. They appear very 
soon after the herrings are gone, and seem 
to be the spawn just vivified. 

SPRING FRUIT-.^ Mock Goote- 

berry Sauce for Maekerelf fye, Bf ake a 

marmalade of^three dozen sticks of rtiubarb, 

sweetened with moist sugar ; pass it through 

' a haur sieve, and serve up in a sauce-boat. 

SPRING FRUIT TART. Prepare 
< ihubarb as above: cut it into small pieces 
I into a tart-dish; sweeten with k)af-sugar 
'' pounded; cover it with a good short crust 

f paste; sift a litde sugar over the top, and 

I 



bake half an boor in a rather hot ova ; ktih 
up coM. 

SPRING CREAM, or Mock Goose-' 
berry Fool. Prepare a marmabde as di- 
i-ected for the pudding: to which add a pint 
of good thick cream ; serve up in glasses, or 
in a deep dish. If wanted in a shape, dis- 
solve two ounces of isinglass in a little water; 
strain it thronsh a tamis, and when nearly 
cold put it to the cream ; pour it into a jelly 
mould, and when set, turn out into a dish, 
and serve up plain. 

SPRING FRUIT SHERBET. Boil 

six or eight sticks of rhubarb (quite clean) 
ten minutes in a qtiart of water ; strain the 
liquor througli a tamis into a jug, witii the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, and two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified sugar; let it stand five 
or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

SPRUCE BEER. See Beer. 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 

Tlie receipt for cabbages will answer -ds well 
for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough 
in fifteen or twentv minutes. 

STEAKS OR CHOPS. See Chops. 

STOCK, FOR BROWN OR WHITE 
SOUPS. Take a pound of scate, five floun- 
ders, and two pounds of eels ; cut them in 
pieces, pot them into a stewpan, with as 
much water as will cover them, a little mace, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, 
two parsley rtmts sliced, some pepper and 
salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover 
close ; strain it off for use ; if it is for brown 
soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then 
put it to stew. 

STOCK, FOR GRAVV SOUP OR 
GRAVY. CXit a knuckfe of veal into sli- 
ces, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; put 
these into a stewpan, with three scraped 
carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts 
of water. Let the meat stew till quite ten- 
der, but it must not be brown. When thus 
pepared it will serve either for soup, or 
Drown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, 
it must be first colored in the usual manner. 

STOMACHIC TINCTURE. Peruvian 
bark, bruised, one ounce and a half, orange- 
peel, do. one ounce, brandy, or proof spirit, 
one pint. Let these ingredients' steep for 
ten days, shaking the bottle every day; let 
it remain quiet two days, and tnen decant 
the clear liquor. Dose  ^a tea-spoonful in 



L 



8TR 



216 



^TV 



t.- 



a wine-glaiM of water, twice a day, when 
you feel languid, t. e. when the stomach is 
empty, about an hour before dinner, and in 
the evening. This agreeaUe aromatic tonic 
is an effec^ve help to concoction ; and we 
are under personal obligations to it, for fre- 
quently restoring our stomach to good tem- 
per, and procui'ing us good appetite and pood 
digestion. In low nervous anections arising 
jGrom a languid circulation, and when the 
8tomach is in a stale of debility from age, 
intemperance, or other causes, this is a most 
acceptable restorative. 

N. B.  ^Tea made with dried and bruised 
orange-peel, in the same way as common 
tea, and drank with milk and sugar, has 
been taken by nervous and dyspeptic p^- 
i^nc with great benefit. Sucking a bit of 
dried orange-peel about an hour before din- 
ner, when the stomach is empty, is very 
grateful and strengthening to it. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. Put six 
ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, 
pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice 
of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a 
disli, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little 
more juice of lemon, and when no more froth 
will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses; aiid place the froth i^n it, well 
drained. 

STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- 
RIES. From either of these fruits agree- 
able wine may be obtained, by following the 
rules given for makinig currant wine; but it 
will be found a cheaper and a better meth- 
od, to add a Jittle simp or juice of tlie fruit 
to any flavorless currant wine; when tJie 
fermentation begins to decline, currant wine 
may also be flavored with odorif^ous flow- 
ers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionette. 
The quality of roughness is communicated 
by catechu and keoo, chips of oak and of 
beech, and also the sloe; a small quantity 
of these, or of the flowers, is put into tbie 
gask when the first fermentation is over, and 
as soon as the wine has acquired the desired 
flavor, it is racked and fined. The flavor- 
ing articles, such as orris-root, cloves, sin- 
ger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put uto 
. a muslin bag, and hung in the cask for a 
few days, during the stage of insensible fer- 
mentation, that IS, after die first fermentation 
has ceased; care being taken to taste the 
liquor frequently, so that the flavoring mat- 
ter may be withdrawn as soon as it has pro- 
duced the desired efEscU 

.STRAWBERRIES, POUNDED, for 
Strawbsrby Cream. Take equal 
weight of st^ar and of su-awberries; pound 
and sifi; the sugar, add it to the strawberries, 
and pound them in a marble mortar till per- 



STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. 
son a quarter of a pound of fiDely-minoed 
beef suet, and an equal quantity of eraled 
bread, with grated nutm^, lemoo-pee^ lem- 
on tliyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper; 
mix it well together, and bind it with a 
well-beaten yolk of an egg, when it may be 
used for stuffing veal and fewl. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
FOWL. Wash a quart of oj^sters in their 
own liquor, strain it, and put into it the 
oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, 
and lemon-peel ; when parboiled, diop amdi 
a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of 
grated bread, twice the quantity of fineif 
minced beef suet, die yolka of uvee hm 
boiled eggs, one anchovy, a little salt, pep- 
per, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some miooed 
parsley; bMid it with the heateo yolks of 
two eggs. For die sauce, boil with the 
liquor ^ the oysters, a pint of wlute slock, 
half a pint of white wine, ooe aadMyfyy 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain k, and 
add a quarter of a potuid of butter rolled in 
flour, beat it up with the ramainder of Ae 
oysters. 

STUFFING FOR A HAS. Paifaoi 
the liver, and mince it; add an eqoal qoM' 
tity of grated bread, double the quantity of 
fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the am 
of a walnut. Season with pepper, sak,^^ 
meg, cbopped lemon thyme, and panky; 
hind with an esf beaten. 

STUFFING FOR VEAL, BOASt 



lecdy Boootb. Put k into jars, aad tap 

them over closely with paper. It will Iboip 
good for several months. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Take 
a basket of veiy fine strawberries, pick, aid 
crush them, and then rub them tbruqgh a 
sieve. Whisk the whiles of ^^teco egp 
to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a j 
half of powder sugar, stir them together ap 
lightly as possible; then mix them wilb dte i 
strawberries. Pour the whole into a ercu^ 
tadey and bake it for an hour in a modecate 
oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve. 

STRAWBERRY TART. Pick, and 
put into a basin two quarts of the best scbp- 
let strawberries, then add to them baJf a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and half 
a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or 
three lemons ; mix these we)l together, with- , 
out breaking the strawberries, and put tbem 
into a puff paste, previoudy baked; becare* 
fill to keep diem \&ry cool. 

STRING BEANS. See Fi-ench Beau, 



BT0 



217 



SUO 



TuRKKT, Fowl, fce. Ninoe a (|aaner 
ra pound of beef suet (beef marrow is bet- 
ter), the same weight of bread crumbs, two 
drachms of parsley leaves, a drachm and a 
half of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, and 
he same of gmled letnonpeel and onion 
chopped as fine as poesible, a little pepper 
and salt; pound thoroughly together with the 
yolk and white of two eggs, and secure it 
IB the veal with a skewer, or sew it in with 
a bit of thread. Make some of it into balls 
or sausages; flour them, and boil, or fry 
them, and send them up as a garnish, or in 
a side dish, with roast potthry, veal, or cut- 
lets, &c. 

N. B.-^This is about the quantity (br a 
tiirkey poult: a very lai^ turkey will take 
neai'ly twice as much. To tlie above may 
be added an ounce r)f dressed ham ; or use 
eqiKil |rt8 of die above stuffin? and pork 
sausage meat pounded well togeUier. 

Ob$.  Good stuffing has always been con- 
sidered a chief thing in cookery: it has given 
immortality to 

** Pi'or Roger FoitUrjWho 'd a generous mind, 
Nor would Bubniit to have his hand confin'd, 
But aimel at hII,  yet never roiild excel 
In any thing but stuffing of bis veal." 

STUFFING FOR HARE. Two oun- 
ces of beef tuet chopped fine; three ounces 
of fine bread crumbs ; parskry, a drachm ; 
CKhalot, half a drachm ; a drachm of mar- 
joram, lemon divme, or wintm* savory; a 
amchm of gratecl lemon^peet, and the same 
oTpeppor and tah: mix these with the white 
ahd yolk of an egg; do not make it thin- 
it must be of cohesive consistence: if your 
stuffing is not stiff enough, it will be good 
lor nothing: put it in the bare, and sew it 
np. If the liver it quite sound, you may 
pirboir.it, and mince it very fine, and add 
It to the above. 

STURGEON, BAKED. Clean, and 
tike the skin firrnn a small stni^geon ; split it 
dong the belly, without separating it. Lay 
it in a large bakinff dish, season it witn 
ak, pepper, pounded sweet herbs; moisten 
with oil, lemon-juioe, and a bottle of white 
wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequent- 
ly; make it a nice cokNr, and serve it with 
itB own gravy. 

STURGEON, FRESH, TO BROIL. 
Oit it into cutlets; rub them with tfaB yolk 
of an egg beat op; eCrew them over with 
aooie parsley, minced very fine, and mixed 
with grated bread crumbs, pepper, aod saJt; 
pot them into pieces of white paper battered, 
and broil than gently. Sauces ; oyster, 
iBehed butter, and anchovy. 

STURGEON, FRESH. The best mode 
19 ' 



of dressing this, is to have it cut in dun 
slices like veal cutlets, and broiled, and rub- 
bed over with a bit of butter and a little 
pepper, and served very hot, aind eaten with 
a squeeze of lemon-juice. Great care, how- 
ever, must be taken to cut off tlie skin be- 
fore it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if 
burned, imparts a disgusting flavor to the 
fish. The flesh is very fine, and comea 
nearer to veal, perhaps, than even turtle. 
Stur^n is frequently plentifiil and reason- 
able lu tlie London shops. We prefer thig 
mode of dressing it to the more savory one 
of stewing it in rich gravy, like caip, he. 
which overpowers the peculiar flavor of the 
fish. 

STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a 
large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small 
one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, and roast it, lsting frec|uently with 
the marinade strained. Let the fish be a 
nice color, and serve with a |)epper sauce. 

SUET TO KEEP FOR A TWELVE- 
MONTH. Choose the firmest part, and 
pick it free from skin and veins. Put it 
into a saucepan, and set it at some distance 
from the fire, in order that the suet may 
melt without fi*) ing, or it will taste disagree- 
able. When it is melted, pour it into a pan 
of cold water. When it has caked quite 
hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine papor, 
and tlien in a linen bag, ami keep it in a 
dry, but not in a hot place. When you wirii 
to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a 
nice crust, eitho* with or without butter. 



SUET MILK. Oit into very 
shavings one ounce of fi^esh beef suet; di^ 
solve it slowly over the fire in one pint of 
milk, U^ther widi a bit of lemon-peel and 
cinnamon ; sweeten with pounded feaf sqgar. 



SUET DUMPLINGS. This 

should he made the same as for suet pod- 
ding, (second receipt), but much thicker, let 
your ckHli be wetted, shake it ail over with 
floor, and tie up in several ports ni the cbdi, 
ae much as it will hokl, two or three peen- 
fuls of batter. Or you may make the batter 
as usual, and pnt it in tea-cops, well hotter* 
ed; tie them in cfoths, and boil an boor. 



SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. To 

three poonds of kf sugar, aUow the beatea 
white of one egg, and a pint and a half of 
water ; break the siigsur imafl, pot it BoOe a 
nicely-cleaned brass pan, and pour the water 
over it; let it stand sometime before it be 
put upon the fire; then add the beaten wliittM 
of the eggs; stir it till the sqgar be endnljr 



SWE 



218 



9W 



diawilved, aifd when it boib up, pour in a 
quarter of a pint of cold water; let it boil 
up a second time; take it off the fire and let 
it settle fur fifieen minutes; carefully take 
off all tiie Bcum ; put it on the fire, and boil 
it till sufficiently thick, or if required, till 
eandy )iigh; in order to ascertain which, 
drop a little from a spoon into a small jnr 
of cold water, and if it become quite hard, 
it is then sufficiently done; or dip the thevil 
into the sugar, plunge it into cold water, 
draw off tl^ sugar which adheres to tite 
stick, and if it be liard and snaps, the fruit 
to be preseiTed must be instantly put in and 
boiled. 



SUGAR ORNAMENTS. 

timel. 



See Car- 



SUGAR RUFFS. A pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with tiie 
whites of tlu'ee eggs, and flavored witli oil 
of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower wa- 
ter, and baked in the same way as the 
meringues, served in a napkin, or used to 
garnish dishes of preserves. 

SUGAR, TO BOIL. To every pound 
of sugar allow half a pint of water ; stir it 
over the fire till the sugar be entirely dissolv- 
ed ; wlieu it firat lioils up, pour in a little 
cold water, and when it boils a second time, 
take it off the fire ; let it settle ten minutes, 
carefully scum it, and boil it for half an hour 
or a little longer, and then put in the fruit. 

SWEETBREADS, Italian Atte- 
XETS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and 
stew them in a well-seasoned gravy, made 
of meat and vegetables; when cold*, cut 
them into pieces of nearly an inch square, 
put them into a sauce d'attelets, and let 
them cool. With silver skewers, skewer 
the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dreawd 
calPs udder alternately ; make them all as 
much as possible of an equal size, and of a 
square form. Moisten them with the sauce, 
and cover them with crated lad, then 
i^p them into four well beaten egga, strew 
over them some more grated bnrauil, and 
level it with a knife; fry them of a fine 
farowD, and serve with an Italian sauce, 
white or brown. 

If the attelete are ready befixre they are 
required to be firied, strew grated bread 
ovw the cover of a stewpan, and lay them 
npooit. 

SWEETBREAD, TO BOIL. Parboil 
it rob it with butter, and broil it over a 
low fire, turn it fireqoently, and baste it 
now and then, by putting it upon a ] * ' 
k^pt warm by the fire with butler in it. 



SWEETBREADS a la Daupshic. 

If for a round dish, take four large and fnt 
sweetbreads. If for a long dish, three wiU 
iiiiffice. Pare off the fat and sinews, aad 
blanch them in warm water, parboil then, 
and when cold, lard diem. Rub a stew- 
pan with fresh butter, and put into it a fev 
sticed carrots and onions, tbeo a layer of 
slices of fat bacon, place the avveetbreads 
upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over 
them, and stew them with a great deal of 
fire on the top, and a very slow one be- 
neath; when tliey are nicely browned, cover 
them with a piece of butto-ed paper, cut 
round, and lessen the fire upon the top. 
They will require to stew for three-qnaitera 
of an hour, then drain and put Uiem into a 
pan with some glaze, and the bacon under- 
nead,. Leave them in the glaze till dinner 
time. 

SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. 
Parboil them, and let them get coJd; cfaea 
cut them in pieces, about three-quarters of an 
inch thick ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, ' 
then in fine bread crumbs (some add spiGe9 
lemon>peel, and sweet herbs); pat some 
clean dripping into a frying-pan: when ic 
boils, put m the sweetbreacb, and fiy than 
a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsiey 
and for sauce, mushroom kelchi^ and melted 
butter, or anchovy sauce, or bacon or ham. 

SWEETBREADS, SMALL CASES 
OF Scollops of. Blandi and parboil 
some sweetbreads, cut them into small sool- 
bps. Then chop separately, and finely, half 
a pint of mushrooms, a little parel^, and 
four or five shallots, add a little &t baoos 
rasped, and a piece of fresh butta" ; season 
the scollops with pqiper, salt, and a little 
mace, stew it all together over a slow fte; 
when done, drain off the &t, place the soc^ 
lops in small paper cases, which have been 
fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty of 
finelv*chopped herbs, and strew over tiien 
fried bread crumbs; lay the paper cases for 
a moment into the oven, and before servin?, 
pour into each a little rich gravy, andaUtue 
lemcMi-juice. 

SWEET HERBS. See Herbt. 

SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Gat 
small any sort of candied firoit, and heat it 
with a bit of fresh butter, some good miDt, 
and a little grated lemon-peel; when qoilB 
hot, stir in endu^ of flour to make it into a 
stiff paste, take H off the fire, and work m 
eight, or ten ^|gpB, two at a time; whea 
C(Md, form the fi'itters, and fry, and sene 
diem with pounded loaf sugar strewed oicr 
them. 



STL 



319 



TAR 



SYLLABUBS. lUca the juke of a 
large lemon, the peel (pared wry thin), a 
glaas of braody, two of white wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; put 
tbeee ingredients into a pan, and leave them; 
the next day, add a pint of thick cream, aqd 
the whites of two eggs; whip the whole 
well, and pour the syllabub into glasses. 
They are the better ftir keeping a day or 
two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite 
flo good as the above, raisin or mountain 
wine will do as well as brandy. 

SYLLABUB, Somersetshire. Put 
a pint of Port, and a pint of Slierry, or 
any other white wine, into a large hwl, 
sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl 
fiill; in about twenty minutes' time, cover 
it tolerably high with clouted cream; gmte 
nutmeg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and 
nonpareils. 

SYLLABUB, Staffordshire. Put 
a pint of cider, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or 
poor warm milk from a large tea-pot some 
height into it. 

SYLLABUB. (1) One pound of ratafia 
cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles 
of Poit wine, one of claret, and one of 
brandy, the grated peel and juice of two 
lemons, one krge nutmeg grated, and two 
ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded with a little roee-water, and pound- 
ed sugar sufficient to make it sweet  Put 
all tlKse ingredients, well mixed, into a 
large China bowl, or bowls of an equal size, 
and let the milk of a good cow be milked 
upon them ; add a little rich ci-eam and sift- 
ed loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. 
It may be served out into glasses with a silver 
ladle. 

SYLLABUB. (2) A brge glass of Madei- 
la, one of rich sweet wine, aixl lialf a one of 
ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice 
of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir 
it all tc^ether till the sugar be dissolved, and 
add a quart of rich cream; whisk it well; 
la^ some macaroons into the bottom of a 
dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon 
it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is 
better the third sod fiiorth than when first 
made. 

SYLLABUB, SOUD. A quarter of a 
pint of mountain, the same of white wine, 
the grated peel of two, and juice of one 
lemon; sweeten, and add it to a quart of 
nch cream; whisk it for an hour, and put it 
into glasses, k will keep a week in ookl 
weather. 



SYLLABUB, COMMON. Half a ^ 

of currant, the nune c^ Port or white wibBi 
half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a 
lemon; sweeten ivell with pounded loaf or 
good brown sugar, and mix it together in a 
China bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, 
milk upon it thi^ee or four pints of milk. 
Serve it whoi cold. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (I) Mix to- 
gether half a gbss of bnmdy, a little leuKNi* 
juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to 
sweeten the whole; stir it into a pint of 
thick cream, and add tlie well-beaten whites 
of six eggs ; whisk it fur an hour, and put 
the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain; 
put a little Port and sweet wine into glasses, 
and fill tliem u|> with die froth. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (2) Mix with 
a pint of cream, half a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandy, the jnice of a lemon, grat* 
ed nutmeg, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar: 
nearly Hil the custard-glasses with the mix- 
ture, and lay on with a spoon some of die 
whip. 



T. 



TAMIS, a coarse kind of cloth for stra> 
ing soups and gravies. 

TARTE, ROYAL BERLIN. Tafca 

half a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blandied, pound tliem with six eggs, in a 
marble mortar to a very fine paste, add to it 
a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fresh 
butter, and tlie grated rind of two lemons, 
beat it well as each ingredient is put in; 
lay about sixteen or eighteen ounces of sift* 
ed flour on the slab, place die almond paste 
on it, and knead them well togetlier. Di- 
vide tliis into several pieces, which roll to 
the eighth of an inch in thickness; firom 
Uiese cut from twelve to sixteen circular 
layers, the largest about seven inches in 
diameter, the {"est, each somewhat smaller 
than the other; wlien all are cut, place them 
on white paper on tins, and bake them in a 
moderate oven to a clou* brown, then take 
them out, and let diem cool. As soon as 
cokl, place the largest piece on a China 
dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay flat, and 
spread over it equally some preserved fruit; 
cover this with the second sized layer, oo 
which also spread preserved fitiit; then a 
third layer, and so on ootil all the paste is 
used, taking care to put each layer in its 
proper order, so tliat the whole may form a 
eoae, and that between every <me must bo 
a different kind of preserve; when done^ 
glaze, and ornament it as fiillows: cut 



^ I 



TARTS 



320 



TARTS 



wditiii lemon, and orange-peel mCo the 
Am of kaves, which arrange in garlands 
ramd the tart, potting here and there a 
DHili p rceeive d fruit; when done, replace it 
in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, 
aad then serve. 

TARTLETS. (1) Butter soose smaH 
tartlet pans; line them with a nice thin 
puff paste, mark it neatly round the edges, 
bake them ; when they are cold, fill thfEim 
with custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat 
you think propo*, and if you choose, pour 
ewcardover. 

TARTLETS. (2) Roll out the paste 
aboitt a quarter of an inch thick, and lav 
upon it the top pait of the patty-pen ; cut it 
round with the paste cutter. FUib tiie patty- 
pans with a tittle butter, and line them with 
the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of 
liKad, which take out when they are baked. 
They may be filled with any preserved fruit, 
and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. 
Tt make ornaments of paste, roll it quite 
thin, and as even as possible; cut it witli 
tin stars, leaves, or any other form, and 
bake them a light brown cok>r, upon flat 
tins dusted with floor. 

TART, APPLE, CREAMED. Use 
green codlings, in preference to any other 
anple, and proceed as in the last receipt. 
When the pic is done, cut out the whole of 
the centre, leaving tlie edges; when cold, 
pour on the apple some rich boiled custard, 
and place round it some small leaves of puff 
paste of a light color. 

TART, CHERRY. The cherries may 
be stoned, and a few red currants added; 
sweeten with loaf or brown sugar, and put 
into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup; 
cover it with paste. 

TART, CRANBERRY. Take cran- 
berries, pick and wash them in several wa- 
ters, put them into a dish, with the juice of 
half a lemcMi, a quarter of a pound of moist 
or pounded loaf sugar, to a quart of cran- 
bories. Cover it with puff or tai't paste 
and bake it three-quarters of an hour; if 
tart paste is used, draw it from the oven 
five minutes before it is done, and ice it, re- 
tnra it to the oven, and send it to table 
ooU. 

TART, CURRANT. To a quart of 
red currants add one pint of red raspber- 
ries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them 
wdl with brown sugar; before putting in 
the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart 
peite, place in it a small tea-cop, {Jut in the 
vttit and cover it with paste. 



Foot omoea of brown so^^ tn 
ly aUowed to a quart of finiit. 



TART OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Cover a flat dish, or tourte pan, with tMt 
paste* about an eighth of an inch thick; ral 
out puff paste, half an inch thick, and cut k 
out in strips an inch wkle; wet tlie tut 
paste, and by it neatly round the pan bj 
way of a rim ; fill the centre with ^am or 
marmalade of any kind, ornament it with 
small leaves of puff paste, bake it half an 
hour, and send it to table cold. 

The above may be filled before the puff 
paste is laid on, neatlv strung with paste, 
and the rim put over after. 

The most ^neral way of sending toortes 
to table, is with a croqounle of paste, or a 
caramel of spun sugar put over after it ii 
baked. 

TARTS, PRESERVED FRUIT. Rob 
over with a little butter an oval dish, or tia 
shape, line it with paste, and fill it with any 
sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of 
paste thin, and, with a paste cutter, cut JX 
into narrow strips; brush with water the 
rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste 
across and across, and then put roiuid a 
border of paste, ami mark U with the paste 
cutter. 

TARTS, RIPE FRUIT. Gooseberries, 
damsons, morello cherries, cunranii mixed 
witii raspberries, plums, gi'een gases, white 
plums, &c. should be quite fresh picked, and 
waslied : lay them iu the dish with the oenire 
higliest, and alx)ut a qimiter of a pound of 
moist or loaf sugar pounded to a quart of 
fruit (but if quite ripe they will not require 
so mucii) ; add a little walw ; rub the ec^es 
of die dish with yolk of ^g ; cover it with 
tart paste, about half an inch thick; prea 
your thumb round tlie rim, and close it weQ; 
pare it round with a knife; make a hole in 
the sides bebw tlie rim ; bake it in a ioode' 
raie-lieated oven ; and ten minutes before it 
is done, take it out and ice it, and return i& 
to tlie oven to dry. 

TART, RHUBARB. Strip off the peel 
and if the rhubarb is lar^, cut it into two 
or three strips, and tiien into bits about an 
inch long ; sweeten well with brown sugar, 
and cover the dish with paste. 

TART PASTE, FOR FAMILY PIES. 
Rub in with the hand half a pound of butler 
into one pound and a quarter of flour, mix it 
with hair a pint of water, and knead it wdL 

TART PASTE, SwiiT, or Short 
AND Crjspxd. To one poond and a quar< 
tei' of fine flour add ten ounces of fresh botler. 



J 



XfiW 



321 



TIBC 



tlie yolki of twnieggi bnten, and three ooii- 
ces of sifted loaf sugar ; mix up together with 
half a pint of new milk, and kniead it well. 
N. B.^  ^Thifl cnist is frequently ioed. 

TEA CREAM. Infuse an ounce of the 
best green tea in half a pint of boilinff milk, 
siiBiiier it five minutes, then strain it through 
a tammy, pressiqg the leaves well. Boil a 
pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four 
^g8, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity 
of clarified sugar ; pour this whilst hot to thie 
milk, stir them together well; put in as much 
clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the 
cveam into the mould, or glasses; place them 
on ice ; when perfectly cold, turn it out of 
the moukl, or serve in the glasses. 

TEAL, ROASTED. Shred a little 
lemon-peel, and mix it with a bit of butter, 
salt, pepper, and lemon^oioe; stuff your 
birds with this, cover them first with slices 
<rf!. lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered 
papa* sprinkled with salt; tie them up se- 
curely, listen them to the spit, and roast 
them. When done, let the butter run out, 
remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve 
them with a sauce made as follows: put into 
a saucepan three kdlefub of emagnoU, a 
spoonful of coruomme, a bit of glaze, the 
nnd of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pep- 
per ; give them a boil up together, and stram 
It over the teal. 

TENCH. They are a fine-flavored fith 
water iish; when good, the eyea are* bright, 
the body stiff, and the outside free fit>m slime ; 
tmeb should be dressed as soon as caught. 

TENCH, FRIED. Take a couple of 
lai^ tench, scale and cleanse them as for 
broiling. Got off the fins, split them down 
the back, take out the bones; sprinkle them 
widi fiour and salt; squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over, and 7 them in butter, and serve 
them dry. 

TENCH, ROASTED. Take off scales, 
heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and dry 
diem well, then put into each a little butter, 
mixed with sweet herbs; by them for about 
five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pep- 
per, and sweet herbs; wrap each fish in pa- 
per, &sten them to a spit, and roast them. 

TEWAHDIDDLE. A pint of table 
beer (or ale, if you intend it fiir a supplement 
to your " night cap"), a table-spoonful of 
brandy, and a teanspoonfiil of brown sugar, 
or clarified sirup; a little grated nutmeg or 
gingw may be added, and a roll of very diin- 
cut lemon-peel. 

Obi.  ^Befbre our readers make any re- 
marks on this composition, we bw of than 

IB* 



to tarts it: if the materiab are good, and 
their palate vibrates in unison with our own, 
they will find it (Mie of tbepleasantest bever- 
ages they ever put to their lips; and, as Lord 
luithven says, " this is a nght gossip's cup 
that fiir exceeds all the ale that ever Mother 
Bunch made in her life-time." 

THICKENING. Cbrified butter is beet 
for this purpose; but if you have none readjr, 
put some fresh butter into a stewpan over a 
slow, clear fire; when it is melted, add fine 
flour sufficient to make it the thickness o 
paste; stir it well together with a wooden 
spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is 
quite smooth, and the color of a guinea: this 
roust be done very gradually and patiently; 
if you put it over too fierce a fire to hurry it, 
it will become bitter and empvreumatic : pour 
it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. 
It wiU keep good a fortnight in summer, and 
longer in winter. 

A brge spoonful will generally be OMMig^ 
to thicken a quart of gravy. 

Obi,  This, in the French kitdien, is 
called rotcr. Be particularly attentive in 
making it; if it gela any burnt smell or 
taste. It will spoil every thing it m put into. 
When cold, it should w thicK enough to cut 
out with a knife, like a solid paste. 

It is a very essential article in the kitdien, 
and is the baisis of consistency in most made* 
dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts; if the 
|rravies, &c. are too thin, add this thicken- 
mg, more or less, according to the consistence 
you would wish them to have. 

Mem.  In making thickening, the less 
butter, and the more flour you use, the bet- 
ter; they must be thoroughly worked to- 
gether, and the broth, or soup, Sec. yon pot 
them to, added by degrees: take especial 
care to incorporate them well tc^ther, or 
your sauces, &c. will taste floury, and liave 
a disgusting, greasy appearance: therefore, 
aAer you have thickenecl your sauce, add to 
it some broth, or warm wator, in the pro- 
portion of two table-poonfuls to a pint, and 
set it by the side of the fire, to raise any fat, 
&c. that is not thoroughly incorporated with 
the gravy, which you must carefiill^ remove 
as It comes to the top. This is called 
cleansing, or finishing the sauce. 

Half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoon- 
fiil of flour, are about the proportion for a 
pint of sauce to make it as thick as cream. 

N. B.  ^The fot skimmings off the top 
of the Iroth-pot are sometimes substituted 
for butter ; some cooks merely thicks their 
soups and sauces with flour. 

TIMBALE. Pot a pound of flour on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, 
into which pour a little water, diree or four 
spoonfuls of oil, a quarter of a pound of bat- 



TOA 



TOlMt 



ttr, the yoDu of two em, and a piocli of 
Mik; knead these ingredients thorouirhly into 
the floor, until it becomes a tolerably firm 
paste ; roll it out to nearly half an inch in ' 
thickness, line one large, or several small 
|rfain round moolds, with this^'paste; let the 
moulds be well buttered, and tne paste come 
about half an inch above the top of the mould ; 
fill your timbtile with any farce, or ragout, 
you think proper, cover it with a layer of 
paste, pressing the edges together; bake it, 
and when done, turn U>e HmbeUe on a dish, 
make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or 
gravy, and serve. 

TINCTURE OF ALLSPICE. Of 

allspice bruised, three ounces, apotliecaries' 
weight; brandy, a quart. Let it steep a 
Ibrtuight, occasional^ shaking it up; then 
pour off the clear liquor: it is a most grateful 
addition in all cases wliere allspice is used, 
ibr making a bishop, or to mulled wine ex- 
tempore, or in gravies, &c. or to flavor and 
preserve potted meats. 

TIPSY CAKE. Poor over a sponge 
cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as 
much white wine as it will absorb, and stick 
it all over with blanched sweet almonds, cut 
like straws ; or pour wine in the same man- 
ner over a thick shoe of sponge cake, cover 
the to|) of it with pi'eserved strawberries or 
raspberries, and stick cut almonds ail round it. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. See Cheese. 

TOAST, WITH BUTTER. Spread 
butter over some slices of fried bread; lay 
on them sweet heiiis, tossed up in melted 
butter, and serve. 

TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French 
roll with partly anchovies, and partly liam ; 
cut tlie roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
slice c^ bacon, dip them into battor, and fry 
them ; drain, and serve with ranigote, 

TOASTS, GRENADA. Cut some fat 
and lean baoon into dice, give them a few 
turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, 
shallots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three 
eggs ; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind 
of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, 
cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. 

TOASTS, ITALIAN. Cut some slices 
of bread, about half an inch in thickness, 
firy them in sweet oil, let it be diy, and 
crisp, lay them on a dish, and spread over 
them any light good farce you may think 
fxoper; pour over them an appropriate 
sauce and serve them. 

TOAST AND WATER. Pare the 



crort off a ^in tKoe of ilale braid, luM 
it brown upon both sides, doing it eqiraHy 
and slowly, thai it mav harden witboot bdi^ 
burnt; put it into a jug, and pour open it 
boiling water; cover the jug with a sauoVt 
and set it in a cool place. 

TOASTS, SPANISH. Roll out sone 
almond paste, nearly an inch diick, it it 
into pieces, about two inches square, press 
them down with a square piece of wood, a 
little smaller than the paste, whidi will ieava 
the edges higher than the rest ; bake the n, 
and when cold, pour in any prepared crean 
you please, as high asllie bordeirs; ice, and 
color thou with a salamander. 

TOMATA SAUCE. Bake six tomatai 
in an oven till quite soft; with a tea-spoon 
take out the pulp, add salt, cayemie, and 
vin^ar, till of the consistence of thidt cream. 

TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and 
cut small the red part of three Urge carrolB 
three lieads of celery, four large onions, and 
two large turnips, piA them into a saucepan, 
with a table-spoonfiil of butter, and half a 
ponnd of lean new ham ; let tliem stew very 
gently for an hour, Hbesa add thi^ee quarts of 
brown gravy soup, and some whole black 
pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatas ; let 
it boil an hour and a half, and pulp it tfarongb 
a sieve ; ser\'e it with fried bread cut in dice. 

TOMATA SAUCE, FRENCH. Git 

ten or a dozen tomatas into quarters, and 
put them into a saucepan, with four on- 
ions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter ; set the 
saucepan on the fire, stirring occasionally for 
thi-ee-quarters of an hour; strain the^aooe 
through a horse-hair sieve, and serve nidi 
the directed articles. 

 TOMATA SAUCE, ITALIAN. Take 
five or six onions, slios, and put them into 
a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay-lea^ 
twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter, 
salt, half a dozen allspice, a little India sa^ 
fron, and a glass of stock ; set them on the 
fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is 
apt to stick ; when you perceive the sauce is 
tolerably thick, strain it lik^ a puree. 

TO ^' ATA KETCHUP. (1) Take trna- 
tas when ftilly ripe, bake them in a jar till 
tender, strain them, and rub them through a 
sieve. To every pound of juic^, add a pint 
of Chili vinegar, an ounce of shallots, half as 
ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of ai 
ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce d 
white pepper, finely powdered; boil tte 
whole till every ingredioit is soft, rub it 
again tliroi^h die sieve. To every poorf 



TOM 



223 



TON 



wU the joioe of three knoos; boil it anin 
to the oonsistenoe of cream ; when cold, bot- 
tle it, put a maall quantity of sweet oil <m 
each, tie Uaddera over, and keep it in a dry 
place. 

TOMATA KETCHUP, (2) Gather a 
peck of tomatas, pick out the stems, and 
wash them; put diem on the fire widiont 
water ; sprinkle on a few spoonfuls of sah ; 
let them boil steadily an hour, stirring them 
fifequently ; strain them through a colander 
end then through a sieve ; put the liquid on 
the fire with half a pint of chopped onions, 
&ghth of an ounce of mace broke into small 
pieces, and if not sufficiently salt, add a little 
more; one table^|)oonltil of whole black 
pepper; boil all tc^edier until just enoogli 
to fill two bottles ; cork it tig^it. 

^The seasoning may be varied to suit the 
taste. Allspice inet'>ad of mace common 
red pepper instead of black pepper, and less 
chopped onion.] 

TOMATO KETCHUP. (3) One gal- 
lon skinned tomatas, four tableHspoons of 
alt, four do. black pepper, two do. allspice, 
eight pods red pepper, eight table-epoons of 
mustard seed. Tliese articles to be bruised 
&ie and simmered sbwiy in a pint of vinegar 
three hours ; tlien strained dirou^h a hair 
sieve. To be stewed down to half a gallon 
of ketchup. 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (1) A sufficient quantity of salt 
is dissolved in spring or river water to make 
it strong enough to bear an eg^ ; select per- 
fectly ripe tomatas, and place them well and 
without pressing them, in a stone or glazened 
earthen pot, with a deep plate in such a 
manner that it presses upon tlie fruit, and by 
this simple process tomatas may be preserved 
more than a year without attention. Before 
cooking them they should be soaked in fresh 
water for several hours. 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (2) Gather them carefully 
without bniising ; put them in a stone jar, 
Imd pour in strong brine, to the top  putting 
on a light weight to keep them gently pressed 
down below tlie suiface of the brine. Soak 
them in fresh water and cook them in the 
nsual way, seasoning to suit the taste, as 
wlien fitsh fix>m the vine. 

TOMATA MARMALADE. Gather 
full-gi'own tomatas while quite green ; take 
oat the stems and stew them till soft; rub 
them through a sieve; put the pulp on the 
fire, seasoned highly with pepper, salt and 
powdered cloves; add some g-arlic, and stew 
all together till thick. It keeps well, and is 



excellent for seafloniiig graviei. Besides tW 
numerous modes of preparing this deJicioui 
vegetable for the table, it may be stewed, 
after being peeled, with sugar, like cranber- 
ries and goosebeiries, (miducing a tart equal 
to either of those fiiiits. Tomataa make 
good pickles, pickled green ; to peel them, 
pour boiling water on them, when the skin 
will come offeaaWy, 

TONGUE. (1) A tongue which has 
not been dried will require very little soak- 
ing, but if dried, it should be soaked in 
water for three or four hours ; then put it 
into cold water, and let it boil gently till 
tender. 

TONGUE. (2) A tongue is so hard, 
whether prepared by di-ying or pickling, that 
it requires much more cooking than a ham; 
nothing of its weight takes so long to dress 
it pro|ierly. 

A tongue diat has been salted and dried 
should be put to soak (if it is old and very 
hard, 24 hours before it is wanted) in plen- 
ty of water ; a green one firesh from the pic- 
kle requires soaking only a few hours: put 
your tongue into plenty of cold water ; let 
it be an hour gradually warming ; and give 
it from three and a half to four hours* very 
slow simmering, according to the size, Sec. 

Oba.  When you choose a tongue, en- 
deavor to learn how long it has been dried 
or pickled, pick out die plumpest, and that 
which has the sni4)0thest skin, which de- 
notes its being young and tender. 

Tlie roots, &c. make an excellent relish 
potted, or peas soup. 

TONGUE, TO STEW. Wash it veiy 
clean, and rub it well with common salt and 
a little saltpetre ; let it lie two or three days, 
and then boil it till 4he skin will pull off. 
Put it into a saucepan, with part of the li- 
quor it has been boiled in, and a pint of 
good stock. Season with black and Ja- 
maica pepper, and two or three pounded 
cloves; add a glass of white wine and a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 
one of lemon pickle ; thicken the sauce with 
butter rolled in flour, and poui* it over the 
tongue. 

TONGUE, PICKLED, GLAZED. 

Boil a lar^ tongue till it be tender, skin 
and glaze R, and serve it with mashed tur- 
nips on one side, and mashed carrots, or 
carrots and spinach on die other. 

TONGUE, POTTED. See Ham. 

TONGUES, TO SALT. Salt two 
tongues, and turn them every day for four or 
five days; then rub them with two ounces 



TRI 



224 



TRI 



of commoii nk, one f^ brown flugar, and half 
an ounce of saltpetre ; turn them daily, and 
in a fortnight they may be used. 

The be^ sort of vessel for salting them 
in is an earthen-ware pan, as wide at top 
as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it 
long-ways. 

TRIFLE. (1) Add to a pint of rich 
cream a tea-cupful of white wine, sweeten it 
with pounded loaf sugar, whisk it well, and 
as the froth rises lay it upon a sieve pbced 
over a deep dish; as it drains, pour the 
cream into the pan in which it is whisked 
till all is done ; dip some sponge biscuit, rata- 
fia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine 
and a little brandy; pour over tliem a lich 
boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on 
the whipt a-eam, piled as high as possible. 
Colored comfits may be sti*ewed over the 
top. 

TRIFLE. (2) Mix three tabte-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of thick cream ; whisk it, 
and take off as much fi-oth as will heap upon 
the dish, into which lay some pieces of 
sponge cake, or some sponge biscuit, soaked 
with sweet wine, and covered with preseiT- 
ed strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the 
froth upon this, and pour the remainder of 
the cream into tlie bottom of the dish ; gar- 
nish with flowers. 

TRIFLE. (3) Cover tlie bottom of 
the dish with Naples biscuits, and muca- 
roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and 
white wine, poured over them ; cover them 
with patches of raspberry jam ; fill the dish 
with a good custard, then whip up a sylla- 
bub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on 
the custard, and strew comfits over all. 

TRIPE. Take care to have fresh tripe; 
cleanse it well from tlie &t, and cut it into 
pieces about two inches broad and four long; 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it ivith 
milk and water, and let it boil gently till it 
is tender. 

If the tripe has been prepared as it usual- 
ly is at the tripe shops, it will be enough in 
about an hour, (this depends upon how k>ng 
it has been previously boiled at the tripe 
shop) ; if entirely undressed, it will require 
two or three hours, according to the age 
and quality of it. 

Maike some onion sauce in the same man- 
ner as you do for rabbits, or boil (slowly by 
thomselves) some Spanish or the whitest 
common onions you can get ; peel them be- 
fare you boil them ; wlien they are tender, 
which a middling-sized onion will be in 
about three-quartera of an hour, drain them 
in a hair sieve, take off the top skins till 



they look oice and white, and pot 

witn the tripe into a tureeo or aoup-dbl^ 
and take on the &t if any floats on die 
suriace. 

Obi.  ^Rashers c^ bacon, or fried 
saees are a very good accompaninoent to 
boiled tripe, oow-meb or calf's feet, "^ 
Kelly's sauce or parsley and butter, or 
per sauce, with a little vinegar and 
tard added to them, or salad mixture. 

Tripe holds the same rank among aolidn, 
that water gruel does among aoops, and the 
former is desirable at dinner, when the ht* 
ter is welcome at suppei*. 

TRIPE, TO FRY. Cut it into bits 
three or four inches square; make a latter 
thicker than for pancakes, of three eggs 
beaten up with flour and milk, a little nk, 
pepper, and nutmeg; dip in the tripe, and 
fiy it in butter, or firesh dripping, of a li^ 
wown color. Serve it garnished with pan^ 
ley. Sauce;  melted butter with lemoo 
pickle in it. 

TRIPE PIE. Lay into the botmin of 
a dish some thinly-sliced cold or nw ham, 
then put in a layer of tripe with the jelly 
adhering-to it, season with pepper and sal^ 
and add a bit of butler; fill the dish in this 
manner, and put in a few table-epoonlids 
of brown stock; cover the dish with poff 
paste. A beefsteak may be'^substibited lor 
the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish 
filled up with tripe. 

TRIPE, TO BOIL. Clean it extreme- 
ly well, and take off the lat; let it lie a 
night in salt-and-water, again wash it well, 
and let it lie in milk-and-water for the same 
length of time; then cut it into small pieces, 
 oil and tie tliem widi thread; put then, 
V. <>li a clean-waslied marrow-bone, into a 
liiifii bag; tie it ck)eely, and put it into a 
stewpan that has a cover to fit quite close- 
ly, fill it up with water, and Jet it boil 
gently for six hours. Take the tripe oat 
of tlie bag, put it into a jar, and pour over 
it the liquor in which it was boiled. When 
to be dressed, boil scHne whole small onions 
in a part of the Ik^uor, add a little salt, then 
put in the tripe and heat it thorooglily. 

Or it may be fried in buttor firicasseed, or 
stewed in a brown sauce. 

Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe 
may be put, with some 'salt and whole pep> 
per, into a stone-ware jar, which must have 
a piece of linen tied over it, and a plate hid 
upon the top. The pot should always be 
kept full of boiling water, taking care thrt 
it do not boil into the jar. - 

TRIPE, TO ROAST. Cot the tripi 
into two obfong pieces, make a feroemBii 



TRO 



225 



TUIf 



f)f bread cnimfae and chopped parsley, eea- 
Booed with pepper and salt; bind it with 
die yolks of two eggs ; spresid it upon the 
lat side of the tripe, and lay on the otiier 
fiit side ; then roll it very tightly, and tie it 
with packthread. Roast, and baste it with 
butter: it will take one hour, or one hour 
and a half. Serve it with melted butter, 
into which put a table-spoonful of ketchup 
and one of lemou pickle. 

TRIPE, BREADED. Cut your tripe 
into small square pieces, and give them a 
few turns in some butter, .with parsley, salt, 
aod pepper; roll each bit in grated bread, 
and broil tliem slowly. When done, serve 
them with slices of lemon. 

TROUT. This 6sh is held in great 
estimation, it is a fresh water fish, and 
when good, of a flesh cobr, and the spots 
npon it are very bright ; the female is con 
mdered the best, and is known by tlie head 
being smaller, and the body being deeper 
than that of the male* 

TROUT, POTTED. Mix together 
the following quantity of finely*powdered 
spices:  One ouow of cloves, half an ounce 
cSf Jamaica pepper, quarter of an ounce of 
black pepper, quarter of an ounce of cay- 
enne, two nutmegs, a little mace, and two 
tea-epoonfak of ginger; add tlie weight of 
the spices, and naif as much again of salt, 
and mix all tliorougbly. Clean the fish, and 
eat ofif the lieads, fins, and tails ; put a tea- 
qx>onful of the mixed spices into each fish, 
and lay them into a deep earthen jar, with 
the backs downwards; cover them with 
clarified butter, tie a paper over tlie mouth 
of the jar, and bake them slowly for eight 
hours. Wlien the back bone is tender, the 
'-fish are done enough. Take them out of 
the jar, and put them into a milkpan with 
the backs upwards; cover them with a 
board, and place upon it a heavy weisht. 
When perfectly cold, remove die fish into 
fresh jars, smooth tliem with a knife, and 
cover them with clarified butter. 

TROUT, TO COLLAR. Wash them 
clean, split them down the back bone, and 
t diy them well in a cloth ; season them well 
with finely-pounded black pepper, salt, and 
I nKice; roll them tight, and lay them close 
r into a dish ; pour over an equal quantity of 
i vineigar and heear, with two or three bay- 
t leaves, and some whole black pepper; tie 
i over the dish a sheet of buttered paper, and 
t bake them an hour. 

TROUT, TO BROIL. Cut off the fins, 
I aod cut the fish down the back, close to tlie 
t hooe, and split die head in two. Another 



way is, after they liave been cut open, to 
nib a little sail over them ; let them lie thi-ee 
or four hours, and llien Imng tliem up in the 
kitchen. Thev will be ready to broil the 
next morning for breakfiist. 

TROUT, TO BOIL. Clean and gut 
tiiem; make the water as salt as for boil- 
ing salmon in, and when it lioils put in the 
trout, and let them boil fiist from fifteen 
to twenty minutes, according to tlieir siae. 
Sauce;  melted Imtter. 

TROUT, TO FRY. Cut off the fins, 
clean and gut them ; dust them with flour, 
and dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten ; 
strew grated bread crumbs over, and fry them 
in fresh dripping; lay them upon tlie hack 
of a sieve before die fire to drain. Sauce; 
melted butter, with a table-spoonful of 
ketchup, and one of lemon pickle in it. 
When iliey are small, roll them in oatmeal 
before tliey are fried. 

TRUFFLES. Tlie trufile, like the mush* 
room, is a species of fungus common in 
France and Italy ;it generally grows about 
eight or ten inches bebw the surface of the 
ground ; as it imparts a most delicious flavor, 
it is much used in cookery. Being dug out 
of the earth, it requires a great deal of wash- 
inff and brushing, befoi-e it can be applied to 
culinary purposes ; when washed, the water 
should be warm , and changed frequently. It 
loses much of its flavor when dried. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. Mince two  
three truffles very small, and toss them up 
ligtitly, in either oil or butter, according to 
your taste ; then put to them four or five la* 
dieilils of veloute and a.spoonflil of con- 
somme; let it lioil fer about a quarter 
of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off aU 
the fat; keep your sauce hot in tlie 6atn- 
marie, 

TRUFFLES TOURTE. Take two 
pounds of fine trufiles, wash and pick them ; 
put them iiiU) a stewpan, with six thin slices 
of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced miion, 
a bay-leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and 
Champagne ; lay rashers of bacon over the 
wliole, and stew tliem to nearly a jelly. 
When cold, put the truffles into a crust with 
all the seasoning ; bake the tourte,, and serve 
as usual. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub two 
ounces of butler into half a pound of dried 
flour; add a few caraway seeds, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; mix 
it to a stiff paste with u little water, roll it 
' out very thin, cut it into round cakes widi 
a glass or the top of a dredging box prick 



TU R 



226 



TUR 



Ihem witk m Ml, and bake them upoo 
floured line. 

TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a 
nicely-tinned nucepan a pint of milk, and 
when it boils, stir in as much flour aa will 
make it a thick batter; add three welU 
beaten e^s, and two or three drops of oil 
of cinnamon, or any other seasoning; dust 
a large flat plate with flour, with a spoon 
throw on it Uie batter, in the form of balls 
or fritters, and drop them into boiling cla- 
rified dripping or uird. Serve them with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed over. 

The batter may be made into a podding, 
adding with the '<^g8 an ounce of sak but- 
ter. Boil and serve it with a sweet sauce. 

TURBOT. Turbot, when good, shouM 
be thick and full, and the belly of a yellow- 
ish white or ci^eam color. 

TURBOT, BAKED. Wash vour fish 
ia several waters, dn* it well, and soak it 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, 
pepper, salt, and nutme|; in half an horn* 
put the whoke into a barang dish, envelope 
It completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 

TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a 
small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butter, 
or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with 
bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over 
it, and serve. 

TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. 
Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without cut- 
ting it off; make a/orce, with some butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, ail 
shred, and united together, with yolks of 
eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
spread this all over the under part of the 
lish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. 
Dissolve some butter in a saucepan ; add to 
it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet 
herbs shred, salt, and pepper; rub the fish 
all over with this, then bread, and bake it. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (1) This excellent 
&k is in season tlie ^^reatest part of the sum- 
mer; when good, it is at once firm and ten- 
der, and abounds with rich .gelatinous nu- 
triment. 

Being drawo, and washed clean, if it be 
quite fresh, by nibbing it lightly with salt, 
and keeping it in a cold place, you may in 
moderate weather preserve it for a couple 
of days. 

, An hour or two before you dress it, soak 
It in spring water with some salt in it, tbea 



seore the skin across the thickest part of 
the back, to prevent its breakrag oa iIk 
breast, which will happen from die Mi 
swelling, and cracking the skin, if this prs- 
caution be not used. Put a kirge handfal 
of sak into a fish-kettle with cokl waler, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, put it ii^ 
and when it is coming to a boil, skim il 
well ; then set the kettle on the side of the 
fire, to boil as gently as possible for aboal 
fifleen or twenty minutes (if it boik ftot, 
the fish will break to pieces) ; supposing k 
a middling<ized turbot, and to iveigh eight 
or nine pounds. 

Rub a little of the inside red coral spawn 
of the lobster dirongh a hair siex'e, wifln 
out butter; and whoi the turbot is dished, 
sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the 
dish with sprigs of curled parsley, sfioed 
lemon, and finely-ecraped honseradish. 

If you like to send it to table in full dresi^ 
surround it with nioely-fried smelts, gndjl- 
eons are often used for this purpose, Rnanaj 
be boueht very cheap when smelte are very 
dear; lay the largest opposite the broadest 
part of tne turbot, so that tliey may form a 
well-pmportioned fringe for it; or oysters; 
or cut a sole in strips, crossways, about the 
size of a smek ; fry them and lay them 
round. Send up lobster sauce, two boato 
of it, if it is for a large party. 

Oba.  The thickest part is the fiivon'te; 
and the carver of this fish most remember 
to ask bis friends if they are fia-fimciers. 
It will save a troublesome job to the carver 
if the cook, when the fish is boiled, cuts ths 
spine bone across the middle. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (2) Put into 
the torbot kettle, with the watn*, two isi|^ 
handfuls of salt, and a tea-cupfol of vint^ar; 
when it boils vexy fost, take off the scum; 

Eut in the turhot, and when it boils again 
eep it boiling fost till the turbot rises from 
the di'ainer; when it is sufllcientfy done, 
dish and garnish it with a fringe or carted 
parsley and cut lemon. Sauces; k^irter 
and melted butter. 

Cold boiled turbot eats wdl with sihid 
sauce. 

Turbot is generally considered best per- 
fectly firesh ; but some people prefer it kepi 
for a few days, hung up by the tail ia a 
cool place. 

TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the M 
down the back, and soak it for suiaHiMt 
with mehed butter, parsl^, sweet herH 
salt, and pepper. Bread the tarbot w^ 
broil, and serve it with lemon, or Sevib 
orange-juice. 

TURBOT, WITH WklTE 8AUCS. 
Put a sliced onion, some thysssia ^nwil, A 



TUR 



227 



TUR 



'weet herfaa into a atewpan, place a bdmII 
farbot on theie, slrew siinilar het'bs, aak, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it; 
cover the fish with equal qtiantities of vine- 
gar, and white wine; let it boil over a 
mocierate iiie until 'sufficiently done; in the 
meantime, melt a pound of butter, add to it 
a couple of boned anchovies, Ivfo spoonfuls 
f . capers, shred small, two or three leeks, 
aait, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, wat^, 
and a sprinkling of floor; make all these 

3nile liot, stirring constantly till done; then 
ish the turbot, pour the sauce over it, a&d 
serve. 

T URKEY, BOILED. Make a stuffing 
of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutm^, lem- 
on-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some stiet, and an egg; put this) 
into the crop, ^ten up the skin, and boil 
the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very 
white. Have ready some oystef sauce 
made rich with butter, a little cream, and a 
qx>onful of soy, and serve over the turkey, 
or you may serve over it a liver and lemon 
aauce. 

TURKEY, TURKEY POULTS, and 
OTBEB Poultry. A fowl and a turkey 
require the same management at the fire, 
only the latter will take Lnger time. 

Many a Christmas dinner has been spoil- 
ed by the turkey having been hung up in a 
oold larder, and becoming thoroughly fro- 
aen ; Jack Frost has ruined the reputaticm 
of many a turkey roaster. 

Let them be carefully picked, &c. and 
break Uie breast bone (to make them look 
plump), twist up a sheet of clean writing 
paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the 
turkey aU over, tui-ning it about over the 
flaoie. 

Turkeys, fowls, and capons have a much 
better appearance, if, instead of trussing 
them with the legs close together, and the 
feet cut off, the Jegs are extended on each 
ide of die bird, and the toes only cut off, 
with a skewer thi'oiigh each foot, to keep 
Aem at a proper distance. 

Be careful, when you draw it, to preserve 
ibe liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as 
DO washing will take off the bitter taste it 
gives, wh^ it once touches. 

Prepare a nice, clear, brisk fire fi>r it. 

Make stuffing; stuff it under the breast, 
where the craw was taken out, and make 
some into balls, and boil or firy them, and 
lay them round the dish ; they are handy to 
help, and you can then reserve some of the 
ioBide stumng to eat with the ookl tuikey, 
car to enrich a hash. 

TURKEY EN DAUBE. Tak^anoM 
tmkeyt tnm it in the usoal way; roU ome 



large lardona in a mixture of salt, pepper, 
four spices, and sweet herbs, and tlien latd 
the turkey with lliera ; lay slices of bacon 
in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, 
witli two small knuckles of veal, the fept of 
the bird, four carrots, six (Hiions, three 
cloves, two bay-leaves, thyme, a bunch of 
parsl^, and young onions ; cover the whole 
with bacon ^nd a piece of butterejl paper; 
dilute it with four ladlefuls of stock (or 
more if the turkey be very large), put in a 
little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil 
slowly for three hours and a half; then take 
it off, but do nut take the bird out fur at 
least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, 
and then reduce it to a fotirth, or more if 
very thin; break an egg into another sauce- 
pan, beat it up well, and then |X)ur the li- 
quor on ii, whisk them well together, and 
if it wants flavor, add a few sweet herfae, 
parsley leaves, and a young onion or two; 
put it on the fire, stirring it violently until 
ready to boil ; as soon as it has boiled up 
once or twice; set it by tlie side of a stove, 
put fire on the top of the saucepan, and let 
it simmer half an hour ; then strain it car^ 
fully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to 
serve it with the turkey. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (1) Out up the 
remains of a roasted turk^, pot it into a 
stewpan, with a glass of white wine, chop- 
ped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, truffles, 
salt and pepper, two spoonfuls of cultis^ and 
a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce 
to a thick sauce ; when ready, add a pound 
of ancliovy, and a squeeze of lemon ; skim 
off all the fat from the sauce, and serve aU 
together. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (2) Stir m 
piece of butter rolled in ftom* into some 
cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils 
up; mince some cokl roasted or boiled 
turk^, but not too small; put it into the 
sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, 
pounded mace, a little mushroom ketohup or 
mushroom powder ; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters may be added. 

TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be 
either stoffed with sausage hieat, or stoffiog 
the enme as fen: fillet of veal. As this makes 
a large addition to the size of the bird, take 
care that the heat of the fire is constantly to 
that part, as it fiieqnently happens tliat the 
breast is not shfficiently done. A strip cf 
paper should be put on the bone to prevent 
its scorching, while the other parts are 
roasting. Bcusto well, and firoth it up. Serve 
with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureon. A few bread crumba, and a 
beaten egg shonkl be added to the stoflbig 
I of sausage meat. 



TUR 



228 



TUR 



TURKEY, STUFFED WITH SAU- 
SAGES AND CHESTNUTS. Roast 
what quantity of chestnuts yoii think nec^ 
Bry, (leel than, and pound a part of them 
to make a farce, with the liver, chopped 

Cnrslev, sbaHots, a little ilt and pepper, a 
it of* butter, and the yolks of three raw 
eg{^, put th'ia farce into the crop, and stuff* 
t^ Ixjdy with the wliole chestquts, and small 
aateagee, first .fried in butter till about half 
done ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, 
and put paper over that, then roast it, and 
Mfve with a chestnut cullis. 

TURNIPS, TO DRESS YOUNG 
WHITE. Wash, peel, and boil them till 
tender in water with a little salt; serve them 
with melted bulter poured over them. Or, 
TDpv may Ije stewed in a pint of milk thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and 
fleasoned widi salt and pepper, and served 
with the sauce. 

TURNIPS. Peel off* half an inch of the 
tringy outside. Full-grown turnips will 
take about an hour and a half gentle boiling; 
if you slice them, which m:i8t people do, they 
will be done sooner; try them with a fork; 
wlien tender, take tliein up, and lay them on 
a' sieve till the water is thoroughly drained 
from them. Send them up whole; do not 
lice tliem. 

TURNIPS, TO Boil Yellow or 
Large White. Wash, pare, and throw 
them into cold water; put them on in boiling 
water with a little salt, and boil them from 
two hours to two and a half, drain tliem in 
a cullender, put them into a saucepan, and 
mixing in a bit of butter, with a beater mash 
them very smoothly, add half a pint of milk, 
mix it well with the turnips, and make them 
quite hot befofe serving. If they aiie to be 
florved plain, dish them as soon as the water 
utdnmedoff. 

TURNIP TOPS, Are the shoots which 
grow out (in the spring) of the okl tm-nip 
roots. Put them mto cold water an hour 
before they are to be dressed; the more wa- 
ter they are boiled in, the better th^ will 
look ; if boiled in a small quantity <^ water 
they win taste bitter: when the water bnib, 
put in a anmll handful of salt, and then vour 
iregetables ; if fresh and young, they will be 
dme in about twenty mmutes; drain them 
on the back of a sieve. 

TURTLE SOUP. (1) To dre$8 a 
l\tfile weighing one hundred and twenijf 
pounde. Having cut off the head close to 
the shell, hang up the turtle till the next 
^y> then open it, bearing the knife heavi- 
ly on the bock of the aumal in cutting it 




off* all roond ; turn it on its end, tliat iA 
the blood and water nay run otit, then eat 
the flesh off along the spine, sloping the kn% 
towards the hones so as to avoid tourhiag 
the gall, and hnving also cut tlie flesli fnm 
the lege and ntlier memliers, wasli the vMk 
well and drain it. A lai^ ve^i^l of boi> 
ing water being ready on the fire, put m 
the breast shell, and when the plates w3 
separate easily take them out of the water; 
boil the back and belly in water till the softs 
parts can be taken off easily ; but before they 
are siifiiciently done, as they are to be again 
boiled in tlie sauce, lay them to cool ringH 
in earthen veitsels that they may not FtKX 
together, let the bones continue to stew he 
some time, as the liquor muift be used fir 
moistening tlie sauces. 

All the flesh cut from the body, the ibff 
legs and head must be stewed in the luHowing 
manner. Lay a few slices of ham (m the 
liottoiii of a lar^ stewpan, and over the han 
two or threb knuckles of veal, then aljove the 
veal, the inside flesh of the turtle, and that 
of the menibev^B over the whole, adding a 
large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet 
basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and green onions, and a 
onion stuck with six cbves. T'heo 
moisten it with the water in which the 
is Ixfilins, and wlien it has stewed some 
time, moisten it again with the /iqoor ia 
which the back and belly have been boiled. 
Wlien the legs are tender, take them out, 
drain, and put them aside to he afterwardi 
added to the sauce; and when the flesh ii 
completely done, drain it through a silk sieves 
and mix with the uiuce some very thin whils 
roux; then cut all the softer parts, now 
sufficiently cokl, into pieces about ao iadl 
square, add them to the sauce, and 1^ tfaem 
simmer gently till they can be easily pierced; 
skim it well. 

Next chop a small quantity of heibs, and 
boil them with a little sugar in lour boCtlei 
of I Madeira till reduced to two, then rub it 
through a tammy, mix it with the tortla 
sauce, and let it boil for a short time. Make 
some forcemeat balls as follows: Cot off 
about a pound of meiU from the fleriiy part 
of a leff tiCyeeA free from sinews or &t, soak 
in milk about the same quantity of cranAi 
of bread; when quite soft, squeeae and pit 
it into a mortar, tiigether with the veal, a 
small Quantity of calrs udder, a little bottori 
the yolks of four hard4x>ifed ens, a fittll 
cayenne, sak and spices; pound the wboll 
very finely, then thicken the mixtnre will 
two whole e^^ and the yolk of a third, tkrot 
a bit ioto boiling water, and if not sofficies^ 
firm, add the yolk of another egg, and w 
variety some chopped parsley may be nun' 
widi half of the forcemeat. Let the wfab 
cool BO that it may be formed into baJlsaM 



TUR 



829 



TEAL 



Ifte site </(lie yolk of an e|^, pcmA dmi in 
iMiling water, and add theai to the turtle. 
BefiNre senring, mix a little cayenne wittf 
liie juiee of two or three lemooB, and add it 
to the loop. It is conerally (Nneferable to 
prepwpe the soap the day before it is required 
lor use, and it will foe best heated in a water 
lieth, or flat vessel containing water, which 
is always kept very hot, but not allowed to 
til. By the same method, sauces, stews, 
and other made dishes may be kept hot. 

Wheo the 6ns of the turtle are to te served 
as a side di^, thev must be first parboiled, 
dien skinned, andf stewed in a little turtle 
iaoce, with some Port wine, and seasoned 
with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice, 
and diickened with butter and flour. 

Fricandeaux and Blanquettes may also be 
oiade of the flesh of the turtle, in the same 
way as those of veal. 

TURTLE SOUP. (2) The day before 
you dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make 
Che forcemeat; then, on the preceding eve- 
ning, suspend the turtle by die two hind fins 
with a cord; and put one round the neck, 
with a heavy weight attached to it to draw 
out the neck, that the head may be cut off 
with more ease ; let the turtle hsuig all night, 
in whicli time the Uood will be well drained 
from the body. Then, early in the morning, 
having your stoves, and plenty of hot water 
in readiness, take, the turtle, lay it on the 
table on its back, and with a strong pointed 
knifis cut all round the under shell, (which is 
ifae callipee) ; there are joints at each end, 
which must be carefully found, gently sepi- 
rating it from the caliipash (which is the 
upper shell) ; be careful tliat in cutting out 
the gut you do not break the gall. When 
the callipee and the caliipash are pei-fectly 
aeparated, take out that part of the gut that 
leads from the throat; tliat, with the three 
hearts, put into a basin of water by them- 
selves; the other interior part put away. 
Take the callipee, and cut off the meat 
which adheres to it in four quarters, laying 
it on a clean dish. Take twenty pounds of 
vead, chop it 'up, and set it in a lai^e pot, as 
directed for espcignole, putting in the flesh 
of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds 
f turtle herbs, carrots, onions, one pound and 
a half of lean ham, pepper corns, salt, a little 
flpioe, and two bay l^ves, leaving it to stew 
till it takes the color of eapagnoUj put the 
fins (the skin being scalded off) and hearts in, 
half an hour before you fill it, with half wa- 
ter, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim 
it ; put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil 
genvf , tike cotuomme. While the turtle is 
Btewing, carefiilly scald the head, the calli- 
pee, and all that is soft of the caliipash, at- 
tentively ofaeerving to take off the smallest 
pttrtide of skin that may remain; pot them 
20 



with the gut into a krge pot of water fobo3 
till tender; when so, take them out, and oat 
thein in squares, putting th&n in a basin by 
themselves till wanted for the aoup. The 
next thing is the thickmiing of tne soap, 
which must be prepared in the same manner 
as sauce towmee. The turtle being wdl 
done, take out the fins and hearts, and lay them 
on a dish ; tlie whole of the lk]aor must pass 
throtiffh a sieve into a lai^ pan; then, with 
a ladte, take off all the fat, put it into a ba- 
sin, then mix in the turtle liquor (a smaU 
quantity at a time) with the thickening made 
the same as tauce Ummee; but it does not 
require to, neither must it be, one twentieth 
part so thick ; set it over a brisk fire, and 
continue stirring till it boils; whi it has 
boiled two hours, being skimmed all the 
while, squeeze it through the tammy into 
another lai^ stewpan, put it on the fire, and 
stir it as before, till it boils; when it has 
boiled sently for one hour, put in the calli- 
pee and caliipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meat and head, all 
cut in squares, with the forcemeat halls and 
herbs, which ^ou should have ready chopped 
and stewed in eapagnolej (the herbs are 
parsley, lemon thyme, marjdram, basil, sa- 
vory, and a few chopped mushrooms). It 
must be carefully attended to and skimmed, 
and one hour and a half before dinner, put in 
a buttle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a 
bottle of brandy, keeping it continually boil- 
ing gently, and skimming it; then take a 
basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, 
with the juice of six lemons squeezed throu^ 
a sieve. When the dinner is wanted, skim 
the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little 
salt, if necessary; then stir in the cayenne 
and lemon-juice, and ladle it into tlie tureen. 
This receipt will answer for a tortle between 
fifty and sixty poun(&. 

113=* For Mock Turtle and oiher 
Soups, See Soups, 

TWELFTH CAKE ICTNG. See 
Icing, 



V. 



VEAL. The names of the joints are as 
follows: Loin, best end  Loin, chump end 
 ^Fillet  Hind Knuckle Fore knuckle  
Neck, best end  Neck, scraff end  ^Bbde 
bone  ^Breast, best end  ^Brisket end. 

Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, 
white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The 
finest calves have the smallest kidney, and its 
being well covered with thick white fat, in- 
dicates good veal. The fillet of a cow catf 
is to be preferred, on account of the udder. 
The prime joints are the fillet, the loin, the 



VEAL 



230 



VSAL 



cbamp end of the loin, and the best end of 
the neck. To keep it, the same directions 
may be followed, which are given for keeping 
bief. 

When the fillet is to be roasted, it should 
be waslied, well dried, and the bone taken 
oat, and the space filled with a fine stuffing, 
part of which should be put under the flap, 
dien formed into a round and firmly- skew> 
ered. That the fire may be clean and strong, 
it should be made up sometime before nutting 
down the roast, which should at nrst be 
placed at some distance from it, and be fre- 
quently and well basted with butter. When 
about lialf roasted, a piece of white paper is 
tied over the fat; a little before serving, it 
is removed, the meat is then sprinkled with 
salt, dredged with flour, and well basted to 
firoth it. When dished, finely melted butter 
is poured over it, with which may or may 
not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown 
gravy* It is garnished with cut lemon. 

Veal is expected to come to table looking 
delicately clean ; and it is so easily discol- 
ored, that you must be careful to have clean 
water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch 
the scum as soon and as long as it rises. 
Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled 
pork, greens, and parsley and butter, and 
onion sauce. 

Veal requires particular care to roast it a 
nice brown. Let the fire be the same as for 
beef; a sound large fire for a large joint, and 
m' brisker for a smaller; put it at some dis- 
tance from the fife to soak thoroughly, and 
then draw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted; 
baste it again occasionally. When the veal 
is on the dish, pour over it half a pint of 
melted butter: if you have a little brown 
gravy b^ you, add that to the butter. With 
those joints which are not 8tufi*ed, send up 
forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as 
samish to the dish, or fried potk sausages ; 
bacon and greens, are also always expected 
with boiled veal. 

Fillet of VetU, Of from twelve to sixteen 
pounds, will require from four to five hours 
mt a good fire; make some stuffing or force- 
meat, and put it in under the flap, that there 
may be some left to eat cold, or to season a 
hash ; brown it, and pour good melted buttw 
o?wp it. 

Garnish with thin slicea of lemon and 
cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or 
fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacoa and 
greens, &c. 

A bit of the brown outside is a fiivorite 
widi the epicm% in roasts. The kidney, cut 
out, slioea, and broiled, is a high relish, 
which some bont vivanU are fond of. 

A JLoin, Is the best part o( the calf, and 
win take about three hours roasting. Pa- 
pw the kidney fiU, and the back: some 



oodu send it up on a tooat, uMA m mtm 
with the kidney and the &t <^ thb pu^ 
which is as delicate as any marrow. If 
there is more of it than you thiok will ha 
eaten with the veal, before joa roaat it est 
it out ; it will make an exoelloit auet pid> 
ding; take care to have your fire kag 
enough to brown the ends; saoK ac co ia 
paniments as above. 

A Shoulder,- From three hours to thnt 
hours and a half; stuff it with the fon 
meat ordered for the fillet <^ veal, in the 
under side. 

Neck, beat end. Will take two houra; 
same accompaniments as fillet. The scrag 
part is best made into a pie, or broth. 

Breast, From an hour and a half to two 
hours. Let the caul remain till it is almoet 
done, then take it off to brown it ; baate^ 
flour, and froth it. 

This makes a savory relish for a luncbeoB 
or su[)per: or, instead of roasting, boil it 
enough ; put it in a cloth between two pew- 
ter dishes, with a weight on the upper 006, 
and let it remain so till cold; then pare 
and trim, egg, and crumb it, and broil, or 
warm it in a Dutch oven; serve with it 
capers, or wow wow sauce. Breast of 
mutton may be dressed the same way. 

VEAL ALAMODE. See Beef Ala- 
mode, 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED WITH 
Green Peas. Make a quart of gravy 
with the scra^ end; strain it; cut the rest 
of the veal into small pieces of nearly aa 
equal size; put it into a stewpaa with the 
gravy, some pepper, salt, maoe, half an 
ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. 
Cover the pan closely, mid let it stew neurh 
two hours; then put in a lettuce cut moan, 
and let it stew half an hour loiter. A lit- 
tle before serving, add half an ounce of 
browned butler, mixJbd with a Iktle floor. 

VEAL BREAST, BROILED. Half 
roast and then score it; seaaon it with pan- 
ley, a few finely-minoed sweet herts, a liu 
tie pepper and salt, and broil it. Hake a 
sauce with some gravy aeasooed with ooioBy 
ffrated nutm^, maoe, aalt, aod ao aachovy; 
boil and strain it; thkken it with flour and 
butter. Add aome minoed capen and mal 
mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal. 
Garnish with sliced lemoo. 



VEAL BREAST, CX)LLARED. 
it, and lay over it a thick byer of ian^ 
meat, made with bread cmmbs, cbo|i|iei 
oysters, parsley, aod grated haiin, 111 ai i owi 
with kanon-peel, aak, pepper, and iwUmn: 
mixed with an ^|g beaten up. RoQ td 
bind it with tape; boil it in a ckth, aodftf 



TEAL 



231 



VEAL 



K on in boiling water ; let it boil gently for 
-^iree hours. Boil the bones with an onion, 
a buneh of weet herbs, salt, and pepper; 
'strain and thicken it with three table-spoon- 
fuls of cream, the yolks of two eg^ beaten 
up, and ^ bit of Ixitter mixed with flour. 
Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it 
into an e^, and strew over it grated bread ; 
firy it with forcemeat balk. Serve the 
Teal with the sauce poured over it. Gar- 
nish with the sweetbread and forcemeat 
balls. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (1) Half 
roost the veal till of a light brown, then 
stew it over a stove for two hours, in a 
rich gravy, with a shallot, three cloves, a 
blade of mace, a little walnut pickle, some 
oysto- liquor, and a few small mushrooms. 
Half an hour before serving, add a little 
anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon 
and curled parsley. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (2) Oit 
out tlie blade bone, and stuff the wliole with 
a nice forcemeat ; sew it up, half roast it, 
and make a quart of gravy of the bbnes and 
trimmings; season it with whole pt^pper, 
two blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a 
large onion, some salt, and a bunch of pars- 
1^. Strain and thicken it with butter roll- 
ed in flour; put in the veal, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar; let it stew nearly two 
hours. A little oefore serving, add a table- 
spoonfol of lemon pickle, and a glass of 
white wine. Forcemeat balls may be serv- 
ed widi it. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (3) Cut 
off the short bones or gristles of a breast 
of veal; stew them in a little white stock, 
with a slice of ham, an onion stuck widi 
one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a 
bunch of parsley, and a little salt. When 
tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, 
and put it on with a pint and a half of 
green peas; boil them, and add the veal, 
and ret them stew for twenty minutes. 
S^ve the gristles in the middle, and the 
peas round them. 

VEAL BROTH. See Broth. 

VEAL, BROWN ROLLKLOPS. Cut 
off some thin slices fit>m a fillet of veal, and 
beat thon. Take part of the &t from the 
loin and kidney : mince it finely with a 
anall bit of veaf, and six anchovies; season 
withssdt, pounded ginger, and mace; put 
it over the slices of veal, and roll them up. 
' Dip tbeiD into the beaten volk of an egg, 
and then into grated hreaa; repeat this a 
aeoond time, and firy them of a nice brown 
#olor in darified berf dripping, then etew 



them in some gaod gravy, adding a little 
walnut pickle aid half a pint of whitr; wine. 

VEAL CAKE. Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with salt, 
pepper, and nutm^, grated; have ready 
some hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and put a 
layer of these at the bottom of a basia 
or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices 
of ham, over this strew marjoram, thyme^ 
parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs and lemon* 
peel, chopped small ; then a layer of eggs, 
veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan 
is filled; pour some good gravy over the 
whole, cover the pan with coarse brown 
paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake 
in a glow oven; an hour will be sufficient 
to bake it ; when cold, turn it out upon a 
dish, and serve ; garnish \^ ith pai'sley . 

VEAL CAKE, to be eaten cold. Pound 
in a mortar as much cold roasted lean veal 
as will fill a small mould, together with a 
slice of bam, or b<icon, a piece of the crumb 
of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten 
eggs, a small bit of butter, die same of shal- 
lot, or onion ; season with pepper and salt, 
and mix all well together; butter the mould, 
fill it, and hake it m an oven for about an 
hour; tuni it out when cold, and cut it into 
slices. Garnish with pickled eggs and pars- 
ley. 

VEAL COLD. Cut some cold veal into 
thin slices, the size and thickness of a half 
crown, dip them into - the yolk of an egg 
well l3eaten, cover them with bread crumbs, 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and 
grated nutmeg. Put a little fi-esh butter in- 
to a pan, make it quite hot, fi-y the veal in 
it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the 
side of the fire ; maKe a little gravy of a 
bone of veal, shake a little fiour into the 
pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little 
lemon-juice, poui* it over the veal, and gar- 
nish with lemon. 

VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take 

six or seven hand^wmely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepper, and put them 
into melted butter ; when sufficiently soaked, 
put them into beaten eggs, take uiein out, 
and roil each separately in bread crumbs; 
niake the chops as round as you can with 
your hand, and lay them on a dish ; when 
all are breaded, broil them slowly over a 
moderate fire, that the bread may not be too 
highly colored. Serve with clear gravy. 

VEAL, TO COLLAR. Bone a br^ 
of veal, and beat it fiat ; cover the inside 
with a nice stuffing moistened with qggs; 
roll it very tightly, bind it, and bake it in an 
oven with some weak stock in the dish* 



VEAL 



232 



VEAL 



Makf a rich gravy ; strain and thicken it, 
and poor it over the veal. Serve with or 
without forcemeat balls, and garnish with 
cut lemon. It will keep for a long time in 
a pickle made with bran and water, a little 
nit, and vinegar, poured cold ov&c it 

VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound 
and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, 
and a slice of lean ham ; pound them in a 
mortar, and mix, in five table-spoonfuls of 
cream, two tea-spoonfuls of pepper, one of 
aelt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it 
in> into cones luxMit threie inches high ; rub 
them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated 
bread over them, and fry them of a light 
Inrown color ; put fried bread crumbs into 
the dish, and place the cones upon them, or 
serve them with a brown gravy instead of 
crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit make 
good cones. Half the ingredients will be 
anfficient for a comer dish. 

VEAL, COLD DRESSED. Mince 
finely the fat and lean of cold roast veal, 
season it with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
pepper, and salt; moisten it with a little 
rich white stock, and a beaten egg; butter 
a pudding, shape, put in the mince, and 
press it firmly, cover it closely, and set it 
mto a pan of boiling water; let it boil an 
hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy 
thickened, or when turned out of the shape, 
rub it over the, top wudi the beaten yolk of 
an egg ; sift bread crumbs thickly over, and 
brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a 
little melted butter. Gai-nish with fried 
' parsley or cut lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (1) Let your cutlets 
be about half an inch thick ; trim thera, and 
flatten them with a cleaver; you may, fry 
tliem in fresh butter, or good drippings ; when 
brown on one side, turn them and do the 
other ; if the fire is very fierce, tliey must 
diange sides oftener. The time they will 
take depends on the thickness of the cutlet 
and the heat of the fire ; half an inch thick 
will take about fifteen minutes. Make some 
gravy, fcyy putting the trimmings into a stew- 
pan with a little soft >vater, an onion, a roll 
of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, a sprig of 
tli^me and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew 
over a slow fire an hour, then strain it ; put 
an ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as soon 
08 it is melted, mix with it as mudi flour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, then add the ^vy by degrees till 
it is all mixed, boil it for five minutes, 
and strain it throi^h a tamis sieve, and put 
it to the cutlets; you may add some brown- 
ing, mushroom, or walnut ketchup, or lemon 
pickle, &c. : Or, Cut the veal into pieces 
about aa big as a crowD-piece> beat them 



with a cleaver, dip them in eggi beat ly 
with a little ssJt, and then in fine Ivead 
crumbs ; fry them a light browo in boiVmg 
brd ; serve nndor them some good gravy or 
mushi'oom sauce, which may w made in five 
minutes. Garnish with siices ot ham or 
rubers of bacon, or pork sausages. 

Veal foix%meat or stuflii^, pork sausa^esy 
rashers of bacon, are very relishing accom- 
paniments, fried and sent up in the form of 
calls or cd&es, and laid round as a garnish. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (2) Cut a neck of 
veal into cutlets, dP take them off a kg. 
Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded 
mace, nutmeg, sak, pepper, and finely-chop- 
ped sweet nuirjoram, lemon thyme, and pars- 
ley; dip the cutlets into it, sift over them 
grated bread, and fiy them in clarified butter. 
Serve witli a white sauce, forcemeat ballsy 
and small mushrooms. Chamish with fiied 
parsley. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (3) Cbt a neck 
of veal into thin cutlets, and beat them; 
brown some butter with an onion and some 
parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets into 
the butter, and then into finely grated breads 
seasoned with pepper and salt; broil them 
of a brown color ; mince the peel of half ao 
orange pared very thin ; add it and a grate 
of ginger to some good thickened gravy, and 
pour it hot upon the cutlets. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (4) Qit them off 
a leg, or fi*om the thick part of a loin of 
veal ; beat them a little with a rollii^-pin, 
and fry them in butler of a light brown. 
Take them out of the pan, pour ofi* the but- 
ter, and strew over them grated bread, sea- 
soned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, 
grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pepper,* and 
salt. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece 
of fresh butter, and let them fi-y slowly till of 
a good brown. Add a quarter of a pint of 
good gravy, and a small tea-cupfid of thick 
ci'eam ; let it be made very hot, frequently 
shaking the pan. Serve it garnished witb 
cut lemon or forcemeat balls, mosfaroomsy 
and &lse eggs. False ^gs are made of tb 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are 
rubbed smooth, and dien made up with fevA 
butter into the form of small ^gs. - 

VEAL CUTLETS, VENITIAN. Cbl 

into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of 
veal; trim and flatten tliem. C3iop sepa- 
rately half a pint of mushrooms, a few m^ 
lots, and a little parsley; stew these over > 
slow fire, with a small bit of butter and a 
little rasped iat bacon. When done, put ia 
the cutlets, and season them well witb pepptf 
and salt, and let them stew over a slow fire 
till quite tenders ekioi off tbe&tj^ and a^ 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



ti spoonfut of lauoe toarnee, and the yolks 
of three eggs beaten with a little cream, then 
mix in the juice of a IeaM, and a little cay- 



VEAL, FILLET, STEWED. Bone, 
lard, and staflf a fillet of veal ; half roast, and 
then stew it with two quarts of white stock, 
a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of 
moshroom ketchup. Before serving, strain 
the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in 
ilour, add a little cayenne, salt, and some 
pickled mushrooms; heat it, and pour it over 
the veal. Have ready two or three dozen of 
forcemeat balls to put round it and upon the 
top. Garnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FLORENTINE. Take two 
veal kidneys, and mince them with their 
it, veiy small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, me yolks of four or five eggs, boiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, 
eome bread crumbs, candied lemon-peel, cut 
small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, salt, 
mace, a little mountain wine, and some 
orange-flower water ; line the bottom of a 
didi with a nice puff paste, put in the above, 
coiver it with puff paste, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven. 

VEAL FORCEMEAT. Of undressed 
lean veal (after you have scrajjed it quite 
fine, and fi'ee from skin and sinews), two 
oances, the same quantity of beef or veal 
Biiet, and die same of bread crumbs; chop 
fioe two drachms of parsley, one of lemon- 
peel, one of Sweet herbs, one of onion, and 
balf a drachm of mace, or allspice, beaten to 
line powder ; pound all together in a mortar ; 
break into it the yolk and white of an egg; 
rab it all up well together, and season it with 
a little pepper and salt. This may be made 
more savory by the addition of cold boiled 
pickled tongue, anchovy, eschalot, cayenne 
w corry powder, &c. 

VEAL,FRICANDEATT. (1) Cut a piece 
of veal fit>m the leg, the same in widtli and 
depth, and about eight inches in length. 
Make a hole - in the under part, and fill it 
^ith forcemeat ; sew it up, lard the top and 
ides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Put into a sauce- 
pan some slices of undressed mutton, thi-ee 
onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a quart of good i>tock ; put 
4n the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew for three hours. Take out the veal, 
train the gravy, and take off all the fat; 
add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and 
three of white wine ; boil it quick to a glaze ; 
keep the fricandeau over hot water and cov- 
ered, then glaze it, and serve with the I'est 

20* 



of thegbse poured rocnd it, and Knrel saooe, 
in a sauce tureen. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (2) CutsomB 
slices of veal, lard them all throug^i, and pot 
them into a saucepan with some white stock, 
and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace 
and pepper. Stew tliem gently an hour and 
a half; take them out, strain the gravy, and 
take off all the fot; boil it up quickly, lay in 
tlie fricandeau, and stew them till the liquor 
becomes like a brown jelly ; take care they 
do not burn. Scald in boiling water three 
handfuls of sorrel, chop it, take out the meat, 
and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and 
serve the fricandeau upon it. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (8) Chopveiv 
finely one pound of the lean of a loin of veal, 
and half a pound of the kidney fot; season 
it with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, the 
juice of one lemon, and a finely-shred an- 
cliovy. Soak, in boilii^ milk, two rusks, 
or biscuits, and mix it all well together; 
make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry 
them of a light brown, in butter, then stew 
them in boine highly-seasoned gravy, dish 
them carefully, and strain the gravy over 
them. Garnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (4) Take the 
round or part of the round of a fillet, firy it 
in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cut 
in slices, and a little garlic, then set it to 
stew in some very rich gravy or cnllis: when 
tender, take it out, thicken the gravy with 
flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve 
this sauce over tiie veal. 

VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remains 
of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, 
round pieces ; dip these into a good batter, 
and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When 
done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve 
them, 

VEAL, HASHED OR MINCED. To 

make a te^h cut tiie meat into slices;  ^to 
[H^pare minced veal, mince it as fine as 
possible (do not chop it) ; put it into a stew- 
pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or mutton 
broth, or make some with the bones and 
tt'immingB, as ordered for veal cutlets, a little 
lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream; thicken with butter and flour, and 
season it with salt, a table-spoonful of lemcm 
pickle, or Basil wine, or a pinch of curry 
powder. 

If you have no cream, beat up the yolks 
of a couple of eggs with a little milk: line 
the dish with sippets of ligiitly toasted bread. 

Minced veal makeb a very pretty dish put 
into scollop shells, and bread crumbed ovar 



VEAL 



334 



TCIL 



and sprinkled with a little butter, and brown- 
ed in a Dutch oven, or a cheeBe>toa8ter. 

VEAL, KEBOBBED. CM into thin 
bits the size of a crown-piece some lean veal ; 
season them with tumeric, pepper, and sah. 
Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic: 
pot the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, 
together with thin bits of pickled pork. Frv 
them brown with bult^, and garnish with 
plenty of fried parsley. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, RAGOUT. Cnt 
m knuckle of veal into slices about half an 
inch tliick; pepper, salt, and flour them; 
fiy theni a light brown ; pot the trimmings 
into a stewpan, with the bone broke in sev- 
eral places ; an onion sliced, a head of cele- 
ry, a bunch of sweet lierbs, and tvo blades 
of bruised mace: potur in warm water enough 
to cover them about an inch ; cover the pot 
close, and let it stew very gently for a couple 
of hours; strain it, and then thicken it with 
flour and butler ; put in a spoonful of ketch- 
up, a fflass of wine, and juice of half a lemon ; 
give It a- boil up, and strain into a clean 
^ siewpan; put in the meat, make it hot, 
and serve up. 

Ofrs. If celery is not to be had, use n 
carrot instead or flavor it with celery seed. 

VEAL KNUCKLE, STEWED WITH 
RICE. As boiled knuckle of veal cold is 
not a very fevorite relish with tlie generality, 
cut off some steaks from it, wiiich you may 
draw as in the foregoing receipt, and leave 
the knuekle no larger than will be eaten tlie 
day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, 
wtuh it clean, and put it in a large stewpan 
with two quarts of waUer, an onion, two 
bkdes of mace, and a tea*|)oooful of salt: 
set it on a quick fire ; wlien it boils, take 
off all the scum. Wash and pick a quarter 
of a pound of rice; put it into the stewpan 
with the meat, and let it stew very gently 
lor about two hours: put the meat, &c. in a 
deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up 
bacon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely 
minced parsley and butter. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, SOUP. A knuckle 
of veal f^ six pounds, weight, will make a 
kuve tureen of excellent soup, and is thus 
easily prepared: cot half a pound of baccn 
into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at 
the bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep stewpan, 
and on tliis place the knuckle of veal, having 
first chopped the bone in two or three places ; 
finmish it with two carrots, two turnips, a 
head of celery, two large onions, with two 
or thiiee cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen 
corns of black, and the game of Jamaica 
pepper, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, 
winter savory, and parsley. Just cover the 



meat widi oold water, and set iCoers^p&iE 
fire till it boils ; having skitmned it wdl, 
remove your soup-kettle to the side of tl 
fire ; let ii stew very gently till h is v/am 
tender, t. e. about four hours ; then take Ml 
the bacon and veal, strain the soup, aad set 
it by in a cool place till you want it, whia 
you must take off the Ut trosa tlie sorftce of 
your lk)uor, and decant it (keeping back the 
settlings at the bottom) into a clean pan. 

If you like a thickened soitp* pet three ta* 
ble-spoonfuls of the fiit.voo have taken off thy 
soup into a small steivpan, and mix it with 
four table-spooiifitls of floiir^ pour a fcidiefiif 
of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by de* 
grecs, and boil it np till it is sroootli* 

Cut the meat and gristle of the knodtle 
and tlie bacon into mnuthfiib, and put tfaeas 
into the soup, and let them get waiin 

You may make this more savory by ad* 
ding ketchup, &c. Shin of beef may be 
dremed in the same way ; see Knnrkfe eC 
Veal stewed with Rice. 

VEAL T^G IN SURPRISE. Lai4 

the veal with slips of barxm, and a Utilt 
lemon-peel cut very tliin ; make stuffing the 
same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it 
half a pint of oysters chopped small, aad 
stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew 
with just sulficient water to cover it; let it 
stew very gently till quite tender ; then lake 
it up; skim off the &t from the liqinr, 
and add some lenoo-juice, some modhraom 
ketchup, the cnunbof a roll grated fine, hdf 
a pint of oysters, a pint of ci-cam and a fait 
of butter rolled in fiour; let this sauce tlm^ 
en over the fire, and serve it over the veal; 
garnish tlie dish with oysters, dipped ifc 
butter, and fi-ied, and thin aKcce of toMlBA 
bacon. 

VEAL, MINCED. Cut thin slices eC 
lean cokl veal ; mince thm very finely villi 
a knife, and season with pepper, salt, g^ted 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; put it into asnne- 
pan, with a little white stock or watery a 
table-spoonful of lemoo pickle, and a Itlla 
mushroom powder. Simmer, bat da wA In 
it boil ; add a bit of butter rolled in ftoar, 
and a little milk or cream; nut all nmd 
tlie dish thin sippetB of breaa cut iolo a 
three-cornered shape; or cover the 
thickly with grated bread, aca a oi ie c 
pepper, sah, and a little butter, and 
it with a salamander; or serve with 
egga laid upon tlie top. 

VEAL OLIVES. Cut tfaio sliceaeffa 
fillet, and flatten them with a roller; aeaM 
them highly with pepper, mace, salt, aai 
grated lemon-peel ; put a bit of &t into eadl 
roll, and tie them with a thread. Fry th(0 
of a light brown, and stew them in ssai 




TAL 



335 



VEAL 



fltock with two doiM of fried oytHen, 
a glaw of white wine, a tabie-flpooiuul of 
lemon pickle and some flmall nunhrooiiis. 
Stew Uiem nearly ao hour; teke off the 
threads before serving. 

Beef olives may be dreand in the same 
way. 

VEAL PATTIES. Mince some under- 
done veal with a little parsley, one or two 
sage leaves, a very little onion; season with 
grated lemon-peel, nntin^, pepper, and salt ; 
add some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten 
it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put 
it into the patties. 

VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Qiop 
dbout six ounces of ready-dressed lean veal, 
and Uiree ounces of ham very small ; pot it 
into a stewpon with an oimoe of butter roll- 
ed into flour, half a gill of cream ; half a 
ciU of veal stock ; a little grated nutmeg and 
femon-peel, some cayenne pepper and salt, a 
spoonfiji of essence of ham and lemon-juic;e, 
and stir it over the fire sometime, taking 
care it does not bum. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take two 
pounds of veal cutlets, cirt them in middling- 
siied pieces, season with pepper imd a very 
little salt ; likewise ona- of raw or dressocl 
bam cut in slices, lay it alternately in tlic 
dieh, and put some forced or saiaage meat 
at the top, with some stewed button mush- 
rooms, and the yolks of three eggs boiled 
hard, and a gill of water ; then proceed as 
with rump-stpak pie. 

N. B.  ^The best end of a neck is the fine 
part for a pie, cut into chops, and the chine 
bcme taken away. 

VEAL PIE. (!) Cut a neck of veal into 
Mat steaks, season them well with white 
jitepiper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mix- 
ed; pack them ckisely into a dish, and put 
IB half a pint of white stock ; five hard-boil- 
ed yolks of cm may be added ; pot puff 
parte on the edge of toe dish, and cover with 
Iha same. Lambs' tails may be amde into a 
pie, with lamb chops seaaooed in the same 
njamifir as the above. 

VEAL PIE. (2) Cot into steaks a 
lain or hveati (rf" veal, season them highly 
with pepper, salt, stated nutmeg, mace, and 
a little lemon-peel mbced; lay them into 
the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices 
of sweetbreads seasoned with the spices; 
add some oyeien, forcemeat balls, and hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, half a pint of white 
toek, a glass of white wine, and a table- 

rnful of lemon pickle ; put puff paste on 
edge of the aish, and cover with the 
i; bake it for one hour. 



VEAL PIE. (8) Chop, but not voy 
small, the meat of a cokl lorn of veal, season 
it with minced paraley, pepper, sah, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg; add rather more 
than half a pint of stock made with the 
bones, thickened with a bit of butter rolled 
in floor, and seasoned with a tea-epooofol 
of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonfiil of 
white wine ; make a paste of the fat of the 
loin, and an equal quantity of flour, rub it 
togetiier, and mix with it a little cold water, 
roll it out two or three times, line the sides 
of the dish, pot in the meat, and cover it. 

VEAL PIE, SOLID. Stew in veal 
stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a 
jeUy, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the 
grblies adhering to it ; let it cool, and then 
pull tlie meat and gristles into small bits; 
butter a pie dish or shape, and lay at r^lar 
distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
and some of die white part cut into rmgt 
or Bti'ips; tlien put over some bits of the 
meat and gristle, ' and strew over it scmie 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, and 
a little of the gravy, and then more ^gs, 
with small bits of beet root, green pickies 
and the red part of a carrot cut to fiucy; 
add more meal seasoning, and all the gravy ; 
wlien the sliape is full, pot it into an ovee 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold 
turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a 
glazed appearance, and the variety of cd* 
ors look well by candle light. 

VEAL, POTTED. Cut slices off a W 
of veal, and season then widi pepper, poumC* 
ed mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slicet 
of fro^ hqtter between each layw of meat 
into a potting pan or jar; cover it cloedlyy 
and bake it with bread. When it iis cold, 
pound tlie meat in a marble mortar, pack it 
closely into a jar, and poor clarified butter 
over It. 

VEAL, COLD, AN EXCELLENT 
RAGOUT. Either a neck, bin, or fillet of 
veal, will fumisli this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the veal into liandsome cutlets ; pot 
a pieoe of butter or clean dripfMng into a 
frying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, mor and 
fry the veal of a light brown: take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, make some 
as directed under sauces, or put a pint of 
boiling water into tlie frying-pan, |rive it a 
boil up for a minute, and strain it into a 
basin while you make some thickening is 
the following manner: put about an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan ; as soon as it meks^ 
mix with it as much flour as will dry it Up; 
stu' it over the fire for a few minutes, and 
gradually add to it the gravy you made in 
the frying-pan; let them simmer together 



VEAL 



336 



YEG 



lor tn minotei (till thofougbly incorporat- 
ed) ; enMNi it with pepper, salt, a little 
DMce, and a wine-glaii^l of mahroom 
ketchup or wine ; atrain it throush a tamis 
to the meat, and ttew very genUy till the 
meat is tboroiifffaly warmed. If you have 
any ready-boiled bacon, cut it in slices, and 
put it in u> warm with the meat. 

VEAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of 
veal, and spread over it a rich and highly- 
eeasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled 
eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay 
them in rows, with green pickles between 
each row. Roll up the veal tightly, and 
tew it ; then put it into a cloth, and bind it 
with tape. Lay a slice of ham over it, and 
put it into a saucepan, tc^etber with eome 
strong stock, and a little whole pepper, and 
ntew It for three hours. Make a rich gra- 
vy, and boil it up with a little white wine 
and lemon-juice or lemon-pickle; pour it 
over the veal ; add some egg and forcemeat 
balls, and garnish with cut green pickles. 
Thi j dish is very good when cold. 

yAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quan- 
tities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful 
of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar, and season well with pepper and 
Mlt ; when wanted for use, roll and fry it, 
and B&me either with fried sippets, or on 
tewed vegetables, w white collops. 

VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a 
fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and give them a 
few turns in a little butlei:, with a bay leaf. 
Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a very 
thin slice of bacon, and on it one o( the 
alioes of veal, and continue to lay them in 
alternately^ until the whole are used, then 
add a glass of water and some bay leaves ; 
close Uie saucepan very tight, first putting 
a slieet of pap^ over the meat ; stew it on 
hot ashes for four or five hoars; take care 
fo keep the fire up to the same point aJl the 
time. 

VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and 
some lean ham into pieces, put them into 
a saucepan, with a quart of water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celeiy ; 
stew them down till nearly done, but do not 
let it color ; then add a sufficient quantity 
of beef stock to cover the ingi'edients, and 
let it boil for an hour; skim off all the fat, 
and strain it ; a little game slewed down 
with the above will greatly improve the fla- 
yor ; be particularly careful that it does not 
bum. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 
Trim off tiie tough part, and blanch for diree 



minoleB in a stewpan of water, widi a lit 
salt, three heart sweetbreads, then takedieai 
out, and pat them into a basin of eoki waier 
till cool ; have an ^g beat op in a didi^siMae 
bread crumbs, and clarified butter, nn a 
skewer through die sweetbreads, and festea 
them on tlie spit ; egg them all over, shake 
some bread crumbs over, (ben sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread crumbs 
again ; put them down to roast again for a 
quarter of an hoar, tiien take them off ths 
skewo*, and serve them on a dish over a littb 
butter sauce, mixed with a spocmfiil of gravy, 
a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemoa- 
jiiice; let it oe hot, but not boiling, and 
thorouglily well mixed before it is served 
under the sweetbreads. 

VEGETABLES. There is nothing ia 
which the diflerance between an elegant and 
an ordinary table is more seen than in ths 
dressing of vegetables, more especially greens. 
They may be equally as fine at first, at one 
place as at another; but their look and 
taste are afterward very difierenl., entirdj 
from the careless way in which they have 
been cooked. 

Tliey are in greatest perfectJon when in 
greatest plenty, t. e. when in fiiU season. 

By season, I do not mean those earty days, 
diat luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the 
sellers, force the vegetables; bat that time 
of die year in whrch by nature 'tend oommon 
culture, and the mere operation of the son 
and climate, they are in most plenty and 
perfection. 

As to the quality of vegetables, the middls 
size are preferred to the mrgest or the smafl- 
est; tliey are more tender, juicy, and fbO 
of flavor, just before tliev are quite fiiU-growa. 
Freshness is their chief value and excellence, 
and I should as soon think of roasting an 
animal alive, as of boiling a v^fetabie after 
it is dead. 

The eye easily discovov if th^ have been 
kept too long; they soon hot their beauty ia 
all respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, &e.> and the varioos 
productions of (be garden, when firrt gather- 
ed, are plump and firm, wad have a firagrant 
freshness no att can give them again, wlien 
they have lost it by k>ng keeping ; though it 
will refresh them a little to put them inte 
cokl ^ring water for sometime before they 
are dressed. 

To boil them in soft water wiH presene 
the color best of such as are green ; if }-<m 
have only hard water, pat to it a tea-spoon- 
ful of cmrbonate ofpotMh. 

Take care to wash and cleanse tlwfl 
thorou^ly from dust, dirt, and insects: (hii 
re(|nire8 great attention. Pick off alt (hs 
outside leaves, trim them nicely, and, if Mt 
quite fi-eh gatheied and have become flacdd. 



V0 



SS7 



VE6 



it w absolutely iwoeBnry to restore tbeir 

crispness before cooking theoii or they will 
be tough and on pleasant: lav them in a pan 
of clean water, with a handful of salt in it, 
fcr an liour before yon dress tliem. 

They should always be boiled in a sauce- 
pan by themselves, and have plenty of water ; 
if meat is boiled with them in the same pot, 
tfa^ will spoil tlie look and taste of each other. 

If you wish to have vegetables delicately 
clean, put on your pot, make it boil, put a 
little salt in it, and skim it perfectly clean 
before you put in the greens, &c. ; which 
diould not be [Mit in till the water boils brisk- 
ly: the quicker they boil, the greener they 
will be. When the vegetiibles sink, they are 
generally done enough, if the water has oeen 
kept constantly boiling. Take tiiem up im- 
mediately, or they will lose their color and 
goodness. Drain tlie water from them 
thoroughly before you send them to table. 

This branch of cookery requires the most 
vi^lant attention. 

If vegetables are a minute or two too long 
over the fire, they lose all tlieir beauty and 
flavor. 

If not thoroughly boiled tender, tliey are 
tremendously indigestible, and much more 
troublesome during their residence in the 
^omach, than under-done meats. 

Once for all, take care your vegetables 
are fresh : for as die fishmonger often suffers 
for the sins of die cook, so the cook often 
ge& undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green -grocer. 

Strong-scented vegetables should be kept 
apart; leeks, or celery, laid among cauli- 
flowers, &cc. will quickly spoil tliem. 

Succulent vegetables are best preserved in 
a cool, shady, and damp place. 

Potatoes, turnips, carrots, and similar 
roots, intended to ue stored up, should never 
be cleaned from the earth adhering to them, 
tin tliey are to be dressed. 

Tbey must be protected from the action 
of the air and frost, by laying them in heaps, 
borying them in sand or earth, &c., or cov- 
ering them with straw or mats. 

When vegetables are quite fresh gathered, 
they will not require so much boiling, by at 
least a third of the time, as when they have 
been gathered the usual time of those that 
are brought to public markets. 

Vegetables are always best when newly 
gathered, and should be brought in from the 
garden early in tlie morning ; they will then 
have a fragrant fresliness, which they lose by 
i^eeping. 

They must be cleaned with the greatest 
care, tlie outside leaves of every description 
of greens removed, and they, and all otlier 
vegetables, more particularly when not re- 
cently gathered, slioukl be kid for several 
liouFB 10 cold water, and well shakeo to 



throw out tbe imecta. A tea^poonful af 
salt should alwaj-s be put into tbe water in 
which tliey are to be boiled, and if it is hard, 
a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or potash, 
may be added to preserve the green oobr of 
the vegetables. 

All vegetables should be boiled quickly, 
and, with tlie exception of spinach, in ao 
open vessel, skimming tliem carefully. 

Kitchen greens should be kept in a cool 
and shady puce. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
and beet root sliouki be stored up, without 
being cleaned fi*om the eartii adhering to 
them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and 
covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and 
skirrets not being injured by frost, are gen- 
erally leA in tlie ground, and taken up aa 
wanted. Onions are stored in a warm, dry 
place, never in a cellar; diey are sometimes 
strung in bunches, and suspended from the 
roof, and, more effectually to prevent their 
growing, some people select the finest bulbsy 
and singe the roots with a hot iron. 

Herbs of all sorts sliould be gathered when 
in flower, and on a dry day, and bein^ well 
cleaned from dust and dirt, tliey are tied up 
in small bunches, and dried before the Are in 
a Dutch oven. They may then be kept in 
paper bags labelled ; or rubbed to a powder, 
sifted, and put into bottles. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. The fla- 
vor of the various sweet and savory herbs 
may be obtained by combining their essen- 
tial oils with rectined spirit of wine, in the 
proportion of one drachm of the former to 
two ounces of the latter, or by picking the 
leaves, and laying them for a couple of 
hours in a warm place to dry, and then filk 
ing a lai^e-mouthed bottle with them, and! 
poui*ing on them wine, brandy, proof spirit,^ 
or vinegar, and letting them steep for four-* 
teen days 

VEGETABLE MARROW, Is fit for 
use when about the size of a turkey's eg^^ 
AAer being waslied clean, it is put on m 
boiling water, with a little salt, and when 
tender, it is drained from tlie water, cut into 
half, and served on toasted bread, over 
which some melted butter has been poured. 
Or, after being boiled in milk and wafio'^ 
tliey may be fricasseed as Jerusalem arti-^ 
chokes, or stewed like cucumbers. 

VEGETABLES STEW. Pick and 
wash very clean as much spinach as will 
make a dish ; mince finely three small on^ 
ions, pick and chop two handfuls of parsley ;. 
put all into a saucepan, with rather more 
than half a pint of ^avy, a bit of butter 
dusted with flour, a little salt and |)epper, 
CJover the pan closely, stir it now and then,^ 
1 and when the spinach is tender, iqaBb it 



EH 



VEH 



wwrth, nre it with dioM of tmiled ham, 
rwith 



VELOUTE. Take the cutting! and re- 
inains of any joints of veal and fowl yoo 
nay have in the house, of which take four 
pounds, and put into a large stewpan, with 
oiue carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, 
three bay-leaves, three cloves, and  ladle- 
iul of stock; put your stewpan on b fierce 
re, skim it well, and take care that the 
meal does not stidi; when sufficiently re- 
^luced, add as much stock as will nearly fill 
the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, 
kim it, and then put it on the side <^ the 
fire to simmer for two hours; after wliich 
atrain it through a tammy. Make a white 
roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few 
champignons, then pour on it, a little at a 
time, tte above liquor; let it boil up once, 
kim it, and set it again by tlie side of die 
fire for an hour and a half: take off all the 
fill, strain it again, and then put it by for 
use. Take care that the veloute is not in 
the least colored, as, the whiter it is the 
Jbetter. 

VENISON. The choice of venison 
should be regulated tw the appearance of 
the &t, which, when the venison is young, 
looks thick, clear, and ckise ; ais it oegins 
to change first towards the haunciies, run a 
knife into that part; if tainted you will 
perceive a rank smell, and it wiu have a 
green or blackish appearance. 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by 
carefiil management and watching, keep it 
for a fortnight by the following method: wash 
it well with milk and water very clean, and 
dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not 
the least damp remaining, then dust pound- 
ed ginger over every part ; this is a good 
preventive afainst the fiy. Wh&a to be 
dressed, warn it with a little lukewarm 
water, and dry it. Pepper should also be 
added to keep it. 

VENISON COLLOPS. These are 
dressed in the same manner as mince col- 
hips of beef, only that, in fdaoe of the sea- 
Niing of the coUope of beef, they have a 
little pepper, salt, aisd some Port wine. 

VENISON, HASHED. (1) If you have 
enough of its own gravy left, it is preferable 
to any to warm it up m: if not, take some 
of the mutton gravy, or the bones and trim- 
nings o( the joint (after you have cut off all 
die handsome slices you can to make the 
hash) ; put these into some water, and stew 
them gently for an hour ; then put some but- 
ter into a stewpan ; when melted, put to it 
ap much floor as will dry up the butter, and 
< it well together; add tP it by^^pnae^ 



the gravy yon have been inakin|r of die triui- 
mings, and some red currant jelty ; give it a 
boil up; diim it; strain it throush a sieve, 
md it IB ready to receive the venison: put it 
in, and let it just get warm: if you let it 
boil, it will make the meat hard. 

VENISON, HASHED. (2) Warm it 
in its own gravy ; if there is no lat left, take 
some slices of mutton fet, set it on the fire 
with a little Port wine and ragar, and let it 
sinuner till diy ; then add it to the hash. 

VENISON, HASHED. (3) Take some 

anchovies, boil them till they are dissolved, 
then add some oysters with their liquor, a 
little milk, some red wine, and a little ketch- 
up; put in your venison, let it warm in this, 
but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried 
sippets, and the sauce &c. over it. 

VENISON, MOCK. Hang up, for 
several days, a large fet loin of mutton ; then 
bone it, and take off all tlie kidney fat, and 
the skin from the upper fiit; mix together 
two ounces of brown sugar, and one ounce 
of ground black pepper. Rub it well into 
the mutton ; pour over it two or three wine- 
glasses of Port wine; keep it covered with 
the skin ; rub and tmn it daily for five days. 
When to be roasted, cover it with the skin, 
and paper it the same way as venison is 
done. Serve it with made gravy, and the 
same sauces as for venison. 

VENISON PASTY. (1) Oit a neck or 
breast into small steaks, rub them over with 
a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; frv them slightly in butter; 
line the sides and e3ees of a dish with puff 
paste, lay in the steaks, and add half a pint 
of rich gravy made with the trimmings of 
the venison ; add a glass of Port wine, and 
the juice of half a lemon, or tea-cpoonful of 
vinegar; cover the dish with pufiT paste, and 
bake it nearly two hours ; some more gravy 
may be poured into the pie before sorving it. 

VENISON PASTY. (2) Take a neck, 
shoukler, or breast of venison, that has not 
hung too lon^ ; bone them, trim off all the 
skin, and cut it into pieces two inches square, 
and put them into a stewpan, with three 
gills of Port wine, two onions, or a few 
eschalots sliced; some pef^ier, salt, dunes 
blades of mace, about a dozen all^ice, and 
enough veal broth to cover it ; put it over a 
sk)w fire, and let it stew till three parts done; 
put the trimmings into another saucepan, 
cover it with water, and s^ it on a fife. 
Take out tlie pieces you intend for theptutr, 
and put tliem into a deep dish with a liltli 
of their liquor, and set it fay to cool; tlM 
add the remainder of the lk|iior lo the boM 



VSR 



239 



rtn 



Mad trifluniiigs, and \ii it till the pasty is 
ready ; then cover the pasty witli paste, orna- 
ment the t<^, and bake it for two houiis in a 
alow oven; and before it is sent to table, 
pour in a sauce made with the gravy the 
veuison was stewed in, strained and skimmed 
free from (at; some pepper, salt, half a giii 
of Port, the juice of half a lemon, and a little 
flour and butter to thicken it. 

VENISON PIE OR PASTY. All 
kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties 
mtist be hisfaly spiced when served hot, and 
still more hignly spiced when served cold ; 
but the seasoning must be regulated by judg- 
ment and taste. Take one or two breasts 
of venison, (according to tlie size yoti wish 
to make your pie or pasty), bone it thorough- 
ly, beat it verv flat, and lard it tbrougli and 
through with larduns, well seasoned with all 
sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chop- 
ped ; Hill it up as tight as possible, and tie 
It up with strong twine. Put into a stewpan 
the bones and trimmings of the venison, with 
carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
tiiyme, bay-leaf, pepper-corns, and allspice, 
and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with 
equal quantities of beef or mutton braise, and 
water, which let boil very gently till done, 
then put in the roll of venison ; put paper on 
the top, cover very close, and let it stew 
gently with fire over and under. When 
sufficiently done, take it off the fire, and let 
it stand in the liquor until nearly cold ; ,then 
prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to 
one pound of Uitter, the same as for raised 
pie, but instead of making it stiff, mix it as 
soft as possible; lay part of tliis paste as 
thick as you well can round the edge of the 
dish; cut off the twine from tlie venison, 
skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some 
of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on the 
cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in 
the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in 
a moderate oven for three or four hours; 
reduce the remainder of the liquor it was 
stewed in, and when the pie is baked, pour 
it in ; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely 
be made too diiok. 

VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S. Blanch 
about a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in 
boiling water, drain it, and throw it into 
some rich well-seasoned stock; when tender, 
take it out of the soup, and put it into the 
tureen; thicken the soup with eight well- 
beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream, 
and pour it, when quite hot, upon the ver- 
micelli. 

VERMICELLI IN MILK. Boil the 
^pianti^ of milk you may require, and put 
into it half a pound of vermicelli peeled, and 
a sufficient quantity of sugar ; stir it frequent- 



ly that the vemioelli may not ibfw a pntm 
half an hour will be long enough to>boil it. 
A little almond milk may be added when 
ready for table#' 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (1) Boil 
a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a 
liuie cinnamon, in a quart of milk; in the 
meantime mix a (|uarter of a pound of melt- 
ed butler with a pint of cream, and the yolks 
of four eggs; pour in the venmcelli when 
quite soft ; add a littte flour and beef mar- 
row, and powder sugar to tlie taste; beat all 
up for half an hour, tie it in a floured ckith, 
and boil it. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING, (2) Boil 
four ounces of vermicelli in a pint o( new 
milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two 
of cinnamon. Then add lialf a pint of thkk, 
cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, find the yolks 
of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the 
above in a dish and bake. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. Take as much 
good stoek as you require for your Uireen, 
strain, and set it on die fire, and when it 
boils, put in the va'iuicelli, and let it simmer 
for half an hour by a sk>w fire, that the ver- 
micelli may not Ijurst ; the soup ought not to 
be verv thick. Half a pound is sufficient 
for eight or ten persons. 

VINEGAR. This is an acid liquor, pre- 
pared by a second fermentation from various 
liquors, such as wine, cider, perrv, bear, 
mead*, skimmed milk, &c. But the most 
common method of making it, in England, 
is from malt, and the process is as follows: 
infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an 
hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. 
As soon as the infusion is sufficioitl^ cold, 
put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, mid 
leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a room 
heated with stoves, so that a moderate warmth 
may be kept up for six weeks, and the fer- 
mentation continue regularly. By the end 
of that time the whote will be completely 
soured, and must now be changed into other 
badrrels ; lay a tile on the Imng-holes to keep 
out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a 
fiiee circulation of air, and then place them 
in the open air for four or five months, ac- 
cording as the weather is warm or otherwise ; 
during the whole of this period, the fermenta* 
tion proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is 
nearly done. The next operation is this : the 
vinegar is poured into ]ai|;e vessels, called 
rapetuns, to which there are folse bottoms cov- 
ered with rape, that is, the refiise of raisins, 
or other firuit, firom which wine has beeo 
Boade; fill one of these tuns entire^ with 



VIN 



!240 



VI!^ 



tl mnenr, and another about three-fiNVtln 
foil, and every day take a portion of the 
liqiior ouCof the fuUest barrel, and put it into 
the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to 
be drawn off; wlien it must be closely bar- 
lellod* 

Vinegar may also be made in much smaller 
quantities for domestic purposes ; the mate- 
rials uf various kinds, with tlie addition of 
sugar; raisins, currants, and ripe goose- 
berries, however, are the principal; some- 
times it is made from brown sugar, and wa- 
ter alone. The proportions are the same as 
thtise necessary for sbnong wine; make the 
barrel about three-fourlhs full, add a toast 
covered sy'iih yeast, put in the bon^ very 
loosely, and place the barrel where it will 
be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, 
near the fire. Tlie fermentation should be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a 
boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle 
it. 

Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mixing 
with tlie latter its own flowers, or ferment, 
and its tartar reduced to powder, and put 
into a vinegar or any other cask; if the 
latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, 
full of the steam from vinegar; in either case 
the liquor should be stirred frequently; the 
eeoond fermentation will speedily commence; 
it will become heated, and turn acid by de- 
grees, and in a short time the vinegar will 
be produced. 

It is commonly supposed that wine which 
has become acid, will produce excellent vin- 
egar ; tliis, however, is a mistaken idea, for 
the stronger and better the quality of the 
wine, the stronger and better will be the 
vinegar. 

The French have several melliods of mak- 
ing vine^r, which are subjoined. 

The vmegar makers of Orleans pour the 
wine, of which they intend to make tlieir 
inc^r, into casks, at tlie bottoms of which 
are close grating of lime twigs; these serve 
to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to 
the twigs, leave the liquor perfectly clear. 
They- then procure a niunber of casks, each 
containing a hundred gallons, either new or 
which have previously contained vinegar; 
these are set upright, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, 
these are kept constantly open: the last men- 
tioned casks are called Mothers; pour into 
all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling 
in^ar; to this, in a week's time, add 
three gallons of wine, drawn fi-om the first 
mentioned casks; continue to add the wine, 
at intervals of a week, until the Mothers 
are quite full ; then leave them for a fortnight, 
and at the end of which period they generally 
draw off the vinegar, taking care always to 
Iqave the Mothers half fJl, at least, and 



then to fill them with wine aa before. He 
method of proving when the vinegar is fit fir 
use, is, by plungmg a stave into it; if ott 
taking it out, a white line iff peroepcibie oo 
the end of it, tlie vinegar is auite readhr. 
'file place where the casks are kept aiioald 
be very airy, and in the winter tinoe, by 
means of stoves' the temperature should be 
raised to eighteen degrees of Reaumar. 

Paris vinegar varies from the abuve, and 
the process is veiy simple. A large quanti^ 
of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and 
laid in tuljs, which are placed one npon an- 
other to form a kind of press ;. by means of 
a screw, every drop of wine is gradually 
sqiteezed from the lees; this operation cannot 
be performed in less time than a week. Tlie 
wine thus extracted is put into casks; in 
the headings a hole is made, as above, which 
holes are feft constantly open; in sommer 
time the casks so filled are placed in tlie sun, 
and, generally speaking, the vine^r is fit 
for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the 
fei*mentation will last double the time, and 
must be assisted by artificial warmth. It 
sometimes happens that the liquor heats to 
so great a degree that the hand cannot be 
borne in it; in this case, the progress of 
the fermentation must be checked by adding 
more wine, until it proceeds more regulariy. 
When the vinegar is made, put it into casks, 
which have the beech twigs at the botlom, 
as above mentioned ; let it 'remain a fort- 
night, by which time it will be sufficiently 
fermented to draw off into the casks for 
keeping it. 

Another very simple inetbod is also prao- 
ti:.ed in France; a few quarts are drawn 
from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and aa 
equal quantity of very clear wnite wine is 
put into the barrel, close the bang lightly, 
and keep it in a place where the heat is 
moderate and regular. In a month's time 
draw off tlie same quantity as above, and 
pour in an equal portion of white wine. A 
barrel qf good vin^;ar will thus afibrd a 
constant supply for a length of time witboot 
leaving the slightest deposit. 

A cask which has not contained yinenr 
before, should have a quart <^ boiliog not 
vinegar poured into it, shaken till cold, and 
allowed to stand for some hours. 

VINEGAR, BASIL. Sweet basil k m 
full perfection about the middle of Ausoal. 
Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the rah 
green leaves of basil (these give much finor 
and more flavor than the dried,) and oofver 
them with vinegar, or wine, and let them 
steep for ten days: if yoo wish a very atroqg 
essence, strain the liquor, put it on aooe 
fresh leaves, and let them stoqi fourteen daji 
more. 

Obs.  ^This is a very agreeable additiot 



VIM 



341 



TIN 



to Miees, napt and fodn niilara MiMily 
made mr flalads. 

It w a aecret tbe raaken of mock turtle 
may tliank ua for telliiw; a table-Npooofol 
{nt in wheo the soup is miiflhed will impi^* 
nate a tureen of aoup with the basil and acid 
flaviMrs, at very small cost, Hrhen freeh basil 
and lemons are extravagantly dear. 

The flavor of the other sweet and savoi-y 
her|, celoy, &g. may be procured, and pre- 
served in die same manner by infusing them 
in wine or vinegar. 

VINEGAR, AMERICAN. Boil six 

 lions of water, and add, while it is hot, 
nr quarts of molasses ; put it into a tub to 
cool; when milk warm, stir in a pint of 
firesli yeast; put it into the cask, and set it 
by tUe 6re for twenty-fuur hours ; then put 
it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-hole. 
Bottle it three months aftei'wards. 

VINEGAR, BURNET OR CUCUM- 
BER. This is made in precisely the same 
manner as directed almve. The flavor of 
bumet resembles cucumber so exactly, that 
when infused in vinegar, the nicest pahite 
would pi-onounce it to be cucumber. This 
is a very favorite relish with cold meat, sal- 
ads, &c 

VINEGAR, CAMP. Cayenne pepper, 
one drachm, avoirdupois Mreigbt. Soy, two 
table-poonfuis. Walnut ketchup, four d itto. 
Six anchovies chopped. A smaii clove of 
sarlic, minced fine. Steep all for a month 
va a pint of the best vin^ar, frequently shak- 
ing the bottle: strain through a tamis, and 
keep it m small bottles, corlusd as tightly as 
possible. 

VINEGAR, CHILI. This is commonly 
made with the foreign bird pej^r ; but you 
v^ll obtain a much finer fevor from infusing 
fifty fresh red English Chilies (cut in half, or 
pounded) in a pint of tbe Ijest vinegar for a 
fortnight, or a quarter c^ an ounce of cayenne 
jpepper. Many people cannot eat fish with- 
out tbe addition of an acid and cayenne 
pepper: to audi palates this will be an 
agreeable relish > 

VINEGAR, CRESS. Dry and pound 
lialf an ounce of cress-seed (such as is sown 
in the garden with.mustard,) pour upon it a 
quart of the best vinegar, let it steep ten 
days, flfaaking it up every day. This is very 
fltrongiy flavored with cress; and for sataos 
and cold meats, &c. it is a great fitvorite 
with many. 

Celery vinegar is made in the same 



VINEGAR, ELDER FLOWER AND 

21 



TARUAQON, Fil a <iaHrt bolda wift 
the flowers of ekier, or the Mnes of tarragon, 
when it is in flower; poor vtoenr imoa 
them, and let them inflise for a fortnWlit; 
then strain it through a flannel bag, and put 
it into small bottk. By the same means, 
vinegar may be flavored with the fisb gath- 
ered leaves of any sweet herfo. 

VINEGAR, GARLIC. Cut ^mall one 
ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nutnwff 
and three cbves, kteeo them in a <^art of 
vinej^ for a we^, ahaking it daily; then 
strain and bottle it. Shallot vin^ar is made 
in the same manner. 

VINEGAR, GOOSEBERRY. Gadier 
yellow goosebm-ies wlien quite ripe, crush 
and mash them well in a tub with a lai^ 
wooden pestle; to eveiy two gallons of 
gooseberries, after being mashed, put two of 
water; mix them well together; let it work 
for three weeks, stirring the mass two or 
three times each day; then strain the liquor 
through a hair sieve, and put to every gallon 
one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
treacle, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast ; 
let it work for three or four days in the same 
tub, which has been well washed ; then run 
it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand 
twelve months, and bottle it for use. This 
is a very strong vinegar. 

VINEGAR, HONEY. Half a pound 
of honey must be put to a pint of wa- 
ter, and the honey well dissolved. This 
mixture is then exposed to tlie greatest heat 
of the sun, without cloBing wholly the bung- 
hole of the cask, which must be merely cover- 
ed with coarse linen, to prevent the admission 
of insects. In alK>ut six weeks, the liquor 
becomes acid, and changes to a very strong 
vinegar, and of excellent quality. 

VINEGAR, HORSERADISH. Horse- 
radish is in highest perfection about Novem- 
ber. Pour a quart of best vinegar on three 
ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of 
minced eschalot, and one drachm of cay- 
enne ; let it stand a week, and you will have 
an excellent relish for cold beef, salads, &c. 
coeting scarcely any thing. A portion of 
black pepper and mustard, celery or cress- 
seed, may be added to the above. 

VINEGAR, RASPBERRY. The best 
way to make this, is to pour three pints of 
tbe best white wine vinegar on a pint and a 
half of fresh-gathered red raspberries in a 
stone jar, or china bowl (neither glazed 
earthenware, nor any metallic vessel, must 
be used ; ) the next day strain the liquor over 
a like quantity of fresh raspberries; and tha 
day following do the same. Then drain off 



VOL 



142 



the l^Bor withMit' pvewn^, and pas it 
througb a jeUjr^bog (previoiMly wetted with 
pbiR van!iir) into a tlooe jar, willi a pound 
of powNled lump nigur to each pint. Wlian 
the ni^r in diddolveii, iitir it up, cover down 
the jar, and set it in a saucepan of water, 
and keep boiling for an hoiM', taking off the 
cum ; add to eacli pint a glass of brandy, 
and Imttle it: mixed in nbout eight parts of 
water, it is a veiy reCreshing and delightful 
summer drink. An excellent cooling bever- 
age to assuage tiiirst in ardent fevers, colds, 
and inflarainntory complaints, &c. and is 
agreeable to most palates. 

VIXEGAIl FOR SALADS. Take of 
tarragnn, Kivory, chives, eschalots, thi-ee 
ounces each ; a handful of the tops of raidt 
and lialm, all dry and pounded; put into a 
wi<)e-mouthe(l bottle, with a gallon of best 
vinegar ; cork it close, set it in the son, and 
in a foitnight strain off, and squeeze the 
licrhs ; let it stand a day to settle, and tlien 
sti-ain it thi^ugh a filtering bag. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (1) Cut some coW 
turkey or veal into small thin slices, season 
it with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, 
pounded mace, stnd salt ; add one anchovy, 
some garlic and onion pounded, also a little 
good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 
one of white wine, and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour ; then make it quite hot, but 
do not alk>w it to boil, and seiTe it in tlie 
prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may be 
made with the bones, or a little cream, and 
the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted 
for tlie cream. 



VOL-AU-VENT. (2) In opening the 
oysters, separate them from the liquor, which 
must be strained ; take off the beards, and 
add to them the liquor, togetlier with some 
white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon- 
peel, pepper, and salt ; simmer them for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and a little before putting 
them into tiie vol-au*vent, pick out the lenKMi- 
|)eel, add atable^spoonfulof white wine, and 
three of good cream, and make it quite hot. 
To make oyster patties, when they are to be 
bearded, cut them into three or four bits, 
aud prepare them in the same manner. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (8) Roll off tart paste, 
tiU about the eighth of an inch thick: then, 
with a tin cutter made for that purpose 
(about the- size of the bottom of the aish you 
intend sending to table,) cot out the shape, 
and lay it on a baking-plate with paper; 
rub it over with yolk of vgg; roll out good 
puff paste an inch thick, stamp it with die 
name cutter, and lay it on the tart paste; 
then take a cotter two eizei Bmaller, and 



pimt k in the centre nearly tihroiiditlie paM 
paste; rub die top with yolk of egg, aadl 
bake it in a quick oven cdiout twenty miiiuieiy 
of a light brown color: when doiie, take oat 
the paste inside the centi% inai'k, preseniog 
I die top, put it on a dish in a warm pkioey 
and when wanted, fill it witli a white fric^ 
see of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweetbread^ 
or any other entree you wish. 

VOLDRON . Melt eleven ounces of freA 
butter in a brass pan, and wlien quite half 
add die same (|uantity of pounded loaf sugar, 
and eight well-beaten eggs; stir constantly 
for six or eight minutes, and put it into a 
disli; the following day, mix widi it a wine 
glass of orange-flower water; of citroo, 
orange, and lemon-peel, cut fine, half a 
pound ; butter a pudding dish, and lay into 
the bottom a sheet of white paper buttered^ 
then put in die voldron, and bake it for 
twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it 
with cut citron and orange-peel, and serve 
it in a silver or glass dish. 



W. 

WAFERS. Take a pint of good cream, 
half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of 
powder sugar, and two drachms of orange- 
flower water. Beat the ci^eam with the 
flour, a little at a time, until both are mixed 
perfclctly smooth and free from lumiis, thea 
add the other articles; and as much vaon 
cream as will make the paste nearly as thin 
as milk ; make the iron hot, dip a feadier in 
some melted butter, and mb the iron over 
with it; put on die iron about a spoonfid 
and a half of the paste, press them a little 
gently, and place the iron on a stove; open 
the iron a little frequently, to see if it be 
done ; when one side is baked, Uim the iron, 
and do the other. The wafers shookl only 
be lightly colored. Take them from tn 
mould carefully with a knife. 



WAFERS, GERMAN. Take 
teen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of 
good yeast, which make into a paste, wilk 
as much warm milk as will make it nm iiroB 
the spoon fineely, without being too clear; 
then put it into a warm place. When it fan 
risen well, add to it the yolks <^ fburteei 
^[gs well beaten, the whites whi}^ied tat 
snow, and the grated rind of two lemooK 
The whole being well mixed, poor over k 
seventeen ounces of fresh boUer melted, liit 
not too hot; stir it gently with a woodee 
spoon, and put the preparation again ii#* 
warm place to rise a second time; who ^ 
has risen sufficiendy, and your pan quite hot,  
rub the latter with butter, fill it with tte 



WAL 



843 



WAL 



pMCe^ set It over a brisk irt, aad fry yoir 
wafers; make boUi sides equally brown; 
when done, sfMrinkle theio with powder sugar 
(And einfi9ffii<Mi> if yod like), and serve them 
boC. Be carefol in taking out the paste to 
fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the 
tfpoon into the (M'eparation, when not usii^ 
it; the upper part of tlie paste shookl be 
taken off very eently, and the spoon laid 
across the top of the vessel ; if these precau- 
tions be not att^Mled to, the good appear- 
, anoe of the wafers will be destrc^ed. 

WAFERS, ITALIAN. Take eight 
eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a 
pound of fiour, six ounces of cream, the same 
of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the 
rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with 
the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, 
milk, and other materrals, by degrees; mix 
them well, and take care there are not the 
slightest lumps. Make the walors as di- 
rected. 

WALNUTS. Make a brine of salt and 
water, in the proportion of a quarter of a 
pound of salt to a quart of water ; put tlie 
walnuts into this to soak for a week ; or if 
yon wish to soften them so that tliey may 
be soon ready for eating, run a lardii^ 
pin through them in half a dozen places  
this will allow the pickle to penetrate, and 
they will be much softer, and of better fla- 
Yor, and i-eady much sooner than if not per- 
forated : put them into a stewpan with such 
brine, and give them a gentle simmer ; put 
tfaem on a sieve to drain ; then lay tliem on 
a fish plate, and let thehi stand in the air till 
diey turn black  ^this may take a couple of 
6ay9 ; put them into glass, or unglazed stone 
jars; fill these about tliree parts witli the 
walnuts, and fill them up with the following 
pickle. 

To each quart of the strongest vinegar put 
two ounces of Mack pq>per, one of ginger, 
same of eschalots, same of salt, half an ounce 
of allspice, and half a drachm of cayenne. 
Put these into a stone jar; cover it with a 
bladder, wetted with pickle, tie over that 
some leather, and set the jar on a trivet by 
the side of the fire for three days, shaking it 
up three times a day, and then pour it while 
hot to the walnuts, and cover them down with 
bladder wetted with the pickle, leather, &c. 

WALNUTS AND BUTTERNUTS. 
Gather them for pickHng when the head of 
a pin will pierce them easily ; run a large 
needle diroii^h them here and there, or score 
tbem on one side with a knife; jay them 
into a brine of salt-and-water for twelve 
days, changing the brine twice in that time; 
strain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle 
a little salt over tbem. Boil lour qinrts of 



Vioegar for a hundred walaatti, alkiwing 1 
each quart one oanoe of whoks- pepper, aad 
one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced 
nntooeg and whole allspice, a table-spoiMifid 
of mustard seed, and one of scraped horis- 
radish, one head of garlk, or a small oniod; 
pour it boiling hot over the nuts, and pot a 
plate on the jar; when cold, tie it dbeeif 
down. After tlie nuts are used, the liquor 
may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to uts 
as a pickle. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (1) Thorougb- 
ly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put. to them three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine via* 
egar; stir them every day for a fortnight; 
tlien strain and sqwseze the liquor from them 
through a cloth, and set it aside ; put to tlid 
husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand 
all night; then strain and squeeze them as 
before, adding the liquor which is obtained 
from tliem to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, 
half an ounce of ginger, and five drachms c 
mace, and boil it for half an hour; diea 
strain it off'from the spices, and bottle it for 
use. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (2) Take six 
lialf-sieves of green walnut-shells, put them 
into a tub, mix them up well with coinm<Mi 
salt, (from two to three pounds,) let them 
stand for six days, frequently beating and 
mashing them; by this time the shells be- 
come soft and pulpy ; then by banking it up 
on one side of the tub, and at the same time 
by raising tlie tub on that side, the liquor 
will drain cUsav off to the other; then taka 
chat liquor out: tlie mashing and banking* 
up may be repeated as often as liquor is 
found. The quantity will be about six 
quarts. Wlien done, let it be simmered ia 
an iron boiler as long as any scum arises ; 
then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a 
quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of 
long pepper, two ounces of cloves, with the 
above ingredients ; let it slowly boil for half 
an hour; when bottled, let an equal quantity 
(^ the spice go into each bottle; when cork- 
ed, let the bottles be filled quite up: cork 
them tight, ^eal them over, /md put them 
into a cool and dry place for one year beforo 
they are used. 

WALNUT KETCHUP, FOR FISH 
SAUCE. Take a quart of walnut pickle, 
add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies 
and three-quarters of a pint of red Port, aad 
kt it boil till reduced to one-third; tbaa 
strain it, and when cold, pot it into 
bottles, and keep them closely corked. 



WKL 



344 



WHI 



WALNUT PICXLE. Ptttanyqauiti- 
f? of the outside sheHi or grMh rinds of 
npe waioots into a tub id which there is m 
tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise 
the tub on one side, diat it may stand in a 
ilopii^ direction, phioe another vessel under 
it to receive the jeioe as it drops from the 
tap-hole; this it will soon bi^in to do; and, 
when a sufficient auantity has been obtained, 
to one gallon of this Mack liquor add two 
large table-spoonfiibpf salt, one terge Miioo, 
a stick of horseradish, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two bay leaves, a quarts <^ an ounce 
of black pepper, the same of allspice and (^ 
braised ginger. Boil it sbwiy for twentj^ 
minutes; strain it, and, when cok), stir it 
and bottfe it for use, puttii^ the spice into 
thebottksB. 

WALNUl'S, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the nuts before the inside shell is hard, whidi 
may be known by trying them with a pin; 
ky Uiem into salt and water nine aays, 
clianging the liquor eveir three days; then 
take them out, and dry liiem in the air on a 
sieve or mat; they should not touch each 
crther, and they should be turned, that every 
side may become black alike; tlieti put 
them into a jar. When half the nuts are 
in, put in an onion, with about thirty cloves 
stuck into it. and add the rest of the nuts. 
To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint 
of mustard seed, a quarter Of an ounce of 
mace, half an ounce of peppercorns, and 
sixty bay leaves ; boil all the spice in some 
good common vin^ar, and pour it boiling 
upon tlie nuts, observing that they are en- 
tirely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar 
with a clotli, and when cold, cover it with 
bladder or leather. In about six weeks 
they will be fit lor use, when they slionid lie 
examined, and if they have ausorbed the 
vinegar so mudi as to leave any of the nuts 
dry, more should be added, but it need not 
be boiled. 

WATER SOUCHY. Make a stock 
with three or four flounders, boiled in three 
quarts of water, two onions, and a bunch of 
parsley, till they are soft enough to pulp 
through a sieve with the li(]Uor they were 
boiled in ; tlien season it with pepper, salt, 
and soite parsley chopped, and boil in it a 
few floundered with tlie brown skin taki 
off, some nicely cleaned perch or tench. 
Swve in a tureen, and with slices of bread 
and butter to eat with it 

WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off 
a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in 
two, butter it, ajod lay upon each half a thin 
slice of cheese which has been toasted in a 
Dutch oven; if, when put upon the toast, it' 
is not suflicie n tly browned, hoki a salaman- 



der^ 01* hot shs^raly ow lbs top* 
very hot* 



Bwv il 



WHEY. (1) Make a port of mUk boa; 
put to it a ^kns or two of wWte wine; pot iC 
on thefire till it just boils again; then set itoi 
one side till the curd has settled ; poor off 
the dear wb^, and sweeten it as yon Ifte. 

Cider is often siAetitnted for wine, cr 
half the quantity of vinegar that we have 
ordered wine. When tlKre is no fare m 
the sick room, this may be pot hot into a 
bottle, and laid between the bed and mat- 
tress; it will keep warm several boors. 

WHEY. (2) Pot a very sraaU portiaa 
of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it 
stand by tlie side of the fire until tamed; 
then serve it in a dish, widi sugar and a 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or 
strain the nqoor carefiilly iitwi the cuid, 
and serve quite clear. 

WHEY, WHITE WINE. BoO a 
pint of milk, and when it rises in the pan, 
pour in one glass of dierry and one of cur> 
rant wine ; let it a^in boil up, take it off 
tlie fire, and, when, it has stood a few mia- 
utes, remove the Ourd, poor off the clev 
whey, and sweetra it. 

WHIM WHAM. Svreeten a quart </ 
cream, and mix with i^ a tea*copfol <^ while 
wine, and the gi-ated peel of a lemon ; whisk 
it to a fi'oth, whidi drain upon the back of a 
sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish; 
cut some Naples biscuit as thin as poesiUe^ 
and put a layer lightly over the iiotb, and 
one of red currant jelly, tli^i a layer of the 
froth, and one of the buscuit and jelly; finidi 
with the froth, and pour the remainder of the 
p^eaminto the dish, and garnish with citron 
and candied orange-peel cot into straws. 

WHITE BEET, LEAVES. Pick mid 
wash them clean, *pot thooa on in boiling 
water with a little salt, cover the saucepan, 
and boil them bnger than spinadi ; drain off 
the water, and b^t them as qjinadi, with a 
bit of butter and a little saft. 

WHITINGS. In chooslnff whitings, be 
careful that the skin has a silvery appear* 
ance, that the body is firm, and the te 
stiff; tliese are sure proc^ of its fii^ 
nesB. 

WHITINGS, ENGLISH WAY. P 

into a saucepan two spoonfuls <^ oil, half t 
lemon sliced (the pips and rind token off)i 
salt, and pepper, two rlasses of white wiae^ 
the same of water, and let them boil nesHf 
a quarter of an hoiir; then pot the wfaitisp, 
properly cleaned, eook than in the abov^ 



WHl 



345 



woo 



Uueb m elovie of piarlic, vad beat it with 
the bock of a kaife, pot it with panJey, 
riiallotB, and two gbnes of chanyagae, into 
9l Blewpon ; let it boil five minutes, then add 
aoBW butter, rolled in flour; salt, and pepper; 
Mir it over the ire till smooth, then serve. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (1) Take as many 
whiting as yoa may require; cleanse, scale, 
and wipe them dry ; then run them through 
the eyes with a skewer, soak than well m 
milk ; floiv, and fry them of a nice cobr. 
Serve them on a napkin. 

WHITINOS, FRIED. (2) Skin them, 
preserve the liver, and fasten their tails to 
their mouths; dip them in egg, then in 
bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lard, or 
split them, and fry ttuem like Allets of soles. 
A three<qoart stewpsm, half full of fat, is the 
best utensil to fry whitings. They will be 
done eoou^ in about five minutes; but it 
will sometimes require a quarter of an hour, 
to drain the fat from them and dry th^n (if 
the fiit you put them into was not hot enough), 
taming thiem now and then with a fish- 



WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make 
a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the heads and 
fins of four or five haddocks, three or four 
onions, some parsley, a little cayenne, black 
pepper and salt, tlie juice of a lemon, half 
the peel, a taUe-spoonfiil of ketchup, half a 
|Hnt of white wine, and two quarts of water ; 
imnier them for an hour, strain, and pot to 
it the meat of a lobster or crab minced, and 
forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint 
of cream, the yolks of three eggs biten, and 
a pint of butter kneaded iu flour. Have 
ready boiled three haddocks skinned and 
witBout their heads, pour the saooe over 
them in a deep dish. Make the forcemeat 
balls of a small boiled haddock finefy minc- 
ed, grated bread crumbs, buttr, pepper, 
alt, grated nutmrar, and parsley; bind them 
with the whites or two eggs beiten, and fry 
them in fresh lard of a light brown. 

WHITE POT. Beat up the yolks of 
eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two 
quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a 
antmeg, grated, and a qoartor of a pound 
of sugar; cut^a small roll into very thin 
iUoes, lay them in a dish, and pour the 
milk, &c. over them; pot a bit of butter on 
the top, and set it in tlw oven; it wiU take 
half an hour baking. 

WHITE ROUX, or WhiU ThiekMing 
for Sauces and Made DUkee, Melt 
sradnally, over a slow fire, a good piece of 
ootter, and dredge in a sufficiency of flour to 
Mke it like -a thin paste; keep stirring it 

21 



Sir a VBktier of an hour, and thai pot it iaio 
a anatt jar to be kept Air Me. 

WHITE SAUCE. See BeehameL 

WIDGEONS AND TEAL, Aiedraesed 
exactly as the wild duck; only that less time 
is reouisite for a widgeon, and still lev for 
a teal. 

WILD DUCKS. For njasting a wiU 
duck, you must have a dear, brisk fire, and 
a hot spit ; it must be browned upon the out- 
side, without being sodden within. To have 
it well frothed and full of ^vy is the nicety. 
Prepare tlie fire Iw rtimng and raking it 
just befcMie the bird is laid down, and fifteen 
or twenty minutes will do it in the fashion- 
able wav; but if you Uke it a little more 
d(Hie, allow it a few minutes longer ; if it is 
too much, it will lose its flavor. 

WINE (MADEIRA) SAUCE. Take a 
tea-spoonful of fk)ur, and a preserved green 
lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass 
of Madeira wine, and a little consommef 
add an ounce of butter, some salt and nut- 
meg ; set tliese on a very hot stove to boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take it off, 
put in a quarter of 'a pound of butter, set it 
again on the fire, stirring constantly till the 
butter is melted. 

WINTER HOTCH4>OTCH. Take 
the best end oi a neck or loin of mutton } 
cut it into neat chops ; cut four carrots, and 
as many turnips into slices; put on four 
quarts of water, with half the carrots and 
turnips, and a whole one of each, with a ' 
pound of dried green peas, which must be 
put to soak the mght before ; let it boil two 
hours, then take out the whole carrot and 
turnip; bnyse and return them; put in the 
meat, and the rest of tlie carrot and turnip, 
scMne pepper and salt, and boil sfowly three- 
quarteiv of an hour; a diort time before 
serving, add an onion cut small and a head 
ofoeltfy, 

WOODCOCKS. (1) The greatest 
possible care should be taken, in picking of 
these birds, to handle them as little as poe* 
sible, on account of the skin being so par- 
ticularly tender, that when broken it spoilt 
the beautv of the bird. When picked, cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, press the 
legsckise to the side, through which, and 
the body, pierce the beak of the bii-d; then 
cross toe Jeet, and lay a slice of bacon over 
the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be 
dressed aooording to the same rufes. 

WOODCOCKS. (2) Take a poui^ 
of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put it 



IVOO 



246 



yfiA 



into a nnoepan, with two quarts of water, 
an (Miion stuck with cbves, two blades of 
mace, and some whole pepper, boil all these 
toeisther till reduced to half; then strain it 
off into another saucefmn: draw the wood- 
cocks, and lay the trail in a plate ; put the 
woodcocks into the gravy, and let them boil 
in it for twelve minutes; while they are 
boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; 
put them into a small saucepan, with a lit- 
tle mace; addft)ur or five spoonfuki of the 
gravy the woodcocks are boiled in ; then 
take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine 
into a dish placed before the fire, and put to 
the trait, in the small saucepan, half a pint 
of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, 
set it on the fire, and shake it round till the 
butter is melted; then put in the bread- 
crumbs, and shake the saucepan round ; lay 
the woodcocks in tlie dish, pour the sauce 
ever them, and serve. 

WOODCOCKS. (3) Woodcocks should 
not be drawn, as the trail is by the lovers 
of " haul gout" considered a " bonne 
bouchei" truss their legs close to the body, 
and run an iron skewer through each thigh, 
close to the body, and tie them on a small 
bird spit; put them to roast at a clear fire; 
cut as many slices of bread as you have 
birds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, 
and lay them in tne dripping-pah uud^r the 
birds to catch the trail; baste them with 
butter, and froth them with flour ; lay the 
toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toast ; pour some good beef gravy into the 
dish, and send some up in a boat, twenty or 
thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. Some epicures like 
this bird very much under-done, and direct 
that a woodcock should be just introduceO 
to the cook, for her to show it the fire, and 
then send it up to table. 

WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put 

a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, 
with some butler, shred shallots, grated, 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a 
fiei'ce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for 
seven or eight minutes ; then add the juice 
of two lemons, half a glass of while wine, 
and some raspings ; and leave them on the 
fire till tlie sauce has boiled ^p once; then 
serve altogether. 

WOODCOCK SALMIS. Out up the 
woodcock, on the table, and put the pieces 
on a dish, which place on a stand, widi a 
lamp under it ; add pepper, salt, shred shal- 
lots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice 
of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew 
raspings over, anci boil slowly for ten min- 
utes, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of 
wine for your lamp. 



WOODCOCK SAUCE. Pound ^ 
bones and livers of roasted woodeocka, aad 
put them into a stewpaa, with two spoaa- 
fiiis of cuUis, and two i^joonfuls of ned port; 
reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, vti 
then strain it ; wha strained, add pepper, 
salt, and the juice of two oranges. 



Y. 



YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best 
for bread, slxmld be strained through a hair 
sieve, and two or three quarts of cold spring 
water poured over it; when it has stood for 
twenty-four hours the water should be poianl 
ofi*, the yeast will then be fixindat thebotfeom 
of the vessel, quite tliick. To preserve that 
which may be left over the baking, it ^Kmld 
be put into a bottle, corked tigbtfy, and kept 
in a cool place. In cold weathn- it wiU 
continue good for a fortnight, but fiiesh yeaat 
is always preferable. When it does not ap- 
pear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sug^ 
may be mixed with it, in the proportioiiCtt a 
tea-spoonful to half a pint. 

YEAST, BAKER'S. Boil two oonoee 
of hops in four quarts of water one boor, 
adding more water as it decreases, carefiilly 
stiiTing it all the time, and takii^ care that 
it do not boil over; strain the liquor, and 
mix well with it two pounds of malt; cover 
it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it 
be milk warm, then stir in half a pint of 
good yeast; when mixed well ti^ether, let 
It work for ten hours, and then strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten minotes, 
in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and 
a small handful of good hops; strain it 
through a sieve, and when milk warm, add 
three or four table-spoonfiils of beer yeast, 
and two of brown sugar or treacle: pot it 
into a wooden stoup w jug; cover it, and 
place it before the fire to ferment. It may 
be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a com 
place. , 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a vert 
light dough with yeast, the same as for breao, 
but with milk instead of water, add salt; 
set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for 
half an hour, or an honr, to rise ; in the mean 
iiii:e, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot 
water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the 
dough into small balls, and put them into the 
boiling water; keep them o(Mitinually boiling 
for ten minutes, dien take them out, and 8er?8 
them immediately, with wine sauce over 
them. To ascertain whether they are " 



TA 



2i7 



ZS 



^__ Jtly boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it 
cones out clean, it is done enough. Some 
think the best manner of eating them is by 
dividing them from the top by two forks, as 
they lieoome^ heavy bv their own steam, and 
eat tbem immediately widi meat, or sugar 
and butter, or salt. 

YELLOW GLAZE. Make a glase, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in 
powder, tlie white of an eg^, to which add 
by degrees as much lemon-juioe as may be 
necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and 
the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), 
add to it a small quantity of infusion of saf- 
fron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or 
two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scrap- 
ed off and' pounded; take care, however, 
not to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaze should be hitter. 

YEAST, TO MAKE. Boil for half an 
hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonfuls of fine Hour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown 
sugar ; when almost cold, put it into a jug, 
addii^ four spoonfuls of fresh yeast ; shake 
it weU together, let it stand uncovered near 
the fire for a day, to ferment. There will be 



a tfam lK|nor on the top, poor this off; shake 
the remainder, and cork it op for use. To 
make a half peck loaf yon should use a quur* 
ter of a pint of the above. 

YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good 
mealv potatoes ; peel and weip[h them ; while 
hot, bruise them nnely, and mix than quickly 
with boilinff vrater, albwinff one quart to 
each pound ; rub it throuj^ a hair sieve, 
then add honey or brown sugar in the pro- 
portion of one ounce to each quart of water ; 
noil it to the consistency of batter, wad when 
nearly coM, add a large table^poonfol of 
good yeast lo every quart of water; cover it 
with a cloth to rise, and the following day it 
will be ready for use; keq) a bottle of it, 
which may lie used instead of beer yeast for 
the next making, first pouring off the thin 
liquid that is on tb^ top. It must be made 
with fresh beer yeast every two or tluree 
months. Double the quantity of this, as of 
beer yeast, is required to imke bread 
light. 

ZESTS. Zest (a term of art, used by 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in mall 
slips or xests, as thin as poBsibie. 



J 



RECEIPTS 



FOR MAKING ALL KINDS OF 



CPNFECTIONERY. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



ALM 

ALMONDS, BLOWN. Scald a few al- 
monds, and pound them to about half as fine 
as for biscuits, beat ihem with lemon-juice, 
whites of eggs and powder-sugar; di-op 
them on paper, about die size d[ almonds, 
and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. 

ALMONDS BLOWN ROYAL. 

Choose fi>ur ounces of small thick almonds, 
and put them into an oven until they are 
slightW colored. Whilst they are cooling, 
mix four ounces of sugar with an e^; 
beat them up for ten mmutes ; add a little 
carmine to make it a fine rose color; dip 
the almonds into this: take them out; dis- 
engage them fix)m the egg, so that they may 
be only just covered with it; lay them two 
and two on a sheet of strong paper three- 

auarters of an inch between each pair; 
ley ma^ also be placed in threes to form 
the tr6-roil, on which may be added a fouith. 
6ake litem in a cool oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER. To a auarter 
of a pound of blanched almonds, weU beat, 
pat some new milk and rose water ; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs beat well with a littte of the 
cream ; then add the rest of the cream ; put 
a quarter of a pint of new milk to the al- 
monds, and stram them into the cream till 
there is do strengtli left ; sti^in all togeth- 
er into a skillet, set it over a -charcoal fire, 
and stir it till it comes to a tender curd ; 
put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the 
whey is drained out; then take six ounces 
of fine sifted sugar and a little rose water, 
and beat it all into butter with a spoon. 

ALMOND BITTER CAKE. Pound 
diree ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of 
abnonds, put them into an eartlien pan with 
six ounces of powder sugar; the same of 
ifted fiour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, 
a spoonfiil of brandy and a grain or two of 
alt ; work these up together for five min- 
utes and then add six ounces of fresh but- 
ter which is slightly warmed, work that in 
for four minutes longer. Then, having 
whipped the whites of two ^gs, mix them 
Into the paste. Butter a well-tinDed^eopper 



ALM 

mould or paper case, ten inches long, five 
wide, and two high ; pour in your prepara- 
tion, and bake it in a cool oven. While bak- 
ing, whip tlie whites of two e^, and mix 
two ounces of powder sugar with them, and 
cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips 
(shortwise ; ) mix tliem also with two ounces 
of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of 
egg whipped. In three-quarters of an hour 
take out the cake, and if it be firm and well 
colored, cover it with the whipped egg and 
sugar, and on tliat strew the almonds equal- 
ly, pressing them in, that all may be colored 
alike. This operation must be performed as 
quick as post^.ble, and when done, turn the 
cake out and cut it in four slips (length- 
wise,) and then divide each into six parts 
lozenge-shaped ; this will give you twenty- 
four cakes, which must be ari'anged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. ThOT 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, form- 
ed into ci^escents. The ingredients, and the 
proper quantities for this cake are as follows: 
 SIX ounces of flour, the same of powder 
sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter al- 
monds, six yolks, and two whole e^, six 
ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with 
the whites of two eges whipped, four ounces 
of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt, 

ALMOND CANDY. Blanch a pound 
of the best almonds, and cut tliem very 
thin, lengthways, put them into a pound of 
clarified sugar to crisp them, stir them over 
the fire till boiled to ioujffle; dien take 
them off and keep stirring till the sugar is 
dry like sand: then sift it, so that the al- 
monds may be lefl, divide them into four 
parts to cobr them differently, one part 
red, the second yellow, the third green, and 
the fourth left white as they come from the 
sugar. To color the first, soak a small 
mntity of carmine in clarified sugar, and 
Ky your almonds in it ; do the same with a 
little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and 
spinach juice for the ^reen. Place the col- 
ored almonds on a sieve in a stove; wheo 
dry, muE all together, adding the while 



ALBI 



353 



AI^M 



Boil nearly  muoh fogmr at yor 
KNiid will require to towffUt pot it io, and 
when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the 
urfiioe of the sufgar with tfalem; do not, 
however, lay them too tiiick, and just press 
them down with a fork ; put the mould in- 
to a moderate oven for five hours, tlien drain 
it well, and in another two hours it may be 
taken firom the mould. 

ALMONDS aNNAMON-SPANISH. 

Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of 
butter tied in a piece of cloUi, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready some clari- 
fied sngar, with powdered cinnamon stirred 
in it, put in the ulmonds, and when well cov- 
ered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay tliem 
separately on tins, and diy in a slow oven. 

ALMONDS TO COLOR. Almonds 
ROSE COLORED. Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in small pieces, put them on a bak- 
ing plate, and pour on them a little of any 
Tegetable liquia, of an infusion of cochineal, 
or carmine ; then rub them in your hands, 
to mix them well with tiie color; when all 
are so done, dry them in a stove or in the 
oven. 

ALMONDS VIOLET. Are done in the 
same way, the coloring ingredients are 
cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in 
water, put but a small quantity of die latter 
at a time as it is very powerful^ 

ALMONDS GREEN. The same pro- 
ceeding: the color is made with two hand- 
fuls of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, 
and then pounded; when very fine, press it 
 through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a 
dish, which place on a hot stove ; as soon as 
it begins to boil, take it off, stirring it con- 
stantly, till the green curdles, then pour it 
through a horsehair sieve, and when well 
drained strain it through a silk sieve or tam- 
my ; the juice tlius obtained, will give the 
almonds (which must be put in a tew at a 
time) a clear and even green color. 

ALMONDS BLUE. Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth and 
use it as above mentioned. 

ALM9NDS ORANGE COLORED. 

Mix a titde liquid red, and a little infusion 
of saffron together, and proceed with.the al- 
monds as usual. 

ALMONDS LEMON COLORED. 

Infiise a small quantity of sa(&on in nearly 
boiling water for a few minutes'; strain and 
follow the above direction. 

ALMONDS CHOCOLATE COLOR. 



ED. Are dyed with cfaoeohte dianlfid m 
water and strained. 

The aJmonde may be cot in dipe, dioe 
&c. according to wej. Observe that the 
color of your almoida should be light and 
delicate; when done, plaoe (hem, eitiier 
separately or mixed together, in paper 
cases. 

ALMOND COUPEAUX. Blanch and 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds with 
die whites of three eggs into a very fiae 
paste, add to it six ounces of powdered aii- 
gar and tiie rind of a lemon grated; dien 
thoroughly mixed together, pour over it 
about lour spoonfuls of orange-flower water: 
stii up tiie paste (which on^t to be rather ' 
thin,) once more, and then lay it with a 
spoon on a plate of bright copper, in an 
oval form, about three or four inches io 
length. The plate being quite fidl, take it 
up by lioth hands, and strike it steadily upon 
a table, so that the paste may be extended, 
but not much ; then bake tbem until ih^ be- 
come of a deep yellow. Take them firom 
the copper with a knife, and whilst liot pot 
them on a wooden roller, about the thick- 
ness of an arm, and press them with your 
hand, that tliey may acquire the form of the 
wood, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep tbem diy. These coupeaux are veiy 
brittle. 

ALMONDS CRISPED. Rnbaponnd 
of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take 
off all die dust, and then put them, with 
a pound of sugar, lialf a glass of water and 
a little carmine, into a preserving pan; put 
them on the fire, and let Uiem remain; when 
the almonds crackle take them ofl[ and work 
them about until the sugar is detached fixim 
the almonds, then take away part of the su- 
gar, put the almonds on tiie fire again, and 
stir them lightly with a spatula, (be carefid 
that tiie fire be not too quick;) and whea 
tliey have taken the sugar, add that which 
had been removed, and continue to bum 
them till diey have imbibed that also. Place 
a sheet of papei* on a sieve, throw your alt 
monds on it, sepai'ate those which adhere 
together, and let them cool. 

ALMOND DRAGEES. Take of the 
best and largest almonds what quantity yoa 
please, and having washed them in cold war 
ter, let them dmin and dry <mi a sieve fiic 
twenty-four hours. Tlie nLt day weigh 
them, and for each pound of almonds take 
three pounds of sugar ; clarify the latt^ and 
boil it to the degree petit line; then let it 
cool a little. Have your tossing pan reaify; 
on your right hand, a cliafing diisli to kem 
your pan containing the sirup constaotnr 
warm ; and on your led hand, a table witk' 



ALU 



253 



ALM 



a nxture of powder and flour (of each half 
a pound to a pound of almonds). All bein? 
Rady, put the almonds into the pan, ana 
pour o^'er them one or two large spoonfuls 
of the sirup, and ^ake them so that all the 
almonds may be wetted with sirup; then 
take  handful or two of the flour and pow- 
der, and strew it ova* the wet almonds; 
ekake them again, that the flour may adhere 
all round tiie almonds. After this, swing 
the pan backwards and frirwards, by which | 
meana. the almonds roll about in every direc- 
tion; coiHinue this motion until thev become 
dry ; ilien moisten and powder them as be- 
fyre; swing the pan a^in, and when dry, 
repeat the process a Uiird, fourth, and fifth 
time, or roone, until they are of a proper 
size; then pour over them the sirup for the 
last time, without the powder, and, having 
ewung and dried lliem, take them out and 
place tliem on sieves in a warm place, that 
they may dry perfectly before you put them 
by for use. 

Observe, that afler a few layers of the 
sirup, tlie superabundant parts of that and 
the powder form a white crust at the bottom 
of the pan; as soon as it acquires any de- 
gree of thickness, the pan must be taken 
from the fire, the almomls carefully removed 
with an iron spatula, and the crust broken 
off; when the pan lias been well waslied and 
dried, replace the almonds and proceed with 
yoor worle. This must be strictly attended 
to, not only with this, but in making all 
kinds (^sweetmeats. The sugar thus clear, 
ed away may be made useful for many pur- 
poses* 

Comiixtn Almond Dragees are made in 
the same manner; the only difference con- 
sists in having ingredients of an inferior 
iqpiaiity. 

ALMONDS (MILK OF) FANCHON- 
NETTES. Blanch and pound eight ounces 
o sweet and one of bitter almonds, and 
when the paste is very fine, add to it three 
glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press 
this mixture through a napkin to draw out 
the milk. Put into a stewpan four yolks 
of ^gs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one 
ofauied flour, and a grain of salt, mix tliem 
well toother, and add by degrees the al- 
mond milk, put tliis on a moderate fire, stir- 
ring it constant^. Line about thirty tartlet 
moulds with thin puff paste, and put on them 
a little of the above preparation, and bake 
tiiem in a moiderate ov^. When properly 
done, take them out and let them oool. Mix 
'with the whites of three hard eggs, four 
oonoes of powder-sugar, stir it well to soften 
the egg, and make it work easily; put some 
of toe remainder of your preparation on 
each of the fanehormetteBy and cover them 
lightly with the egg ; put isoine white of egg 



on the bMe of a large knife, and whh a 
small one as quick as possible take off sev- 
en meringuea about the size of a filbert, 
and arrange them in the form of a crown on 
each fanckonnette; when you have done 
five or six, cover diem with powder-sugar 
very equally^ and then bake them in a cool 
oven. When of a reddish brown they are 
done and may be served. 

ALMOND CHEESE, BITTER. Peel, 

wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and 
one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them to 
a paste, moistening with two spoonfuls of 
water. Put them into an earthen pan, with 
two glasses of nearly boiling milk, in which 
eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; 
let this stand an hour, Uien strain it through 
a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of 
isinglass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice 
and when ii begins to set, add some whipped 
cream ; pour it into a mould which has been 
kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an 
hour, and then take the frontage from the 
mould. 

ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil three 
ounces of hartshorn in two quarts of spring 
water ; let it simmer six or seven hours tiu 
half the water is consumed ; strain it through 
a sieve ; lieat half a pound of almonds very 
fine, with a quantity of orange-flower water ; 
mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar 
with it ; strain it with the rest of the jelly, 
stirring it till it is a little more than blood 
warm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick 
in almonds cut small. 

ALMOND GARLANDS. Take half 
a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of 
two or three eggs, some powdered cinnamon 
and a little flour, knead them into a paste, 
and roll them into the form of sausages with 
your hand on the table, first strewing the 
table with almonds qainced, but not very fine ; 
so that they may adhere to the sausages, 
which ought to be aix)ut the size of yoor 
finger ; then form them into rings or gar- 
lands of what size you please, fixing the ends 
together with water : place them on paper, 
and bake them in a quick oven until they are 
of a clear brown color. 

ALMOND LITTLE CAKE, BITTER. 
Pound six drachms of bitter almonds, strain 
them through a sieve, and mix them in an 
earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an 
egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir these with 
a silver spoon for a few minutes. Take 
three-quarters of a pound of puff paste, roU 
it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, 
and cut out of it thirty oval cakes two inches 
and a half k)og bv two and a quarter wide 
pointed at the endei ; put on each a qOarter 



ALfl 



254 



AL.Bf 



of a poonfiil of the almond ghie, aot with 
the blade of a knife spread it equally over 
the surface for about die eigbth of an inch, 
and tlien let tliein stand for half an huur 
before you put them into the oven, which 
mit \ie moderate. If you bake them imme- 
diately aAer putting on die^laze, it wrinkles 
and slirivels up, which spoils their nppear- 
ance, as they ought to be quite smooth and 
even ; the cakes also require considerable 
care in the baking ; they sliould be slightlv 
cobred on the top and the k>wer part red- 
dish. 

ALMOND GENOESE, BITTER. 

Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, 
and two ounces and a half of bitter almonds, 
pound them to a paste and then put them 
into the following pk-eparation : blanch and 
pound four mmces of sweet almonds, and 
when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earth- 
en pan with six ounces of flour, the same of 
powder-sugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 
Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six 
ounces of Imtter slightly warmed but not 
melted ; work tlie butter well into tlie paste 
for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, 
or paper cases, about nine or ten inches 
square, pour in your preparation, smooth it 
with the blade of a knife and tlien put them 
to buke in a moderate oven, first strewing 
on tiiem four ounces of sweet almonds minced 
and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little white of egg. When done, cut 
them into all possible forms, then replace 
tliem in the oven to dry ; when brittle, take 
tliem out, let tliem cool, and decorate them 
to your fiiincy. 

ALMOND, GRILLAGE. Blanch 
half a pound of almonds, cut them into four 
or five slips, lengthways, pralinez tliem 
with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand 
tliem when they be^in to crackle ; then put 
them on the fire again till they are well mixed 
together and form a mass, which put on 
wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it fiat, strew 
0V& it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white 
nonpareiU, and then cut it in pieces. 

ALMOND KNOTS. Take two pounds 
<tf almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; 
beat them in a mortar, to a very fine paste, 
with rose water, be carefiil to keep them from 
oiling. Take a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out 
ome to make up the knots, put the rest in 
a pan upon tlie fire, till it is scalding hot, at 
tlie same time have the almonds scakling 
hot in another pan ; dien mix them togedier 
with the whites of three eggs beaten to frotii, 
and let it stand until it is cold ; then roll it 
with aome of the sugar left out for tliat 



narpose, and by them in pbtters of paper. 
Th^ will not itll into shape, therefore lay 
them as well as may be, and bake them m 
a slow oven. 

ALMOND MILK. Take six ounca ef 
sweet almonds, and a pint of id ilk, fair 
drachms of orange-flnwer water, and firc 
ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound tic 
ainurnds to a very smooth paste, moistening 
tliem occasionally with a few dropa of milk ; 
when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk 
and mix them well, and boil it till redooed 
to half, then let it boil up once more ; kt 
it cool and serve. 

ALMOND MIRLITONS. Blanch an 
ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter al- 
monds, and dry tliem in an oven ; when cold, 
pound them with a little white of ^g to 
prevent their oiling ; then put them into an 
earthen pan with two ounces of bitter maca- 
roons, five ounces of powder-su^r, four whofe 
eggs, and a grain of salt ; when these are 
well mixed together, add two ounces of butter, 
lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of puff 
paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into tkiitjr 
round pieces about two inches and three- 
quarters in diameter, and put each of tliete 
intti a tartlet mould buttered ; put the rnirH- 
ton$ on this, and when all are equally foU, 
cover them widi powder sugar sifted over 
them through a tammy ; as soon as tliat ia 
dissolved strew more (but not rodh fine) pow- 
der sugar over, and bake them in a modierate 
oven. Serve eidier hot or cold. 

ALMOND MONCEAUX. Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thio 
slips (lengthways) and roast them on an iran 
until tliey are of a deep yellow color, inclio- 
iiig to brown ; beat up the whites of six or 
eight eggn with a spoon in an earthen pan. 
Pour over the almonos a pound of aogar finelv 
powdered, four ounces of candied orange peel, 
the same of candied lemon-peel, also cut into 
thin slips, half a spoonful of ixmdered cinna- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; mix 
these ingredients well in the pan, and place 
it on paper in little heaps of a pyramidal 
form, and bake them in a weU-heated oveo. 

ALMOND PASTE. BhuditwopoaBdi 
of sweet almonds, and soak them m eoU 
water for twelve hours, then diy them ia t 
napkin, and pound a quarter dt them to  
very fine paste with a little water and lemti* 
juice, pass them throi^h a aieve, and tte 
pound the remainder (Imlf a pound at atioM.) 
When all are done, mix them with a poail 
of sifted sugar ; place them over a gentle i^ 
stirring it continually, until the paste l 
flow from die spoon ; tlieo pour it iolo  
mortar, and when it becomea JukevaiVi 



ALM 



355 



ALkM 



pomd it agftin with an ounce <^nHii-dragon 
previotttily dissolved in a glass of water and 
strained, the juice o( two lemons, and a 
pound of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste 
M of th propmr consistence, take it out and 
lay^ it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar; 
divide your pati: into Uiree purts, and color 
each part according to your fiincy. The 
coloring or dyes are made of tne same 
materiuls as are used for almonds. 

ALMOND PASTE to keep nx, or 
even twelve montkt, Blanch and pound 
a pound of sweet ahnonds, moistened occa- 
ionally with water, to prevent llieir oiling; 
when well beaten, add lialf a pound of fine 
powdered sugar, and mix the whole into a 
paste to use when you have occasion. Wlien 
wanted, mix a piece about the size of an egg 
with three gills of water, and strain it through 
a napkin. 

ALMOND PRALINES, {dHed, pre- 
served or burnt.) A pound of tlie best 
alrounds must be washed in cold water ; 
when thoroughly dry, put them into a pre- 
serving ptin with a pound of sugar and a pint 
and a half of water, keep them on the fire, 
stirring (liem continually, until lliey crackle 
and fly about, and the sugar begins to color, 
stir them about gently lb gatlier the sugar, 
and leave them in the pan to dry about two 
hours, in a stove or any moderate heat. 

ALMONDS, RED CRISPED. Pre- 
pare them as abiive until they have taken 
the sugar and are ready to be taken off tiie 
fire, put the almonds upon a sieve with a 
dish under, take the sugar that drops, and 
put it into the same pan, adding a little 
fresh ; refine it till it comes to tlie twelfth 
d^ree au caa^e, then take cochineal, color 
sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them 
therein ; give them a few turns over tiie fire 
JD the sugar, and finish as at first. 

ALMOND SWEETMEATS (YEL^ 
LOW.) Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, 
wa^li them in cold water, and wlien quite dry, 
pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a fine but rather stiflf paste : 
add to them a pound of powdered sugar and 
tlie rinds of two lemons gifted ; knead tlie 
paste well with your Iiands, firat sprinkling 
^he table with sugar. Form tlie paste into 
what figures you please, such as fieur-de-lis, 
trefoil, &c. each being alwut the size and 
weight of a macaroon. Place them on white 
paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- 
derately hot stove. If they are of a deep 
yellow, tlicy are sufficiently done.  ^Tliese 
Bweetmeats may be still further ornamented 
in the following manner:  Boil some sugar 
in orange-flower water to the degree called 



grande pbumeit and as soon as the 
meats are taken from tlie stove or oven, wash 
ihem over with a light bnish dipped in the 
sirup ; this will give tliem a delicious per- 
fume, and they may then be called d la 
giaee. Whoi cold, take tliem fi-om the 
paper and put them into glasses for the taUe. 

ALMONDS, ROCK OF AUCAN- 
TE, SPANISH. Clarify honey, and 
stir into it as many blanched almonds as 
you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This 
makes a (unetty crystaline ornament for the 
dessert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. 

ALMOND WAFERS. Take a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of poWder-sugar, a pinch <^ 
orange-fiowers jpralinSe, put them into a 
basin, and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to 
spread the paste on wafer paper with the 
blade of a knife (tlie wafer paper must be 
rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) \ lay 
tlie preparation on as thin as possible ; chop 
some sweet almonds very small, mix tliem 
with sugar, and strew tliem over the wafers 
and put them into a hot oven ; wlien about 
half baked, take them out and cut tliem in 
squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, 
lake Uiem out again, and press them on a 
stick to give them the proper form ; as soon 
as they are cold, put them on a sieve. Just 
liefore they are served they should be slightly 
warmed. 

ALMOND COMPOTE, GREEN. 
Take tlie peel very carefully from your al 
roonds, and put them with water on llie fire 
till they are tender ; tlien take them oflf and 
add a little more water ; when nearly cold 
put them on tlie fire again, but do not let 
them boil ; as soon as you find the liead of 
a pin will penetrate easily, they are then 
sufficiently done, and may be Uirown into 
cold water ; and when the fruit is quite cold, 
drain them. In the meantime put some 
clarified sugar on tlie fire, and when it boils 
put in the almonds ; boil them in the sugar 
about twenty times, tlien remove tliem, and 
let the almonds stand to take die sugar : in 
about two hours' time put them on tlie fire 
again, and boil them up a dozen times ; afler 
which, tiike them ofll, skim, and let them 
cool. When quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a compotier. If the sugar shoukl 
not be sufficiently done, boil as much more 
as you may tliink necessary ; squeeze in the 
juice of all orange, boil it once again, and 
when nearly cold strain it througli a cloth 
into the cotnpotier over the almonds. 

ALMOND NONPAREILS, GREEN. 
Drain some green almonds that have been 



ANG 



356 



ANG 



praenred io bndMly ; dip them one bgr one 
m wmr prepared am eatwi, end roll them 
m wnitp, or any other colored nonpareib, 
and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. 

ALMOND (GREEN) PRESERVED. 
Put some water into a aauoepan, wiib two 
haodfub of bran, and when it has boiled up 
twice, throw in some green alioonds ; let 
them boil up once, tlien take them out with 
a skimmer, and rub them well in your hands 
to take off the down ; as voo do this, throw 
them into coki water ; then boil them in 
water tiH, on pricking them, a pin easily 
enters and they shrink : then clarify some 
n^r, a pound to a pound of fniit ; boil up 
the sirup four or five successive da^s, morn- 
ing and evening, without the fruit, which 
you leave to drain npon a sieve ; lastly, put 
the fruit into a pan, and when ratlier more 
than lukewarm, pour the sirup over it ; when 
diey kx^ very green they are sufficiently 
done* 

ANDAYE BRANDY. An ounce of 
braised aniseed, an ounce of bmised corian- 
der seed, two ounces of powdered Florence 
iris, the asestes of two oranges ; put them 
with three quarts of distilled brandy into the 
alembic bain-marie ; dissolve two pounds 
and a half of sugar in two pints and a half 
of clear river water, add them to the dtstilfed 
liqueur, pass tlie whole through a strainer, 
and put into bottles. 

ANGELICA CAKES. Take four oun- 
oes of angelica powder, and two pounds of 
fine su^r. Beat up the white of an egg 
with a liltle sifted sugar, until it is of tiie con- 
sistence of cream clieese ; dissolve llie sugar 
in a skillet and skim it ; when it lias boiled 
a little, throw in the angelica, and boil tlie 
sugar to petit coMi^ then take it from the 
fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten ^g, 
and stir it quickly until the sugar rises, tlien 
stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till 
it rises a second time ; it may now be pour- 
ed into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and 
sprinkled with sifted sugar. 

ANGELICA (ESSENCE of) JELLY. 

Having washed and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots ; cut tliem in pieces and tlirow 
them into boiling sirup, (three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised 
angelica seeds ; cover the mixture close, and 
when cold, add to it half a glass of kirtch- 
toasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then 
filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of 
isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; 
pound ten pqpnds of ice, and put it into a 
nree sieve or pan, place your mould in the 
middle of the ice, uking care that it touches 
the ioe in every part; poor the jelly into the 



mould, oofer it with a sauoepMi lid, prt fav 
on that, and let it stand for three boors ; after 
that time have rently a saucepan forge enough 
to take in the RKNild easily ; fill it with water 
80 warm that you can scarcely bmr your hmd 
in it); plunge the moofcT in 00 as to 9linw die 
water to paaa over t* iirfitte,THit aa cpiicUy 
as possible. And then turn the jelljr into yoor 
dib for table. This last operation should 
be performed with ereat agility. Ofanerve, 
in making these kind of jellies, that no lioaed 
or pewter vessels or spoons sliould be used, 
as diey impart a violet tinge to your jellies, 
which ought to be of the cok>r of the ingre- 
dients employed, as for instance tiie abover 
should be a dear light green cobr. 

ANGELICA LIQUEUR. Wadi, 

scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces 
of fresh, or half the quanti^ of Bohemian 
angelica roots, and infiue them for a week 
in six pints of brandy and one of wafer,, with 
a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnanKMi, 
and twelve cloves ; at the end of diat itine 
distil it, then dissolve three pounds of sugar 
in three pints of water ; mix it with tiie 
liqueur, strain it through a jelly-bag, or fil- 
ter it through paper. Obeo-ve, that the best 
brandy for liqueurs is that which is made 
at Montpelier, as it yiekls more in distiila' 
tion than the Ct^iac. Take notice also, 
diat Che first drops which fall from the alem- 
bic after it is placed on the stove, must noC 
be mixed with tlie liquem*. A glass should, 
therefore, be placed under the mouth of the 
alembic to receive them, and whoi about a 
quarter of it is filled you may remove it, uid 
place your bottles or matrass. Tlie plilegm, 
as th^ droppings are caltiody are good for 
notliing. 

ANGELICA PASTE. Take yoong and 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender, 
drain and press all the water out ; beat them 
in a mortar to a paste, and rub li through a 
sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, and to 
every pound of paste put a pound of powder- 
sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, 
stirring it till thorouglily mixed, over a goitle 
fire. Drop it on plates, dust a little sugar 
over them, and dry them in a stove. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED. Taketfae 
stalks of angelica when of a good siie, hut 
before they have run to seed ; clear off the 
leaves, and as voo cut the stalks into proptf 
lengths throw tliem into water, and boil tiieni 
till the stalks are soft ; take them from the 
fire, and put them into cold water ; take off 
the skin, and again put them into cold water; 
tlien drain and put them into an earllmi ntf, 
and pour over a sofiicient quantity of clarifaii 
sugar to float the angelica. In tweaty-Ciar 
hoNin boil the wgar tea or a doiea tiae*, 



ANl 



37 



AKI 



Ittd wlnn lukewarm pour it over the iteflu. 
Proceed in the same way fcnr four suooeeding 
days ; after which, drain die stalkB, and in 
the nieanwbife boil the sugar (adding more, 
if neoeaaary) to the degree grande ptrU } 

Eit the angelica to tliis, cover it close, and 
t it boil five or six times. Take it from 
the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED DRY. 
Proceed as for the liquid, until yrm have 
poured tlie sugar au grand perU over the 
angelica ; leave it for a day in tlie sugar, 
then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, 
in a stove. 

ANGELICA RATAFIA. Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three 
pounds of sugar, two mmces of fresh gathered 
angelica-roots, the same quantity of angelica 
seed ; mace and clove, a drachm of each. 
Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in 
slices, and' put tliem, with the seeds and 
spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for 
twenty days ; tlien strain it, and having ad- 
ded to it the sugar dissolved in river water, 
filter and bottle your ratafia. 



ANGEUCA RATAFIA. Strip the an- 
gelica stalks of their leaves, and cut them 
into small pieces, which put into the best 
brandy and water, in tlie proportion of four 
litres of brandy and two of water to one 
pound of angelica, and four poimds of sugar 
to the same quantity ; add cloves and cinna- 
mon ; let it stand six weeks, then filter and 
bottle it. 

ANGELICA WATER. Wash eight 
handfuls of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them 
on a table to dry. When quite dry, put 
them in an eartlien pot with a gallon of strong 
fvine lees. Let it stand' tweniy-four hours, 
stir it twice in that tifne, tlien put it into a 
warm still or alembic ; draw off into bottles, 
covered widi paper pricked in holes, and let 
them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten 
it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it 
close. 

ANISEED, OIL OF. Is made like ani- 
seed water, the only difference is, that an 
additional pound of sugar is necessary to 
make the sirup. 

ANISE PETIT PAINS. Put two 
glasses of water and two ounces of fresh but- 
ter into a stewpan, and when the liquid boils 
take it from the fire, and mix with it six 
ounces of sifted flour ; amalgamate it Uior- 
ouglily, so that it may be quite free from 
lamps ; tlien dry it over the fire. Take it 
out of the .saucepan, and .add to it two eggs, 
9Dd two ounces of powder-sugar; mix tliem 

22* 



wen in, and then pot in two move eggs and 
the xesU of a lemon minced fine : when 
these are also well incorporated, add another 
egg or two, if the paste (which should be ra- 
tlier firm,) will bear them. Sprinkle your 
paste slab with flour, cut the paste into 
pieces, each tlie size of a vralnut ; roll Uiese 
widi as little flour as possible, to about three 
incites long, and as you roll them place tliem 
on a hnking-tin, two inches apart; dorez 
and bake tliem in a tolerably warm oven till ' 
they ai'e firm. Then cut some anise into 
fillets, boil a .quarter of a pound of sugar to 
ettss^y and the moment it reaches that de- 
gree set it by the side of the fire that tlie 
sugar may not lose its' whiteness; dip the 
top and one side of etich petit pain m tlie 
sugar as quick as possible, and as you take 
them out, strew the anise over them lightly, 
lied anise is also used for tliese petit 
pains, 

ANISEED RATAFIA. To make a 
quart of this li({ueur, l)oil a pound of sugar 
with a demisetier of water, until the sugar 
is (]uite clear ; then heat another demisetier 
of water, and put in it three ounces of anise ; 
take it from the fire before it boils ; let it 
stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it 
with three pints of brandy into tlie sugar; 
mix all well together, and then pour into a 
vessel, which must be closed tight, and 
placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, 
and then bottle it. 

ANISEED WATER. Qioose eight 
ounces of new green anise, sift it well to 
free it from the dust, and then infuse in six 
pints of brandy, wiUi the zcstes of three 
lemons, and half an ounce of cinnamon ; in 
a week's time distil it over a moderate fire, 
put a pint of water into die alembic; take 
care to collect the phlegm before you draw 
ofi* the an iseed water. Dissolve three pounds 
of sugar in dirce pints of water. As the 
anise contains an acid salt, which renders 
this liqueur milky, die following proceeding 
is necessary :-^Reserve a pint of the water 
from that in which you dissolved the suffar, 
and mix with the white of three or four 
eggs, well whipped, and while the sirup is 
hot put to it this egg-water and ,the aniseed 
water; stir it over the fire until the whole 
is hot without boiling; then put it into a 
glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand ; the 
next day bottle and filter it. 

ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the 
same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put than, 
with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alem- 
bic bain-marie. Then dissolve thirteen 
pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water. 



AFP 



358 



APR 



wfakb muit be put to yow lM|iier wheo dia- 
tiUed. FiHer and botde it. 

APPLE FRITTERS. Torn twelve 
small apples, cut tiiero into halvei, and ooil 
them in gimp, then leave tiien to cooi. 
When ibey are told, make an extremely 
thin civst with brioche paste. Make a 
fritter fur each half apple, tlien fry them and 
finish the same as Fritters d la Dauphine. 

Pears cut into quarters are made in the 
same manner as the above. 

APPLES AND ALMONDS Little 
Cakes. Proceed the same as above till 
the marmabde is spread over the under- 
crusty tlien cover it with almonds cut in fil- 
lets, press Uiem in lightly ; mask them with 
powder-sugar and bake m a moderate oven. 
As soon as cold, cut your gdteaux accord- 
ing to yonr fancy, eitiier round, oblong, lo- 
xengc, or crescent-shaped. 

APPLE MARMALADE, Little 
Cakes. Make a marmalade of twenty-four 
apfiles in tlie usual way, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pot of 
apricots, and the xeate of a lemon, shred 
fine. Make your paste, and proceed as di- 
rected for Petits Gateaux gluces of apricots. 
Sprinkle them (when marked) witli powder- 
su^r. Bake them in a moderate oven and 
finish them. 

APPLE PETIT GATEAUX WITH 
Pistachios. Make an under-crust of the 
same size and thickness as directed for petita 
gAteaux glacis of apricots, and cover it 
with apple marmalade; when baked, mash 
the apples with a litll apricot marmalade, 
and strew over a quarter of a pound of pis- 
tachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put 
it in tlie oven again for a few minutes to dry 
the apricots. When cold cut them into the 
usual forms. 

APPLES AND PISTACHIOS. Pre- 
pare and toss up a dozen apples for this 
gateau widi apples and raisins, with the ad- 
dition of two ounces of sugar, and instead 
of the zette of an orange, grate that of a 
lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched, in tlie place of the raisins. Pro- 
ceed in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dome of the gdteau 
pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six 
pieces; and when the crown is put round 
the band, place a pistachio nut io the mid- 
dle of each meringuty bake it of a light 
color in a slow oven, and serve it hot. 

APPLE MERINGUEES. Put some 
apple marmalade on a dish, in a pycamid: 



whip tbe whim of two gfi to a frod^ak 
with them two spoonfiils of powder-Mgw 
and a little leaum-peel chopped cx UmmAj 
small ; decorate your apples with thia pnp* 
aration, glaze tliem with wgar, aad cokr 
them in the oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE. LayafMiiale 
paste in a tart pan, egg and prick it all over, 
and bake it ; lay in it a puree 6f apples, and 
finish with white of egg, as for h la Torqoe; 
senre it hot. 

APPLES PUREE. Peel and core a 
dozen or more good baking apples ; set than 
over the fire to stew with some clarified 
sugar and a small bit <^ lemon-peel ; when 
son, stir diem well with a wooden spoon, 
and put in a spoonfiil of ajMrioot jam ; stir it 
at times till the jam is mixed and the appln 
thicken, then rub the whole throng a 
tammy. 

APPLES, SOUFFLE PARISIEN. 
Make a marmalade oi diree doaen anples, 
half a pound of powder-sugar, the pea of a 
lemon, and a glass of water ; dry it as much 
as you possibly can, for on that the good ap- 
pearance of the 90V^BIU pariaun cbiefiy 
depends ; then put it into a lar)ge stewpao. 
Whip the whites of fifteen eggs to a strong 
froth, with a pound of powder-sugar. Mix 
a quarter of diis at first, with the apple mar- 
malade, dien stir the whole tc^etlier, and 
pour it into a crouMade prepared as usnal. 
(See Souffle.) Bake it fur an hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possi- 
ble after taking it from the oven. Glaue it 
with powder-sugar. 

APPLE SIRUP. Take six apples, 
pare and oit them into small pieces; put 
them into a matrau with three-quartera of 
a pound of sugar and two glasses of water; 
stop it close and place it in a bain marie, 
and leave it about two hours, letting the 
water be boiling; move the motross fie- 
quently wiliiout taking it out of the water; 
tliis must be done carefully lest it dxwkl 
break on Iteing exposed to the cold air; 
when done put out the fire, and let the uurf- 
rme cool before you take it out. When the 
sirup is nearly cold, flavor it with lemon- 
juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon 
or cinnamon, orange-flower water, or what- 
ever else you may choose. If any dregs 
should arise, let it stand for some hours 
longer, and liien gently pour the simp into 
bottles. Great care must be taken to pce- 
vent its being muddy. 

APRICOTS BOTTLED. Press die 
quantity of ripe apricots you may require 



%% 



APR 



259 



APR 



ihrough a hone-hair sieve ; put the pnlp into 
bottles, cork them Tery ckMe, and tie them 
over; place these bottles upright in a lai^ 
Bucepeu, with liay between to prevent their 
toocbin^; put the sauoepan on the fire, and 
fill it with water. When the water is near 
boiling, talce it off and let it stand till the 
bottles are cold ; then pot them in a cellar, 
without touching each other, until wanted, 
when they will be found as good to use as 
fredi fruit. The apricots may also be pre- 
served whole by the same means. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Choose 
3NNir apricots when quite ripe, let them be 
free from spots, rub them carefully with a 
linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh 
your fiTiit, and tu each pound put a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it 
to tlie degi%e grcmdperU, then put in the 
apricots: boil them three or four times, tak- 
ing care to turn them frequently, that they 
may take the sugar in all parts. Take tliem 
off the fire, and pat them one by one into 
^ass bottles; tlie sirup being by this time 
nearly cold, pour the brandy (three dtmue- 
Hera to each pound) into it by degrees, stir- 
ring constantly to mix it well with tlie sirup. 
When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into 
the bottles, the fruit at first will float; but 
when the brandy and sugar have soaked in 
they will sink to the bottom; tliey are tiien 
fit to eat. 

APRICOT COMPOTE, GREEN. 
Green apricots are done exactly the same as 
green almonds. See Almonds. 

APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, 
nod take the stones from your fruit, and put 
them on the fire in a little water, and when 
they rise tliey are sufficiently done, and may 
be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then 
put them into a little clarified sugar and give 
tliem three or four boilings ; skim them well, 
and then put your fruit aside; boil the sugar 
ak>ne four or five times more, and pour it 
over the apricots. When cold place them 
in the compotier. 

APRICOT CONSERVE. Take half- 
ripe apricots, peel and cut them into thin 
shces, dvy tlicm over a gentle fire ; to four 
ounces of fruit put one pound of sugar, boil- 
ed to the d^ree la plume forte j when the 
sugar is nearly cold put in the fniit, taking 
are to t^'rr it well with a spoon, that they 
may be well incorporated. 

APRICOTS PARISIEN. Take five 
dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, 
and put them, a few at a time, over the fira, 
with half a pound of sugar and fiiur glasses 
pf water; as soon as you find tlie peel will 



come off easily, take tliem out and draiil 
them, and put fresh a|M*icot8 into the strap* 
and proceed the same until all are pealedp 
then reduce tlie simp to the usual consis- 
tence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound 
of batter, the same of si^r, on which grato 
the zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quarierv 
of a pound of raisins, into a saucepan, and 
when it boils take it from the fire and put it 
on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally {or 
an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix 
the yolks often eggs with it. 

APRICOTS IN JELLY. Pare and 
stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay 
tliem in a pan, and cover them with clari- 
fied sugar; next day drain the sinip, and 
boil it smooth, then add the apricots and 
boil together; the following day make a 
jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots 
among them, to give a better flavor. When 
the jelly is done put in tlie other fruit with 
tlie sinip, and boil aitogetlier, skim it well 
and put it in gls 



APRICOT MARMALADE. Peel the 
apricots, and take out the stones; to each 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound 
of clarified si^r, boil it to the d^ree grot 
boulet, then put in tlie apricots, boil both to* 
^ther: when it flows reEuiily it may be put 
into pots. 

APRICOT RATAFU. Peel and ent 
into pieces as man;^' ripe apricots as you 
may require, and boil them in while wine 
(about a pint to four dozen;) strain and 
mix it with an equal quantity of brandy ; 
put the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
bruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to each pint. Let it infuse for three wewi, 
then filter and bottle it. 

APRICOT SWEETMEAT, whole 
AND DRY. Clioose fine firm apricots, make 
a little opening at the top U> take out the 
stone, pot tliem into cold water, then blanch 
them over tlie fire ; when they b^in to boil^ 
take out those which are soft, throw them 
into cold water, and drain them. In the 
meantime, prepare some clarified sugar to 
petit lis^i. When it boils put in tlie apri- 
cots, and boil up a few times together. The 
next day separate the sugar (rom the fruit, 
boil d (a nappe, and tlien pour it over the 
apricots again ; the following day boil tlie su- 
gar peti^ per /^, then add the fruit, and boil 
togetlier ; the foiu'th day drain them ; and, 
having placed tliem on iron plates, sprinkle 
them with sugar before you put them into 
the stove to dry; when dry, place in boxes 
in layers, placing a sheet of paper between 
each layer. 



BAE 



BAR 



B. 



BADIANE, INDIAN. Take a pouiid 
of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six 
quarts of good brandy for a week, when 
add to it a pint and a half of water, and 
distil it. Dissolve seven pounds iuid a 
half of sugar in seven pints of water, and 
add it to \he distilled liqueur. Stir it well, 
strain and bottle it. This is also called 
Badiane Cream. Some persons color it 
with a little cochineal, it is then called Oil 
of Badiane. 

BALM WINE. Boil twenty pounds of 
lump sugar in four gallons and a half of 
water gently for an hour, and put it in a 
tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of gre^n balm, and put them into a 
barrel with a little new yeast, and when' 
the sirup is nearly cold pour it on the 
balm. Stir it well together, and let it 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently ; 
bring it up, and when it has stood for six 
weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into 
each bottle ; 'Cork it tight. The longer it 
is kept the better it will be. 

BALSAM, SIRUP OF. Put an ounce 
of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring wa- 
ter, and boil them two hours ; add a pound 
of white pounded sugar-candy, and boil it 
half an hour longer. Take out the bal- 
sam, and strain the sirup twice; when cold, 
bottle it. 

BARBADOES CREAM. Take the 
zests of three fine cedrats, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them 
into three quarts of brandy ; close the -ves- 
sel hermetically, and let it infuse for a 
week, then distil it in an alembic. Dis- 
solve over the fii'e three pounds of sygar in 
a quurt of pure river water, add to it half a 
pound of orange-flower water, work the 
mixture, and filter it through a straining 
bag into bottles for use. 

BARBADOES WATER. Take the 
outer rind of eight large florentine citrons, 
half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a 
gallon of recti^ed spirit ; distil in the 6am 
marie s dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
c^uart of water ; mix it with the distilled 
liquor ; filter and bottle it for use.> 

BARBADOES WATER AMBER- 
OOLOKED. Infuse the yellow rind of 
six bei^amots, half an ounce of cinnamon, 
and two drachms of clovra bruised, for six 



days in a gallon of raetified spirits Aea 

add a drachm of saffiron, and let the whdle 
stand six days loiiger. Dissolve two pooadi 
of suffar in a quart of water, add it to the 
infusjoD, and filter for use. 

BARBERRY BISCUITS. Pre tfae 
juice through a sieve from two pounds ef 
barberries, and mix with it five ^lounds of 
sifted sugar ; whisk the whites of four eggs 
and add tliem to the fruit ; prepare sook 
square paper cases, fill them with the jB, 
make them quite smooth, lay them oo 
sieves, and put them intor a stove, and let 
them remain six or eight days. When 
perfectly dry, take away the papers : keep 
them in a dry place. 

BARBERRIES, TO CANDY. Take 
the l)arberries out of the preserve, and 
wKsh off the sirup in warm water; then 
sift over them some fkie sugar, and set. 
tliem in an oven, often moving them, and 
strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. 

t 

BARBERRY DROPS. Cut off the 
black tops, and roast the fniit before the 
fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 
then set tlie basin in a saucepan of wator 
the size of the top of the basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become thick. 
When cold, put to every pint, a powid and 
a half of the best sugar pounded as fine as 
possible. Beat the fruit and sugar together 
for two houra and a half (or more fur a 
large quantity), tlien drop it on sheets of 
white thick paper. If, wlien you drop, it 
runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will 
look rough if you put too much. , 

BARBERRY ICE. Put some barber- 
ries into a pan without water, set it over 
a gentle fire, stirring ^ them constantly; 
when warm, pass them througfi a sieve, 
into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar; 
if too tiiick, put a little water, but no lem- 
on-juice, as the barberries are sufficientfy 
acid without; then put it into the aaboHere- 
to congeal. 

BARBERRY ICE CREAM. Pot a 

lai^e spoonful of barberry jam into a pint 
of cream ; add the juice of a lemon and a 
little cochineal ; stir it well, and finish ai 
directed, see Ice. 

BARBERRY ICE WATER. Mix ooe 
spoonful of barberry jam with the juice of 
a lemon, a pint of water, and a little coch- 
ineal ; puss it through a sieve and freeze itj 
take care that it is thick and amooUi be- 
fore you put in moulds. 



BAR 



361 



BER 



BARBERRY MARCHPANE. Tnke 
tiiree pounds of aiveet almonds, two pounds 
imd a baif of sugar, and a pound of bar- 
berries ; pound tbe ahnondic to a paste, mix 
than witii the sagar boiled to petit boule, 
and tlien add tlte juice of tlie barberries 

mm^m^i otJr tilcn>4egmlwr wcH, and placC 

tbem on hot ashs, stirring tliem continual- 
ly until the paste is formed; then put it on 
a table sprinkletl witii sugar ami tct ^ -^..^^ 
spread it out about the thickness of a crown 
piece, cut it into various forms, place them 
on sheets of paper, and bake tliem in a 
moderate oven and glaze tliem. You may 
any otlier fruit you tliink proper. 



BARBERRY PASTILE. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum -dragon in a glass of 
water, strain it in a cloth or ha^, and put 
it into a mortar, with a spoon AiF of bar- 
berry marmalade ; mix it well, and add as 
much powder-sugar as will make it into a 
malleable paste ; you may also piK in a lit- 
tle cochineal dis^lved ; furn it into what 
shapes you please. 

BARBERRIES PRESERVED IN 

Bunches. 'Choose those bai-berries which 
have the lai^est seeds, which may be ex- 
tracted carefully with tlie nib of a pen. 
Weigh 3^our fruit , and mix it with an 
equal weight of sugar boiled io petit boule; 
boil them together two or Uiree times, and 
skim it. Set it aside in an earthen vessel 
mitil tlie next day, when it may be put in 
pots and covered. 

BARBERRY WAFERS. Press out 
the juice from as many barberries as you 
. may require, and mix it with powder-su- 
gar, and the white of one egg, and stir it 
up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 
fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper on 
a baking plate, and spread your paste over 
it very thin with a knife; cut it into twelve 
pieces, and put them round a stick (the 
paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl ; when 
naif curled, take them off carefully, and set 
them up endways in a sieve ; let tnem stand 
for a whole day in a hot stove. 

BARBERRY WATER. Put two large 
spoonfuls of barberry jam, the juice of two 
lemons and a gill of sirup in a basin, and 
dilute it with, water; add a little cochineal, 
and if not rich enough, more sirup; strain 
it through a fine sieve. 

BARLEY SUGAR. Oarify two pouhds 
of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, in 
a deep copper vessel with a lip ; pour it in 
straight hues about an inch thick, on a 
marble slab previously rubbed with butter. 
Whilst hot, take each eqcl of th strips of 



sugar and twist it ; when eold eiiC it iot9 
proper lengths and put tliem hy in glasuct^. 
They must be kept in a dry place. 

BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. Proceed* 
as for barley migtir. Have ready a largv 
slieet of white paprr^oe^ c r o d with a Dooth 
layer of sifted sugar. Pour out tlie boiled 
suffar in drops tlie size of a shilling; when- 
r>j(Xj^ A*k) chem separately in pa|]er, a few 
drop of tlic essence of ginger or lemon wiU* 
improve the flavor. 

BARLEY SIRUP. Make of a pound of 
barley three quarts of barley water ; strain 
out the bailey, and put to the water a hand- 
ful of scabious, torineiitil, hyssop, agrimony^ 
horehound, maiden hair, sanicle, betons^ 
burage, biiglose, rosemary, marigolds, sage, 
violets and cowslips, of each a pint, wlien 
picked; a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of 
dates stoned; half a pound of green liquor- 
ice, caraway, fennel' and aniseed, of each 
one ounce, hartshorn, ivy, elecampane 
roots, of each an ounce; the roots of fen- 
nel, asparagus, coucligrass, polipodium, 
and oak parsley, of eaoli a handful : clean, 
bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all 
into the barley water, cover close, and 
boil gemly for twelve hours ; tlien strain 
and press out the juice, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours ; when clear, add to it 
rose water and hyssop, half a pint of each, 
and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a 
drachm of saffron, three pints of tlie best 
honey, and as many pounds of sugar as 
quarts of liqnor, buil this an hour and a 
half, keeping it clean scummed, tlien bot- 
tle it, cork it well, and put by for use. 

BARLEY WATER. Put a quarter 
of a pound of pearl-barley into two quarts 
of water, let it boil, skim it very clean, 
boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten 
acc6rding to taste, and put in two glacwes 
of white wine, or some lemonjuice. Drink, 
it warm. 

BERG AMOT DROPS. Mix the juice 

of four or five lemons, and some sifted su- 
gar, with a wooden spoon; add to this 
twenty drops of essence of bergamot ; miif 
it well in, and having stinted it over the 
fire three or four minutes, drop it about 
the size of a sixpence on writing paper, 
and let them stand till cold. 

BERGAMOT WAFERS. Sqoeeae 
six lemons into a basin, and mix some 
sifted sugar, essence of bei^gamot, and the 
white of an egg, with tlie ^uice; beat 
them together till very white; if it becomes 
too ^ck^ add the juioe of another lemon | 



BIS 



363 



BIS 



Wpinsk6 yoor fite and dry thma m bar* 
berry vfafer$ 

BERGAMOT WATER. To the rinda 
of three hergamots, put a gallon of proof 
ilfiiril, and two quarts of water; draw off 
one gnllnn by th bmd m ar ie, and sweeten 
with sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATBR. Tafco 
gillfl of sirup, the juice of six lemoos, and 
when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it diroogfa a 6ne sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE. Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonfui of essence of bei^mot, s^in 
and freeze it. 

BETONY, CONSERVE OF. Take 
8 pound of l)etony, three pounds of loaf su- 
gar, beiit them in a stone mortar ; boil the 
wgar with two quarts o( betony water to 
the thickness of a sirup, then mix them to- 
fetlier by little and little, over a gentle 
ore, make it into a conserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Lny die rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it lie tender; take half 
a pound uf sweet almonds, and blanch them 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drag- 
ma, which soak in fair water; then pound 
the almonds, putting in as you pound, the 
whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound 
the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, 
and mix tliem well together; then beat a 
, pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon while papers, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES. Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
and fill some little round or square cases 
with it. Tlien with the rolling pin crush 
some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and 
strew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a copper plate, and when tlie sugar begins 
to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the 
mouth of which put a shovel full of burning 
coals to ciystallize the sugar ; and when that 
assumes the appearance of little pearls, re- 
move the coals and cbse the oven. Tjiese 
biscuits will require from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes baking. 

BISCUITS ICED. Beat up the white 
f eiglH, and the yolks of six eggs, with a 



pnond of fine powdered mgjur, fbr two 
Have ready fourteen ounoes of wellHilnBd 
sifted flour ; when the oven is ready aai 
your plates buttered, mix the floor an (foiek 
as possible with the e^, &c., and lay flis 
biscuits on the plates ; you may add a Uttis 
musk and amte^rls- it* i .<|tt;lr .nMo. 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bake a biscoit, 
ime letd bitcuit, in a plain, roond 
mould ; cut it across, in slices an inch 
thick ; pour on each slice a spoonful of tme 
maraschino, and when they have imbibed 
this, pkice them in their proper form, and 
mask the whole, either with white of e^ and 
sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded 
macaroons.  

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATEJL 

Whisk up six eggs, and an equal weight oS 
powder Hsugar, for half an hour. Take six 
more eggs and their weight of flour, and mix 
all togedier, and lay this mixture on paper, in 
cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about 
two inclies diameter ; lay them quite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven should 
be hot ; five minutes will bake them. Wbea 
cold, wet the under side of the paper, and 
they will then remove easily. 

BISCUITS, JUDGES. Break six 
eggs into a basin, and whisk them well 
for five minutes, add half a p(Mind of pow- 
der-sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes 
longer; put some caraway-seeds and half 
a pound of diy sifted flour ; mix them all 
together with a wooden spoon. Drop them 
on paper about the size of a crown-piece, 
and thick in the middle ; sift sugar over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them off the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take ten eggs, 
put the yolks of five in a pan with a lew 
crisped orange- flo were, the peel of a green 
lemun, bodi shred fine, and three-quarters 
of a pound of fine su^r ; beat the whole 
together till the sugar is dissolved and weU 
mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites 
to a frodi,. and add to the su^r, stir in 
lightly, and by d^rees, six ounces of flour, 
put mem into buttered moulds, powdering 
them with fine sugar, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put into an 
earthen pan half a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of Aour, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, the same of pounded 
almonds, a little salt, and some orange- 
flower water, six yolks, and two whols 
eggs ; beat up these ingredients well ; whip 
the six whites, and mix them graduailf 



BIS 



363 



BIS 



with the above preparatioo ; make a paper 
case, butler and pour in it vour. biscuit 
paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some 
almonds into either dice or slips, mix them 
with some powder-migar'and white of egg; 
when the biscuit manquea is about tliree 
parts dune, dor ex and cover it with this 
latter mixture ; then replace it in tlie oven 
and finish baking. As soon as it is done, 
take it out and cut it into wlialever forms 
2four fancy may dictate. 

BISCUITS, MARBLED. Make twen- 
ty-foui' eggs, a pound of powder>8Ugar, and 
three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted 
flour, 'into a biscuit paste, as directed for 
Spoon Biscuita; then beat four ounces 
of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, 
and add to it a third of the pa^te ; when it 
is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one 
half mix a quarter of the biscuit-paste, which 
will tinge that portion a light chocolate col- 
or. After tb'w, mix together some v^ta- 
ble red and infusion of saffron to color half 
the remaining paste orange; then divide 
that again, and mix the last quarter with 
half the orange-color, thus your paste will 
be colored with two shades of chocolate 
and two of orange. 

Make two paper cases, each eight inch- 
es square and three high, pour into one of 
these a large spoonful of ttie chocolate- 
paste, and when ,it has spread over the bot- 
tom of the ca^e, pour in one of the orange- 
colored, on which another of the chocolate, 
and so on, alternately, until tlie case is half 
.full; tlien sprinkle it with flour, and put it 
into a slow oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit- 
paste (botli colors) into a pan and stir them 
together with a spoon till the whole is 
yemed, or clouded with the two colors ; pour 
it into the other case, sprinkle it with flour 
and bake like the former; when quite cold, 
cut them into slices about two inches thick, 
balf of which should be broken, and the oilier 
half cut in pieces of an equal size, lay them 
on a baking-plate, and dry them ip the oven. 
These are generally used to make the rocks 
in ornamental pastry, and may be colored 
witli the usual materials, according to your 
fancy. 

BISCUITS, MARCHPANE. Beat a 
pound of sweet almonds to a very fine 
paste, moisten them with water, then put 
them and a pound of powder-igar into a 
saucepan, over a clear but not fierce char- 
coal 6re, stirring constantly, till the paste 
leaves adliere together ; put it on a ifloured 
slab, and work it well with your hands for 
fiofne time, then roll small pieces of it about 
three inches long and half the thickness of 
jour little finger, join the ends of each and 



make them mto round rings, lay them on  
sieve in a dry warm place for two or three 
days. When wanted, mix some powder- 
sugar with the whites, of eight eggs, and 
beat tiiem with a wooden spoon m each 
hand ; add a cup of orange-flower water. 
Put your rings into this icing, and cover 
them completely ; lay ihem on a sheet of 
paper and bake in a sk>w oven until the 
iciiig sets and they be^in to change color. 
Do not remove tiiem from the paper till cold . 

BISCUITS, MILLEFRUIT. Take 
preserved orange and lemon-peel, a quar- 
ter of a pound of each, six ounces of angel- 
ica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of 
bitter almonds; cut all the above ingredients 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, 
sugar and orange-flower water ; put the al- 
monds, &c. into this, and having paper on 
your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of 
whatever size you please ; then with a hair 
pencil touch tlieni here and there with a 
little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too 
hot an oven. 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 
weight of six e^s in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
cinnamon ; whisk the whites to a firm fi'oth, 
and stir them lightly into the yolks; add 
four whole eggs, and their weight of dry 
sifted flour, mix them well together; take 
this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about 
tlie size of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two together with the spoon, and when 
your paper is full, sprinkle powder-sugar 
over and bake them ; a few minutes will do 
them. Remove ihem from tlie paper while 
hot and put the two undersides together. 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA. 

Put the whites of twelve eggs into an earth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eight ounces of double refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted; having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of flour, and three 
of powder-sugar sifled, the grated rind of 
one or two lemons and half a cofiee cup of 
orange-flower water, stir them well with a 
wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the 
snow : drop ihem on. paper of a larger size 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take 
them fix>m the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, SAVOY. Whip twelve 
whites of eggs to a snow; beat the yolks 
with a pound and a quarter of powder-sugar, 
mix them together, with three-quarters of a 
pound of flour and the grated rind of a lem- 
on, into a paste, mb your mould with melted 
butter, and bake it. 



BIS 



264 



BIB 



BISCUITS, LARGE SAVOY. Take 
CDy-six eggs, four puuiid* ofnigar, the xet- 
4e9 of four oraoges, a potind and tbree-qiiar- 
4er8 of potatoe-Bour sifted ; and make voiir 
biscuit as fulk>w8: grate Uie zeate of the 
oranges on a piece uf sugar, and as soon as 
it \iecomes colored, scrape it off, and grate 
gain until all tlie zete is done, then di7 
4bc sugar peifectiy, crush and sift it. 

Br^k your eggs one by one, (taking care 
that all are perfectly fresh;) put tlie yolks 
and whites into separate vessels; mix hajf 
your sugar with the former, stirring h in 
with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then 
add the remainder, and work it well for 
twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite 
6rm, putting in a small quantity of pounded 
alum; wlien sufficiently whipped, which 
may be known by little points rising when 
the whisk is taken out; mix a little with 
the yolks; still, however, keeping tlie whites 
4Blirritig ; then pour the yolks on tliem very 
^ntly mixing tliera together as you pour, 
with the whisk: sift over the whole a pound 
of potatoe-6our, stirring the mixture all tlie 
time; when readv to put into the mould, 
your paste should be very smooth, and some- 
what of the consistence of treacle. Butter 
the mould, and put in a few spoonfuls o(^ 
your paste at first, to prevent any globules 
of air appearing on the top when baked; 
pour in the remainder carefully. Cover a 
oaking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould 
in the midst of lliem, and place it in a mod- 
erate oven; keep it open for an hour, that 
the biscuit roav be watched, and if it takes 
color too quickly, cover it with paper. In 
three hours time take it from the oven, and 
if it be of a good color, and firm, turn it on 
a baking-tin, tie round it a band of douUe 
|per, and replace it in the oven for a quar> 
-ter of an hour to dry. 

IBID, WITH ALMONDS. The in- 
gredients for this biscuit are the same as 
above, with the addition of four eggs, and 
half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the 
almondis, then wash, drain, and dry them in 
a Dapkin ; pound them with whites of eggs 
in the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it 
throudi a sieve, and then mix it with the 
additional eggs; add this to the sugar and 
yolks, and proceed as above. 

BISCUITS, SPICE. Take three 
pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut 
in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powder-sugar ; 
mix them all U^ther on your slab; boil 
three pounds of Lislion sugar with some wa- 
ter; make the above ingredients into a paste 
with this, and roll it to the size of a large 
rolling-pin ; lay it on a sheet of paper, fiat 
it down a little with your band, Keeping it 



higher in the middle thai| at the 
it into a verv hot oven ; when done, take it 
out, and while hot, cut it acns, in slieeiM 
eighth of an inch lliick, and dry tiiein. 



BISCUITS, FINE SPONGE, 
twelve eggs, separate the yolks and wliitei; 
to the former put tliree quarters of a poond 
of powder.eugar, stir Uiem well with a wood* 
en spoon, till it rises in lai^ge bladdcn; 
whisk tlie whites to a very firm fruUi, aid 
tlien mix them very lightly with the yeJki 
and sugar, and when incorporated, add tea 
ounces of fine dried and sifted fliNir. Star 
them all together well, and pour the mix- 
ture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift 
over, and bake tliein in a moderate 
Take tliem from the tins while liot. 

BISCUITS, SPOON. Break four 
put die yolks and whites into 
basins; add to tlie former a quarter (^ a 
pound of powder-ugar ; having grated on 
it tlie zeaie of a lemon, mix these together 
well with a spatula for ten minutes; then 
whip the whites to a fixMh, and pot abom 
half of them to the yolks, and whi that ia 
well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very 
lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, 
make tliem aljout three inches long, aiid the 
breadth of a finger. Glaze them with pow- 
der-sugar, and place them on baking- (ina, 
add, as the sugar dissolves, and they shine, 
put tlie biscuits into a moderate oven, which 
must be kept open for seven or eiglit minutes 
then close it until your biscuits are of a pro> 
per color. Whoi cold, detach them from 
the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay 
tliem by, in couples, the glaxed sides ool- 
wards, till wanted. 

BISCUITS, SWEET. Take half a 
pound of fine pounded Bugar, and sift it 
through a tammy. Put the whites of twelve 
^gB into a preserving-pan, and the yolks 
into an earthenware tureen ; whip the whites 
to a snow, and then carefully poor on it the 
yolks and sugar; stir them gently; place 
your pan over a chafin?-disfa; oontinae 
whipping the whole for a full half hour, and 
then, if the drop which felb from the whisk 
lays a little while without spreading, take it 
from the fire, and whisk again till it is oo)d{ 
then add half a pound of fine sifted flour, alir 
it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop 
them on paper, sift sugar over, and baka 
diem in a warm oven until of a deep yellow; 
take them from the papeni while warn; 
bake them as sooo as possible after they an 
dropt on paper. 

BISCUITS, SWEETMEAT. Cd 

some Naples biscuits into pieces about al 
inch thicky and an inch and a half 



<BI.A 



om 



BO-17 



apijiislerufillKmiiitlwoifen. Mtketone 
icing with whites of eggs, sugar} and orange- 
flower water; dip one side of the biscuit 
iDto it; cut some preserved lemon and 
orange-peel and angelica into small pieces; 
strew them over toe biiicuits, and dry the 
iping in the oven. 

BISCUITS, TOAD -IN. A -HOLE. 
Beat a pound cMf sweet, and an ounce and a 
balf of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, 
moisten with water, and mix the paste, 
which should not be too thin, with a pound 
and a quarter of white sugar. Lay a sheet 
of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and 
wafer-paper on that; lay the biscuits abt>ut 
the size of a half-crown piece; put a di'ied 
cherry in tiie middle uf each ; sift sugar over 
and bake tliem in a moderate oven. When 
done, cut tlie wafer-paper round, but do not 
take it away. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. Put full ripe 
blackberries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it, pour on as much boiling water as 
will cover them, and as soon as the heat 
will permit, bruise tliem well with the liand 
till all tl)e berries are broken ; cover them, 
and in about three or four days, when the ber- 
ries rise to the top, draw off the clear part 
into another vessel ; add to every ten quarts 
of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well 
in, and let it stand a week or ten days to 
work. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep 
four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet 
wine far twelve liours, then bull it slowly 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon W the black- 
berry juice, boil them together and then 
put all Logetho: ; let it stand a few days, and 
bottle. 

BLANC-MANGE, DUTCH. Put a 
pint of cleared cairs-foot jelly into a stew- 
pan ; mix with it the yolks of six eg^, set 
it over a fiire, and whisk till it begms to 
boil ; then set the pan in cold >vater, and stir 
the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it 
from curdling, and when it begins to thicken 
fill the moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch 
one pound of sweet, and a score of bitter 
almonds: drain them on a sieve, and after- 
wards dry them, by rubbing tliem in a nap- 
kin; pound them in a mortar, continually 
moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of 
water at a time, to prevent their oiling. 
When they are pounded as fine as possible, 
ts^ ibem out of the mortar, and put them 
Into a pan ; then with a silver spoon, beat 
op your almonds gradually, with five glasses 
of mtered water; after this, spread a napkin 
over an oval dish, and put your almonds 
tBXHi it; then gather up the comers of your 

23 



napkin, and wrnig it very tight, to preiB eat 
all the milk from the almoncb; then put 
into this milk, twelve ounces of crystallized 
sugar, broken into small pieces; when die 
sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a 
napkin; and then add to it one ounce of  
clarified isinglass, rather warmer than luke- 
warm ; and when the whole is well incorpo- 
rated togetlier, pour it into your moald. 
Your mould shouki be previously pnt into 
ten pounds of pounded ice ; when your blanc- 
mange is ready to serve, (which will be in 
two hours after it has been put into the ^ 
mould,) you must take it out of the mould 
according to the rule prescribed in Violet 
Jelly. 

BLANC-MANGE WITH FRUIT. 

Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, am^ 
when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool 
for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from 
sediment into another pan ; then whisk with 
it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and half a 
pound of currant jelly, strawberr}', or rasp- 
berry jam ; and when it begins to jelly, fill 
the moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, without either 
Isinglass or Icino. Prepare your 
almonds in the same manner as in the re- 
ceipt for Blanc-raange d la Franpaisey but 
only using half the quantity specified in that 
receipt, and likewise leaving out tlie isinglass. 
Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, 
and whip them till they begin to whiten, 
then add your blanc-mange, and place your 
pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip 
your preparation until the egg is thoroughly' 
mixed with the almonds, and the whole he- 
gins to turn to a thick cream ; and when it 
is of a proper consistence, pour into little 
cups, and serve it either hot or cold. 

Wlien you wish to serve this entremet 
in little cups, and of any flavor you please, 
you must only make UAe of two-thirds of the 
quantity of almonds, named in the receipt 
for Blanc-mange French, , 

BOUCHEES DE DAMES. Mix with 
six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potato-flour, a little salt, 
and a pinch of dried orange-flowers : beat 
tliem tc^ther well, and having butteied a 
tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a 
gentle oven for a quarter of an hour;^whai 
done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a 
crown piece, and glaze them, mask them 
according to your pleasore, and dry them 
in the oven. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, GLACEES. 

Roll some puff paste to about tlie eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and with a plain round 
paste-cotter, of two inches diameter, cut out 



nov 



^^ee 



^^n: 



manny culcM iw 710a ONiy rAqnire; tlMM 
ivith a innaUer cdtter, lake ut tin tniddte 
'vCiMif the noraboT) o n to make rings of 
Ifteoi ; mofsten the edges of the fermer, and 
lay the rtngv on them; wet them also as 
you lay thean down, sprinkle thn li^tly 
with powder sugar, and hake them m a 
brnk oven. These btmeheet reqnire great 
attrattion in baking, au the sugar is apt to 
dissolve and coIcht too quiokly ; whea done, 
they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill 
thorn with sweaUneats, preserves, or whip- 
ped crraim, according^ to fancy. 

BOUCHEES DE MONSIEUR. Pound 
a stick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then siH it; mix with it 
seven additional ounces of dry powder-su- 
gar, and half a pound of sifted dour ; add to 
this the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, 
and work them together till die paste is 
very smootii and soft. Heat two copper- 
plates, rub them over with wax, and then 
wipe tlicm; when cold, lay the paste with 
a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, 
shaded quite round, leave threc-quartenB of 
an inch space between each; when tlie 
plates are full, pot them on stoolt* in an oven, 
80 tliat they can receive no heat from below, 
then put a stove with hot coals on the top 
Df the oven, ar)d let them remain in this 
Btate for twenty-four hours ; then put them 
ibr fifteen or twenty minutes into a mode- 
rate oven. Take them from the plates 
whilst hut, and as soon as cold, finish them 
in the same \^'ay as boucheet de- dame*; 
glaze them with chocolate, a la rote, with 
pistachios, orai^, cedrat, &c. &c. They 
may also be masked with sugar, pistachios, 
currants, &c. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, MERIN- 
UES AUX PISTACHES. Malie them 
the same as above, strew sugar over with- 
out wetting the rings, and t^ke them to a 
light color in a moderate oven. Then mix 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar with 
three whites of e^, well whipped, and 
ttask the bouehees lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sugar; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pi^achio-nuts blanch- 
ed, and each cut across sloping ; place these 
pieces round the edge of the bottchees like 
ft drown ; and each piece of the pistachios 
being placed on the cut side, they stand out 
from the edge of the bouckee: uiia process 
:bett^ jSttished, pot them in the oven again a 
lew minutes, to cc^r the egg ; and in the 
meantime stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
Mafingui69 as you have bouckeesy sprin- 
lile'them with sii^ar, and color both sides 
H)f them ih. a slow <>ven ; and when the bou- 
Aea. are ready fbr table, fill tbem with 



iMiippcn *0^Raill) With pnCMd^jMi, ain ^bt^KC 
each wi^ half a miHHgue, 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PEIO^EES. 

Your bouehieB heme made and baked a 
above, whip the whites of two eggs to t 
firm froth, and mix them with four spooo^ 
fuls of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, 
mask your boucheet with it: then take 
some while of egg, and wi^ the point of a 
knife, drop ihem in peaHs about the shte of 
a grape*tone, round each bowchety half aa 
indi apart, spi-inkle them lightly with s^gfar, 
and dry the egg in the oven, takii^ care 
they do not lose their whiteness. 

When cold, place between each pearl a 
smaHer one of red-currant jefly. Fill yoor 
boueheea with apricot roannalade, appl^ 
jelly, &c. ; if, however, the jelly, or whato 
ever else you may use, be c^ a red cdor, 
your intermediate pearls should be composed 
of light-colored preserve, such as apricot 
marmalade, &c. lliese shoirid be pearled 
a few at a titne only. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PRALJ- 

NEES. Hnvingf prepared die bmiekeeaBB 
nsuul, dorez and hake them in a moderate 
oven ; when they are of the proper color, 
ma^k them with whites of eggs mixed with 
sugar, and almonds minced very smal/; re- 
place them in ^ oven a mioote or two, 
and then strew red, or any othor colored 
sugar on tbem, but not so thick as to cover 
the almonds entirely. Fill the boucheet 
as usual. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, a la 
Reine. The same as aboTe, only the 
paste must be cut thicker, and before yoa 
dorez, let diem stand a few minutes. Bake 
in a brisk oven. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (1) Gath- 
er the berries in the heat of the day, and set 
in an earthen vessel in the oven; aqaeeaeoot 
the jnice, and for each peck of berries pM 
two pounds of white sugar, and boil tfwm 
together a quarter of an hour; let it co(^ 
and then bottle it. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
three quarts of the juice of clarified bock- 
thorn berries, end four pouads of farvwn 
sugar ; make them into a airap over a gende 
fire, and while warm, nux with it a drada 
of the distilled oil of ck>ves, ilisaolved on a 
lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may Ik 
known by the mmiber of its aeeds, luivnr 
four, the alder buckthorn haa only two, aai 
the cherry buckthorn one seed. The Saf' 
mer is to be used. 

BUTTER, BLACK. iramepocMdrrf 



/FA* 



7 



CTAf^ 



and cherriesj to a pound of coarse sugar, 
boiled till quite thick< It must waste to 
'half the quantity. 



C. 



CAKES MADE OF FLOWERS. Boil 
double refined sugar to a candy height^ and 
strew in your flowers and let tliem boil 
once up; then, with your hand, lightly 
strew in a little double refined sugar sifted, 
and put it directly into little pans made of 
card, and pricked full of holes at the bot- 
tom ; you must set tlie pans on a cushion, 
and when they are cold, take them out. 

CAKES, HONEYCOMB. Boil your 
Ugar to a candy height ; tlien put in your 
flowers, which must l)e cut; have little pa- 
pers with four corners ready ; drop some of 
your candy on the {tapers^ take them off 
when ready, and if tliey are rightly done, 
they will look full of holes like honeycombs. 

CAKES, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop 
and red rose water, of each half a pint, half 
a pound of green liquorice, tiie outside 
scraped off, and then beat with a jjcstle; 
put to it half a pound of aniseed?, and steep 
it all night in the water; boil it with a 
gentle fire till the taste is well out of the 
liquorice ; stJ-ain it, put to it three pounds 
of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle 
fire till ii is come to the thickness of cream ; 
take it off, and put to it half a pound of 
white sugar candy seeied very fine; beat 
this well together for at least three Itours, 
and never suffer it to stand still; as you 
beat it, you must sti'ew in double-refined 
sugar finely seered, at least three pounds; 
half an hour before it is finished, put in lialf 
a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in or- 
ange-flower water: when it is very white 
then it is beat enough ; roll it up with white 
sugar; and if you want it perfumed, put in 
Si pastil or two. 

. CANDYING. Fruit intended for can- 
d^^'ing must be first preserved, and dried in 
a stove before the fire, that none of the sir- 
up may remain in it. Sugar intended for 
toe use of candying must be thus prepared : 
put into a tossing-pan a pound of sugar, 
with half a pint of water, and set it over a 
Tery clear fire. Take oflf the scum as it 
rises; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and 
take out a little in a silver spoon. When 
it is cold, if it will draw a thread from 
your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind 
of sweetmeat. Then boil your sirup, and 
irhea it b^ios to candy round the edge of 



yoor- jmh U ia candy lieigiit, It isiii _.  
qaistaKe to put a^y kind of sneetpieftl vmf 
too thick a simp, specially at th#- first, m 
it withers the fpait^ aod both tlie.beauty'4M4 
^vor are thereby destroyed. 

CANDY FLOWERS. Take thf 
best trebiexrefiiied sttgar, bi^eak it mM9 
lumps, and dip it piece by piece iqto wilep ; 
put them into a vessel of silver, aad ipelt 
them over the fire; when it just boik 
strain it, and set it on the fire agaiv, ani} 
lei it boil till it draws in hairs, which yen 
may perceive by holding up your spoon;, 
tlien put in llie flowers, and set them in eupt 
or glasses. Wl)en it is of a hard candy, 
breiik it in lumps, and lay it as high as yew 
please. Dry it in a stove, or in the suo^ 
and it will look like sugar-caody. 

CANDY, ALL SORTS OF FRUIT. 
When finished in the sirup, put a layer into 
a new sauce, and dip ii suddenly into hot 
water, to take off the sirup that hangs aboot 
it; put it on a napkin l)efore the fire to 
drain, and then do some more on the sieve. 
Have rpady-sifted double-refined sugar, 
which sifl over the fi'uit on all sides, till 
(|uitc white. Set it on the shallow end oi 
ti)c sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will lie 
beautiful. 

CANELLONS. Make a stiff paste, 
with a little melted butter, a spoonful or 
two of water, some rasped lemon-|)eel, aa 
egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half 
that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin; 
make a little cane of card-paper, butter it 
well on the outside, and wrap it in some of 
the paste; bake it a few minutes; take out 
the card, and fill the paste with currant jel- 
ly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you 
please. 

CANNELLONS MERINGUES. Whip 
tlie whites of two eggs, and having mixed 
tliem with two spoonfuls of powder-sugar, 
then mask the cannellons; when baked, 
cnjsh a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, 
and roll the cannellons in it; replace them 
a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. 
The^miisking of these cannellons may be 
varied according to t:\6te, with pistacliioe, 
dried currants, &c. the fonner cut in pieces, 
the latter well washed, dried and mixed 
with an equal quantity of sugar. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. T^ 

capillaire of Canada, although tliat of Montr 
peiier is equally good, is a very odorib- 
rous vegetable, light and agreeable, but 00 
extremely volatile,^ that the greatest part pf 



OAB 



266 



tAli 



k if diiBipBted daring the preparation of 
tiM simp. To prea er r c then the odoor of 
Ikt capillaire, when ^roor sirap w snfficient- 
W done, pour it, whibt boiling, upon some 
mA capiUaire ooaraely chopped up; then 
cover your venel, and let it etsuad until it 
It quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
dodi to separate it from the leaves of i^ 
camlhire. 

Take one ounce of the capillaire from 
Oanada; put it into u glazed pan, pour upon 
it fbu#pintB of boiling watcr^ leave it to in- 
fbse for twelve hoiini over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
meh in tliis tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preservine-pan, and 
put it on the fire, and clarify ii with the 
while of an egg, continue the cooking ; when 
your sirup is perfe, put some fresh capil- 
laire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your 
pan carefully, and let it cool; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor il if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork diem hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
|H)me good capillaire, chop it up, not \ety 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au casse; clarify this sirup with the 
whites of ^gs whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; wlien it rises, take it off the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
ai'e nearly the same, boil tlieir capillairc for 
a quarter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling through a sieve, 
they put into it some powder-sugar, and 
clarify tlieir sirup with water, or a whole 
q^g beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
veiy clear and has boiled au lisse, they 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, four 
pints of water, and fow pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar ; 
put in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
fine; when it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil ouick, till it cxymea to the degree 
called cracK ; which may be known by dip- 
piuff a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
fuia letting it drop to the bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remains bard, kham 
attained that degree : squeeze in the joSoe 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one mbk- 
ute longer on the fire ; then set the 'pan into 
another of cold water : have ready mooUi 
of any diape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw It over the mould in fine tlu-eads, till 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gun 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and {wioe 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
K. to cai-amel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and truce on its 
surface the forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it accordincr to tlioae marks. 
This conserve may be colored* and flavored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in tliree or ibur spoonfuls of 
water, and three or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untimied 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from 
die spoon into it, and so on till you have all 
the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be thi'ee parts 
cold, then pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, ran 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, 
and when cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, tlie sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look tiiick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold color. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 

your cardamums at the chemists, and they 
will be in a shell; put tliem into the oven to 
dry the skins, and (liey will break; pick all 
the seeds fi*om them, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under die 
same as for otliers ; mix your gum, stoicb, 
and sirup, and finish them the same as caflu 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Dry a quarter 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a 
pound .and a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls <^ rose water, 
half a pint of canarv, half a pint of creaa, 
and tliree-quarters ol a pint of new ale veait, 
an 1 the whites of two, and yolks oi to 
^gs; mix all these weU togetber, let k lit 



CAS 



260 



CHA 



before ^ fire, and when you make it up 
put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuitB, 
and three-quarters of a pound of caraway- 
oomfitB. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all die dust from 
tfaem, and have a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
handles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side ; then you must have a 
pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
book to ^ich end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
some fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some simp a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch; 
take some gtim arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into anollier pan, and 
make it just warm ; have an iron-pot with 
charcoal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the yxm warm ; 
have a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must Ire on the 
top; put the caraway seeds into your pan; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them 
with your hands until you find they are all 
dry, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do tlie same over your pan of fire, until 
you find tliey are all dry ; put the gum only 
three or ibur times to them at first, tiien the 
starch and Hugar, but boil your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
tliem seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
tbem the next day, and so, successively, fur 
six or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of -caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a pieserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the 
size you wish; then proceed as directed for 
Almond Drageea, 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambergris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
lings. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
aa much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
a candy lieiglit, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ier saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three qeart^ of brandy for three 

23* 



weeks* Dissolve two pounds of sugar m a 
quart of water, and mix with the liqumr, 
and let it stand some time kmger, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it vp cTose 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF, 

Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a poand 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water; when perfectly smooth, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by degrees ; 
then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of su^r widi 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar; as soon 
as both are dissoIve<l, strain them, and pat 
in each half an ounce of isii^lass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, poor 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a clear yellow; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Turn oat 
tlie blancmange as directed in BUmcmangt 
French, 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 
the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out ; diis must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(about a pound;) remove the surfec^ ot 
this sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder oi 
the sugar to the degree grande phime, 
then take it from the fire, and when it has 
tood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top ; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the ze9te of two cedrats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the zette is gone; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it throueh 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugai', and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fi-uit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
together, apd finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height ; place them round the in- 



CHE 



370 



OHfi 



side of ft dish; tben cut more mtafia cakes 
into squares, dip theoi also into sugar, and 
pile them tomer-ways on the row, aod so 
oo for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
sfKMtge biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
monds, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth witii rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over tlie top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
tlie stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. Ill about iialf an hour take them out, 
and drain tliem on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; when you have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perUy put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently witK a skimmer; then take 
them from the fire carefully, and put the 
clierries into bottles or gbss jars; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and lialf an 
oum ol* cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to tlie sugar, when nearly colrl, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a Imlf to a 
pound of fruit); mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
monthd time taste them, and if sufficiently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified sugar, and' 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on ihe fire with a little 
water, and half a pound of sugar. When 
the}' have boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of tlie kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar cm petit luse, and strain on 
them the louon-juice and kernels ; mix the 
whole tc^iether, and put it in a tabotieret 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place it in 



CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved clierries, pound them, 
stones and all ; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ri|ie8t, largest, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use; 



stone aod tail ; and then pot them m ^ 
gentle fire, and keep stirring theui till re- 
duced to half. Clarify and boil your sifjar 
to petti ceu$e, then add the fruit to it, uid 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
tlie almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit boule; then havii^ 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the 
juice of the clierries, add it to the rest, sthr 
it well, place it on liot aslies, stirring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish, it in the usual way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Crush ten 
pounds of cherries, and pot them into a jar 
witli a quart of brandy ; cover Uie jar close, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the. fruit into a 
cloth, arid press the juice oat through. Boil 
five pounds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, and for every pint allow a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the kernel 
of the cherry-stones, half a poond of corian- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well pounded, put them into a jar, 
and poor the liquor over tlicm ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks,' after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP OF. The best 
cherries for this purpose are tlie black sour 
ones ; take out ttie stones and express Ae 
juice into an earthen pan, where it must 
stand in a cool place for twenty-foiv hours 
to clear: at the end of that time poor the 
juice gentlv into a pan, and add to it, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and two diuchms of cinnamon, pit- 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap tfie 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and pot it with 
the water into your pan ; boif all together 
for half an hour, skimming it carefii%. 
When sufficiently done take out the ciimfe- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; take off 
the skins ; dip each in the whites of egp 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-euear; 
lay iliein separately on paper to dry, is s 
moderate oven ; they may be cut into (fi^ 



CHE 



371 



CHO 



fferent Shim if you think fwoper, and glawd 
either white or brown. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (2) 
Cut some osier rodw or reeds into pieces 
about two or three inclies long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (alwut tlie size of a nut), and rub it 
wiUi the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub every 
part well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel height; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in 
oach hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar 
may adhere equally about tlie chestnut till 
it oeffins to cool, then lay them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above ; when ail are done and cold, 
taxe out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. Tbnie cliestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they sliould be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a hundred 
chestnuts, and tlien put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on the Hre 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
rub off the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with tlie juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a pounfl and a half of sugar 
to petit /tsse, and having drained your 
cbeslnots, put them into the sugar with tiie 
joice of a lemon, tlie quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on the fire 
hr a short time, hut not to let them boil : 
then take tliem off and set them by. Tiie 
next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to sovfflB, put in the 
chestnuts ; blanch tliem instantly afterwards, 
and put them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
jour chestnuts as for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into a saooepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a gnss of water ; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juioe, and when 
ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
twMty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, 
half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
iaot ounces of powder-sugar; when it has 



boiled a little while, strain if, pot it fato 
a dish, or glass for table, ami let it oool. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 
tlicn pound a quailer of a hundred of chest* 
nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to thie 
add tlie yolks of two eggs, a pint of milky 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Take three 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removine 
such parts as were colored by the fire, and 
pound tliem with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth pate, add three-<]uarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve egg5i, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of whip()ed cream, the whites 
whipf)ed firm, and finish the custard as <Ii 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade hsf boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing tliem through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
til is, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade ; mix tliem well up with an 
equal weiglit of sugar boiled to grand 
piume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cheiTy, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till cold, nnd tlieii add to it an egg wdl 
beaten. With this, make fiNir onnces of 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thin ns possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take the paste 
from the tins, nnd join each |Meoe together 
according to the proper forms, with isin* 
glass and water. Tlie kiwer part, of 
course, ought to be stron^r than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must oe cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a  
pound and a half of the best si^r, finely 
sifled ; soak some gum-dragon in orangO' 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please; the paste must be stiff; 
dry them in a stove. You may write de* 
vices on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 
quarter of a pound of chocolajte over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



f wtfgue to forU perk, pot a ipooiifiil or 
two iato tke cbooobte ; nCir it tiJl it forms a 
thin paste, and then pcnir it on the su^r, 
iBDd boil both together to earanuL In the 
meantime dnelt a little butter, skim, and 
IXMir it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
fiil of it, and rub it with your liand over a 
marble slab or table: on tliie poor the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it j cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the su^ar in 
amali squares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar should cool before 
you have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der tlie latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over the fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of nuuse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bohu Ar- 
menicutn. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
olve two ounc^ of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perU ; keep the 
sugar stirring, and when it boils put tlie 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
olve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
plumet pot your chocolate into it, stin*ing 
it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stewpauj with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
pat them on white paper, and when they 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
corner, and lift it up and down so tliat the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
Dy that means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence ; put 
some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that are on the paper, then shake them 
tuff, and you will see all the chocolate drops 



wt9 oofHcd with the sugar o ppar ei i ; ht 
them stand till cold, and they will camt oflf 
well, and then put them in a box piq)and. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 
Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it ovtf 
the fire in a small pan ; when melted poof 
it into that in which you are to make joat 
ci^eamj break your yolks of eggs into it| 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add some 
pounded loaf sugstr to it, keep stirring ooa- 
tinualiy ; then add your cream by little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly togetlier ; then s^ yoor 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, tlien take it off immediate- 
ly, for, from the moment you set your gom- 
position over the fire till that it ofiers to 
boil, it has sufficient time to iocorporale 
well and thicken sufficiently, without need 
of boiling; and should you let it boil, yoa 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whev, on account of the yolks of eggs, whi(^ 
would do too much. Take great cave 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it wiO 
turn to curds and whey ; therefore, be cara- 
fiil, stir it continually, from the time yoa 
set it on tlie fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabot iere to make it congeal 
after tlie usual manner. ^ 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (4) 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
witli a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
kiid eggs, and about half a pound of ai^gar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER, Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of sirup, and half a 
pint of water ; mix it well, and freeie it 
thick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Pol 

a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tia- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is di^ 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoon- 
fijl or two of sweet almond paste, made m 
for macaroons, stir it jn well, and tlien pour 
it upon the remainder of the almond oaste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-poonral of 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them tc^ether well in a mortar, kmf 
them on paper, and bake them for threo- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate ov>. > 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 
For four bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bit^; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cinn^ 
mon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, witi 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



2T3 



OIH 



wkim of cfgB, and filter k tfaroug^ the pa- 
per. Yoo mivt be careful not to take more 
Aan two bottles from every (bar, except 
from the cinnamon, from which you are to 
take as much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocolate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it ; 9tir it with a gpoon ; when 
it is melted, take half a pound of lonf bu- 

SEtr, pounded in a mortar and silied, which 
issolve in a little clear water. When that 
is done, put in your chocolate ; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enougli to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife ; Uien 
take half a sheet of pnper, and cover it with 
little round Rnd flat drops, which we call 
paaHlSy of the size of a sixpence ; let tliem 
dry naturally in a cupboard ; and when dry, 
taxe them off from the paper, and put tbeiu 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 

Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
eggB, a choc4>late cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according as the paste is malleable ; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or 
designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
are made in tlie same way as Petita Paine 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream patianere, mixed witli two ounces 
of Tanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla ; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar, the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an e^ into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, with which mask the top and sides 
of the petits pains, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CpOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 
Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it op well, 
and then spread it on wafer-paiier in what 
Ibrms you please, and bake them in a mod- 
erate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffix 
cieotly dark colpred,, add a little bol-^mmo- 
Diac. 

CINNAMON Q^XSBk Yikkk. ^ 



half a down eggs with three table*frpnonMi 
of rose water ; add to it a pound of sifted 
mtgBtr, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and a snfllcient qoanlit}' of flour to 
make it into a paste ; roll it ou^ thin, and 
cut it into whatever forms your Ikncy mtiy 
dictate, place them on paper, and bake 
them. Wbeo done, remove them from the 
paper. Keep them dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twenty hours, 
and dien cot it into pieces about an inch 
k>ng ; prepare some sugar to grand liaa^^ 
and give the einnannon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence ; then put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to amffi^y and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cot 

some cinnamon into small sticks of about an 
inch or an inch and a half long; tliep put 
them into thin sugar, and boil them as it 
were in a sirup. Then take off the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry tliem thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put them in order in tin moulds 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
tliree rows set one alx>ve another, separated 
by those grates. In the meantime, boil su 
gar till it is 6/oton, and pour it into your 
mould, so tliat some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate ; then set them in die stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; the next morning take notice vvhether 
tlie cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and 
little, gently; then lay them upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OR 

Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit 
casai, tlirow in the cinnamon, stir it well,, 
and then take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar heg\nB to whiten, pour the conserve 
into, cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve houm 
in water to soften it ; at the end of that time, 
cut it into slips, by them on a sieve in a 
wttjnn pkiice ^r 9ome. da^. When qai^ 



cut 



2T4 



CIT 



Iwd and div, boS mm fine Mgar to the 
degree grmuipmrlt; have ready a quantity 
of fine powder, and proceed in die same 
Manner as in doinjf Almond Drageet, 
tmtii die cinnamoo eltclu are of the proper 
ikicknees; diofle which are to be twisted or 
euried, tbouAd not be so thick ae the others. 
Be equally particalar in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragees. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 
Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much watnr as will cover it; the next 
day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
etirred the whiter it becomes; in ratlier 
more tlian a quarter of an hour, add to it 
tbe caked sugar which was removed from 
the preserving-pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonAil of cinnamon powder, and 
tiy degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water ; 
when tiie paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well fur a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than the eighth of an incli, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
.-cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
fxr a sieve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some common sugar to prle, 
and sugar tle slips of paste ag above direct- 
ed ; instead of the fine powder, flour is suifi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when tiie 
powder may be used to give them whiteness. 
Wlien of the requisite size, lay them on 
sieves to dry. In a few days there may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
ame manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 



CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a lUQttar, and add to it a tea'poonful 
jOf powdered ciaaaBM>H, and a suiiicient 
quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
 proper coesistenee; form into such figures 
8 you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
A pound of marchpoxie paste^ and dilute 
It with as many whites of eggs as will 
mk it tfufead easily with aJ^uife; add to 
lbis a spoonful or two of prepared iole-^m^ 
iPni9c tiH<bich will^ive m a fine nd tin^^ 



and half an oiiaoe of ejanapien^wwdtft 
When all theee ingredients are weU mimd* 
cut some wafer-paper into such forma aa ym 
may think proper, and lay on them the paelr 
about the thickness of the eighth of an incbf 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. When done, th^ may be 
finished in tlte ibiluwing manner :"-*Boil 
some sugar in orange-fiower water, to ib 
plume f and as you take the sweeUneats from 
the oven; dip a hair-pencil into the sirup, 
and brush them over; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves tb 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the 
same of flour, half an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stirtliese up ia 
an earthenware vessel, witli a suflScient 
quantity of milk to make it into a tliin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate 
quite hut, rub it well with butter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; fry it, and 
when l^own on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a small stick; do this 
until all the paste is used. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two draclims of mace, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise 
them well, and then put them into three 
quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion 
stand for some .days befois you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar m three pints 
and a half of water; mix this sirup with the 
liqueur, and then strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON , CANDIED. Pare tlie citrons 
very thin and narrow, and tlurow them into 
water; these are called faggots; then ciU 
the citron into slices of any diickness yo^ 
think proper ; take out the inner part with 
great care, so as to lea\-e only the white 
ring, and put them with tlie fiiggots into 
boiling water; when tender, drain then. 
Boil a suflicient quantity of clarified aigar 
to souffle; then put in the rings, and boi) 
them together. Take it from the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub tlie sugar against the 
side of die pre:rving-pan with the back of 
a spoon; as soon as it becomes while, take 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate te 
drain : boil and proceed with the faggots in 
a similar. way; when taken out, oit them 
into prcfiec lengths with a pair of sciasQO, 
and lay tliem also on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ewb 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with al 
the sfods; boil thpai in so^ wntmr^ nei 



CIt 



276 



COF 



wlien quite tender, take thn (t-ora the fire, 
iukI throw th^n into coM water a moment ; 
dicii, havHig fireseed them in a obtb to eet 
the H'ater out, pound and sifl them. To 
every quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
put half a pound of clarified sugsir; simmer 
them together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds, and place 
tiiem in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours; then, 
having waslied them in cold water, boil 
them; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as much clarified sugar as will cover 
them. The next day drain off" the sirup, 
and boil it; when quite smooth and coli), 
pour It on the citrons; let them stand twen- 
^'-four hours; then boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The tinrd day, 
boil both together, and put them into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
60 that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over the 
fire in some water; whenever tliey are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into cold water. They 
must then be put on the fire again, in the 
same water, ax\d boiled gently until tender; 
then take them out, and pat them in cold 
water. After this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons; 
do this-ior three successive days, increasing 
the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, 
so that at the last boiling the degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
faito pots. ' 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same ; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they should be dried on 
flieyes in a stove. With the reinaining su- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put them into a Jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
>r three weeks; then add to this a pound 
of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and 
well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen 
ilays longer, 4vhen it may be bottled. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
9 china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
sogar, and citron, pared, and cut in very 



thin slices, and let them stand till the ntxt 
day; then strara off the sirup, and clarify it 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put tlie 
rinds of three citrons into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; poor the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort bouUt. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently; and when the sugar is 
entirely dist<olved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take the saucepan from the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zestes or rinds of a- dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sii- 
^ar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
mfuse the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to tlu'ee quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
those of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling 
water into a stewpan, cover it close, and 
boil them gently for half an honr; drain the 
cloves, and to' a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the whole t ill it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of coffee made with water ; put in it a 
pound of loaf-suear ; set it on tlie fire and 
boil it to a high degree; then add a full pint 
of double cream, and let it lioil again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height; to know wlien it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of watw 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your sugar, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it j; take a bit of it in your' teeth ; 
if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, 
which must be rubbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the 



CQN 



^76 



ORE 



.roHing pin must likewise be rubbed with 
"biitter, for fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you inay cut it into little sqntn es, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boll to the first degree a pound of sugar; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it al)out until it comes 
to the sixUi degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and di*y. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
4Strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of eggs, with 
about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour 
tliis into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill them quite,) and 
liaUe in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
tlie sliape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil them in two quarts of spring water till 
one fourth is consumed ; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all Ports 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetnoeat marmalade; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take strawberries, currants^ cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, pot 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
fikim, and boil it to caste; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
( again, and give it one boil, take it ofi*. 



and keep stirring till tlie mgnr bubblesyiirheo 
the conserve may be poured into inoukk. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 
Tliese ai-e made in the same manner as 
other conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter ; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over the fire, and let them warm; 
when they are warm throw in about hajfa 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in ail- 
bother pan; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the corianders are cov- 
ered to the size you want to have them; 
when that is done, take the corianders oat 
from the pan, wasii them well, and put theon 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to the first de 
gree; when this is done, put it in an iostm- 
ment of copper, made on purpose lor the 
operation, and at the bottom of which there 
is a little hole ; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that tlie sugar may fsA\ from about a 
yard height into the pan where tlie coriajh- 
ders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or rough and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORUNDER SUGARED. These 

seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almouds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix op 

whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with eggs smd sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine siex'e, and poor 
the preparation into a mould lighdy buttered 
within side. Put this mould into a brgs 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch ^ the 
mould; place the saucepan on hot adies, 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep tlie water at the same tempera- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be knows 
by touching it with vour finger, and obsor- 
ing whether it may be easily detached from 
tlie mould, take it from the hain-marit and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewanBf 
turn it out on your dish. 
It sometimes happens, unavoidaUyy tfaH 



ORE 



277 



CRO 



Millies ariie on the mirfiioe of the cream ; 
in 8Uh a ca^, boil a glass of cream, and 
add to it, by d^rees, three volks of eggs; 
stir it constantly witli a wooden spoon ; mix 
three ounces of fine sugar with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on the point of boiling, 
then take it otT and strain it. Wlien tlie 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
ude its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
separate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together ; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, witli a bit 
of cinn:imon, some coriander-seeds, and 
the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil them . for a quarter of an hour ; 
then take it off* the fire ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it ofl^ the fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again^ until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; tlien 
place a saucepan, with some hot water in 
It, over hot ashes; take a dish, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put 
on the lid of the saucepan, witli fira almve, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth ; remove the peel, and serve in a dbh. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any pi'eserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or diree ^gs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off with 
a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
^[laaa salver, with other creams, or put it 
m tbe middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenisli wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a pound of sugm" ; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
of eggs, beat them well together with a 
whisk, till your wine is half diiven in them, 
and your eggs to a sirup ; strike it very fast 
vt'ah the wuak, till it comes to such thick- 

24 



ness that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of ci-eam, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a little half pound* 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add some pounded lump siisar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it thi^ee- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly diwolved, pour tbe 
whole into a 9or bettered which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; tlien beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds lied together, or with a whisk; 
and a| the si^ow rises take it up with a 
spoon in the cullender, that tlie liquid part 
may nm out: when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of tbe cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick ; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
wlien it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See IVhip* 
ped Cream, 

CROQUETTES OF DE8TREES. 
Use the best puff {laste ; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into diflSerent shapes, as foncy 
leads ; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner; rub thorn 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them ; tlien put some currant 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design you plesue, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. TUte 



CAR 



366 



tkK 



it H dinipated during the preparation of 
IIr mnm. To preserve then the odour of 
#w capilhnre, when voor sirup is sufficient- 
hr done, pour it^ whiht boiling, upon some 
rah capillaire coarsely chopped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it Ftand until it 
fe quite cold, then pass it throtish a bolting- 
dodi to separate it from the leaves of the 
capillaire. 

Take .one ounce of the capillaire from 
Canada ; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon 
it fbur*^int8 of boiling watcr^ leave it to in- 
ftne for twdve houre over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
melt in tliis tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preserving-pan, and 
pot it on the fire, and clarify ii with the 
white of an egg, continue the cooking; when 
your simp is per/e, put some fresh capil- 
laire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your 
pan carefully, and let it cool; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork them hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OP. (2) Take 
0ome good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au casse; clarify this sirup with the 
whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; wlien it rises, fake it off the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly the same, boil theii- capillaire for 
a quarter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling through a sieve, 
they put into it some powder-sugar, and 
clarify their sirup with water, or a whole 
egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
very clear and has boiled au liase^ they 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it tlirough 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, vou 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, louv 
pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar; 
put in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
fire; when it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil Quick, till it comes to llie degree 
called cracK ; which may be known by dip- 
ping a tea-spoon or skewer into tlie sugar, 
and letting it drop to Uie bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remaina hard, it ham 
attained that degree : squeeze in the juice 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire ; then set tJie pan koto 
another of cold water : have ready mooldi 
of any shape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw It over the mould in fine thi'eada, till 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gam 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and pLoe 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
R to caramel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and truce oo its 
surface tlie forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it according to tliose marks. 
This conserve may be colored* aDd flavored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in diree or four spoonfuls <^ 
water, and thi-ee or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untinoed 
gkillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze tlie sugar fixMn 
tlie spoon into it, and so on till you have aO 
the suj^ar. Take a bit out of tlie water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be tliree parts 
cold, then poar the water from the sugar, 
and having a co|)per mould oiled well, mo 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maae, 
and when cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, tlie sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look tliick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold color. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 

your cardamums at the chemisUi, and they 
will be in a shell; put tliem into the oven to 
dry the skins, and they will break; pick aO 
the seeds from tliera, put the seeds iota a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under die 
same as for others ; mix your gum, starch* 
and sirup, and finish them the same as cara- 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Diy a qoaittr 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a 
pound .and a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls of rose wafeOi 
half a pint of canarvt half a pint of creatti 
and three-quarters of a pint of new ale yeait, 
an 1 the whites of two, and yolks of linr 
(^ggs; mix all these well togetfaer, let it lit 



CAS 



269 



CHA 



b^re die fire, and when von make it up 
put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, 
and three-quarters of a pound of caraway- 
oomfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
tfaem, and have a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
nandles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side ; then you must have a 
piliey fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
hook' to each end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
Bome fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some sirup a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch; 
take some gum arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into anoiiier pan, and 
Boake it just Warm ; have an iron-pot with 
charcoal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the fKin warm ; 
have a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must \ie on the 
top ; put the caraway seeds into your pan ; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, mb them 
with your hands until you find they are all 
dty, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over ymir pan of fire, until 
you find tliey are all dry ; put the gum only 
three or ibur times to them at first, tlien the 
starch and sugar, but boil your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
them seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
them the next day, and so, successively, for 
six. or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of'Caraway seeds you think proper, 
pat them into a preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionnlly, till of the 
size you wish ; then pi'oceed as directed for 
Almond Dragees. 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambergris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on tw^o shil- 
lings. Havii^ pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
a candy lieiglit, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ter sauoers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
cberries, a quarter of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
braise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamr)n, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three quarts of brandy for three 

23* 



weeks. DisaolTe two pounds of ai^ar m a 
quart of water, and mix with the Hquemr, 
and let it stand some time kuiser, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF, 
Grate the rind of a (drat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water ; when perfectly smooth, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by d^rees ; 
then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar widi 
the cedi'at, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon 
as both are dissolved, strain them, and put 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: yoor 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth; as soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, whidi 
ought to be of a clear yellow; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Tm'u oat 
tlie blancmange as directed in Blancmm^it 
French, 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 

the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to onze out ; this must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of si^^, 
(about a pound;) remove the surface of 
this sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande phunty 
then take it from the fire, and when it has 
stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of lump mi- 
gar, grate on it the zettea of two cedrats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the zeate is gone; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
together, apd finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the in- 



CHE 



370 



CHE 



side of ft dish ; then cut more mtafia cakes 
into squares, dip them also ioto sugar, and 
pile them corner-ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
spouse bitfcuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
monds, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth with rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over tlie top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
tlie stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. In about lialf an hour take them out, 
and drain tliem on a sieve; weigh tltem, 
and to every pound of fruit, alk)w a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; \vhen you have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil tliem up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently witK a skimmer; then take 
them from the fire carefully, and put the 
clierries into bottles or gbas jars; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an 
oon(* of cinnamon tied in a linen beg. Put 
to tlie sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a half to a 
pound of fruit); mix tliem together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufficiently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified sugar, and' 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on the fire with a little 
water, and half a pound of sugar. When 
they have boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of tlie kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on 
them the kmon-juice and kernels ; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a Bfibotierty 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place it in 
glai 



CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
stones and all ; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the riiiest, largest, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; 



stone and tail ; and then pot theni a < 
gentle fire, and keep stirring them till n- 
dticed to half. Clarify and boil your sqgsf 
to petit casse, then add tlie fruit to it, and 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then safBciently done, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
tlie almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit houle; then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed oat the 
juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on liot aslies, stirring con* 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish, it in the ustn.1 way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, rasfkicr- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Chnfa ten 
pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover tlie jar cVe, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the. fruit into a 
cloth, arid press the juice out through. Boil 
five |x>unds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two jofoes, 
measure them, and for every pint a)k>w a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the kemeb 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of corian- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well potmded, put tliem into a jar, 
and ftour the liquor over them ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks,' after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly4g, 
and bottle it; cork it carefully. 

CHiERRIES, SIRUP OF. The best 
cherries for this purpose are the black sour 
ones ; take out the stones and express die 
juice into an earthen pan, where it most 
stand in a cool place for twenty -four boms 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gently into a pan, and add to ii, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of cmshed 
sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pi^ 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap tte 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it with 
the water into your pan; boif all together 
for half an hour, skimming it carefully. 
When sufficiently done take out the cimift- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table; take off 
the skins ; dip each in the whiles of eggi 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-scear; 
lay litem separately on paper to dry, or a 
moderate oven ; tlusy may be cot into i6S- 



CHE 



S7I 



CHO 



fereBt fiHiM if yott think proper, and glaxed 
either white or brown. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (2) 
Cut some osier rodit or reeds into pieces 
about two or three inches long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (about tlie size of a nut), and rob it 
wiUi the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub every 
part well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel height ; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in 
each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar 
may adliere equally about tlie chestnut till 
it begins to cool, then lay them on the but- 
terea slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above; when all are done and cold, 
take out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think im>per. These cliestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a hundred 
chestnuts, and then put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three bandfuls of bran ; put them on the Hre 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
rub off the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with tlie juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar 
to petit lUse, and having drained your 
diestnuts, put them into the sugar with the 
joice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on the fire 
fx a short time, hut not to let tliem boil : 
then take tliem off and set them by. Tlie 
next day (irain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to souffle, put in the 
chestnuts ; blanch them instantly afterwards, 
and put tliem into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
jour chestnuts aa for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of Migar, and half a gnss of water; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
-rrady to serve, strew powder-eugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
tweoty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two ^gs, 
half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
lour ounces of powder-sugar; when it has 



boiled a little while, ttraiB if, pot it 

a dish, or glass fi>r table, and let it oool 



CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, aad 

tlien pound a quarter (^a hundred of dwst- 
nots, with a small quantity of milk ; to tlii* 
add tlie yolks of two eggs, a pint of miUc, 
a quarter of a pound of powder-eagar, and 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Takethiee 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts as were colored by the fire, and 
pound them with a ponnd of fresh butt^; 
when a smooth paste, add three-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve e^s, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls uf^ whipped cream, the whites 
whipped firm, and finish the custard as di- 
rected, 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade hf boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
tliis, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade ; mix tliem well up with an 
equal weiglit of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cheiTy, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Havin boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till colrl, ami then add to it an egg wdl 
beaten. With this, make four onnoes of 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thin ns possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take die paste 
from the tins, and join each piece togedier 
accordir^ to the proper forms, with isin- 
glass and water. Tlie lower part, of 
course, ought to be stronger than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must oe cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a  
pound and a half of the best su^ar, finely 
sifted ; soak some gum-dragon in orange* 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please; the paste must be stiff; 
dry tliem in a stove. You may write de- 
vices on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 
quarter of a pound of chocolajte over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



f Nsar to forU perk, pot a poosM or 
tro iato tke cbooobte ; Mir it tilt it fomifl a 
thin paste, and then pour it on the su^r, 
iBod boil both together to earameL In the 
meantime dnelt a little butter, skim, and 
pour it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
ful of it, and rub it with your hand over a 
narble slab or table: on this poor the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
sword-blade, (one ia each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it $ cross them 
in tike manner, so as to mark the su^r in 
amall squares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar should cool before 
you have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der tlie latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to tlie 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over tlie fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of nuuse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate ovm. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with 6o/us Ar- 
menieum, 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocx>late in a 
little water, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle ; keep tlie 
sugar stirring, and when it boib put tlie 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 

oolve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sug:ir to the premiere 
piumet put ^'oor chocolate into it, stirring 
it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stewpan, with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; 
mix it well over the lire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
put them on white paper, and when they 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
comer, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
by tliat means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence; put 
oroe sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
alt tliat are on the paper, then shake them 
ff, and you will see all tlie chocolate dro^w 



are eofered with the sqgar aonpareii; kt 
them stand till cold, and th^ will come otf 
well, and then put them in a box papersd. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 
Take any quanti^ of chocolate, melt it ovtf 
the fire in a small pan ; when m^tod poof 
it into that in which you are to nmke yoar 
ci^eam; break your yolks of e^i into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add some 
pounded loaf sug^tr to it, keep stirrine ooa- 
tinually ; then add your cream by littfe and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly togedier; then aei your 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, tlien take it off iramedtaite- 
ly, for, from the moment you set your coB- 
position over the fire till that it ofiers to 
ooil, it lias sufficient time to incorporate 
well and tliicken sufficiently, without need 
of boiling ; and should you let it boil, yoa 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whev, on account of the yolks of eggs, which 
would do too much. Take great caie 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey ; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, from the time yoa 
set it on the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it ooi^geai 
afler tlie usual manner. ^ 

CHO(X)LATE ICE CREAM. (4) 

Dissolve the chocohite in a little water oo 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
widi a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound ofsi^gar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER, Take 
three ounces of cliocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of sirup, and half a 
pint of water; mix it well, and freeie it 
tliick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Pdl 
a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tia- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis- 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoon. 
fill or two of sweet almona paste, naade as 
for macaroons, stir it Jn well, and tlien pour 
it upon the remainder of the almond paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them together well in a mmtar, Isy 
them on paper, and bake them for three- 
quartera of an hour in a moderate oven.  

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 
For four bottles of brandy, take one pomd 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bit*; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cinna* 
men ; you must infuse all in the Ijrandy, witi 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



2?T3 



CIN' 



wkHn of cfgB, and filter it through the pa- 
|ier. YoQ mupt be careful not to take moi'e 
timD two botties fit>in every four, except 
firom the cinnamon, froin which you are to 
take as much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocolate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it ; 8tir it with a spoon ; when 
k is melted, take half a pound of loaf m- 

SEir, pounded in a mortar and nified, which 
isBOive in a little clear water. When that 
IB d<Hie, put in your chocolate ; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little watm*, 
enougti to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife ; tlien 
take half a sheet of pnper, and cover it with 
little roimd Rnd flat drops, which we call 
paaHiay of the size of a sixpence ; let tliem 
diT naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, 
take them off from the paper, and put tbeiu 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 

Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
^gs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according as the paste is malleable ; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or 
designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
are made in tlie same way as PetiU Pains 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream paiitnere, mixed witli two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla ; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar, the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an e^ into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, with which mask the top and sides 
of the petits pains, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CpOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 
Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
bito a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it op well, 
and then spread it on wafer-paiier in what 
Ibrfds yon please, and bake them in a mod- 
erate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffi> 
ciently dark colpred,, add a little boliQkmmo- 
Diae. 

CINNAMON OAVUSa. Whiik ^ 



half a doKB eggs with three tabkHfrpnonMi 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and a sufficient qoanlit}' of flour to 
, make it into a paste ; roll it out thin, and 
cut it into whatever forms your fimcy may 
dictate, place them on paper, and bake 
them. When done, remove them from the 
paper. Keep tliem dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twenty hours, 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch 
k>ng ; pi-epere some sugar to grand liss^, 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence ; tlien put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to smtffU, and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cut 
some cinnamon into small sticks of about an 
inch or an inch and a half long; tliep put 
them into thin sugar, and boil iliem as it 
were in a sirup. Then take off the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry tliem tlioroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put them in order in tin moukls 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
tliree rows set one above another, separated 
by those grates. In the meantime, boil su- 
gar till it is hlovm, and pour it into your 
mould, so that some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate ; then set them in die stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; the next morning take notice whether 
tlie cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath ; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, \^ little and 
little, gently; then lay them upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry tliem thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. 
Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to peti^ 
cass^i tlirow in the cinnamon, stir it well,, 
and then take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and. dry it as teaal. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve houm 
in water to soften it ; at the end of that tiiae^ 
cut it into slips, by them on a sieve in a 
warui p^jce ^r some da^. Whqa qiiifii 



cut 



274 



CIT 



Iwd and div, boil Moe fioe mgar to the 
degree grmuipmrlt; have ready a quantity 
of fine powder, and prooenl in the eame 
Manner aa in doing Almond J)ragee, 
until the cinnamon slicks are of the proper 
ihickneea; those which are to be twisted or 
curled, sboukl not be so thick as the others. 
Be equally particular in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragees. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 
Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much water as will cover it; the next 
day put the ii^fusion into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stiired the whiter it becomes; in rather 
more tlian a quarter of un hour, add to it 
the caked sugar which was removed from 
the preserving'pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon ^mwder, and 
tiy degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water ; 
when the paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well fur a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
Dot thicker tlian the eighth of an inch, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
(Cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
'or a s^ieve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some eonnnon sugar to perle, 
and sugar the slips of paKte as above direct- 
ed ; instead of the fine powder, flour is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when tlie 
powd^ may be used to give them whiteness. 
\Vhen of tlie requisite size, lay them on 
Aleves to dry. In a few days there may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
ame manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
Jhi^ly rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful 
jOf powdered ciQDaBK>a, and a sufficient 
quantity of sifled sugar to make the paste of 
 proper consistence; form into such figures 
8 you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
A pound of marchpane paste* and dilute 
It with as many whites of eggs as will 
mke it spread eaeily with aJiuife; add to 
Ibis, a spoonful or two <^ prepai'ed lfole*am- 
iPnK9c, ^v^b^ch wiU ^iv x a fine j:^ tio^^ 



and half aa ouooe of ckmaman-pewdci^ 
When all these inp^ients are well mimd* 
oit some wafer-paper into such forma aa ym 
may think proper, and lay on thera the paalr 
about the thickness of the eiehth of an iochi 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. When dime, they may be 
finished in the Iblluwing manner :-^JBoil 
some sugar in orange-flower water, to la 
plume, and as you take the sweetmeats from 
the oven ; dip a hair-pencil into the sinxp^ 
and brush them over ; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves the 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the 
same of flour, half an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stir tliese up in 
an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient 
quantity of milk to make it into a tliin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate 
quite hut, rub it well with butter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; fry U, and 
when brown on both sides, roll it, sliU over 
the hot iron, round a small stick; do this 
until all tlie paste is used. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two draclims of mace^ 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise 
them well, and then put them into threo 
quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion 
stand fur some .days before you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar m three pints 
and a half of water ; mix this sirup with the 
liqueur, and then strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON , CAN DIED. Pare the citrons 
very thin and narrow, and throw them into 
water; these are called faggots; then cut 
the citron into slices of any tliickness you 
think proper ; take out tlie inner part with 
great care, so as to leave only the white 
ring, and put thein with tlie faggots into 
boiling water; when tender, drain them* 
Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar 
to souffle; then put in the rings and boil 
them together. Take it from the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub tl>e sugar against the 
side of tlie pre.^erving-pan with the back of 
a spoon; as soon as it becomes white, tako 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, ono 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate to 
drain: boil and proceed with the faggots in 
a similar. way; when taken out, cut them 
into prqpe^ lengths with a pair of scissors, 
and lay tliem also on the wire to draiou 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ewb 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with aS 
the s^eds; boil th(iii n^ aoffofi watmr^ jisd 



ci!r 



276 



COF 



^dien quite tender, take them fi-om the fire, 
mid throw them into cold water a moment ; 
diei having; pressed them in a doth toeet 
the water out, pound and sifl them. Fo 
everv quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
put naif a pound of clarified sugar; simmer 
them together, stirring constantly until well 
nixed ; then put them mto moulds, and place 
ihem in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours; then, 
having wasiied them in cold water, boil 
them; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as much clarified sugar as wilt cover 
them. Tlie next day drain off the simp, 
and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, 
pour It on the ci Irons; let them stand twen- 
ty-four hours; tlien boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The third day, 
boil both together, and put them into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over the 
jfii'e in some water; whenever they are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into cold water. They 
inust then be pnt on the lire again, in tlie 
eame water, and boiled gently until tender; 
then take them out, and pot them in cold 
-water. After this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
' into en earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the frait, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons; 
do this- for three successive days, increasing 
Hie degree to which you boil the sugar daily, 
so that at the last boiling the degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
hato pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they should be dried on 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining su- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin ; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put them into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
fi>r three weeks ; then add to this a pound 
of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and 
well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen 
days longer, Ivhen it may be bottled. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
9 china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very 



thin slices, and let them stand till the next 
day; then stram off the sirup, and clarify U 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put die 
rinds of three citix>n8 into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; poor the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort houlet. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently; and wlien the sugar is 
entirely dissolved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take the saucepan from tlie fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zesies or rinds of a- dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of su- 
^r, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
mfiise the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
thoFe of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling 
water into a stewpan, coN^er it close, and 
boil them gently for half an honr; drain the 
cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugar ; beat up two eggs in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the whole I ill it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of coffee made wiUi water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sugar; set it on tlie fire and 
txtil it to a high degree ; then add a full pint 
of double cream, and let it l)oil again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel hei^t; to know when it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of water 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your sugar, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it ; take a bit of it in your teeth ; 
if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, 
which must be rubbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the 



CQN 



276 



CRE 



roRing pin must likewise be rubbed widt 
TlMitter, tor fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boll to the first degree a pound of sugar; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it al)out until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and diy. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of eggs, witji 
about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour 
idih into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill tliem quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
"with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
Hie shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenliair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil them in two quarts of spring water till 
one fiiurth is consumed ; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sag-Ar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all Ports 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
ID the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
, the purpose; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
skim, and boil it to casses take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
OD again, and give it one boil, take it off. 



and keep stirring till the siunr babbles, 
the conserve may be poured into iDoulds. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 

These are made in the same naanner as 
other conserves, except that diey are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wai- 
ter ; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 

quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over tlie fire, aud let them warm; 
when they are warm throw in about half a 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in an- 
-other pan; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continoe 
so doing till you see the corianders are cov- 
ered to the size you want to have them; 
when that is done, take the corianders out 
from the pan, wash them well, and put them 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to the first de 
gree; when this is done, put it in an instru- 
ment of copper, made on pm*pose for the 
operation, and at the bottom of which there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the sugar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where tiie corian- 
ders are ; while the st^ar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or roi^ and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix up 
whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with eggs and sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them throi^h a fine sieve, and poor 
the preparation into a mould lighdy buttered 
within side. Put this mould into a large 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch of the 
mould; place the saucepan on hot adies* 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep tlie water at the same tempera- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be known 
by touching it with your finger, and observ- 
ing whether it may be easily detached fixm 
the mould, take it from the bain-marie and 
let it stand; when no more than iukewana, 
turn it out on your dish. 

It sometimes happens, unavoidably^ thai 



CRE 



277 



CRO 



bobblefl arise xm the eurfaoe of the eream ; 
ID su&h a c&ie, boil a rlaas of cream, and 
add to it, by degrees, mree voike of eggs ; 
fltir it conslantlv with a wooden spoon ; mix 
&ree ounces of fine sugar with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over ttie fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on ihe point of boiling, 
then take it off and strain it. Wlien tlie 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
Bide its defects. 

CREAxM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
fi^arate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour ; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and 
the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil them .for a quarter of an hour; 
then take it off the fire ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it off the fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again^ until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, with some Itot water in 
It, over hot ashes ; take a dish, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put 
on the lid of the saucepan, witli fire altove, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well lieaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
firoth; remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat 
together well for an hour ; lake it off with 
a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
^lam salver, with other creams, or put it 
m the middle <^ a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenisli wine, a stick of cin- 
mnnon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
ci egjgs, beat them well together with a 
wbisK, till your wine is half driven in them, 
and your eges to a sirap ; strike it very fast 
with the wnuk* till it comee to such thick- 

24 



nees that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of ci-eam, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a tittle half pound- 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add s6nie pounded lump misar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boib; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yuiks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it three- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly diraolved, pour the 
whole into a sorbetiere, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; then beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and as the sr^ow rises take it up with a 
spoon m the cullender, that the liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off aa 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloven, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and whm 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 
Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
when it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See Whip' 
ped Cream, 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 
Use the best puff paste ; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into diflSsrent shapes, as fancy 
lea^; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make tliem stick 
as you place them ; tliD put some currant 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design you please, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CAR 



266 



CAK 



it ii diwipBlfd durii^ the preparatioii of 
Ar rirap. To preserve then the odoor of 
Ifee eapiHaire, when yoar sirup is snflicient- 
W done, pour it, whihc boiling, upon stHoe 
mh eapiUure ooandy diopped up; then 
cover your vessd, and let it Ftand until it 
is qoite ooM, then pass it through a boking- 
cklb to separate it from the feaves of the 
capi Haire. 

Take one ounce of the capilhire from 
Canada; put it into a glazed pan, poor upon 
it Ibuf^ints of boiling watcr^ leare it to in- 
fese ibr twdre hours over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
mek in this tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preser%'ing.pan, and 
put it on tlie fire, and clarify ii with the 
white of an egg, continue the cooking ; when 
your sirup is perUy put some fresh capil- 
uiire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover yotir 
pan CHrefiillV) and let it cool; when your 
simp is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork them heiTneti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
0ome good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au ceuse; clarify tliis sirup with tlie 
whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is 
Tery clear ; when it rises, take it off the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
Imttles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for 
a quaiter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling througli a sieve, 
they put into it some |x>wder-6ugar, and 
clarify their simp with water, or a whole 
e^ beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
very clear and has boiled au lisBe, they 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, yon 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, k)ur 
pmts of water, and foui* pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar ; 
put in a gill of sprina;-water ; set it on a 
fire; when it boils skira it quite clean, and 
let it boil Quick, till it comes to the degree 
called crack ; which may be known by dip- 
piuff a tea-spoon ac skewer into tlie sugar, 
and letting it drop to the bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remainB bard, it Inv 
attained that degree : squeeze in the jmce 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire ; then set tlie pan into 
another of cold water : have ready moulds 
of any diape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw it over the mould in fine threads, tiB 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gmn 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and {race 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
R to caramel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and truce on ito 
surface tlie forms you wish it to have ; wfaoi 
cold, break it according to diose marks. 
This conserve may be coTnned^aDd fiavored 
according to the foocy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of 
water, and three or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untinned 
i^kiliet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze tlie st^r from 
tlie spoon into it, and so on till you fiave all 
the sugai-. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snafts and is brittle wlien cold, it is 
done enougl) ; but only let it be three parts 
cold, then poar the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, run 
Uie sugar on it, in the manner of a maae, 
and wlien cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to tl)e skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look tliick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold cok>r. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 

your cardamums at the cliemists, and they 
will be in a shell; put them into the oven to 
dry the skins, and tliey will break; pick all 
tlie seeds fi*om them, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under the 
same as for others ; mix your gum, stardi 
and simp, and finish them the same as cara- 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. D17 a quarter 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a 
pound .nnd a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it Is to bt 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls of rose water, 
half a pint of canary, half a pint of creaH^ 
and tliree-quarters ni a pint of new ale yesiC* 
an 1 ihe whites of two, and Tolks of im 
^ggs; mix aO thepe well togetter, let it ib 



CAS 



269 



CHA 



before the fire, and when yoa make it up 
put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, 
and three-quarters of a pound of caraway- 
comfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
them, and have a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
handles and two pieces of iron made as a 
tins on each side ; then you must have a 
pulKv fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
hook to each end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
some fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some simp a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch; 
take some gtim arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into anotlier pan, and 
make it just warm ; have an iron-pot with 
charcoal fire imder the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the ))an warm ; 
liave a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must lie on the 
top ; put the caraway seeds into your pan ; 
add a lai^ ladleful of gum arabic, nib them 
with your hands until you find they are all 
4hry, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over your pan of fire, until 
you find they are all dry ; put the gum only 
three or four times to them at first, tlien the 
starch and <*ugar, but boil your sirup more 
aa you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
tliem seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
tfaem die next day, and so, successively, for 
six or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the 
size you wish ; then proceed as directed for 
jAltnond Drageet, 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
muak and ambergris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
jin^a. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
a cand^ lieiglit, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
<^errie8, a quarter of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
braise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three qnarr? of brandy for three 

23* 



weeks4 Dissolve two pounds of mgsr m a 
quart of water, and mix with the Hquemr, 
and let it stand seme time kmeer, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF, 
Grate the rind of a oedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water ; when perfectly smooth, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by d^rees ; 
then pour them in a napkin, and squeezir^ 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar with 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon 
as both are dissolve^], strain them, and pot 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a clear yellow; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Turnout 
the blancmange as directed in Blancmangit 
French, 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 

the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out ; tliis must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(about a pound;) remove the surface of 
this sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande plume, 
then take it from tlie fire, and when it has 
Ktood a little while, put in your oedrat, stir- 
ring it with a s|X)on, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the zestes of two cedrats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and grate again, and to 
on until all the zeste is gone ; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
together, apd finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the ia- 



CHE 



270 



cue 



side of a dish; tbeo cut more ratafia cakes 
into squares, dip them also iato sugar, and 
pile theiu eorner-ways on the row, and so 
oo for two or three stories high. Lioe the 
inside with wafer-paper, iind fill it with 
fl|XMige biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
inoads, or some made ci'eara; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth witii rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over tlie top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
Uie stalks, and put them into very cold vn- 
ter. Ill about lialf an hour take them out, 
and drain tliem on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; when you have clarified 
and boibd it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently with a skimmer; then take 
them from the fii'e carefullvi and put the 
dierries into bottles or guiss jars; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and lialf an 
oun< of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to tlie sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a lialf to a 
pound of fruit); mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufRciently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. Tlje fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified su^ar, and* 
pour it over tbem 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set tliem on the fire with a little 
water, and half a pound of sugar. When 
they have boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of the kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar au petit liase, and strain on 
them the lemon-juice and kernels ; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a fobotierty 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place it in 



CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved dierries, pound them, 
stones and all ; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sinip, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ri|-)est, largest, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of tlie sugar you intend to use ; 



stone and tail ; and then put them en a 
gentle fire, and keep stirring thein till v&> 
duced to hialf. Clarify and boil your toffst 
to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, ttad 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the' 
pan ; the marmalade is then safficiently d<Hie, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
tlie almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit boules then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the 
juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on liot aslies, stiiring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish, it in the usiBil way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Orudi ten 
pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover tlie jar ckne, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the. fruit into a 
cloth, arid press the juice out tbroc^. Boil 
five pounds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, and for every pint allow a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the kern^ 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of coriam- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well pounded, put tliem into a jar, 
and [tour the liquor over tliem ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks,' after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP- OF. The bwt 

cherries for this purpose are the black sour 
ones ; take out the stones and express the 
juice into an earthen pan, where it most 
stand in a cool place for twenty-four boors 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and two di'achros of cinnamon, pi^ 
vtously infused in a glass of water, wrap tfie 
cinnamon in a pie< of linen, and put it witii 
the water into your pan; boil all together 
for half an hour, skimming it carab%. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite dear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; tako off 
the skins ; dip each in the whites of 
beaten, and then roll them in powder- 
lay llieni separately on paper to dry, m a 
moderate oven ; they may be cot iato St- 



CHE 



271 



CHO 



ferent tanm if 700 tbink proper, and glaieed 
either white or brown. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (2) 
Cut sofne osier rodM or reeds into pieces 
about two or tliree incliee long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
cbestnut. Take a piece of very fresb but- 
ter, (about tlie nzie of a nut), and rub it 
with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub evei7 
pait well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel heiglit ; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in 
each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar 
may adliere equally about the chestnut till 
it begins to cool, then lay them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ioz as above ; when all are done and cold, 
take out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
ebestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. These cliestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
tbe outer skin from about a hundred 
chestnuts, and then put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on the Hre 
9nd blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
Bito them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
rub off the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with tlie juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar 
to piiU lUse, and having drained your 
chestnuts, put them into the sugar with tlie 
juice of a lemon, tlie quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on the (ire 
ftr a short time, hut not to ktt them boil : 
then take them off and set them by. Tlie 
next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times ; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to souffle, put in the 
chestnuts ; blanch tliem instantly afterwards, 
and pot them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
yoar chestnuts as for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a ghss of water ; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
stpieeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
leady to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two ^gs, 
half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
lour ounces of powder-sugar; when it has 



boikNl a little while, stiain i(, pot it fnt 
a dish, or glass for table, and let it oool. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 

dien pound a quarter <^ a hundred of chest- 
nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to tins 
add tlie yolks of two eggs, a pint of miUi 
a quarter of a pound of powderwmgar, and 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Takethrae 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts as were colored by the fire, and 
fiound tliem with a pound of fresh butter ; 
when a smoodi paste, add three-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggfi, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls uf whipped cream, the whites 
whipfied firm, and finish the custard as U- 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
maiade by boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, then poond 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade ; mix tliem well up with an 
equal weiglit of si^r boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cherry, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till colrl, and then add to it an egg well 
beaten. With tliis, make four ounces of 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thin ns po^ible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take the paste 
from the tins, and join each piece together 
accoi-dii^ to the proper forms, with isin- 
glass and water. Tbe lower part, of 
course, ought to be strong than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must be cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tind. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a  
pound and a half of the best su^ar, finely 
sifted ; soak some gum-dragon in oransO' 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please ; the paste must be stiff; 
dry them in a stove. You may write de- 
vices on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 
quarter of a pound of chocolajte over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



f Hjgar to forU perk, pot a poonfol or 
two into the choooliBite ; tir it till it fbniM a 
thin pMte, and then pour it on the m^r, 
nd boil both together to tttrameL In the 
meantime 4nelt a little butter, skim, and 
IMMir it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
6il of it, and rub it with your hand over a 
marble slab or table : on this pour the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
flword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it ; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the su^^r in 
small squares aU over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the ugar should cool before 
vou have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der the latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to tlie 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over the fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
pon a pound of masse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bolus Ar- 
fnenieufn. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little wat^, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle ; keep the 
sugar stirrii^, and when it boils put tlie 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugr to the premiere 
plumey put your chocolate into it, stirring 
it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stewpaoj with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; 
mix it well ov&r the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
put them on while paper, and when they | 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each ' 
corner, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
Dy tliat means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence ; put 
some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
aH that are on the paper, then shake them 
off, and you will see all the chocolate drops 



are covered with the sqgar BODpareli; kt 

them stand till cold, and they will cone atBt 
well, and then pat them in a box papereit 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 
Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it ofcf 
the fire in a small pan ; when melted poof 
it into that in which you are to make yoof 
ci^eam; break your yolks of eggs into it^ 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add sobk 
pounded loaf sugar to it> keep stirring ooa- 
tinually ; then add your cream l^ little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly together; then set vonr 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
woodm spoon till you see your compositioD 
is near boiling, tlien take it off immediate- 
ly, for, from the moment you set your coot- 
position over the fire till that it offers to 
boil, it lias sufficient time to incorporate 
well and thicken sufiiciently, without oeed 
of boiling; and should you let it boil, yea 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whey, on account of tlie yolks of eggs, whidi 
would do too much. Take great care 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey ; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, frcHn the time yoo 
set it on the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal 
after tlie usual manner. ^ 

CHO(X)LATE ICE CREAM. (2> 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
with a pint of cream, tiiree yolks of new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound of sqgar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of sunip, and half a 
pint of water ; mix it well, and fi^eese it 
tliick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Pot 

a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tia- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis- 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoon- 
fill or two of sweet almona paste, made ss 
for macaroons, stir it in well, and tlien pour 
it upon the remainder of the almond paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea>poonfiil ol 
powdei^ cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them together well in a mortar, htf 
them on paper, and bake them for tfara^ 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oveo.  

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 

For four bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of the best chocolate, cut in -small bit^; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little ciooa- 
mon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, wid 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



273 



CIN 



wkiln of mipi) and filtn* k dirongfa the pa- 
per. Yoo mim be carefiii not to take more 
Aan two bottles from every foor, except 
frtmi the cinnamoa, from which you are to 
take m much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little cbo(M>bite, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it ; stir it with a spoon ; when 
it ifl melted, take half a pound of loaf mi- 
gar, pounded in a mortar and silted, which 
aiasolve in a little clear water. When that 
k done, put in your chocolate; if you find 
die paste too thick, add a little water, 
enougl) to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife ; Uien 
take half a sheet of pnper, and cover it with 
little round and flat drops, which we call 
paaUiSi of the size of a sixpence ; let tliem 

S naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, 
e them off from the paper, and put tbeiu 
IB boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 

Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
ift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according' as the paste is malleable ; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or 
designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
aie made in die same way as PetiU Paina 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill thm with 
a cream patisaiere, mixed witli two ounces 
of anillH chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla ; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar, the same of dioco- 
late, and half the white of an egg into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, with which mask the top aud sides 
of the petit8 paina, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CpOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 
Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
nd when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it op well, 
and then spread it on wafer-pajier in what 
ftrnas you pksase, and bake them in a mod- 
ente oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffix- 
cieotly dark colpred,. add a little bolr^mmo- 
oiae. 

CINNAMON QAXX^K Vikyk f 



half a down eggs with three taf>le*spannlhii 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert^spooofui of powdered ciima- 
mun, and a sufincient qioantit)' of floor to 
make it into a paste ; roll it out thin, and 
cut it into whatever fe>rms your fiincy may 
dictate, plaoe I hem on pnper, and bake 
them. When done, remove thera from tiie 
paper. Keep them dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. <l)Soakcin. 
namfMi in water for four and twenty hours, 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch 
long ; prepare some sugar to grand li94, 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence; tlien put it in the moiikls with sugar 
boiled to aauffU, and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candv is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a diy 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cot 
some cinnamon into small sticks of about tm 
inch or an inch and a half long; tlien pot 
them into thin sugar, and boil them as it 
were in a sirup. Then take ofl^ the pan, 
and set it by fur five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay tliem on a wire-grate, 
dry diem thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put diem ill order in tin moulds 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
three rows set one almve another, separated 
by those grates. In the meantime, boil su- 
gar till it is blown, and pour it into your 
mould, so that some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate ; then set them in die stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; tlie next morning take notice whether 
the cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cinnamon, loosening ihem, by little and 
litde, gently ; then lay tliem upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OP. 
Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mat- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit 
00896, dirow in the cinnamon, stir it well,, 
and dien take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it as inoal. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve houm 
in water to soften it; at the end of that tioie, 
cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in a 
wajrm pk^io (or oaie da;^. Whoo qoiM 



111 



274 



CIT 



hud mad diy, boO mm fine mgur Iq (he 
degree grand purk; have rea<^ a quantity 
of fine powdor, and prooenl lo the ome 
Manner ae in doing Almond Dragttaj 
until the cinnanrao ettcke are of the proper 
tbickneee; tboee which are to be twiBted or 
euried, cihould not be eo thick as the otbera. 
Be equally particolar in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom (^ the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragee*, 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, CX)MMON. 
Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much water as will cover it; the next 
day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stirred the whiter it becomes; in ratlier 
more tlian a quarter of ao hour, add to it 
the caked sugar which was removed from 
the preserving-pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and 
by degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water ; 
when tlie paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker tlian tlie eighth of an inch, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
cinnamon (see above,) put tliem on paper 
or a neve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some eonjmon sugar to perle, 
and sugar the sliiis of paste as above direct- 
ed ; instead of the 6ne powder, flour is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layera, when tlie 
powder may be used to give them whiteness. 
When of die requisite size, lay them <m 
sieves to dry. In a few days there may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
tame manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON. ESSENCE OF. This 
k made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a inoitar, and add to it a tea-spoonful 
jOf powdered cianaBK>n, and a sufficient 
qoaatily of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
A proper coasistencet form into such figures 
M you may fancy, and dry tliem in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
A pound of marchpane paste, and dilute 
it with as many whites of eggs as wiU 
nake it spread eaeily with a Jiuife; add to 
ibis* a spoonful or two <^ prepared ^/aia- 
 "M tc tVMhich imU five M a fipe nd tio^e^ 



nod half M ouBoa of cimianoiHwwdft^ 
When all these infEredients are well miwi* 
cut some wafer-paper into such fiMrnw aa yen 
may think proper, and lay on theoi the pasit 
about the thickness of the eighth of an ioehi 
(dace them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. When done, they may be 
finished in tiie following manoer:  ^Boil 
some sugar in oranfio-flower water, to la 
plume, and as you talte the sweetmeats fn 
the oven; dip a hair-pencil into the sirup, 
and brush them over ; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves the 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the 
same of flour, lialf an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up in 
an earthenware vessel, with a siifficieitf 
quantity of milk to make it into a tliin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate 
quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; fry U, and 
when brown on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a small itick; do this 
until all the paste is used. 

CINNAMON UM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two dradinis of inace, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise 
tliem well, and then put them into three 
quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion 
stand for some .days befui you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints 
and a half of water; mix this sirup with the 
liqueur, and tlien strain them. This ut 
sometimes culled Oil of CLnnauion. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrous 
very thiu and narrow, and tlirow them into 
water; these are called faggots; then cut 
the citi*on into slices of any thickness yoi| 
think proper; take out the inner ytart with 
great care, so as to leave only the white 
ring, and put them \vilh die faggots into 
boiling water; when tender, dram them. 
Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugac 
to souffle; then put in the rinss, and boil 
them together. Take it from the fire, and 
when a Ihtle cool, rub tlie sugar against the 
side of tlie pre.<erving>pan with the back of 
a spoon; as soon as it becomes white, take 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate (0 
drain : boil and proceed with the fiiggots ie 
a similar way; when taken out, cut them 
into propel* lengths with a pair of scit 
and lay tliem also on the wire to dnUo. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with afl 
the B^oda; boil thpm m eppoe welvri . md 



cit 



276 



COF 



wlien quite tender, take them from the fire, 
and throw them into cold water a moment ; 
liien,- having pressed them in a olotb to get 
the water out, pound and sift them. To 
6verT quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
put naif a pound of clRrified sugar; simmer 
them together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds, and place 
^m in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours; then, 
having waslied them in cold water, boil 
them; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as much clarified sugar as will cover 
them. The next day drain off the simp, 
and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, 
pour It on the citrons; let them stand twen- 
ty-four houre; then boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The tliird day, 
boil both together, and put them into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over the 
fire in some water; whenever they are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into cold water. They 
must then be put on the fire again, in tiie 
same water, and boiled gently until tender; 
(ben take them out, and put them in cold 
water. After this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
into -en earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons; 
do this- for three successive days, increasing 
tbe degree to which you boil the sugar daily, 
so that at tlie last boiling the degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they should be dried on 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining sn- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
ei^t citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put them into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
for three weeks; then add to this a pound 
of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and 
well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen 
days longer, Ivhen it may be bottled. 

CTTRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
^ china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very- 



thin slices, and let them stand till the ntXL 
day; then stram off the sirup, and clarify U 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OP. (2) Put the 

rinds of three cibx)na into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice ; to this 
put a little water ; poor the mixture into a 
nasin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently ; -and wlien the sugar is 
entirely dissolved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take the saucepan from the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zesteB or rinds of a- dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of so- 
^ar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
nifiise the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to tln*ee quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
thoee of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling 
water into a stewpan, cover it close, aad 
boil tliem gently for half an honr; drain the 
cloves, and to' a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugcir ; beat up two eggs in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the whole till it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of coffee made with water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-susar; set it on tlie fire and 
boil it to a high degree ; then add a full pint 
of double cream, and let it boil again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height; to know when it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of watw 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your st^r, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it I take a bit of it in your' teeth ; 
if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done ; pour it upon a tin plate^ 
which must be nibbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the 



CQN 



276 



CR 



roHing pin muBt likewise be nibbed with 
Dutter, for fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little w^utues, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped paslilles, and 
draw a few strokes over tliem with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boil to the first degree a pound of sugar ; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it al)out until it comes 
to the sixU) degree, that the conserve may 
taike tlie sugar and dry. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of eggs, witJi 
about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour 
tliiA into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill them quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
tlie shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil (hem in two quarts of spring water till 
one fijurth is consumed ; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
augar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all Ports 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; tliey are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
in the quantity of fruits (M*oposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade ; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take sti'awberries, currants, clierries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
ekim, and boil it to cassej take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
on again, and give it one boil, take it off. 



and keep stirring till Uie sugar babbles, wben 
the conserve may be poured into mouldi. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 

These are made in the same manner m 
otlier conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter ; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 

quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over the fire, and let tliem warm; 
when they are warm throw in about Haifa 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in ail- 
bother pan; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the coriandei-s are cov- 
ered to the size you want to have them; 
when that is done, take the corianders out 
from the pan, wash them well, and put them 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to the first de 
gree; when this is done, put it in an instru- 
ment of copper, made on pui'pose for the 
operation, and at tlie bottom of which there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the sugar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where tlie corian- 
ders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or roi^ and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix op 

whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with eggs and sugar ; (or the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and poor 
the preparation into a mould lighdy buttered 
within side. Put tliis mould into a laroe 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch of die 
mould; place the saucepan on hot adiesy 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasional fy, so 
as to keep the water at the same tonpera- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be known 
by touching it with your finger, and obserf- 
ing whetlier it may be easily detached from 
the mould, take it from the bain-marie and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewaoB, 
turn it out on your dish. 
It sometimes happens, unavoidaUy^ that 



CRE 



277 



CRO 



bobbles arise on the suriaoe of the cream ; 
ID sueh a cajse, boil a riaM of cream, and 
add to it, by degrees, three volks of eggs; 
stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; mix 
three ounces of fine si^r with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over tlie fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on ihe point of boiling, 
then take it off and strain it. When tlie 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
aqsarate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour ; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together ; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and flour, stir it carefully, poor this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, wiU) a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriandernaeeds, and 
the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil them for a quaiter of an hour ; 
then take it off the fire ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it off the fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire aguiuj until tlie sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, with some liot water in 
It, over hot ashes ; take a dish, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put 
on the lid of the saucepan, widi fire almve, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well lieaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth; I'eraove the peel, and serve in a dbh. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any pi-eserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or three ^gs, beat 
together well for an hour ; take it off with 
a spoon, and lav it heaped on a dish, or 
glass salver, with other creams, or pot it 
m the middle <^ a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenisli wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
ci egjgB, beat them well together with a 
wbisK, till your wine is half driven in them, 
and your eg^ to a sirup ; strike it very fest 
with the whislt, till it comes to such thick- 

24 



new that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it tlie juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a little half pound- 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add s6me pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; theo 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up onre in a covered saucepan ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it tliree- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the 
whole into a aorbetiere, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; then beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and as the si^ow rises take it up with a 
spoon m the cullender, that the liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off aa 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
wlien it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See Whip* 
ped Cream, 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 
Use the best puff paste; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as &ncy 
lea^; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome mann>; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them; then put some currant 
jelly all over the tc^, and make what flow- 
er or design you pleaise, with nonpareils of 
different cobrs, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CAR 



266 



tkK 



it m diwipated daring the preparation of 
the sirup. To prcacrv e then the odour of 
the capillaire, when ^our sirup is sufficient- 
hf done, pour it, whilM boiling, upon some 
rah capillaire coariely chopped up; then 
cover your Tessel, and let it rtand until it 
is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
cklb to separate it lW>m the feaves of the 
camliaire. 

Take .one ounce of the capillaire from 
Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon 
it fouf*^ints of boiling water, leave it to in- 
fese for twelve hours over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
meh in tliis tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preserving-pan, and 
put it on the fire, and clarify ii with tlie 
white of an egg, continue the cooking ; when 
your sirup is perle^ put some fresh capil- 
Uire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your 
pan carefully, and let it cool; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork tliem hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
0ome good capillaii*e, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au cassej clarify this sirup with the 
whites of ^gs whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; when it rises, take it ofl^ the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
l)ottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for 
a quarter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling tlirougii a sieve, 
they put into it some jwwder-sugar, and 
clarify their sirup with water, or a whole 
^g beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
very clear and has boiled au /t, they 
take it oflf the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it tlirough 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, k>ur 
pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar; 

git in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
%; when it boils skira it quite clean, and 
let it boil Quick, till it comes to the degree 
called crack ; which may be known by dip- 
piiy a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
Hod letting it drop to tlie bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remain bard, it kv 
attained that degree : squeeze in the joke 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one nuft' 
ute longer on the fire; then set die pan ata 
another of cokl water : have ready idqoUi 
of any shape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw it over the mould in fine thi*eads, tiB 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gam 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and plaoe 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
^ to caramel; have ready sonie cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and truce < ib 
surface tlie forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it according to diose maiks. 
This conserve may be colored* a;id &rored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of douiiile- 
refined sugar in Uiree or four spoonfuls of 
water, and thi*ee or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untiimed 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put tliat into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze the si^r from 
tlie spoon into it, and so on till you hare all 
tlie sugar. Take a bit out of tlie water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be three parts 
cold, then pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiied well, run 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maae, 
and when cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, tlie sugar is not 
brittle, pour oflf the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It shonkl 
look tliick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold cok>r. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 

your cardamums at the chemists^ and they 
will be in a shell ; put them into the o\ea to 
dry the skins, and they will break; pidLsll 
the seeds from tliem, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under ife 
same as for others; mix your gum, starch, 
and sirup, and finish them the same as cais> 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Dry a quarter 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a 
pound .and a half of fresh batter in it, till t 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls of roee waler, 
half a pint of canary, lialf a pint of cretf^ 
and tliree-quarters of a pint of new ale vca*^ 
an 1 ihe whites of two, and volkii of iv 
^gs; mix all these weU tcigetber, let it & 



CAS 



269 



CHA 



tiefore the fire, and when vou make it up 
pot in a pound and a half of Naples biscuiUi, 
and tbree-quartera of a pound of caraway- 
comfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
tbem, and have a large rx>pper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
nandles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side ; then you must have a 

Eulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
ook to eau:h end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
flome fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some sirup a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch ; 
take some gum arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into anollier pan, and 
make it just warm ; have an iron-pot with 
cfaaixM)al fire imder the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; 
have a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must lie on the 
top; put the caraway seeds into your pan; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them 
with your hands until you find they are all 
dry, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over your pan of fire, until 
you find Uiey are all dry ; put the gum only 
three ot four limes to them at first, tlien the 
starch and pugai*, but boiJ your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
tbem seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put tbem into the stove, do 
them the next day, and so, successively, for 
six or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 

quantity of ^caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the 
aize you wish ; then pi-ocecd as directed for 
Almond Dragees, 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambergris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
lings. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and mil it to 
a cand^ heiglit, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ter sauoers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
braie the two first, cut up tlie leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three qnart? of brandy fur three 

23* 



weeks. Dissolve two pounds of sugar m a 
quart of water, and mix with the Uquemr, 
and let it stand seme time kmeer, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close* 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF, 
Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water ; when perfectly smooth, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by degrees; 
then pour them in a napkin, and squeezir^ 
it, express the milk of ahnonda from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar with 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon 
as both are dissolvetl, strain them, and pat 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a clear yellow; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Tm'uoat 
tlie blancmange as directed in Blanctnange 
French. 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 

the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out ; diis must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(about a pound;) remove the surface <^ 
this sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juioe 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder o 
the sugar to the degree grande plume, 
then take it from the fire, and when it has 
tood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top; vou may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of luinp su- 
gar, grate on it the zestea of two cedrats^ 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the zeste is gone; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it throudi 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
heip^ht, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
togetlier, and finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the in- 



CHE 



970 



cue 



Bide of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes 
into squares, dip them also into sugar, and 
pile theia corner-ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
^pooffe biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
monds, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth witii rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over tlie top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
tlie stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. Ill about lialf an hour take them out, 
and drain diern on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; when you have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently with a skimmer ; then take 
them from the fire carefully, and put the 
cherries into bottles or glass jars; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and lialf an 
0UD(' of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to tlie sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a half to a 
pound of fruit); mix tliem together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufficiently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified si^^, and* 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on the fire with a little 
waiter, and half a pound of sugar. When 
they luive boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an eartlien pan. Pound a handful 
of the kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on 
thera the lemon-juice and kernels ; mix tlie 
whole together, and put it in a stUtotierty 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, Uien place it in 



. CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved clierries, pound them, 
jstooes and all ; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the riiiest, lai^est, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; 



utone and tail ; and then put tfiii <M  
gentle fire, and keep stirring thens till l^ 
duced to half. Clarify and boil your sogar 
to petit casse, then add die fruit to it, udd 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a prjund of cherries ; poond 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit bouU; then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed ont the 
juice of tlie cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on liot aslies, stirring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish, it in the ustnl %vay, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Oush ten 
pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover tiie jar cViw, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the. fruit into a 
cloth, arid press the juice out throi^. Bo3 
five pounds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two Juices, 
measure them, and for every pint a)k>w a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the koncJs 
of the cherry-stones, half a poond of corian- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well pounded, put them into a jar, 
and (four the liquor over tlicm ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six we^s,' after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly 4ag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CWERRIES, SIRUP OF. The best 
cherries for tliis purpose are the black soar 
ones ; take out the stones and express tiie 
juice into an earthen pan, wliere it most 
stand in a cool place for twenty-four bonrs 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gently into a pan, and add to il, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of cnished 
sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pi^ 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap (be 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it with 
the water into your pan; boil all together 
fbr half an hour, skimming it carefi]%. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite dear, aad 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; take off 
the skins ; dip each in the whites of e^ 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-Bir; 
lay them separately on paper to dry, m a 
moderate oven ; tlKy may be cot into dif* 



CHE 



371 



CHO 



lerent (oram if yoa tbmk proper, and glaxed 
either white or brown. 

CHESTlNUTS in caramel. (2) 
CJuf sonie osier rodu or reeds into pieces 
about two or tliree inclies long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (about tlie size of a nut), and rub it 
wiUi the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub every 
part well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel height ; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in 
acb hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar 
may adhere equally about the chestnut till 
it besina to cool, then lay them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above; when all are done and cold, 
take out the oaier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. These diestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a hundred 
^^lestnuts, and tlien put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on the Hre 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
nib off the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with tlie juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar 
to petit li$se, and having drained your 
cheetmitB, put them into the sugar with the 
juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on the fire 
f>r a riiort time, hut nut to let them lM>il : 
then take tliem off and set them by. Tlie 
ncKt day drain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times ; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to souffle, put in the 
chestnuts; blanch tliem instantly afterwards, 
and pal them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
jour chestnuts as for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into B saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a gnss of water ; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
queeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
iwidy to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, witli the yolks of two eggs, 
half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
lour ounces of powder-sugar; when it has 



boiled a little while, stniin it', pot it i 
a dish, or glass for table, and let it oool. 



CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, amf 
tlien pound a quaiter of a tnmdred of chest- 
nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to tliia 
add tlie yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Take three 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts us were colored by the fire, and 
pound tliem with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth paste, add three-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggA, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfulit uf whipped cream, the white* 
whip))ed firm, and finish the custard as U 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade liy boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, tlien ponnd 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a quarter uf a pound of any other 
fmit marmalade ; mix diem well up with an 
equal weiglit of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cherry, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little watr, set it 
by till cold, and tlieii add to it an egg wdl 
beaten. With this, make four ounces of 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thiu as possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take tlie paste 
from the tins, and join each piece together 
accordii^ to the proper forms, with isin- 
glass and water. The lower part, of 
course, ought to be stron^r than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must be cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Taken 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a  
pound and a half of the best sugar, finely 
sifted ; soak some gum-dragon in orange- 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please ; the paste must be stiff; 
dry them in a stove. You may write de- 
vices on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 
quarter of a pound of chocola^ over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds 



CHO 



2T2 



CBO 



f ngar to forit perit, pot a tpoonM or 
ttro into the chocolate ; stir it till it forms a 
thin paste, and then pour it on the migar, 
sand boil both together to caramel. In the 
meantime 'melt a little butter, skim, and 
pour it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
fiil of it, and rub it with yonr hand over a 
marble slab or table: ob this pour the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it ; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the su^r in 
email squares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar should cool before 
vou have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar $ lay un- 
der tlie latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over the fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of masse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
^apes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bolus Ar- 
menicum. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle s keep tlie 
sugar stirring, and wlien it boils put the 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
plumey put your chocolate into it, stin-ing 
 it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stewpan, with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; 
nix it well ov* the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
pot them on white paper, and when they 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
oomer, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
Dy that means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence ; put 
some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that are on the paper, then shake them 
off, and yoq will see all the chocolate drops 



lire oovered with the sufsr uanpmsf^% let 
them stand till cold, and they will come otf 
well, and then pot them in a box papered. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (I) 
Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it ottf 
the fire in a small pan ; when melted poof 
it into that in which you are to make yosf 
cream; break your yolks of eggs into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add soae 
pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stirrii^ ooa> 
tinually ; then add your cream 1^ little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the ivhole 
is mixed properly togetlier; then set ^oar 
pun over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, then take it off inunediate* 
ly, for, from the moro^t you set your coa- 
position over the fire till that it oSkn to 
boil, it has sufficient time to incorporate 
well auid thicken sufficiently, wichoot need 
of boiling ; and should you let it boiJ, yon 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whev, on account of the yolks of eggs, which 
would do too much. Take great can 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey ; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, from the time von 
set it (Ml the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it cof^geal 
after tlie usual manner. % 

CHOCOLATE ICHE CREAM. (2) 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
with a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of simp, and half a 
pint of water ; mix it well, suid freeie it 
thick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. P 
a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tia- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is di> 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoon- 
ful or two of sweet almond paste, made m 
fur macaroons, stir it In well, and then poor 
it upon the remainder of the almond paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-spoonnil of 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them together well in a mortar, farf 
them on paper, and bake them ibr tbre^ 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 
For four bottles of brandy, take one pouad 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bits; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cioas* 
mon ; you must inflise all in the lirandy, witk 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



373 



CIN 



w h it M of ggp, and filter it diroagh the pa- 
per. Yoa most be careiul not to take more 
tfoui two bottlee from eveqr four, except 
frmi the cinnamon, from which you are to 
take as much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocokite, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it ; mir it with a spoon ; when 
it ifl melted, take half a pound of kxif mi- 

Sr, pounded in a mortar and illed, which 
iBolve in a little clear water. When that 
is done, put in your chocolate; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife ; tlien 
take half a sheet of pnper, and cover it with 
little roiHid and flat drops, which we call 
paHUsy of the size of a sixpence ; let tliem 
dry naturally in a cupboard ; and when dry, 
taKe them off from the paper, and put them 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 
Melt half an ounce of guin-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
eg^, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according as the paste is malleable ; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what fl<)Wei*s or 
designs you please, as sliells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
are made in tlie same way as PetU* Paint 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream patitnere, mixed witli two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
migar, flavored with vanilla ; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar, the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an egg into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with A silver 
Bpoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, witli which mask the top and sides 
of the petita pttin, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CpOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 
Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it op well, 
and then spread it on wafer<>pa|ier in what 
fbmm yon please, and bake them in s mod- 
erate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffi> 
ciently dark oolpred,. add. a little bol^^unmo- 
oiae. 

CINI9AM0N OAlUSa. Wkiik ^^ 



half a doaea eggs with three tah te -apa m iW i 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and a sufficient quantit}' of flour to 
make it into a paste ; roll it out thin, and 
cut it into whatever forme your fiincy may 
dictate, plaoe them on paper, and bake 
them. When done, remove them from the 
paper. Keep tliem dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twenty hours, 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch 
bi^ ; prepare some sugar to grand litti^ 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it ; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence ; tiien put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to HmffU^ and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cut 
some cinnamon into small sticks of about an 
inch or an inch and a half long; tlien put 
them into thin sugar, and boil tliem as it 
were in a sirup. Then take off tlie pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry tliem thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put tliem in order in tin mouMs 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
tliree rows set one alx>ve another, separated 
by those gi'ates. In the meantime, boil su- 
gar till it is 6^oton, and pour it into your 
mould, so that some of it may lie upon tha 
uppermost grate ; then set them in tlie stove 
witli a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; tlie next morning take notice whether 
tlie cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cionamun, kx>sening them, by little and 
little, gently; then lav tliem upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OR 
Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or siri^ of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to peUt 
easiii Uirow in the cinnamon, stir it well,, 
and tlien take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and. dry it as usual. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hooiv 
in water to soften it ; at die end of that tiaiey 
cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in a 
wa^ p^ce ifx. 9oaie. da;^. When qaiM 



Cf 



274 



CIT 



hwd and dry, boil Male Am wgwr to tba 
degree cTona pari*; haw reacly a quontUy 
of fine powder, and prooecd in the HMne 
wnner b in doing Almond Drageta, 
until the cinnanM aiioks are of the proper 
thickneM; thoie wbicb are to be twiBted or 
curled, obould not be ao thick aa the olbera. 
Be equally particolar in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the botlom of the pan, aa in 
making Almond Dragees. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 
Infuse a Quarter of a pound of guro-dragon, 
in aa muck water aa wiU cover it; the next 
day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir 
at well with a peatle, and the longer it ia 
atirred the whiter it becomea; in ratlier 
more tlian a quarter of an hour, add to it 
the caked sugar which was removed from 
the preserving-pan, and which muat be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and 
by degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water ; 
when tlie paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well fur a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not tliicker tlian tlie eighth of an indi, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
<cinnamon (see above,) put tliem on paper 
or a tneve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some common sugar to perUt 
and su(;ar the slips of paste as above direct- 
cd ; instead of the fine powder, flour is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when the 
powder may be used to give them whiteness. 
Wlien of the requisite size, lay them on 
fieves to dry. In a few days there may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
aame manner as cx>ridnder seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is alwaya white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
la made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to aa 
ounce of the latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it tluvugh a lawn sieve 
iaCo a mortar, and add to it a tea<poonfiil 
jOf powdered cionaB^oa, and a sufficient 
qpnatily of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
A proper coasistencef form into such figm-es 
a yott may fancy, aiid dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
A patiad of mavchpaae paste, and dilute 
It with aa many whitea of ei^ga aa wiU 
nuke it apiead eaaUy with a J&uife; add to 
thia* a spoonful or two of prepared boU-^mf 
M^, .mbich wjU fiv9 ft a floe jr^ tio^% 



and half aa ouboc of ciB qMn oii>.poiidi 
When all theae ingredieaia aro well waiuA^ 
cut aome wafer-paper into auch fbrma aa ym 
may think proper, and lay on tbera the paalr 
about the thickneas of the eighth of an iochj 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven* When done, they may be 
finished in the iblluwing manner:  ^Boil 
aome augar in oranse-flower water, to la 
p^me, and as you take the aweetmeata fraaa 
the oven ; dip a hair-pencil into the sirups 
and brush them over ; this driea almost iiQp 
mediately, and oooaiderably improvea tht 
look of Uiem. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of augar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the 
same of flour, lialf an ouaoe of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up ia 
an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient 
quantity of milk to make it into a tiiin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate 
quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; iry it, and 
when brown on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a small atick; do this 
until all the paste is used. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two draclims of maoe, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; biuiae 
them well, and tlien put them into three 
quarts of the best bi-andy ; let the infusion 
stand fur some .days befot you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pinta 
and a half of ivater; mix Uiis sirup with the 
liqueur, and tlien strain them. Thia ia 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnanooo. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrona 
very thiu and uarrnw, and tlu'ow Uiem into 
water; these are called faggots; tlien cut 
the citron into slices of any tiiickiieas yoa 
think proper; take out tlie inner part with 
great care, so as to leave only Uie white 
ring, and put theui with the fii^eots into 
boiling water; when tender, drain themu 
Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified augar 
to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil 
them together. Take it from we fire, and 
when a little cool, rub die augar against the 
side of tlte pre>erving-pan with the back of 
a spoon; aa soon as it becomes while, take 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate to 
drain : boil and proceed with tlie faggots ia 
a similar way; wlien taken out, cut them 
iato proper lengths with a pair of aciaaoc^ 
and lay tliem also on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the eodi 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with al 
the Bfeda; boil thpn in aoyne watmr{ iiad 



Clip 



276 



COF 



wfien quite tender, take them from the fire, 
and throw them into cold water a moment ; 
Aeiiyhnvinf^ prened them in a olotb to get 
ibe water out, pound and sifl them. To 
everv quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
put half a pound of darified sugsir; simmer 
diem together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds, and place 
them in a stove to dry. 



CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
Rait and water for four or 6ve hours; then, 
having waslied them in cold water, boil 
tbem; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as much clarified sugar as will cover 
them. The next day drain off the simp, 
and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, 
pour It on the citrons; let them stand twen- 
ty-four hours; then boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The tliird day, 
boil both together, and put diem into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over the 
fire in some water; whenever they are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citi'ons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into cold water. They 
must then be put on the (ire again, in tlie 
same water, and boiled gently until tender; 
then take them out, and pat them in cold 
^ater. Afler this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
into n earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons; 
do this- for three sucxeasive days, increasing 
Ae degree to which you boil the sugar daily, 
80 that at the last boiling the degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they sliould be dried on 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining sa- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin; cot the peel into 
mall pieces, and put them into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
fi)r three weeks; then add to this a pound 
of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and 
well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifleen 
days longer, Ikhen it may be bottled. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
9 china bowl alternate layers offline powder- 
Migar, and citron, paredt, and cut in very 



thin slices, and let them eland till the n^tt 
day; then stram ofT the simp, and clarify k 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put the 
rindfl of three citrons into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; poor the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently; and wlieo the sugar is 
entirely disnolved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take the saucepan from the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zeates or rinds of a> dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sn- 
?ar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
mftise the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
tho$:e of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling 
water into a stewpan, co\'er it close, and 
boil them gently for half an hour; drain the 
cloves, and to' a pint of the liquor put t^vo 
pounds of sugtir ; beat up two eggs- in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer tlie whole \ ill it becomes a fitrong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take ajxMit a 
pint of coflee made with water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sugar ; set it on tlie fire and 
l)oil it to a high degree ; then add a full pint 
of double cream, and let it Irail again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height; to know wlian it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of water 
by you; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your sugar, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it ; take a bit of it in yom' teeth ; 
if it is hard in its erackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, 
which must be nibbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin; (observe, the 



CQN 



276 



CRE 



roHing pin must likewise be rubbed with 
"biitter, for fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little efjunies, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Garify and 
boil to tlie first degree a pound of sugar; 
take tlie sugar oflf the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it al)out until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and dry. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of eg^9, with 
about four cups of coflee, and sift it; pour 
tliii into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill tliem quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
tlie shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 

coltsfoot six ounces, raaidenliair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil them in two quarts of spring water till 
one fourth is consumed ; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
iigar; clarify it with the whites of eg^s, 
and boil it till il is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all sorts 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifled in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade ; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose; wheo it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take strawberries, currants, clterries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
ana three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirrup 
it till reduced to half Dissolve the sugar, 
Bkim, and boil it to eaise; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
on Hgain, and give it one boil, take it off. 



and keep stirring till the ranr babbles, vben 

the conserve may be poured into mouUi. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 

These are made in the same manner M 
other conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put tliem in the 
tossing-pan over the fire, and let tliem warm; 
when they are warm throw in about half a 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in an- 
otlier pan; then when the coriaiiden are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the coriandera are cot- 
ered to the size you want to have them; 
when that is done, take the coriandera out 
from the pan, wash them well, and put them 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, whicb 
you have previously boiled to the first d&< 
gree; when this is done, put it in an instnt- 
ment of copper, made on purpora for the 
operation, and at the bottom of which there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the susar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where tlie coriao- 
ders are ; while the sugar (alls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragees till yon see 
they are well pearled over, or roi^ and 
grainy ; when they are sufilciently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finisli drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix op 

whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with ^gs and sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and poor 
the preparation into a mould lighdy hulte ied 
within side. Put this mould into a large 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of bon- 
ing water to reach within an inch of die 
mould ; place the saucepan on hot ashes, 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep tlie water at the same temperai- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be known 
by touching it with your finger, and observ- 
ing whether it may be easily detached Irooi 
the mould, take it from the oain-wiarie and 
let it stand; when no more than lukevaune, 
turn it out on your dish. 
It sometimes happens, unaToidablyy tlisC 



CR 



277 



CRO 



bobbles arise on the surfaoe of the cream ; 
ID sueh a c&ae, boil a ffiass of cream, and 
add to it, by degrees, three yolks of eggs; 
stir it constantlv with a wooden spoon ; mix 
three ounces of fine sugar with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on the point of boiling, 
theu take it off and strain it. When tlie 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
fl^arate the yolks and whites, beat the 
fermer with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour ; whisk the whites, 
find then mix them together ; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some corianderngeeds, and 
tiie peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil them for a quarter of an hour; 
then take it off the fire ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it off the fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again^ until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, with some hot water in 
It, over hot ashes; take a dish, in which 
3^u intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put 
on tlie lid of the saucepan, wiUi fire almve, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
foar spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth ; remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or tliree ^gs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off with 
a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
^iam salver, with other creams, or put it 
m the middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
BOt do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
of ems, beat them well together with a 
whisk, till yow wine is half driven in them, 
and your eggs to a suiip ; strike it very fast 
wkh the wmak, till it comes to such thick- 

24 



ness diat you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four volks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a Tittle half pound- 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it tliree- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly dicsolved, pour the 
whole into a aorbetiere, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; then beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and as the si^ow rises take it up with a 
spoon m the cullender, that tlie liquid part 
may nm out : when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a slick of cinnamon, 
some clovefl, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and whai 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
wlien it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See Whip* 
ped Cream, 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 
Use the best puff paste; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as &ncy 
leads; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
adiidi, in a handsome manner; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them ; tlien put some currant 
jelly all over the tc^, and make what flow- 
er or design yon pleaise, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CUR 



278 



C0R 



a stick of TaniHa, pmmd it with two 
ottDoes of sugar, and sift both through a 
ilk sieve; Inix it with seveu ounces of 
sugar, well dried and poiioded, and half 
a pound of fine sifted flour ; then stir in the 
whites of four ^gs, whipped firm, and 
woi'k tlie whole together for soine minutes. 

Heal two large haking-plates of copper, 
rub tliem over lightly with virgin wax ; when 
thev are cold, take a spoonful of the prepa- 
ration, and lay it on the plate the same as 
the poon-biscuit8, taking care to lay them 
three-quarters of an inch apart ; when both 
plates are full, place tliem on stools, in the 
oven or stove ; close the top, and lay embers 
over it, so that the croquettes may be as far 
removed from the fire as poe^sible ; let them 
reioain in this state all night; the next 
morning put them into a moderate oven, and 
bake them iifleen or twenty minutes; they 
should then quit the plate easily, and be of 
a clear reddish color; remove them from 
the plates whilst hot. The eroquettet 
may be flavored according to your fancy. 

CURACAO. This is a species of bitter 
or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, 
and may be hiid at the druggists. To make 
the liqueur called by this name, wash a 
pound of curacao several times in warm 
water; then, having well drained, put them 
into a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and 
one of water; let it stand closely covered 
for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil 
it after that in tlie usual way, and drain tlie 
curacao on a sieve. Sweeten it with Ave 
pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in 
three pints of water, mix it with the spirit 
and tlien filter it. 

CURDS AND WHEY. Take a nura- 
ber of the rough coats t5at line the gizzards 
of turkeys atid fowls ; clean them irom the 
pebbles Uiey contain, rub them well with 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a 
more tender and delicate curd than common 
rennet. When to be used, break off some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling 
water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor 
as you do other rennet. 

CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash 
the currants, either white or red ; to two 
quarts of aui'ants, put one pint of water; 
when boiled, run the juice thrf>ugh a jelly 
bag, do not press the bag ; to one quart of 
"juice put three pounds of si]^r ; boil up the 
juice, and strew in the sugar ; pour it into 
glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, 
then dry the cakes on plates. 

CURRANTS, CONSERVE OF. 
Take the seeds from two pounds of red cur- 
rants, and put diem on the fire in a silver 



pan, to dry them ; then press diem tfamrik 
a sieve, and pat them again on the fire, stv- 
rilig constantly until you can see the bottoai 
of the pan; then, having dissolved and bs3* 
ed three pounds of sugar to easse, poar it oil 
the fruit, stirring continually; in a short 
time take it off, stirring it as before raitil it 
biibUes ; tliea pour it into monlds. 

CURRANT ICES. (1) Boil two pomids 
of red currants a momrat with a quarter of 
a pound of raspberries; rub tliem through a 
sieve, adding a pint of water, and tlien the 
sugar, which must be very well dissolved 
before icing.^ 

CURRANT ICES. (2) Pidc roroe cur- 
rants from their stalks, and squeeze them 
through a sieve ; then take clarified sugar, 
boil it to a very high d^p^ee, add it to your 
cun-ant juice, and, if you clioose, squeeze in 
the juice of four lemons, it will make it 
more mellow; strain them through the sieve 
a second time, put them in the icing pot, and 
finish the same as all other icea. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one 

large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a basin, with half a gill of siinip, 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint 
of cream and a little cochineal, then pass h 
through a sieve, and fi^eeze it aooordiog to 
custom. 

CURRANT WATER ICE. Take a 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 
two lemons, half a gill of sirup, and a pint 
of water: then freeze it rich. 

CURRANT JELLY FRABfBOISEE. 

Take seven pounds of fine ripe red carrants, 
three of white, and two of white raspber- 
ries, press them throng a very close horse* 
hair sieve ; pour the juice on nine poun^ 
of double-refined sugar, brokra in smaB 
pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, tak- 
ing care to remove the scum as soon as it 
appears. When the boilings foJfow each 
other very quickly, take out the skimmer, 
(which should be of copper) stir it, and let 
the jelly fall from if ; on quitting the skim- 
mer it ought to fail like treacle. If it does 
so, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should 
be rose-colored; \>y making it entirely of 
red currants and red raspberries, the ookr 
of die jelly will be red. 

CURRANT PASTE. Pick and take 
die seeds firom ten pounds of fine red cor* 
rants, crush them, and having pressed oat 
the juice, strain it through a silk sievft 
Clarify and boil to eatte an equal qaantJCf 
of sugar, pour the ourraat juioeoo H, aetm 



DRA 



279 



BRA 



rfaole over a gentle fire, stirring constantly 
nntil it becomes d* a proper oonsistmioe, 
wfaich may be known by observing when the 
bottom of the pan can be seen clearly ; take 
it off from the fire as soon as that is the 
case, and pour the paste into tin moulds, 
which must be placed on slates, or copper 
plates: smooth the tops with the blade of a 
knife, sprinkle sifted sugar over, ind place 
diem in a stove, where they must remain till 
next day ; when the paste should be turned 
in the moulds; sprinkle siAed sugar over 
them again, and set them in the stove a 
second night; on the following day remove 
them from the moulds, lay it in boxes, with 
white paper between each layer, and keep 
theoi in a di-y place. A sixth part of the 
quantity of raspberries added to tlie entrants, 
would greatly improve the flavor of this 
paste. 

CURRANT PASTILS. Take half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then 
a quantity of currants, which squee^ through 
a sieve ; when that is done, add the juice to 
the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and 
thick as you think proper. 

CURRANT SHRUB. To five pints of 
cnn'ant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a half of loaf sugar ; when dissolved, 
put to it one ^Ibn of rum or brandy; clear 
It through a flannel bag. 

CURRANT SIRUP. Put five or six 
pounds of red, two of white currants, and 
two bottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush 
them, and press tlie juice through it into a 
pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment ; in a 
week's lime, pass the juice through a strain- 
ing bag, and having clarified, and boiled to 
Jwt souffie four pounds of sugar, put the 
juice to it, and boil them together once; 
akim, and take it from the fire. It is ne- 
cessary that the currant juice should ferment, 
to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles* 



D. 



DRAGEES, COMMON. The paste for 
these drageet is made in the same manner 
as for the better stnt, but the materials difier 
a little: tlius to a quarter of a pound of the 
gum, take either equal quantities of sugar 
and powdw, or one-third of the former to 
two-thirds of the latter. When tliese and 
the gum are well mixed, roll out the paste 
notil it is as thin as the back of a knife- 
blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like 
a sugar-loaf, with the top taken off, witb.the 
largest end of which, cut as many pieces of 
the paste aa will about two-tbircb fiU the 



cutter; press these throi^ the smaller end 
into paper cases; set them in a warm place 
for several dnys. These kind of drageet 
may, if liked, be sugared in the same man- 
ner as almonds. 

DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These 
dragees are made of the same materials as 
the superfine drageeas the only difference 
consists in their forms, which resemble the 
bonbont: to make them, it is necessary to 
have a number of wooden moulds, (pear- 
(ree wood is the best), on which must be 
stamped small squares, with various devices 
engraved on tltera. Cut your paste into 
small pieces ; press each piece on a mould ; 
take ofi' all the super-abundant paste; tlien 
dip your finger in water, and with it remove 
the paste from the mould; dry them in cases 
like the other dragte. 

DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Pot a 

quarter of a pound of the best gum-dragoa 
into a pan, with a pint of cold water, cover, 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then 
take a strong close cloth, about two feet 
long, and put a part of your gum into it; 
ibid it three times, so as to envelope the gum; 
then wring the cloth, by which means the 
purest gum will be fcnrced through; scrape 
it off carefully with a knife, and then proceed 
in tlie same way, until all the gum be strain- 
ed ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it 
about with a pestle for half an hour; th^ 
add to it a pound of doul>le-refined sifted 
sugar; mix them together well, until it be- 
comes a stiff paste; divide this into five 
parts, four of which must be tinged as fol- 
lows: red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual coloring materials. 
Before, however, they are colored, add to 
each piece, a pound and a half of double- 
refined su^r, sifted, dipping the paste in 
water occasionally, to enable it to receive 
the additional quantity of su^r. When you 
mix in the coloring materials, add also a 
coiTesponding perfiime: as, to the red, ros^ 
.water, and a few drops of essence of roses; 
to the blue, oil of violets ; to the yelbw, es- 
sence of cedar; to the green, essence' of 
bergamot ; and with the white, mix a little 
orange-flower wata*, and some drops of es- 
sence of Neroli, 

Your paste being thus prepared, form it 
of whatever little ornaments ^ou please, such 
as eggs, balls, turnips, (adding green leavei 
to these), &c. of the white; of the yellow, 
apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &6. 
of the blue ; and so on ; rolling them in your 
hands to smooth them, and make them all 
quite small; to those which imitate fruits, 
add tails and tops, cut fixMOB cherry-stalks, 
and stuck on whilst the paste is damp ; and 
with a hairpeucil, dipped in powdered cio- 



ao 



280 



FIL 



Mbar, tinge the peanr, applet, and aprtooCa, 
digbtly breathing on tbein to moisten the 
amiaoe. When all are done, put them into 
paper caeee, and net them in a warm place 
for several dajrs, to diy. 



E. 



EGGS CARAMEL. Take the yolks 
of a dozen hard eggs, bruise tliem in a sauce- 

Ean, with some powder-sugar, three almond 
iscoits, and half a glass of cream ; make 
these into a paste, of which form little eggs, 
dip them in caramel sugar, and brown diem. 

EGGS DUCHESSE. Boil k pint and 
a half of cream with some sugar, orange- 
flower, candied lemon-peel, marchpane, and 
burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; 
whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and 
liien take two or three spoonfuls of tliem at 
a time, and poach them in the cream ; drain, 
and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble 
eggs poached without the yolks. When all 
the whites are thus used, put the cream on 
the fire, and reduce it, and as the dish is 
eot to table, add the yolks to die cream, 
and pour the sauce gently over tlie ^gs. 

EGGS FILAGRAMME. Take a pint 
of white wine, half a pound of fine powder- 
aogar, and make it into a clear sinip with 
the white of an e^; beat up well eifflit 
eggs, and pour them through a cojander 
into the sirup ; a very short time is sufficient 
to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS OP SNOW. Break ten eggs, 
and having separated the yolks and whites, 
^ip the latter as for biscuits; then add 
two spoonfuls of powder'sngar, and a little 
dried orange-fiower in powder. Pour a 
quart of milk, six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little orange-flower, into a saucepan, 
and when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoon- 
fiil at a thne, of the while of egg ; poach (he 
latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. 
Then beat up the yolks, and mix tliem with 
half the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it 
with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thick- 
en ; then take it off, lay the poaciied eggs in 
a dish, and cover them with the yolks and 
milk. 

EGGS, WHITE OF. To make a dish 
of these, take the whites of twelve eggs, 
beat diem up with four spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter, some lemon-peel grated, and a little 
nutmeg; sweeten diem with sugar, mix 
them well, and boil them in four bladders; 
tie them in the shape of an en, and boil 
them hard; they will take hau aa hour; 



lay diem in a dish ; when Cold, mf x hrif m 
pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and 
the juice c^ half an orange all together; 
swieeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over 
the eggs. 



F. 



FILBERT BISCUITS. Take 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mor- 
tar to break dieir shells; pick all the sheik 
from them clean, pound them in a mortar 
very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them; 
take care tliey do not oil ; mix three pounds 
of powdered-sugar, with the nuts and whites 
of e^f to a proper diickness ; let your uvea 
be ofa moderate heat, then with thiespaddle 
and knife, drop small pieces, about half ai 
big as a nutmeg ; put two or three slieets of 
paper und^ them, let them bake of a fine 
brown, and all alike ; and let them be cold 
before you take them off the paper. 

FILBERT CANNELLONS. Bora 
and pound six ounces of filberts, moist- 
ening them with white of egg; wlien weH 
pounded, add a quarter of a pound of 
line pr>unded sugar, and half the white ofao 
egg; dry this paste a little, and then press 
it through a syringe, cutting the eanneliont 
about four inches in length ; make the /H- 
ture quite hot, dip the cannellona in batter, 
and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, 
and gjaze them with a salainander. Take 
particular care to keep the cannellona pef- 
fectly straight. 

FILBERT BURNT, ICE CREAM. 
Roast some Barcelona nuts well in tlie oven, 
and pound them a little with some cream; 
put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint 
of cream and two gills of sirup ; boil it till it 
becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it ; then mix the filberts with it be- 
fore you |iut it into ycKir moulds. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. Take a 
pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them 
into a preserving-pan (immeuiately after yea 
have taken them from the shells,) over a 
moderate fire; stir them continually with ft 
silver spoon, until the^ are colored, and the 
skin fa^ns to peel on; tlien take them oat; 
rub ofl^the skin entirely, and when qoite 
cold, pound them with a little white of egg: 
proceed in the same manner with the re- 
maining three-quarters; and when all are 
thus puunded separately, put the wlwie ti>- 
gether ' into the mortar, with a pound of 
sugstr, and the wliites of two ^gs, and beat 
them for ten minutes; after which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, previously heat* 



ooo 



381 



6RS 



en flp wUb itx whites dtfj^ ; ftir aH these 
tc^ther well for five or six minutes, when 
the pmeparatioD should be sufficiently firm, to 
prevent its spreading when laid; if, liow- 
ever, it be too firm, add to it more white of 
egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet 
the palms of your iiands, and roll a spoonful 
of the preparation to the size and form of a 
nutmeg; when all done, dip your bands in 
water, and pass them gently over the maca- 
roons, which will make their surface smooth 
and shining; put them into a nearly cold 
oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in 
it for three-quarters of an hour. Lay the 
macaroons at least an inch apart, and as 
round as possible. 

FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify sn- 
ear to a caramel height, which may be 
knowii by dipping in a fork, and if it throws 
the sugar as fine as threads, put in the flow- 
ers. Have ready some tea-cups, witli the 
insides rubbed with sweet oil ; put into each 
cup four table-spoonfuls of tlie sugar and 
flowers, and when cold turn tliem out of the 
cups, and serve them to table piled one upon 
another. 

FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of 
any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of 
iugar siAed, beat it two hours ; then put it 
into little white paper forms ; dry them in a 
eool oven, turn them the next day, and in 
two or three days box them. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, BISCUITS 
OF. Take dried preserved fhiits, such as 
apricots, veijuice, grapes, plums, oranges, 
and a little orange-flower marmalade; 
pound them togetlier, and sift in a sieve ; 
then mix it with yolks of new laid eggs, and 
fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a supple 
paste, not too liquid; then bake them on 
paper in a moderate oven. 



G. 



GINGER, CANDIED. Put an ounce 
of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted 
sugar into a preserving-pan with as much 
water as will dissolve it. Stir them well 
together over a sk>w fire, till the sugar be- 
gins to boil ; then add another pound, stir- 
ring constantly till it thickens. Take it 
from the fire, drop it on eartiien dishes, set 
them in a warm place to dry, 9nd they will 
be hard and brittle and look white. 

GOOSEBERRY CAKES. Bleak the 
gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain 
It through a muslin ; to one pint of juice a 
pound of sugar; boil up the juice; strew in 

16 



the alegar: stir it well; simmer it well tiU 

the su^r is united; pour it into glasses: 
dry it m a stove till it will turn out, then 
dry the cakes on plates. 

GOOSEBERRIES, GREEN, COM- 
POTE OF. Give them a Kttle cut on one 
side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them 
in hot water to scald, till they rise to the 
top; then putcokl water to them, adding a 
little salt, to bring them to their natural 
ereen ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and 
let them remain in sometime to imbilje the 
sweet ; take thehi out, and put them in the 
compotier ; reduce the sirup to a good con- 
sistence, and pour it over the fnut. This 
is for green gooseberries ; but if you make 
use of presented ones, warm Uiera in their 
own sirup and a little water, and serve it 
eitlier hot or cold. These will not keep 
long, particularly if they have been wanned 
again : if exposed to the air any time, thej 
will lose tlieir cok)r. 

GRAPE ICE. Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pass tliem through 
a sieve ; mix some sugar witli the juice of 
four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the 
whole together a second time through a 
sieve, then freeze it. 

GRAPES RATAFIA. Take some 
fine muscadine grapes, pick them from the 
stalks ; hi'uise and press them, so as to ex* 
tract all their juice ; then dissolve some su- 
gar in the grape juice, adding to it brandy ' 
and cinnamon ; let the whole infuse for a 
fortnight ; then strain it through a filtering 
bag, and bottle it ofl*. The proper propor- 
tions are one pint of brandy^ and ten ounces 
of sugar to one pint of grape juice. 

GREEN-GAGES TO CANDY. When 
finished in the sirup, (see green-gages to 
preserve,) put a layer into a new sieve, 
and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take 
ofl* the sirup that hangs about it ; then put 
it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and 
then do some more on the sieve. Have 
ready some sifted doiible-refined sugar, sift 
this all over every part of the fruit, till it is 
perfectly while. Set it on the shallow end 
of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold 
till diy. Watch it carefully. 

GREEN GAGES TO PRESERVE. 

You must choose the largest, when tliey be- 
gin to soften ; split witliout paring them, and ^ 
having previously weighed an equal quanti- 
ty of sugar, strew a pait of it over them; 
blanch the kernels with a small nharp knife ; 
next day, \mw the sirup from the fruit, and 
boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for 



1014 



d89 



LfiM 



tix or eight ntmrtet ; tkUn, mkI add tin 
phima aira kernels. Simmer till cleur^ 
taking off* nny scorn that rises ; put the fruit 
ingle into small pots, and pour the simp 
and kernels upon it. 

GUM PASTE. Put a pound of gore- 
dragon in a basin, with warm water enou^ 
to cover one inch above the gum ; set this m 
a warm cloaet for foor and twenty hours ; 
have a new tammy ready laid over a dish ; 
spread it on it, and squeeie through as 
murh as you can at first; then open the 
tammy, spread the gum out again, and then 
squeeze it; repeat this till the whole is 
through; then lay it on the slab, work it 
well with your hand, put in nearly all the 
Juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best 
double reftned powder-sugar, by degrees, as 
you work it ; but before ^ou have put in the 
whole of the sugar, begm lo add some of 
the best starch powder; blend them thor- 
oughly together, till the paste begins to 
take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, 
and let it stand in a damp place for a week 
or ten days, (it is the lietter fcH' keeping), 
work it with powder, and it will cut and 
mould to any shape you please, and when 
you want it to harden, set it in a dry pbce ; 
if you wii<h to color it, to make it red, use 
cochineal or carmine ; for blue or violet 
color, use indigo ; for yellow, saffron ; for 
green, the juice of beet leaves, scalded over 
the fire, the thick part mix with the paste. 
When you put in colors, be careful to blend 
them well, and be particular that the color 
n good. 



H. 



HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three 
pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, 
strain it thi-ough a jelly-bag; put it to a 
pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, and give them one boil to- 

Eher; then pot it into cups or glasses, and 
them stand till cold, when turn them out 
on a dish ; stick some sliced blanched al- 
monds on the top of each. White wine 
and sugar is nsually eaten with them. 



' J. 

JUNIPER BERRIES, ICES OF. In- 
fose some juniper ben-ies in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the beiTies, and 
boil them a moment with a pint of water, 
half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinna- 
mon, and sift them through a sieve with ex- 
prawion, and finish the same as aU others. 



JUNIPER RATAFU. T^m Aiw 

ncM c^ juniper berries, anise, oorisa* 
der, cinnamon, and cloves, of each eight- 
een grains; bruise all these ingredients, and 
infuse them, for a month, in three pints of 
lirandy ; then strain it, add thrae-quarters 
of a poimd of sugar diasolred in half a pint 
of water, stir them together, pass the whob 
through a ielly-bag, and bottle it; keep it 
wellaorked. 



L. 



LEMON BRANDY. Put the ped of 
two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, dien strain 
it ; boil two ounces of haS sugar in a Quar- 
ter of a pint of water; then skim, and let it 
stand till coU; when cokl, mix it with the 
brandy. 

LEMON CAKES. Quarter as many 
lemons as you think proper, they must have 
good rinds, and boil them in two or three 
waters, till they are tender, and have lost 
their bitterness; then skin them, and put 
them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take 
all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred 
the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh 
them, and put rather more than their weivbt 
of fine sugar into a tuasing-pan, with just 
sufficient water to <lissolve the sugar ; Iioil 
I it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and 
then by degrees put in the peel and pulps ; 
stir them well before you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently till it kwks clear and 
thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed 
glasses ; set them in a stove, and keep them 
m a continual and moderate heat, and turn 
them out upon glasses, as soon as they are 
candied. 

LEMON COMPOTE. Oit them in 
small pieces, and boil them in water tiH 
they are tender, then ciiange th&m into cold 
water ; then make a sirtip with a glass of 
water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve 
cpkl. 

LEMON CONSERVE. Graietheriad 
of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a 
pound,) scrape off the surface of the sngar 
as the lemon adheres to it, until you have 
rasped the whole of the rind ; sqoeeae half 
the juice on the scraped sugar, and thea 
boil the rest to la grande plume; take it 
from the fire when at this degree, and let it 
stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and 
when it forms a sort of glaee on the top of 
the sugar, pour the conserve into laoddsf 



M 



88S 



LEH 



Miag carafid, bowwer, tint it h aot too 
hot. 

LEMON DROPS. Grate ibree larfe 
lenions, with a large piece of double re6iied 
ugar; then scrape the sugar into a pktte, 
add Iwlf a tea-spoonfiil of flour ; mix well 
togetber, and b^t it into a li^lit paste, with 
the white of ao egg. Drop it upon white 
paper, put them ou a tin-plate, and set them 
in a moderate oven. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. Take the juice 
of three or four lemons, and grate the pee! 
afooe lemon; add two gills of sirup, and 
<Hie pint of cream ; mix it all together, pass 
it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

LEMONS TO KEEP FOR PUD- 
DINGS. When yo<i squeeze the fruit, 
throw the outside in water, without the 
pulp ; let tliem remain in the same a fort- 
night, adding no more ; boil them in the 
same till tender; strain it from them, and 
when tliey are nearly dry, throw them into 
amy jar of candy you may have remaining 
from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, 
boil a small quantity of sirup, of common 
loaf sugar and water, and pour over tliem ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in 
it till they look clear ; and tliat they may 
be covered with it in the jar, you may cut 
each half of tlie fruit in two, and tliey will 
occupy a smaller space.^ 

LEMON PASTILS. Take half a pouud ) 
j6( pounded loaf sugar, sifted as ftne as pos- 
sible; put it in a plate, take three or four 
lemons, and squeeze tlieir juice over the su- 
gar; mix it well with a spoon, till you make 
It rather a thickish paste, so that you can 
take it upon a knife; then take halt a sheet 
of paper, and cover it with little round and 
flat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place 
them in a stove witli a slow fire till they are 
quit^ dry,' then take them off from the paper; 
you may use, if you please, some of tlie peel 
ffrated, but not chipped; for, as it is a melt- 
ing pastil, some of the bits would remain in 
tbe mouth. 

LEMON PEEL CANDIED. Take 
mxoe thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yel- 
low peel, and throw' it into boiling water till 
8ofl, when it must be put into cold water. 
Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it au petit 
Uue, and having drained the lemon-peel, 
pour 09 it tlie sirup (whilst hot) ; tlie next 
day boil the sirup again, and return it to tlie 
peel; the tliird and fourth days proceed in 
the same manner, adding a small quantity of 
clarified sugar; the last time the sirup is 
boiled, as soon as it rises to perle, put in 
the peel, cover and boil tlie whole together 



caetif and imen eddy drain nod dry Aenr 
a stove. 

LEMON PEEL, TO CANDY. Take 
sonde lemon-peeb, and clean them well from 
the pnip, and let them lay two days in salt 
and water ; tlien scald and drain them dry,, 
tlten boil them in a thin sirup till they look 
quite dear. Aller whidi, take them out, 
and have ready a thick sirup made with fine 
loaf sugar; pot diem into it, and simmer 
them till the sugar-candies about the pen and 
peels. Then lay them separately on a liair 
sieve to drain, strew sifted si^r over them> 
and set them to dry in a slow oven. 

LEMON PEEL, CARAMEL. Take 
some veiy dry preserved lemon-peel, and 
cut it into several small sqtmre pieces ; put 
these pieces esich on die point of little sticks 
for this purpose, and dip them into caramtt 
sugar as dii-ected. See ehettnuU au cor^ 
amel, 

LEMON PEEL SIRUP OF. Take 
five ounces of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a 
glass cucurbite, which has been gradually 
heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly 
boiling water; close the vessel very tight 
and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours; 
after which, let the infusion run out gently 
wiUiout pressing the peel ; add two pounw 
of powder-sugar, and then boil the whole ta 
grand perle, when about half cold, put in 
a few di*ops of spirit of lemon. 

LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take a 
pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with 
as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to 
spread the paste with a knife ; add to it a 
sufficient -quantity of grated lemon-peel to 
iuipart the flavor required. The whole 
being well mixed, cut some slieets of wafer 
paper into such figures as your fancy may 
dictate, and spread the paste over them 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place tliera on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your 
sweetmeats, boil some sugar with orange- 
flower water to la pfttm, and when wey 
are taken out of the oven, wash them over 
with the sirup, which dries almost immedi- 
ately. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Squeeze as 
many lemons as will yield about three-quar- 
ters of a pound of juice, taking particular 
care that the peel of every lemon is perfect^ 
sound, and that they are none of them in the 
least degree bitter. Set your juice in the 
cellar for four days, and then filter it throuj^ 
blottinff-paper. Break a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugar into pieces aliout an 
inch square ; put them into a gallon matrass. 



MAC 



SRH^ 



MAI 



poor the Ibibob j ui ce over it, doM the nat- 
rsM with paper, and place it iu a bam mO' 
rie until tne sugar is entirely dissolved ; thenr 
extinguish your fire, and let the nuitrass cool 
gradualU- ; wlien cold, add two ^wonfuU of 
pirii of lemons, then bottle it, keqi it well 
corked. .< 

LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice 
of six lemons into a basin; pound and sift 
gome double* refined susar, ami mix it with 
the lemon-juice; put the white of one egg 
with it, and mix the whole well togetlier 
with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good 
consistence ; take some sheets of wafer-pa- 
per, and put one sheet of it on a pewter 
sheet or tin plate; pot on it a spoonful of 
the preparation, and spread it all over the 
paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, 
and put thn across a stick in a hot stove, 
with that sidq^the paste is on uppermost, 
and you will find they will curl ; wlien they 
are half curled, take tliem oflf very carefiilly 
and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that 
they may stand up ; let tliem be in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they tvill be 
all curled, and then they are done. 

LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and 
bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice-root, 
and boil it in a little water till it is much 
reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it 
^ clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce 
of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, 
sift it in a Tinoi bag, and mix sugar with it 
till it is brouglit to the consistence of a paste; 
then cut it into what flowers or designs you 
think proffer. 



M. 



 MACAROONS, SPICED. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted sugar ; make your paste as usual, to 
which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre-^ 
erved lemon and oranse-peel (of each a 
spoonful,) chopped small, and the grated 
rind of two lemons; mix them all together 
in tlie mortar,, and' then lay your macaroons 
as usual, and bake them with equal care. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. The 
maeedoine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fniils tan- 
closed in it; for this purpose it should be 
done as follows: Have a dome-shaped mould 
six inches and a half in diameter, and four 
in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould 
must be of a similar form, but only four inch- 
es and a half in diameter, and two and three- 
auarters high ; to this latter have four han- 
les, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in 



tto Matre of the lai^ger nenkl. Pmpanm 
strawlierry transparent jellv, pboe tiw kajpr 
mouM as straight as possiue m poanded ioi^ 
hang the small one in it, and poi|r the jc% 
into the fermer; whilst it is ooiuealia^ 
pick about twoity fine white Btrawberrieik 
the same number of very red ones, the aunt ' 
of white raspberries, a dozeo bunches oi red, 
and the same of white currants ; wash aU 
these well, but touch them as littfe as possi- 
ble, tliat they may not lose their freshness; 
when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some 
hot water into the small mould which wiB 
enable you to remove it with ease ; raise it 
with great care, so that the space may be 
found without the slightest flaw ; then place 
on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two 
bunches of white currants, surround these 
with a ring of white strawberries, and the 
latter with a crown or ring of white rasp- 
berries; pour over very carefiilly two or 
three spoonfuls of the jelly, and when that is 
congealed, procseil in the same way with 
the red cuiranls, strawberries, and raspber- 
ries, tlien tlie jelly, and so on alternately^ 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould with 
jelly ; as soon as the whole is congealed, dip 
your mould into a larpe saucepan of hot 
water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. 
The maeedoine may be samished in this 
manner with any kind of fruit you think 
proper. It may also be filled with two jel- 
lies as follows: white lemon jelly in die 
lai^ mould, and finished with the same 
jelly, tinged with either roee-ooloror yellow; 
indeed the moulds may be varied in any way 
your fancy may dictate. 

MALLOWS, SIRUP OF. Take half 
a pound of mallows root, and having scrap- 
ed and washed it well, cut it into smul 
pieces, which set on the fire with three pints 
of water ; when sufficiently boiled, the wa- 
ter will be glutinous, strain off the decoction, 
and pour into it four pounds erf* sugar; clari- 
fy it in the same manner as capiusiie ; boil 
it to /use, run it through  jjelly-beg, and 
when cold, bottle it. 

MARASCHINO. Take sixteen ponndi 
of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off 
the stalks; put them into five quarts sf 
Innndy to infuse, covered close lor thrtt 
days,'tlien distil the infiision; distil also a 
pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of filto^ 
ed river water, from which you will obtain 
about a gallon ; dissolve in this (bar pounds 
and a half of fine sugar ; add it to the li- 
queur, with two pints and a half (rf* kirschoB- 
wasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits 
of rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jessamine; mil 
them altogether, run it through a jelly4f, 
and bottle it; cork them well. 



MAR 



385 



MEL 



MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OF. 

Pocmd and sift some of llie best lump siignr, 
mix it in B china baRin with ppint of maras- 
chino, until it is of the consistence of paiitil 
parte; then put it into a skillet over the fire, 
and heat it ^ntty, stirring it constantly (hut 
without letting it Imil,) till very liquid, when 
it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin 
moQlds; p<it these moulds on iron plates, 
and dry the conserve in a stove. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take 

two quaits of cream, twelve eggs, a pound 
of double-i'efined sugar, and three glasses 
of true maraschino ; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites 
of the eggs to a firm snow, then pour in 
eight yolks, and the sugar pnimded and 
sifted, stir them together lightly, and then 
add by degress the boiling cream, whipping 
oontinually ; set it on tlie fire, and do not 
cease whipping until it has boiled up three 
or lour times ; pour it through a sieve into 
a basin, stirring a tittle to enable it to run 
more freely ; when 'cold put it into the sor- 
hetiere with the maraschino ; cover it in- 
ttantly, and ice it as usual. 

MARCHPANE. Take four pounds of 
sweet almonds, throw them into boiling 
water, let them lay till the skin bosens, 
tiicn put them into cold water, after a few 
minutes blanch and throw them again into 
Cold water to wash them thoroughly. When 
dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a 
Tcry tine paste, moistening each handful 
with two s|)oonfuls of water; the whole 
quantity of almonds being pounded, put the' 
paste into a large preser\'ing pan, with four 
pounds of the best lump sugar finely pound- 
ed and sif\ed ; set the pan on a- coal fire, 
fltir and' work them up together with a 
lai^ wooden spatula, rather sharp at the 
bottom: be very careful that none of the 
paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence 
of such neglect would be, that the maix'h- 
pane would be spotted with yellow, and 
would emell unpleasantly. Whilst working 
it up, the paste, which when put in was 
tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, 
and a giat deal of vapor may be obseiTed ; 
die first is caused by the sugar dissolved by 
the heat and moisture, the second by the 
evaporation of the water. Continue to stir 
and work it up in this manner without 
ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of 
that time, you can touch the paste without 
its adhering to your fingei*s, it is uufficiently 
dried; in which case remove it all to one 
aide of the pan, clean ttie bottom and side 
of the other, sprinkle it well with fiour, then 
put the paste to that pait, clean and sprin- 
kle that side also; uien take the pan by 
both ears and move it round and coundt so 



that the paste may .all unite together; atf 
soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of 
paper, or, if you wanl to use it immediate- 
ly, on a well floured table. This paste, if 
the almonds lie well pounded and then thor- 
oughly dried, will keep good for six months; 
if iliese two precautions are not properly 
attended to, it will become sour in ten days. 

MARIGOLDS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
four ounces of marigold-flowers, conserve of 
hyacinth and liermes, of each four drachmSy 
tlie powder of pearl two ounces, and as 
much sittip of citron as will make tl)em into- 
a conserve, mixing and bruising tliem to-- 
gether with refined sugar. 

MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take 

the tops and tendcrest^ part of sweet marjo-\ 
ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or 
liowl ; take double its weight of fine sugar, 
boil it with marjoram-water till it is as 
thick as sirup, then put in your beaten mar- 
joram. 

MARSEILLES, OR GINGER. Take 

a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and boil it to fort touffle, add to it an 
ounce of ginger in powder, remove the paa 
from the fire, and with a round stick (like 
a plain round rule) stir the sugar,, inclining; 
the stick towards the sides of the pan, ihea 
with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to 
the edofes and put it amongst the liquid, then 
work It up again with the stick, remove the 
solid sugar as before, and repeat this opera- 
tion four times, when it will havel>ecouie tole- 
rably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, 
alwut half an inch thick, and with a fork 
trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges 
of what size you please; aAerwards, with 
the point of a knife, mark some of these 
deeper than the others; when quite cold, 
take them out of the papers, and separate 
them, where the lines are deepest. The 
Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry 
place, will keep good for a long time. 

MARSEILLES SPICED. Take a 
pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to 
cae; take a quarter of preserved orange- 
peel, the same of candled lemon-peel, (or, 
if you like it better, two ounces of blanched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put 
them with half an ounce of cloves, the same 
of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar, 
stir them in gently, continue to boil your 
sii-up to forte plume; then beat it up, pour 
it into cases, and finish as tlie Marseillet, 

MELONS, TO PRESERVE LIKE 
GINGER. Half a pound of ginger to one 
pound of melon; scrape tlie ginger, and 
save the scrapings ; ^ur a qiiai*t of boiling 



MIN 



386 



MTR 



water on the gioger, let it ftand two days: 
cald tlie melon (with the scrapings of the 
ginger in the water), taking care not to 
make it too soft: cut it into sinnil pieces 
resembling ginger; then prepare a sirup, 
half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; 
boil ihe ginger in it; when old, put in tlie 
neion, and set it over the fire for a short 
time, but not to boil ; let the sirup, with 
the ginger, be boiled evMy day for a fort- 
night, but not poured upon the mekNi till 
nearly cold; then boil a rich sirup to keep 
it in. 

N. B. CJarrot is equally good with mebn. 

MERINGUES. (1) Whisk the whites of 
nineeggti to a solid frolh; then add the rind 
of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a 
spoonful of sifled sugar; after which, lay a 
Bheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a 
spoon drop die mixture in little lumps, 
aeparately upon it, siA sugar over, and put 
them to liake in a moderately heated oven, 
taking care that they are done of a nice 
color. Then put raspberry, apricot, or any 
other kind of jam between two of these bot- 
toms, add them together, and lay them in 
a warm place, or before Uie fire to dry. 

MERINGUES. (2) Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, six ounces of tlie best lump 
sugar, pounded and sifled, and half a pound 
of pistachioa; blanch and beat the latter in 
a mortar, witli a little' white of egg, to a 
very fine paste. Whisk the whites of eggs 
to a 80OW, then add the sugar, and pista- 
chio paste, mix them well, but very lightly, 
and when they are thoroughly incorporated, 
put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay 
vour prepsiralion on the paper, widi a spoon, 
lay the meringue*, at least an inch apart; 
sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put 
them into a moderate ,oven or stove ; when 
done, detach them gently from the paper 
with a knife, and place them on a sieve in 
a dry place. Just before they are sent to 
table, 11 each with a little whipped cream, 
to which add a small quantity of either 
orange-flower, rose, or vanilla water. 

MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, 
ffrate them after with sugar to obtain tlie 
flavor. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum 
or brandy, stopped close for four and twenty 
hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of 
sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and 
one (^uart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the 
mm into the above, and run it througli a 
jellv-bag until it is quite clear: bottle and 
cork it close immediately. 

MINT, DISTILLED LIQUEUR OF. 
Tal^ two hand^ of fiiesh gathered garden 



mint, and inftwe it for some days in a gaflon 
and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; 
then distil it as usual. Dissolve three 
pounds and a half of si^ar in seven pints of 
water, mix the sirup with the U^eur, and 
run the whole through a jefly bag. 

MINT WATER. Take firar pounds ai 
dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof 
spirits, and three galbns of water; disdl 
them, and sweeten the water with a poirad 
and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS. Put into a pan two 
yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of 
powder-sugar, three ounces of sweet maca* 
roons crushed, half an ounce of crisped 
orange-flowers in powder, and a grain of 
snlt; stir these together a minute, then add 
two ounces of melted botto*; whip the two 
whites very firm, and put them also to the 
preparation. Line thirty tartlet mookis with 
puff- paste, into each of which pour an equal 
quantity of the above; cover them with 
sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, 
strew over a little sugar, a la grelt; and 
put them into a moderate oven : serve either 
hot or cold. 

MULBERRIES, SIRUP Of, Take 
as many mulberries as will yield three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving pan 
with three pints of water; boil until this 
quantity is reduce^! to one pint ; then lay dis 
fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarify three 
pounds of sugar, boil it to bouiUes then add 
the mulberry-juice; give them one boil, and 
skim them. Pour tlie sirup into a pan, and 
let it stand ; when cold, bottle it. 

MUSK, TO PREPARE FOR U- 
QUEI JRS. Take two grains of musk and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them 
in a mortar and mix them well; keep it in 
a closely stopped bottle. The quantity re- 
quired of tliis is one pinch to fonr or five 
quarts of liqueur. Ambergris is prepared 
in a similar manner, but being leas powerlsl 
than the musk, four grains is the proportioB 
to a quarter of a pound of sugar. 

MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put two ooncei 

of peach leaves, and tlie half of a notineg^ 
bruised, into six quarts of brandy; disul 
from this in a 6atn marie alembic your li- 
queur, in which, infuse half a pound of nrar- 
tle flowers for four days. Dissolve five 
pounds of sugar in three quarto of pore river 
water ; the moment it b^ins to boil, take it 
from the fire, and let it cool; take the niyr> 
tie flowers from the lM|oeor, and pot in iha 
sugar ; mix them well, color it with thKtnn 
of saffron, strain and bottle it. 



HUT 



287 



ORA 



N. 



NONPAREIL. Poppy seeds sugnred in 
the manner directed under the articles Su- 
gared Seedt, are called Nonpar eih; 
they are tinged of different colors, by the in-> 
troduction of the various coloring materials 
into the si^ar with which they are cov- 
ered. \ 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
veil, cut each into five slifM, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry; let them l)e all equally 
colored of a clear yellow ; in the meantime, 
put three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, 
stirring with a wooden spoon until com- 
pletely dissolved ; then take the almonds nut 
of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the liquid sugar; mix them together well. 
Have ready a mould well oiled, of any sliape 
you think proper, in the interior of which 
place tlie sljps of almonds, by means of lem- 
on-juice, when the whole is covered, remove 
the mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU, ENGLISH. Two galbns of 
gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound 
ot sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste*; 
six poimds of lump sugar^ pounded (some of 
it with the almonds.) Let these stand ten 
days in the gin, then filter it through blotting 
paper, and bottle it. 

NUT BONBONS. Boil a pound of 
Spanish nuts; when they are well boiled, 
rub off their skin with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; 
grate your nuts very fine on a sheet of pa- 
per; then take a pound of- powdered sugar 
to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a 
slow fire; when your sugar is all melted 
(you must stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon) put your nuts in, and work them well 
till all is well mixed, and poiu* it upon a tin 
plate; then spread it with a rolling pin, this 
must be done very quiclcly, as it cools very 
iast; when it is cold, cut it into what form 
you please ; you must take care the sugar is 
not too mtidi melted, for it is very apt to 
soften when tlie nuts are added to it. 

NUTS PRALINED. Take a pound 
<^ Spanish nuts, take them out of their 
shells, and put them into a pan, with a 
pound of loaf sugar, and a litile water ; let 
them boil till they begin to sparkle; then 
take them off the fire, and stir them well 
with a wooden spoon, till you perceive the 
sugar turns gravelly; then set them again 



over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep 
stirring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, 
and when you see them turn reddish, and 
are well covered with sugar, take them off, 
pour them into a sieve, cover them with a 
clean cloth, and put them into a stove ; this 
will preserve their gloss. 

NUTMEGS TO CANDY. Take a 
pound and a half of double refined sugar, 
half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-wa- 
ter, and a very little gum arabic ; boil these 
to a candy height ; let your nutmegs be first 
soaked in water; then put them into an 
earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep 
them very close covered, set tliem in a warm 
place for about thi'ee weeks, and they will 
be of a rock caqdy. 



O. 



OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarts 
of spirits of wine, flavored with essential oil 
of lemon, the same quantity flavored with 
spirit of cedrat; make a sirup with seven 
pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two 
twttles of Scubac ; mix the whole together, 
and by stirring, it will become thick; to 
clarify it, take the whites of two eggs in 
about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards 
put it to the whole ; stir it ; then put it into 
a still in the 6atn marie moderately heated; 
let it remain for twelve hours ; filter the pro- 
duce of your distillation, and bottle it. 

OIL OF VENUS. Reduce the follow- 
ing articles to an impalpable powder:  an 
ounce of skirret seeds, an ounce of caraway 
seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm 
and a half of mace, and the rind of an or- 
ange; infuse these for five days in a gallon 
of brandy, then distil from it in a hain ma- 
rie, two quarts of liqueur; dissolve over 
tlie fire four pounds of sugar in two quarts 
of pure water; when cold, mix it with the 
distilled liqueur , and color it of a clear yel- 
low, with a little tincture of saffron ; filter 
and bottle it ; seal the corks. 

ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the oranges very round and smooth, pare, 
prick them in the middle, and put them into 
cold water; then blanch them in boiling 
water; when they are tender, throw them 
again into cold water ; in a short time give 
them seven or eigtit boils in sugar, a la pe- 
tite nappe, Bk'nn,. and let them stand till 
next day, when the same process must be 
gone through; skim them again, then put 
^em into bottles, pour over them equal 
quantities of sirup and water ; take care to 
oorifc them well. 



DBA 



388 



OBA 



ORANGE, COMPOTE. Cut them 
in small pieces, and boil them in wa- 
ter until they are tender, tlieo cliange iheiu 
into cold water; next nuike a sitiip with 
one glass of water and four ounces of sugar, 
anil put in the fruit; let it simmer f^enlly 
over a slow fire for lialf an hour; serve cold. 

ORANGE, CROQUE EN BOTT- 
CHES OF. Pare a dozen fine oranges, 
and divide each into twelve pieces, alt of , 
the same size ; scrape off every particle of 
the white, without breaking the tliin skin 
which contains the juice ; wlien all are done, 
dip each piece inCo some sugar boiled to 
casse (.ind lightly colored,) and place them 
in a plain rnouM of six indies diameter, and 
five ip height ; the first row inclined one way, 
the f(x>nd ihe reverse way, and so on ; lay 
them at the bottom in a star. As soon aa 
the mould \s full, turn it out, and serve it 
with all possible expedition, as the moisture 
of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, 
that the croque en bouche is liiible to fall 
to pieces. 

ORANGE CAKES. Divide the or- 
anges in half, take out the seeds,' and put 
the pulp and juic into a basin; boil the 
rinds in a saucepan of water, closely coi'er- 
ed; when very tender take them out, and 
dry them upon a cloth ; allow to a pound of 
orange rinds, two of pounded loaf sugar ; 
pound the rinds in a mortar ; add by^egrees 
the sugar, and then the juice and pulp ; mix 
it thoroughly till thick and yellow; drop it 
upon tins in small cakes, and dry them un- 
der garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If 
it be too thias. to drop, let it stand a night. 

ORANGE SHERBET. Dissolve a 
pound and half of sugar in a quart of very 

!)ure water ; take nine fine oranges and two 
emons; wipe them well with a napkin, and 
having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze 
on them the juice of these fruits; sweeten 
this juice with tlie above sirup, run the whole 
through a close hair sieve, and finish in 
tlie usual way. (See Sherhet.) 

ORANGE SHRUB. Put ten pounds 
of crushed su^r to two galbns of water, 
and boil it until the sugar be dissolved ; skim 
it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite 
cold, pour it into a barrel ; add three quarts 
of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange- 
juice (take care tliere are no pips.) Beat 
up the white of an egg, mix it with tlie 
shrub, and let it stand for a week ; then 
draw it off and bottle it. 

ORANGE SUGAR. Rasp on a piece 
of suear die rinds of the liest oranges, but 
6 lightly tliat not a parttcls of the white is 1 



mixed with it; enrapeoffthesuriiMtftk 

su^ar as it becomes colored, aud eonliv 
diis operation until you have as much apr 
ns you require ; then lay it in a stove, org 
tlie mouth of the oven to dry ; wben it i| 
perfe<ily so, pass it through a very im 
sieve. Lemons and cedrate may Iw gratod, 
and the sugar dried in the same inaiiaer. 

9RANGES, GREEN. Scrape oat the 
insides of tlie oranges quite clean, dies let 
them lie for three days in cold water, chf> 
ing tlie water daily, then boil tlieoi voy 
sbwiy till the water is bitter; tJiefl put 
tlietn into other boiling water, set them by; 
repeating this daily till all the biltcneai il 
extracted: make a rich sinip of the hit 
watei' they are boiled in, with Lifboo eugv; 
when cold, put them in ; the next day boi 
tliem in the sirup ; repeat this till they aie 
green and tender ; cover with brandy-faper. 

ORANGE, WATER ICE. Take off 
the rind of two Seville orao^, veiy Hm 
and tliin ; squeeze the juice into a baai 
with one lemon; add half a pintof sin^ 
and half a pint of water ; pass them dumfh 
a sieve, and freeze them rich. 

ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. 
Boil half a pound of clarified ao^riograndt 
plume, take it from the fire, and pour JOto 
it a dessert spoonfiil of orange-flower water; 
stir diem together wel^, set the miitureoi 
the fire, and wlien warm, poor it into shal- 
low papercaae8 ; let it cool, and diea cot it 
into cakes of any form you please. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS- H- 
verise a good pincJi of dried orange-floywi 
pound them with gum-dragon, P'^'J"? 
dissolved in one glass of plain, and m 
same' quantity of orange-flower water; mU 
a sufficient proportion of powder-?Wi to 
make the pake of the reciuisite coogmtc^ 
which form according to your ta* "" 
oonee, lozenges, &c. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PRAUNES. 
Take a pound of very freA white otaagt- 
flowens, pick, and throw them '"JJ*" 
water ; clarify, and boil two pounds  Jr 
to aouffie, then put in the flowers; wt 
tliem with a spatula, until your "Tf I*! 
gains the degree of wufUs take the pw 
from the fire, and continue stiniog tdl = 
sugar is separated from die flowers, ww * 
comes a powder; set it in a *^^/^^ 
tlien set the wliole on a sieve, diat w^y 
may run through and feave ^ ^f*? 
which put into bottles. If preserved id  
dry place th^ will keep fiir twelve mooB* 

ORANGE-FLOWERS SIRUP- ** 



ORO 



399 



ORG 



itjf and IrB font poniMb of ingar to ptrU, 
men add three'qinrteni uf a pound of fresh 
onuige-flowen picked, and boil them once ; 
then take the pan firom the fire, and let it 
tand for two hours, after which, rq;>lace it 
OD the fire ; when it has had about a dozen 
boilings, pour jt through a sieve into anoth- 
er saucepan, boil the sirup to Haae, and 
pat it aside; when quite cold, hottle it. 
The flowers may be used as follows: put 
them into powder-eugar, with which rub 
them well with your bands, till quite dry, 
then sift and put them in a stove. 

ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. Put 
into a still ten pounds of fresh gathered or- 
ange-flowers, and six quarts of pure river 
-water; take particular care to cloee up all 
the apertures of die still perfectly, and set it 
on a moderate Gre, that the ebullition may 
not be too strong ; be particular in cooling 
it frequently, or, at least, whenever the wa- 
t^ in the boiler becomes loo warm, chnnge 
it, and put in fresh ; much depends on the 
attention paid to this part of tlie operation. 
From the above quantity, three quarts of 
orange-flower water may be drawn. 

ORANGE-FLOWER DOUBLE 
Water. Draw four quarts of orange- 
flower water from six quarts distilled as 
above ; put to this water the same quantity 
of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, 
and it will yield five pints. 

ORANGE PEEL TO CANDY. Take 
some ordnge pee), and let it soak in seve- 
ral waters till it has lost its bitterness, then 
boil it in a solution of double-refined su- 
gar in water, till it becomes tender and 
transparent. 

ORANGE PEEL TO PRESERVE. 

Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, 
put the peel in strong salt and sprins water, 
to soak for three days, repeat tins three 
times, then put them on a sieve to dry; 
take one pound of loaf susar, add to it one 
quart of spring water, boil it, skim it until 
quite clear; let the peels simmer until they 
are quite transparent; dry them before the 
fire; take loaf-sugar, with just sufficient 
"water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring continually 
until all die sugar is candied round them, 
then put them to dry either before the fire 
or in an oven, and when perfectly dried, 
pot them by for use. 

ORGEAT. Blanch a pound of sweet, 
and twenty-four bitter almonds ; pound them 
to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water 

25 



occasionally to prevent tlieir oiling; mhca 
gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and 
orange-flower water, with this paste; beat 
them together for some time ; then strain h 
two or Uiree times through a jelly-bag, etir- 
ring it with a spatula, and ierve it in de- 
canters. 

ORGEAT PASTE. Pound the aknonds 
with a little orange-flower water to a fine 
paste, and then work up with it an equal 
weight of powder-sugar. This paste will 
keep a long while, and by dissolving a small 
portion of it in water, and straining it, or- 
geat may be prepared very quickly. An 
ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a 
pint of water. 

ORGEAT SIRUP. Take a pound and 
a half of sweet, and half a pouud of bitter 
almonds, throw them into boiling water, and 
leave tliem till the skins can be renioved 
with ease, then throw them into cold water 
for a minute before you blanch them, after 
which, they must again be put into cold 
water; then pound tliem, a few at a time, 
in a marble morbu*, adding occasionally 
some water to prevent their oiling; when 
all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this 
with the greater part of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces); put the 
paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wrii^ 
out all the milk from the almonds, put the 
latter into the mortar, and pound them 
again, adding by degrees the remainder of 
the water, and then squeeze these also in a 
cloth; pour the whole of this milk into a 
matrass, large enough to contain, at least, 
one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds 
of lump-si^ar, and a pint of oi'ange-flower 
water; cork the matrass tight, and set it 
on a bain marie; when the susar is com- 
pletely dissolved, (which should be accelera- 
ted by shaking the matrass occasionally), les- 
sen tnc fire by degrees, and as soon as the 
vessel is quite cold, put tlie sirup into bottles. 

If you should have no matrass, you may 
make your sirup in the following manner: 
boil the alx>ve mentioned quantity of sugar 
to forte plume, then add the milk of al* 
monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twioe^ 
take it from the fire ; when cold, flavw it 
with a pint of orange-flower water. 

Or this sirup may be made in a still more 
simple way, as thus: put the milk of al- 
monds into some pounded sugar, without 
being clarified or boiled previously; when 
the sirup begins to boil, add about a cofiiee- 
cupful of orange-flower water, and after it 
has boiled up two or three times, take it 
from the fire; let it get quite cokl before 
you bottle it. Keep it well corked. 



ms 



go 



pfiik 



p. 



PARPAIT AMOUR. Take four twy 
fine fresh cedrats, pare than ver^ thin, rim 
infuse tlietn with half an ounce of fine cinna- 
mon, and four ounces of coriander, in three 
gallons of strong brandy, and a quart of wa- 
ter, for a week or ten days, when distil it 
in the bain marie; this quantity of brandy, 
if good, will yield two gallons and half a 

Kint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a 
alf of sugar in seven pints of river water, 
color it with cochineal, then add it to the 
spirit, filter, and bottle it. 

PASTILLES. To make these articles, 
it is necessary to have a small cop})er stew- 
pan that will hold about a pint, rather deep 
than wide, with a pointed lip on the right 
side, and a tolerably long handle, also two 
pieces of wood, one about eighteen inches 
long, and four in* diameter, called the bois 
a tabeller, the other about half the length, 
one inch in diameter, and the lower end, 
pointed so Uiat it will exactly fit the lip of 
the pan ; this is called the 6ots a egoutter; 
six or eight tin plates about the size of a 
^eet of fetter-paper. 

For the best paatiileij take a pound of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an impalpa- 
ble powder ; sift it through a tammy on a 
sheet of white paper, put four or five spoon- 
fuls of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a 
little orange-flovver water, and beat it well 
witli the larger stick, until the preparation 
is sufficiently thin to run from the stick 
without being clear ; if it be so, more sugar 
must be added. Put the pan over a chafing- 
dish filled with live coals, and let it stand 
(stirring constantly) till it boils; then take 
it off 1 he chafing-dish, add two more spoon- 
fuls of sugar, work it up well, scrape away 
whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it 
aside, and take the smaller stick in your 
right hand, bold the pan in your left (slant- 
ing) over one of the tin-plates; the sugar 
will, by these mealis, flow to the lip, then 
strike the point of the strck into the lip of 
the pan, which action will separate the 
liquid, so that each time the stick strikes 
the lip a single drop of the preparation will 
fall on the tin ; a little practice will be ne- 
cessary before this operation can be perform- 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. 
is used, repfenish the pan and proceed as 
above directed, until you have as many 
paBtilles as you may require. When cold 
and hard, remove them from tlie tins witli 
your hand, and keep them in boxes in a 
dry place. You may, if you please, color 
the pattilles, taking care to perfume them 
with a corresponding; odour. 



PASTILLES, OOMMOlf. These are 
made in the same manner as tbe best sod, 
the difference consists in the materiali, 
(wbich are a quarter of a pound of powder 
to three-quarteni of a pound of Bi]^;ar) afll 
tbe perfumes are omitted. 

PASTILLAGES. Pot two omices of 
well-washed gtim dragon into an earthen 
pan, with as much clear hot water as wfll 
cover it, lay a slieet of paper to keep oat 
the dust, and let it stand twenty-fiwr boon; 
then squeeze it through a coarse doth info 
a marbfe mortar, and add to it as much 
starch and sugar (both in powder) as the 
ffum water will contain ; ponnd tliese ingre- 
dients well, and strain them through a tamn^ 
into a pan which keep covered with a damp 
cloth. This pastillage is used to fomi the 
ornamental parts of pastry and confection- 
ary, such as temples, baskets, 8tc., and om^ 
be tinged of the requisite shades, hytabL- 
ing with it any of the colorii^ materials. 

PEACHES IN A COMPOTE. C* 

your (leaches in half, take out the stones, 
peel them, then set them on the fire in a 
sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of thick 
clarified sugar to cover them, and let them 
simmer in this gently till done ; then fake 
them out in a basin, put in tbe kernels to 
the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick ; 
put in the juice of two or three lemons, and 
pour the sirup over the peaches; serve them 
in a deep hot dish. 

PEARS IN BRANDY. Take some 
beurre pears, not too ripe, put them into a 
saucepan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover them, set them on the fire, and let 
tliem simmer, but not boil, until the pears 
will yield to the pressure of your finger; 
then change them into cold water; pare 
tliem with the greatest care, so that not a 
single spot may remain ; prick, and put them 
again on the fire in fresh water and the joioe 
of a lemon; let them boil verj^ fast. As 
soon as the pears are soft enoogli ibr dK 
head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take 
them out carefully with a skimmer, and hej 
them in cold water. In the meantime, bal- 
ing boiled your sugar to litse, pour the 
boiling sirup on the pears, ([ffeviously 
drained from the water,) and leave tliem. 
The next day drain off the sirup, boil it to 
la nappe, then pot in the pears, give them 
a boil also ; proceed in the same manner on 
the third day, after which, drain tbe frait, 
and put it into botdes. Boil op the sirup a 
few more times, let it cool, and then potf 
on it some brandy, (three-lburths of the 
quantity of the sirup;) ran tbe mixton 
through a bag, put it to the pears, and coik 
the bottles well. 



ri 



391 



FhV 



PAS CAC^IUEO. A doM like 
tkpricolB* 

PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some 
;good sixed pear, cut tUem in halves, and 
fnt them into boiling water; wlien soft, 
<^nge them into cold water, in which 
queeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some 
clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the 
water, and then put them into the <inip ; 
boil together until the peani are sufficiently 
done; skim, and place them in ttie eompo- 
tUr. A little Burgundy wine and prepared 
cochineal will give the compote a ml color. 

PEAR MARMALADE. Take six 
jpounds of small peaiv and four pounds of 
Migar; put the pears into a saucepan with 
a little water, set it on the fire ; when tlie 
limit is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, 
and core them ; as you do this, throw each 
piece into a>ld water, in another saucepan, 
and when all are done, set them on the fire. 
As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub 
them through a sieve, and havmg in the 
meantime chvified and boiled the sugar to 
petit li$$e, pour the sirup to the pulp, set it 
4i the fire, and stir tliem together until the 
marmalade is of the proper consistence; 
then take it off, put it mto pots, Imd when 
cold, tie them down. 

PERSICA. Cut about one hundred 
peach leaves, put them into a wide-moutlied 
tx>Ule, pour on them a quart of the best 
brandy, cork it close ; in three weeks strain 
it off, and put to it an equal quantity of ca- 
pillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, 
and as a liqueur. 

PINE APPLE CHIPS. Pare and 
trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each 
half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; 
take half the weight of the fruit in powder- 
augar: lay the slices in a basin, with sugar 
trewed between ; let it stand till tlie sugEU* 
be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire 
to simmer till tlie chips be quite clear, when 
set it fay. The next day remove all the 
sirup from the slices, place them on glasses, 
and dry them in a gentle oven. 

PINE APPLE IN A COMPOTE. 
Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, 
bat not too thin ; have some sugar on the 
fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices 
of pine, and let them boil gently till the sirup 
is tolerably thick, then take out the pine, 
and la^ it on a dish ; mix with the sugar, 
the juice of a couple of lemons, and pour it 
ova* the pine. 

PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put a 
pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, 



pound them, moistening with white of eg/f^ 
to a very fine paste; in the meantime clari* 
fy the same quantity of si^gai*, boil it to petit 
boule; then lake the pan from tlie fire, put 
in the pistachios, stir them together well, 
replace the pan on hot ashes, continually 
stirring, till the paste is of a proper consis- 
tence, then puur it on a slab well sprinkled 
with sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into ' 
whatever forms your fancy may dictate. 

PLUMS, IN BRANDY. Take twelve 
poumis of fine magnum bonum plums, and 
three pounds of sugar ; tlie fruit should be 
turned in cuIch*, but not ripe ; prick, and put 
them mto a saucepim with cold water, set 
tliem on the fire; when the water boils and 
the plums rise, take them out carefully with 
a skimmer and put them into a pan of ocUd 
water; clarify and boil the sugar to petit 
liseey put the plums to it, and give them a 
bull; die two succeeding days, drain off 
and boil the sirup, first alone, and aller- 
wards with the fruit; the third day dii^in 
the plums, and put tliem into ijotlles ; then 
boil tlie sirup to la naj^e, and when cold, 
add to it three*fom-tlis of its quantity of the 
best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the 
mixture over tlie plums. Cork the bottles 
tight. Green-gage plums are done like 
apricots. (See Aprieote in Brandy,) 

PLUMS CANDIED. Choose your 
fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut 
tliem in halves, lay them on a large shallow 
disli, strew powder-sugar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tightly closed; 
in half an hour's time, lake them out, and 
place tlie plums one by one on glass plates 
to dry. 

PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. FiU 
ajar with the white pear plums, set it in a^ 
saucepan of boiling water on the fire ; when 
sufficiently done, let the clear juice run 
from it, and to every pint of it, add an equal 
quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; 
put the juice to the sirup, set it on the fire, 
and keep stirring it till the whole is quite 
hot, but not boiling; then pour it into glass- 
es, and dry the cakes in a stove. 

PLUMS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
six pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar; stone, and put the fiiiit into a cuU 
lender, beat it through with a wooden pestle 
into a piieserving-pan, which set on the fire, 
to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In 
the meantime, clari^ and boil the sugar to 
petit caeee, then mix it with the fruit (still 
on tlie fire,) stir it till the whole is of the 
consistence of jelly, then take it off, and 
pour the marmalade into pots. 

If the plums are not quite ripe, they must 



POM 



892 



PO0 



te boiled onee or twice before they are 
jpK mBt td throogfa the cullender. Some of 
the kerneb may be added, if approved; 
th^ should be pounded before potting in the 
marmalade. 

PLUMS PRESERVED, DRY. Gath- 
er the ploms wlien fill) grown and just lum- 
ing color, pi ick and put them into a sancepan 
of cold water, aet them on the fire until the 
water is on the point of boiling; tlien take 
diem out, drain and boil them well in some 
clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil 
them again ; if diey shrink and will not take 
die sugar, prick them as they lay in tlie pan, 
and tlien give tliem another boil, skim and 
set them nv: the next day, add some more 
sugar, boiled to aoufftty to the fruit, and 
sirup, then do them together; place them 
in a stove till next day, when drain the 
plums from the sirup, sprinkle a little pow- 
der-sugar over, and dry tliem in a stove. 

PJ.UMS, PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Gather the plums green, firm, and when the 
stone m;iy be extracted with ease, cut the 
stalks close, and prick the fruit in several 
places, especially round the stalk; then 
place them in a saucepan of water over the 
fire, and as soon as tlie water is ready to 
boil, take the saucepan from die fire; in 
four-and-twenty hours, replace the plums in 
die same water on a gentle fire, with a small 
quantity of verjuice to preserve their color. 
Keep the water hot, without allowing it to 
boil, for three hours, stfirring it occasional- 
ly ; when the fruit is perfectly green, increase 
the heat till the plums rise to tlie surface, 
when they must be taken out and thrown 
into cold water, which change frequently till 
the plums are perfectly cold, tlien drain 
them. Put the fruit in some susar boiled to 
la nappe, boil them up a few times, adding 
a little water; skim, and then pour the 
whole into a pan ; tlie next two days, drain 
off the sirup, and increase the degree of 
boiling each day ; the third and fourth days, 
boil the fruit with the simp, keeping them 
covered, and increasing the degree, until the 
last time, it reaches to perle. Put the 
preserve into pots, and place them for two 
days in a stove. 

The same fruit may he preserved dry 
also. Tlie operation is the same, hut the 
sirup is drained off, and the plums laid on 
tin plates before they are put into die stove. 

POMEGRANATE CLEAR CAKES. 
Pare some good boiling apples, and put tliem 
into a saucepan with as much water as will 
cover them, set diem on the fire, and when 
perfectly soft, press the pulp through a sieve, 
and then strain it. Boil this jelly witl) the 



juice of two or three p omeg i a nrfici, ttoft tf 
one orange, and one lemon, and the rmdof 
each ff rated; strain it again, and to cfcrf 
pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter 
of fine sugar, boiled till it eracfcs, color it 
with cochineal ; pour it into gliimts (lakng 
off the scum before it becomes cold). Set 
them in a stove, and when tbc top ie dry, 
turn tliem out, and put thenn to dry agam; 
dien cut them into whatever fonm yoa 
please, put them into the stove or ovea to 
harden, then lay them on sieves, and wheo 
thoroughly dry, place them in boxes with 
paper between. As they are apt to beoone 
moist, they sliould be looked at freqaently. 

POMEGRANATE JELLY, TRANS- 
PARENT. Take the seeds from five 
very fine pomegranates, from wfaidi extract 
the juice by pressing it hard through a 
horse-hair sieve; filter this juice and mix it 
with some sirup tinged of a rose color, with 
a little cochineal ; add the isinglass to this, 
and finish as usual. (See JeUy Friut.) 

POMEGRANATE SIRUP. Take 

five very ripe large pomegranates, extract 
the seeds (which must be very red) ; orosby 
and put diem into a skillet, with half a 
pint of water ; set thein on the fire tiH soft, 
and tlieu squeeze tlie juice through a new 
coarse cloth ; clarify a pound and lialf of 
sugar, and boil it to souffle, then add the 
juice, boil tliem together to the iisohI coin 
sistence of sirups. It must not be bottled 
until quite cold. This number of pome- 
granates will yield a quait of simp. 

POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan ibor 
glasses of water, a, quarter of a pound of 
butter, the zeate uf a lemon, and a prach 
of fine salt ; set it on tlie fire, and as soon 
as it begins to boil, take it off, and put m 
as much sifted fiuur as will iimke a paste 
the consistence of choux, then r^ace it 
qn the fire, and keep stirring till it dries ^ 
make* a similar mixture, and wlien that 
also is dry, put both into a mortar, widi 
half a pound of powder sugar, an ounce of 
orange-fiowers, and two e^s at a time, on- 
til five and twenty or thirty are used, by 
which time the paste will lie of die proper 
consistence, then pour it into a lightly but- 
tered tin ; put it into a moderate oven, and 
leave it. In three hours' time, if the 
poupelin is of a nice gold color, take it 
out, cut off tlie top, and widi a spoon re- 
move all the inside, then set it in the 
oven to dry. When cold, spread all over 
the interior apricot marmalade, on whidk 
strew sweet macaroons crushed, then ton 
it on a dish, and serve. 



HAS 



^3 



R08 



Q. 



QUINCE CAKES. Pare and core 
half a doaen quiooes, boil them till quite 
woA; ifaeo rub the pulp tbraugh a sieve, and 
train it; mix this with half a pint of sirap 
cf quiooeB, and the aame of sirap of barber- 
ries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; 
boil the whole to out, and then pour it 
into small shallow moulds, of any shape 
you please ; let them cool a little, and then 
dry than in a stove. 

QUINCE CAKES TRANSPARENT. 
Take a quart of sirup of quinces, and half a 
pint of the sirup of barlierries ; set ihem on 
a gentle fire, boi and skim them welt ; then 
aikl two pounds and a half of fine sugar, 
keep stirriag until it renrJies candy height ; 
then take it off, and when nearly cold, lay 
It, in any form you please, on tin plates. 
Dry them in a store. 



R. 



RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather some 
rasplierries before they are quite ripe, pick, 
and lay them in a stove to dry ; then beat 
ihem in a mortar. Take a pound and 
quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it tu 
eaue ; then weiffli half a pound of raspber- 
ries, dried as above; throw them into the 
sirup, with half a spoonfiil of white of c^, 
beaten in cream; stir it carefiiliy, give it a 
boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. 

RASPBERRIES OF MARCHPANE. 
Take a pound of marchpane, the juice of 
four lemons, a quarter of a pound of rasp- 
berry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these 
together with a strong wooden spatula ; then 
ami two handfuls of Hour, and some powder 
sugar; when well worked up, roll them into 
pieces about the size of a finger, cut these 
into dice, roll each into a bull, pinch the 
top into a point, so as to resemble the form 
of a raspberry: then put them one by one 
into paper cases, which place in a dry 
warm place, for eight or ten days. At the 
end of that time, put a portion of sirup of 
raspberries, a little cochineal, and a small 
Quantity of powder-sugar into a pan ; mix 
them together with a spoon, and then tlirow 
into it a couple of handfuls of the raspber- 
ries ; take the pan in both hands, and shake 
it about, so that the raspberries may be 
equally covered with the red sirup; then 
put sugar a la grele on a large sheet of 
paper, spread it out a little, and while the 
raspben'ies are wet with the sirup, throw 

25* 



then into the ngnr; then take thft fear 
corners of the paper, shake it about well, 
by which means the sugar will adhere to 
the raspberries in ail parts, and give diem 
a p^fect resemblance to' the real fruj*; take 
them out carefully one by one, lay liiem on 
paper, and put them in a warm place for 
some da}'s. 'Hiese artificial raspberries are 
of a pleasant flavor, and will keep several 
yeara. 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. Take 
double the weight of rasplierries to that of 
sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, and 
put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it on the 
fire, and stir till it is reduced to half ; then 
poor on the sugar, previously clarified and 
boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it 
on the fire, give it a few boils, and then 
pour it into pots. 

RASPBERRIES PRESERVED. Take 

five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe 
ra^pl)errie8, pick, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan, with an equal weight of clari- 
fied sugar, boiled to petit boulej when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till the 
next day, then drain die fruit, and put it 
into jars; put to tlie sirup about two glass- 
es of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil 
the sugar to la nappe^ and then pour it 
over the raspberries ; add afterwards, about 
a spoonful of currant jelly to each pot, and 
when cold, lay on brandy papers, and tie 
them down. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Taktf 

ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 
and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 
half of red and two pounds of black cur- 
rants; pick, and mix these fiiiits toother, 
press the juice from them, measure it, and 
for every quart of juice, take half a pound 
of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; 
dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in 
the brandy, a drachm of mace, and two 
drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand 
some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep them 
well corked. 

RQSES, CANDIED. Crisp two hand- 
fuls of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, 
boil them to fort souffiey then take the pan 
fi-om the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the sir- 
up run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in 
your hands, then dry them in a stove. Boil 
your sugar again to soti^e, adding a little 
carmine to color it, have a pro|)er mould 
ready, pour the sugiir into it, and put the 
flowers on it, push them down lightly with 
a fork, that they may be completely cover- 
ed with" the sugar; place the mould in a 
moderate stove or oven for fire days, then 



B 



2M 



STir 



4fw off the simp; l^y  iliart of paper on 
the table, and turn tlie candy qaickly out 
of the iDouU. 

ROSES, CONSERVE OF. Boil half 
a pound of sugar to fort touffle, pour into 
this sirup the best doobie-distilled rose 
water; Irnil it again to fort perle, mix 
with it a little preparetl cochiueal or car* 
mine to color it, and pour your conserve 
into moulds. 

ROSE RED DROPS. Take a small 
quantity of red bastard saifroii, and u little 
calcined alum, boil tliese in some water until 
it is sufhciently tini^ed for your purpose; 
then filter or strain it thropgh a very close 
linen cloth ; put five or six spoonfuls of sift- 
ed sugar into the pan, dilute it with the 
colored water, work it well witii the boit a 
iabelleTy and set it over a chafing-dish ; when 
it b^ins to boil, add two more spoonfuls 
<^ sugar, and having worked it well, per- 
fiwie it with some drops of essence of roses, 
and finish as directed. (See Orange'JUnO' 
er Drop*.} 

ROSSOLS. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of picked orange-flowers, a pound 
of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, 
and two of cloves (both bruised); put them 
into a cucurbite with three galbns of pure 
water; on distilling this, it will yield a gal- 
km and a half, in which dissolve twelve 
pounds of fine sugar broken up; add to it 
an equal quantity of spirit of jessamine, col- 
or it crimson with cochineal, filter and bot- 
tle it. 



S. 



SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done 
in the same manner as sugared almonds. 
The seeds most generally used for this pur- 
pose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 

Hie best method of proceeding is as fol- 
k>W8: place a small preserving-pan over a 
charcoal fire, on the side of which have a 
chafing dinh, on which keep a pan with a 
qwmtity of sugar boiled to li9e; (this su- 
ear should be kept quite hot, but not boil- 
ing) ; on the other side have some fine pow- 
der. When so far prepared, put your seeds 
into the pan, and as soon as they begin to 
heat, pour over them a large 8{)oonful or 
two of the sirup; stir them about, that all 
may be thoroughly saturated with it ; then 
sprmkle over it a handfiil or two of powder, 
still shaking the pan to make the seeds 
equally white. When dry, pour on some 
more simp, then the powrler, and continue 
this alternately until your seeds are suf- 



finientfy laf|te; then lay them oh ft meiCf 
keep tliem in a waim place Sat atmtm da^ 
afto* which put them into ^ass bottles. 

SOUFFLE FRANCAIS. MAS a 
ermutade eleven inches in diameter, mnd 
three ami three-quarters in height; pot 
round it tliree sheets of buttered paper, and 
hake it. 

Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in 
which infuse wliatever ingredients you maf 
think proper, such as vanilla, oofi^, anmgt* 
flowers, &c. (tlie proportions will be fomd 
under tlie different articles). In the mean- 
time, wash a pound of rice thoroi^bly in 
warm water, then put it into a iouce|ni 
of cold water, and whm it has boiled a few 
minutes, strain the rice, and put h with 
your infiision into another saucepan, and 
set it again on the fire; a soon aa it boik, 
place the saucepan on hot ashes, that th 
rice may burst gradually ; io three-^narteiv 
of an hour, add a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of fre^b batfter, 
and a pinch of sah, stir them well in; |mt 
fresh hot ashes under the aauoepan, that die 
rioe may be kept constantly eimmering iat 
an hour, by which time it ought to be per- 
fectly sofl, and shoukl be robbed lhroag[b a 
boitmg-cloth quickly, like a puree; put thia 
into anotlier saucepan over hot ashes, to 
keep it warm. Take sixteen eegs, 
rate the yolks and whiles, beat me f 
well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm; 
then mix the yolks with the rice (takmg 
off the ashes) ; the preparation ought to he 
of the same consistence as a creaoi paH9 
eierei add, at first, a quarter, and after* 
wards the whole of the whitea; stir them m 
as lightly as for biscuit paste; the whole be- 
ing thoron^ly amalgamated, pour it iato 
the erouBtade, and place it in a moderate 
oven for two hours and a half; when dooa^ 
cover a baking tin witli red cinders, om 
which place tlie eouffU the mcHiient h i 
taken out of tlie oven; this prevents ita 
falling, whilst you mask it witli powder- 
sugar, and glaie with the salamander; car- 
ry it into the dinii^nroom on a tin, Imve a 
dish ready with a napkin ioMed on it; 
place the eovffle on tiie dish, and let it bt 
sen'ed immediately. Remember that a 
eouffle cannot be served too quickly. 

STRAWBERRY, COMPOTE OF. 
This is made in the same manner as Raa|>> 
berries, only that the etrawberrtea do not 
require being mixed with any other firait. 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Tak 
some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, aad 
crush them through a tammy. For evoy 
dessert spoonful of juice, allow six oanees 
of sugar; boil thw to fort perU, take k 



SUG 



295 



8U0 



olPiiie ira, nod pear in the jaioe ; stir tbem 
togciber with a silver spoon, until the con- 
serve begins to whiteo and dry, then put it 
into moulds or paper cases. If the oonoerve 
lie loo tvhite, add a litde carmine to the 
iirap. 

STRAWBERRY MARCHPANE. 

Take two ponniis of sweet almonds, two 
pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of 
picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to 
a fine paste, and mix them with tlie sugar 
(boiled to petit bouU;) crush, and strain 
the juice of the fruit, whidi add to the al- 
mond paste and sirup ; stir the mixture well, 
et it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until 
the paste is sufficiently done; tliis may be 

EDved by laying a piece on die Imck of your 
nd; if it may be removed without its 
sticking, it is eiiiaugh ; when cold, spread it 
over a sbib, and cut it of any sixe and sliape 
yon think proper. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. Take four 
poawk of sugar, and break it into pieces; 
fMt into a preserving-pan the white of an 
eggf and a glass of pure spring water; mix 
tbeaa well widi a whisk, add anotlier glass, 
till whipping, until two quarts of water 
have been put in ; when the pan is full of 
froth, throw in the suffar, and set it on the 
fire> being carefiil to cSiim it every time the 
earn rises, which will be the case as the 
sugar boils up. After a few boilings, tlie 
eugarwill rise so high as to run over the 
edges of tlie pan, to prevent which, throw 
OB it a little cold water ; this will lower it 
lastaotly, ahd give time for the skimming, 
Ibr the scum should never be taken off whilst 
the sugar is Iwbbling; the cold water stills 
itf and that is the moment to skim it. Re- 
peat this operation earefiilly three or four 
times, when a whitish light scum only will 
rise; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, 
slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the 
sQBir through it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a china 
basin ; and when the sugar is clarified, wash 
the pan and the skimmer with a glass of 
water, which put to the scum, and set it 
aside for more coaunon purposes. 

SUGAR* Different Degrete of Pre^ 
pmring. The various purposes to which 
sugar is applied, require it to be in different 
stales; these are called degreee, and are 
thirteen in numlier, called as fi>llows: 

Petit Lieee, or Firet Degree, Re- 
place the clarified snsar in the preserving- 
pan, to boil gently, take a drop of it on the 
tbnmb, tourh it widi the fore*finser; if, on 
opening iliem, it draws to a fine thread, and 
in breaking, furms two drops oo each finger, 
it is at the rigitt point. 



Ldetet Second Degree, A little room 
Imiling brings it to this point; when the 
dniead will draw fiirther beifore it breaks. 

Petit Perle, 7'hird Degree. At this 
point the thread may be drawn as fitr as the 
span will open, without bi'eaking. 

Grand Perle^ Fourth Degree. On 
still incmising the boiling, little raised baUs 
are funned on tlie surfiice of the sugar. 

Petit Queue de Coehon^ Fifth Degree, 
Take up some of the sugar on a skimmer, 
and drop it on the reiit, when it slioidd form 
a slanting streak on the surfiice. Boil it a 
little longer, and it will reach the 

Chrande Queue de CoeiMn, or Sixth 
Degree. Tlie streak or tail is now larger. 

Souffle y Seventh Degree, Take out a 
skimiiieiftil of the ragnr, blow through it, 
and smalt sparks of sugar will fly from it. 

Petit-Phmey Eighth Degree, The 
same fM-ciof as above ; die sparks should be 
lai^r and stronger. 

Grande Plume, Ninth Degree. Take 
tlie sngar in the skimmer, as before, give it 
a sliake, and if the sparks are large, and 
adhere together on rising, it is at the right 
point. 

Petit Boulety Tenth Degree. Dip 
your fingers in coM Mrater, and then imo 
the sugar instantly, and again into the wa- 
ter, when tlie sugar will roll into a baU, 
which will be supple when cold. 

Groe Boulety Eleventh Degree. At 
tliis point, the ball or bullet will be faardsr 
when cokl than at the last. 

Casee, Twelfth Degree. Prove as 
above; the bullet shouki crumble betweea 
the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the 
teeth ; at the next point, 

Caramel, Thirteenth Degree^ It 
should snap clean. This point is very diffi* 
cuU to attain, for in increasing the height, 
the sugar is apt to bum ; it is better there* 
fore to try the proof very frequently. 

Another caramel is fueqnently used bj^ the 
confectioner, and is of a deep cokir ; it is 
made by putting a little water to the sugar, 
and boiling it without skimming, or other- 
wise touching die sugar, till of the right 
cokn*, then take it off and use immediately. 

If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to 
miss the right pomt, add a little cokl watSTt 
and hoi I once more. 

Obeervatione.  The skimmer shouhl 
never be left in the preservinff-pan after the 
sugar is clarified, nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

Be very careful not to stir or disturb the 
sugar, as tlmt wouki cause its diminutimi. 

In boiling the sugar (particularly the two 
last degrees), tlie sugar is continually rising 
and fnlling; and on falling, leaves marks oa 
the sides of the pan, which the heat of the 
fire wovkl soon bura, and thereby spoil the 



TRI 



S6 



VAN 



whole of the ngar; to avoid this, have by 
the side of you a pan of cold water, and a 
ponge, with which wipe the sides of the 

Sn carefiikiy, the instant after die sugar has 
leo. 

SUGAR LIKE SNOW. Blanch a 
quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, potmd 
tneni to a very fine paste in a marble mor- 
tar, with the whites of four egn; when 
perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
lump sugar (in powd^"), and five or six 
more whites of eggs ; stir ail leather well, 
until of such consistence that it may be 
kneaded without adhering to the hands. 
Divide this preparation into two parts, one 
of which, tinge of a reil color, eitlier with 
6o/tts armejui, or cochineal, and perfume it 
with essential oil of roses or her^mot; 
leave tlie other portion of paste white, but 
flavor it as follows:  gi^ate the rind of two 
fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, 
crape off the sur&ce, and when pounded in 
a small mortar, work it into the uncoiored 
portion of 8ugai*-paste, then roll it out to about 
naif an inch in thickness (having previously 
sprinkled the slab widi powder-sugar,) cut 
it with a tin-paste cutter about two inches 
diameter; arrange them on white papa*, 
which place on a baking tin, and put them 
into a moderate oven fur about three-quar- 
ters of an hour ; proceed in the same manner 
with the colored paste. When cold, detach 
tbein from the paper. 

SUGAR PASTE. Take a pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of sugai', a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, a little salt, one 
egg; mix all togetlier with a little water. 
This paste may be used for any second- 
course dish. 



T. 



TABLET OF PATIENCE. Take 
eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm 
now; in the meantime have the yolks 
beaten up with six ounces of powder-sugar ; 
(botli these operations should be performed 
for at least half an hour) ; then mix the two 
together, add six ounces of sifted Hour, and 
when well incorporated, pour in half a pint 
of rose or orange-fiower water; stir the 
whole together for some time. Have ready 
some tin plales, well rubbed with butter; 
take a funnel that has three or four tubes, 
fill it with the paste, and push out your 
tablets; when the tin plates are full, put 
them into a prettv warm oven. Wlioi done, 
take them from the tins whilst hot. 

TRIFLE. (1) Sweetm three pints of 



f creum ; add to it halfa pintof oMoafaiB ^lilie, 
grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeae in tat 
juice, and grate in half a nutmeg; whisk tUi 
up, lay the froth on a larjge sieve, and the oio v e 
over a dish that has ratafia cakes, maca- 
roons, sweet almonds, Uanched and poaod- 
ed, citron, and candied orange-peel, cot uilo 
small pieces, some currant jelly, and nap- 
berry jam in it, that the liquor may ran 
upmi them; when they are soaked, lay thtin 
in the dish ^oii intend to sorve in, put on ^ 
froth as high as possible, well drained; 
strew over nonpareils, and stick oo little 
slices of citron, orange, or lemon-ped. 

TRIFLE. (2) Lay some macarooov 
and ratafia drops over the bottom of yoar 
dish, and soak them well with raisin wiae, 
when soaked, pour on them a veiy rich cold 
custard. It must stand two or three ioGfaes 
thick ; on that pot a layer o^ raqiberry jam, 
and cover the whole with a very high wkip^ 
made the preceding day, of rich cream, the 
whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lem- 
on-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a 
whisk. It is best to make it the day beiwe 
it is wanted, being more solid and better 
tastisd. 



TRIFLE. (3) Puthalfapoundof I 
roons into a dish, pour over them some wbrte 
wine, and a pint of custard over that, make 
a whip, and put cm it; garnish according to 
your fiincy. 



V. 



VANILLA CREAM. Take two 
drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the 
yolks of three e^^, five ounces of sugar, and 
a pint of cream ; beat up the eggs well with 
the milk, and tlien add the other ingredients; 
set the whole on a moderate fire, auad stir it 
constantly with a wooden spoon, tiU the 
cream will adhere to it; then strain, and 
sen'e it cold. 

VANILLA CRMM, BOLTED. 
Take as much cream as will fill tlie inoald 
you intend to iifle and boil it up a few 
times, with the proportionate quantities of 
vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if 
the mould will contain a qaart, mix twalwe 
yolks and three whole eggs with the cream, 
and run it five times through a bohin^ cloth. 
Butter the mould, pour the cmun into it, 
and place it in the bcdn marie, bat not tao 
hot ; when the cream is set, which yon oooy 
know by touching it gently with your finger, 
turn it on a dish; take the remainder of 
the cream, stir it over the fire like 



VR 



297 



no 



S tmd M MOB M it sticks lo the simoii 
(whi^ OMiBt be of wood), take it off, stir it 
aa insleot, and then pour it over the other 
owun* ami serve cola. 

VANILLA CREAM WHIPPED. Put 
a pinch of gum-<lragoQ into a pint of cream, 
mad a small quantity of orange-flower water, 
powder-sugar to the taste, and a little milk, 
u which some vanilla has been boiled, and 
the milk strained; whip these ingredients 
with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently 
firothed ; dien biy it car^lly on a dish, in a 
pyramidal form, and serve it. 

VANILLA CREAM ICE. Whisk the 
whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a 
presorvioff pan, pour on tliera the yolks of 
eight, and a pound of siAed sugar, whip the 
whole well with a whisk, and pour in by de- 
g;rees two quarts of boiling cream ; continue 
to whip it for some little time, and then put 
it on the fire, with half an ounce of vanilla 
bruised ; still whipping, when it has boiled 
up three or four times, strain it, and freese 
as usual. (See /cs.) 

. VANILLA CREAM LIQUEUR. 
Dissolve over the five two pounds ten ounces 
ni broken sugar, in three pinlB of purified 
river water; when it has boiled up once, 
poinr it into a jar, on three drachms of ^'a- 
nilla,cut in pieces, and half a gniin of amber. 
When quite cold, add tlu'ee pints of good 
brandy, cover the vessel, ami when it has 
infiised six days, color it with a little pre- 
pared cochineal; filter, and bottle the ii- 
^eur, Cork the bottloB tight, and seal the 
CM>rk8. 

VANILLA STICKS. Take some 
marchpane paste, a quarter of a pound of 
csbooolate, and Uie same of vanilla; mix 
these well into the paste, and then form it 
into sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
Ibrm; lay them on a sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VERDE. Infijse tlie rind of three lem- 
ons and four raruiges in two quarts of rum 
or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, close- 
ly stopped ; then squeeze the juice throueh 
a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will be 
half a pint, and if there is not so much, make 
it that; add to it a pound and a quarter of 
sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and 
kepp stirring till all the su^ is dissolved ; 
when it is dissolved, stir m the peel and 
apirilB, and then one pint of cold new milk ; 
pass it through a bag till clear ; bottle it. 
It will keep good for twelve months. 

VERJUICE. (I) Verjuice is the younff, 
iMripe, and sour grape; it is firequenUy 



wed in French cookery, bat very nrsiy paC 
into English dishes. 

VERJUICE. (2) Take some crab 
appks when the kernels turn black, lay them 
in a heap to sweat; then pick them from 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a 
mash, and press the juice through a bag of 
c^rse hair cloth mto a clean vessel ; it will 
be fit for use in a month*s time. If inten- 
ded for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. 
It may be put into sauces when lemon is 
wanting. 

VESPETRO. Take half a pound of 
each of the following seeds: angelica, oori* 
ander, fennel, and caraway, the rinds of 
four lem<Nis, and as many oranses, infine all 
these in two gallons and a half of the best 
brandy, ckise the vessel hermetically. In 
five days time, distil it ill the bain marie 
alembic, and draw from the above quantity 
five quaits of liqueur. Dissolve seven 
pounds of sugar in a galbn of pura river 
water ; add this sirup to the Hqueury filter^ 
and bottle it. 

VIOLETS CANDIED. Pick off the 
green stalks from some double violets ; boil 
sonie sugar to aouffie; put in the violets, 
and keep them in till the sugar again boils 
to touffle; tlien rub the si^r against tfaH 
sides of the pan until it is white ; stir all 
together till the si^r leaves the violets, and 
then sift and dry them. 

VIOLETS TO ROCK CANDY. 
Pick the leaves off the violets; thcni boil 
some of the best, and finest sugar to souffle^ 
pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in 
the form of a dripping-pan, about three incites 
deep; then strew the violet leaves as thick 
as possible on the top, and put it into a hot 
stove, in which let it remain for ten days> 
when it is hard candied, break a hole in one 
corner of it, and drain off all the sirup; 
break it out, and place it in heaps upon a 
tin to dry in a stove. 

VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Tkke 
a quarter of a pound of early violets, picked ; 
bruise tliem in a mortar; boil two pounds 
of sugar to eosse, take it off, put in the pulp, 
and mix them together over the fire, and 
when the sugar bubbles up, pour the conserve 
into the moulds. 

VIOLET DR9PS. (1) Take a cer- 
tain quantity of sirup of violets, which mix 
wid) an equal poilion of watr; use this 
mixture, and make your drops precisdy as 
directed. You may, if you please, perrame 
it widiibil of violets, but that is not neces- 
sary, as the sirup, unparts snffirient odoor 



VIO 



368 



WOR 



VIOLET DROPS. (2) TVOw (he 
joioe of six lemoM, mix with it tome fineW 
ifled powdered sugar, and two ^looDfun 
of etnooe ot violets, aod color it of a fine 
Uiie oolor; mix ihe whole well together, 
and dry it over tfie fire, the same as all oth- 
ers, ana drop them off a knife on P^ptf} the 
OMial siie of drops; let them stand till cold, 
be careful that your mixture is not too tliin ; 
when the drops are cold, pot them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

VIOLETS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
three pounds of violets, and four pounds of 
sugar, pot the former into a mortar and 
bruise them to a pulp; in the meaotime boil 
the sugar to totjgUt then add, the flowers; 
atir them together, add two pounds of a|^ 
BMurmalade, and when it has boiled up a 
few times, put the marmalade into pots. 

VIOLETS, SIRUP OF. Pound very 
tightly in a marble mortar, and with a 
wooden peetje, one pound of picked violets; 
warm gnidualiy a gnss, or earthenware ves- 
sel witn a small opening, into which put the 
pounded flowrers, and pour over theni two 
pounds of boiling wiuer; close the vessel 
hennetically, and plaee it on hot ai^, re- 
newing them when necwry, to keep up an 



equal temperature for twrive boon; 
that time pass the whole through a chae 
cloth, squeezing it well ; let it stand for half 
an liour ; then pnur it off very carefiilly, that 
all the sediment mav renoain at the bottom; 
weigh it, and the above quantities will have 
yielded seventeen ounces ; put into a miuiian 
two pounds of crushed sugar with the infiii- 
sion, cfose the matrass tight, and set it in 
the 6atii marie, over a mierate fire ; rimke 
it occasionally to accelerate the dissokitioB 
of the sugar, and when perfectly disBolwd, 
let the fire go out and the matrass ooul ^vaid> 
uallv. When eold, poor the airap 
bottles. 



W. 



WORBfWOOD CREME UQUEUR. 

Distil in the bain'marie the aests of two 
oranges, and half a pound of firesh gathered 
wormwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, 
which will produce nearly half the quantity 
of Tiqnewr, Dissolve four pounds of sngar 
in as many pints of filtered river walM* ; mix 
this sirup with the Hqumrj run it thraq^ 
a jelly-bBg, and bottle it. 



|C7* Many receipts for Confectionery may be found in the first 
part of this Book. 



i 



EXPLANATION 



Cffome of the Terms nuide use of in the foregoing Pages. 

^f/eto- Small silver skewera. 

Bi^a  A French swei^ yeast cakOi 

JBam-Marie^See the word in its place. 

JSouquet  ^A buoch of persley and scallions tied op to put in soups. Sec. 

JBimquet ganU, or ^awoiin-*The same, with the addition of cbves and aromatic 

faerbst 
JSourguignote-^A ragout of truffles. 
BraiBe  See word in its place. 
Brioche  A French jeast rake. 

Buisaon  A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &c. 
CapilotadeA common bash of poultry. 
Carameli pee page 296. 
Ceuae, see page, 295. 
Civet  A hash of game or wild fowl. 

Compiegne  A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c. &c. 
Compote  ^A fine mixed ragout to garnish while poultry, &c. ; also a method of stewiog 

fruit with simp for desserts. 
Compotier  ^A d\A\ amongst the dessert service appropriated to the on of the oompode. 
Couronne' To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. 
Court or short (to eteto)  To reduce a sauce very tliick. 
Crouetade  Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, &c. 
Croutone  Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. 
Dorez  ^To wash pastry, &c. with yolk c^ egg well beaten. 
Dorure  Yolks of eggs beaten well. 
Entrees  Are dislies served at the commencement, or during the first course of the 

dinner. 
Entremets  Small oniamental didies, served in the second and third oounee. 
Forte, stuffing. 

J^nancicre -An expensive, highly-flavored, mixed ragout. 
Flan  A French custard. 
Glaze, {to fall to a)  ^To reduce sauces till' they become a jelly, and adhere to the 

meat. 
Glaze  Is usually made from reduced consomme, or juices firom the bottoms of braised 

white meats; it should be preserved in jelly-pots. 
Glaze, Glace, or Ice la composed of white of egg beaten with powderHnigar. 
Godiveau  ^A common veal forcemeat. 
Grand Plume, see page 295. 
Grand Perle, see page 295. 
Grand Q^eue de Coehon, see page 295. 
Chros Boulet, see page 295. 

Ghiu {au)  ^This signifies that die article specified is dressed with meat gravy. 
Gratin  A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any ottier dish that 

will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it bums to it. 
JBTor* d'mtore A small dish, served during the first coiuw. 
Hatelets  The same as Atelets. 
Lard  ^To stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c. ; it is done by 

means of 'a lardin^-pin, one end of which is pointed, ihe other square, and hollow; 

the lardon is put into this hollow, the point is then insetted into the meat, and on be- 
ing drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper place. 
Liordona  The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of 

larding meat, &c. &c. < ft 

Larding-pan  An utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. "^ 

ZAaison  ^A finish with yollu of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. 



900 COOKERY TERMS BXPLAINBD. 

JUttc, tee page 296. 

3fa^/cmt Gakw made of the fame oompoeitioB  poand-eakau 

Maigre  Soups, &c dreswd without meat. 

Mannad  A prepared pickle for meat, fish, <tc. 

JMoMkr-To cover oompleiely. 

JVont/^a Au Italian paste, resembling macaroni ; it it flat, inalBad of being io pipei. 

Panada  ^Bread soaked in miJk, iMed principally for ^utnelUt and fine foras. 

P4Mscr To fry lightly. 

Pale  ^A raisea crust pie. 

PetU Boulet, see page 295. 

Petit Ldtite, see page 296. 

Petit PerU, see page 296. 

Petit Plume, see page 296. 

Petit Queue de Cochon, see page 296. 

Poele  A light braise for white meats. The diiforenoe bet wee u this and the faniae % 

that ID the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be ao much done ai ia 

the latter. 
Potage  Another term for soup. 

jPuree  ^Any meat, lisb, or other article, boiled to a palp, and nfobed tfaraqgh a neve. 
Quene/ies  ^A fine force; it is generally poached when used. 
SalnU  ^A hishly seasoned hash. 
Sauter  ^To fry very lightly. 
Sabotiere, or Sorbetiere  ^A pewter or tin n a s el , in which are pboed the BHiddi oqb- 

taining the substance to be froaen. 
Sov^e, see pase 296. 
Tammy  ^A stlk sieve. 
Towner, or Turn  To stir a aanoe; also to pare and cot roots, vegetabks, and finili, 

neatly. 
Tourte  A puff-paste pie. 
Fanner To take up sauce, or other liquid, in a spooo, and tnm it o?er quickly. 



J 



