
MBHB 



cA r 9 



&mm 







Given B~ 



Jona lVm F^otVE^. 



Bi 



B 1 



'; .Milifcia!! 







Boston 


Public 


Library 




J. Do 


not write in 


his \r • n. 


- it with 


pen or 


r'\ 


Per '- 






by the 
etts. 



NATURES OWN BOOK 



SECOND EDITION. 



ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. 










vVhcso readcth l<§t Lim u:; Jo^toiid ," 



?$m Jt or& : 



WILBUR & WHIPPLE PRINTERS, 

Nos. 4 and 6 Green-si 



1835 



\ 5 



tf/^ik 




Southern District of New York, as. 

Be it remembered, that on the thirteenth day of February, 
A. D. 1835, Asenath Nicholson, of the said District, hath deposited 
in this office the title of a book, the title of which is in the word3 
following, to wit : — "Nature's Own Book." "Whoso readeth let 
him understand." The right whereof she claims as proprietor. In 
conformity with an act of Congress, entitled " An Act to amend 
the several Acts respecting copy-rights." 

FRED. J. BETTS, 
Clerk of the Southern District of New York. 






PREFACE. 



As this claims to be " Nature's Own Book ;" 

and as she always delights in variety, the reader 
must expect a slice from every loaf; and though 
some of it may be coarse, yet if it be well masti- 
cated, and the stomach in a pure state, it will the 
easier digest. 

The preceding edition was hastily sent out, to 
answer the demands for receipts. The typogra- 
phical and grammatical errors, together with bad 
punctuation, were not carefully corrected in the 
proof sheets. This edition is enlarged, and errors 
corrected more carefully. 

It is hoped the work will be sufficiently noticed 
to be criticised, and all its faults condemned, and 
its valuable principles retained and practised. 

The writer makes no pretensions to originality, 
but has only followed out established rules, drawn 
from Nature's own unerring laws. 



NATURE'S OWN BOOK. 



The following rules and receipts are not given as a 
perfect standard of diet. The rules were hastily 
sketched by Mr. Graham, rather as a starting point 
to be enlarged and improved as practice might sug- 
gest ; and a thorough experiment upon hundreds have 
demonstrated, beyond a doubt, that they are built on 
the broad basis of truth — truth founded on the immu- 
table laws of nature by God himself. " O / that men 
were wise, that they ivould consider;" that they 
would turn their eyes inwardly and outwardly, and 
survey the beautiful machinery in which the soul is 
encased — the perfect adaptation of every part to the 
uses and happiness of life — all in exact accordance 
with definite laws, which, if never infringed, would 
keep one harmonious perpetual motion till the ma- 
chinery should decay. 

" But man has sought out many inventions." " The 
lusts of the flesh, the pride of life" have so predomi- 
nated, that the beautiful symmetry, both of body and 



O NATURE S OWN BOOK. 

mind, (if it be not entirely lost) is so defaced, th . 
original lineaments are scarcely definable ; and now 
the lamentation is — O, this dreary world ! the " pain 
and sickness flesh is heir to," &c. But tell this to a 
New Z'ealander, who has followed simple nature's 
course — tell him whose only drink is water, of dan- 
cing nerves, palpitating heart, and aching heads, of 
gloomy days and restless nights — and he could as 
soon solve the most difficult problem in mathematics, 
as understand you. 

Nature has no vocabulary to define this hodge- 
podge production — it is all the unnatural monster of 
man's own cultivation; it is the false kindness, the 
foolish pampering, of purblind parents — it is the 
quackery and avarice of physicians — the vitiated 
taste of refined society — and the profound ignorance 
of our spiritual leaders of the organic and physical 
structure — the close connection of mind and matter 
— that, together, have produced this confused jargon. 

Let us go back to first principles, and, while be- 
wailing the curse entailed upon us by our first pa- 
rents, see how far this curse would have affect 
had we obeyed the original laws of nature. Wheri 
God placed man in the garden, he said : " Behold, I 
have given you every herb bearing seed, which is 
Upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the 
which is the fruit of a tree, yielding seed ; to you it 
shall be for meat :'' mark, he did not say, every ani- 
mal in earth, sea, and air shall be your meat — nor did 



he make one distant allusion to the necessity of eating 
any. Bat what followed ? Eve committed the first 
sin, by eating prohibited food, and the curse ensued, 
the natural consequence of disobedience ; and now 
let us not mistake the nature of this curse. God did 
not pass an irrevocable decree, that man should be 
miserable if he followed the original laws of nature. 
Talk of decrees and fatality till we die, and facts in 
all ages prove, that when man has obeyed those laws, 
he has been universally healthy, cheerful, and more 
happy than miserable.* 

Then what did God mean ? Whv he must mean 
that he would transgress, as our first parents had done, 
and we must consequently " eat thereof in sorrow." 
But whoever drank his strong decoctions of tea, and 
coffee, and rioted on flesh, fat, and blood, till his nerves 
were wholly unstrung, and his stomach worn out 
with over action, to obey a decree of the Almighty, 
that "he shall eat in sorrow?" 

No ! he eats for the low purpose of gratifying a 
morbid appetite, regardless of consequences, and then 
complains of the cruel, unavoidable curse. 

But, leaving the mutilated body, let us return to the 
mind. Wliat a wreck do we behold! hampered and 
clogged, it cannot leap forth. Like the caged bird, 

* It is not intended by the writer to imply that all the conse- 
quences of the fad were of a mere 'physical nature, or that mankind 
are to recover from the moral effects of that Catastrophe by mere 
temperance in diet and regimen. 



8 nature's own book. 

which looks out upon its native air, and longs to soar 
aloft into the pure ether it was once destined to 
breathe ; but wires and bars confine it to its few 
inches of space for ever. 

And what can be done ? Like peojrte, like priest^ 
wb are all in one jumbled mass, enveloped in thick 
darkness, groping our way together, and know not at 
what we stumble. If a few scintillations of light 
break upon us, they are like the lightning, gleaming 
upon the blackened cloud in the midnight storm, 
serving only to " make darkness visible." If an ap- 
peal be made to the conscience of the Christian, he 
very gravely tells you, these things are the " good 
creatures of God," given for our comfort, and not to 
be despised. If you talk to the physician, he pertly 
tells you he has studied all these things, and must 
know — (while you may think yourself fortunate if he 
know the true properties of bread.) If you talk to 
the mother, she tells you that the " Doctor says so ;" 
and the sum total is, eat and drink, make the body a 
receptacle of dead carcases, and the contents of the 
confectionary and druggist shop ; while the puny, 
half-starved intellect, is forced to feed on the avails, 
with half-grown, mutilated thoughts, steeped and 
fumed in all the abominables of earth, seas, and skies. 
But shall the mammoth ignorance, and the glutton 
appetite, always govern us ? Shall men and women 
never learn the import of obtaining the mastery, by 
being "temperate in all things?" of "keeping their 



nature's own book. 9 

bodies in subjection," and making them " meet tem- 
ples for the residence of the Holy Ghost ?" Shall 
parents never know the inestimable value of the im- 
mortal gem — the mind — and how to polish it for use- 
fulness here, and eternal lustre in the skies ? Yes ! 
the millennium will never burst upon us in all its full 
glories while we are in the midst of slaying, surfeit- 
ing, and- drunkenness, and the "broth of abominable 
things is found in our vessels." 

" The assembling by troops in the harlots' houses" 
must cease — yet never will — while the "riotous eat- 
ing of flesh" continues. 

" Whoso readeth, let him understand." 

The grand difficulty in the work of moral reform 
is, we do not search out first causes. We find the 
stream bitter ; we throw in the purifying medicine ; 
— the next rolling wave from the muddy fountain 
swallows it up, and all is swept together to the ocean 
of perdition, and lost for ever. 

And here shall end the first lesson, after quoting 
the words of Mr. Graham ; and may they cause 
every house-keepers ears to tingle till she has experi- 
mentally proved them: "Woman is never more 
dignified, than when she is making good bread for her 
husband and children. Then is she spreading health 
and content in her little circle, and scattering boun- 
ties with a liberal hand." 

It has been suggested, since this work was pre- 
pared for press, that, could the diet, and regimen, 



10 nature's own book. 

here laid down, be adopted in our asylums, especially 
among lunatics, the advantage would be great: pro- 
bably more cures might be wrought than by all other 
experiments which have ever been made. 

Where the brain is inflamed, or when the nerves 
are affected, what could be more effectual, than total 
abstinence from all narcotics, stimulating food, and 
hot drinks — a free use of cold water upon the skin, 
with friction, and as much as possible, regular repose ? 

One writer has well observed, " It is certain, in 
many cases, we should rather let nature be the chief 
physician." 

The subjoined testimonies of the utility of the 
rules of Mr. Graham, when strictly obeyed, if they 
do not convince the "stout-hearted and far from right- 
eousness, may serve to encourage some desponding 
dyspeptic that there yet may be hope. 

The remark is often made, " I am a friend to tem- 
perance, but there is danger of carrying things a little 
too far." To this I would answer ; and if I am too 
minute, let it be remembered that a subject so much 
disputed and so little relished, needs " line upon line, 
here a little and there a little." It is nearly three 
years since the Temperance House was opened 
in New York, and it has passed through the ordeal 
of friends and foes, learned and unlearned, physi- 
cians and quacks, ministers and laymen, Christians 
and infidels, healthy and unhealthy, with the addi- 
tion of two seasons of cholera. Some have tested 



11 

the rules in all their bearings — some but partially ; 
and not a solitary case has occurred, where an unde- 
viating course has been pursued, but the subject, if 
not " made perfectly whole," has been greatly bene- 
fited. Those who have not, were those who stayed 
but a short time, or who commenced with prejudices, 
and continued eating promiscuously all upon the 
table, neglected the skin, suitable exercise, or eating 
occasionally high-seasoned food at other tables. Not 
a shadow of cholera has ever appeared ; and the 
prevailing influenza, which has taken the lives of 
many, whenever it has made a call upon us, has va- 
nished by a little abstinence and proper exercise. 

Are these things carried too far ? If so, facts 
speak nothing. If any improvement be made, it 
must be by concision, and not indulgence. The dif- 
ficulty in a boarding-house must be obvious to all 
who read Mr. Graham's rules. The varieties allow- 
ed in his system, when taken separately, may all be 
good — but when one chooses one thing, and his 
neighbor the other, and so on, a variety must be up- 
on the table, which should not be taken at the same 
meal ; and those who are governed more by appe- 
tite than principle, partake of the whole, injure them- 
selves, and say just what might be expected from 
persons governed by such principles. 



RULES AND REGULATIONS 

OF THE 

TEMPERANCE BOARDING-HOUSE, 

IN THE 
CITY OF NEW YORK. 



The following rules have been sufficiently tested 
to prove their utility. Three years of thorough ex- 
periment, upon multitudes, have clearly shown they 
are truth, and truth that must and will triumph. 
Yet, let no one suppose a partial adherence will pro- 
duce a material change. It is an unde via ting course 
— it is the sum total of eating, bathing, and exer- 
cise — the " temperance in all things" — that obtain? 
the victory. "Onward, onward!" must be the 
motto. 

N. B. Though the different kinds of food whicli 
are thought most proper are here specified, yet other 
varieties have been provided, both healthy and pala- 
table, which do not infringe upon the principles of 
the system. 
2 



14 

Rule I. The morning bell for rising should be 
rung during the months of January, February, No- 
vember, and December, precisely at five o'clock, 
every day ; during the months of March, April, 
September, and October, at half past four: and 
during the months of May, June, July, and August, 
at four o'clock. 

Rule II. The breakfast bell should be rung pre- 
cisely at seven, the year round. 

Rule III. The dinner should be served up, and 
the bell rung precisely at one o'clock every day in 
the year, unless a unanimous wish of the boarders, 
consented to by the keeper of the house, shall per- 
manently or occasionally change the hour for dining. 

Rule IV. The supper, or third meal, should be 
served up and the bell rung, at such an hour as sea- 
sons and circumstances shall render most convenient 
for the boarders ; and the bour should be established 
by a vote of at least three-fourths of all the boarders : 
provided, however, that the hour be not frequently 
and capriciously changed, and that it be at least two 
hours before bed-time. 

Rule V. The bell for retiring to bed should be 
rung precisely at ten o'clock at night, the year round ; 
and it is recommended that no boarder, without very 
special and unavoidable reasons, be out of his bed 
alter eleven o'clock at night. 



native's own book. 15 

Rule VI. Xo boarder should sleep on a feather 
bed during any part of the year ; but his bed should 
be a hair, moss, or straw mattrass, or any thing 
harder if he chooses. 

Rule VII. Breakfast. — Xo animal food of any 
kind (including fowl and fish — salt and fresh) should 
be brought upon the breakfast table ; nor should any 
such food be eaten by any of the boarders for their 
breakfast. But the best bread that can be made or 
procured, of unboulted and -coarsely ground wheaten 
meal, should always be provided for the table ; also, 
rye, indian, barley, and oatmeal bread, may be eaten 
at each and every meal : but these varieties are not 
all to be used at the same meal, and they should be 
regulated by a rule of the house, established by a 
majority of Ihe boarders, so as to protect the keeper 
of the house from unreasonable and capricious de- 
mands for change and variety. 

The bread should not be eaten until at least twelve 
hours after it comes from the oven, and it is better 
at twenty-four hours old ; and if toasted, it should 
not be buttered till it is quite cold ; and no warm 
cakes, buck-wheat nor any other' kind, should be 
brought upon the table at any time. Indian samp, 
hominy, and mush, and plain boiled rice, with milk, 
sugar, or molasses, but without butter, may be taken 
at breakfast, or either of the other meals. Slightly 
boiled eggs may be eaten, but not exceeding two. 



16 

(and one would be preferable) by each boarder at a 
meal. Fruit of various kinds, according to the sea- 
son, should be uniformly furnished for the breakfast 
table ; such as stewed, dried, or fresh apples, peaches, 
pears, cherries, plums, cranberries, &c. &c. And 
in their season, a reasonable quantity of strawber- 
ries, raspberries, blackberries, &c. &c. should be fur- 
nished for the table, if the quantity in the market 
will afford them at a reasonable price. 

The butter used upon the table should be of the 
sweetest and best kind that can be procured, and 
very sparingly eaten ; and only on such bread and 
other things as will not melt it.* 

Rule VIII. Dinner. — The dining table should be 
furnished with great neatness, plainness and simpli- 
city. If animal food is used at all, (whicIWs not neces- 
sary nor best,) not more than one kind of flesh should 
be brought on the table at the same meal, and that 
should be either boiled, roasted, broiled or baked, 
and furnished only with its own juices as a gravy ; 
nor should any other article of seasoning be used upon 
it in cooking, nor by the boarders in eating, be- 
sides a moderate quantity of salt. Black and red 
pepper, mustard, and such kinds of seasonings, to- 
gether with all made gravies, should be totally, and ut- 
terly excluded from the table and from the kitchen. 

* Butter, at best, is a questionable article, and should be very spar- 
ingly used by the healthy, and not at all by the diseased. 



nature's own book. 17 

Good bread, plain boiled, ripe and mealy potatoes, 
rice, beans, peas, beets, carrots, turnips, onions, pars- 
nips, squashes, cabbages, greens, &c. &c. may be 
used with the flesh, but not exceeding two vegetable 
articles besides bread at one and the same meal ; and 
they without mashing and only seasoned with salt, 
and some of the articles with a very little vinegar, 
(if desired,) but without butter. Those who eat 
flesh for their dinner, should use but little at a meal ; 
arid those who do not choose to eat flesh at all, 
should be furnished with bread and milk, samp, ho- 
miny, mush, or rice, with milk, or with sugar, or mo- 
lasses, as they shall prefer : they should also be furr 
nished, if they desire it with such fruit as is pre- 
scribed for the breakfast table. But those who use 
flesh, with potatoes, or other simple and appropriatp 
vegetables, should make their full meal on this 
course ; and by no means partake of the samp, ho- 
miny, &c. with milk, sugar, or molasses, nor of the 
fruit at the same meal. No second course or dessert 
should be prepared for the table, or eaten by the 
boarders. No pastry should ever be furnished. 
And those who use molasses, or sugar, should use it 
very sparingly. 

Plain custards, indian puddings, bread puddings, 
and rice puddings, may be occasionally served up, 
and eaten not very warm, with molasses, or sugar, 
but no butter, and always to the exclusion of flesh, 
for that meal, with those who partake of these dishes. 



IS nature's own book. 

Stale bread should always be eaten with these 
custards and puddings. But when bread is eaten as 
an accompaniment with other articles, no butter 
should be used upon it. A little good cheese may be 
eaten with the bread instead of butter, unless the 
state of health forbids it. In short, the greatest 
plainness and simplicity are always to be observed 
at each and every meal. Carefully avoid mixing 
together heterogeneous substances in the stomach at 
the same meal, and let the dish be simple. Either 
take flesh, bread, and potatoes ; or hominy, or rice 
and milk ; or hominy, or rice and molasses, or sugar ; 
or bread and fruit, or some other equally simple dish, 
and make the meal on it ; but do not mix these dishes 
together. Let the variety be from meal to meal, 
and not at the same meal, and the food should al- 
ways be eaten slowly and cheerfully. 

Rule IX. Supper. — The supper, or third meal, 
should consist of plain bread and butter, or bread 
with milk, or samp, hominy, or mush with milk, 
sugar, or molasses ; or of simple indian meal, or oat- 
meal, or barley gruel, with or without bread. No 
flesh, fish, or fruit, should be used at supper ; nor 
should a fourth meal or lunch be taken between the 
third meal and retiring to bed. 

Rule X. Tea, coffee, chocolate, and all fermented, 
malt and distilled, alcoholic and narcotic liquors, 



nature's own book. 19 

and tobacco, should be totally and utterly excluded 
from the house ; and if any one or more of the 
boarders is or are known to indulge in the use of 
either or any of the above prescribed articles, he, 
she, or they, will be requested to leave the house. 

Rule XL Drinks. — The first, and best at all 
times, and indeed the only fitting drink for mankind, 
is pure, soft water ; and this is earnestly recom- 
mended as the exclusive drink of a Graham Boarding 
House.* 

Drink for dinner, soft water only. 

Drink for supper, the same as for breakfast. 

Good water of the kind described should be al- 
ways furnished freely as a drink for the boarders. 

N. B. It is better to drink but little during the 
meal, and drink more freely one or two hours after, 
if thirsty. 



BATHING AXD EXERCISE. 

Rule XII. Cleanliness. — Ever}* boarder, on rising 
in the morning, should make a free use of cold wa- 
ter on his hands, face, neck, and ears ; and it would 

* Filtered rain-water is always the best, and is easily procured. It 
is the most salutary drink that can be used by man in all circum- 
stances. But where this cannot be had, invalids may use boiled 
water turned upon some carefully toasted bread, w. ; th a little milk 
and sugar if they choose, but always cool. 



20 nature's own book. 

be still better if he would dip a large sponge in cold 
water, and pass it briskly over his whole body and 
limbs, from his head to his feet, and then rub himself 
off very briskly and smartly with a very coarse 
towel or flesh-brush, or both, till his skin feels in a 
comfortable glow. He should also, without fail, 
apply cold water to his mouth and teeth with a 
good tooth-brush, taking care to pass the brush over 
the inside as well as the outside of the teeth, to pre- 
vent the tartar from accumulating on the teeth, and 
disordering the gums, and thus causing the teeth to 
decay and become painful, and perhaps loose. 

Every boarder should immerse his whole body 
in water, at least once a week ; and during very 
warm weather it would be well to bathe at least 
three times a week. If he bathe in the river or 
cold bath, let him plunge in, and not remain in over 
five minutes at a time ; and on coming out, let him 
rub the skin off briskly with a coarse towel. But 
no one should bathe soon after a meal. 

Each boarder should apply a flesh-brush to his 
skin freelv from head to foot, on rising in the 



Rule XIII. Exercise. — Every boarder should 
walk or ride on horseback from thirty to sixty mi- 
nutes every morning before breakfast, when the 
weather will permit : and when it will not, gym- 
nastic exercises should be used within doors. Brisk 



nature's own book. 21 

walking, continued till a gentle perspiration is pro- 
duced, is perhaps the best exercise for the human 
body, especially if it be varied with an occasional 
leap, run, hop, &c. to give increased exercise to the 
abdominal and thoracic viscera. Horseback riding is 
very good, if well regulated : there is great art in 
riding, so as to derive the greatest advantage to the 
bowels, &c. Still, however, smart walking, running, 
wrestling, boxing, &c. carefully avoiding all violence 
and excess, are decidedly the most natural and 
healthy kinds of exercise. 

The exercise should be taken as much as possible 
in the open air, and as often as may be convenient, 
in the open country. Great cheerfulness should be 
cultivated during the hours or moments of exercise. 
Cheerful conversation, singing, and hearty laughing, 
are well calculated to increase the buoyancy and 
elasticity of the animal spirits, and give a liveliness 
and fuller action to the organs, and thus produce a 
salutary acceleration of the vital functions, and 
greatly increase the advantages of exercise. 



N. B. — Veal, young pork, geese, and ducks, 
should never be brought upon the table. Pork of 
any kind should be sparingly eaten. Good beef and 
mutton are the best kinds of animal food ; dung-hill 



22 

fowls and turkeys are allowable ; also, occasionally, 
fresh fish, boiled or broiled, and eaten with salt only. 

S. GRAHAM. 
New York, May 30, 1832. 



Morning prayers at half past six. Evening 
prayers at nine. No unnecessary preparation of 
food on the Sabbath. 



EXPLANATION. 



" The morning bell for rising, at five o'clock, half 
past four, and four o'clock." How many morning 
bells does nature ring in our ears, particularly in 
spring and summer ! " The morning spread upon 
the mountains," the balmy air, the song of the bird, 
and the call to industry and health, are bells which 
ring melodiously in every ear but the sluggard's ! 

" The breakfast bell at seven" is a seasonable, 
proper hour. The stomach is then prepared to re- 
ceive and dispose of food to a good purpose ; and 
regularity in the time of eating cannot be too strictly 
regarded ; and this regularity should have a due 
reference to the intervals of meals, not dispropor- 
tioning the time, so that the stomach at taking one 
meal has not had time to dispose of the preceding, 
neither allowing it to be emptied too long. 

An eight o'clock breakfast, four o'clock dinner, 
and six o'clock tea, are cruel tormentors, both to 
mind and body. 

" The bell for retiring should be rung precisely at 
ten." Were this custom universally adopted, sleep- 
less nights and dosy mornings would be done away. 
The student, who is at his books after this hour, is 



24 

subtracting so much from his usefulness and health, 
and diminishing the power of that intellect he wishes 
to increase. It has been remarked, " In the natural 
state, the disposition to sleep usually comes on soon 
after the commencement of darkness ; and that three 
or four hours' sleep before midnight, is very nearly 
as refreshing as double that portion in the morning." 

" No boarder should sleep on a feather bed." 
Feather beds are nothing less than a nuisance. 
Their suffocating odor, in a warm night, and their 
relaxing effect, are sufficient to banish them from 
every house, where health and comfort are consulted. 
The freezing, and the aching of bones, are nothing 
but names, without any permanent foundation in 
truth. Our ancestors, in the simplicity of their 
hearts, connected a pallet of straw, and bread and 
water, with all that was suffering in the extreme, 
and which could never be inflicted by any, but step- 
mothers, and the dispensers of public justice on 
criminals. But these days are passing off, with their 
kindred spirits, ghosts, and spectres ; and mattrasses 
and coarse bread will claim their due place among 
the comforts of life. 

Rule VII. Varieties are here allowed, at different 
meals, but established by a majority of the boarders, 
so as to protect the keeper of the house from unrea- 
sonable and capricious demands, &c. This is a 
timely provision. The capriciousness of boarders 
knows no bounds, if indulged. The love of change 



25 

increases in proportion as it is gratified, and empha- 
tically so when first disciplining the palate to simple, 
natural food, or where fixed principle is wanting. 
" Unstable as water, thou canst not excel," may be 
fitly applied to a great proportion of those who 
would call themselves temperate. No word is less 
understood than temperance. It is allowed no par- 
ticular application, but to ardent spirits. Every 
other eatable poison may be swallowed, and any 
restrictions here are arbitrary prohibitions, which 
none will endure, but those of firmness of principle, 
and lovers of truth. 

The irritable dyspeptic, when he sits down to his 
meal, and asks what will be the best for him to take, 
if his eye light upon any thing his appetite craves, 
when he is told another article would be better, 
instantly asks, " what did God make all these things 
for?" feeling, at once, an unreasonable restraint, 
though his stomach may have often told him the 
article was not made for his benefit. "O, how long, 
ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity, and ye fools 
delight in scorning !" When will the world learn 
the first lesson which God ever gave to man, in the 
1st chapter of Genesis, 29th verse ? As indifferently 
as this has generally been read by mankind, it is the 
true secret of living, and the Alpha of self-govern- 
ment. He who can and does restrain his appetite, 
" who eats for strength, and not for drunkenness" — 
is the man who can with propriety " strive for the 
3 



26 nature's own book. 

mastery/' he may be sure of obtaining. It may 
with surety be affirmed, that he who has a complete 
ascendancy over his appetite can govern the whole 
man : he can, with comparative ease, put a check 
upon every passion ; he is prepared for any arduous 
work ; for, in every moral enterprise, one temperate 
man " can chase a thousand," where surfeiting has 
got dominion. 

Warm bread and buckwheat pan- cakes, here 
mentioned, though not precisely alike in their effects, 
are both highly injurious. Buckwheat, besides the 
effect upon the stomach, often seriously disturbs the 
skin — producing an itching, and sometimes causing 
eruptions. 

Samp, hominy, and rice, are always safely eaten 
in any way, except with melted butter. 

" And in their season, a reasonable quantity 
of strawberries" fyc. fyc. — What an admirable pro- 
vision is this for man ! These delicious helpmeets 
are sent, seemingly, to fill up the interval between 
the departure and coming again of the more sub- 
stantial fruit, the apple ; so that man need have no 
occasion to seek for a relish in any thing deleterious 
to his blood, but always find the " herb bearing seed, 
or the tree yielding fruit," in some form or other, the 
greater part of the year, and always find some kind 
or other ripe, that their shall be no occasion for him 
impiously to pluck it from the hand of the Almighty, 



nature's own book. 27 

till he has fitly prepared it. Green fruit, and green 
vegetables, whatever they be, however prepared by 
the ingenuity of artificial cookery, and however 
palatable, are never suitable to be eaten. And they 
carry their own condemnation along with them, by 
the sickness and suffering they occasion. No one 
can be benefited by green vegetables and fruit, ex- 
cept physicians, druggists, and undertakers. Yet 
our markets are teeming with them ; our children 
are pampered with them ; and it would seem that 
the rage is, who shall outvie his neighbor in hurrying 
on the work of destruction. 

It is earnestly requested that the eighth rule may 
be particularly noticed. Almost the whole secret 
of a healthy dietetic course depends upon this rule. 
If duly regarded at all times — morning, noon, and 
night — especially the mixing together heterogeneous 
substances at the same meal, incalculable good would 
be the result. What stomach would not recoil at 
the approach of a plate of beef, potato, turnip, pud- 
ding, molasses, and butter, compounded together? 
Yet how often is the question asked, "why not eat 
flesh, pudding, butter, and molasses, at the same 
dinner ?" Because the action of so many opposites 
have a tendency to produce flatulency and acidity, 
and sometimes indigestion. Cabbage, which is in- 
cluded in the list ef vegetables, has some serious 
objections. The stupor which it occasions, cannot 
be counterbalanced by its nourishment. To say the 



28 nature's own book. 

best of it,* the stomach of the laboring man had 
better grapple with it than the brain of the stu- 
dent. 

" If animal food is used at all, (which is not ne- 
cessary nor best,)" fyc. — This is a well-timed remark. 
That it is not necessary, may be demonstrated 
by the first chapter of Genesis, and the longevity 
of the antediluvians. That it is not best, facts in 
all ages prove. Whenever man has confined him- 
self to vegetable diet for years, he has acquired a 
firmness of nerve, and clearness of intellect, which 
the flesh-caters cannot understand. That God did 
allow it, cannot be denied ; that he allowed it as a 
blessing, remains to be proved. A safe way to in- 
vestigate truth, is, to take it as a whole. Let the 
impartial inquirer after truth read the Bible, begin- 
ning where God does, at the coming out of the ark, 
comparing flesh-eating with flesh-eating, its prohibi- 
tions of blood and fat, its connection with wine-bib- 
bing, its effects in the camp of Israel, sending " lean- 
ness into the soul," and the shortening of life which 
natural causes do produce, and which was deter- 
mined after the flood, and what would be the result 
of such an investigation? Probably the same as 
the drinking of wine : and surely the apostle Paul 
has well settled the question, by saying, " it is good 
neither to eat flesh nor drink wine." And is it not 
safe to infer, that neither are calculated to keep the 



nature's own book. 29 

body in subjection? That flesh-eating produces a 
moral obtuseness and irritableness of spirit, which 
vegetable diet does not, will be acknowledged by 
all who have made a thorough experiment of both. 
It is not asserted that all who eat flesh are conse- 
quently immoral, but that the tendency is to hold the 
mind in a kind of vassalage, and dim that clear 
perception of things which otherwise might be 
enjoyed. Many of our useful, wise, and good men, 
have certainly been in the daily habit of taking 
animal food ; but those same wise and good men 
would undoubtedly have made greater attainments, 
and accomplished more good, had they abstained 
from it. 

" Pork of any kind should be sparingly eaten." — 
It had better been added, not eaten at all. When 
the Lord said, swine's flesh shall be an abomination 
unto you, it was a saying that should be perpetuated 
to all generations. It was never said unmeaningly. 
It was said by Him, who was a perfect physiologist 
— a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, and 
who well knew what was for the best good of man ; 
and it would seem, that the very habits and forma- 
tion of the animal were designed as an " abhorrence 
to all flesh." For what they are made, God nor 
nature have not yet told us exactly. There is but 
one use, named in holy writ, to which they were 
applied, and that was a deposit for demons, which 
3* 



30 nature's own book. 

the Saviour cast out ; a fit sanctuary, which should 
never be invaded by man. But why did God pro- 
hibit swine's flesh, in particular, if it be nutritious 
and healthy ? and why to the Jews, who were his 
chosen, his beloved people ? Can it be supposed he 
would prohibit them a valuable article of food, and 
reserve it for idolaters ? Would he teach them to 
hold in abomination those things which were calcu- 
lated for their good, and tell them they were abomi- 
nations ? It must be acknowledged, that God does 
allow his children their sinful requests, and then 
sends leanness into their souls. He did send the 
murmuring children of Israel quails ; and how was 
his anger kindled against them ! But did he ever 
withhold what would be for their real benefit, and 
give them no other reason for doing so, than that 
they must be a holy people, and the things prohi- 
bited were an abomination ? A strange contradic- 
tion ! 

Fresh fish. — There cannot be so many objections 
to fresh fish that are taken from running water, and 
eaten immediately, as to meat. It is not so exciting. 
But salt fish, which is oily, is not only indigestible, 
but is said to have a had cfFect on weak eyes, by 
affecting the nerves.* 

* " It is better to drink but little during the meal," &c. The 
reason which Mr. Graham would probably assign for this is, that 
fluids do not digest, but pass off from the stomach, soon alter the/ 



NATURE S OWN BOOK. 31 

Then it must follow that animal food is not neces- 
sary nor best So much for meat. 

Gravies are so palpably injurious, and so disgusting 
to a correct palate and purified stomach, that they 
hardly need a comment. Mustard, and peppers, 
" coursing through the blood," inflaming and killing 
its vitality, cannot claim the least possible merit, as 
condiments to food. 

" Butter, at best, is a questionable article." — A 
modest hint, and the butter-eater would do well to 
take it. That it produces eruption upon the skin, 
and gives it a glossy shining, when used abundantly, 
is very obvious ; that when melted, it is insufferable 
to a dyspeptic, and ought to be abandoned by all. 
Melted butter will counteract all other salutary 
effects of a plain diet, so much, that, if indulged 
frequently, it matters little what other cautions are 
taken. Those who use molasses and sugar, should 
use them very sparingly. Here is an obstinate evil, 

are received, and unfit the food taken to be acted upon by the gastric 
juice as readily as it would be, if the fluid had not entered into it. 

Dr. Beaumont's experiments are a good illustration of this princi- 
ple. He says, it is an erroneous conclusion that food should remain 
in the stomach an hour, before the work of digestion commences. 
The gastric juice is ready to commence its work of solution soon 
after the first moutbful is swallowed. Drinking, then, to say the 
least, cannot facilitate the work of digestion. Water is inert ; and 
being blended with the food, must retard the action of the gastric 
juice. 



32 NATURE S OWN BOOK. 

and almost unbounded in extent. The free use of 
either of these articles, molasses more particularly, 
is very deleterious. Yet those who would be strictly 
temperate are constantly running into this extreme. 
The consequence is, the stomach becomes acid, and 
often so cloyed that they can scarcely be used at all. 
Molasses, at its best estate, if not " altogether vanity," 
is altogether filthy, especially that which contains 
the most blood. The sugar-house molasses is sup- 
posed to acquire its superior richness by this article. 

" Stale Bread? — This ought to be written in 
capitals upon every plate, and read at every meal. 
Every child, as soon as it has teeth, should be taught 
to eat stale, hard bread. The crust is far preferable. 
It answers more than one good purpose : it is better 
for the teeth, more palatable to a correct taste, 
more suitable for the stomach, and so draws the 
fluids from the mouth, that drinks of any kind are 
almost unnecessary, even in the warmest weather. 
It is the best dessert that can be taken after dinner ; 
and that meal which is made without it, is void of 
its best condiment. 

" No pastry should ever be furnished? — To talk 
of the mischief of pastry, seems almost as unnecessary 
as to tell the world the sun shines ; and to attempt 
its disuse, nearly as absurd, as to " command the 
clouds that they give no rain." " Because judgment 



NATURES OWN COOK. 33 

against an evil work is not speedily executed, there- 
fore the hearts of the sons of men are fully set in 
them to do evil." This is the fatal whirlpool of both 
soul and body ; this has caused the body to droop, 
to suffer, and to die ; and the soul to lament, when 
" the harvest was past and the summer ended." 
Pastry should be called by its right name — an 
abomination — and held in utter abhorrence. There 
cannot be a plausible, nor even tolerable reason, for 
using it. It is composed of two materials, which, 
when taken separately, are seriously objectionable, 
but when united, are " cruel mockers." Yet how 
often has the good house-wife acquired the highest 
celebrity, if not the envy of all the village matrons, 
for her fine pastry ! and how often has the incorrigible 
child been softened into a pliant mood, by a promise 
of this deceitful bait ! 

" Mashed Potatoes •." — Why not mash potatoes ? 
For this plain reason : the gastric juice cannot act so 
easily upon a condensed substance, composed of 
fine particles, as upon coarser materials. When 
potatoes are mashed they are not masticated, but 
enter the stomach in a mass, and occasion an 
unpleasant fulness, especially when gravy or butter 
is added. 

" The supper, or third meal'' fyc. — This rule 
should be strictly followed. A heavy night-supper 
for the tired stonjach, which has been busied most of 



34 nature's own book. 

the day in analysing, dividing, and subdividing its 
contents, and must have a fourth burden to unpack 
and stow away through the night, is intolerable. 
No wonder it groans under such cruel task-masters, 
and no wonder it calls in the aid of nightmares and 
hobgoblins, spectres and fairies. No wonder the 
fatigued system, wants " a little more sleep, a little 
more slumber," after the rising of the sun. Better, 
much better, to retire supperless, than to take an 
ounce too much. 

A supper of bread and sweetened water, is the 
most salutary to the stomach and nerves, of any 
food, and even this shoul d be taken sparingly. Sleep 
is a quietus that stills, in a measure, the clamors of 
appetite. The stomach that goes empty to sleep, 
and even hungry, in the morning finds an alleviation, 
and often renewed vigor. How much then is the 
poor devotee to his fourth meal, or ten o'clock supper, 
to be pitied ! The car of Juggernaut, or the fire of 
Moloch, could scarcely accomplish the work of 
death better. He is not only abridging comfort, but 
life ; not only suffering in the present tense, but 
losing all that sweet relish for food that nature 
gives, and wrapping in a thick cloud that image of 
God, which is capable of shining with undiminished 
lustre for ever and ever. 

" Tea, coffee, chocolate, tyc." — There cannot possi- 
bly be any call for comments, or explanatory notes, 



NATURES OWN BOOK. 35 

on this rule, among the enlightened portion of com- 
munity, except it be on the nature of chocolate. 
The stupefaction which this produces, speaks its own 
danger ; but the clogging effect upon the blood is its 
widest evil ; an evil which, if followed, will effectu- 
ally prevent an easy flow of the blood through the 
system, and often produces habitual drowsiness. 
Alcohol and tobacco, tea and coffee, should be put 
into one common reservoir, shut up, and a seal put 
upon them, that they " go out to deceive the nations 
no more." Mr. Hitchcock has given the true defi- 
nition of tea and coffee — comparing their effects 
with ardent spirit. There is, however, this alarming 
difference — they are more deceptive in their opera- 
tions ; but they work surely, and ultimately bring 
the system into a bondage as cruel as that of ardent 
spirit. How often has the diligent woman, who 
" looketh well to the ways of her household," been 
thrown into a fit of fretfulness, and sometimes pas- 
sion, for want of her tea and coffee ! while the 
faithful domestic knew not why or wherefore she 
was reproached. And how often has the sermon 
been lost, because the tea was not quite so good, or 
the coffee so well settled as usual at the breakfast ! 
How often, at the tea-table party, has the absent 
neighbor been made the subject of sarcastic ridicule, 
or bitter slander, when the cup of fresh hyson had 
sent its intoxicating perfumes through the brain ! 
while the volubility and hilarity could only be 



33 nature's own book. 

equalled by the song of the drunkard in the ale- 
house or bar-room. 

" Filtered rain-water," says Mr. Graham, " is al- 
ways best." But good spring water, from nature's 
pure well, or oozing from some mountain side, clear 
as crystal, without any artificial preparation, cannot 
be exceptionable, cannot be unsafe. The wayworn 
traveller, in slaking his thirst, finds it an exhilarating 
beverage, which art could not improve ; and the 
four-footed beast, as he bounds through the forest, 
stops and receives a fresh impulse, without needing 
a filtering machine to add to its fragrance. But in 
cities, filtered rain-water may be best, where impu- 
rities of every kind are saturating the fountains, 
and impregnating earth, air, and water, with con- 
tagion.*' 

" Bathing and cleanliness.'' — The free use of cold 
water upon the skin cannot be too much urged. 
To one unaccustomed to the treat, it acts almost as 



♦Hot drinks arc relaxing to the solids of the body, and those 
who leave tea and coffee, and substitute hot milk and water, have 
made a poor exchange. The temperature of the blood, when in a 
healthy state, is a proper one for drinks. A dentist, in New York, 
has made some useful discoveries on the rff-ct of hot drinks upon 
the teeth. A number of milkmen have informed him, that their 
cows, which have been fed on hot still-slops, have in two or three 
years so lost their teeth, that they could not rat 1 a. r . This, then, 
may be a part of the answer to the question, u Why do the teeth so 
prematurely go to decay ?" 



nature's own book. 37 

a charm, especially in cold weather. Dr. Combe 
has entered into the minutiae of its effects : and who 
would suffer nausea, inflammation, or chilliness, 
through the day, when five minutes in the morning, 
with a sponge and cold water, would remedy all ? 
Beside the vigor it imparts to the system, it is a 
safeguard against colds, to which all will testify 
who daily practise it. 

u Exercise." — The suffering of the man of leisure 
and the student, for want of exercise, is enormous ; 
and should the diet and bathing be in exact accord- 
ance to the laws of nature, a failure here will 
greatly weaken, if not demolish, the whole structure. 
He who rises at five, and applies cold water and 
the flesh-brush effectually, yet seats himself by a 
good coal fire, or pent-up stove, and yawns away 
the morning, till the breakfast hour, loses a great 
part of the comforts of life. He knows not what 
rational enjoyment is, and cannot know what con- 
firmed health is. The motionless muscles will flag, 
and the stupefied mind sinks with the body, into a 
state of inertion, if not ' into ruin. " The virtuous 
woman," " who rises while it is yet dark, and pre- 
pares meat for her household," if that meat be eaten 
before the household have well exercised, may be 
the only one who will have a keen zest ; and hers 
the only stomach that is properly fitted for the well- 
prepared meal. The habit of sitting down by the 
4 



38 NATURE'S OWN BOOK. 

fire, or elsewhere, immediately after rising, should 
always be avoided. It is never beneficial to mind 
or body, for the time being, and its consequent evils 
still more to be dreaded. Let the doating father, 
while his son is yet tender, inure him to the exhila- 
rating breezes of morning, if he would give a healthy 
tone to the stomach, which will impart a cheerful 
buoyancy throughout the day. Let the daughter, 
too, learn, that though her " hands do not take hold 
of the distaff," they must not be folded in sloth when 
she has risen in the morning. All animated nature 
rouses man to activity. The bird, as it skims 
through the air ; the frolicsome lamb, and the play- 
ful kitten ; the bounding fawn ; the prancing colt ; 
the fish, that sport in the mighty waters ; and even 
the great leviathan that plays therein ; tell us that 
animated nature delights in exercise, and receives a 
greater part of her comforts thereby. 

" Great cheerfulness should be cultivated during 
the hours or moments of exercise." — To exercise 
for health, with " dull, moping melancholy" for a 
companion, would be Combe's " solemn march" in- 
deed. The most rigid superstition seldom prohibits 
a moderate glee in the playful child, and even cul- 
tivates it in the laughing infant. If this be wrong — 
if it must be unlearned in maturer years — why allow 
its first budding in life's young openings? Why 
not pluck up the baneful weed in its first shootings ? 



nature's own book. 39 

What should be the first work of education? 
Surely, to inculcate such principles as should 
"grow with the growth, and strengthen with the 
strength ;" principles, that are not to be eradicated 
when ripening to maturity, but reduced to practice 
when need requires. Who is not more pleased — 
who is not more benefited — in the society of the 
gray-headed pilgrim, whose conversation is spiced 
with the cheerfulness of youth, than with the whining 
peevishness which is often manifest in old age ? If 
it be a duty to " present the body a living sacrifice," 
is it not a duty to fit that body to be an active, 
witting offering, prepared for the highest state of 
exertion ? And can the gloomy-hearted man do 
this? Cheerfulness, then, should be cultivated, till 
it becomes habitual ; till the heart feels a happy 
content in all the vicissitudes of life ; till, alike, in 
the sun-shine and in the storm, it can rejoice, though 
the " fig-tree does not blossom, and the flocks be cut 
off from the stall." 



RECEIPTS 



These receipts are not prepared for the benefit 
of any but such as are wishing a more rational diet, 
wherein may be united the pleasures of the palate, 
the health of the stomach, and the answering of a 
good conscience. Neither are they presented, as 
has before been mentioned, as a perfect standard ; 
for the reader, by turning to Mr. Graham's rules, 
will see that the receipts are no more than the 
fruits of his plan a little matured. Some articles in 
the receipts are prohibited in the rules, such as pies 
for example ; yet they are made from the materials 
retaining all their simplicity, and should they not 
meet the expectations of the reader, the only alter- 
native must be, to do as the writer has done — prac- 
tise again and again ; for, be assured, truth is con- 
tained in them. And those who test them best, may 
be sure they will give no palpitating hearts, trem- 
bling nerves, gouty limbs, aching heads, or sleepless 
nights. 



42 nature's own book. 

BREAD. 

To twelve quarts of unboulted wheat meal, 
coarsely ground, put three quarts of indian meal, 
scalded, and mix it well with the flour ; add half a 
pint of yeast, mix and knead it thoroughly, let it 
rise then with but a little kneading, and a little dry 
flour ; put it in pans, for the oven. Be careful to 
put it in the oven as soon as it rises, as it sooner 
becomes acid than other flour. If a little potato be 
added, it gives additional sweetness and richness. 
Make it in the same way, without indian meal. 

PUMPKIN BREAD. 

Stew the pumpkin with considerable more water, 
pour it to indian meal, while hot add the yeast and 
water, if your pumpkin be not sufficiently moist ; 
and add a little salt. 

GOOD PLAIN CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, one of good milk or cream, 
one half tea-spoonful of pearlash, and coarse wheaten 
meal, to make a soft paste. 

INDIAN CAKE. 

Take yellow indian meal, wet it with good milk, 
and a little potato, sweeten, and add the small 



nature's own book. 43 

transparent raisin. Raise it with yeast, and bake 
it thoroughly, in small, round pans, indenting it 
deeply as you would cut the cake when done. 
Eaten when cold. 



MOLASSES CAKE. 

Cake made of the coarse wheaten meal, like 
gingerbread, (leaving out the ginger) wet with 
milk, without other shortening, can be made very 
palatable. 



SWEET CRACKERS. 

One tea-cup of coarse wheaten meal, one of sour 
milk "or buttermilk, three fourths of a tea-cup of su- 
gar, half a tea-spoonful of pearlash ; made hard, 
rolled thin, and well baked. 



WATER CRACKERS. 

Wheat meal, wet with nothing but water, and 
pulled apart with the hand, or cut in pieces and 
rolled as thin as possible, and well baked, makes 
the healthiest bread for the stomach that can be 
eaten. It is a good digester, and palatable dessert. 
It acts like an absorbent, when any thing like acid 
is in the stomach. 



44 NATURES OWN BOOK. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

To one quart of milk, four thick crackers, made 
of coarse wheat and broken in pieces, a little sugar, 
and a little flour added, and baked one hour and a 
half. 

FLOUR PUDDING. 

Take mush made of the course flour, and put it 
in milk ; mix it well, and add sweetening, and a 
little baking makes it good. 

RICE PUDDING. 

To one quart of good milk, one tea-cupfull of rice, 
raw, sweetened, well baked, with no eggs, butter, 
or spices, eaten with good molasses, sugar, or good 
without either. 

SAMP PUDDING. 

Boil the samp well till dry, add good milk, a little 
sweetening, and a good quantity of sweet apples 
sliced thinly, well baked, eaten with molasses, sugar, 
or without. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Slice bread thinly, and put it in milk, with a little 
sweetening ; add a little flour, and bake one hour 



nature's own book. 45 

and a half. The milk may be cold for all these 
puddings when put in the oven. 

CRACKED WHEAT MUSH. 

When the water is boiling throw in the salt, stir 
in the cracked wheat, and let it boil from 12 to 15 
minutes : if boiled as long as iridian it tastes raw. 
Indian mush should be made thin, and boil till it 
thickens. 

RYE MUSH. 

This article, has been much celebrated in dyspep- 
sia and liver complaints, should be prepared from the 
cleanest grain, free from larkspur, coarsely ground 
with the bran, made thin, and boiled more than 
wheat. 

PIES.* 

Apple pies may be made simple, palatable, and 
healthy, by sifting coarse flour, and taking hot, mealy 
potatoes, and rubbing them in as you would butter ; 
tben take pearlash, and sour milk, or water, and wet 
it, rolling the crust if you please in fine flour ; if you 

* The reader will see that pics are prohibited in the rule6, on ac- 
eount of the butter in the crust, but in the following experiments this 
difficulty is all obviated, and tho pies are equally as palatable to an 
unadulterated taste. 



10 NATURE S OWN BOOK. 

wish to give it a whiteness, prepare your apple with- 
out butter or spice, with sweetening, and a little oil 
of orange. 

PUMPKIN PIES. 

Take a brown earthen pan, grease it, and sift in- 
dian meal over it about the thickness of a quarter of 
an inch : prepare the pumpkin in good milk and 
sweetening, and a little ground rice, instead of eggs,* 
a little oil of orange, instead of ginger. Ground rice 
may be made into pies in the same way — squashes 
and sweet potatoes likewise — and are superior to 
pumpkins. 

CRACKED WHEAT P0RRID3E. 

To four quarts of boiling water stir in one quart of 
cracked wheat with a handful of rice ; when boiled 
12 or 15 minutes, add milk to your taste. Probably 
there is no article of diet more nourishing, and to 
many persons very palatable. 

INDIAN PORRIDGE. 

Throw in a tea-cup full of rice into boiling water 
— then stir in the meal as you would for mush, but 

* Eggs, when cooked in puddings or pies, are said to be indigesti- 
ble, and of a bilious nature. 



NATURE S OWM EOOK. 47 

made much thinner — boil it one hour, and add cold 
milk. This is excellent food, and medicine for any 
irritation of the stomach. 

RICE PORRIDGE. 

To three quarts of boiling water add one pint of 
rice, and three of milk, when over the fire, and scald 
well. 

GROUND RICE PORRIDGE. 

To three quarts of water add one of milk, and a 
tea-cup full of ground rice, and boil it a few minutes. 



RICE CUSTARD. 

To three quarts of milk when boiling, sift a eonee- 
cup of ground rice, taking care to stir it while sifting 
it ; boil it a few minutes ; sweetening it, take it into 
cups, and brown it in the oven, or it may be eaten 
without. This is a simple, nourishing diet, especially 
for invalids. 



STEAMED RICE. 

Wash your rice well, rubbing it through three or 
four waters, put it into boiling water, with salt, let 
it boil twelve minutes only ; then drain off the water. 



48 nature's own book. 

uncover the vessel, place it before the fire, minding 
to turn it about often, till the moisture has all eva- 
porated. The rice will then be whole, dry, and 
tender, with the additional benefit of being much 
better for the stomach, than when reduced to a pulp 
in water. 

BREAD COFFEE. 

Toast stale bread upon a gridiron till roasted as 
much as coffee ; put it into water, without grinding, 
and boil it one hour ; skim it out, add the sweeten- 
ing, boil it again, and scald your milk, and add to it. 

POTATO COFFEE. 

Slice potatoes thin, dry them in an oven or stove, 
then burned like coffee, and prepared in the same- 
way. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit can seldom be improved by any artificial 
preparation,* and when made into sweet-meats, is 
deleterious. The God of nature has peculiarly 
adapted it to the palate and blood, when plucked 
from the tree fully ripened and mellowed by the ge- 
nial warmth of the sun ; and the kind mother who 

* Apples may be prepared very palatably, by inserting a pen- 
knife into the blow and taking out the core, filling it with sugar, 
and baking it. 



nature's own book. 49 

would not hesitate to give her child a hot buttered 
toast, and a cup of coffee, but would revolt at the 
sight of an apple, with wholesome bread and milk 
for a breakfast, may rest assured, she has put " bit- 
ter for sweet." Bread, milk, and fruit, or bread and 
porridge with fruit, are true and wholesome diet. 

SOUPS. 

Peas and beans make a healthy diet when rightly 
prepared, without meat or butter, and to the natural 
palate, a real luxury. Boil them till beginning to be 
soft, with a little pearlash — then change the water, 
and when well cooked, add a little thickening of 
flour. They are likewise good, baked without meat. 

YEAST. 

To three quarts of water, take a good handful of 
hops, boil them, and while hot, strain them upon a 
quart of flour, stirring the flour at the same time, 
and when partly cool, add two or three spoonfuls 
of yeast, one of molasses, one of salt. This makes 
the richest any yet used for the coarse flour, though 
the dough will not rise as quick, as with brewers' 
yeast. 



CERTIFICATES 



I have often thought of stating the circumstances 
of my happy emancipation from intemperance in 
diet, and its beneficial results, both on body and 
mind ; but the blindness and opposition of the world 
on this subject, have hitherto deterred me — fearing 
misunderstanding might retard rather than promote 
the principles. But as a happy few are now rejoicing 
in the sunshine of truth, and many are " seeing men, 
as trees walking," I shall venture to give an unvar- 
nished statement of facts. 

In speaking of my constitution, I would wish to 
be understood — as a misunderstanding of this term, 
like the ignus fatuus, is constantly leading the follow- 
er into bogs and quagmires, from which, if haply he 
escape, he cannot come out unhurt. By constitution, 
I understand, certain fixed laws relative to bone, 
muscle, blood and nerves ; which laws, if never 
infringed, would produce the same results in all. 

Therefore, all this seeming variety of constitution 
is nothing more nor less than the pernicious results 
of ignorance of the organic laws, habits of luxury, 



52 NATURES OWN BOOK. 

and the sum total of intemperance in all things. 
Whoever heard of an ox whose constitution was not 
adapted to grass, or a child's to bread ? 

My constitution, from childhood, became impaired 
by wrong habits of exercise, rest, food, and study ; 
and from the age of twelve 1 scarcely enjoyed a 
day of perfect health. 

General debility throughout the system, and bilious 
affections, were constant companions, till at the age 
of sixteen I commenced teaching, when, incessant 
labor called for more stimulus, and as ardent spirit 
in any form, together with medicine, was my utter 
abhorrence, consequently meat, tea, and coffee, w r ere 
called to brace up the tottering fabric. Being 
engaged with a numerous school, with no assistant, I 
confined myself, in the summer months, from seven 
in the morning till seven in the evening, minding to 
carry my bowl of coffee to my school room, as I 
" could not live without it," till my nerves became so 
completely unstrung that the sight of a book put me 
in an universal tremor ; my lungs became so affected 
that for weeks I could scarcely speak above a whisper. 
A journey gave a little relief; but in a few months, 
all was worse ; my head became affected, and it 
was finally decided I was in a decline ; still I 
abstained from medicine, and rode much, which 
partially restored me, but the cause was not removed. 
Next came palpitation of the heart, to such a degree 
that the pressure of blood to the head caused a 



53 

beating there, which at times seemed almost intole- 
rable. I now began to sink, and feel that mercy 
was " clean gone forever." I was told my head 
would never be relieved ; it was a pressure of blood 
upon the brain : my mind became seriously affected, 
at times almost to distraction. I now for the first 
time consented to employ a physician : to my happy 
disappointment, he recommended a change in diet, 
though allowing me to retain my tea and coffee, 
telling me they were necessary tonics in my situation, 
but advising me to change my location. Accord- 
ingly I came to the city, with considerable hope 
that I might see better days, opened a school, and 
applied my tonics faithfully — coffee in particular — 
till at length I was obliged, in order to keep up the 
ordinary stimulus, to take it four times a day. It 
was my meat, and my drink, nor did I once suspect 
what it was doing, though I found myself fast sinking. 
The kidneys now became affected, and my sufferings, 
at times, intense. Melancholy now fastened deep 
her talons, and I said " My days are cut off in the 
midst." 

At this time, Mr. Graham commenced a course of 
lectures in New York : / heard and trembled : the 
torrent of truth poured upon me, effectually con- 
vinced my judgment, and made me a thorough 
convert. But the coffee — this was my last refuge, 
and it had been for months my greatest earthly 
comfort. My first effort to demolish the idol was 
5* 



54 nature's own book. 

Sabbath morning. I could never use milk, nor had 
I used cold water in many years. That Sabbath 
will never be forgotten : a numbness and stupor 
came over me, and during the morning service I 
actually feared my rash resolve would cost me my 
life. It seemed that my long list of ailments were 
rushing together, and clamorously demanded their 
tonics. The next day brought but little alleviation, 
and the tardy week passed on with no comforters 
but bread and vegetables. A week more, and vio- 
lent sickness prostrated me. A physician was 
called, but to no purpose. Then my good friends 
" set my sins in order before me ;" my obstinacy in 
refusing the " good creatures," tea and coffee, had 
brought me nearly to death's door, and now my 
only alternative must be a turning again to riglit- 
eousness. This, my wayward heart refused ; and 
with no kind of sustenance but water-gruel, a fort- 
night found me convalescent. My system had now 
commenced a thorough renovation. With a basket 
of crackers, and a little fruit, I took the steam-boat, 
and set my face towards my native green mountains 
in Vermont. Here, the coarse bread and the exhi- 
larating air braced my nerves, and hope again illu- 
mined my heart. I returned to New York, mate- 
rially benefited, and took a second journey to the 
west. Exposed to severe storms, and almost incre- 
dible fatigue upon the canal, by reason of a freshet, 
I found myself able to endure, what one year before 



nature's owk book. 55 

must have prostrated me ; and when again in New 
York, I was entirely exempt from pain or weakness. 
This might have been imputed to the journeyings ; 
but this had been done yearly without any such re- 
sult. The effect upon my mind was still greater. 
The phantoms had fled ; the gloomy apprehensions 
of protracted suffering, or sudden death, no more 
hovered about me ; and I seemed to be walking a 
new earth. 

Nearly four years have passed, and not the 
slightest indisposition, except a trifling cold, has 
ever returned, to remind me I was mortal. Good 
bread, pure water, ripe fruit and vegetables, are my 
meat and drink exclusively, nor do I desire a single 
" leek, garlic, or flesh-pot of Egypt." Nature needs 
no more, appetite craves no more. My sleep is 
sweet, from ten to five ; and I am well convinced 
that a thorough ablution in cold water, with a faith- 
ful application of the flesh-brush, and a good hard 
bed, will insure more undisturbed sleep than all the 
decoctions of tea or coffee in Christendom. What 
shall I say more ? It is with the deepest regret past 
days are reviewed ; days, when health and vigor 
might have been mine ; when watchful hours, over 
the midnight lamp, wasted, instead of strengthened, 
the powers of the mind ; and all, through profound 
ignorance of my system. And I conclude by saying, 
that parents and teachers ought to know, that the 
work of education will ever be in its infancy, till the 



body is made a " meet temple" for the residence of 
the mind. 

Asenath Nicholson. 

Note. — I could mention the effect upon my voice. 
My voice, by the weakness of my lungs, could 
scarcely be raised to the ordinary pitch in singing ; 
now it can ascend far beyond, with the greatest 
ease. 



My dear Mrs. N. : Agreeable to your 

request, I proceed to state a few things relative to 
my bodily infirmities and disorders, which have 
troubled me more or less for more than thirty years, 
and the means whereby I obtained relief. 

In the early stage of childhood I was troubled 
with the palpitation of the heart ; could never join 
in excessive play with children, such as running, 
jumping, &c. without breaking off, and saying to 
them, wait until my heart is done beating, and then 
I will play again. From the age of fourteen to 
eighteen I was less affected than when younger. 

After I was married, and became a mother, I 
found my health slowly declining. A little exertion 
would prostrate my strength, and produce a hard 
beating of the. It was with difficulty I could raise 
my infants from the cradle and carry them about 



nature's own book. 57 

the house ; and often when sitting still, it would 
beat so irregularly as to distress me. At times, my 
breathing was difficult. After the birth of my 
youngest child, in November, 1829, complaints about 
my heart increased, and became more and more 
severe. In December, 1833, I was taken down 
suddenly : my symptoms were so alarming that my 
friends thought I could not live but a short time. I 
passed wearisome days and sleepless nights ; and 
now, for the first time, I consented to have a physi- 
cian. I had objected to taking medicine, fearful it 
would increase my disease ; and in abstaining as 
long as I did, I am of the opinion that I did well. 
I was quite sure that I had a disease upon me that 
would terminate in death, and often told my husband 
that I felt enough within to cause me to suspect a 
sudden death. 

The doctor gave me a tonic medicine, which re- 
lieved me for a short time. In February, I grew 
worse again, and from that time until July, I had 
intervals of being better and worse, attended with 
awfully distressed turns, in which my friends 
thought me dying. 

I was in this situation when Mr. R. J. F , 

of New York, made us a visit, and induced me to 
try the Graham system of diet. 

I met with little encouragement from my friends, 
who said to me, "Are you going to do without 



58 nature's own book. 

meat ? I am sure one so feeble as you requires a 
little." 

My husband said, Mr. F. is not a physician ; but 
could I see one that understood Mr. Graham's sys- 
tem, and who said it would do for me to follow it, 
he should feel better satisfied. Happily, Dr. Heze- 
kiah Judson, of New York, made us a visit : he 
assured me this was the only possible way I could 
obtain relief, and advised me to pursue the course I 
had adopted. 

I resolved to try this mode effectually for one 
year, thinking by that time I should be able to de- 
cide as to its good or bad effects ; but, to my sur- 
prise, in two months I was so much better as to 
perform considerable labor in my family without 
fatigue. It is now a year and three months since I 
adopted this simple regimen, and I now call myself 
in good health. 

I occasionally have some slight symptoms of my 
old complaints ; but they soon pass off, and I never 
relax labor on account of them. I never have had 
one of those distressed turns, mentioned above, since 
the commencement of my present mode of living; 
nor do I have the palpitation of the heart. It has 
also had a happy effect upon my mind : I enjoy a 
buoyancy and cheerfulness which I have been a 
stranger to for many years. 

I now enjoy a bowl of bread and gruel, and pud- 
ding and milk, far better than I used to relish flesh. 



nature's own book. 59 

highly-seasoned food, and tea and coffee, of which I 
was very fond. One circumstance I forgot to men- 
tion : the next day after I saw Mr. F. , I laid 

aside my medicine, and I have not taken a drop 
since. Maria L. Curtis, 

Stratford, (Conn.) November 1, 1834. 



City of New York, Jan. 20, 1835. 

Having heard the preceding sentiments and state- 
ments, by Asenath Nicholson, I have requested the 
privilege to express my decided approbation of what 
she has written and proposes to publish. This ap- 
probation is founded on the results of my own ex- 
perience and observation, for fifty years ; tried and 
confirmed by experiments in my own family, which 
consists of six children, who are between the ages 
of six and twenty-two years, and their mother. Nor 
can I forbear to affirm, that her sentiments and 
statements agree with the instructions in the Holy 
Scriptures, w 7 hich I most heartily and earnestly 
entreat the ministers of the Gospel and students of 
theology to study and practise, in respect to this 
subject of universal and primary interest and im- 
portance. Thomas Williams, 

of Providence, R. I. 



60 nature's own book. 

I concur in the preceding recommendation of Rev. 
Thomas Williams, of Rhode Island. I have, with 
my family, practised, for nearly three years, upon 
the mode of diet recommended by Mrs. Nicholson 
and during more than one year of that time we have 
resided in her family as boarders. I believe her 
statement respecting her boarding establishment, to 
be entirely correct. In my own case I have entirely 
recovered from a chronic diarrhoea of long standing, 
which no medical skill could cure. I have, for two 
winters escaped the usual coughs and influenzas to 
which I had been subject. My wife is relieved from 
her headaches, my child from summer complaints, 
and all of us in a good degree, from nervous irrita- 
bility. We save at least thirty dollars a year, (three 
of us) in medicines and doctors' bills — not having 
expended five dollars in that way, for three years. 
I have relinquished all hope of seeing the world 
reformed of its intemperance and other vices, or the 
church purified from its corruptions, until Christians 
learn to keep the body under, and eat and drink for 
the glory of God. On opening the Bible, I find that 
the first thing the Creator did, for the regulation of 
mankind, was, to furnish them with a bill of fare. 
The first transgression was in respect to food. The 
Bible is filled with testimony and remonstrance 
against gluttony, and our Saviour's last warning to 
his disciples, in which he directed them how to stand 



nature's own book. 61 

prepared for his last coming, is distinguished by a 
marked attention to the same subject. 

In view of these facts, 1 cannot see how Christians 
can conscientiously refuse to consider a due attention 
to diet and regimen an important christian duty. 

William Goodell, 

Late Editor of the Genius of Temperance; 



New York, Jan. 20th, 1835. 

* 

I agree in the sentiments of the Rev. Mr. Williams, 
and Mr. Goodell as above expressed. Having lived, 
(as a boarder) more than two years in the family of 
Mrs. Nicholson, I cheerfully add my testimony to 
the truth of the statements made by her with regard 
to her boarding establishment. If the principles she 
has adopted with regard to diet, cleanliness, and ex- 
ercise^ could be adopted and practised in their fullest 
extent, I doubt not that much of the sickness and 
misery which now afflict the human family would 
cease. I therefore recommend her work, (not merely 
to read,) but to practise, in every family, and par- 
ticularly that part relating to mothers and children. 

Joseph Titcomb. 



62 nature's own book. 

New York, Jan. 24, 1835. 

About four years since, I adopted what is com- 
monly called the " Graham system of diet." 

From childhood, I had been in the habitual use 
of tea and coffee, as well as animal food, &c. From 
the same period, I had been subject to frequent and 
violent sick headaches. Under my present regimen, 
this malady has disappeared entirely, and my gene- 
ral health has been good. 

My own experience and observation justify me 
in saying, that, in addition to the weakness and de- 
bility occasioned by the use of these unnecessary 
articles, the teeth, frequently at a very early period, 
are tartarized, loosened, and diseased. 

John Burdell. 



AN APPEAL TO MOTHERS 



Much has been said to mothers on the education 
of children, and much which ought to be imprinted 
on the heart, as with the point of a diamond. But 
there is one part of the lesson, if noticed at all, has 
been superficially glanced over, as tangible only to 
the physician and anatomist : I mean the physical 
education of children : I mean the mechanism, in all 
its bearings and uses, and the best helps to keep its 
ten thousand strings in harmonious tune. 

The untiring assiduity with which the mother 
watches over the tender infant, is a strong indication 
that nature has peculiarly adapted her for an office, 
which no one can so effectually fill. Yet thousands 
have withered in the mother's arms, and generations 
have gone down to the dust, not by neglect, but 
through profound ignorance of the simplest and 
plainest laws of our nature ; simplest, because it does 
not require the ingenuity to trace nature in her un- 
trammelled windings, as it does to devise the arti- 
ficial helps, which serve only to retard her healthy 
progress, and pervert all her rational laws. When 



64 

the watchful mother sees the high flushed cheek, and 
feels the accelerated pulse, what does she do ? She 
immediately sets about devising specifics ; and when 
this and that fails, she applies to her physician, with- 
out scarcely thinking of inquiring the cause, which 
requires not half the skill to trace, as to seek out 
effectual remedies. Disease does not come by mi- 
racle. Look at the vegetable kingdom. Does the 
shooting tree ever wither, in its first putting out, 
without some blighting frost — some scorching fire — 
some worm at the root — or some knife of the mis- 
chievous truant is applied ? j\o : it blooms on, be- 
neath the genial sun, and distilling dews, till matured 
into the wide-spreading tree, lodging the fowls of the 
air, giving shade to the way-worn traveller, and 
braving the tempests of years, and sometimes cen- 
turies. So in the animal kingdom.. The lamb frolics 
in the meadows ; the birds sing and hop among the 
branches ; and do they feel pain ? No : unless tamed 
and domesticated by man, they are free as the air 
they inhale, and their blood is as pure as the water 
they love. And should you, mothers, love to see 
your little ones sporting about you, in the sunshine 
of health ; should you love to see their beaming 
eyes kissing the first dawning of light, with the 
happy lark ; should you delight to see their expand- 
ing minds drinking copious draughts at the peren- 
nial fount of knowledge, with untiring zeal ? you may 
have it so, if you will ; only learn that " nature's 



nature's own book. 65 

wants are few." And do you ask, what they are ? 
They are the pure breezes of heaven ; the limpid 
waters that emanate from ten thousand hills ; the 
nectarine milk from the lowing herds ; the blushing 
orchards, and the whitening harvests of grain, to 
provide bread " to strengthen man's heart." These 
are the rich bounties of Heaven, scattered with a 
liberal hand wherever the industry of man has been 
applied, and they bring no alloy. 

But does the mother ask, " How am I to secure 
all these blessings of health to my children, unless I 
am a physician ?" Then be a physician. This is 
no difficult task. A few simple lessons are to be 
learned, and the work is done ; and these lessons 
are almost, if not entirely, inherent in our natures. 

When the infant is put into the mother's hands, 
what does the Master say ? " Take this child and 
bring it up for me. It is the chief of all my work. 
I have ' fenced it about with bones and sinews.' I 
have clothed it with flesh. I have placed sentinels 
at every dangerous post. I have provided food 
convenient for it, and I have given it a deathless 
soul, to inhabit this temple, and to you I commit this 
charge. See that you mar not my handy worhP 

Now, what is the mother to do? If she be a 
judicious one, or one of common observation, she 
knows that milk is the wholesome nourishment pro- 
vided for all its wants : she knows that this alone 
will give proper strength, and facilitate its growth : 
6* 



66 nature's own book. 

she knows that the body must be washed in pure 
water ; that it must have quiet sleep, and be kept 
free from ligatures, so that its breathing may be free, 
and the growth natural. Now, as I am speaking to 
the judicious mother, let me ask what more does her 
infant want in the first months of its existence ? 
Does the regular-moving machinery need any tonics, 
any decoctions of tea, coffee, or warm toddy, to ac- 
celerate its motion ? Does the healthy throbbing of 
its little heart need any urging forward, or its tender 
brain want steeping in any of these fumes ? Let 
common sense answer. Let the aborigines of any 
country answer, who have followed nature in all its 
bearings. Then, as this is all the needed medicine, 
can you not be the physician ? But you ask, " what 
if my child be sick?" Let me answer, how can 
your child be sick, if the nourishment you give it be 
pure, and the body be properly washed and clad ? 
As before has been observed, disease does not come 
by miracle. God has fixed the laws of nature, and 
in fixing them he has said " Hitherto shalt thou go, 
and no further." And why should he pervert these 
laws, or work miracles to counteract them, when he 
once pronounced the work " very good ?" Why 
should he delight in rocking to and fro his unpa- 
ralleled workmanship, dashing it in pieces, and 
peopling grave-yards with infants a span long ? Be 
assured, " from the beginning it was not so." 

The watchful nights of the anxious mother, over 



NATURES OWN BOOK. 67 

the cradle of her sick and dying child, were " few 
and far between," (if known at all,) in the days of 
Abraham and Sarah : and the mother in these latter 
days may learn, when she has followed nature's 
path, in the first dawnings of life, she may safely 
advance from infancy to childhood, and from child- 
hood to manhood, and prepare the vessel fit for the 
Master's use. She may provide wholesome bread 
of her own making, good vegetables, fruit, and milk ; 
she may inure it to the early morning air, to frequent 
ablutions, and regular exercise ; and she "may do 
more to subdue the passions, regulate the judgment, 
and fix permanent principles of virtue, than all the 
moral .lectures and rods ever have done or will do. 
She may prepare the way for the coming of Christ 
in the heart, and be ready at any time to say, " here 
am I, and the children thou hast given me." Are 
these things so ? Then in vain do you rise early, 
and sit up late, to train a useful race of children, 
fitted for the contest of these latter days. In vain 
you may look for an abundant crop, while sowing 
among thorns. You may warn, rebuke, watch, and 
pray, but you cannot present an umblemished offer- 
ing : it will be the torn and the lame. The muti- 
lated body and stinted intellect can never be a pillar 
in the temple of God. Your daughters cannot be as 
" polished stones, after the similitude of a palace," till 
their bodies can be presented a living sacrifice, fit 
temples for the residence of the Holy Spirit. 



G8 

Mothers ! a holy church is preparing — a church 
where Christ can take up his abode ; not built after 
the traditions of men, but a place of broad rivers, 
and streams, and there shall not be " found an infant 
of days," for the "inhabitants shall not say I am sick." 
There will be no feeble watchman, who cannot lift 
up the voice, or who cannot perform the priest's 
office at their appointed seasons. And how are 
these glorious changes to be affected ? Not by mi- 
racles : not by any change in the laws of nature : 
but by a simple turning to the primitive state of 
things ; by going back to first principles ; by fulfill- 
ing God's laws, and making them honorable. God's 
natural as well as moral laws have been wickedly 
violated, and for many thousands of years, has he 
suffered men to riot on flesh, and walk after their 
own lusts, and eat the fruit of their own doings, by 
the suffering consequent on such a course. But he 
will arise and show himself. Our " tables-have long 
been a snare," but, they shall not always be " filled 
with vomit," nor the " broth of abominable things be 
found in our vessels." These things may now sound 
like idle tales, and you may ask who hath required 
this at your hands ? I answer, the Lord Jehovah ; 
mighty in strength ; who numbers even the hairs of 
our head, and who has regard to the minutest work 
of his hands. The animalcule in every drop of water 
show that the minutiae of his works are regulated by 
as fixed laws, and under as definite cognizance, as 



69 

the highest archangel. And " be not deceived ; God 
is not mocked ; for whatsoever a man soweth, that 
shall he also reap. If ye sow to the flesh, ye shall 
of the flesh reap corruption." O, be entreated to be- 
ware of fleshly lusts, that war against the soul ! Be 
entreated by all the tender ties that bind you to your 
children ; by all the yearnings of a mother's heart : 
and by the love you bear to the immaculate Saviour, 
who has honored you with the loan, to return his 
flock, his " beautiful flock," in all the perfection and 
symmetry you received it. O, how sweet will it be, 
when your locks shall be whitened for the grave, to 
see the plants you have reared, towering in all the 
dignity of body and mind of which mortals are 
capable ! To see them contending with " spiritual 
wickedness in high places ;" in all the gigantic 
strength of physical and moral powers : and when 
you shall take your departure, and let fall your 
mantle upon them, have the assurance that they will 
rise up and call you blessed! Then, within the 
gates of the New Jerusalem, you shall from its 
golden battlements look down, and see them accom- 
plishing victory after victory, till they too shall joy- 
fully lay down their weapons, and triumphantly join 
you in the " song of Moses and the Lamb" for ever* 



APPENDIX 



A remark is made in the preceding work, that 
woman is never more dignified than when making 
good bread. Every physiologist and dietetic well 
understands the import of this ; but as the world 
swarms with would-be-learned critics, whose helps 
are ever at hand, for their sake, I would be a little 
more explicit. Making good bread does not imply 
that woman is capacitated for no other station ; that 
she cannot ascend as high in the scale of being as 
the " lords of the creation ;" or that her dignity can 
only be displayed, when, like Sarah of old, she is 
kneading and baking cakes upon the hearth ; but 
every man and woman, who understands a little of 
the science of living, knows that bread is the true 
staff' of life ; that the body, without it, can never be 
ably fitted to perform its duties ; that the mind has 
no other medium of action than the body ; and if 
this medium be deranged, all is afloat. Eveiy 
dietetic knows, that good bread will do more for the 



72 nature's own book. 

health, strength, and proper temperament of the 
body, than all other food provided for man. It is 
the true rational stimulus, is always safe, and never 
loses its relish to those who follow the laws of na- 
ture. And if all other food were taken from the 
earth, and good bread and good water substituted, 
the world would be relieved from a great proportion 
of its temporal misery. It is not intended by this 
to cast off fruit and vegetables ; they, too, deserve 
their share of praises ; but they are not so necessary 
to the real comfort of man as bread. If this be true, 
and woman was destined as an " helpmeet" to man, 
what more dignified station than to be employed in 
preparing " bread to strengthen his heart," to pre- 
pare a quiet lodgment for the soul, where it may 
serve God without distraction 1 It should be urged 
upon every wife and mother to make her own 
bread ; that this important work should not be left 
to hirelings. How does she know, when she is 
feeding her children with — she knows not what — 
but she is sowing the seeds of disease, and probably 
premature death? How does she know what 
quantity of plaster of Paris, alum, &c. &c. may be 
contained in a single loaf, unless she analyze it ? 
Can it be supposed, as the world now is, that he 
whose paramount object is to find a ready sale, and 
provide for his household, often stops to inquire the 
best good of the stomach ? If his bread suit a mor- 
bid appetite, will not his conscience find a quietus ? 



nature's own book. 73 

If all the pills that have been taken in the city, to 
remove the effects of bad bread, were made into 
one loaf, and sold slice by slice, at the druggist's 
price, a fund would be raised sufficient to furnish 
bread for the inhabitants for years to come. Yet 
the work of destruction goes on. And again, em- 
phatically, let it be asked, what can be more digni- 
fied in the employment of woman, than to be en- 
gaged in removing these evils ? She is much ex- 
tolled for her tender compassion, for her constant 
assiduity by the bed of sickness, and for her inge- 
nuity in devising specifics ; why, then, would it not 
be more benevolent, more dignified, to be laboring 
a little at prevention ? 

The question may be started : have mankind then, 
nothing to do to preserve health, but to eat good 
bread ! Yes : take take care of the skin. Neglect 
of this, and suitable exercise, may seriously affect 
the machinery, and often cause it to drag heavily. 
But those who know the true principles of bread, 
seldom stop here : when they have learned the first 
lesson of truth, their motto is generally, onward: 
and therefore bread, good bread, stands as the im- 
mutable foundation of dietetic knowledge, and the 
safe pioneer in the road to health ; and if woman 
have a soul and body in charge, she has something 
to do for both ; something for the exercise of the 
body, to keep up the enjoyment of the mind, and a 
few hours a week employed in making bread would 
7 



74 NATURE S OWN BOOK. 

not retard the growth of intellect, nor detract one 
iota from the dignity of character, to which, as an 
immortal being, she should continually aspire. 

Another objection may naturally arise : if, as has 
been asserted, that not the slightest indisposition, 
except a trifling cold, has returned, to remind me 
of my mortality ; why, if these dietetic principles 
are true, do not all enjoy the same, who try the ex- 
periment ? It can only be answered by saying, 
that alcohol and medicine had always been my 
aversion. My system had never been a store-house 
for the mineral kingdom, opiates, or drugs of any 
kind. The effect of tea, coffee, meat, and irregu- 
larities of rest and exercise, were only to be reme- 
died, to place the system on a tolerable foundation. 

Where the system has been saturated with calo- 
mel, and steeped with tobacco, alcohol, and all the 
host of narcotics, no more ought to be expected, by 
adopting a rational diet, than an alleviation of suf- 
fering, with " the clouds always returning after the 
rain," when any deviation or extra excitement takes 
place. As the world have lived for ages, debility 
and. sickness axe frequent, if not constant compa- 
nions of the majority of the human family. What 
more common expressions are there than " my doc- 
tor," or "our physician"? as though they were as 
necessary inmates as the table furniture, and more 
consulted than the family Bible. And the mother, 
in rearing a family, is necessitated to stand hours 



nature's own book. 75 

and days of her life with a nostrum in one hand, 
and a rod, or a lump of sugar in the other, to com- 
pel the wayward child to swallow the pitiful dose. 
This passes off well : it is the custom of the world, 
and quite ungenteel not to be in delicate health. But 
as soon as one adopts a true, simple course of living, 
he is watched as a criminal, and the slightest indi- 
cation of disease is made a mortal sin, and if not the 
subject of pulpit animadversion, yet of many a good 
Christian's rebuke, for despising the gifts of Provi- 
dence, and bringing about slow starvation or prema- 
ture death. But why are these faithful sentinels so 
alarmed ? Is it true philanthropy ? is it a fear that 
the race will dwindle to pigmies, and finally become 
extinct ? or is it that " ye have taken away my gods," 
and what have I left ? It is too late in the day to 
look to the church for a standard of temperance m 
all things. Her dress, her furniture, her eating, her 
drinking, must be according to the customs of the 
world, or she would be singular, and lose her influ- 
ence. She has forsaken the simplicity of the great 
Pattern, and she cannot preach the Gospel to every 
creature, because it would detract from her equipage 
and luxury. Those apostolic days have long since 
gone by, when the lust of the eye, the pride of life, 
and conforming to the fashions of this world, were 
prohibited. They are now so in vogue that, to raise 
a different standard, would not only be unpopular, 
but a bold rebuke upon many of our greatest teachers. 



76 

To talk of "keeping the body in subjection," and 
" presenting it a living sacrifice ," when the earth is 
teeming, and every table groaning, with the good 
things of life, should not be "so much as named 
among us." 

This is a true picture of the church in general ; 
and if this be the light she is holding out to the 
world, it is to be hoped God will extinguish it : 
better be in darkness than see through a false me- 
dium. And what can be done ? If the priest dare 
not, or will not, move faster than popular opinion 
takes the lead ; and if the people are so under minis- 
terial influence that it is next to sacrilege to take the 
Bible for a standard, instead of the traditions of men, 
when, and where, shall the work begin ? Who will 
dare first to dig a hole through the wall of this inner 
temple ? Who will dare say that, the lips of the 
priest do not teach knowledge on the natural laws 
of God ? Who will dare say that, until he can do 
this, he is unfit to teach the awful mysteries that be- 
long to godliness ? Who will dare say to his minister, 
when he complains of indigestion, pressure of blood 
to the head, &c. &c, study nature's laws, " Keep 
your body in subjection, lest, after you have preached 
to others, you become a castaway." Not one, un- 
less he be more reckless of public opinion than of the 
commands of God. 

How much labor is lost to the church by the im- 
becility of ministers ? They often enter upon the 



77 

arduous work with broken down powers, both of 
body and mind; and instead of being "instant in 
season and out of season," must have their set times 
for all their pastoral duties, and these often " few 
and far between," else their whole system is totally 
deranged. If, with Paul, a few can tell of "journey- 
ings and perils," sickness, too, must be added to the 
list ; watchings and fastings they cannot endure, be- 
cause the "body has not been kept in subjection," 
because not " temperate in all things." How can 
such men " make full proof of their ministry ?" how 
can they be "workmen that need not to be ashamed?'* 
What have teachers of theology been doing for cen- 
turies, that this important lesson has been neglected ? 
Why have not our spiritual leaders, in all their 
searches, and researches after truth, never hit upon 
the natural laws of God ? Why, when visiting the 
couches of their sick and suffering flock, and ex- 
horting to submission to the afflictive providences of 
God, and obedience to his moral laws, they have 
not admonished them, that the Father of their spirits 
is the Maker of their bodies also ; and that sickness 
in most cases is proof positive, that these bodies had 
not been used as he would have them ? Why do 
they not, when they pray that the affliction of the 
body may be sanctified to the good of the soul, pray 
also, that the ignorance, or sin, that brings this afflic- 
tion, may never be repeated ? For this plain reason, 
undoubtedly, they do not understand it themselves, 
7* 



78 

The world has a claim upon those who place them- 
selves over it as doctors of the soul ; and they ought 
not to be ignorant of one item which can come within 
their ken. Their physiology, as well as theology, 
should be after the standard of truth. Their eating 
and drinking must be to glorify God, as well as their 
talking and preaching, because all are required to 
make the perfect man in Christ Jesus, 



A WORD TO YOUNG LADIES. 



" Your daughters shall be like polished stones, po- 
lished after the similitude of a palace." What a 
beautiful comparison, when taken in its full extent, 
and yet how sadly does it apply to most of the 
present race ! The contracted waist, the jutting 
shoulder, and the lifeless skin, plainly indicate that 
something but rouge, plasters, and stays, are needed 
to fit these stones for the " perfection of beauty" in 
the temple of the Most High. There is a strong 
inclination in the young, to be thought so, but more 
particularly, when " time advances ;" it is then the 
offsets to youth and beauty are applied, in a tenfold 
ratio ; it is then every color, that best suits a decayed 
complexion, every plait or ruffle that can conceal 
deformity, are studiously arranged, and what can be 
done is done, to appear youthful and agreeable. 
Nor does this apply solely to the unmarried : the 
grandmother, as she sees she must " love herself a 
third time in her race," feels a shuddering, as she 



80 

sees she is " going off," and again consults her glass, 
to devise some expedient to stay the wrinkles, which, 
in spite of cologne and paint, will multiply upon her. 
Now, for this dreaded conflict, there is a sure expe- 
dient. The regimen laid down in this work, has 
added an elasticity to the system, a buoyancy to the 
mind, and a youthfulness to the skin, that is not in 
the power of all the united skill of philosophy or 
medicine to do. It has, in some instances, given the 
sprightliness of forty to three-score years and ten, 
and made the man of gray hairs almost live over 
his youthful days. 

What, you ask, is this witchery 1 It is nature's 
witchery. It is that fascinating garb, she throws 
around all her works, and which, if never sullied by 
man, would retain its lustre, in a good degree, till 
the internal machinery be worn out with action. Is 
this not inducement sufficiently strong for the young 
to set themselves about it ? What young lady will 
not screw her stays a little tighter, even to fainting, 
and her shoe a little smaller, even to cramping, when 
she is told it will add grace to her form ? What 
pain will not be endured to supply the defect of de- 
cayed teeth ! But when you talk of coarse bread, cold 
water, and a hard bed ; the throat is then endangered 
by scratching, the flesh by freezing* and the limbs by 
cramping. 

A young lady, in the vicinity of New York, called 
at the Temperance House, eighteen months ago, 



nature's own book. 81 

partly from curiosity, and partly from principle. 
She tarried a few days, and became convinced of 
the importance of the regimen practised in the 
house, returned to her home, and made full trial, 
though very much to the annoyance of her friends. 
Her health was the same as all our fashionables, but 
she soon found a marked change in her feelings. A 
few days since she called again. She was not 
known, health had so re-animated the system. 
"Coarse bread, cold water, and regularity," she ex- 
claimed, "has done all this. O, could I make the 
world believe the luxury of living right ; the anima- 
tion of spirit, flowing from a consistent, temperate 
course !" Young ladies, go and do likewise. It will 
cost you a little self-denial at first, but when the 
victory is won, O what a conquest ! To be emanci- 
pated from headaches, nervous irritability, pains in 
the side, &c, and to have the mind wholly unfet- 
tered — say, would not this be a liberty greatly to be 
desired ? To be always ready to every good word 
and work, with no clog of the body, must surely be 
presenting a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable, 
which is your reasonable service. 

Should you hesitate, because appetite pleads, ask 
yourselves these questions: For what was I sent 
into the world ? For what purpose are the powers 
of body and mind to be used? To decorate the 
body a few short days with gewgaws and ribbands ? 
To please a few butterflies that may be fluttering 



S2 

around me, and who, with me, must soon drop into 
oblivion? Or was it for the noble destiny of pre- 
paring for immortality? If the latter, what then 
have I to do, to best secure a happy one, and keep 
up a constant reaching forward, to higher and higher 
attainments ? Does the body have any part of this 
work to perform ? If so, what will best fit it for 
the duties assigned, and so prepare it as a medium 
to the mind that there be no hindrance ? When the 
judgment shall have settled the question, what is 
truth, then follow that truth, let it cost what it may. 
Confer not with flesh and blood, but lay aside every 
weight, and the victory shall be yours. There are 
many who cannot receive these sayings, from pre- 
judice, and many from ignorance, and still more from 
appetite. But here and there one receives the word 
into good and honest hearts, and bears fruit, some 
sixty, and some an hundred fold. To such it may 
be said, you are on an eminence, you have ascended 
the most difficult summit, and, though you may now 
and then stumble against a stone, yet " Alps on Alps" 
will no longer rise, to intercept your view. When 
the clamorous voice of appetite shall cease, and the 
calm, sweet relish of nature has dominion, you can 
say, peace, be still, to every dashing surge, and there 
will be a great calm. You ma)' then emphatically 
say, the darkness is past, and the true light cometh, 
the true light of the body, which will give to the 
soul an undisturbed and lasting abode. 



83 

Many of the young men of our land have done 
honor to themselves, by daring to step aside in the 
midst of opposition, and adopting a course which 
God and nature approve. And where shall they 
find helpmeets ? If our y&ung ladies persist in their 
excesses of tea and coffee, pastries and sweetmeats, 
the lustre will fade from their eye, and the glow of 
youth and health from their cheek, while the young 
men will be towering in all their strength, and rising 
higher and higher in the scale of usefulness. And 
the time is hastening, when the mincing step, the 
simpering voice, and the delicately fluttering nerve, 
will stand for just what they are — consummate non- 
sense. Young ladies would do well to look at this. 
The false drapery that has so long been hung about 
them, in their education, must and will be rent. It 
will not always be a mark of genteel birth, to be 
flung into spasms at a glass of cold water and a loaf 
of brown bread upon the breakfast table. 

But are young men so much in advance in this 
important reform ? " Render unto Caesar the things 
that are Caesar's." There are probably a very large 
majority, on the side of young men ; but, to tha 
praise of the ladies it should be said, those who are 
converted are unyielding in principle and practice ; 
and in this alone all hope must centre. It is the 
following on, the continuing to the end, that shall be 
saved. Not the hearers but the doers of the word. 
It is those who will dare to be thought singular, and 



84 NATURE S OWN BOOK. 

to eat and drink to glorify God, that shall finally 
triumph. 

Reader, are you disaffected at such plainness! 
You would not be, could you know the feelings that 
dictated it. When the scales shall fall from your 
eyes, and every cloud of the understanding be dissi- 
pated, then, and not till then, will you see a beauty, 
a form and comeliness, in these principles, which 
will lead you to wonder at former blindness. 



tl 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 734 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



