Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



CulinaTy Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 




/• 



'^^ni^Jlj^i^., ■, y 



THE 




COJ^'S 0RAOLE, 

CONTAINIITO 

RECEIPTS FOR PLAIN COOKERY, 

ON THE 

MOST ECONOMICAL PLAN FOR PRIVATE FAMILIES; 

CONTAINING ALSO A 

Cam|)lrte Sif}^t\tm of Coalttrs tor Cati^oltc Jfipnii0iejEt. 

BEING 

THE RESULT OF ACTUAL EXPERIMENTS INSTITUTED IN 

THE KITCHEN OF 



WILLIAM KITCHINER, M.D. 



A NEW EDITION. 



ROBERT CADELL, EDINBURGH; 

WHITTAKER AND CO. LONDON; AND JOHN GUMMING, DUBLIN. 

TO BE HAD OF ALL BOOKSELLERS. 

1836. 






KDINBUHOH T 
PRINTED yV T. C0N8TABLC, 1, THISTLC STKSST. 






CONTENTS. 



Page 

Editor's Prefiice ......... 5 

Pre&ce to the Third Edition 7 

, Seventh Edition . . . . . 13 

Introduction • 15 

Culinary Curiosities 36 

Inyitations to Dinner 39 

Carving . 45 

Friendly Advice to Cooks 48 

Table dP Weights and Measures 64 

Marketing Tables ■ 65 

RUDIMENTS OP COOKERY. . 



Chaftbr 1. Boiling 
Baking 
— 2. Roasting 

3. Frying 

4. Broiling 

■ 5. Vegetables* 

6. Fish . 

Fish Sbluoes 
. 7. Broths and Soups 

— ^— 8. Gravies and Sauces 
-.— — ^ 9. Made Dishes 
Receipts 



71 

76 

78 

85 

87 

88 

90 

92 

93 

104 

110 

111 



EDITOR'S PREFACE. 



Thx rapid and steady sale which has invariably attended each 
following Edition of the ^ Gook^s Oracle,** is the most gratifying 
proof of its excellence. The muivalled station which it so soon 
attained after its first appearance, and which has not in any way 
been diminished by succeeding volumes on the same subject, affords 
a reasonable presumption that it has no superior. The Editor may 
say, with no little pride, that the greater number of cookery books 
which have appeared of late, are indeed but very faint copies of 
the great original ; that no **puj0^ eaetraordinafy'" has been deemed 
necessary by the publishers of the present work to stimulate the 
6iling spirit of their purchasers ; nor have they been compelled, 
like some of their contemporaries, to shew forth ^ signaU of di^ress^ 
by the daily insertion of preposterous advertisements in the pages 
of every newspaper. 

Numerous receipts for pastzy, preserves, &c. &c. have been 
added to the present edition^ — many errors, hitherto overlooked, 
have been carefully corrected, — the receipts which formerly, from 
being placed so promiscuously in the Appendix, may have been 
difficult to find, are now removed to more appropriate situations ; 
and the whole volume having, with the most diligent study and 
attention, been entirdy re-arranged^ it is now hoped by the Editor, 
that what he hafl perfonned patiently, the public will receive with 
pleasure. 

THE EDITOR. 

WUton Creacetd, July^ 1831. 



1 



PREFACE 

TO 

THE THIRD EDITION. 



Among tlte multitudes of causes which concur to impair Health 
and produce Disease, the most geneml is the improper quality of 
our Food ; this, most frequently, arises from the injudicious man- 
ner in which it is i»epared : — ^yet, strange, ** passing strange," this 
is the only one for which a remedy has not been sought ^--fewpersons 
bestow half so much attention on the preservation of their own 
Health, as they daily devote to that of their Dogs and Horses. 

The observations of the Ghiaidians of Health respecting Regi- 
men, &c. have fonned no more than a Catalogue of those articles 
of Food, which they have considered most proper for perticuhur 
Constitutions. 

Some Medical writers have ^ in good set terms" warned us 
against the pernicious efiects of improper Diet ; but — not one has 
been So kind as to take the trouble to direct us how to prepare 
Food propwly— «xeepting only the contributions of Count Rum- 
ford, who says, in pages 16 and 70 of his tenth Elssay, *^ however 
low and vulgar this subject has hitherto generally been thought to 
be— >Mi tehat Art or Science could improoemetds be made that tcould 
more potceffulhf eontr&ute to' inerease the com/orta and enjoyments of 
mankind 1 Would to God I thai I could fix the ptAlie ottenHon to ihie 
mdyectr 

The Author has endeavoured to write the following Receipts so 
plainly, that they may be as easily understood in the Kitchen as 
he trusts they will be relished in the Dining Room — and has been 
more ambitious to present to the Public a Work which will contri- 
bute to the daily Comfort of All, than to seem elaborately Scientific. 

The practical part of the philosophy of the Kitchen is certainly 
not the most agreeable *, — ^Gkratrology has to contend with its full 
share of thoise great impediments to all great improvements in 
scientific pursuits, — ^tiie prejudices of the Ignorant, and the mis- 
representations of the Envious. 

The Sagacity to comprehend and estimate the importance of 



8 PREFACE TO 

any uncontemplated improvement — is confined to the very few on 
whom Nature has bestowed a sufficient degree of perfection of the 
Sense which is to measiure it ; — ^the candour to make a fair report 
of it is still more imcomiQOn, — and the kindness to encourage it 
cannot often be expected from those whose most vital interest it is 
to prevent the development of that by which their own importance 
— ^perhaps their only means of Existence, may be for ever eclipsed 
— so, as Pope says, how many are 

'* Condemn'd in Business or in Arts to drudge. 
Without a rival or without a Judge : 
All fear,— None aid you,— and Few understand." 

Improvements in AgricvUure and the Breed of Cattle have beeh 
encouraged by Premiums— (see Note under 21, and under 59); 
Those who have obtained them, have been hailed as Benefectors 
to Society ! — ^but the Art of making use of these means of amelio- 
roHng Life^ and supporting a healthfid ExUtenoe — Cookbry — ^has 
been neglected ! ! 

While the cultivators of the Baw Materials are distinguished 
and rewarded, the attempt to improve the processes, without which 
neither Vegetable or Animal substances are fit for the food of Maii 
(astonishing to say), has been ridiculed, as unworthy the attention 
of a rational Being ! ! 

The most useful* Art, — ^vhich the Author has chosen to endea- 
vour to illustrate, because nobody else has — and because he knew 
not how he could employ some leisure hours more beneficially for 
Mankind, than to teach them to combine the ^uHle^ with the 
^ dtdoe,^'* and to increase their Pleasures, without impairing their 
Health, or impoverishing their Fortune, — has been for many 
years his favourite employment ; and **^ Ths Art of Invigorat- 
ing AND Prolonging Life by FooD,-f* &c Ac.** and this Work, 
have insensibly become repositories for whatever Observations he 
has made which he thought would make us — Live happy, and 
Live long 1 ! !" 

The Editor has considered the Art of Cookery, not merely atf 
a mechanical operation, fit only for working Cooks, but as the 
Awdqptie part of the Art of Physic, 

" How beat the fickle fobric to support 
Of mortal man, — in healthful body how, 
A healthful mind the longest to maintain." 

(AlUUTBONO.) 

* '* The only test of the ntilitj of Knowledge, Is its promoting the Happines* 
of mankind. ••—Dr. Stark on Diet, p. 90. 

t Published by Whittaker, Treacher, and Co. Ave Maria Lane ; and Cadell 
md Co., £dittbttrgh. 



=^ 



THE THIBD EDITION. 9 

is an Occupation neither unbecoming nor unworthy Philosophers 
of the highest class — such only can comprehend its importance ;' 
■which amounts to no less than, not only the enjoyment of the pre- 
sent Moment, but the more precious advantage of improTing and 
preserving Hbalth, and prolonging Lipb, which depend on duly 
repleniahLig the daily waste of the human frame with materials. 
pr^;nant with Nutriment and easy of Digestion. 

If Medicine be ranked among those Arts which dignify their 
Professors, Cookery may lay claim to an equal, if not a superior 
distinction ; — ^to prevent Diseases is surely a more advantageoua 
Art to Mankind than to cure them. ^ Physicians should be good 
Cooks, at least in theory." — Dr. JMUndxvilli on Hypot^ondruuie^ 
p. 316. 

The learned Dr. Arbuthnot observes, in page 3 of the preface 
to his Essay on AUment, that '* the choice and measure of tiie ma- 
terials of which our Body is composed — ^what we take daily by 
Pounds — is at least of as much importance aa what we take seldom, 
and only by Grains and spoonsful." 

Those in whom the Organ of Taste is obtuse, — or who haver 
been brought up in the happy habit of being content with humble 
fare, — ^whose Health is so firm, that it needs no artificial adjust- 
ment, — who, with the appetite of a Cormorant, have the digestion 
of an Ostrich, and eagerly devour whatever is set before them, 
without asking any questions about what it is, or how it has been 
prepared, — ^may perhaps imagine that the Edit9r ha^ sometime^ 
been rather overmuch refinii^ the business of the Kitchen. 
'* Where Ignonmce ia bli9»— 'tis Folly to be wiie.** 

But as few are so fbrtunate as to be trained up to understand 
how well it is worth their while to cultivate such habits of Spartan 
finbearanice, — ^we cannot perform our duty in registering whole^ 
some precepts, in a higher degree than by disarming Luxury of ita 
sting, and making the refinements of Modern Cookery minister 
not merely to sensual gratification, but at the same time support 
the substantial exdtment of " mens sana in corpore sano." 

Ddieate and Nerwta TwoaUde, who have unfortunately a sensitive 
palate, and haye been accustomed to a luxurious variety of savoury 
Sauces and highly seasoned viands ; — ^those who, from the infirmity 
of Age are become incapable of correcting habits created by absurd 
indulgence in Youth, are entitled to some consideration, — and, fot 
iheir sake the Elements of Obaology are explained in the most in- 
telligent manner ; and I have assisted the Memory of young 
Cooks, by annexing to each Dish the various Sauces which usually 
accompany it, referrii^ to their Numbers in the Work. 



to PREFACE TO 

Some Idle Idiots have remarked to the Author, that <* there are 
really so many Bxtrrsncis from one Receipt to another, that it* 
lA exceedingly troublesome indeed ; they are directed sometimes to 
turn to half a dozen Numbers :** this is quite true. If the Author 
had notadopted this plan of i{«/^9«fios, his Book, to be equally explicit, 
must have .been. ten times as big — his object has been to give aa 
much information as possible in as few pages, and for as "teiw pence 
as possible. 

By reducing Culinary operations to something like a Certainty, 
ImfoUdt wiU no longer be entirely indebted to Chance, whether they 
shall recover and live long, and comfortably— ^or speedily die of 
Starvation in the midst of Plenty. 

These rules and orders for the Regulation of the business of the 
Kitchen have been extremely beneficial to the Editor^ own Health 
and comfort He hopes they wUl be equally so to others: they 
will help those who enjoy health to preserve it ; teach those who 
have delicate and irritable Stomachs how to keep them in good 
temper ; and, with a little discretion, enable them to indulge occa- 
sionally, not only with impunity, but with advantage, in all those 
alimentary pleasures which a rational Epicure* can desire. 

There is no Question more frequently asked — or which a Medi- 
cal man finds more difficulty in answering, to the satisfiiction of 
himself and his patient, than— ITXdrf do you wish metoeatf 

The most judicious choice of Aliment will avail nodung, unless 
the Culinary preparation of it be equally judicious. — ^How often is 
the skill of a pains-taking Physician countemcted by want of cor- 
responding attention to the preparation of Food ; and the poor Pa- 
tient, instead of deriving Nourishment, is distressed by Indigestion! 
Parhsntixr, in his Code Pharmaeudiquej has given a chapter on 
the preparation of Food^— some of the following Receipts are offined 
as an humble attempt to form a sort of AppaNorx to tbm Pbaii« 
MAC0F(EXA, and, like pharmaceutic prescriptions, they are pfediely 
adjusted by ITc^U and Meature, The Author of a Cookery Book, 
first published in 1824, has claimed this act of Industry of mine as 
his own original invention^.the only notice I shall take of his pre- 
tensions, is to say, that the First Edition oC^Tie Cook's OraeltT* 
appeared in 1817. 

By ordering such receipts of the CooK^a Okaclb aa appear 
adapted to the case, the recovery of the patient and the credit of 
the Physician, as far as relates to the administration of AUmentr-^ 



*For th« Editor*! definition of this term, see the note in page 4 of the IntiOr 
duction. 



THE THIRD BDITION. 1 1 

need no longer depend oitihe ditcretion of the Caok^^^JPoi iiwtaiioe : 
MmUan Broth, (408), or (667); Toa$i cmd Wat^r, (671); WaUr 
Cfrud, (668) ; Beef Tea, (666) ; and Po&tabui Soup, (227). Tbk 
eoDcentntod J3t$enee of Meat will be found a great aoquiaition to 
the comfort of the Army, the Nayy, the Traveller, and the Invalid 4 
—1^ dUHolvinghaHan ounce of it in half a pint of hot water, you 
baTe in a few minntes half a IHut of pood Broth /or Ihrm halfpenoe. 
The utility of sndi aocurate and precise directions for psepazing 
Food is to TRAyxLLSRS incalculable, for, by tmndatingthe receipt, 
any personnvcypiepare.wfaaiia desired, as perfectly as a good Eng- 
lish Cook. 

He hasalsa cizeumstantbUy detaSed the easiest, least eoqpensive, 
and most salubrious methods of preparing those highly finished 
Soup8-J3auce8-.iJLagoAts — and piquante reUshes, which the most 
ingenious ** Officers of the Mouth** have invented for the amuse- 
ment of thorough bred ** Grands Chmmumds,'** 

It has been his Aim to render Food acceptable to the Palate, 
without being expensive to the Purse, or offensive to the Stomach 
...nouiiflhing withtrat being inflammatory, and savoury without be- 
ing surfeiting, constantly endeavouring to hold the balance even, 
between the agreeable and the wholesome, the Epicure and the Eco- 
nomist. 

He has not pretumed to reeommend om Beoeipt that has not been 
premously and repeatedly proved in His own Kitehen, which has not 
been approved by the most accomplished Cooks ; and .has, more- 
over, been eaten with unanimous applause by ▲ CoMMrrrBB op 
Tabtx, composed of some of the most illustrious Gastrophilists of 
this luxurious Metropolis. 

The Author has been materially assisted by Mr. Heniy Osborne, 
the excellent Cook to the late Sir Josbph Banks :—:that worthy 
President of the Royal Society was so sensible of the importance 
of the subject the Editor was investigating, that he sent his Cook 
to assist him in so arduous a task ; and many of the Receipts in 
tins Edition are much improved by his suggestions and corrections.* 
J*hi8 is the onlyMngHah Cedhery Book which has been written from 
the real experiments of a Housbkxxpxr for the benefit of Housn- 
KXRPSR8, which the reader will soon perceive by the minute atten- 
tion that has been employed to elucidate and improve the Art of 
Plain CooKBRY,-^etailing many particulars and precautions which 
may at first appear firivolous — ^but which experience will prove to 



* The receipts here alladed to are now placed in different parts of the wor]^ 
and were in number about a dozen.— £d. W. B. K. 



12 PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION. 

be essential — ^to teach a common Cook how to provide, and to pre- 
pare common food — so frugally, and so perfectly, that tie plain, 
evety-daif Family Fare of the most Economical Housekbbpbr may, 
with scarcely additional expense, or any additional trouble — ^be a 
toHsfadoiy Entertainmeid for an Epicurb, or an Invalid. 

By an attentive consideration of ^ thb Rudiments op CooKBBT,^^ 
and the respective Receipts, the most ignorant Noviee in the busi- 
ness of the Kitchen, may work with the utmost facility and certainty 
of success, and soon become a Good Cook. 

Will all the other Books of Cookery that ever were printed do 
this ? — ^To give his readers an idea of the immense labour jittendant 
upon this Work, it may be only necessaiy for the author to state, 
that he has patiently pioneered through more than Tvro HiTKDaxD 
CoOKBRT Books before he set about recording these results of his 
own Experiments ! ! I 

Storb Saucbs, and many articles of Domestic Comfort, which 
are extravagantly expensive to purchase, and can very seldom be 
procured genuine, he has given plain directions how to prepare at 
Home — of infinitely finer flavour, and condderably cheaper than 
they can be obtained ready made : for example. 

Mushroom Catchup, (375). 

EssBNCB OP Cblbry, (353). 
Anchovy, (871)* 

SwBBT Hbrbs, (363). 

Lbmow-Pbbl, (351). 



Savourt Spicb, (365, 384, 387, and 388.) 
Ginger, (354). 



Cayenne Pepper, (345) 
Curry Powder, (383). 
Eschalot Wine, (343). 
Portable Soup, (227). 
Pickles, &c &c. &c. (459, &c.) 

Thus, the table t^ths most Eamomieal Famibf may, by the help 
of this Book, be entertained with as much elegance as that of a 

SOVERBIGN PrINCB. 



PREFACE 



TO 



THE SEVENTH EDITION. 



The whole of this Work has, a Seventh time, been carefully revised 
^but this last time I have found little to add, and little to alter. 

I have bestowed as much attention on each of the 500 Receipts 
as if the whole merit of the Book was to be estimated entirely by 
the accuracy of my detail of one. particular process. 

The increasing demand for **The Gook*8 Oraclb,^ amounting 
in 1822 to the extraordinary number of upwards of 15,000, had been 
stimulus enough to excite any man to submit to the most unremit- 
ting study ; and the Editor has felt it as an imperative duty to exert 
himself to the utmost to render ** The Cook's Oracle ** a fiiithful 
narrative of aU that is known of the various subjects it professes to 
treat. 

To the Fourth Edition were added One Hundred and thirty New 
Receipts^ which will greatly improve the Comfort and Economy of 
all, especially of Catholic Familiks y— being the best methods of 
making 

Maigrs Grav7 Soups, (209). 

Drrro Pbasb, (202). 

Ditto Grben Pbasb, (201). 

Various Fish Soups, (210). 

All Frdeo Fish in Clarifibd Buttbb, (231). 

Frbsh Salmon Broiled, (161). 

Ditto Picklbd, (159). 

Carp to Stbw, (155). 

Potted Lobster or Crab, (177). 

Lobster Patties, (493). 

Stbwed Oysters, (180). 

Scolloped Oysters, (179). 

To Stew Fish Maiore, (156). 

Fish Pies, (485) and (486). 



1 4 1>BBFACS TO SEVENTH EDITION. 

FoRCBBnUT FOR FiSH, (326). 

Stswsd Ebls, (162). 

Macaroni, (554), Ac 

Stbwxd Onions, (136). 

Omblxttss, (543, &c) 

Various Wats of Drxssing Egos, (548, &c) 

Potato Pib, (111). 

Chxxsb and Toast, (557). 

_ TOASTBD, (558). 

.-.i-i— BUTTXRBD, (559). 

— i— POUNDBD OR PoTrBD,.(^60). 

PoACHBD Egos, (548 to 553). 
Puddings, (511). 

Maigrr and Savoury PAsms, (475).. 
Maigrx and Savoitrt Pattixs, (492). 

PRBSBRyR8,-(617). 

Tarto, (469 to 506). 

Bread and Cakss, (579, &c) 

Alao^ aa euy and economical Process fbr preparing 
Pkklbs, (459, &c) 
by which they will be leady in a fortnight, and remain godd for 
yean. 

I hope that in these New Xtec^pts the quantities of the -various 
articles, and the processes for compounding them, are described so 
accurately and sp plainly, that the most inexperienced person may 
woik tram them u^but do not Touch for all tiiese new BeceiptSyi.. 
9B some of them have not yet been proved in my own Kitchen. 

WM. KITCHINER. 



INTRODUCTION. 



The following Receipts are not a mere marrowless col- 
lection of shreds and patches, of cuttings and pastings,— ^ 
bnt a bona fide register of Practical facts, — accumulated 
by a perseverance not to be subdued or evaporated by 
the igniferous terrors of a Roasting Fire in the Dog-days, 
—in defiance of the odoriferous and caJefacient repellents, 
of Roasting, — Boiling, — Frying, — and Broiling; — ^more- 
over, the Author has submitted to a labour no preceding 
Cookery-Book-maker, perhaps, ever attempted to en- 
counter, — having eaten each Receipt before he set it 
down in his book. 

They have all been heartily welcomed by a sufficiently 
well-educated Palate, and a rather fastidious Stomach ;-^ 
perhaps this certificate of the reception of the respective 
preparations— will partly apologise for the Book contain- 
ing a smaller number of them than preceding writers on 
this gratifying subject have transcribed — ^for the amuse- 
ment of *' every man's master," the STOMACH* 

Numerous as are the Receipts in former Books, they 
vary little from each other, except in the name given to 
them ; the processes of Cookery are very few, — I have 
endeavoured to describe each in so plain and circumstan- 
tial a manner, as I hope will be easily understood, even 
by the amateur, who is unacquainted with the practical 
part of Culinary concerns. 

Old HousEitBEPEBs may think I have been tecHously 
minute on many points which may appear trifling : — ^my 
Predecessors seem to have considered the Rudiments of 
Cookery quite unworthy of attention. These little deli- 
cate distinctions constitute all the difference between a 

* ** The SroHACH ia the Oraad Oigan of the hnman vytiUm, upon the itftte of 
which, all the powers and feelings of the indiTidual depend."-~<Slec Huntxr'b 
CuUna, p. la 

*' The mculty the Stomach has of oommiuucating the impressions made by the 
▼axioiu sabstances that are put into it, is such, that it seems'more like a nervoua 
expanston from the Brain than a mere receptacle for Food."— Dr. WATBBBouaa'a 
Lecture an BMUk, p. 4* 



16 INTRODUCTION. 

common and an elegant Table, and are not trifles to the 
Young Housekeepers, who must learn them either from 
the communication of others, — or blunder on till their 
own slowly accumulating and dear-bought experience 
teaches them. 

A wish to save Time, Trouble, and Money, to inex- 
perienced Hoitsekeepers and Cook», — amd to brinff the' 
enjoyments and indulgences of the Opulent within reach 
^ the middle Ranks of Society, — were my motives 
Jpr publishing this book ; — I could accomplish it only by 
supposing the Reader (when he first opens it,) to be as 
ignorant of Cookery, — as I was when I first thought of 
writing on the subject.* 

I have done my best to contribute to the comfort of 
my fellow-creatures ; — ^by a careful attention to the di- 
rections herein given, the most ignorant may easily learn 
to prepare Food, not only in an agreeable and whole- 
some, — but in an elegant and economical manner. 

This task seems to have been left for me, and I have 
endeavoured to collect and communicate in the clearest 
and most intelligible manner, the whole of the heretofore 
abstruse Mysteries of the Culinary Art, which are herein, 
I hope, so plainly developed, that the most inexperienced 
student in the occult Art of Cookery may work from my 
Receipts with the utmost facility, 

I was perfectly aware of the extreme difiiculty of 
teaching those who are entirely unacquainted with the 
subject, and of explaining my ideas effectually by mere 
Receipts, to those who never shook hands with a Stewpan. 

In my anxiety to be readily understood, — I have been 
under the necessityof occasionally repeating the same direc* 
tions in different parts of the book, but I would rather be 
(^ensured for repetition than for obscurity — and hope not to 
be accused of Affectation, while my intention is Perspicuity, 

* " De totttes lea Ck)nnoi8sanceR n^ceasaires k rhnmanit^ aouffrante, la plna 
agr^ble, la plus importante k la conservation des hommes, et k la perpetuite 
des toutes les jonissances de la nature, c'est la parfaite connoissance des alimens 
de8tin6s k former notre constitution, k fortifier tous nos membres, k ranimer 
oes oiganes destine k la perfection des sens, et k etre les m^diateuia des talens^ 
de Tesprit du gtoie, &c. &c. 

"C'est du sue exprim^ denos fluidevBlimentaires, qu'est form^ le tissn de 
Botre frele machine ; c'est au chyle qui en prorient, c^ue notre sang, nos chairs, noi^ 
Berfs, noBoiganes, et tous nos sena^ doivent leur existence et leur sensibilitii.". 



INTBODUCTION, 17 

Our neighbours in France are so justly famous for their 
skill in the affairs of the Kitchen^ that the adag^ says^ 
" As many Frenchmen, at many Cooks" Surromided 
as they are by a provision of the most delicious Wines^ 
and seducing Liqtseurs offering every temptation to render 
drunkenness delightful^ yet a tippling Frenchman is a 
" rara avis" 

They know how^ so easily^ to keep Life in sufficient 
repair by good eating, that they require little or no 
screwing up with liquid Stimuli. — =-This accounts for that 
*' toujours gai" and happy equilibrium of the animal 
spirits which they enjoy with more regularity than any 
people :-:-their elastic Stomachs, unimpaired by Spirituous 
Liquors, digest vigorously the food they sagaciously pre* 
pare, and render easily assimilable by cooking it sufficient- 
ly, — wisely contriving to get half the work of the Stomach 
done by Fire and Water, till 

** The tender moraels on the palate melt. 
And all the force of Cookery it felt." 

See (5) and (215,) &c. 

The Cardinal virtues of Cookery, 'f cleanliness, fru- 
gality, NOURISHMENT, AND PALATEABLENESS," preside 

over each preparation ; for I have not presumed to in- 
sert a single composition, without previously obtaining 
the *' imprimatur" of an enlightened and indefatigable 
'' COMMITTEE OF TASTE," (composed of 
thorough-bred grands gourmands of the first magnitude,) 
whose cordial co-operation I cannot toe highly praise ; 
and here do I most gratefully record the unremitting zeal 
they manifested during their arduous progress of proving 
the respective Recipes^ — ^they were so truly philosophically 
and disinterestedly regardless of the wear and tear of 
teeth and stomach, that their Labour — appeared a 
Pleasure to them. Their laudable perseverance has en- 
abled me to give the inexperienced Amateur an unerring 
Guide how to excite as much pleasure as possible on the 
Palate, and occasion as little trouble as possible to the 
Principal Viscera, and has hardly been exceeded by those 
determined spirits who lately in the Polar expedition 

B 



IS INTRODUCTION.' 

braved ihe other extreme of temperature^ &e* in spite of 
Whales^ Bears^ Icebergs and Starvation. 

Every attention has been paid in directing die jffopor- 
tions of the following Compositions^ not merely to nutke 
tbem inviting to the Appetite^ but agreeable and usef ol 
to the Stomach — nourishing without being inflammatoiy,* 
and savoury without b^g surfeiting. 

I have written for those who make Nourishment the 
chief end of Eating,* and do not desire to provoke Ap« 
petite beyond the powers and necessities of Nature ; pro- 
ceedings however^ on the purest Epicurean principles of 
indulging the Palate as far as it can be done without in- 
juiy or offence to the Stomach, and forbiddingf nothing 
but what is absolutely unfriendly to Health. 



.*« That wbich is not good it not delidoiu 



To a wnll-fOTeni'd and iriae i4ipetite.''-*MiLT02r. 

* I wish most heartOy that the reatoratiTe ])iooms was perfennod Yty vs poor 
mortals, in as easy and simple a manner as it is in " tA« Ooaking AnimaLs in Qte 
Moon.** who *' lose no time at their meals : but open their If ft aide, and place 
the whole qnantitr at once in their stomachs, then shut it, till the same day to 
the next month, for they noTor indulge themselves with food more than twelre 
ttaaesfai a year. — Ste Baron Munchausbn's Trxiveb, p. 188. 

Pleasinff the Palate is the main end in most books of Cookery, but Uismg aim 
to Utnd the toothsome vHih the wholesome j for, after all, however the hale Oonr- 
mand may at first differ from me in opinion, the latter is the chief concern ; 
siaee if he be even lo entirely devoted to the pleasure of eating as to think of no 
allher, still the care of his Health becomes part of that ; if he is sick he cannot 
relish his Food. ■ 

'*Tbe term Gontrmemd or Epicunc has been stiaagely penrexted : it has bem 
conceived synonymous with a Glutton, * nipow la digmim,* who will eat as long 
as he can sit, and drink lonoer than he can stand, nor leave his cny wUle 
he can lift it ; or like the great eater of Kent whom Fullbr places among his 
Worthies, and tells us thiii he did eat with esse IMrfaf dotent of Figoowt at one 
meal ; at another, J&mtoon Babbitt and eigMetn Yards of Bladt JPuddtttOt 
London Measure!— or a fastidious Appetite, only to be excited by fiuitasnc 
Dmnties, as the brains of Beaaoeks or Pamtt, the tongues of Thnuheswt N^iib^ 
ifWdeSt or the teats of a lactiferous Sow. 

** In the acoeptatiott which I give to the term EncuBa. it means only tli« 
peraott who has good sense and eood taste enough to wish to have his food 
cooked aeeoffdiiiff to scientific pnndples, that is lo aay, ao prepared that the 
palate be not oflended— that it be rendered eaay of aolntion in the Stomach, and 
ultimately contribute to Health ; exciting him aa an animal to the vigoroua en- 
jovment of those recreatfons and duties, physical and intellectual, iniieh con^ 
stitute the happiness and dignity of his nature.** For this illustration I am in- 
debted to my Boentific friend Apidus Oetiius, JUn. with whoae erudite obaeic 
vatiana aeveral pagea of thia work are enriched, to which I have affixed the 
ajnatnra A. C. Jtm, 

t " Although Air is more immediatdy neceamy to life than FooOb the know- 
ledge of tlie latter teems of more importance ; it admits certainly of great 
vanety, and a dMNoe is more frequently m our power. A very vara and simple 
diet has commonly been recommended as most conducive to Health ; bat It 
would be mora beneficial to mankind if we oonldshew them that a pleasant and 
varied diet was equally consistent with health, as the very strict regimen of 
Amard. or the Miller ofitsiex. These and other abstemioua people who, having 
experienced the gieataat extremities of bad health, were driven to temperance 
as their last resource, may run out in praises of a dmple diet ; but the probabi- 
lity is, that nothing but the dread of fbomer snfferiMs could have giveq them the 
reiolntion to peneTerein ao strict a course of abstmence^ which persons who 



introduction; 19 

. Tliis is by no means so difficult a task as some gloomy 
philosophers (uninitiated in Culinary Science) have tried 
to make the world beliere — ^who seem to have delighted 
in persuading you^ that every thing that is Nice must be 
noxious;— and that every thing that is Nasty is wholesome. 

*' How channinK la Dirine Philosophy! 

Not barth, and crabbed, aa doll Ibols rappoae, 
Bnt musical as is Apollo's lute» 
And a poipetaal feast of nectai'd sweets, 
Where bo crude mufeit seigns."— Hnuioil. 

Worthy William Shakspeare declared he never found 
a philosopher who could endure the Toothache patiently^ 
' — ^the Editor protests that he has not yet overtaken one 
who did not love a Feast. 

Those Cynical Slaves who are so silly as to suppose it 
unbecoming a wise man to indulge in the common com- 
forts of Life^ should be answered in the words of the French 
philosopher. " Hey — ^What, do you Philosophers eat 
dainties?" said a gay Marquess. " th you think" replied 
Descartbs^ " That God made good things only for Foolsf" 

E/very individual^ who is not perfectly imbecile and 
void of understanding; is an Epicure in his own way — 
the Epicures in boiling of Potatoes are innumerable^ — 
the perfection of all enjo3nnent depends on the perfection 
of the faculties of the Mind and Body, therefore — the 
Temperate Man is the greatest Epicure — ^and the only 
true Voluptuary. 

The Pleasures of the Table have been highly ap.r 
preciated and carefully cultivated in all Countries and in 
all Ages,* — and in spite of all the Stoics, — every one will 
allow they are the first and the last we enjoy, — and those 
we taste the oftenest, — above a Thousand times in A 
Tear, every Year of our Lives ! 

are in health, and hare no such apprehension, could not be induced to under- 
*nk^ or if the J did, would not long cfrntinue. 
" In all caisea, great allowance must be made ftnr the weakness of human 




allowatbemtiie ftill enjoyment of all those innocent pleasures which thertake de- 
light in. If itoonld be pointed out to mankind that some articles used aa food were 
burtftU, while others were in their nature innocent, and that the latter Vere 
wmaaenmM, Tarious, and pleasant, th^ might, perhaps, be induced to forego 
thoee which were hurtful, and confine themselTes to those which were innocent^** 
— te Dr. Stark's BxperimenU on JHeU pp. 89 and 90. . , 

* Sc« a curious account in Couna 6ABnu>N0MigTTE. p. 145, and in Anaeharsia 
Tmvela, aobinaon, 1796. Vol. ti. p. 5a and Obt. and note under No. 493. 



20 INTEODUCTION, 

Thb Stomach is the mainspring of our System^ — ^if it 
be not sufficiently wound up to warm the Heart and sup- 
port the Circulation^ — the whole business of Life, will, 
in proportion, be ineffectively performed, — ^we can neither 
Think with precision, — Walk with vigour,-^*?*;? down 
with comfort, — ^nor Sleep with tranquillity. 

There would be no difficulty in proving that it influ- 
ences (much more than people in general imagine) all 
our actions ; — ^the destiny of Nations has often depended 
upon the more or less laborious digestion of a Prime 
Minister.* — See a very curious anecdote in the Memoirs 
of Count Zinzendobfp in Dodsley's Annual Register for 
1762. 3d edition, p. 32. 

The philosopher Pythagoras seems to have been ex- 
tremely nice in eating ; among his absolute injunctions 
to his disciples, he commands them ^^to abstain from 
Beans." 

This ancient Sage has been imitated by the learned 
who have discoursed on this subject since, — ^who are 
liberal of their negative, — and niggardly of their positive 
precepts — ^in the ratio, that it is easier to tell you not to 
do this, than to teach you how to do that. 

Our great English moralist Dr. S. Johnson, his bio- 
grapher Boswell tells us, '' was a man of very nice dis- 
cernment in the science of Cookery," and talked of good 
eating with uncommon satisfaction. ^^Some people," 
said he, " have a foolish way of not minding, or pretend- 
ing not to mind what they eat ; for my part, I mind my 
belly very studiously and very carefully, and I look upon 
it that he who does not mind his belly, will hardly mind 
any thing else." 

The Doctor might have said, cannot mind an3rthing else 
— the energy of our Brains is sadly dependent on S^e he- 
haviour of our Bowels t — those who say, 'Tis no matter 

* See the 2d, 3d, and 4th pages of Sir Wm. Tbm plx's Staoiy mi Ae ewrt tftM 
Gout bv Moxa. 

t " He that would have a dear Mead, must hare a clean Slomadk.'*— Dr. 
Chkynjc on HeaUh, 8to. 1724, p. 34. 

" It is sniiiciently manifest now much uncomfortable feelings of the Bowels 
affect the Nervous System, and how immediately and completely Uie general 
disorder is relieved by an alvine evacuation."— p. £3. 

" We cannot reasonably expect tranquillity of the Nervous System, whilst 
there is disorder of the digestive organs. A 9 we can perceive no permanent 
•ource of strength but from the digestion ot our food, it becomes important on 



INTBODUCTION. 21 

Vvhat we eat, or what we drink, — ^maj bs well say, 'Tie no 
matter whedier we eat, or whether we drink. 

The following Anecdotes I copy from Boswell's Li/h 
^Johnson. 

Jokmon. — '^ I could write a better Book of Cookery 
than has ever yet been written ;««-it should be a book 
on philosophical principles. — I would tell what is the 
best Butcher's meaty— the proper seasons of different 
Vegetables,-— and: then, how to roast and boil, and to 
compound." 

DiUy, — MrA CUets^e's Cookery, which is the best, was 
written by Dr. Hill. 

Johnson* — " Well, Sir — this shews how much better 
the subject of Cookery * may be treated by a Philoso- 
pher ; f — ^but you shall see what a book of Cookery i 
shall make, and shall agree with Mr. Dilly for the Copy- 
right" 

Miss Seward.^^" That would be Hercules with the 
distaff indeed!" 

Johnson, — " No, Madam ; Women can spin very well, 
*-^but they cannot make a'good book of Cookery." See 
Tol. iiL p. 311. 

tfata aooonnt that ire sbonld attend to its qvaiititr, quaUtj, and the periods of 
takuwit, with a view to ensure its proper djgestum.**— Absaitsthy'b Sur. Ofit, 
Sto. 1817, p. es. 

* " If Bcienoe can really oontrlbnte to the happlneiti «f mankind, it must be 
in this department ; the reial comfort of the nuuoritr of men in this ooontiT' is 
aonglit for at their own fire-side ; how desirable does it then become to gLrt 
erery inducement to be at home, by directing all the means of Philosophy te 
increase Domestic Happiness T— SYi.vjBaTBR's nOoiophjf qfDcmaUc Eeonomjf, 
4to. 1819, p. 17. 

t " The best Books of Cookery hare been written by Physicians.— Sir Kkwumm 
Df«BY— Sir TRflODona MAvaiwa.— See the last quarter of page 304 of toI. x. 
of the I%U. Trans, for lG7fi.— Professor Braolky— Dr. HiLi<--Dr. La Corara 
—Dr. HuNTan, dec 

" To nnderstand the Thbory or CooKJiiiY, we must attend to the action of 
heat iipon the rarious constituents of alimentair substances as applied dixectlj 
and indirectly through the medium of some fluid, in the former way, as ezem^ 
plified." In the processes of Roastino and Boilino, the chief constituents of 
animal substances undergo the following changes— /'V&HfM is corrugated, the 
AOnmeH coagulated, the GdaUne and Otnuuume rendered more soluble in 
vater^ the Fat liquefied^ and the fTater evaporated. 

"If the heat exceed a certain degree, the surface becomes first brown, and 
fhen scorched. In consequence of these changes, the muscular fibre becomes 
opaonc^ shorter, firmer, and drier ; the tendons less opaque, softer and gluey ; 
tSe &t is either melted out, or rendered semi-transparent Animal fluids be> 
oome more transparent ; the albumen is coagulated and separated, and they 
diasolTe gelatine and osmaaome. 

**Lasuy, and what is the most important change, and the immediate object 
of aU Cookery, the meat loses the vapid nauseous smell and taste peculiar to its 
raw state^ and it becomes savoury and grateful. 

" Heat applied through the intervention of boiling oil, or melted fat, as in 
Prying, produces nearly the same changes ; as the heat is sufficient to evap<^ 
late the water, and to induce a degree of scorching. 



22 JNTBODUCTION*. 

Mr* B. adds^ ^^ I never knew a man who relished good 
eating more than he did : when at Tahle^ he was totally 
ahfiorhed in the husiness of the moment : nor would he^ 
unless in very high company^ say one word, or even pay 
the least attention to what was said hy others, until he 
had satisfied his Appetite." 

The peculiarities of his Constitution were as great as 
those of his Character :— -Luxury and Intemperance are 
relative terms, depending on oiher circumstances than 
mere quantity and quality. Nature gave him an excels 
lent Palate, and a craving Appetite, and his intense Ap- 
plication rendered large supplies of nourishment ahso-' 
lutely necessary to recruit his exhausted spirits* 

The fact is, this great Man had found out that Animai 
0nd Intellectual Vigour* are much more entirely depen-^' 
dent upon each oiher, than is commonly undenUiod ^ 
especially in those constitutions, whose digestive and 
chylopoetic oi^gans are capridous and easily put out of 
tune, or absorh the ^^ pabulum vitoe" indolently and im^ 
perfectly,— with such, it is only now and then that the 
*'9en9orium commune" vihrates with the full tone of accu** 
rately considerative or creative energy. ^' His favouiiler 
dainties were, a leg of Pork hoiled till it dropped from 
the hone, a veal-pie with plums and sugar, or the out- 
side cut of a salt huttock of heef. With regard to Drink, 
his liking was for the strongest, as it was not the Flavour, 
hut the Effect that he desired." Mr. Smale's account of 
Dr. Johnson's Journey into Wales, 1816, p. 174, 

Thus does the Health always, and very often the Ltpr 
of Invalids, and those who have weak and infirm Sto-> 
ifACHs, depend upon the care and skill of the Cook. Our 
Fore&Ahers were so sensible of this, that in days of yore 

** But whm water is the medinm throngh which heat \m applied— as in Bori^ 
rifo, Stxwino, and Baking, the effects are somewhat diflerent, as the heat 
BSTer exceeds 21S", which is not sufficient to commence the process of brownins 
or decomposition, and the soluble constituents are remorea by being dissolred 
In the water, fonnins soup or broth; or, if the direct contract of the water be 

e«Tented, tner are dissoiTed in the juices of the meat, and separate in the 
rm of Gravy. 

Vide Supplement to Bnqfelap. BrU. Sdin. toI. ir. p. 344, the Article ** Food/* 
to wlkidk we refer our r eader aa the most scientific paper on the subject we have 
seen. 

• «< Health, Beauty, Strength, aadSplrits.andImightadd all the fiscnltiesofthe 
Mind, depend upon uie Oi^ms of the Body ; when these are In good order, tho 
fehinkina part is most aleit and aotiTe, the contrary when they are disturbed or 
disease«.'^«-Pr. Caoooan m Ifunif^ CMkbren, iiro., 1757 p. 0. 



IKTRODUCTIOK. ^S 

iio tdtaL of consequence thouglit of making a day's journey 
withoat taking his '^ Maoistbr Goquoruh" with him. 

The rarity of this talent in a high degree is so well 
^imdeFstood, that hesides yery considerable pecuniary 
compensation^ his Majesty's first and second Cooks * are 
now Esquires by their office ; we may haye eyery reason 
to suppose they were persons of equal dignity heretofore. 

In Dr. Pegge's " Forme of Cuty" 8yo. London^ 
1780^ we read^ that when Cardinal Otto^ the Pope's 
Legate, was at Oxford^ A.D. 1248, his brodier officiated 
«8 '* Maoister Coquikjs." 

This important post has always been held as a situa- 
tion of high trust and confidence ; and the '^ Magnus 
CoQuns," Anglice, the Master Kitchener, has, time imme- 
noriai, been an Officer of considerable dignity in the 
palaces of Princes. 

The Cook in Plautus {Pseudot) is called ^' Homi- 
Mum tervatorem" the preseryer of mankind ; and by 
Mbbciek " un Midecin qui guerit radiealement deux 
nudadiei morteUes, la Faim et la Soif," 

The Norman Conqueror William bestowed seyeral 
portions of Land on these highly &youred domestics, the 
'^ CoQUOBiTK PfiiBPOsiTUs/' and ^' CoQ0us Rbgius ; a 
Manor was bestowed on Robert Argyllon 'the ** Grakd 
QuEUx/' to be held by the following sendee. See that 
venerable Record the Doomsday Book, 
Addington — Co. Surrey. 
Robert Argyllon holdeth one carucate of Land in 
Addington in the County of Surrey^ by the seryice of 
making one mess in an earthen pot in the kitchen of our 
Lord the King^ on the day of his coronation^ called ^'De 
la Groute" L e. a kind of Plum porridge, or Water-gruel 
with Plimis in it. This dish is still seryed up at the 
Royal Table at Coronations^ by the Lord of the said 
Manor of Addington. 

At the Coronation of King George IV., Court of 
Cims, July 12, 1820: 

* "We hare Bome good families in England of the name of Cook or Cohe. 
know not what t* "'* •" - ^^ - - ' ^ '^ ^*- « --• • 

all/ sprang from i 
r |n«ir extraction 
Forme of Cuiv, p. 



4C 



J know not what they nrnr think ; hiit they may depend upon it, they all origi- 
nally sprang Atom real and profeMional Coolu ; and they need not be ashamed 
of ineir extraction, any mora than the Airter#, BuOtrtt f«."— Dr. Psooc'a 
Fvrtae cf Ctav, p. 168. 



24 INTRODUCTION. 

"The petition of the Archbishop of GANTEmtrsir, 
which was presented by Sir G. Nayler, claiming to per«- 
form the service of presenting a Dish De la Groute 
to the King at the banquet^ was considered by the Courts 
and decided to be allowed." 

A good Dinner is one of the greatest enjoyments of 
human life ;— 4ind as the practice of Cookery is attended 
with so many discouraging difficulties^* so many disgust- 
ing and disagreeable circumstances^ and even dangers^ 
we ought to have some regard for those who encounter 
them^ to procure us pleasure, and to reward their atten<* 
tion by rendering their situation every way as comfortable 
and agreeable as we can. He who preaches Integrity to 
those in tlie Kitchen, (see '^ Advice to Cooks") may be 
permitted to recommend Liberality to those in the Par. 
lour ; they are mdeed the sources of each other. Depend 
upon it, " True Self-Love and Social are the same /* 
"Do as you would be done by ;*' give those you are 
obliged to trust— «very inducement to be honest, and no 
temptation to play tricks. 

When you consider that a good servant eats f no more 
than a bad one — how much waste is occasioned by pro* 
visions being dressed in a slovenly and unskilful man- 
ner — and how much a good Cook (to whom the conduct 
of the Kitchen is confided) can save you by careful 
management — no Housekeeper will hardly deem it an 
unwise speculation, — it is certainly an amiable experi- 
ment, — ^to invite the Honesty and Industry of domestics^ 

* It is said, there are siyxN dumu* efgamst even the most rimpU dUh beingf 
pretented lo Ote Mouth in abtolute pefjhction »• for instance, a lkq of Mutton. 

Ist.— The Mutton must ht good. 

2d.~Mii8t hare heen kept a good time. 

3d.— -Must be roasted at a gwd fire. 

4th.— Bt a good Cook. 

ffth. — ^Who must be in good temper. 

6th.— With all this felicitous combination you must have good luck, and 

7th.— &o0d Appetite.— The Meat, and the mouths which are to eat it» must 
be ready for action at the same moment. 

t To guard against ** la gourmandise"* of the second table, "pro-ride each of 
your senrants with a lar^pair of spectacles of the highest magnirjring power, and 
neyer permit them to sit down to any meal without wearing them ; they are as 
necessary, and as useful in a Kitchen as Pots and Kettles : they will make a 
Leurk look as laige as a Fowi^ a Goote as big as a Swan» a Leg of Mutton as 
large as a Hind Quarter of Beef ; a twopenny loaf as large as a quartern ;" and as 
Philosophers assure you that Pain eren is only imaginary, we may jnatlT believe 
the same of Hunger ; and if a servant who eats nb more than one pound of food 
iraaginoL by the aid of these glasses, that he has eaten three poun^, his hun- 
ger will be as fullv satisfied— and the addition to your Optician's Aooount, will* 
toon be overpaid by the Subtraction from your Butcher's and Baker's. •- 



XNTBODUCTIDK* 25 

by setting them an Example of Liberaiity, — ^at least shew 
them^ that " accordijt^ to their Pains wtU he their Gains" 

Avoid all approaches towards Familiarity, — ^which t9 
a prbverh is accompanied hy Contempt, and soon breaks 
the neck of Obedience. 

A Lady gave us the following account 0/ the progresM 
of a Favourite : 

" The First year^ She was an excellent Servant ; the 
Second, a kind Mistress ; the Third, an intolerable 
Tyrant; at whose dismissal^ every creature about my house 
rejoiced heartily." 

However^ Servants are more likely to be praised into 
good conduct than scolded out of bad ; always commend 
them when they do right — ^to cherish the desire of pleasi* 
ing in them^ you must shew them that you are pleased :•*— 



" Be to their faults a little blind. 
And to their Tirtuee rery kind." 



By such conduct, ordinary Servants may be converted 
into (jood ones ;-^few are so hardened, as not tofedgra^ 
tified when they are kindly and liberally treated. 

It is a good maxim to select Servants not younger than 
THiBTY, — before that age, however comfortable you may 
endeavour to make them, their want of experience, and the 
Hope of something still better, prevents their being satisfied 
with their present state.— ^/V^r, they have had the benefit 
of experience ; if they are tolerably comfortable, they will 
endeavour to deserve the smiles of even a moderately kind 
master, for Fear they may change for the worse. 

Life may indeed be very fairly divided into the seasons 
of Hope and Feab. In Youth, we hope every thing 
may be right ; — in Age, we fear every thing will be wrong. 

Bo not discharge a good servant for a slight offence-— 

** Bear and forbear, thus preached the stoic sages, 
And in two words, include the sense of pages." — Popk. 

Human natube is the same in all stations ; if you 
can convince your Servants that you have a generous and 
considerate regard for their Health and Comfort, why 
should You imagine, that They will be insensible to the 
g&od they receive ? 



28 onamwcTiON^ 

Impose no commands but what are reasonable — ^nor re^ 
prove but with justice and temper — ^the best way to en-* 
sure which is^ never to Lecture them tiil at least Om bay 
AFTBB ^ey hoM offended you. 

If they have any particular hardship to endure in your 
service^ let them See that you are concerned for the ne- 
cessity of imposing it. 

If they are eick, — remember you are their Patron as 

well as dieir Master; remit their labour^ and give them 

all the assistance of Food^ Physic^ and every comfort in 

fl your power. — Tender assiduity about an Invalid is half 

/ a Cure ; it is a balsam to the Mind^ which has a most 

'- powerful effect on the Body^ soothes the sharpest Pains^ 

and strengthens beyond the richest Cordial. 

The following estimate of thb Expenses of a Female 
Servant^ was sent to us by an experienced Housekeeper. 

They are often expected to find their own Tea and 
SuGAB^ — ^which with sober servants is the most comfort- 
able meal they have^ and will require : 

■nAlf ft pound Ol T6ft tWI* fMl mii *r*»*»*»»»*»*» * »*a»9»»*» \ «.»^».<M « 1A A 

^. ,f p \; . I per annum a w o 

4 pftu Oi oDOCS ptr flltlHWWo»«»>i »> «» »>«» w «#»«»»«i»<»i«ip»»»t»»#»«#<w<w «»<».»<»#■ to 

9 pftir of blftdc wonted StoclringB..iw, ,■>.>«>,» ■wM«,a,»,.ww»»«>»»»»<,i>» 4 0. 

5 pftir of whito optton ditto ««.<w»*.«> » »i.».*>».«>«»<i,^^, »»«>. « «..«»#■ «>.»i«<»<» 5 

M VOWllS '■ ■ ■-■-■■■■----■■*---■*■*■-■ ■ ■■ -■ -^ 1 f r , -rr rnrrr n rj jtj f jf a im m » I 10 

6 ApiODs-^ check SBd two ^ ^"^tA — , j,„ 10 6 

O vftpS ■ ■■-■■■-■--- ■■■-■■■■■■■■■■ *-"■ T -r -rrf 'rrrrrrf rrr ii ft» ii. a. 10 O 

A Bonnet, ft Shawl or Cloak; Pattens, ftcBibanda, Hftndkerchieft, 
Fin«, Needles, Tkreadftp Thimbles, Sossors, and other working 
tools,— Staji^ Stay-taps^ and bwckram, &c. dur. > 8 

i?9 8 

Besides these^ she has to make a shift and buy petti- 
coats^ pockets^ and many other articles. 

We appeal to the neatest managing and most economical 
Housemfe, to inform us how this can be done^ and how 
much a poor Girl will have remaining to place to her ac- 
count in the Savings Bank — ^for help in Sickness, when 
out of Place — and for her support in Old Aye, Here is 
the source of the swarms of distressed Femides which we 
daily meet in our streets. 

Ye, who think that to protect and encourage Virtue ie 



nrTBODUcTiON. 27 

ike bist preventive /rom Vice, reward your Female Ser-i 
panU liber<tlly. 

■ Chabitt ekauid begin at home — ^Prevention is prefer- 

able to Cure— 'but I bare no objection to see your names 
ornamenting the Lists of Subscribers to FountUing Hospi- 
tals and Female Penitentiaries.* Gentle Reader^ for a 
definition of tbe word '^ Charity'* let me refer you to tbe 
Idth Chapter of St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians. 
'^ To say nothing of the deleterious vapours and pesti- 
lential exhalations of the charcoal> v^hich soon undermine 
tbe health of the heartiest^ the glare of a scorching fire, 
and the smoke so baneful to the eyes and the complexion, 

I are continual and inevitable dangers ; and a Cook must 

! live in the midst of them, as a soldier on the field of battle 

surrounded by bullets and bombs, and CojTGSSVB'srockets y 

r with this only diiference, tbat for the first, every day is a 
fighting day, that her warfare is almost always without 
g^ory, and most praiseworthy achievements pass not only 

I without reward, but frequently without thanks — for the 

most oonsunmiate cook is, alas ! seldom noticed by the 
master, or heard of by the guests ; who, while they are 
eagerly devouring his Turtle, and drinking his wine, 
care very little who dressed the one, or sent the other," 
'--'Alma/na^ dee Geumumde, 

This observation applies especially to the Sbcond Cook, 
or first Kitchen Maid, in large families, who have by far 
the hardest place in the house, and are worse paid, and 
truly verify the old adage, *^ the more work, the less wages." 
If thei« is any thing r^ht, the cook has the prais^when 

I * Mitdi raal reformation ntiflbt be eflEected, and moet grateful aerrioee obtained. 

if fiunittea which coneist wholl7 of fesMJ^ would take aerranta reeommended 

from the MAonauBiH- PjnnTBMTTAKY— or QuaxdiaW'— who leek to be testored 

to Tirtaonfl society. 

'' Female Sarvemts who mumte an honeit c om a e h are to tniTel in their pe- 

I jonUar orbit tluoiigh a more powezfoUy retiating medinm than perhape any other 

cUua of people in ciTlliaed Ufe,— they ahonla be treated with aomething like 

^liatian Idndneea ; for want of thi»— a firalt which miriit at the time hare been 

I eaaly amendedr-haa become the aonrce of interminable aorrow." 

**By the demMicy and benevolent interference of two miatieaaea known to 
the writer, two aerranta have become happy wiTes, wlus had they been in aome 
flitnatioiia» would bare been literally Ontcaats." 

A most laudable Socutt for the ENCOURAOsuBirr of FaiiAJji SniTAMTa, by 
a gratuitous Reristry, and bj Rewards, waa inetituted in 1813. 

Plana of which may be had gnUis at the Society'a Houae, No. 10, Hatton Gar- 
den. Tbe abore is an extract from the Rev. H. G. Watkin's Hints to Heads 
»fFamUieSt a work well deserving the attentive consideration of inexperienced 
hoBMkeepera, and from pp. 13, SS, and S6. of which the above ia an extract. 



28 INTRODUCTION. 

there is any thing wrongs as surely the Kitchen Maid has 
the hlame. Be it known^ then^ to honest John Bull, 
that this humhle domestic is expected hy the Cook to take 
the entire management of all Roasts, Boils, Fish, and 
Veoetables — i. e. the principal part of an Englishman's 
dinner. 

The Master, who wishes to enjoy the rare luxury of a 
tahle regularly well served in the hest style, must treat 
his Cook as his friend — ^watch over her health* with the 
tcnderest care, and especially he sure her taste does not 
suffer from her Stomach heing deranged hy Bilious Attacks. 

Besides understanding the management of the Spit, the 
Stewpan, and the Rollmg Pin, a Complbtb Cook must 
know how to go to Market, write legihly, and keep Ac- 
counts accurately. 

*The greatest can should be taken by the man of fiuhion, that his Code's 
health be preserred : one htmdredth part of the attention usually bestoired on 
his doff, or his horse, will suffice to Tei|[nlate her animal system. 

" Cleanliness^ and a proper rentilauon to canr o£F smoke and steam, should 
be particularly attended to in the construction of a kitchen ; the erand scene of 
action, the fire-place, should be placed where it may receive plenty of light ; 
hitherto the contrary has prevailed, and the poor Cook is oontinually bastea 
with her own perspiration. — A. C. Jun, 

*' The most experienced artists in Cookery cannot be certain of their work 
without tasting— they must be incessantly tasting. The spoon of a good Cook 
is oontinually passing firom the stewpan to his wngue ; nothing but frequent 
tarting his Sauces, Bagoftts, Jkc. can discover to him what progress they nava 
made, or enable him to season a Soup with any certainty of success ; his Palate^ 
therefore, must be in the highest state of excitability, that the least fsolt may 
be perceived in an instant. 

*'But, alas 1 the constant empyienmalic funea of die stoves, the neoeirity of 
frequent drinking, and often of iMid beer, to moisten a patched throat ; in short, 
every thing around him conspires quiclchr to vitiate the oi|{ans of taste ; the pap 
late becomes blunted ; its quickness of feeling and deUcacy, on which the sen> 
libility of the organs of taste depends, grows osily more obtuse : and in a short 
time the gustatory nerve becomes quite unexcitable. 

" Ip you riND YOUR Cook nsolkct his bu8inbb»— that his Ragouts are too 
highly spiced or salted, and his cookery has too much of the *hdut goAtt* yon 
may be sure that his Index of Taste wants regulating— his palate has lost its 
sensibility, and it is high time to call in the assistance of the apothecary. 

" ' Purger souvent b the grand maxim in all Kitchens where le Mtmre dt Ho- 
tel has any regard for the repntatioii of bistable. Lu bens Hommes de BDuclk»— 
Bubmit to the opeiation wittiont a murmur ; to bind others, it should be made 
the first condit&n in hiring them. ^Those who reAise, prove they were not boni 
to become Masters of their Art : and their indifbrence to Fame will rank them, 
as they deserve, among those Slaves who pass their lives in as mudi obscnri^ aa 
their own stewpans.** 

To the preoeding observations firom the " Ahnanaeh des GcurmandSt** we 
may add that the JfonAicianwill have a still better chance of success, if he caa 
prevail on his master to observe the same regime whidi he orders for his Cook, 
or, instead of endeavouiing to awaken an idle Appetite, by reading the Index to 
a Cookery Book, or an adoitional use of the pepper box and salt-cellar— rather 
seek it from Abstinence or Exercise ; — the pnilosophioal Oourmand will consi- 
der that the edge of our Appetite is generally keen, in proportion to the acti- 
vity of our other habits; let him attentively peruse our " Pbptic Piubckpts,** 
&c. which briefly explain the Art of refreshing the Oustatory Nerves and of iii^ 
vigorating the whole System. See in the following Chapter on iNyiTATiomi to 
DiNNBA— A Becipe to make Forty Prristaltic Pbrsuaoias. 



I 

IRTBODUCflON, 29 

In well-regolated Private Families the most cbnTenient 
custom seems to be^ -that the Cook keep a house-book^ 
containing an account of the miscellaneous articles she 
I purchases; and the Butcher's, Baker's, Butterman's, 

Greengrocer's, Fishmonger's, Milkman's, and Washing 
Bills are brought in every Monday ; these it is the duty 
of the Cook to examine, before she presents them to her 
employer every Tuesday morning, to be discharged. 

The advantage of paying sttch bUU weekly is incaku^ 
lahle ; among others — ^the constant check it affords against 
any excess beyond the sum allotted for defraying them, 
and the opportunity it gives of correcting increase of ex- 
pense in one week by a prudent retrenchment in the next. 
'^ If you would live even with the world, calculate your 
expenses at Halfyoja Income— if you would grow Rickf 
at One Third." 

It is an excellent plan to have a table of rules for regu* 
ktting the ordinary expenses of the Family, in order to 
check any innovation or excess which otherwise might be 
introduced unawares, and derange the proposed distribu- 
tion of the annual revenue. 

To understand the Economy of Houeehold Affairs is 
not only essential to a Woman's proper and pleasant per* 
formance of the duties of a Wife and a Mother, but is 
indispensable to the Comfort, Respectability, and general 
Wel&re of all Families — ^whatever be their Circumstances. 

The Editor has employed some leisure hours in collect- 
ing Practical Hints for Instructing Inexperienced House- 
keepers in the useful 

Art of Providing Comfortably for a Family; 
which is displayed so plainly .and so particularly, that a 
Young Lady may learn the delectable Arcana of Domestic 
Affairs, in as little time as is usually devoted to directing 
the position of her Hands on a Piano-forte, or of her Feet 
in a Quadrille — this will enable her to make the Cage of 
Matrimony as comfortable as the Net* of Courtship was 
charming. For this purpose he has contrived 
A Housekeeper's Lsdgeb,* 

•The Editor recommends to all those -who may be providently inclined, the 

ETchaae of •* The Housekeeper'a Oracle," published by Whittaker, Are Maria 
ne. 



90 UTTBOBUCTIOir. 

A Plain and Easy Plan of Keeping Accurate Aeeounts of 

the Expenses of Housekeeping ^ which, with only 

Onb Houb's Attention in a Week, 

will enable you to balance all sncb aceonnts with the utmost 

Exactness ; an acceptable acquisition to AU^ who admit 

that 

ORDER AND ECONOMY 

ABB 

THE BASIS OP 

COMFORT AND INDEPENDENCE. 
Ptddished bg Geo. B. Whittakeb^ Ave Maria Lane. 

Prioe^ Bwmiy with Ruled Pages far Aaootmte., jv. 3t. 

It is almost impossible for a Cook in a laige Family^ to 
attend to the business of the Kitchen with any certainty 
of perfection^ if employed in other household concerns. It 
is a service of such importance, and so difficult to perform 
even tolerably well^ that it is sufficient to engross the entire 
attention of one person. 

'^ If we take a review of the Q,ualificatum» which are 
indispensable in that highly estimable domestic, a Good 
Cook, we shall find that very few deserve that name."* 

'* The majority of those who set up for Professors of 
this Art, are of mean ability^ selfish^ and pilfering every 
thing they can ; others are indolent and insoloiit Those 
who really understand their business (which are by fur the 
smallest number), are too often either ridiculously saucy, 
or insatiably thirsty; in a word, a good subject of this 
class is a rara avis indeed !" 

'^ God sends meat," — who sends Cooks ? + the proverb 
has long saved us the trouble of guessing. Vide Almanack 
des Gourmands, p. 83. 

* "She must be quick and titrong of light ; her hearine most acute, that she 
may be aeasiUe when the contents of her vessels babble, slthoogh they be closely 
ooTtred, and that she may be alarmed before the pot boils orer ; her auditory 
nenre ought to be discriminate (when sereral saucepans are in operation at the 
same time) the simmering of one, the ebullition of another, and the full-toned 
wabbling of a third. 

" It is imperiously requisite that her oi|ian of smell be hii^hly susceptible of 
the ToriouB eifluria, that her nose may distmgulsh the perfiection of aromatic in- 
gredients, and that in animal sabstanoes it niall evinoe a snspicioas accuracy 
between tenderness and putre&ction ; abore all, her olfactories should be trem- 
blingly alive to mustiness and empyrenma. 

"litis from the exquisite sensibmty of her palate, that we admire and judge 
of the Gook ; from the alliance between the olfactory and sapid oigaas it will be 
seen, that Uieir perfection is indispensable."—^. C. Jun. 

f A fiicetions Gourmand sugKCSts that the old story of " lighting a Candle tothA 
Devil " probably arose from this adage— and was an oiTering presented to Ua 
infernal Majesty by some Epicure who was in want of a Cook. 



iNTRODXTCTIOSr. S\ 

Of what value then is not this hook ? — ^which will 
render every person of common sense a good Cook in as 
little time as it can he read through attentively. 

If the Masters and Mistresses of Families will some* 
times condescend to make an mnusement of this Art, thev 
will escape numherless disappointments^ &c, which those 
who will not^ must occasionally inevitahly suffer^ to the 
detriment of hoth their Health and their Fortune. 

I did not presume to offer any ohservations of my own, 
till I had read all that I could find written on the suhject, 
and submitted (with no small pains) to a patient and at- 
tentive consideration of every preceding work^ relating to 
culinary concerns^ that I coTild meet with. 

These books vary very little from each other ; except 
in the preface, they are 

** Like in all else as one Egg to another.** 

" Ab uno, disce omnes ;" cutting and pasting have been 
much oftener employed than the Pen and Ink : any one 
who has occasion to refer to two or three of them, will 
find ihe Beoeipts almost always " verbatim et literatim ;** 
equally unintelligible to those who are ignorant, and use- 
less to those who are acquainted with the business of the 
Kitchen. 

I have perused not fewer than 250 of these volumes. 

During the Herculean labour of my tedious progress 
through these books, few of which afford the germ of* 4 
single idea^ I have often wished that the authors of them 
had been satisfied with giving us the results of their own 
practice and experience — ^instead of idly perpetuating the 
errors^ prejudices, and plagiarisms of their predecessors, — 
the strange^ and unaccountable^ and uselessly extravagant 
farragos, and heterogeneous compositions, which fill their 
pages, are combinations no rational being would ever think 
of either dressing or eating ; and without ascertaining the 
practicability of preparing the receipts, and their fitness 
for food when done, they should never have ventured to 
recommend them to others: — the reader of them will 
often put the same quasre as Jeremy, in Congreve's comedy 
of ^' Lave for Love" when Valentine observes, 'there's a 
page doubled down in Epictetus that is a feast for an 



32 INTBODUCTION. 

Emperor. — Jer, Was Epictetus a real Gook^ or did h6 
only write Receipt^ ?" 

Half of the modem Cookery books^ are made up with 
pages cut out of obsolete works, such Us the " Choice 
Manual of Secrets," the " True Gendewomtm's Delight" 
&c. of as much use> in this Age of refinement, as the fol- 
lowing curious passage from " The Accomplished hady's 
Rich Closet of Rarities, or Ingeniotis Gentlewoman's De-» 
Ughtftd Compcmion," 12mo. London, 1653, chapter 7, 
page 42 ; which I have inserted in a note* to give the 
reader a notion of the barbarous manners ofthelSth cen» 
tury, with the addition of the Arts of the Confectioner,— 
the Brewer, — the Baker, — ^the Distiller, — ^the Grardener, 
—the Clearstarcher,— -and the Perfiimer, — and how to 
make Pickles, — Puff Paste, — Butter, — Blacking, &c.-^ 
together with my Ijidy Bountifv^s sovereign remedy for 
an inward Bruise, and other ever-failing Nostrums — ^Dr. 
Killemquick's wonder-working Essence, and fallible Elixir 
which cures all manner of incurable maladies directly min- 
ute — Mrs. NotaMe*s instructions how to make soft po- 
matum, that will soon make more hair grow upon thy 
Head, *' than Dobbin, thy thill-horse, hath upon his tail," 
and many others equally invaluable!!! — the proper ap- 
pellation for which would be '^ a dangerous budget of 
vulgar ierrors," concluding with a bundle of extracts from 
"the Gardener's Calender," and "the Publican's Daily 
Companion." 

l%omas Carter, in the preface to his "City ami Country 
Cook," London, 1738, says, " What I have published is 

* "A Gentlewoman being at table, abroad or at home, mnst obterre to keep 
her body ttraight, and lean not br anj means with her elbowa, nor bj raTenona 
gestnre oiacoTer a Toracions appetite ; talk not when you hare meat in your mouth, 
tad do not smack like a Pig^ nor venture to eat Spoonmeat so hot that the tean 
stand in rour Eyes, which is as unaeemW as the GtKOewtman who pretended to 
have as httle a Stomach as she had a ilfotttA, and therefore would not swallow 
her Peat by spoonsful ; but took them one by one, and cut Ihem in two befbro 
she would eat them. It is very uncomely to drink so large a droMffiU that your 
BnaA is almost gone— and are forced to blow stiongly to recover yourself 
thxowiiw down your liauar as into a Fwuui is an action fitter for a Jnggte 
than VkOeiUleuximan: tnus much for your Observations in general ; if I am de^ 
ftctive as to particulars, your own pnidtneet dUenUon, andcurUna cbttrvaOoM 
will supply. 

<* In Carvino at your own TtOiUt distribute the best pieces first, and H will 
appear very comely and decent to use a Fork : so touch no piece of Meat without it. 

'* M«$n. The English are indebted to Tom Coryat for mtroducing tbb Pork. 
for which they called him Furcifirr—^o^ his Crvditia, voL L p. 106.— Editioii 
177^ 8vo. 



1 



INTBODUCTION. 39 

almost the only lK)ok> one or two excepted^ which of late 
years has come into the worlds that has heen the result 
of the author's own practice and experience ; for though 
very few eminent practical Cooks have ever cared to 
puhlish what they knew of the art^ yet they have heen pre- 
vailed on^ for a sinall premiumfroma Bookseller^ to lend their 
names to performances in this art^ unworthy their owning." 

Bohert May^ in the introduction to his ^^ Accomplh^ed 
Cook*' 1 ^^^, says, " To all honest and wdUntending 
persons of my proftsswn^ and others, this book cannot Ink 
be acceptable, as it plainly and profitably diie&vers the 
n^stery of ^ whole oat; for which, though I may he 
envied hy some, that only value their private interests ahove 
posterity and the puhHc good; yet, (he adds), God and my 
own conscience would not permit me to hury these, my 
experiences, with my silver hairs in the grave." 

Those high and mighty Masters and Mistresses of the 
Alimentary Art, who call themselves '* Profess" Cooks, 
are said to he very jealous and mysterious heings: and that 
if in a long life of lahorious Stove work, they have found 
out a few useful secrets, they seldom impart to the puh- 
lic the fruits of their experience ; hut sooner than divulge 
their discoveries for the henefit and comfort of their fel- 
lows-creatures, these silly, selfish heings wiU rather run the 
risk of a reprimand from their employers, and will sooner 
spoil a good Dinner, than suffer dieir fellow-servants to 
see how they dress it ! I ! 

The silly selfishness of short-sighted mortals is never 
more extremely ahsurd than in theirunprofitahle parsimony 
of what is of no use to them, hut would he of actual 
value to others, — who in return would willingly r^ay 
them tenfold ; — however, I hope I may he permitted 
to quote in defence of these culinary Professors, a couple , 
of lines of a favourite old song : 

*' If joit March fhe world ronnd, each profeision, joull find. 
Hath Mine t&ug little Mcvets, which the MjBt«7 * thejr call.** 

* "Atanoet all Arts and Sdencee are more or le« encambered with tuI- 
EST error* and prejudices, which avarice and ignorance have unfortunately sof- 
fidcnt Influence to preserre, by help (or hindenmce) of mrsterious, nndefinahle, 
and not Mldom unintelligible, technical terme— Ani^ic^ nicknames— which, 
instead of enlightening the subject it is professedly pretended they were inrented 
to illaminate, senre but to shroud it in almost impenetrable obscurity ; and, in 
seneraT, so extratagantly fond are the ptofessois of an art of luephig up »U th» 



34 INTBOD0CTIOK. 

My Receipts are the results of experiments carefully 
made^ and accurately and circumstantially related ; 

The TiMB requisite for dressing being stated ; 

The Quantities of the various articles contained in 
each composition being carefully set down in Nvmbeb, 
Weight, and Measure. 

The Weights are AvoirdupaU ; the Hbasubb, Lyne's 
graduated Glass, t. e, a Wine pint divided into sixteen 
ounces, and the Ounces into eight Drachms : — ^by a 
Wine-^lass is to be understood two ounces liquid measure; 
'—by a large or TaUe-Spoonfuly half an ounce ; — ^by a 
small or Tea^Spoonftd, a drachm, or half a quarter of an 
ounce, L e. nearly equal to two drachms avoirdupois. 

At Price's glass warehouse, near Exeter 'Change, in 
the Strand, you may get measures divided into Tea and 
Table-Spoons. — No Cook should be without one, who 
wishes to be regular in her business. 

Tki8 precisian kcu never be/ore been attempted in 
Cookery books, but I found it indispensable from the im- 
possibility of gitessing the quantities intended, by such 
obscure expressions as have been usually employed for 
this purpose in former works : — 

For instance : a bit of this— « handful of that — a pinch 
of t'other, — do 'em over with an Egg, — ^and a sprinkle of 
salt,— a dust of flour, — a shake of pepper, — a squeeze of 
lemon,-— or a dash of vinegar, &c. are the constant phrases ; 
season it to your Palate, (meaning the Cook's) is another 
form of speech : now, if she has any, — ^it is very unlikely 
that it is in unison witJithatof her employers, — ^by continu- 
ally sipping/Mi^zMinte relishes, it becomes blunted and insen-' 
sible, and loses the faculty of appreciating delicate flavours, 
— so that every thing is done at random. 

pomp, circnmsUuice, and mTsteir of it, and of pMerring the aocnmnlated preju- 
dices of affee past nndimintfllned. that one might fairly suppose those who hare 
had the oourafje and perseverance to oreroome these obstacle^ and penetrate 
the Teil of sdenoe, were delighted with placing difiScalties in tne way of those 
who may attempt to follow tnem, on purpose to deter them from the pursuit ; 
and that they cannot bear others shonia climb the hill of knowledge by a readier 
road than they themselves did : andsnch is VetpritduoMTU, that as their predeces- 
sors supported themselves by serving it out gnuIaHm a tUUatim, and retailing 
vrith a sparing hand the information they so hardly obtained, thev find It con- 
venient to follow their example: and, willingto do astnev have been done by, leave ' 
and bequeath the inheritance nndiminishea to those who may succeed them.**— 
See p. U), of Dr. Kitchinsr <m Tetetoopet, 12mo. 1886, pxinted for Whittaker. 
Are Maria lone. 



INTBODXTCTION. 35 

These OnUnaiy technicals* are so very differently un- 
derstood by the learned who write them^ and the un- 
learned who read them^ and their ^' rule of Thumb" is so 
extremely indefinite^ that if the same dish be dressed by 
different persons^ it will generally be so different^ that 
nobody would imagine they had worked from the same 
directions^ which will assist a person who has not served a 
regular apprenticeship in the Kitchen^ no more than read- 
ing '^ Robinson Crusoe" would enable a Sailor to steer 
safely from England to India. 

It is astonishing how cheap Cookery Books are held by 
practical Cooks : when I applied to an experienced artist 
to recommend me some books that would give me a 
notion of the rudiments of Cookery^ he replied with a 
smile— ^'^ You may read Don Quixote, or Peregrine 
Pickle, they are both very good books." 

Careless expressions in Cookery are the more surprising^ 
as the Confectioner is regularly attentive^ in the description 
of his preparations^ to give the exact quantities^ though 
his business^ compared to Cookery^ is as unimportant^ as 
the Ornamental is inferior to the Useful. 

The maker of Blanc-mange^ Custards^ &c. and the end- 
less and useless collection of puerile pla3iihings for the 
palate (of First and Second childhood, for tJie Vigour of 
Manhood seeketk not to be sucking Sugar, or sipping 
Turtle,) is scrupulously exact, even to a grain, in his in- 
gredients ; whilst Cooks are unintelligibly indefinite, al- 
though they are intrusted with the administration of our 
FOOD, upon the proper quality and preparation of which, 
all our powers of Body and Mind depend ; — their 
Energy, being invariably in the ratio of the performance 
of the restorative process, i. e. the quantity, quality, and 
perfect digestion of what we Eat and Drink. 

Unless the Stomach be in good humour every part of 
the machinery of Life must vibrate with languor :-— <^n 
we then be too attentive to its adjustment ? ! ! 

* "In ih9 preaent language of Ckwkexy, there has beei^ a woftil departure 
from the sunpUdtj of our auceston,— such a fiurago of unapprQpriate and un- 
meaning terms, many corrupted from the Vtvadh, aethers chsguisod from the 
Italian, some misapplied from the German, while many are a disgraoe to the 
SngUsh. What can any person enpiwse to be the meaning of a SJwulder qf 
Lamb in ariffram, unlen it were a poor dish, for a Penny-less Poet ? Mpeet QT 
JUh would appear calculated for an Attrolflwer; and thmtlAerofinMlllUm ntr- 
priudt deiign«d for a SheepHrtealer."— A C. Jtm. 



(36 ) 
CUUNAEY CUEIOSITIEa. 

ffpvdnaefi of tb* ai]a«oaiitAb[7 irhinuicAl HArT«qaiBA44 of 
?FiRBODI,~ iD llM team af ■ 



•'nht coUoHTt 
dOarilsiirtili 

KB, "lAtaHHI^PS^ 

eelpti thit hiiTt hwi bd«w 
■ d Uinld. "lUKI Umaii 
andtUaOMieaUt^' "TBlIsatfOOSBoiiiDUCK, or nme nch Htcjv cra- 
(HK (bat HBKt U bat of nil lDrlhupupiMa,)pullotf alllutrfeUhan, onl) 
uia hnd uirnKk miut ba toind ; Iben lulu a An mmi sbinl b«, net too 
chn to hUi Oat llu aiolte du not ^lolu tm^ ud th>l Ibe fln mar not boa 
ker too Kmi: i»r loo fBroflV that ibaiBiLTaat ovcopb fru; vlllun Iba dr^ 
daof Uu «» in thntboM HuUcupiudnMifDUotintu.wbuataall 
AadhohSTftrsniiiudftdEuidlelllHnlHietalioehurnaftillof loddaii AppliiL 
cutaitD^uUpl^StalbedUi. TbaOooHBiu(baS^lud.d,udbM^«S 
wltbbutla, 10 Euktlitt tbinonflt loboaUn. nd bit maM tlie Utter : pst IbH 
fin about hor, but do not mako loo mudi baala. vtaoa aa ran lao hev bwbk (a 
ioaH;fiir brvalUm about. and flrliu ban aMlb<n,bgbi(oaoiisdliibtUMfln 
Qui rtopa En 1TBT oat. (be unaiiad OoDaa h k(H In 1 tbt olU bU b> ditaik 
tlM nUT to qwodi h« Udm ud eaal bar hoBt and all hK bo^, and tha 
.Ap^Saiioa vUlmako bar dniK and ^aanaaaodaBbtrhat ABdvbamA* 
l aa h i l h, and coBnaiaa Inwaidlr, almn ■«( bai baal and baart viOi « vat 
apooga 1 and Then joa aaa bet i^ddr inth nanlng. tni btffn to atmaUai bar 
heart wanti Miriitm^ and aha & TBaatad anoa^. TaJco hor up, Hlhor bafbra 

yam- fuat^ and aha will oiraaWu cat off anjiiaillToiB hot and will h--' * 

•ataanibafccaahobedsad; ItiimiihlTplaBiHnllDbahoIdir— Sao W 
SmA^MilWK hi faiio, Londoi^laaS. pp. I4& 3M,a 

" W< anppaaa Ut, Hiiald atola thli ni%t tniu Ifae I 
Ualail? ; ^^ It Bldit hin hean OH U Ibe did» < 
babiitadnanudCal^olstoafburt."— A R /an. 

Tbia la alao lahilad In Birrari E"™'' MUwnl M 

aBdftaciiaof " tb* Olden Time," 






Sr°^l2u'':'^^ 



"Q^at hart a ladte oftjce^, Aou to wranorle a OooKlo rtxut JiimtftA! ^-^ 
3a« a lacaBd Ad of the abore Tra^:r id pago SD of the GeDUeman'a M^ailBa 

Hani nSdia in 



hd areaa IhHtdrqppea tllMof; an 

h hom, indbadt hom nniUX thendo^lhiil^lednrliia piffutiet (pipMnl 
'and hole ^owaiand macn, kndlelhit l»Tleanil Kire hll ^n!ha.'~ 
a Saa Note to (19), how to plump Ibe UiercTa Oooaa. 




CULINARY GtTRlOBITIBS. 37 

*** IliBtimivMdymaaiBe animal theTorann waa dianed in a Tarietyof mode% 
aaltod, roaated, atewed, ice. Our anoeaton were not Mngular in their partiafitr 
to it; I find, nom an ingenkmi friend of mine, thai it to eren now, A.D. 179<^ 
i the marketa of moat towna in Portvgal ; the flash of it ii LDtoierably haid 
-dd.**— WABNBR'a AnHq. OuU 4to, p.4& 

SwAir • waa alao a dish of state, and in high fluihion when the elegance 
I Feast waa estimated by the magnitude of the articles of which it was oom- 
poaed ; tiie number oonsnmed at the Earl of Northumberland's table, A.D. 
ISlSjuBonntedto twentr."— JVrorefttimdertend Houuhold-Book, p. 106. 

*'The Crank waa a oarlina dainty in mttiam the Congwror*i time, and so 
partial waa that monarch to it, that when his prime faToorite, William Pita 
Oabome, the steward of the household, seired nim with a Crane scaroely half 
roasted, the King waa so highly exasperated, that he lilted up his fist, and would 
haTestmcken him, had not Eudo (appointed JDapiJir immeuately after) warded 
off the blow.**— WAiWBft's Antiq. CuL p. 12. 

8bau», CvRLBwa, HBRoif s, SirraiiNS, and the Pcacock— that noble bird, 
'* the food of Lorers, and the meat of Lords," were also at this time in high 
fMdiion, when the Baronial entertainments were characterised by a grandeur 
and pompons ceremonial, approachina nearly to the magnificence of Royalty : 
fliere waa scaroely any Ro^fal or Noble feast without PxcoKKaa which were 
atvfibd with Spioea, and Sweet herbs, roasted and serred up whole, and covered 
after dressing with the skin and feathers ; the book and oomb gili and tho tail 
qnead, and some, instead of the feathers, ooreredit with leaf eold; it was a oom- 
moftt dish on grand oooasious, and continued to adorn the En^ish table till the 
hegbming of me seventeenth centurr. 

^Maaringer's play of *< the City Madam," Holdfast oxelaiming against city 
luxury, aays, " three fiat wethers bmiaed, to make sauce for a single Peacock. 

This Bird ia one of those luxuries which were often sought, because they were 
seldom found : Ito scarcity and external appearance are ito only recommendation 
—the meat of it is tough and tasteless. 

Another fiironnte dish at the tables of our forefethers, was a Pis of stupen- 
dous maaxdtiide, out of which, on its being opened, a flock of liTiiog birds flew 
forth, totoe no small snipiise and amusement of the guests. 

" Fonr^md-twenty Bladicbiids baked in a Pie ; 
When the Pie was open'd, the birds beran to stiw— 
Oh ! what a dainty &b--'tis fit for any King." 

This waaa eommoQ Joke at an old Enn^ish Feaat. These amimaMl Pies were 
elten introduoed *' to set on," aa Hamlet says, *' a quantity of barren spectators 
to laugh ;** there is an instance of a Dwarf undatgoing such an incnulation. 
About the year IfSO. King Charles and his Queen were entertained by the Duke 
and Duchess of Bncidngham, at Burleigh cm the Hill, on which occasion Jsf- 
IVRT HFoeow, 0te Dweuf, wasserrad up in a cold Pie.— See Wax.pols's Anec- 
4oUt efPnOnHnff. to1# iL p. 14. 

The Bauon of Bbbf waa another CsTOurito and substantial lupport of old 
Inghah Hospitality. 

Among the moat poliahed natieosof the 10th and 10th centuries, the powdeftd 
Matted) Bone, aeemsto hare been a dish in some esteem : OrhMUem herself 



ooald not escape the undistingui^ing ftiry of the Cook. Don Anthony of Gue 
vera, the CliroMcleT to Charles v., gives the followtais account of a Feast at which 
he wua present. " I will tell you no lye, I sawo sucn kindes of meates eaten, as 
are wont to be sens, but not eaten— a« a Horsb roasted— a Cat in gdjf— 
LvzARoain hot brotiie, FROOOBa fried," &c. 

While wearethusoonsidering the curious dishoa of olden times, we will cur- 
sorily mention the si9Mular diaof two or three nations of antiquity, noticed by 
BerodoHu, lib. iv. ''^The AndrophMi (the cannibals of the andent world) 
needily devoured the oaioasses of their fellow-creatures ; while the inofTensive 
Tkibri (a Scythian tribe) found both food and drink in the agreeable nut of the 
Pontic Tree. The JMophoffi lived entirely on the fruit of the Lotue Tree. The 
savage Trogiodpte esteemed a limng aerpen^ the most delicate of all monels ; 
whUe the caprickms piUate of the ZugmOiMi prefoned the Ape to every thing." 
— Vide WARNBR'a j6uiq. Cul. p. 135. 

" The Romans, in the luxurious p«riod of their empire, took five meals a day ; 
a Breakfost (jentaeulum) ; a Dinner, which was a light meal without any formal 
praparation fprandmmj ; a kind of Tea, as we should call it, between dinner 



• " It is a curious illnstration of the degutUJtfUS non est diermtandum, that the 
aadento considered the Stoan as a high delicacy, and abstained from the flesh 
«f the Goo$e as impnte and indigeatibfe."— Moubiuy on Poultry, p. 36. 



ih'i Bm. Ji>(if.adEditlsii,8r<l, I 
Th* Ronuiu muill; btgiin tbell 



Pauoek (PATO), abrvt, SstiL 1. IK 

bUMK amM. JUnlM. U. «(. xU. : 

T. qi. i Blilidalkd ^tt- ' — 

H. JArMiH. ULST; 



Own vttk' riiunr ; *U d*tH: PDi 
tftToniuUfd Sw^-^ndua lOIto mi 
u&tJieii pourthiiiimvofUTOiu Cl 

adop4«d tD tbe nom of tlu latter, ua 



dd 



INVITATIONS TO DINNER. 



In *^ ike affairs of the Mouth** the strictest punctuality is indispen- 
sable ; — the Gastronomer ought to be as accurate an observer of 
l^e, as the Astronomer. The leatt delay produces /akil and irre- 
paraUe Mufortunee. 

Almost all other Ceremonies and dvil duties may be put off se- 
Veral hours without much inconvenience, and all may be postponed 
without absolute Danger. A little Delay may try the patience of 
&ose who are waiting ; but the act itself will be equally perfect and 
equally valid. — Procrastination sometimes is rather advantageous 
than prejudicial. It gives time for Reflection — and may prevent 
our taking a step which would have made us miserable for Life ; 
the delay of a Courier has prevented the conclusion of a Conven- 
tion, the rigning of which might have occasioned the ruin of a Nation. 

If, from Affairs the most important, we descend to our Pleasures 
and Amusements, we shall find new aiguments in support of our 
assertions. The putting off of a Rendezvous, or a Ball, &c. will make 
them the more delightful. To hope is to ei^y. 

" Man neTer ii, but alwaji to be bleat" 

The anticipation of Pleasure warms our imagination, and keeps 
&08e feelings alive, which possession too often extinguishes. 

" < Us Expectation only makes ua bleat ; 
Enjoyment diaappointa na at the beat** 

' Dr. Johnson has most sagaciously said, ^ Such is the state of 
Life, that Ttona are happy:, but by the anticipation of Change: the 
chai^ itself is nothing ; when we have made it, the next wish is, 
immediately to change again.'** 

However singular our assertions may have at first appe{u*ed to 
those who have not considered the subject, we hope by this time we 
have made converts of our readers, and convinced the ** Amateurs 
de Bonne Chere^ of the truth and importance of our remarks ; and 
that they will remember, that Dinner is the only act of the day 
trhich oamnot be put off with Impunity, for even Five Minutes. 

In a well-regulated &mily, all tiie Clocks and Watches should 
agree ; on this depends the fate of the Dinner ; what would be agree- 
Me to the Stomach, and regtoratine to the System, if served at Five o'^cMc, 
t^uwill be uneatable and inrndritive and indigeat^le at A qu^irtbr past. 

The Dining-room should be furnished with a good-going clock v— 
the spaoe over the Kitchen fire-place with another, vibrating in uni- 
son with the former, so placed, that the Cook may keep one Eye 
oiQ the Clock, and the other on the Spit, Slc. She will calculate ta 
a minute the time required to roast a large Capon or a little Lark, 
and if equally attentive to the degree of heat <^ her Stove, and the 
time her Sauce remains on it, when to withdraw the Bakings from 
the oven, the Roast from the spit, and the Stew from the pan. 




40 INVITATIONS TO BINNBB* 

With all our love of pnnctualitj, the first condderation must stiU 
be, that the dinner ** be well done^ when *iis done.^'' 

It is a common &ult with Cooks who are €uunou$ xxboui Tii 
owrdress every thing — ^the Gaests had better wait than the Di 
— a little delay wUl improve their Appetite ;* but if the Diidlir 
waits for 'the Guests, it will be deteriorated every minute : — The 
Host who wishes to entertain his friends with food perfectly well 
dressed, while he most earnestly endeavours to impress on their 
minds the importance of being punctual to the appointed hour^— 
will still allow his Cook a qujvrter of an hour^s grace. 

The old Adage that ^ tlie Eye is often bigger than the Belly,^iB 
often verified by the ridiculous vanity of those who wish to make 
an appearance aboie'their fortune — ^nothing can be more ruinous to 
real comfort than the too common custom of setting out a table, 
with a parade and a profusion, unsuited not only to the circumstances 
of the Hosts, but to the number of the Guests *, — or more fatal to 
true Hospitality, than the multiplicity of dishes which luxury has 
made fashionable at the tables of the Great, the Wealthy«-and the 
Ostentatious, — ^who are, often neither great nor wealthy. 

Such pompous preparation, instead of being a compliment to 
our Guests, is nothing better than an indirect ofience ; it is a tacit 
insinuation, that it is absolutely necessary to provide such delicacies 
to bribe the depravity of their palates, when we desire the pleasure 
of their company ; and that Society in England, now, must be pup- 
chased, at the same price Swift told Pops he was obliged to pay 
for it in Ireland — ^ I should hardly prevail to find one Visitor, it 
I were not able to hire him with a bottle of Wine.'* Vide Swift's 
letters to Pope, Jtdy ID, 1732. 

When twice as much Cooking is undertaken as there are Servants,, 
or conveniences in the Kitchen to do it properiy. Dishes must bfr 
dressed long before the Dinner hour, and stand by spoiling — ^the poor 
Cook loses her credit, and the poor guests get Indigestions. AVhy' 
prep€ire for eight or ten Friends more than sufficient for twenty or 
thirty Visitors ? *' Enough is <is good as a Feast^'' and a prudent 
provider, who sensibly takes measure of the Stomachic, instead of 
the Silly ocular appetite of his Guests, may entertain his Friends,, 
— ^three times as often, and ten times as well. 

It isyourSENSBLESS SECOND oouRSBS — ^ridlculous variety of WiNB8» 
LtQUKURs, IcB8,*f- Desskrts, &C. — ^whichare servedupmerely to feed 

* " II J a trouB ■ortes d'api>^tit8 ; celoi qne Ton ^proure k jeOne ; wnaatioDL 
impMeuae qui ne chicane point wax le mets, et qui tous ftdt renir Teau k la 
bonche k I'aspeetd'un bon n^Qt. Je le compare an d^nr imp^tueox d'nn jena* 
homme qui Tuit aourire la beauts qu'il aime — 1(6 tecond appMt ett celni qui 




premieres i 

femme.— 1« troitUme appitiX est celui qa*ezcite un mets d^lideox aid pandt k 
la fin d'nn repaa, loraqne, I'estomac satisfait, Fhomme sobre allait quitter la 
table sans regret. Celni-lk tioure son embl^e dans les feux do Ubertina^, qui, 

Suoique iUuaoires, font naitre cependant f;(nelqnes plabira r^ls. La cottnouaanc» 
e cette m^taphysique de Tapp^tit doit guider le Cuisinier habile dans la compost- 
tion dn premier, du second, etda troisi^me serrice.** — Oturs Gtu^rtmomiqucp. 64. 
t Swilling cold Soda Heater immedlatelT after eating a hearty dmner, is aao* 
ther rerj unwholMome custom— take eood Ginger Baer if 70a are thizsty, and 
don't like John Sir Barleycorn's cordial. 




INVITATIONS TO DINNBB. 41 

Ibe Eye, t>r pamper palled appetite, that overwiM <fta SUfmadin and 
DigetHon^ and seduee '* children of a laiger Growth'* to 
the health and comfort of several dayB^^-for the Baby-plei^ 
' tickling their tongue fw a few minutes, with TriBes and cu»> 
\ ! ! &c. &c 

**■ iNDiGBflTioN will flometimes overtake the moit experienced 
Bpicore ; when the gustatory nerves are in good humour, Hunger 
and Savoury -Viands will sometimes seduce Ihe Tongue of a * Qrcand 
Ckmrmand* to betray the interests of hisStomach in spite of hieBruns. 

** On such an unfortunate occasion, when the Stomach sends forth 
eructant* signals of distress, the PeristaUic P«r»uaden are as agree- 
alde and effectual assistanoe as can be offned ; and for delicate 
Constitutions, and those that are impaired by Agfot Intempenmoe, 
are a valuable Panacea. 

** They derive, and deserve this name, from the peculiar mildness 
of their operation. One or two very gently increase the action of 
the principal viscera, help them to do theb work a little fiuter, and 
enable the Stomach to serve with mi ejectment whatever offends it^ 
and move it into the bowels. 

^ Thus Indigettkm is easQy and speedily removed^-i^^^M^ite re- 
stored, — (the mouths of the absorbing vessels being cleansed) Nmt 
trition is iaciUtated, — and Strength of Body, and Energy of Mind, 
are the happy results.** — See ^ Vvsnc Prxcxpts,** from which wh 
extract the following prescription : 

To make Forty Peristaltic Pxrsuadbrs. 
Take 

Turkey Rhubarb, finely palTeiiBedr-4iro dndtmi^ 

Syrup (by weight), one drachm, 

Oil of Caraway, ten drops (minimi). 

Made into PiUa, each of which will Contain Three OraXnt {^RhiOarb. 

**• I'he Dosi OF THB PmisuADXRS must be adapted to the coofti* 
tu^onal peculiarity of the Patient^^when you wish to accelerate or 

augment the Alvine Exoneration — ^take two — three or more, ao- 

oonling to the effect you desire to produce^-2W Pdls will do as 
much for one person, as>Sw or nor will for anoth» ; they wiU gene- 
nlly veij regularly perfbnn what you wish to-day.^witiiout intefw 
fering with what you hope will happen to-morrow ; and are there- 
fore as convenient an aigument against Constipatioa as any we are 
acquainted with. 

** The most convenient opportunity to introduce then^ to (he StomatA^ 
..is early in the moming, when it is unoccupied, and has no parti- 
cular business of Digestion, &c. to attend to — i. e. at least hslf an 
hour before break&st. Physic must never interrupt the Stomad^ 
when it is busy in digesting Food. 

** From two to/our Pertruaders, wiU generally produce one addir 
tional motion* within twelve hours. They may be taken at any 

* The strong Peppermint or Ginger Lozenqet, made by Smith, Fell Street 
Wood Street, Cheapiide, are an excellent help for that flatulence with which 
some aged and Dyspeptic people arc afflicted three or four hours after Dinner. 



42 INVITAtlONS to DINNBB. 

time "by the moftt 4elicate Females, vhoee constitatioiifl are bo often 
stressed hj constipation — and destroyed by the drastic purgatiyes 
they take to relieve it." 

The ClaHh* tihodd he laid m the Parlour, and all the paraphenni^ 
of the dinner^table completely arranged, at least hcdf an hour hefort 
diimer4ime. 

The Cook^B labour will be lost, if the Parlour-table be not ready 
for action, and the Eaters ready for the Eatables, which the least 
delay will irreparably injure : — therefore, the Gourmand will be 
punctual for the sake of gratifying his ruling passion ; the Invalid, 
to avoid the danger of encountering an Indigestum from eating ill'> 
^dressed fbod ; and the Rational Epicure, who happily attends the 
JBanquet with ** Toena aana in corpore sano^'^ will keep the time not 
only for these strong reasons, but that he may not lose the advan- 
tage of being introduced to the other guests. He considers not only 
what is on the Table, but Who are around it : his principal induce- 
ment to leave his own Fire-side, is the charm of agreeable and in- 
structive Society, and the opportunity of making connexions which 
may augment the interest and enjoyment of existence. 

It is ihe moat pleasinff part of the Duty of the Master of the Feast 
(especially when the Guests are not very numerous f), to take ad^ 
vantage of tiiese moments to introduce them to one another, nam- 
ing them individually in an audible voice, and adroitly laying hold 
of those ties of acquaintanceship or profession which may exist be» 
tween them. 

This wiU much augment the pleasures of the Festive Boards—to 
which it is indeed a» indispensable a Prelude as an Overture is to 
an Opera: and the' Host will thus acquire an additional claim to 
the gratitude of his Guests. We urge this point more strongly, be- 
cause from want of attention to it, we have seen more tiian once, 
persons whom many kindred ties would have drawn closely toge- 
ther, pass an entire day without opening their lips to each other, 
because they were mutually ignorant of each other^s names, profes- 
sions, and pursuits. 

To put an end at once to all ceremony as to The Order in wJUel 
the Guests are to Sit, it will save much time and trouble, if the Mis- 
tress of the Mansion adopts the simple and elegant method of plac» 
ing the name of each guest in the plate which is intended for him* 
—This proceeding will be of course the result of consideration, and 
the Host will place those together who he thinks will hazmomse 
heet 

Le .Journal des Dames informs us, that in several &shionabl6 

* Le. Grand Somm^er, or Chikp Butlbr, in former times was expected to be 
«speciallT aoeomplished in the Art of folding Table Linen— so as to lay his nap- 
kins in oifferent forms every day— these transformations are particularly de- 
scribed in Bosk's Instmctfons for the OflBoers of the Month, 1W2, p. 111. in. 
" To pleat a napkin in the form of a Cockle-shell Double**—*' In the form of Hen 
and Chickens"—" shape of two capons in a Pre"— or '* like a Dog with a Collar 
about his Neck"— «na many others equally whimsical. 

t " Depuis long-temps, le nombre des Orioes ou oelui des Muses a r^i let 
diners aunables ; passe ce dernier nombre, il n*y a plus ni intimity ni conTeraa* 
tion gte^rale. "—umr* Oastronomiquet p. 311. 



•INYIYATIOKS TO DINKHB* 43 

hoBBes in I^aris, a new amuigement ha« been introduced in placing 
the company at a Dinner-table. 

** The Ladies first take their places, leaving intenrals for th^ 
QM^emen ; after being seated, each is desired to call on a gentlem- 
an to sit beside her ; and thus the Lady of the house is relieved 
from all embarrassment of etiquette as to rank and pretensions,** &c. 

But without doubt, says the Journalist, this method has its incon- 
i'miiences. 

^ It may happen that a bashful Beauty dare not name the object 
of her secret -wishes ; and an acute observer may detennine, from 
a single glance, that the elected is not always the chotenJ" 

If the Party is large, the Founders of the Feast may sit in the 
middle of the Table, instead of at each end, thus they will enjoy 
the pleasure of attending equally to all their Friends ; and being in 
some degree relieved from the occupation of Carving, will have an 
opportunity of administering all those litUe attentions which contri* 
bute so much to the comfort of their Guests. 

If the Guests have any respect for their Host, or prefer a well- 
dressed dinner to one that is spoiled, instead of coining ^oZ/^ on hour 
after , they will take care to make their appearance a quarter of an 
hour before the time appointed. 

The operations of the Cook are governed by the Clock ; the mo- 
ment the Roatis^ ^c, are ready ^ they must go to the table, if they 
are to be eaten in perfection. 

An invitation to come at Fivb o^clock seems to be generally un> 
^erstood to mean Six ; Fivb phkcisblt, half-poet Five ; — and not 
ULTXR THAN FIVE (so that Dinner may be on the table within five 
minutes after, allowing this for the variation of watches) Fiyt 
O'clock Exactly. 

Be it known to all Loyal Svbjecte of the Empire of Oood-lidmg^ that 
the Committee op Taste have unanimously resolved, that ** an lit' 
titaUon to mx. beta. n. must be in Writing^ and sent at least tea 
days before the Banquet — and must be ajiswered in Writing (<u soon 
as possible after it is receioedj — within Ttventy-fmr hours at least^.^ 
especially if it be not accepted — ^then, in addition to the usual conv- 
pUmentary expressions of thanks, &c. the best possible reasons must 
be assigned for the non-acceptance, as a particular pre-engagement, 
or severe indisposition, &c. Before the bearer of itdeliver8it,he should 
ascertain if the person it is directed to is at home — if he is not, when 
he will be, — and if he is not in town to bring the summons back. 

Nothing can be more disobliging than a refusal which is not 
grounded on some very strong aad unavoidable cause, — except not 
coming at the appointed hour ; — *^ according to the Laws of Convi- 
viality, a certificate from a Sheriff's Officer, a Doctor, or an Under- 
taker, are the only Pleas which are admissible. The duties which 
Invitation imposes do not Ml only on the Persons invited, but, like 
all other Sodal duties, are reciprocal. 

^ As he who has accepted an Invitation cannot disengage himself 
from it ; the Master of the Feast cannot put off the entertainment 
Am any pretence whatevery..jurgent Bu^n ess , ■ Si cknessy — ^not even 



44 JNYITATIONS TO DIKNBR. 

Death itaelf, caa dispense with the obtigatbn whkh he is nnder-iif 
giving the Entertainment for which he has sent out invitations, whic% 
kave been accepted ; for in the extreme cases of compulsory Absence, 
«r Death, fais place may be filled by his Fnend or £xecutor.*'..Bdlp 
leMamtddeaAfophitryoM^ 8vo. Paris^ 1808 ; and ChunQiubrono mijm i 
1809 ; to which the reader is referred for furtiier Instractions. 

Jtisthe least pumskment that a blundering iU-bred Boobjf earn rtodve, 
ttiho oomes half an how after the time he toas bidden, to find the Soup 
removed, attd ihe Fish cold : moreover, for such an offence, let him 
also be mulcted in a pecuniary Penaltj, to be applied to the fund 
FOR THB BBNSFiT OF OBCATKD C00K6. This is the least puniflhment 
that can be inflicted on one whose sQence, or violation of an engage- 
ment, tends to paialyse an entertainment, and to draw his fiiend 
into useless expense. 

BoiLBAu, the French satirist, has a shrewd observation on this 
■abject. *^ I have always been punctual at tiie hour of dinner,** 
says the Bard ; *' for I knew, that all those whom I kept waiting 
at that provoking interval, would employ those unpleasant moment^ 
to sum up aU my feults. Boilsau is indeed a man of Qenius— a 
veiy honest man ; but that dilatory and itrocrastinating way he has 
got into, would mar the virtues of an Angel.** 

There are some wlio seldom keep an appointment— we can as- 
sure them they as seldom ** *sGape without whipping,** and ex- 
citing those murmurs which inevitably proceed from the best-regu- 
lated Stomachs, when they are empty, and impatient to be filled. 

The most amiable Animate when hungry become ill-tempered— 
our best Friends employ the time they are kept waiting, in recol- 
lecting and repeating any real &ults we have, and attributing to us 
a thousand imaginary ones. 

lUr^tred Beings, who indulge their own caprice, regardless how 
they wound the feelings of others, if they possess brilliant and use- 
ful talents, may occasionally be endured as convenient Tools ; but 
deceive themselves sadly, even though they possess all the Wisr 
dom, and all the Wit in the World, S* they fancy they can ^ver be 
esteemed as Friends. 

Wait for no One — as soon as the Clock strikesy^-say Grace, and 
begin the Business of the Day — 

** And good Digestion wait on Appetite, 
And Health on both." 

That the intricate Old Canon of ^ Non nobis** should stiU con- 
tinue to exclude all other GraceB,--has excited my astonishment, 
ever since I first heard it some Thirty Years ago, when, thought I, 
can any thing be more barbarous than to nng in a Foreign Tongue, 
which not One in Ten of those who sing, and not One in a Htmdreii of 
those who Hear, understand One Word in Ten ofi Moreover, to 
complete this extreme Absurdity — ^the composer has contributed 
his utmost to involve these laii^ words in the most absolute obscu- 
rity, by setting them in the form of a Fvgw, which (however pretty 
it may seem to tiie Eye and Ear of a subtle contrapuntist) its eooi 






CABVING. 45 

Singn' fmmmmoea a (Ufereni Word^ the Sense is thereby u confiued 
as Sounds are in a Dutch Concert, where each man Sings a dilferent 
Song ! — However, this composition is considered such an indispen- 
iftbLe part of the Ceremonial of Public Dinners, that it has been 
ealeulated that the good people of Great Britain do not pay kn 
than TSN THOVSAND POtTNOs a Year for the performance of it ! ! 

Devotion is not excited by cramp Discords or difficulties of Exe- 
cution— ^aye^n declared that the most sublime effect he ever heard 
produced by Music, was when he attended the Annual Meeting of 
our Charity Children in St. Faults, when they all sang in Umaon, 

Manners Make thb Man. 

Good Maimen have often made the Fortune of many, who have 
had nothing else to recommend them : 

III Manrten have as often marred the hopes of those who have 
had every thii]^ else to advance thenu 

These regulations may appear a little rigorous to those phlegmatic 
philosophers, 

" Who, paat all pleasaraa, damn the Joys of sense. 
With reVrend dolness and grave impotence," 

and are incapable of c(Hnprehending the importance (especially 
when many are invited) of a truly hospitable Entertainment : but 
Genuine Cotmowetirs m the science of Good Cheer will vote us 
Thanks for our endeavours to initiate well-disposed Amateurs. 



CARVING. 

Ceremony does not in any thing, more commonly, and completely 
triumph over Comfort, than in the administration of '' ^ Honour* 
of the TabU:' 

Those who serve out the Loaves and Fishes seldom seem to un- 
derstand that he is the best Carver who fills the plates of the greatest 
number of Guests, in the least portion of time. 

To effect this, fill the plates and send them rouiui—instead of asking 
each Individual if they choose Soup, Fish, &c. or what particular 
part they prefer, for as they cannot all be Choosers, you wiU thus 
escape making any invidious distinctions. 

A dexterous Carver,* (especially if he be possessed with that 
determined enemy to Ceremony and Sauce, a keen appetite,) will 
help half-a-dozen people in half the time one of your would-be- 
thought polite folks wastes in making civil fiices, &c. to a single 
GuesL 

It fffould save a great deal of Time, S[e. if Poultry, especially 
laige Turkeys and Geese, were sent to table ready cut up. (449.) 

• In Days of Yore " Le Grand Eeutfsr Tranchant," or the Master Carvbb, 
was the next Officer of the Month in rank to the " M<atre d'HdtO^" and the 
technical terms of his Ait were as Angular as anj of those which ornament 



40 CABVINCr. 

FiSH that is ftied should be previously divided into such poitiohs 
as are fit to help at table— (See 141.) ' 

A prudent Carver will cut fair ;* and observe an equitable distribu- 
tion of the Dainties he is serving out and regulate his helps, by 
the proportion which his dish bears to the number he has to divide 
it amongst, taking into this reckoning the quantum of Appetite the 
several guests are presumed to possess. 

" Study their Genius, caprices, GoUt — 
They, in return, may haply study you : 
Some wish a Pinion, some prefer a Leg, 
Some for a Merry-thought, or Sidesbone b^»^ 
The wings of Fowls, then slices of thp round. 
The trail of Woodcock, of Codfish the sound. 
Let strict impartiality preside— 
Nor freak, nor fayonr, nor affection guide.** 
' Fr<nn the Bawquxt. 

The Guest who wishes to ensure a hearty welcome, and frequent 
invitation to the board of hospitality, may calculate that the ^ easier 
he is pleased, the oftener he will be invited.*^ Instead of unblush- 
ingly demanding of the fair Hostess that the prime '* tU-bit^^ of every 
dish be put on your plate, — ^receive (if not with pleasure — or even 
content) with the liveliest expressions of thankfulness, whatever is 
presented to you — and forget not to praise the Cook, and the same 
shall be reckoned unto you even as the praise of the Mistress. 

The Invalid or the Epicure, when he dines out, to save trouble to his 
friends, may carry with hima portable Maoazinbop Taste. (See 390.) 

" If he does not like his fare he may console himself with the re- 
flection, that he need not expose his Mouth to the like mortification 
again *, — Mercy to the feelings of the Mistress of the Mansion, will 
forbid his then appearing otherwise than absolutely delighted with it, 
notwithstanding it may be his extreme antipathy." 

** If he likes it ever so little, he will find occasion to congratulate 
himself on the advantage his digestive organs will derive from his 
making a moderate dinner, and consolation from contemplating the 
double relish he is creating for the following meal, and anticipating 
the (to him) rare and delicious zest of (that best sauce^ good ap- 
petite, and an unrestrained indulgence of his gormandismg fancies 
at the Chop-house he frequents." 

" Never intrust a Cook-Teaaer with the important office of Carver, 
or place him within reach of a Sauce-boat. These Chop-house Cor- 
morants, who 

'Critique your wine, and analyse your meat. 
Yet on plain pudding deign at home to eat.' 

"Oiose's Classical Slang Dictionary,** or, *' the Gipsies Gibberish :" the only one 
of these old phrases now in common use is " cut up the Turkey ;'* we are no 
longer desired to" disfigure a Pkacock'*— " unbrace a Duck**—" unlace a Conky" 
— '^tame a Crab"—" tire an Eoo"— and" spoil the Hbn," &c.— See Imtruetiont 
far (he Officert ofihe Mouth, by Boss, 1688. 

* Those in the Parlour diould recollect the importance of setting a good ex- 
ample to their friends at the second table. If they cut Bread— Meat — Cheese, 6lc. 
PAiRLT, it will go twice as far as if they hack and mangle it— as if they had not 
half so much consideration for those in the Kitchen as a good sportsman has 
f^r hit Dogs. 



CABVING. 47 

axe, geneially, tremendouily officioiu in Berving out the loaves and 
fishes of other people, for, under the notion of appearing exquisitely 
amiable, and killingly agreeable to the Guests, they are ever on the 
watch to distribute themselves the dainties which it is the peculiar 
part of the Master and Mistress to serve out, and is to them tiie most 
pleasant part of the business of the Banquet ; the pleasure of helping 
their friends is the giatification, which is their reward for the trouble 
they have had in preparing the Feast : such Gentry are the terror of 
all good Housewives ; to obtain their &vourite Cut they will so un- 
mercifully mangle your Joints, that a dainty dog would hardly get 
a meal from them after, which, managed by the considerative hands 
of an old Housekeeper, would furnish a decent Dinner for a laige 
Family/^ — ^Vide ^Almanach des Oowrmti^ndB,'^ 

I once heard a gentle hint on this subject, given to a Blm-Movld 
Fancier^ who by looking too long at a Stilton cheese, was at last 
completely overcome, by his Eye exciting his Appetite, till it became 
quite ungovernable ; suid unconscious of eveiy thing but the mitp ob- 
ject of his contemplation, he began to pick out in no small portions, 
the piimest parts his eye could select from the centre of the Cheese. 

Tlie good-natured Founder of the Feast, highly amused at the 
Ecstasies each morsel created m its passage over the palate of the 
enraptured Goturmand^ thus encouraged the perseverance of his 
Guest — ** Cut away my dear sir, cut away, use no Ceremony, I pray : 
— ^I hope you will pick out all the best of my Cheeod-^-^dtmH you 
think that the rind and the rottsn unU do very noeUfor my Wife and 
FamUy V* There is another set of terribly Free and JBkuy folks, who 
are* *^ fond of taking possession of the Throne of Domestic Comfort,** 
— and then, with Sjl the impudence imaginable, simper out to the 
ousted Master of the Family~.^ Dear me, I am a&aid I have taken 
your place !" 

' Half the trouble of waiting at table may be eaned by giving each 
guest two plates, two knives and forks, two pieces of bread, a spoon, 
a wine-glass, and a tumbler, and placing the Wines and Sauces, and 
the Magazine of Taste, (390), &c. as a Dormaut^ in the centra of 
the table *, one neighbour may then help another. 

IXntier-tables are seldom sufficiently lAghted^ or attended-xan active 
Waiter will have enough to do, to attend upon half-a-dozen active 
£aters-~there should be about half as many Candles as there are 
Guests — and their flame be about 18 inches above the table — our 
iboli^ modem pompous Candelabras seem intended to illuminate 
the Ceilmg, rather than to give light on the Plates, &c. 

Wax Lights at Dinner — are much more elegant-^nd not so 
tsx>ublesome, and so uncertain as Lamps^ nor so expensive, for to pur- 
chase a handsome Lamp will cost you more tluOL wiU furnish you 
with Wax Candles for several years. 



FRIENDLY ADVICE TO COOKS,* 



AND OTHKR 



SERVANTS. 



On your first coming into a fiunily, lose no time in immediately 
getting into the good graces of your fellow-semmts, that you may 
learn from them the customs of the Kitchen, and the various roles 
and orders of the House. 

Take care to be on good tenns with the servant who waits at 
table ; . m ake use of him as your Sentinel, to inform you how your 
work has pleased in the parlour ; by his report you may be enaJbled 
in some measure to rectify any mistake ; but request the fnvoor of 
an early interview with your Master or l^sttesBr—dtpettd <u lUtig 
a$po9tibU on ueond-kautd ojMm(MW..^ndge of your Employers fitHoa 
TOUB OWN observations, and THxm behaviour to you, — not from 
any idle reports ftom the other Servants, who, if your Master or 
Mistress inadvertently drop a word in your praise, will immediately 
take alarm, and, fearing your being more in fkvpur than themselves, 
will seldom stick at trifles to pievait it, by pretending to take a 
prodigious liking to you, and poisoning your mind in such a manner 
as to destroy all yomr confidence, &c. in your Employers, and if 
they do not immediately succeed in worrying you away — ^wUl take 
cue that you have no comfort while you stay : — Be most cautious 
of those who profess most : not only, beware of believing such 
honey-tongued folkB,.but beware as much, of betraying your sua- 
pidons of them~>for that will set fire to the train at once, and of a 
doubtful Friend, make a determined Enemy. 

If you are a good Cook, end strictly do your duty — ^yon will soon 
become a fiivourite domestic — ^but never boast of the approbation 
of your Emplo3rer8, fbr in proportion as they think you rise in their 
estimation*— you will excite all the tricks, that Envy, Hatred^ 
Malice, and all Uncharitableness, can suggest to your fellow-ser- 
vants V— every one of whom, if less sober, honest, or industrious, or 
less fiivoured than Yourself^ — ^will be your Enemy. 

While we warn you against making others your Enemy, take cam 
that you do not Yourself become your own and greatest JBnemy. — 

* A Chapter of Advice to Coo\a will, we hope, be found as utefiil as it ia 
oriaiiial : all we have on this subject in the works of our predecessors, is the 
following : " I shall strongly recommend to all Cooks of either sex, to keep 
their stomachs free from strong liquors till afUr Dinner, and their Noses from 
antift"— f^tdeCi/KHMONT's Prvfessed Cook, p. 30 8to. Londoiu 1776. 



r 



FBIBNDLY ADVICE TO COOKS; 49 

** FavowUet ore iMwr «n ffreabor dmngtr offddttmg, than whrn in ika 
yreatesi favour^ — ^which often begets a cafelefls inattention to the 
commands of their employers, and insolent overbeorance to their 
eqiials, a gradual neglect of duty, and a corresponding forfeiture of 
that Regard — whi(A can onl^ be preterved 6y the tneana which enated ii, 

" Those arts by which at first you gain it, 
You still must practise to maintain it" 

If your Employers are so pleased with your conduct as to treat 
you as a friend rather than a servant — do not let their kindness ex- 
cite your self-conceit, so as to make you for a moment forget you 
are one. Condescension, even to a proverb, produces Contempt in 
inconsiderate minds, and to such, the very means which Benevo- 
lence takes to cherish attention to duty, becomes the cause of the 
evil it is intended to prevent. 

To be an agreeable Companion in the Kitchen, without compro- 
mising your duty to your Patrons in the Parlour, requires no small 
portion of good sense and good nature-^ a word, you must ** Do 
<u you would be diwe 6^/* 

Act for, and spbak of ivbry body as if they wvre frbsknt. 
> We hope the Culinary Student who peruses these pages will be 
above adopting the common, mean, and ofer unsuccessful way of 
^ holding with the Hare, and running witi^ the Hounds,** — of cur« 
rying iavour with fellow-servants by flattering them, and ridiculing 
the Mistress when in the Kitchen, and then — ^prancing into the 
Parlour and purring about her, and making opportunities to display 
all the little faults you can find (or irwent) that will tell well 
against those in the Elitchen — assuring them94pn your return^ — 
that they were praised^ for whatever you heard them Uamadj^-aad 
so, excite them to run more extremely into any little error which 
you think will be most displeasing to their Employers — ^watching 
an opportunity to pour your poisonous lies into their unsuspecting 
ears, when there is no third person to bear witness of your Iniquity 
— making your Victims believe, it is all out of your nneere 
regard for them — assuring them (as Betty says in the Man of the 
World,) ^ That indeed you are no busybody that loves fending nor 
proving, but hate all tittling and tattling, and gossiping and back- 
biting,'* &c. &c. 

Depend upon it, if you hear your fellow-servant speak disre- 
spectfully of a Master or a Mistress with whom they have lived some 
ttme^it is a sure sign that they have some sinister scheme against 
yourself — if they have not been well treated why have they stayed 1 

*^ There is nothing more detestable than defamation — I have no 
scruple to rank a Slanderer with a Murderer or an Assassin. — Those 
who assault the reputation of their Benefiax:tors — and * rob you of 
^at which nought enriches them* — would destroy your Life, if they 
could do it with equal impunity.** 

^ If you hope to gain the respect and esteem of others, and the 
approbation of your own Heart—be respectful and faithful to your 
Superiors ; obliging and good-natured to your FeUow-servant8--i 

D 



50 FBIENDLY ADVIOB TO COOKS. 

and ehaiitable to all.** You cannot be too oarefiil to cultivate a 
Meek and Gentle Diepositioo^you will find the benefit of it eyery 
day o£ your life ; — ^to promote peace and harmony around you, will 
not only render you a general Favourite with your feUowHservants, 
.^but ^nll make you happy in YourselfL 

^ Let your Character be remarkable for Industry and Modera- 
tion — your JMomners and Deportment, for modesty and humility— 
your Dre»9 distinguished for simplicity, frugality, and neatness. A 
dressy servant is a disgrace to a house — and renders her employers 
as ri^culous as she does herself. If you outshine your companions 
in finery, you will inevitably excite their Envy, and make them 
your enemies.** 

^ Do every thing at the proper time.** 
^ Keep every thing in its proper place.** 
•* Use every thing for its proper purpose.** 
The imp<»rtaiioe of these lliiee Rules must be evident to all who 
will consider how much easier it is to return any thing when done 
with to its proper place, tlian it is to find it when miiOnid and it 
is as easy to put things in one place as in another. 

Keep your KikSien and Fum&ure €u Clean and Neat atpoat^iU 
which ^1 then be an ornament to it — a Comfort to your fellow- 
servants, and a Credit to youzsell Moreover, good Housewifery is 
the best recommendati(m to a good Husband, and engages men to 
honourable attachment to ^ou-^e who is a tidy servant gives pro* 
mise of being a carelul Wife. 

Owing away Victuals, 

GiviNO away any thing without consent or privity of your 
Master or Mistress, is a Uberty you must not take v-^JCharity'and 
oompasBion for the wants of our fellow-creatures are very amiable 
virtues, but they are not to be indulged at the expense of your own 
Honesty, and other people*8 property. 

When you find that there is any thing to spare, and that it is in 
danger of being spoiled by being kqpt too long, — it is very com- 
mendable in you to ask leave to dispose of it while it is fit for 
Christians to eat : If such permission is refused, the sin does not 
lie at your door. But you must on no acooimt bestow the least 
morsel in contradiction to the will of those to whom it belongs. 

** Never think any part of your business too trifling to be well 
done.** 

*^ Eagerly embrace every opportunity of learning any thing which 
may be usefol to yourself — or of doing any thing which may 
benefit others.** — Dalla way's Servatd^a Monitor^ 1815, p. 165, 
Ac. a work well worth the perusal of Young Housekeepers and 
Servants. 

Do not throw yomnelf out of a good place for a slight ai&ont. 
** Come when you are called, and do what you are bid.** PUoe 
yourself in your Mistress's situation,— and consider— .what you 
would expect from her, if she were in yours, and serve, reverence^ 
and obey her accordingly. 



FRIENDLY ADVICB TO OOOKS. 51 

Although there may be ^ more places than parish-churohes,** 

it is not very easy to find many more Good ones.— 
** A Boiling stone nerer gathers Moss.** 
" Honesty is the best Policy." 
'^ A still tongue makes a Wise head." 

Sauey Answers are highly aggravating, and answer no good purpose. 

Let your master or mistress scold ever so much, or be ever so 
unreasonable 'y-~as ^ a soft answer tumeth away wrath" — '^ so will 
&LKNGB— be the bed a Servant can make,^ 

One Rude Anmoer, — extorted perhaps by harsh words, or on- 
merited censure, has cost many a servant the loss of a good place, 
or the total forfeiture of a regauxl which had been growing for years. 

^ If your Employers are hasty, and have scolded without reason 
— bear it patiently — ^they will soon see their error, and not be 
happy till they make you amends. Muttering on leaving the room, 
or slamming the door after you, is as bad as an impertinent reply — 
it is, in fact, showing that you would be impertinent if you dared." 

A /ait^ul Servant will not only never speak disrespectAilly /o her 
Employers, but will not hear disrespectful words said (j^them." — 
Tbi78Ler*8 Domeriie Manoffement, pp. 12, 17, &c. 

Apply direct to pour Emphyera^ and beg of them to eteplain 1o you, as 
fully as possible, how they like their Victuals dressed — ^whether 
nmch — or little done.* 

Of what complexion they wish the Boasts, of a gold colour, or 
well browned, and if they like them frothed? 

Do they like Soups and Saucbs thick or thin, or white or brown, 
dean or full in the mouth? What Accompanimentstheyarepartial to? 

What Flavours they fimcy ? especially of Spicb and Hiubs : 

** Namque coqmis domini debet habere gnlam."— Martial. 

It is impossible that the most Accomplished Cook can please their 
palates, till she has learned their particular taste — this, it will hardly 
be expected, she can hit exactly the first time ; howe\er, the hints 
we have here given, and in the 7th and 8th Chapter of the Budi- 
ments of Cookery, will very much &cilitate the ascertainment of this 
Main Chance of getting into their &vour. 

Be egtremdy cauHous ofSeaaomr^ High^ — Cleave it to the Eaters to 
add thepiquante condiments, accordingtotheir own palate and ikncy : 
for this purpose, " Thb Maoazins of Tastk" or " Sauee^box^* (390) 
will be found an invaluable acquisition : its contents will instent^ 
neously produce any flavour that may be desired. 

" De gnstibuB non est dispatandam.'* 

Tastes are as different as faces ; and without a most attentive ob- 
servation of the directions given by her Employers, the most expe- 
rienced Cook will never be esteemed a profound Palatician. 

It will not go far to pacify the rage of a ravenous Gourmand, who- 
likes his Chops broiled brown (and done enough, so that they can 
appear at table decently, and not blush when they are cut,) to be 
told that some of the Customers at Dolly's Chop-house choose to 

* Meat that b not to be cut till it is QM, must be thoiooghly done, efpedally 
in sammer. 



52 FRIENDLY ADVICE TO COOKS. 

hare them only half-done, and that this is the best way of eaiing 

them. 

We all think thatisihe bett wen/ wkUik We relish best^ and which 

agrees best with our Stomach ; in this, Reason and Fashion, all- 

powerfiil as they are on most occasions, yield to the imperative 

caprice of the Palate. 

Chaouna son Go{tt, 

** The iRiBMUAir lores l7«Q«Mbat^ the Soot lores Ale oall'd J9«e-€bp,— • 
The Wblcrman he lores ToaUed Cheese, and makes his mouth like a Monsc" 
trap.", 

Our Italian neighbours regale themselves with Maearom and 
Parmesan^ and eat some things which we call Carrion. — ^Vide Rat*8 
Travels, pp. 362 and 406. 

Whilst the Englishman boasts of his Roast Bee/, PUrni Pudding, 
and Porter — 

The Frxnchman feeds on his &vourite Froff and Soupermaigre — 

The Tartar feasts on Horse-flesk. 

The Chinaman on Dogs — 

The Grsbnlandbr preys en Ga/rbage and Train Oil, and each 
*^ blesses his Stars, and thinks it Luxury.^^ What at one time or 
place is considered as beautiful, fragrant and savoury, at another — 
is regarded as deformed and disgustful.* 

^ Ask a Toad what is Beauty, the supremely beautiful, the TO 
KAAON ! He will tell you it is my lfi^y.^with two large eyes pro- 
jecting out of her little head, a broad and flat neck, yellow belly, 
and dark brown back. With a Guinea Negro, it is a greasy black 
skin, hollow eyes, and a flat nose. Put the question to the DevU^ 
and. he will tell you that Bxautt is a pair of Horns, four Claws, 
and a Tail."-,VoLTAiRE'8 PhUos, Diet, 8vo, p. 32. 

^ AsaafoBtida was called by the Ancients ' Food for the Gods,* 
The Persians, Indians, and other Eastern people, now eat it in 
Sauces, and call it by that name : the Germans call it DeviVs Dvng,'*'* 
^^Vide Pombt on Drugs. 

Garlic and Clove, or Allspice, combined in certain proportions, 
produce a flavour very similar to Assafoetida. 

The organ of Taste is more rarely found in perfection, and is 
sooner spoiled by the operations of Time, excessive use, &c. than 
either a£ our other senses. 

There are as various degrees of sensibility of Palate, as there are 
of gradations of perfection in the Eyes and Ears of Painters and 
Musicians : after 'all the pains which the Editor has taken to ex- 
plain the Harmon)r of subtle relishes, unless nature has given the 
Organ of Taste in a due degree, this book will, alas ! no more make 
an OsBORN-t* — ^than it can a Bsynolds — or an Arne, or a Shield. 

Where nature has been most bountiful of this &culty, its sensi- 
bility is so easily blunted by a variety of unavoidable circumstances, 
that the Tongue is very seldom in the highest condition for appre- 
ciating delicate flavours, or accurately estimating the relative force 

* See Chapter xr. " Chaque PatfS, chaque Coutuinc."—Cours Gastronotiuque, 
8*o. 1809, p. 168. 
1 Cook to Sib Joseph Banks, Bart., late President of the Royal Society. 



FBIBKDLT ADVIOB TO GOOKS* 53 

^ the various mateiials the Cook employB in the ocmpoation of an 
harmoniouB leliah -, — ^Cooka ezprass this rafiiMment of Combination 
by laying, a well-finiBhed RagoAlt ^ tosteB of ereiy thing, and tastes 
of notfai]^:*' (this is *^ hUeken f/Stlb9ridr for a Sanoe m which the 
component parts are well proportioned.) * 

However delicately sensitive nature may have formed the organs 
of Taste, — it is only during those few happy moments that they are 
perfectly awake, and in perfect good humour-^alas ! how very sel- 
dom they are !) that the most accomplished and experienced Cook 
has a chance of working with any degree of certainty without the 
auxiliary tests of the baktnce and tiie measure : by the help of these, 
when you are once right, it is your own &ult if you are ever otherwise. 

The sense of Taste depends much on the health of the Indivi- 
dual, and is hardly ever for a single hour in the same state^^-such 
is the extremely intimate sympatiiy between the Stomach and the 
Tongue, that in proportion as the former is Elmpty,* the latter is 
acute and sensitive : this is the cause that **" good appetite is the 
best Sauce** — and that the dish we find savoury at Limdhetm is in- 
sipid at Dinner^ and at Supper quite tasteless. 

To taste any thing in perfection, the Tongue must be moistened* 
or the substance applied to it contain moisture — ^the nervofis pa- 
pillae which constitute this sense are roused to still more lively sen* 
sifoility by Salt — Sugar — Aromatics, &c. 

- If the Palate becomes dull by repeated tasting, one of the best 
wa3rs of refreshing it-.iB to masticate an Apple, or to wash your 
mouth well with milk. 

- The incessant Exercise of Tasting, which a Cook is obliged to 
submit to during the Education of her Tongue, fVequently impairs 
the very faculty she is trying to improve. ^ *Tis true — *tis pily-. 
and pity *tis," (sajrs a^rromd Oonnmx»d\ *^ *tis true, — her too anxious 
perseverance to penetrate the mysteries of Palatics may dimin&h 
the Icuf , exhaust the power, and destroy the hnim^ without which 
i^ her labour is in vain.** 

ITierefore a sagacious Cook, instead of idly and wantenly wasting 
the excitability cl her Palate — on the sensibility of which her repu- 
tation and fortune depends, when she has ascertained the relative 
strength of the flavour of the various ingredients she employs, will 
call in the Balance and the Measure to do the ordinary business, 
and endeavour to preserve her Oigan of Taste with the utmost care, 
that it may be a mithful Oracle to refer to on grand occasions, and 
new Compositions,-|-— of tiiese an ingenious Cook may form as end- 

* " Son Diner sera toviofiinmMiritee en tnriftactes, od lagradation de aareun 
ndTTO oelle m'Axlttote prtocrlt poor I'int^rSt thtttnO." 

** II ftat prfoamr areo art les jooiManoes du gonnnand ; £« JVvmiffr wrvice 
daUHndouxet pm Meif c'aet I'aete d'ezpoeition: Le Second— jiiu lnUx«»> 
sant» pine xeieVA : Le Troitiime, appder enioite ii aon seconn le mere et 1 am- 
broirie, a'armer dee brAlans an>matee» dee spiritaeax Tolatilee, et temper de 
teame en tempe leur teeigie par la ftatcheiur dee firnite lavonreuz."— CS9ur« 
OanroHomlgnu, pp. fl7f SO. ^ . 

t ** The ATereitlee of TaeU am lo many and so ooniidexable. that it leeineth 
■tianfa to eee the matter treated of both by Phileeopben and Phvaksiuia with 




54 FBIBKDLT ADVICE TO COOKS. 

less a Tanetjr, as 8 Musiciaii with his seveii nioiea, or a Paiinter «i1& 
his colours : — read Chapters 7 and 8 of the Budisneiits of Cookefj. 

fiec^T* jBfl ibe higkeri toeHmomes o£ your Employers* regard what- 
eTer abseryatioos they may make on your worlu-Isach admonitions 
are the most uMqidvocal prorfa of their desire to make you tho- 
roughly undeistand their taste, and their wish to retain you in their 
seiryiee-^or they would not take the trouble to teach you. 

Enter intd all their plans of Economy,* and endeavour to make 
the most of every thing, as well for your own honour as your mas- 
ter's fHTofit, and you will find that whatever care you take for h^ 
profit will be for your own : take care that the Meat which is tc^ 
make its appearance again in the Parlour is handsomely cut with a 
^arp knife, and put on a clean dish — ^take care of tiie Gravy (see 
284) which is left, it will save many pounds of Meat in n^ddng 
sauce for Hashes^ Povliry, and many little dishes. 

Many thikos may be re-drbsssd in a different form from that 
in which they were first served, and improve the appearance of the 
table without increasing the expense of it. 

Cold Fish, — Soles— Cod — Whitings — Smelts, &c. may be cut 
into bits, and put into Escallop Shells — ^with cold Oyster, Lobster, 
or Shrimp Sauce, and bread crumbled, and put into a Dutch Oven, 
and browned like Scalloped Oysters. (179.) 

The best way To warm gold Mbat is to sprinkle the joint over, 
with a little salt, and put it in a Dutch Oven, at some distance be- 
fore a gentle fiie, that it may warm gradually ; watch it carefully, 
and keep turning it till it is quite hot and brown ; it will take from 
twenty minutes to three quarters of an hour, according to its thick- 
ness ; serve it up with Gravy ;, — this is much better than Hashing 
it, and by doing it nicely a Cook will get great credit. Poultry 
(449) ; Fried Fish (see 141), &c. may be re-dressed in this way. 

Take care of the Liquor you have boiled Poultry or Meat in ; is 
five minutes you may make it into bxcbllxnt Soup — (see 6&s. to 
530 and 211,5), and the 7th Chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery. 

No good Housewife has any pretensionstoi^a^MHia^ JSboteMny who 
boils Animal Food without converting the Broth into some sort of 
Soup. 

simple tastes : however, it ia difEcuIt to define more than six. 1. BiMer as Wona^ 
wood. 2. Sioeet as Sugar, a Sour as Vinegar. 4. Salt as Brine. S. Cold as 
Ice. 6. Mot as Brandy. " C^nnpound Uuta, innumerable, may be formed by 
the combination of these simple tastes— as words are of letters. ''--JSee also Hiu. 
Trans, vol. xv. p. 1025. ,. , 

" Si raasodation de certaines eonleurs plaisent k Isil, tandis que d'autres 
choquent la vue, de m£me, certaines savenrs mantes ensemble flattent le goClt^ 
tandis que d'auties r4p\ignent au palais : ainsi le javne et le violet, lo vert avec 
le rose, font un effet ag^ble ; le bleu perd sa nuance quand il est mis sur d« 
Vert : ainsi le sucre s'allie tr^ bien arec les alimens doux, acides, on amem ; 
mais il ne pent s'assoder avec les substanees saldes: on doit done ttudiev COk 
convenances. Je vais plus loin ; il feut swroir que dans la bouche, lea mtgam 
du Boftt, distribu^ sur difBSrens points, ne sont pas tous idbctes par les mtaics 




FBIBNDLT ADVICE TO COOKS. 55 

Hofwerer liighly the uninitiBted in the mystery of Sonp-making 
nay elevate the external appendage of his Olfiictoiy Organ at the 
mention of « Pot Liquor," if he tastes (5, or 203, 530), he will be 
as delighted with it as a Frenchman is witii ^ Paktffe a la Cdim»- 
rcmu^ of which it is said ** a single spoonful will lap the Palate in 
Elysium ; and while one drop of it remains on the tongue, each 
other sense is eclipsed by the voluptuous thrilling of the Lingnad 
nerves ? \^ 

Broth of rRAeMiENTB.-^When you drees a large dinner you may 
make good BroA^ or PorUMe Soup (227), at very mmU ooHjhy taking 
care of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game, and poul- 
try you are going to use ; wash them well, and put them into a 
stewpan, with as much cold water as will cover them ; set your steww 
pan on a hot fire ; when it boils take off all the scum, and set it on 
again to siomier gentiy : put in two carrots, two turnips, a large onion, 
three blades of pounded mace, and a head of celery ; some mush^ 
room parings wHl be a great addition. Let it continue to simmer 
gently four or five hoimi ; stmin it through a sieve into a clean basin. 
This wiU save a great deal of expense in buying Giavy-Meat 

Have the Dust, &c. removed legulariy once in a fortnight, and 
iiave your Kitchsv Crimkhy swept once a month ; — many good 
Dinners have been spoiled, and many houses burnt down, by the 
soot £Uling :— tile best security against this, is for the Cook to have 
at long biich-broom, and every morning brush down all the soot 
within reach of it — Give notice to your employers when the con- 
tents of your Coal-<;bllar are diminished to a chaldron. 

It will be to little purpose to procure good Provisions, unless you 
have proper utensils* to prepare them in : the most expert artist 
cannot x>erform his work in a perfect manner without proper instru- 
ments; — ^you cannot have neat work without nice tools, nor can you 
dress Victuals well without an apparatus appropriate to the work 
required. See 1st page of Chapter 7 of the Rudiments of Cookery. 

In those houses where the Cook enjoys the confidence of her 
employer so much as to be intrusted with the care of the store- 
room, which is not very common, she will keep an exaet aoootmt of 
eoery thing as.U comes «o, and insist upon the weight and price being 
fixed to every article she purchases — and occasionally — ^will (and it 
may not be amiss jocosely to drop a hint to those who supply them 
that she does) re-wei^ than, for her own satisfaction, as well as 
that of her employer, and will not trust the key of this room to any 
one ; she will also keep an account of every thing she takes from 
it, and manage with as much consideration and frugality as if it 
were her own property she was using, endeavouring to disprove the 
adage, that ^ plbnty makes Waeie^^'' and remembering that ^ wilful 
waste makes wofiil Want.** 

The honesty of a Cook must be above all suspicion : she must 
obtain, and (m sp^ of the numberless Temptations^ Sf;o. that daUy offw 

* '*A Suraeon fliay as well attempt to make an inoicdoii with a pair of Sheftrs, 
'Or opeo^ir T^n with«n Oy«ter-Kirife, fts a Cookpretend to dreu a Diiuier with- 
out proper Tools."— Vkrkaia's Cociceiy» 8vo. ITaOi, p, &. 



56 FRIENDLY ADVICB TO OOOKS; 

to bend her from it)^ pieBerve a character of spotlesB Integritj' ind 
lueful Industry,* remembering that it is the fhur price of Indepbnik 
BNCE, which aU wish for, bat none without it can hope for ; only a 
Fool or a Madman toill be 90 silly or 90 orcaiy cu to eaeped to reap 
where he hat been too idle to sow. 

Very few modem-built Town-houses have a proper place to pre- 
serve provisions in — the best substitute is a Hanoino Safb, which 
you may contrive to suspend in an airy situation ; and tbhen yom 
order Meat, Povltky, or Fisu, teU the Tradesman tehen you intend 
to dress it, — he will then have it in his power to serve you with pn>> 
vision that will do him credit, which the finest Heat, &c. in the 
world will never do, unless it has been kept a proper time to be 
ripe and tender. 

If you have a well- ventilated Larder in a shady, diy situation, 
you may make still surer, by ordering in your Meat and Poultry 
such a time before you want it as will render it tender, which the 
finest meat cannot be, unless hung a proper time (see 2d Chapter 
of the Rudiments of Gookeiy), accordmg to the season, and nature 
of the meat, &c^ but always, bb *^ ks bons hommes de bouche da 
France'' say, till it is "^ asaez mori^y 

Permitting this process to proceed to a certain degree renders 
Meat much more easy of solution in the Stomach, and for thorn 
whoee dig^tvee faeviHee are iieUcate, it ie of the utmost knportanee that 
it be attended to toith the greatest nioety, — ^for the most consummate 
skill in the Culinary preparation of it will not compensate for the 
want ofattention to this. (BeadOte.to69.) Meat that is ^Aonn^iUy 
Roastedy or Boiled, eats much shorter and tenderer, and is in pro- 
portion more digestible, than that which is under-done. 

You will be enabled to manage much better if your Employers 
will make out a Bil^ of Fare for thb Wbbk on liie Saturday 
before~4br example, for a Family of hatf a doaen— . 

4Srund(^.«.^Boa8t Beef (31), and My Pudding (516 ) 
Mc n dMj f^ ^^.Vowl (17, 68), what was left of M7 Padding fiied, and wanned, 
in tlie Ihitch. ovem. 

Tuesday ^Calf s Head (11), Apple-Pie. 

fTeinetda^^eg of Mutton (I), or (24.) 

Thur9dap„..^J>o. broiled or haahed (4Q2), or 13B9), Pancakes. 

JWcfay Fiah (141), Pudding (51&) 

Saturdaif .^...Pish, or Eggp and Baoon (fiSl.) 

* Manr Cooks mias exoeUent opportunities of making themaelTea independ- 
ent—by their idleneaa,— in refiiaing any place, bowerer profitable, ftc. if thMrj» 
is not a Kitchen Maid kept to wait upon them. 

There aro many Inyalios who requfre a good Cook, and as (after reading this 
Book they will understand how much) their comfort and eflfoctiTe ezjatence de- 
pends on their food being properly prepared, will willinglTpay handaome wages 
—(who would not rather pay the Cook than the Doctor ?H-but haTe so little 
work in the Kitchen that one person may do it all with the utmost eaae, witli- 
out injury to her health, which ia not the case in a laige family, when tne poor 
Cook IS roasting and stewing all day— and is often depnted of her rest at ni^|^ 
No artists hare greater need to " make Baif MfhUe we sun ^ilneSy" and timelv 

{troride for the infirmities of Age. Who will hire a superannuated Serrant r 
f she has sared nothing to support herself, she must crai^l to the workhouse. 
It is melancholy to find, that, according to the authority of a certain great 
French antiior— *'Ouok% half stewed and half roasted, -when unable te worKaair 
longe]% mierally retiro to some unknown corner, and die in foorioranaai tmk 
want --BLACKWOop'a McHn, Mag. toL viL p. OBB, 



7BIENDLY ADVICE TO COOKS. 57 

' It is an excellent pUui to hare certain Ikinfft on eertam dayt. 
When your Butcher or Poulterer knows what you will want, he 
has a better chance of doing his best for you ; and never think of 
ordering Bksf for Roastino except for Sunday. 

When the Wediker or Setuon* w very unfavourable /or keeping MecU^ 
4c. — give him the choice of sending that which is in the b^ older 
for dressing — i. e. either Ribs or Sirloin of Beef; or Leg, Loii^, or 
Neck of Mutton, &c. 

Meat in which you can detect the slightest trace of putrescency, 
has reached its highest degree of tenderness, and should be dressed 
without delay ; but before tiiis period, whic^ in some kinds of meat 
is oiiensiTe, the due degree of inteneration may be ascertained, by 
its yielding readily'to the pressure of the finger, and by its opposang 
little resistance to an attempt to bind the joint. 

Although we strongly recommend that Animal Food should be 
hung up in the open air, till its fibres ha?e lost some degree of their 
tou^ness — ^yet, let us be clearly understood also to warn you, that 
if kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health, 
as it is disagreeable to the Smell and Taste. 

In vkry cold wxi^hbb— bring your Meat, Poultry, &c. into the 
kitchen, early in the mommg— if you roast, boil, or stew it ever so 
gently and ever so \aag.^~jf it be/roieen— it will continue tough and 
unchewable. 

Without very watchful attention to this, the most skilful Cook 
in tiie world will get no credit, be she ever so careful in the manage^ 
ment of her Spit or her Stewpan. 

The time Meat should hat^ to be tender — depends on the heat and 
humidity of the air : if it is not kept long enough, it is hard and 
tough \ — if too long, it loses its flavour : — it should be hung where 
it will have a thorough air, and be dried with a cloth, night and 
morning, to keep it from damp and mustiness. 

Before you dress it, wash it well, — if it is roasting Bee^ pare oj^ 
ike Outside, 

If you fear Meat,*!* &c. will not keep till the time it is wanted,..-. 
jMsr-roast or jMir-boil it, — it will then keep a couple of days longer, 

* ** The season of the year has ooiudderable iaflvenoe on the quality of Butcher 
meat— depending upon the more or lees plentiful supply of Food, upon the pe-. 
nodical dbange which takes place in the body of the Animal, and upon tempe- 
latnre. The^esh of most rail-grown Qnadmpeds la in highest season during 
the first months ot Winter, after having enjoyed the advaata^^e of the abuncf. 
aace of fraih summer food. Its flarour then begins to be injured by the tur- 
nipe, dec. nven as winter food ; and in Spring it gets lean from deficient of 
flM>d. Aluons^BeefaadMuttonareneTeraosolntely out of season, or not fit 
iir the table, they are best in November. December, and January. Pork is ab^ 
flolntely bad, except during the WmleT.^Supp. to tke Edin. Sncjf. Brit p. 388. 

t " Lakocks, Pantries, and Safbs— must be sheltered from the Sun, and 
otherwise xemoyed from the heat ; be dry, and, if possible, have a current of 
dry cool air continually passing through them. 

*' The freezing temperature, t. e. SSdigreet of Fdhrenhett, is a periisct preser- 
TStire from putrefaction-- warm, moist, muggy weather is the wprst for keeping 
meat. The. south wind is especially unfitronrable, and lightning is quickly 
desftructiTe ; but the greatest Enemy yon have to encounter is the Flesh-fiy, 
which becomes troublesome about the month of May, and continues so till to*-' 
wards Michaelmaa.— For Anther Obi, on this subject, see " Tke ExperienceA 
BuUher," p. 160. 



58 PBIBNDLYA&VIOE TO COOKS. 

when it ma J be dressed in the usual way, only it will be dond in 
Tather less time. 

** In Gennany, the method of keeping flesh in summer is to steep 
it in Bhenish Wine with a Httle sea-salt ; by which means it may 
be preserved a whole season/'* — ^Bobbhaavk^s Academical Lectures, 
transhfcted by J. Nathen, 8yo. 1763, p. 241. 

The Cook and the Butcher as often lose their credit, by Meat 
being dressed too fresh, as the Fishmonger does by fish that has 
been kept too long. 

Dr. Franklin in his philosophical experiments tells us, that if 
Game or Poultiy be killed by ELECTRicrrT it will become tender 
in the twinkling of an eye, and if it be dressed immediately^ will 
be delicately tender. 

During the sultry summer months, it is almost impossible to 
procure meat that is not either tough— «r tainted — ^the fonner is as 
improper as the latter for the unbraced stomachs of relaxed Vale- 
todinarians, for whom, at this season. Poultry, Stews, &c. and Ve- 
getable Soups, are the most suitable food, when the digestive oigans 
are debilitated by the extreme heat, and profuse perspiration re> 
quires an increase of liquid to restore equilibriipn in the constitution. 

/ Aaoe tcdun mucA more paim than, cmy of my predecessors, to teack 
<&e yoim»g CkxA haw to perform, m the best manner, the oommon htuistess of 
her />r(^Msto«;— bemg well grounded in the RUDIMENTS OF 
COOKERY, she will be able to execute the orders that are given 
her, with ease to herself and satis&ction to her employers, and send 
up a delicious dinner, with half the usual Expense and Trouble. 

I have endeavoured to lessen the labour of those who wish to be 
thoroughly acquainted with their profession ; and an attentive perusal 
of the following pages will save them much of the irksome drudgefy 
attending an apprenticeship at the Stove : an ordeal so severe, that 
few pass it without irreparable injury to their Health ;* and many 
lo0e their lives before they learn their business. 

To encourage the best performance of the machinery of mastica- 
tion, the Cook must take care that her dinner is not only well cooked 
*-Jbut that each dish be sent to table with its proper accompanim^itsi 
in the neatest and most elegant manner. 

Remember, to excite the good opinion of the Eyeii the first step 
towards awakening the Appetite, 

Decoration is much more rationally employed in rendering a whole- 
some nutritious dish inviting, than in the elaborate embellishments 
which are crowded about IMfies and Custards. 

Endeavour to avoid over-dteaaiig Roasts and Boils,.&c. and over* 
Masoning Soups and Sauces with Salt, Pepper, &c. — ^it is a favU 
whuA cannot be mended. 

If your Roasts, &c. are a little under-done ; with the assistance of 

* " Bnj it with health, strongth, and remlntion. 
And paj for it» a robust conatitntion." 

PrefiMce to the Cook^s Cockerp, 1758. 
See the prefiBoeto ** 7ite Co<^s Codhsrvt" p. 9. This work, which is Terrscaroe) 
was, we believe, written to.deT»lope the mistakes in what H* oalls " the Xhio» 
sand Enron/' L e. " The LaAjfs Cookery," I e. Mn. Glasse's, L e. Sir John Jlill'a 



JmSNDIiY ADVICE TO COOKS. 59 

the Stewpon, the Giidiron or the Dutch Oven, jmimAj soon rectiiy 
the mistake made with the Spit or the Pot 

If over-done, the best juices of the Meat are evaporated ; it will 
serve merely to distend the Stomach, and if the sensation of Hunger 
be removed, it is at the price of an Indigestion. 

The chief business of Cookery is to render food easy of Digestion, 
and to facilitate Nutrition. This is most completely accomplished 
by Plain Cookery in perfection — i. e. neither over- nor under-done. 

With all your care, you will not get much credit by Cooking to 
perfection, if more than One Dish goes to table at a time. 

To be eaten in perfection, the interval between Meat being taken 
out of the Stewpan, and its being put into the Mouth, must be as 
short as possible ; but Ceremony, that most formidable enemy to 
good Cheer, too often decrees it otherwise, and the Guests seldom 
get a bit of an '« £ntremet$'' till it is half cold. (See 400). 

So much time is often lost in placing every thing in Apple-pie 
order, that long before Dinner is announced, all becomes lukewarm ; 
and to complete the mortification of the grand Gourmand, his meat 
is put on a sheet of ice in the shape of a Plate, which instantly con- 
verts the Gravy into Jelly, and the Fat into a something which 
puzzles his teeth and the roof of his Mouth, as much as if he had 
Birdlime to masticate^*.^ complete Meat-Skreen will answer the 
purpose of a Hot closet^ plate-warmer, ^c— 4See Index. 

It will save you infinite trouble and anxiety, if you can prevail on 
your employers to use the **saucs-box,^' (No. 390), hereinafter 
described in the chapter of Sauces. With the help of this *' Ma- 
gazine OF Taste," every one in company may flavour their Soup 
and Sauce, and adjust the vibrations of their Palate, exactly to 
their own Fancy ; but if the Cook give a decidedly predominant and 
piquant gout to a dish, to tickle the tongues of two or three visitors, 
whose taste she knows, she may thereby make the dinner disgusting 
to all the other guests. 

Never undertake more work than you are quite certain you eon do well ; 
if you are ordered to prepare a larger Dinner than you think you 
can send up with ease and neatness, or to dress any dish that you 
are not acquainted with, rather than run any risk in spoiling any 
thing — (by one fault you may perhaps lose all your credit)— request 
your employers to let you have some help. They may acquit you 
for pleading guilty of inability ; but if you make an attempt and 
&il^ will vote it a capital offence. 

If your Mintress pro/esses to understand Cookery, your best way 
will be to follow her directions : if you wish to please her, let her 
have the praise of all that is right, and cheerfully bear the blame of 
any thing that is wrong ; only advise that all New Dishes may be 
first tried when the Family dine alone — ^when there is Company, 
never attempt to dress any thing which you have not ascertained 
that you can do perfectly well. 

Do not trust any part of your work to others unthout carefully over* 
looking them ; whatever feults they commit you will be censured for : 
^-if you have forgotten any article which is indispensable for the 



60 FBIENDLY ADVICE TO COOKS: 

da7*s dinner, request your employen to send one of the other ser- 
vants for it. The Cook must never quit her Post till her work is 
entirely finished. 

It requires the utmost skill and contrivance to have all things 
done as they should be, and all done together — at that oritical mo> 
metU when the Dinner-Bdl aowtds-^^ to & Bcmquet,^'* 

** A feast must be without a &nlt ; 
And if 'tis not aU right, 'tis nan^t." 

But 

" Good natore will some fiidlings orerlook, 
Foigire mischance, not errors of the CSook ; 
As, if no salt is thrown abont the dish. 
Or nice crisp'd parsley scattered on the fish- 
Shall we in Passion firom our Dinner fly, 
And hopes of pardon to the Cook deny. 
For things which Mrs. Oi.A6sa herself might oversee, 
And all mankind commit as well as she ?" 

Vide Knra's Art qf Cookety, 

Such is the endless variety of culinary preparations, it would be 
as vain and fruitless a search as that for the Philosopher^ Stone, to 
expect to find a Cook who is quite perfect in all the operations of 
the Spit, the Stew-pan, and the Rolling-pin ; you will as soon find 
a Watchmakei^ who can make, put together, and regulate eveiy 
part of a Watch. 

** The Universe — cannot produce a Cook who knows how to do 
every branch of Cookery well, be his G^enius as great as possible.^* 
— ^Vide the Cook^s Cookery^ 8vo. page 40. 

Ths best kuls for KAKKxnNO is to pojf RSABY MONEY for everj 
thing, and to deal leith the moet respedaHe Tradesmen in your neigh- 
bourhood. 

If you leave it to their integrity to supply you with a good ar- 
ticle, at the fidr market price, you will be supplied with better Pro- 
visions, and at as reasonable a rate as those Bargam-hunters who trot 
*^ around around around about** a market till they are trapped to buy 
some unehewaJUe old Poultry — Umgh Tup-Mutton— .sItm^ Cow Beef 
— or siale Fish* — at a very little less than the price of prime and 
proper food : — ^with savingn like these they toddle home in triumph, 
cackling all the way, like a goose that hasgot ancle-deep into sood-luck. 

All the skill of the most accomplished Cook will avau nothing, 
unless she is furnished with primb provisions. The best way to 
procure these is to d^ with shops of established character : you 
may appear to pay, perhaps. Temper cent, more than you would were 
yon to deal with those who pretend to sell cheap, but yon would 
De much more than in that proportion better served. 

Every trade has its tricks and deceptions— those who follow them 
eaa deceive you if they please, and they are too apt to do so, if you 
provoke the exercise of their over-reaching talentf 

• See the Mamurtwo Tablbs, page <S6 of this work. 

t " He who will not be cheated a lUUe mnst be content to be abased a great 
4ealt the first IciMui in the art of camfvrtabU JBooiMmy, is to learn to inbinifr 



JPBISNDLY ADVICE TO COOKS. 61 

Challenge them to a game at ^ Catch who (xm" by entirely rely- 
ing on your own judgment ; and you will soon find nothing but very 
long experience can make you equal to the combat of marketing to 
the utmost advantage. 

Before you go to Market, look over your Larder, and consider well . 
what things are wanting — especially on a Saturday. No well-re- 
gulated filmily can suffer a disorderly Caterer to be jumping in and 
out to the Chiandler^s Shop on a Sunday morning. 

Give your directions to your assistants, and begin your business 
early in the Morning, or it will be impossible to have the Dinner 
ready at the time it is ordered. 

To be half an hour after the time is such a frequent fault, 
that there is the more merit in being ready at the appointed hour. 
This is a difficult task, and in the best-regulated family you can 
only be sure of your time by proper arrangements. 

With all our love of punctuality, we must not foiget that the 
first consideration must still be, that the Dinner ** be well done 
when ^s done.^* 

If any Accident oceun to any part of the Dinner-^or if you are 
likely to be prevented sending the Soup, &c. to the table at the 
moment it is expected, send up a message to your employers, stat- 
ing the circumstance, and bespeak their patience for as many 
minutes as you think it will take to be ready. This is better than, 
either keeping the Company waiting without an apology, or dishing 
your Dinner before it is done enough, or sending any thing to table 
which is disgusting to the Stomachs of the guests at the first ap- 
pearance of it. 

Those who desire regularity in the service of their table, should 
have a DIAL of about twelve inches diameter, placed over the 
Kitehen fire-place, carefully regulated, to keep time exactly with 
the clock in the hall or Dining-parlour ; with a frame on one side, 
containing a tastb table of the peculiarities of the master^! palate, 
and the particular rules and orders of his Kitehen ; and, on tiie 
other side, of the rbwards given to those who attend to them, and 
for long and faithful service. 

In amall Families, when a Dinner is sddom given — a great deal of 
preparation is required, and the preceding day must be devoted to 
the business of the Kitehen. 

On these occasions a Char-woman is often employed to do the 
dirty work. Ignorant persons often hinder you more than they 
help you: we advise a Cock to be hired to assist to dress the 
Dinner — ^this would be very little more expense, and the work 
got through with much more comfort in the Kitchen and credit to 
the Parlour. 

cheerfully to 1>e imposed upon in due proportion to your situation and circum- 
stancee; if tou do not, yon will continually be in hot water. 

" If jon think a tradcmnan has imposed upon you, never use a second word. 
If the nrst will not do, nor drop the least hint of an imposition ; the only method 
to induce him to make an abatement is the hope of future faTours— pay the de- 
mand, and deal with the Gentleman no more ; but do not let him see that you 
as« dkpteased,'or as soon as you are out of s^ht, your Reputation will suffer as 
much ai yooA^pocket has.**— Trublbr's JFaf to be Bich, Bvo. 1776, p. 85. 



62 TBIENDLY J^DVICE TO COOKSL 

When x<yu hare a tsry larob sntbrtainmbnt to prepa!*e, ^et 
your Soups and Saucis, Fobgsmbats, && ready the day bcrifbre, and 
read the 7th Chapter of our Rudiments o/Coolmy .'—many Madb 
Dishes may also be prepared the day before they are to go to 
table ; but do not dress them quite emm^ the first day, that they 
may not be over^done by wanning up again. 

Prepare every thing you can the day before the Dinner, and 
order every thing else to be sent in early in the Morning ; if the 
tradesmen forget it, it will allow you time to send for it. 

Ilie Pastry, Jbllibs, &c you may prepare while the Broths 
are doing ; then truss your Game and Poultry, — and shape your 
CoUops, GuUets, &c. — and iinm, Ihem neatly, . eut moa/y aU Fhpe and 
GrigHeB, ^c. Nothing t^wvUid aj^pear on taHe but what has indisputable 
pretensions to be eaten ! 

Put your Madx Dishes in plates, and arrange them upon the 
dresser m regular txrder : next, see that your Roasts and Boils are 
bU nicely trimmed, trussed, &c. and quite ready for the Spit or Pot. 

Have your Vbgbtablbs neatly cut, pared, picked, and clean 
washed in the colander : — ^provide a tin dish, with partitions, to 
hold your fine herbs ; Onioni and Shallots, Parsley, Thyme, Tar- 
ragon, Chervil, and Burnet, minced very fine, and Lemon-peel 
grated, or cut thin, and chopped very small ■ Pepper and Salt ready 
mixed, and your Spice-box, and Salt-cellar always ready for action, 
— ^that every thing you may want may be at hand for your Stove- 
work, and not be scampering about the kitchen in a whirlpool of 
concision, hunting after these trifles while the Dinner is waiting. 

In one drawer under your Spicb-box keep, ready ground, in well- 
stopped Bottles, the several spices separate \ and abo that mixture of 
them which is called "• Ragout Powder'^ (384 or 388) v— in another, 
keep youz dried and powdered Sweet, savoury, and Soup Herbs, 
&c. and a set of weights and scales : — ^you may luive a third drawer, 
containing Flavouring Essences, &c. an invaluable auxiliary in 
finishing soups and sauces ; (see the account of the ^ Magazinb of 
Tastb," or « Saucb-box,'' 390). 

Have also ready some thickening, made of the best white flour 
sifted, mixed with soft water with a wooden spoon till it is the con- 
sistenoe of thick batter,— a bottle of plain Browning (283), some 
strained Lemon-juice, and some good Glase,or Portablb Soup (227). 

**• Nothing can be done inperfeetionwkiehnuistbedoneinahurry:*''* 
— therefore, if you wish the dinner to be sent up to please your 
Master and Mistress, and do credit to yourself be punctttsd; — 
take care that as soon as the Clock Strikes, the Dinner-Bdl Rings : — 
this shews the establishment to be orderly, is extremely gratifymg to 
the Master and his Guests, and is most praiseworthy in the Attenduits. 

But remember, you cannot obtain this desirable reputation with- 
out good management in every respect ; — if you wish to ensure 
Ease and Independence in the latter part of your life, you must 
not be unwilling to pay the price for which only they can be ob- 

* Skj* Tom Thrifty " except catching qf FJmw.**— See T. T.'s Amy en Earfy 
tUstng. 



PBIENDLY ADVICE TO COOES. 63 

tained,— -and earn them by a diligent and faitkfvl* performance of 
the duties of your station in your young days, which, if you steadily 
persevere in, you may depend upon ultimately receiving the reward 
your services deserve. 

All Duties are reciprocal ; and if you hope to receive &vour en- 
deavour to deserve it by shewing yourself fond of obliging, and 
grateful when obliged — such Behaviour will win regard, and main- 
tain it ; enforce what is right, and excuse what is wrong. 

Qmet steady Perseverunoe is the only spring which you can safely 
depend upon for infallibly promoting your progress on the road to 
Ind^jendence. 

If your employers do not immediately appear to be sensible of 
your endeavours to contribute your utmost to their comfort and 
interest, be not easily discouraged \~.JPersevere, and do all in your 

power to MAKB YOURSELF USEFUL. 

Endeavour to promote the Comfort of every Individual in the 
Family — let it be manifest that you are desirous io do rather more 
than is required of you, than less than your duty — ^they merit little 
who perform merely what would be exacted v--if you are desired 
to help in any business which may not strictly belong to your de- 
partments-undertake it Cheerfully, Patiently, and Conscientiously. 

The foregoing advice has been written with an honest desire to 
augment the comfort of those in the Kitchen — ^who will soon find 
that the ever-cheering reflection of having done their duty to the 
utmost of their ability — ^is in itself, with a Christian spirit, a never- 
fiuling source of comfort in all circumstances and situations, and 
that 

" Virtue is its own Reward.*' 

^N.B. <<If yon will take half the paiBB to deMrre the regard of yonr Matter 
■ad Mistrefls by being a good and fauhful Servantt jon take to be oonndered a 
gpodfMo¥>-servaMj—w> maoT of you would not, in the decline of life, he left des- 
titute of those comforts which age requires, nor hare oocauoa to quote the saying 
that, ' serrioe is no inheritance, unless your own ntisconduct makes it so. 

" The idea of being called a Tell-tale, has occasioned many good serrants to 
■hut their Eyes against the frauds of fellow-servants. 

" In the eye of the law, persons standing by and seeii^ a felony committed 
which they could hare prevented, are held equally guilty with those committing 
it."— Dr. Truslsk's DomuUc Management^ p. 18, and inttrucUom to Servants. 



[ 64 1 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



To reduce our Culinary Operationg to as exact a certainty as the 
i^ture of the processes would admit o£--we have, wherever it was 
needfidf^ven the Quantities of each article. 

Thb Wbightr are Avoirdupois. 

The Mbasurk, — ^the graduated glass of the Apothecaries ; this 
appeared the most accurate and convenient ; — tlie Pint being divided 
into sixteen ounces, the Ounce into eight drachms. A middling-sized 
Tea-spoon will contain about a Drachm *, — four such Tea-spoons are, 
equal to a middling-sized Table-spoon^ or half an Ounce*, — four 
Table-spoons to a common-sized Wine-glass. 

The specific gravities of the various substances being so extremely 
diiferent, we cannot offer any auxiliary standards* for the Wkiohts, 
which we earnestly recommend the Cook to employ, if she wishes 
to gain credit for accuracy and uniformity in her business : these 
she will find it necessary to have as small as the quarter of a drachm 
Avoirdupois, which is equal to nearly seven grains Troy. 

Glass Mbasurbs (divided into Tea and Table-spoons), contain- 
ing from Half an Ounce to Haifa Pint, — may be had at Hancock 
and Shbphbrd^s Glass Shop, at Charing-Cross, and at Price's, 
near Exeter Xlhange, Stnmd ; where also may be had, — the doublk- 
HBAOBD PBFPBR AND 8PICB BOXES, with caps over the gratings. The 
superiority of these, by preserving the contents from the action of 
the air, must be sufficiently obvious to every one : the fine aromatic 
fiavour of Pepper is soon lost, from the bottles it is usually kept in not 
being vodi stopped. Peppers are seldom ground or pounded suffi- 
ciently fine. (See N.fi. to 310). 

N.B. The Trough Nutmeg Graters made by Brooks, iron- 
monger, in Piccadilly (near Bond Street), are by fax the best we have 
seen, especially for those who wish to grate fine, and &&t. 

Uoyd, fumiiBhing ironmonger. Strand, near Norfolk Street, sells 
Springs which weigh from an ounce to 20 pounds, for £1. Is. 

Llovd^s Balance, which weighs frt)m i of a drachm to 20 pounds, 
is a very accurate and convenient machine for weighing. 

* A lai^e Table-spoonfal of Flour weighs about half an Ounce. 



i: ^5 ] 

MARKETING TABLES, 

Skewing the Setuons when Meat — Poultby — ^Fish — and 
Vegetables — are Best and Cheapest. 



MEAT, 

TkePruxttoereJUeed (JamMty 1 mf)JnfanemiwM Butcher, toAo mOi anartkle 
*^-^ff^ 9Ufl&^ / andOiWffk the PH<Ss atonictvary, th* relative tMOue witt be 



1^* 



lb. 

13 

20 

U 

13 



oz. 

a 





18 



11 



14 4 



8 4 

9 



fli 



lb. oz. 
1 8 
4 
1 4 

1 a 



1 8 



1 12 



10 
2 4 



BEEF. 



the hind quarter. 



per lb. 

1. Sir Loin . . . o 9 

2. Rump - ... 9 

3. Edge-Bone - - 6 

4. Buttock or Round 7 

- 6 

- 7 

- 6 

- 6i 
• 2^ 



5. Mouse ditto 

6. Veinj Piece 

7. Tbick Flank 

8. Thin ditto - 

9. Leg - . - 



Roasted. 

Steak to Broil, to Stew. 

Boiled. 

Ditto, or SaTonry Salted Beef. 

For Alamode Beef. 

Generally Baked or Salted. 

- - - - Salted. 

- - - - Ditto. 
Soup of, Stewed. 



THE FORE QUARTER. 



10: 
11. 
IS. 
13. 



per lb. 
Fore Rib, 6 Ribs 9 
Middle do., 3 do. 7 
Chuck do., 3 do. 5 



Shoulder, or Legl^ 
of Mutton Piece/" 



6 



14. Brisket 



6 



15. Cloid . . . . 4i 

16. Nock, or StickO „ ,, 

ing Piece - / " ^^ 

17. Shin 2i 

18. The Head, 3r. 6(2. - - 
The Tail, 7d. - - - - 
The Heels ^ - - - . 



Roasted, Boned and Rolled. 

Ditto. 

For making Gravy. 

For Steaks or Soup. 

• / For Stewing, or Haricot— 
i or Salted. 
/ Principally used for Beef 
i Sausages 

Ditto, or making Soup. 

/Excellent Scotch Barley 
\ Broth, and Stewed. 
Soup of. Stewed : and. 
Ditto, ditto. ■ 
Boiled, Jelly of. Soup. 



66 



MARKETING TABLES. 



MEAT. 




lb. oz. 
8 



6 
8 4 




ib. oz. 
13 




1 



9 
5 








MUTTON. 



1. Leg - - - - - 

2. Loin, best end - 
^ Ditto, chump end 

4. Neck. l>eBt end - - 

5. Ditto, scrag end - 

6. Shoulder - - - - 

7. Breast 

Head,9d. - - - 
The Chine, or fhe^ 
Saddle, two Loins. 
The Haunch is a 
Leg, and part of 
the Loin - - - 



fxlb. 
8 



7 
5 

7 
6 



8 



/ Booed ot Boaf ted. 
\ Ditto, Roasted, Chops. 

r Ditto, Roasted, Irish Stew, 

\ Haricot, Stewed. 

To make Broth. 

Boasted* 

Grilled. 

Broth. 



Boasted, Venisonified. 



VEAL, 








I. 



per lb. 
Loin, best end - 11 
Ditto, chnmp end Oil 

Fillet 1 1 



5. 
6. 

7. 

a 

9. 



Knndde, Hind - 
The whole Leg - 
Neck, best end - 
Ditto, scrag end - 
The whole Neck - 
Blade Bone - - - 
Breast, best end - 
Ditto, brisket end 
Knuckle, Fore - 
The Head, with the 

on, from 7t. to I5t. 

Ditto, skinned, Bs. 
Cutlets- - - - - 



7 

om 

Oil 

8 

91 

10 

11 

10 

7 



skin*! 



Boasted. 
Ditto. 

{Boasted, to make Veal 
Olives, Scotch CoUops. 
( To R^goOt, to Stew, Soap 

Hoasted. 
Ditto. 

Roasted. 

Stewed, to Bagotiit, to Ciury. 
Stewed, to RasoOt 
Same as Hind Knuckle. 

Boiled plain, to Hash. 

Fried, Broiled. 



IIABKBTIRO TABLES. 



67 



In the fmre^joing Table we hare giTen the proportiont of Bone to Jfeof,— the 
fbtoier not being wei^ied till cooked— by wmch, of covxm, iti weight wae con- 
nderaUy diminiuied. 

TlMaevfloportioiui differ in aloMMtefiesy Animal,— and ftom the diffamit man- 
ner in which they are cut 

Those who pay the higheat hIo not alwaye^iay the dearetl Price. In fact the 
Best Meat is the cAMpertv^-^and those who treat a tradeeman liberally, have a 
much better chance of bemg well serred, than those who are for ever bargain- 
inc for tiie Market Penny. In diTidinn the Joints, there is always an opportunity 
ofapportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, &&, so as to make np a variation of much 
more than a penny per ponnd in most riec cs and a Batcher will be happy to 
BTe the torn of his knife in laTour of that Cnstomer who cheerfnlly pays the 
Bir price of the article he jMuchases :— hare those who are unwilling to do so 
any reason to oommlain? HaTe they not invited such oondact ? 

The QudUtp of BurcBan-MaAT ^rsries quite as mnch as the Price of it— ac- 
eonling to its age— how it has been fed— and especially how it has been treated 
the week before it has been killed. The following etate m enta were sent to ua 
hj a very respectable Tradesman : — 

BuF is bm and duapest from Michaefanaa to Midsummer. The Pxioe» per 
pound, now varies from Ad. to U, 

VnAL is but from March to July. The price varies according to the seascm 
and the supply— and the quality dfifen so nracb, that the same Jdnts now sell 
Cram 5(L to IldL.per pound, 

MirrroN is bat from Christmas to Midamnmei^the dilferenoe in price bo* 
tween the wont and the best, is now from 6d.io9d. per pound. 

Oram Lamb is bed from Easter to Juno— Housao Lajib from Chzistmas to 
Jone^ 



POULTRY. 



Poultry. 



Chickens 

Poulards with eggs 
Fowls 



Capons 

Greeen Geese* 

Tarkey Pouks* 

Turkeys 

Dncklings 

Darka> 



Wild Docks- 



Widgeons* • 

Tear. 

Plovers* • • . 

Laria 

Wheatears 
WttdPigeoi 
Tame Dttto 



C&me into Season. 



i Spring Chkdcens 
April 
arch 

f Dearest in April, 
i May, and Jime 

Largest at Christmas 

March 

September •• .• •• 

April 

September 

March 

JUDU 



September 



November* 

July 

March •• • 



Continue. 



To be had aU the> 
year / 

TillJune 

To be had all the \ 
year / 

Ditto -•».. 

Till Sepfember •• •• 

Till Februaiy 

Till June *. .* 

Till March 

Till May 

Till Pebmary; 



•• «• •• 



TiU ditto 



TUl March 

And during August 
Till September *. .. 



November. 

December. 

November. 

/ October and 

\ November. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

I' December; 

J but the 

I flights are 

f. uncertain. 



Ditto. 
August 



68 



MARKBTINO TABLES. 



Poultry. 



Tame BabbitS"**' 

WUd ditto 

Sacking Pigs 

Leverets 

Hares ' 

Partridges 

Pheasants 

OroTise 

Moor Game 

Woodcock Snipes ' 



Comt into Seaaon. 



June- 



March 

September . 

Ditto 

October- • • ■ 
August 



November • 



Continue. 



All the year- • 
Till Febraazy • 
AH the year- • 
Till September 



Till Maicb 



CkmpetL 



Norember. 



Cock's Combs, Fat Livers, Eggs, &c. are dearest in April and May, and 
cheapett in Angoit 

Fowls' Hkads may be had three for a penny,— a doaen will make a very- 
good Pie, or Soup. 

TuRKBY Hbads, about a penny each. 

Duck Giblbts, about three half-pence a set ; four sets will make a Tureen ^f 
ffood Souftfirr sixpenee. 

Obs.— Poultry is in greatest perfection when in greatest plenty. 

The Price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it, and the supply at 
market,— and the demand for it. 

It is generally Dearest from March to July, when the town is fullest,— and 
Cheapat about September, when the Game season commences, and the weather 
being colder, allows of its being brought from more distant parts, and the town 
becoming thin, there is less demand for it 

The above information will, we trust, be veir acceptable to Economical Fa- 
milies,- who, from hearing the very high price Poultry sometimes costs, are de- 
terred from ever inquiring about it,— in the cheap seasons we have noted, it ia 
sometimes as cheap as Butcher-meat 

The Editor purchases his Poultry of Mr. Harris, Duke Street^ 0:Kford Str^t 



FISH. 



The Pricb of Fish is as changeable as the position of the wind,— and entirely 
depends upon the supply. 

You may purchase as much for one shilling to-day, as to-morrow you can get 
for two or three,— and may generally buy one sort of fish much cheaper than 
another. 

For the following, and for several other observations on Fish, the Public are 
indebted to Mr. Wuliam Tuckbr, Fishmonger, Great Russell Street, Blooms- 
bury. 

" October 18, 1818. 

*' Sir,— Seasons op Fish freouently will vary ; the spawning time being go- 
Teraed, in some d^ree, by the neat or coldness of the season ; and there may 
be a good Cod in the midst of summer,— or a good Turbot in the midst of win- 
ter. Attention to the proper Seasons of Fish is, however, very important, for 
many are absolutely poisonous when out of season-especially Barbxl,<— Salmov 
— Skatb, &C., and occasion most frightful vomitings and puigings, Ac 

" There ia no article so fluctuating in price as fishj the London market beii^ 
•applied principally by water-carriage from all parts of the coast, the vrind can- 
not oe fair for all ; the consequence then is, ireqnently, a great abundance «t 
•ome sorts, and none, or little, of many others. 

** Persons send their servants to market, to get, perhaps a Turbot, or Cod's 
head and shoulders ; — it very likely happens those articles are scarce and ex- 
travagant :— the servants have no otner order, or perhaps will not take the troublei 
to get other orders, but order a turbot at 90s. or 40i. ; whereas they might have 



MARKETING TABLES. 



69 



as fgood a dish of any other sort for half the money. In this case the tradesmen is 
iK^nently condemned as an extravagant fellow, when, perhaps, heeetinothinff 
by aeliing it »It is people's own fault that they have fish at such an extraTasant 
price : if masters or mistresses were to so to market themselves,— if one sort 
was dear, they could have another ; or, if not conTenient to go themselves, de- 
tire the fyhmonper to send a htmdtome dith, Vu most seatonaSle and reasoncMe 
for so many persons." ' 



VEGETABLES. 

The Public residing in London, and other large Towns, are frequently, fit>m 
want of regular information when the proper seasons arrive for Vegetables, put 
to mudh iiMM>nTenience in attending the Markets, making unnecessary inquiries, 
Ac 

The following List, it is presumed, will afford much useful information to tiie 
Header :~ 



Namit of VfgetdNet. 



Artichokes 

Ditto Jerusalem - - • 

Angelica stalks, for\ 
pitesepring . - - - / 

AqMuragus . - - - . 

Beans, Fr. or Kidneys - 

Scarlet ditto 

Windsor beans, long*! 

pods and early kinds j 
Beet, Red . . . - . 
Ditto, White, the leaves 
Boreole, or Scotch Cale \ 

or Kale f 

Broiooli 

Cid>baf!e 

Ditto, Red 

Ditto, White - - - ■ 

C^trdoons .-..-• 



Carrots - - 
(^aulfflowers 
Celerr - - 
Chervil- . 
Com Salad, 

Chervil. - 

Coevmbers 

Endive- - 



Bsdaalots for keeiring 
UtikM 



Lettuce. Coss - - 
Ditto, Cabbage - 

Onions for keeping 



EarlieH time 
for Forced. 



\ 



Beg. of Jan 
Ear. in Feb. | 



{ 



March 



{ 



{ 



Eartiut 
NabJoral GrowOt. 



July on to October - - 
From Sept. to June - < 

Middle of May and\ 
whole of June - - | 

Middleof April, May, \ 
June, and July, - - f 

End of June, or begin- \ 
ningof July, - - - / 



July 
June - - 
All the year 



July 
November 



October ------ 

May and June - - - ■ 
July and August - - - 
October ---_.. 
Nov. and three follow-! 
ing months - - - / 



May 

Beginning of June- - - 
Ditto September - - - 
April ------- 

May 

Much, and through \ 

the year, . - a . / 
Beginningof July - - - 
June, and through the\ 

year f 

August, and through! 

the year, - - - - / 
Sept. aud six months 1 

after / 

April 

April ------- 

Aug. Sept. and follow- \ 

ing months - - - / 



-fThen 
cheapest 



September. 

Nov. Dec. and 

Ibll. months. 

June. 

June and July. 

August. 
September. 
July and Aug. 
Dec and Jan. 

Dec. and Jan. 

Feb. and Mar. 
July. 
August. 
October. 

December. 

Ai^tust. 
July and Aug. 
November. 
June. 
June. 

May. 

Aug. and Sept 

Sept. and Oct. 

Sept., and two 
fol. months. 

Nov. and Dec. 

June, July ft 
August. 

Oct and Nov. 



UARKETiyO TABLES. 



-Much - • .{ 

- Beg. of Mirdif 



SpicBge, Spring - 
DiHs, Winter - 



Tlie for^tdiig 
and Sfffldnniu^ ofi 



i», ud (hraighj 
Ends? UitKh, ud) 
fbllowing monthij' 



tnSUi, - . 



r.b.ud 


„.| 




UK. 




"» 




»"-• 


Jn«. 


ix- 








ODcaii 


Joly. 


-^-u^d 


Julj. 


™«d 


Jnlf. 


April u 


ll»r. 


<n>,»a» 


Jnlj. 



SHd^nan, ofpoBM Htnilcu* Stnn, CoTnl Oaidoi IlirkM. 



BcTLIl, Rulialkt 



RUDIMENTS OP COOKERY. 



CHAPTER h 
BOIIiZNG.* 



This most tfmple of Culinarj processes is not often petfonned in 
perfsction. It does not require quite so much nicety and attend- 
ance as Roasting ; — ^to skim your pot well, and keep it really boil- 
ing (the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is re- 
quired for d<nng the jmnt, &c., and to take it up, at the critical 
moment when it is done enough, comprehends almost the whole 
ait and mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual 
Tig^lance, of which few persons are capable. 

The Cook must take espedcd care thai (he toaier reaUtf hoUt all (ke 
wkile sAe it eookmg, or d^ votU he deceived in the time ; and make up 
a soffident fire (a frugal Cook will manage with much less fire for 
Bfnling than she uses for roasting) at first, to last all the time, with- 
out much mending or stirring. 

When the Pot is coming to a BoU there will always, from the clean- 
est Meat and cleaiest water, rise a Sewn to the top of it, proceeding 

* « The moeen br which food is most oommonly prepared for the table— 
BoJUKO— H 80 faminar to ererr one, and its ellbets are to uniform, and appa- 
raitlj so nmple, that lew, I belieTe^ h»re tal^en the trouble to inquire how, or 
in tenat manner those effects are produced ; and whether any. and what im- 
ptOTonents in that brandi of cookery tat possible. So little has this matter 
been an object of inquiry, that few, rery few indeed, I belieTe, among the MU- 
Uent o^Pefaons who fbr so many ages hate been daUp employed in thn process, 
have erer given themselTesthe trouble to bestew one seiious thought on the 
subject. 

" BeOiM cannot be carried on without a very gMat expaiiae of ftiel *, but any 
boiling-hot liquid (by usfaig proper means for confining toe heat) may be kept 
boiliM hot for any length ofumo almost without any expense of fiiel at all. 

" The waste qf fvui m eulinaiy processes^ which arisee ftom making liqnida 
boll tmiuevMarC^, or when nothing more would be necessary than to keep them 
flefitfijHkee, is enermons ; I have not a doubt but that much more than half the 
fuel used in all the kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted 
precisely in this manner. 

" But the eril does not stop hers. Thfii mncimMte and atorenly manner of 
oooldng renders the process much more laborious and troublesome than other- 
wise it would be ;— and, (what by many will be considered of more importance 
than either the waste of fuel or the increase of labour to the cook)— the food is* 
nndersd less saTOUiy, and very probably less nouifsbtng and less wholesome. 

* It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more volatile parts of 
Ibod (those which are beet calculated to act on the oigans of taste), must be 
carried off with the steam when the boiling is Tiolent."— Gpiml Bunroaiy's lOlh 

h PP« \ 6. 



\ 



72 BUDIMBNTS OP COOKERY, 

partly fiom the Water,— this must be carefuUy taken off as soon 
aa it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of aU boHed things. 

When you hare skimmed well, put in some cold water, which 
will throw up the rest of the scum. 

The oftener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of the water 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the Meat 

If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the Meat,* which, 
instead of looking delicately white and nice— wiU have that coaiw 
Mid filthy appearance we have too often to complain of, and the 
Butcher and Poulterer be blamed for the carelessness of the Cook 
in not wkimming her pot. 

Many put in MUk, to make what they boU look white ; but this 
does more harm than good v-others wrap it up in a cloth ^-but 
^ese are needless precautions ; if the scum be attentively removed. 
Meat will have a much more delicate colour and finer flavour thim 
It has when muffled up. This may giire rather more trouble-but 
Horn who wUk to emd in their art mud onlsf consider low the pro- 

^o/iteauU mod perfecUy perfornu^ : li Cook whohaa a pioiHtt 
pnde and pleasure in her business, will make thisher maxim onVu 

nnnunnna 



occasions. 



It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal thickness, or 
before thicker parts are. done enough, the thinner will be donTto^i 
much. 

Put your Meat into eoldf water,-in the proportion of about a 
quart of Water to a pound of Meat: it should be covered wHh 
water diuing the whole of the process of BoiUng, but not drowned 
m It— the less water, provided the meat be covered with it the 
more Savoury wiU be the Meat, and the better wiU be the Bro'th 

The Water shoidd be heated ffradttaUy, according to the thickne^. 
Ac. of the artide boaed,-ii» instance, a Leg of Mutton of 10 
pounds weight (1), should be placed over a moderate fire, which 

^ffradtud^makB the water hat, without caumff it to boil M 
fortjf mtnutes-^ the water hoik much sooner, the meat will be hard 

«ierf, and shrink up as if it was 9oorched-Jby keeping the water a 
certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat are di- 
lated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken off ba 
soon as it rises. 

** 104. If a vessel containing water be pkced over a steady Fire, 

wirJl':J"i?1™**®'y'.^** '^^^ happen, the Cook most cor^fnUr take it a^ 

-* «Z?J^ however, as well as Doctors, disagree ; for some sav that " »ii ,^^^ 
rffrwh »«»t should be put in when SeW3S1S.Jil.,-iy^^^ 



BOILING. 73 



V 



the Water will grow oontinuaUy hottor till it leaches the lunit of 
boiling, after which the reg:ular aocenioiis of heat are wholly spent 
in converting it into Steam. 

** Water remains at the same pitch of temperature^ however fienely ii 
hoSs, The only difPezence is, that with a strong fire it sooner comes 
to boil, and more quickly boils away, and is converted into Steam.^* 
-^BixsANAN on the Heonomp ofFuel^ 1 810. 

The Editor placed a Thermometer in water in that state which 
Cooks call ^mffe simmering, — ^the heat was 212''--«. e, the same de- 
gree as the strongest hoiUng, 

Two Mutton Chops were covered with cold water,~.and one 
hoUed a gaUop^-.^uid the other simmered very gently for three quarters 
of an hour — ^the Chop which was dowly simmered was decidedly 
juperior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more 
juicy, and much higher flavoured — the Liquor which boiled &st was 
in like proportion more savoury, and when cold had much more fiit 
on its surfiioe : — ^this explains why quick boiling renders Meat hard, 
Ac. — because its juices are extracted in a greater degree. 

Bbckon the TiKRfrom its first eom4ng to a boU, 

The old rule of 15 minutes to a pound of meat we think rather 
too little : — ^the slower it boils, the tenderer— the plumper — and 
whiter it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked — ^which all 
will who have any regard to their Stomachs — Twenty minutes to 
A Pound for Fresh — and rather more for Salted Heat, will not 
be found too much fbr gentle simmering by the side of the fire ; — 
allowing more or less time, according to the Hidbness of the Joint, 
and ^ coldness of the Weather, — to know the state of which, let u 
Thermometer be placed in the Patdry^ and when it fells below 40, tell 
your Cook to give rather more time in both Boasting and BosQing, 
always remembering,, the dower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art ; and Cooks 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain time — ^making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble, or boils a gallop. 

Fresh UUed Meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call r^f.^.ttoA 
- and longer in odd than in warm weather ; — if it he/rozen it must 
be thawed before boiling as before roasting v— t^ it be fresh bShd^ it 
wSl he lou^ and hard, ifgou riew U ever so long, and ever so gen^^^ 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of Fah* 
renheit's thermometer. 



74 BUDIMSNTS OF COOKEBT. 

The MxBcfihs BoiLmo-Poxs should be adapted to what they aze' 

to contain ; — ^the laiger the Baueefiuif the more room it takes upon 

the fire ; and a laiger quantity of Water requires a proportionate 

increase of Fire to boil it» 

A little Pot 
Is MKm hot. 

In small Families we lecommend BLOCK TIK saucepans, &c. 
as lightest and safest v^^ proper care is taken of them, and they 
aie well dried after they an cleaned, they are by fiir the cheapest 9 
the purchase of a new Tin saucepan being little more than the ex- 
pense of tinning^a Copper one. 

Let THX Covi&s of your boilipg*pots fit cIob^ not only to pte^ 
vent mmeoesnry eraporation of the water, but to prevent the ea* 
cape of the nutritiTe matter, which must then remain either in th« 
Meat or in the Bmtlv^-and the smoke is prevented firam iTwimiafc* 
ing itself under the edge of Ihe lid, and so giving the meat a bad 
taste. See ObservBtions on Saucbpams, in the 2d page of chap. 7«. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is dona 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavour, 

BxBF and MurzoN a little tmier-done (eflpedally tery large 
joints, which will make the better Hash or BrOil), is not a great 
fiiult— by some people it is preferred ; — ^but £am£u.>-i^AMaad 
VmLf are uneatable if not thoroughly boiledy-4mt do not o«0f^o 
them. 

A Trivbt, or Fish-drainer, put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, 
raising the contents about an mch and a half fixmi the bottom, will 
prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom firom 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat will be as 
delicately done as the other part ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the Pot/withoot sticking a fezk, &c into it. If 
you have not a trivet, use four Skewen, or a Soup'plate laid the 
wroQg side upwards. 

Take caie of the LiQin» yoa hoTO Boiled Ponltry or Meat in % 
in Fvot MuMdea you may make it into bxoillbnt Soup. (See Obs. 
to 530, and 211.) 

The GOOD Ho mutwu r i mewt boils a Joint without converting the 
Brptk into some mrt of Soup (lead (6) and chapter 7, and see page 
55.)— If the Liquor be too satt, oidy use half the quantity,.and the 
rest wator ; wash salted Meat well witfa cold water before yon put 
it into the boiler. * 



BOILING, 75 

A* Estimation of the "Loss of Wbioht toAicft laits place in Cooking 
Animal Food, — Ffxm Mr. Tilloch*8 PhUosopkioal Magazine. 

^ It ifl well known, that in whatever wbj the flesh of «ni>na^Tf ig 
prepared for food, a considerable diminution takes plaoe in its 
weight. We do not recollect, however, to have any where seen a 
statement of the loss which meat sustains in the various culinary 
processes, although it is pretty obvious that a series of espetiments 
On the subject would not be without their use in domestic economy. 

*^ We shall here give the result of a series of eiqperiments which 
were actually made on this subject in a public establishment ; pre- 
mising that, as they were not undertaken ftom mere curiosity, but, 
on the contnu^, to serve a purpose of practical utility, absolute 
accuracy was not attended to. Considering, however, the laige 
quantities of provisions which were actually examined, it is pre* 
sinned that the results may be safely depended upon for any prac- 
tical purpose. It would no doubt have been desirable to have 
known not only the whole diminution of weight, but also the parts 
which were separated from the meat in the form of aqueous vapour, 
jelly, fikt, &c ; but the determination of these did not Ml within 
the scope of the inquiry. 

lJb$. ozt^ 
28 pieces of beef, weighing . » • • 280 
Lost in boiling ...•.•.. 73 14 

** Hence, the weight lost by beef in Ixoling was in this case about 
26ilbs. in lOOlbs. 

Ihi, 0Z8, 

19 pieces of beef, weighing .... 190 

Lost in roasting 61 2 

^ The weight lost by beef in roasting appears to be 32 per cent 

lbs, 0X8, 

9 pieces of beef, weighing 90 

Lost in baking 27 . 

^ Weight lost by beef in baking, 30 per cent. 

lbs, ozs. 
27 legs of mutton, weighing .... 260 
Lost in boiling, and by having the shank- 
bone taken off 62 4 

The shank-bones were estimated at 4 ounces each ; therefore 
the loss by boiling was 551bs. 8ozs. 
«* The loss of weight in legs of mutton in boiling is 21 J per cent. 



76 RUDIMENTS OP COOKERY, 

Us, 0X8. 

35 shoulders of mutton, weighing . . 350 

Lost in roasting 109 10 

^ The loss of weight in shoulders of mutton by roasting, is about 
31 i percent. 

lbs, OUS. 
16 loins of mutton, weighing .... 141 

Lost in roasting 49 14 

"^ Hence, loins of mutton lose by roasting about 35^ per cent. 

U>8, 0X84 

1 necks of muttoU) weighing .... 100 

Lost in roasting 32 6 

The lose in necks of mutton by roasting is about 32^ percent. 

*^ We shall only draw two practical inferences from the fore- 
going statement.-— 1st, in respect of economy, it is more profitable 
to boil meat than to roast it. 2dly, Whether we roast or boil 
meat, it loses by being cooked from one-fifth to one-thiid of its 
whole weight" 

The loss of Roasting arises from the melting out of the Fat, and 
evaporating the water; but the nutritious matters remain con- 
densed in the cooked solid. 

In Boiling, the loss arises partly from the fiit melted out, but 
chiefly from GeUUtne and Ommzome being extracted and dissolved 
by the water in which the meat is boiled ; there is, therefore, a 
real loss of nourishment, unless the Broth be used \ — ^when this 
mode* of cooking becomes the most economicaL* 

The Sauces usuaU$f tent to Table with Boiled Meat, jv. 

These are to be sent up in Boats, and never poured over the 
Meat,&c. 



Osarjr ibr BoUed Meat > - (S85.) 

PanieT and Batter - - - - (234.) 

Cheiril (238.) 

Caper (844.) 

Oyster (24fi.) 

UrerandPantey . - - - (851.) 



Celery (25S.) 

Onion - - (363, d^.) 

Shallot (888.) 

Wow Wow (886.) 

Curry (899.) 



The foUowing Observations were written expreaslj for this work 

* The diminution of weii^t by Boiling and Roaaline it not all ket— Tlie Fat 
SiuiiMnfsa and the Dnippjifoa, nicely darifled, will well rapply the plaoe of 
Lard and for Frying. See (88) and the Beoeipt for Cbsap Bwjw (811 ) 



BAKING. 77 

by Mr. TvRNXR, English and French Bread and Bucuit Baker, the 
Comer of London Street and Fitzrojr Squ&re. 

** Baking is one of the cheapest, and most convenient ways of 
dressing a Dinner in small fiimilies; and, I may say, that the 
OviEN is often the only KUchen a poor man hasy if he wishes to enjoy a 
joint of Meat at home with his fiunily. 

^ I don^t mean to deny the superior excellence of Roasting to 
Baking ; but some joints when Baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when Roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the 
Table, and eaten as such with great satisfaction. 

*^ Laos and Loins of Pork •, — Lbgs of Mutton v—Fillsts of 
Vbal ;— and many other joints, will Bake to great advantage, if 
the meat be good ; I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fiit ; if 
the meat be poor, no Baker can give satisfaction. 

** When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked I have seen it start horn the bone, and shrivel up scarcely to 
be believed. 

^ Besides those Joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
Baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

^ A Pig, when sent to the Baker prepared for Baking, should 
have its Ears and Tail covered with buttered paper properly fas- 
tened on, and a bit of Butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste 
the back with, otherwise it will be apt to blister : with a proper 
share of attention from the Baker, I consider this way equal to a 
roasted one. 

^ A G006B prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A Duck the same. 

A Buttock of BxBF the following way is particularly fine. After 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan, with a pint of water ; cover the pan tight 
over with two or three thicknesses of cap or fooUoap Paper — never 
cover any thing that is to be baked with Brown paper, the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky bad 
taste : — give it four or five hours in a moderate-heated oven. 

** A Ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour,, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in a 
moderate-heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer flavour than 
a boiled one. I have been in the habit of baking small God-pish, 
— Haddock, — and Mackarel, with a dust of flour, and some bits 
of butter put on them. Ebls, when large and stuffed. Herrings 
and Sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little spice, and 
tied over with paper. A Hare, prepared the same as for Roasting, 



78 BUDIMENT8 OF COOKERY. 

with a few pieces of Butter, and a little drop of Milk put into the 
dish, and Basted Bevexal times, will be found nearly equal to roast* 
Ing ; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a jar or pan, and 
cover it over, and bake it into a moderate oven for about three hours 
—In the same manner I have been in the habit of baking Legs 
and Shins of Bbbp, — ^Ox Chkicrs, &c. prepared with a seasoning 
of Onions, Turnips, &e. : they vrill take about four hours : let 
them stand till cold, to skim off the fiit ; then warm it up all to- 
gether, or part, as you may want it. 

'' All these I have been in the habit of baking for the first families. 

*^ The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the state of the Oven, and I do connder the Baker a sufficient 
judge ; if they are sent to him in time, he must be very n^lectful 
if they are not ready at the time they are oidered/* 



CHAPTER IL 

ROASTXNa. 

In all studies^ it is the best practice to begin with the plainest and 
easiest parts ; and so on, by degrees, to such as are more diffitcult : 
we, therefore, treated of plain Boiling, and we now proceed to 
Roasting : we shall tlien gradually unravel to our Culinary students 
the Art (and mygtery^ until developed in this work) of making, with 
the least trouble and expense, the most highly finished Soupa^ 
Sauces, and Made-dishes. 

Let the young Cook never forget that Clbahlinbss is the chief 
Cardinal Virtue of the Kitchen ; — ^the first preparation for Roast- 
ing is to take care that the Spit be jnopexly cleaned with sand and 
vrater ; nothing else. — When it has been well scoured with this, dry 
it with a clean cloth. 1/ Spits ore unped dean at won as the meat 
it drawn from <Aem, and uMe ihey af« hoi^ a wry liUlo doamng wiU 
be required. The leas the Spit is passed through the meat the better ;* 
and, before you 8{»t it, joint it properly y especially necks and loins 

*SiiAJUi fiuniUet baT« not always the oonTtsiifliioe of raaslang with a Spit,— 
a remark npon jroasttnq by a wtkoio ib aooeoaary.— Let the Cook, hdbre she puts 
downher meatto thefixoMM artroBSflkewerthiottg^eatifkciutof the jmnt ; bythia 
meaofl, when it is about aal^done» vb» can with eaae torn the bottom upwards ; 
the grayy wiU then flow to the part tdiich has been uppermost and the whole 
Joint be deUdoasIy gcaTy-lnU. 

▲ Bottlb-Jack, as it is termed by the ftimishing ironmoQgers, is a TalnaUo 
ittstrement for roMtinf . 

A Dinx:H Ovsn is another t«z7 coavenient utenril for roasting light joints* or 
warming them up. 



ROASTING. 79 

tlint the Carver may separate them eaaily and neatly, and take 
especial caie it be evenly balanced on the spit, that its motion may 
be regular, and the fire operate equally on eaoh part of it v«-there* 
fore, be provided with Balaaeipg-SkewcfB and Ceokholds, and see 
it is properly Jointed. 

Boasting should be done by the radiant heat of a clsar growing 
fire^ otherwise it is in &ct Baked^^ihe Machines the Eccmomical 
Qiate-makers call BOASTERS, are in plain English, Owiw. 

Count Bumford was certainly an exact economist of Fuel, when 
he contrived these things,— and those PhUosophers who tiy all 
questions ''according to Cocker** may vote for Baked Victuals v— but 
tiie rational Epicure, who has been accustomed to enjoy Bssf well 
BoASTBD, will soon be convinced that the Poet who wrote our 
national BaUad at the end of this Chapter, was not inqiiied by Sir 
Benjamin Thompson's Cookery. 

All your attention in roasting will be thrown away, if you do not 
take cure ibat your Meat espeoialfy Beefy (vshiek «m» teUom he homgkt 
ready for the ^pU ednept on a Saturday) has been kept tony emmyh to 
le Temisr. See <* Advigb to Cooks,**— and Obs. to (69). 

Make up the Fiax in time ; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dreoed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be reasted—or the ends of the meat cannot be 
done nice and brown. 

A Oook mutt he ae particular to proportion her Fire'* to the hueinete 
Ae hoe to doi^oM a Chemut.-'the degree of Heat most dtMrable for 
ihe drtmng the different sortt (ffood ou^ to be attondod to with the 
utmoift preemon* 

The fire that is but just sufficient to reeuve the noble Sirloin (21) 
will parch up a lighter joint 

From half an Hour to an Hour before you begin to Boast, pre* 
pare the Fire by putting a fow Coals on, which will be sufficiently 
lighted by the time you wish to make use of your fire v— between 
the bars, and on the top, put small or large Coals, according to the 
bulk of the Joint, and the time the fire is required to be strong v— 
after which throw the Cinders (wetted) at the back. 

Never put Meat down to a bumt-up fire, if you can possibly avoid 
it ) — ^but should the fire become fierce, place the Spit at a consider- 
able distance, and allow a little more time. 

* ** Let Tiandefl en gte^ral ne doirent pas 6tre Mjdei rar un fita Tif, si elles 
OBt vn certain rolnme, paroeqne Ve:M^rieiiT serait rissole et brftl^ ETant qne 
TiaMriear ffit cnit : d'nn autre cAt^ l! ne &at pas exposer trop long-temps on 
rMi k nne ehalenr modi&rte, pareeque cette cnaleur, qui suflnt pour ^raporer 
tens les prindpes liquides, et coaxuler Talbumin^e, rapprocherait les fibres 
unscnlaires et les deesecherait : if faut obsenrer encore, que la savenr des 
▼iandes rOtis on gzillees depend on du goAt prepre k la yiande, ou d'nne dioom- 
poaition pwtlelle de la pean, des muscles, et de la gxaisse. II se forme par 



( 



80 RUDIMENTS OP COOKER?. 



• 



Prefierve the pat,* by covering it with paper for this purpose, 
called " Kitchen Paper," and tie it on with fine twine ; — ^pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed ; they are so many taps to lefc 
out the Gra^ ; besides, the paper often starts irom them and catches 
fire, to the great injury of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should be 
little and brisk *, — ^when you haye a large joint to roast, make 
up a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part of the grate, or 
your meat cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform colour 
which constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring befbre you lay the joint down ; — ex- 
amine it fix)m time to time while the spit is going round ; keep it 
clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in the 
front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and hinder 
it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than tiie other, 
place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the fire. 

Do not put meat too near the fire at first ; — the larger tke joints 
thefaiiher U miut he heptjrom the Fire : — ^if once it gets scorched, the 
outside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable empyreumatic 
taste ; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into it, the 
meat will appear done before it is little more than half-done, be- 
sides losing the pale brown colour, which it is the Beauty of Roasted 
meat to have. 

From 14 to 10 inches is the usual distance at which meat is put* 
from the grate, when first put down ; it is extremely difficult to 
ofier any thing like an accurate general rule for this, it depends so 
much upon the size of the fire, and on that of the thing to be roasted. 

Till some Culinary Philosopher shall invent a Thermimitter to 
ascertain the heat of the Fire, and k graduated SpU-Rack to regulate 
the distance from it, the process of Roastino is attended by so many 
ever-varying circumstances, that it must remain among those which 
can only be performed well, — ^by frequent practice and attentive 
observation. 

^ Mr. Watt, for his Steam Engines, where Wood fuel is em> 
ployed, allows three times the weight of Wood that he does of New- 
eaetls coals — it is calculated that about 1 4lbs. per hour of good New- 

I'action lenle du fea des sabttanoes sapides, qui n'ezistaient paa dans la viande 
erne. 

"Les snbatancea sont 'euMe prutsimu, fadde zooniquCy un peu dChuUe em- 
mfreumatiqw; il s'y d^vcloppe anssi du ed marin. Tout cea corps sont atiinik- 
lans, l^gj^ment acres ; Ua irritent les honppes nerreuses de notre palais, ap> 

? silent le sac saliTaixe, et rtreillent notre app^t "—C^tmrf Gattronomigue, 
aris, 1819, p, 292. 

* If there is more Fat than yon think "will be eaten with the Iean»trim it o£ 
tt will make an excellent Pudding. (514» or 616.) Or daxi^ Ur««(fi2). 






BOAsmra. 81 

easBe Coal is leqnifed to produce a one^hone pGWer, A bofthei of 
Nevooastl» Ooali, which weighs } of a Cwt. is reckoned to produce 
as much heat as a Cwt oi Scotch or Sta j brds ki r e Ooolr.'^-^uciiANAN 
on JEeonomy ofFwl^ 1810, pp. 82, 161, and 252. Some are of opi- 
nion that it requires about douMe the quantity of Scotch coal to pro- 
duce tiie same heat as that of Newcastle. ^ Dr. Irvine found th/t Heait 
of a Oomnum CoalJFire to beabout 799^** — Buchananos jErea^,p. 152. 

If you wish your Jack to go well, keep it as clean as possible, oil 
it, and then wipe it ; if the oil is not wiped off again it will gather 
dust ; to prerent this . as soon as you have done roasting, cover it 

up ^Never leaye the winders on whilst the Jack is going round4,- 

unless you do it, as Swift says, ** that it*may fly off, and knock 
tiiose troublesome servants on the head who tuUl be crowding round 
your Kitchen fire.^* 

Be very carefiil to place the DiiiFnNG*PAN at such a distance from 
the fire as jutt to catch the drippings '^..if it is too near, the ashes 
will &11 into it, and spoil the Drippings* (which we shall hereafter 
shew will occasionally be found an excellent substitute for But- 
ter or Lard ;) to darify drippingi, see (82) ; and Pease and Drip- 
ping Soup, (2 ^ 1 )) ^axxnuy and saliSrious/or only a Penny pbr Q,UAnT. 
If it is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by the 
foetid smoke, which will arise when the &t fiiUs on the live cinders. 

A large Dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes^— it should 
not be less than 28 inches long and 20 inches wide, and have a- co- 
vered well on the Ad» from the Fire, to collect the Diippings^-^ 
this will preserve them in the most delicate state ; in a pan of the 
above size you may set Med fish, and various dishes, to keep hot. 

This is one of Painter^s and Hawked contrivances, near Norfolk- 
street, Strand. 

The time MeatAuM take RoatHng vnll vary according to the time 
it has been kept, and the temperature of tiie weather ; — ^the same 
weight -f- will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in Cold Wear 
tier^ than it will be in warm, and if fresh kUled^ than if it has been 
kept till it is tender. 

A good Mbat-Screbn is a great saver of Coals. It should be on 
wheels, have a flat top, and not be less than about three feeA4ind a 

* This the Good Honsewife will take up occasionally, and pass through a sieve 
into a atone pan ;— by leaving it all in the Dripping-pan until the Meat is taken 
up, it not only becomes very strong, but when tne meat is rich, andvields much 
01 it, it is «pt to be spilt in Basting. To clarify drippings, see (83). 
t Insist upon the Butcher Jijcing a ticket of the Weight to each joint 
i If thb mrat is frozen, the usaal Practice is to put it into Cold Water till 
it tf thawed, then dry and roast it as usual ;— but we recommend yon to bring it 
into the Idtehei^e night before, or early in the morning of the day you want 
to roast it, and tne warm air wiU thaw it much better. 



82 RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY. 

half wide, and. with shelves in it, about one foot deep — ^it will tbea 
answer all the purposes of a large Dutch Oven, Plate- Wanner^ 
Hot Hearth, && Some are made with a door behind ; this isoon- 
▼enient, but the great heat ihej are exposed to soon shrinks the 
materials, and the currents of air through the cracks cannot be pre- 
vented, so thejr.are better without the Door. We saw one at Mr. 
LlotdX Punishing Ironmonger^ near Norfolk Street^ l^rand^ which 
had on the top of it a very conventent Hot Closet — ^which is a great 
acquisition in Kitchens where the Dinner waits after it is dressed. 

Every body knows the advantage of Slow Boiling — Slow Roast^ 
INO is equally impoitant. 

It is difficult to give my specific Rulb for time — but if your 
Fire is made as above directed,^— your Meat Screen sufficiently large 
to guard what you are dressing from currents of Air, and the meat 
is not Frosted, — ^you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a Quarter of an hoar to the Pomnd ; 
— a little more or less, according to the temperature of the weather, 
in propc^on as the piece is thick or thin, the strength of the Fire, 
the nearness of the Meat to it, and the frequency with which you 
baste it ; the more it is basted the less time it will take, as it keeps 
the Meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the Fire acts with 
more force upon it. 

Reckon the time, hot to the hour when Dinner is ordered, but to 
the moment the Boasts will be wanted— supposing there are a do- 
zen people to Sip Soup and eat Fish first ; you may allow them ten 
or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the latter, 
more or less, according to the temptations the *^ Bon Gbur** of these 
preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the Joint is hatfdone^ — remove the Spit and Dripping-P4n 
back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may bum clear and 
bright for the browning ; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire,* it is a ngn of its bong done enough ; but you will 
be the best judge of that, from the time it has been down, the strength 
of the Fire you have used, and the distance your Spit has been from it. 

Half an hour before your Meat is done, make some Gravt* (aee 
Receipt, 284) ; and just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire 
TO brown it. — If you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with 
flour carefully ; you cannot do this delicately nice unthout a very good 
light ; — the common fault seems to be using too cauch Flour ; — the 
Meat should have a fine light vanush of Froth, not the appearance 
of being covered with a paste ; — thwe who are particular about tha 

* When the steam begins to arise it is a proof that the whole joint is thorongjlily 
saturated with heat ; an j unnecessary evaporation is a waste of tiie best noonsh- 
meut of the meat. 



BOASTING. 83 

FroA, 1106 Butter instead of Dripping ; {see Beeeipi to Road a Tur- 

^ And wnd up what you Boeft with nUih-gtviiig Froth." 

8a3rB Dr. King, and present such an agreeable appearance to the 
£jre, that the Palate may be prepossessed in its favour at first sight ; 
therefore, have the whole oowse dished^—before Boasts are taken from 
the fire. 

A Good Cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and co- 
lour of her Boasts, as a Court Beauty is to her Complexion at a 
Birthday Ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so evenly 
as you wish, take two ounces of Glaze, t. e. Portable Soup, put four 
table-spoonsfiil of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradually by 
the mde of the fire. — ^This will be done in about a quarter of an hour ; 
put it on the Meat equally all over with a paste-brush the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

Though Boasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of Cookery, 
k requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfectly well 
than it does to make most Made-dish^. 

That Made-dishes are the.most difficult preparations, deserves to 
be reckoned among the Culinary Vulgar Errors ; — ^in Plain Boast- 
ing and Boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made ; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful Cook, must be 
unremittingly upon the alert.* 

* A celebrated FTench writer has giren na the following obseryations on 
Boasting:— 

*' The Art of Roasting Tictnals to the precise degree, is one of the most diffi- 
colt in this world ; and you mayfini half a thousand good CocHa sooner than one 
jietfed Bocuter. See ' Almana^ des Oourmands,' vol. i. p. 37. In the man- 
sions of the opulent, they have, besides the Marter Kitchener, a Boaster, (per- 
fectly independent of the former,) who is exdnsiyely deroted to the Spit. 

" All erudite Gourmands know that these two important functions cannot 
be performed by one artist ; it is quite impossible at the same time to superin- 
tend, the operations of the Spit and the Stewpan." Further on, the same 
author obeerres : " No certain rules can be given jfor Boasting, the perfection 
of it depending on many circumstances which are continually changing ; the 
age and sLse (especially the thickness) of the pieces, the qualitr or the coalH 
the temperature of the atmosphere, the currents of air in the kitcnen, the more 
or less attention of the roaster ; and, lastly, the time of servinR. Supposing the 
Dinner ordered to be on the table at a certain time, if the Fish and Soup are 
much liked, and detained longer than the roaster has calculated ; or, on the 
contrary, if they are dispatched sooner than is expected, the roasts will in one 
case be foamed up, in the other not done enoi^h— two misfortunes equally to be 
deplored. The nrst, howoTor, is without a remedy ; five mimtUs on the Spit, 
wort or less, decides the goodness qfthie mode of Cookery : it is almost impossible 
to seize the precise instant when it ought to be eaten ; which Epicures in roasts 
ezi>re8s by saying, ' It is done to a htm.' So that there b no exaggeration in 
aayin^ the perfect Roaster is even more rare than the professed Cook. 

" In Hnall families, where the Cook is also the Roatfter, it is almost impos- 
nble the roasts should be well done ; the Spit claims exclusive attention, and is 
an imperious Mistress who demands the entire devotion of her slave. But how 
can this be, when the Cook is obliged, at the same time, to attend her Fish and 
Soup kettles, and watch her Stewpans and all their accompaniments ? it is mo- 
rally and physically impossible : if she gives that delicate and constant atten- 



84 BUDIMBNTS OP COOKEBT. 

A diligent attention to timey— the distanoe of the MiBat from, 
and judicious management of the Fire, and frequent fiaBtingay*-. 
are all the geneial rules we -can piescribe-^we shall di^ver par- 
ticular rules for particular things, as the several articles occuz, and 
do our utmost endeavours to instruct our reader as completely aa 
words can describe the process, and teach 

** The management of common things so well. 
That what was thonsht the meanest shall excel : 
That CkMk's to Britnb palates most complete 
Whose saVxy skill giTes asst to common meat * 
For irfaat are soups,— yonr ragofits,— and your sauce, 
Compaxed to the fiireof Old JBivoiiAirDb 
And Old Enoush Boast Bjcjbf T 

V Takb Notio, ihat ihe Ton gwm in th^foOming lUonpU 
is oaleukUed /or ihote who Woe Meai thofwigldy roatted. See N^, 
preceding (21.) 

Some good Housewives order very large joints to be rather under- 
done, as they can make a better Hash or Broil. 

To make GBAVY for roast, see (284.) 

N.B — BOASTS must not be put on,-.tiU the Soup and Fish 
are taken off the Table. 

DSJEDOINOS. 

1. Flour mixed with grated bread. 

2. Sweet herbs dried and powdered, and mixed with grated bread. 

3. Lemon-peel dried and pounded, or orange-peel, mixed with ilour. 

4. Sugar finely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon, and floor or 
grated bread. 

6. Fennel seedL coriandersi, dnnamon, and sugar, finely beaten, and mixed 
with grated bread or flour. 

6. For young pigs, grated bread or flour, mixed with beaten nutm^ ffogcr* 
pepper, sugar, ana yolks of egas. 

7. Sugar, bread, and salt, muced. 

Bastinqs. 

1. Fresh butter. 

2. Clarified suet. 

3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and daret, especially for mutton and Iamb* 

4. Water and salt 

5. Cream and melted butter, especially fior a flayed pig. 

6. Yolks ofeggSt grated biscuit, and juice of oranges. 

tion to the Roasts which is indispensably requisite, the rest of the Dinner must 
often be spoilt ; and most Cooks would rather lose their character as a Boaster 
than neglect the made-dishes and ' entremdij te. where they think they can 
display tneir Cvlinary Sdencct than sacrifice tnese to the Roasts, the- perfection 
of which will only proTO their steady Vigilance and Patience. 

* Our Ancestors were Terr particular in their Basttnos attd DRBDonrus, as 
will be seen by the following quotation from May's " AceompUtked Cookj" 
London, 16^ p. 136.—" The rarest ways of dressing of all manner of Toast 
meats, either fiesh or fowl, by sea or land, and dirers ways of breading or dredg* 
ittg meats to prevent the grayy firom too much eTaporating.** 



( 85 ) 



CHAPTER III. 

FRYING. 

Fkying 18 often a (Mmvenient mode of Cookeiy— it may be per- 
fonned by a fire which will not do for Boasting or Boiling ; and by 
the introduction of the Pan between the Meat and the Fire, things 
get more equally dreaied. 

The Dutch Ovbn oi Bonnbt is another very convenient utensil 
for small things, and a very useful substitute for the Jack, the 
Gridiron, or Frying-pan. 

A Faying-pan should be about four inches deep, wiih a perfectly 
fiat €md ihidk bottom, 12 inches long, and 9 broad, with perpendicular 
sides, and must be half filled with Fat-~Qooo Frtino is, in fact, 
BoSmg in FaU To make sure that the Pan is quite dean, rub a little 
Fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in Frying, never to use any Oil,-~Butter,-. 
Lard^ or Drippings, — but what is quite clean, firesh, and free from 
salt Any thing dirty apoils the look ; any thing badrtasted or 
stale, spoils the flavour ; and salt prevents its Browning. 

Fine (Mve OU is the most delicate for frying ; — ^but the best 
oil is e3q>ensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it 

For general purposes, and eqiecially for Fish, dean fresh Lard 
is not near so expensive as Oil or darified Butter, and does almost 
as well. Batter often bums before you are aware of it ; and what 
you fry will get a dark and dirty ai^earance. 

Cooks in huge kitchens, where there is a great deal of frying, 
commonly use Mutton or Beef Suet, clarified, (see 83) : if from the 
kidney, all the better. 

Dripping, if nicely clean and fresh, is almost as good as any thing, 
-~if not clean, it may be easily clarified ; (see 82). Whatever Fat 
you U8e--after you have done frying, let it remain in the Pan for a 
few minutes, and then pour it throughasieve into a clean basin, i^ wU 
do three or four times as well as it did atjirst, i. e, if it has not burned 
_but Mem, — ^the Fat you have fried Fish in must not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the Fat is of a proper heat, according to what you 
are to fry, is the great secret in frying. 

To fry Fish, — ^Parsley, — ^Potatobs, or any thing that is watery, 
your Fire must be very dear, and the Fat quite hot, which you may be 
pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is still...- We cannot 



86 RUDIMENTS OP COOKBBY. 

insist too strongly on this point ; if the Fat is not very hat^ jmr Am> 
mi fry Fidi either to a good colour, or firm and crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw a little bit of Broad into the pan ; if 
it fries crisp, the Fat is ready : if it bums the bread, it is too hoi. 

The fire under the pan mutt be dear and sharp, otherwise the &t is 
so long before it becomes ready, and demands such attendance to 
preTent the accident of its catching fire,* that the patience of cooks 
is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or impatience;, 
throw in what they are going to fry, before the fot is half hot 
enough— Whaterer is so fried will be pale and sodden, and offend 
the Palate and Stomach not less than the Eye. 

Hone a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have got 
the right colour: — a Lamp fixed on a stem with a loaded foot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most usc/ul appendage to Kitten JTire^ 
places, which are veiy seldom light enough for the nicer operations 
of Cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly dram the fat from what yarn 
ham fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in Bread 
Crttmb8,+ or Biscuit Powder, jv., your Cooking will do you no credit. 

The Dryness of Fish depends much upon its having b6en fried in 
fiit of a due degree of heat, it is then crisp and dry in a few minirtes 
after it ia taken out of the Fftn — ^when it is not, lay it on a aott 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is : this wiH 
sometimes take 15 minutes : — ^therefore always try Fish as long as 
this before you want them, for fear you may find this necessary. 

To FRY Fish, see Reeeipi to Fry Soles, (141) which is the only 
circumstantial account of the process, that has yet been printed. ■ 
If the Cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon be- 
come an accomplished Frier. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operafiom^ 
ia one that is least commonly perfbrmed perfectly welL 

* If this unfortnnately happens, be not alanned— but immediatelr w«t a 
basket of Ashes and throw them down the CThimnejr, and wet a Blanket* and 
bold it close all round the Fire-place, — as soon as the current of air is stopped 
the Fire will be extinguished : with a charcoax. stotc there is no danger, as 
the diameter of the Pan exceeds that of the fire. 

t When you want a great many Brbad Cauiin, diride your Leaf (wbidh 
should be two days* old) into three equal parts— take the middle or crumb piece, 
the top and bottom will do for table— in the usuai wajf qf gwtt fag, tks enof is 
VMUted. 

Oatmbal is a very satisfiustoiy, and an octremely economical Subititate fi»r - 
Bread Crumbs. Sec (14U. 



C87] 

CHAPTER IV. 
BBOZUNO. . 

** And as now then i* noaght on the fire that b tpoiling, 
We*Il siTe Ton just two or three hints upon broiling. 
How att Ton must turn a Beefsteak, ana how seldom 
A good Mntton chop, for to hare *em both well done. 
And for skill in such cookery yonr credit 'twill fetch njp, 
If your broils are well seasoned with good Mushroom Catchup." 

Clkaklinbss is extremely enential in tliiB mode of cookery. 

Keep your Qridiron quitedean between the bffs, and bright on the 
top : — ^when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth v—just before 
you use it» rub the ban with clean mutton-niet, to prevent the 
Meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your Fire in time^ lo that it may bum quite 
clear : a hruk and dear Fire i$ imdiapenuMe^ or you cannot give your 
meat that browning which constitutes the^iieifbotion of this mode 
ctf cookeiy, and g^ves a relish to food it cannot receive any other way. 

The Chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of an 
inck in thickn c si i f thicker, they will be done too much on the 
onlsde before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any thing is 
done ; — never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Ijet the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not burn- 
ing kot upon the surfooe : this is the peifoet and fine condition of 
the Gridiron. 

Am the Ban keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it is 
absdntely necessary they should be therougfaly hot before the thing 
to be cooked be laid on them. 

Tie Bare of Qridirone ediould be made concave, and terminate in 
a tnnigh to catch the Ghravy and keep the Fat from dropping into 
tiie file and making a smoke, which will spoil the Broil. 

Upright GnzDiaoini ure tlie best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke ; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

ir.B. Broils must be brought to table ae Hot as possible ; set a 
Dish to heat when you put your Chops on the Gridiron, frmn 
whence to the Mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

When the fire is not dear^ the business of the Gridiron may be 
dons by the JhU^ Oven or Bonnet, 



88 BUDIMENTS OF COOKERY. 



CHAPTER V. 



Thb Markbtino Tables, at page 69 of this work, shew the 
Seasons of Vegetables, and point out the time when they are Bbst 
and Chbapbst. 

There is noUnng in to&«c& ihe difference between an Elegant and eus 
Ordinary table is more seen than in Me dressing of Vegetables^ more 
especially Greens v^they may be equally as fine at first, at one place 
as at another ; but their look and taste are afterwards Teiy difi«rent, 
entirely from the careless way in which they have been eooked. 

They <»re in greatest Perfeetion token in greatest PlmtAg, i. e. when 
in fall season. 

By Season, — I do not mean those early days> HuA hm trg in the 
bugers, and avarioe in the sellers about London, f<nee the ▼aiiaus 
vegetables ; but that time of the year in whin^ by iialure and eomnon 
culture, and the mere opemti<m of the Sun and Climate* they are 
in most plenty and peifeotion. 

Potatoes and Peas are seldom worth eating before MidamniMer ; 
—.Unmpb yBGKTABLBS otre OS insipid and wn^iolesome as Uwipe 
Fruits. 

As to the quality of Vegetables, the middle siz^ are preferred to 
the laigest or the smaUest ; they are more tender, juicy, and full 
of flavour, just before- they ave quite full-grown ^-^Freshnees is their 
chief value and exceUenoe, and I should as soon think of roatting 
an Animal alive, as of boiling a Vegetable after it is dead. 

The £ye easily discovers if they have been kept too lon^ v— 
they soon loose their beauty in all respects. 

Boots, Greeny Salads, &c. and the various productions of the 
Garden, when first goth^ed, are plump and firm, and have a frag- 
rant fireshnesB no art can give them ag»in, when they have lost it 
by long keeping : though it will refresh them a little to put fiiem 
into cold ^)EiBg wata for some time before they are dressed. 

To boil them in soji water will preserve the colour best of svch 
as are Gieen ; if you havve only hard water, put to it a tea-spoon- 
fiil of Oarbonate of Potash, 

Take care to vtash and deanse them thoroughly from dust, 4irt» 
and insects : ikis requires great attention : pick off all the outeide 
leaves, trim them nicely, and if not quite fresh gathered, and lave 
become flaccid, it is absolutely necessary to restore their crispness 
before cooking them, or they will be tough and unpleasant : lay 



VSOBTABLSS. 89 

them in a pan of clean water, iriih a handful of rait In it, for an 
liour before jou dress them. 

** Most Tegetables being more or less sueoulent, their full pro- 
portion of fluids is necessary for their retaining that state of crisp* 
ness and plumpness which they have when growing. On being cut 
or gathered, the exhalation trnm their loi&oe continues, while, from 
the open yessels of the cut surface, there is often great exudation 
or OYapoiation, and thus their natural moisture is diminished, the 
tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose 
their plumpness. — ^This is not only less pleasant to the Eye, but is 
a real injury to the nutritious powers of the TCgetable ; for in this 
flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres are less easily divided in chew- 
ing, and the water which exists in vegetable substances, in the form 
of their rei^>ective natural juices, is directly nutritious. The first 
care in the preservation of succulent vegelables, therefore, is to 
prevent them from losing their natural moistaiie.**— <SSi^9pJ. io Edin. 
Eneydop. toL iv. p. 335. 

They should always be boiled in a sauoe*pan by themselvea, and 
have plenty of water ; if meat is boiled with them in the same pot^ 
they will spoil the look and taste of each othe . 

If you wish to have vegetables delicately clean, put on your Pot, 
make it boil, put a little salt in it, and skim it perfectly clean 
before you put in the Greens, &c. which should not be put in till 
the water boUs briskly ; — ^the quicker they boil, the greener they 
will be ', — ^when the Vegetables sink, they are generally done enough, 
if the water has been kept constantly boiling. Take them up imme' 
dxatdy^ or they wW, loose their colour and goodness. Drain the water 
from them thoroughly before you send them to table. 
This brcmch of Cockery requires the most vigikmi atterUion, 
If Ve^taUes are a minute or two too long over the Fire, they 
lose all their beauty and flavour. 

1/ not thoroughly boiled tender j ihey are tremendously itidigestible^ 
and much mure troublesome during their residence in the Stomach, 
than undergone Heats.'*' 

To preserve or give Colour in Cookery, many good dishes are 
spoilt; but the rational epicure, who makes nourishment the main 
end of eating, will be content to sacrifice the shadow to enjoy the 
substance. Vide (H>s. to (283). 

* " Cavi^ivlowcbs and other VeBetables are often boiled oaly critp to preserre 
thnir Beauty. For tiie look alone they had better not be boiled at all, ana almotk 
as well for the me, as in ttaia crude ttate they are Karoely digestible by the 
strongest stomach. On the other hand, when over-boiled, they become vapid* 
aad in a state similar to decay, in whidi they afford no sweet noxifying Juices to 
the bodj, bnt load it with a mass of xnew feciileiit maXlQi^'^VometUe Manc^ 



90 RUDIMENTS OP COOKERY. 

Once for all, take care your vegetables aie fresh ; — ^for as the 
Fishmonger often suffers for the sins of the Cook, so the Cook often 
gets undeservedly blamed instead of the Green-grocer. 

Vegetables, in this metropolis, are often kept so long, that no art 
can make them either look or eat well. 

Strong-scented Vegetables should be kept apart ; Leeks, or 
Celery, laid among Cauliflowers, &c. will quickly spoil them. 

** Succulent Vegetables are best preserved in a cool, shady, and 
damp place. 

*' Potatoes, Turnips, Carrots, and similar Roots, intended to be 
stored up, should never be cleaned from the earth adhering to them, 
till they are to be dressed. 

*^ They must be protected from the action of the air and frost, 
by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or earth, &c. or 
covering them with straw or mats. 

** The action of Frost destroys the life of the Vegetable, and it 
speedily rots.** — Suppl. to Edin, Eneydop. vol. iv. p. 336. 

Mbm. — When Vbovtablks are quUefreiih gcfthered^ they will not 
require so much boiling, by at least a third of the time, as when 
they have been gathered the usual time those are that are brought 
to Public Markets. 



CHAPTER VI. 

FISH. 

The Marketino Tables, at page 68 of this work, show when 
each kind of fish is Best and Cheapest. 

This department of the business of the Kitchen requires consi- 
derable experience, and depends more upon practice than any 
other •, — a very few moments^ more or less, wiU thoroughly spoil 
fish ;* which, to be eaten in perfection, must never be put on the 
Table, till the Soup is taken off. 

* When the Ckwk has laige dinners to picpar^ and the time of serring nn- 
oertun, she will get more oredit by niin (see 141), or stewed (see 16B), than 
by BOUuBD Fish. It is also cheaper, and mnch sooner carred (see 141). 

Mr. Ude, page 838 of his Cookery— advises, ** If jon are obliged to wait alln 
the Fish is done, do not let it remain in the water, ont keep the water boQing^ 
and put the fish over it, and cover it with a damp cloth— when the diimer is 
oallcwl for, dip the fish «i;ain in the water— and serve it np." 

The only drcamstantial instructions yet printed for Fryiko Fisb, the Reader 
will find in (141) ; if this be caxefnlly and nicely attended to, you will have dt< 
lidoosfood. 



FISH. 01 

So many circumstances operate on this occasion, that it is almost 
impossible to write general rules. 

There are decidedly different opinions, whether Fish should be 
put into cold, tepid, or boiling water. 

We believe for some of the &me the Dutch Cooks have acquired, 
they are a little indebted to their situation affording them a plen« 
tifiil supply of Fresh Fish for little more than the trouble of catching 
it } and that the superior excellence of the fish in Holland, is 
because none are used, unless they are brought alive into the 
Kitchen, (Mackerel excepted, which die the moment they are 
taken out of the water). The Dutch are as nice about this, as 
Semeea says the Romans* were ; who, complaining of the luxury of 
the times, says, ^ they are come to that daintiness, that they will 
not eat a Fidi, unless upon the same day that it is taken, that it 
may taste of the sea, as they express it** 

On the Dutch flat coast, the Fish are taken with nets ; on our 
rocky coast, they are mostly caught by bait and hook, which in- 
stmtly kills them. — ^Fish are brought alivei>y land to the Dutch 
markets, in water casks, with air-holes in the top — Salmon, and 
other fish, are thus preserved in rivers, in a well-hole, in the fish- 
ing-boat, 

AxL KINDS OF Fish are best some time before they begin to 
spawn— and are unfit for food for some time after they have 
spawned. 

FuA, like Animals^ are fittest for the table when they are just 
full grown ; and what has been said in the sixth sentence of the 
first page of Chapter V. respecting VegdabUa^ applies equally well 
XoFisk, 

The mod oonvenient Utensil to boil Fu^ «i, is a Turbot-Kettlb ; 
this should be 24 inches long, 22 wide, and 9 deep. It is an ex- 
cellent vessel to boil a Ham in, &c. &c. 

The good folks of this Metropolis are so often disappointed by 
having Fish which has been kept too long, — that they %re apt to run 
into the other extreme, and suppose that fish will not dress well 
unless it is absolutely alive. This is true of Lobsters, &c. (175,) 

* Th«y had Salt Water preierTM for fisediiig diffnwntldndaof Seapflah ; thoM 
Ja the ponds of LocuUni, at hit death, lold for £86,000 sterliDg. The prolific 
power of flah is wondeiftil : the folloving calcnlations are from Petit, Block* 
and Leawenhoeck :— 

A Salmon of 90 pounds weight contained • 87>8S0 

A middling-siaed Pike U&OOO 

A Mackerel 646.681 

A Cod 9,344,000 

See Cown Qaitronmiiiqfutt 18mo, 1806, p. 841. 



92 BUDIMBNT8 OF COOKBBY. 

and may be of Fresh-water Fish, bnt certainly not of some Sea 
Fish. 

Several respectable Fishmongers and experienced Cooks have 
assured the Editor, that they are often in danger of losing their 
credit, by fish too fresh, and especially Turbot and Cod, which, like 
meat, require a certain time before they are in the best condition 
to be dressed v— they recommend them to be put into Cold Water, 
SaUed in proportion of about a quarter of a pound of salt to a gal- 
lon of water. Seth Water is best to boil Sea fish in ; — it not only 
saves the Expense of Salt, but the flavour is better : let them boil 
slowly till done ; the sign of which is, that the skin of the fish rises 
up, and the eyes turn white. 

It is the business of the Fishmonger to clean them, &c. but the 
carefiil Cook will always wash them again. 

Garnish with slices of Lenum^ — finely scmped Horse-radish^^ 
fried Oysters {ldl)r.JSfMlts {m)r^Wkiiinffs (149),-^r Str^ of 
Soles, as directed in (141). 

The Liver — Roe — and Chiiierlinff8~.JiAkoM be placed so that the 
CSarver may observe them, and invite the Guests to partake of them. 

N.B. Fish, Hhe Meat, requires more cooking in cold tkom in warm 
weaiiker ; if it becomes Frozen,* it must be thawed by the means 
we have directed for Meat, in the 6th page of the 2d Chapter of the 
Rudiments of Cookery. To go to Harkvt for Fish, see diserva- 
tions after (1 78), and the Marketing Tables at page 68 of this work. 

FISH 8AUOES. 

The Mrltbd Buttbr (229) for Fish, should be thick enough to 
adhere to the Fish, and, therefore, must be of the thickness of light 
Batter, as it is to be diluted witli — ^Essence of Anchovt (371 )-~ 
Sot — Mushroom Catchttp (375) — Cayenne (345), or Chili Vi- 
negar (347), Lemons or Ijemon-Juice, or Artificial Lemtm-Juioo 
(see 350), &c. which are expected at all well-served Tables. 

Cooks, who are jealous of the reputation of their Taste, and 
Housekeepers who vahte their ffeaUh, will prepare these articles at 
home /^.there aie quite as many reasons why they shoold, as there 
•re fi»r the preference usually given to Home-baked Bread and Home' 
brewed Beer,'f &c. 

* Fish is TBiy frequently sent borne f rosen by tbe Fishmonger, to whom an 
IceJunue is now as necessary an appendage (to preserre Fish)— as it is to a Con- 
fectioner. 

t See " HoMS-Bncwso Alc/' by a Honsekeeper. BoUnaon, 1804: in page 
18, our Housekeeper tells na. that '* a poor widow m his noii^bovzhood has ntted 
up a Breteenf for the sun of e Mtetn venee tUrUng! A batter^nb /price ntoe- 
IMNce), Is her mash-tab : three half tabs of smaller siae (at tkreepenu each), aro 
jSer ooolera—with these she brewi half a bushel of malt at a time, and dediuea 



BBOTHS AND SOX7P8. 93 

K.B. The IMoeir of fhe Fiih pounded and mixed with Butter, 
with a little Lemon- Juice, &c. is an elegant and inofibmuve relish 
to Fish (see 253). Mtjshboom Saucb Ejstempor€ (272), or the 
Soup of Mock Turtle, (22B), will make an excellent Fish Sauce. 

On the comp^ratiTely nutritive qualitiee of Fish, see K.B. to 
(178). 



CHAPTER VIL 

BBOTHft AND SOUPS. 

The Cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
Stew-pans* and Soup-kettles, &c.— .which should be examined every 
time they are used. The prudent Housewife unU carefuXLy eaiamine 
the eojuiUion of them herself at least once a month. Their covers also 
must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the Stew-pans 
not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the outside : 
...many mischief arise &om their getting out of repair ; and if not 
kept fdoely tinned^ aU your good tffork wiU be in vain ; the Broths and 
Soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and poisonous, and 
wUl be spoiled both for the Eye and Palate, and your credit will 
be lost. 

The Health, and even Life of the Family, depends upon this, 
and the Cook may be sure her Employers had rather pay the Tin- 
man^s bill than the Doctor^s v — ^therefore, attention to this cannot 
fall to engage the regard of the Mistress, between whom and the 
Cook it will be my utmost endeavour to promote perfect Harmony. 

jpT a servant has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
PaR,*t- which will sometimes happen to the most careful Cook^— I 
advise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident ; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with Skvbs and Tammy 
cloth, — Spoons and Ladles, — ^make it a rule without an eaception^ 
never to use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, 

that she finds her Home-Breired Ale ' very comfortable indeed^ " / / /—See also 
Rawlinson on Brkwino Malt Ltquor/ot Domestic Ute-printedfor Johnson^ 
2d Bditiont price Is. 

* We prefer the form of a Stbw-Pan to the Sonp-Pot,— the former is more 
coDTenient to skim ; the most ns^fnl size is 12 inches diameter by 6 inches deep : 
this we wonldhare of Silver,— or Iron,— or Copper, lined (not plated) with Silver, 

t This may he always avoided by Browning your meat in the Frying^n-W i> 
the browning of the meat that destroys the Stew-pan. 



94> RUDIMENTS OF COOKBBT. 

ii—nor any Stewpans, &c. i^thout fint washing them out with bail- 
ing water, and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bnm, 
to clean them from greuBe, sand, &c. or any bad smell they may 
have got since they were last used : never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our Cook to be such a naughty Slut 
as to wilMly neglect her Broth-Pots, &c. yet we may reconmiend 
her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 

place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon : attend to 

this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any Soup, Gravy, &c. in metal utensils ; in which 
never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of Cookery, — ^the acid, vegetables, fet, &c. employed in 
making Soups, &c. are capable of dissolving such utensUs : there- 
fore stone or earthen vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, Soup-pots, and Presbrving-pans, with thick and 
round bottoms (such as sauce-pans are made with) will wear twice 
as long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides 
are soldered to the bottom, of which Sand and Grease get into ike 
joined part, and Cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nehuchadnezzar^s. The 
Editor claims the credit of having first suggested the importance of 
this construction of these utensils. - 

Take care that the Lids fit as close as possible, that the Broth, 
Soup, and Sauces, &c. may not waste by evaporation.^* They are 
good fbr nothing, unless they fit tight enough to keep the Steam in 
and the Smoke out. 

Stew-pans and Sauce-pans should be always bright on the upper 
rim, where the fire does not bum them ; but to scour them all over 
is not only giving the Cook needless trouble, but wearii^ out the 
vessels. See Observations on Sauce-pans in the 5th page of Chap- 
ter I. 

Cultivate habits of regularity and cleanliness, &c. in all your 
business, which you will then get through easily and comfortably. 
— ^I do not mean the restless spirit of MoUdusta, ^ the Tidy One/* 

* " Fit-on jamais d« bon bouillon— dans uno marmite dteonverto? QneUa 
difference de goQt, d'odenr, et de substance, entre une tranche de Bcenf onite k 
fen lent, dans un vaisseau fenn^'on vn moroean de Bonif cnit k gros bouillons, 
dans nne marmite enti^rement ouverte ! I/avantage en est si oons^uent, qne 
j'ai souTent r^ussi k faire de meilleur bouillon, en quantity ^ffi», aTec moitiiA 
moins de viande dans une marmite bien ferm^ qu'arec le double dans un Tai^ 
seau ourert D'oti proTient done cette dijSifirence ^nnante ? C'est aue dans un 
Taiaseau d^oonvert, la plus grande partie de sue des Tiandes et du bouillon -ae 
diasipent en vapeurs, tandis que dans un vaiaseau ferme, ces exhalations nu- 
tritives, toujours condenses, sont dans une distillation perpetuelle, qui, retom- 
baiit dans ie vase comme la ros^, concentre la totality de lennsucs, et cooierre 
toutes leurs substances nouriicLires." 



\ 



. BB0TH8 AND SOUFS. 95 

who 18 anon, anon. Sir, frisking about in a whirlpool of bustle and 
confusion, and is always dirty — sunder pretence of being always 
cleaning. 

Xiean juicy Beef, Mutton, or Veal, fonn the basis of Broth v— 
pxocnre tiiose pieces which afford the richest succulence, and as 
fresh killed as possible.* See Thb Markxtino Tables at p. 68 
of this work. 

SUiU Mt)tA will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and Fot Meat 
IB wasted. This only applies to those Broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear; we shall shew hereafter (in 211), that Fat 
and Clarifitd Drippuigt may be so combined with Vegetable Muci- 
lage, as to afford, at the small cost of onx Pxnny pxr Quart, a 
nourishing and palatable Soup, fiilly adequate to satisfy appetite 
and support strength ; — ^this will open a new source to those bene- 
volent housekeepers who are disposed to relieve the Poor, will shew 
the industrious classes how much they have it in their power to as- 
sist themselves, and rescue them from being objects of Charity, de- 
pendent on the precarious bounty of others, by teaching them how 
ihey may obtain a cheap, abundant, salubrious, and agreeable ali- 
ment for themselves and &milies. 

This Soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room — ^those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savoury, 
and satisfying Meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely: ingredients. 

Scotch ^rley Broth (193) will furnish a Good Dinner of Soup 
and Mbat for Fivepenee per head, Pbasb Soup (205) will cost only 
Siafpence per Quart, Ox-Tail Soup (217), or the same Portabi.b 
Soup (227), for Fwepence per Quart, and (209) an excellent Oravy 
Soup for tourpenee half penmy per Quart, Duck-Giblbt Soup (221) 
for Threepence per Quart, and Ox-Hbad Soup in the same manner 
for gtill lets (216), will give you a good and plentiful dinnbr for 
Sue people for Two ShUliagt and Twopence. See also Shin op Bbbp 
BTXWBD (411), and a la modb Bbbf (418). 



BROTH HBHBS, SOUP ROOTS, AND SEASONINGS. 



Bread. 
RaapingK. 
Peas, (803). 
Beans. 



Scotch barley, (193) 
Pearl barley. 
Floor. 
Oatujcal, (009). 

* In general, it has been considered the best Economy to use the cheapest 
and most inferior meats for Soup, &c., and to boil it down till it is entirolr de- 
Btrojed, and hardlj worth putting into the Hog-tub. This is a false FragaJity : 
bup ffood piecet qfmeat, ana only stew them tiU Ihey are done enough to be eaten. 



9e 



BUDIMBNTS OF COOKXBY. 



Bice, (282). 

Vermicelli 

Macaroni, (554), &c. 

Isinglass. 

Potato mucilage (380). 

Mnshroomsi (375). 

ChampignoDB. 

Parsneps (199). 

Carrots (196). 

Beet-Boots. 

Turnips (190). 

Gallic. 

Sballots, (see 343). 

Onions.^ 

Leeks. 

Cacumber.8 

Celery, (200). 

Celsry Sksd.4 

Cress seed,^ (see S37 ). 

Paisley,^ (see N.B. to 234). 

Common Thyme. (^ 

Lemon Thyme.A 

Orange Thyme."^ 



Knotted Maijoxun,^ (36S.) 

M&t, (338). 

Winter Sarourr.* 

Sweet Basil^A (336). 

Bay leares. 

Tomatoe. 

Tarragon, (335). 

ChemL 

Bumet, (339). 

Ai.LSPfCE0 (355). 

Cinnamon* (301). 

Ginger* (354). 

Nutmeg.* 

Clove (399). 

Mace (368). 

Black pepper. 

Lemon-peel (349 to 352). 

White pepper. 

Lemon-juice.7 

Seville orange-juice.* 

Essenoe of Ajichory, (see SIfl). 



> Mushroom Catchup, made as 375, or 376, will answer all the purposes of 
Mvshiooms in soup or sauce, and no store-room should be without a stock of it. 

' All Cooks agree in this opinion. 
No savoury dish wUkout an OmoN. 

Sliced OnUnu/Hedy (See 268, and note under 433,) with sone Imtter and 
flour, till they are browned (and rubbed through a sieve,) are excellent to 
heighten the colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces, and form the basis 
of most of the relishes furnished bv the *' aestauraiU»irt"—M we guess ftt>m the 
odour which ascends from their kitchens, and salutesour olfactory nerves, " en 
passarU." 

The older and drier the onion, the stronger its flavour, and the Cook will 
regulate the quantity she uses accordingly. 

s Bumet has exactly the same flavour as Cneiimber,~^ee Bomet Vinegar 
(339.) 

4 The concentration of flavour in Cblbry and Crvss Sctoliiiteh, that half 
a drai^m of it {findg poundtd,) or double the quantity if i||| ground or 
pounded, costing only one third m' a Farthing, will unpregnatc nBf a gallon of 
soup with almost as much relish as two or inree heads or the fresh vegetable^ 
weighing seven ounces, and oostins Twopence. This valuable acquisition to the 
8ou]v-pot deserves to be universally kiAiwn. See also (.^53) Essence of Cklkr v. 
This is the most frugal relish we have to introduce to the Bconemist^but thaC 
our judgment in Palliates may not be called in question by our fisUpw-mortals* 
who, as the CraniologiMts say, happen to have the Organ ^ Taste^mmxfjtt than 
fhe Organ qf AceumutativenesSt we must confess, that, with the flavour It doe* 
not impart the delicate sweetness, Sec of the fresh Vegetable; and when used, 
a bit 01- sugar should acoompany it. 

^ See (364 and 387.) Fresh green Babil is seldom to be procured. When 
flried, much of its fine flavour is lost, which is fully extracted by pouring wine 
on the fresh leaves (see 336.) 

To procure and preserve the flavour of swkkt and satourt herbs, Celery, 
&c. these must be dried, &c. at home (see 363 and 389.) 

* See (366 and 384.) Sir Hans Sloane, in the Phil. Trans. Abr. vol. xi ]>. 
667, says, " PtsMiito, the spice of Jamaica, or Allspics. bo called from having 
a flavour composed as it were of Cloves, Cinnamon, Nutmegs, and Pepper, may 
dMervedly be counted the best and most temperate, mild and innocent, of com- 
mon spices, almost all of which if far surpasses, by promoting the digestion of 
meat, and moderatelv heating ana strengthening the stomach, and dmng those 
friendly offices to the bowels, wejenerally expect from spices.** We have always 
been or the same opinion aa Sir Hans, and believe the only reason why it is the 
least esteemed qiice is, because it is the cheapest. *' What folks get easy thej 
never enjoy." 

7 If you have not f^h Orange or LsMoir^urcc, or Coxwell's crystalised 
Lemon Add, Ms ArtOteial Lemtm-JUiee (350) is a good substitute for it. 

* The^ttieeof the SavTLLa Oranob is to be preterred to that of the Lbmon,-* 
the Flavour is finer, and the Add milder. 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. 97 

The above noaterials — Wine and Mushroom Catchup (375), 
combined in Tarioos proportions, will make an endleie variety* of 
excellent Broths and Soups, quite as pleasant to the Palate, and as 
useful and agreeable to the Stomach, as consuming Pheasants and 
Patridgee, and the long list of inflammatory, piquants^ and rare and 
costly articles, recommended hy former Cookery-book makers, 
whose elaborately compounded Soups, are like their Ma^ Dishes ; 
in which, though variety is aimed at, every thing has the same taete^.^ 
and nothinff its own. 

The general fauU of our English Soups seems to he the employmwi 
of an exoess of Spicb, and too small a portion of Roots and Hbrbs.* 

Besides the ingredients I have enumerated, many culinary scribes 
indiscriminately cram into almost every Dish (in such inordinate 
quantities— one would suppose they were working for the Asbestos 
palate of an Indian Fire-Eater) Anchovies, — Garlic,*f- — Bay-leaves, 
and that hot fiery spice CayenneX pepper ; this, which the French 
call (not undeservedly) Piment enra^ (345), has somehow or other, 
unaccountably acquired a character for being very wholesome — whilst 

* The erudite editor of the " Atmanach des Gourmnnds," vol. ii. p. 30, tells 
U8, that ten folio yolnmes would not contain the Receipts of all the Soups that 
have been invented in that Grand School of Good Eating.— the Parisian Kitchen. 

We add the following Directions for Soup-Makino, from tho celebrated 
French Chemist, Parmkntier :— 

Rigles g^n&ales pour la Preparation de* BouiUons jilimentahres. 

1. Viande saine, et convenablement saignee. 

2. Vaiaseaux de terre, de pr^^ence & ceux de metal, parceque les premiers 
aont moins condncteurs de la chaleur, et qu'une fois echauffite, un pen de cen- 
dre chaude ^tretient r^buUition ligkx^ que Ton d^re. 

3. Eau en quantity double du poids k ceUe de la viande employ^. 

4. Snffisante quantity de sel commun pour faciliter la separation de Talhu- 
mine, ainsi que sa coagulation sous forme d'^cume. 

5. Temp^ature capable de porter le mdlange k I'^bullition pendant tout le 
temiM que I'ecnme se rassemblera k la nirface du liquide, et qn'uu aura soin 
d'en B^parer ezactement. 

6. Temperature plus basse aprte I'op^ration prec^lente. et toujours con- 
fltante, afin que le liquide ne fasse que fremir l^^rement, pour donner le temps 
anx substances autntives, colorantes, et extractives, contenues dans la viande, 
de s'unir et de se combiner avec I'eau, dans I'ordrequi Convient ii leur solubility. 
— Pajimkntjsr, Code Pharmaceutimtet 1811, p. 444. 

* " Point de Ligumes, point de Cuttiniere" is a favourite culinarjr adage cf the 
French kitchen ; and deserves to be so : a better s^up may be made with a 
couple of pounds of Meat and plenty of Vegetables, than our common Cooks 
will make yon with four times that quantity of meat ; all for want of knowing 
the uses ofSoup roots, and Sweet ana Savoury herbs. 

t Many a good dish is spoiled, by the cook not knowing the proper use of this, 
which is to give a flavour, and not to be predominant over the other ingredients : 
a morsel mashed with the point of a Imife, and stirred in, is enough. See (343. ) 

X Foreigners have strange notions of English Taste, onwbidi one of their Culi- 
ttarj Professors has made the following comment :—'* The organ of Taste in these 
IsLANDBMS Is Very different from our Delicate Palates— -saxa. sauce that would 
excoriate the palate of a Frenchman, would be hardly piquante enough to make 
any inipression on that of an Englishman ;— thus they prefer Fort to Claret," 
&c. As for as concerns our Drinking, we wish there was not quite so much 
truth in Mcnsiew's remarks: but the characteristic of the French and English 
kitdien is, Sauce vriOwut Substance and Substance without Sauce. 

To make Cayxnnx of BngUab Chilis, of infinitely finer flavoar than th« 
Indian, See (945.) 



98 RUDIMBNTS OF COOKEKY. 

the milder Peppers and Spices are cried down, as destroying the 
seiBibility of the Palate and Stomach, &c, and being the sonice 
of a thousand mischiefe. — We should just as soon reoonunend 
Alcohol as being less intoxicating than Wim. 

The best thing that has been said in praise of pbppbrs is, « that 
with all kinds of Vegetables, as also with Soups (especially regetable 
soups) and Fish, either Blmck or Cayenne Pepper may be taken freely: 
they are the most useful stimulants to (Hd Stomachy and often super 
sede the cravings for strong drinks ; or diminish the quantity other- 
wise required.'* See Sir A. Carlislk on Old Age, London, 1817. 
A certain portion of Condiment is occasionally serviceable to excite 
and keep up the languid action of feeble and advanced Life ; we 
must increase the stimulus of our aliment as the inirritability of our 
system increases.^ TTe leave ^ose who love these Udngs, to uae them at 
iiey U&e ; their flavours can be very extemporaneously produced by 
Chilli-juice, or Essence of Cayenne (346), Elschallot wine (343), 
and Essence of Anchovy (371). 

There is no French Dinner without Soup, which is regarded 
as an indispensable Overture ; — ^it is commonly followed *^ le Coup 
dl'aprh^^'* a Glass of pure Wine, which they consider so wholesome 
after Soup, that their Proverb says, the Physician thereby loses a 
Fee : — ^whether the Glass of Wine be so much more advantageous 
for the patient than it is for his Doctor, we know not, but believe it 
an excellent plan, to begin the banquet with a baOD of good Soup, 
which, by moderating the Appetite for solid Animal food, is certainly 
a salutiferous custom. — ^Between the Roasts and the EmtremOe they 
introduce *^ le Coup du MUieu^ or a small glass of Jamaica Rum, or 
Eesencevf Punch, (see 653) ; or CUHA9A0 (649). 

The introduction of Liquizurs is by no means a modem custom ; 
our ancestors wero very fond of a highly spiced stimulus of this sort, 
commonly called Ipocrasse, which generally made a part of the last • 
ooursey— ^r was taken immediately after dinner. 

The Crafie to make Ypocras. 

''Take a quarte of red wyne, an ounce of synamon, and halfe an 
ounce of gynger ; a quarter of an ounce of greynes (probably of pcu*- 
adise) and long pepper, and halfe a pounde of sugar *, and brose 
Chrui$e) all this (not too smaUj, and put them in a bage fbagj of 
wullen clothe, made thereforo, with the Wynee ; and lete it hange 
over a vessel, till the wynee be run thorowe.*^.-^ii Eaetraet from 
Amold'^s Chromde, 

It is a Custom which almost universally prevails in the Northern 
pttts^f E!urope to present a Dram or glass of Liqueur before sittiBg 



BBOTHS AND SOUPS. 99 

down to dinner : — ^this answers the double purpose of a whet to the 
Appetite, and an announcement that Dinner is on the point of being 
served up. Along with the dram, are presented on a waiter, little 
square pieces of Cheese, slices of cold Tongue, dried Tongue, and 
Atied Toast, accompanied with fresh CcDviar. 

We again caution the Cook to avoid Over-Seasomnff, especially 
wf3i predominant ftavours, whidi, however agreeable thej may be 
to ome, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Cavice—Coratch— Anchovy (371)r— Curry Powder (388),— Sa- 
v«ary EagoAt Powder (384)--Soup Herb Powder (887 and 388), 
^Browning (283)y— Catchups (374 and 5),— .Pickle Liquor—Beer 
—Wine, and Sweet Herbs, and Savoury Spice (388), are very con- 
VCTient auxiliaries to finish Soups, &c. 

The proportion of Wine (formerly Sack — ^flien Claret — ^now 
Madeira or Port) should not exceed a large Wine-glassful to a Quart 
of Soup :<-^his is as much as can be admitted, without the vinous 
flavour becoming remarkably predominant : — ^though not only much 
laiger quantities of Wine (of whidi Claret is incomparably the best, 
because it contains less spirit and more flavour, and English palates 
are less acquainted with it) ; but even viritdMe Eau de Vie is ordered 
in many books, and used by many (especially Tavern Cook8)-..jo 
much ore their Soups overloaded with relish, that if you will eat 
enough of them, they will certainly make you Drunk, if they don^ 
make you Sick-^all this frequently arises from an old Cook measur- 
ing the excitability of the Eaters' palates by his own, — ^which may 
be so blunted by incessant Tasting, that to awaken it, requires 
Wine instead of Water, and Cayenne and Garlic, for Black Pepper 
and Onion. 

OldCooksare as fond of Spice, as Children are of Sugar, and season 
SOUP, which is intended to constitute a principal part of a Meal, 
as highly as SAUCE, of which only a spoonful may be relish enough 
for a plate of insipid Viands. (See Obs. to 302.) — However, we 
foncy these large quantities of Wine, &c. are oftener ordered in 
Cookery Books than used in the kitchen t — ^practical Cooks have 
the Health of their employers too much at heart, and love *^ Sauce 
h la langwe^ too well to over-wine their Soup, &c. 

Tbufflbs and Morels* are also set down as a part of most re- 
capta, — ^These, in their Green state, have a very rich high flavour, 
and are delicious additions to some dishes, or sent up as a stew by 
themselves when they are fresh and fine ; but in this state they are 
not served up half a dozen times in a year at the first tables in the 

* We tried to make Catchup of thttw by treattiiv tbem like Ifvthrooiiii (975)* 
but did not mooeed. 



1 00 RUDIMENTS OP COOKERY. 

kingdom : when dried they become mere " oAtps in pottage^"* and 
serve only to soak up good gravy, — from which they take more taste 
than they give. 

The Art of composing a rich Soup is so to proportion the several 
ingredients one to another, that no particular Taste be stronger than 
the rest, — ^but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that tiie 
whole 1b delightful ; — ^this requires that judicious combination of the 
materials which constitutes the ^ chef-d*oauvre*^ of Culinary Science, 

In the first place, take care that the Boots and Herbs be perfectly 
well cleaned ; — proportion the water to the quantity of Meat, and 
uther ingredients, — generally a pound of meat to a quart of water for 
Soups \ and double that quantity for Gravies. If they Stew gently^ 
little more water need be put in at first than is expected at the end ; 
— for when the Pot is covered quite close, and the fire gentle, 
very little is wasted. 

Gbntlb Stbwino is incomparably the best, — ^the Meat is more 
tender, and the Soup better flavoured. 

It is of the first importance that the Cover of a Scntp-KetUe should 
fit very close,-^or the broth will evaporate before you are aware of 
it. Tlie most essential parts are soon evaporated by Quick Boiliaig 
— without any benefit, except to fatten the fortunate Cook who in- 
hales them. An evident proof that these Exhalations'*' possess the 
most restorative qualities is, that the Cook — who is in general the 
least E^ter, — is, as generally, the Fattest person in the Family, firom 
continually being surrounded by the Quintessence of aM the food 
she dresses, — whereof she sends to her Master only the fibres and 
Calcinations, — who is consequently Thin — Gouty — and the Victim 
of Diseases arising from insufiScient nourishment. 

It is not only the fibres of the meat which nourish us, but the 
Juices they contain, and these are not only extracted but exhaled, 
if it be boiled fast in an open vessel — a succulent soup can never 
be made but in a well-closed vessel, which preserves the nutritive 
parts by preventing their dissipation. — This is a fact of which every 
intelligent person will soon perceive the importance. 

Place your Souppot over a moderate fire^ fchit^ wiU make the Water 
hot without causing it to boil for at least kcdf an hour ; — if the water 

* " A poor man beinR rerj hungry, staid so lone in a Cook's shop, who -mna dish- 
ing up meat, that his stomach was satisfied witn only the smeU thereof. The 
choleric Cook demanded of him to pay for his breakfast ; the poor man denied 
having had any, and the controversy was referred to the deciding of the next man 
that shonld pass by, who dianced to be the most notorious Idiot in the whole 
city : he, on the relation of the matter, determined that the poor man s moneT 
should be put betwixt two empty dishes, and the cook should be recompensed 
with the jingling of the poor man's money, as he was satisfied with the smell of 
the Cook 8 meat." This is affirmed by credible writers as no (able, but an un- 
iloubted truth.— Fullkb's Hdif Staiiy lib. Ui. c. 12, p. 2(1. 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. 10| 

boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and cleanse it 
from the clotted blood, and other m-itters which ought to go off in 
Bcmn ; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat, — will 
shrink up afi if it was scorched, and give hardly any Gravy ; — on the 
contrary, ^by keeping the water a certain time heating without boil- 
ing, — ^the Meat swells— becomes tender — ^its fibres are dilated — and 
it yields a quantity of Scum, which must be taken of as soon as it 
appears. 

It is not till after a good Half Hour^s hot infusion that we may 
mend the Fire, and make the pot boil — still continue to remove the 
Scum ; and when no more appears, put in the Vegetables, &c. and 
a little salt. These will cause more Scum to rise — ^which must be 
taken off immediately — ^then cover the Pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast 

By guide and strong BoiUng the volatile and finest parts of the in- 
gredients are evaporated, and fly off with the steam, and the coarser 
parts are rendered soluble ; so you lose the good, and get the bad. 

Soups vrill generally take from Three to Six hours. 

Prepare your Broths and Soups the Evening before you want them. 
This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your Dinner 
the next day ;— and when the Soup is cold, the Fat may be much 
more easily and completely removed from the sur&ce of it ; when 
yon decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the bottom 
of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through a Sieve, 
or even through a Tamis, which is the best strainer, — ^the Soups ap- 
pear smoother and finer — and it is much easier cleaned than any 
sieve. Ifyo^ ttram it whUe it is Hot, pass it through a clean Tamis 
or Napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the coldness of this 
will coagulate the Fat, and only suffer the pure Broth topassthrough. 

The fiill flavour of the Ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering *, — during which take care to prevent Evor 
porcBtion, hy -covering the Pot as dose as possible : the best Stew-pot is 

a DlOBOTER. 

dear Soups must be perfectly transparent, — Thickknkd Soups, 
about the consistence of rich Cream, and — remember that Thickened 
Soupe require nearly double the quantity of Seasoning, The Piquanee 
of Spice, &c. is bb much blunted by the Flour and Butter, as the 
ISpirit of Rum is by the addition of Sugar and Acidf-^o they are 
less salubrious, without being more savotuy — ^from the additional 
quantity of Spice, &c. that is smu^led into the Stomach. , . 

To THICKEN AND oiVE BoDY TO Soups AND Saucbs, the foUowing }M' 



;*ft|;/ 



1 02 BUBIHSNTS OF COOKBBY. 

materials are usedU-fhey must be gradiiall3rimxt with the Soup till 
thoioughly incorporated with it ; and it ihould have at least half 
an hour^ gentle simmering after : if it is at all lumpy, pass it through 
a Tamis or a fine Sieve :— Bread raspings—Bread — Iaingla8s.^~Fo- 
tato mucQage (380), £ai skimmings and Flour, (see 224),..^r Flour 
and Butter — or Flour ; Barley, (see 193), Bice, or Oatmeal and 
Water rubbed well together, (see 2B0, in which this subject is fully 
explained). 

To give that Gkdinotis quality so much admired in Mod Turtle, 
see note under (223, 227), and N.B* to (628). 

To their very rich Gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of Partridges, Pigeons, or Fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve ; — a piece of Beef, which has been boiled to make 
Broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
— (see Obs. to 400 and 420), — and gradually incorporated with 
the Gravy or Soup, will be found a satisfactory substitute for these 
Bore expensive articles. 

Meat from which Broth has been made (182, and 227), and all its 

juice has been extracted, is then excellently well pr^iazed for fott^ 

nro^ (see 420), and is quite as good, or better than that which has 

been baked till it is dry ;* indeed if it be pounded, and seasoned iii 

the usual manner, it will be an elegant and savoury Lmeheon^^-Gt 

Sttpperf^^tOid costs nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is 

very little, and a Relish is procured for SamdvmAet, &c. (421 and 

422)..of what heretofore has been by the poorest HoiAekeeper 
considered the perquisite ofihe Cat. 

jfiTeep som/e spare Broth lest your Soup4iquoir waste in boiling, and 
get too thick, and for Gravif for your Madk PisHBS^^various 
Saucxs, &c. ; for many of which it is a much better basis than 
Melted Butter. 

The Soup of Mock Turtle, andthe other thickened SoupB(223) 
wiU supply you with a thick Gravy Sauce for PouUry.^FiskLjia'' 
go4U, &.C ; and by a little management of this sort, you may gene- 
rally contrive to have plenty of Good Gravies and Good Sauces 
with very little trouble or expense. See also Poriahle Soup (227). 

I/Soup is too thin or too weak, take off the cover of your soup-pot, 
and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated,i«. 
or else add some of the Thickening materials we ha^e before men-* 
tioned ; and have at hand some plain Bbowninq *, see 283, and the 
Obs. thereon. This simple preparation is much better than any of 

* If the Gravy be not completely drained from it, the article potted will very 
soon tarn Mor. 



BBOTHS AND 80UF8. 103 

the OQBipouiidi bearing that name, as it colours Sanoe or Soup with- 
out much interf(Hmg with its flaTOur ; and is a much better waj of 
Colouring them than burning the surfiKO of the Meat. 

When Soupe and Gravies aie kept from day to day in Hot weather 
the/ should be wanned up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
toreens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar *, — in Temperate weather 
every otiier day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common Cook into possession of 
tha whole anxrna of Soup*making, — ^without mudi trouble to her- 
self or expense to her employers v— it need not be said in future 
that an Englishman only knows how to make Soup in his Stomach, 
by swilling down a laige quantity of Ale or Porter, to quench the 
thirst occasioned by the meat he eats :— John Bull may now make 
his Soup *^ tectmdiimt aftem^ and save his principal viscera a great 
deal of trouble. 

*«* In the fdlowing Receipts toe have directed the Spices* and Fla- 
vimring to he added at the usual time ; — hut it would ffreatly diminish 
ihe expenae^ and improve the Soups, ^the Apents employed to give them 
a Zest were not put in above Jif teen minutes be/ore the fimskf-^^nd half 
the quantity cf spice, S[c. would do. — A strong Heat soon dissipates the 
spirit of the Wine, and evaporates the aroma and Jhvour of the Spices 
and Herbs, wHch are volatile in the heat o/ Boiling water. 

In ordering the proportions of mba.t, — BUTTBa,-.wiNK, &c. — the 
proper quantity is set down, and less wiU not do : — ^we have carried 
Economy quite as fiir as possible without ** spoiling the Broth for a 
hal/jpenny worth of salt.** 

I conclude these remarks with observing, that some persons ima- 
gine that Soup tends to relax the Stomach — so fu from being pre- 
judicial, we consider the moderate use of such liquid nourishment 
to be highly salutary. — ^Does not our food and drink, even though 
oold, become in a few minutes Sr kind of warm Soup in the Stomach ? 
— 4ind therefore Soup, if not eaten too hot, or in too great a quan- 
tity, and of proper quality, is attended with great advantages, espe* 
dally to those who drink but little. 

Warn Fluids in the form of Soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better than those that are cold and raw ; on this account 
RafltoaATivK Soup is the best Food for those who are enfeebled by 
JXaome or Dissipation ; and for old people, whose teeth and Digest- 
ive oigans are impaired. 

*' Half snbtiUsed to Chjle— the liquid food 
Beadiest obeys tfa' assimilating powers." 



* Economists recommend these to be pounded ; they certainly eo farther, as 
ikej caU it ;— bat we tiuak they go too far, for they go tbrougb the siert, and 
make the aonp grouty. 



104 RUDIMENTS OF OOOKEBY. 

After catching Cold, in Nervous headacheA^—Cholica<— Indiges- 
tions, and different kinds of Cramp and Spasms in the Stomachy- 
warm broth is of excellent service. 

After intemperate feasting, to give the Stomach a holyday for a 
day or two by a diet on Mutton Broth (667, or 669), or Vegetable 
Soup (203), &c. is the best way to restore its Tone. See The Art 
of Invigorating Life^ by the Author of this work. ** The stretching 
any power to its utmost extent weakens it If the Stomach be every 
day obliged to do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do 
less. A wise traveller will never force his horse to perform as mnch 
as he can in one day upon a long journey.**— ^o^Aer Fbtjog^ 
rules, p. 85. 
. To WARM Soups, &c. (400). 

N. B. With the portablb Soup (227), a pint of Broth may be 
made in five minutes for Three Pence. 






^>^- fc 



CHAPTER VIII. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 

" The Spirit of each dish, and Zkbt of all. 
Is what ingenious Cooks the Relish call ; 
For though tiie market sends in loads of food. 
They are all tasteless till that miUces them good." 

KiKo'8 Art iff Cookery. 



** E» parvis oomponere magnaJ* 
It is of as much importance that the Cook should know how to make 
a boat of good Gravy for her Poultry, &c. as that it should be sent 
up of proper complexion, and nicely frothed. 

In this Chapter we shall endeavour to introduce to her aU the 
Materials^ whicli give flavour in Sauce, which is the Estenoe of Soup, 
and intended to contain mora relish in a Tear8poonfid than the foiv 
mer does in a TaMe-tpoonfid. 

We hope to deserve as much praise from the Ecotumitl as we do 
fixun the Bon Vioant; as we have taken great pains to introduce to 
him the methods of making Substitutes for those ingredients, whidi 
are always expensive, and often not to be had at alL Many of these 

* Since the publicatton of " The Art of Inviflorating Life," many imitations 
hare romng forth, some almost copied rerbatmi : however, the Editor hopes 
that his father's work will be found infinitely 8ni>erior, and containing more 
sound advice than all the host of quack books united. The last Edition has 
been increased in size one-fourth, and is published by Whittaker, Ave-Haria 
Lane. 

t The last Chapter (vii) gives A Catalooux ov ths Ingkbdibntb now iiae4 
in Soups, Sauces, dec. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 105 

cheap articles are as sayoury and as salutary as the dearer ones, and 
those who have laige families and limited incomes, will, no doubt, 
be glad to avail themselves of them. 

The reader may rest assured — that whether he consults this Book 
to diminish the expense or increase the pleasures of Hospitality- 
he will find all the information that was to be obtained up to 1830, 
cnnmunicated in the most unreserved and intell^ble manner. 

A great deal of the Elegance of Cookeiy depends upon the Ac^ 
oompaniments to each dish being appropriate and well adapted to it. 

We can assure our readers, no attention has been wanting on our 
part to render this department of the work worthy of their perusal ; 
— each receipt is the faithful narrative of actual and repeated ex- 
periments, and has received the most deliberate consideration before 
it was here presented to them. It is given in the most circumstan- 
tial manner, and not in the technical and mysterious language for- 
mer writers on these subjects seem to have preferred ; by which 
their directions are useless and unintelligible to all who have not 
r^;ularly served an apprenticeship at the Stove. 

Thus, instead of accurately enumerating the Quantities, and ex- 
plaining the process of each Composition, they order a ladleful of 
Stocky a pint of Consomme, and a spoonful of Cullis — as if a Private- 
Family Cook had always at hand a soup-kettle fttll of Stock, a store 
Consomme, and the larder of Albion House, and the Spoons and Penr 
wyvDOfihs were the same in all ages. 

It will be to very little purpose that I have taken so much pains 
to teach how to manage Roasts and Boils, if a Cooik cannot or will 
not make the several Sauces that are usually sent up with them. 

The most homely fare may be made relishing, and the most ex- 
cellent and independent improved by a well-made Sauce *,*— -as the 
most perfect picture may by being well varnished. 

We have, therefore, endeavoured to give the plainest diiections 
how to produce, with the least trouble and expense -f- possible— all 

* *' It is the dnty of a good sauce, " says the editor of the Mnumaeh da Omtt' 
WMTuU (vol. V. page 6,) '^to insinuate itself all ronnd and about the maarillary 
glands, and imperceptiblr awaken into actiritj each ramification of the Organs 
of Taste : if not sufiiciently savoury, it cannot produce this effect, and if too pi- 
quante, it vill paralyse, instead of exciting, those delicious titillations of tongue 
and Tibrations of Palate, that only the most accomplished Philosophers of the 
Mouth can produce on the highly ediicated palates of thrice happy Chrands Oour- 
mands.'* 

t To saTe time and Trouble is the most ralnable frugality ; and if the mistress 
of a family will condescend to devote a little time to tne prratable and pleasant 
employment ofpreparing some of the Stork Savcbs, especially (283, 343, 345, 
356, 370. 371, 375, 383) ; these, both Epicures and Economists will avail them- 
selves of the advantage now given them, of preparing at home. 

By the help of these, many Dishes may be dressed in half the usual Time— and 
with half the Trouble and Expense— and flavoured and finished with much more 
certainty than by the common methods. 

A small portion of the Time which Young Ladies saerifioe to torturing tlie 



] 06 BUDIMENTS OF COOKERY. 

t^e vftnous eompontions the English kitohen affoids for the amuse- 
mefit of honest John Bull — and hope to present such a wholesome 
and palatable Tariety as vnH suit all tastes and all pockets, so that a 
Cook may give satisfaction in all families : the more combinations 
jof tii^is sort she is acquainted with, the better she will comprehend 
the management of every one of them. 

We have rejected some Outlandish Farrogoea^ from a conviction 
■they were by no means adapted to an English palate : if they have 
been received into scmie English books, for the sake of swelling the 
•volume,'*' we believe they wUl never be received by an Englishman's 
stomach, unless for the reason they were admitted into the Cookery 
book, t. 6. because he has nothing else to put into it. 

However ** lea pomptuaes Bagatelles de la Cuisine Masques*'* may 
tickle the £auicy of dlemi-c&nnoisseurs, who, leaving the substance to 
pursue the diadow, prefer wonderful and whimsical metamorphoses, 
and things extravagantly expensive, to those which are intrinsically 
excellent,-^in whose mouth Mutton can hardly hope for a welcome, 
unless accompanied by Venison Sauce ; — or a Babbjt, any chancp 
ion a race down the Bed Lane, without assuming the form of a Frog 
or a Spider ; — or Pork, without being either *' Goosified'"' or *•*' Lamb- 
ified"^ (see 51) ; and Game and Poultry in the shape of CratofiA 
Qt Hedgehogs; — ^these Travesties rather show the patience than the 
science of the Cook, — and the bad tasteof those who prefer such Baby- 
tricks^f- to old English nourishing and substantial plain Cookery. 

I could have made this the biggest Book:^ with half the trouble 
it has taken me to make it the best ; — Concentration and Per- 
spicuity have been my aim. 

As much pains have been takoi in describing, in the most intel- 
ligible manner, how to make, in the easiest, most agreeaUe, and 

Btrings of their Piano-Forte^ emplojed in obtaining Domestic AcoompUahmeBis 
"—might not make them worse wives, or leas agreeable companions to their Hus- 
bands, lliis was the opinion 200 years ago. 

**To speak, then, of the Knowledge which belonni unto our British Houaewifs 
—- 1 hola the most principal to be a perfect skill in Cookbry : She that is utterly 
intovaBt therein, may not; by the Lawes of strict justice, challenge the fireedom 
Mlfarriage, becanse indeede She can perform but half her Yow—She may Ioto 
and obey, but she cannot cherish and keepe her Husband."—^. Maakham's 
EngOOi BoUHwih, 4to. 1637> P- 62. 

We hope our nir Headers will forgive us, for telling them that Economy in a 
Wife-^ the most certain Charm to ensure the Affection and Industry of a Hub- 
band. 

* Were these Books reduced to their QuinUssemx, many a bulkr author would 
auke his appearance in a JPrnny Paper.—See SpeekUoTt No. 124 Obs. on the 
AH of Bo^^naleiHg, 4-c. 

t '^Moxe for Show and Sport than for Bbllt Timbkr, and about which the 
Good Htmpife never troubles her head."— See Joan Cromwell's Kitchen 16mo. 
1664, p. 32. 

1 1 intend here to offer to all such as please to nemae it, " a plain Book, which 
is all and every part of it Book, and nothing but solid Book from beginninR to 
end."— Vide Preface to Dr. Fulubr's " Introductio ad Prudentianu*^ Loiiaqn 
limo^ 1781. 



GBAVIBS AND SAUCES. 107 

economical way, Uiose Ckmmot^ Sauces that daily cotUribtUe to tk$ 
comfort of the Middle rar^ of Society ; as in directing the prepaiation 
of those extiayagant and elahoiate double relishes, the most inge- 
nious and accomplished ^ Q^Sosrs of the Moieth^'* have invented for the 
amusement of profound PaJaticians, bnd thoroughbred Orandt Ofour- 
nuuids of the first magnitude : — ^these we have so reduced the trouble 
and expense of mailing, as to bring them within the reach of mo* 
derate fortunes ; still preserving all that is valuable of their taste and 
qualities ; so ordenng them, that tbe}^ may delight the Palate without 
disordering the Stomach, by leaving out those inflammatory ingre- 
dients which are only fit for an ** iron tibroat and adamantine bowels,** 
and those costly matecials which no rational being would destroy, for 
the wanton purpose of merely giving a fine name to the compositionB 

they enter into, to whose excellence they contribute nothing else ; 

for instance, conaumipg Two Partridges to make sauce fbr One;' — 
half a pint of Game Giavy (287), will be infinitely more acceptable 
to the unsophisticated appetite of Englishmen, for whose prc^r and 
rational recreation we sat down to compose these Receipta-^whose 
approbation we have done our most to deserve, by devoting much 
time to the business of the Eatchen ; and by repeating the various 
processes that we thought admitted of the smallest improvemegt. 

We shall be fully gratified, if our Book is not bought up with 
quite so much avidity by those high-bred Epicures, who are unhap- 
pily so much more nice than wise, that they cannot eat any thing 
dressed by an English Cook, — and vote it baifaarously unrefined and 
intolerably ungenteel, to endure the sight of the best bill of iaie that 
can be contrived, if written in the vulgar tongue of Old England.* 
Let your Sauces endx display a decided character ; send izp your 
PLAIN Sauces, ((^fter^Lobster, S[o.) as pure as possible ; — they should 
otdy taste of the materials from whuA they take their name. 

The imagination of most Cooks is so incessantly on the hunt for 
a Relish, that they seem to think they cannot make sauce sufficiently 
savoury without putting into it every thing that ever was eaten ; — 
and supposing every addition must be an improvement, they frequent- 
ly overpower the natural flavoiur of their plain Sauces, by overload- 
ing them with salt and spices, &c. \ — ^but, remember, these will be 
deteriorated by any addition, save only just salt enough to awaken 

* Tboii£^ some of these people seem ai Iftpb to have foimd out,— thai an Bngr 
Sshman'shead may be as mil of Gravy as a Frenchman's— and, willing to give 
the preference to native talent, retain an English roan or woman as pnme min- 
ister of their kitchen ; still the j seem ashamed to confess it, and commonly insist 
as a " Hne qud rum^" that their English domestics should understand the "var- 
k»wnt$,' and, notwithstanding they are perfectly initiated in all the minutueof 
tiie Philosophy of the mouth, consider uem ineligible, if they cannot scribble 
< M0 <)ffare >n prettp good bad JPtench. 



108 BUDlMBNTd OP COOKSBV. 

the Palate v— the Lover of Piquant'" and compound flavoura, may 
have recourse to ^ the Magasrine of Tcute^^ (390). 

On the contrary, of Compound Sauces, — ^the ingredients should 
be so nicely proportioned, that no one be predominant ; — so thai 
from the equal union of the combined flavours, such a fine mellow 
mixture is produced, whose very novelty cannot &il of being accept- 
able to the persevering Chwrmamdy if it has not pretensions to a 
permanent place at his table. 

An ingenious Cook will form aa endless a variety of these composi- 
tions as a Mttskicm, with his seven* notes, — or a Painter with his 
colours ; — no part of her business o£Pers so fiiir and frequent an op- 
portunity to display her abilities-JSpicES, Hbbbs, &c are often very 
absurdly and injudiciously jumbled together. 

Why have Clove and Allspice^— or Mace and Nutmeg in the 
same sauce, — or Marjoram, Thyme, and Savoury,~-^r Onions, Leeks, 
Eschalots, and Gfurlic ; — one will very well supply the place of the 
other, and the frugal Cook may save something considerable by at- 
tending to this, to the advantage of her employers, and her own 
time and trouble.^ You might as well, to make Soup, order one 
quart of water ftom the Thame$^ another from the New Rwer, a third 
frqgt Hempstead^ and a fourth from Chelsea^ with a certain portion 
ai Spring and Rain Water. 

In many of> our receipts we have fidlen in with the fashion of 
ordering a mixture of Spices, Ac, which the above hint will enable 
the culinaiy student to correct. 

*' Pharmacy is now much more simple, — Cookbhy may be made 
so too. A Prescription which is now compounded with five ingre- 
dients, had formerly fiffcy in it — ^people begin to understand that the 
Materia Medica is little more than a collection of Evacuants and 
Stimuli.**..JBofioe2r*« Li^e o/Johnvm. 

The Ragouts of the Uut Century had infinitely more ingredients 
than we use now — the praise given to WiU, Rabuha for his Cookery 
12mo. 1673, is 

" To frt and frtcawee, hit way's most neat, 
For ne compounds a thousand sorts of meat." 

To become a perfect Mistress of the art of cleverly extracting and 
combining Flavoun,'f besides the gift of a good taste, requires all 
the experience and skill of the most accomplished Professor, and es- 
pecially — an intimate acquaintance with the Palate she is working for. 



* The principal Agents now employed to flaTOur Soups and Sauces, are Mcsh- 
Rooas (^6), Onions (384), Anchovy (371), Lbmon-Juicb and Pau., or Vma- 
OAR, WINK, (especially good Clarbt), Swkst Hkbbs, and Savoury Sncas.— 
OS4. 8S, 66, and 384, 67. 88). 

t If your palate becomes dull by repeatedly tastings the best way to refresb it 
is to wash your mouth well with milk. 



OBAVIBS AND SAUCES. 109 

Send your Sauaet to table as Hot at possible. 

Nothing can be more unsightly than the Surface of a Sauce in a 
frozen state, or garnished with grease on the top ; — ^the best way to 
get rid of this, is to pass it through a Tamis or Napkin previously 
soaked in cold water; the coldness of the napkin will coagulate 
the Fat, and only suffer the pure gravy to pass through ; if any 
particles of Fat remaiTi^ take them off ly applying filtering paper, as 
blottii\g paper is applied to Writing. 

Let your Sauces boil up after you put in Wine, Anchovy, or Thick- 
ening, that their flavours may be well blended with the other ingre- 
dients ;• and keep in mind that the ** chef cfceuvre''^ of CooKERY-~is 
to entertain the Mouth, without offending the Stomach. 

N. B. Although I have endeavoured to give the particular quan- 
tity of each ingredient used in the following Sauces, as they are 
generally made, — still the Cook^s judgment must direct her to 
lessen or increase either of the ingredients, according to the taste of 
those she works for, and will always be on the alert to ascertain what 
are the favourite Aocompamments desired with each dish. See Ad- 
vice to Cooks. 

When you open a bottle of Catchup (375), Essence of Anchovy 
(371), &c., throw away the old cork, and stop it closely with a new 
cork that will fit it very tight. Use only the best superfine Velvet 
taper corks. 

Economy in Corks is extremely unwise, — in order to save a mere 
trifle in the price of the cork, you run the risk of losing the valuable 
article it is intended to preserve. 

It is a Vtdgar Error that a bottle must be well stopped when the 
cork is forced down even with the mouth of it ; it is rather a sign 
that the Cork is too smtill, and it should be re-drawn and a larger 
one put in. 

TO MAKE BOTTLE-CKMBNT. 

Half a pound of black resin, same quantity of red sealing-wax* 
quarter oz. bee's wax, melted in an earthen or iron pot ; when it 
froths up, before all is melted and likely to boil over, stir it with a 
tallow candle, which will settle the froth till all is melted and fit 
for use. Red wax, lOd. per lb. may be bought at Mr. Dew's, Black- 
more Street, Clare Market. 

* Before you put Eggs or Cream into a Sauce, have all your other ingredients 
well boiled, ana the nance or soup of proper thickness,— because neither eggs 
nor cream will contribute to thicken it.— After jou have put them in, do not set 
the stew-pan on the stove again,— but hold It over the tire, and shake it round 
one way till the eauoe is ready. 



1 1 RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY. 

N.B. This cement is of very great use in preserving things that 
you wish to keep a long time, which without its help would soon 
spoil, from the clumsy and ineffectual maimer the bottles ore corked. 



CHAPTER IX. 

MADE DISHES. 

Unosr this general head we range our Receipts for Hashes, 

STBW.s,r-and Ragouts,* &c. ; of these there are a great multitude, 
affording the Ingenious Cook an inexhaustible store of variety ; — ^in 
the French kitchen they count upwards of 600, and are daily in- 
venting new ones. 

We have very few general observations to make, after what we 
have already said in the two preceding Chapters on Sauoes^—Soups^ 
^., which apply to the present chapter, as they form the principal 
part of the accompaniment of most of these dishes. In £ict. Made 
Dishes are nothittg more than Meat— Poultry (449), or Fish (142, 
155, or 162), etewed v^ry gently till they are tender, with a thick- 
ened Sauce poured over them. 

Be eare/ul to trim offoU, the Shn, Gristle, ^c. tJuU unll not he eaten ; 
and fbape handsomely^ and of even thickness, the various articles whk^ 
compose your Made Dishes, — ^this is sadly neglected by common 
Cooks '.'~^nly stew iJiem tiU ihey are just tender, and do not stew them 
to rags.— Therefore, what you prepare the Day be/ore it is to be eaten, 
do not dress quite enough the first day. 

We have given Receipts for the most easy and simple way to 
make Hashes, &c. Those who are well skilled in Culinary arts 
can dress up things in this way, so as to be as agreeable as they were 
the first time they were cooked *, — ^but Hashing is a very bad mode 
fi/ Cookery : if Meat has been done enough the first time it is dressed, 
a second dressing will div^t it of all its nutritive juices ; and if it 
can be smuggled into the stomach by bribing the Palate with pi- 
guante Sauce, it is at the hazard of an Indigestion, &c. 

1 promise those who do me the honour to put my Receipts into 
practice, that they will find that the most nutritious and truly ele- 
gant dishes are neither the most difficult to dress, the most expen- 
sive, nor the most indigestible *, — ^in these compositions Experience 

* Sauce for RagoQta, Sec, should be thickened till it is of the consistence of 

E>d rich Cream, that it may adhere tu whatever it is poured over. When ;ou 
ve a laj^e dinner to dress, keep ready mixed some fine-sifled Flour and water 
well rubbed together till quite smooth, and about aa thick aa butter. See (200). 



KiiDB mSHBS. Ill 

win go far to diminish Expense ; — Meai that is too old or too touffk 
for Roasting^ ^. may btf gentle Stewing be rendered savoury and tender. 
— If some of our Receipts do di£Per a little from those in former 
Cookery Books, let it be remembered we have advanced nothing in 
this work that has not been tried, and experience has proved correct 
N. B. See (391 ), an Ingenious and Economical System of French 
CooKXRY, written at the request of the Editor by an accomplished 
English Lady, which will teach jou how to supply your table with 
elegant little Madb Dishes, &c. at as little expense as Plain Cookbrv. 



THE 

COOK'S ORACLE. 



N.B. Read the Mabkitino Tables at page 71 of this Volume, 



BOILING. 

[B«ad the First Chapter of the Rndiments of Cookery . 1 

LEG OF MUTTON. 

1. Cut off the Shank Bone, and trim the Knuckle^-i^put it into 
lake-warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, cover it with cold 
water and let it simmer very gently^ and skim it carefully. A leg 
of nine pdunds will take two and a half or three hours, if you like it 
th<xoughly done, especially in very Cold weather. 

For the Accompaniments see the following Receipt. 

N.B. The Tit-bits with an Epicure are the «« Knuckle,'' the ker- 
nel, called the " Pope's-eye,'' and the ** Gendeman'Sy or **• Cramp 
Bone^ or, as it is called in Kent, tiie ^ Caw Caw," — ^four of these 
and a Bounder fiimish the little Masters and Mistresses of Kent with 
their most favourite set of playthings. 

A leg of Mutton stewed very shwly^ as we have directed the Beef 
to be (411), will be as agreeable to an English Appetite as the fa- 
mous " Oiga^ de sept heures'' of the French Kitchen is to a Pari- 
sian palate. 

When Mutton is very Large you may dmde it, and roast the 

* The Oigot in the leg with part of the loin. 



112 THE cook's oracle. 

Filht, i. e. the huge end, and ftotZ the KmuMe end^ — you may alsd 
cut some fine Cutlets off the thick end of the Leg, — and so have Two 
or Three pood Hot Dinners. See Mrs. Makeitdo's receipt how to 
make a Leg of Mutton last a week, in " The Housekeeper's Ledger^'''* 
printed for Whittaker, Ave-Maria Lane. 

The Liquor the Mutton is boiled in, you may convert into Good 
SoCp t« Five Minutes, (see N.B. to 203), and Scotch Barley Broth, 
(1 93) ^Thus managed, a Leg of Mutton is a most Economical Joint. 

NECK OF MUTTON. 

2. Put four or five pounds of the best end of a Neck (that has been 
kept a few days) into as much oold soft water as will cover it, and 
about two inches over, let iisimmer very slowly for two hours ; it will 
look most delicate if you do not take off the Skin till it has been 
boiled. 

For Sauce, that elegant and innocent relish, Parsley and Butter 
(234), or Eschalot (260, 61, 62), or Caper Sauce (244), Mock Caper 
Sauce (245), and Onion sauce (265), Turnips (129), or Spinage (118) 
are the usual Accompaniments to Boiled Mutton. 

LAMB. 

3. A Leg of five pounds should simmer very^genUy for about Two 
Hours, from the time it is put on, in cold water — After the general 
rules for Boiling, in the first Chapter of thp |Iudimbnts of Cook- 
ery, we have nothing to add, only to send up with it Spinage (118), 
Brocoli<125), Cauliflower (124), &c., and for Sauce (234.) 

VEAL. 

4. Tliis is expected to come to table looking delicately clean ; 
and it is so easily discoloured, that you must be careful to have 
clean water, a cleain vessel, and constantly catch the scum as soon 
and as long as it rises, and attend to the directions before given in 
the first Chapter of the Rudiments op Cookbry. Send up Bacon 
(14), Fried Saussges (86), or Pickled Pork, Greens (114, and fol- 
lowing Nob.), and Parsley and Butter (234), Onion Sauce (265). 

N.B. For RscsiPTS to cook Vkal, see from (429 to 439). 

BEEP BOUILLI, 

5. In plain English is understood to mean Boiled Beef; but 
its culinary acceptation, in the French Kitchen, is fresh beef dreaaed 
without boiling, and only Tery gently sinmiered by a slow fire. 

English Cooks have seldom any notion that good Soup can 6e 



BOILING. 113 

mad§ teW^auidmiro^vtg mgnai deal of Meat ;* howayw^by a Jndidoiis 
regulation of th6 Fire, and a vigilant attendanoe on the Soup-kettSe, 
this may be aecomj^ished — ^yon shall haTe a tunen of such Skmp 
as will sati^ the most fastidiow Palate, and the Meat make its 
appeannce {t table, at the same time, in possession of a fbll per- 
ti<m ef nairitions suecnlence. 

This le^aiKs nothingmora than in Stew Qe meat very dowly fm- 
eteadofkeeph^thepetboiUitgaffaBop^aaeommoM Oooh too oemmonly 
do) — ami to take Uup €u booh as itie dome emaitgk, ** fiee Samp aaii 
BomOr (215), **8bi»o/ Beef ateniod'* (ill), ^^ Seoteh Batiep Bfoth^ 
(193). 

Meat eooked in this manner affoids mnch more nourishment than 
it does dvessed in the eommon nay, is easy of digestion in pn^rtion 
as it is tender, and an inyigoiating, substantial diet, especially valu- 
able to the Pomp, whose k^rimts employments nqoim suppoit. 

If they could get good eating put vitiiin their seaeh, they would 
often go to the Batcher's dkop^ when they now run to the Publie- 
house. 

Among th% taikty of Sciemee ikat haee heen tuggeetedfor Bsiraa- 
nw THB coKDfnpv OP ovR English Poob, a more useful or exten- 
sive Cheiity eaaaot be devised, than that of instructing them in 
JSeonomioal and ComfortaXiie CboX»r)r4-->except providing them with 

SPSCTACLXS.-t' 

^ Thx Poor in Scoi%and, and on the Continent, manage much 
better. Oatmeal Porridge (197 and 669) and Milk, constitute the 
Break&st and Supper of those patterns of Industry, Frugality, and 
Tempoance, the ScottisH Peasantry. 

* *' Ce n'ert pas la quantity de Tiande qui fait aonle lb bon bouillon, mais la 
nmaUee doot le poi-au-^eu est ccmduit. Qn'est-ce que le bouillon ? Une d^ 
<9uction de yiande, contenant de reztractif anima, qui la colore, (cet eztractif, 
nomm^ par le calibre Thteard oniMbeome, contient anasi toate la partie laroH- 
MBM de la viande,) da ael, maia anrtout de la gelatine. Pour que la viande 
<^e k I'eau pes principes, il faut que celle-ci la pte^re avec une temperature 
gmd«6e, dilate lee fibres muacnlfares, et dissolve la galantine qui y est inter- 
poefe : mais dans ces mdmes muscles il r a aussi de Vc^bumine (mati^re ana- 
tagoae an blanc d'oeuf, et qui forme 1 teume du pot): *Qette albumine Mr 
eoagple, et ee dnrnt k la temp^nUnre de quatre-vingt d^f^. Si done rons 
nonaaez rapidement voire pot-au-feu an point de la taire bouillir avant que la 
vtuide mrK dilute et pte^rte par I'ean, qn'arriTe-t-il ? L'albumine se coasmle 
due a Tiaadie m£me» et cmptene H gelatine d'en sortir ;— vous avcx un BouuZon 
^wle,.et nn BovilU dur; mais, an contraire, si vous area nidnag^ le feu de 
manidre que la viande ait en le temps d'etre pdn^trte YaWumine s'^I^ve en 
toune, lAff4UUiine se dissout, le Bouillon est savourenx, nonrrissant, et le BouilU 
tendre. Voliil toute la tbdorie dn pot«n*fea.''e%mr« Ooitrotwmiquet 1909, p. 991. 

t " The best Olasset, set in single-jointed steel frames, mar be purchased 
wholesale, at the rate of eighteen shillings per dozen pairs ; thus, for the small sun 
ot e^teen pence, the Benevolent may enjoy the gratifving reflection of giving 
an indnatxious workman the power of long continuing his labour with nndimt 
Dished ability, and of earning a subsistence till extreme old age. /a nosMy 
can so much goodbe done with io little mcpey." . 

" Qui Visum Vitam dat." 

See the Economy of tbb tEvss, by the Author of this woik, 12mo. 182tS^p. 11, 
printed for Geo. B. Whittaker, Ave-MaxiaLane. 

H 



114 THE OOOK'8 oracle. 

« When they can afford Meat, they fonn with it a laige quantity 
of Bari^ Broth (193), with a variety of Vegetables, by boiHng the 
whole a long time, enough to serve the family for several days. 

^ When they cannot afford Meat, they make Broth of Barley 
and other Vegetables, with a lump of Butter (see 211), all of which 
they boil for many hours, and this with Oat Cakes forms their 
dinner.** — ^The Hon..JoHN Cochranb^s &aiMan*« (rutcfe, p. 34. 

The Cheapest method of making a Nourishino Soup is least known 
to those who have most need of it (See 211). 

Our neighbours the French are so justly fiunous for their skill in 
the affairs of the Kitchen, that the adage says, ** as many French- 
men as many Cooks :** surrounded as they are by a profusion of the 
most delicious Wines and most seducing Liqueurt, offering every 
temptation and fiudlity to render drunkenness delightful, yot a 
tippling Frenchman is a ** Rara AvU ;** — ^they know how so easily 
and completely to keep life in repair by good Eating, that they re- 
quire little or no adjustment finm Drinking. 

This accounts fbr that ** toujoun gai^ and happy equilibrium of 

spirits, which they enjoy with more regularity than any people : 

Their Stomach being unimpaired by spirituous liquors, embrace and 
digest vigorously the ibod they sagadously prepare for it, and ren- 
der easily assimilable by cooking it sufficiently — ^wisely contriving 
to get the difficult part of the work of the Stomach done by Fire 

and Water. 

TO SALT MEAT. 

6. In the Summ^er season, especially. Meat is frequently spoiled 
by the Cook foigetting to take out the Kernels ; one in the udder 
of a round of Beef, in the fat in the middle of the Bound, those 
about the thick end of the Flank, &c. : if these are not taken out, 
all the Salt in the world will not keep the Meat 

The Art op Salting Meat is to rub in the Salt thoroughly and 
evenly into every part, and to fill all the holes full of Salt where the 
kernels were taken out, and where the Butcher*s skewers were. 

A Round of Bbxp of 25 pounds will take a pound and a half of 
Salt to be rubbed in aU at first, and requires to be turned and 
rubbed eveiy day with the Brine ; it will be ready for dressing in 
four or five days,* if you do not wish it veiy salt. 

In Summer^ the sooner Meat is salted after it is killed the better, 
and care must be taken to defend it from the flies. 

In Winter, it will eat the shorter and tenderer, if kept a fow 
days (according to the temperature of the weather) until its fibre 

* If fwl to lie <Mi UU Cold, two days' longer salting wOl not only improvo its 
flaTOw, but the Meal will keep better. 



BOILING. 

lias become short and tender, as these changes do not take 
after it has been acted upon by the salt. 

In Frotte ITeaifttfr, take care the Meat is not froien, and wS 
the Salt iA Fiying-pan. The extremes of Heat* and Cold are 
eqnaUy un&yoniablo for the process of Salting — in the former the 
meat changes before the Salt can affect it, — ^in the latter it is so 
hardened, and its juices are so congealed, that the salt cannot pene- 
trate it. 

If you wvik & Rbd, rub it first with Salt-petre, in the proportion of 
half an ounce, and the like quantity of moist sugar, to a pound of 
common Salt (See Savoury Salt Bbsp, (414). 

You may impregnate meat with a very agreeable Vegetable 
Flavour, by pounding some Steeef Herbs^ (387) and an Onion with 
the Salt ; you make it still more relishing by adding a little Zkst 
(229) or Sawmry Spice (384). 

TO PIOKZaE HEAT. 

7. *^ Six pounds of Salt, one pound of Sugar, and four ounces of 
Salt-petre, boiled with four gallons of water, skimmed, and allowed 
to cool, fonns a very strong pickle, which will preserve any Meat 
completely immersed in it. To effect this, which is essential, either 
a heavy board or a fiat stone must be laid upon the meat. The same 
pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be.boUed up occasion- 
ally with additional Salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the Salt with the meat, and by the dilution 
of the pickle by the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, the 
AUbumen^ which would cause the pickle to spoil, is coagulated, and 
rises in the form of scum, which must be carefully removed.'" — See 
SuppUmetd to Entydop, BrOan. voL iv. p. 340. 
' Meat kept immeraed tn pitMe gains weight. In one experiment 
by Messrs. Donkin and Gamble, there was a gain of three per cent 
and in another of two and a half; but in the common way of salt- 
ing, when the meat is not immersed in pickle, there is a loss of about 
one pound, or one and a half, in sixteen. See Dr. Wilkinson *8 Ac- 
count of the preserving power of Ptro-ligenous Acid, &c. in the 
Philosophical Maganne for 1821, No. 273, p. 12. 

An H-bone of 10 or 12 pounds weight will require about three 
quarters of a pound of Salt and an ounce of moist Sugar to be well 
rubbed into it ; — it will be ready in four or five days, if turned and 
' nibbed every day. 

* In the West Indiet they can scarcely core Beef, with pickle, but easily pre- 
aerre it by cutting it into thin dices and dipping them in Sea Water, and then 
drying them qoicUy in the Snn ; to which they gire the name of Jerked Be^— 
BnowNAio on Salt, 9vo. p. 7®* 




/ 



1 16 THE cook's OBACLE. 

the Ti9M Mmt req»re» Satimg depends upon tiie Wcjg^t of it, 
and how much salt is used ; and if it be nibbed in with a heavy 
hand, it wili be ready much sooner than if only lightly rubbed. 

N.B. Dry the Salt, and rub it with the Sugar in a nortar. 

PoBK requires a longer time to cure (in prc^rtion to its wejght) 
than Beef: a Leg of Pork should be in Salt eight or ten days : turn 
it^and lub it eveiy day. 

• SaU Meat should be voeU teamed be/ore it u Boiled, especially if it 
has been in Salt long, that run Liquor in which the meat is boiled 
may not be too Salt to make Soup o£ (203, &c. and 530). 

If it has been in salt a long time, and you fear that it will be too 
Salt, wash it well in cold water, and soak it in luke-wann water for 
a couple of hours : — if it is vety Salt^ lay it in water the njght before 
you intend to dress it. 

A ROUND OF SALTED BBEF. 

8. As this is too large for a moderate family, we shall write di- 
rections for the dressiug half a round : get the Tongue side. 

Skewer it up tig^t and round, and tie a fillet of broad tape round 
it, to keep the skewers in their places. 

Put it into plenty of oold water, and careftdly catch the scum as 
soon as it rises v — let it boil till all the seum is removed, and then 
put the boiler on one side of the fire, to keep Hmmtring slowly till 
it is done. 

Half a tound of 15 lbs. will take about- three houi»— if it weighs 
more, give it more time. 

When you take it up, if any stmy scum, &c sticks to it, that 
has escaped the vigilance of your skimmer, wash it off with a Paste- 
Brush — garnish the dishes with Carrots and Turnips :— send up 
Carrots (128), Turnips (120), and parsneps, or Greens (114), &e. 
on separate dishes. Pease Pudding (530), and My Pudding (516)^ 
are all very proper Accompaniments. 

N.B. The Outside Slieet^ which are generally too much salted and 
too much boiled, will make a very good relish as Potted Beef,, (418). 
For using up the remains of a Joint of Boiled Bee^ see also' Bubble 
and Squeak (424). 

R-BONB OF BBBFy 

9. Is to be managed in exactly the same maimer as the Bound, 
but will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid : on H-bone of 201ba. 
will be done enough in about four hours, — of lOlbs. in three hours, 
more or less, as the weather is hotter or colder. Be sure the boiler 
is big enough to allow it plenty of water-room ; let it be well covered 
with water, set the pot on one tide of the fire to boil gently *, if it 



BOILINO. / 117 

boils quick at fint, no art can nuJce it tender after ; tU tUmm it 
ftoiZs, th& beUer it teitt lookj and ifte tenderer it toiU be. The aune ao* 
companying vegetaUea as in the preceding Receipt. Dress plenty 
of Carrots, as cold Caziots are a general favourite with cold Bee£ 

Mem. — Epicures say that the eo/t Fat-like Mairow, which lies on 
tiie back, is deUdous when Hot, and the hard Fat about the upper 
comer is best when Cold. 

To make naFBCTLY good Psasb Soup in Ten MiiuUesj of the 
liqaar in which the Beef has been boQed, see N.B, to (218). 

Of>9. — ^In ^ Mis. Mason'b Ladies* Assistant** thii joint is called 
ffauaehrbone ; in ^ HenderBon*s Cookeiy,** Ed^e-bone ; in " Domes- 
tic Management,** Aitch-bone ; in** Reynolds* Cookery,'* Isd^e^bone ; 
in «* Mn: Lydia Fisher^ Prudent Housewife,** Achrbone ; in *< Mn. 
M'lrei^s Oookefy,'* Mook-bone. We have also seen it spelt JBme^- 
boDeand JUdj^bone \ and we have also heard it called Natch-bonx. 

K.B. Bead tiM note under (8), and to make perfectly good Pba6b 
Soup of tiie Potf-LiQuen, in ten nmuiee, see Obs. to (203, 211, and 
530). 

miMB OF BBJBF SAXiTBD AND ROLIiED. 

1 0. Briskets, and the various other pieces, are dressed in the some 
way. ** WaV'Wkm'^ sauoe (28) is an agreeable Companion. 

HALF A CALF'S RSAD. 

11. Cut it in two, and take out the Brains ; — ^wash the head well 
in several WBien^ and soak it in warm water for a quarter of an hour 
before you dreoi it Put the Head into a Sauce-pan with plchty of 
cold-water; i^ben it is coming to a boil, and the scum rises, care- 
fully remove it 

Half a Calf s Head (vjithotff the dan J will take from an hour and 
A half to two hmin and a quarter, according to its size ; tcUh the SMn 
on, about sua hcmr longer »-^t must be steioed very gently till it is 
tender; ft is then extremely nutritive, and easy of digestiori. 

Pkit eight or ten Sage leaves (some Cooks use Paisley instead, or 
equal parts «f each), into a small sauce-pan^ — boil them tender 
(about half an hour^ then chop them very fine, and set them ready 
on a plate. 

Wash the BkJlJni well in two waters *, put them into a large Ba- 
sin of cold water, with a little salt in it, and let them soak for an 
faour,.^then pour away the cold, and cover them with hot water ; 
snd when yon hare cleaned and skinned them, put them into a 
8tew-pan with plenty of cold water, — when it boils, take the scum 
off very carefully, and boil gently for 10 or 15 minutes, — ^now chop 
them (not very fine) *, put them into a sauce-pan with the Sage 



118 THE cook's ORACLE. 

leaves and a couple of table-spoonsfiil of thin melted butter and s 
little aalt (to this some Cooks add a little Lemon-juice), and stir them 
well together ; and as soon as they are well warmed) take care they 
don't bum) slwi the Tongue'^inai off the roots, and put it in the 
middle of a dish, and the Brains round it. Or chop the Brains widr 
an Eschalot, a little Parsley, and four hard-boiled Eggs, and put 
them into a quarter of a pint of Bechamel, or White Sauce (308). 
A Calf's Cheek is usually attended by a Pig's Cheek, a knuckle of 
Ham or Bacon (14, or 443), or Pickled Pork (12), and G^ens, 
Brocoli, Cauliflowers, or Pease, and always by Parsley and Butter, 

(see 234, 275, or 293). 

If you like it pull drbssrd, score it superficiaUyr— beat up tae 
yolk of an Egg, and rub it over the head with a feather ; powder it 
with a seasoning of finely minced (or dried and powdered) Winter 
Savoury or Lemon-thyme (or Sage), Parsley, Pepper, and Salt, aad 
bread crumbs, and give it a brown with a salamander, or m a Tm 
Dutch oven ; when it begins to dry, sprinkle a little melted butter 

'-'^^ZT with Broiled Racers of J^ (443 

""'o^^Lcalfs Head is one of the most delicate and feyounte diahet 
in the list of boiled meate i-but nothing is more insipid when «dd ; 
^fnot makessoniceaHo^A; therefore don't forget to «Te a 
*L of the Liquor it was boUed in to make Sauce^ &cJor^e 
w A«H rsee also 438). Cut the head and tongue mto shces ; tnm 

Bacon that wa. dressed to eat with the head, and inum them m 

"^T^Ae bones and the trimming, of the He^ . bundle rf 
Sweet HerhL an Onion, aroU of Lemon-Peel, andabladeofbrowd 
mI : putlnse into a saucepan with the qnart of Uqnor you ha^ 
„ved, La let it boU gently for an hour ; pour it throu^ a oer. 
"to » basin-wash out your stew-pan-^d a table^poonfiil of flour 
to the Biainm and Parsley and Butter you tore left, and pour itto 
fteWm ha^e °««5« ^"^ *" '~"" "^ ^xtirn^ ; let it boil 
i fr^Lnutes, and then strain it through a h«.^«;^ 
it with a taMe-spoonfid of White Whie, or of Catehup (87S), <» 
&r*Supl'lative (370) ; gire it a boU up, drim it, and then p»* 
tZ B^ and tt.e sUces of Head and B^ ; » «» a. tij^ 

^thoroughly warm ra "««« «»« ^) «•« ^ VXflJZl 
S^okSbLd-crumb, and fiy the finert piece, rfih. head, «.d 

lav them round the hadi. , 

» This, SaUtd, makw a very pretty Supper-diA. 



*^ 



V BOILINO. > 119 

% 

N.B. Yoa may ganiflh the edges of the didh with dioes of Ba- 
con toasted in a Dutch oven (see 443 or 444), slices of I<einon and 
fned Biead« 

To make Gkavt for Hashes, &c. see (305). 

PICKLED PORK 

12. Takes more time than any other meat. Ifyoi^ bt^ymr Pork 
ready saUed^ ask how many days it has been in scdt ; if many, it will 
require to be soaked in water for six hours before you dress it. When 
you cook it, wash and sciape it as clean as possible ; when delicately 
dressed, it is a i^vourite d^ with almost every body. Take cane ii 
does not Boil fast; if it does, the Knuckle will break to pieces be- 
fore the thick part of the meat is wann through ; a LEG of seven 
pounds takes three hours and a half iwfy dow ummering. Skim your 
pot veiy carefully, and when you take the meat out of the Boiler, 
scrape it clean. 

Some sagacious Cooks (who remember to how many more nature 
has given Eyes than she has given Tongues and Brains), when Pork 
is boiled, score it in Diamonds, and take out every other square—, 
and thus present a retainer to the eye to plead for them to the pa- 
late,— but this is pleasing the Eye at the expense of the Palate. A 
Leg of nice Pork, nicely salted, and nicely boiled, is as nice a cold 
relish as cold Ham — especially if, instead of cutting into the middle 
when hot, and so letting out its juices, you cut it at the Knuckle : 
— alioes broiled, as (402), are a good luncheon, or Supper.»To make 
Pbasx PuDDiNa, and Psasb Soup xxtbmporb, see N.B. to (203 
and 530). 

HBM.-J3ome Persons who sell Pork ready Salted have a silly trick 
of cutting the Knuckle in two— wd suppose that this is done to save 
their salt ; but it lets all the Gravy out of tbe Leg ; and unless you 
boil your Pork merely for the sake of the Pot-liquor, which in this 
case receives all the goodness and strength of the meat^— &iendly 
fieader, your Orade cautions you to Buy no Leg of Pork which is 
tUtatihe Knuckle. 

. If Pork is not done enough, nothing is more disagreeable v-^ too 
much, it not only loses its colour and flavour, but its substance be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

It must never appear at table without a good Pease Pudding (see 
^30), and, if you please, Parenepa (127) ; they are an excellent Ve- 
getable, and deserve to be much more popular ; or Carrots (128), 
Turnips and Greens, or Mashed Potato^ &c. (102). 

Obs^-^Remembei not to forget the MusrARD-Pot (310, 311, and 
^9). 



120 THE COOK'8 oracle. 

PBTITJTOSlt, OR SUCKING PIG'S FBfeT. 

13. Piit a thin slice of baeon at the bottom (^ a Btew-|Ma with 
some broth, a blade of mace, a few pepper-cornfl, and a bit of thyme: 
— ^boil the feet till they are quite tender ; this will take Ml twenty 
minutes : — ^but the heart, liver and lights, will be done enough in 
ten, when they are to be taken out, and rainced fine. 

Put them all together into a Stew-pan with some GraTy ; thicken 
it with a Httle butter rolled in flour ; season it with a Utile pepper 
and salt, and set it orer a gentle fire to simmer for five ininutoi^ 
frequently shaking them about. 

While this ia doing, have a thin slice of Bread toasted rery lightly; 
divide it into Sippets, and lay them round the dish : pour the minoe 
and sauce into the middle of it, and split the feet, and lay fhettk 
round it. 

N.B. Petitoes are sometimes boiled and dipped in batter, and 
fried a light brown. 

Obs. — If you have no Gravy, put into the water yon stew the pe- 
titoes in an Onion, a sprig of Lemon Thyme, or sweet Maiionmv 
with a blade of braised Mace, a few black Peppers, and a laige tea- 
spoonful of Mushroom catchup (875), and you win have a very to* 
lerable substitute fbr Gravy. A bit of (227) wiU be a ^eiy gnat 

improvement to it. 

BACON. 

14. Cover a pound of nice streaked Baoon (as the Hampshiie 
housewives say..that *^ has been starved one day, and fed anedM**) 
with cold water, let it boil gently fbr three quarters of an hotar ; take 
it up, scrape the under side well, and cut oif the rind ; grate a CraiH 
of bread not only on the top, but all over it, as directed to/t the 
Ham in the following teeeipt, and put it befbie the five for a few 
minutes : it must not be thero too long, of it will dry it and spoil it 

Two pounds will require about an hour and a half, ace<ttd^ te 
its tlnckness, — ^the hock or gammon being veiy thick, will take ibeie. 

Ofo. See (443 and 444) ; when only a IMe Baeon u wmied, these 
are the best ways of dressing it. 

The boiling of Baoon is a very shnple subject to comment upon, 
^but our main object is to teach cobcmon Cooks the art of diesiing 

common food in the best manner. 

Baoon is sometimes as salt as salt can make it, therefore before 
it is boiled it must be soaked in warm water for an hour or two» 
changing the water once ; then paro off the rosty and smoked part, 
trim it nicely on the under side, and scrape the lind as dean as 
possible. 

MtM.— Bacon is an extravaganit artide m Hotmhoopmg^ there is 



BOIUNO. 121 

often twice as much dreised as need be^— .vhen it is ient to table as 
an accompaniment to boiled Poultry or Veal, a pound and » half 
is plenty for a dozen people. A good Otrman Samage is a very eeo- 
nmnical sabrtihite for Baooi^-or fried Porit Sammgm^ (66). 



] 5. Though of the Bacon kind, has been so altefed and hardened 
in the cusing, that it requites still more care. 

Ham 18 generally not half-soaked,— as salt as firinoi and hard as 
Flint ; and it would puszle the Stomadi of an Ostridi to digest it 

TtfitM TTm^ Salt, Seasoning, and Smoke, which pfeserve it be- 
fore it is eaten, pre?ent its solution after ; and unless it be very 
long and very gently stewed, the strongest stomach will have a 
tough Job to extract any nourishment from it If it is a very dry Wett- 
pkaUa Ham^ it must be soaked, according to its age and thickness, 
frran 12 to 24 hoars ; — for a (rreeti YurkHan or Westmorehnd Hatn^ 
from four to eight hours will be sufficient Luko-wann water wiil 
soften it much sooner than coldp-^wiien sufBdently soaked, trim it 
nicely on the underaide— and pare off all the rusty and smoked 

parts till it looks delicately clean. 

26. oz, 

A Ham weighed before it was soaked - - - • 13 

After 12 4 

BoQed 13 4 

Trimmed Ibr table 10 12 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put it in while the water is cold, 
— let it heat very gradually, and let it be on the fire an hour and a 
half before it comes to a boil — ^let it be well skimmed, and keep it 
simmering very gently : a middling-sized ham of fifteen pounds will 
be done enough in about four or five houn, accordii^ to its thidcness. 

I/not tobeeut tiU Cold, it will cut the shorter and tenderer for 
bemg boiled about half an hour longer. In a very small Family, where 
a Ham will last a week or ten days, it is best £oonomy not to cut 
it till it is cold— it will be infinitely more juicy. 

Pull off the Skin carefully, and preserve it as wh^e as possible ; 
it will form an excellent covering to keep the Ham moist ; — ^when 
you have removed the skin, rub some Bread Raspings through a 
Hadr-sieve, or grate a crust of Biead ; put it into the perforated 
cover of the Dredging-box, and shake it over it, or glaze it : trim 
the Knuckle with a iHnge of cut writing-paper. You may garnish 
with Spinage or Turnips, &c. 

Obi^^To Pot H^m (428), is a much more useful and economi- 
cal way of disposing of the remains of the joint, than making £$- 



122 THB cook's oracle. 

seno9 of it (300). To make Soup of the Idquor it is boiled in^ see 

N.B. to (680). 

TONOUB. 

1 6. A Tongue is so hard, whether prepared by drying or pickling, 
that it requires much more cooking than a Ham ; — ^nothing of its 
weight takes so long to dress it properly. 

A tongue that has been salted and dried should be put to soak {if 
U is Old and very hard, 24 hours before it is wanted) in plenty of 
water \~-a Green one fresh from the pickle requires soaking only a 
few hours : — ^put your Tongue into plenty of Cold water ; let it be 
an hour gradually warming ; and give it from three and a half to 
four hours very slow simmering, according to the size, &c. 

Ohs. — ^When you choose a Tongue, endeavour to learn how long 
it has been dried or pickled, — ^pick out the plumpest, and that which 
has the smoothest ekin, which denotes its being yeung and tender. 

The Boors, &c. make an excellent relish potted, like (428)-~or 
Pease Soup (203). 

N.B ^Our correspondent, who wished us, in this Edition, to give 

a receipt to Boast a Tonoux, will find an answer in (81). 

TURKEYS, CAPONS, TOWJmS, CHICKENS, &c. 

17. Are all Boiled exactly in the same manner, only allowing 
time, according to their size. For the Stuffing, &c. (317, 318, and 
319), some of it made into Balls, and boUed or fried, make a nioe 
garnish, and are handy to help— and you <»a then reserve some of 
the inside stuffing to eat with the Cold fowl, or enrich the Hash 
(449 and 454). 

A Chicken wiQ take about 20 minutes. 

A Fowl - - 40 

A fine Five-toed Fowl or a Capon, about an hour. 

A small Turkey, an hour and a half. 

A large one, two hours or more. 

Chickens or Fowls should be killed at least one or two days bfr* 
fore they are to be dressed. 

Turkeys (especially laige ones) should not be dressed till they 
have been killed three or four days at least — tn Chid Weather six or 
eight,— or they will neither look White nor eat tender.* 

Turkeys, and large Fowls, should have the strings or sinews of 
the thighs drawn out 

Truss thbm vtith the l^s otdward, they are much easier carved, 

* Baker in bi9 Chronicle tells us the Turkey did not reach England till A.D. 
1594, about the Ifith of Henry the 8th : he says, 

" IStrkki, carps, hoppes, piccarell, and beere, 
Came into England all In one year." 



B0IUN9. 123 

Fowls for Boiiwff should be choien as white u poiriUe : those 
winch have black legs should be roasted. The best use of ths 
LivKR is to make Sauce. (251, 252). 

Poultry must be well washed in wann water— ^ very dirty hem 
the singeing, &c. rub them with a little white Soap, — ^but thoroughly 
linse it off— before you put them into the pot. 

Make a good and clear fire : set on a dean pot, with pure and 
clean water, enough to well cover the Turkey, &c. \ the slower it 
boils, the whiter and plumper it will be. — When there rises any 
scum, remove it ; the common method of some (who are more nice 
than wise) is to wrap them up in a cloth, to prevent the scum at- 
taching to them ; which, if it does, by your neglecting to skim the 
pot, there is no getting it off afterwards, and the Poulterer is blamed 
for the &ult of the Cook. 

If there be water enough, and it is atteniively A-immed, the Fowl 
will both look and eat much better this way than when it has been 
covered up in the cleanest cloth ; and the colour and flavour of 
your Poultry will be preserved in the most delicate perfection. 

Ob8„~^Turhey deserves to be accompanied by Tongue ( 1 6), or Ham 
(15) ; if these are not come-at-able, don*t foiget Pickled Pork (12), 
or BaooH and Greens (443 or 444), or Pork Sautages (86) ; Parsley 
and Butter (234) ; donH pour it over, but send it up in a boat ; Lwer 
(251), Egg (239), or Oyster sauce (246). To waim cold Turkey, 
&c. see (454), and following. 

To Grill the Gizzard and Rump, see (457). Save a quart of the 
liquor the Turkey was boiled in — ^this, with the bones and trim- 
mings, Ac will make good gravy for a Hash, &c. ^ 

RABBITS. 

18. Truss your Rabbits short, lay them in a fiasin of warm water 
for ten minutes, — ^then put them into plenty of water, and boil them 
about half an hour ; if Large ones, three quarters ; if very Old, an 
hour ; smother them with plenty of White Onion sauce (265), mince 
the liver, and lay it round the dish, or make laver sauce (251 ), and 
send it up in a boat. 

Obs, — Ask those you are going to make Liver sauoe for, if they 
like plain Liver sauce, or Liver and Parsley, or Liver and Lemon 
sauce (see 251, 52, 53). 

N.B. — It will save much trouble to the Carver, if the Rabbits be 
cut up in the Kitchen into pieces fit to help at table, and the Head 
divided, and one-half laid at each end, and slicii of Lemdn and the 
Liver, chopped very finely, laid on the sides of the Dish. 

At all events, cut off the Head before you send it to Table, — We 



1S4 THE cook's ORACLE. 

hardlj remember that the thing eter livM if tre doAH see the Head, 
while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut up in an attitude imita- 
tive of Life ; berides, for the preservation of the Head, the poor 
aniixial sometimes suffers a slower Death. 

TRIPE.* 

19. Take oare to have freih Tripe, cleanse it well from the fat, 
and cut it into pieces about two inches broad and four long : put it 
into a stew-pan, and cover it with Hilk and water, and let it boil 
gently till it is tender. 

If the Tripe has been prepared as it usually is at the Tripe shops, 
it will be enough in about an hour, (this depends upon how long it 
has been previously boiled at the Tripe shop) ; ifeKtirdp undre$9ed 
— it will require two or three hours — according to the Age and 
Quality of it. 

Make some Onion Saucb in the same manner as you do for Rab- 
bits (265), or boil (slowly by themselves) some Spanish, or the 
whitest common Onions you can get ; — ^peel them before you boil 
them ; when they are tender, which a middlmg-sised Onion will be 
Sn about three quarters of an hour, drain them in a hair-siere, take 
<sS the top skins till they look nice and white, and put them with 
the Tripe into a tureen or soup dish, and take off the fat if any floats 
on the sur&ce. 

Ohs. — Rashers of Bacon (443, 444), or Fried Sausages (86% are 
a very good accompaniment to boiled Tripe, Cow-heels, or Calf^ 
Feet : see Mr. Mich. Kelly's Saitcb (276), or Parsley and Butter 
(234), or Caper Sauce (244), with a little Vinegar and Mustard 
added to them-^r Salad Mixture (313, 382). 

Tripe holds the same rank among Solids, that Water-Grubl 
does among Soups — and the former is desirable at Dinner, when the 
latter is welcome at Supper. Read {669), 

COW-HEEIiy 

20. In the hands of a skilful Cook, will furnish several good 
Meals; when boiled tender (see 627), cut it into handsome pieces. 
Egg and bread-crumb them, and Fry them a light brown, and lay 
them round a dish, and put in the middle of it sliced Onions ^ed, 
or the accompaniments ordered for Tripe. The lAqwr they were 
boiled in will make Soaps (211, 218, or 530). 

N.B. — We give no Receipts to boil VENmoN, Geese, Duce.s» 
Pheasants, Woodcocks, and Peacocks, ftc—asour aim has been 
to make a useful Book, not a Big one (see 81). 

* " HoKSKE xappoTte, que dans on rial magnifiqne nr^atr^ pour AdkOe, wi 
lenrit det tripes de boeuf, et que cela e 6tait toujouis observe aux Bjipas dku 
Hkros."— Cborf Goitrfftwmique, p. 156. 



C 125] 



ROASTING. 

V.B.'-If the time tee have aUowedfor Roatting appean rcMer Umgur IMan 
^tikat is fUOed informer %DWk», we mn oiify sap, wehave written &fim actual JBv- 
perimentSy-^nd that the difference map be accounted/or, by common Cookt gem' 
raUy being fond oftooJUrce afire, and (ifputtinff thingetoo near to ii. 

Our caHadatUmt are made Jbr a Temperature of about BOdegrees qf Fahrenheit 

Slow Boastino is at advantageous to the tenderness and favour of Mfeat as 
Slow BoOing, ofufhieh every body understands the imfMWtonce. See ike aecowd 
of Count BumforcTs Shoulder ofMutUm. 

The warmer the weather, and the Staier kiOed the Meat it» the lst» time U uritt 
raquin to roast U. 

Meat that is very JVzf— reqairei more time than vre have stated. 

Bebf is in proper season ihroue^iout the whole year. Mmh-^Js Buidmrs ge- 
neraify calculaie upon its being a ounday's Dinner, you eon seldom depend upon 
Us being tender on any other iuxy. 



SIR-IiOIN OF BfiBF. 

21. Thb Noble SibtLoin* of about fifteen pounds, (if much 
thicker, the outside will be done too much before the inside is 
enough), wUl require to be before the fire about three and a half or 
four hours ; take care to spit it evenly, that it may not be heavier 
on one side than the other ; — ^put a little clean Dripping into the 
dripping-pan, (tie a sheet of paper over it to preserve Ihe /'<arf,+) 

* Tbb joint is said to owe its name to King Charles the Second, vbo, dining 
, ,„ -*«.-, -_^^-, ^* -'—'--•-- 1 with it, asked the name of 

and henceforth called Sir- 



iroon a Lmb of Beef, and being pwrticularlj pleased with it, ai^ed the name of 
the Joint ; said fofr its merit it Hiould be knuffiUed, i 



Loin. 

" Onr second Charles, of fame fftcete, 
On Loin of Beef did dine ; 
He held his sword, pleas'd, o'er the meat, 
* Arise tiiou famed Sir-Loin.' " 

BaUad qfthe New Sir John Bari^^eom. 

The ballad of '* The Gates of Calais** calls it 

" Renowned Sir-Loin, ofttimes decreed 
The theme of English Ballad ; 
On thee our Kings oft deign to feed. 
Unknown to Frenchman's p^te ; 
Th«u how much doth thy taste exceed 
Soup-meagre, frogs, and salad!"* 
t " In the pretent fcuhion of fattkning Cattlb, it is more desirable to roast 
away the Fat than to preserre it. If the honourable Societies of Agriculturists, 
a;! the time they consulted a learned Professor about the conqioation of M»- 
Dures, had consulted some competent authority on the nature of Animal Snh- 
itnncon, the Public might have escaped the orer-grown corpulency of the Anir 
mal fl^i, which every where fills the markets."—- 2)oiN«><ic Management, 12mo, 
]8ia^ p. 182. 

« Game, and other wild animals proper for food, are of very superior ouali- 
ties to the tame— ^m the total contrast of*the circumstances attending them. 
Tliey bftve a £ree range of exercise in the open air, and choose their own food, 
the good effects of wmch are very evident in a short delicate texture of flesh, 
found only in them. Their juices and flavour are more pure, and their Fat, 
when it is in any degree, as la Venison, and some other instances, differs as 
much from that of our fatted Animi^s, as Silver and Oold from the (pnonser 
netals. The superiority of Wei/SH Mutton and Scotch Bksv is owing to a 
similar cause."— IWd, p. IfiO 



126 THE cook's oracle. 

baste it well aa soon as it is put down, and every quarter of an hour 
all the time it is roasting, till the last half hour ; then take off the 
paper, and make some Gravy for it (284) : stir the fire and make 
it clear ; to Brown and Froth d, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste 
it with butter, and dredge it with flour ; let it go a few minutes 
longer, till the froth rises, take it up, put it on the dish, &c. 

Garnish it with Hillocks o( horseradish scraped as fine as pos- 
s&U with a very sharp hd/e, (see 386 and 339). A Yorkshire pud- 
ding is an excellent accompaniment (529 or 516). 

Obs. T%e Inside of the Sir-Loin must never be cut* Hot, but re- 
served entire for the Hash, or a mock harb (67). {For variom 
toays of Dressing the Inside of the Sir-Loin, (see 394, 395) ; for the 
Receipt to Hash or Broil Beef^ (399, and 401 and 402) ; and for 
other ways of employing the remains of a joint of cold beef, (see 
419,20,21,22,23,24,25). 

RIBS OF BEEF. 

22. The first Three Ribs, of flfteen or twenty pounds, will 
take three hours, or three and a half: the fourth and fifth 
Bibs will take as long, managed in the same way as the Sir-Loin. 
Paper the Fat, and the thin part, or it will be done too much, 
before the thick part is done enough. ' 

N.B. A Patron placed before it on the bars of the grate an- 
swers every purpose of keeping the thin part from being too much' 
done. 

Obs, — Many persons prefer the Ribs to the Sir-Loin, 

BIBS OF BEEF BONED AND ROLLED. 

23. When you have kept two or three ribs of beef till quite ten- 
der, take out the bones, and skewer it as round as possible (like a 
fillet of veal) : — ^before they roll it, some Cooks Egg it, and 
sprinkle it with veal stuffing (317). As the meat is more in a solid 
mass, it will require more time at the fire thto in the preceding 

If there is more Fat than you think will be eaten with the meat, cut it ofi^ it 
will make an excellent PusDiwa (616) ; or clarify it, (See 83), and nie it for 
Frying :— for those who like their meat done thoroughly, and use a moderate 
fire for roaBtins, the Fat need not be corered with paper. 

Ifjfour Beef it larger and your family Bmall. cut off the thin end and salt it, 
ana cut out and dress the fillet (i.e. commonly called the inside) next day as 
Mock Harb (67) : thus you get Three good hot Dinner*. (See also 397). Vos 
Saucb, for Cold Beef, see (384), Cucumber Vinegar, (339), and ilorseradiah 
Vineoar, (340 and 386). 

* ^Thisjoint is often spoUt for the next day's use, by an injndicioas mode of 
Garring. If you object to the outside, take the brown off, and help the next^~ 
by the cutting it only on one side, you preserre the grarr in the meat, and the 
goodly uipearance also— by cutting it, on the contrary, down the middle of thia 
joint, alluie grary runs out, it becomes dry, and exlubits a most unseemW aa*- 
pect when brought to table a second time.''— From Uob's Cookerjf,^ Sre, 1818., 
p. 109. 



I 



ROASTING. 127 

receipt ; a piece of ten or twelve pounds* weight will not be well 
and thoroughly roasted in leas than four and a half or five hours. 

For the first half hour, it should not be less than twelve inches 
from the fire, that it may get gradually warm to the centre : — the 
last half hour before it wOl be finished, sprinkle a little salt over 
it ; and if you vrish to froth it, flour it, &c. 

MUTTON.* 

24. As beef requires a large sound fire, mutton must have a brisk 
and sharp one :. — ^if you wish to have Mutton iender, it should be hung 
almost as long as it will keep : "f* and then good eight4ooth^ i. e. 
four years^ old Mutton, is as good eating as Venison, if it is accom- 
panied by (2a7 and 297). 

The Leg, Haunch, and Saddle, will be the better fbr being hung 
up in a cool airy place fbr four or five days at least ; in Temperate 
weather, a week ; — in Cold weather, ten days. 

If you think your Mutton will not be tender enough to do hon- 
our to the Spit, dress it as a '^ Giffot de sepi heurety^ (see N.B. to 1. 

and 411). 

A LEO, 

25. Of eight pounds, will take about two hours :— let it be well 
basted, an4 frothed in the same manner as directed in (21). To 
Hash Mutton, (399). To Broil it, (402, &c.) 

A OHINB OR SADDLE, 

26. (t. e. the two Loins) of ten or eleven pounds, two hours and a 

* Dkan Swift's Baseipt to Roast Mutton. 

To Obminiani'b faeatttifiil aii^" Oemajfioudh the wxrtUng^fn." 

" Gently stir and blow thefira. 
Lav the mutton down to roast, 

Drem it quickly, I desire ; 
In the dripping put a toaat^ 

That I hunger may remoye ; — 

Mutton is the meat I lore. 

On the dreBser see it lie ; 
Oh I the charming white and red ! 
Finer meat ne'er met the eye. 
On the sweetest grass it fed ; 
Let the jaclc go swiftly round, 
Let me haye it nicely Drowned. 

On the table spread the cloth. 
Let the kniyes be sharp and clean, 

Pickles get and salad both. 
Let them each be fresh and green. 

With small beer, good ale, ana wine, 
O ye gods ! how I shall dine !" 

t See the chapter of Adticb to Cooks. 



128 THB cook's ORACLE. 

half : it is the buBine^ of the Butcher to take off the skin and 
skewer it on again, to defend the meat from extreme heat, and pre- 
serve its succulence ; if this is neglected, tie a sheet of paper oyer 
it (baste the strings jou tie it on with directly, or they will bun) ; 
about a quarter of an hour before you think it will be done, take off 
the skin or paper, that it may get a pale brown colour, then baste 
it and flour it lightiy to froth it. We like (297) for sauce. 

N.B. Deaire the Butcher to cut off the Fkips and the tail and 
chump end, and trim away every part that hat not indispuiable pre- 
tensione to be eaten. This will reduce a Saddle of eleyen pounds' 
weight to about six or seven poimds. 

A 8HOUI.9BB, 

27. Of seven poimds, — an hour and a half; put the ipit in dose 
to the shank bone, and run it along the blade-bone. 

N.B. The BLADB-BONs is a favourite Luncheon or Supper relish, 
scored, peppered, and salted, and broiled, or done in a Dutch Oven. 

A LOINi* 

28. Of Mutton, from an hour and a half to an hour and three 
quarters. — The most elegant way ofCamwg this is to cut it length- 
wise, as you do a Saddle ; read (26). 

N.B. Spit it on a skewer or lark-spit, and tie that on the com- 
mon spit, and do not spoil the meat by running the spit through 

the prime part of it. 

A NSCK, 

29. About the same time as a Loin. It must be carefully 
jointed, or it is very difficult to carve. The Neck and Breast are 
in small fiunilies commonly roasted tc^ther ; the Cook will then 
crack the bones across the middle before they are put down to 
roast ; if this is not done carefiilly, they are very troublesome to 
carve«..>tell the Cook, when she takes it from the Spit, to separate 
them before she sends them to table. 

Obs. — If there is more FiU than you think will be eaten with 
the lean, cut it off, and it will make an excellent Suet Pudding, 
(514 or 516). 

N.B. — ^The best way to Spit this is to run iron skewers across it, 
and put the spit between them. 

* Common Cooks terp setdomhrown the ends o/Neda and Loins/ to hare this 
done nicely, let the fire be a few inches longer at each end than the joint that is 
roaflting, and occasionally place the spit slanting, so that each end mav get 
pnffident fire ; otherwise, after the meat is done you must take it up, and put 
the ends before the fire. 



I 



BOXSTINO. 12-9 

* 

A BRBA8T, 

' BO. An hour and a qTiarter. 

To gria a hreoMt ofMiOtm^ (see Ohs. to 38). 

A HAUNCH, 

31. (».«. the leg and part of the loin) of Mutton : send up two 
Wtoe boats with it ; one of rich Mutton Gravy, made without Spice 
or Herbs (298), and the other of Sweet Sauce (297). It gene- 
rally weighs about 15 pounds, and requires about three hours and 
a half to roast it 

MUTTON, VSNX80N FASHION. 

32. Take a neck of good four or five years^ old Southdown wethet 
Mutton, cut long in the bones ; let it hang (in temperate weather) 
at least a week : two days before you dress it, take allspice and 
\>Iack pepper, ground and pounded fine, a quarter of an ounce each, 
tab them together, and then rub your mutton well with this mixture 
twice a day ; — ^when you dress it, wash off this spice with warm 
water, and roBst it in paste, as we have ordered the Haunch of 
.Venison (62). 

Oht. — ^Persevering and Ingenious Epicures have invented many 
methods to give Mutton the flavour of Venison *, — some say that 
Mutton^ preparedas above,may be mistaken for Venison^ — others, that 
it is full as good ; the refined palate of a Grand Churmand^ (in spite 
of the Spice and Wine the meat has been fuddled and rubbed with) 
will perhaps still protest against ^ WeUih Veniam*'* — and indeed we 
do not understand by what conjuration Allspice and Claret can 
communicate the flavour of Ybnison to Mutton : — ^we confess our 
feais that the flavour of Venison (especially of its Fat) is inimitable 
—but believe you may procure Prime eight-toothed Wethor Mutton, 
keep it the proper time, and send it to table with the accompaniments 
(297 and 298, &c.) usually given to Venison, and a rational Epicure 
.will eat it with as much satislHction as he would **feed on the King's 
Fallow Deer." 

VSAIi. 

33. VxjkL requires particular care to roast it a nice brown. Let 
the fire be the same as for beef ; a soimd large fire for a large joint, 
•ttid a brisker for a smaller ; put it at some distance from the fire 
to soak thoroughly, and then draw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted *, — ^baste it again occar 
iionally. When the Veal is on the dish, pour over it half a pint 

X 



130 . THE cook's ORACLE. 

of melted Butter (229) : if you have a little brown Gmvy by you, 
add that to the Butter (see 284). WiA those joints tohic^ are not 
Stuffed^ send np Forcemeat (317 or 318) iu Balls,. or rolled into 
Sausages, ca garnish to ike dish, or filed Pork Sausages (86) ; Bacon 
(14, or 443, or 444), and Greens are also always expected with Veal- 

FIIiIiET OF VEAL, 

34. Of from twelve to sixteen pounds, will require from four to 
five hours at a good fire ; make some Stuffing or Forcemeat (317 
or 18), and put it under the flap, that there may be some left ta 
eat cold, or to season a Hash \* brown it, and pour good melted 
butter (229) over it, as directed in (33). 

Garnish with thin, slices of lemon and Cakes or BaHier of Stuffing, 
pr (317, or 318), or Duck stuffing (61), or Fried Pork Sausagea 
(see 86), Curry sauce (299), Bacon (14), and Greens, &c. 

N.B. Potted Veal (419). 

Obs A bit of the Brown outside is a favourite with the Epicure 

in Boasts ^The Kidney cut out — sliced and broiled, is a high 

relish, which tome Bom Vivants are fond of. 

A IiOIN, 

35; Is the best part of the Calf, and will take about three houre'' 

roasting. Paper the kidney fat, and the back : some Cooks send 

it up on a Toast, which is eaten with the Kidney and the fat of this 

part, which is as delicate as any marrow. If there is more of it 

than you think will be eaten with the Veal, before you roast it cut 

it out, it will make an excellent suet pudding : — take care to have 

your fire long enough to brown the endS'-:-^iBxn& acoompaiiiments as 

(34). 

A SBOVItDBR, 

36. From three hours to three hours and a half, — stuff it with 

the forcemeat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the under side, or 

Balls made of (317). 

NBCK, BB8T END, 

37. Will take two hours ; — same accompaniments as (34). The 
Sciag part is best made into a pie, or broth. 

BREAST. 

38. From an hour and a half to two hours. Let the caul remain 
till it is almost done, then take it off to brown it ; baste, flour, and 
froth it 

* To Mixes M Hash Vxal> see (429) or (430), and to make a Ragout of ookl 
Veal, (431). 



ROASTINO. 131 

Ofif.— -This makes a mwaiy relish fbr a Landieta or Supper ^^ 
or, instead of roasting, boil it enough ; pot it in a cloth between two 
pewter dishes, with a weight on the upper one, and let it remain so 
till cold ; then pare and trim, egg, and crum it, and broil, or warm 
it in a Dutch oven ; sorfe with it Gapers (244), or Wow Wow Sauce 
(286). Bmut of Mvtttm may he dn$$ed tht aanur fooy. 

VSAXi 8WBETBKEAD. 

39. Trim a fine Sweetbvead (it caanot be toofrtth) ; paivboil it for 
five minuteB, and throw it into a basin of cold water. Boost it plain 
«-or 

Beat up the yolk of an Egg, and prepare some fine Bread-crumbs. 
When the Sweetbread is cold, dry it thorooi^y in a cloth ; run a 
laik-spit or a skewerthroon^ it, and. tie iton the ordinary spit : egg 
it with a paste-brush ; powder it well with bread-crumbs, and roost it. 

For Sauce, filed Bread-crumbs round it, and melted butter, with 
a little Mushroom Oatchup (375), and Lemon-Juice (272, 301, or 
303), or serve them on buttered Toast, garnished with Egg Sauce 
(239), or with Gravy (287), 

06s.^~.Instead of spitting them, you may put them into a tin 
Dutch Oven, or F17' them (88, 89, or 429). 

IiAMB, 

40. Isadelicate, and commonly considered TendermeeA — ^but those 
who talk of tender Lamh — awhile they are thinking of the Age of the 
Animal, foiget that even a CMchen must be kept a proper time after 
it has been killed, or it will be tough picking. 

Woftd experience has warned us to beware of accepting an invi- 
tation to Dinner on Easter Sunday^ — ^unless commanded by a tho- 
rough-bred Gourmand^ our IncUorea, Molares, and Principal Viscera, 
have protested against the Imprudence of encoimtering Young tough 
ttrvngy Mutton, uHder the Misnomen of Grass Lamb. The proper 
name for " Easter Grass Lamb'^ is " Hay Mutton." 

To the usual accompaniments of Boasted Meat, Green Mint 
Sauee (268), a Salad (137 and 313), are commonly added ; and some 
Cooks, about five minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a little 
fiesh-gathered and finely minced Panley, or (278) : Lamb and all 
Young Meats ought to be thoroughly done ; therefore do not take 
either Lamb or Veal off the Spit till you see it drop white gmvy. 

Grass Lamb is in season from EAsrsa to Miohablmas. 

House Lamb from Christmas to Lady-Day. 

Sham Lamb^ see O&f. to following receipt 

N.B. When green mint cannot be got, Mint Vinegar (338) is an 



132 THE cook's oracle. 

acceptable sabctituie for it ; and Crisp Pardejf (278), on a aide plate, 
is an admirable acoompaniment. 

HZND-QUARTEK, 

41 . Of eight pounds, will take from an Hour and three quarters to 
two Hours : bast* and froth it in the same way as directed in (21 ). 

0&«.— A Quarter of a Porklinff is sometimes skinned, cut, and 

dressed Lamb-fashion, and sent up as a substitute for it The Leg 

and the Loin of Lamb, when little, should be roasted together,!. 

the former being lean, the latter fiity— 4md the Gravy is better pre^ 

served. 

rOKE-QUARTEB, 

42. Often pounds, about two hours. 

- N.'B. It is a pretty general custom, when you take off the Shoul- 
der from the Ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange over them, and 
sprinkle them with a little Pepper and Salt 

Ofif.— This may as well be done by the Cook before it comes t^ 
Table *, some people are not remarkably expert at dividing these 
joints nicely. 

XaEG| 

43. Of five pounds, from an hour to an hour and a half. 

SHOULDER, 

' 44. With a quick fire, an hour. 

See Ob$. to (27). 

BIBS, 

45. About an hour to an hour and a quarter ; joint it nicely ^ 
crack the ribs across, and divide them from the Brisket after it is 
roasted. 

laOIN, 

46. An hour and a quarter. 

NECK, 

47. An hour. 

BBEAST, 

48. Three quarters of an hour. 

POBK. 

49. The prime season for Pork is from Michaelmas to March. 
Take particular oare it be noNB knocgh : other meats under-done 

are unpleasant, but Pork is absolutely vneatable, — ^the sight of it ift 
enough to appal the sharpest Appetite, if its Gravy has the least 
Tint of Redness. 

Be carefiQ of the CraeiUf^^-^thhi be not erMp.-.-or if it be burned 
IP— you will be scolded. - • 






BOASTINO. ]33 

For Si^ucBS, (267, 269, and 292). 

Obs, — Pbase Pudding (530) is as good an accompaniment to 
Toasted, as it is to boiled Pork ; and most palates are pleased with 
the Savoury Powder set down in (51), or Bread-Crumbs, mixed with 
Sage and Onion, minced veiy iine, or ZEST (299) sprinkled over it. 

N. B. ^ The Western Pigs, from Berks, Oxford, and Bucks, pos- 
W88 a decided superiority over the eastern, of Essex, Sussex, and 
Norfolk ; not to fbiget another qualification of the former, at which 
some readers may smile, a thickness of the skin, whence the Crack' 
iimg of the roasted Pork is a fine gelatinous substance, which may 
be easily masticated ; whilst the Crackling of the thin-skinned breeds 
is roasted into good block Tin, the reduction of which would almost 
require Teeth of lion.'*— JMEoubray omPotdtry^ 1816, p. 242. 

50. Of eight pounds, will require about three hours : score the 
«ikin across in narrow stripes (some score it in diamonds) about a 
quarter of an inch apart *, — stuff the knuckle with sage and onion 
minced line, and a little grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and the yolk of an Egg ; »ee Duck Stuffing, (61). 

Do not put it too near the jfire, — rub a little sweet Oil on the 
skin with a paste-brush, or a goose-feather : this makes the Cradle 
Ihtg crisper and browner than basting it with dripping ; and it will 
be a better colour than all the art of Cookery can make it in any 
other way. And this is the best way of preventing the skin from 

blistering ^which is principally occasioned by its being put too near 

the file. 

XaBG OF PORK ROASTED WITHOUT THB 
8KIN, COMMONXaY CALIaED MOCK 0008E.* 

51. Parboil it *, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast ; 
baste it with butter, and make a Savoury Potcder of finely minced 
or dried and powdered Sage, ground black pepper, salt, and some 
bread-crumbs, rubbed together through a coUmder: you may add 
to this a little very finely minced Onion ; sprinkle it with this when 
it is almost roasted ; put a half pint of made gravy into the dish, 
and Goose stuffing, (320), under the knuckle skin ; or garnish the 
dish with balls of it fried or boiled. 

> * PriseOla HasMturiU in her Hmuekeepa's TMtruetnr, «ro. Sheffield, 1R16, n. 
19. RiTcs us a receipt " to gOMlfj a shoulder ot Lunib." " Un grand Cuisinier." 
infonned me that ''to Lambff/ the leg of a Porkling is a favounte Metamoiw 
phoiu in the Fnnch kitchen, when House Lamb U very dear. 



134 THE cook's ORACLE. 

THE 6RISKIN, 

52, Of seven or.eight pounds, may be djrcssed in the aame nuu»> 
ner : — it will take an honr and a half ztoasting. 

. A. BACON SPARE-RIB, 

53. Usually weighs about eight or nine, ponncbti Bad will take 
from two to*three hours to roast it thoroughly— diot exactly accord* 
ing to its weight, but the thioknees of the mestupen it, which varies 
very much :.^lay the thick end nearest to the Fire. 

A proper bald Spare-Rib of eight pounds* weight (so called be- 
cause almost fill the Meat is pored off), with a itea^y ^^ 'vdll be 
done in an honr and a quarter : — there is so ixttle meat on a bald 
Spare-Rib, that if you have a laiige fierce fire it will be burnt before 
it is warm through *, joint it nicely, and crack the Bibs across as 
you do Ribs of Lamb. 

When you put it down to roost, dust on some floury 'and,baste it 
with a little butter; dry a dozen Sage leaves, and lub them through 
a hai^-sieve, and put them into the top of a pepper-box vandabout 
a quarter of an hour before the meat is done, baste it wilfa butter ; 
dust the pulverised Sage, or the Mvourp powdar in (51) ; or ^linkle 
with Duck Stuffing (61). 

Obs ^Make it a general rule never to pom gravy over any thing 

that is roasted ; by so doing, the dredging^ &c. is iRMhed off, and it 
eats insipid. 

Some people carve a Spare^RSb by cutting out in slices, the thick 
part at the bottom of the bones: when this meat is cut awa(y, the 
bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. 

Apple-sauce, (369), Mashed Potatoe8(103), and pood Mustard 

(311), are indispensable. 

XiOINi 

54. Of five pounds, must be kept at a good distance from the 
fire on aocount nf the Cracfding, and will take about two hours— if 
very fat, half sn hour longer. 

Stuff it with Duck StuiHng (320). Score the akin in stripes, 
about a quarter of an Inch apart, and rub. it with Salad Oil, as 
diieoted in (50). You may sprinkle oveif it some of the Savourjf 
powder recommended for the Mock Qoose (51). 

A CHINE, 

55. If parted down the back-bone so as to have but one side, a 
good fire will roast it in two hours ; if not parted, three hours. 

N.B. Chines are generally salted and boiled. 



BOASTING. 135 



A SUCKING-PIG* 

S6. Is in pnmB oider ibr the spit when about three weeks old. • 

It loses part of its goodness ererj hour after it is killed v--if not 
^uite fresh, no art can make the Craeldinff crisp. 

To be in perfection, it should be hUed in the morning to he eaten at 
dinner ; — ^it requires very careful roasting. A sucking-Pig, like a 
young Child, must not be left for an instant 

The ends must have much more fire than the middle ; for this 
purpose is contrived an Iron to hang before the middle part, called 
a J^i^ iron. If you have not this, use a common 6at Iron, or keep 
the fire 8«pcest at the two ends. 

For the Stuffing, take of the crumb of a stale lonf about fire 
tounoes;' rub it through a eolander; minoe fine a handful of sage 
(•'. 0. about two-ounces), and a h»ge onion (about an ounce and a 
half) i-f mix" these together with an egg, some pepper and salt, and 
ft iHt of butter as big as an egg : fill the belly of the pig >vith this, 
and sew it up ; lay it to the fire, and baste it with tSalad oil till it is 
quite done >— ^o not leave it a moment ; it requires the most vigi- 
iuA iiittendaiice. 

Boast it at a clear brisk fire at some distance. To gain the praise 
of Epicurean Pig-Eaters, the Crackling must be nioel^ crisped and 
delic&tely Ugh!Uy broamed^ without being either blistered or burnt. 

A small thiee^weeks^ old Pig will be «nough:|: in about an hour 
and a hal£ 

Bi^ore you take it fk»m the Fire, cut off ^e head, and part that 
and the body down the middle ; chop the Brains very fine with 
some' boiled Sage leaves, and mix them with good Veal gravy, made 
68 directed in (187), or Beef Gravy (287), or what runs fVom the 
Pig when you cut its head off. Send up a tureenftd of Gravy (287) 
besides. Currant Sauce is still a favourite with some of the old school. 
- Lay your Pig back to back in the dish, with one half of the head 
mi each side, and the Ears one at each end, which you must tak« 
iieare to make nice and crisp, or you will get scolded, and deservedly, 
M the flilly fellow was who bought his wife a pig with only one ear. 

* Mods. Oriiiod designates this " Animal modegte, ennemi dujiute, el le Aoi 
dei AnSmaux imrnondes." Maltland, in p. 769, of vol. iL of his HUtorp of London, 
reckons that the number of Swking-Pigs consumed in the City of London in 
the year 1785, amounted to SS.OOO. 

t Some ddieatelp sentUive Palates desire the Cook to partoQ the Si^ and 
Onions (before they are cut) to soften and take off the rawness of their flavour ; 
the older and drier the Onion, the stn>nger will be Its flsronr ; and the kMuned 



EvELVK orders these to be edtdcoratedhj gentle maceration. 

t An endent culinary Se||*e says—" When you see a V^b Byui drop out, you 
may be satisfied— he has hM enough of the Fire V This is no eriterion that the 
Body of the Fig is done enough, bat arises merely from the briskness of the Fir» 



136^ THE cook's ORAtLE. 

When jou cut ofF the Petitoes, leave the ,skin long, round the 
ends of the legs. When jou first lay the Pig before the fire, rub it 
all over with firesh Butter or Salad Oil ; ten minutes after^ and the 
^n looks dry — dredge it well with flour all over — let it remain on 
an hour — then rub it off with a soft cloth. % 

' N. B. A Pig is a very troublesome subject to Roast, most persons 
have them Bahed ; send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg the 
baker to baste it well. 

TVBKBY, TURKEY POUXiTS, AND OTRSR 

POULTRY. 

67. A Fowl and a Turkey require the same management at the 
fire, only the latter will take longer time. 

Many a Christmas dinner has been spoiled by the Turkey having 
been hung up in a cold larder, and becoming thoroughly firoien v^ 
Jack Frost has ruined the reputation of niany a Turkey-Boaster :.-^ 
therefore in very cold Weather^ remember the Note in the 4th page 
of the 2d chapter of the Budimbnts op Cpokbry. 

Let them be carefully picked, &c. and break the breast bone (to 
make them look plump), twist up a sheet of clean writing-paper; 
light it, and thoroughly singe the Turkey all over, turning it about 
over the flame. > 

TuRKBYS, FowLS^ and Capons, have a much better appearance, 
if, instead of trussing them with the Legs close together, and the 
feet cut off, the Legs are extended on each side of the bird, and tho 
toes only cut off, with a skewer throiigh each foot, 'to keep th^a at 
a proper distance. 

Be careful, when you draw it, to preserve the Liver, and net to 
break the GhUrbag^ as no washing will take off the bitter taste x% 
gives, where it once touches 

Prepare a nice clear brisk fire for it 

Make Stuffino according to (317 or 319), — stuff it under tlie 
bxeast where the craw was tak^i out, and make* some into Balk, 
and boil or fry Uiem, and lay them round the dish v.~they are handji 
to help, and you can then reserve some of the inside stuffing to eat 
with the cold Turkey, or to enrich a Hash (454). 

Score tft« Gizzard, dip it into the Yolk of an Egg or melted battery 
and sprinkle it with salt and a few grains of Cayenne, put it undei 
one Pinion, and the Liver under the other, cover the JUver witl^ 
buttered Paper, to prevent it from getting hardened or burnt. 

When you first put a Turkey down to roast, dredge it with Flour, 
t^en put about an ounce of Butter into a basting-ladle, and aa it 
melts baste the bird therewith. ... . j 



1 



HOAStlNO* 13T 

Keep it at a distance from the fire for the first half hour, that it 
may warm gradually, then put it neartdr, and when it ia plumped 
up, and the steam draws in toward the fire, it is nearly enough ; then 
dredge it lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into your basting- 
ladle, and as it melts, baste the turkey with it ; this will raise tkjiner 
Froth than can be produced by using the &t out of the pan. 

A very large Turkey will require about three hours to roast it 
thoroughly ; a middliiig'nxed one^ of eight or ten pounds (which i^ 
&r nicer eating than the very large one), about two hours ; a small 
one may be done in an hout and a half. 

TuRKBY Poults are of various sizes, and will take about an houf 
and a half; they should be trussed, with their legs twisted under 
like a Duck, and the head under the wing like a Pheasant, 

Fried Pork Sauraobs (86) are a very savoury and favourite ac-r 
companiment to either roasted or boiled Poultry. A Turkey thus 
garnished is called ^ an Ai.dbrman in Cham*,'*^ 

Sausoffe^meat is sometimes used as stuffing, instead of the ordi> 
nary Foreemeat, (319, &c.) 

MwM.. .Tf you wish a Turkey j etpeeioBy a very large one, to h^ 
tender^ never dress it till at least four or five days (in cold weather^ 
eight or ten) after it has been killed. ^ No man who understands 
• good living will say, on such a day I will eat that Turkey->bui 
will hang it up by four of the laige tail-featheis, and when, <Hot pay- 
ing his morning visit to the Larder, he finds it lying upon a cloth 
prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked." 

Hen Turkeys are prefemble to Cocksfor whiteness and tendomess, 
and the small fleshy ones with black legs are most esteemed. 

Send up with them Oyster (246), Egg (239), and plenty of 
Gravy Sauce (287). To hash Turkby, (454). 

Mem. — Some Epicures are very fond of the Qizsard and Rump 
peppered and salted, and broiled.-~-(See 457), *^how to dress a Dsvu* 
with viritabU Sauce d'Enfer ! r) 

CAPONS OR FOWLS, 

58. Must be killed a couple of days in moderate, and more in cold 
weather, before they are dressed, or they will eat tough ^.~a good 
criterion of the ripeness of Poultiy for the spit, is the ease with 
which you can then pull out the feathers ; when a Fowl is plucked, 
leave a few to help you to ascertain this. 

They are managed exactly in the same manner, and sent up with 
the same sauces as a Turkey, only they require proportionably less 
'time ak the fire :-» 

A FULL-GROWN FiVB*TOBD Fowj., abottt an hour and a quarter^ 



138 THB eOOK's ORACLE. ^ 

A M0DXRATB-8iziu> One, an hour. 
A Chickhn, from thirty to forty minutes. 
Here, also, Pork sausoffes fried (86), are in general a feroutite 
accompaniment, or Tnrkey Staffing; see Foresmeata (317, 18, 19, 
20) ; put in plenty of it im) as to plump oat the fowl, which miKt be 
tied closely (both at the neck and romp) to keep in the stuffing. 

Some cooks put the Liver of the Fowl mto this forcemeat, and 
others mince it and pound it, and rub it up with flour and mdted 
butter (see 251 and 252). 

When the Bird is stuffed and trossed, score the €H$aeard nicely, 
dip it into melted butter, let it drain, and then season it with 
Cayenne and Salt, put it under one pinion, and the Lioer under the 
other — ^to prevent their getting hardened or scorched, oorer them 
with double paper buttered. 

Take caie that your iZtxu^ poultry be well hrowed ; it is as in^ 
dispensable that roasted poultry ^ould hare a rich Broum com- 
plexion, as boiUd poultry should have a delicate WhUe tme. 

Ohs *^ The Art of fattening Poultry for the Londom Market is a 

considerable branch of rural Economy in some convenient situa- 
tions, and consists in supplying them with plenty of healthy food, 
and confining them ; and Ducks and Geese must be {weveated from 
going into water, which prevents them from becoming ikt, and they 
also thereby acquire a rancid fishy ta8te.~.They are put into a dark 
place, and crammed with a paste made of Barley Meal, mutton- 
suet, and some treacle or coarse Sugar mixed with milk, and are 
found to be completely npe in a fortnight If kept longer, the 
fever that is induced by this continued state of repletion lendos 
them red and unsaleaUe, and frequently kills them.** — But Exer* 
dse is as indispensable to the health of Poultry as other creatures, 
..without it, the fat will be all accamulated in the ceUolar mem- 
brane, instead of being dispersed through its By8tem.-*SeeMouBRAT 
on Breeding and Fattening Domestic Poultry y 12mo. 1819. 

Fowls which are Fattened artificially are by some Epicures pre- 
ferred to those called Bam-Door Fowls, whom we have heard say, 
that they should as soon think of ordenng a Barn-Door for Dmner 
as a Barn-door FowL 

The age of poultry makes all the difference: — nothing is ten- 
derer than a young Chicken ; few things are tougher than an old 
Cock or Hen, which is only fit to make Broth. The meridian of 
perfection of Poultry is just before they have oome to .their full 
growth, before they have begun to harden. 

For Sauces, see (270), or Liver and Parsley, (251) and 2&2), and 
thoee ordered in the last rmjeipt Tolia8hit»(454). 



BOASTIKO. W9 

OOOBS. 

59. When a Goose is well picked, singed, and cleaned, make 
the Stuffing with about two ounces of Onion," and half as much 
Green Sage, chop them Tery fine, adding four ounces, i. e. about a 
large breakfast-cupM of stale Bread-crumbs, a bit of butter about 
as big as a walnut, and, a Tery little Pepper and Salt (to this some 
Cooks add half the Liyer,'f' parboiling it iurst), the yolk of an egg 
or two, and incorporating the whole well together, stuff the Goose ; 
do not quite fill it, but leave a little room for the stuffing to swelL 
Spit it, tie it on the spit at both ends, to prevent its swinging round, 
and to prevent the stuffing from coming out. From tax hour and a 
half to an hour and three quarters, will roast a fine full-grown 
Godse. Send up Gravy, and Apple-sauce with it (267, 269, 287, 
and 290, 291). To hash it, (see 449). 
• For another Stuffing for Geese, (see 820). 

Ohs. — ** Goose-feedinff in the vicinity of the metropolis is so large 
a concern, that one person annually feeds for market upwards of 
5000.'* ** A Groose on a farm in Scotland, two years since, of the^ 
clearly ascertained age of 89 years, healthy and vigorous, was killed 
by a Sow while sitting over her eggs ; it was supposed she might 
have lived many years, and her fecundity appeared to be permanent. 
Other Geese have been proved to teach, the age of 70 years.'*—- 
MouBRAY on PouUry, p. 40. 

* If jou think the flaronr of raw Onions too itrong, cat them in slices, and 
lay tiiem in cold 'water for a couple fit hours, or add as mach Apple or ^tato as 
yott h«ye of Onion. 

f Although the whole is rather too Inacious for the lingual nerres of the good 
folks of Oreat Britain, the Lireia of Ponltryaire oonsideTed a very high reiim by 
oar Continental neighbours ; and the following directions how to procure them 
in perfection, we copy firom the Becipe of " un ViejU Amateur de Sonne Chere." 

" The Liver of a Dade, or- a ^oose, which has submitted to the rales and 
orders that men of taste have invented for the amusement of his sebaceous 
glands, is a superlative exqnisil^ to the palate of a Parisian Epicure ;— but alasf 
thepoorgoose, toproduoethisdariijisdamty, mustendure sad torments. He must 
he crammed with meat, deprived of cmnk, and kept constantly before a hot fire— 
a miserable martyxdom inileed-^and mrald be truly intolerable if his reflections 
on the consequences of his sufferings did not. afford him some oonaolation— but 
the glorious prospect of the deligfatral growth of his liver gives him <!ourage and 
support ; ana when he thinks how speedily it will become almost as big as his 
Body— how high it will rank on the fist of double relishes— and with what ecsta* 
sies It will be eaten bv the fanciers *«ee» Foiei ffnu,' he submits to his destiny 
-without a aogh. — ^The mmous Stra^ntrg Pia are made with Livers thus prepared, 
and sell for an enormous price/' 

However ineredible tiaaordamnanee forfhe obesitation of a Goose's Liver may 
appear at first sight— will it not seem equally so to after-ages, that in this en- 
hgntened country, in 1821, vre encouraged a Folly m much greater— as its ope- 
ration was more universal ?— Will it be believed, that it was then considered 
the €icmi of perfection in Beef and Muttoiu that it should be so ov^-fattencd, that 
a poor man, to obtain one pound of Meat that he could eat, must purchase 
another which he could not, unless converted into a Suef Pudding— moreover, 
that the highest Premiums were annually awarded to those who prooaced Sheep 
and Oxen ui tbe most extreme state of morbid ObetUyl i !. 

■ ■ ■ ■ " expensive plans 
For delagiiV of lJrip|sQg-pana.** 



140 THE cook's OBACLB. 

It appears in Dr. Stark^s Experiments on Diet, p. 110, that 
^ when he fed upon Roasted Goosb, he was more vigorous botlv in 
Body and Mind than with any other diet." 

The Gooee at Midtaelntas is as fiimous in the mouths of the 

million, as the Minced Pie at Christmae ; but, for those who eat 

with delicacy it is by that time too full-grown. 

. The true period when the Goose is in lb highest perfection, ia 

when it has just acquired its full growth, and not begun to harden. 

If the March goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank ; the 

fine time is between both \ from the second week in June to the 

first in September: the Leg is not the most tender part of a Gooee* 

See Moek Gooee (51). 

ORSEN OOOSS. 

60. G^ese are called Green till they are about four months old. 

The only difference between roasting these and a full-grown 
Goose, consists in seasoning it with pepper and salt instead of sage 
and onion, and roasting it for forty or fifty minutes only. 
. Ohs. — This is one of the least desirable of those insipid prema- 
ture productions, which are esteemed dainties. 

DUCK. 

. 61. Mind your Duck is well cleaned, and wiped out with a clean 
cloth ; for the Stuffing, take an ounce of Onion and half an ounce 
qf green Sage ; chop them very fine, and mix them with two ounces, 
(. e. about a breakfast-cupful, of Bread-crumbs, a bit of butter about 
as b^ as a Walnut, a very little black pepper and salt, (soipe ob- 
tuse palates may require warming with a little Cayenne, (345), and 
the yolk of an egg to bind it ; mix these thoroughly together and 
put into the Duck. For another Stuffing, (see 320). From half 
to three-quarters of an hour will be enough to roast it, according 
to the size : contrive to have iksfetA delioatdy enq», as some people are 
rery fond of them • — to do this nicely, you must haye a sharp fire. 
For Sauce, Green Pease (133), Bonne Bouehe (390, 391), Gravy 
Sauce. (287), and Saob and Onion Saucb (267). 

To Hash or Stew Ducks, (see 449 and 450). 

N.B. If you think the raw Onion will make too strong an im<* 
pression upon the Palate, parboil it — ^Read Obs, to (59). 

To ensure Ducks being ten^r-.4n moderate weather kill them a 
few days befbre you dress them. 

HAUNCH or VBNISON. 

62. To preserve the Fat, make a paste of flour and water, as much 
as will cover the hannchy wipe it with a dry doth hi every part, rub 



■" BOAStlNO. I4t 

a laiige sheet of paper all over with butter, and cover the Venjaon 
^with it, then roll out the paste about three-quarters of an ineh thick, 
lay this all over the fet side, and cover it well with three or four 
sheets of strong white paper, and tie it securely on with packthread ; 
hare a strong close fire, and baste your venison as soon as you lay 
it down to roast (to prevent the paper and string from burning) ; it 
must be well basted all the time. 

A Bwk Haunch generally weighs liom 20 to 25 pounds, will take 
'about four hours and a half roasting, in warm, and longer in Ccld 
weather, — a Haunch of from 12 to 18 pounds will be done in about 
three or three and a half. 

A quarter of an hour before it is done, the string must be cut, and 
the paste carefully taken oif; now baste it with butter, dredge it 
lightly with flour, and when the froth rises, and it has got a very 
light brown colour, garnish the knuckle-bone with a ruffle of cut 
writing-paper, and send it up with good strong (but unseasoned) 
Gravy (298), in one boat, and Currant- Jelly Sauce in the other, or 
Currant- Jelly in a side plate (not melted) ; see for Sauces, (295, 6, 
7, 8J. Mem. « The Alderman's WdUc^ is the fevoiuite part 

Ohs. Bock Venison is in greatest perfection from Midsummer to 
Michaelmas, and Dos from November to January. 

NECK A.ND SHOUIiDER OF VENISON, 

63. Are to be managed in the same way as the haunch : only 
they do not require the coat or paste, and will not take so much time. 

The best way to spit a neck is to put three skewers through it, 
and put the spit between the skewers and the bones. 

64. Like a sucking Pig, should be dressed almost as soon as killed. 
When very young, it is trussed, stuffed, and spitted the same way 
as a Hare. But they are better eating when of the size of a House 
Lamb, and are then roasted in quarters ; the hind-quarter is most 
esteemed. 

They must be put down to a very quick fire, and either basted 
all the time they are roasting, or be covered with sheets of £»t ba- 
con ; when done, baste it with butter ; and dredge it with a little salt 
and flour, till you make a nice froth on it. 

N.B. We advise our friends to half roast a Fawn as soon as they 
receive it, and then make a Hash of it like (445 or 446). 

Send up Venison sauce with it. See the preceding Receipt, V 
(296, Ac.) 



142 THB .cook's ORACLE. 



65. A young sacking Kid is very good eating ; to have it in prime 
condition, the Dam afaould be kept np» and well fed, &e. 

Roast it like a Fawn or Hare, (446). 

HARE. 

" Inter quadrupedei gloria prima bSTUf.**— -Martial. 

66. The first points of considezation are. How old is the Hare ? 
and how long has it been killed ? When young, it is easy of digese- 
tion, and very nounahing ; — ^when old, the contrary in every respect. 

To ascertain the age, examine the first joint of the forefoot ; you 
will find a small knob, if it is a Leveret^ which disappears as it grows 
older ; then examine the ears, if they tear easily, it will eat tender ; 
if they «re tough, ao will be the Hare, which we advise you to make 
into Soup (219), or sraw or jug it (see 446, 47, or 48). 

When newly lulled, the body is stiff; as it grows stale, it becomes 
lirap. 

As soon aa you reoeive a Hare, take out the Liver, parboil it, and 
keep it for the staffing ; some are very fond of it v do not use it if 
it be not quite ftesh and good. Some mince it, and send it up as a 
garnish in little hillocks round the dish. Wipe the hare quite dry, 
rub the inside with pepper, and hang it up in a dry cool place. 

Paunch and skin* your Hare, wash it, and lay it in a large pan of 
cold water four or five hours, changing the water two or three times ; 
lay it in a dean cloth, and dry it well, then truss it. 

To make the Stuffing, (see 321) : do not make it too thin ; it 
should be of cohesive consistence : if it is not sufiiciently stiff, it is 
good for nothing : put this into the belly, and sew it i\p tight. 

Cut the neck-skin to lei ihe Hood out, or it will never appear to be 
done enough ; spit it, and baste it with Drippings,f (or the juices 
of the Back will be dried up before the upper joints of the Legs are 
half done), tUl you think it is nearly done, which a middling-sized 
Haie will be in about an hour and a quarter. When it is almost 
roasted enough, put a little bit of butter into your basting-ladle and 
baste it with this, and flour it, and froth it nicely. 

* This, in culinarr technicals, is called casing it,— npon the same prineipl»-> 
that " eating, drinking, and sleeping," are termed tioiMMiunalr. 

t Mrs. Charlotte Mason, in her " QompUU SyHem ofCookerp" page 283, says 
she has " tried all the different things recommended to baste a hare with, and 
nerer firand any thing so good as tmaU hetrt" othocs order mUki Dripping we 
belieTe is better than any thing. To roast a Hare nicely, so as to preserre the 
meat on the Back, &c. jnicy and nutritive, requires as mndi atteotiim «•« 

oDdcing Pig. 

Instead &i washing, a ** grand Cuisinier*' says, it is mnch better to wipe a 
Hare with a thin dry doth, as so mnch washing* or indeed washing at all, taiem 
away the flaTonr. 



i 



BOASTINCK 143 

Ser?e it with good Gravy (287, or 298), and Ctmnntjelly. For 
another Stuffino, see leceipt (321). Some Cooks eut off thehead 
and diyide it, and lay one half on each aide of the Hare. 

CMd Boast Hon wiU make excellent Soup (219), chopped to 
pieoea, and flawed in three quaits of water for a couple of horns ; 
the StUjfiitff will he a very agreeable sabstitute for Sweet herbs and 
seasoning. See receipt for Hare Soup (219), H asbbd Hajkb (446), 
aad MooK Habb» next Receipt. 

MOCK HARE. 

67. Cut out the Fillet (t. e the inside lean) of a Sirloin of Beef, 
leaving the Fat to roast with the joint Prepare some nice Stuff* 
ing, as directed for a hare in (66, or 321) ; put this on the Beef, 
aad roll it up with tape, put a akewaer through it, and tie that on a 

SfMt. 

O&f ^J[f the Beef is of prime quality — ^haaheen kept till thorough* 
ly traider^p-aad you serve with it the accompaniments that usuaJly 
attend roast hare (287, 295, &c.), or Sraw rr, and serve it with a 
rich thickened Sauoe^ garnished witii Forcemeat Balls (see 321), the 
most fiutidious pohite will have no reason to regret that the Game 
Season is over« 

To make this into Haks Soup, (see 219). 

RABBIT. 

. 68. If your fire is clear and sharp, thirty minntee will roast a 
young, and forty a full-grown Rabbit. 

When you lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge it light- 
ly and oaieftUly with flour, that yon may have it fiothy, and of a 
fine light brown. While the rahhit is roasting^ boil its Liver^ with 
some Panley ; when tender, chop them together, and put half the 
mixture into some melted buttery reserving the other half for Gfar^ 
mai, divided into little hiUocks. Cut off the heady and lay half on 
each aide of the dish. 

Obs, — ^A fine, well-grown (but young) Warren Babbit, kept som9 
time after it haa been killed, and roasted with a stuffing in its belly, 
eats very like a Hare, to the nature of which it approaches^-^t is 
nice nourishing food when young, but hard and unwholesome when 
old. For Sauces, (265, 251, and 287). 

PHBA0ANT, 

69. Requires a smart fire, but not a fierce one. Thirty minutes 
will XQBst a young bird, and forty or fifty a ftOl-grown Pheasant. 

* Lira Saaoe, (2fil and 258«) j 



144? THE CKiOK's ORACLE. 

Pick and draw it, cut a slit in the'back of the neck, and take out 
the craw, but don't cut the head oiF; wipe the inside of the hirf 
with a clean cloth, twist the legs close to the body, leave the feet on^ 
but cut the toes oflF ; dont turn the head under the wing, but truss 

it like a fowl, it is much easier to carve ; baste it, butter and froth 

it, and prepare sauce for it (281 and 287) : see the instractions in *• 
receipts to roast fowls and turkeys, (57 and 58). A great improve- 
ment to a roasted Pheasant — ^being a dry bird — ^is, before roasting 
him, to put a piece of beef, or rump steak, in the inside ; he will 
then come to table much improved in flavour. 
' Obs.—We believe the rarity of this bird is its best recommenda- 
tion ; and the character given it by an ingenious French author is 
just as good as it deserves. " Its flesh is naturally tough, and owes 
all its tenderness and succulence to the long time it is kept before 
it is cooked ;" until it is " Men mortifiie^^ it is uneatable.* There- 
fore, instead of " «m jocr cdl^^'' suspend it by one of the long tail-fea- 
thers, and the Pheasant's felling from it is the criterion of its ripe- 
ness and readiness for the spit. 

' Our President of the Committee of Taste (who is indefetigable 
in his endeavours to improve the Health, as well as promote the 
Enjoyment of his fellow-Students in the School of (rood Living, and 
to whom the Epicure, the Economist, and the Valetudinarian, are 
equally indebted for his careful revision of this work, and especially 
for introducing that salutary maxim into the Kitchen, — ^that ^ the 
iaiubrious is ever a superior consideration to the Savouiy," and in- 
deed, that the Rational Epicure only relishes the latter when entire- 
ly subordinate to the former), has suggested to us, that the detach- 
ment of the Feather cannot take place until the body of the Bird 
has advanced more than one degree beyond the state of wholesome 
haut-^fotU, and become ^ trop mortifiie ;" and that to enjoy this Game 
in perfection, you must have a brace of birds killed the same day ; 
these are to be put in suspense, as above directed — and when one of 
them drop9 — ^the hour is come that the spit should be introduced to 
his companion :— < 

**UUracttraquen»quUeonHrtererettum." 

' N.B. — Sportsmen will find the following rule of very great advan- 

< 

* " They are only fit to be eaten when the Blood nina from the Pill, wbidk 
is commonly about 6 or 7 days after they have been killed, otherwise it wiU 
have no more savour than a common fowl." — VdUft Cookeiy, 8vo, J 819, page 916. 

" Gastronomers who have an^ sort of aversion to a peculiar taste m Oaine 
properly kept, had better abstanf from this bird — since it is worse than a com- 
ipion fowl, ii not waited for till it acquires the gurnet it ought to have. Whole 
republics of Maggots have often been found noting under the wings of Pliea- 
tfinU ; but being radicaUv ^spened, and the birds property washed wilk Vine- 
gar, every thing went rkht, and every guest, unconscious of the culinary ablu- 
tions, enjoyed tne excclleht flavourof we PhaaiaD birdfe."-^ Tabdla dbaria, p. 5i, 



BOASTING. 14t5 

tage to themselves and their Cooks, — ^to order their game-keepers 
^and obserre the same themselves) to cut off a Claw of each Bird 
they kill, denoting 

the day jof the week, thus ^^oS \JilP and the Cook 





should be particular in keeping each week^s killing separate. The 
claw8 should not be cut off when the Bird is dressed for Table, as 
they serve to show the Company when it was killed, and conse- 
quently how long it has been kept. 

MOCK PBBASANT. 

70. If yon have only one pheasant, and wish for a companion for 
it, get a fine yoimg fowl, of as near as may be the same sbw as the 
faiid to be matched, and make game of It by trussing it like the 
pheasant, and dressing it according to the above directions. Few 
peiBOBs will discover the pheasant from the fowl, especially if the 
btter has been kept four or five days. 

The peculiar flavour of the Pheasant (like that of ether game) is 
principally acquired by hmg keeping. 

. GUINEA AND PBA'FOWIiS, 

71. Are dressed in the same way as Pheasants. 

FART&IDaBS, 

72. Are cleaned and trussed in the Same manner as a pheasant 
(but the ridiculous custom of tucking the legs into each other makes 
them very troublesome to carve) ; the breast is so plump, it will 
require almost as much roasting ; send up with them rice sauce 
(282), or bread sauce (281), and good gravy (287). 

*** I/you wish to preserve them longer than you thiiA l^wUl ke^ 
good undressed, half roasf them, they will then keep two or ihree days 
totiger ; or nuike a Pie cf^m% 

BLACK COCK, MOOR GAMB, AND QROU8E, 

73. Are all to be dressed like paitridges ; the Black Cock will 
take as much as a pheasant, and Moor Game and Qroose as the 
partridge. Send up with them Cunant-jelly and fried Bread- 
cruxabs (280), 

K 



14S THB cook's ORACLE. 

WILD XnjCKS. 

74. For roasting a Wfld Duck, you must have a clear brisk fire, 
and a hot spit ; it must be browned upon the outside, without bein^ 
sodden within. To have it well frothed and fUll of gravy is the 
nicety. Prepare the fire by stirring and raking it just before the 
bird is laid down, and fifteen or twenty minutes will do it in the 
fashionable way ; but if you like it a little more done, allow it a 
few minutes louger ; if it is too much it will lose its flavour. 

For the sauce, see (289 and 61). 

WXDOB0N8 AND TBAli, 

75. Are dressed exactly as the wild duck \ only that less time is 
requisite for a Widgeon, and still less for a Teal. 

WOODCOCK. 

76. Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trail is by the Lovers 
of ^ haaU ffout " considered a **■ Bonne Boudie ;'* truss their 1^ close 
to the body, and run an iron skewer through each thigh, close to 
the body, and tie them on a small bird-^it, put them to roast at a 
clear fire ; cut as many slices of bread as you have birds, toast or 
fry them a delicate brown, and lay them in the dripping-pan under 
the birds to catch the T^raU \* baste them with batter, and froth 
them with flour ; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toast ; pour some good beef gravy into the dish, and send some up 
in a boat, see Obs. to (287) : twenty or thirty minutes will roast 
them. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Obs. — Some Eptcares like this bird very much underdone, and di- 
rect that — a Woodcock should be just introduced to the Cook, for 
her to shew it the Fire, and then send it up to Table* 

SNIPES, 

77. Differ little finom Woodcocks, unless in size ; they are to be 
dressed in the same way, but require about five minutes less time 
to roast them. 

For Sauce, see (289). 

* " This bird has w inaiiiiuited itself into the favour c^ refined gomrmantb, 
that they pay it the same honoois as the grand Lama, maldrig a luKoCit of ita 
Excrements, and doTOttring them withecstlay."— Vide Almana^iks Gcunmands, 
roL i. p. 56. 

That Exercise prodnces strength and finnness of fibre is excellently well ex- 
empfified in the Voodcock and the Partridge.— The former flies most— the latter 
walkB ;— the wing of the Woodcock is always rery tovg^,— of the Partridge Texy 
tender : hence the old dogarel distich,— 

** If the Parlndae had but the fToodcodfi thkh» 
He'd be the best Bird that e'er doth fly." 

The Breatt of all Sirdi is the most jvicy and nutritious part 



UOASTINO. 14»7 

PIGEONS. 

78. When the pigeons are ready for roasting, if you are desired 
to stuff t^^, chop some green parsley very fine, the liver and a bit 
of butter together, with a little pepper and salt, or with the stuffing 
ordered for a fillet of veal (317 or 318), and fill the belly of each 
bird with it. They will be done enough in about twenty or thirty 
minutes ; send up Parsley and Butter (234), in the dish under them, 
and some in a boat, and garnish with crisp Parsley (278), or Filed 
Bread Crumbs (280), or Bread Sauce (281), or Gravy (287). 

Obs^ — When Pigeons are fresh they have their full relish ; but it 
goes entirely off with a very little keeping ; nor is it any way so well 
preserved as by. roasting them, — ^when they are put into a Pib, they 
are generally baked to rags, and taste more of pepper and salt than 
of any thing else> 

A little melted butter may be put into the dish with them, and 
the gravy that runs from them will mix with it into fine sauce. 
PiOBONS are in the greatest perfection from Midsummier to Mkhadmaa ; 
there is then the most plentiful and best food for them ; and their 
finest growth is just when they are full feathered. When they are 
in the pen-feathers they are fiabby ; when they are full grown, and 
have flown some time, they are tough. Game and Poultry are best 
when they have just done growing^ i. e. as soon as Nature has perfected 
her work. 

This was the secret of Solomon, the fiunous Pigeon>feeder of Tum^* 
ham Green, who is celebrated by the poet Cfag, when he says, 

** That Tnniliam Ghwen, which dainty pigeons fed» 
But feeds no more— for Solomon is dead." 

&ARKS AND OTHER SMALL BIRDS. 

79. These delicate little birds are in high season in November, 
When they are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them ; brush them 
with the yolk of an egg, and then roll them in bread-crumbs ; spit 
them on a lark-spit, and tie that on to a larger spit ; ten or fifteen 
minutes at a quick fire will do them enough ; baste them with fresh 
butter while they are roasting, and sprinkle them with bread-ciumbs 
till they are well covered with them. 

For the Sauce, fry some grated bread in clarified butter, see (231 ), 

-and set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden : serve the 

crumbs under the Larks when you didi them, and garnish them 

with slices of Lemon. 

WHEATEARS, 

80. Are dressed in the same way as Larks. 



148 tHE cook's ORACLE. 

ZiOBSTBR. 

81. See Receipt for boiling (175). 

We give no Receipt for roasting Lobster, Tongue, &c. being of 

opinion with Dr. King, who says, 

" By Boasting that which our forefathers Boiled, 
And boiling \rtiat they roasted, much is spoiled." 



FRYING. 

TO OXrABIFY DRIPPINGS, 

82. Put your dripping into a clean sauce-pan over a store or 
slow fire ; when it is just going to boil, skim it well, let it boil, and 
Uien kt it stand till it is a little cooled, then pour it through a sieve 
into a pan. 

06s. Well-cleansed Drippings^ and the fat Skimmings of the 

Broth-pot, when fresh and sweet, will baste every thing as well as 
Butter, except game and poultry, and should supply the place of 
Butter for common fries, &c., for which they are equal to lard, es- 
pecially if yon repeat the clarifying twice over. 

N.B. If you keep it in a cool place, you may preserre it a fort- 

* Ubs. MflXROB, in her BcononUeal Cookerpi page 7> tells ns, she has aecer- 
tained from actual experiments that " the Dripptn§a of Roast Meat, combined 
with Wheat, Floor, Oatmeal, Barley, Pease, or FoUto Stan^, will auUie ^ell- 
clous Soup, agreeable and savoury to the Puate, and nutritiTe and serviceable 
to the Stomacn ; and that while a joint is sea«ti>g» govd Soup may be made from 
the drippings of the Fat, which is the Euence ofMeai, as aeeda are of Vegeta' 
bles, and impregnates Soup urith the idenUcaX tone of Meat" 

" Writers on Cookery giye strict directions to carefully «fc»m ogrfhe Fait and in 
the next seatenoe order Butter <a much non expenatve artieie> to be added— 
instead of this, when any Fat appears at the top of Tonr Soup or Stew, do not 
skim it off, but unite it with the broth by means or the vegetable madiafcsu. 
Flour, Oatmeal, Ground Barley, or Potato Starch ; when suspended, the Soup 
is eonally agreeable to the palate and nutritive to the SUmacK" ^tc 

"Cooks hestow a great deal of pains to make Oraries ; they stew andboO lean 
meat for houn» and, after all, theirCookerr tastes more of Pepper and Salt than 
any thing else. If they would add the bulk of a chestnut of solid Fat to a oom- 
mon-sised sauce-boatihl of Oravy, it will give it more sapidity than twenty hours 
stewing lean meat woak, unless a larger quantity ww uaad thaa is warxamted 
by the rules of frugality. See (194, 95, 96, and 211). 

**The experiments of Dr. Stark on the nourishing powers of different sub- 
stances, go very far to prove that three ounces of th« Fat of Betted Beef -arc 
equal to a pound of the Lean. Dr. Paget, the traveller, confirms this opinion : 
* Being ebl^iecL' says he, ' during the jouorney from North to South America by 
landito live solely on Animal food, I experienced the truth of what is observed 
by Hunters, who uvesolelyon Animal food, vix. that besides their receiving little 
nourishment £rom the iMuaer parts of it, it sooa becomes offesuiTe to the Taate ; 
whereas the Fat is both more nutritive, and continues to be agreeable to the 
P^ate. To many Stomachs Fat is unpleasant and indigestible, especially when 
converted into oil by heat ; tfaii may ne eaoly .prevented, by the amiple process 
of combining the Fat completely with water, by the intervention ofv^table 
mndlage, as in meltinqg Batter, br means ef flour, %h» Batter and Water are 
united mto a homogeneous laid.' '—From Practical BccnomPf iy « Phjftiekau 
Callow, 1801. 



PRYING. 149 

night in mrnimer, and longer in winter. When you have done Fry- 
ing, let the dripping stand a few minutes to settle, and then pour it 
through a sieve into a clean Basin or stone Pan, and it will do a 
fle«>nd and a third time as well as it did the first, — only the Fat 
you have fried Fish in must not be- used- for any other purpose. 

TO CIiARIFY 8UST TO FRV WITH, 

83. Cut Beef or Mutton-suet into thin slices, pick out all the 
veins and skins, &c., put it into a thick and well-tinned sauce-pan, 
and set it OTer a very slow stoee^ <» in an oven, till it is melted ; you 
must not hurry itv— if not done very slowly it will acquire a burnt 
taste, which you cannot get rid of v— then strain it through a hair- 
•ieve into a clean brown pan. When quite cold, tie a paper over 
it, and keep it for use. Hog^s lard is prepared in the same way. 

Obe ^The waste occasioned by the present absurd fashion of 

oveivfeeding Cattle till the Fat is nearly equal to the lean, may, by 
good management, be in scxne measure prevented-*-by cutting off 
the -superfluous part, an^ preparing it as above, or by making it into 
Puddings ; see (514 and 516), or Soup (211). 

STEAKS. 

84. Cut the steaks rather thinner than for broiling. Put some 
Butter, or (82), into an iron frying-pan, and when it is hot, lay in 
the steaks, and keep turning them till they are dono enough. For 
Sauce, see (303), and for the accompaniments, (93). 

0&s.-«.llnie8S the Fire be prepared on purpose, we like this way 
cf cooking 'ftem ; the gravy is preserved, and the meat is more 
equally dr^sed^ and more evenly browned ; which makes it more 
xeliflfaing,.and iuVikeB the eye to encourage the Appetite. 

BBBT-STSAKS AMD ONION'S, 

85« See also (501). Fry the Steaks according to the directions 
given in the preceding receipt; and have ready for them some 
Onions prepared as directed in (266). 

For Stewed RumjhSteaka^ see (416 arid 417). 

SAUSAGES. 

86. Are best when quite fretik made. — ^Put a bit of Butter, or 
Dripping (82), into a clean Frying-pan : as soon as it is melted 
(before it gets hot) put in the Sausages, and ^lake the pan for a 
minute, and keep turning them (be careful not to break or prick 
Ihem in so doing), fry them over a very slow fire till they are nicely 
browned on all sides, — when they are done, lay them on a hair- 



150 THE cook's OftACLE. 

sicTe, placed before the fire for a couple of minutes to diain Xh6 fiit 
from them. 7^ secret of frying Sausages is, to let them get hot 
yeiy gradually, they then will not burst, if they are not stale. 

The common practice to prevent their bursting is to prick them 
with a fork : but this lets the gravy out. 

You TDAy froth them by rubbing them with cold fresh butter, and 
lightly dredge them with flour, and put them in a cheese-toaster or 
Dutch-oven for a minute. 

Some over-eoottomioal Cooks insist that no butter or lard, &c is 
required, their own fi&t being sufficient to fry them ;— we have tried it^ 
^the Sausages were partially scorohed, and had that jd|^»-^</ appear- 
ance that all fried things have when sufficient fiit is not allowed. 

069.— Poached Eggs (560), Pease-pudding (530), and Mashed 
Potatoes (102), are agreeable accompaniments to Sausages; and 
Sausages are as welcome with Boiled or Roasted Poultry or Veal, 
or BoiLXD Trips (19) ; so are ready-dressed Gxrman Sausagis^ 
(see Mem. to 14) ; and a convenient, easily digestible, and invigo- 
rating food for the aged, and those whose teeth are defective, as is 
also (418). For Sauce (303) ; to make Mustard, (310 and 311). 

N.B. Sausages, when finely chopped, are a delicate ^ Bonne 
Bouche ;** and require very little assistance from the Teeth to ren- 
der them quite ready for the Stomach. 

HOMS-UADE SAUSAGES. > 

87. Take a pound of lean fieef, and half a pound of Suet, clean 
from the skin, — chop it fine as for mince collop, then beat it well 
with a roller, or in a marble mortar, till it is all well mixed and 
will stick together — season highly with Zest, if you have it, and salt, 
or any mixed spices you please, — make it into flat round cake^ 
about an inch thick, ^nd shaped with a cup or saucer, and fry them 
a light brown. They should be served up on boiled rice, as for 
Curry : if for company, you may do them with ^gg and bread 
crumbs ; but they are quite as good without. 

SWEETBREADS FUXiIi PRESSED. 

88. Parboil them, and let them get cold, then cut them in pieces, 
about three quarters of an inch thick — dip them in the yolk of an 
Kgg, then in fine bread-crumbs (some add Spice, Lemon Peel, and 
Sweet herbs) ; put some clean dripping (82) into a frying-pan ': 
when it boils, put in the Sweetbreads, and fry them a fine brown. 
For Gramish, crisp Parsley ; and for Sauce, Mushroom Catchup 
and melted Butter, or Anchovy sauce, or (303, 293), or (394), or 
Bacon or Ham, as (443 and 444), 



PRYING. 151 

VWESTBKEADS PLAIN. 

• 89. Pftrboil and slice them w before, diy them on a deaii cloth, 
flour them, and fry them a delicate brown; take care to dmin the 
fct well from them, and garnish them with alioes of Lemon, and 
^rigs of Chenril or Parsley, or cri^ Parsley (278). For sauce, 
(BOS), or (272), and Slices of Ham or Bacon, as (443), or (444), or 
Forcemeat Balls made as (31 8 and 320). 

*** Take care to have a fresh Suveetitread : — it spoils sooner than al- 
mod am^ thing, therefore should be parboiled as soon as it comes to. 
This is called blanching, or setting it : Mutton Kidneys (95) are some- 
^mes broiled and sent up with Sujeethreads. 

VEAIi OUTLETS. 

' 90 and 439. Let your cutlets be about half an inch thick, trim 
tiiem, and flatten them with a cleaver *, you may fry them in fresh 
butter, or good drippings (82) ; when brown on one side, turn them 
and do the other ; if the fire is very fierce, they must change sides 
qftener. The time they will take depends on the thickness of the 
Cutlet and the heat of the fire ; half an inch thick will take about 
fifteen minutes. Make some Gravy, by putting the trimmings into 
a stew-pan with a little soft water, an onion, a roll of lemon-peel, a 
blade of mace, a sprig of thyme and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew 
9ver a slow fire an hour, then strain it ; put an ounce of butter into 
a stew-pan ; as soon as it is melted, mis with it as much flour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then add the 
gxavj by d^ees till it is all mixed, boil it for five minutes, and 
strain it through a tamis sieve, and put it to the cutlets ; you may 
add some Browning (283), Mushroom (375), or Walnut Catchup, 
or Lemon Pickle, &c. ; see also SauoeSf (293 and 299). 

Cut the Veal into pieces about as big as a crown piece, beat 
them with a cleaver, dip them in egg beat' up with a litfle salt, and 
then in fine bread-crumbs ; fry them a light brown in boiling lard ; 
serve under them- some good Chsvy or Mushroom Sauce (272), 
which may be made in five minutes. Garnish with Slices of Hain, 
or Rashers of Bacon, — (443 and 444), or Pork Sausages (86). 

• C^. — ^Vkal forckmbat or stuffing (317, 318, and 820), Pork 
{Sausages (86), Bashers of Bacon (443 and 444), are very relishing 
accompaniments, fried and sent up in the form of Balls or Cakef, 
and laid round as a Garnish. 



15Z THE cook's oracle. 

IiAMB, OR MUTTON CK0T«, 

9L Aie<dieBBed in the same way, and gaimahed with cnsp piit»* 
ley (278), and dice* ef lemon. 

If they aie breMUemmbed and ooTered with buttered writing* 
paper, and then broiled, they are caUed ** Maintenou^ CuSetsJ** 

PORK CHOPS. 

92. Cut the Chops about half an inch thick ; Trim them neatiy 
(few Cooks have any idea how much credit they get by this) ; put 
a frying-pan on the fire, with a bit of butter ; as soon as it is hot, 
put in your chops, turning them often till brown all over, they will 
be done enough in about fifteen minutes ; take one upon a plate 
and try it ; if done, season it with a little finely minced onion, pow- 
dered sage, and pepper and salt. For Gratnf and Sauce, see (367, 
269, 290, 291, and 303). 

Obs. — ^A little powdered Sage, &c strewed over them, will give 
them a nice relish, or the Savoury Powder in (51), or Forcemeat 
Sausages like (320). 

Do not have them cut too thick, about three chops to an inch 
and a quarter, — ^trim them neatly, beat them fiat, have ready some 
sweet herbs, or Sage and Onion chopped fine, put them in a Stew- 
pan with a bit of Butter about as big as a walnut, let them have 
one fry, beat two eggs on a plate with a little salt, add to them the 
herbs, mix it all well together, dip the chops in one at a time all 
over, and then with bread-crumbs, fry them in hot laid or drippings 
tQl they are a light brown. 

Obs. — Veal, Lamb, or Mutton Chops, are very good' dressed iv 
like manner. 

To fry Fish, see (141). 

N.B.— To Fry Eggs and Omelettes, see (543 to 553). ' 



BKOILING. 

OHOP8 OR STSABiff;* 

93. To Stsw them,ji6e (416>,>>ditto with Onions, (4T7). 
Those who are nice about Steaks, never aUempi to biive them^ at" 

* The season for these Is from the Mth of SqHxr^iber to the SSth of MRtrth : to 
•aaue their being tender when out of season, sxnw tbsii as in Beoeipt (US). ; 

TO WARM W COU> RUMP-STXAKS. 

Lay them in a steir^n, with one lai:ge Onion cut in quarters, six berries vt 
Allspice, the sameof Black Pepper, cover the Steaks with boiling water, let tbam 



BBOIIilNO. 153 

cept in weather which permitB the meat to he humg till it is tender — and 
give the Batcher some days notice of their wish for them. 

If, friendly Reader, you wish to entertain your mouth with a Sw- 
periaUoe Beef-Steak^ you must have the inside of the Sirloin cut into 
Steaks. The next best steaks are those cut from the middle of a 
Ruinp, that has been killed at least four days in moderate weather, 
.^much longer in cold weather, — ^when they can be cut about six 
inches long, four inches wide, and half an inch thick : do not beat 
them, which vulgar trick breaks the cells in which the Gravy of the 
meat is contained, and it becomes dry and tasteless. 

N.B. If your Butcher sends Steaks whxch are not Tender, we do not* 
insist that you should object to let him be Beaten. 

Desire the Butcher to cut them of even thickness ; if he does not, 
divide the thicker from the thinner pieces, and give them time ac- 
cordingly. 

Take care to have a very clear brisk fire, throw a little salt on it, 
make the Gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat from 
dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires more prac*' 
tice and care than is generally supposed to do Steaks to a nicety ; 
and for want of these little attentions, this very common dish, which 
every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom comes to table > 
in perfection. 

Ask those you Cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly done ; 
and what accompaniments they like best ; — it is usual to put a table- 
spoonful of Catchup (375), or a little minced Eschalot, or (343), 
into a dish before the fire, while you are broiling ; turn the Steaky 
&c. with a pair of Steak-tongs, — ^it will be done in about ten or fif- 
teen minutes ; rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished 
with Pickles and finely scraped Horse-radish. (134, 246, 266, 343, . 
367, 375, and 303), are the Sauces usually composed for Chops and 
Steaks. 

.N.B. Macbeth's Receipt for Beef-Steaks is the best — 

" when 'tit done, 'twere meS 

If 'twere done quicMy." 

Obs. — *^ Xe Veritahle Bipteck, comme il se fait en Angteterre^ as 
Hons. Beauvilliers calls (in his VArt du Cuisinier, tom. i. 8vo. Paris, 
1814, p. 122) what He says. We caU "^ Romesteck;''—i% as highly 
esteemed by our French neighbours, as their " Ragouts'*^ are by our 
Countrymen, who 

■tew gently one boar, thicken the liquor -with Flonr and Butter nibbed togetbev 
on a plate ; if<a pint of gravy, about one ounce of Flour and the like weight or 
Batter will do ; put it into the stew-pan, shake it well over the fire for five mi- 
Bu,te% and it is ready ; lay the Steaks and Onions on a dish, and poor.the gravy, 
fhrough a sieve over them. 



1 54 THB OOOK's oracle. 



-'* post to i*axiB go, 



Merely to taste Xhtkr Soupi, and Mushrooms know." 

King's Art qf Cookery, p. 79. 

These lines were written before the establishment of Albion 
Housx, Alderqgate Street, where every luxury that Nature and Art 
produce, is served of the primest quality, and in the most scientific 
manner—- in a style of princely magnificence and perfect comfort — 
the Wines, Liqueurs, &c. are superlative, and every department of 
the business of the Banquet is conducted in the most liberal manner. 

The French author whom we have before so often quoted, assures 
ls3 Amateurs de Bonne Chere on the other side of the Water, it is 
well worth their while to cross the Channel to taste this favourite 
English did), whidi, when ^ mortifie a son poinf^ and well dressed, 
he says, is superior to most of the subtle double relishes of the Pa- 
risian EJtchen. — Almanack dee Churmands, vol. i. p. 27. 

Beef is justly accounted the most nutritious Animal Food, and is 
entitled to the same rank among solid, that Brandy is among liquid 
Stimuli 

The celebrated Tkainsr, Sir Thomas Parkyns, of Bunny Park, 
Bart., in his Book on WrestUng, 4to. 3d Edit. 1727, p. 10, &c., 
greatly prefers Bbef-satebs to Sheep-Biters, as he called those who 
ate Mutton. v 

. When Humphries the pugilist was trained by Bipsham, the Keeper 
of Ipswich Jail, he was at first fed on Beef, but got so much flesh, 
it was changed for Mutton, roasted, or broiled : when broiled, great 
part of the nutritive juices of the meat is extracted. 

The principles upon which trainino * is conducted, resolve them- 
selves into Temperance without abstemiousness, and JSxerdae without 

fatiaue, 

KIDNEYS. 

94. Cut them through the long way, score them, sprinkle a little 
pepper and salt on them, and run a wire skewer through them to 
keep them from curling on the Gridiron, so that they may be evenly 
broiled. 

Broil them over a very clear fire, turning them often till they are 
done ; they will take about ten or twelve minutes, if the fire 19 
brisk : or Fry them in Butter, and make gravy for them in the pan 
(after you have taken out the kidneys), by putting in a tea-spoonfiil 
of flour ; as soon as it looks brown, put in as much water as will 
make gravy ; they will take five minutes more to firy than to broil. 
For Sauce, (278,'301, 802, 808). 

* See " Thk Art or ImrtooRATmo and Prolokotwo Lipb," by the Author 
of " Ths Cook's Oraclb." Published by O. B. Whittaker, No. 19^ At« Maria 

Lane. 



r 



BROILING. 155 

Obt. — Some Cooks chop a few Parsley-leaves very fine, and mix 
them with a bit of fresh butter and a little Pepper and Salt, and 
put a little of this mixture on each Kidney. 

A FOWIi OK RABBIT, fte. 

- 95. We can only recommend this method of dressing when the 
Fire is not good enough for roasting. 

Pick and truss it the same as for boiling, cut it open down the 
hack, wipe the inside dean with a doth, season it with a little pejiper 
and salt, have a clear fire, and set the gridiron at a good distance 
over it, lay the chicken on with the inside towards the fire (you 
^^7 W it and strew some grated bread over it), and broil it till it 
is a fine brown — ^take care the fleshy side is not burnt. Lay it on 
a hot dish, pickled Mushrooms, or Mushroom Sauce (270), thrown 
over it, or Parsley and Butter (234), or melted Butter flavoured 
with Mushroom Catchup (272). 

Garnish it with slices of Lemon, and the Liver and Oizzaid, slit 
and notched, and seasoned with ]>epper and salt, and broiled nicely 
brown, and some slices of lemon. For Grill sauce, see (301). 

K.B. — ^ It was a great mode, and taken up by the Court party in 
Oliver Cromweirs time, to roast Ao^^Capons— pretending they had 
a more exquisite taste and nutriment than when dressed whole/*— > 
See Joan Cromwell^s KUchen^ London, 1664, page 39. 

PIGEONS, 

96. To be worth the trouble of picking, most be well grown, and 
well fed. 

Clean them well, and pepper and salt them ; broil them over a 
clear slow fire ; turn them often, and put a little butter on them ; 
when they are done, pour over them, either stewed (270), or pick- 
led Mushrooms, or Catchup and melted Butter (272, or 299, or 801 ). 

Cfamah with fried Bread-crumbs or Sippets (279) ; or, when the 
Pigeons are trussed as for boiling, flat them with a deaver, taking 
care not to break the skin of the backs or breasts ; season them with 
pepper and salt, a little bit of butter, and a tea-spoonful of water, 
and tie them close at both ends ; so when they are brought to Table, 
they bring their Sauce with them. "Egg and dredge them well with 
^ted bread (mixed with Spice and Sweet herbs, if you please), 
then lay them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently : if your 
^re is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well buttered, to 
keep them from getting smoked. They are much better broiled whole. 

The same Sauce as in the preceding receipt, or (293, or 299), 

Veal Cutlbts (439 and 90), • 

PoAK Chops (92). 



1 50" THE cook's oracle. 



VEGETABLES. 

SIXTEEN WAYS OF BBESSIM6 POTATOES.* 

97. Thb Vegietab]* Kingdom affonis no Food more wholesome, 
more easily procured, easily prepared, or less expensive than the 
Potato : yet although this most useful vegetable is dressed almost 
every day, in almost every family^-^or One plate of potatoes that 
comes to table as it should, Ten are spoiled. 
, Be careful in your choice of Potatoes ; no vegetable varies so 
much in colour, size, shape, oonsistenoe, and flavour. 

The reddish coloured are better than the white, but theyellowis];! 
looking ones are the best Choose those of a moderate size, free from 
blemishes, and fresh, and huitfikenL in Ha mould ; they must not be wetted 
till ihey are cleaned to be cooked. Protect them from the Air and 
Fro8t«Ji>y laying them in heapain a cellar, covering them with mats, 
or burying, them in sand or in ^urth. The action of Frosi is most 
destructive^f it be considerable the life of the vegetable is de- 
stroyed, and the Potato speedily rots. 

Wash them, but do not pare or cut them, unless they are verj 
larger— All <^ sauce-pan half full of Potatoeftof equal size\ (or make 
them so by dividing the laxg^ ones)i put to them as much cold virater 
as will cover them about an inch : they are sooner boiled, and more 
savoury, than when drowned in water — most boiled things are spoiled 
by having too little HBter, but Potatoes are often spoiled by too 
much : they must merely be covered, and a little allowed for wasta 
in b(Mling, so that they may be just covered at the finish. 

Set them on a moderate fire till they boil, then take them off, 
and put them by the side of the-fiie to simmer slowly till they are 
soft enough, to admit a fork-i^place no- dependence on the usual 
test of their skins cracking, which^ if they are boiled £ut, will hap- 
pen to same*. Potatoes when they are not half done, and the insides 
quite haxd)».4hen pour the water off (if you let the potatoes remain 
in thewttter a moment aftv they axe dime enough, they will become 
waiyimd watefy), uncover the 8auoe>pan,.attd set it at such a dis- 
tance frtmi the fire as will secure it from burning ; their superfluous 

* " Next to Bread, there ia no resetable article, the preparation of which, as 
food, deaenree to be more attended to, than the Potato. -^Sni John Sinclair's 
Code ^HeaUht toL L p. 354. 

*' fir the Analjfsu <y Potato, it appears that 16 ounces contiuncd 11} ounces 
of waW<-«nd the 44 ounces of solid parts remaininff afforded scaroe a diachni 
of earth."— Faambntier's Obt. on Nutritive VeggtaibUs, 8vo. 1783^ p. 112. . 

t -Or the BiiALL onxs iriU he done to pieces before the larox onss are boiled 
SDongh. 



VEOETABLES. 157 

moisture will evaporate, and the Potatoes will be perfectly dry and 
mealy. 

You may afWwardg place a napkin^ folded up to the size of the , 
aauce-psn's diameter, oyerthe Potatoei, to keep them hot and mealy 
till wanted. 

Obs. — ^This method of mansging Potatoes is in every respect equal 
to steaming them ; and they are dressed in half the time. 

There is such an infinite variety of sorts and sizes of Potatoes, 

that it is impossible to say how long they wHl take doing : the best 

way is to try them with a fork. Modeiate-siied Potatoes will gene- 

ndly be done enough in fifteen or twenty minutes. See Obs, to 

(102). 

COIiD POTATOES FBIBD. 

98. Patabitof clean Dripping into a frying>pan; when it is melted, 
slice in your Potatoes with a little pepper and salt, put them on the 
fire, keep stirring them ; when they are quite hot, they are ready. 

Obs. — ^This is a very good way of re-dressing Potatoes— or see 

(102). 

POTATOBS BOZXtBD AMD BBOILED. 

99. Dress your Potatoes as before directed, and put them on a 
gridiron over a very olear and biisk fire ; turn them till they are 
hnwn all over, and send them up dry, with melted butter, in a cup. 

POTATOES FBIEB IN SIiXCES OB 
SHAVINGS, 

100. Peel large Potatoes, slice them about a quarter of an inch 
thick, or cut them in shavings round and round, as you would peel 
a lemon ; dry them well in a elean. doth, and fry them in lard or 
dripping. Take care that your fat and frying-pan are quite clean •, 
put it on a quick fire, watch it, and as soon as the lard boils, and is 
8tm, put in the slices of potato, and keep moving them till they are 
crisp ; take them up and lay them to drain on a sieve ; send them 
up with a very little salt sprinkled over them. 

POTATOBS FBIBD WHOLE. 

101. When nearly boiled enough, as directed in (97), put them 
into a stew-pan with a bit of butter, or some nice clean beef-drip- 
pmgs ; shake them about often (for fear of burning them), till they 
are brown and crisp ; drain them from the fat. 

Obs. — It will be an elegant improvement to the three last receipts, 
previous to frying or broiling the Potatoes, to flour them and dip 
them in the yolk of an egg, and then roll them in fine sifted bread- 
crumbs ; they will then deserve to be called fota.tob8 full drbpssd* 



1 



158 THE cook's oracle. 

POTATOES MASHED. 

102. See alflo (109). When your Potatoes are thoroughly boiled, 
drain them quite diy, pick out every speck, &c., and while hot, rub 
them through a colander into a clean stew-pan : to a pound of Po- 
tatoes, put about half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoonful of 
milk : do not make them too moist ; mix them well together. 

Obs — A/Ur Lady-day, when the Potatoes are getting old and 
specky, and in Frosty weather^ this is the best way of dressing them. 
You may put them into shapes or small tea-cups ; egg them with 
yolk of Egg, and brown them very slightly before a slow fire. See 
(104). 

POTATOES MASHED IKTITH ONIONS. 

103. Prepare some boiled onions by putting them through a 
sieve, and mix them with Potatoes. In proportioning the Onions 
to the Potatoes, you will be guided by your wish to have more or 
less of their flavour. 

Obs. — See note under (530). 

POTATOES ESCOLIiOPSD. 

1 04. Mash Potatoes as directed in ( 1 02) ; then butter some nice 
clean scollop-shells, patty-pans, or tea-cups or saucers ; put in your 
Potatoes *, make them smooth at the top ; cross a knife over them; 
strew a few fine bread-crumbs on them; sprinkle them with a paste- 
brush with a few drops of melted butter, and then set them in a 
Dutch oven v— when they are browned on the top, take them care- 
fully out of the shells, and brown the other side. 

COLO AN ON. 

105. Boil Potatoes and Greens, or Spinage separately^-mash 
the Potatoes ; squeeze the Greens dry ; chop them quite fine, and 
mix them with the Potatoes with a little butter, pepper, and salt ; 
put it into a mould, buttering it well first; let it stand in a hot oven 
for ten minutes. 

POTATOES ROASTED. 

106. Wash and dry your potatoes (all of a size), and put them 
in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster :— take care not to put them 
too near the fire, or they will get burnt on the outside bcfbre 
they are warmed through. 

lAige Potatoes will require two houis to roast them. 
N.B. To save time and trouble, some Cooks half boil them firet 
This is one of the best opportunities the Baker has to rival the 
Cook. 



VBaETABLBS. 159 

MTATOBS ROASTED UNDBR MEAT. 

107. Half boil large Potatoes, — drain the water from them, and 
put them into an earthen dish, or small tin pan, under Meat that 
is rcNuting, and baste them with some of the dripping *. — ^when they 
are browned on One side, turn them and brown the other ; send 
them up round the meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATO BALLS. 

108. "MJix mashed Potatoes with the yolk of an egg ; roll them 
into balls ; flour them, or egg and bread-crumb them ; and fry them 
in clean drippings, — or brown them in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RAGOUT. 

109. Are made by adding to a pound of Potatoes a quarter of a 
pound Qfgmtedham,orsomesweet herbs, orchopped par8ley,an onion 
or eschalot, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, or other spice, 
with the yolk of a couple of eggs : they are then to be dressed as (108). 

0&r.....An agreeable vegetable relish, and a good suppeiKlish. 

POTATO SNOIV. 

110. The Potatoes must be free from spots, and the whitest you 
can pick out ; put them on in cold water ; when they begin to crack, 
Btiain the water from them, and put them into a clean stew-pan by 
the side of the fire till they are quite dry, and fall to pieces ; rub 
them through a wire sieve on the dish they are to be sent up in, and 
de not disturb them afterwards. 

POTATO PIE. 

111. Peel and slice your Potatoes very thin into a pie-dish ; be- 
tween each layer of Potatoes put a little chopped onion (three 
quarters of an ounce of onion is sufficient for a pound of Potatoes) ; 
between each layer sprinkle a little pepper and salt ; put in a little 
^ter, and cut about two ounces of fresh butter into little bits^ and 
lay them on the top : cover it close with puff paste. It will take 
about an hour and a half to bake it. 

N.B. The Yolks of four Eggs (boiled hard) may be added ; and 
when baked, a table-spoonful of good Mushroom Catchup poured 
in through a funneL 

06f^— Cauliflowers divided into mouthsful, and Button Onions, 
seasoned with Curry Powder, &c. make a favourite Vegetable Pie. 

NEW POTATOES. 

112. The best way to cleaA New Potatoes is to rub them with 



1 60 THE cook's oracle. 

a coarse cloth or a flannel, or flcrubbing-bruBh, and proceed as in 
(102). 

N.B. Nbw PoTiiTOES are poor, ivatery^ and insipid, till they are 
full two inches in diameter:' they are not wwtli the tnmble of boil- 
ii^ hrfwt MidtwnwMr Day, 

Obs. — Some Cooks prepare fknioes to poor over Potatoes, msdd 
with butter, salt, and pepper, or gravy, or melted butter and cat- 
chup ; or stew the Potatoes in ale, or water seasoned with pepper 
and salt *, or bake them with herrings or sprats, ndized with layers 
of potatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, sw«et herbs, Tinegar, aad 
water ; or cut mutton or beef into slices, and lay thorn in a stew- 
pan, and on them potatoes and spices, then another layer of the 
meat alternately, pouring in a little water, covering it up veiy 
close, and stewing dowly. 

Potato MucUa^ (a ^ood sabstttute for Amw Meat\ (880). 

JSRUSAIiEM ARTICHOKfiS, 

113. Are boiled and dressed in the varioiis ways wo havo just 
before directed for potatoes. 

N.B. They should be covered with thick melted butter, or a 
nice White or Brown Sauce. 

CABBAGS. 

114. Pick Cabbages very clean, and wash them thoroug^y; 
then look them over carefully again -, quarter them if they atre vert 
laige. Put them into a sauce-pan with plenty of hoilmg water ; if 
any scum rises, take it off; put a laige spoonful of salt into the 
sauce-pan, and boil them till the stalks feel tender. A Yotaiff Cab' 
hage will take about twenty minutes or half an hour— when Full 
Orown^ near an hour : see that they are well covered with water 
all the time, and that no smoke ot dirt arises from stinring the fire. 
With careful management, they will look aa beaatifui when dress- 
ed as they did when growing. 

0&9.*— Some- Cooks say, tiiat it will much ameliorate the flavoar 
of 8tr<mg old Cabbages to boil them in two waters ; t. «. when th^ 
kre half done to take them out, and put them directly into another 
eauce-pan of boiling water, instead of eontimiing them in the water 
into which they were first put 

BOII.ED CABBA6B F&IEP. 

115. See Beceipt for Bubble and Squeak, 

SAVOTBy 

- 116. Axe bailed in the samo mamwr ; quarter than when you 
send them to table. 



VEGETABLES. ' 161 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 

117. /The Receipt we have written for Cabbages will answer as 

well for Sprouts, only tbey will be boiled enough in fifteen or twenty 

minates. 

SPINAOE. 

118. Spmage should be picked a leaf at a time, and washed in 
three or four waters ; when perfectly clean, lay it on a sieve or co- 
landerj to drain the water from it. 

Put a sauce-pan on the fire three parts filled with water, and laige 
esough for the Spinage to float in it ; put a small handful of salt 
in it; let it boU ; skim it, and then put in the Spinage ; make it 
boil aj quick as possible till quite tender, pressing the Spinage down 
frequently that it may be done equally ; it will be enough in about 
ten minutes, if boiled in plenty of water : if the Spinage is a little 
old, give it a £ew minutes longer. When done, strain it on the 
back of a sieve ; squeeze it dry with a plate, or between two trench- 
en; -chop it fine, and put it into a stew-pan with a bit of butter 
and a little salt : a little cream is a great improvement, or instead 
of either some rich Gravy. Spread it in a dish, and score it into 
squares of proper size to help at table. < 

Obs. — Grated nutmeg, or mace, and a little lemon-juice, is a fa- 
vourite addition with some cooks, and is added when you stir it up 
in the. stew-pan with the butter garnished. Spinage is freqii^atly 
served with Poaehed Eggs with fried bread. . , 

ASPARAGUS. 

• 

lid. Set a stew-pan vrith plenty of water in it on the fire ; sprinkle 
B handful of salt in it ; let it boil, and skim it ; then put in your 
Asparagus, prepared thus : — Scrape all the stalks till they are per- 
fectly clean *, throw them into a pan of cold water as you scrape 
them ; when they are all done, tie them up in little bundles,' of 
about a quarter of a hundred each, with bass, if you can get it, or 
^pe ; string cuts them to pieces : cut off the stalks at the bottom 
that they may be all of a length, leaving only just enough to serve 
as a handle for the green part ; when they are tender at the stalk, 
^hieh will be in from twenty to thirty, nunutes, they are done enough. 
uieat care must be taken to toctioh the ewact time of tJmr becoming 
tender ; take them up just at that instant, and they will have their 
true flavour and colour :— » minute or two more boiling destroys 
both. 

While the Asparagus is boiling, toast a round of a quartern loaf, 
about half an inch thick ; brown it delicately on both sides ; dip it 
lightly in the liquor the Asparagus was boiled in, and lay it in the 

L 






162 THB cook's ORACLE* 

middle c^ a dish ; melt some butter (229) ; then lay in the Aspa* 
nigus upon the Tbcu^, which must project beyond the Aspangus, 
that the company may ne there is a Toast 

Poor no butter over them, but send some up in a boat, or White 
Sauce (308). 

GOURDS (now called Ybgstablb Marrow) STBWBD. 

120. Take off all the skin of six or eig^t Goorda, pot them into 
a stew-pan, with water. Salt, Lemon-juice, and a bit of Butter or 
fet Bacon, and let them stew gently till quite tender, and serve up 
witii a rich Dutch lance, or any other sauce you please that it 
piqumd/e, 

FRIBD GOURDS. 

121. Cut five or six Gourds m quarters ; take off the skm and 
INdp ; stew them in the same manner as for table : when done, 
drain them quite dry ; beat up an Egg, and dip the Gooidsin it, 
and cover them well over witii Bread-^numbs ; make some Hog^ 
laid hot, and trj them a nice lig^t colour ; throw a little salt and 
pepper over them, anA serve up quite dry. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

122. Take six or eight small Gouids, as near of a size as posai- 
ble ; slice them with a Cucumber-slice ; dry them in a cloth, and 
then fiy them in very hot lard *, throw over a little pepper and salt, 
and serve up on a napkin. Qreat attention is requisite to do these 
well, — if the ftt is quite hot, they are done in a minute, and will 
soon spoiL— if not hot enough, they will eat greasy and tough. 

SSA KAXiEy 

123. Is tied up in bundles, and dressed in the same way as As- 
paragus. 

CAUIiirXiOWBR. 

124. Chooee those that are dose and white, and of the middle 
size; tiim off the outside leaves \ cut the stalk off flat at the bo^ 
torn ; let them lie in salt and water an hour before yon boil them. 

Put them into boiling water with a handful of salt in it ; skim it 
weU, and let it boil slowly till done, which a small one will be m 
ifteen, a large one in about twenty minutes ; takt d «p tfte momad 
it is enough^ a minute or two longer boiling will spoil it. 

N JEU~CbU Cad^hwen and Premk Beam^ Carrots and TVrstjw, 
boiied so as to cat nther aisp, are sometimes diened as a Salad 
(313 or 382). 



VSGETABLSS. 163 

BROOOOXiZ. 

125. Set a pan of clean cold water on the table, and a tauoe-paa 
on the fire with plenty of water, and a handfiil of salt in it. 

Bfoocctii is prepared by stripping off all the aide shoots, lea^g 
the top ; peel off the akin of the stalk with a knife ; eat it dose off 
at the bottom, and put it into the pan of cold water. 

When the water in the stew-pan boils, and the Broocoli is ready, 
pat it in ; let it boil briskly till the atalks feel tender, from ten to 
twenty minutes ; — ^take it up with a slice, that you may not break 
it; let it drain and senre up. 

If some of the heads of Broccoli are much bigger than the others, 
put them on to boil first, so that they may get idl done together. 

Obt, — ^It makes a nice supper-diah served up on a toast, like As- 
paragus. It is a very delicate yegetable, and you must take it up 
the moment it is done, and send it to table kot. 

RED BEST-ROOTS^ 

126. Are not so much used as they deserve ; ifiej are dressed in 
the same way as Parsneps, only neither scraped nor cut till after 
they are boiled : they will take from an hour and a half to three 
houiB in boiling, accoxding to their sue, — to be sent to table with 
Salt Fish, Boiled Bed^ &c. When young, large, and juicy, it is a 
very good variety, — an excellent garnish,— 4uid easily converted inti 
a very cheap and pleasant pickle. 

PARSNEPS, 

127. Are to be cooked just in the same manner as Carrots ; they 
Kquire more or less time, according to their size, — ^therefore match 
them in size; and you must tiy them bythnisting afork into them 
as they are in the water ; when that goes easily through, they are 
dcme enough ; boil them from an hoar, or two hours, according to 
their size and freshness. 

Obi. — ^Parsneps are sometimes sent up mashed in the same way as 
Turnips, and some Cooks quarter them before they boil them. 

CARROTS. 

128. Letthembewellwashed and brushed, not scraped: anhouris 
^ough for young spring carrots ; grown carrots must be cut in half, 
and will take frinn an hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off the peels with a clean coarse cloth, and slice 
them m two or four, according to their size. The best way to try 
if they are done enough, is to pierce tiiem with a fork. 

Obt^^JMjuij people are fond of cold Carrot with cold Beef; ask 



V6^ THE cook's ORACLE. 

if you shall cook enough for some to be left to send up with- the 

coM meat. 

TURNIPS. 

129. Feel ofP half an inch of the stringy outside ; full-grown tur- 
nips 'Will take about an hour and a half gentle boiling ; if you alice 
them, which most people do, they will be done sooner ; try them 
with a fork, — ^when t€fider, take them up, and lay them on a sieve 
till the water is thoroughly dndned from them : send them up 
i^hole ; do not slice them. 

N.B. To very young turnips leave about two inches of the Green 

Top. See (131). 

TO MASH TURNIPS. 

130. When they are boiled quite tender, squeeze them as dry <u 
possible between two trenchers ; put them into a sauce-pan ; mash 
them with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a colander ; add 
a little bit of butter ; keep stirring them till the butter is melted 
and well mixed with them, and they are ready for table. 

TURNIP-TOPS, 

131. Are the shoots whick grow out (in the spring) of the old tur< 
nip roots.- Fiit them into cold water an hour before they are to be 
dressed ; the more water they are boiled in, the better they will 
]pok ; if boiled in a small quantity of water they will taste bitter : 
when the water boils, put in a small handful of salt, and then your 
vegetables ; if fresh and young, they will be done in about twenty 
minutes ; drain them on the back of a sieve. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

132. Cut off the stalk-end first, and then turn to the point and 
strip off the strings : — I/not quite fresh^ have a bowl of spring-water, 
with a little salt dissolved in it, standing before you, and as the 
beans are cleaned and stringed, throw them in : — ^when all are done, 
put them on the fire in boiling water, with some salt in it ; after they 
have boiled fifteen or twenty minutes, take one out and taste it \ as 
soon as they are tender take them up, throw them into a colander or 
sieve to drain. 

To isend up the bean% whole is much the best method when ihey 
are thus young, and their delicate flavour and colour are much bet* 
ter preserved. When a little more grown, they must be cut across 
in two after stringing \ and for common tables they are split and 
divided across ; cut them all the same length, but those who arQ 
nice never have them at such a growth as to require splitting. 

When they BXfi viery jfixge th^y look pretty cut into LozengeSr 



VSOBTABLES. 165 

06».— See N.B. to (124). 

GREEN PEASE.* 

1 33. Yoimg Green Pease well dieased are one of the most ddi- 
ciouB delicacies of the vegetable kingdom. They must be yomig ; 
it is equally indispensable that they be/fiwi ga^ered^ and oooked as 
90on as they ars lAdUdy for they soon lose both their coloui and sweet- 
ness. 

If you wish iofeoH upon Peasb in fbrfbgtion, you must haiw 
them gathered the same day they are dressed, and put on to boil 
within half an hour after they are shelled. 

Pass them through a riddle^ i. e. a coarse sieve, which is made for 
the purpose of separating them. This precaution is necessary, for 
large and small pease cannot be boiled together, as the former will 
take more time than' the latter. 

For a peck of pease, set on a sauce-pan with a gallon of water in 
it ; when it boils, put in your pease, with a table-spoonful of salt, 
'. — skim it well, keep- them boiling quick from twenty to tliirty mi- 
nutes, according to their age and size : the best way to judge of their 
being done enough, and indeed the only way to make sure of cook- 
ing them to, and not beyond, the point of perfection, or, as Pea^eat- 
en say, of ** boiling them to a bubble,'" is to take them out with a spoon, 
and taste them. 

When they are done enough, drain them- on a hair-sieve. 

If you like them buttered, put them into. a pie-dish, divide som* 
butter into small bits, and lay them on the pease : put another dish 
4>ver them, and turn them over and over : this will melt the butter 
through them : but as all people do not like buttered pease, you 
had better send them to table plain, as they come out of the sauce- 
pan, with melted butter (229) in a sauce-tureen. It is usual to boil 
flome Mint with the Pease ; but if you wish to garnish the Pease 
with Mint, boil a few sprigs iur a s^uce-pan by themselves. See 
Sage and Onion Sauce (267), taid.Pea Powder (385). To boil 
Bacon (14), Slices of Ham and Bacon (443), and Relishing Rashers of 
Bacon (444). 

N.B. A Peck of young Pease will not yield more than enough 
for a eouple of hearty. Pea-eaters, — when.Uie. Pods are fuU, it may 
ierve for three. 

Mbm. — Never think of purchasing Pease ready-shelled^ for the 
o^nt reasons assigned in the first part of this receipt. 

* These and all other fruits and Vegetables, &c. by Mr. Appbrt's plan, it is 
ssidi may be jnvserved for tvelre months.— See Appsrt's Book, 12mo. 1812. We 
hare eaten of several specimens of Preserved Pease— which looked pretty enough 
— bat ^vour they had none at all. 



IBS THR cook's ORACLE. 

CUCUMBER STSTXrSD. 

134. Peel and cut cucumbers in quarters, take out the Beeds, 
and lajr them on a cloth to drain off the water : when they are dry, 
flour and firy them in fresh butter ; let the butter be quite hot be- 
fore you put in the cucumbezB ; fry them till they are brown, then 
take them out with an egj^sUce, and lay them on a sieve to dnin 
the &t from them, (some Cooks fry sliced Onions, or some smaU 
Button Onions, with them, till they are a delicate lightrhrown 
colour, drain them from the fat, and then put them into a stew-jKui, 
with as mudi gravy as will cover them) : stew slowly till they aie 
tender ; take out the cucumbers with a slice, thicken the Gxavy 
with floor and butter, give it a boil up, season it with pepper and 
salt, and pot in the cucumbers ; as soon as they are warm, they axe 
ready. 

The above, rubbed through a Tamia, or fine sieve, will be entit- 
led to be caUed *^ Cvcumbkb Saucb.'' See (339) Cueumber Yme- 
gar. This is a very &vourite sauce with lamb or mutton-cutlets, 
stewed rump-steaks, &c. &c; when made lor the latter, a thiid 
part of sliced oaion is sometimes fried with the cuciunber. 

ARTICHOKES. 

135. Soak them in cold water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handful of salt, and let them 
boil gently till they are tender, which will take an hoar and a half, 
•r l^wo hours ; the surest way to know when they are dene enoi^, 
is to draw out a leaf; trim them and dnin them on a neve; and 
send up melted butter with them, which some put into small oops^ 
so that each guest may have one. 

STBIVED ONIONS. 

. 136. The large Portugal Onions are the best ; take off the top- 
coats of half a dozen of these (taking care not to cut off the tops or 
tails too near, or the omons will go to pieces,) and put them into a 
stew-pan broad enough to hold them without laying them at Uap of 
one another, and just cover them with good broth. 

Put them over a slow fire, and let them simmer about two hours ; 
when you dish them, torn th«n upside down, and pour the sauce 
over. 

Ybtmff OmbfM Sieved, see (263). 

SAIiADS. 

137, also 313. Those who desire to see this subject elaboiately 



yX6BTABtV9« * 167 

illusbated, we lefer to <* Etblyn^s A^ikmm^ « disooiWNr of fiWIets, 
a 12mo. of 240 pages. London, 1 699. 

Mr. E. gives us an ** account ti9evwtif4w9 koibs propor aaad fit 
to make SaUet wxth,*V..aiid a taUe of Umi^jme^ telling (hfiur sea- 
aons and piopoitiont. ^ In the oompoeave of a Ballet, oTeiy plant 
ahoold oom£ in to bear its part, like the Notes in Muse : thus the 
coniieal MAam. €kx)K introduced hy Jkmouenmm when aaked, 
* vdmt Mttrwumy iken tow m AitaUT.^* the verj sama,^ says he ' as 
fbe Sd, 5th, and 8th have to one aoothflr in 9ma<w.the main skill 
lies in diSs, not to mingle (* atportB wimm^ cimmUiaUet*) ' Tastes 
not well joined — inelegant,^ as onr Parodimm Bard diieots Em 
when diC B MB g n saUe* in her An^dical €fmttr^m Mii.TOM'4 Para- 
dueLodr 

He giTss the ftUowing Beoeipt far the Ozoudn r-^ 
<*TBke of dear and perfiMtij good Oj^OHm three parts.-^ 
a h ai p est Viaegaa> (jnHcfes^of all CwMh'iaea fa , for it inesfces appetite* 
and canses Hunger, which is the best sauce), lAmon^ or juice of 
CnmffB^ one part, and therein let steep some sUcesof JTotvaratiMt, 
with a little 8akt: some, in a sepaiate Vinegar, gently faniise a pod 
cf GKwiy Pepper, and strain it to the other...then add as much 
MMBkufd as will lie upon a half-crown piece. Beat and mingle 
'tiMse well together with the yolk of twanew*laid JEg^t boiled hard, 
and pour it orer your Sallet, stirring it well together. The mper^ 
auileus insist that the knife with which Sallet herb is cut must be 
of Silrer,— eome who are husbands of their Oyl, pour at fint the 
Oyl alone, as more apt to communicate and diffiise its slipperiness, 
than when it is mingled and beaten with the Acids, whidi they pour 
on last of all ; and it is incredible how small a quantity of Oyl thus 
applied is sufficient to imbue a very plentiful assembly of Sallet 

Heibs."* 
Oftt.— Our own directions to prepare and dress Salads will be 

found under (313). 



See Om. on Cod Fui alter (145). 

FISH. 
TUBBOV TO BOIli. 

13a. This excellent Fish is in season the greatest part of the 
anmrner^— when good it is at once firm and tender, and abounds 
with rich gelatinous nuthment. 



1^ TH^ cook's ORACLE. 

Being diawn, and washed clean, if it be quite fresh, by' nibbing 
it lightly with salt, and keeping it in a cold place, you may in mo- 
derate weather preserve it for a couple of days.* 

An hour or two be/ore you dresi it, soak it in £pring-water with 
some salt in it, — ^then score the skin across the thickest part of the 
back, to prevent it breaking on the Breast, which will happen from 
'the fish'swelUng, ai^d cracking the ddn, if this precaution be not 
- used. Put' a large handful of salt into a fish kettle with cold water, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, put it in, and when it is coming to 
a boil, skim it well ; then set the kettle on the side of the fire^ to 
boil as gently as possible for about fifteen or twenty minutes (if it 
-boils fast, the fish will break to pieces) ; supposing it « middling-sised 
Turbot, and to weigh eight or nine pounds. 

Rub a little of the inside Red Coral spawn of the Lobster through 
a hair sieve, without butter ; and when the Turbot is dished,.8prinkle 
>the spawn over it €ramish the dish with sprigs of curled Parsley, 
sliced Lemon, and finely scraped Horseradish. 

If you Hke to send it to table in Full Dress, sozround it with 
moely- Fried Smdts (173), — Oudgbons are often used for this pur- 
pose, and may be bought very cheap when Smelts are very dear; 
•lay the largest opposite the broadest part of the Turbot, so that they 

may form a well-proportioned fiinge for it, — or Oytten- (181), or 

cut a Sole in strips, crossways, about the size of a Smelt ; fiy them 
as directed in (141), and lay them round. Send up Lobster eaue» 
(249), two boats of it, if it is for a large party. 

N.B.^-jOold Turbot with (313) for Sauce ; or take off the Fil- 
lets that are left as soon as the Turbot returns from Table, and they 
will make a side dish for your next dinner, warmed in (308). 

Obs ^The thickest partis the favourite ; and* the Carver of this 

Pish must remember to ask his friends if they are Fin-Fanden. It 
will save a troublesome Job to the Carver, if the Cook, when the 
Pish is boiled, cutti {hoiSpine-bone across the middle. 

* "I hare ascertained, bj manT yean* obseiration, that a Turbot kept two or 
three days is much better eating than a yerr fresh one."— Uos's Cootery, p. 238. 

" TuRBOTS. The finest brought to the London market are caught off the 
Dutch coast, or Oennan ocean, and are brousht in ▼ell-boats alive. The com- 
mencement of the season is generally about March and April, and continues all 
the summer. Turbots, like other fish, do not spawn all at the same tine ; 
therefore there is always good and bad nearly all the year round. For this 
year or two ^paat, there has been an immense ouantity broueht to London, 
from all parts, and of all qualities : a great manr nom a new fiuiery off Hartle- 
pool, which are rerr handsome4ooking Turbot, but br no means eoual to what 
are caught off the Dutch coast. Many excellent Turbots are caught off DoTer 
and Dungeness ; and a large quantity brought from Scotland, packed is ice, 
which are of a very inferior quality, and are generally to be bought for about 
one-fourth the price of good turbots. 

" Brills are generally caught at the same place as turbots, and are geu^jafij 
of the same quality as the turbot, from thedifferent parts.'* 



PISH. ISS 

▲ BBILXr, 

13d. Is dressed the same way as a Turbot. 

SOLES TO BOILi. 

140. A fine fresh Trick Sole is almost as good eating as a Tut" 
hot. 

Wash and clean it nicely ; put it into a fish-kettle with a hand' 
fill of salt, and as much cold water as will cover it ; set it on the 
ride of the fire, take off the scum as it rises, and let it boil gentlj, 
about five minutes (according to its size) will be long enough, unless 
it be very large. Send it up on a fish-drainer, garnished with slices 
of Lemon and sprigs of curled Parsley, or nicely fried Smelts (173) 
or Oysters (181). 

Obf^Slieea of Lemon are a universally acceptable garnish with 
either fried or broiled fish : — a few Sprigs of crisp Parsley may be 
added, if you wish to make it look very smart *, and Parsley, or 
Fennel and Butter, are excellent sauces (see 234 and 237), Or 
Chervil sauce (236), Anchovy (241). 

N.B. BoiLXD Soles are very good warmed up like Eels, Wiggy's 
ynj (162), or covered with White Sauce (308 ; and see 155). 

SOIiES, OR OTHER FISH, TO FRY. 

141. Soles are generally to be procured good from some part of 
' the coast, as some are going out of season, and some coming in, 

both at the same time ; a great many are brought in well-boats, 
alive, that are caught off Dover and Folkstone, and some are brought 
from the same places by land-carriage. The finest Soles are caught 
off Plymouth, near the Eddystone, and all the way up the Channel, 
and to Torbay ; and frequently weigh eight or ten pounds per pait : 
they axe generally brought by water to Portsmouth, and thence by 
land ; but the greatest quantity axe caught off Y^mouih and the 
Knole, and off the Forelands. ^ "^ 

Be sure they are quite fresh^ or the cleverest Cook cannot make 
them either look or eat well. 

An hmr' be/ore you intend to dress them, wash them thoroughly, 
and wrap them in a clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or the 
Bread-crumbs will not stick to them. 

Prepare some Bread -Crumbs^* by rubbing some stale bread 
throu^ a colander ; or, if you wish the Fish to appear very delicate 
and highly finished, through a hair-sieve ; or use Biscuit Powder. 

* A large jjair of Solea will take the fourth part of a quartern loaf, which now 
' -Dotto two-pence halfpenny. OArHOAi. i» a good suhatitute for Bread-Cnunha-r-.. 
and costs comparatiyely nothing i ! 



170 THE cook's oracle. 

Beat the yolk and white of an Egg wt^l together, on a plate, with 
a fork ; — flour your flab) to absorb any nMMsture that may r^num, 
and wipe it oiF with a clean cloth ; — dip them in the Egg on both 
■ides all over, or, what is better, Egg them with a paste-brush ; pat 
the Egg on in an even degree over the whole Fish, or the bread- 
crumbs will not stick to it even — and the uneven part will bum to 
the pan. — Strew the Bread<lrumbs all over the Fish, so thai tiMy 
cover every part, — ^take up the Fish by the head, and shake oif Ilia 
loose crumbs. The Fish is now ready for the Fiying-pan. 

Put a Quart or more of fresh sweet Olive Oil, or Clarified Bnttex 
(23I),Dripping (82),Iiard,*orClanfied Drippings (83); be sure they 
are quite sweet and perfectly dean fihs Fat ought to coner the FukJ .- 
what we here order is for Soles about ten inches longyif iBzger cut 
them mta pieces the proper size to help at table ; this will ave 
much time and trouble to the Carver; when you send them to 
table, lay them in the same form they were before they were cat» 
and you may strew a little curled Parsley over them : they are 
much easier managed in the Fiying-pan, and require less Fat ; fiy 
the TMek part a few minutes bdfore you put in the T^m — ^yoa can 
by this means only fiy the tUdt part enough, without frying the ihm 
too much. Very Large Soles should be boiled (140), or Fried in. 
Fillets (143). Soles cut in pieces^ erosswayt, cAout the tiw of a Smeit^ 
mate a very pretty garmth for stewed Fish and boiled Fish. 

Set the frying-pan over a sharp and dear fire ; watch it, skim ik 
with an Egg-slice, and when it boils,<f* i, e, when it has done bftb* 
bling, and the smoke just begins to rise from the sur&ce, put in ih« 

Fish - if the Fat is not esetremdyhat^ it is impossible tofiy Fish of 

a good colour, or to keep them firm and crisp. (Bead the 8d 
Chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery.) 

The best way to ateeriain the heat of the i^W, is to try it with afait 
of bread as big as a nut ; if it is quite hot enough, the bread will 
brown immediately. Put in the Fish, and it will be crisp and 
brown on the side next the fire, in about four or five miautea; to 
twm it^ stick a two-pronged fork near the head, and support tjie tail 
with a fishrslice, and fry the other side nearly the same length of 
time. 

Fry One Sole at a time, e>LC^ the pan is very laige, and yo« 
have plenty of &t 

When the Fish are fried, Ucy them on a soft cloth (old tabl^ 

* Thb Fat wiB do Two or Three timet, if strained tbronsh a hair-«ieTe, end pst 
br ; if jon do not find it enoiu^, tmt a little fresh to it Bead (83), and the 9d 
diapteroftheRndimenUofCookery. , .« ^ ..^^ .^ 

t This requires a heat of npirarde of 609 degnee of Fahnahsiirs thenMinater 
rnre ie, in £RCt, BoQit^ in FaL 



PISH. 171 

elotiis are beifc), near enough the file to keep them wann ; ium tkem 

•tmjf <tt» or <ifw m«M<M, ^ <ft«gf Ofv 9»«te <ffy M 6(^ 

men Cooks cammonlj neglect It iHU take ten or fifteen miniitea,* 

If the Fat jon fiied them in was not hot enough ; when it is, thej 

vant yearj little drying. Wiem Sobs «rv /ri§df ihej^ noUl htep Mvy 

go9d im tt dry fiUaee for ikreecr four dap$;¥>armih^ 

«• ^ hooh m a IHUek oora, Uttimg ihem ktat very gradualfy^ hjfpMt* 

ifMff U some didantee/rom 1^ fre fw a^bomt twmty mmttmy or «§ good 

Gnwy^ as Eels, Wigot^s way (162, 266, 286, or 303). 

Obt^ — ^There aie seyeral general rules in this Reoeii^t whieh apply 
to all Fried Fish :-«we hare heen voiy particular and minute in 
our direetions ; for, although a Fried Sole is so fireqnent and &^ 
Yourite a dish, it is very seldom brought to table in pei^Bction.f 

80LB8 TO 8TBW. 

1 42. These are half fiied, and then done the same as Eels, Wiffgy'^s 
way. See (162). 

FIIiIiETS OF SOIiES, BROWN OK WHXTB. 

1 43. Take off the Fillets very nicely, trim them neatly, and prsM 
them dry between a soft cloth ; E!gg, Crumb, and Fiy them, &c. as 
directed in (141), or boil them, and serve them with (308). 

N. B. This is one of the best ways of dressing very large Soles. 
See also (162). 



144. Is very good when in good season, but no fish so bad when 
it is otherwise : those persons that like it firm and dry, should have 
it crimped ; but those that like it tender, should have it plain, and 
eat it not earlier than the second day, and if cold weather, three or 
four days old it is better : it cannot be kept too long, if perfbctly 
sweet. Young Skate eats very fine^ crimped and fried. See (150). 

COD BOZIiBD. 

145. Wash and dean the fish, and rub a little salt in the inside 
of it (if the weather is very cold, a huge cod is the better fbr being 
k^ a day) : put plenty of water in. your fish-kettle, so that the fish 

* If you «re in haste, her the Sole on m dasn wit doth, eater H with it, mod. 
gentir pre« it upon the flah, to rack up the firt from its raffhoe. 

t The Tory indiierent manner in whi«di the operation of fryhiftflsh ia nsaaUy 
peirfbnned, we rappoee, prodoeed the following Jeu tTeqtrU, whteh appealed in 
The 3foming ChronieU:-— 

*' The Kiss's Bench Reports hare cook*d np an odd dish. 

An action for damages, Frp Yerras Fi$h. 

But, •ore. if for damages action could lie. 

It cert^nly mnat taaTe heen Fitk against Fry.* 



172 THE cook's obaclb. 

may be well coveied ; put in a Luge bandful of rait : and when' it 
is dissolved, put in your fish ; a very small fish* will require from 
fifteen to twenty minutes after the water boils, — a huge one aboat 
half an hour ; drain it on the fish-plate ; dish it with a garnish of 
the Roe, Liver, Chitterlings, &c. or large native Oysters, fried 
a light brown (see 181), or Smelts (173), Whitings (149), ike taU* 
of {he Cod cut in slices, or bits the size -and shape of Oysters~.or 
split it-^nd fry it Scalloped Oysters (179), Oyster Sauce (246). 
Slicks of Cod cut about half an inch thick, and pribd as Soles 
(141), are very nice. 

Mbm. — The Sounds, — ^the jelly parts about the Jowl,-^the P». 
late, — and the Tongue, are esteemed exquisites by piscivorous E^h- 
cures— whose longing Eyes will keep a sharp look-out for a shaie 
of their &vouiite ^ Bonne Bouche ;^ — ^the Carver*s reputation de- 
pends much on his equitable distribution of them. 

SAIiT FISH BOILED. 

146. Salted Fish requires Soakmg, according to I3ie Ume it has been in 
Salt ; — ^trust not to those you buy it of, but taste a bit of one of the 
flakes ; that which is hard and dry requires two nights* soaking, chang- 
ing the water two or three times ; the intermediate day, lay it on ft 
stone-floor', — for Barrelled Cod less time will do ; a nd for the best 

* The author of the (Joo^s Cockerp, 8to. page 116, does not seem to thi&k this 
/Ish can be too freah ; for he oommenoes his directions with, '* ^pou eon, get a 
Cod hot out of the Sea," &c. 

The TAIL is so moch thinner than the thick part of the body, that, if boiled 
together, the former will be boiled too much— before the latter is done enovgh 
—therefore it should be dressed separate, and the best way of cooking it is to 
fir it in Slices or Fillets. See (Ifil). 

" CfDd generally comes into good season in October, when, if the weather is 
cold, it eats as fine as at any time in the year ; towards the latter end of January- 
and Februarr, and part of March, they are mostly poor ; but the latter end of 
March, April, and Sf ay, they are graierally particularly fine ; having shot their 
spawn, they come in fine order. The Doi^^-Bank Cod are the most esteemed, 
as they genersdly cut in laige fine fiakes : the north<countnr C!od, which ar» 
caught on the Orkney Isles, are generally very stringy, or what is commonly 
called wooUy, and sell at a rerj inferior price, but are caught in much greater 
abundance than the Dogger Coa. The Cod are all caught with hook, and brought 
•lire in well-boats to the London markets. The Cod cured on the Dogger-Buik 
is remarkably fine, and seldom cured aboye two or three weeks before brought 
to market ; the Barrd Cod is commonly cured on the coast of Scotland and 
Yoricshire. There is a great deal of inferior cured salt-fish brought from New* 
fimndfamd and IceUmd. 

** The Skull of a 0ogger-Bank Cod is one of those concatenations tuf'tU bHs 
which some epicures are fond of either baked or boiled : it is composed of lots 
of pretty playthings or such finery, but will not do for those who want a good 
vatki : it may be 1x>ught for about 8s. : either boil it whole, or cut it into pieces 
—flour and dry them, and then egg and crumb, and fir them, or stew it (155). 

'' The TAIL of a Cod cut in fillets, or slices, and fried, makes a good didi, and 
is generally to be bought at a very reasonable rate ;— if boiled, it is soft and wa- 
tery. 7^ SkuU and Tail of a Cod is a favourite and excellent Scoteh dish, 
■tewed, and served up with Anchovy or Oyster Sauce, with the liquor it is boiled 
in, in a Tureen. 

" Ling is brought to the London market in the same manner as Cod, but is 
Texy inferior to it, either fresh or salt" 



FISH. 173 

Dogger-Bmlk Split Fish^ which hag not been more than a fortnight 
or three weeks in salt, still less will be needful. 

Put it into plenty of cold water, and let it simmer very gently till 
it is enough — if the water boils, the Fish will be tough and thready.* 
For Egg sauce, see (239), and to boil Red Beet-root (126) ; Pars- 
neps (127) ; Carrots (128). Garnish Salt Fish with the yolks of 
£gg8 cut into quarters. 

da. — ^Our favourite vegetable accompaniment is a dish of equal 
parts of Red Beet-root and Parsneps. 

If.B. Salted Fish differs in Quality quite as mMch as it does in Price, 

SLICES OF COD BOILBD. 

147. Half an hour before you dress them, put them into cold spring- 
water with some salt in it. 

Lay them at the bottom of a fish-kettle, with as much cold spring- 
water as will cover them, and some salt ; set it on a quick fire, and 
when it boils, skim it, and set it on one side of the fire to boil very 
gently, for about ten minutes, according to its size and thickness. 
Garnish with scraped Horseradish, slices of Lemon, and a slice of 
the Liver on one side, and Chitterling on the other. Oyster sauce 
(246) and Plain Butter, 

0&«.~«Slices of Coo (especially the Tail, split) are very good, 
FRIED like Soles (141), or stewed in Gravy like Eels (162, or 308). 

FRESH STURGEON. 

148. The best mode of dressing this, is to have it cut in thin 
slices like Veal Cutlets, and broiled, and rubbed over with a bit of 
Butter, and a little Pepper, and served very hot, and eaten with a 
squeeze of Lemon Juice. Great care, however, must be taken to 
cut off the skin before it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if burnt, 
imparts a disgusting flavour to the fish. The flesh is very flne, and 
comes nearer to Veal, perhaps, than even Turtle. 

Sturgeon is frequently plentiful and reasonable in the London 
shops. We prefer this mode of dressing it to the more savoury one 
of stewing it in rich gravy, like Carp, &c. which overpowers the pe- 
culiar flavour of the fish. 

* " In the sea-port towns of the New England States in North America, it 
has been a custom, time immemorial, among people of fashion, to dine one day 
in the week (Saturday) on Salt Fi«ft,— and a long habit of preparing the same 
dish has, as might hare been expt^ited, led to very considerable improvements 
in the art of cooking it. I have often heard foreigners declare, that they never 
tasted Salt Fish dressed in such perfection ; the secret qf Cooking it, is to Keep it 
for several hours in water that is juH scalding hot, but which is never mad© 
^/ptually to boil."— Count Bumford's 10th Essay, p. 18. 



174 THB cook's oracle. 

WHIYIMGB PRIBB. 

149. Skin* them, preserve the Liver, and fasten their Tails to 
their mouths : dip them in egg, then in bread-cnunbs, and fiy them 
in hot lard (read 141), or split them, an9%^f^m i&e fiHets of 
Soles (143) 

A three-quart stew-pan, half full of fiit, is the best utensil to fry 
Whitings. They will be done enough in about five minutes ; but 
it will sometimes require a quarter of an hour to drain the fkt from 
them and dry them (if the fiit you put them into was not hot enough), 
turning them now and then with a Fish-slice. 

069.— When WkiHngs are scarce, the Fishmongers can skin and 
truss young Codlings^ so that you can hardly tell the difference, ex- 
cept that a Codling wears a beard, and a WhiUng does not : this dis- 
tinguishing mark is sometimes cut off; however, if you turn up his 
Jowl, you may see the mark where the beard was, and thus discover 
whether He be a Eeal Whiting, or a Shaved Codling. 

SKATB FMIBD. 

150. After you have cleaned the fish, divide it into fillets, dry 
them on a clean cloth ; beat the yolk and white of an egg thoroughly 
togeth^»,4ip the fish in this, and then in fine bread-crumbs ; fiy it 
in hot fam or drippings till it is of a delicate brown colour ; lay it 
on a hair-sieve to drain : garnish with crisp Parsley (278) — and some 
like Caper Sauce, with an Anchovy in it. 

PIiAIOB OR FlaOUNDBRS, FBIBD OR BOILBD. 

151. Flounders are perhaps the most difficult fish to fry very nicely. 
Clean them well, flour them, and wipe them with a dry cloth to ab- 
sorb all the water from them ; flour or egg and bread-crumb them, 
&c as directed in (141). 

TO BOIL FLOUNDBRS. 

Wash and clean them well, cut the black side of them the same 
afi you do Turbot, then put them into a fish-kettle, with plenty oF 
cold water, and a handful of salt ; when they come to a boil, skim 
them clean, and let them stand by the siiie of the fire for five mi- 
Butea, and they are ready. u^ 

Obs, — ^Eaten with plain melted butter and a little salt, you havo 
the sweet delicate flavour of the floonder, which is overpowered by 
any sauce. 

* The French do not flaj them— but split them— dip them in fionr, and fr^ 
them in hot dripping. 



PISH. 175 

WATBB BOX7GHY,« 

152. Is made with Floanden, Whitings^ Gndgeoni, or Eel& 
These must Ije quite fresk, and yery niedf detmed ; for idiat they 
are boiled in, is the Mwee for them. 

Wash, gat, and trim your Fish, cut them into handsome pieces, 
and |nit them into a stew-pan with just as much water as will coTer 
them, with some parsley, or parsley roots idioed, an onion minced 
fine, and a little pepper and salt (to this some Cooks add some 
scraped Hoiseradiafa and a Bay leaf) ; skim it carefully when it 
boils ; when your Fish is done enough (which it will be in a few 
minutes), send it up in a deep dish, lined with bread sippets, and 
some slices of bread and butter on a plate. 

Obs, — Some Cooks thicken the liquor the Fish has been stewing 
in with flour and butter, and flavour it with white wine, LemoA* 
^uice, ZLsence of Anchovy, and Catchup — and boil down two or 
three Flounders, &c. to make a fish broth, to boil the other fisH in, 
observing, that the Broth cannot be good, unless the fish arcT boil- 
ed too much. 

HADDOCK BOILED. 

153. Wash it well, and put it on to boil, aa directed in (145), a 
Haddock ni three pounds will take about ten minutes after the kt^t- 
tle boilSb 

Haddocks salted a day or tApt, are eaten with egg sauce, or cut 
in fillets, and fided. Or, if small, very well broiled, or baked, with 
« pudding in their belly, and some good gravy. 

Ob»^—A. Piscivorous Epicure protests that ** Haddock is the poor* 
4St fiah that swims, an(i has neither the delicacy of the Whiting, nor 
. file juiciness of the Cod.** 

FINDHORN HADDOCKS. 

, 154. liCt the Fish be well cleaned and laid in Salt for two hours, 
let the water drain from them, and*ihen wet them with the Pyro^^ 
Ugneoua Acid^^.^4hej may be split or not, — ^they are then to be hung 
iM diy situation for a day or two, or a week or two, if you please ; 
^ ^^^-^w^henlCToiled. they have all the flavour of the Findhom Haddock, and 
wOTicAep sweet for a long time. 

The Pj* -^li^eous acid, applied in the same way to Beef or Mut- 
ton, gives the fine smoke flavour, and may be kept for a consider- 
able length of time. 

* One «f mj dJinaxT Connsellon says, the heading of this Receipt should he, 
* ' Hote to dms a good aish ofPUh wMU Ok Cfhth i» lapinff^'* If the articles arer 
taktf^ tvelre minntet will do it, niih very little tioable or expense. For richer 
stewed Fish, see (16^^ 



176 



THE COOK 8 ORACLE. 



Scotcfi way of dressing Haddocks A HacTdbck is quite like a dif^ 

ferent iish in -London and in Edinburgh, which arises chiefly from 
the manner in which they are treated : a Haddock should never ap« 
pear at table with its head and . skin on. For boiling^ they are all 
the better for lying a night in salt ; of course they do not take so 
long to boil without the skin, and require to be well skimmed to 
preserve the colour. — After lying in salt for a night, if you hang 
them up for a day or two, they are very good broiled and served 
with cold butter. For frying, they should be split and boned very 
oarefully, and divided into convenient pieces, if too laige to TuUve 
merely ; egg and crumb them, and fry in a good deal of lard ; they 
resemble soles when dressed in this manner. There is another very 
delicate mode of dressing them ; you split the fish, rub it well ^th 
butter, and do it before the fire in the Dutch oven. 



TO STEW COD'S HEAD, SOLES, CAftP, 
TROUT, PEBCH, BEL, OR FLOUNDER, 



t 

m 
t 




155. See also (162). When the Fish has been properly washed, 
lay it in a stew-pan, with half a pint of Claret or Port Wine, and a 
quart of good gravy (287) ; — a large onion, a dozen* berries of black 
pepper, the same of allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of mace ; 
cover the fish-kettle close, and let Jit stew gOnt]|; for ten or twenty 
minutes, according to the thickne«ft>f jjj^ fish : take the .fish up, 
lay it on a hot dish, cover it up, and thicken the liquor it was stew-: 
ed in with a little flour, and season it with Pepper, Salt, Essence of 
Anchovy, Mushroom Catchup, and a little Chili Vinegar : when it 
has boiled ten minutes, strain it through a %iiiis, and pour it oi 
the fish ; if there is more sauce than the dish will hold, send 
rest up in a boat. 

The River Trout comes into season in April, and continues till - 
July ; it is a delicious fish ; those caught near Uxbridge come tor> 
town quite alive. 
The Eels and Perck from the same water are very fine. • 

Obs. — ^These fish are very nice plain boiled, with (234 or 21 
for sauce ; some Cooks dredge them with flour, and fry them a 1^| 
brown before they put them on to stew, and stuff them tv:^X^17), 
or some of the stuffings following. ^ ^' 

TO DRESS THEM MAZaRE. 

156. Put the Fish into a stew-pan, with a laige onion, four Clovefl, 
fifteen berries of Allspice, and the same of Black Pepper~^us^ 
cover them with boiling water, set it where they will simmer gMtl^ 






\i 



I*' 



m 






% 



FI8H* 



irr 



Anr ieft or twenty xttinutet, abcdidSng to the sue of the Fiih; ttram 
ofF the liqour in another aCew-pan, leanng the Fnh to keep waim 
ciil the Sauce is ready. 

Bub together on a plate as much flour and butter as will make 
the Sftoee as thick as a dotiUe Cream. Each Pint tfScmee sewoa 
with a glass of Wine, half as much Mushroom Catchup, a tea-spooi»- 
fol of Essence of Anchovy^ and a few grains of Oayense ; let it boil 
a few minutes, put the Fith on a.deep dish, stfsin the Grniry oret 
it; gamishit with Sippets of Bread toasted or fried (379). 

K.B. The Editor has paid particular attention to the above Re» 
ceipt-.4ind also to (209), which CathoUa, and thote wkot^JUlij/i(n^ 
tmeU do not aUow ihsm to eat Mmt tm Mature Days, will findft Teiy 
eatiafiictory siibstitnte for the Mmt Cfravy Soup (192). 
For Saucb ]>or Maiobx Diraxa, see (210, 270, and 808). 

^Mushroom Catchup (B75) and Onions (848) supply the 

Kof Heat better than any thing ; if you have not these^ Wine, 

(384),— .Curry Powder (383),-.Aromatic Boots and Herbs, 

;hovy amd Soy,>.-or Oyster Catchup (377), variously combined, 

thickened with flour and butter, aze eonvenient sabstitutes. 

MUilORB FISH VIBS. 

For Fish Pies, ws (485, 486). 




., BOACH, DAQS, GUDGEONS, Anv FBIED. 

157. Wash the Fish well,-^wipe them on a dry doth,~flour 
than li^tly all aver, and fry them ten minutes (see 141) in hot 
lard or drippings ; lay them on a luur-fieve to drain ; send them up 
«» a hot dish, ganiahed with sprigs of green paidey. Anchovy 
fauce, (241 and 371). 

PBBOH BOILBD. 

: 158. fUean them carefhlly, and put them In a flsh-kettle, with as 
much cold spring-water as will cover them, with a handful of salt ; 
«et them on a quick fire till they boil ; when they boil, set them 
one side to boil gently for about ten miautei^ according to their 



dZGu 



SAIiM ON, HBBBI 



.1 ' 

NGS, SPBAfTB, KAOKBBBI>|te. 
piCKXiBO. 

159. Cut the Fish into proper pieces, do not take off the scales 
_^m&ke a brine strong enough to bear an Egg, in which boil the 
FiahJ—ii must be boiled in only just liquor enough to cover it — do 
not overboil it When the fish is boiled, lay it slantingly to drain 



17S THE cook's OBACLE. 

off all the liquor — ^when cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them 
up with equal parts of the liquor the Salmon was boiled in (having- 
first well skimmed it), and best Vinegar ; let them rest for 8 day, 
fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with a Cooper^s adze, until 
the kit will receive no more — ^then head them down as dose as pos- 
sible. 

Obs. — ^This is in the finest condition when fresh, Salmon is 
most plentiful about Midsummer ; the season for it is from February 
to September. Some sprigs af^«A-gathered youn^f Fennel are the 
accompaniments. 

N.B. "^he three indispensable marks of the goodness of Funded 
Salmon are, Ist, The brightness of the scales, and their sticking 
fast to the skin ; 2dly, The firmness of the flesh ; and, 3dly, Its 
fine pale red rose colour : — ^without these it is not fit to eat, and was 
either stale before it was pickled, or has been kept too long after. 

The above was given us as the actual practice of those who jfKickle 
it for the London market 

N.B. Pickled Salmon warmed by steam, or in its pickle liquor, is 
a favourite dish at Newcastle. 

SALMON BOILED.* 

160. Put on a fish-kettle, with spring water enough to well cover 
the Salmon you are going to dri^ss, or the Salmon will neither look 
nor taste well : (boil the Liver in a separate sauce-pan.) When 
the water boils, put in a handful of salt, take off- the sciun as soon 
as it rises, have the fish well washed, put it in, and if it is thick, let 
it boil very gently ; Salmon requires almost as much boiling as 
Meat, about a quarter of an hour to a pound of fish ; but practice 

* Salmon. The earliest that comes in season to the London market isbroneht 
from the Severn, and begins to come into season the beginning of November, but 
very few so early, perhaps not above one in fifty, as many of tnem will not shoot 
their spawn till Janaarr, or after, and then continue in season till October, when 
thev begin to get very tnin and poor. The principal supply of Salmon is from 
difierent parts of Scotland, packed in ice, and brought by water : if the vessete 
have a fair wind, they will be in London in three days ; but it frequently happens 
that they are at sea perhaps a fortnight, when the greater part of the fish is pe- 
rished, and has, for a year of two past, sold as low as two-pence per pound, and 
up to as much as eighteen-pence per pound at the same time, owing to its diffe- 
rent degrees of goodness. This accounts for the very low prices at which the 
itinerant fishmongers ory their "ddiaite Salmon," "dainty frah Salmon," and 
" Live CW' " New Madcera," &c. &c. 

" Salmon Gwilts, or Salmon Ped, are the small salmon which run from about 
five or six pounds to ten pounds, are very go*d fish, and make handsome dishes 
of fish, sent to table crooked in the form of an S. 

" Berwick Trout are a distinct fish from the gwilts, and are caught in the 
Biver Tweed, and dressed in the same manner as thegwilt. 

" Calvered Salmon is the salmon caught in the Thames, and cut into alicM 
alive ; and some few saimon are brought from Oxford to London alive, and cut. 
A few slices make a handsome, genteel dish, but it is generallj very expensive; 
eometimes l&s. per pound." 






FISH. 179 

onlj. can perfect the Cook in dreBsing Salmon :«-^ quaHer of a Sal- 
mon will take almost as long boiling as half a. one ;' you must con* 
sider the Thidaiem — ^not the Weight — ten pounds of fine full-grown 
Salmra will be done in an hour and a quarter. Lobster Sauce, (249). 

Ofts-^-The thinnest part of the Fish is the fia,ttest, and if you have 
a ** Grand Churmand^^ at table, ask him if he is for thick or thin. 

The Thames Salmon is* preferred in tlie London Market; and 
some Epicures pretend to be able to distinguish by the taste, in 
which reach of the River it was caught ! ! ! 

N.B. I/you have any left, put it into a pie-dish, and cover it with 
an equal portion of Vinegar and Pump>water, and a little salt ; it 
will be ready in three days. 

FRESH SALMON BROILED. 

161. Clean the Salmon well, and cut it into slices about an inch 
and a half thick ; dry it thoroughly in a clean cloth, rub it over 
fith sweet oil, or thick melted butter, and sprinkle a little salt over 
it ; put your gridiron over a clear fire, at some distance ; when it 
is hot wipe it clean, rub it with sweet oil or lard ; lay the salmon 
on, and when it is done on one side, turn it gently and broil the 
other. Anchovy sauce, &c. 

Obs. — ^An oven does them best. 

SOLES OR B E L S^* &c. &c. stewbd Wigg y's way. 

162. Take two pounds of fine silveri* eels *, — the best are those that 
are rather more than a half-crown piece in circumference, quite 
fresh, full of life, and ^ as brisk as an Eel ;^* such as have been kept 
out of the water till they can scarce stir, are good for nothing. 
Out them, rub them with salt till the slime is cleaned from them, 
wash them in several different waters, and divide them into pieces 
about four inches long. 

Some Cooks, after skinning them, dredge them with a littie 
flour, wipe them dry, and then egg and cnmib them, and fry them 
in drippings till they are brown, and lay th^m to dry on a hair-sieve. 

Have ready a quart of good Beef Gravy (287) ; it must be cold 
when you put the Kels into it ; set them on a slow fire to simmer 
very gently for about a quarter of an hour, according to the size of the 
eels ;..watch them, that they are not done too much ; take them 

* Small Fish and Fillets of Whiting, Tnrbots, Brills, Sec and slices of Cod, or 
the head or tail of it, are excellent dressed the same way. 

j The YeOow Kels taste muddy : Ihc fFhitenets of the belly of the iish is not the 
only mark to know the hest ; the right oolonr of the hack is a very hright couDery 
hue : the OUve oolonied are inferior ; and those tending to a green are wox*. 



180 THE cook's oracle. 

carefully out of the stew-pan with a fishrslioe, so ta not to tear their 
coats, and i&y them on. a dish about two indies deep^ 

Or, if for Maiffre JOa^ when you hare skinned yoor Eels, throw 
the skins into salt and water, wash them well, tim put them into 
a stew-pan with a quart of water, two oaumsj with tisro' doves stuck 
in each, and one blade of Baace ; let H boil tworty Fi^nwM-ri^s acnd 
strain it through a sieve into a basin. 

Make this sauce about as thick as cream, by mrnng alittle flout 
with it ; put in also two table-spoonsful of Port wine» and oneof Mush* 
room Catchup, or Cavice ; stir it into the sauee by degrees^ give it 
a boil, and strain it to the fish through a sieve. 

N.B. If Mushroom Sauce (210, 270), or White SaueeXSOS), be 
used instead of Beef Gravy, this will be one of the most relisihing 
Maigre dishes we know. 

Oba. — ^To kUl Eds instaKtly^ without the horrid torture of catling 
and skinning them alive, pierce the spinal manow, dose to the beck 
part of the skull, with a sharprpointsd skewer : if this be done in 
the right place, aiU motion will instantly cease. — ^The humane Exe* 
cutioner does certain eiinuaals the Ihvour to hang them before he 
breaks them on the wheel, 

TO FRY EBIiS. 

163. Skin and gut them, and wash them well in cold water, cut 
them in pieces four inches long; season them with pejj^Ma* and salt ; 
beat an egg well onr a plate, dip .them in. the egg, and the& in^ fine 
bead-crumbs ; fry them in fiesh dean lard, drain them well from 
the fat, garnish with crisp parsley \ — for SaoGe^ plain and melted 
butter, sharpened wkh lesnonrjuice, or Parsley and Butter. 

8PITCHCOCKBD EBLS. 

164. This the French Cooks call the English way of dressing Elels. 
Take two middling-sised silver Eds> leave the skia on, scour 

them vrith salt, and wash them, cut off the heads, slit them on thje 
belly side, and take out the bone and guts and wash and wipe th^n 
nicely ; then cut them into pieces about three inches long, and 
wipe them quite diy ; put two ouncea of butter into a stew-pan 
with a little mineed paisley, thyme, sage, pepi>er, and salt, aiui a 
very little chopped eschalot \ set the stew-pan over the fire ; whrnt 
the butter is melted, stir the ingredients together, and take it off 
the fire, mix the yolks <rf tw« eggs with them^ and dip. the Eel in . 
a piece at a time, and then roil thentin bread-erumbs, makiBg as 
mudi stick to them as you can ; tiien rub the gridiron with a bit 
of suet, set it high over a very clear fire, and broH your Eds* of « 



FISH. 181 

fine cri^ brown : dish them with cri^ parsley, and aeud up with 
plain butter in a boat, and anchoyy and butttf. 

Oba^—We like them better with tlie skin off; it is Tery apt to 
c^end delicate stomachs. 

MACKBREIi BOI&BD. 

1^5. TMs Fish loses its li& as soon as it leaves the Sea, and the 
fresker it is the better. 

WaA and cLboh Hum tkonmgify (the fishmoagers aeldom do this 
«n««^tly), put them into cold water with a handful of salt in it ; 
let tliem lather sunmer UhUi boil ; a small mack^^l will be done 
enongfa in about a quarter of an hour ; when the Eye starts and 
the Tail splits — ^they are done ; do not let them stand in the water 
a Boment after ; they are so ddicate that the heat of the water 
win bieak them. 

Tliis fish,iaLondoB, is lazely fresh enough to aj^ftear at table in 
pezfeetion; aadcither iheMaekenl is boiled too much, or the Ro4* 
too Uttle. The best way is to open a slit opposite the middle of the 
roe, you can then dean it properly; this will allow the water access, 
and the roe will then be done as 80<m as the fish, which it seldom is 
otherwise ; some sagacious ffourmaaids insist upon it they must be 
taken out and boiled separately. For sauce, see (235, 237, and 
238) ; and you may garnish them with pats of minced Fennel. 

N.B. The eommon notion is, that Mackerel are in best condition 
«4)en fullest of See ; howerer, the Fish at that time is only yalu- 
afaAe Sk its Boe, — ^the Meat of it has soscroely any flavour. 

Maeberd generally make thdr af^^eaonce off the Land's End 
about the beginning of April ; and as the weather gets warm they 
gradually come round the coast, and generally arrive off Brighton 
about "May^ and continue for some months, until they b^gin to shoot 
their spawn. 

After they have let go their Boes, they are called shotten mac- 
kerel, and are not worth catching ; the Boe, which was all that 
was good of them, being gone. 

It ism the early teaaon, fcktm Qejf ham kmt Hoe, that ihe flesh of 
ikk Fitk ig in hi^Mt per/ieU<m. There is also an after-season, when 
a few fine large Mackerel are taken (i. e, during the Herring season, 
about October), which some piscivorous Epicures are very partial 
tfli,— ihese fish having had time to fatten and recover their Health, 
ate fiill of hifjti flavour, and their flesh is firm and juicy ; they are 
eomnonly called Siimr Mackerel^ from their beautifrd appearance, 

- * The HoKof th« Male FkhitMA like the bxatauofa Calf,— thatof«hePemate 
leMl €»f scaaU eggf^ and called Aard Boe. 



182 THE cook's Oracle. 

their colour being almost as bright when boiled as it was the mo- 
ment they were caught. 

MACKEREIi BBOIIiED. 

] 66. Clean a fine laige mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and cut a 
long slit down the back ; lay it on a clean gridiron, over a very 
clear slow fire ; when it is done on one side, turn it : be cazefiil 
that it does not bum ; send it up with FennelHBauce (237) ; mix 
well together a little finely minced Fennel and Parsley, seasoned 
with a little Pepper and Salt, a bit of fresh Butter, and when the 
Mackerel are ready for the table, put some of this into each fish. 

MACKEREXi BAKED. 

167. Cut off their heads, open them, and take out the roes and clean 
them thoroughly ; rub them on the inside with a little pepper and 
salt, put the roes in again, season them (with a mixture of powdered 
allspice, black pepper, and salt, well rubbed together), und lay 
them close in a baking-pan, cover them with equal quantities of 
cold vinegar and water, tie them down with strong white paper 
doubled, and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. They will 
keep for a fortnight. 

pickimEd m aokebexi, herrings, or sprats. 

168. Procure them as fresh as possible, split them, take off the 

heads, and trim off the thin part of the belly, put them into salt 

and water for an hour, drain and wipe your fish, and put them into 

jars or casks, with the following preparation, which is enough for 

three dozen Mackerel. Take salt, and bay-salt, one pound each, 

saltpetre and lump-sugar, two ounces each ; grind and pound the 

sfLlt, &c. well together, put the fish into jars or casks, with a layer 

of the preparation at the bottom, then a layer of mackerel with the 

skin-side downwards, so continue alternately till the cask or jar is 

full ; press it down and cover it close. In about three months they 

will be fit for use. 

SPRATS BBOZIaED. 

169. If you have not a Sprat Gridiron, get a piece of pointed iron 
wire as thick as packthread, and as long as your gridiron is broad ; 
run this through the heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour and 
salt over them, — ^put your gridiron over a clear quick fire, turn 
them in about a couple of minutes ; when the other side is brown, 
draw out the wire, and send up the fish vrith melted butter in acupL 

Obs. ^That Sprats are young Herrings, is evident by their ana- 
tomy, in which Uiere is no perceptible difference. They appear very 



FI3H. 183 

Boon^aiier the Herrings are gone, and seem to be the spa^vn just 

viyified. 

SPRATS FRIED. 

See (173). 

SPRATS STEWED. 

170. Wash and dry your Sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a stew-pan, and between every layer of Sprats put three pep- 
percorns, and as many aUspice, with a few grains of salt ; barely 
cover than with vinegar, and stew them one hour over a slow fire ; 
they must not boil ; a bay-leaf is sometimes added. Herrings or 
^Mackerel may be stewed the same way. 

To Fry SpraU, see (173). 

HERRINQS BROILED. 

171. Wash them well, then dry them with a cloth, dust them 
with fiour, and broil them over a slow fixe till they are well done. 
Send up melted butter in a boat. 

Ohi. — For a particular account of Herrings, see Solas Dodd's 
Natnral Hist, <f Herrings, in 178 pages 8vo. 1752. 

BSD HERRINGS AND OTHER D|tIED FISH. 

172. *^ Should be cooked in the same manner as now practised 
by the Pocmt in Scotland. They soak them in water until they be- 
come pretty finesh ; they are then hung up in the Sun and Wind on 
a stick through their Eyes, to dry ; and then boiled or broiled. In 
this way they eat almost as well as if they w»e new caught.^ — See 
the HoiL John Cochranb's Seanum'g Guide, 8vo. 1797, p. 34. 

^iSbo^ .^To^ie^oc^ should he soaked all night. You may boil or 
broil them ; if you broil, split them in two. 

** All the difieient sorts of Dried Fieh, except Stock Fish — are 
nlted, dried in the Sun, in prepared kilns, or by the smoke of wood 
fines ; and require to be softened and freshened, in proportion to 
their bulk, nature, or dryness ; the very dry sort, as Cod, WkOing^ 
&e. should be steeped in lukewarm water, kept as near as possible 
to An equal d^pree of heat. The larger Fish should be steeped 
twelve hours, the smaller about two ; after which they should be 
taken out and hung up by the tails until they are dressed. The 
reason for hanging them up is, that they soft^i equally as in the 
steeping, without extracting too much of ih^ relish, which would 
render them insipid. When thus prepared, the small fish, as Whi- 
ting, Tusks, &c. i^ould be floured and laid on the gridiron ; and 
when a little hardened, on one side, must be turned and basted with 
sweet oil upon a feather ; and.when basted on both sides, and weU 



184 THE cook's oracle. 

heated fhroogii, taken up. A dear chttonl fize ii the best fer 
cooking tbem, and the Fish should be kept at a good distance, to 
broil gradually. Wheh they are done enough they viU swell a little 
in the basting, and you must not let them &I1 again. Xf boUed, a« 
the laiger fish geneially are, they should be kept just simmering 
orer an equal fire, in idiich way half an hour will do the laigcst 
fish, and ire minutes the smallest. 

<* Dried Salmon, though a huge fiih, does not require mora steep- 
ing than a Whiting ; and when laid on the gridiron should be 
modeFBtdy peppered. To ff erring and to all kinds ef hroOed Soli 
Fitk, sweet oil is the best besting.*' 

The aboTe is from Macdonald*s Zomfam FamSy Cboft, 8vOk 
1808, p. 139. 

Obe, — ^Dr. Harte, in his Esaay on Diet, 1633, fol. p. 91, protests, 
^ a Red Herring doHi nourish Uttle, and is hard of coneoction, but 
Tery good to make a cup of good drink relish well, and may bewril 
caUed ' The Drunkard's Delight: *" 

SMEIiTS, OVDiaSONB, 8PBATS, OSOTHSR 
SMALIi FISH FRIED. 

173. Clean and dry them thoroughly in a cloth, fty tiiem plain, 
er beat an egg en -a plate, dip them in it, aad then, in vezy fine 
biead-cnmibs that have been rubbed throuf^ a siere: the smaller 
the Fidi, the finer should be the bread-«rumbay.^Biteuit Powderis 
sUU better ; fry them in plenty of dean lard or drippin^i ; as moo 
as the laid boils and is still, put in the fish; when they aredeli* 
cately browned, th^ are done ; this wfll haidly take two mmntflf. 
Ihain them on a hair-oeve, placed before tlie fire, tuming them till 
quite dry.-.069. Bead (Ul). 

* SnuUa are allowed to be caught in the^ Thames, on the fiist of 
November, and eontinae till Hay. The Thames amdts aie the best 
and fweetest, Ibr two reasons ; they are fredier and riohra than any 
ether yeu can get : they catch them much more plfn tifal and laiger 
hi Lancashire and Norfolk, but not so good : a greait maay 9m 
brought to town from Norfolk, but barely come good, as they are * 
ish which should always be eaten frei^ ; indeed all river Fias 
riiottld be eaten fresh, except Salmon, whidi, unless erimped, eati 
better the seoood <» third day ; but aU Thames fish, 
should be eaten Teiy fresh ; no fish eats so bad kept' 



w 



POTTSD PRAWNS, 8HRIWP8, OR CRAY-FISH. 

174. BoU them in water with plenty ofSalt in it. When yov 
hnve picked them, powder them with« little beaten macfs, er gmtfti 



FISH. 185 

Biitmeg, or allapioe, aad pepper and telt ; add a UtUe e<^ bulter, 
and pound all well together )n a marble mortar till of the tOBtub' 
eiioe of paste. ' Put it into pots oorered vith clarified butter, and 
oorer them over vith vetted bladder. 

IiOBSTSB. 

175. Bitj tiiese Ativei—ihe Lobster Merchants someiiiiMS keep 
tkeni mi tbef an starved, before they boil them ; they are then 
mitersr, haire not half their flaTour, aod, like otider Ptncm thtit dh 
ffa ConmmpHon-.~Aane lost the Ckdf <if tlievr L^, 

Ghooae tiiose that (as an old Cook says, are ** HtonjfcmiJjMy^ 
Mid) an Ml of motion, which is the Index of their fieshness. 

Those of the middle size are the best. Nener tak$ them when lis 
theU » inenutedf which is a sign they are old. The Male Lobster 
is preferred to JSat, and the Female (on account of the Eggs) to 
make JSfouee 9f, The H«i Lobster is distingnished by having a 
hnmder Tail than the Male, and less Claws. 

Set on a pot, with water salted in the proportion of a table-epoon- 
fiil of salt to a quart of water : when the water boils, put it in, and 
keep it boiling briskly from half aa boor to an hour, according to 
its fuse; wipe aU the scum off it, and rub the shell with a T^ry little 
batter or sweet oil; hreak off the great claws, cniek them Garefolly 
in each joint, so that they may not be shattered and yet omne to 
pieefls easily ; eat the tail down the middle, and send up the body 
wbole. For Bailee, (350). To pot Lobstw, (177). 

V^ Tk€» FmhwvMinnhovit Aprils <mi amtinuepUiUifultill tke O^ 

Urmcmm returns ; suiter that time they begin to spawn, and s^om 

open solid. 

CRAB. 

17^. The above obsonrations apply to Crabs, which should neither 
be too email nor too Isige. The best size are those which measure 
about eight inehes aoross the shoulders. 

' *«* Cr<iii$ appear and disappear about the same time as Lobsters. 
Ths Cromer Crabs are mat esteemed; but numbers are brought from 
Uie ide cf WigU, 

POTTSB XiOBSTSm OR CRAB. 

177. This must be made with fine Hen Lobsters when full of 
spawn ; boil them thoroughly, (see 175) ; when cold, piek out all 
the soUd meat, and pound it in a moitar ; it is usual to add, by de- 
grees (a Ye jy little), finely pounded mace, black or Cayenne pepper^ 
jnlt, and, while pounding, a little butter. When the whole is we« 
mixed, and beat to the consistence of paste, press it down hard ii» a 



186 THE cook's ORACLE. 

preserving-pot, pour clarified butter over it, and corer it with wetted 
bladder. 

Oli». — Some pot Lobster without pounding it, and only cut it or 
puU it into such pieces as if it was prepared for sauce, and mince it 
with the spawn and soft parts and seasoning, and press it together 
as close as possible ; in packing it, place the coral and spawn, &c. 
in layers, so that it may look regular and handsome when cut out. 
If you intend it as store (see N.B. to 249, to make sauce with), thiB 
is the best way to do it — ^but if for Sandwiches, &c the first is the 
best, and will keep much longer. 

Dressed or Buttered Lobsters and Grabs, are fiaivourite orna- 
mental dishes with those who deck their table merely to please the 
Eye. Our apology for not giving sueh receipts wiU be found in 

Obs. to (283). 

OYSTERS.* 

178. The common f Colchester and Feveisham Oyvters are 
brought to market on the 5th of August *, — ^the Milton, or, as they 
are commonly <»lled, the melting Natives,'^ do not come in till the 
beginning of October, continue in season till the 12th of May, and 
approach the meridian of their perfection about Christmas. 

Some piscivorous Gourmands think that Oysters are not best when 
quite fresh from their beds, and that their flavour is too brackish 
and harsh, and is much ameliorated by giving them a feed. 

To Feed § Oysters. — ^Cover them with clean water, with a -pint of 
salt to about two gallons (nothing else, no oatmeal, flour, nor any 
other trumpery) ; this will cleanse them from the mud and sand, 
&c. of the bed ; after they have lain in it twelve hours, change it 
for fresh salt and water, and in twelve hours mone they will be in 
prime order for the Mouth, and remain so two or three days v— at 
the time of high water you may see them open their shells, in ex- 
pectation of receiving their usual food. This process of feeding 
oysters is only employed when a great many «ome up together. 

Tlie real Colchester, or Ptflebt Barrelled Oysters^ that are 

* Oyster Sauce, (246) ; Preserved Oysters, (247). 

t Those are called Common Oj^Un, which are picked up on the French ooMt» 
and laid in the Colchester beds. 

These are never so fine and &t as the Nativks, and seldom recover the shock 
their feeliogs receive from being transported from their native place ;— delicate 
little Creatures, they are as estquisite m their own taste as they are to the taste 
of others! 

t Oysters are thus called, that are bom, as well as bred and fed, in this conU' 
try, and are mostly spit in the Bumham and Mersey rivers ; they do not come 
to their finest condition till they are near four years old. 

S Will RiiBiSHA, in his Receipt to *' broU Oysters" (tee his Cookery, page 144), 
directs, that while they are undergoing this operation, they should* be fid with 
v^te wine and orated bread. 

In Boylr'b Works, 4to. 1772, vol. ii. p. 450, there is a very ciirious Chapter 
«B Eating or Oyotsbs. 



ptsH. 18T 

packed at the beds, are better without being put in water ; they are 
carefully and tightly packed, and must not be disturbed till wanted 
for table ; these, in moderate weather, will keep good for a week or 
ten days. 

If an Oyster opens his mouth in the barrel, he dies immediately.. 

To preserve the life of Barrelled Oysters^ put a hea^y weight on 
the wooden top of the barrel, which is to be placed on the surface 
of the oysters. This is to be effected by removing the first hoop, 
the staves will then spread and stand erect, make a wide opening 
for the head of the barrel to fall down closely on the remaining fish, 
keeping them close together. 

Mem. — The Oysters which are commonly sold vja Barrelled OysterSy 
are merely the smallest natives, selected from the stock, and put 
into the Tub when ordered ; and, instead of being of superior qua- 
lity, are often very inferior. To immature Animals there is the 
same objection as to unripe vegetables. 

Obs ^Common people are indifferent about the marnier of open-, 

mg Oysters, and the time of eating them after they are opened ; 
nothing, however, is more important in the enlightened eyes of the 
experienced Oyster-eater. 

Those who wish to enjoy this delicious restorative in its utmost 
perfection, must eat it ^ mofnent it is opened^ with its own gravy in 
the mider shell ; if not Ea;^ while Absolutely Alive, its flavour and 
spirit are lost. 

The true lover of an Oyster will have some regard for the feel- 
ings of his little favourite, and will never abandon it to the mercy 
of a bungling operator, — but will open it himself, and contrive to 
detach the Fish from the shell so dexterously, that the Oyster is 
hardly conscious he has been ejected from his Lodging, till he feels 
the teeth of the piscivorous GourTncmd tickling him to death. 

N.B. Fish is less nutritious tiban Flesh : as a proof, when the 
tnuner of Newmarket wishes to waste a Jockey, he is not allowed 
Meat, nor even Pudding, if Fish can be had. The white kinds of 
Fish, Turbots, Soles, Whiting, Cod, Haddock, Flounders, Smelts, 
&c..are leiss nutritious than the oily fat Fish, such as Eels, Salmon, 
Herrings, Sprats, &c. ; the latter, however, are more difficult to 
digest, and often disturb weak stomachs, so that they are obliged 
to call in the assistance of Cayenne, Cognac, &c. 

Shell Fish have long held a high rank in the catalogue of easily 
digestible and speedily restorative foods ; of these the Oyster cer* 
tainly deserves the best character, — ^but we think it has acquired 
not a little more reputation for these qualities than it deserves ; a. 



188 THE cook's obaclk. 

trell-dressed Chop'*' or Steak, see (93), will Snvigoiate the Heait in. 
a much higher ratio v — to recruk tie Ammal Spirits^ 4Utd aipport 
Hf»mg0i^ thert is notiung e<iual to Animal food \ — when kept till 
properly tender, none will give so little trouble to the Digestive 
oigam, and bo much Bubstantial excitement to the Ooofititutiaa. 
See note under ( 1 82). 

See Dr. Wallis and Mr. T7son*8 PapezB on men^s feeding on flesh, 
in PkU, TVmw. toL xxii. pp. 76d to 774 ; and Porphyry on Absti- 
nenoe from Animal Food, tnuisiated bj Thomas Taylor, 8vo. L823. 

We could easily say as much in praise of Mutton as Mr. Ritson^ 
has against it, in his " Esaay on Abstinence from Animal Food^ as a 
Moral Dfdy^^ 8vo. London, 1802, p. 102. He says, << The Pagan 
Priests were the first eaters of Animal Food ; it corrupted their 
taste, and so excited them to Ghittony, that when they had eaten 
tlie same tiling repeatedly, their luxurious Appetites called for JSr 
riety. He who had devoured the Sheep, longed to nuuHoate ^ 
SkqaAerdltf 

*^ Nature seems to have provided other Animals for the food of 
man, from the astonisliing increase of those which instinct points 
out to him as peculiarly diesimble for that purpose. For instanee ; 
so quick is the produce of Pigeons, that, in the space of four years, 
1 4,760 may come ttom a single pair ; and in the like period, 1,274,840 
from a coaple of Babbits^ — this is nothing to the millions of Eggs 
in the milt of a Cod-fish. 

SCAXbIiOPSD oystbrs. 

179. A good way to warm up any cold fish. 

Stew the Oyst^n slowly in their own liquor fiir two or three mt- 
nutes, — ^take them out with a ipoon, beaid them and skim the 
liquor, — ^put a Ut of butter into a stew-pan ; when it is melted, add 
as much fine bread-crumbs as will dry it up,— <then put to it the 
Oyster-liquor, and give it a boil up, — put the Oysters into Scallop* 
diells that you have buttered, and strewed with bread'Crumbs, then 
a layer of Oysters, then of Inread-cmmbs, and then some more Oys- 
ters ; moisten it with the Oyster-liquor, cover them with bread- 
crumbs, put about half-a-doren little bits cf batter on the t(q» of 
each, and brawn them in a Dutch oven. 

Obs. — ^Essence of Anehovy, Ctttchnp, Cayenne, grated Lraaon* 



- * " AnimAl food being oompoMd 4»f tha SMMfe nmtiitiovs parts of the ibod'0« 
whJcb the Animal lived, and haviag alreadr been digested br the proper oi^gaao 
of an animal, requires only solution and muctnre^ whereas vegetable food m«al 
be coBverted into s snbatanoe of an animal nature, by the proper action of our 
own Viscera, and consequently requires more labour of the Stomach and othar 
digostlTe ofgana."— BuBTON on the NotHMturaltf page 213. 



FISH. 189 

peel. Mace, and other Spicet, Stc. are added by those who prefeic 
piquance to the genmne flsTooi of the O jster. 

Cold Fish m^ be re^Lressed the same way. 

N.K Small Scallop-shelhs or Sooeen that hold about hal^a^oaea 
Oysters, are the nost conreKieiit. 

STBWED 0Y8TBHS. 

I80l Taage Oyaterg wiH do fo r at c vriag^ and by gome aie preferred ;. 

bat we loye the plump yviey Katiye& Stew a coa|^ of dozen of 

theee in their own Mqoor ; — when they are comiiig^ to a boil, tkhn 

well, take t&em up and beard them ; itiain the liquor through a 

tamifr-iiev^. and lay the oystem on a dish. Put an ounce of Iratler 

into a stew-pan ; when it is melted, put to if as much floar as will 

dry it up, the liquor of the Oyatezs, and three table-spoonlul of 

milk or cieam, and a little white pepper and Kdt ; to this some 

Cooks add a little Catchup, or finely chopx)ed Parsley, gntted IjO- 

mon-peel, and juice ; let it boil up for a couple of minutes, till it is 

smootli, then take it off the fire, put in the Oysters, and let fhem 

e^ warm (they most not themselves be boUed, or they will becosie 

hard) ; line the bottom and sides of a hash-dish with brcad'^ippets, 

and pour your oysteis and sance into it. See Obt. to Receipt (246). 

OYSTEB8 FBISD. 

181. The largest and finest Oysters are to be chosen fi»r this pop^ 
pose ; simmer them in their own liquor for a couple of minutes,—. 
take them out and lay them on a cloth to &rasi,-.4)eard them and 
then flour them, — egg and bread-crumb them^ — fat then into boil- 
ing &t, and fry them a delicate brown. 

Obs.— ^» elegant garnish far Made Dishes^ — Stewed Bump Stec^^ 
—Jfoiled or fried Ftsh^ ^e. ; but th^ are too hard <md dry to be eateru 



BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 

BSSF BBOTH^* 

182. Wash a Leg or a Shin of Beef very dean, crack the bone in 
two or three places (this you sdiould desire the Butcher to do fos you), 
add thereto any trimmings you have of Meaty Game, or Poultry (t. <. 
^^ads, necks,. g;izzards, fSeet, &&), and cover them with cold water, 

* In d^ntaj leeimkals i» eaRtA fmsr sracE, oi loag Bro4li,^4n t)i« French 
Kitcheu, " Le Grand BouiUon." 



190 THE cook's OAACLE. 

-^#Btch and stir it up well from the bottom^ and the moment it le- 
vins to simmer, skim it carefuUif — ^your Broth must be perfectly clear 
and limpid, on this depends the goodness of the SoupSf Sauces, and Gra- 
vies, ofwhicik it is the basis : — ^then add some .cold water to make the 
remaning scum rise, and skim it again ; when the scum is done lis* 
ing, and the sur&ce of the Broth is quite clear, put in one mode- 
rate-sized Carrot, a head of Celery, two turnips, and two Onions, — 
it should not have any taste of sweet herbs, spice, or garlic, .&c. ; 
either of these flavours can easily be added immediately after, if 
desired, by (364, 365, 366, &c.)l-coTer it close, set it by the side 
of the fire, and let it simmer very gently (so as not to waste the 
Broth) for four or five hours, or more, according to the weight of 
the Meat : — strain it through a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, 
and set it in the coldest place you have. 

Obs. — This is the foundation fpr all sorts of Soups and Saucei 
brown or white. 

Stew no longer than the Meat is thoroughly done to eat, and you will 
obtain excellent Broth, without depriving the Meat of its nutritious 
succidence : — ^to boil it to rags, as is the common practice, will not 
enrich your Broths, but make them thick and grouty. 

The Meat,* when gently stewed for only four or five hours till it 

is just tender, remains abundantly sapid and nourishing, and will 

afford a relishing and wholesome meal for half a dozen people ; — or 

make Potted Beef (419) : or when you have stoained off the Broth, 

— cover the meat again with water, and let it go on boiling for four 

hours longer, and make what some Cooks call ** Sbcono Stock ;" 

it will produce some very good Glaze, or Portable Soup ; see (227)) 

and the Obs. thereon. 

BEEF GBAVY.t 

. 183. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan that is well tinned and quite 
clean, with a slice of good Ham, or lean Bacon, four or five pounds 
of Gravy Beef cut into half-pound pieces, a Carrot, an Onion with 
two Cloves stuck in it, and a head of Celery ; put a pint of Broth 

* A dog was fed on fke richest Broth, yet oonld not be kept alive ; while an* 
other, which had onlj the Meat boUed to a Cktp (and water) throve very well. 
This shews the folly of attempting to nourish VCea by concentrated Soups, Jel- 
]ie&, &C.— Sinclair, Code ofaeawk, p. 356. 

If this experiment be accurate, what becomes of the theoretic visions of those 
who have written about nourishing Broths, &c. 1—The best test of the restora- 
tive quality of Food, is a small quantity of it satisfying hunger, the strengtii of 
the pulse after it, and the length of time which elapses before appetite returns 
again. According to this rule, we give our verdict m favour of (xl or S5). See 
' N.B. to(l78). 

This subject is fully discussed in "Tbk Art or iNViooRArnro and Proloho- 
INU LiFB, BY DiBT, ftc." published by Q. B. Whittaker, la Ave-Maria Lane. 

t Called in some Cookery Books ** Ssoono Stock,"— in the Frandi Kitchen, 
'* Jus de Baeuf." 



BROTHS^ OBAYISS^ ANB SOUPS. 191 

or water to it, cover it close, and set it OYer a modetatcr fire till the 
•water is reduced to as little as will just save the ingredients from 
burning ; then turn it all about, and let it brown slightly and equally 
all over •, — ^then put in three quarts of boiling water ;'*' when it boils 
np, skim it carefully, and wipe off with a clean cloth what sticks 
round the edge and inade of the stew-pan, that your gravy may be 
delicately clean and clear. Set it by the side of a fire, where it will 
stew gently (to keep it clear, and that it may not be reduced too 
much) for about four hours : — ^if it has not boiled too fast, there 
should be two quarts of good gravy ; strain through a silk, or ta- 
mis-aeve ; take very particular care to skim it well ; and set it in a 
cold place. 

STRONG SAVOURY GRAVY, AIiIAS ''BROWN 
SAUCB/' ALIAS ''GRAND ESPAGNOIi." 

184. Take a stew-pan that will hold four quarts, lay a slice or 
two of Ham or Bacon (about a quarter of an inch thick) at the bot- 
tom (undressed is the best), and two pounds of Beef or Veal, a Car- 
rot, a large Onion with four Cloves stuck in it, one head of Celery, 
a bundle of Parsley, Lemon-Th3rme, and Savoury, about as big round 
as your little finger, when tied close, a few leaves of sweet Basil 
(one Bay-leaf, and an Eschalot, if you like it), a piece of Lemon- 
peel, and a dozen corns of Allspice ;*t* pour on this half a pint of wa- 
ter, cover it close, and let it simmer gently on a slow fire for half 
an hour, in which time it will be almost dry ; watch it very care- 
fully, and let it catch a nice brown colour, — ^tum the Meat, &c. let 
it brown on all sides ; add three pints of boiling water, j: and boil 
for a couple of hours. It is now rich Gravy. To convert it into 

cvjmImIB, or thicksnsd gravy. 

185. To a quart of Gravy, put a table-spoonful of Thidkening 
(230), or from one to two table-spoonsful of Flour, according to the 
thickness you wish the Gravy to be, into a basin, with a ladleful of 
the Gravy ; stir it quick ; — add the rest by degrees, till it is all well 
mixed ; then pour it back into a stew-pan, and leave it by the side 
of the fire to simmer for half an hour longer, that the Thickening 
may thoroughly incorporate with the Gravy, the stew-pan being 

*A sreat deal of care is to be taken to -watch the time of putting in the water, 
~if it n ponzed in too soon, the Gravy will not have its trae flavour and colour ; 
and if it be let alone tUl the Meat sticks to the pan, it will get a burnt taste. 

t Truffles, Morels, and Mushrooms, Catchups and Wines, &c. are added by 
those who are for the extreme of hantt gotU. 

t The general rule is to put in about a Pint of water to a pound of meat, if it 
only simmeTB very gently. 



192 THE cook's ORACLE. 

only half coTered, itiirii^ it every now and then ; a wnt of aenni 
will gather on the top, whidi it ia besi not to take off till yoa axe 
read J to Btrain it through a tamia.* 

Take care it is neither of too pale nor too dark a colour: if Uk 
mot TMek enough^ let it stew longer, till it is redueed to the deBired 
tfaickneas ; or add a bit of Ghue, or Portable Bonp to it, see (227) : 
if it it too Thieky jou can eanl j tiiin it with a spoonfbl or tiro of 
mtxm broth, or water. When your aauce i» done, itir it in the 
you put it into once or twice, while it ia eooling. 

VSAL BROTH. 

1 86. A Knuckle of Veal is best ; manage it as directed in the 
eeipt for Beef Broth (182), only take care not to let it catch any 
colour, as this and the following and richer pcepaiaiion of Veal, ia 

*> chiefly used for WJdU Soups, Sauces, &e. 
To make White Sauce, see (307, 308). 

VEAIt GRAVY. 

187. About three pounds of the nut of the Leg of Veal, cut into 
half-pound slices, with a quarter of a pound of Ham in small dice \ 
proceed as directed for the Beef Gravy (183), but watch the time 
of putting in the water ; if this is poured in too soon, the gravy will 
not have its true flavour, — ^if it be let alone till the meat sticks too 
much to the pan, it will catch too brown a colour. 

KNUOKIiB OF VEAIt, OR SHIN OR IiBO OF 

BEBF, SOUF 

188. A Knuckle of Veal, of six pounds weight, will make a large 
tureen of excellent Soup, and is thus easily prepared : Cut half a 
pound of Bacon into slices about half an indi thick, lay it at the 
bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep stew-pan, and on this place the 
knuckle of veal, having first chopped the bone in two or three 
places, — ^furnish it with two cartots, two turnips, a head of celery, 
two large onions, with two or three cloves stuck in one of them, a 
dozen cotus of black, and the same of Jamaica pepper, and a good 
bundle of lemon-thyme, winter savoury, and parsley. Just cover 
the meat with cold water, and set it over a quick fire till it boils ; 
having akimmed it well, remore your soup-kettle to the side of the 
fire, let it stew very gently till it is quite tender, %. e. about fbur 
hours ; then take out the bacon and veal, strain the soup, and set it 

*A Tbmif is a worsted cloth, told al the Ml 8lHipB,inade oil pQTpom for ttrain- 
ing saaces : the best wav of using it is for two people to twist it cottirary wftTs: 
this is a better way of ■trainiiig sance than thtong^ aSieve, and refines It mmch 
more completely. 



BROTHS^ OBAVIES^ AND SOUPS. 193 

by in a cool place till you want it, when you must take oiF the fat 
horn the sur&ce of your liquor, and decant it (keeping back the 
settlings at the bottom) into a clean pan. 

If you like a Thjgkbnbo Soup, put three table-spoonsful of the 
fiit you have taken off the soup into a small stew-pan, and mix it 
with four table-spoonsful of flour, pour a ladleful of soup to it, and 
mix it with the rest by degrees, and boil it up till it is smooth. 

Cut the Meat and GMstle of the Knuckle and the Bacon into 
mouthsfdl, and put them into the Soup, and let them get warm. 

069... You may make this more savoury by adding Catchup 
(875), &c. Shin op Bbep may be dressed in the same way ; see 
Knucelb OP Veal stewed with Rice (441). 






MUTTON BROTH. ^' 

189. Tbke two pounds of Scrag of Mutton *, to take the blood ^ 
out, put it into a stew-pan, and cover it with cold water ; when the 

water becomes milk-wann, pour it off, then put it in four or five 
pints of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of best 
giita, and an onion ; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken 
all the scum off, put in two or three turnips, let it sinmier very 
^Iwoly for two hours, and strain it through a clean sieve. 

This usual method of making Mutton Broth with the Scrag^ is 
by no means the most Eoonomcal method of obtaining it ; for which ' 
see (408 and 667). 

O&s. — ^You may thicken Broth by boiling with it a little Oat- 
mealy— Bice, — Scotch, or Pearl Barley ; when you make it for a 
Sick person, read the Obe, on Broths, &c. in the last page of the 7th 
Chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery, and (667). 

HOOK MUTTON BROTH, WITHOUT MBAT, IN 

FZVB MINUTB8. 

190. Boil a few leavesof Parsley with two tea-spoonsful of Mush- 
worn Catchup, in three-quarten of a pint of very thin Gruel (668). 
Season with a little salt. 

0&«.-.This is improved by a few drops of Eschalot Wine (343), 
and the same of JEstenee of Sweet Herbs (363). See also Portable 
Soup (227). 

ZHB QUBBN'S MORNING <<BOUIXiIiON PB 

BANTB." 

191. Sir Kenelm Digby, in his ^Chset of Cookery;' p. 149, Lon- 
don, 1669, informs us, was made with ^ a brawny Hen, or young 
Cock, a handftil of pwrsley, one sprig of thyme, three of spearmint| 

N 



194 Xmi cook's OBl^LE. 

a little bftlm, half a gceat oniony a little pepper and Balt9 and a 
dove, with as much, water as will cover them ; and this boiled to 
less than a Pint for one good porringerful.** 

O&SAB ORAVT 80VP8. 

192. Cut half a pound of Ham into alices^ and lay ih^m at the! 
bottom of a large stew-pan or stock-pot* with two ox three pounds, 
of lean Beef, and as much Veal ;^»break the bones, and lay tbepi 
on the meat ; take off the outer skin of two laige onions- and two. 
Turnips } wash, clean, and cut into pieces a couple of large Carrots, 
and two heads of Celery ; and put in three Cloves and a laigs blade^ 
of Mace '...^cover the stew-pan close, and set it over a smart iiie 'r^ 
when the meat- b^ns to stick to the bottom of the stew-pan, turn 
it ; and when there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of the ttew- 
pan, cover the meat with hot water : watch it, and when it is oom- 
ing to a boil put in half a pint of cold water v take off the scum ^ 
then put in half a pint more cold water, and skim it again, and con- . 
tinue to do so till no more scum rises. Now set it on one side of 
the fire to boil gently for about four hours, — strain it through a 
clean tamia or napkin (do not squeeze it, or the Soup will be thick) 
into a clean stone pan ; let it remain till it is cold, and then rena»Td 
all the Fat v-^when you decant it, be eareful not to disturb the set- 
tlings at the bottom of the pan. 

7^ Broih ^kould be- of a fine Amber colour^ and €u dear a» Jiock 
Water ;«^ it is not quite so bright as you wish it, put it into a 
stew-pauy-^break two whites and shells of Eggs into a basin ; beat 
them well together ; put them into the Soup ; set it on a quick fire^ 
and stir it with a whisk till it boilsr^hen set it on one side of the 
fire to settle for ten minutes ; run it through a fine napkin into a 
basin, and it Is ready* 

However, if your BrUk umr^MlfyMnmed^Sie, according to the 
directions above given, it imK be dear e$iaughv>Uk(nU dari/yii^ whieh 
process impairs the flavour of it in a higgler proportion than it int-. 
proves its appearance. 

C>66.^-.This is the Basis of almost all Gravy Soups, which aie 
called by the name of the vegetables that are put into them : 

Carrots, — ^Turnips, — ^Onions, — Cblxrt, — and a few leaves of 
Chihrvil, make what is called Spring Soup, or Soup Santb; to this 
a pint of Grsbn Pbasb, or IfiFA&ieus Pm.8B, or FrspBiiBsaMeBt 
into pieces, or a cabboge lettuce, are an- improvement 

With JticjE or Scotch BARLEY9-.with Maoahoni, or Yinaaoiiuj 
or CxL£RY9.^cut into lengths *, it will be the Soup usually oalled 
by those names. 



BROTHB, <nUVWy AND 80UP8. 1 95 

Or Tunipe scooped round, or yoimg Oniong, will giv» yon a clour 
Turnip or Onion Soup, and ail these vegetablM mixed togetiier. 
Soup Grbssi. 

The Gravy for all these Soups majr be produoed estfsmpore with 
(227> 

The Ro€i$ and VegetabUt you uae must be boiled first, or they 
iifSL impregnate the Soup with too strong a flaTour. 

The SeoMningfar cdl these Soups is the same, vis. Salt, and a very 
fittle Csiyenne pepper. 

N.B. To maJte eaEoellent Vegetable Qrtuog Soup for 4^. a quait» 

see (309). 

SCOTCH BABIaSY BBOTB. 

193. A Good and Substantial Dinn^ for Five<pence per Head. 

Wash three quarters of a pound of Scotth Ba/iUy in a little cold 
water ; put it in a soup-pot with a Shin or Leg of Beef, of about ten 
pounds weight, sawed into four pieces (tell the Butcher to do this 
for you) ; cover it well with eold Water ; set it on the fire ; when it 
boils skim it very dean and put in two Onkms, of about three ounces 
weight each ; set it by the side of the fire to simmer very gen&g 
about two hours : then skim all the &t clean off, and put in two 
heads of Cdlery, and a laiige Turnip cut into snudl squares ; season 
it with salt, and let it boil an hour and a half longer, and it is ready : 
take out the meat (carefully with a slice, and cover it up, and set 
it by the fire to keep wann), and skim the Broth well before you 
put it in the Tureen. 

9. d. 

Shin of Beef of 10 lbs. - - - 9 

1 pound of Barle J, - • - 4^ ' 

2 Onions, of about 3 os. weight each, 0| 

Celeiy, 01 

Lai^ Turnips • - - - 1 

i"? 

Tims ifou get /our quarteof Oood Soup at 8<{. per Quart, besides 
aaotber quart to make sauce for the Meat, in thefollowingmanner :«-. 

Put a quart of the Soup into a basin,.-^put about an ounce of 
Flour into a stew-pan, and pour the Broth to it by degrees, stirring 
it well together ; set it on the fioe, and stir it till it boiU,*— then 
(some put in a glass of Port Wine or Mushroom Catchup, 375) let 
it boil up and it is ready. 

Put the Meat in a Bogo&t dish, and stiain the Sauce through a 
sieve over the meat ; you may put to it some Capers or minced 
Gherkins or Walnuts, &c. 

If the Be^ hcu been stewed with proper can 4n a very genUenumner, 
and be taken up at ** the critical moment when it is just tender,^ 



196 TfiB cook's OBjLCLB, 

you will obtain an Eaeoelleni and Savoury Meal for Eight People for 
Fivh-Pbnck, t. e. for only the cost of the glass of Port wine. 

If you use Vbal, cover the Meat with (308). 

0&9.— This is a most Frugal^ — ^Agreeablc,-.4uid Nutritive Meal, 
— jt will neither lighten the Purse, nor lie heavy on the Stomachic 
and will futtiish a plentiful and pleasant Soup and Meat for eight 
persons. So you may give a good Dinner for 5d,per Hecid ! ! ! See 
also (211 and 216). 

N.B. — If you wiU draw your Purse-strings a little wider, and al- 
low \d, per Mouth more^ — ^prepare a pint of young Onions as direct- 
ed in (263), and garnish the dish with them, or some Carrots, or 
Turnips cut into squares, — and for 6d. per Head you will have as 
good a Ragout as '^ 2s Cuisinier Imperial de France"" can give you 
for as many shillings. Read Obs. to (411). 

You may vary the Flavour by adding a little Curry Powder (383), 
RagoCkt (384, &c.), or any of the store Sauces and flavouring E^ 
sences between (335 and 390) ; you may garnish the dish with split 
pickled Mangoes, Walnuts, Gherkins, Onions, &c. See Wow Wow 
Sauce, (286). 

If it is made the evening before the Soup is wanted, and suffered 
to stand till it is cold, much Fai* may be removed from the sui&ce 
of the Soup, which ip, when clarified (82), useful for all the pur* 
poses that Drippings are applied ta 

SCOTCH 80UP8. 

194. 7%e three following Beoeipts are the contribution of a friend 

at Edinburgh, 

WINTER BOTCH-POTCa. 

Take the best end of a neck or loin of Mutton ; cut it into neat 
chops ; cut four carrots, and as many turnips into slices ; put on 
four quarts of water, with half the carrots and turnips, and a whole 
one of each, with a pound of dried green pease, which must be put 
to soak the night before — let it boil two hours, then take oat the 
whole carrot and turnip ; bruise and return them ; put in the meat 
and the rest of the carrot and tiimii>, some pepper and salt, and boQ 
slowly three quarters of an hour ; a short time before serving, add 
an onion cut small and a head of celery. 

COOKY-IiBBXY SOUP. 

195. Take a scrag of Mutton, or shank of Veal, three quarts of 

* See " VAH de CtdHnier," par A. BeanTlUier, PaxiB, 1814^ p. 68. ** I bare 
learned by experience, that of all the fata that are used for firing, Oh« Pot-Tou 
which is taken kom the turfiue of the Broth and 8tock-Pot is by fiur tha beat.''^ 



BBOtBS, O^AYTtS, AND SOUPS. 197 

crater (or liquor Ib whidi meat lia8~been boiled), and a good-aized 
foil^ with two or three leeks cut in pieces about an inch long, pep- 
per and salt ; boil slowly about an hour ; then put in as many more 
leeks, and give it three quarters of an hour longer:— this is very 
good, nade of good beef-stock, and leeks put in at twice. 

LAMB BTO'VS OR XiAMB 8TBW. 

196. Take a Iambus head and lights ; open the jaws of the head, 
«md wash ithem thoroughly ; put them in a pot with some beef^stock, 
inade with three quarts of water, and two pounds of shin of beef, 
strained ; boil veiy slowly for an hour ; wash and string two or 
three good handsful of spinach (or Spinage); put it in twenty 
minutes before serving ; add a little parsley, and one or two onions, 
a short time before it comes off the fire ; season with pepper and 
call, and aerye altogether in a tureen. 

SCOTCH BR08B. 

197* ^ This fiivourite Scotch dish isgea^ally made with the liquor 
meat has been boiled in. 

** Put half a pint of Oatmeal into a porringer with a little salt, if 
there be not enough in the broih,-.-«f which add as much as wiH 
initcit toithe consistence of hasty-pudding, or a little thicker,— 
lastly, take a little of ^he iat that swims on the broth, and put it on 
the Crowdie, and eat it in the same way as hasty-pudding.'** 

Oba, — ^This Scotsman's dish is easily prepared at very little ex- 
pense, and is pleasant^asted and nutritious. To dress a Haggiss, 
-see (405), aad Msnoed Collops following it 

N.B.— For various methods of making and flavouring Oatmeal 

Obubl, see (668). 

CARROT SOUP. 

198. Scrape and wash half a dozen huge Ganots ; peel off the 
«ed outside (which is the only part used for this soup) ; put it into 
4fc gallon stew-pan, with one head of Celery ; and an Onion cut into 
thin pieces ; take two quarts of Bee^ Veal, or Mutton Broth, or if 
you have any cold Roast-Beef Bones (or liquor in which Mutton 
or Beef has been boiled), you may make very good broth for .this 
.«oup : — ^when you have put the broth to the roots, cover the ^tew- 
pan close,.and set it on a slow stove for two hours and abalf, when 
^e Carrots will be soft enough (some Cooks put in a Tea-cupful 
<of BreadKawnbs) ; boil for two .or three minutes ; rub it throu^ 
<a tamis, or hair-sieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much bro^ 
as will make it a proper thickness, i. e. almost as thick as pease- 
soup : put it into a clean stew-pan *, make it hot ; season it with a 



19B THB cook's ORACLB. 

little salt, and send it up with some toasted bread, cut into pieoM^ 
half an inch square. Some put it into the soup ; but the best way 
is to send it up on a plate as a side dish. 

Obs, — ^This is neither expensiye nor troublesome to prepare : in 
the Kitchens of some opulent Epicures^ to make this Soap make a 
little stronger impression on the gustatorj Organs of ^ Grands Goun- 
mands^^ the Celery and Onions are sliced, and fried in butter of a 
light brown, the Soup is ])oured into the Stew-pan to them, and all 
is boiled up together :-«but this must be done very oarefiilly with 
Butter, or very nicely clarified fiit: and the ^Qrmd Omtiaitr^ 
adds spioes, &c. ^ ad UbUumJ** 

OAKROT BOVP. 

ANOTHIR WAT. 

1 98. Put some beef bones, with four quarts of I9ie liquor in whidi 
a Leg of Mutton or Beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, 
pepper and salt, into a sauce-pan, and stew for three hours. Hare 
ready six large carrots seraped, and cut thin ; strain the soap on 
them, and stew them till soft enou^ to palp through a hair-riete^ 
or coarse cloth : then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as 
thick as pease-soup. Use two wooden-spoons to rub the canota 
tiirough. Make the soup the day before it is to be used ; add 
Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, aad not the^ yelkiw. 

The soup is better made with a shin of beef; 

TUKinP AND PARBMEP SOUPS. 

199. Are made in the same manner as the Canot Soup (198). 

CBIiBKY SOUP. 

200. Split half a dozen heads of Celery into slips about two 
inches long ; wash them well ; lay them on a hair«eTe to drain, and 
put them into three quarts of (192^ in a gallon soup-pot ; set it by 
the side of the fire to stew very gently till the celery is tender (thfo 
will take about an hoar). If any scum rises, take it off; season 
with a little salt 

Obt, — ^When Celery cannot be procured, Ha^ m Dradim ef Us 
Seed, pounded fine, which may be considered as the Essence of 
Celery (costs only one-third of a fiurthing, and can be had at any 
season), put in a quarter of an hour before the soup is done, and a 
little sugar, will giye as much flavour to half a gallon of Soap as 
two heads of Celery, weighing seren ounces, and costing 2rf. ; or 
add a little Essence of Celery, (358). 



BBOT&ft^ OtUVIES, AND SOUPS. 199 

amBSir phase ftouv. 

201. A peck of Pease will make fou « go0i. tiueen of Boa{it.Min 
Bheiling tbem pat the old ones in one Basin^ and the young omi in 
another, and keep out a pint of them, and hoil thMB mpBioMj to 
pat into your Sonp when it is fimsbed ; — ^put a Unge lauoe-pan on 
the fire luilf full of water ; when it boils, put the Pease in, with a 
handful of salt ; let them boil till they are done enough i «. finai 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their age and size ; then 
drain them in a colander, and put them into a clean gallon stew- 
pan, and three quarts of plain Veal or Mutton Broth (drawn from 
meat without any Spices or Herbs, ftc. which would overpower the 
flavour of the Soup) ; cover the stew-pan dom, and set it over a 
slow fbe to stew gently for an hour ; add a tearcuplUl of bread- 
crambs, and then rub it through a tamis into another stew-pan ; stir 
it with a wooden spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little more broth : 
have ready boiled as for eating, a pint of young pease, and put them 
into the soup ; season with a little salt and sugar. 

N.B. Some Cooks, while tiiis Soup is going on, dice a couple of 
Cucumbers (as you would for eating) ; take out the seeds ; lay 
them on a cloth to drain, and then flour them, and fry them a light 
brown in a little butter; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

Obs. — If the Soup is not Oreen enough, pound a handful of Pea- 
huUs or Spinage, and squeeze the jtdce through a cloth into the 
soup : some leaves of mint may be added if approved. 

PIiAIN GRSSN PEA8B SOUP WITHOUT MBAT. 

202. Take a quart of Green Pease (keep out half a pint of the 
youngest : boil them separately, and put them in the Soup when it 
is finished) ; put than on in boiling water ; boil them tender, and 
then pour off the water, and set it by to make the soup with ; put the 
pease into a mortar, and pound them to a mash : then put them into 
two quarts of the water you beUed the peai» in ; stir all well 
together ; let it boil up for about five minutes, and then rub it 
through a hair-sieve or tamis. If the pease are good, it will be as 
thick and fine a V^getaUe soup as need be sent to table. 

PEASE SOUP. 

203. The common way of making Pease-Soup* is— to a Quart of 
Split Pease put three quarts of cold soft water, not more, (or it will 

* To make Pbask Pottaob, double tbe quantitT. Thoie who often make 
'Peaae Soup thonld hare a Mill, and grind Ike Petue put before they dreM than, 
—a leas quantity will BufiBce, and the Soup will be much eocmer made. 



200 THE cook's OBACIiB« 

be what ** Jack Bos-bif^* calls ** Sotgi* Maigre^) notwithstanding 
Mother Glasse orden a gallon (and her Ladyship's directions have 
been copied by almost every Cookery-book maker who has stnuig 
receipts together since), with half a pound d Bacon (not very fat), 
or Boast-Beef bones, or four Anchovies: or, instead of the water, 
three quarts of the Iiiquor in which Beef, Mutton, Pork, or Poultry* 
has been boiled, tasting it first, to make sure it is not too salt"** 

Wash two heads of Celeiy ;f cut it, and put in, with two Onions 
peeled, and a sprig of Savoury, or sweet Marjoram, or Lenxoii- 
Thyme ; set it on the trivet, and let it simmer very gently over s 
slow fire, stirring it every quarter of an hour (to keep the pease 
from sticking to, and burning at, the bottom of the Soup-pot) till 

the Pease are tender, which will be in about three hours ; some 

Cooks now slice a head of Celery, and half an ounce of Onions, and 
fry them in a little butter, and put them into the Soup till they are 
lightly browned; then work the whole throiigh a coarse hair-sieve^ 
and then through a fine sieve, or (what is better) through a tamis, 
with the back of a wooden spoon v— put it into a clean stew-pan, 
with half a tea-spoonfid of ground Black Pepper ; % let it boil 
again for ten minutes, and if any fat arises skim it o£ 

Send up on a plate. Toasted Bread cut into little pieces, a quarter 
of an inch square, or cut a slice of bread (that has been baked two 
days) into dice, not more than half aa inch square ; put half a 
pound Of perfectly dean drippings or lard into an iron fiying-paa; 
when it is hot, Fry the Bbsad ; take care and turn it about with 
a slice, or by shaking of the pan as it is frying, that it may be on 
each side of a delicate light brown, (see 27d) ; take it up with a 
firii-sliee, and lay it on a sheet of paper to drain the fat : he earefvi 
ih«i ^is is done nicely ; send these up in one side-dish, and dried and 
powdered Mint or Savouiy, or Sweet Marjoram, &c in anothen 

These who are for a double Relish, and are true lovers of ^ iaut 
^0^" may have some Bacon cut into small squares like the bread, 
and fried till it is crisp, or some little lumps of boiled pickled Pork, 
—or put Cucumber £cied into this soup, as you have directions in 
(201). 

Obs, — Tie moet JEooaomual method of making, Psasx Soup, is to 
save the bones of a joint of Boast Bee^ and put them into the 

* If the Liquor is rerj tatt, th« Pease will nerer boil tender.— Therefore, when 

Kn make Peaae Soup with the liquor in which mked Poik or Beef h«i heea 
iled, tie up the Peaoe in a cloth, and boil them first for an hour in soft water. 
I t HaJf a drachm of Cdery Seedy pounded fine, and put into the Soup a quarter 
of an hour before it is finished, will flaTour three quarts. 
^ Some put in dried Mint rubbed to. fine powder ; but as everj bodr does ii«t 
"-- *'jnt, it is best to send it up on a plate, see Pbasji Powoxr, 1305). " 
-T, (353), and (394 and 387), 



BROTHS^ ORAVISB^ AND SOUPS. 201 

fiqaor in which Mutton, or Beef, or Poik or Poultry, has been 
bcriled, and proceed aa in the aboYe receipt A hock, or shank-bone 
of Ham, a faambone, the root of a Tongue, or a red or pickled 
Heiring, are favourite additions with some Cooks ; others send up 
Rice or Vennicelli with Pease Soup * 

N.B. To make Pbasb Soup Extbmpori, see (555). 

If you wish to makb Soup thb same day tou Boil Mkat ok 
Poultry, prepare the Pease the same as for F«ue Pttdding (530), 
to which you may add an Onion and a head of Celery, when you 
rab the pease through the sieve ; — ^instead of putting Eggs and 
Butter, add some of the liquor from the pot to make it a proper 
thickness v— put it on to boil for five minutes, and it is ready. 

Oi)& — This hftter is by/ar the eatietty and ike best way of makmg 
PsaseSoyp, 

Pbasb Soup may be made savoury and agreeable to the palate, 
irithout any Meat, by incorporating two oimces of fresh and nicely 
clarified Beef, Mutton, or Pork drippings (see 82), with two ounces 
of Oatmeal, and mixing this well into the gallon of Soup, made as 
above directed : see also (211). 

PBASS 80UP AND PZOKIiSD PORK. 

204. A couple of pounds of the belly part of Pickled Pork will make 
very good broth for Pease Soup, if the pork be not too salt, — if it 
has been in salt more than two days, it must be laid in water the 
night before it is used. 

Pnt on the ingredients mentioned in (203), in three quarts of 
^Bter ; boil gently for two hours, then put in the pork, and boil very 
gently till it is done enough to eat ; this will take about an hour 
and ahal^ or two hours longer, according to its thickness *,— when 
done, wash the pork dean in hot water, send it up in a dish, or cut 
it into mouthsful, and put it into the Soup in the tureen, with the 
accompaniments ordered in (203). 

0&9.-.The meat being boiled no longer than to be done enough 
to be eaten, you get EaeeeUerd Soup, without any expense of Meat 



**In Canada the inhabitants live three-fourths of the year on 

* My witty nredecetwr. Dr. Huntbr, (see Cfulina, pua 97,) says, " If a pnv 
per quantity of Cnrry-powder (.183) be added to Pease Sonp. a good soup might 
bftaiad& under the title of Cfurp Pease Soup. HeUogabalns offered rewaida 
for the diacoTeij of aneir dish, and the British Parliament hare given notoriety 
to inventions of mndi less importance than ' Cnrrr Pease Sovp. 

K.B. Gelerv. or Carrots»->H>r Tamips,— shredded or cat in squares, (or Soatch 
Barley— in tne latter case the soup must be rather thinner,) or cnt into bita 
abent an inch long, and boiled separately, and thrown into the tureen when the 
map is going to table, will siTe another agreeable variety, and may be called 
Ckucry and Pbasb 8onp. Mead Obs. to (S»0). 



802 THE OOOK'^ ORACLE. 

P^sse Soup, prepared with Salt Poik, which is boiled till the fiit is 
entirely divolved amongit the soup, giving it a rich flavour/* — ^The 
Hon. J. GoCHKANB'a SeamaiCt Cfuide^ 8vo. 1797, p. 31. 

PlaAIN PEASE SOUP. 

205. To a quart of split Pease, and two heads of Celery (and 
most Cooks would put a large Onion), put three quarts of Brodi or 
soft water ; let them simmer gmtly on a trivet over a slow fire for 
three hours, stirring up every quarter of an hour to prevent the 
pease burning at the bottom of tilie soup-kettloi-^if the water boila 
away and the Soup gets too thick, add some bmling water to it) v» 
when they are well softened, work them through a coarse sieve, and 
then through a fine sieve or a tamis, wash out your stew-pan, and 
then return the Soup into it, and give it a boil up ; take off any 
scum that comes up, and it is ready. Prepare friad Bread amd dried 
Mini, as directed in (203), and send them up with it <m two side 



Oftft^^lliis is an ezodlent Family Soup, produeed with very litde 
trouble or expense,^ — t. e, 

9. d. 

unsrt of PwnO|W>*»<»*» mm * <i»i » <*#« i w o 
Two H«adg of Celery, «...»>»^*>..«»**» 12 
JPflppoF And pftitj *»*» *» < n >»w» !»»«».>*» » u 1 

So, the Two Quarts cost Onb Shillino •, — ^half a drachm of famised 
Scdarjf Seed^ which costs only one-third of a fiurthing, and a little 
Sugar, added just before finishing the Soup«-*will give it aa mndi 
flavour as Two Heads of the fresh Vegetable. 

Host of the Receipts for Pease-Soup are crowded with ingredieats 
which entirely overpower the flavour <^ the Pease. (See 530.) 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

206. This is made with the points of Aspamgusi m the same 
manner as the Gkeen Pease Soup (201 or 202) is with pease: left 
half the Asparagus be rubbed through a sieve, and the other cut in 
pieces about an inch long, and boiled till done enough, and sent 
up in the soup : to make two quarts, there must be a pint of heads 
to thicken it, and half a pint cut iiLr-4ake care to preserve these 
green and a little crisp. This soup is sometimes made by adding 
the asparagus heads to common Pease-soup. 

Ok.-^Some Cooks fry half an ounce of onion in a little butter, 
and rub it through a sieve, and add it with the other ingredientSr— 



^ BBOTBB^ ORATIBB^ AND 80UPS. 203 

the hoKt go^ of the onion will entifelx overcome the delicate fla» 
voar of the Asparagus, and we protest against all sueh combinatioom 



TO DRESS SPBINQ FRUIT. 

SPRING FRUIT BOW. 

S207. Peel and well wash four docen sticks 6f Rhubaib ; blaneh 
it in water three or four minutes ; drain it on a sieve, and put it 
Into a stew-pan, with two Onions sliced, a Canrot, an ounce of lean 
Ham, and a good bit of Butter ; let it stew gently over a slow fire 
tall tender ; then pat in two quarts of good Ckmaommi^ to which add 
two or three ounces of Biead-crambe ; boil about fifteen minutes ( 
skim off all the £st ; season with salt and Cayenne pepper ; pass it 
through a tamis, and serve up witii Med bread. 

OOURD fiOVP, 

208. Should be made of fall-grown Gourds, but not those that 
have hard skins : slice three or four, and put them in a stew-pan, 
with two or three Onions, and a good bit of Butter ; set them over 
a slow fire till quite tender (be carefid not to let them bum) ; then 
add two ounces of crust of Bread, and two quarts of good Cofuommi ; 
season with salt and Cayenne pepper ; boil ten minutes or a quarter 
of an hour; skim off all the &t, and pass it through a tamis, then 
make it quite hot, and serve up with Med bread. 

KAIGRE, OR VEOBTABIiB ORAVT SOUP.* 

209. Put into a gallon stew-pan three ounces of butter; set it 
oter a slow fire *, while it is melting, slice four ounces of Onion ; cut 
in small pieces one Turnip, one Carrot, and a head of Celery ; put 
them in the stew-pan, cover it close, let it fry till they are lightly 
browned ; this wiU take abont tweniy-fioe mmuUB : — ^have ready, in a 
aanoe-pan, a pint of Pease, with four quarts of water ; when the 
Roots in the stew-pan are quite brown, and the pease come to a 
boil, put the pease and water to them, put it on the fire, when it 
boils skim it dean, and put in a crust of bread about as big as ^e 
top of a twopenny loaf, twenty-fbur berries of Allspice, the same of 
Bhick Pepper, and two blades of Mace ; cover it dose, — ^let it sim- 
mer sientlif for one hour and a haif^ then set it from the fire for ten 

* The Preneh caH thte " Soup Jfaiarv,"— the Ei4[lith aoeeptatton of whidi to, 
*' fMor omd wUerp," and does not at all accord with the Prencn, which to, Scope, 
&C. made without meat— thus, Turtlb, the richest dtoh that cornea to an £ng- 
itok IsUe (if dreswd without Meat Gimry), ii a Maign Diih. 



204 THB OOOk's ORACLB. 

minutes, then pour it off yeiy gently (bo as not to distuib the sedi* 
ment at the bottom of the stew-pan) mto a laige basin, let it stand 
(about two hours) till it is quite clear, — awhile this is doing, shred one 
large Turnip, the red part of a laige Carrot, three ounces of Onion 
minced, and one laige head of Oelety cut into small bits ; put the 
Turnips and Canrots on the fire in cold water, let them boil five 
minutes, then drain them on a sieve, — ^then pour off the Soup clear 
into a atew-pan, put in the Boots, put the Soup on the 6re, let it 
simmer gently till the herbs axe tender, from thirty to forty minutest 
aeason it with salt and a little Cayenne, and it is ready. 

You may add a table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchup (875). 

06».<i— You will have Three Quartt o/Soup, as well coloured, and 
almost as well flavouied, as if made with Gravy Meat, for ls» 1^ 

$. d, 

XlinilpBy 0>m0m0i00>a m* m m »m »0m0>09 m m M ■ ^w ^ m m mrn * V \ 
* rfllftTlfl^ tfn <"tf irorw frrr rofr fir *« — n~rrnnnrrif wif tf U VV 

N.B. To make this it requires nearly Five Hours. To Fry the 
herbs requires twenty-five minutes — ^to BoU all together, one hour 
.and a half^ — ^to setUe^ at the least, two hoursy— when clear, and put 
pn the fire again, half an hour more. 

FX8H SOUPS. 

Ed Soup, 
210. To make a tureenful, take a couple of middling-sized Onions, 
eut them in half, and cross your knife over them them two or three 
times ; put two ounces of Butter into a stew-pan ; when it is melted, 
put in the Onions, stir them about till they are lightly browned^— 
cut into pieces three pounds of unskinned Eels, put them into your 
atew-pan, and shake them over the fire for five minutes *, then add 
three quarts of boiling water, imd when they come to a boil, take 
ihe scum off veiy clean, then put in a quarter of an ounce of the 
£ieen leaves (not dried) of Winter Savoury, the same of Lemon- 
Thyme, and twice the quantity of Parsley, two drachms of AlUpio(v 
.the same of Black Peppeiv—'Cover it close, and let it boil gently 
for two hours, then strain it off^ and skim it very clean* To TmcKm 
it, put three ounces of Butter into a clean stew-pan ; when it is 
melted, stir in as much flour as will make it of a stiff paste, then 
■add the liquor by degrees, let it simmer for ten minutes, and pass 
It through a sieve, then put your Soup on in a clean stew-paiwiaid 



BBOTHS^ OaAVIBSj AND SOUPS. 205 

have ready some litde square pieces of Fish fried of a nice light 
IxrowDy-^ither EeU, Soles, Plaice, or Skate will do •,_the fried Fish 
should be added about ten minutes before the Soup is served up. 
Forcemeat Balls (318, 320, &c) are sometimes added. 

06».— ExcBLLENT Fi8H SotTPS may be made with a Cod's Skull, 
—or Skater— or Flounders, &c. boiled in no more water than will 
justcoTer themy— and the liquor thickened with Oatmeal &c. 

OHBAP 80UP8. 

211. Among the yarietj of schemes that have been suggested for 
•* Bettering the oondition of the Poor,''* a more useful or extensive 
Charity cannot be devised, than that of instructing them in Econo* 
mioal Cookery : — ^it is one of the most important objects to which 
tike attention of any real well-wisher to the public interest can pos- 
sibly be directed. 

The best and cheapest method of making a nourishing Soup is least 
known to those who have most need of it; — it will enable those 
who have small incomes and large families to make the most of the 
little they possess, without pinching their children of that whole- 
some nourishment which is necessary for the purpose of rearing^ 
them up to maturity in health and strength. 

The labouring classes seldom purchase what are called the coarser 
pieces of Meat, because they do not know how to dress them, but 
lay out their money in pieces for roasting, &c., of which the bones, 
&c enhance the price of the actual meat to nearly a shilling per 
pound, and the diminution of weight by ^BLoasftuuq amounts to 32 per 
cent. This, for the sake of saving time, trouble, and fire, is gene* 
rally sent to an oven to be Bakbo ; the nourishing parts are eva- 
porated and dried up, Us weight is dimini^ed nearly one4hird, and all 
that a poor man can afford to purchase with his week's earnings, 
perhaps does not half satisfy the appetites of himself and &mily for 
a couple of days. 

If a hard-working man cannot get a oomfbrtable meal at home, 
he soon finds his way to the Public-house^-— the poor wife contents 
herself with Tea and Bread and Butter, and the children are half 
starved. 

Dr. KrrcHiNBR's Receipt to make a cheap, nutritive, and palat- 
able Soup, fiilly adequate to satisfy Appetite and support strength, 
will open a new source to those benevolent Housekeepers who are 
disposed to relieve the poor,— will shew the industrious classes how 
much they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue 
them from being dependent on the precarious bounty of others, by 
teaching them how they may obtain an abundant, salubrious, and 



20G THB cook's ORACLE. 

agreeable aliiBent for themaelTes and fe-miiiAa^ for Onb Pinny 
Quart. See below. 

For vaiiouB Economical Soup«» 0ee (193, 216, 217, 209, 205» and 
Obs, to 221, 227, and 411 and 418). 

06f.— .Dripping intended for Soup should be taken out of the pan 
almost aa soon as it has dropped from the meat ;— if it is not quite . 
dean, .clarify it. See Receipt (8S). 

Dripping thus prepared is a very different thing from that which 
has remained in the Dripping-pan all the time the meat has been 
roasting, and perhaps live coals have dropped into it.* 

DiSTBiBUTiNO Soup does not answer half 8o todl cu teaching people 
how to make t^, and improve ^eir comfort ai Home, — the time lost in 
waiting at the Soup House is seldom less than three hours ; in 
which time, by any industrious occupation, however poorly paid, 
they could earn more money than the quart of Soup is worth. 

DB. KITOHXNER'8 RECEIPT TO BIAKE A OAIaXiOK 
OF BARLEY BBOTH FOB A 6B0AT. 

212. (See also 193). Put four ounces of Scotch Bariey (pre- 
piously washed in cold water), and four ounces of sliced Onions, 
into five quarts of water ; — ^boU gently for one hour, and pour it into 
a pan, then put into the sauce-pan from one to two ounces of dean 
Beef or Mutton Drippings, or melted Suet, (to clarify these, sea 
82) or two or three ounces of Fat Bacon minced ; when melted, stir 
mto it four ounces of Oatmeal, rub these together till you make a 
paste (if this be pn^rly managed, the whole of the fot will cooo.- 
bine with the Barley Broth, and not a particle appear on the sur- 
&ce to offend the most delicate stomadi), now add the Bariey 
Broth, at first a spoonful at a time, then the rest by degrees, stirring 
it well together till it boils^— To season it, put a drachm of finely 
pounded Celery or Cress Seed, or half a drachm of each, and a 
quarter of a drachm of finely pounded Cayenne (345), or a dmchm 
and a half of Ground Black Pepper, or Allspice, into atearcup, and 

* We copied the following Receipt from The Morning Poet, Jan. 18S0 >- 

Winter Soup. 

18 Bundles of Leeks. 
6 Bundles of Celery. 
l>lbs.of8alt. 
11 lbs. of BUck Pepper. 
These good ingredients will make lOOO quarts of nonrishinff and agreeOUe 
Soup, at an expense {EttabliametU avoided) of little less thaa Sid. per quart. 

Or this» 960O quarts a day have been delirered during the late inclement wea- 
ther and the cesMtion of ordinary employment, at two stationa in the paiiaii et 
Bermondeey, at one paiay per qwsrt. dt which MO fiunilies have been daily a» 
■Isted, and it thankfully received. Such a nourishment and comfort eould aot 
have been provided by themselves separately for four^Mnoe a quit, if it alL 
and reekomng little for their fire, nothing for their time. 



910 lbs. of Beef, fore quarters. 
90 lbs. of Legs of Beef. 
8 Bushels of best Split Pease 
1 Bushel of Flour. 



BBOTHSj ORAVIBS^ AND SOUPS. 207 

nux it up with a little of the soup, and then pour it into'the rest ; 
stir it thoroughly together, let it simmer gently a quarter of an hour 
longer, season it with salt, and it is ready. 

The fiaTour may he varied by doubling the portion of Onions, Of 
adding a clove of Grarlic or Eschalot, and leaving out the Celeiy 
Seed (see 6^9)^ or put in diredded Roots as in (209) v^*^r, instead » 
of Oatmeal, thicken it with ground Bice, or Pease, &c., and make 
it savoury with iried Onions. 

This preparation, excellent as it is, would, without variety, soon 
beeome less agreeable. 

Nothing so comidetely 'disarms Poverty of its 8ting,«-*as tht 
means o( rendering a scanty pittance capable of yielding a comfoii* 
able nuiety. 

Change of Flavow is absolutely iteoe8sary--aot merely as a mat* 
ter of pleasure and comfort, but of Health-— 7*o»;o«r» Perdrix is a 
tfue proverb. 

This Soup will be much improved, if, instead of water, it be made 
with the liquor Meat has been boiled in ; — at Tripe, Cow-heel, and 
Cook-shops, this may be had for little or nothing. 

This Soup has the advantage of being very soon and easily made^ 
with no more fuel tlian is necessary to warm a room, — ^those who 
have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a Savoury and SatisQring 
Meal is produced by the combination of thes^ cheap and homely 
ingredients. 

If the generally received opinion be true, that Animal and Ve« 
getable foods afford nourishment in proportion to the quantity of 
Oil, Jelly, and Mucilage that can be extracted from them, — ^this 
Soup has strong claims to the attention of Rational Economists. 

ORAW-FI8H SOUP. 

213. This Soup is sometimes made with Bee^ or Veal Broth, ot 
with Fish, in the following manner : — 

Take Flounders, Eels, Gudgeons, &c., and set them on to boil 
in cold water ; when it is pretty nigh boiling, skim it well ; and to 
three quarts put in a couple of Onions, and as many Carrots cut to 
jaeces, some Parsley, a dozen berries of black and Jamaica pepper, 
and about half a hundred Craw-fish ; take off the small daws and 
shells ef the tails ; pound them fine, and boil them with the broth 
about an hour; strain o% and break in some crusts of bread to 
thicken it w and if you can get it, the spawn of a lobster ; pound it 
and put to the soup ; let it simmer very gently for a couple of 
minutes ; put in your ciaw-fish to get hot, and the soup is ready. 

O&f..— One of my predecessors recommends Craw-fish poundxd 



208 THB cook's ORACLfi. 

ALiVB, to sioeeien the sharpness of the B^oo^.— Vide Clbrhoitt^ 

Cookety, p. S. Iiondon, 1776. 

" Un des grands Hmnmes de Bouche de France" says : — ^** Un bm 

Coulis d"* JScrevisses est le Paradis sur la terre, et digne de la table des 

Dieux; and of all the tribe of Shell-fish, which our Industry and 

our Sensuality bring from the bottom of the Sea, the River, or the 

Pond, the Craw-fish is incomparably the most useful, and the most 

delicious/^ 

LOBSTBR 80UP. 

214. You must have three fine lively* Young Hen Lobsten, and 
boil them, (see 175) ; when cold, split the tails ; take out the fish, 
crack the claws, and cut the meat into mouthsful : take out the 
coral, and soft part of the body ; bruise part of the coral in a mor- 
tar ; pick out the fish from the chines ; beat part of it with the co- 
ral, and with this make foroemeat-balls, finely flavoured with maoe 
or nutmeg, a little grated lemon-peel. Anchovy and Cayenne; 
pound these with the yolk of an Egg. 

Have three quarts of Veal Broth ; bruise the small legs and the 
chine, and put them into it, to boil for twenty minutes, then strain 
It *, and then to thicken it, take the live spawn and bruise it in a 
mortar with a little Butter and Flour ; rub it through a sieve, and 
add it to the soup with the meat of the lolAters, and the remaining 
coral ; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes ; do not let it boil, 
or its fine red colour will immediately fiide ; turn it into a tureen ; 
add the juice of a good lemon, and a little Essence of Anchovy. 

80UP.AND BOUILIiI. 

215. (See also 5). The bes^ parts for this purpose are the Leg 
or Shin, or a piece of the middle of a Brisket of Beef, of about seven 
or eight pounds^ weight ; lay it on a fish-drainer, or when you take 
it up put a slice under it, which will enable you to place it on the 
dish entire ; put it into a soup-pot or deep stew-pan, with cold water 
enough to cover it, and a quart over ; set it on a quick fire to get 
the scum up, which remove na it rises ; then put iii two carrots, two 
turnips, two leeks, or two laige onions, two heads of celery, two or 
three doves, and a faggot of parsley and sweet herbs ; set the pot 
by the side of the fire to mmmer very gently, till the meat is just 
tender enough to caat : this will require about four or five hoars. 

Put a large cairot, a turnip, a large onion, and a head or two of 
celery, into the soup whole^take them out as soon as they are 
done enough ; lay them on a dish till they are cold ;'*then cut them 
^ito small squares *.-^when the Bsif is done, take it out carefully } 

* Bead (175). 



BBOTHB^ ORA.TIBS, AND S0UP8. 209 

•4o dish it up, (see 193, or 41 1) ; strain the Soup through a hair- 
ioere into a clean stew-pan ; take off the Fat, and put the Vegeta*' 
bles that are cot into the Soup, the jBavour of which you may 
heighten by adding a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup. 

If a Thickknsd Soup is preferred, take four large table-spoons- 
ful of the clear Fat &om the top of the pot, and four spoonsful of 
Flour ; mix it smooth together, then by degrees stir it wdl into the 
soup, which simmer for ten minutes longer at least,. ■■ .skim it well, 
and pass it throi^ a tamis, or fine sieve, and add the Vegetables 
and Seasoning the same as directed in the clear soup. 

Keep the Beef hot, and send it up, (as a remove to the Soup)* 

wi& finely chopped Parsley sprinkled on the top, and a Sauce-boat' 

of (286). 

OX-HSAD SOUP, 

216. Should be prepared the day befbre it is to be eaten, as you 
cannot cut the meat off the head into neat mouthful unless it is 
cold : — ^therefore, the day before you want this Soup, put half an 
Ox-Cheek into a tub of cold water to soak for a couple of hours ; 
then break the bones that have not been broken at the butcherX 
and wa^ it very well in warm water ; put it into a pot, and cover 
it with cold water ; when it boils, skim it very clean, and then put 
in one head of celery, a couple of carrots, a turnip, two large onions, 
two dozen berries of black pepper, same of allspice, and a bundle 
of sweet herbs, such as marjoram, lemon-thyme, savoury, and a 
handful of parsley ; cover the soup-pot close, and set it on a slow 
fire ; take off the scum, which will rise when it is coming to a boil, 
and set it by the fire-side to stew veiy gently for about three hours ; 
take out the head, lay it on a dish, pour tiie soup through a fine 
sieve into a stone-ware pan, and set it and the head by in a cool 
place till the next day *, — ^then cut the meat into neat moitthsful, 
skim and strain off the Broth^— put two quarts of it and the Meat 
mto a clean stew-pan«— let it simmer very gently for half an hour 
longer, and it is ready. — ^If you wish it thickened (which we do not 
lecommend, — ^for the reasons given in the 7th Chapter of the Ru- 
diments of Cookery), put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan ; 
when it is melted, throw in as much flour as will dry it up ; when 
fhey are all well mixed together, and browned by degrees, piour to 
this your soup, and stir it well together ; let it simmer for half an 
hour longer ; strain it through a hair-sieve into a clean stew-pan, 
and put to it the meat of the head, — ^let it stew half anliour longer, 
and season it with Cayenne pepper, salt, and a glass of good wine^ 
or a table-spoonfiil of brandy. See Ox-Cheek Stewed, X426). 



:.^ 



210 TH£ cook's . ORACLE. 

O&s.— Those ivho wish this Soup still more saToury, &c., for tba 
means of making it so we refer to (223). 
N.B. This is an Excellent and Economicnl Sonp^^ 

CftTTotfl ftHGl Xiimips <w » » i ww> #»w» •< ■*» •» **ii#< *# rf^wwi»ii^w »i W W o 3 
Allspice, and Black-Petter and Salt >w»<>#^.>.<»,*.. 1 

And costs those who hare' not a garden of their own only 2s. 2d^ 

and is a good and plentilul dinner for half a dozen people. See 

also (193 and 2] 1). 

If you serve it as Soup for a dozen people, thicken one Tureen, 

and send up the Meat in that, — and send up the other as a clear 

Gravy Soup, with some of the carrots and turnips shredded, or cut 

into shapes. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

217. Three Tails, costing about 7d. each, will make a Tureen of 
Soup (desire the butcher to divide them at the joints) ; lay them to 
soak in warm water, while you get ready the Vegetables. 

Put into a gallon stew-pan eight Cloves, two or three Onions^ 
half a drachm of Allspice, and the same of Black Pepper, and the 
Tails ;* cover them with cold water ; skim it carefully when and as 
long as you see any scum rise ; — ^then cover the pot as close as pos- 
sible, and set it on the side of the fire to keep gently simmering till 
ihe meat becomes tender and will leave the bones easily, because it is 
to be eaten with a spoon, without the assistance of a knife or fork ; 
flee N3. to (221) ; this will require about two hours : mind His not 
done too much : when perfectly tender, take out the meat and cut it 
off the bones in neat mouthsfol ; skim the broth, and strain it 
through a sieve :>-df you prefer a Thickknbd Soup, put flour and 
butter, as directed in the preceding Receipt, — or put two table- 
spoonsful of the Fat you have taken off the Broth into a clean stew- 
pan, with as much ilour as will make it into a paste ; set this over 
the fire, and stir them well together ; then pour in the Broth by 
degrees, stirring it and mixing it with the thickening v — let it sim- 
mer for another half hour, and i?hen you have well skimmed it, and 
it is quite smooth, then strain it through a tamis into a clean stew- 
pan, put in €he Meat, with a table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchup 
(379), a glass of Wine, and season it with salt. 

* S6iBe loren of haul ffo4t frj the Tails before they put them into the Soup- 
pot. 



BROTHfi^ GRAVIBS^ AND SOUP& 211 

Vm mcrea^ng the Piquanoe of this Soup, read (223)« 
Cfts^-JSte N.B. to (221) : if the Meat is cut off the Bones, you 
must have three Tails for a Tureen, see N.B. to (221) : some put 
SB Ox-Cheek or Tails in an earthen pan, with all the ingredients 
tm above, and send them to a slow oven for five or six hours. 
2iB. This is Almost as economical as the preceding Soup u» 

t. (L 

THnmmfivAunqfexedJentSoupcottohljf 1 U 
To 9tsw Ox-Taus, see (453)» 

OZ-HBEIi 80UP. 

218. Must be made Che day before it is to be eaten. Procure an 
Ox-Heel undressed, or only scalded (not one that has been already 
boiled, as they are at the lUpe diops, till almost all the gelatinoua 
parts are extracted), and Two that have been boiled as they usually 
are at the Tripe riiops. 

Cut the meat off the boiled beels into neat mouthsful, and set it 
by on a plate ; put the trimmings and bones into a stew-pan, with 
three quarts of water, and the unboiled heel cut into quarters v-«> 
lumish a stew-pan with two onions, and two turnips pared and 
sliced ; pare off the red part of a couple of large carrots, add a 
couple of eschalots cut in half, a bunch of savoury or lemon-thyme^ 
and double the quantity of partiley ; set this over, or by the side of 
a alow^«teady fire, and keep it closely covered and simmering very 
gently (or the soup-liquor will evaporate) for at least seven hours : 
during which, take care to remove the &t and scum that will rise 
to the surface of the soup, which must be kept as^lean as possible. 

Kow strain the liquor through a sieve, and put two ounces of 
batter into a clean stew-pan ; when it is melted, stir into it as much 
Hoax as will make it a stiff paste ; add to it by degrees the soup- 
liquor ; give it a boil up ; strain it through a sieve, and put in the 
petd of a lemon pared as thin as possible, and a couple of bay-leaves^ 
and the meat of the boiled heelsy..-.let it go on simmering for half 
an hour longer, t. e, till tiie meat is tender. Put in the juice of a 
Iiemon, a glass ofWine, and a table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchups 
and the soup is ready fox the tureen. 

Ob8. — ^Those who are disposed to make this a more sabetantial 
dish, may introduce a couple of sets of Goose or Duck-Giblets^ oe 
Ox-tails, or a pound of Veal-Cutlets, cut into mouthiftil^ 



212 THE oook's oraclb. 

BARB, RABBIT, OR PABTRIDOB 80UP. 

219. An old Hare, or Birds, when so tough as to defy the teeth 
in anj other form, will make very good Seup. 

Cut off the legs and shoulders ; divide the body crossways, aii4 
ttew them wry gently in three quarto of water, with one canot, about 
one ounce of onion, with four doves, two blades of pounded mace, 
twenty-four black peppers, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till the 
Hare is tender (most Cooks add to the above a couple of slices of 
Ham or Bacon, and a Bay Leaf, &c., but my Palate and Pune 
both plead against such extravagance ; the Hare makes sufficiently 
savoury Soup without them) : the time this will take depends very 
much upon its age, and how long it has been ktpt befbre it is dresa- 
ed : as a general rule, about three hoiurs : in the meantime, make 
a dozen and a half of nice forcemeat-balls (as big as Nutmegs) of 
(S21) ; when the Haie is quite tender, take the meat off the Back, 
and the upper joint of the Legs ; cut it into neat raouthsftU, and 
lay it aside ; cut the rest of the meat off the legs* shoulders, &c^ 
mince it, and pound it in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, and 
two or three table-spoonsful of flour moistened with a little Soup ( 
rub this through a hair-sieve, and put it into the Soup to thicken it ; 
«»iet it simmer slowly half an hour longer, skimming it welly— put 
it through the Tamis into the pan again<-^and put in the meat with 
a glass of Claret or Port wine, and a table-spoonful <^ Currant Jelly 
to each quart of Soup^-^season it with salt, put in the forcemeat* 
bells, and when all is well warmed the Soup is ready. 

Obs^-^JOoLD Boast Habi wiU make excellent soup. Chop it in 
pieces, and stew it in water (according to the quantity of Haie) for 
about an hour, and manage it as in the above receipt : the stoifiBg 
of the hare will be a substitute for sweet herbs and seasomng. 

N.B. This Soup may be made with Hook Hars, see (67). 

OAMB BOXfV. 

220. In the Qame Season it is easy for a Cook to give her •ma»' 
ter a very good Soup at a very little expense, by taking all the Meat 
off the Breasto of any cold Birds which have been left the preceding 
day, and pounding it in a mortar, and beating to pieces the 1^ and 
bones, and bailing them in some broth for an hour. Boil six tu^ 
nips ; mash them, and strain them through a tamis-dcth with the 
meat that has been pounded in a mortar ; strain your brotb^ and 
put a little of it at a time into the tamis to help you to strain all 
of it through. Put your soup-kettle near the fire, but do not let it 
boil : when ready to dish your dinner, have six yolks of ^ggs mixed 
with half a pint of cream ; strain through a sieve ; put your soup 



BROTHS^ OBi.yiBS> AND SOUPS. 213 

on the fiiey-«<aiid as it is coming to a boil» pfat in the eggs, and itir 
well with a wooden spoon : do not let it bro^ or it will curdle. 

0008B OR DVOK GI9I*BT 80UP.* 

221. Scald and pick veiy clean a couple sets of Goose^^^Di font. 
iifDuek Giblets (the ficesher the better) ; w&sh them well in wana 
mter, in two on three waten ; cut off the Nosea and split the 
Heads : dmde the Otzmarda and Ntcba into Af<ndk8/id..^{ ih9 QiA* 
qudg aie wA cut into pieeea before they are done enough, the zest 
of the Meat, &c^ will be done too mudi ; and Knivee and Forks 
haye no business in a Soup-plate. Crack the bones of the L^^s, put 
them into a stew-pan, — cover them with cold water : when they 
boil, take off the scum as it rises, then put in a bundle of herbs, 
spich aa Lemoa-TliTme, Winter Savoury, or Marjoiam, about three 
sprigs of eaclv— and double the quantity of Parsley, an Onion^— 
twenty berries of Allspice, the same of black Pepper, tie them aU 
np in a musHn bag, and set them to stew very gendy till the Gizzards 
nte tender : — ^this will take firom an hour and a half to two hours, 
according to the size and age of the Giblets : take them up with a 
skimmer, or a spoon ftill of holes, put them into the tureen, and 
cover down close to keep warm till the Soup is ready. 

To Thicken the Soup. — Melt an ounce and a half of butter in 
n clean stew-pan ; stir in as much Flour as will make it into a paste ; 
then pour to it by degrees a ladleftil of the Giblet liquor ; add the 
remainder by degrees ; let it boil about half an hour, stirring it all 
the while for fear it should bum, — skim it, and strain it through a 
fine neve into a Basin, — ^wash out the stew-pan, — ^then return the 
Soup into it, and reason it with a Glass of Wine, a table-spoonful 
of Mushroom Catchup, and a little salt, — ^let it have one boil up^-- 
and then put the Giblets in to get hot, and the Soup is ready. 

Obs. — Hius managed, one set of Croose, or two of Jhusk Giblets 
(which latter may sometimes be had for 3(2.), will make a Quart of 
tiaafcthful, nourisMng Soup: If you think the Giblets alone will not 
make the Gravy savoury enough, add a pound of Beef or Mutton, 
or bone of a knuckle of Veal, and heighten its *' piquance*'' by add- 
ing a few leaves of sweet Basil, the juice of half a Seville orange or 
lemon, and half a glass of Wine, and a little of (294) to each quart 
<xf Soup. 

Those who fli>e fond of FoncnoiJiT may slip the skin off the neck, 
4Uid fill it with (320) ; tie up the other end tight ; put it into the 

* Fowi«' or Tvbx^y's Haam iMk« g^od ami cht^ Se^ ia th« umt maimet. 



214 THE cook's OBACLB. 

soup about half an hour before jou take it up, or make some lace 
EtLYovay Balls of the Buck stufi^, (61). 

Obs. — Bespeak the Giblets a couple of days before you desire to 
have them : this is a favourite Soup when the Giblets are done till 
nicely tender, but yet not overboiled. Giblets may Be had from 
July to Januarys — ^the fresher they are the better; 

K.B. Thiff is rather a fionily-dish than a company one,-^e 
Bone» cannot be well picked without thrhelp of Alive Pincen^ 

Since Tom Goryat introduced Forks, A«D. 1642, it has not bee» 
the fashion to put ^^pkkert and gteahrs** mto Soup. 

MOCK MOCK TURTIiE, 

As made by Elisabxth Listxb {laie Cook to Dr, K&d^enerJ^ Brea^ 
and Biacmt Baker, No, 6, Salcoaibe Plaee, York Terraee, Rtgent'9 
Park^-^Qoes out to dress Dinners on reasoiuMe terms, 

222. Line the bottom of a stew-pan that will hold five pints wit& 
an ounce of nice lean Bacon or Ham, a pound and a half of leaa 
gravy Beef, a Cow-Heel, the inner rind of & carrot, a sprig of lemon- 
thyme, winter savoury, three times the quantity of paistey, a few 
green leaves of sweet basil,* and two eschalots-; put in a large On* 
ion,, with four cloves stuck in it, eighteen corns of allspice, the ssmie 
of black pei^r ; pour on these a quarter of a pint of cold water^ 
eover the stew-pan, and set it on a slow fire, to boil- gently for a. 
quarter of an hour ; then, for fear the meat should catch, take off 
the cover, and watch it ; and when it has got a good brown, colouiv 
fill up the stew-pan with boiling water, and let it simmer very gently 
for two hours ; — ^if you wish to have the full benefit of the meat, onlf 
stew it till it is just tender, cut it into mouthsfiil, and put it into 
the soup. To Thicken it, pour to two ot three table-spoonafol o£ 
flour, a ladleful of the gravy, and stir it quick till it is weU mixed ; 
pour it back into the stew-pan where the gravy is, and let it simmet 
gently for half an hour longer, skim it, and then strain it through a 
tamis into the stew-pan : cut Ihe cow-heel into pieces about an inch, 
square, squeeze through a sieve the juice of a lemon, a table-spoon- 
ful of mushroom catchup, a tearspoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonfiil 
of ground black pepper, as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a 8ix«> 

* To tbis fine aromatic Herb, Tnrtle Sovp is much indebted for it* IVJCT fla> 
Tonr, and the high esteem^it is held in bj the good eitisans of Lendoa, «im>I be- 
lieve, are pretty generally of the same opinion as Dr. Salmon. SeeJiU " JKniM" 
JMd Dietfonary and Si»ay en Oookerp" 8to. Lond6n, 1710, i>agb 34, artidr 
' Basil.' " This comforts the heart, expels melancholy, and cleanses the lungs.** 
See (336). "This plant gare the peculiar flaronrto The original Fetkr-Sne 
aomagstJ'^JiistkTh SufpltmeiU ts the Fharmaecpeeiai dro. I(B1, p. fia, 



r 



BROTHS^ OBAVISS^ AND SOUPS. 215 

^ee, and a glass of Madeiia or Sheny wine ; let it aH dmmef 
t<^gether for five minutes longer. 

Forcemeat or Egg-balls may be added if you please ; you will 
find a receipt for these (322, &c.) 

*♦♦ Ap<mndofVeatC»akt8,or ^heUypart of jmUM Pork, or 
mw doMe Tripe cut into pieoet ahowt an inek tqwre, and half an inch 
Uick, and rounded and trimmed neaUjf from all ekm, ffrieUe, ^ and 
etewed Hit Uieg are tender, wUl be a great addition. 

Onepoundaadahalf ofOrarrBeef-'--* 1 O 

Cow-Heel 7 

Boots and Herbs, &c. 3 

Butter and Plour 4 

Wine 6 

Half a Lemon 1 

Bacon, &c. &c 4 

Two quarti cost only 3 1 

MOCK TUKTIiB. 

223. Is the ** Bonne Bouche^ which " the OfHcen of the Mouth* 
of Old England* prepare, when they choose to rival *^ lee Grande 
dntiniere de France"^ in a Ragout sane PareU, 

The following Receipt is an attempt (and the Committee of Taste 
pronounced it a successful one), to imitate the excellent and gene* 
rally approved Mock Turtle made by Messrs. Birch, Comhill. 

Endeavour to hive the Head, and the Broth ready for the Soup,f the 
day hefore it ii to be eaten. 

It will take Eight Hours to prepare it properly. 

honre, 

Ckaaing and soaking the head, 1 

To parooil it to cut np, t 

CoMing, near! J 1 

Making the Broth and finishing the Soup, 6 

8 
Get a Galfs head with the skin on {the fresher the better), take out 
the brains, wash the head several times in cold water, let it soak for 
about an hour in spring-water, then lay it in a stew-pan, and cover 

"* ** Ttmt le monde salt que torn lea BagoAts qui portent le nom de ToitTUf , 
Mnt d'origine Avif^ai»e.*'-^JIfanttd da Amphitrpont,9ro. 1806, p. 89flL 

t Those who do not like the trooble, &e. of making Mock Turtle, may be sup- 
t»Ued with it ready made, in high perfection, at Birch's, in Condiilh It is not 

Kisoned with Caifenne Pepper, which the Turtle and Mock Turtle Soup of most 
istry Cooks and Tarem Cooka is, and to that degree, that it acta like a Blister 
«n the Coats of the Stomach : this prevMits our mentioning any other maker of 
this Soup, which is often made with Cow-Heel, or the mere Scalp of the Calf a 
Head, instead of the Head itself. 

The following are Mr. Birch's Directions for wanning this Soup : Empty the 
Turtle into a broad earthen Vessel, to kea> Cool : when wanted for Table, to 
two quarts of Soup add one gill of boiling Water or Veal Broth, put it over a 
food clear Fire, keeping it gently stirred (that it may not bum) ; when it has 
OoOed about three minutes, skim it, and put it in the Tureen. 

N.B.— The Broth or Water, and the 'Wine, to be put into the Stew-pan beftifo 
yion put in the Turtle. 



216 TBS OOQIC'8 OaACLS. 

i^ with cold iroter, and half s gallon over ; as it beeomte wami^ m 
great deal of scum will rise, which must be immediately raaeved, 
r-let it boil gently for one hour, take it up, and when almost oold, 
cut the head into pieces about an inch and a half by an inch and a 
quarter, and the tongue into mouthsful, or rather make a side-dish 
of the Tongue and Brains, as in (11). 

When the Head is taken out, put in the Stock MmU^* about fiw 
pounds of Knuckle of Veal, and as much Beef^ add to the stock all 
the Trimmings and Bones of the Head, skim it well, and then cover 
it close, and let it boil five hours (reserve a couple of quarts of this 
to make Gravy Sauces, &c see 272), then strain it off, and let it 
stand till the next momingy-^then iake off the &t, set a large stew- 
pan on the fire with half a pound of good fresh butter, twelve ounces 
of onions sliced, and four ounces of green sage, chop it a little, let 
these fry one hour, then rub in half a pound of flour, and by degrees 
add your Broth, till it- is the thickness of Cream, season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground Allspice and half an ounce of Blaek 
Pepper ground very fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
Lemon peeled very thin ; let it simmer very gently for one hour and 
a half, then strain it through a hair-sievey->do not rub your soup 
to get it through the sieve, or it will make it grouty ; if it does 
not run through easily, knock your wooden spoon against the side 
of your sievcr— put it in a dean stew-pan with the Head, and 
SBASON IT by adding to each gallon of Soup half a pint of Wine-— 
(see next page) and two table-spoonsful of Lemon-juice, see (350) ; 
let it simmer gently till the Meat is tender ; this may take from 
half an hour to an hour:— -ioAs care U is not over-done ; — stir it fre- 
quently to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the stew-pan, 
and when the' meat is quite tender the soup is ready. 

A Head weighing twenty pounds, and ten pounds of stock meat, 
will make Tm quarts ofeaoodUnt iS9«py-.be8ideB the two quarts of 
stock you have put by for Made Didies, && 

Oftf«— If there is more meat on tiie head than yon. wish to put in 
the soup, prepare it for a Pie, and, with the addition of a Callls 
foot, boiled tender, it will make an excellent Raooitt Pn ; s oa wa 
it with Zest, and a little minced Onion, put in half a tea-cupful «f 
stock, cover it with puff paste,and bake it one hour : when the soiq» 
comes from table, if there is a deal of meat and na soup, put it into 
a pie-dish, season it a little, and add some little stock to it, then 

* The reader may have KHiarked, that Mock Turti.s and Ponrso Baar sl- 
waja oome in aeaaon together. 

Sen Ob$. to (420). Tbk Oratt Mkat wlQ make an exceUent tttpmarjf foltti 
BefttAi as it will he Impiegnated with the fisTour of the herb* and qiice that — 
boUed with it. 



BROTSB> eXLAVlSB, AND aOUPS. 21? 

eofer it withpaste^ Ibake it <me lioiiz^ amL you faftve a good Mock 

TntTLX PlB. 

This Soup was eaten by &ie Committee of Dute witb uoaniimaHi 
appfakosey and tkeypionoiiBced it a verj n(tttbct<»y «ib«titiite!* for 
^th» far4ktehta]id deajuboui^'' T1ATI.B ; whieh m eniir«ly m* 
deHBd/brUt Tttl^of** Savsimuc of €Uvo«bbiv%*' toOa jRiidt^lBiyi 
tnia tfiMw f^ tt 9Wi'otmdtd, 

WitlMNit its pamphenalia of luUle Deuhle Reliflhea, a 
^STARVED TURTLE*' has aoi Metw intrinsic saiudity than a 
** PATTED CAIiF.**— Friendly Reader, it is i«aUy 
neither half ao wholesome, nor half so toothsome. See Essange of 
Tmile, (294), and Obe. to (41 1). To warm this 8eup» see (400). 

TO SEASON IT, to each Gallon of Soup put two table-spoOM* 
fal of Lemon-jiace, see (350), swoae of Mushroom Catchup (375), 
and one of Essence of Anchovy (371), half a piaiof Wine (tlril 
should be Madeiia, or, if you wish to daiken th0 eohmr of yoof 
Soup, Claret), a tea^poonful of Cuiry Powder (388), er a qoartef 
of a diachm of Cayenne, and the peel of a Lemon paied as thin at 
possible; let it simmer five misutcs more, take oni the Lemon-ped, 
and the Soup is relldy f9r the Tureen. 

While the Soup is doing, prepare for each tureen a dosea and a 
h^ of Mock Turtle Foioemeat Balls (to make these, see 318, 829 
to 385), we prefer Ae stuffing ordered in (61), and a doaen Egg 
balls ; and put then into the tureen. Brain Balls, or cakes, avft 
a very elegant addition, and are made by boiling the brains A>r ten 
minutes, then putting them in cold water, and cutting them into 
pieces about as big as a large nutmeg ; take Savoury, or Lemen- 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg gmted, and pepper and 
salt, and pound them all together ; beat up an egg, dip the bimins 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture* and make as much of it 
as possible stick to them, dip them in the egg again, and then in 
finely gmted and sifted bread-crumbs, fry them in hot fht, and send 
them up as a side dish. 

A VBAL swxETBRBAD, prepared as in (89), not too much done or 
it irill break, cut into pieces the same sixe as you cut the calf^i 
head, and put in the soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, 
is a sttpeib ** Bomte Bouehs ;'^ and Pidded Tongue^ stewed till veiy 



* ** Many Oaurmett and Oastrologen prafer the oopr to tb* MkinAt— wv 
hm that when done a* it ought to be, the Mock Tartlo u ozoee&igW intensl- 
te.*'>-m&cBa dbarioy 1880, pi 30. 

^ Turlki often beoomo emaoiaAed and riekij before they reach this ooaati^, 
lavhieh caae the Soap tnmld be incomnarablr improved by leaving out tibe 
tattle, and tabetttatiiigapood 00^$ HeaeW'^th^ppkmmt to aiiqfe.»iL JBOkh 
Wrfik, Tol. ir. p. 331. 



218 THE cook's ORACLB. 

tender, and cut into mouthiftil, is a fiiTouritd addltton. We ord^ 
the meat to be cut into Mouthsful, that it may be eaten with a 
spoon : the Knife and Fork hone m> huwnus in « SouppUde, 

*4c* Some of our eulmary eoidomporariM order ike Hamt Chut f^ 
ikk (as above direeUd, gujffleienUjf rduikimg) Sovp to be eonbmttAled 
ami be-devUed toUh a eophus addiUou of Anekometr^-JIfMabroomef^ 
Truffles^^MoreOi^^Cwrry-powderf^Arfkikoke both m e^ -Sa lm um^e 
head and liver^^-jor the eoft part of Oytten or Lobttersr-JSblee ad 
M mouihsfuUM bottle of Madeiror-a pint of Brandy, ^e. ; amd^ to 
complete iheir euffeiting and bumrffuUet Olio, tkey put in auk a tro- 
mendous quantity of Cayenne pepper^^-Jhat only a fire-proof pakde, lined 
with A^bettoi, or indurated by Indian Diet,, eon endure it. See- Note 
under (411). 

N.B. In helping this Soup,ihe distributer of it should senre out the 
Meaty— Forcemeat^ and Giavyy— in equal parts; however trifling 
vt needless this lemark may appear, the writer haaoften suffered from 
the want of such a ilM^ being given to the Soup-server, who has 
sometimes sent a plate of mere Chravy without M eat ^ a t others, of 
Meat without GxaTyy— and sometimes scarcely any thing but Force^ 
meat Balls, 

Ofo.— This is a delicious Soup, within the reach of those who 
** eat to live ;** but if it had been composed expressly for those who 
only " live to eat," I do not know how it co^d have been made 
more agreeable ; as it is, the lover of good eating will ^ wish his 
Throat a mile long, and every inch of it Palate.** 

K.B. Cucumber in a side-plate is a laudable Vegetable aoconh 

Mniment. 

BNGLZBH TURTZiB. 

224. See (418). *^ A-la-modb Bbxp.** 

OUHRY, OB MULZaAGA-TAWNY* SOUP. 

225. Cut four pounds of a Breast of Veal into pieces, about two 
inches by one ; put the trimmings into a stew-pan with two quarts 
«f water, with twelve corns of Black Pepper, and the same of All- 
since ; when it boils, skim it clean, and let it boil an hour and a 
hail^ then strain it off v— while it is boiling, fry of a nice brown in 
butter the bits of Veal and four Onions ; when they are done, put 

* MUOe^ia-Tmimif skniflM Pepper Water. The p ro gr— of inezpeiieneed 
peripatetic Palatieum um latelj been aneeted br theee oatlandiBh woida bdv 
pasted on the windows of our Coifee-Honses ; it has, we beliOTe, anawaied tkft 
** Reitauratettn^ " purpose, and often excited John oohL to walk in and taita : 
-*4the more familiar name of Currv Soup—would, perhaps, not hare had soffi. 
tfient of the charms of noveltj to seduce lum from his mucii-loired Mock Tuamc 

It is a fashionable Soup, and a great &Tonrite with our Batt Indian fiiMidL 
and we £ire the best receipt we could procure for it. 



BBOTHS^ OBAVIBS^ AND SOU PS. 219 

tiie Bioth to them, put it on the fire ; when it boilf, dcim it cleair, 
— 4et it simmer half an hour, then mix two spooniful of Curry, and 
the same of Flour, with a little- cold water and a tearspoonfnl of 
ialt ; add these to Ihe soup, and sknmer it gentl j till the Veal ia 
quite tender, and it is ready; — or hone a couple of Fowls or Bab« 
tuts, and stew them in the manner directed ahove for the V e aly 
ttnd you may put in aliruised Esdialot, and some Mace and Ginger, 
instead of Black Pepper and AUspice* 
0&s.-.B«ad (415). 

TURTIiB* SOUP. 

226. As it is our wish that this work should be given to- the 
Public at the lowest i>08sible price, the Receipt for dressing a 
Turtle is taken out— as a professed Cook is always hired for the 
purpose of dressing it. The space this long receipt occupied i»BOW 
filled with directions for making useful Pickles. See (39(^)» 

VORTABIiBt SOUP, OR OLAZB. 

227. Desire the Butcher to break the bones of a Leg or a Shis of 
Beef, often pounds* weight (the fresher killed the better), pot it 
Into a Soup-pot (a Digester:^ is the best utensil for this purpose) 
that will well hold it ; just cover it with cold water, and set it on 
tiie fire to heat gradually till it nearly boH« (this should be at least 

* "The usual allowanoe at a Turtls Vkast in Six Poundt Ntw toeitjMpa^ 
JS&wf^-at the Spaniah Dinner, at the Ci^of London Tarern, hi AugnM 190^ 
4O0 Ruests attended, and 2500 pounds of Turtle were consumed. '*--8ee Bbll'S 
Wixkly Messenger for August 7th, 1806. 

Bptcure Quin used to say, it was "not safe to sit down to a TurOe Feast at 
«ne of the City Halls, without a hasket^HltA Kni^ and Fork.'' 

We recommend our friends, hefore encountenns such ar temptation, to read 
our Pbptic PRBcaPTS. Nothing is more difficult of digestion, or oftener requires 
the aid of Peristaltte Persuaders, than the glutinous Gallipash which is eonsi- 
dered the '* bonne ^ou«fte" of this Soup. 

TvarhM is generally spoiled by hemg ever-dressed. If the reader has any 
cariositT to know how it is prepued in the most superlatiTe style,— it will be 
gratifi ed in the highest d^ree, ii he i>ays a visit to ALBroN-Houas, in Aldersgate 
Slice t. 

t " A pound of meat contains about an ounee of gelatinous matter ; it thence 
follows, that 1500 pounds of the same meat, idiich v the whole weight of a bul> 
Jodc, would gire only 94 pounds, which might be easily contained in an earthen 
Jar."— Dr. Hutton's JttUianai BacreaUons, rol. iv. p. 194. 

In what degree Portable or other Soup be nutritious, we know not, but fefer 
the reader to our note under (182). 

% This machine was inrented byJDr.Denys Fapin, IP. U.S., about the year 
1631, as appears by his Essay on " The New Digener, w Sngmefor Sqfienmif 
Bones" ** by the help of which (he says) the oldest and hardest Cow Beef may 
be made as tender and as saroury as youne and choieeHeat." Cast Iron Digestera 
are made at Jackson and Mosers, in Frith Street, Soho. 

Althou^ we have not yet found that they do what Dr. Papin says, " make 
eld and tough Meat— young and tender,** they are, hosrever, excellent thinga'to 
make Broths and Soup»in. A mong a multitude of other admirable excellencies 
obtainable by his Digester, Dr. pAPiK,'in his 9th Chapter, page 54, on the Ptofit 
that a good Engine may come to, sajs^ " I have found that An Old Bat, very bad 
and loosely made, having imbibed the Jelly of Bone% became very firm and stilt 



220 TH£ cook's qbacle. 

AR hour) V— skim it Mt^ntively while any scuiq risevHP^Mur ia « 
IMe cold water, to throw up the scuin that may remain,-. M it 
come to a boil agun, avA again skim it carefully ; when no Bioiv 
aciua liflefl, and the broth appears dear (put in neither Boots nor 
HeibB nor Salt), let it boil for ei^^t or ten hours, and thcA atmm 
it thzough a haii^edeTe into a brown stone pan ; aet the Bioib wh^^ 
it will cool cpiickly ; put the meat into a seve, let it drain, inak» 
Potted Beef (419), — or it wUi be yezj acceptable to many poor 
families. Next day remove every particle of F<a from the top of 
it, and pour it through a tamis, or fine sieve, as quietly as possible, 
into a Stew-pan, taking care not to let any of the settlings at the 
bottom of the stone-pan go into the Stew-pan, which should be of 
thidi Copper, peifectly well tinned ; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole Black Pepper to it, let it b(»l Iwiiddy, with the Stew^paa 
uncovered, on a quick fire ; if axy vwx n^es, tak^ it off with a 
skimmer; when it begins to thicken, and is reduced to about a 
quart, put it into a smaller stew-pan ; set it over a gentler fire, till 
it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick Syrup ; take care that it 
doe4 net bnm,.i a tmrneid^s maititKfti9» now will lo»you aUymtr labour^ 
and ihe mup toiU be spoiUd .•■■■■take a little of it out in a spoon avd 
let it cool', if it sets into a stnmg Jelly, it is done enough ; if it 
dees not, boil it a little longer till it does^o-have ready some little 
Pets, such as are used far Potted Meats, about an inch and a half 
deep, taking care that they are quite dry ; — ^we recommend it to be 
kept in these pots, if it is for home consumption-*^^ Us^ UU re- 
duQtd^ the better i$ ihe flavour of ihe SoupJ-^ it be sufficiently con- 
centrated to keep for six months ; — if you wish to preserve it longer, 
put it into such bladders as are used for Gennan Sausages, or if yoH 
or if you prefer it in the form of Cakes, pour it into a dish about 
a quarter of an Inch deep ; when it is cold, turn it out and weigh 
the Cake, and divide it with a paste-cutter into pieces of half an 
ounce and an ounce each ; place them in a waim room, and turn 
them frequently till they are thoroughly dried; — ^this will take 
a week or ten days ; turn them twice a day v— when well hardened, 
«nd kept in a dry place, they may be preserved for several yearsin 
«Bty cUmate. 

This extract of Meat makes excellent «< Tahlettes de BottOhm^^^fitt 
those who are obliged to endure long ^ting. 

If the sur&ce becmnes mouldy, wipe it with a little warm water, 
the mouldy taste does not penetmte tiie mass. 

I^ after several days^ drying it does not become so hard at joa 
wirii, put it into a Bainmarie Stew-pan, or MUMwUer, (these are 
made by LLOTD,Tinman,near Norft^-street, Strand,) till it is evapo- 



BROTHS^ QRAVIBS, AND SOmPS. 221 

n^tod to the conaistenoe you wish— or, set tiio Pots in a cool Otai, 
or in a Cheese-toaster, at a considerable distance from the fire ; this 
is the only safe way of reducing it very much, without the risk of 
its bummg, and acquiring an extremely disagreeable acrid flavour, &Cl 
O&f. — ^The uses of this concentrated JEssMce of Meat iste nnme<> 
louik. It is equally economical and convenient for makfng ^afieniporB 
troths enumerated in the O69. to (ld2), Sauces and Gravies for 
Hashed or Stewed Meat, Gkune, or Poultiy, &c 

You may thicken it and flavoitf it as directed in (287) v^to 
make Graty^ Sauces, &c take double the quantity ordered itx Broth, 

If you have time and oppoitunity, as tbeie is no seasoning in tho 
Soup, either of Roots, Herbs, or Spice, boil an Onion with oft with^ 
out a bit of Paisley and Sweet Herbs, and a lew corns of Allspice, 
or other Spice, in the water you melt the Soup in, which may t>e 
flatoured with Mushroom Catchup \ZUS)^^^u»t Eschalot W^ (343), 
^EsKnce of Sweet Herbs (363)y-lSavouTy Spice (365^ or iU)^^ 
Sannce of Celeiy (353), &c or Zest (229); these may t)e com- 
bined in the proportions moet agreeable to tbe palate of the Ealet 
— and are as portable as Portable Soup, for a very small portion wiU 
flavour a Pint 

The Editor adds nothii^ to the solntion of tills Soup, bat a veiy 
Utile ground ^ack Pepper and some Salt. 

N.B. If you are a careful mani^r, you need not always pur- 
chase Meat on purpose to make this, — when you drets a large Dmn^ 
you <9an mi&e Gl^k at very small cost, by taking care of the 
trismsngs loid parings of 1^ meat, game, and poultry, you use-'; 
wash tiiem well, put them into a Stew^^n, cover them wi<% ibe 
fiquor you have boiled Meat m^^und proceed as in the aibo^e Reoe^^ 
Mid see 06». on (1«2). 
. MsK. TboA POETASLB Soup is a most convdaent aartiole in Coek^ 

ery espedally in SmoM Families^ where it trill save a gr^t "dcti 4Qf 

tibie^Mtd trouble. Iti8also£Sc;MioM«M/,^nomorewillbem<elted 
tiian is w&nted^-4M> there is no waste. 

Nine pounds ofNedk of Beef^ Costing 2«. 7|<^^ produced nine ounces 
xiiyfGFy 3siob Soup ; the Bones, when boiled, weighed ten oixnces. 

Ho^ian Ox-dheek^ costing U. dcf., and weighing Uf pounds^ {Ad- 
duced thirteen ounces — ^but not so firm or clear, and iar Infeirior In 
ftcvonr to that obtained from a iShin of Be^. 

A Sheeip** Hwd, costisig 9d^ produced thiee ounces and a half. 

7Vw pounds of lean Mtat, from fiie Blade Bone of Beef, produced 
hardly an ounce. 

The addation of an ounce ot6^um AnSdb^ and two ounces of /«m- 
gUm^ to four ounces of the Mtract from « Leg of ^%fii^ ccmsldem- 



222 THB COOK^S ORACLS. 

bly diminiBhed the connatence of the maas, without adding to itt 
bulk. 

It has been thought that the Portable Soup whieh is manu&o- 
ftuied for sale — ^is partly made with Ose^HeeU ; but the experiment 
(627) proves this camiot be, as an ounce of the Jelly from Ox- 
Heel costs 6d, For Um ^eapeai method of procuring a hard JeBy 
(see N.B. to 628) ; nineteen Bones, costing 4^i, produced three 
ounces :~4dmo8t as cheap as SaUtbwy Glue, 

We are informed, that there is now for sale at Leipsicsome 
Tons of P<Mrtable Soup— ^r two ShilUngs per pound. During the 
late war, ihete was a great deal imported into this country ftom 
BuMia. 

A Knuckle 9/ Vealf weighing 4} pounds, and costing 2*. 4d, pnv 
duoed five otmoes. 

A Shin of Bxbf, weighing nine pounds, and costing It. lOid* 
{ooduoed fiine ounces of concentrated Soup, sufficiently reduced to 
keep for several months. After the boiling, the bones in this joint 
wieighed two pounds and a quarter, and the meat two pounds and a 
quarter. 

The result of these experiments is, that the product from Legi 
tmdMins ofBe^ was almost as large in quantity, and of much su> 
perior quality and flavour, as thai obtained from any of the other 
materials v--the flavour of the product from Mutton, Veal* &c. is 
comparatively insipid. 

As it is difiicult to obtain this ready-made of good qualitj-i--and 
we -could not find any proper and circumstantial directions for mak> 
iflg it, which, on trial, answered the purpose, — and it is really a 
great acquisition to the Army and Navy — to Travellers, Invalid^ 
&c— the Editor has bestowed some time, &c. in endeavonxing to 
leam— and to teach how it may be prepared in the eaaieat, most 
economical, and perfect manner. 

- The ordinary selling price is from 10«. to 12f., but you may make 
it according to the above Receipt for 3«. 6^. per pound— «. e. for 
2j^. per ounce, which will make you a Pint of Broth. 

Those who do not regard the expense, and like the flavour, may 
add the lean of Hamlin the proportion of a pound to eight pounds 
ofLegofBeeC 

It may also be flavoured, by adding to it, at the time yx>a ]Mk 
the Biotii into the smaller Stew-pan, Mushroom Catchup, Eschalot 
Wine, Essences of Spice or Herbs, &c. ; we prefer it quite plnin 
it is then ready to be converted, in an instant, into a basin of Beef 
Tea, for an Invalid, and any flavour may be immediately oommu- 
nicated to it by the Magaiine of Taste (390). 



BBOTHB, QRAVISS, AND SOUPS. 223 

TO CIiAftlFY BROTH OB OBAVY. 

228. Put on the Broth in a clean Stew-pan, break the white and 
Shell of an Egg, best them together, put them into the Broth, stir 
it with a whieac ; when it has boiled a few minutes, strain it through 
a Tamis or a napkin. 

Obt. — ^A careAil Cook will seldom have occasion to clarify her 
Broths, &C. if prepared according to the directions given in (192). 



OBAVIES AND SAUCES. 

MBIiTBD BUTTBB, 

229. Is so simple and easy to piepare, that it is a matter of ge- 
neral surprise, that what is done so often in every English kitchen, 
is so seldom done righty-^-Foreigners may well say, that although 
we have only One SAUcs/for Vegetables, Fish, Flesh, Fowl, &c.— • 
we hardly ever make that good. 

It is tpoUed nine times out of Un, more/rom Idleness than/rom Iff' 
mranee^ and rather because the Cook won^ than because she canH 
do it, — ^which can only be the case when Housekeepers will not 
allow Butter to do it with. 

Good Mbltkd Buttbr cannot be made with mere flour and 
water ; there must be a full cmd proper proportion of Butter,-^Aa it 
must be always on the Table, aad is 

The foundation op almost all our English Sauces ; we have 

Melted Butter and Oysters, 

Parsley, 

Anchovies, 

Eggs, 

. Shrimps, 

Lobsters, 

Capers, See, &c. Slc. 

I have tried every way of making it ; and I trust, at last, that I have 
written a receipt, which, if the Cook will carefully observe, she will 
eonstantly succeed in giving satisfiiction. 

In Uie quantities of ike various Sauoes I have ordered, I have had 
in view the providing for a Family of half-a-dozen moderate peopi e 

Never pour Sauce over Meat, nor even put it into the dish v— 
however well made, some of the Company may have an antipathy 
to it ^Tastes are as different as Faces '..—moreover, if it is sent up 



^24 



THB COOK S OKAOLl. 



aepeiate in a boat, it will ke^ hot longer, and what is kffc may be 
put bv fbg another time, or used lor aaothear parpoae. 

J a gj [y« ' Qbeerfe, that in wdezing the proportion ^'Mbat^' 
Bvrjplt, Wdo, Sncn, &c. in the following leoeipts, tJk proptrquast^ 
ii^u 9tt dawn^ and that a lesB qwmtity will not db ;... and in jome 
jfigtartcea thoae Palates which have been used to the extc^veof 
Piqttanee^ will reqwue additiona} excit^nent.* — ^If we haye .^ned, 
it has been on the right side, from an fm^ions wish to combine Eco- 
nomy with Elegance, and the Wholesome with the Toothsome. 
l^Q following we recommend as an elegant Relish to finish Soups 
^d Sauces. 






.^^d^ta^^k. 



ZEST 



\*. 



FOR CHOPS, SAUCES, 

AHD • * • 

MADB DrSBBS. '\ 

This pSqumOe oviMteneoGe of BagoM inpaiti'll^' whatever it 
tovches a most delicioas Relish ;-^t awakens the Palate with de- 
lisht,— refreshes Appetite,— and instantly excites the good hnmonr 
of (ererj man's master) the Stomach. ' ' 

800N-M APB fiAVOURY SAUCB. ' ^ . 
Stir two drachms of ZEST into a half-pint of melted^Vottf!/. Let 
it boil up, and strain it through a siere ;— or each OwnV'maT'add 
ible ■ - ~ • 



it at table like Salt» and adjust the vibration of Us VsH^jfut^ his 
own Fancy. * 

Sold at Bi 
Garden. 

It wfll keep ftnr any time, in any Climate. 



)uT].BR'a Herb-shop, opposite Heniietta Streef^ 




MEIiTED BUTTER. 

Keep a pint stew-pen-j- for this purpose only. 

Cut two ounces of butter into little bits, that it maj melt more 
easily, and mix more readily *, — put it into the stew-pan with a 
large tearspooniiil (t. e, about three drachms) of Flour (some pre- 
fer Arrow Root ox Potato Starch, 380), and two table spoonsful of 
Milk. 

* This maT be easOT aooompliih«d Iw the aid of that Whip aad Spur, whidi 
Stadents of long standing in the Sdiool of Oood LiTing are generally so fond of 
flBfiveniiig their palate with, i e. Caifcnnc and Garlic 

Parslcy (234), Chbrtil (S3S), Cclkkt (8S5), Crbsb (337)> Tarraooit (3ftT, 
BDmiin- (aW), Basil (336), Eaouior (SGianAsa), Capsr (S44), FnfNn<8aa 
LiTRB (251, 252, 253), Curry (299 and 383), Eoo (239). Mushroom (270), An- 
chovy (241 and 371), Baoout (865 aadSIM), Sbm>» (MB), Bomrs Bonemt ft» 
and 991), 8tfi>aiu.Anva (370), and farioaa navouing Swraoas. Sea Amu <33S 
to 390). 

Any of the above VegaisMM, itc asay be viii«sd tmyjM^ and selitlfttalds 
on amtle plate, and those who like their flaTonr may mix them with IMted 
Butter, &c. This is a hint for Econondsts, which win saTo them many poimdi 
of Butter, dec See Msm. to (289). 

t A SiLvsk saucepan is infinitely the best,--joiL may hare one big enough 
to melt bntter for a moderate figumily ^ font or mw povnds. 



m 
0% 



GBAVIBS AND SAUCB8, 225 

When thoroughly mixed, — add six table-spoonsful of water ; 
hold it over the fire, and Bhak« it round every minute (alHhe while 
the same way) till it just begins to simmer, th,en let it stahd^aietly 
and boil up. It should be of the thickness of good cream, t^xi^- 

N.B. Two table-spoonsful of (375), instead of the milk^^l^. 
make as good Mushroom Sauce as need be, and is a superlative «q;: 
oompaniment to either FishV^Flesh, — or Fowl. 

O&f. — This is the besl way«of preparing' melted butter \ — Mi 
mixes with the butter much more e^ily and more intimately t 
water alone can be made to do. This is of {trpper thickness to 
mixed at table with Flavouriiig EssencegmA-noiovv. Mushroom, ^ 
Cavice, &c. If noade meroly to pour on^er Teg^tables, add a little 
more milk to it. . *, ^ 

N.B. If the Butter Oils, put a spoonful^'^f cold water to it, 
and stir it with a spoon, — ^if It is very much oiled, it must be poured 
backwards and forwards from the Stew-pan to the Sauce-boat till it 
is right again. V 

MxM.— Melted 'Butter made to be mixed «^th flavouring Es- 
sences, Catchups, (&c should be of the thicknl^s of light Batter, 
that it may adhero to the Fish, &c. 

THIOKENTNG. • 

230. Clarified butter is best for this purpcSie ; *but *if you have 
none res^, put some Fresh Butter into a stew-pan over a slow 
deaf 'iMb > — ^when it is melted, add fine Fldur sufficient to make it 
tiljg'thickness of paste ; — stir it^^ell together with H wooden spoon 
.f(^r fifteen or twenty minutes^ till it is quite smooth, and the colour 
. €^a l^uinea ; this must be done very gradiialiy and patiently ; if 
you put it ove^ too fierce a fire td hurry if,' it will become bitter and 
emp3rreumatic ; pour it^nio q^n earthen pan, and keep it for use. 
It will keep gooda^fort^^ht i^l^uinmer, and longer in Winter. 

A large^spd^Ktfui^will generally be enough to thicken a Quart of 
Gmvy. 

Obs. — ^This,-intthe<.French kitehen, is called JRotue, Be particu- 
larly attentive in making of it : if it gets any burnt smell ox taste, 
it will spoil every thing it is put into ; see Obs, to (283). When 
cold, it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife, like a solid 
paste. 

It is a very essential article in the kitehen, and is the basis of 
consistency in most made dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts : — ^if the 
Gravies, &c. are tto thin, add this Thickening, more or less, ac- 
cording to the consistence you would wish them to have. 

MEM..-.In making Thickening, — ^the less Butter, and the more 

F 



226 THE cook's oracle. 

Flour you use, the better ; — ^they must be thoroughly vorked toge- 
ther, and the broth, or soup, &c. you put them to, added by de- 
grees ) — take especial caie to incorporate them well together, or 
your sauces, &c. wiU taste floury, and have a disgusting, greasy 
appearance ; — ^therefore, after you have thickened your sauce, add 
to it some broth, or warm water, in the proportion of two table- 
spoonsful to a pint, and set it by the side of the fire, to raise any 
fyi, &c. that is not thoroughly incorporated with the grayy, which 
you must carefully remove as it comes to the top. This is called 
cleansing, or finishing the sauce. 

*** Half an ounce of Butter, and a tcJjle-apoos^vl of Flour, are 
cAout ^ proportion for a pint of Sauce to make it as tiidli as Cream. 

N.B. The Fai Skimmings off the top of the Broth Pot are some- 
timessubstituted for Butter, see (217),-^-8ome Cooks merely thicken 
their Soups and Sauces with Flour, as we have directed in (222), or 
Potato Farina, (380). 

CIiARIFIED^ BUTTEB. 

231. Put the Butter in a nice clean stew-pan, over a very clear 
slow fire ; watch it, — and when it is melted carefully, skim off the 
butter-milk, &c. which will swim on the top v — let it stand a minute^ 
or two for the impurities to sink to the bottom, — ^then pour the 
clean butter through a sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sedimrait 
at the bottom of the stew-pan. 

0&».-~-Butter thus purified will be as sweet as Marrow, a very 

useful covering for Potted Meats, &c., and for frying Fish equal to 
the finest Florence oil, for which purpose it is commonly used by 
Catholics, and those whose religious tenets will not allow them to 
eat viands fried in animal oil. 

BURNT BUTTEB. 

232. Put two ounces of fipesh butter into a small frying-pan ; 
when it becomes a dark brown colour, add to it a table-spoonful 
and a half of good vinegar, and a little«pepper and salt. 

Obs. — ^This is used as sauce for boiled Fish, or poached Eggs. 

OII*ED BUTTER. 

233. Put two ounces of fresh Butter into a sauce-pan ; set it at 
a distance from the fire, So that it may melt gradually, till it comes 
to an Oil, and pour it off quietly from the dr^. 

Obs. — ^This will supply the place of Olive OIL ; and by Bome is 
preferred to it either for Salads or Frying. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 227 

PABSLBY AND BUTTSB. 

334. Wash some Parsley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf 
bv leaf; put a tea-spoonfiil of salt into half a pint of boiling water ; 
boil the Parsley about ten minutes ; drain it on a sieve; mince it 
quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. 

The delicacy and excellence of this el^ant and innocent Relish 
depends upon the Parsley being minced very fine : put it into a 
flouce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about half a pint of good 
melted butter (229) — only do not put so much flour to it, as the 
Fanley will add to its thickness : — ^never pour Parsley and Butter 
OTer boiled things, but send it up in a Boat. 

Ofa. — In French Cookery Books this is called ^ Melted Butter, 
En^ish Fashion ;"" and, with the addition of a slice of leipon cut into 
dice, a little Allspice and Vinegar, ** Dutek /Sbwoe." 

N.B. To PRBSBRVE Paeslby through the winter, — in May, June, 

or July, take line fresh-gathered sprigs ; pick, and wash them clean ; 

set on a stew-pan half full of water ; put a little salt in it ; boil, 

and skim it clean, and then put in the Parsley, and let it boil for a 

couple of minutes, and take it out, and lay it on a sieve before the 

• fire, that it may be dried as quick as possible, — ^put it by in a Tin 

Box, and keep it in a dry place, — ^when you want it, lay it in a 

Basbi, and cover it with warm water a few minutes before you use 

it 

G008EBEBBY SAUOE. 

235. Top and tail them close with a pair of scissors, and scald 
half a pint of green Gooseberries ; drain them on a hair-sieve, and 
put them into half a pint of melted Butter, (229). 

Some add grated ginger and Lemon-peel, and the French minced 
Fennel, — others send up the Grooseberries whole or mashed, with- 
out any Butter, &c. 

CHEBVXZii BASIL, TABBAGON, BUBNET, 
CBiBSS, AND BUTTEB. 

236. This is Ihe first time that Chervil, which has so long been 
a &vourite with the sagacious French Cook, has been introduced 
into an English book. Its flavour is a strong concentration of the 
combined taste of Parsley and Fennel, but more aromatic and agree- 
able than either ; and is an excellent sauce with boiled Poultry or 
Fish. Prepueitj&cas we have directed for Parsley and Butter, (234). 

FBMNEIi AND BUTTEB FOB MACKEBBb, &c. 

237. Is prepare^ in the same maimer as we have just described 
in (234). 



228 THE COOK S ORACLE. 

Obs. — For Mackerel Sauce, or boiled Soles, &c. — some people 
take equal parts of Fennel and Parsley : others add a sprig of Mint, 
or a couple of young Onions minced very fine. 

MACKEREZi ROE SAUCE. 

238. Boil the Roes of Mackerel (soft roes are best) \ bruise them 
with a spoon with the yolk of an Egg, beat up with a very little 
pepper and salt, and some Fennel and Parsley boiled and chopped 
very fine, mixed with ahnost half a pint of thin melted butter».8ee 
(229). 

Mushroom catchup. Walnut pickle, or Soy, may be added. 

BOO SAUCE. 

239. This agreeable accompaniment to roasied PouUry or poiML 
Fish^ — is made by putting three Eggs into boiling water, and boil- 
ing them for about twelve minutes, when they will be hard ; put 
them into cold water till you want them. This will make the Yolks 
firmer, and prevent their sur&ce turning black, and you can cut 
them much neater,-.-u8e only two of the Whites ; cut the Whites 
into small dice, — the Yolks into bits about a quarter of an inch 
square, — ^put them into a Sauce-boat ; pour to them half a pint of 
melted Butter, and stir them together. 

Ohs. — ^The Melted BtUter for Egg Sauce need not be made quite 
so thick as (229). If you are for Superlative Egg Sauce, pound the 
Yolks of a Couple of Eggs, and rub theni with the melted butter 
to thicken it. 

N.B. Some Cooks garnish Salt Fish with hard-boiled egga cut in 

half. 

PLUM^-PUDPING SAUCE. 

240. A glass of Sherry, half a glass of Brandy (or ^* Cheory- 
Bounce"), or Cura^oa (649), or Essence of Punch (653), and two 
tea-spoonsful of pounded lump sugar (a very little grated Lemon- 
Peel is sometimes added), in a quarter of a pint of lliick Melted 
butter : grate Nutmeg on the top. 

See Pudding Catchup, (379). 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

241. Pound three Anchovies in a mortar with a little hit of Butr 
ter ; rub it through a double Hair-sieve with the back of a wooden 
spoon, and stir it into almost half a pint of Melted butter (229) ; 

or stir in a table-spoonful of Esgence of Anchovy, (871). ^To the 

above, many cooks add Lemon-juice and Cayenne. 

Obs. — Foreigners make this sauce with good Brown Sauce (287),. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCS8. 229 

or White Sauce (307) ; instead of melted Butter, add to it Catchup, 
— Soy, — and some of their flayoured Vinegars, as Elder or Tarra- 
gona—Pepper and fine Spice, — sweet herbs, — Capers, — Eschalots, 
&c. They serve it with most Roasted Meats. 

N.B. Keep your Anchovies well covered, first tie down your Jar 
with Bladder moistened with vinegar, and then wiped dry; tie 
Leather over that : when you open a Jar, moisten the bladder, and 
it will come off easily, — as soon as you have taken out the Fish, 
replace the coverings : the air soon rusts and spoils Anchovies, 
flee (371), &c 

GARLIC 8AUOE. 

242. Pound two cloves of Gku-lic with a piece of fresh Butter, 
about as big as a Nutmeg : rub it through a double hair-sieve, and 
itirit into half a pint of melted butter, or Beef Gravy \ or make it 
with Garlic Vinegar, (841, 342, and 343). 

LEMON SAUCE. 

248. Pare a Lemon, and cut it into slices twice as thick as a half- 
crown pieces divide these into Dice, and put them into a quarter 
of a pint of Melted Butter, (229). 

06t^-Some Cooks mince a bit of-the Lemon-peel (pared very thin) 
ttryjme, and add it to the above. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

244. (See also 262). To make a Quarter of a Pint, take a table- 
qpoenfiil of Capers, and two tea> spoonsful of Vinegar. 

The present fathion ofeuttiny Capers is to mince one- third of them 
veiy fine, and divide the others in half; put them into a quarter of 
a pint of melted Butter, or good thickened Gravy (287) ; stir them 
the same way as you did the melted butter, or it will oil. 

Oftf. — Some boil and mince fine a few leaves of Parsley, or Cher- 
vil, or Tarragon, and add these to the sauce \ — others the juice of 
half a Seville Orange, or Lemon. 

Mem, — Keep the Caper bottle very closely corked, and do not 
use any of the Caper liquor :^f the Capers are not well covered 
with it, they will immediately spoil ; and it is an excellent ingredi- 
ent in Hashes, &c. The Dutch use it as a Fish Sauce, mixing it 
with meHed butter. 

HOCK CAPER SAUCE. 

245, or (262). Cut some pickled Green Pease, — French Beans 
— GherkinSy— or Nasturtiums, into bits the size of Capers ; put them 



230 • THB cook's oracle. 

into half a pint of melted butter, with two tea-spoonsfui of Lemon- 
juice, or nice Vinegar. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

246. Choose Plump and Juicy Natives for this purpose : — donH 
take them out offheir Shell till you put them into the Steuhpan^aee Obe. 
to (178). 

To make good Oyster Sauce for half a dozen hearty Fv^Eaten^ 
you cannot have less than three or four dozen Oy8ten.-J3aTe iStntax 
liquor \ strain it, and put it and them into a stew-pan : as soon as 
they boil, and the fish plump, take them off the Fire, and pour the 
contents of the stew-pan into a sieve over a clean basin ; wash the 
stew-pan out with hot water, and put into it the strained liquoT, with 
about an equal quantity of Milk, and about two ounces and a half of 
Butter, with which you have well rubbed a large table>spoonliil oi 
flour,^~give it a boil up, and pour it through a sieve into a besin 
(that the Sauce may be quite smooth), and then back ^ain into the 
sauce-pan, — ^now shave the Oysters, and (if you have the honour of 
making sauce for '^ a Committee of Tcute,^'' take away the gna^j part 
also) put i» only the soft part of the Oyttera : if they aie very laige, 
cut them in half, and set them by the fire to keep hot : ^ if they 
boil after, they will become hard.** 

If you have not liquor enough, add a little Melted Butter, or 
Cream (see 568), or Milk beat up with the yolk of an £!gg (this 
must not be put in till the sauce is done). Some barbarous Cooks 
add Pepper, or Mace, — ^the juice or peel of aLemcm, — ^HorBezadish, 
— Essence of Anchovy, Cayenne, &e. : — Ficon Sauoetufe only to taete 
(^the Ingredient from whifA^ they derive their name, 

Obs. — It will very much heighten the flavour of this Sauce to 

pound the soft part of half a doz«i (unboiled) Oysters ; rub it 

through a hair-sieve, and then stir it into the sauce ^.^this ESssxnci 

OP Oyster (and for some palates a few grains of Cayenne) is the only 

'addition we recommend. See (377). 

PRESERVED OYSTERS. 

247. Open the Oysters carefully, so as not to cut tiiem except 
in dividing the gristle which attaches the shells, — put them into a 
Jiortar, and when you have got as many as you can conyeniently 
pound at once, add about two drachms of Salt to a dozen Oysteisk 
— ^pound them, and rub them through the back of a hair-sieTe, 
and put them into a mortar again, witii as much Flour (which has 
been previously thoroughly dried (as will make them into a paste ; 
roll it out several times, — and, lastly, flour it, and roll it out the 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 231 

thickness of a half crown, and divide it into pieces about an inch 
square ; lay them in a Dutch oven, where thej will drj so gently 
as not to get burned, — turn them every half hour, and when diey 
begin to dry, crumble them^ — they will take about four hours to 
diyy-.4hen pound them fine, — sift them, and put them into bottles, 
and seal them over. 

N.B. TflRXE DOZBN OF Nativbs required 7^ ounces of dried 
Flour to make them into a paste, which then weighed 11 ounces^— . 
vdkeu dried and powdered 6\ ounces. 

To make half a pint of Sauce, put one ounce of Butter into a 
stew-pan, with three drachms of Oyster powder, and six table-spoons- 
ful of milk ; set it on a slow fire ; stir it till it boils, and season it 
with salt 

This Powder, if made with Plump Juicy Natives, will abound 
with the flavour .of the Fish ; and if closely corked, and kept in a 
dry place, will remain good for some time. 

Obs, — ^This eactract is a welcome succedaneum while Oysters are 
out <if season, and in such inland parts as seldom have any, is a Ta- 
luable addition to the list of Fish sauces : it is equally good with 
boiled Foiri, or Rump Steak^— and sprinkled on Bread and Butter 
makes a very good Sandwich, and is especially worth the notice of 
Country Housekeepers — and as a Store Sauce for the Army and 
Navy. See JLnekaoy Potoder, (373). 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

248. SSiell a Pint of Shrimps, pick them clean, wash them and 
put them into half a pint of good Melted Butter. A ' Pint of un- 
shelled Shrimps is about enough for Four Persons. 

Obe, — Some stew the Heads and Shells of the Shrimps, (vrith or 
without a blade of bruised Mace), for a quarter of an hour, and stnin 
off the liquor to melt the butter with, and add a little Lemon-juice, 
— ^Cayenne, — and Essence of Anchovy, — or Soy, — Cavice, &c. ; — 
but ike Flavour of the Shrimp is so delicate it will be overcome by ^y 
of such additions. 

Mem. — If your Shrimps are not quite fresh^ they will eat tough 
and thready, as other Stale Fish do. — (See Obs. to 141). 

IiOBSTBR SAUCB. 

249. Choose a fine Spawny Hen Lobster,* be sure it is fresh, so 

* Yon must hare a Hen Lobster, on account of the Live Spawn. Some Fish- 
mongers have a cruel custom of tearing this ^m the Fish before they are boiled ; 
—lift up the tail of the Lobster, and see that it has not been robbed of its Eggs ; 
'-the goodness qf your Sauce depends upon its havingaftM share of the Spaum in 
it, to which it owes not merely its brilfiant Bed Colour, but the finest part of 
its Flavour. 



232 . THB cook's obaclb.^ 

get a live one if you can, (one of my culinary predeceasoTs sayK, 
** let it be heavy and lively^''*) and boil it as (175) ; pick out the 
Spawn and the Bed Coral into a mortar, add to it half an ounce of 
Butter, pound it quite smooth, and rub it through a hair-sieve with 
the back of a wooden spoon ; cut the meat of the Lobster into small 
squares, or pull it to pieces with a fork, put the pounded Spawn 
into as much melted Butter, (229) as you think will do^ and stir it 
together till it is thoroughly mixed, — ^now put to it the meat of the 
Lobster, and warm it on the fire ; take care it does not boil^ whiek vfill 
spoil its compleasion^ and its brtUiant Red colour wiU immediate^ fade. 

The above is a very easy and excellent manner of making this 
Sauce. 

Some use strong Beef or Veal Gravy instead of melted Butt», 
adding Anchovy, Cayenne, Catchup, Cavice, Lemon-juice, or pickle^ 
or Wine, &c. 

0&9. — Savealittle of the inside Red Coral Spawn^ and rub it through 
a sieve (without butter) : — it is a very ornamental gamisb to 
sprinkle over Fish ; and if the skin is broken, (which will some- 
times happen to the most careful Cook, when there is a large dinr 
ner to dress, and many other things to attend to), yon will find ifc 
a convenient and elegant Veil, to conceal your mitfortune from the 
pr3ring eyes of piscivorous Chmmumds, 

N.B. Various methods have been tried to prssbhvb Lobstsb^, 
(see 177), and Lobster Spawn, for a Store Sauce. The Live Spawn 
maybe kept some time in strong Salt and Water — or in an Ice-house. 

The following process might, perhaps, preserve it longer :..Pat 
it into a Sauce-pan of boiling water, with a large spoonfiil of Salt in it, 
and let it boil quick for five minutes *, then drain it on a hair sieve-; 
spread it out thin on a plate, and set it in a Dutdi Oven, till it is 
thoroughly dried,— .grind it in a clean mill, and pack it closely in 
well stopped Bottles, (see also Potted Ldbtiers^ 177). < 

SAUCB FOR XiOBSTER, &c. 

250. (See also 313). Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled Eggs 
with the back of a wooden spoon, or rather pound them in a mor- 
tar, with a tea-spoonfiil of water, and the soft inside and the spawn 
of the lobster; rub them quite smooth, with a tea-spoonful of madte 
Muslard, two table-spoonsful of Salad Oil, and five of Vinegar ; 
season it with a very little Cayenne pepper, and some salt 

Obs. — ^To this. Elder or Tarragon Vinegar (335), or Anchovy- 
Essence (371), is occasionally added. 

LIVER AND PARSLEY SAUCE. 

251. Wasli the Liver (it must be perfecily frtsli) of a Fowl pr 



6BAYIES AND SAUCES. 233 

Babbit, and boil it five tninutes in five table-spoonsful of water ;— 
<^op it fine ; or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve : — ^wash about one-third 
the bulk of Parsley leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling 
water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it ; lay it on a hair-sieve to 
drain, and mince it very fine ; mix it with the liver, and put it into 
a quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it up ; — do not let it boil. 

IiEMON AND LIVER SAUCE. 

252. Pare off the rind of a Lemon, or of a Seville Orange, aa 
thin as possible, so as not to cut off any of the White with it ; — 
now ait off all the White, and cut the Lemon into slices, about as 
thick as a couple of half-crowns ; pick out the pips, and divide the 
slices into small squares : add these, and a little of the peel minced 
\ery fine to the Liver, prepared as directed above, and put them 
into the melted Butter, and warm them together^^but do not let 
them boil. 

N.B. The Poulterers can always let you have/mi Liven — if 
that of the Fowl or Rabbit is not good, or not large enough to 
make as much Sauce as you wish. 

(Xu. — Some Cooks, instead of pounding, mince the Liver very 

fine (with half as much Bacon), and leave out the Parsley, — ^others 

add the juice of half a Lemon, and some of the Peel grated, — or a 

tea-spoonful of Tarragon or Chili Vinegar, a table-spoonful of 

White Wine, or a little beaten Mace or Nutmeg, or Allspice : — ^if 

you wish it a little more lively on the palate, pound an Eschalot, 

or a few leaves of Tarragon or Basil, with Anchovy or Catchup, or 

Cayenne. 

lalVER SAUCE FOR FISH. 

253. Boil the Liver of the Fish, and pound it in a mortar with a 
little flour, stir it into some Broth, or some of the liquor the fish was 
boiled in, or melted Butter, Parsley, and a few grains of Cayenne, 
a little Essence of Anchovy (371), or Soy, or Catchup (375) •,— give 
it a boil up, and rub it through a sieve : — ^you may add a little Le- 
mon-Juice, or Lemon cut in dice. 

SPRING FRUIT-A MOCK OOOSEBERRT 
SAUCE FOR MACKEREIi, &c. 

254. Make a Marmalade of three dozen sticks of Rhubarb, 

sweetened with moist Sugar ; pass it through a hair sieve, andserve up 

in a sauce-boat. 

CEIiERY SAUCE, WHITE. 

265. Pick and wash two heads of nice White Celery, cut it intb 



234 THE cook's ORACLE. 

pieces about an inch long ; stew it in a pint of water, and a tea- 
spoonfiil of salt, till the Celery is tender ;* roll an ounce of butter 
with a table-spoonfiil of flour ; add this to half a pint of cream, and 
give it a boil up. 
K.B^-See (S53). 

CEIA&Y BA.UCB PURBE, FOR BOIXJBD TUBKSY, 

VSAIi, TOWIA, dec. 

256. Cut small half a dozen heads of nice White Celery that is 
quite clean, and two Onions sliced ; put in a two-quart Stew-pan, 
with a small lump of Butter ; sweat them over a slow fiie till quite 
tender, then put in two spoonsful of flour, half a pint of water (or 
Beef or Veal Broth), salt and pepper, and a little cream or milk ; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, and pass through a fine hair-sieTe with 
the back of a spoon. 

If you wish for Celery sauce, when Celery is not in aeason, a 
quarter of a diachm of Cdery-teed^ or a little Essence of Celery 
(358), will impregnate half a pint of sauce with a sofficient portion 
of the flaTour of the Vegetable. 

See Ohs. to (200). 

GREEN, OR BORREIi SAUCE. 

257. Wash and clean a large Ponnet of Sorrel, put it into a Stew- 
pan that will just hold it, with a bit of Butter the size of an Ig gg, 
cover it close, set it oyer a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, pass 
the Sorrel with the back of a wooden spoon through a haiinneve, 
season with Pepper, Salt, and a small pinch of powdered Sugar, 
make it hot, and serve up under Lamb, Veal, Sweetbreads, &c. &c. 
Cayenne, Nutm^ and Lemon-Juice, are sometimes added. 

TOMATA, OR IiOVB APPXiB SAUCE. 

258. Have twelve or fifteen Tomatas, ripe and red ; take off the 
stalk ; cut them in half ; squeeze them just enough to get all the 
water and seeds out ; put them in a stew-pan with aCi^cnm, and 
two or three table-spoonsfiil of Beef Gravy ; set them on a alow 
stove for an hour, or till properly melted ; then rub them through 
a tamis into a clean stew-pan, with a little white pepper and salt, 
and let them simmer together a few minutes. 

N.B. — ^To the above the French Cook adds an Onion or ISteha- 
lot, a Clove or two; or a little Tamgon Vinegar. 

* So much depends upon the age of the Celery, that we eannot gire any ytre- 
ciM time for thU. Young fresh -gathered Celery wil 1 be enough in three qnartcxs 
of an hour ; old will tometimes take twice as long. 



GRAVIES ANB SAUCES. 235 

MOCK TOM ATA SAUGE. 

259. The only difference between this and genuine Lot©- Apple 

Sauce, is the substituting the pulp of Apple for that of Tomata, 

colouring it with Turmeric, and oominunicating an acid flavour to 

it by Vinegar. 

ESCHAIrOT SAUCB. 

260. Take four Eschalots, and make it in the same manner as 

GarHc Sauce (242). 

OB, 

261. You may make this sauce more eztemporaneoualy by put- 
ting two table-spoonsful of Eschalot Wine (343), and a sprinkUng of 
Pepper and Salt, into (almost) half a pint of thick melted Butter. 

069. — ^This is an excellent Sauce for Chops or Steaks ; many are 
very fond of it with Roasted or Boiled Meat, Poultry, &.c 

ESCHAIiOT SAUCE FOR BOIIiED MUTTON. 

262. This is a very frequent and satisfiujtory substitute for ^ Caper 
Sauce:^ 

Mince four Eschalots very fine, and put them into a small sauce- 
pan, with almost half a pint of the liquor the Mutton wb« boiled in : 
let them boil up for five minutes ; then put in a table-spoonfiil of 
Vinegar, a quarter tearspoonfiil of Pepper, a little Salt, and a bit of 
Batter (as big as a wahiut) rolled in flour ; shake together till it 
boils. See (343) Eschalot Wine, 

Obe. — ^We like a little Lemcm^ped with Elschalot; — ^the liaid govi 
of the latter is much ameliomted by the delicate omma of the former. 

Some Cooks add a little finely chopped Paisley. 

YOUNG ONION SAUCE. 

263. Peel a pint of Button OnioBB, and put them in water till 
you want to put them on to boil ; put them into a stew-pan, with a^ 
quart of cold water ; let them boil till tender ; they will take (ac- 
cording to their size and age) fiom half an hour to an hour. Tou 
may put them into half a pint of (272). See also (136). 

ONION SAUCE. 

264. Thoae who ift%0 thefuJUflammr of Onions only cut off the strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of the skins), put them into salt 
and water, and let them lie an hour; then wash them, put them 
into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil them till they are ten- 
der : now skin them, pass them through a colander, and mix a little 
melted Butter with them. 



236 THE cook's ORACLE. 

N.B. Some mix the pulp of Apples, or Turnips, with the On- 
ions, — others add Mustard to them. 

WHITE ONION 8AUCB. 

265. The following is a more mSd <md deUeate* preparation : — 
Take half a dozen of the largest and whitest Onions (the Spanish 
are the mildest, but these can only be had from August to Decem- 
ber), peel them and cut them in half^ and laj them in a pan of 
spring-water for a quarter of an hour, and then boil for a quarter of 

an hour and then, if you wish them to taste very mSd — ^pour off 

that water, and cover them with fresh boiling water, and let them 
boil till they are tender, which will sometimes take three quarters 
of an hour longer — drain them well on a hair-sieve, lay them on the 
chopping-board, and chop and bruise them, put them into a dean 
sauce-pan, with some Butter and Flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, 
and some Cream, or good milk ; stir it till it boils ; then rub the 
whole through a tamis, or sieve, adding cream or milk, to make it 
the consistence you wish. 

Obs, — ^This is the usual sauce for boiled Rabbits, Mutton, or Tripe* 
— ^There must be plenty of it ; the usual expression signifies as much, 
for we say, emather them with it. 

BROIXTN ONION SAUCB8, OR ONION 0&A.VY. 

266. Peel and slice the Onions (some put in an equal quantity 
of Cucumber or Celery) into a quart stew-pan, with an ounce of 
Butter ; set it on a slow fire, and turn the Onion about till it is very 
lightly browned ; now gradually stir in half an ounce of Flour ; add 
a little broth, and a little pepper and salt, boil up for a few minutes, 
add a table-spoonful of Claret, or Port Wine, and same of Mush- 
room Catchup, — (you may sharpen it with a little Lemon-Juice or 
Vinegar), — and rub it through a tamis or fine sieve. 

Curry Powdrr (299) will convert this into excellent Currt 
Sauck. 

N.B. If this Saucs is for Stbakb, shied an ounce of onions, fry 
them a nice brown, and put them to the sauce you have rubbed 
through a tamis ; — or some wry smaU round young silver Button 
Onions (see 263), peeled and boiled tender, and put in whole when 
your sauce is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

Obg If you have no Broth, put in half a pint of water, and see 

(227) r— just before you gi^e it the last boil up, add to it another 

* If jou wish to hare them verv mild, cut them in quarters, boil them for £▼« 
minutes in plenty of water, and then drain them, and cook them in frcdi water. 



OBIVIES AND SAUCES. 237 

table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchup, or the same quantity of Port 
Wine or good Ale. 

The flavour of this Sauce may be varied by adding Tarragon or 
fiumet Vinegar (335 and 339). 

8A6B AND ONION, OR GOOSE-STUFFING 

SAUCE. 

267. Chop very fine an ounce of Onion and half an ounce of 
green Sage leaves, put them into a stew-pan with four spoonsful of 
'water, simmer gently for ten minutes, then put in a tea-spoonful of 
pepx>er and salt, and one ounce of fine bread-crumbs ; mix well to- 
gether ; — ^then pour to it a quarter of a pint of (Broth, or Gravy, or) 
Melted Butter, stir well together, and simmer it a few minutes longer. 

Obs, — This is a very relishing Sauce for Roast Pork, Poultry, 
Creese, or Ducks ; or Green Pease on Maigre Days, 
See also Bonne Bouche for the- above (290, &c) 

GREEN MINT SAUCE. 

268. Wash half a handful of nice young fresh-gathered Cfreen 
Mint (to this some add one third the quantity of Parsley), pick the 
leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a tea-spoonful of moist Sugar, and four table-, 
spoonsful of Vinegar. 

Obs. — ^This is the usual accompaniment to Hot Lamb ; and an 

equally agreeable relish with Cdd Lamb. 

If Green Mint cannot be procured, this sauce may be made with 

Mint Vwieffor (338). 

APPIiE SAUCE. 

269. Pare and core three good-sized baking Apples, put them into 
a. well-tinned pint sauce-pan, with two table-spoonsful of cold water ; 
cover the sauce-pan close, and set it on a trivet over a slow fire a 
couple of houn before dinner, — some Apples will take a long time 
stewing, — others will be ready in a quarter of an hour : — ^when the 
Apples are done enough, pour off the water, let them stand a few 
minutes to get dry ; then beat them up with a Fork, with a bit of 
Butter about as big as a Nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of powdered 
Sugar. 

N.B. Some add Lemon-peel, grated, or minced fincy.— or boil a 
bit with the Apples. Some are fond of Apple Sauce with eold Pork 
.—ask those you serve if they desire it 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

270. Pick and peel half a pint of Mushrooms (the smaller the 



238 THE cook's oracle. 

better), wash them very clean, and put them into a sauce-pan urith 
half a pint of Veal Gravy or Milk, a little Pepper and Salt, and' an 
ounce of Butter nibbed with a table-spoonful of Flour, stir them 
together, and set them over a gentle fire, to stew slowly till tender ; 
—skim and strain it. 

Obs. — It will be a great improvement to this, and the two follow- 
ing Sauces, to add to them the juice of half-a-dozen Mushrooms, 
prepared the day before, by sprinkling them with salt, the same as 
when you make Catchup ; or add a large spoonful of good Doable 
Mushroom Catchup (375). 

See QuiNTBssBNCB OP Mushrooms (376). 

N.B. Much as we love the flavour of Mujuooms, we must enter 
our protest against their being eaten in substance, — ^when the morbid 
effects they produce too often prove them worthy of the appella- 
tions Seneca gave them, ** Voluptuous Poison," •* lethal luxury,'* 
&c. ; and we caution those who cannot refrain from indulging their 
palate with the seducing relish of this deceitful Fungus, to masti- 
cate it diligently. 

We do not believe that Mushrooms are nutritive, — every one 
knows they are often dangerously indigestible, — therefore the Ra- 
tiooKl Epicure will be content witii extracting the flavour from them 
— ^which is obtained in the utmost perfection by the process diieoted 
in (375). 

MUSHROOM SAUCE, BROW^N. 

271. Put tfie Mushrooms into half a pint of Beef Gravy (183, or 
287) ; thicken with Flour and Butter, and proceed as above. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE, EXTEMPORE. 

272. Proceed as directed in (229) to melt Butter, — only instead 
of two table-spoonsftil of Milk, put in two of Mushroom Catchup 
(375 or 376) \ — or add it to thickened Broth, Gravy, or Mock 
Turtle Soup, &&_oi put in (263). 

Ohs, — ^This is a welcome Relish witii Fish, Poultry, or Chope and 
Steaks, &c. A couple of quarts of good Catchup (375), will make 
more good Sauce than ten times its cost of Meat, &c. 

Walnut Catchup will give you another variety ; and Ball^ Ca« 
VICE, which is excellent, and sold at 'No. 81, New Bond Street. 

POOR MAN'S SAUCE. 

273. Pick a handful of Parsley leaves from the stalks, mince 
them very fine, strew over a little salt ; shred fine half a dozen young 
green Onions, add these to the Pandey, and put them into a sauce- 



GRAVIES AND SAUCBS. 239 

boat, with three table-spoonsM of Oil, and five of Vinegar ; add 
some ground Black Pepper and Salt ; stir together and send it up. 

Pickled French Beans or Gherkins, cut fine, may be added, or a 
little gisted Horseradish. 

Obs. — ^Thifi Sauce is in much esteem in France, where people of 
taste, weaiY of rich dishes, to obtain the chann of variety, occasion* 
ally Older the fiire of the Peasant. 



the Rich, tired with continual Feasts, 



For change become their next poor Tenant's guests ; 
Drink hearty draughts of Ale from plain brown bowls, 
And snatch the homely Basher from the Coals." 

DhYDBN's Prologue to " AUJbr Lave.*' 

THE SPANJARD'S QARLIC GRAVY. 

274. See also (242). Slice a pound and a half of Veal or Beef; 
pepper and salt it, lay it in a stew-pan with a couple of Carrots split, 
and four cloves of Garlic sliced, a quarter pound of sliced Ham, 
and a large spoonful of water ; set the stew-pan over a gentle fire, 
and watch when the meat begins to stick to the pan ; when it does, 
turn it, and let it be very ^ell browned (but take care it is not'sct 
all burnt) ; then dredge it with flour, and pour in a quart of broth, 
a bunch of sweet Herbs, a couple of Cloves bruised, and slice in a 
Lemon ; set it on again, and let it simmer gently for an hour and a 
half longer : then take off the fat, and strain the gravy from the in- 
gredients, by pouring it through a napkin, stiaining, and pressing it 
very nard. 

Obs. — ^This, it is said, was the secret of the Old Spaniard^ who. 
kept the house called by that name on Hampstead Heath. 
Those who love Garlic, will find it an extremely rich relish. 

THE LATE MR. MICHAEL KBLLY^S SAUCE FOR 

BOIIaBD TRIPE, CAIiF-HEAD, OR COW-HEEXa. 

275. Garlic Vinegar, a table-spoonful, — of Mustard, Brown 
Sugar, and Black Pepper, a tea-spoonful each, stirred into half a 
pint of oiled melted butter. 

MR. KELLY'S SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

276. Pound atable-spoonfiil of Capers, — and one of minced Parsley, 
— as fine as possible ; then add the yolks of three hard Eggs, rub 
them well together with a table-spoonful of Mustardy—bone six 
Anchovies, and poimd them, rub them through a hair-sieve, and 
mix with two table-spoonsful of OH, one of Vinegar, one of Eschalot 
ditto, and a few grains of Cayenne Pepper ; rub all these well to- 
gether in a mortar, till thoroughly incorporated ; then stir them into 



240 THE cook's obaclb. 

half a pint of Rood Gravy, or melted Butter, and put the whole 

through a sieve. 

F&IBD PARSIiEY. 

277. Let it be nicely picked and washed, then put into a cloth, 
and swung backwards and forwards till it is perfectly dry ;— put it 
into a pan of hot &t, fry it quick, and have a slice ready to take it 
out the moment it is crisp (in another moment it will be spoilt) \ 
put it on a sieve, or coarse cloth, before the fire to drain. 

CRISP PARSIiEY. 

276. Pick and wash young Parsley, shake it in a dry cloth to 
drain the water from it ; spread it on a sheet of clean paper, in a 
Dutch oven before the fire, and turn U/requenilif utdil it is quite crisp. 
— This is a much more easy way of preparing it than Frying it, 
whieh is not seldom ill done. 06«.-~A very pretty garnish for 
Lamb Chops, Fish, &c. 

FRIED BREAD SIPPETS. 

279. Cut a slice of Bread about a quarter of an inch thick, divide 
it with a sharp knife into pieces two inches square *, — shape these 
into Triangles or Crosses '^ — put some very dean Fat into an iron 
Frying-pan : when it is hot, put in the sippets, and fry them a 
ddiocUe light brown; take them up with a Fish-slice, and drain 
them well from Fat, turning them occasionally *, — ^this will take a 
quarter of an hour. Keep the pan at such a distance frt>m the fire 
that the &t may be hot enough to brown without burning the bread ; 
— ^this is a requisite precaution in frying delicate thin things. 

Obs. — ^These are a pretty garnish, and very welcome accompani- 
ment and improvement to the finest Made Dishes : — ^tbey may 
also be sent up with Pease and other Soups \ — ^but when intended 
for Soups, the Bread must be cut into bits, about half an inch square. 

N.B. If these are not done very delicately dean and dry, they are 

uneatable. 

FRIED BREAD-CRUMBS. 

280. Rub Bread (which has been baked two days) through a 
wire sieve, or colander ; — or you may rub them in a cloth till they 
are as fine as if they had been grated and sifted ; put them into a 
stew-pan, with a couple of ounces of Butter, place it over a mode- 
rate fire, and stir them about with a wooden spoon till they are the 
colour of a Guinea ; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand 
ten minutes to drain, turning them frequently. 

Obs^^miFried Crumbs are sent up with roasted Sweet-breadBy-^>or 



GRAVISS AND SAUCES. 241 

Larics, — Pheasants, — Partridges, — Woodcocks, — and Gfonse^ or 

Moor Game, — etpedaily if ihey have been kq4 long enouffk, 

BREAD SAUCE. 

281. Put a small tea-cupful of Bread-Crumbs into a stew-pan, 
XM>ur on it as mudi milk as it will soak up, and a little more ; or 
instead of the milk, take the Oiblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the Poultry, &c. and stew them, and moisten the bread with this 
liquor ; put it on the fire with a middling-sized Onion, and a dozen 
berries of Pepper or Allspice, or a little Maoe ; let it boil, then stir 
it well, and let it simmer till it is quite lAiS, and then put to it 
about two table-spoonsful of Cream or melted Butter, or a little 
good Broth ; take out the Onion and Pepper, and it is ready. 

(H>s. — ^This is an excellent accompaniment to Game and Poultry, 
&c., and a good vehicle for receiving various flavours from the 
Magazine of Taste (390). 

RICE SAUCE. 

282. Steep a quarter of a pound of Rice in a pint of milk, with 
Onion, Pepper, &c. as in the last Receipt ; when the rice is quite 
tender (take out the spice), rub it through a sieve into a clean stew- 
pan : if too thick, put a little milk or cream to it. 

Ohf, — ^This is a very delicate White sauce ; — and at elegant tables 
is frequently served instead of Bread Sauce. 

BROWNING, 

283. Is a convenient article to colour those Soups or Sauces, of 
which it is supposed their deep brown complexion denotes the 
strength and savouriness of the composition. 

Burnt Sugar is also a favourite ingredient with the Brewers, who 

use it under the name of" Essentia Bina,'' to colour their Beer ; it 

is also employed by the Brandy-makers, in considerable quantity, 
to colour Brandy; to which, besides enriching its complexion, it 
gives that sweetish taste, and fWness in the mouth, which custom 
has taught Brandy drinkers to admire, and prefer to the finest 
Coffnac in its genuine state. 

When employed for Culinary Purposes, this is sometimes made 
with strong Gravy, or Walnut Catchup. Those who like a gout 
of Add may add a little Walnut Pickle. 

It will hardly be told from what is commonly called '^genuine 
Japanese Soy,'** (for which it is a very good substitute). Burnt 

jajlSti^^ best accounts I caniind, Soy is a preparation from the seeds of a 
!Klf^ of the /Jo^ic^o*, prepared by a fermentation of the farina of this seed in 
a BtroBg luavmm of common 8alt."-CuLLKN's Mat. Med. yoI. i. p. 430. 

Q 



242 THE cook's ORACLE. 

Treacle or Sugar, — the Peels of Walnut, — Cayenne Pepper^ — or 
Gapncums, — or Chilies, — ^Vinegar, — ^Garlic,— and pickled Hemngis 
(especially the Dutch), — Sardinias, — or Sprats, — appear to be the 
bases of almost all the Sauces which now, to use the makers phiiiae, 
stand unrivalled. 

Although inde&tigable research and experiment have put us is 
possession of these compoations, it would not be quite &ir to enrich 
the Cook at the expense of the Oilman, &c. — ^we hope we haT« 
said enough on these subjects to satisfy the *' Rational Epieuie.** 

Put half a pound of pounded Lump Sugar, and a table-spoonful 
of water, into a clean iron sauce-pan, set it over a slow, fire, and 
keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a bright brown 
colour, and begins to smoke ; then add to it an ounce of salt, and 
dilute it by d^rees with.< water, till it is the thickness of Soy ; let 
it boil, take off the scum, and strain the liquor into bottles,, which 
must be well stopped : if you have not any of this by you, aaod yon 
wish to darken the colour of your sauces, pound a tea-spoonful 
of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon, with as much water as 
will dissolve it ; hold it over a quick fire till it becomes of s.vfeiy 
dark brown colour ; mix it with the soup, &c.- while, it is h^^t. > 

Oba. — ^Most of the preparations under this title are a:m6dl6y of 
Burnt Butter, — Spices, — ^Catchup, — ^Wine, &c. We Veeommend th§ 
Rational JSpicure to be content toith the natural Colour of Soups and 
Sauces, which, to a well-educated Palate, are much more agreeahlev 
without any of these empyreumatic additions ; however they may 
please the Eye, they plague the Stomach most grievously, so ^ open 
your Mouth and shut your Eyes."" 

For the sake of producing a pretty colour, *^ Cheese^ — ^ Cayemie** 
(345),—<* Essence of Anchovy,^ (371), &c. are fi«quently adulterate^ 
with a colouring matter containing Red Lead I ! — See Aocum on ^As 
Adulteration of Food, 2d Edit. 12mo. 1820. 

A Scientific *^ homme de Bouehe de France" observes—^ The ge- 
nerality of Cooks calcine Bones, till they are as black as a Coal, 
and throw them hissing hot into the stew-pan, to give a brown colour 
to their Broths. These ingredients, und^ the appearance of a 
nourishing Gravy, envelop our food with stimulating acid and coiv- 
rosive Poison. 

** Roux, or Thickening (230), if not made very carefully, produces 
exactly the same effect ; and the juices of Beef or Veal, burnt ov^ 
a hot fire, to give a rich colour to Soup or Sauces, greviously offend 
the Stomach, and create the most distressing indigestions. 

^' The judicious Cook will refuse the help of these incen^ary ar- 



GIU.VIE8 AND SAU0E8. 243 

tides which ignoiance or quackeiy only employ^— not only at the 

expense of the ciedit of the Cook, but the health of her employers." 

N.B. The BEST Browning is good Home-made Glase (227)^— 

Mushroom Catchup (375), — or Claret, or Port Wine. See also 

(230) ; — or cut meat into slices, and broil them brown, and then 

stew them. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. 

284. Most joints will afford sufficient trimmings, &c. to make half 
a pint of plain Gravy, which you may colour with a few drops of 
(283) ) — ^for those that do not, about half an hour before you think 
the meat will be done, mix a salt-spoonful of salt, with a full quarter 
pint of boiling Water ; drop this by d^jrees on the brown parts of 
the joint ; set a dish under to catch it (the meat will soon brown 
again) ; set it by^ — as it cools, the Fat will float on the sur&ce ; 
when the meat is ready, carefully remove the Fat, and warm up the 
Giavy, and pour it into the Dish. 

7%e Common Method is, when the meat is in the dish you intend 
to send it up in, to mix half a tea-spoonful of Salt in a quarter pint of 
boiling water, and to drop some of this over the corners and underside 
of the meat, and to pour the rest through the hole the spit came out 
o£, — and some pierce the inferior parts of the joint with a sharp skewer. 

The following receipt was given us by a very good Cook : — You 
may make good Browning for Boast Meat and Poultry, by saving 
the Brown Bits of Boast Meat or Broiled ; cut them small, put 
them into a basin, cover them with boiling water, and put them 
away till next day ; then put it into a 8auce>pan, let it boil two or 
three minutes, strain it through a sieve into a basin, and put it away 
for use. When you want Gravy for Roast Meat, put two table- 
spoonsful into half a pint of boiling water with a little salt ; — if for 
JRoasted Vealy put three table-spoonsful into half a pint of thin 
melted Butter. 

N.B. The Giavy which comes down in the dish, the Cook (if she 
is a good housewife) will preserve to enrich Ha8HI8 or liitlb 
Maoe Dishbs, &c. ' 

Obs, — Some Culinary professors, who think nothing can be excel- 
lent that is not extravaganty. call this ^ Scots Gravy ;" not, I be- 
lieve, intending it, as it certainly is, a compliment to the laudable 
and rational frugality of that intelligent and sober-minded people. 

N.B. This gravy should be brought to table in a Sauce-boat ; 
preserve ^ uUrinsio Gravy which flows from the meat in the Aigyll. 

ORAVY FOR BOILED MEAT^ 

285. May be made with Parings and Trimmings,~-or pour from 



244 THE cook's OaiCLB. 

a quarter to hnlf a pint of the Uquor in which the Meat was bdled, 
into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a 
sharp skewer. 

WOW WOW SAUCE FOB STEWED OB BOUILLI BEEF. 

286. Chop some Parsley-leaves very finely, quarter two or thvee 
pickled Cucumbers, or Walnuts, and divide them into small squares, 
and set them hy ready *, — ^put into a sauce-pan a bit of Butter as big 
as an egg ; when it is melted, stir to it a tablenspoonful of fine flour, 
and about half a pint of the broth in whidi the Beef was boiled ; 
add a table-spooniul of Vinegar, the like quantity of Mushroom 
Catchup, or Port Wine, or both, and a tea-spoonful of made Mus- 
tard ; let it simmer together till it is as thick as you wish it, put in 
the Parsley and Pickles to get warm, and pour it over the Bee^.^ 
or rather send it up in a Sauce-tureen. 

Ofts. — If you think the above not sufficiently piquanU^ add to it 
some Capers, or a minced Eschalot, or one or two tea-spoonsful of 
Eschalot Wine (843)r--or Essence of Anchovy,~.or Basil (836), 
— Elder, or Tarragon (385), or Horseradish (340), or Burnet Vine^ 
gar *, or strew over the Meat Carrots and Turnips cut into dice, — 
minced Capersy-^Walnuts, — Red Cabbage, — ^pickled Cucumbers, 
French Beans, &c. 



BSBF QBAVY BAUOB. 

Or Brown Saucs for Ragout, Game, Poultry, Fish, &c. 

287. If you want Gravy immediately, (see 272, or 227). If you 
have time enough, fiimish a thick and well-tinned stew-pan with a 
thin slice of hi Ham or Bacon, or an ounce of Butter, and a mid- 
dling sized Onion ; — on this lay a poimd of nice juicy Gkavy Beef, 
(as the object in making Gravy is to extract the nutritious succu- 
lence of the Meat, it must be beaten to comminute the containing 
vessels, and scored to augment the surface to the action of the wa- 
ter), cover the Stew-pan, set it on a slow fire ; when the meat begins 
to brown, turn it about, and let it get slightly browned (but takt cart 
it is not at all burnt) : then pour in a pint and a half of boiling water, 
set the pan on the fire ; — ^when it boils, — carefully catch the scum, 
— and then put in a crust of Bread toasted brown (don^ bum it) — 
a sprig of Winter Savoury, or Lemon Thyme and Parsley — a roll 
of thin-cut Iiemon-Peel, a dozen berries of Allspice, and a doxen of 
Black Pepper ; cover the stew-pan close, let it stew very gctsAy for 
about two hours, then strain it through a sieve into a basin. 

If you wish to thicken it, set a clean stew-pan over a slow fire, 
with about an ounce of Butter in it ; when it is melted, dredge to 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 245 

it (by degrees) as much flour as will dry it up, stirring them well 
together ; when thoroughly mixed, pour in a little of the Gravy^— 
stir it well together, and add the remainder by degrees ; set it over 
the lire, let it simmer gently for fifteen or twenty minutes longer, 
and skim off the &t, &c. as it rises ; when it is about as thick as 
cream, squeeze it through a tamis or fine sieve, — and you will have 
a fine rich Brown Sauce, at a veiy moderate Expense, and without 
mach trouble. 

0&9. — If you wish 1o tnake U sUa iMtre RdishiHff^-^ itia tor Poul- 
/ly, you may pound the Liver with a bit of Butter, rub it through a 
sieve, aiid stir it into the San(» when you put in the thickening. 

For a Ragout or Gauk, add at the same time a table-spoonfid 
of Mushroom Catchup, or (293),* or (370), or a few drops of (366), 
the juice of half a Lemon, and a roll of the rind pared thin, a table- 
spoonful of Port or other wine (Claret is best), and a few grains of 
Cayenne Pepper ; — or use double the quantity of Meat, — or a<|d a 
bit of Glaze or Portable Soup (227) to it . 

You may vary the fliivour, by sometimes adding a little Basil, 
or Burnet Wine (336), or Tairsgon Yinegia' (335), or a wine-glass 
of Quintessence of Mushrooms (376). 

See the Maoazinx of Tastb (390). 

N.B. This is an excellent Gravy ; and at a laige Dinner, a pint 
of it should be placed at each end of the Table — ^you may make it 
equal to the most costly Consommi of the Parisian Kitchen. 

Those families who are frequently in want of Gravy, Sauces, 
&c. (without plenty of which no Cook can support the credit of her 
Kitdien), should fse^ a stodc of Portable Soup oa Glazb (see 
227) : this will make Gravy immediatdy, 

GAME ORAVV. 

288. (See Obs, to 287). 

ORANOB ORAVY SAUCB, 

For Wild Ducks, Woodcocks, Snipes, Widgeon, and Teal, &c 

289. Set on a Sauce-pan with half a pint of Veal Gravy (187), 
add to it half a dozen leaves of Basil, a small Onion, and a roll of 

* One of the " la bont hommet d» Bimd^de Prance" ordei« the following ad- 
dition for Game Oravv : " For a pint, par-roast a Partridge or a Pigeon ; cut off 
the meat of it, pound it in a morfear, and pnt it into the Stew-pan when fon 
Oiieken the Sance."— ^e do not reeomvmtd either Soup or Sauce to be thicx- 
KNBD,— because it requires (to give it the same qoickness on the Palate it had 
before it was thickened) double the quantity of Piquante materials,— which are 
thus smuggled down the Bed Lane, without affording any amusement to the 
Mouth,— and at the risk of highly oflfondiag the Stomach. 



246 THE cook's ORACLE. 

Orange or Lemon Peel, and let it boil up for a few minuteB, and 
fitrain it off. Put to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville Orange, 
or Lemon, half a tea-spoonful of Salt, the same of Pepper, and a 
glass of Bed Wine ; send it up hot. Eschalot and Cajenne maj 
be added. 

Obs ^This 18 an excellent Sauce for all kinds of Wild watei^fowL 

The common way of gashing the breast, and squeezing in an 
Orange, cools and hardens the flesh, and compels eyery one to eat 
Duck that way ; some people like Wild fowl very little done, and 
without any Sauce. 

Gravies should always be sent up in a covered boat : they keep 
hot longer : and it leaves it to the choice of the Company to par- 
take of them or not 

BONNE BOUCHE FOB GOOSE, DUCK, OB BOAST POBK. 

290. Mix a tea-spoonful of made Mustard, a salt-spoonful of Salt, 
'and a few grains of Cayenne, in a huge wine-ghusful of Claret or 
Port-wine ;* pour it into the Goose by a slit in the apron just be- 
fore serving up ; -)- ot^asaUihe Company may not like H, stir U into a 
quarter of a pint of thick melted Butter^ or iMdoened Graoy^ and aend U 
up in a Boat, See also Sage and Onion Sauce, (267). 

291. A FAVOURrTB Relish /or Boost Porky or Geeee^ ^fc. is* two 
ounces of leaves of Green Sage, an ounce of fresh Lemon-Peel pared 
thin, same of Salt, minced Eschalot, and half a drachm of Cayenne 
Pepper, ditto of Citric Add, steeped for a fortnight in a pint of 
Claret ; shake it up well every day ; let it stand a day to settle, and 
decant the clear liquor, — ^bottle it, and cork it dose^ — a table-qpooB- 
fiil or more in a quarter pint of Gravy or melted Butter. 

ROBERT SAUCE FOB BOAST POBK, OB GEESE, &c 

292. Put an ounce of Butter into a Pint Stew-pan : when it is 
melted, add to it half an ounce of Onion minced very fine ; turn it 
with a wooden spoon till it takes a light brown colour; then stir in 
a table-spoonful of Flour, a table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchup 
(with or without the like quantity of Port wine), half a pint of 
Broth, or water, and a quarter of a tea-spoonM of Pepper, the mum 
of Salt, give them a boU, — ^then add a tea-spoonful of Mustard, and 

* To this Rome add a table-spoonfiil of Mushroom Catchup, (375)> and instead 
of thesaJt-spoonful of Salt, a tea-spoonful of Essence of Ancnoyy, (371). If the 
above articles are rubbed together in a mortar, and put into a close-stopped 
bottle, they will keep for some time. 

t Thus far the above is from Dr. Huntbr's " CViItno," who says it is a secret 
worth knowins : — we agree with him, and so tell it here ; with a little addition, 
which we tbiMc renders it a BtiU more gratifying communicatiozu 



OaATIES AND|IAnCE8. 247 

the juice of half a Lemon, or one or two tearspoonaful of Vinegar or 
£M1 (336), or Tarragon (335), or Burnet Vinegar (339). 

06s.— -The French call this «' Saucv ItoBSRT'' (from the naii^e of 
the cook who inrented it), and are very fond of it with many things, 
which Mary Skith, in the ^' Complete ffousekeepery^^ 8vo. 1772, p. 
105, translates Bob-Boat-Saucb. See Obs, to (447). 

TURTIiS SAUCE. 

293. Put into your Stew-pan a pint of Beef Gravy thickened 
(287) ; add to this stMae of the following J^SnenM of Turtle (294), or 
a wino-glaaHfiil of Madeira, the juice and peel of half a Lemon, a 
tsm leaves of Basil,* an Eschalot quartered, a few grains of Cay- 
enne pepper, or Curry powder, and a little Essence of Anchovy ; 
let than simmer together for five minutes, and strain through a 
tamis : — ^you may introduce a dozen Turtle Forcemeat Balls. See 
Eeceipt (322), &c 

0&9_ThiB is the Sauce for boiled or hashed Calf s head^-JStewed 
Veal, — or any dish you dress Turtle ikshion. 

The fiir-fetched and dear-bought Turtle owes its high rank on the 
list of savoury Bonnes Bomdies to the relishing and piquante sauce 
that is made for it ; without, it would be as insipid as any othw firii 
is without Sauce. See 02». to (41 1). 

ESSENCE OF TURTLE. 

294. Essence of Anchovy (371), one wine-glassful. 
Eschalot Wine (343), one and a half ditto. 

. Basil Wine (396), four ditta 

Mushroom Catchup (375), two ditto. 

Concrete Lemon Acid, one drachm, or some Artifiekd Lemon' 
JWt0e(35O). 

Lemon-Peel, vety thinly pared, three quarters of an ounce. 

Cuny Powder (383), a quarter of an ounce. 

Steep for a we^ to get the flavour of the Lemon-Ped, &c. 

Oba. — ^This is very convenient to extemporaneously Turtle/y Soup, 
Sauce, or Potted Meats, Bago&ts^ Savoury Patties, Pies, &e. &c. 

WINE SAUCE FOB VENISON OB HARE. 

295. A quarter of a pint of Claret or Port Wine, the same quan- 
tity of plain unflavoured Mutton Gravy (298), and a table-spoonful 
of Currant Jelly (632) ; let it just boil up, and send it to table in 
a sauce-boat. 

* Se^ Ba^ Wine, iaaSi, 



24R THE cook's oracle. 

SHARP 8AUCB FOB VENISON. 

296. Put into a sUver, or very clean and well-tinned sauce-pan, 
half a pint of the best white-wine vinegar, and a quarter of a pound 
of loaf-sugar pounded : set it over the fire, and let it simmer gently ; 
skim it carefully ; pour it through a tanus or fine sieve, and send it 
up in a basin. 

Obs. — Some people like this better than the Sweet Wine tauces, 

SWEZST SAUCE FOR VENISON OB HARE. 

297. Put some Currant- Jelly into a stew-pan ; when it i» melted, 
pour it into a sauce-boat. 

N.B.— .Many send it to table without melting. To make Cttr- 
rant-Jelly^ see (629, 631), &c. 

This is a more salubrious relish than either l^ice or Salt, and 
when the P&late protests against animal food unless its flavour be 
masked. — ^Currant-Jelly is a good accompaniment to Roasted or 
Hashed Meats. 

MUTTON OBAVY FOR VENISON OR HARE. 

298. The best gravy for Venison is that made with the ttimmings 
of the Jdnt : if this is all used, and you have no undressed Venison, 
cut a scrag of mutton in pieces ; broil it a little brown ; then put 
it into a clean stew-peui, with a quart of boiling water ; cover it 
close, and let it simmer gently for an hour : now uncover the stew- 
psn, and let it reduce to three quarters of a pint ; pour it through 
a hair^ieve ; take the fat off, and send it up in a boat — It is only 
to be seasoned with a little salt, that it may not overpower the 
natural flavour of the meat. You may colour it with a very little 
of (28S). 

N.B. Some prefer the unseasoned Beef Gravy, (183)^ which yon- 
may make in five minutes with (227). 

Thb Qusbn^s Gravt op Mutton, as made by her Majesty^ 
^Etct^fer de Omgme^^* Monsieur La Montagne : — *^ Roast a juicy 
leg of Mutton three quarters ; then gash it in several places, and 
press out the juice by a screw-presa.** — ^From Sir Kbnxlm Dioby^s 
Cookery f 18mo. London, 1669. 

CURRY 8AUCS, 

299. Is made by stirring a sufficient quantity of Curry stufl^ (see 
383) into gravy or melted butter, er onion sauce, (264, 265)^ or onion 
gravy (266). 

The compositions of Curry Powder, and the Palates of those 
who eat it, wy so much, that we cannot recommend any specific 



GRAVIES AKD SAUCJSS. 249 

quantity. The Cook mnst add it by degrees, tasting as she proceeds, 
and take oare not to put in too fntu^, 

Ob». — ^The Curry Powder (383) approzixnates more nearly to the 
hest Indian Curry stuif, and is an agreeable and well-blended mix- 
ture of this class of aromatics. 

N.B. To dress Currixs, see (415). 

B8SENCE OF HAM. 

300. EssvNCB OF Ham and of Bbbf, may be purchased at the 
Eating-houses which cut up those joints, — ^the former for half a 
crown or three shillings a Quart : it is therefore a most Economical 
relish for Made-Dishes, and to give piquanoe to Saucesi, &c. 

ORXLIi 8At7CE. 

301. To half a pint of Grayy (287), add an ounce of firedi Batter, 
and a table-spoonful of Flour, previously well rubbed together, the 
same of Hnabroom or Walnut Catchup, — two tearspoontfnl of 
Lemon-juice, one of made Mustard, one of minced Capers, half a 
one <^ black Pepper, a quarter of a rind of a Lemon, grated very 
thin, a tea-spoonful of Essence of Anchovies, and a little Eschalot 
wine (343), or a very small piece of Minced Eschalot, and a little 
Clnli Vinegar (347), or few grains of Cayenne ; shnmer together 
for a few minutes, and pour a little of it over the Grill, and send 
up the rest in a sauce-tureen. For Anchovy toasts, (573, or 457)* 

8AUGB A XiA TARTARS. 

302. Pound in a mortar three hard yolks of Eggs ; put them into 
a Basin, and add half a table-spoonAil of Made Mustard, and a 
little Pepper and Salt ; pour to it by degrees, stirring it fast all the 
while, about two wine-glassesful of salad dl, — stir it together till it 
c<»nes to a good thickness. 

N.B. A little Tarragon or Chervil minced very finely, and a little 
Vinegar, may be added ; or some of the ingredients enumerated in 
(SI 3). 

(M». — ^This firom the French Artist who wrote the Receipt for 
dressing a Turtle. 

Mem. — ^These are piquante relishes for Anchovy toosts (561, or 

457) ; for Broilbd Dbvils, &e. * Viritahie Sauce d^En/er,"" see 

(457) ; and a refreshing excitement for those idle palates, who are 

as incessantly miimbling out ** piquante, piquante^^ as Parrots do 

*♦ Pretty PoU, Pretty PoU:* 

** ForpaUitea grown eftHoas almost to diwue. 
Who peppen the highest is surest to pleaie." 

OOLDBMITR. 



250 THE cook's obacle. 

SAUCS FOR STEAKS, OB CHOPS, CUTLETS, &c. 

303. Take your Chops out of the Frying-pan \ — for a pound of 
meat keep a table-spoonfcQ of the Fat in the Pan, or put in about 
an ounce of Butter, — ^put to it as much flour as will make it a 
paste ; rub it well together over the fire till they are a little brown, 
— ^then add as much boiling water as will reduce it to the thickness 
of good cream and a table-tspoonful of Mushroom or Widnut Catchup, 
or Pickle, or Browning (283) ; let it boil together a few minutes, 
and pour it through a sieve to the Steaks, &c 

Obs. — ^To the above is sometimes added a sliced Onion, or a minced 
Eschalot, with a table-spoonfal of Port wine, or a little Eschalot 
wine (343, 367, or 134). Garnish with finely scraped HorseradiBh, 
or pickled Walnuts, Gherkins, &c Some Bee/ Eaten like chopped 
Eschalots in one Saucer, and Horseradish grated in Vinegar, in an- 
other. Broiled Mushrooms are favourite relishes to Beef-Steaks. 

8AUCB PIQTJANTE FOB COLD MEAT, GAME, FOULTBY, 

FISH, &c. OB SALADS. 

304. See also (313), and Cucumber Vinegar (339 and 382). 
Pound in a mortar the yolks of two eggs that have been boiled 

Hard (549), with a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, and a little 
pepper and salt ; add two table^spoonsful of Salad Oil ; mix well, 
and then add three table-spoonsful of Vinegar ; rub it up weU till 
it is quite smooth, and pass it through a tamis or sieve. 

06«. — ^To tlie above, some add an Anchovy, or a table-spoonful 
of Mushroom Catchup, or Walnut Pickle, some finely chopped 
Parsley^ — some grated Hoiseradish, — or young Onions minoed, or 
Burnet (339), Horseradish (340, or 343), or Tarragon, or Elder 
Vinegar (335), &c., and Cayenne or minced Pickles, Capers, &€. 
This is a/M^uoirfe relish for IiobsterB, Crabs, Cold fish, &c 

8AUOB FOB HASHES OF MUTTON OB BEEF. 

305. See also (400), and to maks Plain Hash (401). 
Unless you are quite sure you perfectly understand the Palate 

of those you are working for^ — shew thoee who aretoeaithe Haek Ats 
Rece^, and beg of them to direct you how they toisA it aeasoned. 

Half the number of the ingredients enumerated will be more than 

enough, ^but as it is a Receipt so often wanted we have given va- 

«ety. See also (401). 

To prepa/re the Meat, see (399). 

Chop the bones and firagments of the joint, &c., and put them 
into a stew-pan, and cover them with boiling water, six berries of 
Black Pepper, the same of Allspice, a small bundle of Parsley, half 



GRAVIBS AND SAUCES. 251 

a head of Celery cut in pieces, and a small sprig of Savoury, or 
Lemon-thyme, or sweet Marjoram ; cover up, and let it simmer 
gently for half an hour. 

Slice half an ounce of Onion, and put it into a stew-pan with an 
ounce of Butter, fry it over a sharp fire for about a couple of mi- 
nutes, till it takes a little colour ; then stir in as much Flour as will 
make it a stiff paste, and by degrees mix with it the gravy you have 
made from the bones, &c. : let it boil very gently for about a quar- 
ter of an hour, till it is the consistence of cream, strain it through 
a tamis or sieve into a basin ; put it back into the stew-pan ; season 
rr with a few pickled Onionsy— -or Walnuts, — or a couple of Gher- 
kins, — and a table-spoonful of Mushroom Catchup, — oiiWj^ntf or 
other Pickled Liquor, — or some Capers, and Caper Liquor, — or a 
table-spoonful of Ale, — or a little Eschalot, or Tarragon Vinegar ; 
cover the bottom of the dish with Sippets of Bread (Q^at they may be- 
come savoury reservoirs of Gravy), which some toast' and cdl%ito 
triangles. You may garnish it with filed Bread Sippets (279).* 

N.B. To HASH MBAT IN pniPBCTiONy-^t should be laid in this 
Gravy only just long enough to get properly warm through. 

Ohs. — If any of the gravy that was sent up with, or ran firom the 
joint when it was roasted, be left, it will be a great improvement to 
the Hash. 

If you wish to make Mock Venison, — instead of the Onion, put 
in two or three Cloves, a table-spoonful of Cunantr Jelly, and the 
same quantity of Claret or Port Wine, instead of the Catchup. 

You may make a Curry Hash by adding some of (383). 

K.B. A pint of (287) is an excellent Gravy to warm up either 
Meat or Poultry. 

SAUCE FOR HASHED OB MINCED VEAL. 

306. See (429). Take the bones of cold roast or boiled Veal, 
dredge them well with flour, and put them into a stew-pan, with a 
pint and a half of broth or water, a small Onion, a little grated or 
finely minced Lemon-peel, or the peel of a quarter of a small Lemon, 
.pared as thin as possible, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a blade of 
pounded Mace ; — ^to Thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of Flour into 
half an ounce of Butter ; stir it into the broth, and set it on the fire, 
and let it boil very gently for about half an hour, strain through a 
.tamis or sieve, and it is ready to put to the veal to warm up, which 
is to be done by placing the stew-pan by the side of the fire. Squeeze 
in half a lemon, and cover the bottom of the dish with toasted bread 
;Sippet8 cut into triangles, and garnish th^ dish with slices of Ham 
or Bacon. See (443 and 444). 



252 THB cook's obaclb. 

BBCHAMEIa, BY ENGLISH COOES COMMONLY CALLED 

WHITE SAUCE. 

307. Cut in square pieces, half an inch thick, two pounds of lean 
Veal, half a p^und of lean Ham, melt in a stew-pan two ounces of 
Butter ; when melted let the whole simmer until it is ready to aBtch 
at the bottom (it requires great attention, as if it happen to catch 
at the bottom of the stew-pan, it wiU spoil the look of jour SaMte\ 
then add to it three table-spoonsful of flour ; when well mixed, add 
to it three pints of broth or water, pour a little at a time, that the 
thickening be smooth, stir it until it boil, put the stew-pan on the 
comer of the stove to boil gently for two hours, season it with four 
cloves, one onion, twelve pepper-corns, a blade of mace, a few mush- 
rooms, and a &got made of parsley, a spiig jof thyme, and a bay-leaf. 
Let the Sauce reduce to a quart, skim > the fat off, and strain it 
through a tamis-doth. 

To make a Bbchambl Sauce, add to a quart of the above, a pint 
of good cream, stir it until it is reduced to a good thickness ; a few 
mushrooms give a good flavour to that Sauce ; strein it throng^ a 
tamis-cloth. 

069#— The above was given us by a French Artist 

A MORS BOONOMICAL MBTHOD OF MAKING A PINT OF 

WHITS SAUCE. 

308. Put equal parts of broth and milk into a stew-pan with an 
onion and a blade of mace, set it on the Are to boU ten minutes, 
have ready and rub together on a plate an ounce of Flour and Butter, 
put it into the stew-pan, stir it well tin it boils up, then stand it 
near the fire or stove, stirring it every now and then till it becomes 
quite smooth, then strain it through a sieve into a basin, put it back 
into the stew-pan, season it with salt and the juice of a small lemon^ 
beat up the yolks of two Eggs well with about three table-spoonsful 
of milk, strain it through a sieve into your Sauce, stir it well and 
keep it near th« fire, but be sure and do not let it boil, for it will 
curdle. 

Obs. — A convenient veil for boiled Fowls, &c. whose complexions 
are not inviting. 

Mem. — With the assistance of the Magaiine of Taste (390) you 
may give this Sauce a variety of flavours. 

06s. — ^BscHAMBL implies a thick white Sauce, approaiehiiig to a 
batter, — and takes its name from a wealthy fVench Marquesa, wtattm 
iPhkd de Louis JT/F., and famous for his patronage ci*^le8 Q^Scian 
de B<m6he^ — ^who have immoitaKaed him, by calling by his name 
this delicate composition. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCBS. 253 

Moit of the French Sauces take their name from the peraon 
whose palate they first pleased, as ** ^ /a Maitiiewm ;^ or from some 
famous Cook who invented them, as ** Saues Robeti,''* ^^la Moati- 
zeur^'" Ac. 

We have in the English kitchen, our ** Abgyll" for Grevy, and 
the litUe ** Sandwich," ** monumenhtm are perenniusj** 

"And thus Montbith 
Has, by one vesael, saved his Name from Death.** 

Kjxq*b Art qfCookav. 

POIVRADE SAUCE. 

309. This, as its title tells us, is a Sauce of French extraction. 
The following receipt is from ^ La CuisinUre Bourgeoise,'*'* page 351. 

**' Put a bit of butter aabig as an egg into a stew-pan with two or 
three (bits) of onion, carrot, and turnip, cut in slices, two eschalots, 
two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, and basil ; keep turning them in the 
pan till they get a little colour,-.-8hake in some flour, and add a 
glass of red Wine, a glass of water, a spoonful of Vinegar, and a 
little Pepper and Salt, boil half an hour, skim and strain it*^ 



n 



. MUSTABD IN A MINUTB. 

310. Mix very gradually, and rub together in a mortar, an ounce 
of flour of Mustard, with three table-spoonsful of Milk (cream is 
better), half a tearspoonfrd of Salt, and the same of sugar, rub them 
well together till quite smooth. 

Obs Mustard made in this manner is not at all bitter, and is 

therefore instantly ready for the table. 

N.B. It has been said that Flour of Mustard is sometimes adul- 
terated with common flour, See, &c. 

The Mustard sold at Apothbcaribs' Hall is excellent, where 
may also be had all sorts of Pbpprrs, Spices, &c. of the best quality, 
and very finely powdered. 

MUSTARD. 

311. Mix (by degrees, by rubbing together in a mortar) the best 
Durham flour of Mustard, with vinegar — ^white wine^-^r cold water, 
in which scraped Horseradish has been boiled ; nib it well togeih&r 
for at least Ten minutes, till it is perfectly smooth ; it will keep in a 
stone jar closely stopped, for a fortnight 'y-only put as m»uA into tke 
Mustard-pot as will be used in a day or fwo. 

Thb Rbady-madb Mustard prepared at the oil-shops is mixed 
with about one-fourth part salt : this is done to preserve it, if it is 



254 THE cook's oraclb; 

to be kept long ; otherwise, by all means omit it; — ^The best Way 
of eating Salt is in substance. 

*♦* See also Recipe (369). 

Obs, — Mustard is the best of all the stimulants that are em- 
ployed to give energy to the Digestive oigans. — It was in high &vour 
with our Forefathers ; in the NofUkuaAerland Houtehold Book for 
1512, page 18, is an order for an annual supply of 160 gallons of 
Mustard. 

Some opulent Epicures mix it with Sherry or Madeira wine, or 
distilled or flavoured Vinegar, instead of Horseradish water. 

The French flavour their Mustard with Champagne and other 
Wines, — or with Vinegar flavoured with Gapers, — Anchovies, — 
Tarragon, — Elder, — Basil, — ^Burnet, — Grarlic, — Eschalot, — or Ce- 
lery, — see (334 to 343) : — ^warming it with Cayenne, or the ^'arious 
Spices ; — Sweet, — Savoury, — flne Herbs, — ^TruflBes, — ^Catchup, &c. 
&c. and seem to consider Mustard merely as a vehicle of flavours. 

N.B. In MoNS. Maillb bt Aclooqub^s catalogue of Parisian 

** Bons Boius^ there is a list of twenty-eight difierently flavoured 

Mustards. 

SAIiT. 

312. Is (^ aliorum oondimerdorum CondimenHtm,'*^ as Plutarch calls 
it). Sauce for Sauce. 

Common Salt is more relishing than Basket Salt ; — it should be 
prepared for the Table by drying it in a Dutch oven before the fire ; 
then put it on a clean paper, and roll it with a roUing-pin ; — if you 
pound it in a Mortar till it is quite fine, it will look aa well as Badeet 
Salt, Maldbn Salt is still more piquante. 

*** Select for TaJUe me the Lumps of Salt. 

Obs, — Your Salt-Box must have a close cover, and be kept in a 

dry place. 

SAIiAD MIXTURE. 

313. See also (137 and 382). Endeavour to have your Salad 
Herbs as fresh as possible ; if you suspect they are not **■ morning 
gaihered^ they will be much refreshed by lying an hour or two in 
spring-water ; then carefully wash and pick them, and trim off all 

' the worm-eaten, slimy, cankered, dry leaves ; and, after washing, 

let them remain a while in the colander to drain ; lastly, swing 

them gently in a clean napkin \ — ^when properly picked and cut, 

arrange them in the Salad Dish, — mix the Sauce in a Soup plate, 

and put it into an Ingredient Bottle,* or pour it down the side of 

the Salad Dish, — and dont stir it up tUl the mouths are ready for it 

* Tliese are sold at the Glafls-Bhofw under the name of iNCORPoitATORs,— we 
recommend the sauce to be mixed in these, and the Company can then take it 
or leave it, as they like. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCSS. 255 

If the Herbs be young, — fresh gathered, — trimmed neatly, and 
drained dry, — and the Sauce-maker ponders patiently over the fol- 
lowing directions, — ^he cannot fiiil obtaimng the tame of being a very 
accomplished Salad-dresser. 

Boil a couple of Eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin 
of cold water for a few minutes, — the YoUcs mtut be quite cold and hard, 
or they will not ineorporate icith the ingredients. Rub them through 
a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful 
of Water, or fine double Cream, then add two table-spoonsfiil of Oil 
or melted Butter ; when these are well mixed, add, by degrees, a 
tea-spoonful of Salt, or powdered lump Sugar, and the same of made 
Mustard ; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually three 
table-spoonsful of Vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till 
thoroughly incorporated with them ; cut up the white of the egg, 
and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at 
the bottom of the Bowl, and do not stir up the Salad till it is to be 
eaten ; — ^we recommend the eaters to be mindful of the duty of 
mastication, — ^without the due performance of which, all undressed 
Vegetables are troublesome company for the principal viscera, and 
some are even dangerously indigestible. 

BOILED SAIiAD. 

314. This is best compounded of boiled or baked Onions (if Por- 
tugal the better), some baked Beet-root, Cauliflower, or Broccoli, 
and boiled Celery and Fronch Beans, or any of these articles, with 
the common Salad dressing ; added to this, to give it an enticing 
app^usnce, and to give some of the crispness and freshness so plea- 
sant in salad, a small quantity of raw Endive, or Lettuce and Cher- 
vil, or Burnet, strewed on the top : this is by far more wholesome 
than the Raw Salad, and is much eaten when put on the table. 

N.B. — ^The above Sauce is equally good with cold Meat^.*-coId 
Fish, — or for Cucombers, — Celery, — Radishes, &c., (and all the 
other Vegetables that are sent to table undressed) : to the above a 
little minced Onion is generally an acceptable addition. 

Obs. — Salad is a veiy compound dish with our neighbours the 
French, who always add to the mixture above. Black Pepper, and 
sometimes Savoury Spice. 

The Italians mince the white meat of Chickens into this saucev 

The Dutch, cold boiled Turbot, or Lobster ; or add to it a spoon- 
ful of grated Parmesan or old Cheshire cheese, or mince very fine a 

little Tarragon, — or Chervil, — Burnet, — or young Onion, Celery 

^r pickled Gherkins, &c. 

Joan Cromwell's Grand Salad was composed of equal parts of 



25S THE cook's obacle. 

Almonds, Baisins, Capers, Pickled Cucumben, ShnnqM, and boiled 
Turnips. 

This miztuie is sometimes made with cieam, oiled batter, (see 
233), or some good Jelly of meat (which many prefer to the finest 
Florence oil), and flavoured with Salad Mixture (382), BaaU (S36), 
or Cress or Celery yin^;ar (337), Horseradi^ Vinegar (340), Ou- 
cumber Vinegar (339), and O&s. to (460) of the Appendix, Tarragon, 
or Elder Viaegar; essence of Celery (353), Walnut or Lemon 
Pickle, or a slice of Lemon cut into dice, essence of Anchovy (371 j- 

FORCEMEAT STUFFINGS. 

315. Forcemeat is now considered an indispensable accompani- 
ment to most Made Dishes, and when composed with good taste, 
gives additional spirit and relish to even that **■ Sovereign of Sa> 
vouriness,^^ Turtle Soup. 

It is also sent up in Patties, and for stuffing of Veal, Game, 
Poultry, &C. 

The ingredients should be so proportioned, that no one flavour 
predominates. 

To give the same stuffing for Veal, Hare, &c. argues a poverty 
of Invention ; with a little contrivance, you may make as great a 
variety as you have Dishes. 

I have given Receipts for some of the most flivouiite composi- 
tions, and a Table of Materials, a glance at which wiU enable thd 

ingenious Cook to make an infinite variety of combinationa, first 

the Spirit, and then the Substances. 

The poignaau^ of Forcemeat should be proportioned to the sa^ 
vouriness of the viands, to which it is intended to give an additional 
Zest. Some dishes require a very delicately flavoured forcem^it, 
— ^for others, it must be full and high-seasoned. What would be 
piquante in a Turkey, — ^would be imipid with Turtle. 

Tastes are so different, — and the praise the Cook receives wiU 
depend so much on her pleasing the palate of those she works for, 
that all her sagacity must be on the alert, to produce the flavours 
to which her employers are partial. 

Most people have an acquired and peculiar taste in stuffings, 
&c, and what exactly pleases one, seldom is precisely what another 
considers the most agreeable : and after all the contrivance of a 
pains-taking palatician, to combine her " hauts gouW'* in the moot 
proportions, 

** The very dish one likes the best. 
Is add, or insipid, to the rest." 

Custom is all in all in matters of Taste, — it is not that one per- 



FOBCEMBATS. 



257 



ion ii iiatuniUy fimd of this or that, and another natnnllj avene to 
it ; bat that one is used to it, and another is not. 

The consistency of Forcemeats is rather a difficult thing to ma- 
nage ; they are almost always either too light or too heavy. 

Ttke care to pomml it HU pt/ifMy Bmootk, and tkat all tie iftgn- 
dUnU are Aoro«$MUfy meorporaied, 

. Forcemeat baUs must not be larger than a small Nutmeg— jf 
they aie for Brmim Samee^ flour them and fiy them \ — if for WhUe^ 
put them into boiling water, and boil them for three minutes ; the 
latter are by fu the most delicate. 

N.B. — ^If not of sufficient stiffiiess, it fidls to pieces, and makes 
Soup, &C. grouty and very unsightly. 

SwsBTBUuns and ToNOuns are the fiiTourite materials forfovoe^ 
meats. 



UATESIAIifl USED FOR FOBGEMEAT, 
STUFFINOS, te. 

(816.) 



•Spirit. 



Common Thyme. 
Lemoii-Thymo. 
Onuue-Thyme. 
Sireet Haqoram. 
8uiimeraad 
IVmter brnnnxj. 



Tamgon (33S). 

CherrU. 

Bsmet (339), 

BaiU(S6). 

Bay-leaf. 

Trafflet and 

IfoRella. 

Mnahroom Powder (375)* 



^ivih and gieen^ 

or in 
dried Powder.' 



Onioaa. 

BKhalot (343). 

Garlic. 

Lemon-peel (tee 348, 3B0, 351). 

Shrimpe (174). 

Prawae. 

Ciabt. 

Lobeterf (175 and 177)* 

Oyiten. _ 

AnchoYj (371)' 

DnmedToNOva (ieeN.BL to 315). 



Baoon. 



Black or WhUe Pepper. 

Allspioa. 

Mace. 

Cumamon. 

Ginger. 

Nntmega. 

Clorea. 

Capers and Pickles (minoed or 

poonded). 
SaroniT Powder (388). 
Sonp Herb Powder (387). 
Carry Powder (383). 
Cayenne (345). 
Zest (Sfl0). 

SUBSTANCSS. 

Floor. 

Cnunl^ of Bread. 

Paisley. See N.B. to (S34). 

Smnaae. 

Boiled ()nion. 

Mariied Potatoes (108). 

Yolks of Hard Eggs (540). 

Mntton. 

Beef. 

Veal Snet,* or Marrow. 

Calf s Udder or Brains. 

Parboiled Swbbtbbkao. 

Veal, minoed and pounded, and 

Potted Meats, ^. (419). 



For Liqitidt, you have Meat Gravy, Lemon-juice, Syrup of Le- 
mons (330 and 331), Easence of Anchovy (see 371), the various 



* If yon have no 8«et, the best labstitate finr it is about one-third part the 
^vanti:^ of BuAK*. 



258 THE cook's ORACLE. 

Vegetable Easences (see 349), and Moahroom Gatchup (376), and 
the whites and yolks of EggSf— >Wine8,— and the Essaice of Spices. 

STUFFING FOB VEAL, BOAST TUBKEY, FOWL, &c. 

317. Mmoe a quarter of a pound of Beef Shiet (Beef Marrow is 
better), the same weight of Bread-Crumhs, two drachms of Paisley- 
Icayes, a diachm and a half of sweet Marjoram (or Le]non-th3nne), 
and ^e same of grated Lemon-peel and Onion .chopped as fine as 
possible, a little Pepper and Salt : pound thoroughly together with 
the yolk and white of two Eggs, and secure it in the Veal with a 
skewer, or sew it in with a bit of thread. 

Make some of it into Balls or Sausages ; flour them, and boil or 
fty them, and send them up as a garnish, or in a side dish, with 
roast Poultiy, Veal, or Cutlets, &c. 

N.B. This is about the quantity for a Turkxt Poult : a Teiy 
huge Turkey will take nearly twice as much. To the abovemay 
be added an ounce of dressed Ham, — or use equal parts of theaboTe 
Stuffing, and Pork Sausage Meat (86), powided toeU together, 

Obs. — Good Stuffing has always been considered a cktf-d'eamn in 

Cookery ; it has given immortality to 

" Poor Soger Foiofer, who 'd a geneioiu mind. 
Nor womd submit to haye his hand confin'd. 
But aimed at all,— yet nerer could excel 
In anj thing but sti^ng of his Veal." 

KiKo's Art qf Cookery, p. lia 

VfiAL FOBCBMSAT. 

318. Of undresMd lean Veal (after you have scraped it quite 
fine, and free from skin and sinews), two ounces, the same quantity 
of (Beef or Veal) Suet, and the same of Bread-Crunbs ; chop Am 
two drachms of Parsley, one of Lemon-peel, one of Sweet Herbs, 
one of Onion, and half a drachm of Mace, or Allspice (beaten to 
fine powder) ; pound all together in a mortar ; break into it the 
yolk and white of an Egg ; — rob it all well up together, and season 
it with a little pepper and salt 

06s^-.This may be made more savoury by the addition of cold 
boiled pickled Tongue, Anchovy, Eschalot, Cayenne, or Cuiry 
powder, &c. 

STUFF I N G FOB TUBKEYS OB FOWLS, Ac. 

319. Take the foregoing composition for the roast Turkey,-.jor 
add the soft part of a dozen Oysters to it, — an Anchovy, — or a little 
grated Ham, or Tongue, if you like it, is still more relishing. Fill 
the craw of the Fowl, &,c ^ but do not oam it so as to disfigure its 
shape. 



F0ROB1IBAT8 AlH) STUFFINGS. 259 

Porjfe Satuage Meat is sometixnes used to staff Turkeys and Fowls, 
—or fried, and sent up as a Gamuh. 

GOOSE OR BVOK STUFFING. 

320. Chop Yei7 fine about two ounces of Onion, ci green Sage- 
leaves about an ounce (both unboiled),four oiuices of Bread-Crumbs, 
a bit of butter about as big as a walnut, &c., the yolk and white of 
an Egg, and a little pepper and salt ; some add to this a minced 
Apple. 

For another, see Roasted Cfoose <tnd Duck (59 and 61), which lat- 
ter we like as Forcemeat Balls for Mock Turtle ; then add a little 
Lemon-peel, and warm it with Cayenne. 

STUFFING FOR HARE. 

321. Two ounces of Beef Suet chopped fine^— three ounces of fine 
Bread-Cmmbsy-^Paisley, a drachm, — Eschalot, half a drachm,— a 
drachm of Marjoram, Lemon-Thyme, or Winter Sayoury,— a drachm 
of grated Lemon-peel, — and the same of Pepper and Salt; — mix 
these with the white and yolk of an Egg, — do not make it thin, — 
ft must be of coherire consistence, — if your Stuffing is not stiff 
enough it will be good for nothing, — ^put it in the hare, and sew it up. 

*«* j^tie Liver is quite sound, $/ou may pariwil ft, and minee U very 
fine, and add it to ike above. 

FORCEKBAT BALLS 

FOR TURTLE, MOCK TURTLE, OR MADS DISHRS. 

322. See also (318). Pound some Veal in a marble mortar, rub 
it through a sieve with as much of the udder as you have Veal, or 
•bout a third of the quantity of Batter u^pnt some Bread-Crumbs 
into a stew-pan, moisten them with milk, add a little chopped Par- 
sley and Eschalot, rub them well together in a mortar, till they form 
a smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, and when cold, pound, and 
mix all together, with the yolks of three Eggs boiled hard ; season 
it with salt, pepper, and Curry powder, or Cayenne, add to it the 
yolks of two raw Eggs, rub it well together, and make small baUs : 
ten minutes before your Soup is ready, put them in. 

BGG BAIiIiS. 

323. Boil four E^gs for ten minutes, and put them into cold 
water, — ^when they are quite cold, put the yolks into a mortar with 
the yolk of a raw egg, a tea-spoonAil of flour, some of chopped par^ 
sleiy, Rs much salt as will lie on a shilling, and a little black pepper, 



260 THE cook's ORACLE* 

or Cayenne ; rub them well together, roU them into small fiftlls (as 
they swell in boiling) — ^boil them a couple of minutes. 

BRAIN BAIfliS. 

324. See (223), or beat up the brains of a Calf in the way we 
haTe above directed th^ Egg. 

CURRY BAIiItS 

FOR MOCK TURTLE, VSAL, POULTRY, MADE DISHES, &C. 

825. Are made with Bread-cnunbs, the yolk of an Egg boiled 
hard, and a bit of f^resh Butter about half as big, beaten together in 
a mortar, and seasoned with Curry powder, see (383) ; make and 
prepare small BaUs, as directed in (323). 

FISH FORCEMEAT. 

326. Take two ounces of either Turbot, Sole, Lobster, Sttirimps, 

or Oysters, free from skin, put it in a mortar, with two oonoes of 

fresh Butter, one ounce of Bread-crumbs, the yolk of two Eggs 

boiled hard, and a little Eschalot, grated Lemon-peel, and Paisley, 

minced very fine ; then pound it well till it is thoroughly mixed and 

quite smooth ; season it with salt and Cayenne to your taste, break 

in the yolk and white of one Egg, rub it well together, and it is 

ready for use. Oysien parboiled and minced fine, and an Anekocg^ 

may be added. 

ZB8T BALLS. 

327. See (229). Prepared in the same way as (828). 

ORANGE OB LEMON-PBBIi TO MIX WITH STUFFING. 

328. Peel a Seville Orange, or Lemon, very thin, taking off only 
the fine yellow rind (without any of the iiokite\ pound it in a mortar 
with a bit of lump sugar, rub it well with the p od ^ b y degrees add 
a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed with ; when it is well 
ground and blended with this, mix it with the whole : there is no 
other way of incorporating it so well. 

Forcemeats, &c. are frequently spoiled by the insufficient mixing 
of the ingredients. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

329. The best way to make this, is to pour three pints of the best 
white wine Vin^jar on a pint and a half of fredb-gathered Red 
Raspberries in a Stone Jar, or China bowl {neiiker gUuosd aoKAM- 
fMire, nor any metallic vtatel^ nuut be wed) ; the next day stntai the 
liquor over a like quantity of fresh Raspbenies : and the day fid- 



STORB SAUCES. 261 

l<mnig do the eame. Then drain off the liquor without pressing, 
and pass it through a Jelly Bag (previously wetted with plain Vi- 
negar) into a stone Jar, with a pound of pounded lump Sugar to 
each pint. When the Sugar is dissolved, stir it up, cover down the 
Jar, and set it in a sauce-pan of water, and keep it boiling for an 
hour, taking off the scum ; add to each pint a glass of Brandy, and 
bottle it : mixed in about eight parts of water, it is a very refnishing 
and delightful Summer drink. An excellent cooling bevemge to 
assuage thirst in ardent fevers, colds, and inflanmiatoiy complainta, 
&C. and is agreeable to most paUtes. 

See (629). 

N.B. We have not proved this Receipt. 

8YBUP OF ItBMONB. 

830. The best Season for Lemons is from November to March. 
Put a pint of fteak Lemon-juice to a pound and three-quarters of 
lamp Sugar ; dissolve it by a gentle heat, skim it till the surfiice is 
quite clear, — add an ounce of thin-out Lemon-peel ; let them sim- 
mer {very ffentiy) together for a few minutes, and run it through a 
flannel. When cold, bottle and cork it closely, and keep it in a 

cool place. 

OB, 

331. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce {Avoirdt^Mni) of Crraic, t. «, 
crystallised Lemon-add, in a pint of Clarified Syrup (475), flavour 
it with the Peel, with (351), or dissolve the add in equal parts of 
Simple Sjrrup (648), and Syrup of Lemon-peel, made as (383). 

THB JUSTICB'S OBAN6E 8YBUP 

FOR PUNCH OR PUDDINGS. 

332. Squeeze the Oranges, and stmin the juice ftom the pulp 
into a laige pot ; boil it up with a pound and a half of fine Sugar 
to each pint of juice, skim it well, let it stand till cold, and then 
bottle it, and cork it well. 

0&s.-^Thi8 makes a fine, soft, mellow-flavoured Pimch ; and, 
added to melted butter, is a good relish to Puddings. 

8YBUP OF OBANGE OB LEHON-PBBIi. 

333. Of f^esh outer rind of Seville orange or Lemon-peel, three 
ounces, apothecaries^ weight ; boiling water, a pint and a half; in- 
fuse tbem for a night in a close vessel ; then strain the liquor ; let 
it stand to settle ; and having poured it off clear fh)m the sediment^ 
dissolve in it two pounds' of double-refined loei sugar, and make it 
into a syrup with a gentle heat 



262 THB cook's obacle. 

Ob9,-^ln mfcVing this syrap) if the sugar be dissolved in the in^ 
fimoa with as gentle a heat as possible, to prevent the exhalation of 
the volatile parts of the Peel, tiiis syrup will possess a great share 
of the fine flavour of the orange, or lemon>peel. 

VINEGAR FOR SALADS. 

334. *^Take of Tarrargon^— Savouiy«->X:ihive8, Eschalots, three 
ounces each, — a handlid of the tops of Mint and Balm^ bU dry 
and pounded ; put into a wide-mouthed Bottle, with a gallon of 
best Vinegar ; cork it close, set it in the Sun, and in a fortnight 
strain off, and squeeze the herbs, let it stand a day to settle, and 
then strain it through a filtering Bag/* — ^Fiom PARMBNTisa^ Art 
de Faire le$ Vwaigres, 8vo. 1805, p. 205. 

TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

335. This is a very agreeable addition to Soapa, Salad Sauce 
(383), and to mix Mustard (311). Fill a wide-mouthed botUe with 
fresh-gathered Tarragon-leaves, i, e, between Midsummer and 
Michaelmas (which should be gathered on a dry day, just before it 
flowers), and pick the leaves off the stalks, and dry them a little 
before the fire ; cover them with the best Vinegar, let them steep 
fourteen days, then strain through a flannel Jelly Bag till it is fine^ 
then poor it into half-pint bottles : cork them careMly, and keep 
them in a dry place. 

Obt, — You may prepare Elder-flowexs and Herbs in the same 
manner ; E^d&r and Taarragom ate those in most general use in this 
country. 

Our neighbonrs, the French, prepare Vinegars flavonied with 
Celeryr— Cucumbers, — Capsicums, — Garlic^— JEischalot, — ^Onion,— 
Capers," — Chervil, — Cress-seed, — Burnet, <— - Traffles, — Seville 
Orange-Peel,-— Ginger, &c ; in short, they impregnate them with 
almost every Herby—Fruit,— Flour,— and Spice separately, and in 
innumerable combinations. 

Messrs. Maillb et Aclooqvs, Vinaigriers il Parisj sell sixty-five 
sorts of variously flavoured Vinbgam, and twenty -eight different 
sorts of Mustard. 

BASIIi VINEGAR OR WINE. 

336. Sweet Basil is in full perfection about the middle of August. 
Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the fresh green leaves of Basil 
(these give much finer and more flavour than the dried), and cover 
them with Vinegar or Wine, — and let them steep for ten days \ if 



8T0RB SAUCB8. 263 

you wish a very strong Essence, stnln the liquor, put it cm some 
fresh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days more. 

Obi, — ^This is a very agreeable addition to Sauces^— Soupsy— and 
to the mixture usually made for Salads, see (313 and 382). 

It is a secret the makers of Mock Tubtlb may thank us for 
ittllmg ; a table-spoonAil put in when the Soup is finished will im- 
prqpmte a tureen of Soup with the Basil and Add flavours, at very 
small cost, when fresh Basil and Lemons are extmvagautly dear. 

The flavour of the other Swbst and Savoury Hia]i% Cblbrt, 
Ac, may be procured, and preserved in the same maoner (see 353, 
or 362), by infiuing them in wine or vin^gai. 

CRE88 VINEGAR. 

S37. Dry and pound half an ounce of Crest-Seed (such as is sown 
in the garden with Mustard), pour upon it a quart of the best Vine- 
gar, let it steep ten days, shaking it up every day. 

Obs. — This is very stron^y flavoured with Cress, — and for Salads^ 
and Gold Meats, && it is a great favourite with many ; — ike Qu/art 
nf Sauce cottsatdy a Halfypem^niore^kan ike Vmegat. 

CxLXRY Vinegar is nuide in the same manner. 

The Crystal Vinegar (350), which is, we believe, the PyrcUgmoue 

Aeid^ is the best for receiving flavouiv-^^ing Bcaroely any Of its 

own. 

ORBBN MINT VZNBOAR. 

338. Is made precisely in the same manner, and with the same 
proportions as in (336). 

069.— In the early season of Housed Lamb, Green Mint is some- 
times not to be got ; the above is then a welcome substitute. 

BtJRNET OR CUCUMBER VINEQAR. 

839. This is made in precisely the same mann^ as directed in 
(836). The flavour of Burnet resembles Cucumber so exactly, that 
when infiised in Vinegar the nicest palate would pronounce it to be 
Cucumber. 

O&s.— This is a very Ihvourite relish with Cold Meat, Salads, &c. 

Burnet is in best season from Midsummer to Michaelmas. 

H0RSBRADI8B VINEGAR. 

340. Horseradish is in highest perfection about Kovember. 

Pour a quart of best Vinegar on three ounces of scraped Horse- 
radi8h,an ounce of minced Eschalot, and one diachm of Cayenne ; let 
it stand a week, and you will have an excellent relish for Cold Beef, 
Salads, &c. costing scarcely any thing. 



264 THE cook's OKACLB. 

N.B. A portun of Blade Pepper amdMintandfCfllay or Cioi- 
seed, taaj be added to the abovcL 
06v_Honeoidkh Powder (S86)l 

GARUC VINEGAR. 

341. Gaitic israadjforthbpoipoBeframMidraiiiiiiertoMkiuii^ 
mas. 

Peel and chop two ounces of Glailic, poor on them a quart a£ 
white wme Vinegar, stop the jar close, and let it steep ten da^ 
shaldng it welle^ery daj : then poor off the dear liqaor into flBall 
bottles. 

OSt^i^The Cook must be caieinl not to nse too modi of this ; a 
few drops of it will giTo a pint of GraYjr a snffident smack of the 
Gallic, the flavour of which, when slight and wdl blended, is oae 
of the finest we have ;— iHicn used in excess it is the most offieodvc. 

The best way to use Ghuflic is to send np some of this Vinegar in 
a Cniet, and let the company flavoor their own Sance aa they like. 

N.B<— The most elegant prepaiation of the Onion Tribe is the 
Eschalot Wnn, (343). 

ESCHAIiOT VINEGAR, 

342. Is made in the same manner, and the Cook ihould never be 
without one of these useful auxiliaries ; they cost scarcdy any thiiv 
bat the little trouble of making, and will save a great deal of trooble 
in flavouring Sonps and fiances with a taste of Onion. 

K3. — Etehakii are in hi||^ perfection during July, AngaA, and 
September. 

ESCHAIiOT WINE. 

343. Peel, mince, and pound in a mortar, three ounces of Esdift- 
lots, and infuse them in a pint of Sherry for ten days, — then poor 
off the dear liquor on three ounces more Eschalots, and let the wine 
stand on them ten days longer. 

Ob$^^~J%u iB rather the most expensive, but imfimtdy He faof< de- 
gaaU prepartUion of EficKAfxyr, and imparts the Onion flavour to 
Soups and Sauces, for Chops, Steaks, or boiled Meats, Hashes, Ac 
more agreeably than any : it does not leave any unpleasant taatein 
the mouth, or to the breath, nor npMl, as almost all other prepa- 
rations of Gariic, Onion,* Ac da 

* " If Leekes yon like, tmt do their nuell db-leeke, 
Bat OnyonB, and you ahall not smell the Leeke ; 
If yon of Onyona wonld the aoent euell, 
Eat Oarlicke, that shall drown the Onyons* smelL** 

See page 00 of the ^dfMapkei's Bemquet, Khno. LoDdon, 1833. 



FLAVOUBINO E8SSNCB8. 265 

N.B.— .An oiinoe of scmped Honendish may be added to the 
above, and a little thin cut Lemon-Peel, or a few diope of (351). . 

OAKP VINSOAB. 

344. Cayenne Pepper, one drachm, avoirdupois weight 

Soy, two table-epoonsfttl. 

Walnut Catchup, four ditto. 

Six Anchovies chopped. 

A small doye of Garlic, minced fine. 

Steep all for a month in a pint of the best Vinegar, frequently 
shaking the bottle : strain through a tamis, and keep it in small 
.bottles coiked as tightly as possible. 

CAYENNE PEPPER. 

845. Mr. Aceum has informed the Public (see his book on Adul- 
AmifiitMM), that from some specimens that came direct to him from 
India, and others obtained from respectable Oil Shops in London, 
he has extracted Lead! 

^ Foreign CajfmnB Ptpper is an indiscriminate mixture of the 
powder of the dried pods of many species of Capsicnms,... espedally 
of the Bird Pepper ^ which is the hottest of aQ. As it comes to us 
from the West Indies, it changes the infrision of Turnsole to a beau- 
tiftil Green,' probably owing to the Salt which is always added to it; 
and the Red Omde e/Lead, with which it is said to be adulterated.*? 
— DuNCAN^s New Edmbur^ Di^muary, 1819, Article Gi^mcmir, 
p. 81. 

The Indian Cayenne is prepared in a very careless manner, and 
often looks as if the pods had lain till they were decayed before 
they were dried ;— this accounts for the dirty brown appearance 'it 
conmionly has. If properly dried as soon as gathered, it will be of 
a dear red colour : to give it the complexion of that made with good 
fresh-gathered Capsicums or ChUies^ some AniuiUo^ or other Vege- 
table Red colouring matter, is pounded with it : this, Mr. A. assures 
OS, is frequently adulterated with Indian Red, ». e. ^ Rsd Lead /** • 

When Cayenne is pounded, it is mixed with a considerable por- 
tion of Salt, to prevent its flying up and hurting the Eyes : this 
might be avoided by grinding it in a Mill, which may easily be 
made dose enough, espddally if it be passed through a second time, 
and then sifted through a fine drum-headed sieve, to produce as fin^ 
a powder as can be obtained by pounding ; however, our English 
Chilies may be pounded in a deep mortar without any danger. 

Capsicums and Chilies are ripe and fed, and in finest condition 
during September and October : they may be purchased at the 



268 THE cook's obaclb. 

Herb Shops inCovent-GardeiuUhe fonner for about five, the latter 
for two shilliBgs per hundred. 

The flavour of the Ckiliea is very superior to that of the Capsi- 
cums, and will be good in proportion as they are dried as soon as 
possible, takitig care they ore not burnt. 

Take away the stalks, and put the pods into a Colander ; set it 
before the Fire ; they will take full twelve hours to dry ; then put 
them into a mortar, with one fourth their weight of salt, and pound 
them, and rub them till they are as fine as possible^ and put them 
intb a well-stopped bottle. 

N.B. — We advise those who are fond of Cayenne not to think it 
too much trouble to make it of English Chilies, — there is no other 
way of being sure it is genuine, — and they will obtain a pepper of 
much finer flavour, without half the heat of the Foreign. 

A hundred lai^e Chilies, costing only Two Shillings, will produce 
you about two ounces of Cayenne^— so it is as cheap as the com- 
monest Cayenne. 

Four hundred Chilies, when the stems were taken off, weighed 
half a pound ; and when dried produced a quarter of a pound of 
Cayenne Pepper. 

BSSBNOB OF CAYENNE. 

346. Put half an ounce of Cayenne Pepper (404) into half a 
pint of Brandy or Wine ; let it steep for a fortnight, an4 then pour 
off the dear liquor. 

7^ u nearly equal io/re^ CMiptiee» 

O&s^— This or tiie Chili Vinegar (347), is extremely convenient 

for the «i<ifiipofv seasoning and finishing of Soups, Sauces, ^c, its 

Jhwur being metaiidUf and equally di^ffhaed, Cayenne Pepper varies 

so much in strength, that it is impossible to season Soup any other 

way to the precise pdnt o£piquanoe. 

OHIIiI VINEGAR. 

347. This is commonly made with the Foreign Bird Pepper ; bat 
you will obtain a much finer flavour team infiimng fifty /re$h Bed 
En^Uik Chilies (cut in half^ or pounded) in a pint of the best Vine- 
gar for a fortnight, or a quarter of an ounce of Cfa^femie Pqapery (345). 

Ohe,^Masij people cannot eat Fish without the addition of am 
Acid, and Cayenne Pepper: to such palates this will be an ogiee- 
able relish. 

CHIIiI, OB CAYENNE WINE. 

348. Pound and steep fifty fresh Bed Chilies, or a quarter <^ an 
ounce of Cayenne Pepper,4n half a pint of Brandy, White Wine, 
or Claret, for fourteen days. 



LEMON PEEL. 267 

Oft9.— .This is a ^ B<mne BotK^"" for the loveis of Cayenne, of 
which it takes up a laiger proportion of its flavour than of its Are ; 
which being instantly diffused, it is a very useful auxiliary to warm 
and finish Soups and Sauces, &c. 

ES8BNCB OF IiBMON-PEBL. 

349. Wash and hnuitk clean the Lemons \—lei them get perfectly 
dry '.—take a lump of Loaf Sugar, and rub them till all the yellow 
rind is taken up by the sugar ;— sciape off the sur&ce of the sugar 
into a preserving pot, and press it hard down ; cover it very close, 
and it will keep for some time. 

In the same way you may get the essence of Seville Orange-Peel. 

€bs. — ^This method of procuiiog, and preserving the flavonr of 
Lemon-peel, by making an OleoSaodiarum is &r superior to the 
common practice of paring off the rind, or grating it, and pounding, 
Gt mixing that with sugar i-^Jby this process you obtain the whole 
of the fine, fiagnuit, eaential Oil, in which is contained the flavour. 

ARTIFICIAL IiBKON-JUIOB. 

350. If you add a drachm of Lump Sugar, pounded, and six drops 
of (351), to three ounces of Oryskd Vinegar, which is the name 
given to the PyroUgneous Vinegar, you wiU have an excellent sub- 
stitute for Lemon-Juice— ibr Fish Sauces and Soups, and many 
other culinary purposes. The flavour of the Lemon may also be 
communicated to the Vinegar by infusing some Lemon-Peel in it. 

N.B. The Pyroligneous Vinegar is perfectly free firom all flavour, 
save that of the pure Add^i^therefore, it is a very valuable men- 
itruum for receiving impregnations from various flavouring materials. 

Thb Pyrougneous Acid seems likely to produce quite a revolu- 
tion in the process of curing Hams, Herrings, &c &c..iJ3eeTiLL0CH*s 
PklotophMal Magazine, 1821, No. 173, p. 12. 

QUINTBS8BN0B OF LBMON-PBBIi. 

351. Best oil of Lemon, one drachm. 
Strongest rectified spirit, two ounces, 

Introduced by degrees till the spirit kills, and completely mixes with 
the oil. This elf^ant preparation possesses ail the delightful fra- 
gtance and flavour of the freshest Lemon-Peel. 

Obs.—Ji few drops on the Sugar you make Pundk with will in- 
stantly impregnate it with as much flavour as the troublesome and 
tedious method of grating the rind, or rubbing the Biigsr on it. 

It will be found a superUxtive tubOiiuie -far fretk Lemj^^ for 
erery purpose that it is used for : Blanc Mffiige,-^4mi^u»< 



1 



268 THB cook's ORACLE. 

tardv— -Ice, — ^N'egus, — ^Lemonade^— and Pies and PaddingSy-JStixf- 
fingSy — Soups, — Sauces, — ^Ragoilkts, &c. 
See also (333). 

TINCTURB OF IiBMON-Pfi£Ih 

352. A very easy and economical way of obtaining, and preserT- 
ing the flavour of Lemon-Peel, is to fill a wide-mouthed pint bottle 
half full of Brandy, or proof spirit ; and when 70U use a Lemon^ 
pare the rind off very thin, and put it into the Brandy, &c. :— in a 
fortnight it will impregnate the spirit with the flavour very strongly. 

BK8BNOB OF CBIiBRY. 

353. Brandy or proof spirit, a quarter of a pint. 
Celery-seed bruised, half an ounce. Avoirdupois weight. 
Let it steep for a fortnight. 

Obs. A few drops toill immediately ^vour a pmt of Bratk^ and are 

an excellent addition to Pease, and other Soups, and tiie salad mix- 
ture of Oil, Vinegar, &c. (313). 

N.B. To make Celery Sauce, see (255). 

ABOMATIO B88BNCB OF OINOBR. 

354* Three ounces of fresih^grated* Ginger, and two ounces of 
thin-cut Lemon-Peel, into a quart of Brandy, or Proof Spirit (apo- 
thecaries^ measure) ; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each 
day. 

0&«.— The proper title for this would be « Tincture of Ginger:'^ 
however, as it has obtained the name of *^ Eeeenoe^ so let it be called. 

N.B. If Ginger is taken to produce an inmiediate effect, to warm 
the Stomach, or dispel flatulence, — this is the best preparation. 

BB8BNOB OF ALIiBPICB FOR MULLING OF WINB. 

355. Oil of Pimento, a drachm, apothecaries* measure, 
Strong Spirit of Wine, two oimces. 

Mixed by degrees : a few drops will give the flavour of Allspice to 
a pint of Gravy, — or Mulled wine, — or to make a Bishop. Mulled 
wine made with Burgundy is called Bishop ; with old Rhenish wine. 
Cardinal; and with Tokay, Pope, — ^Rittbr^s Weinlehrez^ p. 200. 

TINOTURBt OF AIiLSPICB. 

356. Of Allspice bruised, three ounces, apothecaries* weight. 

* The fngnxit aroma of Oinger is so' extremely TolatUe, that it eTspomtes al- 
nost as MOD as it is powderedy—9xA the fine Lemon-peel j^oiU flies offpreaentlv. 
t TiiiCtnres are much finer flavoured than Eisencea. 



FLAVOURING ESSENCES. 269 

Brandy a quart. 

Let it steep a fortnight, oocarionally shaking it up ; then pour 
off the dear liquor : it w a most graUftd cidditum in all caaes where 
Allspice is used, for making a Bishop, or to Mull Wins Eatem- 
pore, or in Gravies, &c., or to flavour and preserve Potted Meats 
(419). See Sir Hans Sloanb's Obt. on AlUpiee^ p. 9$. 

TINCTURE OF NUTMBO, 

357. Is made with the same proportions of Nutmeg and Brandy, 
as ordered for Allspice. See Obs, to (356). 

B88BNOB OF CLOVB AND MAOB. 

358. Strongest Spirit of Wine, two ounces, apothecaries* meesore. 

Oil of Nutmeg, or Clove, or Mace, a dmchm, apothecaries* mea* 

sure. 

TINCTUBB OF CLOVB. 

869. Cloves bruised, three oimoes, apothecaries* weight 
Brandy, one quart 

Let it steep ten days : strain it through a flannel neve. 
Ob9, — Excellent to flavour <* Bishop,*' or **■ MuUed Wine: 



w 



B88BNCB OF CINNAMON. 

360. Strongest rectified Spirit o^ Wine, two ounces. 
Oil of Cinnamon, one drachm, apothecaries* measure. 

TINCTUBB OF CINNAMON. 

361. This exhilaiating Cordial is made by pouring a bottle of 
genuine Cognac,* on three ounces of Bruised Cinnamon — (Cassia 
will not do.) 

This restoiative was more in vogue formerly than it is now :*^ 
tea-spoonful of it, and a limip of Sugar, in a glass of good Sheiry 
or Madeira, with the yolk of an Egg beat up in it, was oilled ^ Bal- 
tamum VUa^ 

** Cw mariatur kamOt qui mmit de Cinnamomo f"— Cinnamon is reiie oom- 
UuttMe to tbe Stmnadce, and the prindpall partes of the bodie." 

" Ventrieuhtmy Jeeur, Ltenem, Cerebnim, Nervo$que Juvat et roborat,"'^** I 
reckon it a great treasare for a student to hare by him in his closet, to take now 
and then a spoonfol."— Cooaw's Hewm qfHeaitkf 4to. 1084, p. III. 

Obs ^Two tea-spoonsful in a wine-glass of water, are a present 

and pleasant remedy in Nervous Languots, and in relaautions of 

the Bowels : — ^in the latter case, five drops of Laudanum may be 

added to each dose. 

* The Editor strongly recommends his readers to Mr. OeoiM Newman, No. 
18, Haymarket, Foreign Liqueur and Wine Merchant, whose Liqu«ms» te. are 
the best that can be purchased. 



270 THE cook's oracle. 

ESSENCE OF MARJORAM. 

362. Strongest rectified Spirit, two ounces. 

Oil of Origanum, one diachm, apothecaries* measure. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. 

363. The flavour of the various swbet and savoury Hbrbs may 
be obtained by combining their Msseatial Oils with Rectified Spirit 
of Wine, in the proportion of one drachm of the former to two 
ounces of the latter, or by picking the leaves, and laying them for 
a couple of hours in a warm place to dry, and then filling a large- 
mouthed bottle with them, and pouring on them Wine, Brandy, 
Proof Spirit, or Vinegar, and letting them steep for fourteen daya. 

SOUP-HBBB* SPIRIT. 

864. Of Lemon Thyme, 

Winter Savouiy, 

Sweet Marjoram, 

Sweet Basil, — half an ounce of each. 

Lemon>Peel grated, two drachms. 

Eschalots, the same. 

Celery-Seed, a drachm avoirdupois weight 

Prepare them as durected in (389) ; and infuse them in a pint of 
Brandy, or Proof Spirit for ten days : thei/ may also he infused in 
Wine or Vinegar^ but neither extract the flavour of the ingredients 
half so well as the spirit. 

SPIRIT OF SAVOURY SPICE. 

365. Black pepper, an ounce, — Allspice, half an ounce pounded 
fine. 

Nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce, avoirdupois weight. 

Infuse in a pint of Brandy, or Proof Spirit, for ten days :.— Or, 
infuse the ingredients enumerated in (384), in a quart of Brandy 
or Proof Spirit, for the like time. 

SOUP-HERB AND SAVOURY SPICE SPIRIT. 

366. Mix half a pint of Soup-herb spirit with a quarter of a pint 
of Spirit of Savoury spice. 

Obs. — These preparatiom are vaUuxble amiliariet to immediately 
heighten thejlavour, andjinish Soups^ Sauces, Ragouts, ^c, will save 
much time and IrouUe to the Cook, and keep for twenty years, 

* For the leaaon, dco. whenfheie Herbs, &c come in perfection, aad how to 
dry them, see (389). 



/:^^^ ^T .'^- 



'^z-; 



--/ • 



FLAVOUBINa ESSENCES. 271 

KBLI8H FOB OHOP8| &c. 

367. Pound fine an ounce of Black Pepper, and half an ounce of 
Allspice, with an ounce of Salt, and half an ounce of scraped Horse* 
radish, and the same of Eschalots, peeled and quartered ; put these 
ingredients into a pint of Mushroom Cfttchup, or Walnut Pickle, 
and let them steep for a fortnight, and then stiain it. 

069.—^ tea-spoonful or two of this is generally an acceptable 
addition, mixed with the Gravy usually sent up for Chops and 
Steaks (see 303) ; or added to thick melted butter. 

FISH SAUCB. 

363. Two wine-glasses of Port, and two of Walnut Pickle, four 
of Mushroom Catchup, half a dozen Anchovies pounded, the like 
number of Eisdialots sliced and pounded, a table-spoonful of Soy, 
and half a drachm of Cayenne pepper ; let them simmer gently for 
ten minutes ; strain it, and, when cold, put it into bottles, well 
corked, and sealed over, it will keep for a considerable time, 

Obs.— This is commonly called Q»tn*« Somm^ and was given to 
me by a very sagacious Sauce-maker. 

KESPINO MUSTARD. 

369. Dissolve three ounces of Salt in a quart of boiling water, or 
rather Vinegar, and pour it hot upon two ounces of scraped Horse- 
radish ; closely cover down the jar, and let it stand twenty-four 
hours :— strain, and mix it by degrees with the best Durham flour 
of mustard, beat well together till quite smooth, and of the proper 
thickness ; put into a wide-mouthed bottle, and stop it closely. For 
the various ways to flavour Mustard, see 311. 

SAUCE SUPERIiATIVE.* 

370. Claret, or Port Wine, and Mushroom Catchup (see 375), a 
pint of each. 

Half a pint of Walnut or other pickle liquor. 

Pounded Anchovies, four ounces. 

Fresh Lemon-Peel, pared wry ihin, an ounce. 

* We hope this titie will not offend those who may ouote against it the old 
Adage, " that Good Appetite is the hcst Sauce."— Allowing this to be generally 
true (which is a moTe candid confession than conld be expected from a Cook), 
we dare say, the majority of our readers will TOte with ns, that there are many 
good things (Fish especially) that, would be rather insipidj—without a little 
sauce of another kind. . , ^ 

" Wherefore did Nature pour her bounties forth, 

With such a full and unrwithdrawing hand, 

Covering the earth with odours, fruits, and flocks. 

Thronging the seas with spawn innumerable ; 

But aU to please and sate the curious taste ?" 

MlLTOK. 



1 



f72 . THE cook's oracle. 

Peeled and diced Eschalots, the same. 

Scnped Horseiadiah, ditto. 

Allspice, and 

Black Pepper powdered, half an ounce each. 

Cayenne, one drachm, or Curry-powder, three drachms. 

Celery-seed bruised, a drachm. AU AvoirdupoU weight. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it dose, shake it up every 
day for a fortnight, and strain it (when some think it improved by 
the addition of a quarter of a pint of Soy, or thick Browning, we 
(283), and you will have a ^ delicious doublb riush.** 

««* Thu oomponium isoMofthe^ chefe d^ceuTre'* ofmaaafwpai' 
rnuOa I have madey/or the purpose of enaUittg the good HoiaewvM <f 
Great Britam ioprepoflrt their own Sauces : Ui» equally agreedlewitk 
fiAy game^ poultry , or rago^tt^ jv., aud as a fair lady may mobs U 
heraelfiits relish will be not a lilUe augmaUedy—by the oertamlythataU 
tie ingredients are good and wholesome, 

O&f ...Under an infinity of drcumstanoes a Cook may be in wut 
ttf the substances necessary to make Sauce ; the above composition 
of the several articles from which the various gravies derive fheir 
flavour, will be found a very admirable extemporaneous substitate. 
By mixing a hirge table-spoonful with a quarter of a pint of thick- 
ened melted butter, broth, or (227), five minutes will finidi a boat 
of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to drawn gravy, and as 
Vkeiff to put your Ungual nerves into good humour as any thing I 
know. 

To make a boa^ of Sauce for Poultry, &c put a piece of butter 
about as big as an egg into a stew-pan, set it on the fire ; when it is 
melted, put to it a table-spoonful of flour ; stir it thoroughly together, 
and add to it two table-spoonsfiil of Sauce, and by degrees about 
half a pint of brotii or boiling water, let it simmer gently over a 
slow fire for a few minutes, skim it, and strain it through a sieve, 
and it is ready. 

QUINTE8BBNOB OFANOHOVT.* 

371. The goodness of this preparation depends almost entMy 
on having fine mellow Fish, that have been in pickle long enou^ 
{i^ about twelve months) to dissolve easily^— yet are not at all rustf* 

Choose those that are inthestate they come over in,notsuchashave 

* The invwitk>ii of this fitvoiirlte Fldi Scnoe ii claimed by Mr. Thomas Tonntb 
see " The Spicure," Hardjng, London, 1815, page 12. He saTS, thei« still ii « 
cabal between some of tbe makers of this sauce, which of them malces it beHt- 
Though they do not pretend to the inrention, all of them dem>mlnate theniselveB 
the best makers. One is " Me real maker!!!" another **Oie stmerier!''' 
another " (he improeed ! ! r another *' the original superior I ! r w& cantioiM 
to guard against t)M "JjwHdia makers." 



ES6fiNCB OP ANCHOVY. 273 

been put into fresh Pickle, mixed with Bed Paint,* which some 
add to improve the complexion of the Fish, — ^it has been said, that 
others have a trick of putting Anchovy liquor on picklf d Sprats \f 
you will easily discover this by washing one of them, and tasting 
the fiesh of it, which, in the jfine Anchovy, is mellow, red, and 
high-flavoured, and the bone moist and oily. Make only as much 
as will soon be used, the fresher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve Anchovies into a mortar, and poimd them ta 
a pulp ; put this into a very clean iron, or silver, or very well- 
tinned :^ sauce-pan, then put a huge table-spoonful of cold spring- 
water (we prefer good vinegar) into the mortar ; shake it round, and 
pour it to the pounded anchovies ; set them by the side of a slow fire, 
very frequently stirring them together till they are melted, which 
they will be in the course of five minutes. Now stir in a quarter of a 
drachm of good Caymns pepper (345), and let it remain by the side 
of the fire for a few minutes longer ; then, while it is warm, mb it 
through a hairHneve, § with the back of a Wooden spoon. 

The Essence of Anchtwy, which is prepared for thk OoMMnTES 
OF Taste, is made with double the above quantity of water — ss 
they are of opinion that it ought to be so thin as not to hang iabout 
the ffldes of the Bottle — ^when it does, the large surface of it is soon 
acted upon by the aSr, and becomes rancid and spoils all the rest of it* 

A roll of thin-cut Lemon-peel infused with the Anchovy, imparts 
a fine, fresh, delicate, aromatic flavour, which is very gratefril ; this 
is only recommended when you make Sauce for immediate use, — it 
will keep much better without ; if you wish to acidulate it, ins^iead 
of water make it with artificial Lemon-juice (350), or add a Ixt^t 
of CoxweIVs concrete acid to it, 

Obs. — ^The above is the proper way to perfectly dissolve Anchovy, || 
and to incorporate it with the water ; which, if completely satu- 
rated, will continue suspended. 

To prevent the s^Hiration of Essence o/ Anchovy, and give itthe ap- 
pearance of being fully saturated with Fish^-^various other expe- 
dients have been tried, such as dissolving the fish in thin Wato* 

* " Sereral Minpl«8 which we examined of this Fish Sauce, hare been found 
contaminated with Lead.*— See Accum on Adulteration, pa«;e 3S8. 

t They may do tery well for common palate ; but to imitate the fine flavour 
of the Ooivona fish, so as to impose upon a well-educated Gourmand, still re- 
mains in the catalogue of the Sauce-maker's desiderata. 

t The best vessel For this purpose is the pint Bain-marie, sold by Lloyd, Iron- 
monger, near Norfolk Street, Strand. 

S The Eoonomist may take the thick remains that iron't passtlirough the sieve, 
and pound it with some flour, and make Anchovy Fastb, or Powobr. See 
(872 and 373). 

I Bpicnre QnTN used to say, '* Of all the Bans of Marriage I ever heard, none 
gave me half such pleasure as the union of delicate Ann-chovy with good John- 

OOKV." g 



274 THK cook's ORACLE. 

Ghuel, or Bailey Water, or thicktoing it with Mucilage, Flour, &C., 
—when any of these things are added, it does not keep half so well 
as it does without them ; and to preserve it, they oyerload it with 
Cayenne Pepper. 

Mbm. — You eanndt make Eiienoe of Ant^uyoy half so cSieap as yov 
eoMi buy it — ^Thirty prime Fish, weighing a pound and a quarter, 
and costing 4$. 6<f. and two tahl^e-spoonsftd of water, make me only 
half a pint of Essence,— 3rou may coiUmonly buy that quantity 
ready made for 2*., and we have seen an advertisement offering it 
for sale as low as 2«. 6d. per Quart, 

It muai he btpt very dosdy dapped^ — ujhen you tap a hot^ofSamce^ 
ihrow away the old perforaJted Cork^ and put m a new taper velvet cork; 
mmiftke awgelsto d, ^ Fi^ioJees the rust* and it is spoiled direcUy. 

Bssence of Anchovy is sometimes coloaredf with bole Armeniae, 
V^ce red, &c. ; but all these additions deteriorate the flavour of 
the sauce, and the Palate and Stomach suffer for the gratification 
of the Eye, which^.in culinary concerns, will never be indulged by 
the sagacious Qourmand at the expense of these two primum mobilee 
oi his pursuits. 

*4c* Essence of Anchovy is s(metimes made wOk Sherry or Madeira 
wine, or ^food Mushroom Catehup (375), instead af water. If you like 
the aoidjtavour add a little citric acid, or dissolve them in good Vinegar. 

N.B. This is infinitely tlie most convenient way of using Anchovy, 
as each guest may mix sauce for himseli^ and make it strong or 
weak, according to his own taste. 

It is also much more Economical, as plain melted Butter (229) 
serves for other purposes at table. 

ANOHOVY PASTE, OR LE BfiURRE O'ANCHOIS. 

372. Pound them in a mortar, then rab it through a fine siere ; 
pot it ; cover it with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. 

N.B. If you h&ye^ Essence of Anchovy, you may make Anchovy 
Paste Extempore, by rubbing the Essence with as much Flour as 
will make a paste. Mem. This is merely mentioned as the means 
of making it immediately, — it will not keep. 

Ohs. — ^This is sometimes made stifier and hotter by the addition 

of a little Flour of Mustard,— a pickled Wahiut,-J9pioe (388); — 

Curry Powder (383), or Cayenne, and th«i becomes a rival to **la 

veritable Sauce d'Enfer" (457),— or P&ti h la Diable for Deviling 

* " Rust in AnchoTies, if I'm not mistaken. 

Is as bad as Rost in Steel, or Rust in Bacon." 

Young's Bpicure^ page 14. 
t If you are not contented with the natural colour, break some Ldbaar^ ^Spg* 
into it and you will not only heighten the Complexion of your Sauce, but im- 
prove its flarour. This is the only Rouge we can recommeno. See Note to (849) 



CATCHUPS. 275 

Bi)Kniit$ (562)^^Qrill8 (457), &c. It is an excellent garnish for 
Fish put in pats round the edge of the dish, or will make Anchovy 
Toast ($,§1), or Devil a Biscuit (562)> &c. in high style. 

ANCHOVY POWDER. 

373. Pound the fish in a mortar, ruh them through a sieve, and 
make them into a paste with dried flour, roll it into thin cakes, and 
dry them in a Dutch oven before a slow fire ; pounded to a fine 
powder and put into a well-stopped bottle, it will keep for years ; it 
is a very savoury r^ish, sprinkled on hread and butter for a sand- 
wich, &c. See Oyster powder (247). 

Obs.^-To this may be added a small portion of Cayenne Pepper, 
grated Iiemon-Peel, and Citric Acid. 

WALNUT CATCHUP. 

374. Take six half-sieves of green walnut-shells, put than into a 
tub, mix them up well with common salt, from two to three pounds, 
let them stand for six days frequently beating and mashing them : 
by this time the shells become soft and pulpy, then by banking it 
up on one side of the tub, and at the same time by raising the tub 
on that side, the liquor will drain clear off to the other ; then take 
that liquor out : the mashing and banking-up may be repeated as 
often as liquor is found. The quantity will be about six quarts. 
When done, let it be simmered in ah iron boiler as long as any 
scum arises ; then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a quarter 
of a pound of allspice, two ounces of long pepper, two ounces of 
doves, with the above ingredients, let it slowly boil for half an 
hour ; when bottled, let an equal quantity of the spice go into each 
bottle ; when corked, let the bottles be filled quite up : cork them 
tight, seal them over, and put them into a cool and dry place for 
one year before they are used. 

N.B. — For tho above we are indebted to a respectable Oilman, 
who has many years proved the Receipt. 

MUSHROOM CATCHUP. 

375. If you Ipve Good Catchitp, gentle reader, make it your- 
self, * after the following directions, and you will have a delicious 
Relish for Hade-dishes, Ragoiits, Soups, Sauces, or Hashes. 

Mushroom gravy approaches the nature and flavour of Meat 
gravy, more than any vegetable juice, and is the superlative sub- 

* " The MuahTOoms employed for preparing readr-made Catchup, are gene- 
Tally tho«e which are in a putrefactive state. In a 'few days after those Fungi 
have been gathered, they become the habitation of myriads of insects. ' ' 

AccuM on Culinary Poisons, 12mo. 1820. p. 360. 



276 THE cook's ORACLE. 

stitute for it ; in Meagre Soups and Extempore Gravies, the 
Chemistry of the Kitchen has yet contrived to agreeably awaken 
the Palate, and encourage the Appetite. 

A couple of Quarts of Double Catchup, made according to the 
following Receipt, will save you some score poimds of Meat, besides 
a vast deal of time and trouble, as it will fiimiah, in a few minutes, 
as good Sauce as can be made for either Fish, Flesh, or FowL See 
(272). 

I believe the following is the best way of extracting and prepar- 
ing the Essence of Mushrooms, so as to procure and preserve their 
flavour for a considerable length of time. 

Xiook out for Mnshiooms from the beginning of September. 

Take care they are the rightsort, and/f«s& poAeredi. Full grown 
Flaps are to be preferred : put a layer of these at the ^bottom of a 
deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with Salt, then another layer 
of Mushrooms, and some more salt on them, and so on alternately, 
salt and mushrooms u-Iet them remain two or three hours, by which 
time the salt will have penetrated the mushroomi^ and rendered them 
easy to break ; — ^then pound them in a mortar, or xnaah them well 
with your hands, and let them remain for a couple of days, not 
longer, stirring them up, ai^d mailing them well each day; — ^then 
pour them into a stone jar, and to each quart add an ounce and a 
half of whole Black Pepper, and half an ounce of Allspice ; stop 
the jar very dose, and set it in a stew-pan of boiling water, and 
keep it boiling for two hours at least.— Take out the jar, and poor 
the juice dear from the settlings through a hair-sieve (without 
squeezing* the mushrooms) into a dean stew-pan ; let it boil very 
gently for half an hour ; those who are for Supxrlativs Catchvp, 
frUX continue the boiling till the Mushroom-juice is reduced to half 
the quantity, it may then be called DowUe Cb^sup or DoG-sap. 

There are several advantages attending this concentration ; it wiH 
keep much better, and only half the quantityi>e required \ — so you 
can flavour Sauce, &c. vnthout thinning it : — neither is this an ex* 
travagant way of making it, for merdy the aqueous part is evapo- 
rated ; skim it well, and pour it into a clean dry jar or jug ; cover it 
close, and let it stand in a cool place till next day, then pour it off 
as gently as possible (so as not to disturb the settlings at the bottom 
of the jugX through a tamis, or thick flannd bag, till it is perfectly 
clear ; add a table-spoonful of good Brandy to each pint of Catch- 



* The Squeeangs are the perqnMte of the Cook, to make Sanoe for the J 
Tahle ; do not deprire her of it, it ia the most profiUble save-<iU yon can jA^e her. 
and will enable her to make up a good FamilT Dinner, with what wouM other* 
wise be wasted. After the Maehrooms have been aqneesed, dry them in aDufcdl 
•ren, and make Mushboom Powixr. 



CATCHUPS. 277 

up, and let it stand as before ; — a fineah sediment will be deposited, 
firom which the Catchup is to be quietly poured off, and bottled in 
pints or half pints (which have been washed with Brandy or spirit) ; 
it is best to keep it in such quantities as are soon used. 

Take especial care that it is closely corked, and sealed down, or 
dipped in Bottle Cement. 

If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be preserved for a long time ; 
-but if it be badly corked, and kept in a damp place, it will soon 
spoil. 

Examine it from time to time, by placing a strong light behind 
the neck of the bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, boil it 
up again with a few peppercorns. 

We have ordered no m(»e spice, &c. than is absolutely necessary 
to feed the Catchup, and keep it from fermenting, &c. 

The compound, commonly called Catchup, is generally an inju- 
dicious combination of so many different tastes, that the flavour of 
the Mushroom is overpowered by a floiago of Garlic, Eschalot, An- 
chovy, Mustard, Horseradish, Lemon-peel, Beer, Wine, Spice, &c. 

Obt, — A table-spoonful of Doublb Catchup will impregnate half 
a pint of Sauce with the ftill flavour of Mushroom, in much greater 
perfection than either pickled or powder of mushrooms. 

We have bought good Muthroom Catchup at Butlbr*s herbandseed 
^op^ opposite Henrietta Street, Chvent Ckurden, 

QUZMTBS8SNOE OF MU8BKOOK. 

376. This delkate Relish is made by sprinkling a little salt over 
diher flap or button Mushrooms ; — three hours after, mash themy— 
next day strain off tiie liquor that will flow^ from them, put it into 
a stew-pan, and boil it till it is reduced to half. 

It will not keep long, but is preferable to any of the Catchups, 
which, in order to preserve them, must have Spice, ftc, which over- 
powers the flavour of the Mushrooms. 

An Arfijieial Mushroom Bed wUl supply this all the year round. 

To make Sauce with this, see (272). 

OYSTER CATCHUP. 

377. Take fine fresh Milton oysters; wash them in their oWn 
liquor, skim it, pound them in a marble mortar, to a pint of Oys- 
ters add a pint of Sherry, boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, 
two drachms of pounded mace, and one of Cayenne, — ^let it just boil 

*>^- up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; and when cold, bottle 
it, and cork it well, and seal it down. 
06s.-.45ee also (247), and Obs. ta (246). 



278 THB cook's oaaclb. 

. V N.B. It is the best waj to pound the Salt and Spices, &c witb 
the Oysters. 

Obf^—This composition very agreeaUy heightens the flavour of 
white sauces, aad white made-diahes ; and if you add a glass of 
•brandy to it, it will keep good for a consideiable time longer than 
Oysters are out of season in England. 

COCKLB AND MUSCLE CATCHUP. 

378. May be made by treating them in the same way as the 
Oysters in the preceding Receipt 

PUDDING CATCHUP. 

379. Half a pint of Brandy, << Essence ofPimekV (653), or *« Cb- 
rofoa^ (^49), or ** WbjfMw,** a pint of Sherry, 

An ounce of thin-pared Lemon-peel, 

Half an ounce of Mace. 

Steep them for fourteen days, then strain it, and add a quarter of 

a pint of Gapillaire (650). This will keep for years, and, mixed 

with melted butter, is a delicious relish to PuddingB and Sweet 

dishes. See Pudding Sauce, (240), and the Justice'k Orange Syrup, 

(332). 

POTATO* STARCH. 

380. Peel, and wash a pound of full-grown Potatoes, grate them 
on a bread-grater into a deep dish, containing a quart of clear water ; 
stir it well up, and then pour it through a hair^sieve, and leave it 
ten minutes to settle, till the water is quite dear: then pour off the 
water, and put a quart of fresh water to it, stir it up, let it settle, 

, and repeat this till the water is quite dear i you wiU at last find a 
fine white powder at the bottom, of the vessel. (The criterioii of 
this process being completed, is the purity of the water that oomes 
from it alter stirring it up.) Lay this on a sheet of paper in a hair- 
sieve to dry, either in the sun or before the fire, and it is ready for 
use, and in a weU-stopped bottle will keep good for many monthsi 

If this be well made, half an ounce (t. e. a table-spoonful) of it 
mixed with two table-spoonsftd of cold water, and stirred into a 
Soup or Sauce, just before you take it up, will thicken a pint of it 
to the consistence of Cream. 

O&0..-.This preparation much resembles the *^Indkm Arrow Booi^^ 

* " Potatoes, in whatetw oonditkm, whether tpoiled hj Frost, CkminRtion, 
&c. provided they are raw. constantly aiford Starch, dmering only hi qvality, 
the round gray ones the most, a pound produdnE aboat two ovaees.** 

PARMCNTiaa on NutrUkte VtgdeMtt, 8to. p. 31. 
** 100 lb. of Potatoes yield 10 lb. of Starch." 

& OiiAY'a Aii)|4em«nt to(*0 i>Aar>MM!pan«»8n». 188L p. 198. 



. POTATO FLOUB. 279 

and is a good satafltitate for it ; it gires a fiihien on ihe palate to 
Gravies and Sauces at hardly any expense, and by some is used to 
thicken Melted Butter instead of Flour. 

As it is perfectly tasteless, it will not alter the flavour of the most 
delicate Broth, &c 

OF THB FLOUR OF POTATOES. 

381. ^ A patent has been recently obtained at Paris, a gold me- 
dal bestowed, and other honorary distinctions granted, for the dis- 
covery and practice, on a larye soo/ie, of preparing from potatoes a 
Jkie flour ; a 'sago, a flour equal to ground rice ; and a semolina or 
paste, of which 1 lb, is equal to 1| lb. of rice, 1} lb, of vermicelli, or, 
it is asserted, 8 Ibg. of raw potatoes. 

^ These preparations are foimd valuable to mia with wheaten 
flour for bread, to make bi9cuits, pastry, pie-crusts, and for all soups, 
gru^s, and panada. 

** Large engagements have been made for these preparations with 
the French marine, and military and other hospitals, with the ap- 
probation of the fliculty. 

** An excellent bread, it is said, can be made of this flour, at half 
the cost of wheaten bread. 

^ Heat having been applied in these preparations, the articles 
will keep mu^nged for yeais^ and on board tlMp^ to China and back ; 
rats, mice, worms, and insects, do not infect or destroy this flour. 

** Simply mixed with cold water, they are in ten minutes fit for 
food, when fire and all other resource may be wanted ; and twelve 
ounces are sufficient for a day's sustenance, in case of necessity. 

**• The Physicians and Surgeons in the Hospitals, in case of great 
debility of the Stomach, have employed these preparations with ad- 
vantage. '< 

^ The point of this discovery is, the cheapness of preparation, and 
the conversion of a surplus growth of potatoes into a keeping stock, 
in an elegant, portable, and salubrious foipn.' 



»» 



8AZAD OR PIQUAMTB SAUOE FOR COLD MEAT, FISH, dec. 

382. See also (313). Pound together 

An ounce of scraped Horseradish, 

Half an ounce of Salt, 

A table-spoonfol of made Mustard, (311), 

Four drachms of minced Eschalots, 

Half a drachm of Celery-Seed, see (353), 

And half ditto of Cayenne, see (345), 

Adding gradually a pint of Burnet, see (339), or Tarragon Vine- 



280 THB cook's ORACLE. 

gar (335), and let it stand in a Jar a week, and then pais it through 
a sieTe. 

CURRY POWBBR. 

383. Put the following ingredients in a cool 0¥6n*all night— And 

the next morning pound them in a marble mortar, and rub tb^ 

through a fine sieye. 

_^ ^ d. 

Black Pepper Muitard, and Ginser. one ounce of each ^ 8 
AUaf^ioe and Lefier Cardamoms, naif an ounce of each ... 5 
Cnnun Seed, a quarter of an ounce »»* mM ^m^m» >.»..»«»■«■<. 1 

Thoroughly pound and mix together, and keep them in a well* 
stopped bottle. 

Those who are fond of Curry Sauces, may steep three ounces of 
the powder in a quart of Vinegar or White Wine for ten days, and 
will get a liquor impregnated with all the flavour of the Powder. 

Obs» — ^This receipt was an attempt to imitate some of the Best 
Indian Owrry Powder^ selected for me by a fiiend at the India 
House :— the flavour approximates to the Indian Powder so exactly, 
the most profound Palaticians have pronounced it a perfect copy of 
the original Curry Stuf, 

The following remark was sent to the Editor by an East Indian 
friend. 

*^ The ingredients which you have selected to form the Cubay 
PowoRR, are the same as are used in India, with this difference 
only, that some of them are in a raw green state, and are mashed 
together, and afterwards dried, powdered, and sifted.*V^or Cmrrf 
Sauoe, see (299). 

K.B. ChickenBr~Itabbit8r-43weetbieadSr-3rea8ts of Yealy— 
Veal Cutlets^-Jhlutton^-^I^imlv— or Pork Chopsy.— Lobeter^^ 
Turbotr— Soles, — Eels, — ^Oysters, &c are dressed CWrfy FoukitMy see 
(415) ; or stew them in (287 or 299)) and flavour with (383). 

Obs. — ^The common &ult of Curry Powder is the too great pro- 
portion of Caymne (to the. milder Aromatics from which its agree- 
able flavour is derived), preventing a sufficient quantity of the Curry 
Powder being used. 

SAVOURY RAGOUT POWDER. 

384. Salt, an ounce, 
Mustard, half an ounce. 
Allspice,* a quarter of an ounce, 

* If Tou like the flaTonr, and do not dislike the expense, instead of Alkpice 

Sttt in Mace and Cloves. The abore is toij similar to the Poiedtr^/bH uaeo in 
Ling Richard the Second's Kitohen, A.D. 1390. See " Pt^iye Forme qf Curf, 

p. XXX. 



9PEASE POWDER. 281 

Black Pepper ground, and Lemon-peel gmted, or of (349), 
pounded and sifted fine, half an ounce each. 

Ginger., and 

Nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce each, 

Cayenne Pepper, two drachma 

Pound them patiently, and pan ih^m through a fine hair-sieye ; 
hottle them for use. The above articles will pound easier and finer 
if they are dried first in a Dutch oven* before a very gentle fire, at 
a good distance from it ; — ifyov, gwt ihem fnwA heat, the fine Jlaoo/ur 
f)f them toill he presently evaporated, and they will soon get a strong, 
rank, empyreumatic taste. 

N.B. Infused in a quart of Vinegar or Wine, they make a tti- 
Toury relish for Soups, Sauces, &c 

Obs. — ^The Spices in a Ragout are indispensable to give it a fla- 
vour, btit not a predominant one ;— 4heir presence should be rather 
supposed than perceived v--they are the invisible spirit of good 
Cookeay : indeed, a Cook without Spice would be as much at a losd 
as a Conlectioner without Sugar :...-a happy mixture of them, and 
proportion to each other and the other ingredients, is the ** ehe/" 
d^muifre** of a first-rate Cook. 

The art of combining Spices, &c., which may be termed the 
**■ Harmony of Flavours,'" no one hitherto has attempted to teach : 
and ** the rtde of Tkumb"" is the only Guide that experienced Cooks 
have heretofore given for the assistance of the Novice in the (till 
now, in these pages explained, and rendered, we hope, perfectly in* 
teUigible to the himiblest capacity) Occult Art or Cookxrt..^ 
77«8 is the first time Receipts «n Cookery have been given aocurately by 
WxiGHT or Mbasdre ! ! ! 

(See Obs, on ^ the Education of a Cook's Tongm, pp. 62 and 53). 

PBA8B POWDBR. 

385. Pound together in a marble mortar half an ounce each of 
dried Mint and Sage, a drachm of Celery-Seed, and a quarter of a 
drachm of Cayenne Pepper ; rub them through a fine sieve* This 
gives a very savoury relish to Pease Soup, and to Water Gruel, 
which, by its help, if the eater of it has not the most lively imagi- 
nation, he may fimcy he is sipping good Pease Soup. 

06«.->A drachm of Allspice, or Black Pepper, may be pounded 
with the above as an addition, or instead of the Cayenne. 

* The back port of theie Orent is 40 much hotter than that vrhich is next the 
fire, that to diy thiiws equally, their ritnation must be frequently changed, of 
those at the back 01 the OTen vill be done too much, before those in the front 
are done enough. 



282 THE cook's oraclb. 

HORSSBADIflB POWDBB. 

886. The time to make this 10 during November and Deoember ; 
slice it the thickness of a shilling, and lay it to diy very gradually 
in a Duteh oven (a strong heat soon evaporates its flayour) ; when 
dry enough, pound it and bottle it. 

0&«.-J3ee Honemdiah Vwkgar (340). 

80UP-BBRB POWDEBi OR VEGETABLE RELISH. 

387. Dried Paisley, 
Winter Savoury, 
Sweet Maijoram, 

Lemon-thyme, of each two ounces ; 
Lemon-peel, cut very thin and dried, and 
Sweet Basil, an ounce of each. 

*«* Some add to fke abow Bay-leanet amd Cektf-SMd a drad^ eadk. 

Dry them in a warm, but not too hot Duteh oven : when quite 
dried, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a double 
hair-sieve ; pat them in a bottle closely stopped, they will retain 
their fragrance and flavour for several months. 

N.B. These Herbs are in full perfection in July and August (see 
389). An iniiision of the above in Vinegar or Wine makes a good 
relishing Sauce, but the flavour is best when made with fteah- 
gathered heifas, as directed in (336). 

0&«.— -This compoflition of the fine aromatic herbs is an invaluahle 
acquisition to the Cook in those seasons or situations when fredi 
herbs cannot be had ; and we prefer it to the Bagoiit powder (384) : 
it impregnates sauce, soup, &c with as much relish, and renders it 
agreeable to the palate, and refreshes the gustatoiy nerves, without 
so much risk of offending the Stomach, &c 

80UP-BBBB ANB SAVOURY POWDBB, 

OR QUINTESSENCE OF RAGOUT. 

388. Take three parte of Soup-herb powder (387) to one part of 
Savoury powder (384). 

. Obt, — ^This agreeable combination of the aromatic Spices and 
Heibs should be kept ready prepared : it will save a great deal of 
time in cooking Ragodts, Stuffings, Forcemeat-balls, Soups, SaiioeB, 
&C. ; kept diy, and tightly coined down, ite ftagraaoe and strength 
may be preserved undiminished for some time. 

N.B. Three ounces of the above vrill impregnate a quart of Vine- 
gar or Wine with a very agreeable relish. 

TO DBY 8WBBT AND 8AVOUBY RBBBS. 

389. For tie following aocurate and valuable In/omuUiom, the 



TO DRY 8WBLT AND SATOUBT HBRBS. 283 

Reader is indebted to Mr. Butlkr, Herbaliflt and Seedsman (oppo- 
site Henrietta Street), CoTent Gaiden Market, of whom the seTetal 
articles may be obtained of the best quality, at the 6ir Market 
Price. 

It is yery important to those who are not in the constant habit 
of attending the markets to know when the Tarioua seasons com- 
mence for purchasing swkit hirbs. 

**AU Vegetables are in the higher siaie of pafeetiom^ and fidlest of 
juice and flayour just before they begin to flower:— -the iirst and 
last crop have neither the fine flavour, nor the perfume of those 
which are gathered in the height of the season ; that is, when the 
greater part of the crop of each qiedes is ripe. 

** Take care they are gathered on a dry day, by which means 
they will have a better colour when dried. C3ean»e your ierbe well 
from diri and dud;* cut off the roots; separate the bunches into 
smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stoye, or in a Dutch 
oyen before a common fire, in such quantities at a time, that the 
process may be speedily finished, t. e, ' Kill *em qukk^ says a great 
Botanist ; — ^by this means their flavour will be best preseryed :— there 
can be no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, &c. hastily by the 
aid of artificial heat, rather than by the heat of the sun. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only caution requisite is to avoid 
burning ; and of this a suflicient test is aflbrded by the preservation 
cf the colour.** — ^The conunon cnstimi is, when they are perfectly 
dried to put them in Bags, and lay tiiem in a dry place ; but the 
best way to preserve the flavour of aromatic plants is to pick off the 
leaves as soon as they are dried, and to pound them, and put them 
through a hair sieve, and keep them in well-stopped Bottles.*!- See 
(387). 

Basil is in the best state for drying from the middle of August, 
and three weeks after, see (336). 

Knottxo Marjoram, from the banning of July, and during the 
same. 

WiNTBR Savoury, the latter end of July, and throughout August, 
see Obs. to (336). 

Summer Savoury, the latter end of July, and throughout August 

THYAfR, 

Lbmon-Thymb, 

* TkU it sadJvfie^eeUAbjf those who dry herbs ^sak. If yon buy them ready 
dried, before tou pound them, cleanse them from dirt and duft by ttiippingthe 
leaves from the stalks, and mb them between your hands, over a hair-sieve,— 
put them into the sieve, and shake them well, and the dnst will oo through. 

t The common custom is to put them into paper bags, and lay them on a 
•helf in the Kitchen exposed to all the fumes, steam, and smoke, to. ; thus they 
soon lose their flavour. 



284 THB cook's OSACLB. 

Oranob-Thtmb,* duiing June and July. 

Mint, latter end of June, and during Julj^ see (888). 

Sags, August and September. 

Tarragon, June, July, and August, see (335). 

Cbsrvil, May, June, and July, see (236). 

BuRKzr, June, July, and August, see (339). 

Parslxt, May, June, and July, see N.B. to (284). 

FiNNSL, May, June, and July. 

Elddi Flowrrs, May, June, and July. 

Orangr Flowsrs, Mky, June, and July. 

N.B. Herbs nicely dritrf axe a very aoeeptable substitute whei^ 
fresk ones cannot be got^— but, bowever caiefuUy dried, the flavour 
and ficagianoe of tbe fresh beibs aie inoompaiaUy finer, 

TBB UAGAZINB OF TA8TB. 

390. This is a convenient auxiliary to the Coolu-Jt may be ar- 
ranged as a pyranudical Eptirgm for a DormemA in the centre of the 
table^ or as a Traiw^Omg Stort-ChMt. 

The following Sketch will enable any one to tit up an assortment 
of flaYouzing materials according to theur own &ncy and palate, and 
we presume, will furnish sufficient variety for the amusem^it of 
the gustatory nerves of a ihorou^*bred Cfrand Goumumd of the first 
magnitude (if Ca^fenne and Gariio have not completely consumed the 
sensibility of his palate), and consists of a '^ Saucb-boz,** cantainii^ 
four eight-ounce bottles,*!* sizteen Ibur ounce, and eight two-ounce 
bottles: 



I. PlcklM. 
SL Bnnd74 

3. Cuzacoa (640). 

4. 87rap<64l3). 

5. Salad Sanoe <Sia; and 308). 

6. Padding Catchup (379). 

7. Savoe niperlatiTe, or doable leUah 

& Wainut pickle. 

9. Muflhroom Catchup (S15). 

10. Vinegai. 

11. (ML 

12. Mnitard (we 311, and 369). 
la Salt (see 312). 

14. Cury Powder (SBS). 



IS. Soj. 

K. LemonJuioe. 

17. Eaaenoe ai AnchoTj (371). 

18l Pepper. 

19. Cayenne (3M. 347, 348). 

90. Soup-herb Powder (387). 

21. Ragoat Powder (384). 

29: Feaae Powder (Stt). 

23. Zest (2S5). 

24. Eawnce of Celery (363). 

25. Sweet Herbs (364). 

26. Lemon Peel (Sn, 3S2). 

27. Eschalot Wine (343). 
2a Powdered Mint 



* A delScfanuherls that demm§ to be better known. 

t If the bottles are sonaie, and marked to quarter ounoei^ as Lvmrn's gradu- 
ated measnres are, it wul save trouble in compounding. 

t The finest Siuiwy I haw ever taated I had fitom Mr. H. H jda» Nsl 09, 
Mark Lane. 



MAGAZINE OF TASTE. 



2S5 



IN A DRAWER UNDER. 



Half-andosen one ounce bottlBa.: 

Weights and scales. 

A graduated glass measnxo, diTided 

. into tea and tabl»-spooDB. 
Gorlucre'w. 



Nutmeg'«ater. 
Table and tea-spoon. 
Knife and folk. 
A steel* and a 
Small moTtar. 



1 


5 


13 


21 


6 


14 


22 


2 


7 


15 


23 


6 


16 


24 


3 


9 


17 


25 


10 


Is 


26 


4 


11 


19 


27 


12 


20 


28 



N.B. The x>OTtable Magazine of Taste alluded to in page 46. 
may be furnished with a foui^ounce bottle for Cognac, a ditto for 
Curafoa (649), an ounce bottle for Essence <f Anchovy (371), and 
one of like size for Mushroom Catchup. 



MADE DISHES, &c. 

RECEIPTS FOR ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES, WRITTEN FOR THE 
COOK'S ORACLE— BY AN ACCOMPLISHED ENGLISH LADY. 

391. These Experiments have arisen from my aversion to Ccld 
Meaty and my prei^rence for what are termed French Dishes ; 
with which (by a certain management) I think I can fiunidi my 
table at &r less expense— than is generally incuned in getting up 
a Plaxn Dinner, 

GRAVY OR SOUP MEATS. 

392. These I never buyr— and yet am seldom without a good 
provision of what is technically denominated Stodc, 

When, as it frequently happens, we have Ham dressed, if the 
Joint be above the weight of seven pounds, I have it cut in half, 
and prepared in the following manner : — ^First, ensure that it has 
been properly soaked, scraped, and cleaned to a nicety, — ^tben put 
it into an Earihm Ve$self as near its own sixe as possible, with just 



28^ THE cook's OBAOtB. 

as much water as will obyet it, to which add four OnionB, a clove 
of Garlic, half-a-dozen Eschalots, a Ba/4eaf, a* bunch of Sweet 
herbs, half-a-dozen Cloves, a few Peppercorns and Allspice : this 
should be well closed, and kept aimmerinff about three hours. It is 
then served with Raspings or with Glazing, the rind having first 
been taken off neatly. The liquor is strained, and kept till Poultry 
of any sort, or Meat is boiled, when the liquor in which they 
have been dressed should be added to it, and boiled down fiut tiU 
reduced to about three pints : when cold, it will be a highly fla- 
voured, well- coloured Jelly,* and ready for Sauce for all kinds of 
Ragovis and Hashes, &c. &c. 

A FZIiIiBT OF VBAIi. 

393. This / dieide imto ihr«« parts ; the Meat h^ore it is dcewered, 
will of itself indicate where the partition is natural, cmd will pull 
asunder as you would quarter an orange ; — ihe Largest piece should 
be stuffed with (317 or 318), and rolled up, compactly skewered, 
&c. and makes a very pretty small FUletf-^^ths tqsarefiat Piece will 
either cut into Outlets (90 or 439), or slicefbr a Pie, — and Ihe TkiA 

Piece must be well larded and dressed as a Pnoandeau ^which I 

do in the following manner : — Put the larded Veal into a stew-pan 
jmt big enough to contain it, with as much water as will cover it ; 
when it has simmered till delicately white, and so tender as to be 
cut with a Spoon, it must be taken out of the water and set apart, 
—and it will be ready to serve up either with Sorrel, Tomata, Mush- 
rooms, (270 or 375), or some of the above-mentioned Stodc— .the 
Prioamdeau being previouslj coloured with Glazing, — if with Mush- 
rooms, they should be firsl parboiled in Salt and Vinegar, and Wa- 
ter, which gives them flavour, and keeps them of a good colour. 

SZftZiQIN OF BEEF. 

104. I Ukewise divide this into Three Parts; I first have it nicely 
boned. 

The Under Part or fUet^ as the French call it, will drev (when 
cut into slices) excellently, either as plain Steaks (93), Curry (4151 
or it may be larded whole, and gently stewed in two quarts of water 
(a Bay-lea^ two Onions, their skins roasted brown, four Cloves, 
Allspice, &c. &c.) till tender, when it should be taken out, drained 
quite dry, and put away,~^t is then ready to be used at any time 
in the following manner : — Season and dredge it well, then put it 
into a stew-pan in which a piece of Butter has been previoiuly fiied 

* This nuty be ttUl longer pxMerned— by the prooeat directed in (Uf). 



MABB DISHES^ &C. 287 

to a fine fix>th ; when the Meat is sufficiently brown, take it out 
and throw into the pan half a dozen middle^ed Onions, to do a 
fine Qold Colour ; fhat accomplished (during which the Dredger 
should be in constant use), add half a pint of Stock, and a tea- 
spoonfhl of Tarragon Vinegar (935), and let the Onions stew gently 
tSll nearly tender : the Beef should then be returned to the stew- 
]Hm, and the whole suffered to simmer till the meat is warm throu^ : 
care must be taken that the Onions do not break, and they should 
be served round the Beef with as much sauce as will look graceful 
in the dish. The Fillet is likewise very good without ihe /ried 
Otdoiu ;— in that case you should chop and mix up together an Es- 
chalot, some Parsley, a few Capers, and the Yolk of a hard I^, 
and strew them lightly orer the sorfiice. of the Beef. 

THE FAT BNB OF THE SIRLOIN. 

395. The Fai JSnd of the Sirloin and Bones should be put to sim- 
mer in the liquor in which the Fillet was first stewed, and done till 
the Beef looks loose ; it should then be put away into a deep vessel, 
and the Soup strained over it, which cooling with the Fat upon the 
top (thereby excluding the air), will keep as long as may be requir- 
ed ; ^when the Soup is to he used, the tat must be cleared from it, 

a Carrot, Fannep, a head of Celery, a Leek, and three Turnips, 

cleaned and scalded, should be added to it, and the whole sufierad 
to simmer gently till the vegetables are quite done, when they must 
be strained from the liquor, and the Soup served up with laijget 
square thick pieces of toasted bread. 

Those who like a Plam BouSH warm the Beef in the Soup, and 
serve it up with the Turnips and Carrots which had been stnuned 
before from the Soup. A white Cabbage quartered is no bad addi- 
tion to the Garnish of the Bouilli, or to the flavour of the Soup. If 
it i»a Dressed Bouilli, sliced Carrots and Button Onions should be 
stewed in thickened Stock, and poured over the Meat. 

NECK OF MUTTON. 

396. A Neek <f Mutton boned, sprinkled with dried Sage, pow- 
dered fine, or (320) seasoned, rolled, and roasted, is very good. 
The Bones and Scrag make excellent Gravy stewed down, and if 
done very gently, the Meat is not bad eating. The same herbs 
jdionld be put to it as to other Stocks, with the addition of a Carrot ; 
this will make very good Mutton Broth. In short, wherever thero 
aro Bones or Trimmings to he got out of any Meat that is dressed in 
my Kitchen, thqy aro made to contribute towards Soup or Gravy, 
or (227), 



288 THB cook's obaglk* 

A HAR]Q. 

3d7. Instead of roagtwff a Harb (which at best is but dry food), 
atew it, if Yowag^ Plain, — if an (Md one. Lard it The Should^s 
and Legs diould be taken off, and the Back cut it into three pieces ; 
these with a Bay-leaf, half a dozen Eschalots, one Onion pierced 
with four Cloves, should he laid with as mudi good vinegar as will 
coTer them, for twenty-four hours in a deep diah. In the mean.' 
time, the Head, Keck, Ribs, laver, Heazt, &o. See. should be 
browned in frothed Butter well seasoned— 4dd half a pound of lean 
Bacon, cut into small pieces, a large bunch of Herbs, a Carrot, 
and a few Allspice, — sunmer these in a quart of water till it be re- 
duced to about half the quantity, when it should be strained, and 
those parts of the Hare which have been infused in the vinegar, 
should (with the whole contents of the dish) be added to it, and 
stewed till quite done. Those who like Onions may brown half a 
dozen, stew them in a part of the Gzavy, and dish them round the 
Hare. 

When it comes firom the table, supposing some to be left, the 
Heat du>uld be taken fi»m the Bones, and with a few Forcemeat 
Balls, the remains of the Gravy, about a quarter of a pint of Bed 
Wine, and a proportionable quantity «f water, it will make a veiy 
pretty soup ; — ^to those who have no objection to Catchup (375), a 
spoonful in the original Gravy is an improvement, as indeed it is 
in every made Didi, where the Mushroom itself is not at com- 
mand. 

Every Raffo4t, in my opinion, should be dressed the day before 
it is wanted, that any Fat which has escaped the skimming-spoon, 
may with ease be taken off when cold. 

CALF'S HSAB. 

398. Take i&e fto^^of one, with the skin on, — ^put it into a large 
stew-pan, with as much water as will cover it, a knuckle of Ham, 
and the usual accompaniments of Onions, Herbs, &c. &c., and let 
it sinuner till the flesh may be separated from the bone with a 
spoon, — do so, and while still hot, cut it into as large* a sized square 
as the piece will admit of; — ^the trimmings and half the liquor put 
by in a tureen ; to the remaining half add a gill of White Wine, 
and reduce the whole of that 6y qmck hoUing till it is again half 
consumed, when it should be poured over the large square piece in 
an Earthen Vessel, surrounded with Mushrooms, white Button 
Onions, small pieces of Pickled Pork, half an inch in breadth, and 
one and a half in length, and the tongue in slices, and simmered till 
the whole is fit to serve up ; some browned Forcemeat-balls are a 



MA0B P18HBS; te. 289 

pietty additioD. After thia comes from tho Table, the remains 
should be cut into small pieces, and mixed up with the trimmings 
and liquor, which (wi& a little more wine), properly thickened, 
will make a yeiy goodMoek Turtie Soup for a Aituiv occasion. 

TO HASH MUTTONi BBEF, &c. 

399. Out the Meat into slioos, about the thickness of two shillings, 
trim off all the sinews, skin, and gristle, &c^-^-pui in nothing but what 
is to be ecUen^lAj them on aplate ready \ prepare ^/owr Sotuce to warm 
it in, as rbckift (305 or 401) put in the Meat» and let it simmer 
gently till it is thoroughly warm : — do not let itBoUae that will make 
4ie Meat tough and hard^* and it will be, as Joan Cromwbll*)- has 
it, a Harsh, 

OBS,^^JSeleet /or your HoiA thorn parts of the joint that are least 
done. 

Mem Hashing is a mode of Cookery by no means suited to 

delicate stomachs : unleeethe Meat, &c. be considerably under-done 
the first time, a second dressing must spoil it, for what is done 
enough the first time, must be done too much the second, 

TO WARM HASHES, t-MADE DISHES|- 
STEWS,~RAOOUTS,-SOUP8, &c. 

400* Put what you have left into a deep hash-dish, or tureen ; 
when you want it, set this in a stew-pan of boiling water \ let it 
stand till the contents are quite wamu 



* 1Ia8H£8 and Meats dxessed a aeoond time, should on%f simmer ffenUp UU 
ju$i warm through : it is supposed ther have been done rery nearly, if not quite 
-«noiigh, already ; select tlrose parts of the joint that have Men least done. 

In jnaking a Hugh from a Leg of MtUUm, do not destroy the Marrow-bone 
te help the grary of your hash, to which it will make no jMrceptible addition ; 
but saw it in two, twist writing-papw round the endSt and send it up on a plate 
as a side dish, garnished with sprigs of parsley :— i/* Uita Boast leg, preserve the 
■iTD BONK, and send it up between the marrow-bones. TMi is a Tery pretty Lun<i 
cheon or Supper dish. 

t See '* the Coart and KUdien of Elisabkth, commonly called Jixm Orom- 
weO." 16mo. London, 1064,_page t06. 

t The " Bain Marie" or Watbrp-Bath (see note to 446), is the best utensil to 
warm up made dishes, and things that have been already sufficiently dressed, afi 
it neither consumes the sauce, nor hardens the meat :— if you have not a Watei^ 
Bath, a Ihitch Oven will sometimes supply the place of it. 

" Bain-Marie is a flat ressel containing boiling water : you put all your ttew- 
pans into the water, and keep that water always very hot, but it must not boil : 
the effect of this Bain-Marie is to keep every thing warm without altering either 
the quantity or the quality, particularly the quality. When I had the neaout 
of serving a nobleman, wnolcept a very extensive hunting establishment, and 
the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit of uafna 
Bain-Marie, as a obtain means of preserving the flavour of all my dishes. If 
yon keep your sauce, or broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces, and 
becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces. This is the best 
way of warming Tutle, or Mock Turtle Soup,— «s the thick part is always at the 
bottom, and this method prerents it from Duming, and keeps it always good." 
— Uds's Cookery t page 18, 



300 SftB tJOOR*! 9tLk¥LlL 

Toiiii«» SdOM^ tii[<# aafine ^usiiitiey '<of any otflier ^uce ; Fepper, SaR, 
Cayesofrib^ftlf ft ii^^gki8B'<^ PdH Wjae^imd a conpte «P (or ome) 
Capsiciun cut fine — ^miz with the remains of the Orayy of the pre- 
ceding day, of Beef or Mutton — if necessary to thicken, add one 

TO HASH BSEF, &«. 

^1^1% Put 4 patt mA^htSff^Btotb^m Water, t^Hh tA minee tH 
<227X'or » lnig6tiA)l&^dOAM«f MushrMtt Catdiiip, into a statr- 
pan ^ivith'^lM <iM[ivy }i<eul^a^ sared that was left frtto the Beef, and 
put in a quarter ounce of onion sliced very fine, and boil it abottt 
ten minutet ; fwt a large table-ipoonfol of Flour into a basin, just 
wet it with a little water, mix it well together, and tlien stir it into 
the broth, and gi?e it a boil fbr fire or ten tninutes, rub it through 
a sieve, and It is ready to receive the Beef, &c. ; let it stand by tblb 
iide of the ihe fill fhe Meat is warm. 

N.B. A tea-spoottfiil 6f'PeetA&y chopped as fine as possible, and 
put in five minutes before it is served up, is a great addition v— 
others like lialf a wine-^^ass of Port vfine, and a dessert-spoonful of 
Currant Jelly. 

See also (305), which will show you every variety of manner of 
making and flavouring the most highly finished JIash Sauoej and 
(399, 400, and 425). 

COLD MSAff BROZUSD, WITH POAOHBD BfiM». 

402. The inside of a Sirloin of Beef is best for this dish, or a Lqf 
of Mutton. Cut the slices of even and equal thickness, and broil 
and brown them cttfisf tdly and slightly over a deer smart fire, or in 
a Dutch oven ; giv« thorn slioes most fire that are least done y .lay 
them in a dish before the fire to keep hot, while you poach the Sggs, 
as directed in (548), and mashed Potatoes (102). 

Obs. — ^Tfaifl makes a savoury Luncheon or Supper«-4iat h more 
relishing than nourishing, unlem the Meat was under-do/ne the flxBt 
time it was dressed. 

(272) for Sauce, to which some add a few drops of Eschalot wine 

or vinegar. See (d43), or (375), or (804), warmed,— or Grin Sanee 

(801). 

MRS. PHII.IiIPS'8 IRISH STBDir. 

408. Take five thick Mutton Chops, or two pounds off the neek 
or loin ; two poimds of Potatoes, — ^peel them, and cut them in 
halves ; six Onions, or half a pound of onions^i^petl and dice ^tteok 



dlt6: fiKt]Mlt«fa^of P<])lii«(Mi«t «li« bottom of your ftow-poa, 
•then a coaple of Chops ttd sdmio «f th« Onioni $ then agidii pote- 
toesy and so on, tin tiie pan w-^nite lall *, a momB fpoonfiil of white 
pet»per, and about ona and a iialf of lalt, and thMa gills of bratfa or 
gravy, and two tea^spoonsftd at MoilmMiin Catofaap, cover idl very 
dose in, so as to prevent the Sleam from getting oat, and let them 
fltew f«Bran hour and a half on a teijr slow firei A sbmiII tlioe of 
ham is a great addition to this dish. The Cook aiU be the best 
judge token it is done, as a great deal depends on the fire you have. 
N.B. Great care must be taken not to let it bum, and that it 
does not do too fiul 

TO VULEJA AN IBXBH STBW. OR UUKTER'B PZB. 



404. Tain part of a Neck of Mutton, cut it iato dwpa, ssaaon it 
weD, put it into a stew-pan, let it fanise for half an hour, take two 
docen of potatoes, boil them, mash tiiem, and season them, butter 
yoor mould, and line it wiA the potatoes, put in the Mutton, bake 
it for half an hour, then it will be done, cut a hole in the top, and 
add some good gmyy to it 

N.B. The above is the contribution of Mr. Morrison, of the Lein^ 
flter Hotel, Dublin. 

A GOOD SCOTCH HAGGIS. 

405. Make the haggis-bag petfoetly clean ; parboil the draught ; 
boQ the liTer very well, so as it will grate ; dry the meal before- the 
fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very imall ; 
grate about half of the liver ; mince plenty of the suet and somie 
onions nnaU ; mix all these materials very well together, with a 
handful or two of the dried meal ; spread them on the table, and 
season them properly with salt and mixed spices ; take any of the 
scnps of beef that are leftfiommiiKsiig,aiidsomeof the water that 
boiled the draught, and make about a choppin (». 0. a quart) of good 
stock of it ; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth 
in it ; then aewup thebeg : but be sure to put out all the wind before 
you sew it quite dose. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in 
a doth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two hours^ boiling. 

N.B. The above we copied veriatim from Mrs. Magitxr, a cele- 
brated Caledonian Professor ofihe Culinary Art, who taught, andpub- 
litked a Book of Cookery y at EdUibwrghy A.D. 1787. 

MINCBD COLIiOPS. 

406. ** This is a favourite Scotch dishy—few families are without 
it^:-it keeps well, and is always ready to make an extra dish. 



292 THE cook's ORACIiS. 

^.Take Beef, and chop and mince it lery small; to which add 
some salt and pepper. ^Put thi8» in its raw state, into small jam, 
and pour on the top some daiified butter. When intended for use, 
put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into 
the pan, and fry them. Add a little water to it, and tihen put in the 
minced meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it will be fit to 
fterve up."--The Hon. John Coghranb^i Seanum'g Guide^ 8row 
1797. Page 42. 

HARICOT* MUTTON. 

407. Cut the best end of a Neck or Loin of Mutton, that has 
been kept till tender, into Chops of equal thickness, one rib to each 
{** les bons hommea de houche de PwrW'^ cut two chops to one bone, 
but it is more conyenient to help when there is only one, — ^two at 
a time is too large a dose for John Bull), trim off some of the &t, 
and the lower end of the cliine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stew-pan, with an ounce of Butter ; set it over a smart 
fire ; if your fire is not sharp, the Chops will be done before they 
are coloured : the intention of frying them is merely to gwe ibem a 
very liffht browning. 

While the Chops are browning, peel and boil a couple of down 
of young button Onions in about three pints of water for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, set them by, — and pour off the liquor they were 
boiled an into the stew-pan with the Chops : if that is not sufiicient to 
cover them, add as much boiling water as will ; remove the scum ai 
it rises, and be carefvl ih«g are not stewed too fast or too much, — so 
take out one of them with a fish-slice, and try it : when they are 
tender, which will be in about an hour and a half, then pass the 
gmyy through a sieve into a basin, set it in the open air that it may 

get cold, you may then easily and completely skim off the fiit, in 

the mean tune set the meat and v^etables by the fire to keep hot. 
And pour some boiling water over the button Onions to warm them. 
Have about six ounces of Carrots, and eight ounces of Turnips, 
peeled and cut into slices, or shaped into Balls about as b^ as a 
Nutmeg, boil the Cairots about half an hour — the Turnips about a 
quarter of an hour, and put them on a sieve to drain, and then put 
them round the Dish the last thing. 

Thicken the Gravt by putting an ounce of Butter into a stew- 
pan ; when it is melted, stir in as much Flour as will stiffen it ; pour 
the gravy to it by degrees, stir together till it boils ; strain it through 
a fine sieve or tamis into a stew-pan, put^n the Carrots and Tur- 

» Probably a CQntraction of " Haut Ragout" 



MADS DISHES, &C. 293 

nips to get wann, and let it tdnmier gently while you dish up the 
Meat ; lay the chops round a dish, put the yegetables in the middle, 
and pour the thickened grayy over. Some put in Capers, SiC*, 
minced Gherkins, &c. 

. Obs. ^RuMP-STBAKS, Vbal Gutlets, and Beif-tails, make ex* 

cellent dishes dressed in the like manner. 

MUTTON-CHOPS DBZiIOATBXiY 8TBWSD, 
AND OOOD MUTTON BROTH. 

408. Put the Chops into a stew-pan with cold water enough to 
coTer them, and an Onion^ — ^when it is coming to a boil, skim it, 
cover the pan close, and set it over a very dow fire till the Chops 
lure tender \ — if they have been kept a proper time, they will take 
^bout three quarters of an hour*8 very ffenUe simmering. Send up> 
Turnips with them (129) ; they may be boiled with the chops, ddm 
^ell, and then send all up in a deep cUsh, with the Broth they weret 
stewed in. 

N.B. — TThe Brcih will make an Economist one, and tie Meat an* 
Mer, wholesome and comfbrtable meal. 

8HOULDBB OF liAMB ORIIaXiBD. 

409. Boil ity— score it in checkers about an Inch square, rub it 
6ver with the yolk of aa egg, pepper and salt it, strew it with breads 
crumbs and dried parsley, or sweet herbs, or (884), or (387), and 
Carbonado, i, e. Grill, i. e. Broil it over a clear fire, or put it in a 
Ihitch oven till it is a nice light brown ; send up some gravy with 
it, or make a sauce for it of flour and water well mixed together 
With an ounce of ft«sh butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom or wal- 
nut catchup, and the juice of half a lemon. See also Orill Sauce 
(«01). 

N.B. — Breasts of Lamb are often done in the same way, and with 
Mtuhroom or Hutton Sauce (272). 

IdkMB'S FRY. 

410. Fry it pUdn, or dip it in an egg writ beaten on a plate, and 
strew some fine stale bread-crumbs over it *, garnish with crisp pars- 
ley (277). For sauee, (901, 802, or 808). 

SHIN, OF BBBF* STBWBD. 

i J4^ Desire the buteher to saw the bone into three or four pieces, 

* The proTeri> mts. " Ofatttke FouitiiftkeJir, commend me to the Shtjn or 
Bbbv,— for there** Marrow for the Macter, Meat for the Mistren» Oitetles far 
tiie Serraats, and Bones for the Dogi." 



29i: T^B cook's oraclk. 

put tt into a yl^w-pui, c«d jiwt cover it with cold watexv«-jrb«ii H 
i^oameif, Ain it deaoy^-them put in a bundle of Sweet Heiba, » 
laige Onion* a he^d of Celerj^ a doaEon berries of Black Pepper, and 
the same of Allspice : stew very gently over a slow fixe till tbo 
Meat is tender,*, .thin wBl take hwt abont three houw and a half 
to four and a half. 

Take three Carrots, peel and cut them into small squares ; peel 
and cut ready in small squaares a toapk of Tumqis, wilh a eouj^e 
of dozen of smaH young round sHrer Button Onions*: boil them till 
tendefy-Uho Tvnjps and Onions wiU he enough in about fifteen 
mfnntesr-^theCanots wiU require about twice as long». drain thtm 
dry. 

When the Beef is fuite lender, take it out careAx% with a slioe^ 
and put it on a dish while you iitoiMiapNit amdaialfqf&t Qraty ; 
to do this, mux three tablaHipoonsful of flour with a tea-cuplul of the 
beef liquor; tomdce Sow o£ the rest of it, see (215); stir ^ 
thoroughly togeth^ till it boils, skim off the Fat, strain it through 
anere, and piit yowr y^^fftablev in to wann •^-...SiMWsa with pepper, 
nit, and a wineglass of Mudooom Catohttp (37o)» or Port wine^ ok 
both, and pour it over the Beef. 

S^d up Wow- Wow Sanee (986) in a boat. 

K»B..^Or, instead «f sending iip the Beef whole, cut liie seat 
into handsome pieces fit to heH^ at table, and lay it in the nnddta 
ef the diah» «ith the Vegetahlee and Sauce (wMeh if yon fla^eut 
wil^ (B83X founay eaU *^ Bisp Cvmt'') round it A Lw o» 
MnrroM is excdlewt dressed the same w»yy-..equal to '^ 2t Cr^ ills 
9Bpi hemrea^* oo famons in the French kitchen, 

a&f.-».This Smwlvw every chran to the aittention of the iZ^xImnf 
S^piemt^ heii« one ef theee in whieh ^ FnuGAUTT,V « NoimiiK<* 
MINT," and ** PALATAnLBNBSS,*^ are most happOy combined^^^^sd 
yen i^ half a Gattev of oKeetlent Bbotk into the baij^an. 

We advise the Mistress of the table to caU it «« Baqovt BBsr,"* 
.^this will ensure its being eaten with unanimous applause ; the 
homely appellation of Shin of Beef dewed^ is enough to give* your 
gentedl cater a ledMd j»w<« 

** Btmtiahn; whsa tht im^gmmMti vsak. Ib« Pniv^ot it stvoos." 

Our modem Epicures jreMtmble the andenty* who thoy^ tht 
dearest dish must be the most delicious : 



*< And tldnk all Wisdoia Bet 



Ia V^ing imp^rtisientlj nice. 

* The lemotect parts of the world were' ritlted, and Earth, Ab; anA Ocasi^ 
npaaaeked, to funudi the oompUcalfed d«U«;««l«« of a Roman Supper. 

*< auktatUlOMTU, that PAjyAif. irhohad a AM tongue and a Gi« aieaia^lii 
ovd9r to fEi»tUy thfl latter vithout oifendiQ^ (he fvmw^ nads a •heathfBchiS 



MASS msHss, Sec. 99^ 

fh^^ tbej Kckoa Tuzlle »»ud Fwncb ta be> ^ ^himaat^&m fer 
i^r* xaojQ iftidting than Mock Tuitle and Qood Mali; JjU^x^m,. 
however bad the fonner may be, and however good the latter v-i«Jri9^ 
wUH} tbete fiilka coul4 be md^ t9. undeitsll^nd, tM the §k>up for 
e(u^ and aDt the a^coropftpwoftftt^ lue p^ciwlf ib^ aajne ;^^eg;a 
ig) this only difference,, the formev is common^ made with 4, 
*< ST4BVMiJ> TURTLE'' (wft Not^» to 223), the latter with a. 

'^FATTBO CAIfF," 8ee(223»?da,,wMi2a4). 

Thie scarcity of tolcfably ^^ood cooks ceases to he fiurprising, wh^ei^ 
ve lefiect bow vpw^ wove astonishing is the ignoiapce (kT nw^t of 
thos«t who assmme the chaxacteiir of Scientifio Gouamanps,* so exr 
tremely ignorant of the affairs of the Mouth,** — ^they seem har43y 
tA " kmtw^ ck Shpe^"** head ffim. % Carrot^' and their real ^reten^ons 
to be profoiuMl P«lati<»aBS» ve aa moder&te as the wine^merch^i^t'ii. 
customer, whose sagacity in the selection of liqw>is was only so exr 
qai«te« that he knew that P<»t wine was bl^cVond that if he dn^ik 
enot^h of iV ^^ would in«k^ hifin dmnk. 

BRI8KBT or BESr 8TBWED. 

412, This k prepared ui exs«tly thf s^oie n^y tut ^ Soup an4 
eomlU:' S^($«21^ar4U). 

HABiqOT OF BBBF. 

41^, A s^ev^ brisket cut in slices, and sent UP with the sam^ 
Sauce of roots, &c., as we have directed for haricot of ;QUittQn (407), 
is a most excellent dish, of very moderate expense. 

8AVOUBY SALT BEEF BAKBD. 

414. The Tongue Side of a rownd of Beef is the best bit lor tli|«, 
pupose : if it weighs fifteen ponpds, let it hang two or three days i 
t)ie« take three ounces of Salpetre^ one ounce of coarse Sugi^r^ a 
quarter of an ounce of Bla^ Pepper, and the sam^ of Allspice 
(some addaquarter of an ounce oC Ginger, or 384), and sopae minced 
sweet 9Dd savoury Herbs (337), and three quarters of 9i pound of 
ooinmon Salt \ incoipos^te these ingredients by pouuding them to- 

Toqgafi, eo that he could swallow his potti^ scalding hot ; yea^ I mTself hare 
Imowii a Shroptmre Oentleman of the nke quality \ \ **—Ste Dr. Mopvat m^ Anm^ 
4ta.iaS5l 

" In the refined eztraTamace of the tables of the gnreat, where the CnKnanr 
aMB uepnabed to exceM» Twcnry heoewes JUse to itselfii and tioangt aw Talve^ 
not as they are nutritious, or agreeable to the apx>etite, but inuioportion as they 
are rare, out of season, or oosuy.**— Capooan on Gout, 8to. 1^1, p. 46. 

* " Cookery is an art, apprecaated by only a rery few indiyiduals, and which 
iMniiies, ill addition to a^ wost atndiiov* ao4 4iligeiit ^pp^catian, no vnall shvo 
ctf^teUect, sni ibe sMs^aft sohmty 9^4 pvoctiialny^'VjPrfi&ce to I7««'« 
Gew*cir3b p. 01 



296 TRB cook's obacle. 

gether in a mortar ; then take the bone out^ and rob the Meat w^ 
with the aboTe iiuztiue» tammg it and mbbiiig* it eveiy day for a 
fbrtni^t. 

When 70a dren it, put it into a pan with a qosrt of water ; 
oOTer the meat with about three pounds of mutton suet* shredded' 
lather thick, and an onion or two minced small ; cover the whole 
with a flower crust to the top or brim of the pan, and let it be baked 
in a moderate-heated oven for about six hours (or, just cover it with 
Water, and let it stew very gently for about five hours, and when 
you send it to table, cover the top of it with fiuely chopped Par- 
sley). If the Beef weig^ more, put a proportional addition of all 
the ingredients. 

The Gravy you will find a strong Cbmomm^, excellent for Saa<» 
or Soup, or making Soy, or Browning, see (283), -md being impre^^ 
Bated with Sslt, wiB keep several days. 

n» Jodd dUmUt notbeaamUv Oold^ _and then with a sharp 
knifo, to prevent waste, and keep it even and comely to the eye. 

06f .— This is a most exeeUent way of pi^[»aring and dressing Beef 
(419),— and a lavoury dish for Scmdwidiea^ Slc — In moderate wea- 
Uier it will keep good for a fortnight after it is dresied : it is one of 
the most economical and elegant articles of ready-dressed keeping- 
provisions ; deserving the particular attention of those fomilies who 
frequently have Accidental Customers dropping in at Luncheon of 
JS^pper-Jto whom we recommend HfoRRisoN^s Provinons, No^ 3^^ 
CJharlotte Itosr^ MansieA House. 

QUBRIBS. 

415. CSee alto 225). Cut Fowls or Babbits into joints, and wash 
them clean :— put two ounces of Butter hito a stew-pan ; when it is 
melted, put in the meat, and two middling-sized Onions sliced, let 
them be over a smart fire till they are of a light brown, then put in 
half a phit of Broth ; let it simmer twenty minutes. 

Put in a basin one or two table-spoonsful of Curry Powder 
(383), a tearspoonAil of Flour, and a tea-spoonful of Salt ; mix it 
smooth with a little cold watery put it into the stew-pan, and ahak»' 
it well about till it boils ; let it simmer twenty minutes longer ; then 
take out the Meat— and rub the Sauce through a tamils os siev^-^ 
add to it two table-spoonsfol of cream or milk, give it a boil up^ 
then pour it into a dish^ lay the meat over it— send up the Bioa ia 
s separate dish. 

• This iq^ il 90t to be wf»te^— irhen it comes from the oven take out tto 
Beef, and ilnitt the contenti of the Mm throiii^ a eieve,— let It itaad till it ill 
«»14,-4h«n daitft Ui« fd «• diieeted ifi, (83), and it will do for Prjtefr te. 



UAVK DISRBfilj &c. 297 

06f ...Curat it made also with Steee^bnadt^-^reatt of VeaU-^ 
Vital Oiakii^lamb..-^MMUon or Pork Ckopt-JjAokr^Tuf^toL^ 
Scles^-Eds. — Oyrien^ ftc— prepared as above, or enveloped in (299)« 

06t.--.Thi8 is a yeiy sayoorT^ and economical dish, and a valuable 
tariet3r at a moderate tahle. See Wow- Wow Sauce (286). 

ANOTHBR RBOBIPT FOR A CURRY. 

Beeeiptfor BoiUng iht Rioo, 

4 15. * Take half a- pound of Rice well washed, boil two quarts of 
Water, put in the Bioe and make it boil twelve minutes if Indian 
Sice, and fourteen if any other Rice. One minute before you take 
it up, throw in a table-spoonful of Salt— pour through a colander, 
and drain all the water — ^then lay a napkin in a pan, and shoot the 
Biee on it lightly diit of the colander. Turn up the comer of the 
napkin softly over the Rice, which will draw the moisture out of ii» 
and then shake it lightly out of the doth into the dish. Through 
aU this process it must not be spooned or handled. 

Beeeiftfor mdkuig the Curvy* 

Cut a good Fowl up, skin it or not as you please, fry it aieely 
brown— slice two or three onions, and fry them ; put the fried fowl 
ttid onions into a stew-pan with a table-spoonful of Curry Powder 
*— cover it with water or Teal Gravy — one clove of Garlic ; let* it 
stew slow fbr one hour, or till very tender ; have ready, mixed in 
two or three q)oonsftd of good Cream, one tea-speonful of Flour, 
two ounces of Butter, Juice of a Lemon, some salt ; after the Cieaai 
is in, it mtlst only have one boil up, not to stew. Any spice may 
be added if the Cinry Powder is not highly seasoned. With Chieken, 
Babbit, or Fisl^ observe the same rule. 

Any White Meat makes the best cony* 

■TBWBD RU1IP.8TBAK8. 

41^. The Steaks must be a little thicker than fbr broi1ing,^<f 
ikom heaUthe »ame ^AtdbMts, or some will be done too little, and 
trthem too much. 

Put an ounce of Butter into a stew-pan, with two Onions ; whep 
the Butter is melted, lay in the Bump-Steaks, let them stand over 
A slow fire for five minutes, then turn them, and let the other side of 
fhem fry five minutes longer. Have ready boiled a pint of Button 
Onions ; they will take from half an horn to an hour ; put the liquor 
they were boiled in to the Steaks ; if there is not enough of it to 
cover them, add broth or boiling water, to make up enough for that 
purpose, with a down corns of Black Pepper and a little Salt, and 



t9B TVS GOdK't tnJkXSjM. 



fltoun off 88 rnueb ef the liqvur ^ibouta fint. attd&loilQ 98 jMm 
think will nudce the nuee* 

Put two omiees of Butter into a ifecw^fHuit when it Is. meilted, 
stir in as much floor as wi^mdw E inteta stiff paofca; mnfi ad(( 
thereto a table-spoonful of Claret^ or Port wine, the same of Mush- 
room Catchup (375), half a tea-spoonful of Salt, and a quarter of a 
tea-spoonful of ground Black Pe p p er; add the liquor by degrees, 
let it boil «9 for fifteen miaatai; sldm ilk, and strsin it ; serre up 
the Steaks wilii the Qnioii naudl ifae dkh» aad pour the Qmwf 
wet. 

VaAL-Ounan or MurxoiKGaopf nay be dw^ the iMnie «af , 
or M Yeal OUves (436). 

This is genenlly a seeondieoimB di4ki and la ufaally mado toa 
iSch, — and only fit to re«excite an ik^ppetile fdnoadty satirted, Owr 
eadeaTour is to combine agreeable savovoiaew mih tnbstnniKal 
nourishment ; those who wish to eaiich onr Beeapt, rn^f easiljadd 
Mushrooms, — ^Wine, — ^Anchovy, — Cayenne, — ^Bay-leaves, &c. 

Obs. — ^Ruhp-Stbaks are in the best condition from Michaelmaa 
to Lady-dE^. To ensure their being lender ^kmuMs BmCsftsr tkm or 
/muf days* noiUB ^fyour with far thum, 

SBOIXiiSD BUMP-STBAK WITH ONION GBAVT. 

417. (See also 26«> 

Feel and dice two la^ga Omoiu^ pat then inta a quart «Wp» 
pan, with two table-epooasfnl e£ water ; coTer tha gt wwp a a tlaa^ 
and set it oo a slow fire tiU the water has baDed: awajr, and Ibt 
Ouens have got a Kttle farownad,^N-ihen add half a phtt of goad 
Broth,* and boil the Onions tiU thejp are tender \ strain tha Biath 
from them, and chop them mrf fine, and aeasoBk it wift Kuslwaom . 
Catchup, pepper, and salt \ put the Onion into it, and let it boil 
gently for fi?e minutes, pour it into the Dish, and lay over it a 
Broiled Rump-Steak. .If instead of Btoth you vsafsod Bieef 0iavy, 
it will be superlative. 

*** Stewed Cucumber (134) is another agreeable swosw/inai swaf <e 

IteifKD'Steoikem 

■ AI«AMO]>S BBSr, OJl VBAIh 

418. In the 180 volumesoRcoekety we palMatiypianeeradtina^gh, 
before we eneounteied the tremendous labour and etcpeaae of ptn- 
Ting the Receipts of our predeceason^— imd set about raeoadng tfaeab 

. * If jo« bar« pa Brotht-^fwit in talf a pint nS water, thiokm it ai in th« aboTs 
TCoeipt, and Jnst before yon give it the last boQ np, add to it a nmn epMNilU af 
Haa&m dodiBp^ BndL if 7IW lite, tiie «pia WMi^ ^ 



MA0S mittHBj Sic. 29& 

i«wdto of oQt onrar «QMtei«ifiir^iv« coulcl not find on* Becstpt tint 
sppfoidinatod to any thing lik» an aceuxato d«aoi^tiov oftho wi^ 
In wldch this exeellene didi it aetoaUy diWMd in the beat Algraechft> 
Beef £Qiopa, Amn whenoe^ of oaiuae, it mw iai|Maiible to ohtm any* 
idiHination :^-howeTer, aAar all, the whota of the seaet seeua tot 
i>e the thiokeniBg the gnvy of Beef that hat been etiy thwhf * 
atawed, and flayeuiii^ It with Bay-lea?et and AIl^>ioab 

Take about elevtti petuidt of tike Meute Bvttook,— ^v Clod of 
Bee^— or s Blade-Bone^— <tf the Stieiclii^^ioee^ or the like weight 
of the Breatt of Veal ; — cut it into pieces of thiee or four euneee 
each ; put thtee er fova ounces of Beef drippings, and mince a 
couple of huge Onions, and put them into a huge deep stew-pan : 
as soon as it is quite hot, flour the Meat, put it into the stew-pan, 
keep stirring it with a wooden spoon ; when it has been on about ten 
minutes, dredge it with flour, and keep doing so till you have stirred 
in as mu«h at you thisJc will thifiken it ; then eover it with boiling 
water (it will take about a gallon), adding it by degrees, and stir- 
ring it together ; ddm it when it boils, and then put in one 
diaehm of ground Black Pepper, two of Allspice, and two Fay- 
tea^et ; set the pan by the side of the Are, or at a distance over it, 
and let it stew very dawty for about three hours ; when you find the 
meat sufficiently tender, put it into a tureen, and it is ready for 
table. 

It is customaiy to send up with it a nice Salad ; see (313)^ 

«^* To the ctboce many Cooks add CHAMfiGNONS %hdas these art 
fttmoft alwctys decayed^ and often ofdeteUrioua qualiiy, (key are better 
left otttf—^jmd indeed the Bay-lxavbs deserve the same prohibition. 

Obs. — ^Here is a savoury and substantial meal, almost as cheap 
as the Ego-Brotb of the MUsery^who fed his Valet with the water 
in whicSi his Egg was boiled,— or as the *^ t^ota^ d la Pierre^ k la 
• Soldat,'^ mentioned by Giles Rose, in the 4th page of his dedica- 
tion of the ^ PBRFXCT SCHOOL OP INSTRUCTIOK FOR THV OFFICKBS OF 

r&9 Motrra,'' 18mo. London, 1(^82. •* Two Soldiers were minded 
to have a Soup ; the first of them coming into a house, and asking 

* " It muit be allowed to nraae gently for wrenl heun, iaacceMible to tiui 
anu^t lAt; and on tbe eren and peneTering beat of charcoal in tbe furnace or 
ftOTe. After baviiig Inlled ttiell m Ha own exudationa, and the diMolntlon of 
ita oiudllarlea, it maj appear at table with a powerful claim to apBrobation.''-ni 
3\xbata (Maria, p. 47. 

. t J* *J^^ ^ *'"^» ' sayi one of the be«| of prowrbi. « qtdJtiU k Soldal t* * It 
ii the Soap that inskee the Soldier.' Excellent as our troops are in the field, 
^«re cannot be a «u>fe nn<|QeBtk>aaUa ftttt, than theiy imnlease infeiioritr to 
the French in the bnainess of Cookerr. The English soldier lays his piece of 
xation beef at once on the coak, bjr which moms the one and tbo better half is 
lost,*«-a»d the other oumt to a cinder. Wbexeas «U Fie vd^ tfoopers fling their 
messes Into the stune pot, and extract a ddjdotts S<mp, ^n times noie nntii- 
tkras than the simple R^i could erer be."— Blackwood's EdinburgkMaMUinL. 
▼ol. TtL p. fi6& ^^ 



300 THB cook's obaclb. 

for all things neeeaeBiy for the making of one, was as BO<m told thai 
he could have none of those things there, whereupon he went 
away v— the other, coming in with a Stone in his knapsack, asked 
only for a pot to boil his stone in, thai he might make a dish oC 
broth of it for his supper, which was quickly granted him ; when 
tiie stone had boiled a little while, he asked for a snull piece cf ' 
Meat or Bacon, and a few Herbs and Boots, &c just merely t»- 
give it a bit of a flavour ; till, by litUe and litUe, he got all things 
requisite, and so made an excellent Pottage of bis stone." Sea' 
0&«.to(411). 

9. d. 

Onions, Pepper, AUspioe, and Ba7-leaTe8,«N«0 3 

Made Eight Qnarts,«««M..««3 II 
a. e, Sirpenoeper Quart. 

TO POT BBBF, VBAIi, OAMB, OR POUUTRT, te. 

419. Take three pounds of lean Gravy Beef, rub it well with a& 
ounce of Saltpetre, and then a handful of common Salt ; let it lie 
in Salt for a couple of days, rubbing it well each day; then put it 
mto an earthen pan, or stone jar that will just hold it ; cover it 
with the skin and fot that you cut off^ and pour in half a pint of 
water ; cover it close with paste, and set it in a veiy slow oven fof 
about four hours ; or prepare it as directed in (414). 

When it comes from the Oven, drain the gravy from it into a 
basin ; pick out the gristles and the skins ; mince it fine ; moisten 
it with a little of the gravy you poured from the Meat, which is a 
very strong Gmsomme (but rather salt), and it will make excellent 
Pease Soup, or Browning (see 283) ; pound the Meat patiently and 
thoroughly in a mortar with some fresh Butter,* till it is a fine 
paste (to make Potted Meat smooth there is nothing equal to plen* 
ty of Elbow-grease) — seasoning it (by degrees as you are beating 
it) with a little Black Pepper and All^ice, — or Cloves pounded, oi 
Mace, or grated Nutmeg. 

Put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, and cover it a 
quarter of an inch thick with Clarified Butter ; to prepare which 
lee receipt (231), and if you wish to preserve it a long time, over 
that tie a Bladder. Keep it in a dry place. 

Obt, — You may mince a little Ham or Baconr-*or an Anchovy, 
*^weet or Savoury Heibs,— or an Eschalot, and a little Tar»^ 

• The lea Omty or butter, and ft« more btaUng, ike Mter vill be jmu FOI- 
ted Beef, if you wish it to keep ;— tf for immediate eating, von mar put in a J— — 
fvoportion of giary or batter, at the meat will pound easier, ana look and 
aMHW mellov. 



MABB DISHBS^ &C. 301 

gon, Gherril, or Bnmety&c, and pound them witii ffaa Meat, with 
a glass of Wine, or some Mustard, or Forcemeat (318, or 320 and 
340, &c) ; if you wish to have it DeviliA savoury, add Ragiy&t 
Powder (384), Cuny Powder (383), or Zesi (229), and moisten it 
with Mudtroom Catdivp (375), or Euence of AfuAovy, (371), or 
.Tmcttire o/AlUpiee (366), or Esaenoe of TwrtU (294). 

OB, 

420. It is a very agreeahle and economical way of using the re- 
mains of Game or Poultry, or a huge joint of either roasted or boiled 
Bee^ Veal, Ham, or Tongue, &c. to mince it with some of the Fat 
(or moisten it with a little Butter, or 371, &c.), and beat it in a 
mortar with the seasoning, &c., as in the former Receipt. 

When, either the TeeA or Stomach are extremely feeble, especial 
care must be taken to he^ Meat tiUUis tender before it is cooked— 
or call in the aid of those excellent helps to bad teeth, the Peatle 
and Mortar, And see (11, 19, 88, 89, 174, 177 ; from 182 to 226, 
418, 456 — and especially 419). Or dress in the usual way what- 
erer is best liked, — mince it, put it into a mortar, and pound it with 
a little Broth or melted Butter, — Vegetable, — Herb, — Spice, — 
Zest (229), &c. according to the taste, &c. of the EaXer, The busi- 
ness of the Stomach is thus very materially fiunlitated. 

^ Flesh in small quantities, bruised to a pulp, may be very ad- 
vantageously used in fevers attended with debility.*' — ^Darwin^ 
JSoonomia, voL ii. p. 400. 

Mincing or Pounding Meai saveth the grinding of the Teeth ; and 
therefore (no doubt) is more nourishing, especially in Age, — or to 
ihem that have weak teeth ; but butter is not proper for weak bodies, 
^ <-..and therefore moisten it in pounding with a little Claret wine, 
and a very little Cinnamon or Nutmeg.*" — Lord Bacon ; Natural 
History^ Century I. 54. 

Oba. — ^Meat that has been hotUd down for Gravies, &c. see (182 
■and 227), (which has heretofore been considered the perquisite of 
the Cat) and is completely drained of all its succulence, beat in 
a mortar with Salt and a little ground Black Pepper and Allspice, 
as directed in the foregoing Receipt, and it will make as good Pot- 
ted Beef as Meat that haa been baked tQl its moisture is entirely 
extracted, which it must be, or it will not keep two days. 

MxM.*-.Meat that has not been previously salted, will not keep 
80 loQg AS that which has. 

8ANDWIOHSS. 

421. Properly prepared, are an elegant and convenient Luncheon 



SOS TR8 book's mAifOi. 

at Sopper^^JImt 1nt« gffi ouft of ^MiirtuUhnii ifiie'MI fMuer la 
which theyave caiamotAy vaAez 49 -ent tiM 'bMaA neadf Willi • 
tharp knife Beems to be ^onsMered the only «!Bsei4ifliL Mid the lining 
is eomposed of any offiEil oddsAad ends-^hat cannot he wtit to table 
in any ofher form. 

Whateyer is used imist he caieAdly trimmed tnm every hk of 
Skin, Gristle, &c. — and nothing introduced but what you are abso- 
lutely certain will be acceptable to the Mouth. 

JMrXSBIAIiS F0& UAKiN0.&iNI>.WICHS3. 

422. 



Cold Meat, or Povltor. 
Potted ditto (419). 
SaTOOTT ditto (414). 
FottedXobeter (177)* or Shrimp (174). 
Potted OhaoM (fiGT)). 
Potted or grated Ham (4S8>. 
Ditto, or grated Tongne. 
AaolioTy (979 and 873). 



(Jerman Sausage. 

Ckdd Potk 4»t» (00). 

Hard SgoLpoiiBded with »litUa3iii- 

ter and Caeeee. 
OtatedHa«i,«rB«il « 
Various Foroemeats, &c. (Slfi, &c.) 
Currr-Poirder, Zest, Miutsrd, Fniperj 

and Salt, araaddad wtcirinnaHy. 



VfiAT OAKSS. 

423. If you have any cold Meat, Game, or Poultry (if midef- 
done, all the better), mince it fine, with a little fiit baoon or ham, 
or an anchovy ; season it with a little pepper and salt ; mix well, 
and make it into small cakes three inches long, half as wide, and 
half an inch thick : fry these a light brown, and serve tfaera with 
good gravy, or put it into a mould, and boil or bake it 

N.B. Bread-crumbs, hard yolks of Egga^ Onions, Sweet Herh% 
Savouiy Spices, Zest, or Cuiry-iPowder, or any of the ForoemcBts. 
See (315 to 325). 

Pish Gakbs for Maigrt Da^ may be made in like manner. 

BTJBBLB AlVD SQUEAK, OR FBIBD BEEF OB UX7TT0N 

AND CABBAGE. 

'* When 'midst the frying Pan in accents saTSge^ 
The Bee^ so rarly, qnanela with the Cabbage?* 

424. For this, as for a Eaah, sdect those parts of the joint tiMft 
faaire been least done : — it is generally made with slioes of cold boHed 
salted Beef^ sprinkled with a little Pepper, and just lightly biowMd 
with a bit of Butt^ in a frying-pan : ifU is fried too mtteil it imB i» 
hard. 

Boil aCabbage, squeeae it quite diy, and chop it small ; take Uw 
Beef out of the frying-pan, and lay the Cabbage in it ; qnbikle a 
little pepper and salt over it ; keep the pan moving over IImi fiie 
for a few minutes ; lay the Cabhage in the middle of a dish, and 
the Meat round it. 

For Sauce, see (303, w 286). 



iflum maam, See. d^ 

4iiass«o mmm^, aro woam ««f «ai«i bboilkd. * 

425. To hash ami; <i>»HwMilptt8gg,^e.,«idlW;). 

The best part to hash is the FllWt or IittUe tf-Ae ghhitt^ and 
fhe good housewife will always endeavour to preserve it entire for 
this purpose. "See Obt, to (SI), Hud Hlock Haie (67). 

fioHit Beef finiM ftnMh « mxf wlishing Ltiiidi«oii or Supper, 
loepond in -the IbDowliig naiiiMi, with Poadied Eggs (MB), or 
Fried Eggs (551), cor Xaabed Pn^dloct (103), as aeoMnpanimenta. 

Divide the Bonea, leaving good pickii^ of meat on each V'-JBooie 
lheDi'i& squares, pour a little melted batter on them, and sprhdcki 
them with pepper and salt ; pnA them on a dish ; set them in a 
I>uiCH OvSN fer half or ttiree quartern of an hoax, according to the 
thickness of the meat; keep tundBgHiem till they are 'quite hot 
and brown v-^r broil them on the gridiron, firown them, but don^ 
bftm them bladB. For Sauce (301, 2, 3). - 

OX-CHBBK STBWED. 

426. Prepare this the day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into aoft water just warm ; let it lie three or four hours, then 
pat it into cold watec, and let it soak all night ; next day wipe it 
dean, put it idto a stew-pan, and just cover it with water ;. <kim it 
well when it is-coraing iot a boil, then put two whole Onions, atidc 
two or three Clovea into eaeh, three tnniips quartered, a couple of 
Canots sliced, two Bay-leavea, and twenty-four corns of Allspice^ a 
beild of Cdeiy, and a bundle of Sweet Herbs, pepper, and salt ; to 
these, tfaoee whoase for a *^hatitgoui** may add Cayenne and QaxUe, 
in such proportions as the palate that requires them may desire. 

laet it Btew geatly till perfectly tender, »*. e. about three hours ; 
then take oat the Cheek, divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help 
at taUe ; ekim, and strain the gnavy ; melt an ounce and a half of 
batter in a tiew-pan ; stir into it as much £our as it will take'up ; 
mix with it by degrees a pint and a half of the gravy ; add to it a 
table-spoonful of Basil, Tantegon, or Elder vinegar, or the lik« 
quantity of Mushroom or Walnut Catchup, or Cavice, or Port wine, 
and give it a boil. 

Serve up in a soup or lagoAt-dish ; or make it into Barley Broth, 
(193). 

06*^— This ii a very eeonemical, nourishing, and savoury meal. 
See Ox-CKan Soup, (216), and Calfs Head Hcuked, (438). 

OX-TAIIi8 STBWED. 

427. Divide them into joints; wash them; parboil them; set 
them on to stew in just water enough to cover themy— and dress 



i((H THB cook's OBACLl. 

them in the Mme maimer m we have dhected In (453), Bbtwed. 
Giblets, for which they are an excellent subetiftate. 
N.B, See Ox-TaU Soup, (217). 

POTTED HAM, OR TONOUB. 

428. Cut a pound of the lean of cold boiled Ham or Tongue, and 
pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of the fiit, or witii 
fteAi butter (in the proportion of about two ounces to a }»ound), till 
it is a fine paste (some season it by degrees with a little pounded 
mace or allspice) ; put it dose down in pots for that purpose, and 
oorer it with Clarified Butter, (231), a quarter of an inch thick ; let 
it stand one night in a cool place. Send it up in the pot, or cut out 
in thin slices. See Obs. on (419). 

HABHBD VEAL. 

429. Prepare it as directed in (399) ; and to make sauce to waim 
Veal, see (306). 

HASHED OR MINCED VEAL. 

430. To make a Hash* cut the Meat into dices ; — ^to prepare 
MiNCBD Veal, mince it as fine as possible (do not chop it) ; put it 
into a stew-pan with a few spoonsful of Veal or Mutton Broth, or 
make some with the Bones and Trimmings, as ordered for Veal 
Cutlets (see 90, or 306), a little Lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful 
of milk or cream ; thicken with butter and flour, and season it witii 
salt, a table-spoonful of Lemon pickle, or BasQ wine, (336), &c or 
a pinch of Curry powder. 

*** I/yott have no Cream, heat up ^ yalke ofaeowpU cfE^ft irafi 
a UHU mUk : iine ^ dith wi^ sippets ofUghUg Unuted hread. 

Oba, — Minced Veal makes a very pretty dish, put into scollop 
shells, and bread-crumbed over, and 8i»inkled with a little butter, 
and browned in a Dutch Oven, or a cheese-toaster. 

TO MAKE AN EXCEUUENT BAGOX7T OF COLD VEAL. 

431. Either a Neck,— Loin,-^r Fillet of Veal, will ftimiah this 
excellent RagoUt with a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the Veal into handsome cutlets ; put a piece of butter or 
clean dripping into a firying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour and fry 
the veal <^a light brown : take it out, and if you have no gmvy 
ready, make some as directed in the note to (433) ; or put a pint 
of boiling water into the fr3ring-pan, give it a boU up for a minute, 
and strab it into a basin while you make some thickening in the 
* See Receipt to Hash Mutton, (305 and 306^ and 9W). 



HADE mtmEs, Sc(T. 305 

foilomg manner t^— Put abonib ao oimce of buUer into a stew-pan ; 
as soon aa it melts, mix iriih it as much flour as vill dry it up ; stir 
it over the fire for a few minutec^ and graduallj add to it the gravy 
you made in the frying-pan ; let them simmer together for ten mi- 
nutes (till thoroughly incorporated) ; season it with pepper, salt, a 
little mace, and a wine-glassful of mushroom catchup or wine ; strain 
it through a tamis to the meat, and itmo very genUy till the meat is 
^MITQUg^y warmed. If you have any ready-boiled Bac(m, cut it in 
j|lic9i, and put it in to warm with the Meat, or (443 or 444). 
Veal CuUets, see (90), ^a 

BRSAiST OF VEAIi STEWED. 

43^ A breast of Veal stewed till quite tender, and smothered 
with Onion sauce, is an excellent dish ; or in the gmvy ordered in 
tlie l^ote to (433). 

BREAST OF VEAL RAGOUT. 

433. Take o£f the under bone, and cut the breast in half, length- 
wfl>ys ; divide it into pieces, about four inches long, by two inches 
wide, t. e. in handsome pieces, not too large to help at once : — ^put 
about two ounces of Butter into a frying-pan, and fry the Veal till 
it is a light brown,* then put it into a stew-pan with veal broth,-^ 
or as much boiling water as will cover it, a bundle of sweet marjo- 
ram, conmion or lemon-thyme, and parsley, with four cloves, or a 
couple of blades of pounded mace, three young onions, or one old 
one, a roll of lemon-peel, a dozen corns of allspice bruised, and a 
tea-spoonful of salt : cover it close, and let it aU simmer verygenUy 
till the veal is tender, i. e. for about an hour and a hal^ — if it is very 
thick, two hours ; then strain off as much (about a quart) of the 
gravy, as you think you will want, into a basin ; set the stew-pan, 
with the meat, &c. in it, by the fire to keep hot. To tUchm the Gravy 
you have taken out, put an punce and a half of butter into a clean 
stew-pan ; when it is melted, stir, in as much flour as it wiU take ; 
add the gravy by degrees ; season it with salt ; let it boil ten mi- 
nutes ; skim it well, and season it with two table-spoonsful of white 
wine, one of mushroom catchup, and same of lemon-juice ; give it 

* Some Cooks make the Gravy, &c. in the following manner : — Slice a large 
Onion ; in it brown ; drain all faX from it, and pat it into a stew-pan with a 
bnnch of Sweet Herbs, a couple of dozen berries of Allspice, same of Black Pep- 

Kr, three blades of Mace, and a pint and a half of water ; cover down, close, and 
il gently for half an hour ; then strain it through a siere over the Veal, and 
let it simmer gently for about three hours : aboutlialf an hour before it is done, 
mix two table-spoonsftil of flour in a tea-cupful of cold water ; mix some of th« 
icravT with it, and then put it into the stew-pan. 

N.B. Three pints of full-grown green pease an sometimes added when the 
Ves^ is put-in. 

U 



1 



SOB TSU OOOR*S (HUOLB. 

a boil up and it if tMyt now put tho taal iatoniagoAt didi|«Bd 
ttnin the gjnvf through • fine defe to it. 

OR, 

434. Jy keepikjf ih$ Meat tokole^ j<m will better pt eie WF O the MM^ 
enlenoe of ft* 

Put the Veal into a itew-pan, with two ounces of batter and two 
Irhole onions (such as weigh about two ounces each) ; put it on the 
file, and tty it about five minutes ; then cover it with boiling water s 
wben it boils, skim it ; then put in two smalt bhides of mace, a 
dozen blades of allspice, the same of black pepper ; cover it doeett 
and let it simmer gentiy for an hour and a half; then stnin ea 
much of the grnvy as you think you will want into a basin ; put tibe 
stew-pan by the fiie to keep hot. To tkiebeti it, put an ounce aac^ m 
half of butter into a dean stew-pan ; when it is melted, slir in ae 
much flour as it will take ; add the gravy by degrees ; season it with 
salt, and when it boils it is ready. Put the Veal on a dish, and 
strain the gravy through a fihe sieve over it. 

Ofe^— Forcemeat Bans, see (318), &e. ; Truffles, MorellS^ 
rooms^ and Cbny powder, &c are sometimes added ; and* 
of Bacon or Ham, (443 and 444), or Fried POrk SiMisagesL 

N.B. These are nice dishes m the Pea season. 

SCOTCH OOLLOPS. 

435. The Yeal must be cut the same as for Cutlets, in pieeea 
about as big as a crown-piece ; flour them well, and fiy them ef a 
light brown in fresh butter ; lay them in a stew-pan ; dredge then 
over with flour, and then put in as much boiling water as will irdi 
cover the veal ; pour this in by degrees, shaking the stew-pan, and 
set it on the fire; when it comes toaboil; take off the scum, put in 
one onion, a blade of mace, and let it simmer very gently ibr three 
quarters of an hour; lay them on a dish, and pour the gravy 
tiirough a seve over them. 

N.B. Lemon- Juice and Peel, — Wine, — ^Catehup, ftc, are some' 
times added; add Cukht P^vitdbr^ (383), and you have Cuaav 

COLLOPS. 

VBiLli OLIVES. 

436. Cut halfadosen^slicesoffaFilletofVeal^halfan inch tiikk» 
and as long and square as you can ; flat them with a chopper, and 
rub them over with an ^gg that has been beat on a plhte ; cut aone 
flit bacon as thin as posrible, the same sise as the veal ; lay it on 
the veal, and rub it with a little of the egg ; make a little veal fion^ 
meat„ see receipt (318), and spread it very thin over the 



MAME DIftttl»| &C* 307 

i6ll Mif tiie <divet tif^ty rab them viih the ^gg» dad then loU them, 
in fine bread crumbs ; put then en a ItAnipii, and roast them at a 
Iniskfiie: theyirill take three quarters of an hour. 

B.uifp-STB4K8 are sometunes dressed this way. 

Hushroom Sauce, brown (270, or 271), or Beef Gravy (287). 
Tide Crhapter on Sauces, &a 

GOLD CALF'S HBAD HA8HBD. 

437. See a&>^ to boUed CalTs head, (11). 

CALF'S HBAD HASHBD, OB BAOOUT. 

488. (See also 223). Wash a CalTs head, which, to make this 
diih in the best style, should have the SSum on, and boil it, see (1 1) ; 
boil one half aU but enough, so that it may be soon quite done 
isfaen put into the hash to warm, — the other quite tender ; from this 
half take out the bones: seoieitsupexficially; beat up an egg; put 
ii over the head with a paste-brash, and stiew over it a little gmted 
Bread and Lemon^Peel, and Thyme and Paisley, chopped very 
fine, or in powder, then Bread-crumbs, and put it in the Dutch oven 
to brown. 

Cut the other half-head into handsome dices, and put it into a 
slew-pan with a quart of Gvavy (287), or Turtle Sauce (298,) with 
Forcemeat balls (818, 822), Egg-baUs, a win^-glassfiil of White 
Wine, and some Catchup, &c..; put in the meat v let it warm to- 
gsther, and skim off the &t 

Peel the Tongue^ and send it up with the Brains round it as a 
ode dish, as directed in (ll) ; or beat them up in a basin with a 
spoonful of flour, two «ggs, some grated lemon-peel, thjrme, parsley, 
and a few leaves of very finely^minced sage ; rub them well together 
In a mortar, with pepper, sidt, and a scrape of nutmeg; hy them 
(in little cakes) a very light brown ; dish up the hash with the hal^ 
head you browned in the middle ; and garnish with crisp, or curled 
rashers of Bacon, Med Bread Sippets (279, 448, and 444), and the 
Brain Cakes* 

N.B. It isby fiur the best way to make a Side Dish of the Tongux 
and BnAiiia: if you do, send up a piece of Bacon as a companion 
for it, or garnish the Tongue and Brains with the rashers of Bacon 
and the Forcemeat balls, both of which are much better kept dry 
than when immersed in the gravy of the Bagoiit. 

Obt^~ln Older to nuike what Common Cooks, who merely cook 
for the eye, call a J m » to t y a handtome Didi/td, they put in not 
enly the eatable parts> but all the knots of gpstle, and lumps of fat, 
ofild^ &.C ; and when the Omnd Chmrmand findes he is helped a^ 



308 THB cook's oracle. 

plentifully as he could wish, he oflen finds one solitaiy mond of 
meat among a laige lot of lumps of ig^ristle, flit, &c. 

We have seen a yery elegant cKsh of f&e Soalp only sent to table 
rolled up — it looks like a sucking Pig. 

VEAIi CUTLBTS BROILEQ PIvAIN, OK VVh^ 

DRESSED. 

439. Divide the best end of a neck of Veal into cutlets, one rib 
to eachy->broil them plain, or make some fine bread-crambs^i. 
mince a little parsley, and a very little eschalot, as small as.pQ69ible ; 
put it into a clean stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, and fry it 
for a minute, — then put on a plate the yolks of a oottple of Bggs ; 
mix the herbs, &c. with it, and season it with pepper and salts dip 
the Cutlets into this mixture, and then into the Bread ;--lay them 
on a Gridiron over a clear slow fire till they are nicely browned <m 
both sides, — ^they will take about an hour : send up with thmn a few 
slices of Ham or Bacon fHed, or done in the Dutch oven. See (443 
and 444), and half a pmt of (293, or 303). 

KNUCKLE OF VEAIi TO RAGOUl;. 

440. Cut a knuckle of Veal into slices about half an inch thiok ; 
pepper, salt, and flour them ; fry them a light brown ; put the 
trimmings into a stew-pan, with the bone broke in several places ; 
an onion sliced, a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and tw« 
blades of bruised Mace : pour in warm water enough to cover than 
about an inch ; cover the pot close, and let it stew very gently for 
a couple of hours ; strain it, and then thicken it with flour and 
butter ; put in a spoonful of Catchup, a glass of wine, and juice ol 
half a lemon ; give it a boil up, and strain into a clean stew-pan ; 
put in the meat, make it hot, and serve up. 

Obs. — If Celery is not to be had, use a Carrot instead, or flavour 
it with Celery-Seed, or (858). 

KNUCKIiB OF VEAL STEVTED "WITH RICB. 

441. As boiled knuckle of Veal cold is not a very fiivouiite relish 
with the generality, cut off some Steaks from it, whieh you bhij 
dress as in the foregoing receipt or (489), and leave the Knuckle 
no larger than will be eaten tlie day it is dressed. Break the shank* 
bone, wash it clean, and put it in a large stew-pan with two quarts of 
water, an Onion, two blades of Mace, and a tea-spoonful ef Salt : 
set it on a quick fire ; when it boils take off all the scum. 

Wash and pick a quarter of a pound of Riee ; put it into the \ 



1 



UAI^S DISHSS^ &C. 309 

pMi iHiih ^tib llfoat, and lot ft stttw veiy ^entij fee mfaout tiro boon i 
put the Meat, An. in ft deep di^^ tnd ^ Rioe rouMi iL 

Send up Bacon with it, Parsneps or Qreeaiy and fioAly minoad 
Parsley and Butter, (234). 

KR. GAY'S EBCBIPT TO 8TBW A KNUQKIiE 

Take a knuckle of Veal ; 
Von may buy it or steal : 
In a few yieoem cut it, 
In a stewing-pan pat it ; 
salL pepper, and mace. 

Must season thislmttckle; 
Then, what's joined to a pjwse'* 

wnk other herbs niUckle : 
That which killed King Wil],t 
And what never stands Mill \i 
^m spiin of that bed I 
Where children ace bred. 
Which nnch you will mend^ if 
Both spinach and endive, 
^4^d lettuee and be^ 
With marigold meet. 
Put no water at all. 
For it maketh thinn small. 
Which lest it should happen, 
A close cover clap on : / 

Put this ]pot of Wood's mctAl % 
In a boiluu-hot kettle ; 
And there let it be, 

( Mark the dootrini I toMh), 
About, let me see, 

Utrice as long as ybuprMiekf 
80 skimming the fat o£^ . 
Say grace with your hat Off, 
1 then with what raptur* 
WiU it m Dean and Chapter ! 

8Z>ICB8 OF HAM OB BACON. 

(44^). Ham or Bacon, may he fried, or broiled on a griditdn 
«Yer a clear fire, or TftASrtD 'witfa a fatk. ;•— take care to slice it of 
the tame thickness ia evezy part 

If you wish it curlbd, cut it in slices about t^o inches long (if 
longer, the outside will be done too much beibre the the inside is 
done enough) ; roll it up, and put a little Wooden skewer through 
it : put it in a Cheepo-toaster, or Dutch 6ven for eight or ten mix^ 
utes, turning it as it gets crisp. 

^phis is considered the handsomest way of dressing Bacon : but 
we like it best uncuded, because it is cnsper, and more equally done. 

Ob9r-Siioes of Ham or Bacon should not be more than half a 

• Vnlg©, tcitay. 

t Supposed sorrd. 

t This is by Dr. BaNTLXY thought to be time, or thyttte. 

I Parslep. VideCHAMBBRLAvitE. 

I^Of this compodtion, see the works of the copper-£artUng dean. 

^ Which we suppose to he nmx £nit houn. 



010 THB cook's orach. 

quarter ci an ipeh tiuck^ and will eat mnch mora nMlIair if te]c«4 
in hot water for a quarter of an hoar, and thei^ dried in a deth be- 
fore they are broiled^ &a 

BBX.I8BIMO BASBBKS OF BAOOM. 

444. If 70U have any OotdBaeonf you may makeareiy nieedib 
of it by cutting it into dices about a quarter of an indi thick ; gralQ 
some crust of bread, as directed for Ham (see I5),andpowd«rfhen 
well with it on both sdes; lay the rashers in a Gheeee-toaster^— . 
they win be browned on one side in about three minates ;--tBni 
them and do the other. 

Ob8^^.TbeBe are a delicious accompaniment to poached or ftied 
Eggs : — ^the Bacon having been boiled* first, » tender and mellow. 
^-They are an excefient garnish round Veal Cutlets, or Swset^ 
breads, or CalTs head Hash* or Green Pease, or Beens^ &e. 

RASHBD VBMIBOH. 

445. If you have enough of its own Grary left, it is preferable to 
any to wann it u^ in u--if not, take some of the Mutton Qmrj 
(298), or the bones and tzimmings of the jmnt (after you have cut 
off all the handsome slices you can to make the hash) ; put these 
into some water, and stew them gently for an hour ; then put 
some butter into a stew-pan : when melted, put to it as mudi flour 
as will dry up the butter, and stir it well together; add to it by 
degrees the Gravy you have been making of the trimmings, and 
some Bed Currant Jelly; give it a boil up ; skim it; strain it through 
a sieve, and it is ready to recetTO the Venison ; put it in, and let it 
just get wann:— ^,^ ki U boS it w%U moie Ae Meat hard. 



446, Cut up the Hare into pieces fit to help at table, and diiride 
the joints of the legs and shoulders, and set them by ready. 

Put the trimmings and gravy you have left, with half a pmt of 
water (there should be a pint of liquor), and a table-spoonftd of 
Currant Jelly, into a dean stew-pan, and let it boil gently for % 
quarter of an hour ; then strain it through a sieve into a baiin^aBd 
pour it back into the stew-pan ; now flour the Hare, put it Into the 
gravy, and let it simmer very gently till the Hare is warm (about 
twenty minutes) ; cut the Stuffing into slices, and put it into Iho 
hash to get warm, about five minutes before you serve it $ 
the head, and lay one half on each side the dish. 

For Hare Soup, see (219), Mock Hare (67). 

*ToboaBao(M»see(14>. 






IIADB BISHBS, &C. 311 

JVOOBDHARB. 

447. Wadi it very nicely ; cut it up into pieces pieper to lielp 
at table, and put them into a Jug^mg^Pot (these are made by Llotd, 
178, Strand), or into a Stone Jar,* just suffidsotly large to hold it 
well ; put in some Sweet Heiba, « rril or two of rind nf a Lemon, 
or a Seville Orimge, and a fine large Onion with ^ye cloves stuck 
In it, — and if you wish to preserve the flavour of the Hare, a quaiv 
|erofapintofwater;if youareforaii(a^oiS^,aqnaiteref a pint of 
daiet, or Port wine, and the juice of a Seville Orange, or Lemon: 
tie the jar down closely with a bladder, so that no steun can escape ; 
put a little hay in the bottom of the sauce-pan, in which place the 
jar, and pour in water till it reaches within four inches of the tc^ 
of the jar ; let the water boil for about three hours, acooiding to the 
Sige and sise of the haxe (take care it is not oosrvcfow, which is the 
general Soiult in ail made dishes, especially this), keeping it boiling 
all the time, and fill up the pot as it boils away« When quite ten* 
der, strain off the gravy dear from fiit *, thicken it with flour, and 
give it a boil -up : lay the Hare in a soup-dish, and pour theg;rav7 
toit " 

Obt, — You may make a Pudding the same u for Boast Hare (see 

321), and boil it in a doth ; and when you dish up your Haijs, cut 

it in slices, or make Forcemeat Balls of it for garnish. 

For Bauce (297). 

OB, 

448. A much easier, quicker, and more certain way of proceeding 
ialhe following-:—. 

• Prepare the Hare the same as for jugging ; put itinto a4rtew"pan 
vith a few fisveet Herbs, half-ardoaen Cloves, the same of Allspice 
•nd ^aek pepper, two laige Onions, and « roU of Lemon-ped : 
409ver it with water ; when it boils, skim it dean, and let it simmsr 
fB tttl y till tender (about two hours), then take it up with asl&cc^ 
vet it by the fire to keep hot while you thicken the gravy *, take 
Huee ounces of butter, and some flour, rub together ; put in the 
igimvy ; stir it well, and let it boil about ten minutes ; stain it through 
» slew over the Hare, and it is ready. . 

* Meat dreiied bv the l^eat of botting water, irtthoiit being immediately ex- 
lode of eookeiytbat 4m( 



poaed to it. Is a mode of eookeiy tbat AMenres io be iMce gOBMaUy employed : 
h becomes deiicately tender, without being orer-done, and the whole of the 



BOttrishment and gravy i« preferred. This, m chemieal technieale, la called fiol- 
M€iMi Mariit a WAraarBATR ; in oslinary, BAnr-lLuua : wbidi A. Chapullb, 
in his '* Modem Cook," 8to. page 85, London, 1744» tranabttes, " Mary's Bath * 



Note to (400). 

Maky Smith, in her " CompteU Mnuehe^rttT I7?9; Sro. pages 106 and 947. 
tnuislates " Sauee Robert," Bob-Boat Saucs,— an ** OmtUtuT a Hamlst,— «iid 
fites yon a fsosftft ho<w to nato ^< ANfw 4 is Bani r 



ffi2 THE COOK^S ORACUk 

DBE88ED DUCKS, QR «BB8B HASHBD. 

4>4}9. Cut an Ofiion mto small dice ; put it into a stew-pan with a 
bit ^ dutter ; fry it^ Init do not let it get any colour ; put as much 
toiling ynlAjer iAto the stew-pan as Will make sauce for the hash v 
thf<eke& it iKHith a little flour ; eat up the duek, and put it into the. 
sauce to wann \ do not let it boil ; season it with pepper and salt^ 
and catichup. 

I7.B. The La69 of 6s<^ &c broiled, and laid oa a bed of 
Apple Sattoe, an sent up ftr Luncheon or Supper. 

OR, 

450. DiTide the Duck into joigfts; lay it by ready ; put the trim- 
iningB and stnffi&fi^ into a stew-pan, with a pint and a half of broth 
or wiBkter ; let it boil half an hour, and then rub it through a sieve ^ 
.^put half an ounce of butter into a stew-pan ; as it melts mix a 
table-spoonful of flour with it ; stir it ova: the fire a few minutes, 
then Mix it with the giaVy by degrees ; as soon as it boils^ take off 
tiie sctntf, and ttnnn through a SLeve into a stew-pan ; put in the 
Duck, andi let it stew very gently for ten or fifteen minutes, if the 
Duck ift'ialthesr under roasted : if thieire is any fitt^ skim it off: line 
the diA yott Mrre it up in with sippett cf bread, either &ied or 
toasted. 

RAOOVTB OF POT7IiTBY, GAME, PlGJBOlVd, 

RABBITS, &c. 

451. Half roast it, then stew it whole, or divide it into joints ftii4 
pieces proper to iieip at tabfe, and put it into a stew-pan, wiHi a 
pint and a half of Bretli,^.A«fr M much wAtery^^uwith any tzimimnflp 
or paring$ of ffleat you have, ahe large Onvml wx<^ cloves sttck ia 
it, twelve buries of Allspice, tiie same of Black Pepper, and a toU 
of Xiemon-peel ; wlieh it boils, sklM it very dean ; let it simmef' wfy 
pently for about an hoiu and a quarteif, if a Duck or FoiM^^^leoger 
if a larger Bird ; then strain off the liquor, and leave the Dudn hf 
the fire to keep hot ; skim the flit off v— put into a dean stew^paa 
two ounces of Butter *, when it is hot stir in as mach flour as wiU 
make it of a stiff pa^ : add the liquor by degrees ; let it boil up ; 
put in a glass of Port wine, and a Uttle Lemon-juice, and simmer 
it ten minutes *, put th e^tt cks, &c« into the diift, and tUnkk the 
sauce tin'ongb a fine fdef^v^.them. 

Gamisik with sippets of toasted or firied Bread (319). 
Ofts.'-If the Poultry is only half foasted, and stewed otly till just 
nicely tender, this wiU be an acceptable Bmme jBendU to those wlu) 



unjm sssB^s,. &CU 318 

aK ItoA of Hade ^abm, Tk« fliMrotar may b« mirwd bj adtdiag 

Catchup, ^Curry Powder, — or any of the flavoured Vinegarik 

TUb it fen emiiy j ircp a ie d side diah,. es^eciaUj i^es you have a 
large Dinner to dreas ; and eoming to table ready carved saves a deed ^ 
tisne and troul>le ; it is therefore an excellent loay of serving Poultry^ 
^,foT a Large Party, 

on, 

452. Boaftt or boil the Powltry ia tlMiuiud way ; ^^ben eut it up« 
mid poitt owB it a sufficiAnt quatntky of (270^ or 287, Of 307, or 308). 

STBWB9 GIBIiBTB. 

463. CkftltwO9et0ofGadfti(BMlteeeiptil[»Giblel8aip3!21); 
ptt HhaOk. iftto a saoe^-pan, just oo?er them witii eoU water, and iet ' 
ttaem «« the fixe ( when thay bdl, take off the tmasxr and put in an 
t)iue«i, tawee Caovw, car twi> h hwtes of Maro, a ftw hesiies of Black 
Pepper, the same of A&spieer and half a t6»*apeanfiil of nit ; cowr: 
the stew-pan very close, and let it simmer very gently till the Gib- 
lets are quite tender ^->this u-itt take from one hour aud a haifto two 
and a half according to the age of the Giblets, — ^the pinions will be 
ilone first, and must then be taken out, and pit in itgahi to warm 
nfiea the Giaaunb Are done : watch them that th^ do not get tod^ 
much done : — ^take them out, and thicken the sauce wil^ Flour and' 
Butter ; let it boil half an hour, or till there is just enough to eat 
with the Oibleta, and then strain it through a tamis ^o a ciemt 
ittew-panv — cut the Giblets into mouthftih; put them into the 
Sauce, wfth the juice «f half a Lemon, a table^spooiiftrl of Muah« 
i^oom Catchup ; — ^potir the whole into a seup-didi, with nppets of 
Bread -at ihe bottom. 

Obs, — Ox-Tails prepared in the same way are excellent eating. 

BASHBS FOVIiTRY, OAMB, OR BAB0IVW 

' 454. Cut them into Johits, put the trimmingfs fnt& a fttew-paii 
«»fth a quart of tite Bndt they were boUed in, and a lai^ Onioii 
cut in four ; let it boil half an hour ; stmin it through a siete : thiM 
^t two table^spoonsiy of Flour in a basin, and mix it well by de- 
crees with the hot broth ; set it on the fire to boil up, then stmin fb 
'fiirough a fine si^ve ; wash out the st«w-pan, lay the Poultry iti Hi, 
and poor the gmvy oh it (through a lieve) ; set it by the «de of Uhlb 
fire to simmer veiy gently (it muflt n«rt boil) fat fifteen minutee ; 
'^e minutes befinre you serve it up, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
put it in to -warm, then tAke H out, and lay it round the edge of th^ 
^sh, and put the Poultry in the middle ; carefblly skim the fiit off 



314 THI cook's <AACLX. 

the gmrjt then shake it nmnd well in the etew^paa, and pour it to 
the Haah. 

N.Bh-,.You may gamidi the duh with Bread Sippete Ug^fly 
toasted. 

PUIiIiBD TURKBY, FOWIi, OK OHZOKBN. 

455. Skin a cold Chicken, Fowl, or Turkej ; take off the fiUeta 
from the hreasfcs, and put them into a stew-pan with the rest of the 
iriiite meat and wings, side-hones, and menry-thougbt, with a pint of 
broth, a laige blade of mace pounded, an eschalot minced fine, the 
Juice of half a lemon, and a roll of tibe peel, some salt, and a few 
grains of Cayenne *, thicken it with flour and butter, and let it sin^ 
mer for two or three minutes, till the meat is wann. In the mean- 
time soore the legs and rump, powder them with pepper and satti 
bnnl them nicely brown,and lay them on or round yonrpwIled-ciiickeB. 

Obi. — Three table-spoontfiil of good cream, er tiie yelks U m 
many Eggs, will be a great hnpsoTement to it. 

TO DRB88 DRES8BD TUKXBY, OOOSS^ FOW&, 
DUOX, PIGBOM, OR XABBtT. 

456. Cut them in quarters, beat up an Egg or two (according to 
the quantity you dress) with a little grated Nutmeg, and Pepper 
and Salt, some Paisley miuoed fine. And a few crumbs of Bread i 
mix these well together, and cover the Fowl, Ac. with this batter ; 
broil them, or put them in a Dutch OTen, or have ready some drip- 
ping hot in a pan, in which fry them a light brown colour *, thicken 
a little gravy with some ftour, put a laige spoonful of Catchup ta 
it, lay the firy in a didi, and peiur the sauce round it. You may 
garnish with dices of Lemon and toasted Bread. See (801). 

BBVZZk 

457. Hie Oizzard and Rump, or Legs, &^ of a fce e se d TuiiEey» 
Ci^Km, or Goose, or Mutton or Veal Kidney, sooved^— Peppesadr^ 
>8alted> and Broiled, sent up for a relishy bring made iwiy liei» 
^obtained the name of a *^ Devil.** 

06f .— This is sometimes surrounded with (808), w a saoee of 

thick melted butter or gravy, flavoured with Catdhup (871), Ea* 

•ence of Anchovy (872), Eschalot wme (848), Cuiry Stuff (88a» 

Ac) See Turtle Sauce (293), or Grill Sauce (801), which, as the 

Palates of the present day are adjusted, will pohi^ please Cfrcmda 

Cfommamdt as weUas *" viritttble Samee d*Mm/tr.^^Yi^ SokoU fir 

Iks Qfican o/Oe MotO^ p. 868, 18ma London, 1682. 

** Evtrrmaamuk have Azpaiimoadtluit— wImh ht has BotdttpiBtaUstlrirA 
bottW-Us palate aoquim a degxee of Unpidlty, and Idi iloiaadi It sttod vllk 



KADB DISRn, Ste. 



«Mt I Mli b tkU Mb ««H to rioli tki b«H^ ;«■ But nuHull; Uk* MM 
nitln ^U iriU i«T •■«» I ■■<, H tWi tbnbj kH»l iBpncoMBl wia 
uflATDur, tfjH ■fUrmrii fluoa to lt< tkcm tnd TOfu Uuwu— jom wQI 
MdUUj iek ikm ta ibt bauL It ysa dD Ht xnllin iba •Btin.'^iM p«* 
IH Ac- of till •MoMbdiv "liuin OH OooB Lnnra.' 

MAKBOW'BOWBI. 

4S& Sair tlie Brmea eieo, ai that thef will iland itmdj ; put B 
piece of paMe into the eodi : Mt thorn upright in s Sauce-pan, and 
boil till thef ue done enou^ ■ — a Beef Hairaw-Bone vill reqoin 
from an houi and a half to two hoon ; wne fteih-toaited fli— d 
with them. 

■ ooTOH vroonoooK. 

tse.' Three oi four slices of Bread, Toait and Bnttei veil on 
both aides— nine or ten Anehoriee vaahed, Kraped, and chopped 
fin^^ut them betv«en the ilicee of ToaM, — hate teadj' the jolka 
ol faia EggB im2 beotai, and half a pint of Cteam — which wt oier 
Ule File to tfaiden, but not boil — then pour it orer the Toaat, wA 
mini it to Table u hot aa potuble. 



316 m^ cook's obagle. 

OBSfiRVATIONS ON PICKLES. 

4'&d. W^fe sfe not fond of P]CKt«8«-.fhese sponges afVinegia are 
oflbea Tery Indigestible, especially in the crisp state in which they 
are Xhost admired. The Indian Fashion q/ pounding fickle^ is am 
txeelUni one— We lecommend those who have any regard fbr tJiellr 
Stomaeh, yet stiU wish to indulge their Tongueyx-^nstead of eatiiiig 
Pickles, which are reaUy merely vehicles for taking a certain po»- 
tion of Vinegar and Spice, &c. to use i^e Flavoured Vineffttn, such 
as Burnet {SZ9\ Hor^radisk (340), Tarragon (335), Mint, Cnm 
(337, 342, 344, 347, 382, 384), &c. ; by combmations of these, a 
relish may easily be composed, exactly in harmony with the palate 
of the eater. 

77^ PicMe made to preserve Cucumbers^ ^, is generally so strongly 
impregnated with Garlic, Mustard, and Spice, &e. that the original 
flavour of the Y^etables is quite overpowered ; and if the eat^ 
shuts bis eyes, his Lingual nerves will be puziled to inibnn hlili 
whether he is munching an Onion oar a Cucumber, &c and nothing 
can be more absurd, than to piclde Phims, Peaches, Apricots, Coii^ 
nets, Grapes, &C. 

't%e Stronger Vinegar must he used for PuMit^ :^t must not be 
iMiled (or the strength of the Vinegar and Spices will be evapora- - 
ted). By parboiling the Pickles in brine, they will be ready in 
much less time than they are when doue in the usual manner, of 
ioaking them in eoikd salt and water for six or eight days. When 
ta^ito out of the hot brine, let them get cold and quite dry befbre 
yoti put them into the Pickle. 

To assist the preservation of Pickles, a portion of Salt is added, 
and for the same purpose, and to give flavour, — ^Long Peppers- 
Black Pepper^— Allspice^— Ginger, — Cloves, — Mace, — G^lic,,^ 
BSschalots, — Mustard, — Horseradish, — and Capsicum. 

The following is the best method of preparing the Pickle, as cheap 
as any, and requires less care than any other way. 

Bruise in a mortar four ounces of the above Spices ; — ^put them 
into a stone jar with a quart of the strongest Vinegar, stop the jar 
tdosely with a bung, — cover that with a bladder soaked with Pickle, 
set it on a trivet by the side of the fire for three days, well shaking 
it up at least three times in the day ; the pickle should be at least 
three inches above the Pickles. The Jar being toeU dotedy and Hnt 
infittion being made with a miid heat^ there is no loss bg evaporation. 

To enable the articles pickled more easily and speedily to imbibe 
the flavour of the Pickle they are immersed in, previously to pour- 
ing it on them — ^run a larding-pm through them in several places. 



PICKLES. 317 

fU Spic^ (to. oommonly uied, are those mentioaed in the Rt- 
etipt/orpidding WaktUs^ which is ako an eizpellent SaYOiuy Sauce 
for cold meats. 

The flaTour may be Taiied ad ia^mhim by adding Celeiy, Cress- 
Seed, or Cuny Powder (383), or by taking for the Liquor any of 
the flayooxed Vinegars, &c. we have enumerated above ; and see 
the receipts between (334 and 3&5). 

PitkUi tikodd he kept in a dry place, in unglaaed Earthenware, or 
€flau Jar9<i which are preferable, as you can, without opening them, 
observe whether they want filling up : they must be very carefully 
stopped with well-fitting bungs, and tied over as closely as possible 
with a bladder wetted with the Pickle ; and if to be preserved a long 
time, after that is dry, it must be dipped in BotUe-Gement, see end 
of 8th chapter. Rudiments of Cookery, in this work. 

When 4he Pickles are all used, boil up the liquor with a little 
finsh spice. 

To Walfuft Liquor may be added a few Anchovies and Eschalots : 
left it stand tiU it is quite clear, and bottle it : thus you may furnish 
your table with an excellent savoury keepmg sauce for Hashes,. 
Made Dishes, Fish, &c. at very small cost, see (375). 

Jars should not be more than three parts filled with the articles 
pickled, which should be covered with Pickle at least two inches 
above their sur&ce ; the liquor wastes, and all of the articles pick- 
led, that are not covered, are soon spoiled. 

When they have been done about a week, open the Jars, and fill 
them up with Pickle. 

Tie a wooden spoon, full of holes, round each jar to take them 
oat with. ' 

If you wish to have Ghtrhns^ &c. very Green^ this may be easQy 
aeeomplished by keeping them in Vinegar, sufficiently hot, till they 
become so. 

If you wish Ccadiflowerti Onions, &c. to be White, use distilled 
Vinegar for them. 

To entirely prevent the mischief arising from the action of the 
Acid upon the metallic utensils usually employed to prepare Pickles, 
the whole of the process is directed to be perfonned in unglazed 
Stone Jars. 

N.B. The maxim of ^ Open your Mouthy and shut your Eyes^'' can- 
not be better applied than to Pickles ; and the only direction we 
have to record for the improvement of their complexion, is the joke 
of Dr. Goldsmith, — ^ If their colour does not please you, send 'em 
to Hammeramiih^ — that's the way to Turriham Green^ 

Commencing the list with Walnuts, I must take this opportu- 



318 THB cook's ORACLE. 

lutj of imprenBg tlie neoeatty of bd]« itiicily par^^ 
ing the due waflon ; Ibr of all Che vaiietj of aitides in t^ depart- 
Ment to funiish the well-regulated store-room, nothing it ao ^pne^^ 
liouSjr-^ fiequentlj after the fiiat week that WahnHa caoie && 
season, they hecome hard and shelled, {larticnljulj' if die season Itf^ 
a Teiy hot one : therefore let the prudent honsdceeper consider ifc 
indispensably necessary they should be purchased as soon as ^btf^ 
first appear at market v— should they cost a tnfle mere, ftst b mv 
thing compared to the disappointment of finding, six months heaee^ 
whe n, ipu go to yonr pickle-jai^ expecdng a fine relish for your 
Chopfltc. to find the nuts incased in a shell, which defies bote 
teeth and steel : I therefore recommend you to look finr Walnvta 
fiom ike twdfth ofJtdjf ; that being, I may say, the earliest possiUe>- 
time. 

Nasturtiums are to be* had by the middle oS July* 

GAauc, from Midsummer to Michaelmas. 

BscHALOTS, ditto. 

Onions, the various kinds for piddlng, are tabe had by the mid^ 
die of July, and for a month after. 

GflUUUNS are to be had by tiie middle ef July, and for a montk 
after. 

CucuMiuma are to be had by the middle of July, and* foB a month 
after.. 

MxLONS and Mangobs are to be had by the middle of Julf, iindi 
for a month after. 

Capsicums, green, red, and yellow, the end of Jufy, and foUowiqg- 
month. 

Chilibs, the end of July, and following month. See (345 vtA 
347, and 348). 

LoYX Apples, or Tomatas, end ef July^and tiiroughout AugnaL. 

Cauliflower, for pickling, July and August 

Artichoiebs, for pickling, July and August 

Jerusalem Artichokes, for pickling, July and August, and to 
three months after. 

Radish Pods, for pickling, July. 

Frbncb Beans, for pickling, July. 

Mushrooms, for pickling and catchup, September. See (375)^ 

iiMD CABBAeH, August 

White Cabbage, September and October. 

SAMpHmn, August 

Horsbrajmsh, Nevemb«» and December. 



1 



l^ICKLSS. did 

WALNUTS. 

4^6, Make « brine of Salt and Water, in the pveportioft of a 
ffumtat of a pound of Salt to a quatt of Water-^^mt the Walnuts 
mto thia to soak for a week—^r if you unth to »o/im them §o that thejf 
mojf fts fOOM ready fir safM^^— run a laiding-Pin through them in 
.iMlf a doien places— this will allow the pickle to i>enetiftte, and 
they wHl he much softer, and of better flavour, and ready much 
aooner than if not perforated : — ^put them into a stew-pan with such 
heme, and give them a gentle simmer — ^put them on a sieve to drain 
««.then ky them on a fish-plate, and let them stand in t|te a|r till 
they turn black— this may take a couple of days— put them into 
Glass, or unglaied Stone Jan— fill these about three parts with the 
Walnuts, and fill them up with the following Pickle. 

To each quart of the strongest Vinegar put two ounces of Black 
Pepper, one of Qiqger, same of Eschalots, same of Salt, half an 
oonoe of Allspipe, and half a drachm of Oayenne. Put these into 
a stone jar ; cover it with a bladder, wetted with the pickle— .tie 
over that seme leather, and set the Jar on a trivet by the side of 
the file for three days, shaking it up three times a day, and then 
pour it while hot to the Walnuts, and cover them down with 
Bladder wet(;ed with the Pickle, leather, &c. 

^'OHBRXINS. 

461. Get those of about four inches long, and an inch in diame- 
ter ; the crude half-grown little Gherkins usually pickled are good 
for nothmg. Put them into (unglazed) Stone pans ; cover them 
with a brine of salt and water, made with a quarter cf a pound of 
salt to a quart of water ; cover them down ; set them on the hearth 
before the fire for two or three days till they begin to turn yellow ; 
then pnt away the water, and cover them with hot Vinegar ; set 
them again before the fire ; keep them hot till they become Green 
(thn will take eiqg;ht or ten days) : then pour off the Vinegar,— -ha- 
ving ready to cover them a Pickle of fresh Vinegar, &c. the same as 
directed in the preceding receipt for Walnuts (leaving out the Es- 
chalots) ; cover them with a bung, bladder, and leather. Read the 
Observations on Pickles, (i59). 

068, — ^The Vinegar the Gherkins were greened in will make ex- 
^cellent Salad Savck,— or for Cold Meats.^— It is, an fiust, superia- 
tive Cfuetmiifer Vinnegar, ^ 

FRBVOH BBAN8-NA.8TURTXUMS|dK!. 

462. When young, — and most other smaU-green Vegetables, may 
be i»ckled tiie same way as Gherkinsi 



320 THB cook's OSKkCLlR. 

BS9T HOQTfl. 

463. Boil gently till they are fiill tluee parte don« (ihi« will toke 
from an hour and a half to two and a half) ; th«i take them out» 
and when a little cooled, peel them, and cut th^em in slices About 
half an inch thick. Have ready a pickle for it, made by adding to 
each quart of Vinegar an ounoe of ground Black Pepper, h^ tua 
ounce of Ginger pounded, same of Salt, and of Horseradish out in 
thin slices ; and you may wann it, if you like, with a few Capsicumay 
or a little Cayenne ; — ^put these ingredients into a Jar ; stc^ it oUm^ 
and let tlpm steep three .days on a trivet by the side of the fira^ 
then, when eold,pour the dear liquor on tbo Beeit-^QOti^ wbieb have 
been previously ananged in a jar. 

BED CABBACE. 

464. Get a fine purple Oabbage^^take off the outside leavas^F^ 
quarter it — ^take out the stalk--«hred the leaves into a colawdwm. 
sprinkle them with salt-p^let them remain till the morrow-f^diain 
them dry — ^put them into a Jar, and cover them with the pickle or- 
dered for Beet Roais. 

ONIONS. 

465. The small round silver button Onions, about as big as a 
Nutmeg, make a very nice Pickle. — ^Take off their top coats, — ^have 
ready a stew-pan, three parts filled with boiling water, into which 
put as many onions as will cover the top : as soon as they look clear, 
immediately take them up with a spoon full of holes, and lay than 
on a cloth three times folded, and cover them with another till you 
have raady as many as you wish : when they are quite dry, put them 
into jars, and cover them with hot Pickle, made by infiising an ounce 
of Horseradish, same of Allspice, and same of Black Pepper, and 
same of Salt, in a quart of best White- Wine Vine^iv, in a stone 
jar, on a trivet by the side of the fire for three days, keeping it well 
closed V— when cold, bung them down tight, and cover them with 
bladder wetted with the pickle, and leather. 

CAUIiIFIfOWEBS OR BROCCOLI. 

466. Choose those that are hard, yet sufficiently ripe— out away 
the leaves and stalka 

Set on a stew-pan half full of water, salted in proportion of a 
quarter of a pound of Salt to a quart of water— 4hrow in the oauli^ 
flower — ^let it heat gradually, when it boils take it up with a spoon 
full of holes, and spread them on a cloth to dry before the fiie, for 
twenty-four hours at least — ^when quite dry, put them, pieoe by p&eoe, 
into jars or glass tie-overs— and cover them with the piekle we have 



PICKLBS. 321 

directed for Beet JRoots^ — ^or make a pickle by infusing three ounces 
of the CiUTj Powder (383) for three days in a quart of Vinegar by 
the side of the fire. 

Nasturtiums are excellent prepared as above. 



INDIAN OR MIXED PICKIiS--MANGO OR 

PICOAIiIIiIiI, 

467. The flavouring ingredients of Indian PicKLEsareacompound 
of Curry Powder, with a large proportion of Mustard and Garlic, 

The following will be found something like the real Mango Fickle, 
especially if the Garlic be used plentifully. To each gallon of the 
strongest Vinegar put four ounces of Curry Powder (383), same of 
Fiour of Mustard (some rub these t(^ther, with half a pint of Sa^ 
lad Oil), thsee of Ginger bruised, and two <^ Turmeric, half a pound 
(when skinned) of Eschalots (slightly baked in a Dutch oven), two 
ouuces of Garlic, prepared in like manner, a quarter of a pound of 
Salt, and two drachms of Cayenne Pepper. 

Put these ingredients into a stone jar ; cover it with a bladder 
wetted with the pickle, and set it on a trivet by the side of the fire 
during three days, shaking it up three times a day — ^it will then be 
ready to receive Gherkins— sliced Cucumbers — sliced Onions-^^But- 
ton Onions — Cauliflowers.^ Celery — Broccoli — French Beans.^ 
Nasturtiums — ^Capsicimis, and small green Melons. The latter must 
l)e slit in the middle sufficiently to admit a marrow-spoon, with which 
take out all the seeds — ^then parboil the melons in a brine that will 
bear an egg ; dry them, and fill them with Mustard-Seed, and two 
Cloves of Garlic, and bind the Melon round with packthieiS* 

TiaxgQ Cucumbers may -be prepared in like manner. 

Green peaches make the best imitation of the Indian Mango. 

The other articles are to be separately parboiled (excepting the 
Capsicums) in a brine of Salt and Water strong enough to bear an 
egg — ^taken out and drained — and spread out, and thoroughly dried 
in the sun — on a stove — or before a fire, for a couple of days, and 
then put jiiio the Picfclc. ^ 

Any thing may be put into this Pickle, except Red Cabbage and 
Walnuts. 

It will keep several years. 

06f. — ^To THK Indian Mango Picklb is added a considerable 
quantity of Mustard-Seed Oil, which would also be an excellei^ 
warm ingredient in our JSalad Sauces. 



322 THB cook's osaclb. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

468. Ths Heed of Man is like a Pudding ; and wbenee have all 
Bliymea, Poems, Plots, and Inrentions sprung — ^but firmn that same 
Pudding? What is Poeliy but a Pudding of Woids ! 

The Physiciana, thou^ they cry out so mueh against Cooks and 
Cookery, yet are but Cooks themselves ; with this diJSerenoe only— • 
the Cook^ Pudding lengthens life — ^the Physician^ shortens it : so 
that we live and die by pudding — For what is a Clyster but a Bfeg 
Pudding — a Pill but a Dumpling — or a Bolus but a Tansy, though 
not altogether so toothsome. In a word. Physic is only a pudding 
izing, or Cookery of Drugs :— the law is but a Cookery of Quibbles. 

The Universe itself is but a Pudding of Elements, — ^Empoeo^ 
Kingdoms, States, and Kepublics, are but Puddings of People di^ 
ferently mixed up. 

The Celestial and Terrestrial Orbs are deciphered to us by a psir 
of Globes, or Mathematical Puddings. 

The success of War, and the fate of Monarchies, are entirely de- 
pendent on Puddings and Dumplings, for what else are Gannon- 
balls but Military Puddings, or Bullets but Dumplings— only with 
this difference, they do not sit so well on the stomach as a good 
Marrow Pudding or Bread Pudding. In short, there is nothing va- 
luable in Nature but what more or less has an allusion to Pudding 
or Dumpling. 

Some swallow every thing whole and unmixed, so that it may 
rather be called a Heap than a Pudding. Others are so squeamish, 
that the greatest mastership in Cookery is required to make the 
Pudding palatable : — ^the Suet, which others gape and s^vidlow by 
gobs, must for these puny stomachs be minced to atoms, the Plumbs 
must be picked with the utmost care, and every ingredi^it propof^ 
tioned to the greatest nicety, or it will never go down.— JVom a 
learned Dissertation on Dumplings. 8vo. 1726, p. 20. 

MBDITATXON ON A PUDDINO. 

** Let us seriously reflect what a pudding is composed ci. It is 
composed of flour, that once waved in the golden grain, and drank 
the dews of the morning ; of milk pressed from the swelling udder 
by the gentle hand of the beautiful milk-maid, whose beauty and 
innocence might have recommended a worse draught ; who while 
she stroked the udder, indulged in no ambitious thoughts of wan- 
dering in palaces, formed no plans for the destruction df her fellow- 
creatures— milk that is dmwn from the cow, that useful animal, that 



PUDDINGS AND PIB8, 323 

eats the gam of the field, and gupplies us with that which made 
the greatest part of the food of mankind in the age which the poets 
have agreed to call golden. It is made with an egg, that miracle 
of nature, wtdeh the theoretical Bomet has compared to Creation. 
An egg contains water within its heautiful smooth sui&ce ; and an 
unformed mass, hj the incuhation of the par^t, heoomes a regular 
animal, fiimished with hones and siaewB, and covered with feathers. 
. Let us consider— X!an there be more wanting to complete the 
Meditation on a Pudding ? If more be wanting more can be found 
«-Jt ootttainssBlt, which keeps the sea imm putrefbctlon^— salt, whiteh 
u made with the image of intellectual exeellenoe, contributes to 
the fonnation of a Pudding/ — Boswell^s Jtrnmal of a Tour to the 
Hebrides ivUk Dr. Jokiuon. 8vo. 1785, p. 440. 

The quality of the various Articles employed in the composition 
of Puddings and Pies vanes so much, that two puddings made ex- 
actly according to the same receipt, will be so different* one would 
hardly suppose they were made by the same person, — and certainly 
not with predsely the same quantity of the (apparently) same In- 
gredients. Flour fresh ground— .pure New Milk — ^Fresh-laid Eggs 
— Jresh Butter — ^Fresh Suet, &c. will make a very different com- 
position, than when kept till each article is half spoiled. 
' Plum PttddwffSy when boiled, if hung up in a cool place in the 
d.oth they are boiled in, wSl keep good tome moa^ ; when wanted, 
take them out of the doth, and put them into a clean cloth, and as 
soon as warmed through— they are ready. 

Mbm.— In composing these Receipts, the quantities of Eg<}6, But- 
ter, &c. are considerably less than are ordered in other Cookery 
Books ; but quite sufficient for the purpose of making the puddings 
lij^t and wholesomcy— ^we have diminished the Expense, without 
impoverishing the prepamtions *, and the Rational Epicure will be 
as well pleased with them— as the Rational Economist. 

Milk, in its genuine state, varies considerably in the quantity of 
Cream it will throw up, — depending on the material with which the 
Cow is fed. The Cow that gives the most milk does not always 
produce the most Cream, which varies fifteen or twenty per cent ; 
this may be immediately and accurately ascertained by the Lacto- 
meter^ sold by Jones, Mathematical Instrument Maker, Charing 
Cross, price 25. Qd, 

In London, the Milk is not only subject to these variations ; but 

* An old Gentlewoman, who lived almost entirely on Puddinn, told us it was 
a long time before she could set them made uniformly good— tul she made the 
following Bulen— " if the Pudding was good, she let tne Cook have the remain- 
der of it— if it was not, she gare it to her Lap-Dog ;" but as soon as this resolu- 
tion was known, poor little J3ow-Wow seldom got the sweet treat after. 







,B*T *■*——* ««* • ^_ take 
J-^ ...... the *--' ^^ Wbe. 




i^teT* 








PUDDINGS AND PIES. 825 

• Battxr Puddings must be quite smooJth mnd ftree from lumps ; 
to lasuie this, fint mix the Flour witli a little Milk-^^d the w- 
mainderby degrees — and then the other ingredients. 

If it is a plain Pudding, put it through a haiiHuev^a-i^this will 
take out all lumps eiFectually. 

Battrr Puddings should be tied up tight : if boiled ia a mooUk 
iMxtter it first — ^if baked, also butter the pan. 

Be sure the ivster boils before you put in the Pudding— 4et youtf 
fltew-pan on a trivet over the lire, and keep it steadily boiling all tke 
time— if set upon the fire, the Pudding <^n bumsb 

Be scrupulously careful that your Pudding-Cloth ia ipstMXj 
sweet and clean ; wash it without any Soap — ^unless very greasy-. 
I2ken rince it thoroughly in clean water after. Immediately before 
you use it, dip it in Boiling Water ; squeeae it dry, and dredge it 
with Flour. 

If your fire is very fierce, mind and stir the Puddings every nov 
and then, to keep them from sticking to the bottom of the saue^ 
pan ; if in a Mould, this can is not so muck requirod, but kee|i 
plenty of water in the sance-pon. 

When Puddings are boiled in a Cloth^ it should be just dipped in 
a Basin of cold water, before you untie the Pudding-Cloth, as that 
will prevent it from sticking ; but when boiled in a Mould, if it is 
well buttered, they will turn out without. Custard or Breed Pud* 
dings require to stand five minutes before they are turned out 
They should always be boiled in a Mould or Cups. 

Keep your Psste^board, B^cdling-pin, Cutters, and Tina very elean 
«»the least dust on the Tins and Cutters, or the least hard Paste 
on the Rolling-pin, will spoil the whole of your labour. 

Things used for Faatry or Cakea, diould not be used for any other 
purpose ; be very oavefnl that your Flour is dried at the fire b»^ 
fore you use it, for Puff Paste or Cakes ; if damp it will make them 
heav}'. 

In usiqg Butter for PuffPaste^ you should take the greatest care 
to previoody work it well on the Paste-board or Slab^ to get out all 
the water and butte^-milk, which very often remains in v— when you 
Imve worked it well with a elean knife, dab it over with a soft oloth^ 
and it is then ready to lay on your Paste ; do not make your Pastit 
over stiff before you put in your Butter. 

For those who do not understand making Puff Pade, it is by &r 
the best way to work the Butter in at two separate times— divide it 
in half and break the half in little bits, and cover your Paste all 
over; dredge it lightly with Flour^^Jthen fold it over each aide and 
«nday roU it out quite thin, and then put in the rest of the Butter 



326 THE cook's oracle. 

—ibid it, and roll it again. Remember always to rolf PufP Paste 

from you. The best-made Paste, i^ not prop^ly baked will not Ak 

the Cook any crodit. 

Those who use Iron Oveiu do not always succeed in baking PuiF 

Paste, Fruit Pies, &c.^Puff Paste is often fl|>oiied br baking it 

after Fruit Pies, in an iron oven. This may be easily avoided, by 

putting two or three bricks that are quite even into the oven beibr» 

it is first set to get hot This will not only prevent the syrup from 

boiling ont of the Pies— but also prevent a very disagreeable smell 

in the kitchen and ho us e and almost answer ike saane purpose as 

a brick oven. 

PUFF FA8TB. 

469. To a pound and a quarter of sifted Flour nib gentlj in with 
the hand half a pound of Fresh Butter ; mix up with half a pint of 
Spring-water ; nead it well, and set it by for a quarter of an hour; 
then roll it out thin, lay on it in small pieces, three quarters of a 
pound more of Butter, throw on it a little Flour, double it up in 
folds, and roll it out thin three tiines, azid set it by iw about an 
hour in a eoldplaee. 

PAaXB FOR KBAT OR SAVOURY PXB8. 

470. Sift two pounds of fine Flour to one and a half of good Sail 

Butter, break it into small pieces, and wash it wdl in cold water ; 

rub gently together the Butler and Floor, and mix it up with the 

Yolk of three Eggs, beat fto|^cr with a Spoon ; and nearly a pint 

of spring-water, roll it out, and double it in foMa three times^ and it 

is readv 

TART PASTE FOR FABfXX>Y FIBS. 

470.* Rub in with the hand half a pound of Bntter into one 
pound and a quarter of Fknir, mix it with half a jpint of Wat»» and 
knead it weH. 

SWBBTy OR SHORT AND CRZSF TART PA8TB. 

471. To one pound and a quarter of fine Flour add ten ounce* 
of Fresh Butter, the Yolks of jfcwo Eggs beat, and three ounces el 
sifted Loaf Sugar, mix up together with half a pint of Kew J^Xk^ 
and knead it well. See (497). 

N.B. This Crust is frequently Iced. 

BAISBB PIBS. 

472. Put two pounds and a half of Floiir on the Pastebottd^.^ 
and put on the firo, in a sauce-pan, three quarters of a fin% of 
Water, and half a pound of good Lard v«-when the w^t«r baited 



>>.^ 



PUin>IN08 AND PISS. 327 

nake a hole in the middle of tlie flour, pour in the water add lard 
by degrees, gently mixing the ilonr with it with a Spoon, and when 
it is well mixed, then knead it with your hands till it becomes stiff; 
dredge a little Flour to prevent its sticking to the board, or you can- 
not make it look smooth : — do not roll it with the BoUing-pin,— . 
but roll it with your hands, about the thickness of a quart pot ; cut 
it into six pieces, leaving a little fbr the covers, — ^put one hand in 
the middle, and keep the other close on the outside tiU you have 
worked it either in an oval or a round shape :.^ave your meat 
ready cut, and seasoned with Pepper and Salt :*^jf Pork, cut it in 
small slices ; the Griskin is the best for pasties :— 4f you use Mut- 
ton, cut it in very neat cutlets, and. put them in the Pies as you 
make them ; roll oiub the covers with the BolUng-pin just the size 
of Ihe pie, wet it round the edge, put it on the pie, and press it to- 
gether with your thumb and finger, and then cut it all round with a 
pair of scissors quite even, and pinch them inside and out, and bake 
them an hour and a half. 

PASTS FOR BTRXNGINO TABTLSTS, &c. 

473. Mix with your hands a quarter of a pound of Flour, an 
ounce of fresh Butter, and a Uttle cold water ; rub it well between 
the board and your hand till it begins to string ; cut it into small 
pieces, roll it out, afid draw it into line strings, lay them across your 
Tartlets in any device you please, and bake them immediately. 

PA8TB FOB CBO0VANT8. 

474. To half a pound of fine Flour put a quarter of a pound of 
sifted Loaf Sugar; nizit well together with Yolks of Egp till <^a 
good stiffness.. 

8AVOUBY PIES, PA8TXBB| AND PATTZBB. 

475. The pUjuaatw of Piesmay be regulated ad lUdtmn^ by sprink- 
ling the articles with Zest (229), Curry-Powder (88a, and sets da4 
and 867), or by covering tiie bottom of the dish with any of the 
Forcemeats enumerated in (315 to 327), and making it into Balls ; 
Jay one ring of these, and another of hard-boiled Eggs cut in halves, 
round the top of the pie ; and instead of putting in water put strong 
gravy. After the pies are baked, pour in Ihrougfa a fVmnel any of 
the various Gravies, Sauces, ftc^Tfuffles, Mushrooms, Wine, 
Bpiees, Pickles, &c. are also added. See also (385 to 343). 

HiM^-^These are dishes contrived rather to excite An[>etite than 
lo satisfy it Putting Meat or Poultry into a Pie is certainly the 
ireiy wont way of cooking it ^t is often baked to rags v— and veiy 



328 TBB cook's ORACLE. 

larely indeed does a Savoury Fie come to taUe that deserves* to be 
iAtrodueed to the Stomach. 

VBNI80N PASTY. 

476. Take a Neck, Shoulder, or Breagt of Venison, that has sot 
hung too long» bone them, trim off all the skin, and cut it into pieees 
two inches square, and put them into a stew-pan, with three gills 
of Port Wine, two Onions, or a few Esdialots sliced, some Pepper, 
Salt, three blades of Mace, about a dosen Alkpioe, and enough 
Teal Broth to cover it ; put it over a slow fire, and let it stew tiU 
three parts done ; put the trimmings into another sauce-pan, cover 
it with water, and set it on a fire. Take out the pieces yen intend 
jbr the pasty, and put them into a deep dirii with a little of their 
Liquor, and set it by to cool *, then add the remainder of the Liquor 
to the Bones and Trimmings, and boil it till the Pasty is ready,— 
t^en cover the Pasty with paste made like (472) ; ornament the top» 
and bake it for two hours in a slow Oven *, and before it is sent to 
table, pour in a sauce made with the gravy the venison was stewed 
in, strained and skimmed free firom &t ; some Pepper, Salt, half a 
gill of Port, the Juice of half a Lemon, and a little Floui and But- 
ter to thicken it. 

RUMP-STEAK PIE. 

477. Cut three pounds of Rump-Steak (that has been kept till 
tender) into pieces half as big as your hand, trim off all the skin, 
sinews, and every part whicn has not indisputable pretensions to be 
eaten, and beat them with a chopper. Chop very fine half a doaen 
Eschalots, and add them to half an ounoe ef pepper and salt mixed, 
strew some of the mixture at the bottom of the dish, then a layei 
of Steak, then some more pf the mixture, and so on till the dish is 
full ; add half a gill of Mushroom Catchup, and the same quantity 
of Ckavy, or Bed Wine ; cover it as in the preeeding receipt, and 
bake it two hours. 

N.B. Large Oysters, parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately wifii 
the Steaks, — ^their liquor reduced and substituted instead of the 
Catchup and Wine, will be a variety. 

MUTTON OR VEAL PIE. 

478. Cut into chops, and trim neatlyv and cut away the (pnrileil 
part of the &t of a Ldn, or best end pf a Neck of Mutton (theibi)» 
Iner the best), season them, and lay them in a pie-dish, with a little 
Water and half a gill of Mushroom Catehup (chopped Owmr aad 
Potatoes, if approved) ; eover it with JPasta (470), bake it tw# 



PUDDINGS AND PIBK 329 

hmiTS ; when doM, lift up the cnut from the diih with aknife, pour 
out all the gravy, let it stand, and skim it clean ; add, if wanted, 
tome moire seasoning ; make it boil, and poor it into the Pie. 

Vkal Peb may be made of the brisket part of the breast ; but 
m\»t be patboikd first. 

VEAL AND HAM FIB. 

479. Take two pounds jot Veal Cutlets cot them in middling 
si*ed pieces — season with pepper, and a very little salt ; likewise 
one ^f Raw or Dressed Ham cut in dices, lay it alternately in 
the dish, and put some Forced or Sausage Meat (317 or 31 &) at the 
top, with some stewed Button Mushrooms, and the yolks oif three 
E^ggs boiled hard, and a gill of water ; then proceed as with Rump- 
Steak Pie. 

jN'.B. The best end of a Neck is the fine part for a Pie, cut into 
chops, and the Chine Bone taken away. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

480. Parboil and then cut up neatly two Young Chickens.-.di7 
them^— set them over a slow fire for a few minutes — have ready soiAe 
Veal fttuffing or Forcemeat (317 or 318), lay it at the bottom of 
the dish, and place in the Chickens upon it, and with it some pieces 
of dressed Ham ; cover it with paste (469). Bake it from an hotir 
and a half to two hours^ — ^when sent to table, add some good Gravy, 
weU seaaoned, and not too thick. 

Duck Pn is made in like manner, only substitiiting the Dude 
stuffing (320), instead of the VeaL 

N.B. The above may be put into a raised Frendi Crust (see 490) 

and Baked ; when done, take off the top, and pat a ragoAt of Sweet* 

hread to the Chicken. 

HABBIT PIB. 

481. Made in the same way as Chicken Pie : but make a Force- 
meat to cover the bottom of the dish, by pounding a quartw of a 
pound of boiled Bacon with the Livers of the Rabbits ; some Pep- 
per aad Salt, some pounded Mace, some chopped Parsley, and tm. 
Eschalot, thoroughly beaten together ; and you may lay some thin 
alices of ready-dressed Ham or Bacon on the top oi your Rabbitak 
^ This Pie will oA Two hours baking,*' says Mrs. Maiy Tilling^ast, 
in page 29 of her 12mo. volume of Rax« Receipts, 1678. 

GIBLET PIE. 

482. Clean well, and half stew two or three sets of Qoose Gib- 
lets ; cut the Leg in two, — the Wing and Neck into thieer-«-and 



330: THE cook's oraci^e.: 

the GifiBTd into four piecM ; pteflenre the liquor aiid set the gihlf^ 
\ty till cold, otherwise the heat of the giblets will spoil the paste 
you oover the pie with : — ^then season the whole with black pepper 
and salt, and put them into a deep dish ; cover it with paste as di- 
rected in (470), rub it over with yolk of Egg, oraaoient and bake 
it an hour and a half in a moderate oven : in the meantime take 
the liquor the giblets were stewed In, skim it free from fat, put it 
over a fire ih a clean stew-pan, thl<^en it a little with Flour and 
Butter, or Flour and Water, season it with Pepper and Salt, and. 
tiie Juice of half a Lemon, add a few drops of browning, strain it 
through a fine sieve, and when you take the pie ttom the oven, poui 
some of this into it through a funnel. Some lay in the bottom of the 
dish a moderately thick Bump-Steak :.-^yott have any Cold GaoM 
or Poultry, cut it in pieces, and add it to the above^ 

HAHS PIE. 

483. Take the Hare, skinned and washed, cut it into pieces, and 
parboil it for two minutes to cleanse it, wash it well, and put it in a 
stew-pot with six Eschalots chopped, a gill of Port Wine, a noall 
quantity of Thyme, Savoury, sweet Marjoram, and Pauley, tied m 
a bunch, four Cloves, and half a dozen Allspice ; cover it with Vetl 
Broth, -and stew it till half done; pick out the prime pieces, simIi 
as the Back, Legs, Sec. (leaving the remainder to stew till the good- 
ness is quite extracted) ; take the parts preserved, and fill them int^ 
a dish with some water, and cover it with paste as (470), bake it an 
hour, stsua the gravy ftom the trimmings, thicken it a little, and 
throw in half a gill of Port, the Juice of half a Lemon, and pour il 
into the Pie boiling hot ;^ine the bottom of the dish with Hioe 
Stuffing (321), or make it into Forcemeat Balls. 

Pies op Oamk and Wild Fowl are made in like mannof : 
as the following receipt for Pigeon, Pie, 

PiaSON OH LARK PIB. 

484. Truss half a dose(L fine large Pigeons as for stewing, 
them with Pepper and Salt ; lay at the bottom of the dish a Rump- 
Steak of about a pound i; eight, cut into pieces and trimmed neatly, 
(Masoned, and beat out with a chopper ; on it lay the Pigeons, the 
.Yolks of three Eggs boiled hard, and a gill of Broth or Water, aal 
over these. a. layer of Steaks, wet the edge of the dish^ and cover it 
over with Puff paste (469), or the paste as directed for seasoned 
pies (470) ; wash it oveiTwith Yolk of Egg, and ornament it with 
leates of paste and the feet of the Pigeons; bake it m hour anda 



PUDDINGS AND PIB8. 331 

half in a modemte-heBled oven: before it is sent to table make an 
aperture in the top, and pour in some good ^laTy quite hot 

BBXi pia. 

485. Take Eels about half a pound eachy— skin, wash, and trim. 
off the fin with a pair of seiMors^—^ut them into pieces three inches 
Icmg, season them with pepper and salt, and fill your dish, leaving 
out the Heads and Tails. Add a gill of water or Veal Broth, cover 
it with Paste (470), rub it ovw with a Paste-brush dipped in yolk 
af egg, ornament it with some of the same paste, bake it an hour, 
and when done, make a hole in the centre, and pour in the foUow*^ 
ing sauce through a funnel u—The trimmings boiled in half a pint of 
Veal €Mock, seasoned with pepper and salt, a table spoonftU of Le- 
mon^uioe, and thickened witii flour and water, strained through a 
fine sieve^oidd it boiling hot 

KikZORB FZ8H PZBS. 

486. Salt FisklHe^^Thd thickest part must be cho8en,and put into 
eclLd water to soak the night before wanted : then boil it weU, taike 
it up, take away the bones and skin, and if it is good fish it will be 
in fine layers ; set it on a fislMlrainer to get cold : in the mean 
time boil four eggs hard, peel and dice them very thin, the same 
quantity of onion sliced thin ; line the bottom of a Pie-dish with 
Fish finoemeat (326), or a layer of potatoes sliced thin^— then a 
layer of onions, then of fish, and of eggs, and so on till the dish ia 
full ; season each layer With a little pepper, then mix a tea-spoon- 
ful of made mustard, the same of Essence of Anchovy, a little 
Hushroom Catchup, in a gill of water, put it in the dish, then put 
on the top an ounce of ftesh butter broke in bits, cover it with puff 
paste, and bake it one hour. 

Fresh Cod may be done in the same way, by adding a little salt 
All Fish for making Piis, whether Soles, Flounders, Herrings, 
Salmon, Lobster, Eels, Trout, Tench, &c. should be dressed first ; 
this is the moH Eoonomieal voojf for Catholic fimiilies, as what is 
boiled one day will make excellent Pies or Patties the next. 
• If you intend it for Pjxs, take the skin off, and the bones out, lay 
your Salmon, Soles, Tnrbot, or Cod-fish in layers, and season each 
layer with equal quantities of pepper, allspice, mace and salt, till 
the dish is full, — save a little of the liquor that the fish was boiled 
in, set it on the fire with the bones and skin of the fish ; boil it a 
quarter of an hour, then strain it through a sieve, let it settle, and 
pour it in the dish, cover it with puff-paste^ bi^ it about an hour 
and a quarter. Shrimps, pzawiis» or oysters added, will improve the 



dd2 THB cook's oracle. 

Abore ; if for Pattibs, they must be cut in mall inecei, and 

diessed in a Beflhamell sauce (307). 

Cod Sounds for a pie should be soaked at least twenty-four hours, 

then well washed, and put on a cloth to dry, — ^put in a stew-pan two 

ounces of fresh butter, with fbor oanoet of sliced onions, fry them 

•f a nice brown, then put in a small table-spoonful of flour, and add 

half a pint of boiling water ; when smooth, put in about ten Cod- 

aounda, and season them with a little pepper, a glaas of white wine, 

a tea-spoonful of Essence of AnchoTy, the juice of half a lemon : 

■tir it well together, put it in a pie>duih, covar it with paste, and 

bake it one hour. 

XAI8BB POXK PIB. 

487. Make a laised crust, of a good siie, with pake (aa dli e cte d 
in 472), about fbur inchee high, .take the lind and Chine Bona 
from a Loin of Pork, cut it into chops, beat them with a diopper, 
season them with pepper and salt, and fill your Pie ; put on the 
top and close it, and pinch it round the edge, rub it over with yolk 
flf egg, and bake it two hours with a paper over it, to preTent the 
cnist horn burning. When done, pour in some good Gravy, with a 
little ready* mixed Mnstaid (if approved). 

N.B As the above is genendly eaten cold, it is an excellent ra- 
pait for a journey and will keep for several days. 

BAXSfiD HAM PIB. 

48& Soak a small Ham fbur or five hours — wash and ictvpe it 
welUp-cttt off Che Knuckle, and boil it for half an hour — ^then take it 
np and tzim it very neatly — take off the rind and put it into an oval 
stew-pan, with a pint of Madeira or Sherry, and enough Veal stock 
to cover it Let it stew for two hours, or till three parts dene — 
take it out and set it in a cold place — ^then raise a Crust as in th« 
foregmng receipt, large enough to receive it — ^put in the Ham 
••juid round it the Yeal Foieemeat«.«over and ornament — ^it will 
take about an hour and a half to bake in a slow oven : when done, 
tike off the cover — ghae the top, and pour round the followin|f 
sauce, viz. take the liquor the Ham was stewed in — ddm it free 
from Fat— thicken with a little Flour and Butter mixed together, a 
ISbw drops of Browning, and some Cayenne Pepper. 

P.S. The above is, I think, a good way of dresnng a small Han, 
and has a good effect eold fbr tapper. 

BAXSBO XtAXB PXBS. 

469. Bone a Loin of Lamb, cut into eutlets, trim them very meely« 
and lay them in the bottom of a steiF- or fi^jng-pan, with an ounc* 



^PUDOmOS AND PIEB. 833 

of Btifctor, a tea-spoonful of Lemon- Juioe, and tome pepper and salt : 
put tHem over a fire, and turn them and put them to cool ; then 
iBise four or five small Pies with Paste (as 511), about the size of a 
Tearcup, put some Veal Foccemeat at the bottom, and the Cutlets 
upon it ; roll out the top an eighth of aa inch thick, close and pinch 
the edges, bake them half an hour, and when done take off the top, 
and pour in some GiMd Brwim Sauce, 

RAISED FRISNCH PIE. 

490. Makeabouttwopoundsof Flour into a Paeteasdirected(51 1) ; 

—knead it well, and into the shape of a Ball, — sprees your thumb 

into the centre, and work it hj degrees into any shape (oval or 

round is the most general), till about five inches high, — ^put it on 

a sheet of paper, and fill it with coarse Flour or Bmn, roll out a 

covering for it about the same thickness as the sides, — cement its 

sides with the yolk of Egg, cut the edges quite even, and pinch 

it round with the finger and thumb,— -yolk of Egg it over with a 

paste-brush, and <»nament it in any way fancy may direct, with the 

same kind of paste. Bake it of a fine biown colour, in a slow oven ; 

and when done, cut out the top, remove the Flour or Bran, brush 

it quite clean, and fill it up with a Fricassee of Oiicken, Rabbit, or 

any other Entrie most convenient. Send it to table with a Napkin 

imder. 

VOL AV VBMTT. 

491. Roil off Tart Paste (470) till about ibe eighth of an inch 
tinck : then, with a Tin Cutter made for that purpose (about the 
size of <^ bottom of the dish you intend sending to table), cut out 
the shape, and lay it on a baking^plate with paper, rub it over with 
yolk of egg ; roll out good Puif Paste (469) an inch thick, stamp it 
with the same Cutter, and lay it on the Tart Paste, then take a 
Cutter two sises smaller, and {vess it in tiie centre nearly through 
the Puif Paste ; — ^rub the top with yolk of Egg, and bake it in a 
quick oven about twenty minutes, of a lig^t brown colour : when 
^esie, take out <ihe paste inside the centre mark, preserving the top, 
put it on a dish in a warm place, and when wanted, fill it with a 
White Fricassee of Chicken, Rabbit, Ragoiit of Sweetbread, or any 
other Entrie you wish, 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

492. Roll out Puff Paste a quarter of an incii thick, cut it into 
squafes with a knif^, sheet eight or ten Patty Plans, put upon each 
a bit of bread the size of half a walnut ; roll out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, ciit it as above, wet the edge of Hit 



334 THE cook's oraclb. 

bottom paite,a2id put on the top, pare them round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with' the back of the knife, rub 
them lightly with yolk of egg, bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarter of an hour : when done, take a thin slice off the top, then, 
with a small knife or spoon, take out the bread and the inside paste, 
leaving the outade quite entire ; then parlxul two dozen of Laige 
Oysters^ strain them from their liquor, wash, beard, »and cut th^a 
into four, put them into a stew-pan with an ounce of Butter rolled 
in Flour, half a gill of good Cream, a little grated Lemon-peel, the 
Oyster liquor, free from sediment, reduced by boiling to one hal( 
some Cayenne Pepper, Salt, and a tea-spoonfid of Lemon-juice; 
stir it over a fire five minutes, and fill the Patties. 

LOB8TEB PATTIBS. 

493. Prepare the Patties as in the last receipt Take a Hen 
Lobster already boiled — ^pick the meat from the Tail and Claws, 
and chop it fine ; put it into a stew-pan with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till quite smooth, an ounce of fresh 
Butter, half a gill of Cream, and half a gill of Veal Consomm^ 
Cayenne Pepper, and Salt, a tearspoonful of Essence <tf -Anchovy, 
the same of Lemon-juice, and a table-spoonful of Flour and water : 
stew it five minutes. 

Saa AND HAM PATTIBS. 

494. Cut a slice of Bread two inches thick, from the most solid 

part of a stale quartern loaf :— have ready a tin round Cutter, two 

inches diameter, — cut out four or five pieces, then take a cutter two 

sizes smaller, press it nearly through the laiger pieces, then remove 

with a small knife the bread from the inner circle *, — haye ready a 

large stew-pan frill of boiling Lard ; — fzy them of a light-brown 

colour, drain them dry with a dean doth, and set them by till 

wanted ; then take half a pound of lean Ham, mince it small, add 

to it a gill of good brown Sauce ;— stir it oyer the fire a few minutes, 

and put a small quantity of Cayenne Pepper and Lemon-Juice y^ 

fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached Egg (see 548) 

upon each. 

VBAIi AND HAM PATTIBS. 

495. Chop about six ounces of ready-dressed lean Veal, and 
three ounces of Ham veiy small, — ^put it into a stew-pan with an 
ounce of Butter rolled in flour, half a gill of Cream, half a gill of 
Veal Stock, a little giated Nutmeg and Lemon-peel, some Cayenne 
Pepper and Salt, a spoonfril of I^nce of Ham, and Lemon-juice, 
and stir it over the fire some time, taking care it does not bum. 



PUOOOINCn AND PIES. 335 

OBIOKBN AND HAM PATTZB8. 

• 496. Use tlie White Meat from the Bieast of Chickens or Fowls, 
and proceed as in the hist Receipt. 

BZPB FBUIT TABT8. 

497. Goosebeiries, Damsons, Morrello Cherries, Currants mixed 
irith Raspbemes, Plums, Green Gabies, White Plums, &c. should 
be quite fresh picked, and washed. Lay them in the dish with the 
centre highest, and about a quarter of a pound of Moist or Loaf 
Sugar pounded to a quart of fruit (but if quite ripe they will not re- 
quire ISO much) ; add a little water — ^rub the edges of the dish with 
yolk of Egg — cover it with Tart Paste (471), about half an inch 
thicku-presB your thumb round the rim, and close it well ; pare it 
round with a knife, make a hole in the sides below the rim^-'beke 
it in a moderate-heated oven ; and ten minutes before it is done, 
take it out and ice it, and return it to the oven to dry. 

ZOZNG FOR FRUIT TARTS, PUFFS, OR PASTRY. 

498. Beat up in a half-pint mug the White of two JSggs to a solid 

Froth V— Isif some on the middle of the Pie with a paste-brushr^ 

sift over plenty of pounded Sugar, and press it down with the hand, 

-—wash out the brush, and splash by degrees with water till the 

Sugar is dissolired, — and put it in the oven for ten minutes, and 

serve it up cold. 

APPIiE PIB. 

499. Take eight Bussetings, or Lemon Pippin Apples, — ^pare, 
core, and cut not smaller than quarters ; place them as close as poa* 
sible together into a pie-dish, with four Cloves ; rub together in a 
mortar some Lemon-Peel, with four ounces of good Moist Sugar, 
and, if agreeable, add some Quince Janv— cover it with Puft Paste, 
—bake It an hour and a quarter. (Generally eaten warm). 

APPlfs TART ORBABCED. 

500. Use green Codlings, in preference to any other Apple^— 
and proceed as in the last Receipt. When the pie is done, cut out 
the whole of the centre, leaving the edges ; when cold, pour on the 
Apple some rich boiled Custard, and place round it some small 
leaves of puff paste of a light colour. 

CRANBERRY TART. 

501. Take Swedish, American, or Russian Cranberries, pick and 
wash them in several waters, put them into a dish,- with the juice 
of half a Lemon, a quarter of a pound of Moist or pounded Loaf 



336 THE cook's oracls. 

Sugar, to a quart of Cranberries. Cover it with Puff (469), or Tait 
Paste (471), and bake it thuee quaiten of aa hour ; if Tart Paste 
is used, draw it from the oven fiye nunvtos before it ia done, aod 
ice it as (498), return it to the oven, and send it to table cold. 

SPBINQ FBUXT OB BBUBABB TABT. 

502. Prepare Bhttbaib aa above : eat it into small pieoea into a 
Tart-dish ; sweeten with Loa^Sugar poimded ; cover it with a good 
8h<»t crust paste ; sift a little Sugar over the top, and bake half aa 
hour in a rather hot oven : serve up cold. 

FBBNCH TABT OF PBBSBBVED FBUXT. 

50S. Cover a Flat Dish, or Tourte Pan, with T\tft Paste (471), 
abont an eighth of an inch thick, roll out puff paste (469)^ half an 
indi thick, cut it out in strips an inch wide, wet the Tarl Paatci, 
and \aj it neatlj round the pan by way of a rim ; fill the centi* 
with Jam or Marmalade of any kind, ornament it with small leaves 
of Puff Paste, bake it half an hour, and send it to table cold. 

N.B. The above may be filled before the Puff Paste is laid on, 
-neatly strong with Paste, as (473), and the ria put ov«r aft». 

06s.~^The most general way of sending Touites to table, is with 
a Croquante of Paste (506), or a Catmmel of span Sugar (619), 
put over after it is baked. 

SMALL PUFFB OF PBE8BBVBD FBXXITS. 

504. Roll out, a quarts ^ an inch thick, good Puff Paste (469), 
and cut it into pieces four inches square, lay a small quantity of 
any kind of Jam on each, — <louble them ever, and coA than into 
square, triangle, or, with a tin cuttor, half moons,— Jay them wiUi 
paper on a bakinj^^platey— ice them (as at (493)^.— bake them about 
twenty minntes, taking care not to colour the icing. 

TABTLETfl, STTCfl AS ABB MADE AT THB PASTRY COOKS 

505. Roll out Puff Paste (469) of a quarter of an inch thidr, cut 
H into ineces, and sheet pans about tiie size of a Oown pteee, pare 
them round with a knife, and put a small quantity of Apricot,.. 
Damson, — Raspberry,— StrawbeiTy,_Appley.-Mannalad«, or a^ 
other kind of Jam (635), in the centre ; take Ptasfee (473), a»d string 
them crosBways, bake them from six to ten minutes in a quick 
oven : they should be of a very light brown colour. 

A CBO QUANTS OF PASTB. 

506. Roll out Paste, as (474) about the eighth of an inch thick, — 



' PUDDINGS AND PIES. 337 

rub over a plain mould with a little fresh butter ; — lay on the Paste 
Very eren, and equally thin on both eddes ; — ^pare it round the rim ; 
then, witii a small penknife, cut out small pieces, as fancy may 
directy— such as diamonds, stars circles, sprigs, &c., — or use a small 
tin cutter of any shape ; let it lie to dry some time, and bake it a 
few minutes in a slack oven, of a light colour ; — remove it from the 
mould, and place it over a Tart, or any other dish of small Pastry. 

MZIiIiE FEUII>IiE8, OB A PYRAMID OF PASTE. 

507. Boll out Puff Paste (469) half an inch thick ; cut out with 

a cutter made for the purpose, in the shape of an oval, octagon, 

square, diamond, or any other form (and to be got of most tinmen), 

observing to let the first piece be as large as the bottom of the di^ 

you intend sending it to table on : the second piece a size smaller, 

and so on in proportion, till the last is about the size of a shilling ; 

lay them with paper on a baking-plate — ^yolk of egg the top and 

bake them of a light brown colour : take them from the paper, and, 

when cold, put the largest size in the dish, then a layer of Apricot 

Jam ; then the next size, a layer of Raspberry Jam, and so on, 

varying the Jam between each layer of Paste to the top, on which 

place a bunch of dried fruit, and spin a Caramel (619) of Sugar 

over it. 

MINOB PIB8. 

508. Sheet witii Tart Paste (471) half-a-dozen of tin pans of any 
size you please — ^fill them with Mince Meat (509), and cover with 
Puff Paste, a quarter of an inch thick, — ^trim round the edges with 
a knife, make an aperture at the top with a fork, bake them in a 
moderate-heated oven, and send them to table hot, first removing 
the tin. 

N.B. Some throw a little sifted loaf sugar over. 

MINCB WEAT. 

509. Two pounds of Beef Suet, picked and chopped fine ; two 
pounds of Apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three pounds of Cur* 
rants, washed and picked *, one pound of RaisinB, stoned and diop- 
ped fine ; one pound of good Moist Sugar ; half a x>ound of Citron, 
cut into thin slices ; one pound of Candied Lemon and Orange- 
Peel, cut as ditto ; two pounds d ready-dressed Boast Beef, free 
from skin and gristle, and chopped fine ; two Nutmegs, grated ; 
one ounce of Salt ; one of groimd Ginger ; half an ounce of Cori- 
ander Seeds ; half an ounce of AUs^pce ; half an ounce of Cloves ; 
all ground fine : the juice of six Lemons, and their rinds grated ; 
half a pmt of Brandy, and a pint of sweet Wine. Mix the Suet, 

Y 



SM TWt cook's GSLAiOM* 

▲|»ple, Ctmwild^ HMi, FlittM, and 18weetiB6iiU» well together ia a 
kunB p«B, aMd-fttrew in the Spiee by degrees : box. 1^ Svigi^ Ii»* 
■M»- Juioc^ WiA«> «»d Brendy, and pour it te tbs other iwgtodient% 
aad stir it wdl tog(ither.-«4»t it by in ok)8&-ooveied pass in a-ooU 
place : when wanted, «tir it up from the bottom^-aad add half* 
gkes of Bnndy to the qnantlty you require. 

N.a. The game weight of Tripe jb ftegnentiy wito<it<Ttod fear the 
Meat, and sometimes the yolks of Eggs boiled hard. 

OAv. — The lean side of a Bnttoelc, ■ fe o roug Wy roasted, is-gene- 
Mdl|r« chosen for Minoe Meat. 

BRUKBWIOK TOVRTE. 

510. Make a larost as for Vol au Vent (491) ; pare and ooee wiik 
a«NKq» eight er ten^GMdMi Pij^ins ; put them into a atew-pam with 
a fill of Sweet Wine, and four ouaoas of sifted Loaf Su£^, a bit ai 
Lemon-Peel, a nnaU stiok of Cinnamon, and a blade of Maoe ; stew 
them over aalow fire till the Apples are tender ; set them by ; whan 
eold, place them in the Paete, and pour reimd them aamejgoed 
Gusteid (674). 

PASTB FOR BOXL£l> Yin>]IINGS. 

511. Pick and chop very fine half a pound of Beef Suet, add to 
it one pound and a quarter of Flour, and a little Salt ; mix it with 
half a pmt of Milk or Water, and beat it well with the RoUii^^pin, 
to incorporate the auet with the flour. 

BEBF-STBAK PUDDING. 

5rl2. Get Bump-Steaks^^not too ihick, beat than with a chopper, 
cut them into pieces about half the size of your hand, aad trim off 
all the skin, sinews, &c. ; have readgr aaOoiion peeled and chopped 
fine, likewise some Potatoes peeled and cut into slices a quarter of 
an inch thick, rub the inside of a Basin or an oval plain mould with 
BdttfiE, eheet it with paste as directed for Boiled Puddings (511) ; 
aeason the Steake with pepper, ealt, and a little grated Nutmeg ; 
put in a layer of Siteak, ihsn another of Potatoes, and so oa tall it 
js fixll, oeoaaioiiaUy throwing in part of the chopped Onion ;» ad d 
to it half a gill of Mushroom Catchup, a table-spoonful of Lemon 
Pickle, and half a gill of Water or Veal Broth ; roll out a top, and 
dieae it well to pcevent the water getting in ; linse a dean doth in 
hot wator, tqprinkle a little flour over it, and tie up the Pudding ; 
have ready a laige pot of water boiling, put it in, and boil it two 
hours and a half; take it up, remove the cl<lth, turn it downward* 
in a deep dish, and when wanted take away the basin or mould. 



PODDINQS AND PIBS. 3Sd 

BUST PV&BIHO OR DVKP&IMttS. 

513. Chop six ounces of Suet veiy-fine, — ^p«t it in a basin Irfth 
six ounces of Flour, two ounces of Bread-crumbs, and a tea-spe^n- 
ftil of Sek, — star ft all well together— beat two eggs on a plate, add 
to them six taMe-spoonaful of milk, put it bj degrees into tiie basia, 
sad stir it aD well together ; divide it into six dumj^ingsi, and tie 
^em eepatftte^ previously dredging the cloth lightly with flottr. 

Boil them one hour. 

Has is yerj good the next day fHed in a littie butter. The abov» 
will make a good pudding, boiled in an earthenware mould, with 
the addition of one more egg, a little more milk, and two ounces 
of suet. 

Boil it two heufSb 

N.B. Tke mod Ecomomdool yoay of making Suet DumpUngt^ is to 
boil them withevt a cloth in a pot with Beef or Mutt(«y..*no £gg8 
are then wanted, and the dumplings are quite as light without ; roll 
them in flour before you put tiiem into the pot ; add six onmoes of 
Currants, washed and picked, and you have ChrroM PfMingimUX 
divided into six parts, Cutrmi JhtrnpliMfff^'^ Utile sugar wiU im- 
prove them. 

3UBT PUDDING, WIGGY'S WAY. 

514. Suet, a quarter of a pound ; flour, three table-speooiftil ; 
eggs, two *, and a Uttle grated ginger ; milk, half a pint. Mince the 
suet as fine as possible, roll it with the rolling-pin so as to mirit 
well with the flour ; beat up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and. 
then mix all together ; wet your doth well in boiling water, flour it, tie 
it loose, put it into b(Hling water, and boil it an hour and a quartets 

Mr$, GlaeM kafitf ** taA^w Yov have made Youit waitr beiU, ikm 
ftU YovR puddmff' vOa Your jdoI . 

PIiUM PUDDING. 

515. Suet, chopped fine, six etmces. 
Halaga raisins, stoned, six ounces. 

Currants, nicely washed and picked, eight ounces. 

Bread-crumbs, three ounces. 

Flour, three ounces. 

Eggs, three. 

fiKxth of a nutmeg. 

Small blade (^ maoe^ same quantity of dnnamon, pounded at fine 
as possible. 
■ Half a tearspoonftd of salt. 

Half a pint of milk, or rather less. 



1 



340 XHB coca's OR;/kOLX. - 

Sugar four ounoes : to which m&y be addedy« 

Candied lemony one ounce. 

Citron, half an ounce. 

Beat the eggs and spice well together ; mix the milk with them 
by degrees, then the rest of the ingredients ; dip a fine close linen- 
cloth into boiling water, and put it in a hair-sieve ; flour it a little, 
and tie it up doso ; put it into a sauce-pan containing six quarts of 
boiling water : keep a kettle of boiling water alongside of it, and fill 
up your pot as it wastes ; be sure to keep it boiling six hours at least 

FIiUH PUDDING, 

(ANOTHER WAY,) 

515.* Combining richness of Flavour with Economy. 

One Pound of Beef Suet, I x^, ^eigh l lb. after 

One Pound of Sun Raisins (stoned) j pnpiix«d. 

Four Table-spoontfhil of Flour. 

One TVo-spoonful of Saltl 

Six ounces of Loaf Sugar, pounded. 

Half a moderate-Buted Nutmeg, grated. 

Five Eggs, yolks and whites, and no other liquid. 

Flour the Cloth well and boil it Six hours. 

K.B. There should not be the smallest deviation from the above 

proportions. 

MY PUDDING. 

516. Beat up the yolks and' whites of three £ggs; strain them 
through a sieve (to keep out the treadles), and gradually add to 
them about a quarter of a pint of Milky— stir these wdU together<r— 
rub together in a mortar two ounces of moist Sugar, and as much 
grated Nutmeg as will lie on a sixpenoer— stir these into the Eggs 
and Milky—then put in four ounces of Flour, and beat it into a 
smooth Batter^ — ^by de^es stir into it seven ounces of Suet (mmced 
as fine as possiUe)^ «nd three ounces of Bread*crumbs— jnix all 
thoroughly together at least half ftn hour before yon put the pud- 
ding into the pot ; put ^t into an earthenvnue puddin^mould that 
you have well buttered ; tie ^ puddiqg-eloth over it very ti^j^t \ put 
it into boiling water, and boil it three hpuis* 

Put One Cfood Plum into it, and Moost-Ay^ says, you may then 
tell the Eottnomigt that you have made a GOon Ptmr PuDjnNfu- 
wUhotU Plums : — ^this would be what Schoolboys call *^ MiU-Stane 
Pudding,^ t. 0. ^a Mile between one Plum and another.^* 

N.B. Half a pound of Muscatel Raisins cut in half, and added 
to the above, will make a most admir«bl# P^PM Pp^pp^i^ ; a li^ 
grated I^emon-Peel may be added^ 



^ 



PUDDINGS ANB PIB8. 341 

O^B^^-Ifihi wateretoBetio hoUy the Pmtdiang iciU become heavy^ 9^ 
he spoiled ;•— if properly managed^ this and the following will be as 
fine Puddings of the kind as art can produce. 

Puddings are best when mixed aa hour or two before they are 
boiled^ — ^tfae ingredients by that means amalgamate, and the whole 
becomes richer and fullerof flavour, especially if the various articles 
be THOROUGHLY woll stiired together. 

A tabl«>Bpoonful of Trbaclx will give it a rich brown colour. See 
Padding Sauce, (240), and Pudding Catchup, (379). 

K.B. This padding may be bakud in an oven, or under Meat, 
the same as Yorksfairo Pudding (529); make it the same, only add 
half a pint of milk moro : it should be above an inch and a quarter 
in thickness, it will take full two hours, — it requires carefiil watch- 
ing, for if the top gets burned, an empyreumatic flavour will pervade 
the whole of the Pudding.— ^Or butter some Tin mince-pie patty- 
pans, or Saucers, and fill them with pudding, and set them in a 
Dutch oven^they will take about an hour. 

KAIORE PLUM PUDDING. 

517. Simmer half a pint of Milk with two blades of Mace, and 
a foil of Lemon-Peel, fbr ten minutes : then strain it into a Basin ; 
'set it away to get cold— in the mean time beat three E^ggs in a Basin 
with three ounces of Loaf-Sugar, and the third of a Nutmeg: then 
add three ounces of Flour ; beftt it well together, and add the Milk 
by degrees : then put in tbree ounces of Fresh Butter broke into 
small pieces, and three ounces of BreadrCrumbs, three ounces of 
Cuirania washed and picked clean, three ounces of Baimns stoned 
and chopped— stir it all well together. Butter a mould^ put it in, 
nod tie a cloth tight over it. Boil it two hours and a half. Serve 
it up with melted Butter, two table-spoonsful of Brandy, and a little 
Loaf Sugar. 

FAT OR MARROW PUDDINO. 

518. Break fiw Eggs in abasin ; beat them up with a tea^spooa- 
ful of Sugar aad a table-spooafiil of Flour ; beat it quite smooth ; 
then put to it a pound of Raisins, and a pound of Suet-4t must not 
be chopped v«iy fine-; butter a mould well ; put in the pudding ; 
tie a ^oth ever it ti|^ and boil it Five hours. 

N.B. This is veiy rich, and is commonly called a Marrow Pup- 

fiXMG. 

APFXiB PUDD^NO BOZXiBD. 

519. Chop four ouaces of Beef Suet veiy fine, or two ounces of 
Butter, Lard, or Dripping— but the suet makes the best and lightest 



342 THS COOIC'S ORACLE. 

cniBt ; put it cm the pBSte^boaid, with eig^t ounces of flouz, and a 
salt-tpoonful of nit, mix it well together with your hands, and then 
put it all of a heap, and make a hole in the middle ; bieak One 9gg 
in it, stir it well together with your finger, and bjr degrees Isfiise as 
mach water as will make it of a stiff paste : roll it oat twio or three 
times with the rc^ng-pin, and then soil it large enovg^ to receiw 
thirteen ounces of Apples. It will look neater if boiled.in a basiB, 
well buttered, tiwnwhen boiled ina poddingrKdotii weil flooitd ; liQil 
it an hour and three quatten,.>.Jnit the sorest waf is to stew tbff 
Apples first in a stew-pan, with a wine-glassful of water, and then 
one hour wHI boQ it 8one people like it flaToozed witb Clovta 
and Lemon-Peel, and sweeten it wHh t#D oonoes of Sugar. 

OoosraniKm, CtntnANra, RAsmnatts, and CHMaaiaa, Dam< 
SONS, AND TAiuoOB Plitms AND Fsvita, «M ttad* into Puddix^ 
with the same Crost direeted Ito Aiwm PimiiMdt. 

BOSTON APPXiB PUDDING. 

520. Feel one doiea and a half of good Apples ; take out the 
cores, — cut them small, — put into a stew-pan that will just hold 
them, with a little water, a little cinnamon, two cIotbs, and the peel 
of a lemon ; stew oter a slow fire till quite soft, then sweeten with 
moist sugar, and pass it through a hair-sieTe ; add to it the yolks of 
four eggs and one w}iite,a qoaiter of a pound of good butter, half a 
nutmeg, the ped of a lemon grated, and the jnioe of one lemon : 
beat all well together ; line Ae inside of a pie-dirii with good puff 
paste ; put in the pudding, and hake half an hour. 

APPlbB DUaCPXiXNGB. 

521. Mtdce Paste the same as ibr Apple Pudding, dinde it into 
as many pieces as joa wnHt dumpfings, peel the apples and eoie 
them, then roll out your paste laige enough, and put in the ap|de# ; 
close it all .round, and tie them in pudding-cloths very tight,-.4Mie 
hour will boil them, — and when you take them up, just dip them in 
cold water, and pttt them in A cup the sise of ^e dunyling while 
you untie tbem, and they will turn oat without breaking. 

•PBXN0 rmVXT, OR RHUBARB PUDDXMO. 

522. Peel, and wcfl wash four dosen sticks of rhnbsrb : pot into 
a stew-psn with the pudding a lemon, a little cinnamon, and as much 
moist sugar as will make it quite sWeet ; set it over a fire, and le- 
duce it to a marmalade ; pass through a hair-sieTe, and proceed as 
directed for the Boston Pudding, leaving out the lemoB-JulGe, as the 
thttbmb wiU be Anmd sofilctenUy acid of itielf. 



■■ 



PUDDINGS AND PIBS. 343 

0PAIKO FRVITj OB RHVBA&B PVBl^INO. 

(ANOTHEa WAY.) 

523. Clean as above ihwe or four dozen sticks of Rhubarb ; put 
it in a stew-pan, with the peel of a Lemon, a bit of Cinnamon, two 
Cloves, and as much moist sugar as will sweeten it ; set it over a 
lire, and reduce it to a mannalade ; pass it fhrcmgh a hair-«eve ; 
then add the peel of a Lemon, and half a Nutmeg grated, a quarter 
of a pound of good Butter, and thejolks of four Eggvand one white, 
imd mix aH well together : line a pie-dish (that will jost eontaiu' it) 
with good piziF paste ; put the miidTore in, and bake it half an hour. 

MOTTIMOVAIf PUDBINa. 

524. Peel six good apples ; takeout the core with the point of a 

small knife, or an apple corer, if you have one, — ^but be sure to leave 

the apples whole ; fill up where you took the core from with sugar ; 

place them in a pie-dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, 

prepared as for Batter Pudding and bake an hour in a moderate 

oven 

BRBAD PVBDINO. 

525. Make a pint of Bread-crumbs ; put them in a stew-pan with 
as much milk as will cover them, the peel of a lemon, and a little 
nutmeg grated, a small piece of cinnamon : boil about ten minutes; 
sweeten with powdered loaf-sugar ; take out the cinnamon, and put 
in four eggs ; beat all well together, and bake half an hour, or bo3 
rather more, than an hour. 

PLAIN BRBAD PUBDING. 

' 526. 3tfake fiv« eunoes of Bread-crambs ; put them in a basin ; 
pour three quarten of a pint of boiling milk over them ; put a plate 
over the top to keep in tlie steam ; let it stand twenty minutes, then 
bent it up quite smooth with two ounces of sugar and a salt-spoonful 
of nutmeg. Break four eggs on a plate, leaving out one white ; beat 
them well, and add them to the Pudding. Stir it all weH together, 
and put it in a mould that has been weU buttered and floured ; tie 
a ck)th over it, and boil it one hour. 

BREAD AND BUTTBB PUDDINQ. 

527. You must have a di»h that will hold a quart, — ^wash and 
'|Mdc two ounces of currants ; strew a few at the bottom of the dish ; 
cut about four layers of very thin Bread and Butter, and between 
each layer of Bread and Butter strew some currants *, then break 
four eggs in a basin, leaving out one white *, beat them well, and add 
•four ounces of sugar and a drachm of nutmeg ; stir it well together 



344 THB cook's ORACLE. 

with a pint of new milk ; pour it over about ten minutes before ]roii 
put it in the oven,— it will take three quarten of an hour to bake. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDINQ^ 

ANOTHER VaY. 

527.* Take a dish that will hold a Quart, and well butter it; 
have a quarter of a pound of Currants, and strew some of them over 
the bottom of the dish ; then cut nine pieces of bread and butter, 
and make three layers of them, strewing Cuiraats between each 
layer ; beat^Soe eggs, leaving out the whites of two, and mix them, 
and hal/ a drachm of nutmeg, and the same quantity of Grated 
Lemon Peel, and three ounces of Moist Sugar, in a Pint of New 
3iBlk« 

This mixture to be poured over it before it is put in the oven. 
It should be baked one hour. A glass of white wine is consider^ 
by some a great improvement 

BATTER PUDDING. 

528. Take six ounces of fine flour, a little salt, and three eggs; 
beat up well with a little milk, added by degrees till the batter is 
quite smooth — make it the thickness of cream, — ^put into a buttered 
pie-dish, and bake three quarters of an hour, or into a buttered 
and floured basin, tied over tight with a doUi — boil one hour and 
a baV, or two hours. 

TORXSaiRB PUDDINO UNDER ROAST MEAT. 

THE GinsIBS* WAY. 

529. This padding is an especially excellent accompaniment to 
a Sir-loin of bee^Loin of yealy-..or any lat and juicy joint. 

Six table-spoonsl^Bl of flour, three eggs, a tea^poonftd of salt, and 
a pint of milk— so as to make a middling stiff batter, a little stifler 
than you would fyt pancakes ; beat it up well, and take care it is 
not lumpy ; put a dish under the meat, and let the drippings drop 
into it till it is quite hotand well greased v-*-then pour in the batter; 
.ii-when the upper surfiice is brown and set, turn it that both ades 
may be brown alike ; if you wish it to cut firm, and the pudding an 
inch thidi:, it will take two hours at a good fire. 

N.B. 7%a<«ttfroy^bftw«PiMMiivr is about half an inch thick wlMD 
done ; but it is the fiuhion in London to make them fiiU twice that 

thickness. 

PEASE PUDDZNGk 

580. Put a quart of split pease into a clean cloth ; do not tie 
them up too ^lose, but leave a little room for them to swell ; piit 



PUDDINGS AND PIES. 345 

them on to boil in cold water, slowly till they are tender; if they 
ttft good pease they will be boiled enough in about two hours and a 
lialf ; rub them through a sieve into a deep dish, adding* to them 
an egg or two^ an ounce of butter, and some pepper and salt ; beat 
them well together for about ten minutes, when these ingredients 
are well incorporated together ; then -flour the cloth well, put the 
pudding in, and tie it up as tight as possible, and boil it an hour 
longer. It is as good with boiled beef as it is with boiled Pork ; 
and why not with roasted Pork ? 

06«.-.This is a very good accompaniment to cold Pork or cold 

Beef 

NBWICARKBT PUDDING. 

531. Put on to boil a pint of good milk with half a lemon^peel, 
a little cinnamon,. and a bay-leaf; boil gently for five or ten 
minutes ; sweeten with loaf sugar ; break the yolks of five, and the 
whites of three eggs, into a basin ; beat them well, and add the 
milkr— beat all well together, and strain through a fine hair-sieve, 
or tanuuv-Jiave some bread and butter cut very thin ; lay a layer 
of it in a pie-dish, and then a layer of currants, and so on till the 
dish is nearly ftdl, — ^then pour the custard over it, and bake half an 
hour. 

NEWCASTIiB OK CABINET PUDDING. 

532. Butter a half melon mould, or quart basing and stick all 
round with dried chenies, or fine raisins, and fill up with breadand 
butter, Slc as in the above ; and steam it an hour and a half. 

VBRMIOBLIiI PUDDING. 

533. Boil a pint of milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; 
sweeten with loaf-sugar ; strain through a sieve, and add a quarter 
of a pound of vermicelli : boil ten minutes, then put in the yolks of 
five* and the whites of three eggs ; mix well together, and steam it 
one hour and a quarter : the tame may be baked half an hour. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

534. Boil a pint of Milk, and a quarter of a pint of good 
Cream ; thicken with flour and water made perfectly smooth, till 
it is Kliff enoni^ to bear an egg on it ; break in the yolks of &^ 
eggs ; sweeten with powdered loaf-sugar ; giate in a Uttle nutm^ 
and the peel of a lemon ; add half a glass of good brandy, then whip 

* To incKMe the balk and cUaiiiii«h the expense of this podding, the econo- 
niosl houekecptr who has a Itoffp fiqaily to feed may noir add two poanda of 
potatoes that hare been boiled and well mashed. To many this mixture it inoro 
agieeable than peaae pudding alone. See also <108) . 



346 TAB cook's OnAXHM, 

the ^vliitei ef tbe fire eggs tQI quite «|if; and tux genajraU tagelhnr i 
line a pie^iiii with good puflp poflte, and boko half aa hour. 

N.B. Graand Biee, Potato Flo«r« Panada^ and aU P«ddiiigi 
■ado ftoB Foipden, are, or aiaj be, prepaied in the aaina way. 

COLLEGB PUDDINGS. 

535. Beat four Bggt, yolks and whites together, in a quart baaia, 
with'two ouioes of Fk>ur, half a Nutmeg a little Gingei^aad thxee 
ounces of Sugar — ^pounded Loaf Sugar is best Beat it into a smooth 
batter ; then add six ounces of Suet, chopped fine, six of Cunwats, 
well washed and picked; mix it all well together— a glasa of 
Brandy or White Wine will improve it. These puddings aiB 
genexally iried in Butter or Lsni ; but they are much nicer baked 
in an oven in patty pans ;■ twenty minutes wiU bake them :■ if 
filed, fry tbem till tiiey are of a nice Ught bivwn, ttnd when fined 
ndl them in a little Flour. You may add one ounce of Orange or 
Gitnm, minoed veiy fine; when you bake them, add one more 
E3gfj^ or two spoanirflBl of milk. Serve them np with White- Wine 
fisuce. 

&XCE PUDDINGS BAKSDj OR BOIIiBD. i 

536. Wash in cold water and pick yery dean six ounces of Rice, 
put it in a quart stew-pan three parts filled with cold water, .set it 
on the fire, let it boil fife minutes pour away the water, and put 
in one quart of Milk, a roll of Lemmi-Peel, and a bit of Cinnamon; 
let it boii gentty till the Bice is quite tender : it will take at least 
one hour and a quarter ; be careful to stir it eveiy five minutes : 
take it off the fire, and stir m an ounce and a half of Fresh Butter, 

.and beat up three Eggs on a plate, a nli-spoonful of Nutmeg, two 
memoes of Si^^ ; pot it into the Pudding, and stir it till it is quite 
anuMitiu-Jine a pieHfish big enough to hold it with Puff Paatf, 
itt^kh it lODiid tbe edge, pot in your Pudding, and bake It three 
quarten of an hour: this will be a nice fiim Pudding. 

If you like it to eat more like Custard, add one more Egg, and 
half a pint more milk ; it will be better a little thinner when boiled ; 
ene hour will boil it. If you like it in little Pnddii^s, batter 
ittiaU te»Knips, and either bake or boil them — ^half an hour will do 
eilfaer; yon may rerj the Puddiiig by putting in Candied Lemon 
4ir Oraoge-Peel, minoed veiy fine—^r dried Chenies.— or time 
, ettioes of Ciimmt»-'4fr J RaAim^ ,. ar Apples minoed fine. 

If the Puddings axe baked or bouied, senre then witk White- 
Wine $avce, or Butter and Sugar. 



VWDIHOB AND PII8* 347 

aBOUMD RIOB PVBBINa. 
5S7* Piitfoiir<miKMofgroniidRieeiBtoagtoir''pui«aikdby de« 
gKeM «tir in a pint and a half of Milk ; set it on tile fire, witli 
« foil of LemOD and a bit of Cinnamon ; keep atbriag il tiJlitboik 
— ^beat it to a smooth Batle»^-4ben set it oa the tnret, where H will 
eimmer gently for a quartei: of an hour ; — then beat three Eggs on 
a plate, stir them into the Pudding, with two ounces of Sugar and 
two diachms of Ntttmeg.-.4ake out the Lemon-Peri and CSnnttaon 
.-t«lir it all wMl tdgellMr,Uneapia'didi withtfain Pnff Paiie(469)« 
b^ etMMigh to h(M it, or Butter the INih well, and bake it halfaa 
liour^^ bailed it will take one hour in a nonld w«U bttttond^ 
three oonoeeef Cmiaats nay be added. 

RZCB BNOW BALLS. 

^8. Wash and pick half a pound of Blee ^wry cfcra, put it <m io 
a sauce-pan with plenty of water ; when it boilf M it boil ten mi^ 
mites, drain it on a diere t&l it is quite dry, and tbea pore six 
apples, weighing two ounces and a half eaeh. Ditide the Bice ia* 
to six parcels, in sepamte cloths, put one apple hn each, tie it loore^ 
and bdl it one hour, serve it with Sugar and Butter, or wine saiiee» 

OOTTAOB POTATO PUDDZNO OR OAKB. 

£39. Peel, boil, and nuuih a couple of pounds of Potatoes ; beat 
them up into a smooth batter, with about three quarters of a pint 
of lililk, two ounces of moist Sugar, and two or three beaten Eggs*' 

Pake it about three quarters of an hottt. 

Three ounces of Currants or Raisins may be added. 

Leave out the Hilk, and add three ounces of Butter, it will make 

a very nice cake. 

POTATO PVPFS. 

540. Take cold roast meat, either Beef or Mutton, Or Veal and 
Ham, clear it from the gristle, cutit small, and season either with 
Zest, or pepper and salt, and cut piddes—boil end mash some po- 
tatoes, and make them into a paste with one or two eggs, roll it out, 
with a dust of flour, cut it round with a saucer, put some of yoor 
eeasoned meat on one half, and fold it over like a puff; pinck or 
nick it neatly round, and fry it a light brown. 

This is the most elegant method of preparing meat that has b^eii 
dressed before. 

•AVB-ALIi PVliBIirCh 

541. Put any scraps of Bread hito a clean sanee^pan^-^o about 
a pound, put a pint of MiDc ; set it on tiie trivet till it bc^ beat it 
up quite smooth, then break i& three Sggs^ three ooaees of Sugar, 



348 THE cook's oeacle. 

with a little Kutmeg, Ginger or Allspice, and stir it all well toge- 
ther. Butter a Dish big enough to hold it, put in the pudding, and 
have ready two ounces of suet chopped veiy fine, strew it oTer the 
top of the pudding, and bake it three quarters of an hour : four 
ounces of Cunants will make it much better. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 

542. Break three Eggs in a Basin ; beat them up with a little 
nutmeg and salty— then put to them four ounces and a half of flooi^ 
and a little milk— beat it of a smooth batter, — then add by degrees 
as much milk as will make it the thickness of good cream : the 
frying-pan must be about the size of a pudding plate, and very clean, 
or they will stick ; make it hot, and to each pancake put in a bit 
of butter about as big as a wahiut : when it is melted, pour in the 
batter to cover the bottom of the pan ; make them the thickness of 
half a crown ; try them of alight brown on both sides. 

The above wiU do for Applb Frittsbs, by adding one spoonfiil 

mxae of Flour ; peel your Apples, and cut them in thick slices ; 

take out the core, dip them in the batter, and fry them in hot laid, 

^^-^t them on a sieve to drain,. . diwh them neatly, and grate some 

loaf-sugar over them. 

OMEZiBTTSS. 

543. There is no dish which in this country may be considered 
as coming under the denomination of a Made Dish of the sec<ad 
ctder, which is so generally eaten, if good, as an Omdette ; and no 
one is so often badly dressed : it is a very fiiithful assistant in the 
eonstructioa of a dinner. 

When you are taken by surprise, and wish to make an appear- 
ance beyond what is provided fbr the every-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some Zest (229), and a few Vegetables^ 
will make a good broth a pot of the stewed veal of Mondson^ 
wanned up— an Omele tte ,, a n d some Apple or Lemon Fritten^ 
can all be got ready at ten minutes* notice^ and with the original 
foundation of a I«eg of Mutton, or a piece «f Beef^ will make up a 
vtery good dinner when company unexpectedly arrivea, in the coun> 

try. 

The great merit of an Omelette is, that it. should not be greasy, 
burnt, nor too much done : if too much of the white of the Eggs ia 
left in, no art can prevent its being hard, if it is done : to dress the 
Omelette the fire should not be too hot, as it is an object to have 
the whole substance heated, without much browniqg the outside. 

One of the great errors in the cooking an Om^ette is, that it is 
too thin : consequently, instead of foeling full and moist in the 



0MSLBTTB8. 349. 

xaoath, the sulwtance presented is little better than a piece of fried 
leather : to get the Omdette thick is one of the great objects. With 
vespecttothe flavours to be introduced, these are infinite: that 
Which is inost common, howeyer, is the best, viz. finely chopped 
Parsley, and Chives, or Onions, or Eschalots : — ^however, one made 
of a mixture of Tanagon, Chervil, and Parsley, is a very delicate 
variety, omitting or adding the Onion or Chives. Of the Meat 
flavours, the Veal Kidney is the most delicate, and is the most ad- 
niiiired by our neighbours the French : this should be cut in dice, 
and should be dressed (boiled) before it is added ; in the same man- 
ner. Ham and Anchovies, dired small, or Tongue, will make a very 
delicately flavoured dish. 

The objection to an Omelette is, that it is too rich, which makes 
it advisable to eat but a small quantity. An addition of some finely 
mashed Potatoes, about two table-spoonsful to an Omelette of six 
eggs, will much lighten it. 

Omelettes are often served with rich gravy, but, as a general 
principle, no substance which has been fried should be served in 
graTy, but accompanied by it :— or what oi^ht to eat dry and crisp, 
becomes sodden and flat, 

In the compounding the gravy, great care should be taken that 
the flavour does not overcome that .of the Omelette, a thing too 
little attended to : a fine gravy with a flavouring of Sweet Herbs 
and Onions^ we think the best : some add a few drops of Tarragon 
Vinegar ; but this is to be done only with great care : gravies to 
Omelettes are in general thickened ; this should never be done 
with flour ; Potato Starch, or Arrow Root, is the best. 

Omdt^tAea should be fried in a small Frying-pan made for that 
purpose, with a small quantity of Butter. The Omelette^s great 
merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of the outside ; therefore use 
only half the number of whites that you do yolks of Eggs : every 
care must be taken in frying, even at the risk of not having it quite 
Bet in the middle : an Omelette, which has so much vogue abroad, 
is here, in general, a thin doubled-up jniece of leather^ and harder 
than soft leather sometimes. The fact is, that as much care must 
be bestowed on the frying, as should be taken in poaching an Egg. 
A Salamander is necessary to those who will have the top brown : 
but the kitchen Shovel may be substituted for it. 

The/oUowing Receipt is the baets of all Omelettes, of which you may 
make an endless variety, by taking, instead of the Parsley and Escha- 
lot, a portion of Sweet Herbs, or any of the articles enumerated in 
the Table of Materials used for making Forcemeats (see 247 9xA 
^4S)f or any of th^ Forcemeats between (247 to 257). 



550 THE cook's OBACLE. 

OmA^tbm me called hf the name «f irimt is added te flavtMir' 
Itan v--«Hmb or TVnigtte OiMlette^aBAKlMi?y;«a Veal Kidney 
Omelette, Ac.: tiieseareprapaiBdenMtl^iatlwNme wayasiath* 
first receipt, leaving ont the P&nle j and Ksrkatoi, mad nuaenig the 
Hm or Kidnej very fiae, fte^ and adding thai la the placa of tlMaSy 
and then pour cfwt them all sorts of thickened Gfavles, Saoaei^ftc; 

RBCBIPT FOR THE COMMON OMBXiBTTE. 

544. FiTO or six Eggs will make a good siasd Omelette; hnak 

tiiem into a Baan, and beat them well with afotk ; and addassH- 

spoonfUl of salt ; hafe ready chepped two dsaehms of OBian,ar 

three drachms t>f Paisley, a good clove of EadMlot mineed ^p«ry fine ; 

heat it well vp with the Eggs ; then take fimt oimeM effrsdi Batter, 

and break half of it into Uttle faita, and pat it into the Oaeiettq, 

and the other half kite a ^ery dean firyin^-pan ; vriien it is malted, 

pour in the Omelette, and stir it with a spomt tiU it begi» to set, 

then torn it np all loond the edges, and when it is of a niee brown 

it is done : — ^the safest way to take it out is to put a plate on the 

Omelette and turn the pan npade-down : serve it on a hot dish v H 

should nerer be done till just wanted. 1/ Mai^m^ gmted Cheese, 

Shrimps or Oy8ters..-.If Oysters, boil them finir aunutes, and take 

away the beard and gristly part ; they may eithef be put in whole, 

or cut in bits. 

OB, 

645. Take Eggs ready boiled hard, and either fry them whole, or 
cot them in half v— when they are boiled (they will tc^e fire minntee), 
let them lie in cold water till you want to use them ; then roll 
them lightly witii your hand on a table, and they wiU peel without 
breaking ; put them on a doth to dry, and dredge them lightly with 
Flour : beat two Bggs in a barin, dip the Eggs in, one at a Iibm^ 
and then roU them in fine bread-crumbs, or in I>ack (320) ev Veal 
Stuffing (817) ; set them away ready for frying ; fry than in hat 
Oil or clarified Butter, serve them up with Musfaroem Sauee, or any 
other thickened Sauce you please ; cadsp Paisley is a pretty gamish. 

OB, 

546. Do not bdl the Eggs tiU wanted ; boil them ten nlnotfli, 
peel them as above, cut them in hali^ put them on a dish, and hare 
ready a Sauce made of two ounces of Butter and Flour wdl mhhed 
together on a plate, and put it in a stew-pan with thvaa ^larteiB ef 
a pint of good Milk ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it heil8v-*if 
it is not quite smooth, strain it through a sieve, chop some Panl^ 
and a clore of Eschalot as fine as possible, and put in your Sauce; 



BCW8. d5V 

iVjt^ridi ftii to yoax tmk»\ « little Ume and hemw^pod 

boiM wkb ihe &u«, iviU iaq^MMre U ;--^ 

^nMi iM|r«dd » KtllfrOi««m,sMr ibe j^lks (^ twa ISggi, beat iqj» with 

tir» Mle-q^MiMfiil of Jllllk, and stir it in the last thiog ; do B0tli9( 

it Im9 After ; place iha half £;iig9 on a diab with the y^Ha upwvd, 

and poor the Sauce over them. 

N.B« Any oolb nsa eut in loeoea may be wanned in the above 

Sanaa iot a mai JHimer, 

OR, 

. Mf . AKoe t«rf thin two OnionB weighing about two ounces eaofa, 
put them into a stew-jpan with thxae ouncea of Butter ; keep them 
coTeied till they are just done, stir them every now and then, and 
when they are of a nice Brown, stir in as much 'flour as will nutke 
them of a stiff paste, then by degrees add as much Water or Milk 
at wiUmake it the itbickness of good Cream : seafl(m it with pepper 
and aalt to 3FQ«r taste ; have ready boiled hard four or five B^l^v^ 
yen may either aheed them, or cut them in halves or quarters, — 
tben put tbera in the Saoce : when they are hot they are ready : 
garnish them with sippets of Bread. 

Ok, hftve veady a plaia Omelette^ cut into bits, and put them into 
the Sauce. 

Or, cut off a tittle bit of one end of the £|ggs, so that they may 
atand up ; and take out the yolfcs whole of some of them, and cut 
the whites in half, or in quarters. 

O&i-— This is oalled in the Parisian kitchen, ^ Egg» b, la Trip, 

teUh a Botu.*'* 

TO POACH EGGS. 

548. The Cook who wishes to display her skill in Poaching, must 
endeavour to procure Eggs that have been laid a couple of days ; 
those that are quite new-laid are so milky that, take all the care 
you can, your cooking of them will seldom procure you the praise 
of being a Prime Poacher v-^fou must have firesh SggPy or it ie 
vequa% impossible. 

The beauty of a Peached E^gg is for the yolk to be seen blushing 
ihrough the White«-*-which should only be just sufficiently hard- 
iened, to iezm a .transparent Veil for the Egg. 

Hare some boiling water'*' in a Tea-kettle, — ^pass as much of it 
through a clean cloth as will half fiU a stew-pan ; break the ^Egg into 
a cup, and when the water boils, remove the stew-pan firom the stove, 
and gently slip the Egg into it ; it must stand till the white is set ; 
ihta put it over a very moderate fire, and as soon as the water boils, 

* straining the water is an indi^pmeciilU precaution, imlen Ton use Spring- 
'vmter. 



952 THB cook's ORACLE. 

the Egg is ready ; take it up with a sliee, and neatly round off the 
ragged edges of the white,— said them up on Bkiiad toasied on one 
9ide otdy^ with or without Butter ; or without a toast, garnished 
with streaked Bacon (443 or 444), nicely fried, or as done in (551), 
or slices of Broiled Beef or Mutton (402), Anchovies (372 and 373), 
Pork Sausages (86), or Spinage (118). 

Ob$, — ^The Biead should be a little larger than the Egg, and 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; only just give it a yellow colour : 
if you toast it brown, it will get a bitter flavour ; — or moisten it by 
pouring a little hot water on it ; some sprinkle it with a few dtcsg^ 
of Vinegar, — or of Essence of Anchovy (371). 

TO BOXIi EGGS TO EAT IN THE SHEIiX., OR 

FOR SAIiADS. 

549. The fresher laid the better, put them into boiling water ; if 
you like the white just set,+ about two minutes boiUng is enough ; 
a new-laid egg will take a little more ; if you wish the yolk to be 
set, it will take three, — and to boil it hard for a Salad, ten minutes. 
See (313). 

Chi, — A new-laid Egg will require boiling longer than a stale one, 
by half a minute. 

Tm MachtTies for boUing Eggs on the Breakfast Table are sold by 
the Ironmongers, which perfoim the process veiy regularly; — io 
four minutes the white is just set. 

N.B. ** Eggs may he preserved for Twdve Months, in a sweet and 
palatable state for eating in the shell, or using for Salads, by boil- 
ing them for one minute ; and when wanted for use, let them be 
boiled in the usual manner : the white may be a little tougher than 
a new-laid egg, but the yolk will show no diflerence.*^ — See Hun- 
TSR^s CttUna^ page 257. 

EGGS iPOACBED WITH SAUCE OF MINOBD HAM. 

550. Poach the EJggs as before directed, and take two or three 
slices of boiled ham ; mince it fine with a gherkin, a moisal of onion, 
a little parsley, and pepper and salt ; stew all together a quarter of 
an hour ; serve up your sauce about half boiling ; put the ^gs in 
a dish, squeeze over the juiee of hal^ a Seville orange, or lemon, 
and pour the sauce over them. 

***K couple of poached Eggs, with a few fine diy ftied coUopt of pure Baoon, 
axe not bad for breakfiwt, or to brain a meal," sajB Sir Ksnjblm DigbT) |C.D. in 
his Clotd, of Cookery. London, 16f)9, page 167. 

t The lighteat mode of prepaiina egn for the table, is to boU fhem only as 
long as is necessary to coagulate sugnuT the greater iwrt of the white wiUMiKt 
depziving the joUc of its fluidity."— Dr. Fcarson's Mat. JUm. 8to. 180^ p. 96. 



BGHiS AND BACON. B53 

BOGS FRIED WITH BACON. 

' 5111. Lay some slices of fine streaked Bacon {not more than a 
quarter of an inch thick) in a clean dish, and toast them before the 
fire ip a Gheeae-toaster, turning them when the upperside is brown- 
ed^— first aak those who are to eat the Bacon, if they wish it much 
or little done, i. e, curled and crisped, see (443)^--or mellow and 
soft (444).-4f the latter, parboU it first 

WeUrdeamed (see 82) Drijiping^ or Lard^ or Fresh Butter, are the 
best &ts for fiying Eggs. 

Be sure the fiying-pan is quite dean ; when the fiit is hot, break 
two or three Eggs into it ; do not turn them, but, while they are 
frying, keep poiaring some of the fiit over them with a spoon :— 
when, the Yolk just begins to look white, which it will in about a 
eouple of minutes, they are done enough ;— /A« wkUe mugt not loose 
it» tranaparmetf^ but the Tcih he eeen UutMng through U. — ^If they are 
done nicely, they will look as white and delicate as if they had been 
]K)acfaed ; take them up with a tin slice, drain the Fat from them, 
trim them neatly, and send them up with the Bacon round them. 

RAGOUT OF BGGS AND BACON. 

552. Boil half a dozen Eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold 
water, peel them and cut them into halves ; pound the yolks in a 
maifole mortar, with about an equal quantity of the white meat of 
dressed Fowl or Veal, a Utile chopped Parsley, an Anchovy, an 
Eschalot, a quarter of an ounce of Butter, a table-spoouM of Mush* 
room Catchup, a little Cayenne, lome Bread-crumbs, and a very 
little beaten Mace or Allspice ; incorporate them well together, and 
fill the halves of the whites with this mixture ; do them over with 
the yolk of an Egg, and brown them in a Dutch oven, and serve 
them on relishing rashers of Bacon or Ham, see (444). 

For Sauce, melted Butter, flavoured to the fancy of the Eaters, 
with Mushroom Catchup, Anchovy, Cuny-Powder (383), or Zest 
(229). 

FRIED BGGS AND MINCBD HAM OR BACON. 

553. Choose some very fine bacon streaked with a good deal of 
lean ; cut this into very thin slices, and afterwards into small square 
-pieces ; tiirow them into a stew-pan, and set it over a gentle fire, 
that they may lose some of their &t When as much as will freely 
€pme is thus melted from them, lay them on a warm disli. Put into 
a stew-pan a ladleful of melted bacon or lard ; set it on a stove ; 
put in about a dozen of the small pieces of bacon, then stoop the 
fitew-|ttn fuid break in an egg. Manage this carefully, and the eg^ 

z 



354 THB cook's ORACXE. 

will pfesentlf be done i it will be yety raund, and ihe Jiitle dice of 
bacon will stick to it all over* so that it will make a very, paet^ ap- 
peaiaace* Tske.caie tbe yoUcs do not baiden : when the. egg is thai 
done, lay it caiefidly in a waim dish,- and do tbe othexe. 
**« Th^ wckom. 685 «m^ of dtrtdngEggt imihe Frmdk Kiieim; 

KUcken. 

KAGAilQNX PUDDING,, 

554. One of tbe most elegant piepaiationB of JUimioiii is 4be> 
TwHbaU d» Mwartmi. fi^mmer half a pound of Macaniiii«m plenty 
of water, and a table-epooAfnl of salt,'till itis tender ; bnttakecase 
net to bave it too soft ^ tboqgb tender, it iboiild be fiim, and 4be 
ISszm entflrely presenred, and no part beginning to melt, (ibis cau- 
tion will serve for the prepantienof all -Maeamni^. Stnin tbe 
water ftom it^-beet up five yolkt and the white of two ^g§;».-tak* 
half a pint of tbe beet cream, and the bseast of a fowl, and some 
thin slices of Ham. Mince tbe breast of the fowl with the Ham- 
add them with from twe to thi»e iable-spoonafnl of finely ginted 
Parmesan Cheese, and season with Pepper and Salt. Mix all these 
with the Macaroni, and put into a pudding-mould well buttered, 
and then let it steam in a stew-pan .of boiling water for sdxmt an 
boor, and serve quitehot, with rich gravy (as inOmelette). See (548). 

Obt. — ^11u% we have been informed, is 'Considered by a Ormd 
Churutcmd as liie most important recipe which was added to the ei^ 
lection of his Cook during a gastronomic > tour through EuMpe ; it 
is not an wieommon mode of preparing Macaroni on the ^*w<tineiiti 

MACABONX. . 

(Ste Mac^nm J^uddingfor the Boaling it,) 

555. The usual mode of dressing it in this countiy i» by adding a 
white sauee, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and bumii^it ; but 
this makes a dish which is proyerfaiaUy unwholesome : its bad qv»> 
lities arise from the oiled and burnt cheese, and the half-dressed flour 
and butter put into the white sauce. 

Macaroni plain boiled, and some rich stock or portable soup add- 
ed to it quite hot, wiU be found a delicious dish, and veiy whole- 
some. Or boil Macaroni as -directed in the receipt for the Pudding, 
and serve it quite hot in a deep tureen, and let each guest add gia- 
ted Parmesan and cold butter, or died butter served hot, and it is 
excellent.: this is the most ccnnmon Italian mode of dicMiBg it 
Macaroni yriHi cream, Biigar, and cinnamon, or a little YaneeUi 
added to the cream, makes a very niee sweet dish. 



. TOASTBD OHSSaE. S55 

BNaUMi WAY or ' B1UBSSI190 MACABOIII. 

556. Put a quattor of a pound of Riband Macaroni into a stew- 
pan with a pint of boiling Milk, or Broth, or Water; let it boil 
gently till it is tender/tius will talse about a Quarter of an hour — 
then put in an ounce of grated cheese, and a teanspoonful of salt ; 
mix it well 'together, and put it on a dish — and strew oyer it two 
ottnoea of grated Pantieaan or Cheshire Oheese-^and give it a light 
brown in a Dutch oven. Or put all the Gheese into the Macaroni, 
and put BreadHVumbs oyer the top. 

Bbcaroni is yeiy good put into a thick Sauce with some shreds of 
dressed Ham, or in a Cuiiy Sauce. Riband Macaroni is best for 
these diriiei,'aad should not be dentf so muoh. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. 

" Happy the man tiiat haa each fortiiBe tried. 
To whom she much has giT'n, uid mnch denied ; 
With afostinefitie all delicates he wea, 
And OBB ngalehimaelf om toaated eheeae." 

KiNO'8 ^rt cf OMhary. 

557. Cut a slice of Bread about half an inch thick ; pare off the 
crust, and ttMutUioefy tUgkt^ on one sideao as just to brown it, with- 
out making it hard or burning it. 

Cut a slice of Cheese (good fat mellow Cheshire cheese, or double 
Gloster, is bettev than poor, thin, single Gloster) a -^[uarter of an 
inch thieky not ao big as 4he bread hj half an inch oa each side :— - 
' pare off the" lind, c ut out all the specks and rotten parts,* and lay 
it on the toasted Bread in a cheese-toaster v-— earefblly watch itthat 
it does not bum^ and stir it with a spoon to preyent a pellicle form- 
ing on the sur&ce. Haye ready good Mustard, Pepper, and Salt 
If you obserye the directions here giyen, the Cheese will eat mel- 
low, and will be uniformly done^ and the Bread crisp and soft, and 
will well deserve- its ancient appellation of a '^ 'Safe BU.** 

0&9.-~0ne woidd think notiiing eoold be eaaer than to prepare 
a WeUh Babbit »*•— yet, not- only in Private FamilieB, but at Taverns, 
it is very seldom aent to table in perfection. — We have attempted 
to account'for thia in the last panigmph of Obe, to (41 1). 

TOASTED OHESSB. 

558. We have nothing Jbo add to the directions given for toasting 
the Cheese in the last receipt, except that in sending it npr-^ wUl 
acme much Time in partionmff itout ai table if you have half a dosen 
small Silver or Tin pans to fit into the Cheeee-Teaater, and do the 

* BoUen Cfteoe toasted is the ne jpbtf uttnt of Aouij^fHU,— andonlj eatahle by 
the thoioagh-hzed Oourmand in the most inverted state of his jaded Appetite. 



356 THB cook's OBACLS. 

Cheese in these : each person may then be helped to a separate 
pan, and it will keep the Cheese much hotter than the usual waj of 
eating it on a cold plate. 

Mem, — Send up with it as many CkMlen* as you have pans of 
Cheese. 

Obs. — Ceremony seldom triumphs more completely oyer Comkm 
than in the serving out of this dish, which, to be presented to the 
Palate in perfection, it is imperatively indispensable that it be intro* 
duced to tiie Mouth as soon as it appears on the Table. 

BUTTERED TOAST AND CHEESE. 

550. Prepare a round of Toast ; — butter it ; — grate over it good 

Cheshire Cheese about half the thickness of the toast, and give it a 

brown. 

POUNDED CHEESE. 

560. Cut a pound of good mellow Chedder, Cheshire, or North 
Wiltshire Cheese into thin bits ; add to it two, and if the Cheese is 
dry, three ounces of fresh Butter ; pound, and rub them well to* 
gether in a mortar till it is quite smooth. 

Obe. — ^When Cheese is dry, and for those whose digestion is 
feeble, tius is the best way of eating it ; add spread on Bread, it 
makes an excellent Luncheon or Supper. 

N.B. — ^The piquanoe of this is sometimes increased by pounding 
it with Curry Powder, (383), Ground Spice, Black Pepper, Cayenne, 
and a little made Mustard ; and some moisten it with a glass of 
f^erry. If pressed down hard in a jar, and covered with clarified 
Butter, it will keep for several days in cool weather. 

CRUSTS OF BREAD FOR CHEESE, &o. 

561. It is not uncommon to see both in private fitmilies and at 

Taverns a loaf entirely spoiled>-by furious Epicures puing off the 

crust to eat with cheese * — ^to supply this — and to eat with Soups, 

&C. — ^puU lightly into small pieces the crumb of a new loaf; put 

them on a tin plate, or in a baking dish ; set it in a tolerably brisk 

oven till they are crisp, and nicely browned — or do them in a Dutch 

oven. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. 

561 * Bone and wash the Anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with a little fresh butter ; rub them through a sieve, and spiead 
them on a toast, see (372 and 373, and 301 and 302.) 

06«. — You may add, while pounding the anchovies, a little made 
Mustard and Curry Powder (383), or a few grains of Cayenne, of 

* The Nunery xi^ja» for Bread Toasted on one nde onlj. 



DEVILED BISCUIT. 357 

a little Mace or other spice. It may be made still more savoury, 
by ftyingthe toast in clarified butter. 

DBVIXiBD BISCUIT, 

562. Is the above composition spread on a biscuit wanned before 
the fire in a Dutdi oven, with a sufficient quantity of salt and 
savoury Spice (384), Zest (229), Curry Powder, (383), or Cayenne 
Pepper sprinkled over it. 

Ob9, — ^Hus ne fltu ultra of high-spiced relishes, and (457), 
frequently make their appearance at tavern dinners, ' when the 
votaries <rf Bacchus are determined to vie with each other in 
aacrificing to the Jolly CkxL 



BLANCMANGES AND CUSTARDS. 

BLANCMANOB. 

563. Boit for a few minutes a pint and a half of new Milk, with 
an ounce of picked Isinglass (if in summer, one ounce and a quar- 
ter), the rind of half a Lemon peeled very thin, a little Cinnamon, 
and a blade of Mace, and two and a half ounces of Lump Sugar ; 
bfamdi and pound eight or ten Bitter, and half an ounce of Sweet 
Almonds very fine, wiHi a Spoonful of Rose Water, and mix them 
with the Milk ; strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into a 
basin, with half a pint of good Cream. Let it stand half an hour; 
pour it into another baon, leaving the sediment at the bottom, and 
when nearly cold fill it into moulds: when wanted, put your finger 
roimd the mould ; poll out the blancmange ; set it in the centre of 
a dish, and garnish with dkes of Orange. 

N.B. About half a gill of Noyeau may be substituted for the 

Almonds. 

BICB BIiAHOMANQB. 

564. Put a tea-cupftil of whole rice into the least water possible, till 
it almost bursts ; then add half a pint of good Milk or thin Cream, 
and boil it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole time it is on 
the fire, tiiat it may not bum ; dip a shape in cold water, and do 
not dry it, put in iJie rice, and let it stand until quite cold, when it 
will otmie oasily out of the shape. This dish is much approved of; 
it is eaten with cream or custard, and preserved j&uits^-raspberries 
are best It should be made the day before it is wanted, that it 
may get firm. 



358 TfiE cook's 0RACL8. 

This Blancmange will eat much nicer, flaTOOied wi^ Spioes, 

Lemon-Peel, &c. and sweetened with a little Loof Sugar, add it 

with the Milk, and take out the Lemon-Peel before you put in the 

mould. 

ABROW-aOOT BX^NOKANOE. 

665. Take a tea-cupftd of Anow-root to a pint of milk, boil the 
milk with twelve eweet, and six bitter Almonds, blanched and bea;^ 
en ; sweeten with loaf sugar, and strain it, break the Azvow-root 
with a little of the milk as smooth as possible — pour the boiling 
milk upon it by degrees, stirring all the while, put it back into the 
pan, let it boil a few minutes still sHrring dip the shape in cold 
water before you put it in, and turn it out when cold. 

ITALIAN CBBAM. 

566. Bub on a lump of Sugar the rind of a Lemon, and scrape 
it off with a knife into a deep dish or china bowl, and add half a 
gill of Brandy, two ounces and a half of sifted Sugar, the juice of a 
Lemon, and a pint of Double Cream, and beat it iqp well with a 
clean whisk : — in the mean time boil an ounce of Isinglass in a gill 
of Water till quite dissolved ; strain it to the oUief ingredients ; 
beat it some time,^.«nd fill your mould; and when cold and set 
veil, dish it as in t^ forgoing receipt 

N.B. The above may be flavoured with any kind of liqueur, 
Baspbetry, Strawbeny, or other fruits, coloured with prepared 
Coohineal, and named to conespond with the flavour given. 

8 FBI NO CBBAM, OB MOCK OOOSEBEBBY FOOL. 

567. Prepare a Maimalade aa direeted for the Pudding : to which 
add a pint of good Hisk Cream ; serve. up in glasses, or in a deep 
dish :-^ wanted in m shape, dissolve ^n> ounoes of Imnglaas in a 
little water ; strain it through a tamis, and when nearly cold put 
it to the Cream ; pMT it into a JeUy mould, «nd when set turn out 
into a dish, and serve up plain. 

CIiOUTBD OB CLOTTED CBEAM. 

568. The milk which is put into the pans one.moming stands till 
the next *, then set the pan on a hot hearth (or in a Copper Tray,* 
half fiiU of water,-^pttt this over a stove) ; in from ten to twenty 
minutes, according to the quantity of the milk and the siie of the 
pan, it will be enough, — ^the sign of which is, that Madders rise on 
its surface ; this denotes that it is near boiling, which it must by no 
means do ; and it must be instantly removed from tlie fire, and 

• A Bsin-marie. See Note to (40U). 



BLANOMANGBS AND CUSTABDS. 359 

placed in the chiuy till the next moming, when the fine cream is 
thrownup, find is ready for the table, or for Butter, .isto which it 
is soon converted hy stirring it with the hand. 
K^ Thh Beodlpt we-hainenot proved. 

BIRCH'S RECEIPT FOR MOCK CREAM. 

. &B9i* Mix half a taUenipoonfiil of flour with a pint of new milk ; 
let it simmer five minutes to take off the rawness of the flour ; then 
beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and 
ran it through a fine sieve. 

TRIFLE. 

- 569. Mix in a large bowl a quarter of a pound of sifted Sugar, 
the juke of a Lemon, some of the peel gmted fine, half a gill of 
Bfluidy, and ditto of Lisbon or Sweet Wine, and a pint «nd a half 
of good Cream ; whisk the whole well, and take off the froth as it 
rises with a skimmer, and put it on a sieve ; continue' to whisk it 
till you have enough' of the whip^ set it in a cold place' to drain 
thvee or four hours; then lay in a deep dish six or eight* Sponge 
Biscuits, a^ quarter of a pound of Ratafia, two oune^ of Jordan Al- 
monds blanched and spUt, s6me grated Nutmeg and Lemon-Peel, 
Curmnt Jelly aiid Raspberry Jam, half a pint of Sweet Wine, and 
a little Brandy ; when the cakes have ab6<M'bed tile liquor, pour 
over about a pint of Custard, made rather thicker than for Apple 
Pie — and, when wanted, lay on lightly plenty of the whip, and 
throw over a few Nonpareil Comfits. 

IVHIP SYLLABUB. 

< 570. Make a whip as in the last receipt ; mbc with a pint of 

Cream half a pint of Sweet Wine, a glass of Brandy, the juice of a; 

Lemon, grated Nutmeg, tax. ounces of sifted L6af Sugar : nearly fill 

the oustard-glasaes with the mixture, and lay on with a spoon some 

of the whip. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. 

571. Dip into Sugar boiled to a caramel (see 619) email Ratafias, 
stick them on a dii^ in what form you please, then take Ratafias 
one size larger, and having dipped them into the Sugar, build them 
together till about four or five inches high ; make a rim of Yoi^ 
Drops Qr Drageas of Gum Paste, likewise a handful' of Sugar or 
BataSa, and set it over the basket ; line the inside with wafer-paper, 
aad a riioxt time before it is wanted fill it with a mi^nre the same 
as for Trifle, and upon that plenty of good Whip. 



1. ^^-<\ 



V 



B90 THB cook's OBACLS. 

APPIiBS OOVBRBD WITH OU8TAED. 

572. Paie and core some Apples, and cut them in'pieces ; either 
hake or stew them (in. a pan kept on purpose for fruit) with as little 
water as possible ; when .they are completely fiiUen and sweetened, 
put them in a pie dish, and, when cold, pour over an uoboiled cub- 
tard, and put it back into the oven till the custard is fixed : aDutch 
oven will answer very well. This dish is equally good hot or cold. 

BOILED CU8TABD8. 

573. Put a quart of new milk into a stew-pan, with the peel of 
a lemon, cut very thin, a little grated nutmeg, a bay or lauiel-lea^ 
a small stick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fire, but be caiefiil 
it does not boil over : when it boils, set it beside the fire, and sun- 
mer ten minutes ; break the yolks of eight, and the whites of fiiur 
eggs into a basin *, beat them wellr— then pour in the milk a little 
at a time, stirring it as quick as possible to prevent the eggs curd- 
ling ; set it on the fire again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it through a tamis, or fine sieve : 
when cold, add a little brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to the eater^s palate reserve up in glasses, or cups. 

Custards for Baking are prepared as above, passed throng 
a fine sieve ; put them into cups ; grate a little nutmeg over each, 
—•bake them about 15 or 20 minutes. 

BOILBD CUSTARD. 

574. Boil in a pint of Milk, five minutes, Lemon-Peel, Coiiand- 
ers, and Cinnamon, a small quantity of each, half a dozen of Bitter 
Almonds, blanched and pounded ; and four ounces of Loaf Sugar : 
mix it with a pint of Cream, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites 
of six, well beaten, pass it through a haiindeve, stir it with a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, remove it firom the fire, and 
con\inue to stir it till nearly cold, add two table^fpoonsftil of Brandy, 
fill the cups or glasses, and grate Nutmeg over. 

ALMOND CUSTARDS. 

575. Bhinch and pound fine, with half ft gill of Rose Water, six 
ounces of Sweet, and half an ounce of Bitter Almonds, boil a pint 
of Milk as (576), sweeten it with two ounces and a half of Sngu^ 
rub the Almonds through a fine sieve, m^ a pint of Creani, skraiB 
the Milk to the yolks of eight Eggs, and the whites of three well 
hffltrniy.atir it over a fire till it is^ a good thickness, take it off 
the file, and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent its curdling. 



BLANCMAN0B8 AND CUSTARDS. 361 

K3. The aboTe may be baked in capi, or in a diah, with a rim 
of puff paste put round. 

BAKBD CUBTABD. 

576. B<nl in a pint of Milk a few Coriander Seeds, a little Cin- 
namon and Lemon-Peel, sweeten with four ounces of Loaf Sugar, 
and mix with it a pint of cold Milk, beat well eight Eggs for ten 
minutes, and add the other ingredients, pour it from one pan into 
another six or eight times, strain it through a sieve, let it stand 
some time, skim off the fW)ih from the top, fill it in earthen cups, 
and bake them immediately in a hot oven, to give them a good 
odour ; about ten minutes will do them. 

PA1K80M, OB OTHBB FLUX CHBB8B. 

577. Take Damsons that haye been preserved without sugar,— 
pass them through a sieve, to take out the skins and stones. To 
cverj pound of Pulp of Fruit put half a pound of Loaf Sugar, 
broke small ; boil them together till it becomes quite stiff; pour 
it into four common-sised dinner plates, rubbed with a little sweet 
oil,— .put it into a warm place to dry, and when quite firm, take it 
fioin the plate, and cut it into any diape you choose. 

N.fi. Damson Cheese is generally used in Dessertsi 

APPIiB OHBB8B 

578. Take two pounds of Apples, and one pound of Loaf Sugar, 
the juioe and rind of a Lemon ; pare and core the Apples, and cut 
them in pieces ; boil it gently till the Apples fidl completely, and it 
gets quite thick and smooth v— dip a shape in cold water, and put 
in €be Apples : when cold, turn it out. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 



579. Pdt a quartern of Flour into a laige Basin, with two tttt^ 
spoonsful of Saltr— make a hole in the middle^^then put in a Basin 
four table-epoonsful of good Yeast ; stir in a pint of Milk hike- 
warm ; put it in the hole of the Flour ; stir it just to make it of a 
thin Batter ; then strew a little Flour over the topy — ^then set it oA 
one side of the fire, and cover it over ; let it stand till the next 
morning,— then make it into dough ; add half a pint more of warm 



362 TUB cook's obaclb. 

milk ; imead it for ten miniitei^ and then wt it in a walm place 
hj the fire for one hour and a half, — then knead it agaia^ and it i» 
ready either for Loaves or Bricks : — ^bake them from one hour and 
a half to two hours, according to the size. 

FRENCH BREAD AND ROXiIiS. 

580. Take tf pint and a half of Milk; make it quite waim ; half 
a pint of SmidKBeer Yeast; add soffieient Hour to maJ^ it aa 
thick as Batter; pat it into a pan ; cover 2t-dver,*and keep it 
warm : when it has xiaen as high as it will, add a quarter of a pint 
of waim WateR» and half an ounoe' of Halt, ..miT them well to- 
gether, — rub into a little Flour tino ouneesof Butter ; then make 
your Dough, not quite so stiff as for your Bread ; let it stand for 
three quarters of an hour, and it will foe ready to make into Rolls;, 
Sua '.--Jet tliem stand till they have nsen, ftnd bake them in a qniek 

oren.. 

SAIil»Y LUNN^TBA CAKE8. 

581. Take one pint of Ifilk quite warm, a quarter of a pint of 
thick Small-'Beer Yeast: put them into a pan vrith Flonr anffi* 
dent to make it as thick as Batter,.— cover it over, and let it stand 
till it has risen as high as it will, i. e. about two hoars : add two 
ounces of Lump Sugac, dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm 
Milk,* a quarter of a pound of Butter rubbed into your Flour very 
fine, — ^then make your Dough the same as for French Rolls, &c. ; 
let it stand half an hour : then make up your CSakes, and put them 
an tins : — ^when they have stood to rise, bake them^ia aquick oven. 

Care should be taken never to put your Yeast to .Water or Milk 
too hot, or too cold, as either extreme will destroy the Hsimantation. 
In summer it should be lukewarmr*-4n Winter a little waimery— 
and in very cold weather, warmer still. When it has first riaen, if 
you are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand an hour. 

MUFFINS. 

582. Take one pint df Mi£^ qoite waerm, and a quarter of a pint of 
thick Small-Beer Yeast, — strain them into a pan, and add sufiSdent 
Flour to make it like a Batter,— x^ver it over, and let it stand in 
a warm place till it his riseny^then add a quarter of a pint of 
waim Milk, and one ounce of Butter rubbed in some Flour quits 
fine, — mix them well together, — then add sufficient Flour to make 
it into Dough,— cover it over, and let it stand half an hour, — ^then 
work it up again, and break it into small pieces : roll them up quite 

^ If 70a do not mind the expeiiBe, the Cake will be much ligfatert if, inttead of 
tfi0 If ilk, yoB put four Bggt. 



MIEAD AND CAKES. 363 

TOtmd, and eoYer them over for a quaiter of an- boor v— then bake 

them. 

ORUIKPBTS. 

663. The same: instead of makiiig. the mixtuze into Dough, 
add only mifficient flour to make a thick. Batteiv«&nd when it baft 
atood a quarter ofBn.faoar-itirili.be ready to bake. 

MnffinB and CnuBiieta bake best en a Store with an Iron Plate 
fixed on the top-v but they will also bake, in a Frying-pan, taking 
caie the fire is not too .fieree» .and turning them when lightly 
browned. 

YORKSHIRE CAKES. 

SSi. Take a. ]^t and a half of Milk quite warm, & quarter of a 
pint of thick Small-Beer Yeast ; mix them well together in a pan 
with sufficient Flour to make a thick Batter^-^let it stand in a warm 
place covered over till it has risen as high as it will, — rub six ounces. 
of Butter into some Flour till it is quite finOy^— then break three 
l&gg» into your pan with the Flour and Butter ; mix them well 
togethsr^p-^then add sufficient flour to make it into a.X>ough, and 
let it stand a quarter, of aa houry then work it up again, and break 
it into pieces about the size of an egg, or lai^er, as you may f ancy, — 
roll them round and smooth with your hand, and put them on tins, 
and let them stand coTored over with a light piece of flannel. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE CAKE. 

585. Take one pound of doublenrefined Sugar, pounded and 
sifted through a lawn sieve ; pnt into a pan quite free irom grease, 
-Jbreak in the whites of six ^(gs, axkd as much powder Blue as will 
lie (Ml a sixpence ;— beat it well with a spattle for ten minutes, then 
squeeze in the juice of a Lemon, and beat it till it becomes thick 
and tiansparent Set the cake you intend to Ice in an oven or 
warm place five minutes^«»then spread ovex the top and sides with 
the mixture as smooth as possible ; — ^if for a Wedding Cake, only 
plain ice it ; if for a Twelfth Cak^ ornament it with Gom Paste, 
or &ncy articles of any description. 

OU. — ^A good Twelfth Cake, not baked 4eo much, and kept in a 

cool dry place^ will retain its moisturo and eat well, if twelve months 

old. 

TWELFTH CAKE. 

586. Two pounds of sifted Flour, two pounds of sifted Loaf 
Sugar, two pounds of Butter, eighteen Eggs, four pounds of Cnr^ 
rents, one half pound of Almonds blanched and Chopped, one half 
^ound of Citron, one pound of Candied Orange and Lemon-Peel 



364 THE cook's oraols. 

cut into thin dices, a laige Xtttmeggrated, half an onnee <if gromul 
Allq>ice; ground Cinnamon, Mace, Ginger, and Coiianden, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of each, and a gill of Brandy. 

Put the Butter into a stew-pan, in a warm place, and work it into 
a smooth cieam with the hand, and mix it with the Sugar and Spioe 
in a pan (or on your paste boaid)lbr some time ; then faieak in the 
£SggB hy dogiees, and beat it at least twenty minutes ;-^fltir in ibe 
Brandy, and then the Flour, and work it a little ; — add the Fruit, 
Sweetmeats, and Almonds, and mix all together lightly,-^haTe ready 
a hoop cased with paper, on a baking-plate, — put in ithe mixtmei 
smootii it on the top with your hand dipped in milk., put the plate 
<m another, with saw-dust between, to prevent the bottom from co- 
louring too muclv-bake it in a slow oven* four hours or more, and 
idien nearly cold, ice it with (585). 

This mixture would make a handsome cake, foil twelve or four* 
teen inches over. 

06$.— If made in odd weather, the eggs should be broke into a 
pan, and set into another filled with hot water : likewise the ftnit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, laid in a warm place, otherwise it maj 
ehiU tiie butter, and cause the cake to be heavy. 

BRIBS, OR WBBBZNa OAKB. 

587. The only difibrenoe usuaUy made in these Cakes is, the ad- 
dition of one pound of Raisins, stoned, and mixed with the other 

fruit. 

PLAIN POUNB OAKB. 

588. Cream, as in (586), one pound of Butter, and work it well 

m 

* The goodness of a Cake or Biscnit depends much on tta beiiw well iMked; 
great attention should be paid to the different degrees of heat of the oren ; be 
wan to hare it of a good sound heat at first, when, after its being well deaoied 
out, may be baked snch articles as require a hot oven, after which sodi aaw 
directed to be baked in a well-heated or moderate oven, and, lastly, thoee fai a 
•low soaking or cool one. With a little care, the abore dcigreea may aoon ba 
known. 

In making Butter CUkeSt inch as (888, 68& or BBS), too much attention cannot 
be paid to hate the Butter well creamed, for should it be made too warm, it 
would cause the mixture to be the same, and when put to bake, the Fruit, 
Sweetmeats, dtc would hi that erent Ml to the bottom. 

Tbeut Oiiilpe» should be wall proted before put into the OTen, as they willpiaTe 
bat little afterwards. 

In aukfng Bteatftr and OiriM where Butter is not used, the diflbnBit nteasOi 
dkOttld be kept £ree fiom all kinds of Grease, or it is next to impoeaihle to have 
good ones. 

In buttering the insides of Cak»-mon]ds, the butter should be nicely darWed. 
nad when nearly cold, laid on quite smooth, with a small brush kept for that 
purpose. 

Sugar and Flour riionld be quite diy, and a drum siere Is recommended for 
the Sugar. The old way of beating the yolks and whites of Bggt separate fCt« 
oMt in very few caaef ) is not only useless, but a waste of time. They show be 
well incoiporated with the other ingredients, and in some instaaoeathay caanet 
be beat too much. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 365 

togetlier with otie pound of sified Sugar tiU quite smooth ; beat up 
Dine eggs, and put them hy degrees to the butter, and beat them for 
twenty minutes ; mix in lightly one pound of FlouTy-^put the whole 
into a hoop, cased with paper, on a baking-plate, and bake it about 
one hour in a moderate oven* 

An ounce of Caiaway-seeda added to the above, will make what 
is tenned a Rick Seed Cake, 

PIiUM POUND CAKE. 

589. Make a Cake as (588), and when you have beat it, mix in 
lightly half a pound of Currants, two ounces of Orange, and two 
ounces of candied Lemon-Peel cut small, and half a Nutmeg grated. 

COMMON SEED CAKE. 

390. Sift two and a half poimds of Flour, with half a pound of 
good Lisbon or Loaf Sugar, pounded into a pan or bovlj — ^make a 
cavity in the centre, and pour in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and 
a table-spoonful of thick yeast, — mix the milk and yeast with 
enough ilour to make it as thick as cream (this is called setting a 
sponge), set it by in a warm place for one hour, — ^in the meantime, 
melt to an oH half a pound of fresh Butter, and add it to the other 
ingredients, with one ounce of Caraway-seeds, and enough of milk 
to make it of a middling stiffness ; line a hoop with paper, well rub- 
bed over with butter ; put in the mixture ; set it some time to prove 
in a stove, or before the fire, and bake it on a plate about an hour, 
in rather a hot oven, — when done, rub the top over with a paste* 
brush dipped in milk, 

RICH YEAST CAKB. 

591. Set a sponge as in the forgoing Receipt, with the same pro- 
portions of Flour, Sugar, Milk, and Yeast, — ^when it has lain some 
time, mix it with three quarters of a pound of Butter oiled, one 
pound and a quarter of Currants, half a pound of candied Lemon 
and Orange-Peel cut fine, grated Nutmeg, ground Allspice and 
Cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of each-^-case a hoop as stated 
(590), bake it in a good-heated oven one hour and a half. 

N.B. It may be iced with (585), and ornamented as a Twelfth 

Cake. 

QUEEN, OR HEART CAKES. 

592. One pound of sifted Sugar, one pound of Butter, eight Eggs, 
' one pound ^nd a qu^irter of Flour, two ounces of Currants, SiOd half 

a Nutmeg grated. 
Cream the Butter as at (586), and mix it well with the sugar and 



366 THB cook's oracle. 

spice, then put in half the eggs, and beat it ten minutes, add the 

remainder of the eggs, and work it ten minutes longer, stir in the 

flour lightly, and the currants afterwardsy-^then take small tin pans 
of any shape (hearts the most Usual), rub the inside of each witb 
butter, fill and bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on a sheet 
of matted wire, or on a baking-plate,— when done, remove them as 
earl V as possible from the pans. 



QUEEN'S DROPS. , 

593. Leave out four ounces of flour from the last Receipt, and 
add two ounces more of Oummts, and two ounces of candied Peel 
cut small, — ^work it the same as in the last receipt, and when ready 
put the mixture into a Biscuit funnel,* and lay them out in drops 
about the size of half a crown, on white paper, — ^bake them in a 
hot oven, and, when nearly coldf take them from the paper. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES.. 

594. Bub well together one pound of pounded Sugar, one pound 
of fresh Butter, and one pound and a half of sifbed Flour, — mix it 

into a paste, with half a gill of milk or cream, and one egg, let it 

lie half an hour, roll it out thin, cut it out into small cakes with a 
tin cutter, about three inches over, and bake them on a clean bak* 
ing-plate, in a moderate oven. 

BANBURV CAKES. 

595. Set a sponge with two table-spoonilttl of thick Yeast, a gill 
of warm Milk, and a pound of Flour, — when it has worked a litUe, 
mix with it half a pound of Currants, washed and picked, half a 
pound of candied Orange and Lemon-Peel cut small, one ounce of 
Spice, such as ground Cinnamon, Allspioo, Qinger, and grated Nut- 
meg : mix the whole together with half a pound of Honey, roU out 
Puff Paste (469) a qmrter of an inck thick, cut it into rounds wilh 
a cutter, about four inches over, lay on each with a qpoon a small 
quantity of the mixture ; close it round with the fingers in the foirm 
of an oval ; place the join underneath ; press it flat with the band ; 
sift sugar over it, and bake tibemon a plate a quarter of an hour, in 
a moderate oven, and of a light colour. 

* Take fine Brown Holland, and make a bag in the finrm of aeone, about five 
inches orer at the top. Cut a small hole at the bottom, and tie in a small pipe 
oF a tapering form, abont two inches lone ; and the bore mnst be laige or small, 
accor^Dg to the sise of the Biscuits or Cakes to be made. What the Tutow 
mixtnres are pnt in, lay the pipe dose to the paper, and press it out in rows. 

Some use a Bullock'B bladder for the purpose. 



BREAD AND CAKXB. 367 

SAV0T OA&B, OS SPONGB OAXS IN- A MOnU>. 

596. Take nine Eggs, their weight of St^iar, and lix o£ Flow, 
some grated Lemon, or a few drops of Essence of Lemon, and half 
a gill of Orange-flower Water, — ^work them as in the iast receipt ; 
— ^put in the orange-flower water when yon take it firom the fire v— 
be yery careful the nnmld is quite dry ; — rub it all over the inside 
with Butter,^ — put some pounded Sugar round the mould upon the 
butter, and shake it well to get it out of the crevices : — ^tie a slip of 
paper round the mould ; fill it three parts full with the mixture, and 
bake it one hour in a slack oven t — ^when dene, let stand for a few 
minutes, and take it from the mould, which may be done by shak- 
ing it a little. 

ITAIiIAir MACAROONS. 

597. Take one pound of Valentia or Jordan AlmondB, blanched, 
pound them quite fine with the whites of (four Eggs ; add two pound* 
and a half of sifted Loaf Sugar, and rub them well together with 
the pestle^-^put in .by degvees about ten or eleven. more whites^ 
working them well as you put.l&em in v-'but the best crit^on to 
go by in trying their lightness is io bake one or two, and if you find 
them heavy, put one or two more whites ; — ^put the mixture into a 
biscuit-funnel, and lay them out on wafer-paper, in pieces about the 
size of a small walnut, having ready about two ounces of blanched 
and dry Almonds cut into slipa^-«.put threo or four pieces on each, 
and bake them on wires, or a Baking-Plate,, in a slow oven. 

06s.-~ Almonds should be blanched. and diied gradually two or 
three days before they are used, by which means they. will work 
much better, — and where lai^e quantities are used, it is advised to 
grind them in a mill provided for that purpose. 

RATAFIA CAKBS. 

598. To fbalf a pound of blanched Bitter, and half ra pound of 
Sweet Alraondfly^pat the whites- of four £ggs,.k-»beat them quite fine 
in |i moctar,«a]id stir imtwo pofunds and a quarter of Loaf Sugan, 
pounded and sifted, — ^rub them well together witb .the -whites (by 
degrees) of nine Eggs (try their lightness as in the last receipt) ; 
lay them out from the biscuit-funnel on cartridge-paper, in drops 
about the siae of ashiUing, and bake them in a middling-heated 
•oven, of a light brown colour, and take them from the papers as 
soon as cold. - 

N.B. A smaller pipe must be used in thotiunnel than for other 

artides. 

AIiMOND SPONGS CAKE. . 

599. Pound in a mortar one pound .of blandied Almonds quite 



BBS THB cook's ORACLX. 

fine, with the Whites of three Eggs,— then put in one poimd of 
sifted Loaf-Sugar, some giated Lemon-peel, and the Yolks of fifteen 
Eggs,— work them well together: heat up to a solid fioth the 
Whites of twelve Eggs, and stir them into the other Ingredients 
with a quarter of a pound of sifted dry Flour : — ^prepare a mould as 
at (596) ; put in the mixture, and hake it an hour in a slow oven ; 
take it carefully from the mould, and set it on a sieve, 

RATAFIA CAKE. 

600. To he made as ahove, omitting a quarter of a pound of sweet, 
and substituting a quarter of a pound of Bitter Almonds. 

DIBT BBBAD CAKB. 

. 601 . Boil, in half a pint of Water, one pound and a half of Lump 
Sugar, — have ready one pint of Eggs, three parts Yolks, in a pan, 
—pour in the Sugar, and whisk it quick till cold, or about a quarter 
ci an hour, — ^then stir in two pounds of sifted Flour ; case the in- 
sides of square tins with white paper ; fill them three parts full ; sift 
a little Sugar over, and hake it in a warm oyen, and while hot re- 
move them from the moulds. 

GIPSY CAKB. 

602. Take a Sponge Cake (the size you wish), soak it in wine 
and a glass of brandy ; blanch some sweet ahnonds ; cut them 
lengthways in narrow chips, and stick them all over it v— >yoa may 
put some custard in the dish. 

DBRBY OR SHORT CAKB8. 

603. Bub in with the hand one pound of Butter into two pounds 
of sifted Flour ; — ^put one pound of Currants, one pound of good 
moist sugar, and one egg ; mix all together with half a pint of milk, 
•~«>11 it out thin, and cut them into round Cakes with a Cutter >-* 
lay them on a clean Baking-Plate, and put them into a middling 
heated oven for about five minutes. 

CHBBSBCAKB8. 

604. Put two quarts of New Milk into a stew-pan, set it near the 
fire, and stir in two table-spoonsful of rennet : let it stand till it is 
set This will take about an hour ; break .t well with youi hand, 
and let it remain half an hour longer, then pour off the whey, and 
put the curd into a polander to drain ; when quite dry, put it in a 
mcnrtar, and pound it quite smooth ; then add four ounces of Sqgar, 
pounded and sifted, and three ounces of fresh Butter ; oil it fint by 



BREAD AND CAKES. S60 

pvMing it in a little potting^pot, and setting it near the fire ; stir it 
aH well together ; heat the yolks of four Eggs in a basin, with a 
little Nutmeg grated, Lenion-Peel,«6nd a glass of Brandy : add this 
to the curd, with two ounces of Currants, washed and picked — stir 
it all well together — ^haye your tins ready lined with Puff Paste 
(469), about a quarter of an inch thick, notch them all round the 
edge, and fill each with the curd. Bake them twen^ minutes. 

When you have company, and want a variety, you can make a 
Mould of Curb and Crxam, by putting the curd in a Mould full 
of holes, instead of the colander ; let it stand for six hours, then 
turn it out very careftilly on a dish, and pour over it half a pint of 
good Cream sweetened with Loaf Sugar — and a little Nutmeg. 
What thtre is left, if set in a cool place, will make excellent cheese- 
cakes the next day. 

laSBlON CBBB8BOAKS8. 

' 605. Grate the rind of three, and take the juice of two Lemons, 
and mix them with three Sponge Biscuits, six ounces of Fresh But- 
ter, four ounces of sifted Sugar, a little grated Nutmeg and pounded 
Cinnamon, half a gill of Cream, and three £ggB well beaten, work 
them with the hand, and fill the pans, which must be sheeted, as 
in the last receipt, with Puff Paste, and lay two or three slices of 
Candied Lemon- Peel, cut thin, upon the top. 

0&AN6B CHB&8BOAKE8. 

606. To be made in the same way, omitting the Lemons and 
using Oranges instead. 

AIiMOND OHEB8BOAKB8. 

607. Blanch six ounces of Sweet, and half an ounce of Bitter 
Almonds ; let them lie half an hour in a drying stove, or before the 
fire ; pound them very fine in a mortar, with two table-spoonsful 
of Rose or Oiange-flower Water, to prevent them ftom oiling ; set 
into a stew-pan half a pound of Fresh Butter ; set it in a warm 
place, and cream it very smooth with the hand, and €idd it to the 
Almonds, with six ounces of sifted Loaf Sugar, a little gmted Le- 
mon-Peel, some good Cream, four Eggs ; mb all well together with 
the pestle ; cover a patty-pan with Puff Paste ; fill in the mixture ; 
ornament it with slices of Candied Lemon-Peel uid Almonds split, 
and bake it half an hour in a brisk oven. 

OBANQB OINOBBBBBAD. 

608. Sift two pounds and a quarter of fine Flour, and add to it a 

2a 



370 THB cook's obaoib. 

pound and thiee quarten of Treacle^ mx ounces of Candied Onii^ge« 
peel cut small, three quartctn of a pound of Mmst Sugar, one ounce 
of ground Ginger, and one ounoe of AUb^ce : — melt to an Oil thiear 
quarters <^ a pound of Butter^— mix the whole well together, and 
lay it by for twelve hdursy-^^roll it out with as little Flour as pos- 
sible^ about half an inch thick ; cut it into pieces three inches long 
and two wide, — mark them in the form of checkers with the back; 
of a knife ; put them on a baking-plate about a quarter of an inch 
apart, — rub them over with a Brush dipped into the Yolk of an 
Egg beat up with a tea-cupful of Milk ; bake it in a cool oven about 
a quarter of an hour v— when done, wash them slightly ov^ again, 
divide the pieces with a knife (as in baking they will run together)* 

GINGBRBREAD NUTS. 

609. To two pounds of sifted Flour, put two poundis of Trcade, 
three quarters of a pound of Moist Sugar, h^ a pound of Candied 
Orange-peel cut smaU, one ounce and a half of ground Ginger, one 
ounce of ground Caraways, and IJiree quarters of a pound of Buttes 
oiled :-~mix all well together, and set it by some time, — ^then roll 
it out in pieces about the size of a small walnut, — ^lay them in rows 
on a baking-plate ; press them flat with the hand, and bake them 
in a slow oven about ten minutes. 

pzia'in buns. 

610. To four pounds of sifted Flour put one pound of good Moist 
Sugar,-.jnake a cavity in the centre, and stir in a giU of good Yeast, 
a pint of lukewarm Milk, with enough of the Flour to make it the 
thickness of cream^ — cover it over, and let it lie two hoursy— then 
melt to an oil (but not hot) one pound of Butter, — stir it into the 
other Ingredients, with enough warm Milk to make it a soft paste ; 
•^throw a little Flour over, and let them He an hour^ — ^have ready 
a baking-platter rubbed over with Butter, — ^mould with the hand 
the dough into buns, about the size of a large egg,— lay them in 
rows full three inches apart ; set them in a warm place for half an 
hour, or tUl they have risen to double their size,— bake them in a 
hot oven of a good colour, and wash them over with a brush dipped 
into Milk when drawn from the oven. 

CR088 BtJMB. 

611. To the above mixture put one ounce and a half of ground 
Allspice, Cinnamon, and Mace, mixed, — and, when half proved, 
press the form of a cross with a tin mould (made for the purpose) 
in the centre, and proceed as above. 



BREAD AND CAKE9» 3^1 

8EBD BUNS. 

612. Take two pounds of plain Bun Dough (610), and mix in 
one ounce of Caraway Seedsy— ^butteif the insides of small tait-pan% 
.«-mould the dough into buns, and put one i)^ each pan, — set them 
to lise in a wann phice, and lirheA sufficiently proved, ice them with 
the White of an £gg beat to a froth, and laid on with a paste-brush - 
..some pounded Sugar upon that, and diasolye it with water splashed 
from the brush v — ^bake them in a warm ovefi about ten minutes. 

PLUM BUNS. 

613. To two poundift of (610) mixture, put half a pound of Cur- 
nmts, a quarter of a pouiid of Candied Otange-peel cut into small 
pieces, half a Nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mixed Spice^ such 
as Allapioe, Cinnamon, &c. >-jnould them into Buns ; jag them 
tound the edge with a knife, and proceed as with Plain Buns, (610). 

BATH BUNS. 

613.* Rub together with the hand one pound of iine Flour, and 
half a pound of Butter ; beat six figgs, and add them to the flour, 
&G. with a table-spoonful of good Yeast ; mix them all together 
with about half a tea^cupful of mUk ; set it in a warm place for an 
hour, then mix in six ounces of sifted Sugar, and a few Caraway- 
aeeds ; mould them into Buns with a table-spoon, on a clean bak- 
ing-plate ; throw six or eight Caraway Comfits on each, and bake 
them in a hot oven about ten minutes. This quantity should make 

about eighteen. 

SPONGE BISCUITS. 

614. Break into a round-bottomed Preserving-Pan* nine good^ 

sized Eggs, with one i>ound of sifted Loaf Sugar, and some grated 

liCmon-Peel ; — set the pan over a yeiy slow fire, and whisk it till 

quite warm (but not too hot to set the Eggs) ; remove the pan from 

the fire, and whisk it till cold, which may be a quarter of an hour, 

M^then stir in the flour lightly with a spattle, previous to which, 

prepare the sponge frames a follows t^^-Wipe them well oiit with a 

dean cloth — rub the insides with a brush dipped in butter, which 

has been clarified, and sift loaf sugalr over *, — fill the frames with 

the mixture ; throw pounded sugar oyer •, bake them fire minutes in 

a brisk oven : when done, take them from the frames, aiid lay them 

on a sieve. 

SAVOY BISCUITS. 

615. To be made as Drop Biscuits, omittmg the caraways, and 

* A wide-inoiith«d Barthen PsA, made quite ,hot in the oren, or on a fire, "will 
bes good ittbttitttte. 



372 IHB cook's oracle. 

quarter of a pound of floor : — put it into the biscuit funnel, and Ivy 

it oat about the length and size of your fing^, <m common shop- 

pftper;~-8trew Sugar 0TeB,~and bake them in a hot oven ; when 

cold, wet the backs of the paper with a paste^muh and water : 

when they have lain some time, take them -carcfiilly etfl^ and place 

them back to back. 

, J^HUGVIIT PROPS. 

616. Beat .well together in a pen one pannid ofslfted sugar, with 
eight E^ for twenty minutes ; then add a quarter of an ounce of 
Caraway Seeds, and one pound and a quarter of Flour : — lay wafer 
pap^ on a baking-ptoter--lMiitibemij^areiikt(9kabi0cmtliumel,a]id 
drop it out on.'the paper about the etize of half . » crown ; gilt Sugar 
over» and bake them, in Aihot oven. 



PRESERVES, JAM) JELLY, &c. 

TO CIiARIFY SUGAR. 

617. Brvak the Sugar in>large.lump8M-tQ>everyt«D. pounds o£ 
Sugar allow one pint of wator, a»d the white of an Eg^.weU beaten ; 
put it in the preserving pan, keeping ont.s teatfcuplul oi Ae water, 
-•.and do not put it on the five till the Su^ear is neady djasolved ; 
when it boils, pour in the tea-eup&l of vateiv end let it jise ^gain ; 
now take the pan fi»m the flie, and when lihepirepanttimi is settled, 
remove the scum, placing it on a sieve ; what runs firow this you may 
put back into the pan*; give it another b<Hl, and skim it once more, 
wlien it will be fit for use. . It should not berstiiMd after, the sugar 
is melted. 

TO BOIXi SUGAR TO CANDY HEIGHT. 

618. After clarifying the Sngaz as in tiie last receipt, bofl it until 
the water is entWy evaporated;, which may be known by the sqgar 
hajQigbg in broad flakes to the spoon. 

TO BOIL SUGAR TO CARABKSI*. 

. 619. BEeBkinto.aBnallco|^pe? or harass pan one pound of refined 
Sugar, put is a giU.of spnng water ; set. it on a fire ; wb^i. it bmls 
skim it quite clean, and let it boil quick till it comes to the degree 
called Crack, which may-be known by dippmg a tea-spoon or skewer 
into the sugar, and let it drop to the bottom of a pan of eold water, 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that degree ; ■ oqu coao in the 
juice of half a lemon, and let it remain one minute loiter on tbe 



PRKSBBYES^ JAM^ JBLLY^ ETC. 373 

&e, then set the pon into another of cold water *, — have, read j 
moulds of any shape,^ — ^mb them over with sweet (»l,dipa spoon or 
fork into the sugar, and throw it over the mould in fine threads, till 
it is quite covered ; — ^make a small handle of Caramel, or stick on 
two or three small Gum Paste^rittgs, by way of oRuunent, and place 
it over small pastry of any descBptien. 

TO PRESBRVZS GZNaER. 

620. Tskke green Ginger, pare it neatly with a sharp knife, — 
throw it into a pan of cold water as it is pared, to keep it white, — 
when yon have sufficient, boil it till tender, changing the water 
three times ; each time put it into cold water to take out the heat 
or spirit of the ginger, — ^wfaen tender, throw it into cold water ; — for 
•even pounds of Ginger, clarify dgbt pounds of Refined Sugar, see 
(648); when oold^ drain the Ginger, and put it in an earthen pan, 
with enough of the Sugar cold, to cover it, and let it stand two days, 
.-4hen pour the Syrup fiom the Ginger to the remainder of the 
Sugar ; boil it some time, and when cold, pour it on the Ginger 
ag^ain, and set it by three days at least. Then take the Syrup from 
the Ginger,— boil it, and put it hot over the Ginger v — ^proceed in 
this way till you find the Sugar has entered the Ginger, boiliz^ the 
Syrup, and skimming off the scum that rises each time, until the 
Syrup becomes rich as well as the Ginger. 

Obi, — ^If you put the Syrup on hot at first, or if too rich, the 
Ginger will shrink, and not take the Sugar. 

N.B. -When green Ginger is not- to be procured, take laige races 
of Jamaica Ginger boiled several times in walar till tender, — part 
neatly, and proceed as above. 

OREfiM GAOB8 PRESfiRVSB XK 8YRUP. 

621. Take the Gages when nearly ripe, cut the stalks about half 
an inch from the fruit, — put them into cold water with a lump of 
alum about the size of a walnut ; — set them on a slow fire till they 
come to sunmer.-^Take them from the fire, and put them into cold 
water ; — drain and pack them close into a preserving-pan, pour over 
them enough clarified Sugar to cover them, — sinuner them two or 
three minutes » . s et them by in an earthen pan till next day, when 
drain the Gages, and boil the Syrup with more Sugar, till quite 
thick, — ^put in the Gages, and simmer them three minutes more, 
and repeat it for two days, — when boil clarified Sugar to a &/oto, as 
at (644), place the Grages into glasses, and pour the Syrup over, 
and when cold, tie over a bladder, and upon thst a leather ; and 



374 THE cook's ORACLE. 

should you want any for drying, drain and diy them on a me aievft - 
in a stOTe or dow oven. 
Apricots or Egg Plums may be done^ the same way. 

APPLBB IN SYRUP FOB PRBSBNT U8B. 

622. Pare and core some hard round Apples, and throw them 
into a basin of water ; as they are done, clarify as much loaf Sugsr 
as will cover them ; put the Apples in along with the juice and lind 
of a Lemon, and let them simmer till they are quite clear ; great 
care must be taken not to break them^— place them on the dish 
they are to appear upon at table, and pour the syrup over. 

TO P&B8SBVB OUOUMBB&8. 

623. Take laige and fresh-gathered Cucumbers, — split thmn down' 
and take out all the Seeds, lay them in salt and water that wiB 
bear an Egg three days ; set them on a fire with cold water, and a 
small lump of Alum, and boil them a few minutes, or till tender v^ 
drain them, and pour on them a thin Syrup : — ^let them lie two days, 
boil the Syrup again, and put it over the Cucumbers, repeat it twice 
more, then have ready some fresh clarified Sugar, boiled to a Mow 
(see 644) ; put in the Cucumbers, and simmer it five minutes:-. 
set it by till next day ; — ^boil the Syrup and Cucumbers i^ain, and 
set them in glasses fbr use. 

BAKBD PBA&8. 

624. Take twelve large baking Pears, — ^pare and cut them into 
halves, leaving on the stem about half an inch long ; take out the 
core with the point of a knife, and place them dose together in a 
block-tin sauoe-pan, the inside of which is quite bri^t, with the 
cover to fit quite dose, — ^put to them the rind of a lemon cut thin, 
with half its juice, a small stick of Cinnamon, and twenty grains of 
Allspice ; cover them with spring-water, and allow one pound of 
loaf-sugar to a pint and a half of water :— cover them up doee^ and 
bake them for six hours in a veiy slow oven :— they will be quite 
tender, and of a bright colour. 

Ob$, — Prepared Cochineal is generally used for colouring the 

Pears ; but if the above is strictly attended to, it will be found to 

answer best 

DRIBD OHB&XiaS. 

625. Take large Kentish Cherries, not too riper— pick ^ th^ 
stalks, and take out the stones with a quill, cut nearly as for a pen : 
<*— io three pounds of which, take three pounds or pints of darified 
£li3gar^s99 648), boil it to tbe de^free oC^^owii iff« whidi Me«44) ; 



FBBSBBYSS^ JAM^ JSLLY^ ETC. 375 

pot in the GhMiieB,— ^Te them a boil, and eet them by in an earth- 
en pan till the next day, when stmin the Syrup, — add more Sugar, 
and boil it of a good oontutenoe ; — ^put the CSierries in, and boil 
Ihem five minutes, and set them by another day :— repeat the boilr 
ing two more days, and when wanted, drain them some time, and 
lay than on wire sieves to dry in a stove, or nearly cold oven. 

TO DRY APPLB8. 

■ 626. Take Biffins, or Orange or Lemon-Pippins^— the former ave 
the best ; choose the clearest rinds, and without any blenushes ; 
lay them on dean straw on a baking-wiie, — cover them well with 
more straw ; set them into a slow oven, — ^let them remain for four 
€Mr five hours,— 4raw them out, and rub them in your hand, and 
press them very gently, otherwise you will burst the skins ;--i>ietum 
them into tiie oven for about an hour ; press them again, — ^when 
cold, if they look dry, rub them over with a little chuiiied Sugar. 
' Obt, — By being put into the oven four or five times, pressing 
them between each time, they may be brought as flat^ and eat as 
well, as the dried Biffins from Norfolk. 

OX-BBBL JBLZiY. 

627. Slit them in two, and take away the fiit between the claws. 
The proportion cf water to each Heel is about a quart ;— let it sim^ 
ner gently for eight hours (keeping it dean skimmed) ; it will make 
a pint and a faaif of strong Jelly, which is frequently used to make 
Calves' feet Jelly (628), or to add to Mock Tuideand other Soups. 
See (217).* This Jelly evaporated, as directed in (227), will give 
iriMut three ounces and a half of strong Glaze,— an unboiled Heel 
ceets one shilling and threepence : so this glaze, which is very in- 
ferior in flavour to (227), is quite as expensive as that is. 

. N.B. To dress the Heels, see (20). 

0&«.— Cret a Heel that has only been scalded, not one of those 
usually sold at the Tripe-shops, which have been boiUd till almost 
all the Gtlaihe is extracted. 

CAZiVBS' FBET JBZiZiY. 

628. Take four Calves* Feet (not those which are sold at Tripe- 
shops, which have been boiled till almost all the Gelatine is ex- 
tEKtedr— but buy them at the Butcher's), dit them in two, take 

* By this method, it is said, an tngenioiis Cook long decetred a laige ianuhr, 
trho were all fond of we«k mntton OToth.— JITtMftroom Ortwy, or CSvCcftwp <37^» 
approaches the nature and flavour of Meat Otakfj, more than anj YegemU 
Juke, and is the best substitute for it in Mei^ire Soups and txtempore Smicet$ 
that Calinary CheaUBtxy haa yet produced. 



370 THE cook's ORACLE. 

avHy the Fat fimn between the clavB, waah them well in kikewamx 
water, then put them in a laige stew-pan, and cover them with 
water ; when the liquor boils, skim it well, and let it boil gently ax 
or seven horns, that it. may be reduced to about two quarts, then 
strain it through a sieve, and skim off all the oily substance which 
is on the surface of the liquor* 

If- you are not in a hurry, it is better to boil the Calves^ feet the 
day before you make the Jelly^ as when the liquor is cold, the oily 
part being at the top, and the other being firm, with pieces of kitchen 
paper applied to it, you may remove every particle of the oily sub* 
stance, without wasting any of the liquor. 

Put the Liquor .in a stew-pan to melt, with a pound of Lump 
Sugar, the peel of two Lemons, the juice of six, six whites and 
shells of E^ggs beat together, and a bottle of Sherry or Madeim ; 
whisk the whole together until it is on the boil, then put it by thB 
side of the stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour ; strain it 
through a Jelly-bag ; what is strained first must be poured into the 
bag again, until it is as bright and as clear as rock-water ; then put 
the Jelly in moulds, to be. cold and firm; if the weather is too 
warm, it requires some ice. 

Obs. — When it is wished to be very siif, half an ounce of Isin- 
glass may be added when the Wine is put in* 

It may be flavoured hf the juice of various Fruits and Spieet^' 
Ac. and coloured with Saffirony-^ochineal<^Ked Beet Juiee^.-. 

Spinage Juice^— >Glaret, &c and j^ is sometimee made with Oheiry 

3iandy, or Noff^au Bxntgef-^t Curofoa (€40), or JSatence (jf^J^uneh 
(653), instead of Wine. 

N.B. Ten Hhahk Bqnbb of Mutton, which- may be bought for 
24d., will give as much Jelly as a QaiTs foot| which costs a ShiUing* 
Read Mem. to (227). 

WHITE, RED, OR BIiACK CURRANT,~GRAPB, 
-RASPBERRY, &c. JEZiZiT, 

629. Are all made precisely in the same manner. When the 
fruit is full ripe, gather it on a dry day : — as soon as it is nicely 
picked, put it into a Jar, and cover it down very close. 

Set the Jar in a sauce-pan about three parts filled with cold wa- 
ter ; put it on a gentle fire, and lot it simmer for about half -aa 
hour. Take the pan from the fire, and pour the contents of the^ 
Jar into a Jelly-Bag ; pass the juice through a second time ;-^o 
not squeeze the bag. 

To each Pint of juice add a pound and a half of very good Lttnpt 
Sugar pounded ; when it is dissolved, put it into a preserving-pan, 



PBSSBBVBS^ JAUj JBLLY^ BTC. 877 

set it on the fire, and boil gently, stiirfng and alprnmingit the whole 
time (about thirty or forty minutes), i, e, till no more scum rises, — 
and it is perfectly clear and fine : pour it while warm into pots,., 
and when cold, cover them with paper wetted in Brandy. 

Half a pint of this Jelly, dissolved in a pint of Brandy or Vine- 
gar, will give you excellent Currant or Raspberry Brandy or Vin^ 
gar. To make Sweet Sauce, see (297). 

06s.»-^KLLiK8 from cither /ruiis are mads in tM same tooyy—and 
eannot be preserved in perfection without plenty of good Sugar. 

Thoae who wish Jdly to turn out very stiffs — dissolve Isinglass in a 
little water, strain through a sieve, and add it in the proportion of 
half an oimce to a pint of Juice, and put it in with the Sugar. 

The best way is the cheapest,— Jellies made with too small iL 

proportion of Sugar — require boiling so long — ^there is much more 

waste of juice and flavour by evaporation than the due quantity of 

Sugar costs ; and they neither look nor taste half so delicate, as 

when made with a proper proportion of Sogar, and moderate boil^ 

ing, 

ORANGB JBIaliY. 

6S0. Boil in a pint of Water one ounce and a quarter of picked 
Isinglasa, the rind of an Orange cut thin, a stick of Cinnamon, a 
few Gorianders, and three ounces of Loaf-Sugar, tiU the Isinglaflsis 
diiBolved,.^then squeese two Seville Oranges 4>r. T^mnnp^ and 
enough China Oranges to make a pint of juice : mix all together, 
and strain it tiirough a tamis or lawn sieve intos basin ; set it ui a 
cold place for half an hour ; pour it into another basin freefNtnf 
sediment — and when it begins to congeal, fiU your mould-: when 
wanted, dip the mould into lukewarm water ; torn it out on a dish, 
and garnish with Orange or Lemon cut in sliocs, and placed roand* 

N.B. A few grains of Saffron put in the water will add much to 

its appearance. 

PUNCH JBIiXiT. 

630.* For a mould that will contain one pint snd a half of J^^ ; 
half a pound of loaf Sugar, the Juice and peel of two Lemons, on* 
ounce and a quarter of Imnglaas, a quarter of a pint of Bum, the 
same quantity of Wine, and a quarter of a Gill of Brandy. 

Dissolve the IsinghuM in half a pint of water, with a little Sugiar 
and Lemon-Peel, cleared with the white of an egg. The half pound 
of Sugar to be boiled in a small tea-cupful of water to eandy height ; 
the Lemon-Peel to be boiled in a little water. Firrt put the Bum. 
in a basin, then the Syrup : mix well, and add the brandy, wiiw^ 
lemon-juice, and the water the peel was boiled in. Mix all weU» 
and add. tha Tsinglami. Put it in a Mould. 



378 THB cook's oracle. 

BIkACK OVRRAMT JBIiIiY. 

631. To each pound of picked fruit, allow one gill of water ; set 
them on the fire in the preserving-pan to scald, but do not let them 
boil ; bruise them well with a silver fork, or wooden beater, — take 
them off and squeeze them through a hair-sieve ; and to every pint 
of Juice allow a pound of loaf or raw sugar ; boil it ten minutes. 

BBD OVR&ANT JBIibT. 

632. Strip the currants from the stalks, and take equal weight of 
fruit and sugar, clarifj the sugar and boil to candy height, then 
throw in the fruit, and boil it a quarter of an hour, taking off the 
scum as it rises ; then run it through a JBne hair sieve, and put it in 
sDuiIlpota. 

All Preserves should stand one night before they are covered... 

and have paper steeped in Brandy placed over the outer suifiioe of 

the Jelly. 

WHITB CURRANT JBIiIiT. 

633. White Cunaat Jelly is made in the same way as Bed Cur- 
rant Jelly, only it should have double refined sugar, and not be 
boiled above ten minutes. White Currant Jelly should be put 
through a lawn sieve. 

ANOTHBR RBOBIFT FOR IXrHITB OURRAMT JBUbT. 

. 633.* After the fruit is stripped from the stalks, put it into the 
pan, and when it boils, run it quickly through a sieve : take a pound 
of sugar to eadi pint of Juice, and let it boil twenty minutes. 

QUINCB JBIiIiY. 

634. Cut thirty-six Quinces into small bits, with about two quarts 
of water ; let them boil slowly till the fruit is quite in a mash, ke^ 
them covered dose, and let about a third boil away. Run the li- 
quor through a Jelly-bag, and put to every pint a pound of fine 
white sugar-- put into a preserving pan, and boil till thick. It should 
be boiled tiU its eonsiBtency is'such, that when cold it may turn out 
of the mould to be used. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

635. Bub ftesh-gatbeied Baqibenies, taken on a diy day, throan^ 
a wicker sieve^^-to one pint of the pulp put one pound of Loaf Su- 
gar, broke small ; put it into a preserving-pan over a bmk iuv 
when it begins to boil, skim it well, and stir it twenty mintttesv— 
put into small potsy— 4ut white paper to the siie of the top of the 



PBESBRVBS^ JAM, JELLY^ ETC. 879 

pot,— jdip them in Brandy, and put them over the jam when cold, 
wUh a double paper tied over the top. 

RA8PBBRBY JAM, ANOTHBR WAY. 

636. Take equal weight of picked fhiit and sugar, pound the su- 
gar fine, strewing alternate layers of fruit and sugar into the pre- 
serving pan, and pour over it a pint of red currant Juice, for which 
allow a pound of sugar ; let it hoil a quarter of an hour, or twenty 
minutes, keep it well skimmed, and do not stir it more than to keep 
it from sticking to the pan. 

8TBAWBBBBY JAM, 

637. Is made in the same manner as Raspherry Jam : both should 
be boiled over a slow fire, and stirred as little as possible, to keep 
the fruit whole. The Mulberry Stmwbeny is considered to be the 
best— it should have red currant juice. 

RED 0008BBBRRY JAM. 

' 638. To each poimd of fruit, topped and tailed, take three quar- 
ters of a pound of pounded Sugar, strew them into the pan in lay- 
ers, a pint of red currant juice, and one pound of sugar, (a gill of 
water must be allowed for every two pounds of sugar). It must be 
placed on a very slow fire till tiie juice runs from the berries, and 
the sugar is melted. It requires long and slow boiling, not under 
half an hour, sometimes longer, until the skins are tender and jweet. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM. 



639. Black Currant Jam is made in the same way as Bed Goose- 
berry Jam, only it should have equal weight of sugar, and does not 
require to boil so long. 

APRICOT, OR ANY PZiUM JAM. 

640. After taking away the stones from the Apricots, and cutting 
out any blemishes they may have, — ^put them over a slow fire, in a 
dean stew*pan, with half a pint of water ; — ^when scalded, rub them 
through a hair-sieve : — to every pound of pulp put one pound of 
sifted loaf sugar,— put it into a preserving-pan over a brisk fire, and 
when it boils skim it well, and throw in the kernels of the Apricots 
and half an ounce of bitter Almonds, blanched ; boil it a quarter 
of an hour fiist, and stirring it all the time v-^remove it from the 
fire, and fill it into Pots, and cover them as at (635). 

K.B. Green Gages or Plums may be done in the same way, 
mnitting the Kernels or Almonds. 



380 THB cook's obaclb. 

TO MAKH OBANGH MARMALADfi. 

641. Choose the largest Seyille Ozanges, «8 they usually coDtain. 
the greatest quantity of juice, and choose them with clear skins, aa 
the skins form the hugest part of the Marmalade. Weigh the 
Omoges, and weigh also an equal quantity of loaf Sugar. Skia the 
Oianges, dividing the skins into qoarteis, and put them into a {ve- 
serving-pnn ; cover them well with water, and set them on the fire 
to hoil : in the meantime prepare your Oranges ; divide them into 
Gores, then scrape with a teor^poon all the pulp fimn the'white 
ddn ; or, instead of skinning the Oranges, cut a hole in the Orange 
and scoop out the pulp ; remove carefully all the pips, of which 
there are innumerahle small ones in the Seville Orange, which will 
escape observation unless they are very minutely examined. 

Have a large basin near you with some oold water in it, to throw 
the pips and skins into — a pint is sufficient for a dozen Oranges. ▲ 
great deal of glutinous matter adheres to thenk, which, when strained 
through a sieve, should be boiled with the other parts. 

When the skins have boiled till they are sufficiently tender to 
admit of & ferk'being stock into tbem, strain them ; some of which 
may be boiled with ^ other parts; scrape dean all the pith, or 
iBStde, from them ; lay them in folds, and cut them into thin slices 
of about an inch long* Clarify your Sugar ; then throw your skins 
and pulp into it, stir it well, and let it boil about half an hour. If 
the Sugar is broken into small pieces, and boiled with the fruit, it 
will answer the purpose of clarifying, but it must be weU skimmed 
when it boils. 

Marmalade should be made at the end of Maieh or the beginning 
of April, as Seville Oxanges are then in their best «tatou 

ORANGB M AR M ALA DS, ANOTHER WAT. 

641.'*' To each pound of Seville Oranges allow two pounds of 
Sugar, grate the oranges lightly, and slice them down with a very 
sharp knife ja thin as possible, and straight through,-^.4iotbing must 
be kept oat but the seeda^ — danfy the sugar, put the fruit in, and 
boil it slowly, ftr at least an hour, until the chips are perfectly tea^ 
der and cleai^ and it will jeUy-^-^i little of the giote may be put in 
if approved, the rest is nice for seasoning puddings. 

ORANGB MARSCAIiADE, ANOTHER RECEIPT. 

642. Take equal weight of Orange and Sugar, grate the orai^ifa 
lightly score them across, and take off the skins in qoarters, boil 
the skins in a hnen bag until you can pieioe them easily with the 
head of a pin — slit open the inside of the onmge;, wd acrape out 



PBESBBVBS^ JAM^ JBLLY, ETC. 38 1 

the fine part of the pulp^ along with the }aiee, keeping back the 
toKgli white ikin and seeds. When- the skins are tender, scrape out 
^e strings, and cut them as tbm as posnble into chips about an inch 
lobg.'^^larify the sugar, and put in the chips, pulp> sod juice, and 
bml quickly twenty minutes. 

MINCE UA^RMAIiADE. 

643. Prepare the Oranges as in the forsgeing receipt^ and take 
equal weight of pounded sugar ; when tiie f^ns are perfectly ten- 
der, put them on a mincing board and chop them as fine as mince 
collops ; strew the mince, pulp, sugar, and juice, into the presetr- 
ing-pan, and -boil ^rw minutes ; it must on no account boil longer; 
but before the skins are minced, care should be taken that they are 
sufficiently tender. Put in some of the grape, if approved. 

: XiSMON CHIPS. 

644. Take large smooth-rinded Malaga Lemons ; — race or cut 
off the peel into Chips with a small knife (this will require somef 
practice to do it properly) ; throw them into salt and water till next 
day,.~haTe ready a pan of boiling water, throw them in and boil 
them tender. Drain them well • — after having lain some time in 
water to cool, put them in an earthen pan, pour over enough boil- 
ftig clarified Sugar to cover them, and then let them lie two days ; 
— ^then strain the Syrup, put more Sugar, and reduce it by boiling 
till the Syrup is quite thick, put !n the Chips, and simmer them a 
few minutes, and set them by for two days t — repeat it once more, 
let them be two days longer, and they will be fit to candy, which 
must be done as follows : — Take four pints of clarified Sugar, which 
will be sufficient for six pounds of Chips, — ^boil it to the degree of 
Uown (which may be known by dipping liie skimmer into the Sugar, 
and blowing strongly througli the holes of it ; if little bladders ap- 
pear, it has attained that degree) ; and'when the Chips are tho- 
roughly drained and wiped on a clean cloth, put them into the 
Syrup, stirring them about with the skimmer till you see the "Sugar 
become white; — ^then take them out with two* forks, shake them 
lightly into a wire sieve, and set them into a stove, or in a warm 
place to dry. 

N.B. Orange Chips are done in the same way. 

PRESERVED FRUIT, WITHOUT SUGAR.. 

. 645. TakeDamseni when Bot too ripe ^.^iek off. <^«talks, and 
put them into mde^monthed glais bottb% taking care net to put in 
any but what are^whole, and without blemish ;— jibake them well 



382 THB cook's OBACtS« 

down (otherwise the bottles will not be half full when done) ir-t^p 
the bottles with new soft coiin not too tight $-^4et them into a veiy 
slow oven (nearly cold) four or five hours v-^the slower they are 
done the better :.«.when they begin to shrink in the bottles, it is a 
sure sign that the Fruit is thoroughly warm \ — ^take them oat, and 
before they axe cold drive in the corks quite tight ; — set them in a 
bottle-rack or basket with the mouth downwards, and they will 
keep good several yean. 

Green Gooseberries, Morello Cherries, Currants^ Green QageSf 
or BuUace may be done in the same way. 

Obs^^If the Corks are good, and fit well, there will be no occa- 
sion for cementing them \ but should bungs be used, it will be ne-* 

oessary. 

BARIiBY SUGAR. 

646. Clarify, as (648), three pounds of refined Sugar, — boil it 
to the degree of cracked (which may be ascertained by dipping a 
spoon into the Sugar, and then instantly into cold water, and if it 
appears brittle, it is boiled enough) ; squeeze in a small tea-spoon- 
ful of the Juice, and four drops of Essence of Lemon, and let it 
boil up once or twice, and set it by a few minutes : — have ready a 
marble slab, or smooth stone, rubbed over with Sweet Oil, — ^pour 
over the Sugar, cut it into long stripes with a large pair of scissors, 
-^twist it a little, and when cold, keep it from the air in tin boxes 
or canisterSb 

K.B. A few drops of Essence of Ginger, instead of Lemon, will 
make what is called Ginger Barley Sugar. 

BARIiSY StJOAR DROPS. 

646.* To be made as tiie last Receipt Have ready, by the tmie 
the Sugar is boiled sufficiently, a large sheet of Paper, with a smooth 
layer of sifted loaf sugar on it ; — ^put the boiled Sugar into a ladle 
that has a fine lip vapour it out, in drops not larger than a shilling, 
on to the sifted sugar ; when cold, fold them up separately in white 
paper. 

N.B. Some use an oiled marble slab instead of the sifted Sugars 



LIQUEURS. 

647. Wb have very little to tell from our own experience, and 
refer our Reader to ** Nouvkllk Chdob du Gout bt db l*Oooiut, 
OH PAri du DiatUlatieury du Confiaeur, et du Farfumeur^ mu ^ h 
pofiie detoutle ilfofMi0.*'..^aris, 2 tom. 8vo. 1819. 



LIQUBUB8. 383 

Next toteachmg liov to make good things at home, is the in^ 
fonnation wheie those things may be procured ready made of the 
best quality. 

It w in vam to attempt to imitate the best Forsxon Liquburs, unless 
we can obtain the pure vinous spirit with which it is made. 

Mr. NxwMAN Foreign Liquetir and Brandy Merchant to hit Ma- 
Jetty and the Royal Family^ No. 12, Haymarket, nearly opposite the 
Opera House, is justly &mous for importing of the best quality, and 
selling in a genuine state, seventy-one varieties of Forxign Li- 
QUBURs, &c. ; and we strongly recommend those of our readers who 
prefer goad and tinadnlterated wines to get them from the same 
source. 

CIiARiriBD 8YRUP. 

648. Break into bits two Pounds (avoirdupois) of double refined 
Sugar, aud put it into a clean stew-pan (that is well tinned), with a 
pint of cold spring-water ; when the Sugar is dissolved, set it over a 
x^oderate fire : beat about half the white of an Egg, put it to the 
Sugv before it gets warm, and stir it well together. Watch it, 
and when it boils take off the scum ; keep it boiling till no scum 
rises, and it is perfectly clear, then run it through a clean napkin : 
put it into a close-stopped bottle ; it will keep for months, and is 
an elegant Artide on the Sideboard for tioeetening. 

Obs. — The proportion of Sugar ordered in the above Syrup is a 

quarter pound more than that directed in the Pharmacopoeia of the 

London College of Physicians. The quantity of Sugar must be as 

much as the liquor is capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or It 

will ferment, and quickly spoil ; if kept in a temperate degree of 

heat, the above proportion of Sugar may be considered the basis of 

all Syrups. 

CU&ACOA. 

649. Put five ounces of thin-cut Seville Orange-Feel, that has 
been dried and pounded, or, which is still better, of the fresh Fed 
of afretk Shaddoc^^ which may be bought at the Orange and Lemon 
shops in the beginning of March, into a quart of the finest and 
cleanest Rectified Spirit, — after it has been infused a fortnight, 
strain it, and add a quart of Syrup (648), and filter ; see the follow- 
ing Receipt :— 

TO MAKE A QUART OF CURAOOA. 

To a pint of the cleanest and strongest Rectified Spirit^ add two 
drachms and a half of the Sioeet OH of Orange-Peel^ shake it up, — 
dissolve a pound of good Lump Sugar in a pint of cold water, 
make this into a Clarified Syrup (648), which add to the 
Spirit, shake it up, and let it stand till the following dayy-rthen 



984 THB cook's ORACLE. 

line a limn^ iri^ a piece of musUa, and- that with fittering-paper, 
and filter it two or three timet till ft is quite bright This IdqtieiXT 
ia an admirable cordial, and a tearspoonfid in a tumUor of water is 
a reiy refreshing Summer Drink, and a great im^iovement • to 

Punch. 

OA^PIIiIiAISi:. 

650. To a pint of Clarified Syrup add a wine-glass of Cura^oa 
(649), or dissolve a drachm of Oil of Nereli ia two oonces of Rec- 
tified Spirit, and add a few drops of it to Clarified Syrup. 

IiBBSONADE IN A MINUTE. 

651. Pound a quarter of an ounce (avoirdup^) of Citric, i.e, 
crystallised Lemoti Acid,* with a few drops of Mnj^^senoe of Le>- 
mon-Peel (851), and mix it by degrees yriih^g^^gkk ot Clarified 
Syrup (648), or Capillaire. „". . 

For Superlative Syrfq> of Lemons^ see (330.), 

Obs, ^The proportion of Add to the Syriip, wa* that selected 

(from several specimens) by the CoMMirrSB op Taste. We advise 
those who aie disposed to verify ottr Receipt, to mix only three 
quarten of a pint of Syrup first, and add the other quarter if they 
find it too acid. 

If you have none of (851), flavour your Symp with thin-cut 
Lemon-Peel, or use Syrup of Lemon-Peel (333). 

A table-spoonfUl of this in a pint of water will immediately pro- 
duce a very agreeable Sherbet ; the addition of Rum and Brandy 
will convert this into 

PtJlfOH l»rRSOTIiY.~652. 

SHRUB OR E«4iENCS OF PUNCH. 

653. Brandy or Rum, flavoured with (651), will give you very 
good extempore " Essbncb of Punch." 

Obs, — ^The addition of a quart of Sherry or Madeira makes 
" Punch Royal ;" if instead of Wine, the above quantity of WcOer 
be add, it will make ^ Punch for Chambermaids,^^ according to Sal- 
mon's Cookery, 8vo. London, 1710 ; see page 405 ; and 268 in 
NoTx's Cook's Dictionary, 8vo. 1724. 

ORGEAT. 

654. Pound very fine one pound oi Jordan, and one ounce ef 
Bitter Almond^ in a marble mortar, with half a gill of Oiaogi^ 

* Tartaric is only half the price of Cilaric Add ; bat it is xvrj Inftrior tai 
flarour, 6cc ; and thoM who prepare this Symp for Home ConsumpticHi, irul 
always use the CUric 



LIQXJfiinw. d85 

iower Vttl«r to keei» fbetn tram oiling^^fhen mix with them one 
pint of Bose and one pnt of spring water, rab it through a tamiff 
cloth or lawfa sieve, till the Almonds are quite dry, which will re- 
doce the quantity to aboitt a quart :~^aye ready three pints of 
Clarified Sugar or Water, and boil it to a crack (which may be 
known by dipping your flngefs iiito the sugar, and then into cold 
wtiter ; and k you find the sugar to crack in moving your finger, it 
has boiled enough) ; put in the Almonds ; boil it one minute, — and 
it'hen cold put it into small bottles close corked, a tablenspoonfitl of 
which will be sufficient for a tumbler of water : — shake the bottle 
before using. 

Obg. — If the Orgeat is for present use, the Almjonds may be 
pounded as above, and mixed with one quart of Water*, one quart 
<tf Milk, a pint of Capillaire or Clarified Shigar, rubbed throiigh a 
tsmis or fine sieve, and put into decanters for use. 

RICH RASPBERRY WINS OR BRANDY. 

665. Bruise the finest ripe Raspberries with the bsu^ of a spoon ; 
strain them through a flannel bag into a stone jar, allowing a pound 
of fine powdered Loaf Sugar to each quart of juice ; stir it well 
together, and cover it down ; let it stand for three days, stirring it 
up each day ; pour off the clear, and put two quarts of Sheny, or 
one of Cognac Brandy, to each quart of juice \ bottle it off ; it will 
be fit for the glass in a fortnight. 

N.B. Or make it with the JeUy, (629). 

SPRING FRUIT SHBRBST. 

656. Boil six or eight sticks of Rhubarb (quite dean) ten minutes 
in a quart of ifater ; strain the Uquor through a tamis into a jug^ 
with the peel of a lemon cut very tlun, and two table-cfpoonsfiil of 
clarified Sugar ; let it stand five or six hours, and it is fit to diink. 

MOCK ARRACK. 

657. Dissolve two scruples of flowers of Benjamin in a quart of 
good Rum, and it will immediately impart to it the inviting fragrance 
of " Vauxhall Nmtar.'* 

FltZP^ 

658. Keep gmted Ginger and Nutmeg with a little fine di^ed 
liOmon-Peel, rubbed together in a mortar. 

To make a quart of Flip : — Put the Ale on the fire to waniH and 
beat up three or four Eggs with four ounces of moist Si^gar, a tea» 
AKMnlul of grated Nutmeg or Ginger, and a quartern of good old 
Bom or Brandy. When the Ale is near to boil, put it into one 

2 B 



380 THE cook's obacls. 

pUdier, and tha Rum and £ggi» &c. into another v— turn it firom 

one pitcher to another till it is as smooth as Cream. 

N.B. This quantity I styled One Yard o/FlawuL 

Obt. — ^The ahove is set down in the words of the PoUiean who 

gaTe us the Receipt 

TEWAHDIDDLB. 

659. A pint of Table Beer (or Ale, if you intend it for a supple- 
ment to yova ^ Night-Cap^*), a table-spoonful of Brandy, and a 
tea-spoonful of brown Sugar, or Clarified Syrup (648), — a litUe 
giated Nutmeg or Ginger may be added, and a roll of very thin-cut 
Lemon-Peel. 

Obs, — Before our Readers make anyremarks on this Composition, 
we b^ of them to taste it : if the materials are good, and their 
palate vibrates in unison with our own, they will find it one of the 
pleasantest bererages they ever put to their lips, and, as Lord 
Rulhven says, ^ This is a right Grossip^s Cup that far exceeds all the 
Ale that ever Mothrr Bunch made in her life-time.** — See his 
Ijordship*s.Ei^p0riifM»^ in Cookery, ^c. 18mo. London, 1654, p. 215. 

SIR FIABTWOOD SHEPHERD'S BACK POSSET.— 660. 
** From fiun'd Barbadoes on the western main 
Fetch Sngar, ounces four— fetch Sack from Spain, 
A pint,— and from the Eastern Indian Coast 
Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toast ; 
O'er flaming Goals let them together heat. 
Till the aU-conqnering Sack dissolre the Sweet ; 
O'er such another fire put Eggs just ten. 
New-bom fiom tread of Cock and Bump of Hen : 
Stir them with steady hand and oonsdence pricking 
To see the untimely end often fine Chicken ; 
From shining shelf take down the braaen skillet,-^ 
A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it. 
"When boiled and cold, pat milk and Sack to Eggs. 
Unite them flnnly like the triple league. 
And on the fire let them together dwell 
Till Miss sing twice — ^you must not kiss and tell— 
Each lad and lass take up a silrer spoon. 
And fiJl on fiercely like a starred Dragoon." 

OOOIi TANKARD, OR BEER CUP. 

66 1. A quart of mild Ale, a glass of white Wine, one of Brandy, 
one of Capillaire, the juice of a Lemon, a roll of the Peel pared thin, 
Xutmeg grated at the top (a sprig of Borrage* or Balm), and a bit 
of toasted Bread. 

* ** BoiURAOK is one of the four Cordial flowers ;" it comforts'the heart, cheers 
melancholy, and reTives the fainting spirits, says Sai.mov, in the 4ftth page of hit 
'< BouMhold ComfjOnion^" London, 1710. And Kvylyn, in page 13 of iMAadmk^ 
says, " the sprigs in w(n$ are of known virtue to revire the Bypochondxiac, and 
dheer the hard Student."— Combined with the ingredients in the aboTe ReeslBt, 
we have frequently obserred it produce all the Cardiac and ExhUaratiag dfcds 
ascribed to ft. 



tlQUEURg. 387 

OZDER OUP, 

661* ts the SBine^— only substituting Cider for Beer. 

IVHXSY. 

662. Make a pint of Milk boil^—put to it a glass or tv ^ white 
Wine — ^put it on the fire till it just boils again — ^then set it on one 
side till the Curd has settled^— pour off the clear Whej, and sweeten 
it as jou like. 

Cider is often substituted for Wine, or half the quantity of Vine- 
gar that we have ordered Wine. 

Obs. — When there is no fire in the sick room, this may be put 
hot into a bottle — and laid between the Bed and Mattress-^it will 
keep waim several hours. 

TO BOTTliB BBEft. 

663. When the briskness and liveliness of malt liquors in the 
cask fail, and they become dead and. vapid, which they generally do 
soon after they are tilted, — ^let them be Bottled. 

Be careful to tue dean and dried hctUes ; leave them unstopped 
for twelve hours, and then cork them as closely as possible with pooef 
and Bound new corks ; put a bit of lump sugar as big as a nutmeg 
into each Bottle : the Beer will be ripe, i. e, fine and sparkling, in 
about four of five weeks : if the tveather is cold, to put it up the day 
b^hre it is drank^ place it in a room where tliere is a Fire, 

Remember there is a sediment, &c. at the bottom of the Bottles, 
which you must carefully avoid disturbing, — so pour it off at once, 
leaving a wine-glassful at the bottom. 

*** If Beer becomes Hard or Stale, a few grains ofCarbona^ ofPot^ 
ash added toUatihe time it is drank, wiU correct it, andmake Draught 
Beer as brisk as Batded Ale, 



TEA, COFFEE, STOMACHIC TINCTURE, &c. 

ObservaUons on the Art of making Chinese Soup, i. e. Tea, and efeOs 
ofdiferent kinds of Tec^pats on tJie infusion of Tea. 
664. It has been long observed that the infusion of Tea made in 
Silver, or polished metal Tearpots, is stronger than that which is 
produced in black, or other kind of earthenware pots. This is ex- 
plained on the principle, that polished surfiu:es retain heat much 
better than dark, rough sur&ces, and that, consequently, the caloric 
being confined in the former case, must act more powerfully than 
i^ the latter. 



388 THE cook's ORACLE. 

It is further certain, that the Silver or metal pot, when filled a 
second time, produces worse tea than the earthenware vessel ; and 
that it is advisable to use the earthenware pot, unless a silver or 
metal^ne can be procured sufficiently laige to contain at once all 
that nuHf be required. These facts are readily explained by const- 
deiing, tl %i the action of heat retained by the Silver vessel so far 
•OLhausts the herb as to leave very little soluble substance for a se- 
cond infusion ; whereas the reduced temperature of the water in the 
earthenware pot, by extracting only a small proportion at first, leaves 
some soluble matter for the action of a subsequent infhsion. 

The reason for pouring boiling water into the tea-pot befbre the 
fusion gS the tea is made, is, that the vessel being previously warm, 
may abstract less heat from the mixture, and thus admit a more 
powerful action. Neither is it difficult to explain the fact why the 
infusion of tea is stronger if only a small quantity of boiling water 
be first used, and more be added some time afterwards ; for if we 
consider that only the water immediately in contact with the herb 
can act upon it, and that it cools very rapidly, especially in earth- 
fluwaie vessels, it is clear that the effect will be greater where the 
heat is kept i^> by additions of boiling water, than where the vessel 
is filled at once, and the fluid suffered gradually to cool. 
. When the infusion has once been completed, it is found that any 
fiiriher addition of the herb only affords a very small increase in the 
strength, the water having cooled much below the boiling point, and, 
consequently, acting very slightly. 

^ The Jesuit that came from Chma, A.D. 1664, told Mr. Waller, 
that to a diachra of tea they put a pint of water, and frequently take 
the yolks of two new-laid ^gs, and beat Usern up with as much fine 
sugar aa is sufficient for the tea,, and stir all well together. He also 
informed him, that we let the hot water remain too long soaking 
upon the tea, which makes it extract into itself the earthy parts of 
the herb ; the water must remain upon it no longer than while you 
can say the * Mmrert' psalm very leisurely ; you have then only the 
spiritual part of the tea, the proportion of which to the water must 
be about a drachm to a pint.**-- Sir Ksnblm I>ioby*s Q)okery, Lon- 
don, 1669, page 176. 

Ob». — ^The addikioB of an Egg makes the <^ Chinese Soup*" a more 
xwtiitMms and snbstantial meal for a Traveller. 

YARIOU& Ways of Making Txa. 

1. ^ TbBJe^fonem reduce their Tea to a fine powder by pound- 
ing it V tbej put certain portions of this into a te»-cap, pour IxMling 
water upon it, stir it up, and diink it as soon as it is cool enough** 



TEAj COFF£E> ETC. 389 

*' I>UBtTi880N*« Manner op Making Tba. 

% " Put the Tea into a kettle with cold water, — cover it close, 
set it on the fire, and xxiake It all but boil, when you see a sort of 
white Bcum on the surfisu^, take it &oin the fire ; when the leavet 
sink it is ready/* 

3. ^ The night before you wish to have tea ready for drinking^, 
pour on it as much coiA water as you wish to make Tea, — ^next 
morning pour off the clear liquor, and when you wish to drink it, 
make it wacm/* 

The above are from ^ L^Artdu Limonadier" de Dubuisstm, Paris, 
pp. 267, 268. Or, 

4. ^ ^ great saving may be made hy making a Tincture of Tea, thus, 
.^pour boiling water upon it, and let it stand twenty minutes, put- 
ting into eadi cup no more than is neceeaaxy to (ill it about one-third 
full — Fill each cup up with hot water from an urn or kettle, thus 
the Tea will be always hot and equally strong to the end, — and one 
tea-spoonful will be found enough for three cups for each person ; 
according to the present mode of making it, three times the quantitj 
is often used.'' — See Dr. Trusleu's Way to be Rich and Be^pectabU^ 

8vo, 1796, page 27. 

COFFEE.* 

665. Coffee, as used on the Continent, serves the double purpose 
of an agreeable tonic, and an exhilirating beverage, without the un- 
pleasant effects of wine. 

Coffee, as drank in England, debilitates tlie Stomach, and pro> 
duces a slight nausea. In France and in Italy it is made strong 
from the best Coffee, and is poured out hot and transparent 

In England it is usually made from bad Coffee, served out tepid 
and muddy, and drowned in a deluge of water, and sometimes de- 
serves the title given it in **1he Petition against Coffee,'' 4to, 1674, 
page 4, " a base, black, thick, nasty, bitter, stinking Puddle Water.** 

To make Coffee fit for use, you must employ the Grerman filter, 
—pay at least 4s. the pound for it,— and take at least an ounce for 
two break&st-Cups. 

No Coffee will bear drinking with what is called milk in London. 

London people should either take their Coffee pure, or put a 
couple of tea-spoonsful of cream to each cup. 

N.B. The above is a contribution from an intelligent Traveller, 
who has passed some years on the Continent. 

« See Dr. HoueRTon os Coffee In toL zad. of the " Philoiophical TraiiMo- 
tion8,"p. 311. 



390 THB cook's oracle. 

TO MAKE BSEF, MUTTON, OR VBAL TEA. 

666. Cut a pound of lean gravy Meat into thin slices ; put it 
into a quait and half a pint of cold water, set it over a xery gentle 
fire, where it will become gradually warm ; when the scum rises, let 
it continue simmering gently fbr about an hour, then strain it through 
a fine sieve or a napkin, let it stand ten minutes to settle, and then 
pour off the clear Tea. 

N.B. An Onion, arid a few grains of Black Pepper are some- 
times added. 

If the meat is boiled till it is thoroughly tender, you may mince 
it and pound it as directed in (419), and make Pottbd Bbbf. 

To make half a pint of Beef Tea in five minutes fbr three half- 
pence, see (227). 

MUTTON BROTH FOR THB SICK. 

667. Have a poond and a half of a Neck or Loin of Mutton, 
take off the skin and the &t, and put it into a sauce-pan ; cover it 
with cold water, (it will take about a quart to a pound of meat,) let 
it simmer very gently, and skim it well ; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand gently stew^g for about an hour, 
then strain it off. It should he allowed to become eold, when all 
the greasy particles will float on the surfiice, and becoming hard, 
can be easily taken off, and the settlings will remain at the bottom. 

See also (408 and 227). 

N.B. We direct the Meat to be done no more than just sufficiently 
to be eaten, — so a sick man may have plenty of good Broth for 
nothing, as by this manner of producing it, the meat furnishes also 
a good family meal. 

Obs, — ^This is an inoffensive nourishment fbr sick persons—and the 
only Mutton Broth that should be given to convalescents, whose 
constitutions require replenishing with restorative aliment of easy 
digestion. The common way of making it with Boots-— Onions- 
Sweet Herbs, &c. &c. is too strong for weak Stomachs. Plain 
Broth will agree with a delicate Stomach, when the least addition 
of other ingredients would immediately ofibnd it. 

For the various ways of flavouring Broth, see (444). 

Few know how much good may be done by such Broth, taken in 
•uflicient quantity at the b^^inning and decline of bowel complaints 
and fevers, — half a pint taken at a time. See the last two page? 
«f thQ 7tb Chapter of the Budtments of Cookery. 



OBUEL. 391 

DR. KITCBIN£R'8 RBCBIPT TO MAKE aRXTSXi. 

668. Ask those who aie to eat it, if they like it Thick or ikin ; 
if the latter, mix well together by degrees, in a pint baain, one table- 
spoonful of Oatmeal, with three of cold water 'r-^ the former, use 
two spoonsful. 

Have ready in a Stew-pan, a pint of boiling water or milk, — ^pour 
this by degrees to the Oatmeal you have mixed, — ^return it into the 
Stew-pan, — setit on the fire, — and let it boilforfive minutes, — stirring 
it all the time to prevent the Oatmeal from burning at the bottom 
of the Stew-pan, — skim and strain it through a Hair-Sieve. 

2d, To convert this into Caudle, ■ add a little Ale, — Wine,-.-or 
Brandy,— with Sugar, — and if the Bowels are disordered, a little 
Nutrn^ or Ginger grated. 

0&f_Gruel may be made with Broth (408), or (227), or (667)^ 
instead of water, — (to make Crowdie^ see 197), and may be flavoured 
with Stoeet Herb&, Soup Roots^ and Savoury Spices^ — ^by boiling them for 
a few minutes in the water you are going to make the Gruel with, 
-.u>r Zbst (229)y-.PeaBe Powder (385), or dried Mint, — Mushroom 
Catchup (375), — or a few grains of Curry Powder (383), or Savoury 
Itagoiit Powder (384), or Cayenne (345)« — or Celeiy-Seed bruised, 
—or Soup Herb Powder (3{$7), or an Onion minced very fine and 
bruised in with the Oatmeal, — or a little Eschalot Wine (343)^'— 
or Essence of Celery (353), (356), (362), (364), &c. 

Plain G&uel, such as is directed in the first part of this Receipt, 
is one of the best breakfasts and Suppers that we can recommend to 
the rational Epicure — is the most comforting soother of an irritable 
Stomach that we know — and particularly acceptable to it after a 
hard day^s work of intemperate Feasting — ^when the addition of 
half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of Epsom Salt, will give 
it an aperient quality, which will assist the principal Visowa to get 
rid of their burden. 

'*' Water Gmel,'' says Tryon in his Obs. on Health, 16mo, 1688, 
p. 42, is *' the Kino of Spoon MeaU^^ and *^ the Qukbn o/Soupa^'"' 
and gratifies nature beyond all others. 

In the ** Art of Thriving,** 1697, p. 8, are directions for preparing 
Fourscore Noble and Wholesome Dishes, upon moet of which a 
Man may live excellent tcdl/or Twopence a day ; the author^s Ob», on 
Water Gruel is, that ** Esssncx of Oatmxal makes a noble ami «p- 
hUcu^aiinff meal /** 

Dr. Franklyn*8 favourite Breakfast was a good basin of warm 
Gruel, in which there waa a small slice of Butter, with Tonstod 



392 THB cook's Oracle. 

firaad avd Nutnegr— ^he •9q>enie 4if thit he seckon«d at three half> 

pence. 

SOOTeH BURaOO. 

€69. ** Tins humble dish of our Korthem brethren forms no coip- 
temptible article of food. It possesses the grand qualities of salu- 
brity, pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, a sort of Oatmeal 
Hasty Pudding without Milk, much used by those patterns of com- 
liined industry, frugality, and temperance, the Scottbh peasantry, 
and this, among other examples of the economical Scotch, is well 
worthy of being occasionally adopted by all who haye laige familiea 
and small incomes." 

It is made in the following easy and expeditious manner :— . 

**Tb a quart of Oatmeal add gradually two quarts of water, so 
that the whole may smoothly mix : then stirring it continually over 
the fire, boil it together for a quarter of an hour ; after which, tak^ 
it up, and stir in a little Bait and Butter, with or without Pepper. 
This quantity will serve a &mily of five or six persons for a mode- 
rate meaL** — ^Oddy*s FamUy Receipt Book, p. 204. 

670. Tnke a couple of ounces of Pearl Barley, wash it clean with 
cold water, put it into half a pint of boiling water, and let it boil for 
five minutes ; pour off this water, and add to it two quarts of boil- 
ing water: boil it to two pints, and strain it 

l%e above is simple Barley Water ; — ^to a quart of this is fre- 
quently added 

Two ounces of Figs, sliced ; 

The same of Raisins stoned ; 

Half an ounce of Liquorice, sliced and bruised ; 

And a pint of water. 

B<^ it till it is reduced to a quart, and strain. 

Obs. — ^These drinks are intended to assuage thirst in ardent Fe- 
vers and inflammatory disorders, for which plenty of mild diluting 
liquor is one of the principal remedies : — and if not suggested by 
the medical attendant, is frequently demanded by honest Instinct, 
in terms too plain to be misunderstood : — ^the Stomach sympathirai * 
with every fibre of the human frame, and no part of it can be dis- 
tressed without in some degree offending the stomach ; therefore it 
is of the utmost importance to soothe this grand organ, by rendering 
every thing we offer to it as elegant and agreeable as the nature of 
the case will admit of; — ^the Barley drink prepared according to 
the second receipt, will be received with pleasure by the most deli- 
cate palate. 



TOAST AND WATKB. 3^3 

. TOAST AND WATBB. 

671. Cut a Crust of Bread off a stale loaf, about twice the thick- 
ness toast is usually cut ; toast it carefully until it be completely 
browned all over, but not at all blackened or burnt ; pour as much 
boiling water as you wish to make into drink, into the Jug ; put 
the Toast into it, and let it stand till it is (j^uite cold : the fresher it 
is the better. 

Obs, — A roll of thin fresh-cut Lemon, or Dried Orange-Peel, or 
flome Currant-Jelly (629), Apples sliced or roasted, ^e, infiised 
with the bread, are grateful additions. N.B. If the boiling water 
be poured on the Bread, it wUl break it, and make the drink grouty. 

N.B. This is a refreshing Summer Drink ; and when the proper^ 

tion of the fluids is destroyed by profuse perspiration, may be drank 

plentifully. Let a large jug be made early in the day, it will then 

become warmed by the heat of the air, and may be ditmk without 

daoger^-^^which water. Cold as it comes from the well cannot in Hot 

weather. 

OR, 

672. To make it more expeditiously, put the bread into a mug, 
and just cover it witii boiling water *, let it stand till cold, then fill 
it up with cold spring-water, and pour it through a fine sieve* 

06f. — ^The above is a pleasant and excellent beverage, grat^ul 
to the Stomach, and deserves a constant place by the Bed-side, 

TOOTHACHB AND ANTI-KHBUMATIO BBT- 

B&OCATION. 

673. In no branch of the practice of Physic is there more Dan- 
gerous Quadeeryj than in the dental department. 

To all People theTooruACHB is an intolerable Torment— *not even 
a Philosopher can endure it patiently — ^what an overcoming agiony, 
then, must it be to a Grand Gourmand ! — ^besides the mortificaticn 
of being deprived of the means of enjoying that consolation which 
he looks to as the grand solace for all sublunary cares. 

When this affliction befalls him, we recommend the following 
specific for it : — 

R Sal volatile, three parts. 
Laudanum, one part. 

Mix, and rub the part affected frequently, or if the Tooth which 
aches be hollow, drop some of this on a bit of cotton, and put it 
into the Tooth ; — for a general Face-ache, or sore Throat, moisten 
a bit of flannel with it, and put it at night to the part aflected. 



394 THE cook's ORACLE. 

STOMACHIC TINCTURE, 

674. I8^ 

Peruvian Bark, bniiaed, one ounce and a hal£ 
Orange Peel, do. one ounce. 
Brandy, or Proof Spirit, one pint. 

Let these ingredients steep for ten days, shaking the bottle every- 
day — ^let it remain quiet two days— and then decant the clear li- 
quor. 

Dose — a Tea-spoonful in a wine-glass of water, twice a day when 
you feel languid, i. e. when the Stomach is empty, about an hour 
before Dinner, and in the Evening. 

This agreeable Aromatic Tonic is an effective help to concoction, 
-—and we are under personal obligations to it, for frequently restor- 
ing our Stomach to good temper, and procuring us good Appetite 
and good Digestion. 

In low nervous affections arising from a languid circulation — and 
when the Stomach is in a state of debility from age, intemperance, 
or other causes— this is a most acceptable restorative. 

N.B. Tba made with dried and bruised Sbvillb Orangb Pkbl, 
in the same way as common Tea, and drank with Milk and Sugar, 
has been taken by nervous and dyspeptic persons with great benefit 

Sucking a bit of dried Orange-Peel about an hour before dinner, 

when the Stomach is empty, is very grateful and strengthening to 

it. 

PAREGORIC ELIXIR. 

675. A drachm of purified Opium. 
Same of Flowers of Benjamin. 
Some of Oil of Aniseed. 
Camphor, two scruples. 
Steep all in a pint of Brandy or Proof Spirit : let it stand ten 
days, occasionally shaking it up. Strain. 

A tearspoonful m half a pint of White Wine Whey (662), Te- 
wahdiddle (659), or Gruel (668), taken the last thing at night, is 
an agreeable and effectual medicine for Coughs and Colds. 

It is also excellent for Children who have the Hooping-Cough, 
in doses of from five to twenty drops in a little water, or on a little 
bit of Sugar. 



USEFUL RSCBIPT8. 395 

The few fcUofjdng Receipts^ although not exactly apperiaining to tie hu- 
nness of a Cookery Book^ wiU yet he found ueeful^ and especially one 
or two ofihem. Very few Servants, for mstanoej have as^ idea of 
preparing Salt, ^e, ^c. 

TO PRSPABE flAIiT. 

676. Take a lump of Salt of the size you think proper, and if 
not quite dry, place it in a plate before the fire to make it ao, then 
pound it in a Mortar till it ig perfectly fine ; this done, fill your 
Saltrceilan with it higher than the brim, and with the flat ride of a 
knife that has a smooth edge, take it off and press it down eyen 
with the top. If the Salt-cellars are not smooth on the top, but 
cut in notches, a Table-spoon is the best tool to press and smooth 
the salt in them — or it makes them look very neat, if the bottom 
of the Salt-cellar ia ornamented, to place the bottom of one on the 
top of the other for the same purpose. 

The Salt should be in a lump that it may be free from dirt, and 
the knife must have a smooth edge — if it has the least ruggedneasy 
it will leave the marks on the salt. 

MUSTARD. 

677. To ei^t Tesrspoonsfrd, or two ounces of Mustard, put two 
tea-spoonsful of Salt and nine of water — ^mix them well t(^;ether ; 
then add six spoonsful more of water, and again well mix it by 
rubbing it round the side of the cup, or other vessel, till it is of a 
nice smooth consistency, and free from any lumps. 

TO PREVENT BEER BECOMZNG FZiAT AFTER 

IT 18 DRAWN, 

678. Put a piece of Toasted Bread into it, and it will preserve 
the spirit for twelve hoois after, in a Tery conriderable degree. 

TO CLEAN PIiATE 

679. jFVn^.— .Take care that your Plate is quite free from grease. 
Seoomd, — ^Take some whitening mixed with water, and a sponge, 

rub it well on the Plate, which will take the tamiah off ; if it is very 
bad, repeat the whitening and water several times, making use of a 
brush, not too hard, to dean the intricate parts. 

2nbM»— Take some rouge-powder, mix it with water to about the 
thieknesi of cream, and with a small pieoe of leather (which should 
be kept for that purpose only) apply the rouge, which, with the ad- 
dition of a little ^ Elbow Qreaae,'^ will, in a short time, pvoduee a 
aiott beatttif ul polish. 



39t> 7SB cook's obacle. 

N.B.*~Tbe Bouge-Powder may be had at all the SaTenmite 
and Jewellers. 

Obt, — ^The above is the actual manner in which SilTenmitha deaa 
their Plate, and was given to me by a respectable Tradesman. 

THE COMMON METHOD OF CHbSANINO PXJkTB. 

680. Pint wash it well with soap and waim water ; when per- 
fectly dry, mix together a little whitening and sweet oil, so as to 
make a soft paste ; then take a piece of flannel, rub it on the Plate, 
then with a leather, and plenty of dry whitening, rub it dean off 
again ; then, with a clean leather and a brush, finish it. 

TO LOOSEN GXiASS STOPPERS OF BOTTIiBS. 

681. With a feather rv3b a drop or two of salad oil round the 
stopper, close to the mouth of the ^bottle or decanter, which must 
be then placed before the fine, at the distanoe of about eighteen 
inches ; the heat will cause the oil to insinuato ^self between the 
stopper and the neck. 

When the Bottle or Decanter has grown warm, gently strike the 
stopper on one side, and then on the other, with any light wooden 
instrument : then try it with the hand : if it will not yet move, 
place it again before the fire, adding another drop of oil. After a 
while strike again as before ; and by penerering in this process, 
however tightly it may be fiistened in, you will at length succeed in 
loosening it. 

VARNISH FOR OIXi PAINTINGS. 

662. According io the number of your Pictures, take the whites 
of the same number of Eggs, and an equal number of pieces of Sugar 
Candy the size of a hade-nut, dissolve and mix it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of Brandy ; beat the whites of your Eggs to a ihvth, and let H 
settle ; take the clear, put it to your Brandy and Sugar, mix them 
well together, and varnish over your pictures with it 

This is much better than any other Varnish, as it is easily wtdied 
off when your Pictures want cleaning again. 

METHOD OF CLEANING PAPSR-HANGINGa. 

683. Cut into eight half quarters a quarten loai^ two days old ; it 
must neither be newer nor staler. With oiae of these pieces, after 
having blown off all the dust from the papek<to be deaaed by the 
means of a good pair of bellows, b^in at the top of the room, 
holding the crust in the hand; and wiping lightly downward with tbs 
crumb, about half a yard at each stroke, till the upper part of the 



USEFUL BB0SIPT8. 397 

liangiBjIs is oonipletelj cleaned all round. Then go round again, 
with the like sweeping stroke downvsids, always commencing each 
succesaiTe coone a little hiig^er than the upper stroke had extended, 
till the bottom be finished. This operation, if careftdly performed, 
will frequently make very old paper look almost equid to new. 

Great caution must be used not hj any means to rub the paper 
hard, nor to attempt cleaning it the cross, or horizontal way. The 
dirty part of the bread, too, must be each time cut away, and the 
pieees renewed as soon as it may become neoeasary. 

TO PRBVENT THB FREEZING OF WATER IN 
PIPES IN THE WINTER-TIME. 

6B4. By tying up the ball-cock during the f\rost, the freezing of 
Pipes will often be prevented : in fiict, it will always be prevented 
where the main Pipe is higher than the Cistern, or other Reservoir, 
and the Pipe is laid in a regular inclination from one to the other, 
for then no water can remain in the Pix>e ; or if the Main is lower 
than the Cistern, and the Pipe regularly inclines, upon the supply 
ceasing, the Pipe wiU immediately exhaust itself into the Main. 
Where the water is in the Pipe, if each Cock is left a little drip- 
pmg, this circulation of the ws^r will frequently prevent the Pipes 
from being frozen. 

TO UAKB WOODEN STAIRS HAVE THE APPEAR- 
ANCE OF STONE. 

685. Paint the ^oirs, step by step, with white paint, mixed with 
strong drying oiL Strew it thick with silver sand. 

It ought to be thoroughly dry next morning, when the loose sand 
iS'to be swept off. The painting and sanding is to be repeated, and 
when dry, thr sui&ce is to be done over with pipe-clay, whiUflg, 
and water *, which may be boiled in an old saucepan, and laid on mik 
a bit of fiamiel, not too thick, otherwise it will be apt to scale off. 

A penny cake of pipe-clay, which mvat be scraped^ is the com- 
mon proportion to half a lump of whiting. 

The pipe-clay and whiting is generally applied once a-week, but 
that might be done only as oecaston requires. 

TO PREVENT DISAGREEABIiE SMELXiS FROM 

SINKS, arc. 

686. The disgustful efflavia aidsing from Cabbage-water^and the 
various ungmtefitl odours which anse frnm the Sink of Kitchens^ 
Diainsy Slc^ aie not only an maeccflsafy nnuunace to the goodlbiks' 






398 THB oook's osaclb. 

of the Moond table, but we believe nich nuaam is not an uncomnm 
cause of Putrid Feven, &c. &c. 

It caimot be too generally known, that a cheap and aimple ap- 
paiatufl has been contriTed for cazrying off the waste water, &e. 
from Sinks, which at the same time effectually prevents any air 
letuming back from thence, or from any Dcsin connected th cie w iUi . 

TO PREVENT MOTHS. 

687. In the month of April beat your fox garments well with a 
small cane or elastic stick, then lap them up in linen without press- 
ing the ftir too hard, and put betwixt the folds some Camphor in 
small lumps ; then put your furs in this state in boxes well closed. 

When Uie furs are wanted for use, beat them well as before, and 
expose them for twenty-four hours to the air, which will take away 
the smell of the Camphor. 

If the fru: has long hair, as bear or fox, add to the Camphor an 
equal quantity of black pepper in powder. 

TO PREVENT HATS BEING DABIAOSD AFTER A 

SHOIVER OF RAIN. 

688. If your hat is wet, shake it out as much as possible ; then 
brush it with a soft brush as smooth as you can, or with a clean linen 
cloth or handkerchief; wipe it veiy carefully, keep the beaver flat 
and smooth, in the same direction as it was first placed, then with 
a small cane beat the nap gently up, and hang it up to dry in a cool 
place ; when it is dry, lay it on a table, and brush it round seveial 
times with a soft brush in the proper direction ; and you will find 
your hat not the least injured by the rain. 

If the gloss is not quite so high as you wish, take a flat iron, mo- 
derately heated, and pass the same two or three times gently over 
the hat ; brush it afterwards, and it will become nearly as hand- 
Some as when sent home from the Maker. 

BOIV TO SCOX7R A HAT WHEN THE NAP IS CX«OT- 
TBD, AND TO TAKE SALT WATER OUT. 

689. €kt a hard brudi, a basin of hot water (boiling), and some 
yellow soap ; rub a little of the Soap lightly on the brush and dip 
it into the water, brush the Hat round with the nap ; if you find 
the nap clotted, do not scrape it with your fingers, as that teais it 
off, but brush it untQ it is smooth, and the soap is thoroughly out; 
then take a piece of wood, or the back of a knife, and scrape it well 
round; you will find all the dirt oome oat; then beat it gently 
with a cane. 



ITSBF0L BBCEIPXS. 399 

See the preceding Receipt 

A Hat will wear much longer if you change the side hefore, al- 
ternate days. 

TO CLEAN KNIVES. 

€90. They should he held in a straight position on the Knife- 
board, and ahouid be ntowd baohcardg and/ortoards in cu direct a Ime 
as poseibU — they will then be free from that scratchy appearance 
which makes knives look so badly. 

Forks should be rubbed very hard with a stick covered with buff 
leather ; they will then have a much brighter polish, and be much 
sooner done, than if only lightly pressed on. 

WOUNDS ON THE SKIN. 

^91. Cuts and wounds inflicted by a sharp instrument heal with 
prodigious fiidlity, if the Constitution be sound and the Circulation 
sufficient ; — the inosculating vessels form such a speedy and perma- 
nent union, if undisturbed by officious interference, as often to ex- 
cite surprise. The inexperienced will scarcely believe what degree 
of improvement wiU be visible upon the removal of the first drese- 
ing : the Air is the great corrupter of Wounds. People in general 
have no idea what a healing process is proceeding ih large Wounds 
under a poultice unremoved for five or six days ; and then the ex- 
clamation is, What a fine cure the Surgeon has made ! The cus- 
tomary sticking-plaster is spread with a gum which does not suit an 
irritable Skin ; the Gold-beater^s Skin is preferable for slight super- 
ficial Wounds. 



FAREWELL TO THE READER. 



Wt now have made, in one detign. 

The Utile and Dulce Join ; 

And tanght the poor, and men of 

wealth, 
To reoopcile their tastes tp Health ; 
Bestxain each forward appetite. 
To dine witii pradenDe and ddig^ 
And, carefnl, all onr mles to fitUow, 
To masticate before they swallow. 
Tis thns Hyokia guides onr pen. 
To warn thegrbedy sons of man 
To moderate their wine and meat, 
And " eat to live, not live to eat** 
Forthe rash Palate oft bestows 
Arthritic Leotvres on the Toeaf !I 
The Stomaeht Toid of wmd and hiki 
Shall praise our monitory style ; 
And as he cannot speak, enlist 
Himself as yonr ventitfoqals^^ 
The Bead, now clear torn pafai aad 

raponr, 
Shall order ont his ink and paper. 
And dictate praises on these roles 
To gorem gormandising foc^ 
The Legs, now fearless of the gout, 
As ready messengers tarn oat, 



To spread our volume far and near. 
Active in gratitude sincere. 
While thus the fiodjy, strong and sonnd. 
Out constant advocate is found ; 
And pointing to receipts delicious 
Kzclaims, "Who reads our new A9%- 

CWB, 

If ha has braina nia^^ keep them cool ; 

If a sound stomach and no fool, ^ 

May keep it so, unclogged by food, 

Indtgestkm's sickly brood ; 

His Hui^er, thomgh oppreasive, case. 

His Palate, though capricious, {rieaao ; 

And if with care he reads onr Book, 

In Iheory may be a CSook, 

Lean the ddUJghts good ralsa frat un 

us 
When appetite by reason's aw'd, 
(Zbno alike and Eprcmtus 
Plcanues oombin'd with health a(p« 

pland). 
He who is stomach's master, he 
The noblest Empire then may boaat. 
And at whatever feast he be. 
That man alone ' shall rule the 

Boost"* 



INDEX. 



The figures in the body of the Index refer to the Beoeipts, and ttioie under the 
word Pags to where the Beceipts are tp be found. 



Abbrnbtuy, Mr., quoted, 

note 21 

Acid of lemon, artificial, 350 267 
Accum on Adulterations, 

quoted, note to 371 . 272 
A-la-mode beef, or Teal, 418 298 
Albion- House, Aldexfigate- 

street, note 219 

Alderman in chains, 57 . 136 
Allspice, essence of^ 355 . 368 

SlrH.Sloaneon,note 96 

— ...^ tincture of, 356 . 268 
Almond custard, 575 . . 360 

spong^ cakes, 599 367 

Anchovy butter, 372 . . 272 

quintessence of, 371 272 

.—_— to keep them weU, 

Obs. to 241 .... 228 

paste, 372 ... 274 

powder, 373 . .276 

sauce, 241 . . . 228 

toast, 561* . . . 356 

Apioius, his sauce for bofled 

chicken 38 

Apothecaries* Hall, N.B. to 

310 253 

Appert, his art of preserving 

vegetables, note to 133 165 
Appetite, good, why the best 

sauce 53 

, to refresh ... 58 

ilyatroi8Sorte8,note 40 

Apple, Boston, puddmg, 520 342 
..... covered with costard, 

672 360 

.^—dumplings, 521 . .342 
_^ to d^, 626 ... . 376 



Apple, love, sauce, 258 . . 234 

pie, 499 335 

pudding, 519 .. . 341 

«uce,269 .... 237 

..._ in syrupy for present 

use, 622 374 

tait, creamed, 500 . 336 

Apricot jam, 640 . . . 379 
Arbuthnot, Dr., quoted, pre- 
face 9 

Arraok, to imitate, 657 . 385 
Arrow-root blancmange, 565 358 
Artichokes, 135 . . . . 166 

Jerusalem, 113 .160 

Asparagus, 119 ... . 161 
soup, 206 ... 202 

Bacon to boil, 14 . . . 120 
reli8hingiashersof^444 310 

309 

134 
289 
76 
361 
77 
374 
366 
195. 

206 
382 
382 
392 
283 
227 
262 
84 



~.- slices of, .443 

spare-rib, to roaAt, 53 

Bain-Marie, note to 400 . 
Baking, Obs. on . 
Baked custard, 576 

haddock 

pears, 624 . 

Banbury cake, 595 
Barley broth, Scotch, 193 
^—^,.-~. to make a gallon 
for a groat, 212 

sugar, 646 . . 

sugar drops, 646* 

water, 670 . . 

Basil, when to dry . 
■ . sauce, 236 . . 

vinegar, 336 . 

Bastings .... 



2c 



402 



INDEX. 



Pane 
fiafh buns, 613 ... . 371 
Batter pudding, 528 . . 344 
Beam, French, 132 . . . 164 

Beauty 52 

Bechamel, 307 .... 252 
Bee^ i^la-mode, 224 . .218 

or 418 298 

•.^^^ banm of 87 

-^i— .baked 78 

.—. boiled, sauce for, 286 244 
-.— bones broiled, 425 . 303 
■ bouilli, 5 . . . .112 
«— ^ bouilli, how nutritiTe 
and economical, 5 . . 113 
bouilli, sauce for, 286 244 
broth, 182 . . . .189 
boEotii, for glase, 227 219 
.brisket, steved, 412 295 
broUed, 402 ... 290 
broiled, with onlongn^ 
vy, 417 . . . . • . 298 
— . bubble and aqiieak . 302 
-^ cuUis, 185 .... 191 

— cold, broiled, &&, 402 290 
-^gmvy,.183 .... 190 

— gravy sauce, 287 • • 244 
gravy strong, 184 . .191 
gravy for poulUy, 287 244 

— H-Bone, 9 .... 116 

— hashed, 399 ... 289 

— ditto, 400* .... 290 

— ditto, 401 .... 290 
—^ hashedyandboneabroil- 

ed,425 SOS 

..— sauce for, 305 .. . 250 
-.— hare, mock, 67 • • 143 

— haricot, 413 .- . . 295 
•— Hunter*s savoury, 414 295 

— leg of, soup, 188 . . 192 
-*. JVbcbeth^ receipt, and 

le veritable bifiedt do 
Beauvilliers, N.B. to 93 152 

— potted, 419 .... 300 

— round of, salted, 8 . 116 
-i— outside slices, what 
good for, N.B. to 8 . .116 

— ribs oi; roasted, 22 . 126 
— . ditto, boned and rolled, 

23 126 



Bee^ ditto, salted and roU* 

ed, 10 117 

to salt, 6 .... 114 

■ . savoury salt, baked, 
414 295 

.-_. Scotch, its superiority, 

note to 21 125 

ahiii of, ftoup, 188 . 192 

shin, slewed, 411 . . 293 

Sir-loin, roasted, 21 . 125 

Sir-loin, broiled, 402 290 

...^^ Sir-loin, fot end, 395 287 
Sii^loin, inside o^ 

394 286 

.«....- flir-kin, pn^ter way to 

carve, note to 21 . . . 125 
*...*steak,tofiry, 84 . .149 

M ■■ witii onions, 85 . 149 

„. padding, 512 . 338 
■...., . season for, note to 

93 152 

—.*...—. stewed, 416 . . 297 
■ ■ ■ . superlatiye, 98 . 153 

tea, 666 39a 

Beer, to recover when hard, 

678 395 

-*.— to bottje, 663 .. . 387 
.-..^ cup, 661 .... 386 
Beet root, 126 .... 16a 

to pickle, 468 . 320 

Bill of fiue for a week . . 5a 
Birch, his excellent mock 

turtle, note 215 

Biscuit, deviled, 562 . . 357 

diopa, 616 .. . 372 

■ savoy, 615 • . . 371 
— ... sponge, 614 . . . 371 
Bishop, essence of^ 355 . 343 
Black cock, 73 .... 145 
Blancmange, 563 • . . 357 

■ arrow-root, 565 . 358 

rice, 564 . . . .357 

Boiling, 01m. on .... 71 

see N.B. to 20 . .124 

Boiled meat, sauces fbr . 76 

I gravy fbr, 285 . 243- 

custard, 574 . . 464 

Bouillon desant^ 191 . .193 
Bouilli and soup, 215 . .208 



INDBZi 



403 



Pago 

Bonne bouche ibr geeae, &c 

390 246 

l)oaclM,or2dl • . 246 

Biain balls, 324 .... 260 
, Dr. Cadogan^s Obs. xm 



our, note 

, sadly dependent on 

bowels ...••• 
Brandy, Cognac, where to 

buy, 647 

Bread crumbs, fried, 280 
■ substitute for . . 



22 

21 

382 
240 
86 
368 
362 
361 
343 
343 



.— ^ diet cake, 601 « . 
, French and rolls, 580 
■ ■ \o make, 579 . • 
«..« pudding, 525 . . • 
..._-.— plain, 526 • • 
..»_^ and butter ditto, 

627 343 

«.....-. another way, 527* 344 
.—^ sauce, 281 ... . 241 

sippets, fried, 279 . 241 

Bride, or wedding cake, 587 364 

Brill, 139 169 

Broccoli, 125 163 



pickled, 466 



320 

87 
197 



Broiling. See 4th chap, of 

Rudiments of Cookery, 
Brose, Scotch, 197 . . 
Broths and Soups, Obs. on. 
See 7th chap, of Rudi- 
ments of Cookery . . 93 
..*— barley, cheap, for the 

poor, 212 206 

beef, 182 .... 189 

bhwk 38 

to ciariftr, 228 . . .223 

with cutlets, 408 . . 293 

, fragments of . • • 55 
.—.^ herbs, soups, roots, &c. 95 

mutton, 189 ... 193 

...-^ mutton, 667 ... 390 

mock ditto, 190 . 193 

.^.^ Scotch Barley, 193 . 195 

for sick, 667 ... 390 

veal, 186 .... 186 

Browning, to colour soup 

and sauce, 283 . . . 241 
Brunswick tourte, 510 . . 338 



Page 
Bubble and squeak, 424 . 302 
Buns, Batb, QU* ... 371 

cross, 611 . » . . 370 

— plain, 610 .... 370 
....^ plum, 618 .... 371 

seed, 612 .... 371 

Burgoo, Sooteb, 669 . . . 392 
Burnet sauoe, 236 . . . 227. 

vinegar, 339 . . 262 

——— its peculiar flavour, 262 

when to dry . . 284 

Butler, Obs. on the business 

of a, note 42 

Butler, Mr. his directions for 

drying herbs, 389 . . 382 
— i— ditto to market for 

Tegetables 69 



Butter melted, Obs. on 
.^— burnt, 232 . . 
with chervil^basU, 



&;c. 236 



clarified,231 . . 
and fennel, 237 . 
finest, 229 . . 
for mixing with 



243 
226 

227 
226 
227 
22a 



sauoe^mem 224 

■ oiled, 283 • • ^ 
I I , and parsley, 234 2sK 
■ . . to recover when 
oiled, NJB. .... 22a 

Cabbage, 114 160 

red, pickled, 464 . 320 

ii-.— . boiled and fried, 

115 160 

Cakes, almond sponge, 599 367 
«..— Banbury, 595 .. . 366 

bride or wedding, 587 364 

368 
369 
369 
869 
365 
363 
368 
368 



608 



cheese, 604 . 
ditto ahnond, 607 
ditto lempn, 605 . 
ditto orange, 606 . 
common seed, 590 
crumpets, 583 . . 
Derl^ or short, 603 
diet bread, 601 . 
gingerbread orange, 



869 



gingerbread nuts, 609 ^70 



404 



INDEX. 



Cakes, gipsy, 602 ... 368 
— ~. iceing for bride, 585 363 
Italian macaroons, 597 367 

302 
362 
348 
364 
365 
365 
366 
367 
368 
362 
367 
366 
363 
365 
363 



— » meat, 428, 

— muffins, 582 . . . 
..... pan, or fritters, 542 . 
— .— plain pound, 588 . . 

ditto, 589 .... 

i— .. queen, or heart, 592 . 

— queen*s drops, 593 . 

Ratafia, 598 . . . 

ditto, 600 .... 

Sally Lunn, 581 . . 

— Savoy, 596 .... 

— Shrewsbury, 594 . . 
twelfth, 586 . . . 

— yeast, rich, 591 . . 
... Yorkshire, 584 . . 
Cal^ &tted, pr^erred to 

starved turtle .... 217 
Calves' feet jelly^ 628 . ^375 

head, to boil, 11 . . 117 

full dressed, . . . 118 

hashed, 11 . . . 117 

made dish of, 398 . 288 

ditto, 437 ... 307 

mock turtle, 223 .215 

-^ ragout, 438 . . .307 

sauce for, 275 . . 239 

— ditto, piquante for, 
276 239 

Camp vinegar, 344 . • . 265 
Caper sauce, 244 .... 229 

mock, 245 .. . 229 

Capillaire, 650 .... 384 
Capon, to boil, 17 ... 122 
...^ to roafit, 58 ... . 137 

Obs.on 138 

Capsicums, when in season, 

345 265 

Caramel, to boil sugar to 619 372 
Carp stewed, 155 . . . 176 
Carrots, 128 .- . . . .163 

soup, 198 .... 197 

another way, 198* 198 

Carving 45 

Carving, ancient terms o^ note 41 
Catholic fanulies, cooking for 203 
Cat in gely, 37 



Catchup, cockle, 378 . » 

muscle, 378 . . 

■ mushroom, 375 
ditto double, or dog 



sup 

ditto, quintessence 

of, 376 .... 

oyster, 377 . 

pudding, 379 

walnut, 374, 



Caudle, 668 
Cauliflower, 124 

pickled, 466 

Cautions to carvers 
Caw-caw bones, N.B. to 1 
Cayenne pepper, Obs. on 

essence of, 346 

how to make, 345 

wine, 348 . . . 

Celery, essence of, 353 . . 

sauce, white, 255 . 

—— sauce, pur^, 256 . 
seed, its importance. 



278 
275 

275 

277 
277 
278 
27S 
391 
162 
320 
45 
111 
265 
766 
265' 
266 
268* 
2S3 
234 



note 



soup, 200 



Cement for sealing bottles 
Chantilly basket, 571 . 
Charity, the greatest . 
Cheap soup, 211 . . 
Cheese, apple, 578 . . 

cakes, 604 . . 

— — - ditto almond, 607 

■ ditto lemon, 605 
' ditto orange, 606 

■ crusts for, 561 . 
— ^— — damson, or other 

plum, 577 361 

pounded or potted 



96 
198 
109 
359 

27 
205 
361 
368 
369 
369* 
369 
S66 



560 



559 



and tost, 557 . . 
and toast buttered, 



toasted, 558 

Cherries dried, 625 . . 
Chervil sauce, 236 . . 

when to dry, 389 

Chicken, see fowl, 17 . 

andham patties, 496, 435 

pie, 480 .... 329 



356 

355 

356 
355 
374 

227 
284 
122 



INDSX. 



405 



Cniickeo, tbick nuce for, . 
Chili vinegar, 337 . . . 
— -— . inne^ 348 • • • • 
Chops to firy, 84 ... . 
— .» beef, mutton, pork, to 

broil* 93 ...••• 

, ^ relish for, 367 . . . 

sauce for, 303 • . . 

.~.. to stew, 416 . . . 
Cide]>cup, 661* . • . . 
Cinnamon, essence of, 360 . 
I ■ tincture o^ 361 . . 
Claret, best wine fbr sauces, 

&c 

Clarified butter, 231 . . 
.-— ^- sugar, 617 . . . 

*yruP) 648 . . . 

Clarify, broth, to, 228 . . 
CloTes, essence of, 358 . . 
— — tincture o^ 359 . . 
Coals, V what kind produce 

greatest heat . . . . 
Cockle catchup, 378 • . 
Cocky-leeky, 195 . . . 
Cod, boiled, 145 . . . . 
— shaved, and sold lor 

whitins, Obs. to 149 « . 
...-. skml stewed, 155 . . 
. slices o^ boiled, 147 . 
— ... tail fiUeted,iiote under 

145 

Coffee, to make, 665 . . 

Cold fish 

■■.. sauee fbr, 304 . . 

ditto, 272 . . . 

■■ . ditto, 382 . . . 
■ I fowl, an ^excellent dish 

0^454 

....^ meat, to broil, with 

poached eggs, 482 
.^-. ditto to wann,tbefaest 

way 

ditto sauce fbr, 304 . 

...^ veal, an excellent dish 

of; 431 

Collage pudding, 535 . « 

Collops, Scoth, 435 . . . 

. minced, 406 « . • 



Pane 

38 

266 

266 

149 

152 
270 
250 
297 
387 
269 
269 

99 
226 
372 
383 
203 
269 
269 

80 
278 
196 
171 

174 
176 
173 

171 
389 
54 
250 
238 
241 

313 



. 290 

54 
250 

304 
346 
306 
291 



Page 
Colouring, ftequent cause of 

adulteration, Obs. to 283 241 
for soup and sauce, 

283 241 

Committee of taste ... 17 
Common seed-cake, 590 . 365 
Cook-teaser, where not to 

put him 46 

s, causes of the scarcity 

of good 295 

cautions to against sea- 
soning 51 

-.— deserve good wages . 24 
— « friendly advice to • 48 

.~- hints to .54 

-.~~ ditto when having a 

laige dinner party . • 62 
a manor given to one 

by William the Conqueror 23 
Obs. ooncemiBg their 

health, note .... 28 
_ ^ purger souvent, de la 

n^essit^ de 28 

Cookery, Arbuthnot, Dr. 

qitoted on .... . 9 
— ^ the analeptic part 

of physic ..... 8 
— — i best books on, note 21 
— ~i Descartes* Obs. on 19 
~.--. importance of . . 23 
. Johnson, Dr. his 



Obs. on 22 

— ~ Mandeville, Dr. . 9 
opinion of a cook on 



books of 35 



note 



Stark, Dr., note • 
Sylvester, Obs. on. 



8 

21 
21 



■ theory of, note . . 
_-. theory of the proce»- 
ses of; from the Encyclo- 
paedia Brit., note ... 22 
Cooking animals, their pe- 

culiartime of feeding, note 18 
Coquus Magnus .... 23 

Corks 109 

Cottage potato pudding, 539 347 
Coupd*aprks ..... <98 



406 XNBIX. 



Cow-heel, to dfen, 20 . . 124 
Cnibtoboil, 176 .... 185 

to pot, 177 . . . .185 

Cranbeiry tart, 501 . . . 335 
Cnme ....... 37 

Ciaw-fish, Boup, 213 . . 207 
I ■ ■ poundedaliTe, re- 
commended by Mongieur 
Clennont, Obs. 213 . . 207 
Cray-fish, potted, 174 . .184 
Cream, clouted, 568 . . 358 
.. mock. Bitches re- 

ceipt for, 568* .... 359 

.. Italian, 566 . . .358 

I spring, or mock 
gooseberry fool, 567 . . 358 
Cress sauce, 236 ... . 227 

vinegar, 337 . . .263 

Crisp parsley, 278 ... 240 
Croquante of paste, 506 . 336 
ChMsbuns, 611 ... . 370 
Crumpets, 583 .... 363 
Crusts for bread and cheese, 

561 356 

Cucumber, to preserve, 623 874 

stewed, 134 . . 166 

vineg^, 389 . . 263 

Culinary curiosities . . . 36 
Cullis, or thickened gravy, 

185 191 

Cura^oa, 649 383 

■to make a quart of, 

649 383 

Curlews 37 

Currant jam, black, 639 . 379 

jelly, black, 631 . 378 

■ ■ black, white, or 

red, 629 876 

red, 682 ... 378 

Trtiite, 633 . . 378 

■ , * ditto,anotherway, 

633* 878 

Curry balls, 325 ... . 260 

to dresB, 415 .. . 296 

I , ditto, an excellent re- 
ceipt, 415* 297 

...^ powder, 383 ... 286 
— sauce, 299 . . . ..248 



Curry Mup, 255 .... 3lB 
Custard, almond, 575 . . 360 
. -apples covered with, 

572 360 

baked, 576 ... 361 

boiled, 573 . . . 360 

ditto, 574 ... 360 

■ .i pudding, 534 . . 345 
Cutlets,-8avkcefor, 303 . .250 
Cyder cup, 661* .... 387 

Dace, 157 177 

Dallaway*B Servant^s Moni- 

tor, quoted 50 

Damson, or other plum 

cheese, 577 .... 361 
Derby, or short cake, 

603 368 

DevU, 457 314 

lnscuit,562 . . .357 

sauce for, 302 . . . 249 

his venison . . . . 3G 

Diet bread cake, 601 . .36a 
Digestion, how important . 20 
Digester, note 4: . > - • 219 
Dinner, arrangement of 

guests at 42 

— . Boileau*8 Obs. on 

non-punctuality ... 44 
good one for 5d» per 

head, 193 19;> 

hints for prqxiring 

61 
40 

46 

39 
39 

3d 

44 

32 

40 



a large 

.hints for providing 
ditto to those going 



out to 



--.— importanoe of punc^ 

tuality 

— — * invitations to . . 
only act which can« 



not'be postponed 

punishment for not 



being punctual at . 

. rules for behaviour 



at, notey 

.second courses, Oba. 



I 



on 



aeren chances a- 



INDEX. 



407 



Pag© 
gainst iti being piopctlj 
dressed, note .... 34 

I>redgings, 84 

Dripping, to clarify, 82 . . 148 

■ ■ ■ Melroe^ Mra., her 
Ohs., note UQ 

-—«■..— pan ..... 81 
.. ■ ■ to preserve in flum- 
mer « . 149 

■ Stark, Dr. his Obs. 
note 148 

soup, 212. ... 206 



Duck, bonne bouche for, 290 246 



. cold, to warm, 456 
. giblet soup, 221 
«— to hash, 449 . 

ditto, 460 . . 

fi » to roast, 61 . . 
-.^— . sauce for, 289 . 
...... Muffing for, 320 

wild, to roast, 74 

Dutch salad, Obs. to, 314 



314 
213 
312 
312 
140 
245 
259 
146 
255 



Economy, first rule of com- 
fortable, note .... 60 
Edge-bone of beef, see H- 

bone, 9 116 

ways of spelling .117 
Education of a cook^s tongue 53 
Eels, fried, 163 .... 180 

pickled, 159 ... 177 

pie, 485 331 

.^.-^ soup, 210 .... 204 
..»_spitchcocked, 164 . . 180 
^—stewed, 162. . . . 179 
-^_ ditto, 155 V ... 176 
Egg balls for forcemeat, 323 259 
_ boiled in the shell, 549 352 
«_ ditto for salad, 549 . 352 
_ ftied with bacon, 551 352 
; dittowith minced ham, 
553 363 

■ ■ poached, 548 . . . 351 
«.-»- .ditto with mineed ham, 

550 ....... 352 

■ ■ to preserve for twelve 

months, N.B. to 549 . . 352 
«— ^xago&t,a52. . . . .353 
*-.^.8auce, 239 .... 228 



Page 
£gg, various ways of dress- 
ing egg and ham patties, 

494 334 

Elder flowem, when to dry 284 
Epicure, author^ definition 

of, note 18 

.. temperate man the 

greatest 19 

Eschalot sauce, 260 . . . 235 

, or 261 .... 235 

^ — ^-^— for boiled mutton, 

262 235 

vinegar, 342 . . . 264 

wine, 343 . . . . 264 

Essence of Allspice, 355 . 268 

anchovy, 371 . . 272 

Cayenne, 346 . . 266 

celery, 353 .. . 268 

— . clove, 358 .. . 269 



. cinnamon, 360 . . 269 

eschalot, 343 . . 264 

ginger, 354 .. . 268 

ham, 300 . . . . 249 

ham, where to buy 249 

of lemon peel, 349 267 

ditto, 351 ... 353 

of mace, 358 . .269 

marjoram, 362 . . 270 

— ^^ mushrooms, 376 . 277 

punch, 653 .. . 384 

— «_ ragout, 388 • . . . 282 
. I. • savoury spice, 365 . 270 

soup herbs, 364 . . 270 

..^— do. and savoury spiee, 

366 270 

of sweet herbs, 368 270 

of turtle, 294 , .247 



Essences, vegetable, 363 « 270 

Fare, bUl of, for a week . B^ 
Fat or marrow- pudding, 518 341 
Fawn, to roast, 64 . . . 141 
— advice respecting, N.B. 

to 64 141 

Fennel and butter for mack- 
erel, 237 227 

— when to dry .... 284 
FiUetofveal, 34 .... 130 
, or 393 • . . . 386 



Pige 



90 
54 
74 
91 
260 
68 



408 INDEX. 

Fiflh, obflerraticms on. See 
the 6th Chapter of the 
Rudiments of Cookeiy • 

— cold, to re-dreiB . . 

— drainer, its use . . . 
" fecundity of, note . . 

-~— forcemeat^ 326 . . . 
hoy to market for 

maigte, to dress, 156 .176 

-i— pies, maigre, 485 . • 331 

to pickle, 169 . - . 177 

— - prices of, 68 

sauce, 368 .... 271 

sauces, 92 

-~. sauces, why to be pre- 
pared at home .... 92 

— — soups 24 

to stew, 155 . . . 176 
—..when best . .' . . 91 
Flavour, agents employed to 
soups, &c. note . . . .108 

Flip, 658 385 

Flounders, boiled, 151 . .174 

boUed or fried, 151 174 

stewed, 155 .. . 176 

279 

356 
259 

822 259 

260 
260 
259 
260 
260 
259 
259 
256 

316 257 



Flour of potatoes, 381 • • 

Forcemeat, general obserra- 

tions on, 315 . . . . 

_..— balls for turtle, 322 

.,. balls for mock do.. 



bolls brain do., 324 
balls curry do., 325 
balls egg do., 323 . 
balls zest, &c. 327 . 
for fish, 326 . . . 
for goose, 320 . . 
for hare, 321 . . 
to make, 315 . . 
materials used for. 



. orange and lemon 

to mix with, 328 .. . 260 

for roast turkey, 319 . 258 

for veal, 318 .. . 258 

Fowl, Apicius's sauce for . 38 
. to boil one half and 
roiist the other at the 
same time 36 



1 



Fowl, to bwl, 17 . . . . M 
-...-.to broil, 95 . . , , 155 

cold, to dress, 456 . 314 

— Guinea, 71 . . • . 145 

hashed, 454 . . . 313 

pea, 71 145 

pulled, 455 .... 314 

to roacit, 58 . . . .137 

stuffing for, 317 . . 258 

French beans, 132 . . . 164 

pickled, 462 .. . .319 

bread and rolls, 580 . 362 

tart of preserved fruit, 

503 336 

Fricandeau of veal, 393 . 28$ 

Fritters, 542 348- 

Frogges, fried 37 

Froth roast meat, to ... 82 
Fruit, to preserve without 

sugar, 645 381 

Frying. See 3d Chapter of 

the Budimentsof Cookery 85 



Game gravy, 288 . . . 244 
hashed, 454 ... 313 

moor, black cock, 

grouse, 73 146 

to render ripe for 

roasting ...... 57 

sauce, piquante for, 304 250 

soup, 220 .... 212 

tables of. seasons for . 67 

Garlic gmvy, 274 . . . .239 

sauce, 242 .... 229 

vinegar, 341 ... 264 

Gherkins, pickled, 461 . . 319 
Giblet pie, 482 ... . 329 

soup, 221 .... 213 

Giblet stewed, 453 ., . 313^ 
Gigot de sept heures, N.B. 
tol ....... Ill 

Gingeibread, orange, 608 . 369 

- nuts, 609 .... 370 
Ginger, essence o^ 354 . . 268^ 

preserved, 620. . . .373 

Glasse, Mrs., her Cookery . 21- 
Glass stoppers of bottles, to 

loosen, 681 396 

-.—.measures .... 64 



INDBX* 



409 



Glaze or pvirtable soup, 237 319 
Gtrase, bc»t season fbr . . 140 

bonne bouche for, 290 346 

_ feeding, Obs. to 59 . 139 
giblet soup, 221 . . 213 

■ green, 60 .... 140 

to hash, 449 ... 312 

liver oj^ fettened for 

the fiftiasbuig pies, note 
to»59 139 

■ mock, 51 .... 133 
-..-. to penniade one to 

roast itself 36 

_^ relish for, 291 .. . 246 

to roost, 59 .... 139 

ditto, aliTe .... 36 
-_- Dr. Stark*8 observa- 
tions on 139 

stuffing fbr, 320 . . 259 

stuffing sauce, 267 . 237 

Gooseberry jam, red, 638 . 379 

sauce, 235 . . 227 

mock, 254 . . 233 

Gourds, 120 162 



fried* 121 
another way, 122 
soup, 208 



162 
162 
203 
18 



24 



104 
244 
243 



Gourmand defined, note . 
Crounnandise, to guard 
against, note .... 
GaiVY : read the 8th chap- 
ter of the Rudiments of 

Cookery 

beef, sauce, 287 . . 

for boiled meat, 285 . 

-...browncolouringfbr,283 241 
..-.^ chops and steaks for, 

SOS 250 

,, chops and steaks, re- 
lish for, 867 270 

to clarify, 238 .. . 323 

. cold meat or poultry 

fi>r, 3Q4 250 

cuUisorthickened,185 191 

game, 288 .... 244 

.garlic, 243 .... 229 

garlic, Spaniards', 274 239 

grillsandbroilsfor,301 249 

— ^^ hashes of mutton, 305 25 



Gravy mutton, for venison, 

298 248 

onion, 266 .... 236 

orange, 289 . . . .245 

portable, 227 .. . 219 

poultry, ragouts, &c. 

for, 287 244 

roasted meat, 284 . 243 

Scotch, Obs. to 284 . 243 

snipes for, 289 .. . 245 

or soup meats, 392 . 285 

soups, clear, 192 . .194 

strong savoury, 184 . 191 

teal, 289 .... 245 

veal, 187 .... 192 

vegetable soups, 209 . 203 

venison, for, of wine. 



295 



297 



venison,. for, of jelly. 



247 

248 
248 
245 
245 
245 



vinegar, of, 296 . 

widgeons, 289 . . 

wild duck, 289 . 

woodcocks, 289 . 

wow-wow, for salted 

beef, 286 244 

Green gages,in syrup, 621 . 373 

mint sauce, 268 . . 237 

pease, 133 .... 165 

soup, 201 . . « 199 

— — soup, maigre, 202 199 
Greens, young, 117 . . .161 

Gridiron 91 

bars of .... 91 

Giill sauce, 301 249 

Grouse, 73 145 

Gruel, water. Dr. Kitchiner's, 

668 391 

various ways . . 391 

Gudgeon, fried, 173 . . .184 

or 157 .... 177 

Guinea fowl, 71 .... 145 
Gipsy-cake, 602 ... . 368 

H-fione of Beef, 9 . . . lia 
Haddock, boiled, 153 ... 175 
— ~ andotherfi8h,baked 77 

Findhom, 154 . . 175. 

■' Scotch way of dressing 1 8S 



410 



IKOSX. 



Page 
Haggm, a good Scotch, 405 291 
Ham, to l^il, 15 ... . 121 

baked 77 

_ essence o^ 300 . . 249 
i^..-. ditto, where to buy . 249 

potted, 428 .... 804 

•.— slices of, broQed, 443 309 
— _ soup of the liquor in 
which one hasbeen boiled, 

Obs. to 15 121 

Hanger, CoL, quoted, his 
hints for giiaiding against 
«t la gourmandiae/* note 119 
Hare, cold roast, its use . 143 

hashed, 446 . . . 310 

■ jugged, 447 . . .311 

ditto, 448 .... 311 

.._ laided, 397 .... 288 
— mock, 67 .... 143 
mutton gravy for, 298 248 



pie, 483 

— — roaat,-66 .... 
■• serious considerations 

rejecting, 66 ... . 
— . soup, 219 .... 
- stewed, 397 . . . 
.— stuffing for, 321 . . 
-i— sweet sauce for, 297 
-.-.^ wine sauce for, 295 . 
Haricot of beef, 413 . * 
I. of mutton, lamb, 

▼eal, &C. 407 .... 
Hashes, beef, 401 . . . 
■ ■ . calTsheadorragoi^t, 



438 



- ditto, cold, 437 . 

- ditto, ditto, 11 . 

- duck, 450 . . 
» game, 454 . 

- goose, 449 . . 

- hare, 446 . . 

- mutton, 399 . . 
-, poultry, 454 
-rabbit, 454 . . 

- sauce for, 305 . 
ditto, 306 . . 
veal, 429 . . . 
venison, 445 

to waim np, 400 



330 
142 

142 
212 
288 
267 
248 
247 
295 

292 
290 

307 
807 
117 
312 
313 
312 
310 
289 
313 
313 
250 
251 
304 
310 
289 



Pan 
Hats, to preserve, 688 . . 898 

ditto, firom salt water, 

689 398 

Haunch (see H) bone of 

beef, 9 116 

Head, calfs, made dish of, 

398 288 

Herbs, sweet, when and how 

to dry, 389 382 

Herrings, broiled^ 171 . .183 

pickled, 159 . . .177 

ditto, 168 ... 182 

red, 172 .... 183 

Hill, Dr. author of Mrs. 

Classens Cookery, ... 21 
Horse, powdered, ... 37 

radish powder, 386 . 282 

ditto vinegar, 340 . 263 

Hotch potch, Scotch, 194 . 196 
Housekeeping book ... 29 

-~- plan of .... 30 

Hudson, the dwarf, served 

up in a pie 37 

Hunter's pie, 404 ... 291 

Idng for fhiit tarts, &c 498 335 

twelfth cake, 585 . 363 

Independence, basis of . . 30 

the road to ... 63 

Indian, or mixed pickle, 467 321 

Indigestion 41 

— — ^ lozenges Ibr, note . 41 

— remedy for . . . 41 

Invitations, to answer . . 43 
~.....->. how to send ... 43 
Irish stew, Mr. Monison^ 

404 291 

Mrs. Phillips's, 403 290 

Italian cream, 566 . . . 358 

■ ■ .. macaroons, 597 . 367 

^ salad, Obs. to 314 . 265 

Jack, to dress, 155 •. . . 176 
Jacks, Obs. on, note . . 79^ 
Jam, apricot or plum, 640 379> 

currant, black, 639 . 379- 

.^.^ goosebeny, red, 688 379- 
-^^ raspbeny, 635 . . . 378* 
— do., aaothef way, 686 37^ 



INDXX. 



411 



Jam^itrawbeny, 637 . . Sf9 
JeUy, calf !8-feet, 6^ . . 375 

currant, black, 631 . 378 

»i— black, white, red, 

62ii .876 

.—_ red, 632 . . . 378 
■ ■ white, 633 . . 378 

white, 633* . . 378 

orange, 630 ... 377 

.._ ox-heel, 627 ... 375 
-_ punch, 630* . . .370 

quince, 634 ... 378 

Jerusalem artichokes, 1 13 160 
Jockej, how to waste, N.B. 

to 178 187 

Johnson, Dr., quoted . . 21 

Kay, Mr., of Albion-House, 

his turtle, note, 226 . . 219 
Kelly^s sauce for calf Vhead, 

275 239 

do. piquante, 276 . . 239 

Kid to roast, 65 ... . 142 
Kidneys to broil, 94 . * 154 
Kitcben-maid, business of, 27 
."■■ chimney, to be swept 

often 55 

, I fire-place, best oma- 

monts for 62 

. utonsiis .... 93 



Kltchiner, Dr., his receipt 
for a gallon of barley 

broth, 212 206 

,. quoted, note . . 34 

Knives to clean, 690 . . 399 

XjacedflBmon, black broth of 38 
Lamb, Obs. on, 40 . . . 131 

boiled, 3 .... 112 

breast of, 48 . . . 132 

broil, 409 ... . 293 

chops, filed, 91 . . 152 

fore quarter, 42 . .132 

fry, 410 293 

-- goosify, to, note, 51 . 133 
—.i.. grass, when in season 131 

hindquarter, 41 . . 132 

, house 131 

leg, 48 132 



Page 
Lamb, loiii, 46 .... 132 
.-— . neck, 47 .... 132 

ribs o^ 45 .... 132 

-...^ sham, to roast, Obs; to 

41 131 

shoulder, 44 . . .132 

■ ■ ■ shoulder, goosified, 

note to, -51 133 

shoulder, grilled, 409 298 

stew, 196 .... 197 

Larders^ proper, note • . 57 
Larks to roek, 79 . . . 147 
. when in season . . 147 
Lononade in a minute, 651 384 
Lemon chips, 644 . . .381 

^ juice, artificial, 350 267 

liver sauce and, 252 233 

sauce, 243 . . .229 

syrup of, 330 . . 261 

or, 331 .... 261 

peel, essence of, 349 267 

— «_ peel, to mix with 
stuffing, 328 .... 260 
■ quintessence of, 351 267 

syrup of, 333 . .261 

tincture of; 352 . 268 

Liquamen of the Romans, . 38 

Liqueurs, 647 382 

~. where to buy the 

best 383 

Arrack, mock, 657 385 

beer, to bottle, 663 387 

cup, or cool tank- 
ard, 661 386 

— ^— capillaire, 650 . . 384 

cider-cup, 661« . . 387 

curafoa, 649 . . 383 

ditto, to make 



quart, 649 383 

flip, 668 .... 885 

lemonade in a nu- 

nute, 651 ..... 384 

orgeat, 654 .. . 884 

punch, directly, 652 384 

Raspberry . wine, 

385 

sack poRset, 660 . 386 
sherbet, spring fruit, 
384 



655 



653 



412 



XND^. 



Page 

Liqueun, syrap* clarified, 
648 383 

■ tewahdiddle, 659 386 

■ whey, 662 .. . 387 
Lister, "Mn. leg of beef loap 

^see shin of beef soup), 
188 ..••••• 192 
Liver for fish, 253 ... 233 

goose, see note under 

59 139 

_ and lemon, 252 . . 233 
— ^ and parsley sauce 251 232 
Lobster, boiled, 175 . . 185 
patties, 493 . . .334 
I potted, 177 .. . 185 

■ roast, 81 . . . .148 

sakd, N.B. to 314 255 

sauce, 249 .. . 231 

I sauce for, 250 . . 232 

._- Boup, 214 ... 208 
_— spawn, to preterre, 

N.B. to 249 .... 231 

Mace, essence 0^358 . .269 
Macaroni, 555 .... 354 
I English way of 

dr^ng, 556 .... 355 

. pudding, 554 . 354 

soup, see Obs. 192 194 

Macaroons, Italian, 597 . 367 

182 
181 
182 
177 
182 
228 
233 



Mackerel, baked, 167 

boiled, 165 . . 
■ broiled, 166 . . 

— .—, pickled, 159 . . 

, pickle, 168 . . 
, , roe 8auce,'238 . 
, I sauce for, 254 . 
Made dishes, Obs. on. See 
9th Chap, of the Rudi- 
ments of Cookery . . 

cuiry balls for. 



825 



110 
285 

260 



forcemeat balls 



for, 822 259 

. economical. 391 285 
Ma^uine of Taste, 390 . 284 
ingredients 

for • 284 



Maigre Cookery ( see Pre- 
fibce, 7th edition) • . . 
■ fish pies, 486 . • . 

forcemeat, 326 . . 

plum-pudding, 517 . 

_ soup,. 209 . . • . 

Manners, barbarous, of the 
sixteenth century . . . 

efiect of bad . . 

— — effect of good . . 

— importance of good 

Marjoram, essence of^ 362 

when to dry . . 

Marketing tables for fish . 
. for meat 

poultry . . 

vegetables . 



best rule for 



•J^Iannalade mince, 643 
orange, 641 . . 

■ another way, 641* 

■ another way, 642 
Marrow bones, 458 . . . 
^-_~ pudding, 518 . . 

vegetable, 120 . . 

vegetable, another 

way, 122 

Measures, glass ones . . 

Meat, boil^ gravy for, 285 

cakes, 423 .... 

cold, sauce for, 382 . 

frozen 

how long it must hang 

to become tender . . . 

killing it by electricity 

makes it tender immed^ 
ately 

mince, 509 .... 

to pickle, 7 ... 

, roast gravy for, 284 . 

— . to salt, 6 .... 

-^^ soup firom any boiled 

skreen 

Melroe, Mrs. her Economic 
cal Ck>okery quoted, note, 
82 

Melted butter, 229 .. . 

Mille feuilles, 507 . . . 

Minced oQUops^,406 . . 



13 
381 
260 
341 

203 

32 
45 

45 

270 

283 

68 

65 

67 

69 

61 

381 

380 

380 

380 

315 

341 

162 

162 
34 
243 
302 
279 
57 

67 



58 
337 
115 
243 
114 

74 
. 81 



148 
223 
337 

2ai 



INBBX. 



4ld 



Mince meat, 509 

pies, 508 . . 

Mint, green vinegar, 338 

sauce, 268 . . 

when to dry 

Mock turtle soup, 223 
mock, 222 



Page 
337 
337 
263 
237 
284 
215 
214 
145 
99 
398 
362 
278 



Moor game, 73 
Morels, Obs. on . . 
Moths, to prevent, 687 
Muffins, 582 . . . 
Mucilage, potato, 380 
Mulled wine, aromatic es> 

sence for, 355 . . . .268 
Mullagatawny soup, 225 .218 
Mushroom catchup, 375 . ^75 
Mushroom, essence of, 376 277 

sauce, 270 .. . 237 

. sauce, brown, 271 238 

sauce extempore, 272 238 

Muscle catchup, 378 . .278 
Mustard, different ways of 

flavouring, Obs. £o 311 . 253 

to keep, 369 . .271 

to make, 677 . . 395 

to make, 311 . . 263 

■ to make in aminute, 

310 263 

seed oil ... . 321 

. where to buy, N.B. 

to 810 253 

Mutton, 24 127 

breast, to roast, 30 129 

do. to grill, 38 . . 130 

boiled, 1 . . . .111 

ditto, sauce for, 262 235 

broiled, 402 . . .298 

broth, 189 ... 193 

ditto, mock, 190 . 1 93 

ditto,forthesick,667 390 

. brown properly, note 128 

— to carve .... 128 

chine, 26 . . . .127 

■ chops, to broil, 93 162 

^ ditto fried, 91 . . 152 

, ditto stewed, 408 . 293 

^, haricot, 407 . . . 292 

^. hash, 399 ... 289 

hashes, sancefor, 305 250 



Mutton, haunch of, 31 . . i?9 

leg to boil, 1 . . Ill 

do. to roast, 25 . .127 

loin of, 28 . . . 128 

— ^— mulla^tawny soup, 
225 ....... 218 

neck, to boil, 2 . .112 

ditto, to roast, 29 . 128 

ditto of, 396 . . 287 

saddle, 26 . . .127 

Moulder of, 27 . . 128 

tea, 666 . . . . 886 

or veal pie, 478 . 328 

venison fadiion, 32 129 

My pudding, 516 . . . 34(> 



Nasturtium pickle, 462 
Newcastle pudding, 632 
Newmarket ditto, 531 . 
Nottingham ditto, 524 . 
Nutmeg grater, the best 
tincture of, 357 

Oatmeal, substitute for 

bread-crumbs, note 
Olives, veal, 436 . . 
Omelettes, 543 . . 

common, 544 

or 545 . . 

or 646 . . 

— ^ or 547 . . 
Onion, Obsi on, note 

pickled, 465, . 

sliced and fried 

stewed, 136 

— brown sauce, 266 

— sauce, 264 . . 

white sauce, 265 

young, sauce, 263 

sage and, 267 . 

Orange-flowers, when 

dry 

■ gingerbread, 608 

jelly, 630 . 

M . ■ gravy sauce, 289 
marmalade, 641 

ditto, 641* . . 

., , ditto, 642 . . 
M ditto mince, 643 



to' 



31» 
345 
345 
343 
64 
269 



96 
30^ 
34& 
35» 
35e 
350 
351 

96 
830 

96 
166 
236 
236 
235 
286 
287 

284 
369 
377 
245 
380 
380 
380 
381 



4U 



\ 



Orange peel, to mix with 

Bluffing, 328 .... 260 
peel, symp of, 333 261 

■ syrup, 332 . . .261 

Orgeat, 654 384 

O&rne, H., cook to Sir J. 

Banks 11 

Ox-cheek stewed, 426 . . 303 
Oxoleon, receipt for, 137 .167 
Ox-head soup, 216 .. . 209 
...^ heel jeUy, 627 .. . 375 
soup, 218. . . 211 
_ tail soup, 217 .. . 210 

■ ■ . stewed, 427 .. . 303 
Oyster catc)iup, 377 . . 277 

Oysters, 178 186 

.«— . to feed and preserve 

their Ures, 187 

fried, 181 ... 189 
I .1 native, note, 178 . 186 

■ I not so nutritive as 
supjposed, N.B. to 178 . 187 

■ patties, 492 ,. . 333 
preserved in powder, 

247 230 

i saupe, 246 .. . 230 

scalloped, 179 . . 188 

.— stewed, 180 .. . 189 

■■ to ticlde to death, 

178 .. 187 

Pancakes, 542 .... 348 
Paperhanging8,tocleaa,683 396 
Papin, Dr. his dige8ter,note 219 
Paregoric elixir, 675 . . 394 
Parmentier, quoted, Pre&ce 10 

Parsneps, 127 163 

.— and turnip soup, 199 198 
Parsley and butter, 234 . 227 
— crisp, 278 .... 240 

fried, 277 . . . . 240 

«.— and Hver, 251 .. . . 232 
^ to preserve, K.B. to 

234 227 

w.^.^ when to dry . . . 284 

Partridge, 72 145 

■ ■ to preserve fresh, 

*** to72 145 

, soup, 219. . . .212 



Paste, anchovy, 3742 . . . 274 

boiled pudding, 511 . 338 

_ crisp or sweet tart, 471 326 
..i.— for croquants, or cut 

pastry,' 474 327 

-..- croquaate oi; 506 « . 336 
— . for meat or savoury 

pies, 470 326 

....^ puilr, 469 .... 326 
-.-.pyramid of; 507 . . 337 
— ~for stringing tartlets, 

473 327 

^— tart for fSeunily pies, 

470* 326 

Pasties, savoury, 475 . . 327 
Pasty, venison, 476 .. . 328 
Patties, chicken and ham, 

496 335 

egg and ham, 494 . 334 

■ lobster, 493 .. . 334 
oyster, 492 .. . 333 

■ veal and ham, 495 334 
Pears, baked, 624 ... 374 
Pease, green, to boil, 133 . 165 

pudding, 530 ... 344 

——.^ for half the usual 

expense, note to 530 • . 344 
..^ green, soup, 201 . . 199 
•i soup, without 

meat,202 199 

split, soup, 203 . . 199 

— -. soup in five minutes, 

Ob8.to9 117 

■ plain, 205 . . 202 

— ^— and pickled pork, 

204 201 

•_— cuny, note • . 201 
, celery, note'f- . 200 

.-_ powder, 385 ... 281 
•«-~. to keep for 12 months^ 

note 165 

Pepper, Obs. on .... 98 
«ii , cayenne, 345 . • . 265 
-..-. double-headed boxes . 64 
Peptic precepts, quoted . 41 
Perch, boUed, 158 .. . 177 

fried, 157 . • . . 177 

— .— stewed, 155 . . . . 176 
Persuaders, peristaltic . . 41 



INDBX. 



• 

Persuad«T8 pesistaHiet when 
to be introduced « . . 

Phea9ant,69 

■ claws td, for spmia- 



men ....... 

.1 ciitenon of its being 
** otBeai morHfiU;^ Obs. to 

d9 

I mock, 70 ... . 
note on 



Pag© 

41 
143 

144 



Pickles, Obs. on, 45d . . 
■ wholesome substi- 



144 
145 
144 
316 



ing 



tutefor 316 

«i«— best way of presenr- 

316 
316 
320 
320 
320 
320 



where to be kept 
. beet-root, 463 . 

■ broccoli, 466 
...-..^. cabbage, red, 464 

■ cauliflower, 466 

., French beans, 462 . 319 

■ ■ ■ gherkins, 461 . . 319 

Indian, 467 .. . 321 

., , nasturtiums, 462 . 319 
,, . , onions, 465 . . . 320 

■ pounded .... 316 

wahiuts, 460 . . . 319 

Fie, Jeffirey Hudson in a . 37 
^ hunters, 404 .... 291 
Pig petit-toes, 13 .... 120 

— sucking, 56 135 

.^ to send to table, &c. . .135 
» sage, his words respect- 
ing, note 135 

Pigeon, broil 96 .... 155 
. or lark pie, 484 . . 330 

roast, 78 .... 147 

., when in perfection, 

Obs. to 78 147 

Piquante sauce for calf a 

head, 276 239 

sauce for cold meat. 



game, fish, &c., 304 
vinegar, 382 



Plaice, fried, 151 « . 
Plain buna, 610 . . 
M pound cake, 588 
Plate, to clean, 679 . 



250 
279 
174 
370 
364 
395 



Plate to dean oosnmoii wsr» 

680 

Plum buns, 618 .... 

pound cake, 689 • • 

Plum-pudding, 515 . . . 
or 515* . . . . 

I ■ maigre, 517 . . . 
~-~-^ sauce, 240 , . . 
Poached eggs, 548 ... 
Poivrade sauce, 309 . . . 
Politeness, ancient rules fbr, 

note 

Poor man's sauce, 273 . . 

I ■ , . soup for, 211. . 
^ or 212 . . . . 



415 

Page 

sn 

365 
340 
340 
341 
228 
351 
253 



Pork chine, 55 .... 
— «- chops, to broiU 93 
— ..— chops, to fry, 92 . • 
..-.^ griskin, 52 ... . 
-.1.1.^ how to score after 

boUed. 12 119 

leg of, lambified, note^ 



32 
238 
205 
206 
134 
152 
152 
134 



51 



292 



leg, to boil, 12 . . . 

leg of, goosified, 51 • 

leg, to roast, 50 . . 

loin, 54 . . « . . 

mode goose, 51 . . 

pickled, to boil, 12 . 
Robert sauce for roast. 



51 



roast without the skin. 



133 

119 
133 
13a 
134 
133 
119 

246 

133 



—.^roastfbonne bouchefor, 

290 246 

«<-— roast, bonne bouche, or 

291 246 

salt, 6 114 

-- sausages, 8() .... 149 
season and accompani- 
ments for, 49 .... 132 
' spare-rib, 53 . . . 134 

Porpus 37 

Portable soup, 227 . . .219 
Pot-top, best &t for frying, 

Obs. to 83 149 

I .1 • ■ liquor 54 

-.—«.»• ditto to convert into 



> 



416 



INDBX. 



pease soup in five minuteB, 
N.B. to 630 . .... . 

Potato, balls, 108. . . . 

boiled and broiled. 



99 



Potato 
539 



Paffe 

344 
159 

157 

colcannon, 105 . .158 
cold, to re-dress, 98 157 
cottage pudding, 

....... o4# 

escalloped, 104 . 158 
flour of, 381 . .219 
fned in slices, 100 . 157 



103 



107 



fHed whole, 101 
gipsy pie. 111 . . 
mashed, 102 . . 
mashed with onion, 

t 

. mucilage, 380 . . 
-new, 112 . . . . 
. pie, 111. . . . 

- puffs, 540 . . . 
. roasted, 106 . . . 

- roasted under meat, 



97 



savoury, 109 • . 
1 6 ways of dressing. 



Sinclair, Sir John 



quoted on, note 

snowballs, 110 



157 
159 
158 

158 
278 
159 
159 
347 
158 

159 
159 

156 

156 
159 



300 
184 
304 
184 
184 



215 



Potted beef, veal, game, &o. 
419 

— cray-fish, 174 

ham, 428 . 

prawns, 174 

; shrimps, 174 

— '. veal, game, &c in 

season, same time as mock 

turtle, note, 223 . . . 

Poultry, art of fattening, 

Obs. to 58 138 

curry balls for, 825 260 

marketing tables for 67 

— ragout of, 451 . . 312 
ditto, 452 ... 313 

. to render lipe for 
roasting ....... 58 

potted, 419 . . .300 

Powder, an<^ovy, 373 . . 275 



Powder, curry, 383 . . . 28( 

horseradish, 386 . 282 

oyster, 247 . . . 230 

pease, 385 . . .281 

savoury ragofit, 384 280 

soup herb and 



voury, 388 282 

>— soup herb, 387 . •• 282 

Prawns, to pot, 174 . . . 184 
Preserves, apples dried, 626 375 
apples in syrup for 

present use, 622 . . . 374 

cherries, dried, 825 374 

cucumber, 623 . . 374 

fruit without sugar, 

645 381 

ginger, 620 .. . 373 

— — <^ green gages in syrup, 

621 373 

pears baked, 624 . 374 

Provisions, when best and 

cheapest 67 

Pudding, apple, 519 . .341 

apple dumpling, 521 342 

batter, 528 ... 344 

beef-steak, 512 . 338 

Boston apple, 520 342 

bread, 525 . . . 343 

bread, plain, 526 . 343 

bread and butter 527 343 

bread and butter, 

another way, 527* . . 344 

college 535 . . . 346 

custud, 534 . • 345 

catehup, 379 . . 278 

ingredients for, . . 822 

macaroni, 554 . . 354 

— marrow, 518 . . 341 
— ~. meditations on . . 322 

my, 516 .... 340 

Newcastle, 532 . 345 

Newmarket, 531 . 345 

-^ Nottingham, 524 . 343 

Obs. on, 468 . . 322 

orange syrup for, 

332 261 

paste for, 511 . . 338 

— — pease, SO . . . 344 
■ plum, 515 .. . 339 



J 



INDBX. 



417 



Page 
Pudding, plum, another way, 
515 . .' . . . *. .340 
plum, maigre, 517 . 341 

plum, sauce for, 240 228 

potato cottage, 539 347 

ditto puffs, 540 . 347 

..— — rice pudding baked, 

536 346 

rice, ground, 537 . 347 

rice snow balls, 538 347 

rhubarb, 522 . . 342 

ditto, another way. 



523 



514 



save all, 541 . . 
suet 513 . . . . 
suet, Wiggy's way. 



I vermicelli, 533 . . 

Yorkshire, 529 . . 

and pies, Obs. on 

468 

Puff paste, 469 . . . . 
Pulled turkey, chicken, &,c. 

455 

Punch directly, 652 . . . 
— essence of, 653 . . . 

jeUy,630* . . . . 

Purger souvent les cuisinierB 

(de la ndoessit^), note . 



343 
347 
339 

339 
345 
344 

322 

326 

314 
384 
384 
377 

28 



Queen's drops, 593 ... 366 
■ or heart cake, 592 . 365 

Quince, jeUy, 634 •. . .378 
Quin'a Obfl. on Ann Chovy's 

marriage, note, 371 . * 273 
sauce 368 ... 271 



Babbit, boiled, 18 
.— .— broiled, 95 

» pie, 481 
..^— roast, 68 . 

soup, 219 

Welsh, 557 

Bagoiit beef, see Obs. 411 

breast of veal, 433 

. French pies, 490 

, ham pie, 488 . 

■ lamb pie, 489 . 

.., pork pie, 487 . 



123 
155 
329 
143 
212 
355 
293 
305 
333 
332 
332 
332 



RagoAt of poultry, 451 . . 3% 
quintessence of pow- 
der, 388 282 

382 
244 
280 
378 

379 
385 
260 
385 
3^7 
368 
320 
357 
346 



raised pies 
. — sauce, 287 . . . 

savoury powder ,384 

Raspberry jam, 635 . . . 
jam, another way, 



636 



._^— vinegar, 655 . 

ditto, 329 . . 

..iM..— wine, 655 . 
Ratafia cakes, 598 . . 

or 600 . 

Red cabbage pickled, 464 
Rice blanoDiange, 564 . 

pudding, 536 . . 

ground, pudding, 537 347 

sauce, 282 ... . 241 

snow balls, 538 . . 347 

Rich yeast cake, 590 . . 365 
Ripe firuit tarts, 497 . . . 335 

Roach, 157 • . 177 

Roaflt meat, gravy for, 284 243 
Roasting, see Introduclion, 

N.B. ....... 125 

' see 2d chap, of Rud. 

of Cookery 78 

Robert sauce for pork, 292 246 
Roe-boat«auce,Ob6.on292 246 
Romans ate five meals per 

day 37 

— .. favourite dishes of 



the 



liquamen and garum 38 
. .225 
. . 181 



Rouge, note, 371 

Roux, Obs. on 230 . . . 

Rump-steaks, accompam'- 

ment to, note, 417 . . . 

broiled, 93 . 

ditto with onion 

gravy, 417 



gravy, 417 



pie, 447 . . 
stewed, 416 , 
ditto with onion 
. . • . . • 
to warm up, 



298 
153 

298 
328 
297 

298 



note, 93 153 



2d 



418 



INI>BX. 



Sack posset, 660 . . 
Sage and onion^ 267 . 

¥then to dry 

Salad, boiled, 314 . 
■ Cromwell, Joan, 
grand, Obs. on 314 
Dutch, French, 



her 

• • 

&c. 



Page 
886 

237 
284 
255 

255 

255 



Obs. on 314 
n — !E)velyn*s directions 
about, 137 166 



mixture, 313 
sauces, Obs. on 314 . 
sauce for cold meat, 



382 



vinegar for, 334 



255 
255 

279 
262 
362 
178 
179 
179 
179 
219 

Salt, to prepare for table, 676 395 
or 312 .... . 254 



Sally Lunn tea-cakes, 581 
Salmon, boiled, 1 60 . . 

~. fresh, broiled, 161 

■ ■ pickled, 159 . . 

, ditto, N.B. to 160 

: — ^^ note to . . . 



I fish boiled, 146 
Salting meat, 6 . . . 
— :_ to make it red . . 

to n^ake it savoury 

to pickle meat . . 

Sandwiches, 421 . . . 

II materials 



for 



172 
114 
115 
115 
115 
301 

302 



making, 422 . . . 
Sauce. . Read 8th chap, of 

Rud. of Cookery ... 90 
-^—~ allspice, tincture of, 356 268 



371 



anchovy, 241 
dltto.paste, 372 . . 
ditto, powder, 373 . . 
ditto, quintessence of. 



228 
274 
275 



272 
2^7 
260 
262 



— apple, 269 . . . 

— balls for turUe, 324 

— basil vinegar, 336 

— basil and butter, 236 227 
— . bechamel, 307 . . 352 

— beef gravy for poultry, 
287 244 

._ bonne bouehe for 
gopse, 290 246 

— bottled oysters, 247 230 



Page 
Sauce box, 390 .... 284 

.bread, 281 .... 241 

— - bread crumbs, fried, 

280 240 

sippets, fried, 279 240 

browning, 283 . . . 241 

bumet and butter,. 

236 . . ... . .227 

butter, melted, 229 223 

burnt, 232 . . 226 

clarified, 231 . 226 

oiled, 233 . . 226 

butter, oiled, to re- 
cover, N.B 225 

calfVhead, Kelly's, 

275 239 

■ calfVhead, piquante, 
270 ....... 237 

camp vinegfur, 344 . 265 

1, cinnamoa, tincture of, 

361 ....... 269 

caper, 244 .... 229 

^~~ caper, mock^ 245 . 229 
catchup, mushroom, 



375 



cockle, 378 . 

oyster, 377 . 

pudding, 379 

-~ — walnut, 374 . 
cayenne pepper, 345 
celery, white, 255 
_ pur^, 256 
brown, 266 



275 
278 
277 
278 
275 
265 
233 
234 
236 
chervil and butter, 236 227 
Chili vinegar, 347 .266 

— chops and steaks, 303 250 

— chops, relish for, 367 270 

I clove, tincture of, 359 269 

~. coU meat or poultry, 

0(£a . < . . « ,• . • £49 

— crisp parsley, 278 . 240 

— cress and butter, 236 227 
.-. cucumber vinegar, 339 263 

— cuny,299 .... 248 

powder, 383 . . 280 

egg, 239 .... 22a 

balls, 323 . . 259 

—^ eschalot for boiled 

mutton, 262 .... 235- 












INDBX. 



419 



Paqe 
. . 235 
. . 235 
eschalot Tinegar, 342 264 
easence of aUspice, 355 268 



Sauce, eschalots, 26(X 
, ^ — ^ or 261 . 



anchovy, 371 
cayenne, 346 



celery, 353 

■ cloves, 358 . 

-~ cinnamon, 360 

. ■ ■ eschalot, 343 

■ ■ garlic, 242 . 

■ ginger, 354 . 
.- ham, 300 

■ lemon, 243 . 

■ lemon-peel, 349 
■ ditto, 351 . . 

— . mace, 358 . 

■ » marjoram, 362 

I of mushrooms, 376 277 

oysters, 247 . . 230 

punch, 653 . . 384 

. . .. . soup herbs, 364 270 

■ ■ soup herbs and sa- 
voury spice, 366 . . . 270 

. . ■ turtle, 294 . , 247 
vegetable, 363 270 



272 
266 
268 
269 
269 
264 
229 
268 
249 
229 
267 
267 
269 
270 



fennel and butter, 237 227 

fish, 368 .... 271 

...^ foscemeata, 315 . . 256 
»«— forcemeat, to make, 

316 257 

garlic, 242 ... . 229 

garlicgravy, Spaniard's, 

274 239 

-^ garlic vinegar, 341 . 264 

gooseberry, 235 . . 227 

—^ gooseberry mock, 254 233 

gravy for poultry, 287 244 

game, 288 .... 245 

^.-^ green mint, 268 . . 237 

grill, 301 249 

hash of mutton, 305 . 250 

hash of veal, 306 . . 251 

.....hoisemdish powder, 386 289 

lemon, 243 .... 229 

■ lemon juice, artificial, 

350 267 

... lemon and liver, 352 . 233 



Page 
Sauce lemon ^^ iSncture, 
352 ....... 268 

lemon, syrup o^ 330 . 261 

^ or, 331 ..... 26X 

lemonade in a minute, 

651 ....... 384 

liver, for fish, 253 . . 233 

— — liver and parsley, 251 232 

lobster, 249 231 

for lobster, 250 . . 232 

mackerel roe, 238 . . 223 

meat, roasted, for, 284 243 

meat, boiled, for, 285 243 

mint, green, 268 . . 237 

mushroom, 270 . . 237 

mushroom, brown, 271 233 

—— mushroom, in five mi- 
nutes, 272 238 

mustard, to keep, 369 271 

mustard, to make, 31 1 253 

ditto, in five minutes, 

310 253 

nutmeg, tincture of, 257 269 

onion, 264 .... 235 

onion^ brown, 266 . . 236 

onion and sage, 267 . 237 

onion, white, 265 . , 236 

onion, young, 263 . . 235 

orange gravy, 289 . . 245 

— ^orange syrup, for pud- 
dings, 332 261 

ox-heel jelly syrup, 332 261 

oyster, 246 .... 280 

bottled, 247 ... . 230 

parsley and butter, 234 227 

parsley, crisp, 278 . . 240 

parsley, fWed, 277 . . 240 

pease powder, 385 . 281 

pickles, 459 . . , .316 

— . — piquante,276 ... 239 

piquante vinegar, 882 279 

— piquante for c5d meat, 
game, &c. 304 .... 250 

poor man's, 273 . . 288 

poivnide, 309 .. . 253 

pork, 291 .... 246 

potato muoil r ge, 380 278 

pudding, plum, 240 . 228 



m 



420 



INDEX. 



■ 

I 



r' 



Si- 



Page 
Sauce ngoCkt, 287 ... 244 

]:agoiit powder, 384 . 280 

_ relish, for chopt, 367 . 270 

relish, for pork, 291 . 246 

rice, 282 241 

Robert, 292 ... . 246 

salad, 382 ... . 279 

salad, boiled, 3l4 . . 255 

-i—^ salad mixture, 313 . 255 
...... sharp, for veniaoii, 396 248 

shrimp, 248. . . .231 

sorel, 257 .... 234 

soup herb and sayoury 

spice spirit, 366 . . . 270 

soup herb spirit, 364 . 270 

spice, savoury spirit of, 

365 270 

for steaks, 303 .. . 250 

superlative, 370 . .271 

—.— sweet, for venison, 297 248 

tarragon, 836 .. . 227 

k la Tartare, 302 . . 249 

tomata, 258 . . . . 234 

tomata mock, 259 . . 235 

turtle, 295 ... . 247 

white, 307 ... . 352 

or 308 352 

— wine, for venison, 295 247 
— .^.wQW-wow, 286 . . . 244 

Zest 224 

Saucepans, what sort to be 

used 74 

Sausages, to fi7, 86 . . .149 

■ home made, 87 . .150 
Save-all pudding, 541 . . 347 
Savoury, salt beef, 414 . . 295 

■ pies, pasties, 475 . 327 

— winter, when to dry 283 
summer, ditto . . 283 

-.-.i^i— spice, spirit of, 365 270 
^.^—^~ and soup herb spirit 

366 270 

Savoy biscuits, 614 . . .871 

■ or sponge cake, 596 . 367 

Savoys, 116 160 

Scotch soups, 194 ... 196 

Seals 37 

Sea kale, 123 162 

Scotch barley broth, 193 .195 



Page 
Scotch beef, note .... 125 

brose, 197 ... . 197 

cocky-leeky, 195 . .196 

coUops, 435 ... . 306 

collops, minced, 406 . 391 

gravy, Obs. on 284 . 243 

haggis, 405 . . . . 291 

lamb's stew, 196 . .197 

winter botch potch, 194 196 

■ woodcock, 458* . . 31» 
Seed buns, 612 .... 371 

cake, common, 590 . 365 

Servants, Dallaway^ Moni> 

tor for 50 

maid, expenses of . 26 

maxims for . . . 48 

^ Rev. W. Watkins'to 

excellent Institution for 
the £lncouragement of. 



note 

Sherbet spring fruit, 656 
Shrewsbury cake, 594 . 
Shrimps, potted, 174 . 
sauce, 284 



27 
385 

366 
184 
231 



Shrub, 653 384 

Sinks, to prevent disagree- 
able smells, 686 .. . 397 
Sir-loin of beef, 394 .. . 286 

iat end 0^395 . . 287 

Skate, 144 171 

fried, 150 .... 174 

Small pufisof preserved fruit, 

504 336 

Smelts, to fry, 173 . . . 184 
Smith, his lozenges, note . 41 

Snipes, 77 146 

Soda water, Obs. on, note . 40 
Soles, boiled, 140 ... 169 

dressed majgre, 156 . 176 

filleted, 143 ... 171 

fried, 141 .... 169 

read remarks on oil for 

frying 170 

stewed, 142 . . . .171 

or 155 176 

stewed Wiggy's way, 

162 179 

Sorrel sauce, 257 .... 234 
Soups, asparagus, 206 . . 202 






INDElt. 



421 



Page 
Soup and bouflli, 215 , . 208 

carrot 198 ... . 197 

do. another way, 198* 198 



198 
205 
196 
207 
218 
213 
204 
212 
219 
213 
203 
212 
196 
197 
208 
203 
218 
209 
211 
210 
198 
212 
199 
199 
199 
202 

201 
219 
212 
203 
219 
215 
mock, 222 214 

English turtle, 224 .218 

Spaniard's garlic gravy, 274 239 
Spare-rib ofbacon, to roast, 53 134 
Spectacles for gourmands, 

note 24 

Spices, Obs. on, 370 . .271 

Spinage, 118 161 

Sponge biscuits, 615 • .371 
I cakes, 596 . . .367 
■ cakes, almond, 599 367 
Sprats, to broil, 169 . .182 
tofiy,173 ... 184 



celery, 200 

cheap, 211 . . 

cocky-leeky, 195 

craw-fish, 213 . 

curry, 225 . . 

duck giblet, 221 

eel, 210 . . . 

game, 220 . . 

glaze, 227 . . 
, goose giblet, 221 

gourd, 208 . . 

hare, 219 , . 
, hotch potch, 194 
, lamb stove, 196 
. lobster, 214 . . 
. maigre, 209 . . 
. mullagatawny, 225 
. ox-head, 216 . 

— heel, 218. . 

— tail, 217 . . 
. parsnep, 199 . 
. partridge, 219 . 
. pea, green, 201 
. ditto ditto, plain, 202 
.ditto, split, 203 . . 

plain, 205 



204 



and pickled pork. 



portable, 227 . 
rabbit, 219 . . 
spring fruit, 207 
turtle, 226 . . 
. mock, 223 



\ 



Sprats, to pickle, 159 

or 168 . . 

to stew, 170 



Pa«e 
177 
182 
183 



Spring fruit, or rhubarb 
puddiQg,.52^ .... 342 

— — — ditto, another 

way, 523 343 

soup, 207 . . 203 



Sprouts, 117 161 

Stairs, wooden, to have the 

appearance of stone, 685 397 
Starch of potatoes, 380 .278 
Steaks, 93 .... ^ . 152 
— broiled, with onion 

gravy, 417 298 

to fry, 84 . . . 149 

• and onions, fried, 85 149 

rump, to warm, note, 

*fo •*...... lo2 

—-^ rump, stewed, 416 297 

sauce for, 303 . . 250 

Stew, Irish, Mrs. Philips's, 

403 290 

■ or Hunter's pie, 

404 291 

Soup-herb spirit, 364 . . 270 
I ■ andsavouiy spice, 

366 270 

Soup-herb powder, 387 . 282 
. ■ — and savoury 

powder, 388 .... 282 

^ meats, 392 .. . 285 

Stock, first, note, 182 . .189 

second, note, 1 83 . .190 

Stomach, Dr. Cheyne's Obs. 

on, note 20 

■ machinery of life . 20 

" an Englishman's 

cooking kettle .... 1 
^Pr. Hunter's Obs. 

on, note 1 

Stomachic tincture, 674 . 394 
Strawberry jam, 637 . . 379 

Stuffing, 315 356 

duck, 320 ... 259 

fowl, 317 ... 258 

-«^— or 319 .... 25a 

goose, 320 .. . 2^ 

hare, 321 ... 969 




/ 



422 



Page 



Stuffing, to TQix orange skd 

lemon-peel with, 328 •. 260 

i turkey, reast, 317- r '9o& 

tufkev, »19 . . . 258 

-: veal,3l7#. . 4 . 256 

Sturg»Mi, fresh, 148 . . . 173- 
Suet,*rfeified,*fo» frying, 83 149 

l»iildlT>g, 513 . . . 839 

— pudding, Wiggy's way, 
514 ....... 339 

Sugar, barley, 64^ . . . 382 

barlfey, drops, 646* . 382 

.J>.~^ boiled to candy^eigbt, 

618 . . . : \. , . 37a 

— -C. beiled 40 ♦ caramftl/ 

619 .. .. . .. . . • . a7^ 

:. to clarify, 617 . . •-.• 97^ 

SupeTt&tiv'e-^auce, 370 r •274' 
SwiR> "-. •. s, ". •. '. »• 37' 
Sweetbread, to^fry, fuU 
' <fre6sed, 88 . »'*..• « 

I ■ ■ ■" » plain, 89 ' \^ . 

\ I . ■ .. . herbs, to -dry, 389 . 

r Or short and &igp 



150 
151 
282 



Page 
Tea oake, ^81 .' . v: , 362 

-.L-^Obs, «n,^64 . .^ . a87 



^4 

^ Tender, 40 make meat. . 

tei'ahdiddl'e;6S9 . V 

Thickening) dr zoiuc, 230 

i " ■ ■ ditto . • ' . 

Thyme, 4em6n, to dry . 

■ orange, to dry > 

1 — — — when to dry , 

Tiiictura, allspice, 356 . 

einhatoon, 361 . 

doFeSf 359 . . 

lemon«peeLr 35-^ 

- nuliheg, 357 

stomacme, 674 . 



-i«« 



387 
, 57 
. d8& 
.'225- 
.44)1 
.1283 
. 284 

. 26« 
. 269 
. -^^ 

.394 
..35i^ 



tart paste, 471- . ^ .326 
Syllabub, wbip, 570 . . .359 
Syrup, clarified, 648 . . 383 
—-•of lemon-peel,- 333 . 261 

of lemon, SSO- .'^ i 26l 

— r-Qt331 . .> .' . . 26t 
:— of orange, 332 . \ . ^1 
->.... ^of orange-peel, 333- * 261- 

Tami8iHOte,185 .. . . I9i»f 
Tankard, cool^ 661 . .' . 386 
Tarragon sauce, 23G . .'©27 

.,. , . vinegar, 335 . *- 262 

., when to dry . . 284 

Tart paste,. 470* . ; . 326 
Tartlets, 'see Pies . . . 822 
Tartare, sauce k la, 302 .■ 249 
Taste, Committee of, Prefajce 9 
— diversities of, not& I 53 
^ — Miagaeine of, 390 . 284 
. six simple, note ' . - .- 53 
■ I „ varieties of ... 51 
Teal, to roast, 75 . . .146 

gmvy for, 289 . . , 245 

Tea, beef, 666 '. . * .-888 



To&si and ehee^, 557 

■I. .buttered^ and ebeese, 

559 .. , » « • ^ ' .'<35^ 
Toastedcheese, 55^ « -. ^5^ 
Toast and watei?, 671' ^ .^8 

^ — < — of672f i- . 39S 

Tomata ^sauce, 258 . . - . 234 

p^ mock ditto, 259 . '.235 

Tongue,' boiled, 16 : -. ,-^120 
' what 1^0 roots are- 
good for, Obe. on IS. . 122. 
potted, 42« *- . . .'|04 



Toothache, cure for, 673^ . 39^ 
Trffle, 569. ... . . . 350 

Tripe >. *. .' a^ ... 124 
--.:^> its> ra&k aineng sdiOe,- 

Obs, on . . . » . . >134 
Trivet, or fish-drainfer, its ■ - 
^ use * «' 1 .' % • ■ . • 74 
Trout, to stew, 455 . , , 17B 
Truffles; Obs. on '. . . . 9d 
Truskr's X)l9meBtie Manage^ 

ment . . . -. * • • 51 
Turbot, boiled, 138 . . .167 
— _ cold,.N.B. to 138 . 168 

Lr finest, note . » .168 

Turkey, boiled, 17 . . . 122 
— ;^> dressed, to re-dres^ 

456 •. •. . « »- .*.,^14 

to fi^ken {^d whiten 1 37 

—.-.grilled, 457 ... $14 
.L^^^poults, to TOMt^ 57 »- 43(i 



1 

34 



I 



\ 



