NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736249 3 




' ! v / r \ ' ) 'p t < > * ( ) \ / 

IT fit). I , Ilfi I 




MiC, 



DATE. 



m m w*m 



i 



/T\ 



E NEW YORK 

PUBLIC LI HY 



A N D 

MS 
L 



THE 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK, 



COMPRISING 



ADVICE ON THE CONDUCT OF HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS IN GENERAL; AND 

PARTICULAR DIRECTIONS FOR THE PRESERVATION OF 

FURNITURE, BEDDING, &c. ; FOR THE LAYING 

IN AND PRESERVING OF PROVISIONS ; 



WITH A 



COMPLETE COLLECTION OF RECEIPTS 



FOR ECONOMICAL 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



THE WHOLE CAREFULLY PREPARED FOR THE USE OF 



AMERICAN HOUSEKEEPERS. 



BY A LADY. 



M M 



PHILADELPHIA: 
WILLIAM MARSHALL & CO. 

271 Market Street, corner of Seventh. 

1837. 

*: 



THE wgw YJRK 

PUBLi: L/3RARY 

779240A 

ASTQR, LSNOX AND 

TILDliN FOUNDATIONS 

JH 1D35 L 



Entered according to the act of congress, in the year 1837, by WILLIAM MAR- 
SHALL & Co. in the clerk's office of the district court of the eastern district 
of Pennsylvania. 



Philadelphia: 

T. X. &s P. G. Collins, Printer?, 
No. 1 Lodge Alley. 



PREFACE. 

THE plan of the present work is so fully set forth in the 
title page that little is left to be said by the author in the way 
of preface. It may, however, be proper to remark, that the 
work has been founded on the results of actual experience, 
and is intended for every day use; that the receipts, direc- 
tions, and general advice have all been prepared with a strict 
view to utility, and true economy; and that nothing has been 
omitted which the author deemed subservient to the general 
design the promotion of domestic happiness by attention 
to the constantly recurring and inevitable duties of good 
housekeeping. 

Philadelphia, February 21, 1837. 



CONTENTS. 



GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON COMMENCING HOUSEKEEPING, 13 

HOUSEHOLD DUTIES AND OPERATIONS, - 21 

House Cleaning in Spring, - - 21 

Preservation of Linen, - 22 

Miscellaneous directions, - 22 

House Cleaning in Autumn, 25 

SERVANTS, - _ - . . 26 

THE KITCHEN, ... 29 

BOILING, ... - 35 

ROASTING, .... 38 

BROILING, .... 40 

FRYING, - - - 42 

COOKING OF MEAT, - - 43 

Beef, ....... 43 

Beefsteaks Broiled, - - - - 43,44 

Beef Steak Pie, ... -44 

Beef Steak Pudding, - - 44, 45 

BeefSteak Pudding Baked, - 45 

Mutton and Lamb, - 45 

To choose Lamb, ... - 45 

A Stuffed Loin of Mutton, 46 

Boiled Leg of Lamb, - 46 

Quarter of Lamb Roasted, - 46 

Larnb to Roast or Boil, 46 

Mutton, ... .46 

Mutton Broth, .... 47 

Haunch of Mutton, - 48 

Leg of Mutton, - - - - - 48 

Leg of Mutton Stuffed, - - - 48 

Loin of Mutton, - - - - 48 

Neck of Mutton, ..... 48 

Mutton Pie, ...... 49 

Shoulder of Mutton Stewed with oysters, - 49 

Mutton Steaks Broiled, - 50 

Veal, ....... 50 

Boiled Veal, - - - - - - 50 

Veal Broth ...... 50 

Cold Veal Hashed , 50 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

Minced Veal, ...... 50 

Veal Pie, ..... 51 

Breast of Veal Roasted, - - - - 51 

Loin of Veal Roasted, - - - 51 

Neck of Veal Boiled, - . 51 

Shoulder of Veal Roasted, - - - - 51 

Veal Sweetbreads, - - - - 52 

Veal Sweetbreads Fried, - - - - 52 

Veal Sweetbreads to Stew, - - - - 52 

Calf's Head, ...... 52 

Calf's Head Hashed, ..... 52 

Calf's Head Soused, ..... 53 

Calf 's Liver, - - : ,'.- > -'^ . ,!".' 53 

Calf s Liver Broiled, .... ,.. 53 

Calf's Liver Stewed, ..... 53 

Fowls, .... .^T. 53 

Directions for Choosing Fowls, - - - 53 

Fowls Boiled with Rice, - - - - 54 

Chicken Currie, - - - - - 54 

Chicken Salad, - . . . - 54 

Turkeys, . . . . ,-55 

Roasted Turkey, - - - - '. ... . , 55 
Hashed Turkey, - - - - -55 

Geese, ... ... 55 

To Choose Geese, - - - - - 55 

Goose Roasted, - - 55 

Pigeons, - -56 

Potted Pigeons, - - - 56 

Pigeons to Roast, - - - - 56 

Pork, ....... 56 

To Choose Pork, '56 

Directions for Choosing Ham, - - 57 

To Boil Ham, - - 57 

Hog's Lard, ...... 57 

Roasted Pig, - - - ... -57 

Kidneys, ...... 58 

Rabbits, ...... 58 

Rabbit Pie, .... ;; 58 

To Roast Rabbits, ..... 59 

To Smother Rabbits, - - 59 

Venison, ....... 59 

Roasted Venison, 60 

Ducks, - ... -60 

To Choose Ducks, - 60 

Ducks Roasted, - - - - 60 

Wild Ducks, - 60, 61 

Forcemeat, ...... 61 

Ingredients for Forcemeat, - - - - 61 

Tripe, - - -" ... - - - 62 

To keep Meat Hot, .... 62 



CONTENTS. IX 

PRESERVATION OF MEAT, - - - - 62 

To Cure Hams, - - - - - 63, 64 

To Pickle Pork, ...... 64 

To Pickle a Tongue, ..... 65 

To Salt Beef, - - 65 

STEWS, ...... 65 

Scotch Hotch-Potch, ..... 65 

Irish Stew, ..... 66 

Scotch Barley-Broth, - - - - 66 

A very Economical Dish, - - 66 

Veal and Rice, ..... 66 

SOUPS, .......67 

Good Veal Soup, - 69 

Economical Soup, - - - - 70 

Mock Turtle Soup, - - 70 

Mullagatawny Soup, - - - - 70 

Ox-Tail Soup, - 71 

Ox-Head Soup, ...... 71 

Giblet Soup, - 72 

Fish Soup, ... 73 

Oyster Soup, ...... 73 

MADE DISHES, ... - 74 
Macaroni, ... 75,76 

Asparagus and Eggs, - 76 

BeefSteak Pie, ...... 76 

Mutton Pie, - - 

Lamb Pie, ...... 77 

Veal Pie, 77 

Chicken Pie, ...... 78 

Rabbit Pie, - .... 78 

COOKING OF FISH, ...... 78 

Observations on Fish, - - - - 78 

Chouder, ...... 80 

Fresh Cod, ...... 80 

To Boil Cod, ...... 81 

Salt Cod, .81 

To Choose Mackarel, ..... 82 

Boiled Mackarel, ..... 82 

Mackarel Broiled or Fried, - - - -82 

Perch Boiled, ...... 82 

To Boil Fish, ...... 82 

To Fry Fish, ...... 83 

To Fry Cod, ..... 84 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, - - - 84 

Cod's Sounds, ...... 85 

VEGETABLES, .......86 

Spinach, --....-86 

Mode of Dressing Cauliflowers with Parmesan Cheese, - 87 

Pea Stew, ....... 87 

Asparagus, ...... 88 



X CON'lENTS. 

Cabbage, - - .. . -89 

Oyster Plant, ...... 90 

Carrots, - - . . ' -'_'' 90 

Cauliflowers, - - . . 90 

Cauliflowers Fried, - - - . - 91 

Boiled Parsnips, ...... 91 

Boiled Turnips, - .i'- 1 ' - - 91 

Turnip-Tops, - 91 

To Preserve Vegetables for the Winter, - U' - 91 

French Mode, ...... 92 

To Make Kitchen Vegetables Tender, - - - 92 

New Potatoes in Winter, . . . - 93 

Potatoes, - - - 93 

To Boil Potatoes, 94 

Young Potatoes, - . . . -*' 95 

To Fry or Broil Potatoes, - - - 95, 96 

To Mash Potatoes, . . . - 96 

To Roast. Potatoes, ..... 96 

To Boil Cabbage, 97 

PICKI.KS, SAUCES, GRAVIES, MACARONI, OMELET, OYSTERS, &c., 97 

To Poach Eggs, - - - . - 97 

To Fry Eggs, - .... 97 

To Butter Eggs, - .... 98 

Pickles, - - 98 

Oyster Sauce, - - - 99 

Bread Sauce, - .... 99 

To Make Soy, - .... 99 

To Pickle Onions, - - - ', 100 

Egg Sauce, - - 100 

Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it of, - 100 

Macaroni, - - J -- ; - 100 

To Serve Macaroni, - - - -' 101 

Mint Sauce, - - - - - - 101 

To Make Mustard, - - - .101 

Omelet, . . - - - - 102 

To Pickle Onions, 102 

Onion Sauce, .... -';' .; 102 

Oysters in Butter, - - - - 103 

Fried Oysters, - - - 10. i- . .103 

Oyster Patties, - - - - - .103 

Pickled Oysters, - .103 

Oyster Sauce, - 1 04 

Scalloped Oysters, - - - - 104 

Stewed Oysters, . 104 

Pickle for Tongues, - - - - 104 

Walnut Ketchup, - 105 

Walnut Pickle, - - - . - 105 

To Melt Butter, - 105 

Beef Gravy, .... _'' . 106 

Toniata Sauce, ...... 106 



CONTENTS. XI 

Mint Sauce, - - -, . -107 

Sweet Sauce, - - - . . -107 

Lemon Sauce, - - - . - 107 

Cucumbers and Onions, ..... 107 

Red Cabbage, ...... 107 

Pickled Mangoes, .... 108 

COFFEE, SHELLS, &c., - - * . .108 

To Make Coffee, - - - . .108 

Coffee, . .108 

French Method of Preparing it, - - 108 

Cocoa Shells, . . .110 

PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &.C., . . . - 111 

Directions for Puddings, - . . . -Ill 

Brown Bread Pudding, - . . . .112 

Economical Pudding, ..... 112 

Christmas Pudding, - . . .112 

Plain Lemon Pudding, - . . -113 

Tapioca Pudding, - . .113 

A Baked Apple Pudding, - - . -114 

Puddings that are quickly made and without much expense, 114 
The Bakewell Pudding, - 114 

Apple Dumplings, . . - 114 

Apple Pudding Baked, - - . . .115 

Apple Tart, . 115 

Barley Pudding, ...... 115 

Pearl Barley Pudding, - . . - 116 

Batter Pudding, - ... 116 

Bread and Butter Pudding, - . - -116 

Bread Pudding, - - . . . - 117 

Charlotte, - - - . . - 117 

Cherry Pudding, - - - . . .117 

Custard, - - - - - . - 117 

Baked Custard, - . - . . - 118 

Plain Custard, - - - . - . 118 

Custard Pudding, - - - - 118 

Macaroni Pudding, . . - 119 

Oatmeal Pudding, New England Fashion, - - 119 

Pancakes, - - - . . -119 

Peas Pudding, - - - . . -119 

Plumb Pudding, . - - . . - 120 

Potatoe Pudding, - . . . - 120 

Rice Pancakes, ...... 121 

Rice Pudding Boiled, ..... 121 

Rice Pudding with Currants, .... 121 

Dutch Rice Pudding, - . . . - 121 

Rice Pudding with Fruit, - - - 122 

Ground Rice Pudding, ..... 122 

Small Rice Pudding, - - . . - 122 

Sago Pudding, ...... 122 

Sippet Pudding, ...... 123 



Xil CONTENTS. 

Suet Pudding, ~ ------ 123 

Tapioca Padding, ..... 124 

Ground Rice Pudding, ..... 124 

Pancakes, ..... 124 

Fritters, - .... 125 

Apple Fritters, - - - . - 125 

Sweet Potatoe Pudding, ..... 126 

PASTRY, CAKES, &c., - .... 126 

Paste, . - . .126 

Lemon Puffs, - - . - 127 

Mrs. Hill's Cakes, - - . . - 127 

Irish Plumb Cake, . . - 127 

Biscuits, - . 127 

Quickly made and Cheap Cake, - ... 128 

Lemon Solid, . . - 128 

Fritters which may be made quickly, ... 128 

Liquid Jelly, - . . 128 

Minced Meat for Pies, ..... 129 

Mrs. Barton's Sponge Cake, ... 129 

Lemon Cheese-Cake, - . . - 129 

Good Plain Gingerbread, .... 130 

Family Pound Cake, - - - - 130 

Plain Cake, . . -130 

Rice Cakes, - - - - - 130 

Tea Cakes, - - - . - 131 
German Puffs, - - . .131 

Bath Buns, . . . - 131 

Queen Cake, -- - - . 131 

Common Seed Cake, - - . - 132 

Sponge Cake, . - 132 

Caraway Cakes, - - - 132 

Gingerbread, .... 132 

Gingerbread without Butter, ... 133 

Gingerbread Nuts, .... 133 

Ginger Cakes, - . . - 133 

Jumbles, - - ... 134 

Macaroons, ..... 134 

Mince Pies, - - . - 134 

Mince Pies without Meat, ... 135 

Muffins, ....... 135 

Rhubarb Tart, . . 135 

Rice Cheese, - - - - - 136 

Rolls, ....... 136 

French Rolls, - . . - 136 

Hot Short Rolls, - - 137 

Rusks, ...... 137 

Apple Pie, ..... ]37 

Cranberry Tart, ..... 138 

Tarts of Preserved Fruits, - - . 138 

Mince Pies, ..... 138 



CONTENTS. Xii'l 

Squash Pic, - . - 139 

Pumpkin Pie, ... 139 

Whortleberry Cakes, - . - 139 

Dough Nuts, - . . - 139 

Hard Gingerbread, - ... 140 

Drop Cake, . 140 

Black Cake, or New England Wedding Cake, - . 140 

MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD, ... 14] 

Flour, . 141 

Making Bread, - . 142 

Forming the Dough, - - . - 142 

Heating the Oven, ... 144 

Yeast, - - 146 

Plain Biscuits, - ... 145 

Indian Corn Biscuits, - . - 147 

Rusks, - ... 147 

JELLIES, JAMS, &c., - .... 143 

Apple Jelly, - - . 148 

Red Currant Jelly, ... 143 

Rice Jelly, ..... 143 

Arrow-Root Blanc Mange, ... 149 

Arrow-Root Custards, . - 149 

Arrow-Root Pudding, . - 149 

Isinglass Jelly, ... -149 

Apple Jelly, - - . - 149 

Italian Cream, . . . 150 

Blanc Mange, ... 150 

Dutch Blanc Mange, ... 150 

Calves' Feet Blanc Mange, . . . 159 

Currant Jelly, - - - . . -151 

Red Currant Jelly, - . . 151 

Black Currant Jelly, - . . - 152 

Gooseberry Jam, .... 153 

Grape Jelly, . 153 

Raspberry Jelly, - ... 153 

Liquid Jelly, - - - . . - 153 

Calf's Foot Jelly, . . 153 

PRESERVES, ..... 154 

To Bottle Red Currants, - - . . - 155 

To Bottle Green Gooseberries, .... 155 

Cranberries, . . . - 155 

Cranberry Jelly, - - - . . -156 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly, .... 156 

Cranberry Tart, - - . . . - 156 

Figs, to keep all the year fit for use, . - - 156 

To Preserve Green Gages, - . . - 157 

Marmalade, ...... 157 

Baked Pears, - - . . . -157 

Quince Marmalade, - ... 157 

Raspberry Jam, ...... 153 

1 



XIV CONTENTS. 

Black Butter, 158 

To Preserve Strawberries Whole, 158 

Quinces, - 158 

Peaches in Brandy, 159 

COOKERY FOR THE SICK, 160 

Barley Gruel, - 160 

Beef Tea, - - - 160 

Milk Punch, 160 

Panada, - 160 

Sago, 161 

Recipe for a Sore Throat, 161 

Natural Dentifrice, - 161 

Barley Water, - 161 

Gruel, - 162 

Arrow Root, 163 
Decoction of Iceland Liverwort, - - 163 

White Wine Whey, 164 

Balm, Mint, and other Teas, 164 
Beef Tea, - - - 165 

Veal Tea, - - 165 

Chicken Tea, - 165 

Toast and Water, 166 

Isinglass Jelly, - 166 

Calves' Feet Broth, 166 

Bread Jelly, 167 

A Mutton Custard, for a Cough, - 167 

CORDIALS, 167 

Noyeau, - 1 67 

Lemon Cordial Lemon Brandy, 169 

Cinnamon Cordial, 170 

Ginger Cordial, - 170 

ESSENCES, 171 

Essence of Ginger, 171 

Essence of Allspice, 171 

Essence of Nutmeg, Clove or Mace, 171 

Essence of Cinnamon, - 171 

Essence of Seville Orange, and Lemon Peal, 171 

FLOWERS, 

Management of Plants in Rooms, 173 

1. Want of proper Light and Air, 173 

2. Injurious Watering, 174 

3. Filthiness collected on the Leaves, - 175 

4. Being Potted in Unsuitable soil, 175 
PRESERVATION OF PLATE, 176 

Cleaning Plate, - 176 
PRESERVATION OF BEDS, CARPETS, &c., - 178 

Brooms, - 180 

Carpets, - 181 

Cleaning Beds, - 182 

To Clean Carpets, - 183 



CONTENTS. XV 

WASHING, - - - 183 

Washing with Soda, - . 184 

Washing Muslin, Dresses, &c., - - 184 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, . 185 

Recipe for taking Wax out of Cloth, - 185 

Delicious Saline Draughts, - 185 

Cure for the Rheumatism T - 186 

Recent Cold, - 186 

Recipe for the Sting of a Wasp, Bee, or other Insect, 186 

To get rid of the Sting of a Nettle or other Vegetable, - 186 

Recipe for Burns, 186 

To efface Spots of Grease from Silks, - - - 186 

To Polish Mahogany Tables, - - - - 187 

Iron Moulds, - - - - - 188 

To Clean Marble, - - - - - 186 

To Make Blacking, - - - - - 188 

Oil for Furniture, 189 

Preservation of Eggs, - - - 190 

To Make Ginger Beer, - - - - 190 

To Clarify Sugar, - . - - - 190 

To Make Yeast, 191 

To Preserve Potatoes, - - 191 

Portable Ginger Beer, - - - - 192 

To Correct the Acidity of Porter, &c., - - 193 

Yeast, 193 

To Prevent the Smoking of a Lamp, 193 
Method of obtaining Flowers of different Colours on the 

same Stem, 194 
Useful Recipe for effectually taking out Spots of Ink from 

Linen, - - 194 

Recipe effectually to destroy Bed Bugs, - - 194 

A Fire Proof and Water Proof Cement, - - - 195 

To Render Shoes W r ater Proof, - 195 

For an Obstinate Cough, .... 195 

Preservation of Eggs, ... 195 

Mildew on Linen, &c., - 196 

Cockroaches, .....,_ 197 

Velvets, - 197 

Cleaning Black Dresses, ..... 197 

Vinegar, ...... 198 

To Pot Butter for Winter Use, - 198 

Lavender Water, - - - - - 199 

Milk of Roses, ...... 199 

To Clean Paint, ...... 199 

To Clean Papered Walls, - - - - 199 

Stove Polish, - . . - 199 

Polishing Brass, - - - - - 200 

Shaving Soap, ... 200 

Rennet, - - - - - - 200 

Pickle to Preserve Butter, - - - -200 



XVI CONTENTS. 

DIRECTIONS FOR JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING, 201 

Venison, - - . 201 

Beef, ....... 202 

Mutton, ....... 202 

Veal, ....... 203 

Pork, ....... 203 

Cod's Head, 204 

Haunch of Venison, ..... 204 

Saddle of Mutton, - . . . -205 

Edge Bone of Beef, -. 206 

Fore Quarter of Lamb, ..... 206 

Leg of Mutton, - - . . . 207 

Shoulder of Mutton, - - - - 208 

Ham, . . . . . .209 

Rabbit for Roasting, . . . . .209 

Rabbit for Boiling, . . 210 

Turkey for Roasting, - . - 211 

Goose, - .... 211 

Fowls for Roasting, .... 212 

Turkey, or Fowl, for Boiling, .... 212 

Back of a Fowl, ...... 213 

Duck, . 214 

Pheasant, ...... 215 

Partridge, - - . . . - 215 

Half a Calf's Head, - - 215 

Roasted Pig, . 216 

Pigeons, ... - 217 



THE 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 






GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON COMMENCING 
HOUSEKEEPING. 

THE first care of a young married woman should be to 
ascertain, as precisely as possible, the sum of money which 
may be required annually towards the maintenance of her 
establishment; and then to form a determination to confine 
her expences within that sum. And, in order to enable 
herself to do this, she must be scrupulous to lay out, in 
every thing she purchases, a little less money than she can 
well afford. She must pause, before she rejects a house, 
which may, perhaps, be considered rather too small, but 
which, nevertheless, might be made to accommodate the fa- 
mily ivell enoughs and which, at all events might be fitted 
up at a less cost than a larger one, and would certainly pre- 
sent a better appearance than a house that is rather too large 
for the quantity or for the style of its furniture, and which 
is also, perhaps, larger than is required for the number of 
its inhabitants. 

It is very easy to remove from a small to a large house, 
when circumstances require it, and when it is quite certain 
2 



14 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

that means will not be wanting to continue an increase of 
expenditure; but it is a very different case, when necessity 
compels the descent from a large house to a small one. It 
is so easy to increase in our wants, and so difficult to give 
up what we have been accustomed to regard as necessary to 
us, that it is much to be desired that young people should 
begin the world with caution, and not multiply their wants, 
lest, in time, they exceed the means for gratifying them. 

In buying furniture, I recommend every young lady to 
be content with that which is just good enough, rather than 
be induced to exceed her previous good intentions, and gra- 
tify her fancy at the expense of her comforts. She must not 
reject a sideboard, for instance, which would do very well, 
though it may not be of so new a fashion as another one, 
which would cost five, or probably, ten dollars more, but 
which would not answer the purpose any better. She must 
never yield to the seducing reflection, that *' only five dol- 
lars more cannot make much difference;" for the same argu- 
ment may equally well call for a greater outlay in the sofa, 
the tables, the carpet, the curtains, the grate, and the fire- 
irons and fender; to say nothing of the lamps, the mirrors, 
and other articles of ornament, which fashion makes articles 
of necessity with some persons. If " only five dollars" be 
given for some of these, and two, or even one dollar, for 
others, more than is necessary, she will find that the " differ- 
ence" is very great by the time that she has fitted up only 
one room. 

The rage for vieing with our neighbors shows itself in the 
bad taste by which houses are encumbered with unsuitable 
furniture. Massive sideboards, and large unwieldy chairs, 
occupy too much space in a small room, while heavy cur- 
tains and drapery, not only obscure the light, but they have 
an appearance rather inelegant than otherwise, whatever 
fashion may say, unless the room be large and lofty, or in 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 15 

proportion to the size and weight of the cornices, cords, tas- 
sels and other ornaments, which give offence to the eye 
when too gorgeous or prominent. 

Of equal bad taste with the choice of furniture, is the ha- 
bit of changing it occasionally, to suit the vary ing of fashions; 
and this is so much the practice, that I have known even 
people in trade, having families to provide for, change what 
appeared to me a sufficiently good dining table or a sofa, 
that promised to serve its purposes for a life-time, and to 
give money besides, in order to have other tables or sofas, 
which were no handsomer, but only a little more fashion- 
able. 

It is so strange, that persons pretending to gentility, should 
not rather imitate the better class of their superiors, some of 
whom seem to value their high-backed chairs the more 
because they are old, and would on no account exchange 
them for modern finery. It is quite a rarity, and to me a 
very pleasing one, to see good old-fashioned furniture, nice- 
ly polished and otherwise in good order. When I see 
showy furniture in the houses of people of small fortunes,! 
cannot help suspecting that it has been purchased without 
being paid for; the long upholsterer's bill rises like a phan- 
tom before the couches, the ottomans, and the ottoman so- 
fas, which are crowded into small drawing rooms; and my 
feelings of regret become almost indignation, when I see 
plate, which belonged to fathers and mothers, or to grandfa- 
thers and grandmothers, and spoons, which have touched 
those lips which spoke tenderness to our infancy, about to 
be bartered for the " Flower", the " Fiddle," or the " Shell 
Pattern," or for some other pattern that may happen to offer 
the newest temptation to vulgar taste. 

I would recommend to every young woman, who has the 
good taste to wish that her house may be characterised by 
its simplicity, and be more remarkable for comfort than for 



16 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

show; I would strongly recommend her, if she wish to spare 
herself and her family much discomfort, to avoid having 
show-rooms; such rooms, I mean, as are considered to be 
too fine to be habitually occupied by the family to whom 
they belong, and such as are kept shut up, except on 
particular occasions, when, and perhaps only a few times 
in the course of a year, a fire is lighted in a fine drawing- 
room, which is put in order to receive guests. Upon such 
occasions, children are seen to stare and look about them, as 
if they had never beheld the place before; the master of the 
house fidgets from one seat to another, as if he were any 
where but at home; and most likely before the entertainment 
is over, the mistress of the house is heard to remark, that 
she is " never so comfortable as in the room she is accus- 
tomed to;" thereby letting her friends know how much she is 
put out of her way by having the pleasure of their company. 
And this is being refined! True hospitality would conceal 
from guests any little additional trouble which their presence 
may unavoidably occasion; but thanks to the improved taste 
of the times, there is little real hospitality left; all friendly 
intercourse seems lost in ostentatious display, and in the 
vain attempts of each friend to outshine the other. Most 
people acknowledge this to be the case, and lament that it is 
so; yet few have the courage to pursue a different system. 
It is rare that we find the album, the closeted curiosity, or 
even the conversation of the assembled company, having 
charms sufficient to dissipate that gloom which infallibly at- 
tends such hospitality. 

While she is fitting up her house, a young woman would 
do well to consider the number and the sort of servants she 
can afford to keep, and to regulate the style of the house 
accordingly. I recommend this to her in order that she may 
avoid that incongruity which one sometimes sees in houses 
where there is more ostentation than taste displayed, and 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 17 

where a country servant of no experience will hesitate to 
touch a china plate or a glass dish, as though it were a thing 
to bite her, and will, at last, perhaps, let it fall, from a trem- 
bling anxiety to hold it fast. China, plate, pictures, and all 
ornamental furniture, require peculiar nicety; and the dust- 
ing and polishing of these must be repeated daily, or they 
reflect discredit, not upon the servants, but upon the mis- 
tress of the house, who will, therefore, do well not to en- 
cumber herself with more of such things than she can easily 
have kept in good order. 

Flowers are the most beautiful ornaments, when nicely 
selected and arranged, that can belong to a house; for, though 
they perish, and do not last as a piece of china does, they 
afford infinite variety, and give such a liveliness and interest 
to every place that contains them, as no kind of manufac- 
ture, whether ancient or modern, ever did or will give. 

Perfect and uniform neatness is indispensable, as well to 
the comfort of a house, as to its good appearance. By uni- 
form neatness, I mean that nothing which presents itself, 
whether about the house, on the table, in the dress of ser- 
vants, or in the dress of children; no one thing should be 
left open to unfavorable remark. A young woman who re- 
laxes in attention to her own dress, merely because she has 
more important cares after, than she had before her marriage, 
does wrong; but she whose smart dress forms a contrast with 
the little soiled fingers which are forbidden to approach it; 
she who strikes the beholder as having bestowed care on 
herself, while her children bear the appearance of neglect, 
does infinitely worse. To preserve the neatness of a house, 
there must be more or less of constant attention. This will 
require strict watching on the part of the mistress. Sweep- 
ing, dusting, and polishing, should proceed daily, and 
should never wholly stop. Carpets should be swept every 
day with a hair broom; but only once a week with the car- 

2* 



18 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

pet broom, because it wears them: and damp tea-leaves 
should always be used, whether in sweeping carpets or 
boards, as they lay the dust, which would otherwise fly 
over the furniture, and again settle on the floor. Bed-room 
carpets should be in different pieces, and not be nailed to 
the floor, for the convenience of shaking, which may, then, 
easily be done once in a week. Bed rooms should be swept 
every day, and a damp mop passed under the beds, chests 
of drawers, &c. &c., which will remove all the flue and dust 
and prevent accumulation of dirt, so that the washing of 
boards will not be necessary during the winter, except oc- 
casionally. In summer, indeed, frequent washings refresh- 
en the air, and are very necessary. The use of the mop 
is not popular with housemaids, but is a good practice, ne- 
vertheless; for collections of light dust engender little insects 
which it is very difficult to get rid of. 

One branch of domestic duty which devolves upon the 
mistress of a house, is to keep an account of the expendi- 
ture of her family. She ought to make this as simple an af- 
fair as possible, by ascertaining, first, how much the house- 
keeping is to cost; that is to say, how much she can afford to 
expend in it; then, by keeping a very strict account of every 
article, for the first two months, and making a little allowance 
for casualties, she may be able to form an estimate for the year; 
and if she find that she has exceeded, in these two months, 
the allotted sum, she must examine each article, and deter- 
mine in which she can best diminish the expence; and then, 
having the average of two months to go by, she may calcu- 
late how much she is to allow, each month, for meat, bread, 
groceries, washing, &c. &c. Having laid down her plan, 
whatever excess she may be compelled to allow in one 
month, she must make up for in the next month. I should not 
Advise the paying for every thing at the moment, but rather 
once a week; for if a tradesman omit to keep an account of the 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 19 

money received for a particular article, he may, by mistake, 
make a charge as for something had extra and upon trust. 
A weekly account has every advantage of ready money, and 
it saves trouble. I should recommend that all tradespeople 
be paid on a Monday morning, the bills receipted, indorsed 
(with the date of the year on the outside), and put by in a 
portfolio or case where they may be easily referred to as 
vouchers, or to refresh the memory as to the price of any 
particular article. It is a satisfaction, independent of the pe- 
cuniary benefit, for the head of a family to be able, at the 
end of the year, to account to herself for what she has done 
with her money. 

Having established herself in the manner which I suggest; 
having, in the arrangement of her house, and in the choice 
of her servants, never lost sight of the two main objects of 
her care, namely, the comfort of her family, and the care of 
her purse; and having formed a plan for the maintenance of 
her household, which shall not allow its expenses to exceed 
the limits of her income, I advise every young woman to 
commence her housekeeping career by observing a strict ad- 
herence to order and regularity in the performance of those 
duties which devolve peculiarly upon herself; for, by so do- 
ing, she will not only set a good example to her family, but 
if the mistress of a house be regular in the superintendence 
of her domestic affairs, if she proceed, every day, to each 
department at the appointed time, and if she never pass over 
any neglect, in such a manner as to give her servants an 
idea that it had escaped her observation; if, in short, she be 
regular and punctual herself, her servants must be so too, 
and she will find that the business of housekeeping, which 
is, by the mismanagement of some persons, rendered so irk- 
some, will be to her a matter of no difficulty and of compa- 
ratively little labour. 

In addressing myself to young people, I do not think it 



20 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

need seem impertinent if I venture a few hints on the sub- 
ject of company. I do not intend, by this, to dictate to my 
young readers the kind of visitors they should invite to their 
houses. Yet, there are some things to be observed, even 
on this point, that are not altogether foreign to my general 
purpose; for, whoever your chosen friends or companions 
may happen to be, the mode which you adopt of entertain- 
ing them must necessarily be a matter of importance among 
the affairs of your house, and therefore, properly comes 
within the scope of domestic economy. I would advise 
every young lady to make it a general rule, not to invite to 
her house such visitors as she cannot entertain without tres- 
passing on the comforts or conveniences of her family. True 
hospitality may be enjoyed without much ceremony, and 
may be offered in the plainest manner; but when efforts to 
be very hospitable make a disturbance of the usual arrange- 
ments of a house, they are inconsistent with their object. I 
should say, therefore, if I were giving advice to my own 
friend, let nothing be attempted which cannot be maintained 
without difficulty; let nothing be provided which cannot be 
provided in plenty; let nothing which is necessary be missed, 
and nothing produced which may appear to be out of place 
or uncalled for. In short, do nothing which you cannot real- 
ly afford to do; and the result will be, that while you con- 
sult your own ease, you will, at the same time, insure that 
freedom from restraint which contributes, more than all be- 
sides, to make visiting agreeable, and which never fails to 
create, in your departing guest, those mixed feelings of re- 
gret at going, but of pleasure at the prospect of returning, 
which are amongst the most flattering acknowledgements 
that genuine hospitality can receive. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 21 



HOUSEHOLD DUTIES AND OPERATIONS. 

HOUSE CLEANING IN SPRING. 

THE Spring is more particularly the time for house clean- 
ing and bleaching linen, &c., though of course these mat- 
ters require attention in every month of the year; and as 
a servant has been known to begin scrubbing stairs from the 
bottom upwards, a few remarks on these common subjects 
may not be useless. Begin at the top of the house; first 
take up the carpets, and if they require it, send them at once 
to be scoured, that they may be ready to replace by the 
time the rooms are cleaned. Some persons object to send 
carpets and other things to a scourer, as their substance is 
in some degree injured by the process; they may be well 
cleaned by washing them with soda and water, after hav- 
ing been taken up, well beaten, and nailed down again. 

Remove all the furniture out of the room, have the chim- 
neys swept where fires have been in use, then scour the 
grates, <fcc.; wrap old towels (which should be set aside 
for such purposes) round the bristles of the broom, and 
sweep carefully and lightly the ceiling and paper; then with 
a flannel or sponge (which is preferable) and soap and 
water wash all the paint well, and as fast as one per- 
son wets let another follow with linen rags, and wipe the 
paint perfectly dry; let the windows be cleaned, and lastly, 
scrub the floor. The furniture should be well rubbed be- 
fore it is replaced. It is a good plan to have the paper 
swept every three or four months. If the curtains and 
hangings are moreen, it is better to take them down for the 
summer months, and after a thorough shaking and brushing 
to pin them up in paper, linen, or silk, with camphor, 
which is the best, cleanest and most agreeable preservative 
from moths. Some persons use powdered black pepper. 



22 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

PRESERVATION OF LINEN. 

The summer is the best season for examining and repair- 
ing household linen, as the days are long, and servants 
more at leisure from the absence of fires. Sheets should 
be turned sides to the middle before they get very thin to 
avoid patching, which has a very unsightly appearance. 
July is a good month for washing counterpanes, blankets, 
and heavy things in general,, for they dry quickly, and are 
consequently of a better colour. 

MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 

A cook should always be supplied with a piece of floor- 
cloth to put at the end of her kitchen table, in order to keep 
it clean, as the dirt and grease from saucepans is more easily 
removed from floor-cloth than from wood; little round mats 
about an inch thick, and the size of a common plate, made of 
platted straw, with a straw ring by which they may be 
hung up, are very useful during the process of cooking, to 
place under stewpans and saucepans, when it is necessary 
to put them on the table. 

In large establishments each servant should be furnished 
with brushes, pails, and whatever is requisite in her depart- 
ment, for her use solely; this prevents grumbling among 
servants; and in case of misuse or disappearance, blame will 
fall on the proper individual. It is astonishing how much 
confusion and discomfort may be avoided by attention to 
these trifles. 

A mistress should provide her housemaid with a pair of 
strong gloves and a large coarse apron to clean her grates, 
&c. &c., which enables her to keep herself fit to be seen 
if called away in a hurry. 

It is a good plan to give out on Saturday or Monday 
morning to each servant the quantity of soap allowed for 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 23 

the week's consumption, as also of tea and sugar. Of the 
two latter a reasonable quantity is three ounces of tea and 
three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar, or one pound of 
moist; half a pound of butter, and a quartern loaf. Calculating 
by this allowance a pretty correct estimate of what should be 
the week's expenditure may be made, varying occasionally 
with circumstances. Regularity and punctuality are para- 
mount qualifications in domestic management. 

If the mistress of a house possesses that useful and ad- 
mirable quality neatness, its effects will be seen extending 
through every department of her household, and order and re- 
gularity will reign to the exclusion of fidgetting, bustling, 
and eternal petty vexations. It is possible that very young 
housewives may require the information that there are four 
kinds of cloths which ought to be provided for the use of 
the kitchen knife-cloths, dusters, tea, and glass-cloths. Of 
each of these eight may perhaps be sufficient, and if they 
be made of the materials proper for them, a servant will 
have no excuse for mistaking one for another, nor will a 
mistress fail, at a glance, to see if they be misappropriated. 
They should be placed, when clean from the wash, in four 
separate piles, in one of the dresser drawers, with the family 
breakfast-cloth, dinner-cloth and finger-napkins, tray and 
supper-cloths; here, too, the table-mats should be deposited, 
so that a servant, when going to lay the cloth, may experi- 
ence as little delay as possible. 

Knife-cloths should be made of very coarse brown harsh 
cloth (" sheeting," as it is styled in the shops,) ell wide; 
one yard will make six, three in width, and half a yard in 
length. Dusters are generally made of a checked manu- 
facture of mixed cotton and flax; the cotton more readily 
picks up the dust, than pure linen, Haifa yard square is the 
proper size. Tea and glass-cloths, three quarters in width, 
and one yard in length. These last-named cloths will be 



24 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

found less " fluey," or " linty" if they are made of sheets, 
which, having been " turned" in time to prevent the ne- 
cessity and unsightliness of piecing, are beginning to wear 
thin; thus the credit of always having good sheets may be 
easily procured, by replacing those which are cut up with 
new ones, and, at the same time, a better and more eligible 
material obtained for glass-cloths. To ensure freedom from 
lint on glass, the last wipe should be given with a wash 
leather kept for the purpose. That open, pretty-looking 
" sleesy" cloth which is sold under the name of glass-cloth, 
is a perfect nuisance, and wears out incredibly soon. In 
addition to the above, most persons add knife-tray cloths, 
house-cloths for cleaning, pudding-cloths, cheese-cloths, (a 
very clear gauze-like linen for throwing over dishes of food, 
to the exclusion of flies, &c., unless a house is well sup- 
plied with gauze covers,) and round towels. 

Pillow-covers will be found of service in all families. 
They may be of the cheapest calico, made like a pillow- 
case, and tacked or run on to the pillows, occasionally re- 
moving them, that they may be washed; once in the 
course of a twelvemoth will be often enough. The advan- 
tages resulting from the use of pillow-covers, are, that the 
ticking is thus preserved always fresh and clean; that a fine 
Holland pillow-case looks white and even, instead of the 
stripes of the ticking appearing through it; and that in the 
event of a pillow-case being on the decline, the flaws and 
thin places are not so apparent as they would be without 
the intervention of a calico cover. 

It is very important that servants should carefully sift 
their cinders, for which purpose they should be supplied 
with a proper cinder sifter to save them from unnecessary 
dirt. New made candles should never be burned, and ser- 
vants should be required to produce and burn up candle ends, 
to enable them to do which save-alls should be at hand. It 



HOUSE CLEANING. 25 

is but too true that in coals and candles, servants are in- 
clined to waste and extravagance. 

Wooden spoons are the best for cooking purposes, and it 
is a good plan to nail a piece of leather in some convenient 
place, with spaces between every nail, rather loose, to admit 
the handle of the spoon; they may be thus kept out of the way. 

HOUSE CLEANING IN AUTUMN. 

At this season all summer decorations should be forthwith 
discarded, and every thing be ready to meet the sudden 
change in the weather, which may be expected from day to 
day. Carpets should be taken up and well beaten, to pre- 
vent the accumulation of the dust from fires upon summer 
dust, and the rooms scoured; muslin summer curtains 
should be removed, washed, and rough-dried, and be re- 
placed by the winter set; and every ornament should be 
discarded from the grates, in which, after being nicely 
cleaned, a fire should be laid ready to be lighted at a mo- 
ment's notice. Any small chimney ornament which would 
be injured by fire-dust, should either be removed or cover- 
ed. In cleaning rooms and furniture the housemaid should 
be directed to take out the hair or any moveable seats of 
chairs, and thoroughly beat out the summer's dust; and it 
is a good plan to wash with a flannel and soap and water 
(not soda,) all painted and wicker-bottomed chairs; it is al- 
lowing the dust to accumulate month after month which 

D 

makes the furniture look so very soon shabby in some 
houses. Carpets should be occasionally wiped over with 
a wet cloth, and then rubbed hard till dry; by this means 
the carpet is brightened, and the room, if much in use, is 
greatly refreshed. It is very unwise to allow servants to do 
things " any how," because there is no company; it is mis- 
taken kindness to the servant, and causes much discomfort 
to the mistress when she happens to have her friends about 
3 



26 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

her; for when servants are habitually permitted to spare 
themselves very much, they dislike the additional trouble of 
having things tidy, and their ill-humour and bustle produce 
the painful feeling to the friends that they are treated as 
strangers. Servants should therefore be obliged to pay the 
same attentions when the family is alone as when there are 
guests; they will get the advantage in the end. 



SERVANTS. 

THE comfort and respectability of a house depend, in a 
great degree, upon the capability and the good conduct of 
the servants employed in it. Well dressed, that is to say, 
neatly dressed, clean looking, and well mannered servants 
always impress a visiter with a favourable idea of the house; 
while, on the contrary, there is no one so free from hasty 
judgment, as not to be more or less prejudiced against the 
mistress of a house, by the untidy appearance or the awk- 
ward behaviour of her domestics. 

Good servants, those who understand their work, and are 
capable of fulfilling their respective offices without being 
constantly looked after, are worth any thing in the way of 
wages, compared to the ignorant and incapable ones who 
perform their services only as they are directed at every turn. 
A few dollars a year more to a good servant, than is given 
to a bad one, ought not, therefore, to be a consideration, the 
difference in wages being the only difference in cost; for 
the one consumes as much as the other; and the bad servant 
is, besides, the more likely of the two to waste, break, or 
damage whatever may be placed under her care. 

In order to keep servants from neglecting their work, it 



SERVANTS. 27 

is necessary that the mistress of the house be strict in requir- 
ing the performance of their several duties, except when 
their own illness renders them incapable, or when other ac- 
cidental circumstances may interrupt the ordinary routine of 
the house. If masters and mistresses be regular in their 
habits, the servants must be so likewise. The hours of meals 
should vary as little as possible; particularly the first meal 
of the day; for the work of each day may be said to com- 
mence immediately after the breakfast, and when that lakes 
place one hour only after the usual time, the whole business 
of the house is sure to be retarded. It may frequently occur, 
even in families the most orderly, for the time of dining to be 
deferred. But this should not be allowed to happen, where 
it can be avoided; for if the dinner be ordered for two o'clock 
and it be kept waiting till half-past three one day, and per- 
haps later still another day, the cook will very likely be dis- 
appointed of performing some other piece of work, for which 
she had allotted the time. She may naturally grumble at 
having to waste that time in watching over the dinner, which 
she has, perhaps, taken pains to prepare; and if the dinner 
spoil before her eyes, she may fairly be excused if she re- 
proach herself for having so uselessly taken trouble in its 
preparation. In a very short time, if this trial of her patience 
be repeated, the cook will become indifferent as to whether 
or not she please the palates of her employers; she will take 
her turn to be irregular, and that, perhaps, on some occa- 
sion when the dinner not being ready at the time it was ex- 
pected may cause derangement of plans previously formed, 
and otherwise produce great inconvenience to the family. 
It would be unreasonable to find fault with the cook under 
such circumstances, for she would only be following the bad 
example of those whose business it was, more than hers, to 
preserve regularity in their domestic affairs. Indeed, good 
servants do not like to live with irregular masters and mis- 
tresses. Besides that it is not worth their while to be put out 



28 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

of their own orderly ways, there really is no such thing as 
comfort or rest in a badly managed house, for such servants 
as are conscientious enough to wish to do their own duty 
and to consult the interests of those who employ them. The 
hours for going to bed and getting up should be as early as 
possible, consistently with the other arrangements of the 
house. It ought to be the care of some one of the family them- 
selves, to see that fires have been put out, and that doors and 
windows have been secured. 

The honesty of servants depends greatly upon the sort of 
bringing up they have had. But it also often depends, and 
with young servants especially, upon the temptations to be 
dishonest that they may have had to contend with; and it 
behoves every master and mistress to study to prevent all 
such temptations as much as possible. The practice of lock- 
ing up does not, as a matter of course, imply distrust, but 
it denotes care; and a better principle than that of careful- 
ness can scarcely be instilled into the mind of a poor person. 
I would as scrupulously avoid any thing which could lead a 
servant to imagine that I locked up my drawer or my tea- 
chest from her, as I would avoid giving the same idea to 
any lady of my acquaintance; but I should think myself 
criminal to leave tea, sugar, wine, or other things, open at all 
times, or only every now and then to have them locked up. 
The habit is bad; and it is the result, not of generosity, but 
of negligence; it is a habit, also, which cannot fail to excite 
in the minds of experienced and well disposed servants, feel- 
ings rather of contempt than of respect for their employers: 
while to the young, and more particularly to the already 
evil disposed, it is nothing less than a facility offered for the 
commission of crime. I have no doubt that thieving ser- 
vants have often begun by deeds of comparative innocence. 
Little pilferings at the tea-chest, perhaps, have been the be- 
ginning of that which has ended in the depriving a poor girl 
of her good character, and, consequently, of all chance of 



THE KITCHEN. 



29 



gaining her bread by honest means. To suspect all servants 
of being thieves, or disposed to become so, merely because 
they are servants, is as silly as it is unfeeling. I should ne- 
ver hesitate to give my keys to a servant, when it happened 
to be inconvenient to me to leave company, any more than 
I should hesitate to intrust them to one of my own family; 
but this act of confidence is far different in its effects from 
that neglect which often proceeds from mere idleness, and, 
while it proclaims a disregard of the value of property, is 
the occasion of so much waste, and in the end proves as 
ruinous to the employer as it is fatal in the way of example 
to the servant. 

That " servants are great plagues" may be the fact; but I 
am, nevertheless, bold enough to assert that it is a greater 
plague to be without them. When all the hardships which 
belong to the life of a maid-servant are taken into considera- 
tion (which I am afraid they very rarely are), the wonder is, 
that the greater part of this class of persons are not rendered 
less obliging and less obedient to the will of their employers, 
and more callous to their displeasure, than we really find them. 



THE KITCHEN. 

THE benefit of a good kitchen is well known to every 
housekeeper, but it is not every mistress that is aware of 
the importance of having a good cook. I have seen 
kitchens which appeared to be fitted up with every conve- 
nience, and certainly at considerable expence, which yet 
failed to send forth good dinners, merely because the lady 
of the house was not happy in her choice of a cook. I 
do not in the least admire epicures, or epicurism ; and 
yet I would be more particular in the selecting of the 
servant who is to perform the business of preparing tha 

3* 



30 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

food of the family, than I should deem it necessary to be 
in selecting any of the other servants. In large estab- 
lishments there is a greater quantity of cookery to be per- 
formed, and consequently, a greater quantity of waste is 
likely to be caused by unskilful cooks, than there can be 
in small families; but even in the latter, I have known con- 
siderable waste to be the consequence of saving a few 
pounds a year in the wages of a cook. An experienced 
cook knows the value of the articles submitted to her 
care; and she knows how to turn many things to account, 
which a person unacquainted with cooking would throw 
away. A good cook knows how to convert the remains of 
one dinner into various dishes to form the greater part of 
another dinner; and she will also, be more capable than 
the other of forwarding her mistress's charitable inten- 
tions; for her capability in cooking will enable her to take 
advantage of every thing which can be spared from the con- 
sumption of the family, to be converted into nourishing 
food for the poor, for those of her own class, who have 
not the comfort of a home such as she herself enjoys. 
The cook who knows how to preserve the pot-liquor of 
fresh meat to make soup, will, whenever she boils mutton, 
fowls, or rabbits, carefully take off the scum as it rises; and 
by adding peas, vegetables to flavour, seasonings and crusts 
of bread, she will make some tolerable soup for poor peo- 
ple, out of materials which an inexperienced cook would 
be very likely to throw away. 

Of the same importance as the cooking, is neatness in 
serving the dinner, for there is a vast difference in its ap- 
pearance, if it be neatly and properly arranged, in hot 
dishes, the vegetables and sauces suitable to the meat, and 
they apparently just taken from the fire; there is a vast 
difference between a dinner so served, and one a part of 
which is either too much or too little cooked, the meat 



THE KITCHEN. 31 

parting from the bone in one case, or looking as if it were 
barely warmed through in the other case; the gravy chilled 
and turning to grease, some of the vegetables watery, and 
the others crisp, while the edges of the dishes are slopped, 
and the block tin covers look dull, if not smeary. A leg 
of mutton or piece of beef either boiled or roasted, so com- 
monly the dinner of a plain living family, requires as 
much attention, skill and nicety, as does the most compli- 
cated of made dishes; and a plain dinner well cooked, and 
neatly served, is as tempting to the appetite, as it is credit- 
able to the mistress of the house, who invariably, and 
justly suffers in the estimation of her guests, for the want 
of ability in her servants. 

Sauce-pans should be washed and scoured as soon as 
possible after they have been used; wood ashes, or very 
fine sand may be used for scouring; but the scouring should 
not be done with a heavy hand. They should be rinsed 
in clean water, and wiped dry, for they will rust, and then 
be turned down, on a clean shelf. The upper rim may 
be kept bright, but it does seem labour lost to scour that 
part where the fire reaches; besides which, the more they 
are scoured, the more quickly they wear out. Copper 
utensils must be well tinned, or they become poisonous. 
Never allow any thing to be put by in a copper vessel; 
but the fatal consequences of neglect in this particular have 
been too frequent, and are too well known for it to be ne- 
cessary that I should say much in the way of caution. 

The fire-place of a kitchen is a matter of great impor- 
tance. I have not, it is certain, been so circumstanced as 
to witness the operations of many of the newly invented 
steam kitchens and cooking apparatuses which the last 
twenty years have produced, but those which 1 have seen, 
have failed to give me satisfaction. To say the truth, the 
inventors of cast-iron kitchens seem to me to have had 



32 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

every other object in view, but that of promoting good 
cooking. It is certainly desirable and proper that every 
possible saving should be made in the consumption of 
fuel; but I am sure it is not possible to have cooking in 
perfection, without a proper degree of heat, and, as far as 
my observation has gone, meat cannot be well roasted un- 
less it be before a good fire. I should save in many other 
things rather than in fuel, and I am often puzzled to ac- 
count for the false economy which leads some people to 
be sparing of their fuel, at the same time they are lavish 
in other things infinitely less wanted. A cook has many 
trials of her temper, but none so difficult to bear as the 
annoyance of a bad fire; for with a bad fire she is never 
able to cook her dinner well, however much she may fret 
herself in the endeavour; and the waste caused by the spoil- 
ing in cooking meat, fish, poultry, game, &c. is scarcely 
made up for by saving a few cents in fuel. " Economy in 
fuel" is become so popular, that all sorts of inventions are 
resorted to, in order to go without fire; and the price of 
coals or wood is talked of in a fine drawing room, where 
the shivering guest turns, but turns in vain, to seek com- 
fort from the fire, which, alas! the brightly polished grate 
does not contain. The beauty of the cold marble structure 
which rises above it, and is reflected in the opposite mir- 
ror, is a poor compensation for the want of warmth. I 
advise all young housekeepers to bear in mind that of the 
many things which may be saved in a house, without les- 
sening its comforts, firing is not one. 

It is best to make a provision of fuel in the month of 
August or September, and in sufficient quantity to last 
until the spring. It should be of the best kind ; and 
should be paid for in ready money, in order to prevent an 
additional charge for credit. The first year of housekeep- 
ing will give the mistress a pretty correct average to go by; 



THE KITCHEN. 33 

and then she should watch the consumption carefully, but 
not too rigidly, as nothing gives so much the appearance of 
stinginess, as over carefulness of fuel. 

The cook should be allowed a sufficiency of kitchen 
cloths, and brushes of the sorts suitable to her work. Plates 
and dishes will not look clear and bright, if they are not 
rinsed in clean water after they are washed, then drained, 
and wiped dry with a cloth which is not greasy. A hand- 
ful of bran in the water will produce a nice polish on 
crockery ware. 

They do not cost much, therefore there need be no hesi- 
tation to allow plenty of jelly bags, straining cloths, tapes, 
&c. &c. But these things should be kept very clean, and 
always scalded in hot water, before they are used. 

A clock, in or near the kitchen, will tend to promote 
punctuality among all the servants. 

The kitchen chimney should be frequently swept; be- 
sides which, the cook should, once or twice a week, sweep 
it as far as she can reach; for where there are large fires in 
old houses, accidents sometimes occur; and ever so little 
soot falling will sometimes spoil a dinner. 

I should recommend every lady to make a receipt book 
for herself. Neither my receipts nor those found in any 
cookery book, can be supposed to give equal satisfaction 
to every palate. After performing any piece of cookery 
according to the directions which are given in the book, 
a person of common intelligence would be able to discover 
whatever was displeasing to the taste, and might easily 
alter the receipt, and so enter it in her own book that the 
cook could not err in following it. This plan will, if 
adopted, be found to save much trouble. The receipts 
should be made out, with great exactness, so as not to 
leave it to the cook's ingenuity to discover the right pro- 
portions of the different ingredients, if they are signified 



34 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

by a bit of this one, a pinch of that one, a scrape of ano- 
ther, and so on. 

As soon after breakfast as she conveniently can, the mis- 
tress of a house should repair to the kitchen; which ought 
to be swept up, the fire-place cleaned, teakettles, coffeepots, 
and any thing else which has been used in preparing the 
breakfast, put in their appropriate places, and the cook ready 
to receive her orders for the day. Without being parsi- 
monious in her household, the mistress should see, with 
her own eyes, every morning, whatever cold meat, re- 
mains of pastry, bread, butter, &c. &c. there may be in 
the larder, in order that she may be able to judge of the 
fresh supply, which it may be necessary for her to make. 
Having done that, she should proceed to the store room, 
to give to the cook, the house-maid, and any other servants, 
such stores as they may each require for the day. This 
will take up very little time, if it be done regularly every 
morning; and this done, she will do well not to delay going 
to make her purchases, at once; lest visitors, or any acci- 
dental circumstance, should cause her to be late in her 
marketing, and so to derange the regularity of the dinner 
hour, the servants work, &c. &c. Many ladies in conse- 
quence of their own ill health, or that of their children, 
are compelled to employ their servants to make their pur- 
chases for them; but when they can avoid doing so it is 
much better. I do not say this from a suspicion that either 
tradespeople or servants are always likely to take advantage 
of an opportunity to impose upon their customers or their 
employers, but because I think that this important part of 
household management ought to be conducted by some one 
of the family, who must necessarily be more interested in 
the disposal of money properly than any servant can be. 
Besides which, more judgment is required to be here exer- 
cised than all servants possess. It may, for instance, occur, 



BOILING. 35 

that a servant is sent to a fishmonger's for a certain quantity 
of fish; and she obeys the order given her, and brings home 
the fish, but at a higher price, perhaps, than her mistress 
expected. Now if the lady had gone to market herself, 
she might have used her own discretion, in case she 
found that the weather, or any other circumstance had 
raised the price of fish for that day, she might make a less 
expensive fish suit her purpose, or turn to the butcher to 
supply her table. And this will also apply to the poulterer 
as well as to the butcher. Then, there is the hindrance to 
a servant in her work, if she be sent here and there, during 
the early part of the day; and on the other hand, there is 
the benefit which the lady of the house would derive by 
being compelled to be out of doors, and in exercise, for 
even a short time, almost every day. 



BOILING. 

THERE is no branch of cookery which requires more 
nicety than plain boiling, though, from its simplicity, many 
cooks think it requires less attention than some others. 
They think that to put a piece of meat into water, and to 
make that boil fora given length of time, is all that is need- 
ful; but it is not so. To boil a leg of mutton, or a fowl, 
as it ought to be boiled, requires as much care as to com- 
pound a made-dish. Meat which is poor and tough cannot 
be made tender and fine flavoured by boiling; but that which 
was, to all appearance, very fine meat before it was put 
into the pot, has often been taken out really good for noth- 
ing. And many a butcher and poulterer have been blamed, 
when the fault was wholly the cook's. 

Meat should be put into cold water, and there should be 



36 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

just enough of that to cover it, and no more. The longer 
in reason it is coming to a boil, the better: as a gradual heat- 
ing produces tenderness, and causes a separation from the 
meat of the grosser particles, which rise in the shape of 
scum to the surface, and which should be carefully taken 
off. The finest leg of mutton that was ever placed on a 
table, must be disgusting, if garnished with flakes of black 
scum. Care should be taken to watch the first moment of 
the scum's appearing in order to remove it, and then, by 
throwing in a little salt, the remainder will be caused to 
rise; and if the fast boiling of the water render the scum- 
ming difficult, pour in a very little cold water. The prac- 
tice of boiling meat, such as poultry, veal, and lamb, in 
flowered cloths, to keep it white, must have been the in- 
vention of lazy cooks as well as of tasteless and extrava- 
gant housewives; for the meat is rendered less juicy by 
this process, and the liquor in which it has been boiled, so 
good for broth or gravy, must be lost. 

When the pot has been well scummed, and no more scum 
is to be seen, set it in such a situation on, or by, the fire, 
that it may continue to boil gently and regularly, for the 
time that the meat may require; and see that it do not stop 
boiling altogether at one time, and then be hurried to a wal- 
lop at another time, for this dries up its juices, hardens the 
meat, and tears it. A kettle of boiling water should be al- 
ways at hand, wherewith to replenish the pot, as the quan- 
tity diminishes, taking heed not to exceed the original 
quantity namely, enough to cover the meat, for the less 
water there is, the better will the broth prove. 

Salted meat, if very salt, should be washed, and, in some 
cases, soaked before it is boiled, as likewise all smoked 
meat. If there be an apprehension of its being too little 
salted, it must not be either washed or scraped, and may 



BOILING. 37 

be put on to boil, in water a little heated, because a slow 
process would help to freshen it. 

No positive rule can be given for the time required to 
cook meat by boiling, any more than by roasting, for much 
depends on its freshness, and a piece of solid meat requires 
a longer time to boil than a joint of equal weight but of less 
thickness. Salted meat, and smoked meat require longer 
boiling than fresh meat, veal longer than beef, mutton or 
lamb; and pork, though ever so little salted, still longer than 
veal. A leg of mutton which has hung long, will boil in 
less time than one which is quite or nearly fresh; but then 
the former ought not to be boiled at all, it ought to be 
roasted, for the tire takes away mustiness, and all the little 
impurities with which the boiling water would only tend 
still more to impregnate the meat. A quarter of an hour, 
and a quart of water, to every pound of meat is the old- 
fashioned rule for boiling meat, but practice must teach 
this, as well as many other of the most important parts of 
culinary science. And by a little care and attention, a cook 
will soon gain sufficient experience, to preserve her from 
the risk of sending a joint to table either underdone, or in 
the shape of a bundle of rags. 

When meat is sufficiently boiled, take it up directly; 
and if it have to wait, stand it over the pot it has been 
cooked in, to keep it hot; remaining in the water will sod- 
' den it. 

The next thing for consideration, after that of cooking 
the meat properly, is the turning to account the liquor in 
which it has been boiled. This, let the meat be what it 
may, is good as a foundation for soups and gravies, unless 
it be the liquor of ham or bacon, and that can only be used 
in small quantities, to flavour other liquor; but in this way 
it is of great value. Nothing is so good as the liquor of 
pork, to make peas soup. When the liquor of boiled meat 
4 



38 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

is not wanted for the use of the family, it may always, at a 
trifling expense, be converted into wholesome and nourish- 
ing food for the poor. 



ROASTING. 

MEAT for roasting ought to be kept longer than that 
which is to be boiled, or it will not though ever so good 
in itself, do credit to the cook. The proper length of time 
depends upon the state of the weather, and the age of the 
animal when killed. Two days of hot weather will do as 
much towards rendering meat fit for the spit, as a week of 
cold weather. 

Next after the state of the meat, the thing of most con- 
sequence is the preparing the fire, which ought to be made 
up (of the size required by the length and breadth of the 
joint,) half an hour before the meat is to be put down. But 
meat should not at first be exposed to a fierce fire. If you 
use a coal fire let there be a backing of wetted cinders, or 
small coals, for this tends to throw the heat in front; lay 
large coals on the top, and smaller ones between the bars, 
give the fire time to draw up, and it will become clear. 
Before you put down the meat, stir the fire, clear it at the 
bottom, and see that it be free from smoke in front. 

Some cooks have a practice of washing meat with salt 
and water, and wiping it dry, before it is roasted. Where 
there is any mustiness, or slimy appearance, that should be 
wiped off with a wet cloth, else I do not know that much 
washing is either necessary or beneficial. See that it be 
be properly jointed; if there be too much fat, cut it off 
(for it is better for puddings, in the shape of suet, than 
in that of dripping;) see also that the spit be brightly 



ROASTING. 39 

clean, and take care to run it through the meat, in the 
right place, at once, for the more the meat is perforated 
the greater chance there will be given for the escape of 
the gravy. There is a great nicety required in spitting, in 
order that the joint may be accurately balanced. In the ab- 
sence of spits, and smoke-jacks, a bottle jack, or a good 
stout nail with a strong string or a skein of worsted, will 
dangle a joint, and if the fire be made proportionably high 
to the length of the joint, there is no better mode of roast- 
ing. A strong skewer must be run in, at each end of the 
joint, in order that it may be turned. 

The larger the joint the greater distance it should, at first, 
be placed from the fire, that the outside may not be shrivelled 
up, before the middle is warmed. A quarter of an hour to 
a pound of meat, is also the rule for roasting, and it ad- 
mits of the same exceptions as in the case of boiling, with 
this addition, that fat meat takes longer to roast than lean 
meat, as do pork and veal, longer than any other kind of 
meat. Fillets and legs, on account of their solidness, long- 
er than loins and breasts. Much depends upon the situa- 
tion of the fire-place, and whether the joint be exposed to 
draughts of cold air, or whether it be preserved from them, 
and the fire assisted, by a meat screen. Where there is 
none, a contrivance must be resorted to, by way of substi- 
tute, such as small wooden horses, or chairs, with cloths 
hung over them, placed round the fire; these will keep off 
the cold, but a meat screen lined with tin, keeps in the heat, 
and acts as a reflector. 

Twice, or if the roast be a lar je one, oftener, remove the 
dripping pan, pour off the dripping (it ought to be strained), 
draw the spit to a distance, and stir the fire, bring forward 
the hot coals, and put fresh fuel at the back. Be careful that 
cinders do not reach the dripping-pan, for the smoke which 



40 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

they cause to arise from the fat, gives a disagreeable flavour 
to the meat, besides the injury done to the dripping, which 
is an article of great use in a family. 

When the meat is nearly done, the steams will draw to- 
wards the fire; then take the paper off, and move the joint 
nearer to the fire, particularly the ends, if they want more 
cooking; sprinkle salt lightly over the roast, and baste it 
well; then pour off all the remaining dripping, dredge flour 
very lightly over the joint, and baste with a very little fresh 
butter, which will not injure the gravy in the pan, but will 
give a delicate froth to the meat. To the gravy which is 
now flowng from the meat, the best addition is a teacupful 
of boiling water. 

With a clear strong fire, (and meat cannot be well roasted 
without a strong fire,) time allowed for gradual cooking, and 
by careful bastings, a cook may insure for her roasts that 
fine pale brown colour, to produce which is esteemed one 
of the greatest proofs of a cook's skill. 



BROILING. 

THIS department of the science of cooking is the most 
difficult to excel in, though it appears exceedingly simple, 
and is of general utility; for few persons like to dine on 
cold meat, and none scarcely dislike a broil. There is no 
economy in broiling, but such cold meat, poultry or game, 
as cannot be hashed with advantage, may be broiled and 
will make a better appearance on the table, as well as be 
more agreeable to the palate, than if served cold and dry, 
and without any accompaniment of sauce. 

The great secret in broiling is to have a suitable fire. 



BROILING. 41 

It must be strong, bright and clear, and entirely free from 
smoke; if it is half burnt down, so much the better. 

There should be two gridirons in the kitchen, one for 
meat and poultry, and the other for fish. Those which 
are contrived to hang before the fire are very useful in 
some cases. A gridiron should be rubbed clean immedi- 
ately after it has been used, and never set aside with a 
particle of grease or soot attached to it. 

Just before you lay meat on it, and after you have made 
it hot, rub the gridiron with a piece of fresh suet, if for 
meat; if for fish, rub \vith a bit of chalk. A pair of steak- 
tongs, to turn with, are indispensable. 

Above all things it is necessary to the eating of a broil, 
that it be served immediately after it is done, that it be 
closely covered on its way from the fire to the table, and 
that the plates off which it is eaten, as well as the dish, 
on which it is served, be hot. 

No skill in broiling will render tough beef fit to be eaten. 
Steaks are best when cut from the middle of the rump, after 
the meat has been killed five days, (if the weather permit,) 
or even longer, to ensure their being tender. They should 
be of about three quarters of an inch in thickness; beat them 
a very little. Sprinkle a little salt over the fire, lay the 
steaks on the hot gridiron, turn them frequently, and when 
the fat blazes and smokes much, quickly remove the grid- 
iron for an instant till that be over, and the steak will be 
sufficiently done, in from ten. to twelve minutes. Have 
a hot dish by the side of the fire ; and, to gratify the 
taste of some persons, rub it with a piece of eschalot; at 
all events, let the dish be hot, and as you turn the steaks, 
from time to time, if there be any gravy on the top, drop 
it into the dish. Before you dish them, you may, if you 
like, put a piece of fresh butter, and a spoonful of cat- 

s-ip in the dish; then sprinkle the steaks with a little 

4* 

^ 



42 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

salt, and lay them in the dish, and turn them, once or 
twice, to express the gravy. Garnish with horse-radish, 
or pickles. Oyster sauce, and many other sauces may be 
eaten with beef steak; but beef steak eaters declare that 
its own gravy, and some pepper and salt, are all that a 
goi d beef steak requires, unless it be a little sliced raw 
onion. 

Beef Steaks, with Potatoes. These must be beaten to 
make them flat; season them on both sides with pepper, 
salt, and such mixed spices as you choose the flavour 
of; then dip the steaks in melted butter, lay them on the 
gridiron, and broil them, as directed in the last receipt. 
Have a little finely-rubbed parsley, a piece of butter, and 
some pepper and salt, in a hot dish, and when the steaks 
are done, lay them in it, turn them once or twice, and ar- 
range some slices of potatoes, fried, round them. Or have 
mashed potatoes in the dish, but quite hot, and lay the steaks 
on, as you take them from the gridiron. 



FRYING. 

THIS is not so difficult a process as broiling, and some 
meat is as delicate eating fried, as it would be if broiled, 
provided the fat which is used be nicely prepared, and 
not the least rancid. Few cooks are careful enough in 
this particular. Lard, butter, dripping, topfat (i. e. the 
cake of fat which is taken off soup or broth, when it has 
stood a night,) oil, and suet are all good for frying. But 
butter, suet and dripping ought to be clarified, before 
they are used for frying; the pan will not be so apt to 
burn, and the fat, of whatever sort it be, will have a more 
delicate taste. Housekeepers lose much of the credit 



COOKING OF MEAT. 43 

which they might otherwise obtain, by neglecting this, and 
similar niceties of the kitchen department. The pan should 
be thick at the bottom; indeed the generality of frying pans 
are too thin; an oval shape is the best, particularly for fish. 
The fire must not be fierce, as fat will scorch very soon, 
and the meat, in that case, be burnt, before it is cooked; 
neither must it be too slack, for then the meat will be sod- 
dened; and if it be fish, be of a bad colour, and not crisp. 
The heat of the pan may be ascertained by throwing a bit 
of bread in it; if the pan be too hot the bread will be quickly 
burnt up. The fat in which veal, lamb or sweetbreads have 
been fried, will do to fry fish with: let it stand to settle, 
then pour the top carefully from the sediment and put it by. 
The fat will be the richer, for the meat which has been 
cooked in it, and this will not injure the fish. Fritters 
and all pastry or sweet things, must be fried in good 
butter, lard or oil. 

Particular skilfulness is required to fry fish nicely, 
and this skill is attainable only by practice. To ascer- 
tain the heat of the pan, dip the tail of the fish into the 
boiling fat, and if it become quickly crisp, the pan is 
ready . 

Fries, as well as broils, must be served hot, and as soon 
as they are taken oft' the fire, or they will be spoiled. 



COOKING OF MEAT. 



BEEF. 

Beef Steaks broiled. Cut your steaks rather thick, beat 
them well, then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick 
fire; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with 



44 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

some fresh butter, salt, parsley, chopped fine and mixed to- 
gether with the juice of a lemon; put this preparation into a 
dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. 

You may garnish with fried slices of potato, slices of 
pickled cucumber, and cresses; some make use of anchovy 
sauce instead of the parsley. 

Beef Steaks broiled. The best steaks are cut from the 
middle of the rump; let them be cut half an inch thick, then 
beat with a rolling-pin; season them with pepper and salt; 
let the fire be very brisk and clear, the gridiron very clean; 
set the dish before the fire upon a chafing dish to keep hot; 
turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on pur- 
pose; when they are done enough, lay them in the dish, and 
rub a bit of butter over them. 

Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the 
gridiron. 

Beef Steak Pie. Take some fine rump steaks, beat them 
with a rolling-pin, then season them with pepper and salt 
according to taste. Make a good crust, lay in your steaks, 
fill your dish, then pour in as much water as will half fill the 
dish. Put on the crust, and bake it well. 

Beef Steak Pie. Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, 
flour and season with pepper and salt; when seasoned and 
rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish, with puff paste 
round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it 
with a good crust. 

Beef Steak Pudding. Beat your steaks with a rolling- 
pin, season them, and roll them with fat between; and if you 
approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet 
in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks; cover the basin 
with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in; co- 
ver with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, 
but for a length of time. 



COOKIXG OF MEAT. 45 

Beef Steak Pudding. Take flour, chopped suet, some 
milk; a little salt, and one egg, and mix them well together. 
Roll out the paste, of half an inch thick, and sheet a basin 
or bowl with it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the 
steaks well with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized 
pieces, season with pepper and salt, put them into the basin 
with blanched oysters and slices of potatoes, alternately (or 
slices of onion): cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth 
over the basin. Boil the pudding (if of a middling size) 
two hours, and when it is to be served up, put into it a lit- 
tle cullis and catsup. 

Beef Steak Pudding baked. Make a batter of milk, 
two eggs, and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boil- 
ed and mashed through a cullender; lay a little of it at the 
bottom of the dish; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, 
and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter 
over them, and bake it. 

For roasting beef, boiling, &c. See pages 36 and 38, 
40 and 42. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

To choose Lamb. The vein in the neck of a fore-quar- 
ter of lamb ought to be of a fine blue, it is then fresh. If it is 
of a green or yellow cast, it is stale; if in the hind-quarter, 
there is a faint disagreeable smell under the kidney, or if the 
knuckle is limp, it is not good; if the eyes are sunk, the head 
is not fresh; grass lamb is in season in April or May, and 
continues good till August. House lamb may be had in 
great towns generally all the year round, but is in its high- 
est perfection in December and January. 

Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and breast. 

Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. 

The Head', the pluck is generally sold with the head, 
which contains the liver, lights, heart, and melt. 



46 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

The Fry contains the sweetbreads, and skirts, with some 
of the liver. 

Jl Stuffed Loin of Mutton. Take the skin off a loin of 
mutton with the flap on; bone it neatly; make a nice veal 
stuffing and fill the inside of the loin with it where the 
bones were removed; roll it up tight, skewer the flap, and 
tie twine round it to keep it firmly together; put the outside 
skin over it till nearly roasted, and then remove it that the 
mutton may brown. Serve with a nice gravy. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. It should be boiled in a cloth 
that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip them in egg, strew them over with bread-crumbs, and 
fry them a nice brown, serve them round the dish, and gar- 
nish with dried or fried parsley; serve with spinach to eat 

with it. 

Quarter of Lamb Roasted. Take a fore-quarter of lamb, 

lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprin- 
kle the other side thick with bread crumbs; then cover with 
paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. 
When nearly done, take it from the fire, and cover the part 
that has not been larded, a second time, with bread crumbs, 
seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine; then put 
the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. 

Lamb to Roast or Boil. A quarter of an hour is gene- 
rally allowed to each pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five 
pounds will therefore take an hour and a quarter to roast or 
boil, the other joints in the same proportion. 

Mutton. The pipe that runs along the bone of the in- 
side of a chine of mutton ought to be taken away; and if it 
is to be kept any length of time, the part close round the tail 
should be rubbed with salt, previously cutting out the kernel. 

It is best for the butcher to take out the kernel in the fat 
on the thick part of the leg, as that is the part most likely to 



COOKING OF MEAT. 47 

become tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped 
every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, in or- 
der to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; 
therefore, if it is to be kept, it is best, should the weather 
be hot, to rub it with a little salt. 

When intended for roasting, it should hang as long as it 
will keep, the hind quarter particularly; but not so long as 
to become tainted. 

Mutton for boiling ought not to hang long, as it will pre- 
vent its looking of a good colour. 

The greatest care should be taken to preserve, by paper, 
the fat of what is roasted. 

Mutton Broth. Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, 
take out the blood, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold water; and when the water is lukewarm, pour it off, 
skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of 
water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of grits, and an 
onion; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the 
scum off, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very slowly for 
two hours, and strain it through a clean sieve. 

Mutton Broth. Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, pre- 
serving a handsome piece to be served up in the tureen; 
put all into a stewpan with three quarts of water, with 
a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, 
celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and pars- 
ley. When it boils, skim it clean, and when nearly done, 
take out the piece you intend to serve in the tureen, and let 
the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut 
into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley, 
all cut small, wash them, strain the liquor off the meat, 
skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingredients with the 
piece of mutton intended for the tureen, adding a little pearl 
barley. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and 
serve with toasted bread on a plate. 



48 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Haunch of Mutton. It should be kept as long as you 
can possibly keep it sweet by the different modes; and if 
necessary, wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, 
and when going to be dressed, be careful to wash it well, to 
prevent the outside from having a bad flavour from keeping; 
before you put the haunch to the fire, fold it in a paste of 
coarse flour, or strong paper; then set it a good distance 
from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do 
not take it off", till about thirty-five or forty minutes before 
serving the mutton, and then baste continually; bring the 
haunch nearer before taking off the paste, and froth it up in 
the same manner as venison. For gravy, take a pound and 
a half of loin of mutton, and simmer it in a pint of water till 
reduced to half, use no seasoning but salt; brown it with a 
little burnt sugar, and serve it up in the dish; but there 
should be a good deal of gravy in the meat, for though long 
at the fire, the covering and distance will prevent its roast- 
ing out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

Leg of Mutton If your leg of mutton is roasted, serve 
with onion or currant-jelly sauce; if it is boiled, serve with 
caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting or boiling, a quar- 
ter of an hour is usually allowed for each pound of meat. 

Leg of Mutton Stuffed. Make a stuffing with a little 
beef-suet chopped, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little 
grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, and a few bread 
crumbs, mix all together with the yolk of an egg, put this 
under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton under 
the flap; then roast it, and serve it to table with some good 
gravy in the dish. 

Loin of Mutton Roast it; some people think it eats 
much better if cut lengthways, like a saddle. It may also 
be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut off 
as much fat as possible. 

JSeck of Mutton. This joint is particularly useful, as so 



COOKING OF MEAT. 49 

many dishes may be made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
short. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with 
turnips: or if you think proper, it may be roasted, or dressed 
in steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. 

You may stew the scrags in broth, or in a little water, 
with small onions, some peppercorns, and a small quantity 
of rice, all served together. 

When you wish that a neck which is to be boiled should 
look particularly well, saw down the chine bone, strip the 
ribs half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones 
about four inches. 

To make the fat look particularly white, the skin should 
not be taken off till it is boiled. 

The fat belonging to the neck or loin of mutton, if chopped 
very fine, makes a most excellent suet-pudding or crust for 
a meat pie. 

Mutton Pie. Take off the meat from a part of a loin of 
mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. 
Put a layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon them some 
slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices of onion; put 
the remaining chops over, cover with puff-paste, bake it. 
The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., and when 
cold, put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes. 

Shoulder of Mutton Stewed with Oysters. Let it hang 
for some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and 
sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded, lay some 
oysters over, and roll the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it 
in a little water, with an onion, and a few peppercorns, un- 
til it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and 
some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some flour and 
butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton, pour this 
sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely cov- 
ered. 

5 



50 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Mutton Slcaks Broiled. Cut some mutton steaks from 
the loin, about half an inch thick, take off the skin, and part 
of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a lit- 
tle suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the tire 
aslant), turn the steaks frequently: when they are done, put 
them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter. 

VEAL. 

When the head is fresh, the eyes will appear full; if the 
shoulder vein is of a clear red, it is good; when there is any 
green or yellow spots, it is stale; the breast and neck, when 
good, should look white and clear; the loin is very apt to 
taint under the kidney, it will be soft and slimy when stale. 
Veal should never be kept long undressed, as it by no 
means improves from keeping. 

Boiled Veal. Veal should be well boiled, in a good 
deal of water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be winter; serve 
it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, 
and carrots, or onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, 
parsley and butter, or white celery sauce. 

Veal Broth. Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, 
with two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a 
blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled and the liquor 
reduced to half, it is fit for use. 

Cold Veal Hashed. Cut it in slices, flour it, put it into 
a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon- 
peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a 
little lemon-juice. 

Mi/iced Veal. Cut the veal into very small pieces, but 
do not chop it: take a little white gravy, a little cream or 
milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon- 
peel; let these boil till of the consistence of a fine thick 
cream; shake flour over the veal, and sprinkle it with a 
little salt, and white pepper; put it into the saucepan to 



COOKING OF MEAT. 51 

the other ingredients, and make it quite hot, but be careful 
that it does not boil after the veal has been put in, or it will 
be hard; before being taken up, squeeze in some juice of 
lemon, serve it on a dish over toasted bread. 

Veal Pie. Take a neck, or nut, cut out the fillet, cut 
it into collops, stir it over a quick fire with a bit of butter 
till it becomes brown; then set it to stew with a little pep- 
per, and in just sufficient water to cover it, until done enough; 
then take it oft* the fire and let it cool. Line a dish with 
pufY paste, and lay in the veal, with thin slices of ham be- 
tween; add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little pepper 
and salt, and half of the gravy the veal has been stewed in; 
put on the lid, trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon the 
top, egg, and bake i f then pour in the remainder of the 
gravy, heated with a .ttle buttersauce. 

Breast of Veal Roasted. Breast of veal should be roasted 
with the caul on till almost done enough, then take it off; 
flour, and baste it. 

Loin of Veal Roa&ted. Spit the loin, roast and baste 
it with butter; place under it a dish with some vinegar, a 
little sage, rosemary and thyme; let the gravy drop into this 
dish; when the veal is done, take it up, make the herbs and 
gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with the meat. 

Neck of Veal Boiled. Chop off the chine bone from a 

fine white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flouf, put it in 

cold water, boil it very gently, taking care to skim it well; 

when done, serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, 

\or garnished with tongue or ham. 

Shoulder of Veal Roasted. Cut off the knuckle for a 
stew of gravy, stuff the shoulder with the following ingre- 
dients: some suet, chopped fine, parsley and sweet herbs, 
shred fine breadcrumbs, and grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg; whilst roasting, flour and 
baste it; veal requires being more done than beef. 



52 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Veal Sweetbreads. They are of themselves, generally 
considered very insipid, and are, therefore, usually served 
with a sharp relishing sauce; in whatever manner they are 
dressed, they commonly take their name from the sauce with 
which they are served. 

Veal Sweetbreads Fried. Cut them in long slices, and 
with a feather do them all over with yolk of egg; make a 
seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated bread; do them over 
with this, and fry them in butter; serve with butter sauce, 
with a little ketchup mixed in, or with gravy, orlemonsauce. 

Veal Sweetbreads to Stew. Parboil them, and stew 
them in a white gravy; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, 
salt, and white pepper. 

Calf's Head. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, 
that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, 
and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely 
tender; then strew it over with breadcrumbs and parsley 
chopped, and brown ii. Boil the brains, and mix them 
with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper and salt; 
lay them on a dish, and the tongue in the middle. 

Calf's Head Hashed. Boil the head almost enough, 
and take the meat of the best side neatly from the bone, and 
lay it in a small dish; wash it over with the yolks of two 
eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, 
a little peeper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed together pre- 
viously. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it 
now and then, that all parts may be equally brown. In the 
mean time slice the remainder of the head, and the tongue, 
(peeled;) put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, 
a small bunch of herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, savory, 
knotted marjoram, and a little thyme,) a little salt and 
cayenne, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor: boil 
this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which 
must be sprinkled with flour. 



COOKING OF MEAT. 53 

Calf 8 Head Soused. Scald and bone a calf's head, and 
soak it for seven or eight hours, changing the water twice; 
dry it well. Season with salt and bruised garlic; roll it up, 
bind it very tight, and boil it in white wine, salt and water; 
when done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and keep it 
for use. Serve up either whole, or in slices, with oil, vine- 
gar, and pepper. 

Calf's Liver. Cut a calf's liver in slices, and put it in 
a stewpan, with parsley, and green onions, cut small, and a 
piece of butter; shake it over the fire, and dredge in a little 
flour: moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as much of 
white wine, salt and pepper, boil it for half an hour. When 
quite done and the sauce nearly consumed, put in the yolks 
of three eggs, previously beaten with two spoonfuls of vine- 
gar; thicken it over the fire, and serve. 

Coifs Liver Broiled. Slice it, season with pepper and 
salt, and broil nicely: rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve 
hot. 

Calf's Liver Stewed. Cut a very good calf's liver into 
slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and 
then put in the liver, and brown it well on both sides; season 
it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the 
butter, and chopped parsley, and a little flour; moisten it 
with half a pint of wine; give the sauce a boil, and when 
ready to serve, add a little vinegar. 

FOWLS. 

Directions for Choosing Folds. All poultry should be 
very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair 
nicely singed with paper. 

The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, 
not to break the gallbag, for no washing will take off the 
bitter where it has touched. 

If for roasting, black-legged fowls are the most moist. A 

5* 



54 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

good-sized fowl will take from three quarters of an hour to 
an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one about half an hour, 
and a very small one, or chicken, twenty minutes. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in 
heating through than others. All sorts should be continually 
basted, that they may be served with a froth, and appear 
of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear 
before any fowls are put down. 

For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged; pick 
them carefully, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, 
and put them in boiling water; a good-sized one will be 
done in half an hour. 

Foivls Boiled with Rice. Stew a fowl in some \vell 
skimmed clear mutton broth, and seasoned with onion, 
mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is 
ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and 
soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, 
and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl 
hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it with- 
out the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done with, the 
better. Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. 

Chicken Currie. Take the skin off, cut up a chicken, 
and roll each piece in currie-powder and flour (mixed to- 
gether, a spoonful of flour to half an ounce of currie,) fry 
two or three sliced onions in butter; when of a light brown, 
put in the meat and fry them together till the meat becomes 
brown; then stew them together with a little water for two 
or three hours. More water may be added if too thick. 

Chicken Salad. Cut cold roast fowl into small long 
pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, 
at the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the chicken on it with 
all sorts of salading, hard eggs cut in quarters, anchovies, 
cut in slips, season with the usual salad dressing. 



COOKING OF MEAT. 55 



TURKEYS. 

Roasted Turkey. It may be either stuffed with sausage 
meat, or stuffing the same as for fillet of veal. As this 
makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that 
the heat of the lire is constantly to that part, as it frequently 
happens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip 
of paper should be put on the bone to prevent its scorching, 
while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth 
it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. A few breadcrumbs, and a beaten egg 
should be added to the stuffing of sausage meat. 

Hashed Turkey. Stir a piece of butter rolled in flour 
into some cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils up; mince 
some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but not too small; put 
it into the sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, 
pounded mace, a little ketchup; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters may be added. 

GEESE. 

To Choose Geese. Be careful in choosing a goose that 
the bill and feet are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. When they are fresh the feet are 
pliable; if stale they are dry and stiff. 

Goose Roasted. A goose should be stuffed with sage 
and onions, chopped small, and mixed with pepper and salt; 
boil the sage and onion in a litle water before they are 
chopped, or mix a few breadcrumbs with them when 
chopped; either will render them less strong. Put it first 
at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. 
A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. 
Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the 
paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, it 
will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it 



56 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

with good gravy and apple sauce, in boats. It will take 
about an hour and a half to roast. 

PIGEONS. 

Potted Pigeons. Be very particular that they are quite 
fresh; clean them thoroughly, and season them with salt 
and pepper; lay them close together in a small deep pan, for 
the smaller the surface, and the more closely they are packed, 
the less quantity of butter will be required; cover them with 
butter, then tie them over with very thick paper, and bake 
them. When cold, put them to dry in pots that will hold 
two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using 
that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter 
should be pretty thick over them, if they are done for keep- 
ing. The pigeons would lie closer, and want less butter, 
if they were boned, and put into the pot in an oval form. 
They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, 
bacon, <fec., and they will eat extremely well. If a high 
seasoning is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little 
cayenne pepper, before baking. 

Pigeons to Roast. Let the pigeons be thoroughly 
cleaned, leave in the livers, truss them, and put a stuffing 
into the crops, the same as for fillet of veal; put them down 
to roast, and singe them well; about a quarter of an hour 
will be sufficient to do them; froth them with butter; serve 
them garnished with water-cresses, good gravy under them, 
and parsley and butter in a boat. 

PORK. 

To Choose Pork. If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears 
cool and smooth; if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle in 
general is affected first. There is a kind of pork called 
measly; when m this state it is extremely unwholesome 
to eat but you may easily discover when it is measly, the 



COOKING OF MEAT. 57 

fat being impregnated with small kernels. If the rind is 
tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, 
it is old. Pork fed at still houses does not answer for 
curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy fed pork is 
the best. 

Directions for Choosing Ham. In choosing a ham, run 
a knife into it at the knuckle; if it comes out clean and 
smells sweet, the ham is good; but, if on the contrary, the 
blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not 
good. 

To Boil Ham. Soak the ham according to its age, for 
twelve or twenty-four hours. Put it into a large saucepan full 
of cold water, and if a small one, let it simmer for two hours, 
and then boil an hour and a half, when done pull off the 
skin. 

Hog's Lard. The lard should be carefully melted in 
ajar, put into a kettle of water and boiled; run it into blad- 
ders that have been particularly well cleaned. It is best to 
have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better, for, 
after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melt- 
ing, put in a sprig of rosemary. 

This being a very useful article in frying fish, it should 
be prepared with great care. Mixed with batter, it makes a 
fine crust. 

Roasted Pig. A pig to roast is best from three to four 
weeks old. Prepare a stuffing with slices of bread and butter 
sprinkled well with chopped sage, and seasoned with pepper 
and salt, laying five or six slices one upon another, and put 
them into the inside of the pig; skewer it well, to prevent it 
from falling out, and then spit it, previously rubbing it over 
with sweet oil; put it down before a moderate fire to roast for 
two hours, more or less, according to its size; when thoroughly 
done, take off the head, and split the pig straight down the back 



58 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

(there must be a dish under ready to receive it); then dish 
up the two halves, and splitting the head, lay half at each 
end of the dish, pour some good strong gravy under it, and 
serve hot. Or you may take out the stuffing, and mix it 
with some melted butter, and serve it as a sauce: or sausao-e- 

O 

meat may be put inside the pig, instead of the bread and 
sage. Some persons prefer having the pig baked, instead 
of roasted; it is equally good either way. 

KIDNEYS. 

Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle 
them over with a little pepper and salt; in order to broil 
all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the grid- 
iron, run a wire skewer right through them. 

They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to 
turn them frequently till they are done; they will take about 
ten or twelve minutes broiling, provided they are done over 
a brisk fire; or, if you choose, you may fry them in butter, 
and make gravy for them in the pan (after the kidneys are 
taken out), by putting in a teaspoonful of flour; as soon as 
it looks brown, put in a sufficient quantity of water of 
make gravy; they will take five minutes longer frying than 
broiling. Garnish with fried parsley: you may improve 
them if you think proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves 
very fine, mix them with a bit of fresh butter, and a little 
pepper and salt, and then put some of this mixture over 
each kidney. 

RABBITS. 

Rabbit Pie. Cut a couple of young rabbits into quarters 
and bruise a quarter of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with 
the livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley cut small 
and a few leaves of sweet basil; when these are all beaten 
fine, line your pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer 



COOKING OF MEAT. 59 

of the seasoning at the bottom of the dish, and put in the 
rabbits; pound some more bacon in a mortar, mix with it 
some fresh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over 
that lay thin slices of bacon; put on the cover, and place 
it in the oven, it will be done in about two hours. When 
baked, take off the cover, take out the bacon, skim off the 
fat, and if there is not a sufficient quantity of gravy, add 
some rich mutton or veal gravy. 

To Roast Rabbits. They may be roasted with stuffing, 
and gravy. Serve with sauce made of the liver and parsley 
chopped in melted butter, pepper and salt. 

To Smother Rabbits. Truss and boil them, taking care 
to bring them gently to a boil, and then to let them simmer 
gently by the fire till they are done. Make some nice 
smooth onion sauce, or, if that be too strong, of half onion, 
and half apple, turnip, or bread, and melt the butter of 
which this is made, witl milk or cream, in order that it may 
look white. When the rabbits are done, pour this hot over 
them. 

VENISON. 

The choice of venison should be regulated by the appear- 
ance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks thick, 
clear, and close; as it begins to change first towards the 
haunches, run a knife into that part; if tainted you will per- 
ceive a rank smell, and it will have a green or blackish ap- 
pearance. 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by careful manage- 
ment and watching, keep it for a fortnight by the following 
method: wash it well with milk and water very clean, and 
dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not the least damp 
remaining, then dust pounded ginger over every part; this 
is a good preventive against the fly. When to be dressed, 



60 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper 
should also be added to keep it. 

Roasted Venison. To dress the haunch, chop off the 
shank, take off the skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten 
it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and water, roll it out 
to the shape of the venison; lay it on thick upon the veni- 
son, paper over that, and secure it well with pack-thread. 
Let it roast at a good distance from the fire, and baste it fre- 
quently. About a quarter of an hour before serving, take 
off the paste, dredge it with flour, baste it with a bit of but- 
ter and sprinkle a little salt over it; and when of a fine brown 
colour, take it up, sens- 1 it on a dish, with a good gravy 
under it, and garnish the bone with cut paper. Serve with 
hot port wine, or currant jelly, in a boat. A neck o" veni- 
son should be covered with paste, and roasted in the same 
manner as the haunch, only that it does not require being 
so much done. 

DUCK.S. 

To Choose Ducks. Their feet should be supple, and they 
should be hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet 
of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dusky yellow. 
The feet of a wild duck are reddish, and smaller than the 
tame; they should be picked dry. Ducklings should be 
scalded. 

Ducks Roasted. Season them with sage and onion shred, 

O 7 

pepper and salt; half an hour will roast them. Gravy sauce 
or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and onion in a little 
water, as it prevents its eating strong, and takes off the raw- 
ness of them. 

Wild Ducks. These birds should be fat, the claws small, 
reddish and supple; if not fresh, on opening the beak they 
will smell disagreeable; the breast and rump should be firm 



COOKING OF MEAT. 61 

and heavy; the flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, 
though the cock generally fetches the highest price. Pick 
them dry, cut the wings very close to the body, take off the 
necks, draw and singe them, truss up the legs and skewer 
them; and. having rubbed them with their livers, spit, and 
roast them; take them up with the gravy in, and serve with 
lemons. 

Wild Ducks. The entrails being taken out of the wild 
ducks, wipe them well with a cloth; put into the inside a 
bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt; when trussed, spit, and 
roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be 
enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are ta- 
ken up; shake flour and salt over them, and froth them with 
butter. Put good strong gravy under them, and you may 
serve them with hot port wine in a boat. 

Wild Ducks. Half roast them; when they are brought to 
table slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour over 
them a little port wine, and squeeze the juice of an orange 
or lemon over; add some gravy to this, set the plate over a 
lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over the lamp till done, 
now and then turning it. 

FORCEMEAT. 

Ingredients for Forcemeat. Forcemeat should be made 
sufficiently consistent to cut with a knife, but not dry or 
heavy. No one flavour should predominate greatly; accord- 
ing to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from 
the following list, being careful to use the least of those ar- 
ticles which are the most pungent: 

^Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, 
crumbs of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks 
and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. 

The forcemeat may be made with any of these articles 
6 



62 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

without any striking flavour; therefore any of the following 
different ingredients may be made use of to vary the taste. 

Oysters, anchovies, savory, penny-royal, knotted-marjo- 
ram, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne garlick, Ja- 
maica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves. 

Tripe. Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give 
them a few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, and 
pepper; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. 
When done serve them with slices of lemon. 

To keep Meat Hot. If your meat is done before you 
are ready to serve, take it up, set the dish over a pan of 
boiling water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to touch 
the meat, and then put a cloth over that. This way will not 
dry up the gravy. 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT. 

DURING the summer months meat requires constant at- 
tention. Every day it should be examined to remove fly- 
blows, if any; it should be carefully wiped dry under flaps 
and in all the little crevices, and skinny bits and kernels 
should be cut off, for they are the first to taint; under the 
flap of a leg of mutton is a skin which in hot weather soon 
assumes a yellow tinge; remove it, and with care a leg of 
mutton may be kept several days in the hottest weather; also 
in a rump of beef, there is a long vein visible, at the root of 
which, and buried deep, is a kernel, which if not taken out 
will in hot weather taint the whole joint; country butchers 
often omit to remove it. When meat is purchased for salt- 
ing do not allow the butcher to send it any distance in the 
heat of the day; you can never be certain of its taking the 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT. 63 

salt if it has been heated; if, however, there is no alterna- 
tive, throw it into a tub of cold water for a few hours, then 
wipe it dry, and examine it well before salting. It should 
be sprinkled with salt to extract the blood the first day, on 
the next day be wiped with a clean cloth, and in warm wea- 
ther the first brine must be thrown away, but in cold it may 
be boiled and all impurity be skimmed off; and then the 
meat may be regularly salted the second day. Canvass lids 
should be placed over salting tubs, to admit air and exclude 
flies, which are more destructive to salting meat than to 
fresh. 

Care must be taken to secure bacon and hams from the 
fly, which is very destructive to them; the best method of 
preserving hams is by putting them into coarse calico or 
canvass bags; paper is apt to break in damp weather. 

TO CURE HAMS. 

Let a leg of pork hang for three days; then beat it with 
a rolling-pin, and rub into it one ounce of saltpetre, finely 
powdered, and mixed with a small quantity of common salt; 
then let it lie all night. Make the following pickle: a quart 
of stale strong beer, half a pound of bay salt, half a pound of 
common salt, and the same of brown sugar; boil this for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, and then wipe the ham, dry from 
the salt, and, with a wooden ladle, pour the pickle, by de- 
grees, and as hot as possible, over the ham; and as it cools, 
rub it well into every part. Rub and turn the ham every 
day, for a week, and then hang it, for a fortnight, in a wood 
smoke chimney. When you take it down, sprinkle black 
pepper over the bone, and into the holes, to keep it safe from 
hoppers, and hang up the ham in a thick paper bag. 



64 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



ANOTHER. 

Beat the ham well with a rolling-pin, and then rub it all 
over with French brandy, and place it in a deep dish. Mix 
one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, and 
three ounces of juniper berries, if you have them: also put 
two good handfuls of common salt, and half a pound of 
coarse brown sugar, into a pint of strong ale; rub this well 
into the ham, and baste the ham with it, three or four times 
every day, for six weeks. 

ANOTHER. 

Beat the ham well on the fleshy side with a rolling-pin, 
then rub into it, on every part, one ounce of saltpetre, and 
let it lie one night. Then take half a pint of common salt 
and a quarter of a pint of bay salt, and one pound of coarse 
sugar or treacle; mix these ingredients, and make them very 
hot in a stew pan, and rub in well for an hour. Then take 
half a pint more of common salt and lay all over the ham, 
and let it lie on till it melts to brine; keep the ham in the 
pickle three weeks or a month, till you see it shrink. This 
is sufficient for a large ham. 

TO PICKLE PORK. 

For a hog of ten score. When it is quite cold, and cut 
up in pieces, have well mixed together two gallons of com- 
mon salt, and one pound and a half of saltpetre; with this , 
rub, very well, each piece of pork, and, as you rub, pack 
in a salting tub, and sprinkle salt between each layer of 
pork. Put a heavy weight on the top of the cover, to pre- 
vent the meat's swimming. If kept close and tight in this 
way, it will keep for a year or two. N. B. A leg of pork 
will be sufficiently salted in eight days. Rub and turn it 
every day. 



STEWS. 65 



TO PICKLE A TONGUE. 

Rub the tongue over with common salt; and cut a slit in 
the root of it, so that the salt may penetrate. Drain the 
tongue next day, and then rub it over with two ounces of bay 
salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of coarse sugar, 
all mixed together. This pickle should be poured over 
the tongue, with a spoon, every day, as there will not be 
sufficient liquor to cover it. It will be ready to dress in 
three weeks or a month. 

TO SALT BEEF. 

For apiece of twenty pounds weight. Sprinkle the meat 
with salt, and let it lie twenty-four hours; then hang it up to 
drain. Take one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound 
of very coarse sugar, six ounces of common salt, all finely 
powdered, and rub it well into the beef. Rub and turn it 
every day. It will be ready for dressing in ten days, but 
may be kept longer. It should boil very slowly, and when 
done, should stand, in the pot, by the fire, half an hour. 



STEWS. 

SCOTCH HOTCH-POTCH. 

TAKE equal quantities of fresh beef and mutton, about 
a pound and a half of each, to three pints of water; chop 
them finely, and let them simmer gently in a stew-pan. 
When the meat becomes tender, season it with salt and pep- 
per^ and add a peck of peas, two pounds of potatoes, two 
or three young carrots, and two cauliflowers, a few onions, 
and dredge with flour. When the potatoes are done it will 
be ready. In the season when vegetables are in greatest 

6* 



66 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

perfection, this is one of the most wholesome, agreeable and 
economical dishes that are made. This quantity will be 
sufficient for ten persons. 

IRISH STEW. 

Four pounds of potatoes, and a pound and a half of meat, 
with a few onions, and one carrot, makes a good stew for 
six or seven persons. The meat must be cut into small 
pieces; if it is half mutton, it will be all the better; add 
about three pints of water. When the greater portion of 
the potatoes are in a pulp, it will be done. Season it with 
salt and pepper. 

SCOTCH BARLEY-BROTH. 

To three quarts of water put a quarter of a pound of 
barley, which is to be put in when the water is lukewarm; 
two or three pounds of the lean end of the neck of mutton 
is best for this broth, but thin flank of beef is also very 
good. When it comes to aboil, put in half a bunch of turnips 
cut into quarters, two scraped carrots, and one whole one 
cut small, a handful of chopped parsley, two or three onions 
and salt and pepper. The slower it boils the better. It 
should be skimmed before the vegetables are added. 

o 

A VERY ECONOMICAL DISH. 

One pound of sausages, cut into pieces, with three 
pounds of potatoes, and a few onions, with about a table- 
spoonful of flour, mixed in cold water, and added to k, will 
dine five or six persons. It must be well boiled. 

VEAL AND RICE. 

One pound of meat, and the same quantity of rice, stew- 
ed gently in three quarts of water, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper, will make an excellent dinner for a large family. 



SOUPS. 67 



A little milk will make it richer, but it is a good family dish 
without. A few button onions, may be added, with a little 
parsley. 



SOUPS. 

SOUP, such as we recommend, consists of a plain, whole- 
some sweet broth, which also serves as the basis of almost 
every sauce. When served up as potage it contains 
bread, or rice, or one of the Italian pastes. This broth 
has no thickening, and is free from any kind of sophis- 
tication. 

The best vessel to make it in, is in an earthen pipkin of 
great depth, rather bulging out in the middle, and narrow at 
the bottom. One for an ordinary family might hold about 
five or six quarts. It should be prepared by being placed, 
nearly half full of water, upon a fire slow at first, but gradu- 
ally increased to the greatest possible intensity. As the 
water evaporates rapidly, a little should be added from time 
to time. When all the under part of the pipkin is red hot, 
the vessel should be taken off the fire and placed upon the 
hob to cool gradually. 

Put into such a pipkin four pounds of the shin of beef, a 
calf s foot, and a quarter of a pound of pig's liver or, if this 
latter is not to be obtained, half a pound of bullock's liver. 
Fill the pipkin three-quarters full of water, and place it over 
a good fire. As the scum rises take it off. When the pot 
boils, add a bundle of leeks well cleansed and tied together, 
two- turnips, three carrots, half of aparsnep, a small bundle 
of the green parts of celery, an onion with three cloves 
stuck into it, one clove of garlic, and a burnt flatted onion 



68 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

if you have one if not, use instead, but two hours later, a 
crust of bread burnt, as if for toast and water. Should 
there be too much liquid in the pot for the addition of these 
vegetables, take some out, and add it afterwards to supply 
the loss by evaporation. Let the whole boil gently for 
about three hours, then let it simmer during three hours 
more that is to say, it must be always at the boiling point 
without boiling up. The pot must be covered during the 
whole process. When the first two hours of the boiling 
are past, salt it to your taste, allowing for the evaporation, 
but add no pepper. 

If you wish to have bouilli beef, you must have a larger 
pipkin; take a sufficient quantity of the brisket and put it 
into the soup, long enough before dinner to allow half an 
hour to each pound. This beef must be dressed without 
the pot being ever suffered to boil up. It will then be ex- 
tremely tender. 

The soup will always be improved if, instead of water, 
you use the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled, 
or even a round of beef, if it be not too salt. 

To prepare the soup the first day it is made, put some 
crusts of bread into a tureen, about ten minutes before din- 
ner; pour over them a little more of the broth than will 
saturate them: cover the tureen, let it stand before the fire, 
and when the dinner is ready to be put upon the table, fill it 
up with broth. 

The moment the soup is taken off the fire, it must be 
strained and put to cool in an open earthen pan. On the 
following day it may be used with rice, or vermicelli, or 
sago, or any of the fancy pastes of Italy. 

An economical family need not waste the beef which has 
served to make the soup. A very palatable dish may be 
obtained from it the next day, in the following manner: 



SOUPS. 69 

when cold, cut it into little bits, and include all the gristle 
and gelatinous matter from the bones. Put a lump of 
butttr into a stewpan; when it boils, add a third of a table- 
spoonful of flour; stir this into the boiling butter, and con- 
tinue to stir it now and then. When the flour has become 
of a dark red colour, throw into it, by degrees, a tea-cupful 
of broth, half a glass of port wine, and a dessert-spoonful of 
walnut catsup. Let the whole boil gently for about a quarter 
of an hour; then add the meat, together with a little chopped 
parsley, and a chopped onion. Season it with pepper and 
salt, and let it simmer for a few minutes, but take care it 
does not boil. 

GOOD VEAL SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal gently in as much water as will 
just cover it, till fit to serve with parsley and butter or 
oyster sauce; save the liquor, and add to it the bones of the 
knuckle, with any others which may be in the house, or a 
few fresh shank or other bones from the butcher's, a slice 
of ham or lean bacon, a small quantity of rice, one or two 
blades of mace, a few white peppercorns, a head of celery, 
one carrot, one onion stuck with four or five cloves, and stew 
gently for three hours; about half an hour before it is done 
throw in a small bunch of sweet herbs, viz. parsley, lemon, 
and pot thyme, savory, and majoram. Strain and set aside 
till next day. Before warming up, carefully remove the fat, 
and when it boils flavour it with a little white wine and cat- 
sup, colour with a little nice browning, and throw in the 
gristles from the knuckle, and a few balls of veal stuffing. 
It may be as well to add, that recipes in cookery, however 
closely followed, will never insure success, unless the 
mosf delicate cleanliness in every culinary utensil is strictly 
preserved, 



70 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

A cook should save all the boilings from chickens, calf's 
head and veal for her stock-pot, and the bones of fresh 
meat and poultry. Soups and gravies are not so clear when 
made of meat which has been cooked, but where families 
are not very fastidious, soup may always be had at a very 
trifling expense as above. Where economy is essential, 
very excellent jelly may be made from knuckle of veal, well 
stewed, to supersede the use of calf s feet. Where much 
fish is fried, the cook should save all the small pieces of 
bread, cuttings of toast, &c., and put them in a paper bag 
in the oven to harden; when pounded in the mortar and 
sifted fine, they should be kept in a bottle or covered jar, 
and are very convenient for fried fish, or for strewing over 
hams and bacon. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Take four calf's feet, break the bones, and stew them in 
as much water as will cover them; take them out when all 
the meat and gristle will part from the bones; then put the 
meat into the liquor again, with half a pint of beef gravy, 
half a pint of white, or port wine, an onion stuck with cloves, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, a little mace, Jamaica pepper, 
and Cayenne ditto; tie these all up in a muslin bag; when 
boiled enough add the yolks of eight eggs boiled hard, truffles, 
and forcemeat balls. The juice of lemons or oranges 
improves it. 

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP, 

Is made, at the beginning, the same as the last receipt, 
and with these additions: put a few slices of bacon into the 
stewpan with the knuckle of veal, and no vegetables; let it 
simmer about an hour and three quarters; cut about 2 and a 



SOUPS. 71 

half Ibs. breast of veal into rather small pieces, add the bones 
and gristly parts of the breast, to the knuckle which is 
stewing; fry the pieces of meat, with six sliced onions, in a 
stew-pan, with a piece of good clarified dripping or butter. 
Strain the stock if it be done, and put the fry to it, set it on 
the fire, and skim carefully; then let it simmer for nearly an 
hour. Have ready mixed, in a batter, two dessert-spoonfuls 
of curry powder, the same of lightly-browned flour, and salt 
and cayenne as you choose, and add these to the soup. Sim- 
mer the meat till it be quite tender. 

This soup is best made of veal, but fowls, rabbits, or mut- 
ton cutlets are very good, after being cut in pieces and fried. 
Ginger, mace, and eschalots, may be added, if the taste re- 
quire them. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Three tails will make a good sized tureen full of soup; it 
is very strengthening, and is considered rather an elegant 
kind of soup, and by no means an expensive one. Have 
the tails divided at the points, rub with suet, and soak them 
in lukewarm water. Lay them into a stew-pan with five 
or six onions, a turnip, two carrots, some peppercorns, and 
about three quarts of soft water. Let it simmer for two hours 
and a half; take out the tails, cut them in small pieces, thick- 
en the soup with browned flcrur mixed with top fat, then 
strain it into afresh stew-pan, put in the pieces of meat, boil 
it all up and skim it; then put more pepper, if wanted, and 
either some catsup, or port wine. 

OX-HEAD SOUP. 

Make this the day before it is wanted. Put half an ox 
cheek into a tub of cold water, and let it lie to soak for two 
hours. Then take it out, break the bones which are not al- 
ready broken, and wash it well in lukewarm water. Then 



72 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

put it in a pot, cover with cold water, and let it boil; scum 
carefully, and put in one head of celery, one turnip, two car- 
rots, two large onions; two dozen berries of black pepper, 
the same of allspice, a good handful of parsley, some marjo- 
ram, savory and lemon thyme; cover the soup kettle close, 
and set it over a slow fire. As the liquor is coming to a 
boil, scum will rise, take that off, and let the soup stew 
gently by the fire for three hours. Then take out the head 
into a dish, pour the soup through a fine sieve into a stone 
ware pan, and set both by till the next day. Cut the meat 
into small pieces, skim all fat from the top of the liquor, and 
put about two quarts of it, and all the meat, into a clean 
sauce-pan, and let it simmer half an hour. Cayenne may 
be added to the other seasonings, and a glass of white wine, 
or a table-spoonful of brand}'. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Scald two sets of giblets, and pick them very clean. If 
they are not quite fresh they will not do. Cut off the noses, 
split the heads, and divide the gizzards and necks into mouth- 
fuls. Crack the bones of the legs, put all into a stew-pan, 
and cover them with cold water. When it boils scum the 
liquor well, and put in about three sprigs each, of lemon 
thyme, winter savory or marjoram, and a little bunch of 
parsley, also twenty berries of allspice and the same of black 
pepper, all tied up in a muslin bag; let this stew very gen- 
tly, till the gizzards are tender; which will be in about an 
hour and a half. Lift out the giblets with a skimmer, or spoon 
with holes, into a tureen, and keep it covered, by the fire. 
Then melt one and a half ounces of fresh butter in a clean 
sauce-pan; stir in enough flour to make a paste, and pour 
into it, by degrees, a ladleful of the giblet liquor, and then 
add all the rest by degrees, and let it boil for ten minutes, 
stirring all the time, lest it should burn. Skim and strain 



SOUPS. 73 

the soup through a fine sieve into a basin. Wash out the 
stew-pan, then return the soup into it, and season it with a 
glass of wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a 
little salt. Let it have one boil up, and then put the giblets 
in to get hot, and the soup is ready. 

FISH SOUP. 

Soup made of fish is more delicate in taste, and more ele- 
gant in appearance than might be imagined, by persons 
wholly unacquainted with it. Oyster and lobster soup are 
the two most esteemed. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Veal will make the most delicate stock for this soup, it 
should be strong and clear; put it to a quart of the hard part 
of fresh juicy oysters, which have been pounded in a mor- 
tar with the yolks of six hard boiled eggs. Simmer for half 
an hour, then strain it into a fresh stew-pan, and put in 
another quart or more of oysters trimmed, and nicely washed 
from their shells, also some mace and cayenne, and let it 
simmer for ten minutes. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, 
take out a little soup in a cup, let it cool, then mix it by de- 
grees with the eggs, and stir this into the soup, having first 
drawn that aside from the fire; stir all the time after you put 
this in until you send it to table, or it will curdle. You may 
give this soup any additional flavour you like. The oysters 
which are put in whole may be first run on fine wire skew- 
ers, and then fried. 



74 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



MADE DISHES. 

WHAT has generally been understood by a " made dish" 
is, something too rich, and too highly seasoned, to be whole- 
some, and too expensive to be available for a family dinner. 
This is an error, for much that would not appear to advan- 
tage, or be palatable, in a plain boil or roast, may be made 
both by the means of stewing, and by the addition of suita- 
ble seasonings. The proper application of the latter must, 
of course, depend upon the discretion of the cook, whose 
main endeavour ought to be to use as little as possible, of 
herbs, spices, and seasonings; to study, to a scruple's weight, 
how much is actually necessary, to give the flavour required, 
and to give no more: this, and plenty of time allowed for 
the cooking, is the secret by which the French have attained 
their perfection in this particular branch of culinary scieu.. 
It is a superabundance of flavouring ingredients whLn 
causes made dishes to be both unwholesome and expensive. 

Cold meat is not generally liked, except at the breakfast 
table, and it is far less nourishing than warm meat. Besides 
which, a very little piece or odd and end parts of cold meat, 
poultry, game and fish, \vhich would make a poor appear- 
ance, and contribute but little towards making up a dinner, if 
put on the table in their present state, may, by the help of a 
little gravy, a little seasoning, and care in the re-cooking, be 
converted into hash, ragout, fricassee, &c. as it may suit the 
taste or convenience of the housekeeper. Some experience 
is required to perform this branch of cookery well, but not 
more than is necessary to broil a mutton chop, or to boil a 
potatoe. But scrupulous and constant attention is required; 
therefore, a servant of all work, who is often called away 
from the kitchen whilst the dinner is cooking, must not be 
expected to excel in her ragouts. 



MADE DISHES. 75 

It has been directed, in the making of soup, that it be not 
allowed to boil fast. Made dishes should never boil at all; 
gentle simmering is all that is necessary, and the lid of the 
stew-pan must not be removed, after the necessary skim- 
ming is over. Time should be allowed for gradual cooking, 
and when that is over, the stew-pan ought to stand by the 
fire a few minutes, that the fat may rise to the top, and be 
taken off before the dish is served. Indeed, ragouts are the 
better for being made the day before they are wanted, be- 
cause then the fat can be more completely taken off. Shake 
the stew-pan, if there be danger of burning, but by removing 
the lid the savoury ste.ams escape, and with them much of 
the succulent qualities of the meat. 

Great delicacy is required in re-warming made dishes: 
they should merely heat through; and the safest mode is to 
^lace the stew-pan in a vessel of boiling water, where this 

practicable. 

1 All made dishes require gravy, more or less good, and in 
a family of half a dozen persons this, by a little previous fore- 
thought, may always be at hand; for the liquor in which 
meat has been boiled may be saved, and a very little season* 
ing, and flavouring, will make it palatable, and, if nicely 
thickened, it will be gravy for a ragout or fricassee of fresh 
meat. 

MACCARONI. 

Boil 2 oz. in good broth or gravy, till tender; then put 
to it a small piece of butter, and a little salt, give it a turn in 
the stew-pan, and put it in the dish in which it is to be 
served. Scrape parmesan, Stilton, or any other dry rich 
cheese over it, and brown it before the fire in a Dutch oven. 



76 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



ANOTHER. 

Mix together a pint of milk and a pint of water, and put 
in it two oz. maccaroni, and let it simmer slowly for three 
hours, till the liquor is wasted, and the maccaroni tender. 
Then add some grated cheese, a little salt and Cayenne, mix 
it well, and brown it before the fire. Maccaroni is exceed- 
ingly light and nourishing. Boiled in plain water and a lit- 
tle salt, till quite tender, and the gravy of roast or boiled 
meat, or a little good broth poured over it, it is very nou- 
rishing for an invalid. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Beat 4 or 5 eggs well, with pepper and salt. Cut some 
dressed asparagus into pieces the size of peas, and stir them 
into the eggs. Melt 2 oz. butter, in a small stew-pan, pour 
in the mixture, stir till it thickens, and serve it hot on a 
toast. 

BEEF STEAK PIE. 

The beef should be tender, and have a due portion of 
fat, but steaks cut from the rump are best. Cut the meat 
into small steaks, and roll them up as olives, or lay them, 
fat and lean properly mixed, flat in the dish, after having 
seasoned them with salt, pepper, and what spices you 
choose. Then put in half a pint of gravy, or half a pint of 
water, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. If you have no made 
gravy ready for the pie, a kidney or two, or a piece of beef 
kidney, will enrich the gravy of the beef, and is always a 
valuable addition to a savoury meat pie. Forcemeat, either 
in layers between the slices of beef, or in small balls, make 
this a much richer pie; some cooks put in a few large oys- 
ters. 



MADE DISHES. 77 



MUTTON PIE. 

Cut cutlets from the leg, or chops from the neck or loin, 
season with pepper and salt, and place them neatly in a 
dish, fill this up with gravy or water, and, if you choose, 
strew over it a very little minced onion and parsley, and 
cover with a good plain crust. 

LAMB PIE. 

The same as mutton pie; only as lamb is more delicate, 
it does not require so much seasoning, and it is best made 
into little pies, to turn out of patty pans. 

VEAL PIE. 

Cut chops from the neck or breast, or cutlets from any 
other part, season them with salt, pepper, mace, nutmeg, 
lemon peel, or what herbs you like, lay them in the dish, 
and some very thin slices of bacon over them; pour in a lit- 
tle gravy, made from the bones or trimmings, or else a lit- 
tle water. Forcemeat balls, hard boiled yolks of eggs, 
scalded sweetbreads, veal kidneys, truffles, mushrooms, 
oysters and thick cream, may be used to enrich a veal pie. 
Slices of veal, spread with forcemeat, and rolled up as 
olives, may be baked in a pie; make a hole in the top part 
of the crust, and when it comes out of the oven, pour in 
some good gravy. 

If the pie is to be very rich, place the olives in a dish, 
and between and round them, some small forcemeat balls, 
hard boiled yolks of egg, a few pickled cucumbers cut in 
round pieces, and a few pickled mushrooms; pour good 
gravy, which has been well seasoned, thickened, and 
strained, and enriched by a glass of white wine and the juice 
of a lemon. 

7* 



78 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up the chickens and season well each joint, with 
salt, white pepper, mace, and nutmeg, lay them in the dish, 
with slices of ham or bacon, a few bits of butter, rolled in 
flour, and a little water, cover with a crust and bake it. 
This pie may be made richer, by putting veal cutlets, or 
veal udder, at the bottom of the dish, and by adding force- 
meat balls and yolks of hard boiled eggs; also a good jelly- 
gravy made of veal or shanks of mutton, seasoned with pep- 
percorns, onions, and parsley, and poured over the chickens 
before the pie is baked. A few mushrooms are an improve- 
ment. 

RABBIT PIE. 

Make this the same as chicken pie. Forcemeat may be 
added to enrich it, made of the livers pounded, shred suet, 
anchovies, onion, pepper and salt. 



COOKING OF FISH. 

OBSERVATIONS ON FISH. 

THERE is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish; 
if the gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish 
stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, 
the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, they are stale. 

The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly 
cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what 
is absolutely necessary for cleaning, as by perpetual water- 
ing, the flavour is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some salt, and a little vinegar should be put 
into the water, to give it firmness. Care should be taken 



COOKING OF FISH. 79 

to boil the fish well, but not to let it break. Cod and had- 
dock are much better for being a little salted, and kept for 
a day. 

There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh- 
water fish, which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it 
has been thoroughly cleaned in strong salt and water; or, if 
the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry, and 
dress it. 

Care should be taken that the fish is put into cold water, 
and allowed to do very gently, otherwise the outside will 
break before the inside is done. 

If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is 
done, it will become woolly; to ascertain when it is ready, 
the fish plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and 
if sufficiently done it will leave the bone. To keep hot for 
serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish 
plate should be placed crossways over the fish-kettle, and a 
clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over 
with egg and bread-crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish 
on which the fish is to be served, should be placed a folded 
damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver 
and roe; then garnish the dish with horse-radish, parsley, 
and lemon. Fish is a dish which is almost more attended 
to than any other. 

To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and 
washed, it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when 
perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with 
very fine bread-crumbs; it will look still better to be done 
over with egg and crumbs a second time. Then having 
on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard 
or dripping, boiling hot, put the fish into it, and let it fry 
tolerably quick till it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. 

If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour, 



80 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

the pan should be drawn to the side of the fire, the fish 
carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned 
upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before 
the fire to drain, and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish. 
Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when 
done in lard or dripping. Butter should never be used, as 
it gives a bad colour. Garnish your dish with a fringe of 
curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, 
and done on a very clean gridiron; which, when hot, should 
be rubbed over with suet, to hinder the fish from sticking. 
It should be broiled over a very clear fire, to prevent its 
tasting smoky, and great care must be taken not to scorch it. 

CHOUDER. 

Lay some slices cut from the fat part of pork, in a deep 
stew-pan, mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, 
and lay them on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod 
into thin slices, and place them on the pork; then put a 
layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, then alternately 
the other materials until the pan is nearly full, season 
with pepper and salt, put in about a pint and a half of water, 
cover the stew-pan very close, and let it stand, with fire 
above as well as below, for four hours; then skim it well, 
and put it in a dish. 

FRESH COD. 

A cod-fish should be firm and white, the gills red, and 
the eye lively; a fine fish is very thick about the neck; if 
the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. The length of 
time it requires for boiling depends on the size of the fish, 
which varies from one pound to twenty; a small fish, about 
two or three pounds weight will be sufficiently boiled in a 



COOKING OF FISH. 81 

quarter of an hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the following manner: empty 
and wash it thoroughly, scrape off all the scales, cut open 
the belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt inside, 
or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The simple way of 
dressing it is as follows: Tie up the head, and put it into a 
fish-kettle, with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it gently, 
and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin under the 
fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. 

TO BOIL COD. 

Wash, clean, and rub the inside of the fish with salt. Let 
it be completely covered with water, in the kettle. A small 
fish will be done in fifteen minutes after the water boils; a 
large one will take half an hour; but the tail being so much 
thinner than the thick part of the fish, it will be done too 
much if it be all boiled at once; therefore, the best way is, 
to cut that part in slices to fry, and garnish the head and 
shoulders with, or to serve in a separate dish. Lay the 
roe on one side, and the liver on the other side of the fish. 
Serve with it oyster sauce, or plain melted butter. 

SALT COD. 

The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and the flakes 
large; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is 
dressed it should be soaked in milk and water, or water 
alone, for several hours; if very dry and salt, a whole day 
will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently 
soaked out, put the fish into a fish-kettle with plenty of cold 
water, set it on the fire; when nearly boiling, skim it, and 
let it summer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, 
and garnish your dish with parsneps, or potatoes. 



82 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



TO CHOOSE MACKAREL. 

Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the 
whole fish stiff and bright: if the gills are of a faint colour, 
the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They 
are in season in May and June. 

BOILED MACKAREL. 

P.oil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. 

MACKAREL BROILED OR FRIED. 

They may be broiled or fried, and are extremely good 
either way, stuffed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, 
lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mixed with 
yolk of egg; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce. 

PERCH BOILED. 

Put them into cold water, and let them boil carefully; 
serve with melted butter and soy. 

Or, set the perch on in cold spring water, with plenty of 
salt; as soon as they boil, skim them well, and place them 
aside to simmer till done; and serve them either with an- 
chovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

The kettle which is used for boiling fish should be roomy, 
with a strainer to lay the fish upon. The water should, 
according to some cooks, be cold, and spring water, and it 
should be slow in coming to a boil: according to other cooks, 
it ought to be hot at the time of putting in the fish, upon 
the supposition that the shorter time it is in the water the 
better. I rather incline to this, for I must suppose that 
no fish, except that which is salted, can be the better for 
soaking. Expeiience must, however, be the best instructor; 



COOKING OF FISH. 83 

and much must depend upon the size of the fish. Always 
put a good handful of salt in the water, as it assists to draw 
the slime from the fish, and tends to give it firmness. Vine- 
gar may be added, also, for the latter purpose; particularly 
for cod and turbot. When the water boils, stand the fish- 
kettle by the fire, and let it simmer gently. The usual al- 
lowance of time is, twelve minutes to the pound; but prac- 
tice alone can make a cook perfect in this, also. Great 
pains should be taken to arrive at perfection in cooking fish, 
for, besides that it is not eatable if underdone, and is good 
for nothing if overdone, it is equally unwholesome in either 
state. 

TO FRY FISH. 

This is more difficult than to fry meat, and requires ex- 
ceeding care and attention. It is, in some houses, consi- 
dered an essential to the good appearance, as well as taste 
offish, that lard be used in the frying; but this is a mistake, 
for dripping is just as good, and much less expensive. To 
fry well, fish must be quite fresh. Wash them, and lay 
them in the folds of a clean cloth to make them quite dry. 
Then flour them lightly, if they are to be covered with 
bread-crumbs, for if the fish be not quite dry, the bread- 
crumbs will not adhere to them. These bread-crumbs should 
be of very stale bread; or if you wish the fish to be very 
delicate in appearance, use biscuit powder. Having thus 
floured the fish, brush them over with the beaten yolk and 
white of egg, and then strew over the crumbs or powder, 
so as to cover every part of the fish. The frying-pan used 
for fish should be of an oval shape, and the same one should 
mot be used for meat. The fire must be hot, but not fierce. 
If not sufficiently hot, the fish will be soddened, but if it 
be too hot, the fish will soon catch and burn. There should 
be fat enough to cover the fish; let it boil before you lay 



84 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

in the fish, for frying is, in fact, boiling in fat. As the 
fat becomes hot, skim it with an egg slice. Try the heat 
of the pan by throwing a piece of bread into it, or just dip 
the tail of the fish into the fat, and if it become crisp at once, 
the pan is ready. After the fish is done, it ought to be well 
dried, before the fire, before it is sent to table. For this 
purpose, lay it on a soft cloth before the fire, and turn it 
every two or three minutes. If the frying fat has not been 
sufficiently hot, this will, in some measure, remedy the 
defect. Fat in which veal or lamb have been fried may be 
used afterwards for fish, when it has settled long enough to 
be poured from the sediment. 

TO FRY COD. 

Cut in thick slices; flour, or egg, and cover these with 
bread-crumbs, or biscuit powder. Fry in plenty of hot 
dripping or lard. Slices of cod may also be stewed in gravy, 
like eels. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 

Wash it clean, then quickly dash some boiling water 
over it, which will cause the slime to ooze out; this should 
be carefully removed with a knife, but take care not to 
break the skin; wipe the head clean, and lay it on a strainer, 
in a turbot-kettle of boiling water; put in the salt and a tea- 
cupful of vinegar. Take care that it is quite covered. Let 
it simmer from thirty to forty minutes. It should drain 
before it is dished, and the dish be rather a deep one. Glaze 
it with beaten yolks of eggs, then strew over it fine grated 
bread-crumbs, lemon-peel, pepper and salt, stick into it some 
bits of butter, and set it before the fire; as it browns baste 
it with butter, constantly strewing more bread-crumbs and 
chopped parsley over it. A rich sauce for the above is made 
as follows: have made, in preparation, a quart of strong 



COOKING OF FISH. 85 

beef or veal stock; or, if to be maigre, a rich, well seasoned, 
fish stock; thicken with flour mixed into butter, and then 
strain it; add to it 50 oysters, picked and bearded, the hard 
meat of a boiled lobster cut up, and the soft part pounded, 
2 glasses of white wine (sherry is best,) and the juice of 
one lemon. Boil it, altogether, for 5 minutes, skim it, and 
pour part of it into the dish where the fish is; the rest serve 
in a sauce tureen. This dish may be garnished with fried 
smelts, flounders or oysters. When the French cook cod's- 
head in this way it has the addition of being stuffed with 
either meat or fish forcemeat and some balls of the same, 
fried, as a garnish. Cold cod may be dressed as cold turbot. 
Slices of cod may be boiled, as well as fried; but they should 
be as short a time as possible in the water; it should, there- 
fore, boil soon after the slices are put into it. About ten 
minutes ought to do them. Shrimp sauce may be poured 
over these, or anchovy sauce. If you wish it to be rather 
rich, make a sauce of veal stock, a boned anchovy and 
pickled oysters, all chopped fine, pepper, salt, a glass of 
red wine, and a thickening of butter and flour. Boil up 
and skim, and pour over the slices of cod. 

COD'S SOUNDS, 

Must be scalded and well cleaned. Rub with salt. Take 
off the outer coat, and parboil them. Then flour and broil 
them. Pour over a thickened brown gravy sauce, in which 
there should be a tea-spoonful of made mustard, added to 
cayenne and what other seasoning you like. They may 
be fried, and served with the same kind of sauce. Or, 
dressed in ragout, parboiled, cut in pieces, and stewed in 
good gravy. 



8 



86 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



VEGETABLES. 

SPINACH. 

SPINACH is a vegetable which we cannot too strongly re-, 
commend. It must be prepared as follows: 

After being carefully picked and washed four or five times 
in abundance of water, let it be put into boiling water con- 
taining some salt, in a large vessel where it may have plenty 
of room. The leaves that rise above the water must be 
pressed down. When the spinach is about half done, take 
it off the fire, strain it, and prepare some more boiling 
water and salt, in which it must be again boiled till suffi- 
ciently done. The moment it is so, throw it into a colan- 
der and keep pouring cold water over it for some time; then 
make it into balls, and with your hands press out every drop 
of water it contains; afterward chop it very fine until it be- 
comes almost a paste. 

Now put a lump of butter into a stew-pan, and place the 
spinach upon the butter; let it dry gently over the fire. 
When the moisture is evaporated, dredge it with a little 
flour, then add a small quantity of good gravy, with season- 
ing to your taste; let it boil up, and serve it up with bread 
fried in butter. 

The Parisians are very fond of spinach with sugar, 
which is a great delicacy, and may be prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: Boil some good cream just before you put 
the spinach in the stew-pan with the butter. When you 
have added the flour to the spinach as before directed, to- 
gether with a little salt, put in the cream with some sugar 
and nutmeg, let it simmer for ten minutes, then serve it 
up on toast, with a very small quantity of pounded lump- 
sugar strewed over it. 



VEGETABLES. 87 



MODE OF DRESSING CAULIFLOWERS WITH PARMESAN 

CHEESE. 

Having boiled the cauliflowers, prepare a sauce in the 
following manner. Into a quarter of a pound of butter rub 
a table-spoonful of flour. Then put it into a stew-pan; as 
the butter melts, add by degrees half a pint of water, or a 
little more if you require more sauce. Stir the whole until 
it boils; after it has boiled a couple of minutes, take it from 
the fire, and when entirely off the boil add the yolk of an 
egg, beat it up with a little lemon juice and half a table- 
spoonful of soft water. Shake the stew-pan till the whole 
is mixed and the sauce set. 

Now powder the cauliflowers with rasped Parmesan 
cheese; then pour the sauce over them: when the sauce 
is firmly set upon them, cover the surface with rasped cheese 
and bread-crumbs, and brown it. 

PEA STEW. 

Shell a peck of young peas, and put them into a large 
quantity of cold water. Handle them well in the water 
with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, which will make 
the peas stick together; then drain them in a colander. Put 
half a pound of bacon or ham, cut into small pieces an inch 
long, and half an inch wide, in the bottom of a stew-pan; 
place it upon the peas from the colander; upon them put 
half a dozen young onions, a cabbage lettuce, cut into very 
small pieces, and a bunch of parsley, which must be taken 
out before the peas are dished up: the ham or bacon will 
salt the whole sufficiently. Place the stew pan over a slow 
fire, /cover it close, and let its contents stew gently. 
Should the water in the lettuce and peas not prove sufficient 
half a wine-glassful may be afterwards added; but when 



88 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

the peas are young, they generally yield a great deal of 
water, and some little always adheres to the butter; so that, 
if the stewing is not performed too rapidly, any addition 
of water is seldom required. When, on taking off the lid 
of the stew-pan, you find that the lettuce has sunk, and is 
affected by the steam, let the whole be turned, not with a 
spoon, but by tossing the stew-pan. A little pepper, and 
two pretty large lumps of sugar saturated with water, may 
then be thrown in. As soon as the peas are nearly ready, 
add some fresh cream, and a lump of butter rolled in flour. 
When the onions are thoroughly done, the peas will be 
found also sufficiently dressed, if they are young. 

Stewed peas in the simple state may be prepared thus: 
Handle the peas in water with butter, as before directed, 
and drain them in a colander; then put them into a stew- 
pan, with a bundle of parsley and green onions, some pep- 
per and salt. If necessary, add half a wine-glassful of water. 
Let them sweat over a slow fire until the peas are done, 
taking care to shake and toss the stew-pan often to prevent 
their burning. When they are half done, add to them two 
lumps of sugar saturated with water. When done, take 
them off the fire; and when sufficiently off the boil, add 
the yolk of an egg, previously beaten up with a table-spoon- 
ful of cold water. 

ASPARAGUS. 

W r e must here say a passing word on asparagus, which 
comes into season about the same time as green peas. 
This is one of the most wholesome vegetables we know; 
it has a strong diuretic, and a slightly aperient quality. It 
must be dressed as soon as possible after it is gathered, 
as it acquires a very disagreeable taste from being kept. 
Unlike most new vegetables, it may be spoiled by over-boil- 



VEGETABLES. 89 

ing: it should be done in an open vessel, with plenty of 
water and a good handful of salt, and great care must be 
taken not to boil it to a sufficient extent to make it lose its 
crispness. It is eaten with white sauce or melted butter. 
The white sauce is preferable, and is made as follows: 
Mix half a table-spoonful of flour with half a pint of cold 
water, place it over the fire; add a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and a little salt. Keep stirring the whole until it 
boils. Let it boil until of a proper thickness, then take it 
off the fire. When sufficiently off the boil add the yolk of 
an egg, beat up with a table-spoonful of water and half that 
quantity of vinegar or verjuice. 

CABBAGE. 

The great fault in this vegetable, when produced at our 
tables, is, that it is never more than half boiled. When pro- 
perly dressed, it is one of the most wholesome and agreeable 
productions of the kitchen garden. There is a mode of pre- 
paring it with sausages, which is so delicious, though simple 
and cheap, that it ought to find a place here, as it may be 
found very useful and agreeable in families where there are 
many children, who are usually fond of such dishes, and 
with whom they certainly agree much better than strong 
animal food. 

The day when you make soup, according to the recipe 
given in a former page, bleach or parboil a large cabbage in 
salt and water, then fry a pound of sausages, which put into 
a pie-dish with the cabbage over them, adding a small teacup- 
ful of broth. Place the whole upon the hob of the kitchen 
fire, or close before it, which ever is the most convenient, at 
the hour when you first put on the soup. Whilst this 
latter is making, skim the fat from the surface; every now and 
then moisten the cabbage with it. As the process of cook- 

8* 



90 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

ing goes on, add salt and pepper to your taste. In about 
four hours the cabbage will be done. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

There is a delicious vegetable very little used among us, 
though to be found at all our markets in the metropolis; we 
mean the Oyster Plant. It is of two kinds, the black and 
the white; the former is the best, being better flavoured and 
more tender. It is easily dressed. Scrape off the outer 
peel of the skirrets, then throw them into cold water with 
a little vinegar in it, which prevents them from chang- 
ing colour. They must be boiled in plenty of water with 
a small quantity of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a lump 
of butter about the size of a nutmeg. When done, which 
may be ascertained by trying them with a fork, they may be 
be served up with white sauce, into which they must be 
put about five or six minutes before it is taken off the fire, 
and the thickening of egg added to it. They are likewise 
very nice fried in a thin batter, and may be served up with 
fried parsley over them. On being put into the dish, and 
before the parsley is added, they should be sprinkled with 
a little salt. This vegetable, also when boiled, makes an 
excellent salad with oil, vinegar, mustard, and a little cream. 
To it may be added some chopped parsley, a chopped 
anchovy, and a few capers. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots, if young, need only be -wiped when boiled; if 
old, they must be scraped be fore boiling. Slice them into a 
dish, and pour melted butter over them. 

CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on; boil them 



VEGETABLES. 91 

in spring water and salt; they are soon done, but they must 
not boil too fast. They may be also dressed in milk and 
water without salt. 

CAULIFLOWERS FRIED. 

Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a 
little salt, and when three parts done, take them out, drain 
and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper and 
vinegar; beat them up in this, and then fry them in a bat- 
ter made as follows: three spoonfuls of flour, two eggs, a 
little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Let them boil in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, 
then serve them on a dish by themselves; or, when boiled 
cut them in slices, and toss them up in a good bit of butter; 
they are generally eaten with salt fish. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Pare them thick; when boiled, squeeze them well to 
thoroughly drain them from the water; mash them smooth, 
add a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt. 

TURNIP-TOPS. 

This vegetable is in season during the early part of the 
spring; they should be very young, and all the stalks, and 
withered leaves taken oft'. Turnip-tops require a great deal 
of water to boil them; put in some salt, and serve them 
like spinach. 

TO PRESERVE VEGETABLES FOR THE WINTER. 

French beans must be picked young, and a layer of them 
put three inches deep into a small wooden keg; sprinkle 



92 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

them over with salt, and then put another layer of beans, 
and strew salt over them, and so on as high as you please: 
be careful not to put too much salt. Cover them with a 
plate or a piece of wood that will go into the keg, and 
place a heavy stone over it; a pickle will exude from the 
salt and beans; when wanted for use, cut, soak, and boil 
them the same as though they were fresh. 

Keep carrots, parsnips and beet-roots, in layers of dry 
sand, and do not clean either them, or potatoes from the 
earth that remains about them. 

Store onions should be kept hung up in a dry cold room. 

Cut parsley quite close to the stalks, and dry it in a warm 
room, or in a very cool oven upon tins. 

You may keep small close cabbages many weeks, by 
laying them, before the frost sets in, on a stone floor, which 
will blanch, and make them very fine. 

FRENCH MODE. 

A most ingenious way of preserving vegetables all the 
winter, particularly green peas and French beans, has 
recently been discovered; by filling a middle-sized stew-pan 
with young peas, for instance, into which must be put two 
or three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the stew-pan then set 
over a brisk charcoal fire. When the heat begins to act, 
stir up the peas, two or three times; then, as soon as they 
begin to yield water, pour them out into a dish to drain. 
Spread them out on paper in an airy place; not exposed to 
the sun, and turn them frequently so as to dry rapidly. 
Guard them from moisture, and you may have them green 
at Christmas without expense, and with very little trouble. 

TO MAKE KITCHEN VEGETABLES TENDER* 

When peas, French beans, &c. do not boil easily, it has 



VEGETABLES. 93 

V 

usually been imputed to the coolness of the season, or to 
the rains. This popular notion is erroneous. The diffi- 
culty of boiling them soft arises from an excess of gypsum 
imbibed during their growth. To correct this, throw a 
small quantity of subcarbonate of soda into the pot along 
with the vegetables. From the French. 

NEW POTATOES IN WINTER. 

Take some dry vegetable mould, cover the bottom of a 
large box, about two inches thick, then lay potatoes of the 
kind (and the largest of their kind) called ox-nobles (chiefly 
used for cattle) side by side, so as to cover the mould; then 
cover these with two inches more mould, and so on for four 
or five courses. The box may stand covered with dry 
straw in any warm cellar. If this plan be adopted in the 
month of November, a very large supply of beautiful young 
potatoes will be obtained very soon after Christmas; and the 
potatoes may be repeated so as to have a succession till the 
season produces them in the natural way. 

POTATOES. 

The potatoe should be put into cold salt and water, and 
boiled gently. When half done, the water should be changed, 
and the operation recommenced, but not with cold water; 
the second water, which must likewise be salted, must be 
previously boiled. When the fork indicates that the po- 
tato is nearly done, but before it breaks, the boiling should 
be checked by the addition of a cupful of cold water. Soon 
after this the potatoes will crack. The water should then 
be drawn off, and the vessel containing them placed upon 
the hob for five minutes, with the lid off, the potatoes being 
covered with a clean napkin. They are then found to be 
dry and mealy. They should be served up the moment 



94 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

they are done, and should not be taken to table in a covered 
dish, because the steam rising from them is condensed by 
the cover of the dish, falls back upon them, and they become 
soddened and watery. 

tt 

When potatoes are young, they may be dressed thus: 
Wash the young potatoes, which must be as nearly as 
possible of the same size; rub off the skin with a napkin 
and dry them well. Put into a stew-pan a good lump of 
butter. When it boils, throw the potatoes in. Do not 
cover the stew-pan. Every now and then toss the stew-pan 
so as to turn the potatoes, bringing those uppermost which 
were before underneath. When the fork easily penetrates 
the potatoes they are done, and must be taken up immedi- 
ately, otherwise they would lose their savour and become 
flaccid. Strew a little salt over them, and garnish them 
with fried parsley. Serve them up immediately uncovered. 
Potatoes thus dressed are excellent with fish, and may ap- 
pear with advantage at a formal dinner party. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

Various are the ways for boiling potatoes, and few are the 
cooks who boil them well. But it seems to me that the best 
way, upon the whole, is, to boil, not steam them. So much 
depends upon the sort of potatoe, that it is very unfair to 
condemn a cook's ability in the cookery of this article, 
until it be fully ascertained that the fault is really hers, 
for I have seen potatoes that no care or attention could 
boil enough, without their being watery, and I have seen 
others that no species of cookery could spoil. They should 
be of equal size, or the small ones will be too much done, 
before the large ones are done enough; do not pare, or 
cut them; have so large a sauce-pan that your potatoes 
will only half fill it, and put in cold water sufficient to cover 



VEGETABLES. 95 

them about an inch; so that, if it waste in boiling, they may 
still be covered; but too much water would injure them. 
Put the sauce-pan on the fire, if it be a moderate one, and 
as soon as the water boils, set it on one side, to simmer slow- 
ly till the potatoes will admit a fork, the cracking of the 
skin being too uncertain a test to venture a reliance upon; 
having tried them with the fork, if they are tender pour the 
water off, and stand the sauce-pan by the side of the fire, take 
off the cover, and lay a folded cloth, or coarse flannel, over 
the potatoes. Middling sized potatoes will be boiled enough 
in fifteen minutes. Some people, (and I have been told it 
is practised generally in Ireland), when they have poured 
off the water, lay the potatoes in a coarse cloth, sprinkle 
salt over, and cover them up, for a few minutes, then 
squeeze them lightly, one by one, in the folds of a dry cloth, 
peel and serve them. Some people peel potatoes for the 
next day's dinner and put them into cold water enough to 
cover them: over night, the water is poured off just before 
the potatoes are boiled. After the beginning of March pota- 
toes should always be peeled before they are boiled, and 
after April they should always be mashed. Potatoes may 
be dressed in various ways to make pretty supper or side 
dishes, and there are many sauces suitable to enrich them. 

YOUNG POTATOES. 

Pour boiling water over them in a sauce-pan, let it sim- 
mer, and they will soon be done. 

TO FRY OR BROIL POTATOES. 

Cold potatoes may be cut in slices and fried in nice drip- 
ping, or broiled on a gridiron, and then laid on a sieve to 
drain; serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle a little pepper and 
salt over them. Garnish with a few sprigs of curled pars- 
ley, or the parsley may be fried and strewed over the slices. 



96 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



ANOTHER. 

When the potatoes are nearly boiled enough, pour off the 
water, peel and flour them, brush them over with yolk of 
egg", then roll them in fine bread-crumbs or biscuit powder, 
and fry in butter, or nice dripping. Or, they may be gent- 
ly stewed, in a sauce-pan, with butter; take care to turn 
them, while stewing. Lay them on a sieve to drain, and 
pour a white sauce over them, in the dish. 

TO MASH POTATOES. 

When they are boiled purposely to mash, peel them and 
cut out all the specks first, and when they are done and the 
water has been poured from them, put them over the fire for 
two or three minutes, to dry, then put in some salt and butter 
and milk enough to moisten sufficiently for you to beat them 
to a mash. The rolling-pin does this better than any thing 
else. Cream is better than butter, and then no milk need be 
used. Potatoes thus mashed may be put into a shape, or 
into scallop-shells, with bits of butter on the top, and then 
browned before the fire; either way will make a very pretty 
dish. Or, they may be rolled up, with a very little flour 
and yolk of egg into balls, and browned in the dripping-pan 
under roast meat. These balls are very pretty to garnish 
some dishes with. Onions are sometimes boiled, pulped 
through a sieve, and mixed with mashed potatoes. 

TO ROAST POTATOES. 

Some cooks half boil them first. They should be washed 
clean and well dried, before they are put into the oven, or 
before the fire. If they are large, they will take two hours 
to roast, and they should be all of a size, or they will not be 
done alike. Or, pour off the water, peel and lay them in a 
tin pan, before the fire, by the side of roasting meat. Baste 



VEGETABLES. 97 

them, from the dripping-pan, and turn them that they may 
brown equally. 

TO BOIL CABBAGES. 

After they have been well washed and cleaned, quarter 
them, if they are large. A young cabbage will be done in 
from twenty minutes to half an hour, but a full grown one 
will take nearly an hour. Have plenty of water, that the 
cabbages may be covered all the time they are boiling; and 
watch and take off all scum that rises. Serve melted butter 
with them. 



PICKLES, SAUCES, GRAVIES, MACARONI, OMELET, 

OYSTERS, &c. 

TO POACH EGGS. 

MAKE some spring water boil, skim it, and put a table- 
spoonful of vinegar in. Break off the top of the egg with a 
knife, and let it slip gently into the boiling water, turning the 
shell up over the egg, to gather in the white; this is a bet- 
ter way than that of first breaking the egg into a cup, and 
then turning it into the water, though this method requires 
a little dexterity. Let the sauce-pan stand by the side of 
the fire till the white is set, and then put it over the fire for 
two minutes. Take up the eggs with a slice; trim them 
with a knife, and serve them on toasts, spinach, brocoli, sor- 
rel, slices of broiled ham, or in the centre of a dish, with 
pork sausages round. 

TO FRY EGGS. 

Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and slip the eggs 
in, as directed above. Or, lay some thin slices of well col- 
9 



98 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

cured bacon (not affected with rust), in a dish before the fire, 
to toast; break the eggs into teacups, and slip them gently 
into nice fresh boiling lard, in a frying-pan. When they are 
done, which will be in little more than two minutes, lay 
each one (first trimming the white) on a slice of the bacon. 
Make a sauce of a little weak broth, cayenne, made mustard 
and vinegar, and pour it into the dish. 

TO BUTTER EGGS. 

Beat twelve eggs well, in a basin, with two table-spoon- 
fuls of gravy, if you have it; melt a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir the eggs and this together, in a basin, with a lit- 
tle pepper, salt and a finely minced onion, if liked. Pour 
this mixture backwards and forwards from one basin to 
another. Put it into a stew-pan on the fire, and stir con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon, to prevent burning. When 
the eggs are of a proper thickness, serve them, spread on a 
nice toast. 

PICKLES. 

The great art of pickling consists in using good vinegar, 
and in selecting the articles to be pickled at the proper sea- 
sons. 

Pickles are indigestible things, in themselves, but their 
liquor is good to give relish to cold meat, therefore the 
strongest vinegar should be used, because the less quantity 
of it will be required at table. The pickles themselves I 
should regard, mostly, as furnishing a handsome garnish. 
They should be kept in a dry place, and glass jars are the 
best, because with them it is easy to perceive whether the vi- 
negar diminishes, and if it does, more should be boiled with 
spice, and poured cold over the pickles. Fill the jars three 
parts full with the pickles, but always let there be three 
inches above their surface of vinegar. If earthenware jars 



PICKLES, SAUCES, &C. 99 

are used, let them be unglazed: and bear in mind that vine- 
gar should always be boiled in unglazed earthenware; 
though, in fact, it ought never to boil at all, but be made just 
scalding hot, for boiling causes much of its strength to eva- 
porate. Keep the bottles closely stopped, with bungs, and 
over them a bladder, wetted in the pickle. When you cork 
a bottle up again, after opening it, put a fresh bladder over 
it, if you wish the pickles to keep a long time. When the 
pickles are all used, the vinegar should be boiled up with a 
little more spice, and bottled when cold. The colour of 
pickles is a matter of no small difficulty, ^though one of the 
greatest consequence, where they are used, as I recommend, 
by way of ornament* 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Beard the oysters (the number must depend on the quan- 
tity required), strain their liquor and let it stand for any se- 
diment to fall, then pour it off clear into a sauce-pan, and 
add one blade of mace and two or three white peppercorns; 
let it boil for a few minutes; then throw in the oysters to let 
them just boil up; take them out and strain the liquor; boil 
the oysters and liquor again, adding some butter which has 
been rubbed in flour (on a trencher) and a little cream or 
milk. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Boil half a pint of milk, and put into it a tea-cupful of bread- 
crumbs a little powdered, small chopped onion which has 
been boiled in three waters, and let it simmer twenty min- 
utes, then add a bit of fresh butter rolled in flour, just boil 
up, and serve. 

TO MAKE SOY. 

One pound of salt, two pounds of common sugar, fried for 



779240 A 



100 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

half an hour over a slow fire; add to this three pints of boil- 
ing water, of essence of anchovies about half a pint, a few 
cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil altogether till the 
salt is dissolved; when cold, bottle it for use. 

TO PICKLE ONIONS. 

Put the onions into cold salt and water, let them stand all 
night; boil the spice in white vinegar, let it remain till it is 
cold; drain the onions well and pour the vinegar over; they 
will be fit for use in a few days. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix 
them in good batter sauce, make it very hot, and squeeze in 
some lemon-juice before you serve it. 

GRAVY FOR A FOWL, WHEN THERE IS NO MEAT TO MAKE IT OF. 

Nicely wash the feet of a fowl, and cut them, and the 
neck, into small pieces, simmer them with a little browned 
bread; a slice of onion, a bit of parsley, and thyme; some 
pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a 
pint of water, simmer them till they are reduced to half. 
Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. 
Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful 
of catsup. 

MACARONI. 

Put a piece of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion 
stuck with two cloves, and a little salt into hot water, 
boil them for three quarters of an hour, and then, it the 
macaroni is flexible, take it out and drain it well. Put 
it into another saucepan with two ounces of butter, three 
of 'grated Parmesan cheese, a little pepper and nutmeg; 



PICKLES, SAUCES, &C. 101 

toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoon- 
fuls of cream; and when done, put it on a dish, and serve 
it very hot. 

TO SERVE MACARONI. 

Simmer it in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. 
When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish; 
grate over it a good deal of cheese, then over that put bread 
grated very fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and 
pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander all over 
the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to roast the 
cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread 
should be in separate crumbs, and look light. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take nice fresh mint, chop it small, and mix it with vine- 
gar and sugar. 

TO MAKE MUSTARD. 

Take some of the best flour of mustard and mix it, by de- 
grees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it 
extremely smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small 
jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard- 
pot as will be used in a few days; the mustard-pot should 
be daily wiped round the edges. 

Or, Take a few spoonfuls of the flour of mustard, and care- 
fully mix it with a little warm water, until it is of the con- 
sistence of honey; be particular that it is mixed perfectly 
smooth. 

For immediate use; Take some mustard, and by degrees 
mix it quite smooth with new milk, adding a little cream. 
Mixed in this manner it will keep; it is very soft, and not 
in the least bitter. 

9* 



102 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



OMELET. 

Take as many eggs as you think proper (according to the 
size of your omelet) break them into a basin with some salt 
and chopped parsley; then beat them well, and season them 
according to taste, then have ready some onion chopped 
small; put some butter into a frying-pan, and when it is hot 
(but not to burn) put in your chopped onion, giving them 
two or three turns; then add your eggs to it, and fry the 
whole of a nice brown; you must only fry one side. When 
done, turn it into a dish, the fried side uppermost. 

TO PICKLE ONIONS. 

Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them; let them stand in this twen- 
ty-four hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the 
steam; after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when 
they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, with ginger and white 
pepper over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Peel some onions, boil them in milk and water, put a tur- 
nip with them into the pot (it draws out the strength); 
change the water twice; pulp them through a colander, or 
chop them; then put them into a saucepan with some cream, 
a piece of butter, a little Hour, some pepper and salt: they 
must be served very smooth. 

Or, The onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they 
are tender; then squeeze the water from them; chop them, 
and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, 
with a little good milk instead of water; give it one boil, and 
serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, or knuckle of veal, or 



PICKLES, SAUCES, &C. 103 

roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out 
their strength. 

OYSTERS IN BUTTER. 

Make a butter with the yolk of one egg (or more, accord- 
ing to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nut- 
meg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and a little salt; dip in 
the oysters, and fry them in hog's lard to a nice light brown. 
If agreeable, a little parsley, shred very fine, may be put 
into the batter. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Beat up the yolks of eggs with flour, salt, and nutmeg, 
dip your oysters in this, and fry them a light brown. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Take some small patty-pans and line them with a fine 
puff paste, cover them with paste, putting a bit of bread in- 
to each; and when they are baked, have ready the follow- 
ing to put in the place of the bread: Take some oysters, 
beard them and cut the other parts into small pieces, with a 
a very little grated nutmeg, the smallest quantity of white 
pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut as small as pos- 
sible, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; simmer 
it a few minutes before putting it into the patties. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Procure some of the largest sort of oysters, and wash 
four dozen in their own liquor; wipe them dry, strain the 
liquor off, add to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades 
of mace, three table-spoonfuls of white wine, and four of 
vinegar, and if the liquor is not very salt, you may put one 
table-spoonful of salt; simmer the oysters for a few minutes 
in the liquor, then put them into small jars, and boil up the 



104 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

pickle, skim it, and when cold, pour it over the oysters; 
keep them closely covered. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

In opening the oysters save the liquor, and boil it with the 
beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel; in the meantime throw 
the oysters into cold water, and drain it off, strain the li- 
quor, and put it into a sauce-pan with the oysters just drained 
from the cold water, with a sufficient quantity of butter, 
mixed with as much milk as will make enough sauce; but 
first rub a little flour with it; set them over the fire, and stir 
all the time, and when the butter has boiled a few times, 
take' them off, and keep the sauce-pan close to the fire, but 
not upon it; for if done too much, the oysters will become 
hard; add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. A little is a 
great improvement. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put them into scallop-shells, strew over them bread- 
crumbs, with a little bit of butter; then put in more oysters, 
bread-crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top; set them in 
a Dutch oven, and let them do of a nice brown. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Open, and take the liquor from them, then cleanse them 
from the grit; strain the liquor, and add the oysters with a 
bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Sim- 
mer them very gently. 

PICKLE FOR TONGUES. 

To four gallons of water, add two pounds and a half of 
treacle, eight pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre; boil it, 
and skim it until clear, sprinkle salt over the tongue, and let 
it stand two days; wipe it clean before you put it into the 



PICKLES. SAUCES. &C. 105 

pickle, which must be quite cold; boil the pickle every two 
or three months, adding two or three handfuls of salt, skim- 
ming it well. 

Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. 

Thoroughly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put to them three quarters of a pound of salt, and 
a quart of good wine vinegar; stir them every day for a fort- 
night; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through 
a cloth, and set it aside; put to the husks half a pint of vine- 
gar, and let it stand all night; then strain and squeeze them 
as before, adding the liquor which is obtained from them to 
what was put aside the preceding day, and add to it one 
ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, half an ounce of 
ginger, and five drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour; 
then strain it off from the spices, and bottle it for use. 

WALNUT PICKLE. 

Lay your walnuts in water, and change it every day for 
the space of three weeks to extract all the bitterness from 
them; make a pickle with spice, salt, and vinegar; let it boil 
a quarter of an hour, and pour over the walnuts. 

TO MELT BUTTER. 

Break the butter, which ought to be very good, into small 
pieces, put them into a quite clean sauce-pan, with some thin 
sweet cream, or milk, milk and water, or water alone; dredge 
some fine dried flour over it, hold the sauce-pan over the 
fire, toss it quickly round (always one way) while the but- 
ter melts, and becomes as thick as very thick cream; then 
let it just boil up, turn the sauce-pan again quickly, and it 
is done. 



106 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Butter which is to have oysters, shrimps, lobsters, eggs 
or any such thickening ingredients, should be made rather 
thin, and if to be rich, a great proportion of sweet cream. If 
catsup or any flavoring ingredient is to be added, let the but- 
ter be melted with water only, and let the ingredient be 
stirred in, by degrees, just before you send it to table. 

BEEF GRAVY. 

This forms the basis of many rich sauces, and is made of 
lean juicy meat. Cut about four pounds into thin slices, and 
score them; place a slice of raw bacon at the bottom of a 
stew-pan, lay the beef upon it, and some bits of butter; 
add half a large carrot, an onion, and a small head of 
celery, all cut up; also a small bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a bay leaf if you like. Set it over the fire to brown, 
shaking the sauce-pan occasionally that the meat may not 
stick. In half an hour the juices will be drawn; then put 
in the quantity of boiling water required. Let it be well 
scummed, and when that is no longer necessary, wipe clean 
the edges of the sauce-pan and lid, and cover it close. Let 
it simmer for nearly three hours, by the side of the fire; it 
should stand to settle, then strain it into an earthen vessel, 
and put it by in a cool place. 

TOMATA SAUCE. 

Put the tomatas into a jar, and stand it in a cool oven. 
When they are soft, take off the skins, pick out the seeds, 
beat up the pulp, a clove of garlick, a very little ginger, cay- 
enne, white pepper, salt and vinegar; rub it through a sieve, 
and then simmer it for a very few minutes. A little of the 
juice of beet-root will improve the colour. 



PICKLES, SAUCES, &C. 107 



MINT SAUCE. 

Wash and pick some nice young mint, and mince the 
leaves very fine; mix them with fine powdered sugar, put 
these into the sauce tureen and pour good white vinegar 
over them. 

SWEET SAUCE. 

Melt some \vhite or red currant jelly, with a glass or two 
of red or white wine. Or send the jelly to table in glasses, 
or glass dishes. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Pare a lemon, and take off all the white part; cut the 
lemon in thick slices, take out the seeds, and cut the slices 
into small pieces; mix them by degrees, into melted butter, 
but stir it, that the butter may not oil. 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS. 

Boil in 3 pints vinegar, ilb. flour of mustard, mixed as 
for table use; let it stand till cold. Slice a dozen large cu- 
cumbers, and |- dozen large onions; put them into jars with 
2 oz. ginger, ^ oz. white pepper, and a small quantity of 
mace and cloves, and pour the vinegar, when cold, over 
them. Tie down close. 

RED CABBAGE. 

Get a firm dark-coloured middling sized cabbage, and, 
having cut out the stalk, divide the cabbage, and cut it into 
slices of the breadth of narrow straws; sprinkle salt over, 
and let it lie for two days; then drain the slices very dry, 
and fill the jar, or jars, 3 parts full, and pour a hot pickle 
over them, of strong vinegar, which has been heated, 
with a due portion of black pepper, ginger, and allspice. 



108 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Cover the jars to keep the steam in, and when the pickle 
is cold, put in the bungs, and tie bladders over. 

PICKLED MANGOES. 

Take small musk-melons, cut out one piece large enough 
to remove all the seeds from the inside. Prepare a filling, 
of scraped horse-radish, whole mustard seed, sliced onions, 
whole cloves, and allspice. Put this mixture into the man- 
goes and then put in the piece you have cut out, sewing it 
with coarse thread in its original shape. Pickle the same 
as other pickles. 



COFFEE, SHELLS, &c. 
TO MAKE COFFEE. 

THERE are various recipes for preparing and refining 
coffee; the following is the best that has ever come under 
our view, and is available in all places. Procure your cof- 
fee fresh-roasted and not too brown, in the proportion of 
a quarter of a pound for three persons. Let it be Mocha, 
and grind it just before using. Put it in a basin, and break 
into it an egg, yolk, white, shell and all. Mix it up with 
a spoon to the consistence of mortar, place it with warm 
not boiling water in the coffee pot; let it boil up and 
break three times, then stand a few minutes, and, it will be 
as clear as amber, and the egg will give it a rich taste. 

COFFEE. 

The coffeepot should be three parts full of boiling water; 
tne coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well stir- 
red between each; then boil gently, still stirring to prevent 
the mixture from boiling over as the coffee swells, and to 



COFFEE, SHELLS, &C. 109 

force it into combination with the'water. This will be effect- 
ed in a few minutes, after which, the most gentle boiling 
must be kept up during an hour. The coffee must then be 
removed from the fire to settle; one or two spoonfuls of 
cold water thrown in assists the clarification, and precipi- 
tates the grounds. In about an hour, or as soon as the 
liquor has become clear, it is to be poured into another ves- 
sel, taking care not to disturb the sediment. 

Coffee made in this manner will be of the finest flavour, 
and may be kept three days in summer, and four or five in 
winter; when ordered for use, it only requires heating in 
the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two minutes' 
notice. 

The grounds or sediment which remain, will make a 
second quantity of coffee, by boiling with fresh water for 
an hour; this is frequently used by servants. As this pro- 
cess requires some time, and a little attention, it is fre- 
quently the custom for the cook to make it in the evening, 
when the hurried work of the day is over. 

French method of preparing it. 1st. Let your coffee 
be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 

2d. Divide the quantity that is to be roasted into two 
parts. 

3d. Roast the first part in a coffee-roaster, the handle of 
which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee be- 
comes the colour of dried almonds or bread-raspings, and 
has lost one eighth of its weight. 

4th. Roast the second part until it assumes the fine brown 
colour of chestnuts, and has lost one-fifth of its weight. 

5th. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a 
coffee-mill. 

6th. Do not roast or make your coffee until the day it is 
wanted. 
10 



110 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

7th. To two ounces of ground coffee, put four cups of 
cold water. Draw off this infusion, and put it aside. 

8th. Put to the coffee which remains in the biggin, three 
cups of boiling water, then drain it off and add this infusion 
to that which has been put aside. By this method you 
obtain three cups more. 

When your coffee is wanted, heat it quickly in a silver 
coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume 
may not be lost by undergoing any evaporation. Then 
pour it into cups, which each person may sweeten accord- 
ing to his taste. 

Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a 
tin vessel, it should be made either in a china vessel, or 
one of delft ware, or in one of silver. 

To make with cold water. Upon two ounces of coffee 
pour seven cups of cold water; then boil it until the coffee 
falls to the bottom; when the froth has disappeared, and it 
is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken off 
the fire and allowed to stand; but as it often requires 
clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the 
instant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker 
method of clearing it is, by putting into it a small piece of 
isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to 
settle, pour off the infusion gently into another coffee-pot; 
it is then ready for use. 

COCOA SHELLS. 

These make a most delightful drink for breakfast or sup- 
per. They are not much known except in New England, 
where they are much used, being considered more whole- 
some than coffee or tea. They can be obtained of the choco- 
late manufacturers, and have all the agreeable flavour of 
chocolate without the smallest particle of grease. They sell 
for about eighteen cents the pound; but they are so light 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. Ill 

that a pound contains a sufficient quantity for several meals. 
The best way is to soak them in water over night and boil 
them in the same water in the morning. They require a 
great deal of boiling to be good. They are excellent nour- 
ishment for an invalid. 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &c. 

DIRECTIONS FOR PUDDINGS. 

TAKE the greatest care in boiling of a pudding, that the 
cloth is perfectly clean, otherwise the outside of the pud- 
ding will have a disagreeable flavour; to prevent this, the 
cloth should always be nicely washed and kept in a dry 
place, and when wanted for use, it should be dipped in 
boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in 
and it should be moved about for a minute, for fear the in- 
gredients should not mix. 

When the pudding is done, a pan of cold water should 
be ready, and the pudding dipped into it as soon as it comes 
out of the pot, which will prevent its adhering to the 
cloth. 

A bread pudding should be tied loose; if batter, it must 
be tied tight over, and a batter-pudding should be strained 
through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, the 
the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in a basin or pan, 
take care, that it is always well buttered. 

When you make your puddings without eggs, they must 
have as little milk as will mix, and must boil for three or 
four hours. A few spoonfuls of small beer, or one of 
yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Your puddings will 
always be much lighter if you beat the yolks and whites 



112 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

of the eggs long and separately. You may, if you please, 
use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. 
Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg; the 
snow may be taken up from any clean spot before it is 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is 
used the better. 

BROWN BREAD PUDDING. 

Mix well together half a pound of dried bread-crumbs, 
and the same weight of beef suet; one pound and a half of 
currants; half a pint of fresh bread-crumbs; a large spoon- 
ful of sugar; the yolk of six and the whites of three eggs; 
and having seasoned it with nutmeg and cinnamon, boil it 
for two hours. It may be served with or without sauce. 

ECONOMICAL PUDDING. 

Make a nice light paste, but not very rich; roll it out thin, 
then spread some clean treacle all over it, and thereon 
sprinkle some dried currants; roll it up, and put a cloth 
round it; then boil it for about two hours, according to the 
size. The currants may be omitted, if preferred. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

One pound of bread crumbs, rubbed through the colan- 
der; half a pound of flour; one pound and a quarter of suet 
very finely chopped; quarter pound of sugar; one pound 
of currants; half pound of rasins, stoned and chopped. 
Mix well together, and then add two ounces candied cit- 
ron; one ounce ditto orange-peel; one ditto lemon peel; one 
nutmeg, grated; a little mace, cinnamon, and three cloves 
pounded; quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger; 
the peel of one lemon finely chopped. Mix well again, 
and then add one wine-glassful of brandy; one ditto white 
wine; the juice of one lemon. Mix well together, and then 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 113 

stir in gradually six well-beaten eggs. Boil five hours, and 
sift sugar over the top when served. 

It is exceedingly convenient when making Christmas 
pudding, to boil several at once in various sized moulds or 
basins, as they will keep well for a month or six weeks, 
and can be served on an emergency by merely re-boiling 
them say one hour for a pint basin. After the first boiling 
remove the cloth, and when the pudding is cold cover it 
with a dry clean cloth. 

PLAIN LEMON PUDDING. 

The juice of three lemons, the peel of one rubbed off 
with sugar, six ounces loaf sugar powdered (excepting what 
has been used for the lemon peel,) a good sized teacupful 
of bread-crumbs; while it is soaking together, beat up four 
eggs, leaving out two whites; melt one ounce of fresh but- 
ter, and mix all well together; line and edge a dish with 
puff paste, pour in the above, and bake in a quick oven for 
three quarters of an hour. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One quart of cold milk; six table spoonfuls of tapioca; set 
on the fire, and stir till it boils; add one ounce and a half pow- 
dered loaf sugar, and set it on the fire and let it boil a quarter 
of an hour, stirring occasionally; take it off and turn it into 
a pan or basin, and stir in immediately one ounce of fresh 
butter, and three eggs well beaten; pour it into a buttered 
pie or pudding dish, and bake gently one hour. This pud- 
ding may be boiled for one hour and a half, adding two 
eggs. In either case it is better to prepare the topica early 
enough for it to be quite cold before baking or boiling, and 
if boiled, it must stand a full quarter of an hour after it is 
taken up, or it will not turn out whole. It is a very deli 

10* 



114 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

cate-looking pudding when boiled and ornamented with red 



A BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter a pie dish and line it with crumbs of bread, then 
place a layer of apple (cut as for pie,) in the bottom of the 
dish, sprinkle it with moist sugar, then a layer of crumbs, 
and so on alternately till the dish is filled, ending with a 
thick layer of crumbs; pour melted fresh butter over it, and 
bake for an hour. 

PUDDINGS THAT ARE QUICKLY MADE AND WITHOUT 

MUCH EXPENSE. 

Beat up four spoonfuls of flour with a pint of milk and 
four eggs to a good batter, nutmegs and sugar to your taste; 
butter teacups, fill them three parts full, and send them to 
the oven. A quarter of an hour will bake them. 

THE BAKE WELL PUDDING. 

Having covered a dish with thin puff paste, put a layer 
of any kind of jam about half an inch thick, then take the 
yolks of eight eggs and two whites, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter melted, and almond flavour to your 
taste; beat all well together; pour the mixture into the dish 
an inch thick, and bake it about an hour in a moderate oven. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Choose six or eight good sized baking apples, pare 
them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many 
pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from 
each, put an apple on one piece and put the other over; 
join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil .them. 

Baked. Make them in the same way, but instead of 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 115 

tieing them in cloths lay them in a buttered dish and bake 
them. 

APPLE PUDDING BAKED. 

Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender, with 
the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none 
may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumb 
of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of 
five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon and su- 
gar to taste; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to 
turn out. 

APPLE TART. 

Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in small 
pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lined with a puff- 
crust; strew over them pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, 
nutmeg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped small, then a layer 
of apples, then spice and so on till the dish is full, pour 
over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover 
it with puff-crust, and bake it. When done, take off the 
crust and mix in with the apples two ounces of fresh butter, 
and then pour in two eggs well beaten; lay the crust on 
again, and serve either hot or cold. You may add pounded 
almonds and a little lemon juice. 

BARLEY PUDDING. 

Take a pound of pearl barley well washed, three quarts 
of new milk, one quart of cream, and half a pound of double 
refined sugar, a grated nutmeg, and some salt; mix them 
well together, then put them into a deep pan, and bake it; 
then take it out of the oven, and put into it six eggs well 
beaten, six ounces of beef marrow, and a quarter of a pound 
of grated bread; mix all well together; then put it into ano- 
ther pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. 



116 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



PEARL BARLEY PUDDING. 

Get a pound of pearl barley, wash it clean, put to it three 
quarts of new milk, and half a pound of double refined sugar, 
a nutmeg grated; then put it into a deep pan, and bake it. 
Take it out of the oven, beat up six eggs, mix all well to- 
gether, butter a dish, pour it in, bake it again an hour, and 
it will be excellent. 

.7 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Take six spoonfuls of flour, put them in a stewpan with 
about a tea spoonful of salt and a half a nutmeg grated; mix 
this up with about a pint and a half of new milk; beat up 
six eggs in a basin and stir them well in the batter; butter 
a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, 
and boil it two hours and a half; serve with wine sauce. 
This pudding may also be baked, for which three quarters 
of an hour are sufficient. Currants or stoned raisins may 
be added. 

Without eggs. Mix six spoonfuls of flour with a small 
portion of a quart of milk; and when smooth add the re- 
mainder of the milk, a tea spoonful of salt, two tea spoon- 
fuls of grated ginger, and two of tincture of saffron; stir all 
together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit may be added or 
not. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut a small loaf in thin slices of bread and butter, as for 
tea, butter a dish, lay slices over it, strew currants on them, 
then lay the bread and butter, strew currants, and so on till 
the dish is full. Beat up four eggs with a pint of milk, a 
little salt, nutmeg and sugar, and pour over the pudding. 
Lay a puff-paste round, and bake it; half an hour will be 
sufficient. 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 117 



BREAD PUDDING. 

Cut two or three French rolls in slices, and soak them 
in a pint of cream or good milk; beat up the yolks of six 
eggs with them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three 
pounded macaroons, and a glass of white wine; tie it up in 
a basin or buttered cloth, let the water boil when you put 
in the pudding, and boil it for half an hour. Serve with 
wine sauce. 

CHARLOTTE. 

Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to 
cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first 
rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples 
into the dish in layers, till the dish is full, strewing sugar 
and bits of butter between. In the mean time, soak as many 
thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk; 
over which place a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread 
close upon the apples; let it bake slowly for three hours. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Make a paste with butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed 
into flour, and moisten with water; line a basin (well but- 
tered) with this, put in picked cherries, cover the top with 
a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. Other fruit may be 
added. Some boil fruit puddings in a cloth without a basin. 

Another way. Make a plain batter pudding, and stir in 
picked cherries, taking care not to break them. The batter 
must be made thicker and with more eggs, than for plain 

boiling. Tie it in a cloth, and boil as any other pudding. 

/ 

CUSTARD. 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix a 



118 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well beaten; when 
the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for 

the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then 
give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do 
not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then season 
with a large spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoonfuls 
of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards 
to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon; when cold, 
take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose 
and orange-flower water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste; mix them well together, and bake them 
in china cups. 

~PLAIN CUSTARD. 

Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, 
four bay leaves, and some mace; boil them all together; then 
well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into 
a pan; bake or boil them, stirring them all one way, till they 
are of a proper thickness; boil your spice and leaves first, 
and when the milk is cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you 
may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or in 
the room of that, four or five bitter almonds. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Mix a pint of cream with six eggs, well beaten, two spoon- 
fuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and salt and sugar to your 
taste; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter; tie it up, put 
it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an 
hour and a half. Serve, with melted butter for sauce. 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 119 



MACARONI PUDDING. 

Take an ounce or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon-peel and cin- 
namon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, 
but only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of al- 
mond-water, and half a glass of raisin wine; lay a nice paste 
round the edge of the dish, and put it in the oven to bake. 

If you choose you may put in a layer of orange-marma- 
lade, or raspberry-jam: in this case you must not put in the 
almond-water, or ratafia, you would otherwise add too 
much flavour it. 

OATMEAL PUDDING, NEW ENGLAND FASHION. 

Steep a pint of whole oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk 
over night, in the morning shred half a pound of beef 
suet very fine, and mix with the oatmeal and milk, some 
grated nutmeg, and a little salt; with the yolks and whites 
of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of currants; a quarter of 
a pound of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to 
sweeten it; stir the whole well together, tie it pretty close, 
and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for 
sauce. 

PANCAKES. 

Make a good batter in the usual way with eggs, milk and 
flour; pour this into a pan, so that it lays very thin; let your 
lard, or whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. When 
one side is done, toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with 
lemon and sugar. 

/ 

PEAS PUDDING. 

Take a pint of good split peas, aud having washed, soak 



120 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

them well in warm water; then tie them in a cloth, put the 
pudding into a saucepan of hot water, and boil it until quite 
soft. When done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Cut the crumb of a small loaf into slices, pour over them 
a sufficient quantity of boiling milk to soak them; when 
quite soft, beat the bread up with half a pound of clarified 
suet, half a pound of raisins stoned, half a pound of currants, 
sugar to the taste, five eggs well beaten, candied orange, 
lemon, and citron, and a few bitter almonds, pounded; mix 
the ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of brandy, pour it 
into a dish, and bake it. When done turn it out, and strew 
powder-sugar over. 

These ingredients make as good a pudding, boiled. Take 
care to flour well the cloth, or mould used for this purpose. 
Few things require more boiling than a plum-pudding; be 
careful, therefore, to let it be sufficiently done. 

POTATOE PUDDING. 

Having thoroughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, peel 
and pound them well, then mix them with half a pound of 
melted butter, the same of powder-sugar, and six eggs; beat 
the whole well, then add a handful or two of flour, and a 
glass of white wine; stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, 
and boil it for half an hour. 

Or, To two pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed, 
when cold, add three eggs well beaten, two ounces of moist 
sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pint of new milk; add lemon- 
peel if you please. Bake it. 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 121 



RICE PANCAKES. 

Boil half a pound of rice in a small quantity of water, 
until quite a jelly; as soon as it is cold, mix it with a pint 
of cream, eight eggs, a little salt and nutmeg; make eight 
ounces of butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, adding 
to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick 
enough. They must be fried in as small a quantity of lard 
as possible. 

RICE PUDDING BOILED. 

Take six ounces of whole rice, and when sufficiently 
boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet, shred fine; 
when that is melted, take it up, add one egg, and two 
ounces of moist sugar. Boil these together three quarters 
of an hour. 

Or, Well wash and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leav- 
ing plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of 
water for an hour or two. When done; eat it with butter 
and sugar, or milk. 

RICE PUDDING WITH CURRANTS. 

Tie five ounces of whole rice in a cloth, leaving it room to 
swell, boil it half an hour, then take it up, add three table- 
spoonfuls of suet, shred fine, five ounces of currants, and 
two eggs, well beaten; tie it up again, and boil it an hour 
and a half. 

DUTCH RICE PUDDING. 

Soak four ounces of rice for half an hour, in warm water; 
then drain the water from it, and put it into a stewpan, with 
half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and let it sim- 
mer until tender. When cold, add four whole eggs, well 
beaten, three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a 
11 



122 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and two ounces of butter 
melted in cream. Line a dish or mould, with light puff 
paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. 

RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

Swell the rice in a little milk over the fire; then mix with 
it either currants or goose-berries scalded, or apples pared 
and quartered, raisins, or black currants, add one egg to the 
rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Boil a very large spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new 
milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add 
sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten; put a puff-paste 
round your dish, put in the above, and bake. 

SMALL RICE PUDDING. 

Simmer two large spoonfuls of rice in half a pint of milk 
until it is thick, then add to it a bit of butter the size of an 
egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one 
boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four eggs, and the whites 
of two, well beaten, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, 
add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter some little 
cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them 
about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters 
of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they 
are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Boil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon, and a bit 
of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick; mix the crumb of a 
small roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four oun- 
ces of chopped marrow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, 
sugar according to taste; when the sago is cold, add this 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 123 

mixture to it; stir the whole well together, and put it in a 
dish lined with a light puff paste, and set it in a moderate 
oven to bake; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in 
pieces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. 

Or, Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk; 
when cold, add five eggs, two biscuits, a little brandy, and 
sweeten according to taste; put this into a basin and boil. 
Serve with melted butter mixed with wine and sugar. 

Or, Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm); 
then put it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a 
little cinnamon; let it boil till thick, stirring frequently; pour 
it into a pan, and beat up with it half a pound of fresh but- 
ter; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, 
beaten separately, half a glass of white wine, sugar accord- 
ing to taste, and a little flour; mix all together well, and boil 
it. Serve with sweet sauce. 

SIPPET PUDDING. 

Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a lay- 
er of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, 
or beef-suet, a layer of currants, and then a layer of bread 
again, &c.. and so continue until the dish is tilled; mix four 
eggs, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and pour over; set it in the oven, it 
will take half an hour baking. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mix a pound and a quarter of flour, to a pound of shred 
suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as 
little milk as will make it. Let it boil for four hours. It 
eats very nice the next day, cut in slices and broiled. 



124 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put four table-spoonmis of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then put a spoonful of brandy, 
some lemon-peel, and a little spice; let them boil gently, add 
four eggs, and the whites well beaten, and a quarter of a 
pound of sugar. Bake it. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Put four ouuces of ground rice into a stew-pan, stir into it, 
by degrees, one pint and a half of milk, add a bit of cinna- 
mon and lemon peel, set it over the fire, and stir till it boils; 
beat it to a smooth batter, and let it simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour; then add three eggs well beaten, a little 
powdered sugar, nutmeg, and a spoonful of orange flower 
water; stir all well together, and bake in a dish, with a paste 
border round it, for half an hour. Currants may be added 
to this. It may be boiled in a mould, for an hour. Indian 
com flower makes a very good pudding, in the same way. 

PANCAKES. 

These are very generally liked, though not the most 
wholesome things in the world. The batter requires long 
beating; but the art in making pancakes consists in frying 
them. The lard, butter, or dripping must be sweet, fresh, 
and hot, as for fish. Beat two eggs, and stir them, with a 
little salt, into three table-spoonfuls of flour (or allow an egg 
to each spoonful of flour,) add, by degrees, a pint of new 
milk; and beat it to a smooth batter. Make a small round 
frying-pan quite hot, put a piece of butter, or lard, into it, 
and, when it has melted, pour it out and wipe the pan; put 
a piece more in, and when it has melted and begins to froth, 
pour a ladle or tea-cupful of the batter in, toss the pan round 



PUDDINGS, CUSTARDS, &C. 125 

run a knife round the edges; and turn the pancake when the 
top is of a light brown; brown the other side; roll it up, and 
serve very hot. Before it is rolled up, some people spread 
currant jelly lightly over, or orange or apple marmalade. 
Cream, and more eggs may be used to make the pancakes 
richer. A little brandy, or peach water is an improvement. 
Serve white wine sauce. A lemon should be on the table, 
as some people like to flavour pancakes with the juice. 

FRITTERS. 

Make batter the same as directed for pancakes, but stiffer; 
pour a large spoonful into boiling lard, or dripping; fry as 
many at a time as the pan will hold. Sift powdered sugar 
over, and serve them on a hot dish. Fritters are usually 
made with finely minced apple, or currants well washed 
and picked, stirred into the batter; or any sweetmeat which 
is stiff enough to be cut into little bits; or candied lemon or 
orange peel. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a stiff common pancake batter. Boil half a stick 
of cinnamon in a breakfast-cupful of water, and set it by to 
cool. Peel and core some large apples, cut round slices, 
and steep them for half an hour, or more, in the cinnamon 
water; then dip each piece in the batter and fry them in 
lard, or clarified dripping. Drain them, dust sugar over each 
one, and serve them hot. Or, to make a very pretty dish: 
drop batter into the pan, enough to form a fritter the size of 
the slices of apple, lay a slice of apple upon that, and drop 
batter on the top. Or, the apples may be pared, cored, half 

baked (whole,) then dipped in batter, and fried. 

11* 



126 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



SWEET POTATOE PUDDING. 

Boil the potatoes and mash them very smooth. To two 
cups full of potatoe add two cups of sugar, one of butter, one 
glass of brandy or wine, five eggs, one nutmeg and the gra- 
ted rind of lemon. Bake with an under crust. 



PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 

PASTE. 

BE very particular that your slab or paste table, rolling- 
pin and cutters are clean, and free from all old paste, and 
be very careful that both the flour and butter are extremely 
good. Have a dry sieve always in readiness, in or by the 
flour tub, so as to use none without sifting it; for, though 
it may appear pure and fine, bran, or small particles of old 
paste may have fallen into it; sifting is, therefore, always 
necessary. 

Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a circle on the slab: 
break one egg into the centre, put a small quantity of salt, 
and a little bit of butter; mix all these together lightly, add 
a little water, mix them again, then add more water, and so 
proceed until it binds into paste; but take care that you do 
not make it too stiff, nor squeeze it much together, till you 
find there is sufficient water; then work it well together, 
and roll it out on the slab, but do not roll it too thin; work 
a pound of butter on the slab, spread it out to the size of 
the paste, with a knife cut it off altogether, and lay it on 
the paste; then double the ends of the paste together, to in- 
close the butter; then give it one turn, thus: roll it out till 
you just perceive the butter through the paste; turn the end 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 127 

which is next to you half way over, and the other end over 
that, roll it once or twice with the rolling-pin, then let it 
stand; this is called one turn; then in three minutes time, 
turn it again, and so proceed until you have given it six 
turns then roll it out any shape you please. 

LEMON PUFFS. 

Half a pound of double refined sugar beat and sifted, 
grate into it the yellow rind of one large lemon, or two 
smaller ones, then whip up the white of an egg to a froth, 
and mix the three ingredients together, working them to 
the consistency of good paste; lay this on writing paper, 
bake it in a very slow oven; lay some round and some long, 
do not touch them with your hands. 



MRS. HILL'S CAKES. 



A pound of flour, a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and the peel of two 
lemons cut very small, to be rolled into thin cakes; to be 
put into the oven to bake when the bread is drawn. 

IRISH PLUM CAKE. 

Take one pound of butter beat to a cream, a pound of 
sugar dried and pounded, eight eggs, if small ones nine, the 
yolks beat, and the whites whisked to a light froth, one 
pound of well dried currants, one nutmeg, a noggin of 
brandy, two ounces of dried citron, the same quantity of 
sweet almonds, one pound and a quarter of flour dried and 
sifted; the almonds, citron and currants must be added just 
before it is put in the oven. 

/ 

BISCUITS. 

A pound and a half of flour made wet with equal quan- 
tities of milk and water moderately warm, made stiff, and 



128 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

rolled out very thin; cut them to any size you please, prick 
them, and bake them in a moderate oven on a tin. No flour 
to be put on the tins or biscuits. 

QUICKLY MADE AND CHFAP CAKE. 

Five eggs, leaving out two whites and beaten separately, 
the whites to a froth; five ounces of sugar dissolved in 
three parts of a wine-glass of water, put into a saucepan to 
boil, and pour the dissolved sugar, boiling, into the eggs; 
when nearly cold, mix in a quarter of a pound of flour 
by degrees. Three quarters of an hour in a quick oven 
will bake it. 

LEMON SOLID. 

Dissolve ten ounces of isinglass in a little milk; grate the 
rinds of four lemons into their juice: sweeten one quart 
of cream with powdered loaf sugar; add the lemon juice 
to the cream, stirring it all the time, and when the isinglass 
is quite cold (but not stiff) add it also; stir it well and strain 
it through muslin into a mould. 

FRITTERS WHICH MAY BE MADE QUICKLY. 

One egg; two spoonfuls of flour; a little sifted sugar and 
ginger; milk sufficient to make a smooth batter; cut a mid- 
dling sized apple into thick slices, and put into the batter, 
and with a spoon p^t them into the frying pan, with just 
the batter which is taken up in the spoon; have a sieve with 
the bottom up, and, as fried, lay the fritters upon it to 
drain. The above quantity is sufficient fora small dish for 
supper. 

LIQUID JELLY. 

Take six lemons, pare them very thin, squeeze out the 
juice, and put in the peel without the seeds; let it stand all 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 129 

night, then put in half a pound of loaf sugar, mixing it 
well with the juice; add one pint of boiling water, and one 
pint of siveet but good wine; mix all well together; then 
add one pint of boiling milk, boil it altogether once, then 
strain it through a jelly bag; it will sometimes run clear the 
second or third time, and sometimes requires to run through 
oftener. 

MINCED MEAT FOR PIES. 

A pound and a half of boiled tongue; two pounds of beef 
suet two pounds of cleaned'currants; one pound of cleaned and 
stewed raisins, chopped fine; three-quarters of a pound fine 
moist sugar; the peel of two large lemons chopped fine; half 
anounce of cloves and mace; one ounce of nutmeg; the juice 
of one lemon; half-pint of brandy; half-pint of port-wine; 
candied peel according to taste. This mixture improves by 
standing a few weeks, and adding a little brandy from time 
to time. To be kept in a cool dry place. 

MRS. BARTON'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar in half 
a pint of water, simmer it over a slow fire until it is quite 
clear, then pour it into a bowl, adding the grated rind of a 
lemon, and keep stirring until it is cold. Then take the 
yolks of eight eggs and the whites of two; beat them for 
a quarter of an hour; mix the eggs and syrup together, and 
beat the mixture half an hour longer. Just before you put 
it into the oven, stir in by degrees half a pound of flour. 
One hour and a quarter will bake it. 

LEMON CHEESE-CAKE. 

One pound of lump sugar broken into pieces; six eggs, 
leaving out two whites; the juice of three lemons, the 
rinds of two grated, and a quarter of a pound of butter. 



130 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

Put all these ingredients into a pan, stirring them gently 
over a slow fire, until the mixture becomes thick and looks 
like honey. This mixture will keep for twelve months, 
if put in ajar, tied down with a paper, and kept in a dry 
cool place. 

GOOD PLAIN GINGERBREAD. 

Three-quarters of a pound of flour; a quarter of a pound 
of butter; a quarter of a pound of sugar; a quarter of a 
pound of treacle; a table-spoonful of cream, and ginger 
to the taste. Mix all together into a stiff paste; roll it out 
thin and cut into small cakes: a little candied orange and 
lemon peel is a great improvement. 

FAMILY POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, dried; half pound of butter beat to 
a cream; half a pound of pounded white sugar half a pound of 
currants, dried (these may of course be omitted, or caraways 
substituted if preferred,) four eggshalf a pint of milk. Bake 
it carefully. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour; the same of moist 
sugar; quarter pound of butter; one egg; two table-spoon- 
fuls of milk. Mix all together, and bake it. 

RICE CAKES. 

Eio-ht eggs; half the whites; whip them swiftly for ten 
minutes; half pound of ground rice; six ounces powdered 
sugar. The peel of one lemon grated; whip all together 
half an hour with a whisk, butter the tin and bake twenty 
minutes. If a few caraway seeds are added, this cake is 
strongly recommended for weak stomachs. 



PASTRY, CAKES. &C. 131 



TEA CAKES. 

Melt in milk two ounces of butter, mix with it a pound 
of flour, add one egg and a spoonful of yeast; make up the 
dough in small round cakes; flatten them a little; bake 
them on a buttered tin. These cakes are intended to be 
buttered and eaten hot. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

A quarter of a pound of almonds beat well in a mortar 
with a little wine, or cream, six eggs, three whites, three 
spoonfuls and a half of flour, half a pint of cream, quarter 
of a pint of butter; sweeten to your taste; butter your cups 
and bake them half an hour; this quantity makes twelve 
puffs in middle-sized tea-cups. 

BATH BUNS. 

Rub together, with the hand, one pound of fine flour and 
half a pound of butter; beat six eggs, and add them to the 
flour with a table spoonful of good yeast. Mix them alto- 
gether with half a tea cup full of milk; set it in a warm place 
for an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, and a few car- 
away seeds. Mould them into buns with a table-spoon on 
a baking plate; throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, 
and bake them in a hot oven about ten minutes. These 
quantities should make eighteen buns. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Beat one pound of butter to cream, with some rose-water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted sugar, twelve 
eggs, beat all well together; add a few currants washed and 
dried; butter small pans of a size for the purpose, grate su- 
gar over them; they are soon baked. They may be done in 
a Dutch oven. 



132 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



COMMON SEED CAKE. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, a few caraways, a pint of milk, a 
spoonful of yeast, mixed well together; let it stand a long 
time before the fire, then put it in the oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and 
that of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the 
whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by degrees mix the 
whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat 
them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. 

CARAWAY CAKES. 

To a pound of flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight 
spoonfuls of good yeast, four spoonfuls of rose-water, the 
yolks of three eggs, as many caraways as you please, four 
ounces of sugar, knead all into a paste, make it up into any 
form you please, and when they come out of the oven, strew 
over powdered sugar. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Rub one pound of butter well into three pounds of flour; 
then add one pound of powdered sugar, one pound of treacle, 
and two ounces of ginger pounded and sifted very fine; one 
nutmeg grated very fine; then warm a quarter of a pint of 
cream, and mix all together; you may add caraways and 
sweetmeats if you choose; make it into a stiff paste, and 
bake it in a slow oven. 

If cake or biscuits are kept in paper or a drawer, they 
will acquire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover, or tu- 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 133 

reen, will preserve them long and moist; or if to be crisp, 
laying them before the fire will make them so. 

GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUTTER. 

Mix two pounds of treacle: of orange, lemon, citron, and 
candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce 
of coriander seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce 
of beaten ginger, in as much paste as will make a soft paste; 
lay it in cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. 
Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good 
for some months. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

Take four pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an 
ounce of carraway seeds, half an ounce of ginger pounded 
and sifted, six ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of 
candied orange-peel cut into small slices; then take a pound 
of treacle or honey, and a gill of cream, make them warm 
together; mix it, with all the ingredients, into a paste, and 
let it lay six hours: then roll it out, make it into nuts, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Put four pounds of flour upon the dresser; then take a 
copper sauce-pan, and break into it six eggs, and mix them 
well with a spoon; add one pint of cream to them, and beat 
them well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is warm; put two pounds of butter into the cream and 
eggs, and one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it over a 
very slow fire, just to melt all the butter; put in four ounces 
of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted, 
pour it all into the middle of the flour; mix it as well as you 
possibly can, till it becomes a fine paste, then roll it out with 
flour under it, on your dresser; cut them to the size of the 
12 



134 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



top of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in thickness; and be- 
fore you put them into the oven (which should be very hot,) 
place three papers under them. 

JUMBLES. 

Mix one pound of fine flour with one pound of fine pow- 
der sugar, make them into a light paste with whites of eggs 
well beaten; add half a pint of cream, half a pound of fresh 
butter, melted, and a pound of blanched almonds, pounded; 
knead them all together, thoroughly, with a little rose-wa- 
ter, and cut out the jumbles into whatever forms you think 
proper; bake them in a gentle oven. 

MACAROONS. 

Take a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and nicely 
pounded, add a little rose-water to prevent their oiling; add 
a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites of ten e^gs 
to a solid froth, and add to the above; beat all together for 
some time. Have ready water paper on tin plates, drop the 
mixture over it separately, the size of a shilling, or smaller: 
sift over them a little sugar, and bake them. 



MINCE PIES. 

Weigh two pounds of scraped beef, free from skin and 
strings; of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds, then add 
six pounds of currants, nicely cleaned, and perfectly dried, 
three pounds of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two 
lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an 
ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, in the finest 
powder; mix the whole well together, and put it into a pan, 
and keep it covered in a dry cool place. 

Have some citron, orange, and lemon peel, ready; and put 
some of each in the pies when made. 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 135 



MINCE PIE WITHOUT MEAT. 

Take a pound of currants, a pound of apples chopped 
fine, a pound of moist sugar, a pound of suet well chopped, 
a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small, 
the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, 
and mace, according to taste, and a glass of brandy. Mix all 
well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. 

MUFFINS. 

Mix two pounds of flour with a couple of eggs, two oun- 
ces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoon- 
fuls of yeast; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or 
three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn 
them, when done, on one side. 

Or, Take two quarts of warm water, two spoonfuls of 
yeast, three pounds of flour; heat it well for half an hour, and 
let it stand an hour or two; bake them on an iron baking-stove 
(rub it well over with mutton-suet as often as they are laid 
on); as soon as they begin to colour turn them; they will be 
sufficiently baked when coloured on both sides. 

RHUBARB TART. 

Let the stalks be of a good size, take off the thin skin, 
and cut them into lengths of four or five inches; lay them in 
a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water; cover 
with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour upon 
a hot hearth, or do them in a block-tin saucepan. As soon 
as cold, make it into a tart; when tender, the baking the 
crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the stalks into little 
bits, the ^ize of gooseberries, and make your tart the same 
as gooseberry tart. 



136 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



RICE CHEESE. 

Boil an ounce of rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather 
less than half a pint of milk (new); pour it hot on an ounce 
and a half of butter, the same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing 
it well together; let it stand till cold; then add one egg, and 
the yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

ROLLS. 

Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then add 
a spoonful and a half of yeast of small-beer, and a little salt. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put in the above. 
Set it to rise for an hour; knead it well; make it into seven 
rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Rub one ounce of butter into a pound of flour; then add to 
it one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and a suf- 
ficient quantity of milk, to make a dough of moderate stiff- 
ness. Beat it well, but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake 
on tins. 

Or, Warm three spoonfuls of milk, and the same quan- 
tity of water, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, put 
it' to two spoonfuls of thick yeast; put 'this into the middle 
of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together 
to the consistence of a batter-pudding, adding more flour 
if necessary, to make it the proper thickness; strew a little 
flour over it, from the sides and if the weather is cold, set it 
at a little distance from the fire; do this three hours before it 
is put into ihe oven; when it breaks a good deal'through the 
flour and rises, work it into a light paste with more warm 
milk and water; let it lie till within a quarter of an hour of 
setting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls; 
floar a tin, and drop them on, handle them as little as pos- 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 137 

sible; set them before the fire. About twenty minutes will 
be sufficient time to bake them; put a little salt into the flour. 
Rasp the rolls. 

HOT SHORT ROLLS. 

Dry before the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
three penny rolls, or larger if you like; add to it an egg well 
beaten, a little salt, two spoonfuls of yeast, and a little warm 
milk; make into a light dough, let it stand by the fire all 
night. Bake the rolls in a quick oven. 

RUSKS. 

Melt four ounces of butter in half a pint of new milk; 
then add to this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint 
of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, put this mixture, by de- 
grees, into as much flour as will make an extremely light 
paste, more like batter, and set it to rise before the fire for 
half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stiffer, 
but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves 
or cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. 
When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and 
brown them a little in the oven. 

APPLE PIE. 

Russetings, ribstone pippins, and such other apples as 
have a little acid, are the best for baking. Pare, core, and 
slice the apples, throwing them into cold water to prevent 
their turning black, sprinkle sugar between, as you put them 
into the pie dish, also a little pounded cinnamon and cloves. 
Some slices of quince are a great improvement, or quince 
marmalade, or candied citron or orange peel. Put a strip of 
paste round the edge of the dish, and cover with a rich light 
paste. 

12* 



138 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

CRANBERRY TART. 

The cranberries should be stewed first, with brown 
sugar, and a very little water, and then baked in open tarts, 
or in patty -pans, lined and covered with very light puff paste. 

TARTS OF PRESERVED FRUITS. 

Cover patty-pans, or shallow tins or dishes, with light 
puff paste, and lay the preserve in them, cover with light 
cross bars of puff paste, or with paste stars, leaves, or flow- 
ers. For the most delicate preserves, the best way is to 
bake the paste first, then put in the preserves, and ornament 
with leaves, baked for the purpose, on tins. 

MINCE PIES. 

Par-roast, or slightly bake, about two pounds of good lean 
beef, and two pounds of good beef suet; chop both these 
fine, and put to them two pounds of apples pared, cored, and 
chopped; also one pound of raisins, stoned, and three pounds 
of currants, washed, picked, and both chopped; one pound 
of good moist sugar, half a pound of citron, and one pound 
of candied lemon or orange peel, both cut into thin slices; 
mix all these well together, in a brown pan, and add two 
nutmegs grated, one ounce of salt, one ounce of ginger, half 
an ounce of coriander seeds, half an ounce of allspice, half 
an ounce of cloves, the juice of six lemons, and their rinds 
grated, half a pint of brandy, and a pint of sweet, or ginger 
wine. Mix it well together, and it will keep for some time, 
if covered close, and in a cool place. When you are about 
to use any of it, stir up well from the bottom, and add a lit- 
tle more brandy, to the quantity you use. Cover patty-pans, 
saucers, or shallow pie dishes, with a rich puff, or plain 
paste, fill them with the mince, and cover with a paste, pare 



PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 139 

and mark the edges neatly. Bake them, in a moderate oven, 
half an hour, and send them to table quite hot. Orange 
flower water is an improvement, and madeira may be used 
instead of sweet wine. 

Or, boil two calf's feet till they are quite tender, and let 
them get cold; then mince the meat with suet, apples, and 
well washed currants. Put to the mixture a quarter of a 
pint of raisin or any white wine, and then put it in a pie 
dish; cover with a thin rich crust, and bake it half an hour. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Equal quantities of squash and apple. Strain them when 
boiled, and add seven eggs to a quart of squash; milk, rose 
water, sugar, spice, &c, to the taste. Bake with an under 
crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Boil the pumpkin and strain very carefully. Mix the 
same as for squash, but pumpkin requires rather more sea- 
soning as it has a stronger flavour. 

WHORTLEBERY CAKES. 

These are very nice if made right. Make a nice batter 
and add as much fruit as you like. Sweeten or not as you 
please; but molasses is better than sugar. Bake a good 
while either in a solid cake or in small cakes. Eaten hot 
with butter they are very nice. These berries make a very 
nice pudding if added to a batter made either of flour or 
indian meal. Sweetened with molasses. 

DOUGH NUTS. 

A pound and a half of flour, three eggs, half a spoonful 
of pearlash, two ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, one 



140 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

cup of milk. Spice to your taste, and fry them in sweet 
lard. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound 
of butter, eight eggs, and two teacups of sifted ginger. Roll 
this out on tin sheets as thin as you please and bake in a 
quick oven. This is an excellent cake to keep. 

DROP CAKE. 

Three pounds of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, twelve 
eggs. Season with lemon or spice and a little rose water, 
drop on sheets, sift sugar over them, and put a few sugar 
carraway seeds. 

BLACK CAKE, OR NEW ENGLAND WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of dry flour, one pound of sweet butter, one 
pound of sugar r twelve eggs, two pounds of raisins, (the 
Sultana raisins are the best) two pounds of currants. As 
much spice as you please. A. glass of wine, one of brandy, 
and two table spoonfuls of rose-water, two of lemon brandy 
and a pound of citron. Mix the butter and sugar as for 
pound cake. Sift the spice, and beat the eggs very light. 
Put in the fruit last, stirring it in gradually. It should be 
well floured. If necessary add more flour after the fruit is 
in. Butter sheets of paper and line the inside of one large 
pan or two smaller ones. Lay in some slices of citron, 
then a layer of the mixture, then of the citron and so on 
till the pan is full. This cake requires a tolerably hot and 
steady oven, and will need baking four or five hours accord- 
ing to its thickness. It will be better to let it cool gradually 
in the oven. Ice it when thoroughly cold. 



MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD. 141 



MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD. 

FLOUR. 

PEOPLE in the flour trade generally knead a small quan- 
tity by way of experiment; if good, it immediately forms an 
adhesive, elastic paste, which will readily assume any form, 
without danger of breaking: pure and unadulterated flour 
may likewise be easily distinguished by other methods. 
Seize a handful briskly, and squeeze it half a minute; it 
preserves the form of the cavity of the hand in one piece, 
although it may be rudely placed on the table. Not so that 
which contains foreign substances: it breaks in pieces more 
or less that mixed with whiting being the most adhesive, 
but still dividing and falling down in a little time. Flour 
mixed with ground stones, bones, or plaster of Paris, loses 
its form at once, and the more bran there may be in it, the 
sooner it will be flat on the board. It may also be ob- 
served, that genuine flour will longer keep the impression 
even of the grains of the skin, than that which is adulterated, 
the latter very soon throwing up the fine marks. Let a 
person of a moist skin rub flour briskly between the palms 
of both hands: if there be whiting among it, he will find re- 
sistance; but if white pure flour, none. If there is time, put 
a table-spoonful into a basin and mix with cold water until 
it is of the consistence of pudding-batter; then set a small 
pan upon the fire with half a gill of water: when this water 
is hot, but before it boils, pour in the batter, and let it boil 
three minutes. If sound, the flour will unite as a good sound 
pudding; if unsound, it breaks, curdles, and appears some- 
what /watery. Again; drop the juice of a lemon, or good 
vinegar upon flour: if the flour be pure, it remains at 
rest; if adulterated, an immediate commotion takes place. 
This is the readiest method of detecting stone-dust and 



142 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

plaster of Paris. Or, after having dipped the fore-finger and 
thumb partially in sweet oil, take up a small quantity of 
flour: if it be pure, you may freely rub the fingers together 
for any length of time; it will not become sticky, and the 
substance will turn nearly black; but if whiting be mixed 
with the flour, a few times rubbing turns it into putty; but 
its colour is very little changed. 

MAKING BREAD. 

Process of setting the sponge. Put twenty-four pounds 
of flour into an oblong wooden baking-trough, or a glazed 
earthen pan, large enough to contain twice the quantity 
of the flour employed. Make a deep round hole in the 
centre of the flour, and pour into it the diluted yeast; stir 
into it with a large spoon so much of the surrounding meal 
as will make it up into a sort of batter of the consistence of 
thin paste: this process is called " setting the sponge." 
Cover the mixture with dry flour to the depth of at least 
the eighth of an inch, and then throw over the trough or 
pan a linen or woollen cloth. Many persons omit this use- 
ful preparatory process, but the bakers always adopt it: the 
object is to give strength and character to the ferment by 
communicating the quality of leaven to a small portion 
of the flour; a quality which then is soon extended to the 
whole mass: chemists term the action so excited, the panary 
fermentation, in contradistinction to that which yeast gives 
to the wort of malt, &c. &c. Setting sponge is also a measure 
of wise precaution; for many a batch of flour, which would 
have been totally ruined for bread, had the barm been foul 
or inert, and mixed up, at first, with the entire bulk of flour, 
has been saved by this test of the goodness of the yeast. 

Forming the dough. After the sponge has stood some 
time, it will be found to have swelled considerably, and 
formed cracks in the covering of flour: when these cease to 



MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD. 143 

increase and widen it will be time to make up the dough. 
Flour, we have said, drinks up a considerable quantity of 
water, in fact, it becomes chemically combined with it; but 
few persons can form an opinion how much is absorbed. 
On this point housewives are far too remiss: for though 
perfectly dry and good meal will take up much more water 
than that prepared from ill-harvested sprouted corn; and 
though, also, the same flour will, in different states of wea- 
ther, vary in its absorbent power, yet there exists too much 
of a careless ignorance on this important point. We request 
that the conscientious economist will note carefully every 
result, and thus make an approach towards accuracy; and 
in the mean time we state that, as twenty-four pounds of good 
flour will yield about thirty-two pounds of bread, the weight 
thus increased must chiefly be acquired from the volume of 
water absorbed, which will be one gallon; again, since much 
gas and vapour are expelled during the rising and baking of 
the dough, two quarts more of water should be allowed: 
the proportions then would be twenty-four pounds of flour 
to twelve pounds (pints) of water, and therefore that quan- 
tity, or more, should be at hand, heated to the degree of new 
milk. In winter the heat ought to be considerably higher; 
but in all seasons, as flour is a cold, heavy substance, it 
will require to be assisted by a genial temperature. 

Everything being in readiness, scatter about four ounces 
of salt over the dry flour, put some warm water to the 
sponge, work some of the flour into it, and thus add portions 
of water and flour till the whole becomes sufficiently moist 
to be formed by kneading with the fists, into a firm, com- 
pact dough. The texture must be such that it can be brought 
together into a solid mass in the middle of the trouo-h or 

O / O 

pan, and then it is to be dusted over with flour to prevent 
it from adhering to the surface of the vessel. This dough 
is to stand covered over to swell, and in cold weather the 



144 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

vessel should be placed near the fire. If the ferment be 
well formed in the sponge, it will act upon and distend the 
whole mass in the course of an hour; we have seen it rise 
and swell so much as to fill the vessel and raise up the co- 
vering cloth; and, like the sponge, it ought to be taken at 
the height of the action, and formed into loaves before it 
begins to fall back. 

Heating the oven. By the term oven, we mean to ex- 
press one built of, and arched at the top with, sound bricks, 
the bottom being laid with good tiles close jointed, those 
iron appendages to grates and kitchen ranges, called ovens, 
being generally worse than useless for bread. Bricks are 
slow conductors of heat; they receive it gradually, and re- 
tain it pertinaciously: hence, a baker's oven, which is 
heated daily, or nearly so. always produces the best and 
most equally baked loaves: iron, on the contrary, is a rapid 
conductor; hence, though the oven will become hot enough, 
it cannot retain its temperature without perpetual accessions 
of actual fire: the bread, therefore, is either burnt, or it is 
unequally baked; frequently, also, the loaves are flat and 
their texture too solid. 

If the batch required be large, and the family possess a 
good bread oven, the bread, of course, will be baked at home; 
but if there be no proper oven, and three or four small or 
middle-sized loaves be made, it will be wise to send them 
to a baker, with whom an agreement may readily be made 
to bake them upon very moderate terms. Many persons 
adopt this method, and we know a family which has the 
finest bread we ever saw, where the loaves are prepared 
and sent to a baker twice a week. The disadvantage of an 
oven at home is this: it becomes cold, and therefore can 
never, by any weekly heating, be uniformly " soaked," as 
it is termed. The baker's oven never loses its heat: the 
bread therefore rises higher, and is lighter; we recommend 



MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD. 145 

it then, as a point of economy, that a small family should 
not generally attempt to bake at home. 

Furze, small brushwood, and sound fagots, are the best 
materials for the fire; with the first (where it is at hand,) 
it can be lighted, and a blaze of intense heat maintained, till 
the bulk of hot fuel be sufficient to kindle the fagots. One 
hour will bring a good oven to that state which will raise 
the bread to its height, and then heat the loaf to its centre 
without charring the crust; therefore it may be laid down 
as a good general rule, that the fire should be kindled at the 
same time that the dough is made up. 

There is an art of heating an oven with precision, which 
can only be acquired by observation and practice, unless, 
indeed, it happen that the operator (as is sometimes the case) 
possess a sort of intuitive perception of the effects of fire. 
A criterion of a well-heated oven used to be the whiteness 
of a stone, (called technically the baker,} which formerly 
was built into the wall, towards the further end of the oven. 
These stones are now rarely admitted: therefore a judgment 
must be formed by the clearness of the bricks of the sides 
and arch, and by the lively sparkling of the embers. The 
former criterion proves that the bricks have received enough 
of body heat to consume that black carbonaceous coating 
which the smoke communicates to them at the early stage 
of fire: the second shows that the principle of combustion is 
in full activity, and not rendered inert by a cold surface 
either at the top, bottom, or sides. Finally, if the brick- 
work be hot enough, and the point of a long stake be rubbed 
forcibly over any part of it, so as for the moment to make a 
black trace of charcoal, this trace will be burnt off, and the 
bricks left clear in a second of time. We cannot particularise 
further now; therefore suffice it to observe that the dough 
being completely up, and the oven hot nearly together, the 
former must be cut, and slightly pressed (not forcibly 
13 



146 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

kneaded) and rolled into the form of loaves, which are to 
be dusted over with flour one by one, while another person 
draws out the hot embers with a hook of iron fixed at the 
end of a long pole, and cleans the bottom of the oven with 
a wet mop made of long shreds of woollen cloth or coarse 
sacking. The loaves are then placed side by side in the 
oven by means of an instrument called a baking peel, which 
consists of a flat beach board fixed to a long handle: this 
board, as well as the loaves, should be dredged with flour, 
so as absolutely to prevent adhesions of the dough to the 
board of the peel. 

When the loaves are in the oven the door must be se- 
curely closed; and if the fire have been well managed, the 
bread will be regularly baked in an hour and a half or two 
hours, according to the size of the loaves. 

YEAST. 

For a seceipt for making yeast the reader is referred to 
Miscellaneous Receipts in another part of the volume. 

PLAIN BISCUITS. 

To one pound of flour, put the yolk of one egg, and milk 
sufficient to mix into a stiff paste, knead it smooth, then 
roll out thin, cut it in round shapes, prick with a fork, and 
bake them in a slow oven. 

ANOTHER. 

To one pound of flour, add one quarter pound of butter, 
beaten to a cream, five ounces of loaf sugar, five eggs and some 
carraway seeds: beat the whole well for an hour, and pour 
the biscuits on tins, each one a large spoonful. If not suffi- 
ciently thin and smooth, when worked together, add another 
egg, or a little milk. 



MAKING AND BAKING OF BREAD. 147 



INDIAN CORN BISCUITS. 

To one half pound of butter, add six ounces pounded 
sugar, and three eggs well beaten; when well mixed, add 
three quarters of a pound of corn flour, a little nutmeg, and 
some carraway seeds; beat well, and bake on little tins. 

ANOTHER. 

Into three quarters of a pound of flour, rub four ounces 
of butter, add four ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and nearly 
one ounce of carraway seeds; make it into a paste with three 
eggs, roll out thin, and cut the cakes with a wine glass, or 
in any other shape you like. 

RUSKS. 

Boil a quart of milk, and let it get cold, then put to it 
half a pint of yeast, two eggs, two ounces of coriander seeds, 
two ounces of carraway seeds, a little ginger, and one 
quarter pound of finely pounded sugar, beat these all together 
and then add as much flour as will make a stiff paste: divide 
it into long thin bricks, put these on tins and let them be 
before the fire a short time to rise, and then bake them. 
When cold, cut in slices, and dry them in a slack oven. 

ANOTHER. 

Melt one half pound of butter in a quart of milk, let it 
cool, then add one egg, half a pint of yeast, and four ounces 
of sifted sugar, beat this for a few minutes, then work into 
it enough fine flour to make a light dough, and set it by the 
fire to rise. Make this into little loaves, and bake them 
on ting, in a quick oven; when half done take them out of 
the oven, split and put them back to finish. 



148 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



JELLIES, JAMS, &c. 

APPLE JELLY. 

TAKE apples, codlings or nonsuch, pare and cut them 
in slices, put them into a deep stewpan, with as much 
water as will cover them, boil them gently till they will 
mash, and then strain them through a jelly-bag; to every 
pint of liquor add one pound of loaf sugar; boil it till it 
comes to the top for ten minutes, then pour it into a mould 
with or without sliced lemon peel. A quart only should 
be done at a time; the apples should be full grown but not 
too ripe. This jelly will keep, and make a pretty dish at 
any time. 

RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Strip the currants, put them in jars or pans, and bake 
them; strain off the juice through a sieve; having loaf 
sugar pounded and dried, in the proportion of one pound to 
one pint of juice, set the juice over the fire, and when 
boiling, throw in the sugar gradually, stirring the whole 
time; this must be done quickly, for by the time all the 
sugar is stirred in, the juice will be ready to jelly, and if 
left too long over the fire, the jelly will become candied. 
Pour into small-sized jars. By this method, the jelly will 
be perfectly clear without skimming, which saves waste and 
trouble. 

RICE JELLY. 

Half a pound of Carolina rice; three pints and a half of 
water. Put it on cold; boil it one hour. Beat it through 
a sieve; when cold it will be a firm jelly, which, when 
warmed up in milk is a nutritious and very agreeable food. 
Add one pint of milk to the pulp which remains in the sieve, 
boil it for a short time, stirring constantly to prevent burn- 



JELLIES, JAMS, &C. 149 

ing; then strain as before, and if eaten at once it resembles 
thick milk; if allowed to get cold it becomes jelly as the 
former. 

ARROW-ROOT BLANC MANGE. 

Take two ounces of genuine arrow-root, and beat it up 
with a little cold milk to about the thickness of cream; then 
boil a pint and a half of milk and pour upon it, stirring it 
all the time; flavour and sweeten it to your taste; boil it ten 
minutes, stirring it all the time; pour it into the mould and 
leave it till next day. 

ARROW-ROOT CUSTARDS. 

Four eggs; one dessert spoonful of arrow-root; one pint 
of milk; sweetened and flavoured to your taste. 

ARROW ROOT PUDDING. 

Mix two table spoonfuls of arrow -root with a little milk; 
then pour it into a pint of boiling milk, stirring it; and 
when cold add four eggs, some sugar, brandy or ratifia; 
boil it in a basin, and put a buttered paper over the top. 

ISINGLASS JELLY. 

Two ounces of isinglass to a quart of water, boil till it is 
dissolved; strain it into a basin upon a slice of lemon-peel 
pared very thin, six cloves, and three or four lumps of 
sugar; let this stand by the fire for an hour; take out the 
lemon and cloves, and add four table-spoonfuls of brandy. 

APPLE JELLY. 

One pound of apples pared and cored; one pound of lump 
sugar put to a gill of water, so as to clarify the sugar; add 
some lemon peel; it must then boil until it is stiff; put it 
into a mould, when cold turn it out. If there is any diffi- 

13* 



150 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

culty in getting it out, the mould may be just put in warm 
water. This is a cheap and pretty looking jelly. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Mix a pint of thick cream with the juice of a large 
lemon, and a glass of white wine; put the peel of the lemon 
in whole, with a sufficient quantity of loaf sugar; beat them 
well together with a whisk; put a clear muslin over the mould, 
and pour the cream in; let it drain till the following day, then 
turn it out carefully. There are earthenware moulds on 
purpose with small holes to let out the whey. 

BLANC MANGE. 

To one ounce of picked isinglass, put a pint of water, 
boil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cinnamon; 
put to it three quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of 
sweet almonds, six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit 
of lemon-peel, sweeten it. stir it over the fire, let it boil, 
strain and let it cool, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and 
put into moulds; garnish to your fancy. 

DUTCH BLANC MANGE. 

Put a pint of cleared calf 's-foot jelly into a stew-pan; mix 
with it the yolks of six eggs, set it over a fire, and whisk 
till it begins to boil; then set the pan in cold water, and 
stir the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it from curdling, 
and when it begins to thicken fill the moulds. 

O 

CALVES' FEET BLANC MANGE. 

Pick all the the black spots from two boiled feet, slice 
them into a stew-pan, with a quarter of a pint of Mountain 
wine, and rather more water; let them stew gently; add 
the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, with a quarter 
of a pint of cream and a little flour, a little lemon peel and 



JELLIES, JAMS, &C. 151 

juice, sweeten with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. When 
nearly cold, stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to 
plump, almonds blanched into slips, citron, lemon, and 
orange peel sliced. It may be put in a basin; when cold 
turn it out. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Set on the fire in a sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified 
sugar; when it boils, put in a quart of picked red currants, 
in which let them boil for half an hour; be careful to skim 
them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the 
scum; when boiled enough run the liquor through a sieve 
into a basin, in which you have squeezed three lemons, then 
put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould in ice 
as usual. 

Or, For this purpose the ripest red currants should be 
taken, as the white are not so good for jelly; crush them, 
and press out all the juice into a glazed pan; cover it very 
closely, and set it in a cold place for six days; then with 
great care remove the thick skin which then covers the 
juice, and pour it into another vessel, throwing away what 
remains at the bottom; when the juice is perfectly clear, 
weigh it, and for each pound take half a pound of crushed 
sugar, put them on the fire together, and much scum will 
soon rise; this must all be taken off"; let it remain on the fire 
for about an hour; then try it as follows: put a small quantity 
on a very cold plate, and if, when it cools, it becomes thick, 
and of proper consistence, take the pan from the fire; if 
that is not the case, let it remain until that is the case. Pour 
out the jelly whilst hot; it must be quite cold before you 

cover it with paper. 

. 

RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Strip off the currants, put them in ajar, set the jar in 



152 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

a kettle of hot water, let it boil an hour: then throw the 
currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out the juice, 
and to every pint of juice put a pound of double-refined 
sugar; put them in a preserving pan, set it over a charcoal 
fire, and keep stirring till it is a jelly, which you will know 
by taking a little out to cool; be careful to take off the 
the scum as it rises, and when it is jellied and very clear, 
pour it into glasses; when cold, cut round pieces of paper 
that will just cover the jelly, dipped in brandy; put white 
paper over the glasses, twisting round the top. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Make it the same way as the red currant jelly, only with 
this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of red, rough, ripe, goose- 
berries; take half their quantity of lump sugar; break them 
well, and boil them together for half an hour, or more, if 
necessary. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Take out the stones, then mash the grapes with your 
hands, (they must be ripe) then squeeze them through a 
cloth to extract all the juice from them, and boil and finish 
the same as currant jelly. Use half a pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Take two thirds of raspberries, and one third red cur- 
rant; pick them, press the juice through a sieve into a pan, 
cover, and place in a cellar, or any other cool place for three 
days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed 
at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel; weigh 



JELLIES, JAMS, &C. 153 

it, and put it, with half the quantity of sugar, into a pre- 
serving pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of scum will 
rise at first, which must all be taken ofF; leave it on the 
fire for an hour; then pour a few drops on a cold plate, if 
it cools of the proper consistence for jellies, take it from the 
fire, and whilst hot pour it into pots. Let the jelly be 
quite cold before the pots are covered. 

LIQUID JELLY. 

Take six lemons, pare them very thin, squeeze out the 
juice, and put in the peel without the seeds; let it stand all 
night, then put in half a pound of loaf sugar, mixing it 
well with the juice; add one pint of boiling water, and one 
pint of sweet but good wine; mix all well together; then 
add one pint of boiling milk, boil it altogether once, then 
strain it through a jelly bag; it will sometimes run clear the 
second or third time, and sometimes requires to run through 
oftener. 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

The day before you want the jelly, boil 2 feet in 2i 
quarts of water, till they are broken and the water half 
wasted, strain and put it by in a cool place. The next day 
remove all fat as well as sediment, put the jelly into a sauce 
pan with sugar, raisin wine, lemon juice, and peel to your 
taste. Let it simmer, and when the flavour is rich, add 
the whites of five eggs well beaten, and, also, their shells; 
let it boil gently for twenty minutes, but do not stir it; then 
pour in a tea-cupful of warm water, let it boil five minutes 
longer; take the saucepan off the fire; cover close, and let 
it stand by the side for half an hour. After this it ought 
to be so clear as to require only once running through the 
jelly bag, which must be first dipped in hot water. 



154 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

PRESERVES. 

To excel in preserving the fruits of common use in a fa- 
mily is a matter of great consequence, as they are much bet- 
ter and much cheaper when preserved at home, than when 
bought of the confectioner. A little practice will teach any 
mistress of a house as much of this art, as it is requisite for 
her to be acquainted with; but this is a department which 
ought to have her personal superintendence. 

The fruit for every sort of jelly or preserve, ought to be 
the best of its kind; ripe enough, but not overripe; gathered 
on a dry day, and after a dry day. The sugar should be of 
the best quality, and plenty of it should be allowed, for it is 
mistaken economy to save sugar in making preserves; they 
are not good, neither will they keep; and much is wasted by 
boiling up a second time. Long boiling injures the colour 
of preserves, but they must be boiled too long, if there be 
not a sufficiency of sugar allowed to keep them. Let the 
bags and sieves which are used in making jelly, be kept de- 
licately clean; wring them out of hot water the instant be- 
fore you use them. Do not squeeze the bag, or press the 
fruit much, or your jelly will not be clear; this is not waste- 
ful, for the fruit which is left, with a little more fresh fruit 
added to it, will make very nice jam, or black butter, a nice 
and useful preserve. In boiling jams, try a little in a saucer; 
when it cools, if the juice runs off, the jam requires longer 
boiling. 

Some persons use no sugar which is not clarified, but I 
think that, for common preserves, such as are usually made 
in private families, good loaf sugar, not clarified, answers 
every purpose. After the preserve is poured into the jar, 
or pot, in which it is to be kept, let it stand uncovered for 
for two days, then put brandy papers over, and cover with 



PRESERVES. 155 

bladders, or paper, tied down close. Keep them in a dry 
place, or they will become musty, but not in a hot situation, 
or they will dry up, and be utterly spoiled. 

TO BOTTLE RED CURRANTS. 

Cut them carefully from the stalks, so that the skins 
may not be broken, into clean and perfectly dry quart bot- 
tles, adding gradually, as you fill, two ounces of finely-sifted 
loaf sugar; this may be done with a tea-spoon, so that the 
sugar may fall on each layer of currants. Fill the bottles, 
and rosin the corks; and the best plan of keeping them, as 
well as bottled gooseberries, is in a bottle rack, with the 
necks downwards, as they are thus secured from coming in 
contact with damp walls. It succeeds much better than bu- 
rying them in the earth. 

TO BOTTLE GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. 

There are several ways of bottling green gooseberries, 
but the following appears to be the best. Having filled wide- 
mouthed bottles with hairy gooseberries, place them up to 
the neck in a copper of cold water; let the water boil until 
the fruit begins to shrink, or look scalded; then remove the 
fire from under the copper, and let the bottles remain until 
the water becomes cold; then take them out, and fill them 
up with cold spring water, which has been boiled, and pour 
a few drops of salad oil on the top of the water, which will 
remain on the surface and exclude the air. Some persons 
fill the bottle with water before boiling instead of afterwards, 
and cork, rosin, and place in the bottle rack, as directed for 
currants. 
/ 

CRANBERRIES. 

For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. 
Stewed in ajar, with the same; this way they eat well 



156 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, 
and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fe- 
vers. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it 
with a double quantity of cranberry-juice pressed, sweeten 
it, and boil it up; then strain it. into a shape. The sugar 
must be good lump, or the jelly will not be clear. 

CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY. 

Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and, by degrees, 
mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thick- 
en to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your 
taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk 
or cream. 

CRANBERRY TART. 

This tart is made like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- 
berries should be used and well washed; a quarter of a 
pound of sugar is the proper quantity for a quart of cran- 
berries; to this must be added the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve it cold. 

FIGS, TO KEEP ALL THE YEAR FIT FOR USE. 

Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their 
own leaves between them; then boil some water and honey, 
skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick of the 
honey), and pour it warm over the figs; then stop the jar 
very close. When you take out the figs for use, soak them 
for two hours in warm water. 



PRESERVES. 157 



TO PRESERVE GREEN GAGES. 

You must choose the largest, when they begin to soften; 
split without paring them, and having previously weighed 
an equal quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over them; 
blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife; next day, pour 
the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, 
very gently, for six or eight minutes; skim, and add the 
plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum 
that rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the 
syrup and kernels upon it. 

MARMALADE. 

Marmalade may be composed of almost any fruits; the 
best, however, for this purpose are, apricots, peaches, 
oranges, quinces, egg-plums, auples, &c. They are usual- 
ly made by boiling the fruit and sugar together to a kind 
of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire: it is kept 
in pots, which must not be covered till the marmalade is 
quite cold. The proportion of sugar is half a pound to each 
pound of fruit. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Take half a dozen fine pears; peel, cut them in halves, 
and take out the cores: put them into a pan with a little red 
wine, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. 
Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a 
slow fire to stew gently; add grated lemon-peel, and more 
sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; 
pare, quarter, and core it. Put the quinces into a sauce-pan 

with a little water, set them on the fire until they are quite 
14 



158 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain; 
rub them through; weigh the pulp; boil an equal quantity of 
sugar; then add the pulp, stir them together over the fire, 
until it will fall from the spoon like a jelly, the marmalade 
is then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, cover them 
close. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Take four parts of raspberries and one part of red currant 
juice, boil it for fifteen or twenty minutes, with an equal 
weight of sugar. Skim off the dross as it rises. 

Or, use raspberries alone, and no juice. 

BLACK BUTTER. 

This is a very nice preserve to spread on bread, for chil- 
dren, and is made of currants, gooseberries, cherries, rasp- 
berries or strawberries. To every two pounds of fruit, put 
one pound of sugar, and boil, till it is reduced one fourth. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. 

The fruit should be of the fine scarlet kind, and not over 
ripe; have its weight in sifted sugar, and sprinkle half of it 
over the fruit, and let it stand all night. The next day, sim- 
mer it gently with the rest of the sugar, and a little currant 
juice, if you have any, till it will jelly. 

QUINCES. 

Pare the quinces very thin, and put them into a stew-pan; 
cover with their parings, and fill the sauce-pan with hard 
water, set it over a slow fire, and keep the lid close that 
the steam may not escape; when the fruit is tender take 
it out; and then put to one quart of water two pounds and 
a half of lump sugar, and make a clear syrup of it; put 
in the quinces, boil them for ten or twelve minutes, and 



PRESERVES. 159 

set them by for four or five hours; then boii them again, for 
five or six minutes, take them off the fire, and set them by 
two days; boil again, for ten minutes, with the juice of two 
lemons. Let the quinces be quite cold, put them into 
broad pans, so that they stand singly, and pour the syrup 
over them. Cover with brandy papers, and skins over the 
whole. 

Or, cut the quinces in quarters, and to five pounds of fruit, 
put three pounds of sugar, and half a pint of water; lay a 
piece of white paper over them, to keep in the steam, and 
let them simmer gently, for three hours. 

Fruit pastes are made by boiling the fruit with clarified 
sugar to a thick marmalade, then mould it into thin cakes, 
and dry them in a stove. 

PEACHES IN BRANDY. 

Gather peaches before they are quite ripe, prick them 
with a large needle, and rub ofF the down with a piece of 
flannel. Cat a quill and pass it carefully round the stone, 
to loosen it. Put them into a large preserving pan, with 
cold water rather more than enough to cover them, and let 
the water gradually become scalding hot. If the water does 
more than simmer very gently, or if the fire be fierce, the 
fruit will be likely to crack. When they are tender, lift 
them carefully out, and fold them up in flannel, or a soft ta- 
ble cloth, in several folds. Have ready a quart, or more as 
the peaches require, of the best white brandy, and dissolve 
ten ounces of powdered sugar in it. When the peaches are 
cool, put them into a glass jar, and pour the brandy and su- 
gar over them. Cover with leather and a bladder. Apri- 
cots and Plums in the same way. 



160 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 

BARLEY GRUEL. 

TAKE three ounces of pearl barley, of which make a quart 
of barley-water; if it be not white, shift it once or twice; 
put in two ounces of currants clean picked and washed, and 
when they are plumped, pour out the gruel and let it cool 
a little; then put in the yolks of three eggs well beaten, half 
a pint of white wine, and of new thick cream half a pint, 
and lemon peel; then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; 
stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as cream. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a 
quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and 
been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally 
only salt. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Beat up two eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste; boil it gently, 
stirring it all the time till thick enough; take it off the fire 
a very few minutes, then add to it a full quarter of a pint of 
rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is pouring in, 
or it will not be good. 

PANADA. 

Boil some pieces of stale bread in a sufficient quantity of 
cold water to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon- 
peel, and carraways; when the bread is quite soft, press out 
all the water, and beat up the bread with a small piece of 
butter, a little milk, and sugar to the taste; a little spice may 
be added. 

Or, Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 161 

wine, some sugar, a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel; 
meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread: the moment the 
water boils up, put in the bread-crumbs (without taking it 
off the fire,) and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a 
proper consistence, that is, when just of a sufficient thick- 
ness to drink, take it off the fire. 

SAGO. 

Let it soak for an hour in cold water, to take off the 
earthy taste; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more 
water, and simmer gently until the berries are clear, with 
lemon-peel and spice. Add wine and sugar according to 
taste, and boil all up together. 

RECIPE FOR A SORE THROAT. 

Take a glass of olive or S'.veet oil, and half a glass of 
spirits of turpentine: mix them together, and rub the throat 
externally, wearing flannel round it at the same time. It 
proves most effectual when applied early. 

NATURAL DENTIFRICE. 

It is a fact, but not generally known, that the common 
strawberry is a natural dentrifice; and that its juice, without 
any previous preparation whatever, dissolves the tartareous 
incrustations on the teeth, and makes the breath sweet and 
agreeable. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Upon one ounce of pearl barley, after it has been well 
washed in cold water, pour half a pint of boiling water, and 
then boil it for a few minutes; the water must then be 
strained off and thrown away; afterwards a quart of boiling 
water must be poured over the barley; and which should 
then be boiled down to one pint and a quarter, and strained 

14* 



162 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

off. The barley water thus made is clear and mucilagi- 
nous; and when mixed with an equal quantity of good milk 
and a small portion of sugar, is an excellent substitute for 
the mother's milk, when infants are, unfortunately, to be 
brought up by hand. Without milk, it is one of the best 
beverages for all acute diseases, and may have lemon juice, 
raspberry vinegar, apple tea, infusion of tamarinds, or any 
other acidulous substance that is agreeable to the palate of 
the patient, mixed with it. 

GRUEL. 

This farinaceous nutriment may be made either with 
grits or oatmeal. When grits are used, three ounces of 
them, after being very well washed, should be put into two 
quarts of water and boiled very slowly, until the water be 
reduced to one half of the original quantity. During the 
boiling it should be stirred frequently; and, when finished, 
it should be strained through a hair sieve. For oatmeal 
gruel, three ounces of meal must be put into a basin, and 
bruised with the back of the spoon; small quantities of wa- 
ter being successively mixed with it, and each quantity 
poured off into another basin, before more be mixed: and 
this must be continued until about a quart of water has been 
mixed with the oatmeal. The remains of the oatmeal should 
then be thrown away, and the water in which ii was bruised 
is to be boiled for twenty minutes, stirring it the whole of 
the time. 

By either of these methods, a mild, demulcent, agreeable 
nutriment is prepared, which is useful in the same cases in 
which barley water is employed; and it may, likewise, 
be mixed with milk or with any acid substance. Gruel, 
however, is more likely to become sour than barley water, 
and should never be kept longer than forty-eight hours in 
winter and twenty-four in summer. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 163 



ARROW ROOT, 

Forms an excellent nutritive mucilage. Put two tea- 
spoonfuls of the powder into a half-pint basin; mix them 
smooth with a few tea-spoonfuls of cold water, and then let 
another person pour boiling water over the mixture while 
you continue to stir it, until it forms a kind of starchy-look- 
ing substance. 

Arrow root, thus prepared, may be used in the same 
manner as gruel. It is well adapted for the food of infants, 
because it is less liable to ferment than either gruel or bar- 
ley water; and, for the same reason, it is the best fluid nour- 
ishment for those who are afflicted with diseases of indiges- 
tion. As it is very insipid, it requires either milk, or wine, 
or acids, to be mixed with it, whichever may suit the taste 
and the state of habit of the person for whom it is intended. 
It forms an excellent pudding, when prepared like rice, for 
children who are a little beyoncfthe age of infancy. 

DECOCTION OF ICELAND LIVERWORT. 

An ounce of the liverwort must be carefully freed from 
the moss, fragments of stalks, and particles of dirt, with 
which it is frequently mixed, by rubbing it between the 
hands in cold water. Then steep it, for two hours, in such 
a quantity of cold water as will completely cover it; after 
which it must be bruised, pounded, or cut, and the steeping 
continued for three or four hours longer in a fresh quantity 
of boiling water, which, when the steeping is linished, must 
be strained oft* by pressure. The liverwort is then to 
be put into a quart of fresh water, and kept boiling until 
the fluid be reduced two-thirds, or to a pint and a quarter. 
When strained and allowed to cool, it forms a thick muci- 
lage, free from any bitter taste; and may be rendered very 



164 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

palatable by the addition of sugar and lemon juice; or by 
white wine, in those cases which permit the use of wine. 

This decoction of liverwort is an excellent demulcent 
nutriment, in consumption, dysentery and in convalesence 
from acute diseases, and particularly after the hooping cough, 
in which case the bitter need not be completely removed, 
as it tends to invigorate the digestive organs. 

WHITE WINE WHEY. 

To make this whey, put half a pint of milk diluted with 
a quarter of a pint of water into a sauce-pan, which must be 
placed on the fire uncovered. Watch the moment when 
the milk boils, which may be known by the frothing and 
rising up of the milk to the top of the pan; pour into it, at 
that instant, two glasses of white wine, and a tea-spoonful 
of powdered sugar, which should be previously mixed with 
the wine. The curd will immediately form; and, after 
boiling the mixture for a few minutes, may be separated 
from the whey, either by letting it settle at the bottom, and 
then pouring off the whey clear from it, or by straining it 
through a fine sieve. 

BALM, MINT, AND OTHER TEAS. 

These are simple infusions, the strength of which can 
only be regulated by the taste. They are made by putting 
either the fresh or the dried plants into boiling water in a 
covered vessel, which should be placed near the fire for an 
hour. The young shoots both of balm and of mint are to 
be preferred, on account of their stronger aromatic qualities. 
These infusions may be drunk freely in feverish and in 
various other complaints, in which diluents are recommend- 
ed. Mint tea, made with the fresh leaves, is useful in al- 
laying nausea and vomiting. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 165 



BEEF TEA, 

Is too frequently prepared, by simply boiling a piece of 
beef in a given quantity of water; J?ut by this method it gene- 
rally resembles gravy soup more than beef tea, and is then 
unfit for the use of the sick. To make it properly, cut half 
a pound of good lean beef into very thin slices; spread the 
slices in a hollow dish, and having poured over them a pint 
and a half of boiling water, cover up the dish, and place it 
near the fire for half an hour, and then boil it over a quick 
fire for about eight minutes. The tea, after having the scum 
taken off, should stand for ten minutes, after which it is to 
be poured off clean, and seasoned with a little salt. 

Beef tea thus made is a light and pleasant dilnent, and 
very useful when the bowels and stomach are in a weak and 
irritable state. When used as a food for infants, it should 
always be prepared in this manner; and nothing answers 
better as a breakfast, for those who are habitually sick in a 
morning, either from a redundance of bile, intemperance, 
or other causes. 

VEAL TEA, 

Is prepared in the same manner as beef tea; and may be 
used under similar circumstances. 



CHICKEN TEA, 

Is prepared by cutting, in small pieces, a chicken, from 
which the skin and fat have been removed; and then boiling 
the pieces, for twenty minutes, in a quart of water, with 
the addition of a little salt. The tea should be poured from 
the meat before it is quite cold. It is useful in the same 
cases as beef and veal tea. 



166 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



TOAST AND WATER, 

May be made by pouring over toasted bread either a 
pint of cold or boiling water. In the latter mode it should 
be made some hours before it is wanted, that it may have 
time to become perfectly cool. 

ISINGLASS JELLY. 

In cases of extreme debility, isinglass is sometimes 
ordered to be taken in small quantities. An ounce, when 
dissolved in a pint of boiling water, forms, when cold, a 
light jelly, a tea-spoonful of which may be mixed with tea, 
or milk and water. A very pleasant beverage may, also, 
be made of orange juice and water, with the addition of 
the isinglass jelly. A lady, after being reduced to ex- 
treme weakness by a severe illness, and being incapable of 
taking any thing solid, recovered her strength, although 
by very slow degrees, with but little more nourishment 
than what the isinglass, given to her in every liquid she 
drank, afforded her. From this case, it would appear to 
be an excellent corroborant; but medical men think, that 
jellies are less nutritive than they are generally supposed 
to be by those who are not of the profession. 

CALVES' FEET BROTH. 

Boil three feet in four quarts of water, with a little salt: 
it should boil up first, and then simmer, till the liquor is 
wasted one half: strain and put it by. This may be 
warmed (the fat having been taken off,) a tea-cupful at a 
time, with either white or port wine, and is very nourish- 
ing for an invalid. 

Or, The feet may be boiled with two ounces of lean veal, 
the same of beef, half of a penny roll, a blade or two of mace, 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 167 

a little salt and nutmeg, in about four quarts of water: when 
well boiled, strain it, and take off the fat. 

BREAD JELLY. 

Take a two-penny roll, pare off all the crust, and cut 
the crumb into slices, toast these slices on both sides, of a 
light brown. Have ready a quart of water that has boiled, 
and become cold, put the slices of bread into it, and let it 
boil gently until the liquor becomes a jelly, which you will 
ascertain, by putting some in a spoon to cool. Then strain 
it through a thin cloth, and put it by for use. When to be 
taken, warm a tea-cupful, and put to it a little sugar, a little 
grated lemon peel, and wine or milk as you choose; if for 
children, the latter \vould be preferable. This jelly is of 
so strengthening a nature that one spoonful contains more 
nourishment than a tea-cup of any other jelly. 

A MUTTON CUSTARD, FOR A COUGH. 

Into a pint of good skim milk, shred two ounces of fresh 
mutton suet, and let it come to a boil, and then simmer 
gently, for an hour, stirring it from time to time. Strain, 
and take it at bed time. This is an old-fashioned remedy, 
but very good for tightness on the chest. 



CORDIALS. 

NOYEAU. 

IN some cordials the flavouring article should be first 
mixed with the syrup; in others the sugar should be dis- 
solved in an infusion of the flavouring substance; and in 



168 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

others, this substance should be first mixed with the 
spirit. The last-mentioned is the way in which we make 
noyeau. 

Take half a pound of bitter almonds and the thinly pre- 
pared rind of a fine lemon; blanch the almonds and shred 
the lemon peel into small bits; put them together into a 
mortar, and bruise them to as fine a powder as possible; 
put the powder into a gallon stone bottle, and add two quarts 
of diluted spirits of wine (a quart of spirits of wine, and a 
quart of water.) Cork the bottle particularly well; make a 
point of shaking it thoroughly once every day, and at the end 
of a week it will be ready for the next stage of the process. 
Now make a syrup of two pounds of lump sugar to a quart 
of water; let it stand till cold, and then pour it into a bottle; 
mix the whole well by shaking the bottle, and let it stand 
another week. Now strain the liquor from the almond 
powder, &c., and filter the liquor through white blotting- 
paper; a common funnel will do for the purpose, putting a 
a few slips of wood down the inside of the funnel. To 
make the filter, take a sheet of blotting paper, square it, put 
corner to corner and double it again; the slips of wood pre- 
vent the paper from adhering closely to the sides of the 
funnel, and in that way accelerate the process. The 
noyeau is now ready for bottling: it should be most care- 
fully corked. It may be drunk directly; but it ought not to 
be used for at least two months; and it will not have 
reached its perfection in less than a year: indeed, it will 
go on improving for many years. Noyeau, thus made, 
has deceived the best and nicest judges, and is really 
scarcely inferior to that which is imported. 

The same method of procedure, as that given above for 
the preparation of noyeau, serves to make two other most 
delicate and grateful liqueurs. Lemon and cinnamon cordial, 



CORDIALS. 169 

are made in this way; these luxurious potations are ob- 
tained in a state of perfection greatly superior to any that 
can be bought for money. The way of making them, 
usually advised in the books, is to use the essential oil of 
lemon peel, or of cassia. (The oil of real cinnamon is not 
so easily to be obtained, as is commonly imagined: that of 
cassia is almost always substituted for it, or it is adulterated 
largely with the oil of cassia and cassia is a poor substi- 
tute for cinnamon. We have repeatedly made cordials in 
this way; and our account of these seducing liquors would 
hardly be perfect, did we not mention the mode that we 
followed. We use the past tense, because we now never 
adopt it. 

Take oil of peppermint, or of lemon-peel, or of cassia 
(as one or other of these liqueurs is wanted) a drachm. 
Drop the oil on a few lumps of loaf-sngar in a mortar, 
pound, and mix intimately the oil and the sugar; add gradu- 
ally twelve ounces of spirits of wine, mixing the whole well 
together. Dissolve twelve ounces of lump sugar in three 
quarters of a pint of water; bring the syrup to the boil; let 
it cool, add it to the spirit; shake the whole well; and bottle. 

LEMON CORDIAL LEMON BRANDY. 

Take eight fine lemons, having a clear and unspotted skin 
and a rough surface. Pare the rind off very thin; divide 
it into small shreds; put it into a bottle; add a pint of spirits 
of wine a dozen blanched and bruised bitter almonds are a 
judicious addition; cork the bottle; let it stand six days. 
Make a syrup of a pound of treble-refined sugar; bring it 
to the boil; let it cool; pour it into the bottle; shake the 
whole well; let it stand six days more; filter through blot- 
ting-paper; and the cordial is made. So prepared, it is 
perfectly clear, and of a fine delicate lemon colour. It will 
15 



170 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

be ready for drinking in a few weeks, but will be greatly 
the better for being kept longer. 

CINNAMON CORDIAL. 

Take an ounce of the finest cinnamon; bruise it in a 
mortar, put it into a bottle, and add a pint of spirits of wine. 
Now proceed exactly as is done in making lemon brandy, 
excepting that it will be well to strain through fine muslin, 
before filtering through blotting-paper, as the cinnamon 
clogs up the filter, and greatly retards the process. 

GINGER CORDIAL. 

Take two ounces of the very best ground ginger: put 
it into a large earthen vessel (a stew-pot}; pour on it two 
quarts of cold water; stir well with a clean stick, or a 
silver spoon; put the vessel into the oven of the common 
kitchen range; when it begins to simmer, stir again; and 
when it boils open the oven door; and let it continue to 
simmer gently for six hours, occasionally stirring it, 
then take it out of the oven, and cover it up. The next 
day, put it into the oven again for six hours, stirring 
it every now and then. Take it out; let it stand to cool, 
and when cold pour off the clearer liquor, for most of 
the ginger will have fallen to the bottom. There should be 
a quart of liquor; if there is more, the simmering must be 
continued longer; if less, water should be added to make up 
the deficiency. Now dissolve in the quart of ginger water 
two pounds of treble-refined lump sugar: bring it to the boil; 
add to it when cold a quart of spirits of wine; stir the whole 
well together; and filter. When bitter almonds are not 
thought objectionable, the addition of a few to the spirits 
of wine, some few days before it is added to the ginger 
syrup, will be found an improvement. This cordial has a 
little but not much colour. It should be kept longer than 



ESSENCES. 171 

most of the others; but in six months it will be in tolerable 
condition. 



ESSENCES. 

ESSENCE OF GINGER. 

PUT three oz. of fresh grated ginger, and 1 oz. of thinly 
cut lemon peel into a quart of brandy, and let it stand ten 
days, not forgetting to shake it every day. 

ESSENCE OF ALLSPICE. 

Of oil of pimento, 1 drachm, strong spirit of wine, 2 oz. 
mix these together by degrees, and a few drops will give 
the flavour of allspice to a pint of either gravy or mulled 
wine. 

ESSENCE OF NUTMEG, CLOVE OR MACE. 

Have 2 oz. of the strongest spirit of wine, and put into 
it 1 drachm of either nutmeg, clove or mace. A few drops 
will give sufficient flavour. 

ESSENCE OF CINNAMON. 

Two oz. of strong spirits of wine, and 1 drachm of oil 
of cinnamon. 

ESSENCE OF SEVILLE ORANGE, AND LEMON PEEL. 

Rub lump sugar on the lemon or orange, till it is quite 
saturated with the rind, then scrape the sugar so saturated, 
into the jar you keep it in, and rub the rind again, and 
so on, till you have enough; press the sugar down close, 
and keep it for use. This imparts a very nice flavour to 
custards and puddings. Tincture of lemon peel is made 
by paring the peel very nicely, and steeping it in brand. y 



172 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



FLOWERS. 

IT is not nnfrequent to ornament rooms with artificial 
flowers; yet these, however beautiful, have no odour: but 
a cheap and elegant substitute may be found by taking nat- 
ural flowers in bloom, and dipping them in alcohol, or 
strong spirits of wine, for about a quarter of an hour; after 
which the colour will appear to have entirely faded. As 
they become dry, however, they may be arranged for the 
beaupots, when it will be found that their colours will re- 
vive, and their odour will be prolonged much beyond the 
usual time. 

Most flowers begin to droop and fade after being kept 
during twenty-four hours in water; a few may be revived 
by substituting fresh water; but all (the most fugacious such 
as the poppy, and perhaps one or two others excepted) may 
be completely restored by the use of hot water. For this 
purpose, place the flowers in scalding water, deep enough 
to cover about one-third of the length of the stem: by the 
time the water has become cold, the flowers will have 
become erect and fresh; then cut off the end of the stems, 
and put them into cold water. It may be added, that a few 
grains of salt dropped into the water in which flowers are 
kept, preserves them greatly from fading, keeping them in 
bloom double the period that pure water will. 

We have seen another ingenious method of preserving 
flowers throughout the winter, which may serve as a cheap 
and pleasing mode of decoration. The plan is to pluck the 
flowers when half blown, and to put them in an earthen ves- 
sel with a close cover, immersing them, with the stalks 
downwards, in a mixture of water and verjuice, of each 
equal parts, sprinkled with a small portion of bay salt. The 
vessel must be well closed up and kept in a warm place, 
safe from the action of frost; and then, on the coldest day 



FLOWERS. 173 

in winter, nothing more is necessary than to take them out, 
wash them in fair water, and hold them before a gentle fire, 
when they will open as if in all their vernal bloom. 

As the flowering of bulbous roots is always an agreeable 
decoration of the drawing-room in winter, it may be amus- 
ing to state an easy method of encouraging it rapidly even in 
the coldest weather. Take three ounces of nitre, one ounce 
of common salt, half an ounce of potash, half an ounce of 
sugar, and dissolve them in a pint of rain-water. Keep your 
o-lasses near the fire. Change the water every ten or 



twelve days; and each time put in about half a tea-spoonful 
of this mixture. 

MANAGEMENT OF PLANTS IN ROOMS. 

To treat on the proper management of plants in houses is 
a subject attended with considerable difficulty; every genus 
requiring some variation, both in soil, water, and general 
treatment. If the room where the plants are intended to be 
placed is dark and close, but few will ever thrive in it; if, 
on the contrary, it is light and airy, with the windows in a 
suitable aspect to receive the sun, plants will do nearly as 
well as in a green-house. But if they are observed to suf- 
fer, the effects may generally be traced to one of the four 
following causes: Want of proper light and air injudi- 
cious watering filthiness collected on the leaves or, being 
potted in unsuitable soil. 

1st. Want of proper Light and Mr, is perhaps the 
most essential point of any to be considered; for, however 
well all other requisites are attended to, a deficiency in either 
of these will cause the plants to grow weak and sickly. 

J 

Let them always be placed as near the light as they can con- 
veniently stand, and receive -as much air as can be admitted, 
when the weather will allow. Indeed those persons who 
have no other conveniency than the house to keep them in 

15* 



174 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

will find that they derive immense advantage from being, 
during fine weather, in spring and autumn, turned out of 
doors in the evening, and taken in again in the morning 
the night-dews contributing greatly to their health and 
vigour. 

2d. Injurious Watering does more injury to plants in 
rooms than many persons imagine. To prevent the soil 
ever having a dry appearance is an object of importance in 
the estimation of very many; they therefore water to such 
an excess that the mould becomes sodden, and the roots con- 
sequently perish. Others, to avoid this evil, run exactly 
into the opposite extreme, and scarcely give sufficient to 
sustain life. This, however, is by no means so common a 
practice as that of giving too much; for in general, if any 
thing appears to be the matter with the plants, large doses 
of water are immediately resorted to; and if recovery is not 
speedy, this nostrum is again administered, with but little 
doubt of its infallible restorative powers: but such persons 
like an unskilful physician who gluts the weakly stomach 
of his patient, only hasten on what they are trying to pre- 
vent. This overplus of water will show its bad effects by 
the very dark colour and flabby disposition of the leaves; 
and if the plant receives too little, the leaves will turn yel- 
low, and eventually die. 

The best plan is, always to allow the soil in the pot to have 
the appearance of dryness, (but never sufficient to make the 
plant flag,) before a supply of water is iven, which should 
then be pretty copious; but always empty it out of the pan 
or feeder in which the pot stands, as soon as the soil is pro- 
perly drained. The water used for the purpose ought always 
to be made about the same temperature as the room in which 
the plants grow never use it fresh from the pump either 
let it stand in a warm room all night, or take off the chill 
by adding a little warm water to it, or the growth of the 
plants will be much checked. 



FLOWERS. 



175 



3d. Filthiness collected on the Leaves, may either 
arise from insects, or dust; the former may be speedily 
remedied, by placing the plants under a hand-glass, or any 
thing that is convenient, and burning some tobacco until 
they become well enveloped in the smoke; and the latter 
may be removed by occasionally washing them on the head 
with pure water, either by means of a syringe, the rose of 
a watering-pan, or with a sponge, when the filth still 
adheres. 

4th. Being Potted in Unsuitable Soil, is by far the 
most difficult part of the business to rectify, for no certain 
line can be drawn, unless each genus was treated on sepa- 
rately; which cannot be done in a book like the present. 

Bulbs of most sorts flourish in rooms with less care than 
most other kinds of plants. Hyacinths should be planted 
in autumn. In preparing pots for them, select such as are 
about four inches deep and three inches wide, put a little 
rotten dung in each pot, fill each pot up with light rich soil, 
and plant the bulbs so shallow that nearly half the bulb 
stands above the soil; plunge the pots in the open air, and 
cover them six or eight inches deep with rotten bark. 
During spring take them out as they are wanted to bring 
into flower, and set them in the window of a warm room 
where they will be fully exposed to the sun. Those who 
do not possess a garden may set the pots in a cellar or out- 
house, or in the corner of a yard, and cover them with light 
soil or sand until they are wanted to bring into the room to 
flower. When the leaves begin to decay after they have 
done flowering give them no water; when the leaves are 
dead, take them out of the soil and remove the offsets, 
and lay 'them in an airy situation until the time of planting. 

If grown in water glasses, they require to be placed in 
a light airy situation, and the water will require to be 
changed once in three or four days. If drawn up weakly, 



176 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK, 

it will be necessary to support the stems with sticks, split 
at the bottom so as to fit on the edge of the glasses at the 
top. This, however, will not be necessary if they be kept 
in a light and airy situation. When out of flower, plant 
them in pots of soil to perfect their leaves, and treat them 
as above; they will then flower again the succeeding year. 



PRESERVATION OF PLATE. 

CLEANING PLATE. 

IN establishments in which a butler's pantry and a foot- 
man are to be found, the plate is of course well attended to; 
but in families where it is left to the care of a female ser- 
vant, who has multifarious occupations daily to be de- 
spatched, unless a regulation be made and insisted upon, 
the plate that is in constant use will be very soon bruised 
and scratched, and in its appearance will more resemble tin 
or " queen's metal," than silver. The best plan is to pro- 
vide a wicker basket with three compartments in it, and 
the handle in the middle. One will contain the smaller 
spoons and forks; the other will hold the salt-cellars, mus- 
tard-pot, &c., and the third will receive the soup-ladle, fish- 
slice, gravy-spoons, &c. With even one servant this plate 
may be kept in excellent condition by a little care. It 
should never be left in the kitchen, or any other part acces- 
sible to strangers; a sideboard drawer, or inner closet in a 
store-room, would be desirable. A japanned tray also, 
should be provided, with a clean knife- cloth at the bottom; 
and before the dishes are removed at dinner time, every 
spoon that has been used, should be laid upon the cloth in 
the tray, and be set away in a kitchen drawer, until the tea 
things are washed in the evening; this regulation will insure 



FLOWERS. 177 

their not being tossed into the dish-tub, to be scratched and 
shuffled about among the plates and dishes; and most proba- 
bly, from being emptied away into any receptacle for hog- 
wash, or down a drain, &c. A servant should also be in- 
structed to wash spoons one at a time, and not to take them 
up, several together in the hand, like a bundle of quills. 

The best material for cleaning plate that is in constant use 
is soap and water, with a soft cloth: if a dark tarnished spot 
should appear, a little damp whitening on a small brush will 
soon remove it. For plate that has long lain by, liquor- 
castors, cruet-stands, &c., first wash it with the incompara- 
ble soap and water, and if needful (in consequence of tar- 
nish), smear it all over with whitening and spirits of wine, 
or common gin, set it to dry, and then brush it off. Decan- 
ter-stands, and other articles which must not be washed, on 
account of the varnished satin wood, and green baize, should 
be subjected to the latter treatment only. 

The best plate powder is the purest whiting; because it is 
soft, and is not a metallic preparation, as rouge is, and other 
advertised plate powders; these act upon the silver, and wear 
it rapidly away. The only objection to whiting is, that it 
gives the plate a poor and white appearance, whereas the 
huejhat is imparted to it by rouge , is that dark and steel-like 
surface, at once so beautiful and rich. 

After the plate has been washed with hot water, rub it 
over with a mixture of levigated hartshorn and spirits of tur- 
pentine, which is the best preparation I have known for 
cleansing plate and renewing its polish. Remember, that 
two good-sized leathers are required for cleaning plate, one 
of which should be kept for rubbing off the hartshorn-pow- 
der, and the other for polishing up the silver afterwards. 
This process should be performed twice a week; but on 
other days, merely rubbing with the leathers, after washing, 
will be sufficient. I have never seen any plate look better 
than that which is cleaned according to this direction, and 



178 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

there is nothing- in the ingredients I have mentioned that can 
in the least injure the silver, which is sometimes the case 
with the nostrums that servants employ. The only thing 
to be strictly regarded by the servant who uses it, is to rub 
it off so well that the plate shall not retain the slightest 
smell of the turpentine. The turpentine is useful in remo- 
ving every particle of greasiness from the plate, which mere 
washing will not do. I have seen some plate cleaned with 
muriatic acid, which gives a very high polish, but also a 
deep colour to the plate, almost resembling steel. The harts- 
horn and turpentine give as good a polish as the acid, with- 
out injuring or changing the colour of the silver. 

Many people still prefer whiting and water, which cleans 
tolerably well, but does not renew the polish. When silver 
has, through neglect, become very dim and dirty -looking, it 
is necessary to boil it in soap and water for some little time, 
and afterwards the turpentine and hartshorn-powder can 
be used to great advantage. 



PRESERVATION OF BEDS, CARPETS, &c. 

FURS and woollen cloths are preserved in the same way; 
and if a house is much infested with moths, the parcels 
should be put into a cool oven, or hot closet, every three or 
four weeks for a night, and then be opened, and every arti- 
cle well shaken, and replaced; it is very important to keep 
them in a dry cool place. General neatness, however, is 
the greatest enemy to these troublesome insects, and be fre- 
quently clearing out wardrobes and drawers, all such intru- 
ders are disturbed. It is well to expose to the air (but not 
the sun) and thoroughly shake any stocks of linen or woollen 
clothes which are lying out of use. As bugs have be- 
come so general a nuisance, it is necessary to observe that 



PRESERVATION OF BEDS, CARPETS, &C. 179 

much care and attention are required to exterminate them. 
This may be done by taking the bedsteads entirely asun- 
der, and washing every part of them with a strong solution 
of corrosive sublimate; if they infest the walls, the paper 
should be removed, and the walls washed with the same 
preparation before repapering them; and in inveterate cases, 
the floor should be painted all round the skirting board to 
the extent of about four inches. As the corrosive sublimate 
is a strong poison, the bottle containing it should be so 
marked, and a caution given to whoever applies it. Per- 
haps the cheapest preparation is a solution of the sublimate 
in spirit of turpentine, with the addition of water; the pow- 
erful smell of the turpentine will tend to further the object 
in view. It is a bad plan to nail carpets down in bed-rooms; 
the dust occasioned by sweeping them on the floor injures 
the furniture, and prevents the frequent scrubbing oi the 
floor, which is so essential to health and cleanliness; they 
should be of a convenient size for taking up, and beating 
very frequently. 

As winter approaches, it is impossible to be too careful 
in keeping spare beds and blankets properly aired. In damp 
weather, a bed which has been unoccupied for three suc- 
cessive nights, is unfit for the use of a delicate person, or 
indeed, of any one; if they cannot be put under the occu- 
pied beds of the house, a cleanly servant should sleep in 
them alternately. A state bed, above all things, should be 
avoided, for it is only at the hazard of life or health that it 
can ever be used. A hospitable and judicious housewife 
will always keep a pair of sheets aired in case a friend 
should unexpectedly drop in late in the evening, when there 
would nojt be time to do it thoroughly^ In damp houses a 
chafing-dish of coals should occasionally be put into spare 
bed-rooms, leaving the doors open for the damp air to escape. 

It is advisable, on account of neatness, and consequently 



J80 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

of economy, to provide bed-covers, to be laid over the beds 
when the rooms are being swept. The quantity of dust 
which settles on other articles of furniture will convince 
those who observe it that a due proportion will fall on the 
bed-cover; and, in the absence of this neat appendage to a 
housemaid's paraphernalia, on the counterpane or quilt. A 
half-tidy, and much more troublesome method is sometimes 
adopted, that of turning the counterpane wrong side out- 
wards, on the occasion of sweeping; but this is objectionable, 
if only in consequence of the dust that must be unnecessari- 
ly communicated to the blanket. A bed-cover may be made 
of any slight material our own is ofmatress ticking, which 
is cheap and preferable to any other article for the purpose. 
In turning sheets, &c., a knife or scissors should never be 
used to cut open the seams, as is too commonly done, for 
the edges are almost inevitably cut from time to time. 
Though picking out the stitches with a pin appears a tedi- 
ous process, it will in the end prove shorter than the other 
plan, which involves the necessity of hemming the edges as 
well as pulling out the ends of cut thread. 

When roller-blinds become a little worn, it is a good plan 
to turn the top to the bottom, and, by adding a false hem at 
the top, the worn part may be cut off without unduly short- 
ening the blind. 

BROOMS. 

The brooms of a domicile are of various sorts; and, like 
every other article of domestic utility, of various qualities; 
nor are the best kinds to be ascertained by young housekeep- 
ers by intuition, neither should servants be intrusted with 
the commission to purchase them. Shopkeepers are not al- 
ways honest if servants are; and the less collison that is al- 
lowed, or even hazarded between them on all occasions, the 
more advantageous it will be to a mistress. Experience 



PRESERVATION OF BEDS, CARPETS, &C. 181 

alone, in the matter of brooms, can determine the good qua- 
lities and comparative merits of these essentials to our house- 
hold comfort. 

We will begin with the carpet-broom, that darling vehi- 
cle of a housemaid in her daily work of destruction to the 
beautiful woofs which grace our floors. With what regret 
have we listened to the tearing noise of one of these vile 
bundles of harsh rushes scratching up the nap, under the 
strong arm and ruthless vigour of a servant! These gay 
brooms, begirt with gilded crimson leather, are one of the 
most expensive articles in a house; for they not only destroy 
the carpets, even when quite new, but they quickly wear 
down; and, in that state of stubborn jagged twigs, a stable 
broom could commit little less havoc. The best brush for 
our carpeted floors is a long handled one, with rounded 
ends, the hairs very stiff, and about as long as those in a 
clothes brush. This, at all events, will suffice for the pur- 
pose six days out of the seven; so that only once a week, 
instead of every day, the use of the genuine carpet broom 
may be permitted. Two house-brooms should always be 
provided, one for the sleeping apartments (which should be 
kept up stairs), and one for the kitchen; and these, indeed 
all brooms, should have round ends; we deprecate those 
which are usually seen with ends sharp and square, that 
seem to have been invented expressly to chip the paint from 
the skirting boards. 

CARPETS. 

When carpets are taken up to be beaten, it is a usual, 
though erroneous plan, to have them dragged over a grass 
plot, in order to " brighten their colours." No green sward 
at this time of the year can be in a fit state for such an ex- 
pedient; and injury from the mud and worm-casts will be 
16 



182 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

the inevitable consequence. A carpet should be suspended 
on a stout line, between two trees; or if that be impractica- 
ble, on a set of palings; and beaten on the wrong side, by 
three, four, or even six persons, (according to the size of it,) 
each person having a pliable stick, with the end of it tied 
round strongly with cloth, so as to form a nob, in order to 
prevent the carpet from being frayed, or the seams split by 
the sharp edge of the stick; which is too often a conse- 
quence if the stick be unguarded. When thoroughly beat- 
en on the wrong, it must be turned on the right side, and 
again be subjected to the same treatment. When bed rooms 
are not covered entirely with carpeting, it is usual to have 
"bed-round carpets," mitred at the corners. This mitring 
is an improvement on the old fashion of three straight pie- 
ces, (the longest bit at the feet,) but when a bed-round car- 
pet is mitred, it is very difficult to shake, requiring two or 
three persons, besides the certainty of splitting the seams. 
It is, therefore, desirable to make an alteration that shall 
obviate the inconvenience, without spoiling the pretty finish 
which the mitred corners produce. This is effected by hav- 
ing the carpets cut out as if to be mitred; but, instead of 
joining the corners, let them be finished off with binding, 
the same as the ends, and left open. When laid down, 
they will present exactly the same appearance, and the in- 
convenience of the joined corners will be obviated. 

CLEANING BEDS. 

A decoction of bitter apple, about sixpenny worth in a 
pint of water, is an easy and simple preventive to the in- 
crease of these insects. Crevices in walls, and the joinings 
between the boards in floors, ought to be rubbed over three 
or four times with a small brush dipped in the decoction. 



WASHIING. 183 



TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

Mix ox gall and water; rub the carpet with a flannel 
dipped into the mixture, then rub dry with a linen cloth. It 
has occurred for carpets to shrink after being thus wetted; 
therefore the safest way is to let it be securely fastened to 
the floor. 



WASHING. 

IN all large " washes," the linen, and especially cotton 
stockings, should be put to soak over night; both soap and 
labour are thus saved. You should always provide your 
washers with little wooden bowls to throw their soap into, 
which will prevent their letting it stand in the water wast- 
ing; make also a proper flannel " blue-bag," and let it be a 
rule that this and the bowls shall be delivered up after the 
wash, that they may be set aside in readiness for another 
occasion. 

It is a very bad plan to allow clothes to remain long dirty; 
in large families, three weeks should be the longest space 
between the washes, for not only are the clothes injured, 
but more soap and labour are required to get them clean. 

In washing flannels, prepare a lather expressly of soft 
water, soap, and a good deal of blue. Do not rinse them 
after the lather, but wring them as dry as possible, shake 
them and hang them out. Flannel should be scalded before 
it is made up, since it will shrink in the first washing. To 
remove the starch or " dressing" from new Irish linen, it 
should be put to soak in cold water overnight, and be scald- 
ed next morning. Silk of almost any colour may be washed 



184 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

by putting it in soak for a night in cold soft water (for black 
silk add some blue), the next day wash it out, wring it as 
dry as you can, and wipe off the wet that remains with a 
soft cloth; then mangle or iron it* 

WASHING WITH SODA. 

Four ounces of Sub-Carbonate of Soda. Half a pound of 
Soap cut in small pieces four pails of water. Put the 
clothes in soak over night. In the morning, put the above 
quantities together. When the water is boiling hot, wring 
out the clothes, put them into the kettle and let them boil 
one hour. Take them out and wash them through warm 
water, and rinse them through cold water. This does not 
answer for flannels or coloured clothes but it makes white 
clothes very clear and white without the labour of rubbing 
them and is of course more economical. 

The soda can be bought by the pound for twenty-five 
cents. 

WASHING MUSLIN DRESSES, &C. 

In washing muslin dresses, the colours may be preven- 
ted from running by the following method: take out all the 
gathers at the tops of the sleeves and at the waist; wash the 
dress quickly in the usual way, but with the water cool; as 
soon as it is rinsed, rool it smoothly in a sheet, and leave it 
till dry. 

The texture of those beautiful French thread stockings 
and gloves, which have obtained the supremacy over those 
of silk, is so delicate, that peculiar care is requisite in the 
method of washing them. The following is the most ap- 
proved. A lather of cold water is to be made in a sauce- 
pan; the stockings are to be well soaped and placed in it 
over the fire. When they have boiled take them out; and, 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 185 

having made a fresh cold lather, let them again boil. If this 
simple process be well performed, the stockings and gloves, 
on being a second time removed, will require little more 
than rinsing. Thus, the fabric is uninjured by rubbing, a 
bad plan that destroys our stockings much more rapidly 
than we can wear them out. When silk stockings have 
been nicely washed and coloured, instead of mangling they 
should be stretched on a board and rubbed on the right side 
with clean flannel till dry; when mangled, they often have a 
watered appearance. Laces, nets, and clear muslins, should 
not be ironed upon the ironing blanket; but a piece of soft 
linen should be laid over the blanket to prevent the starch 
from taking up the nap of wool and giving a thick appear- 
ance to the lace. Silk dresses, gauze ribands, &c., will wear 
clean longer, especially in London, if well rubbed now and 
then with a clean soft cloth, not linty (an old pocket-hand- 
kerchief answers the purpose admirably). 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

RECIPE FOR TAKING WAX OUT OF CLOTH. 

HOLD a red hot iron (a poker will do) steadily within an 
inch or so of the cloth, and in a few minutes the wax will 
wholly evaporate; then rub the cloth with some whitish 
brown paper to remove any mark that may remain, 

DELICIOUS SALINE DRAUGHTS. 

Carbonate of soda and white sugar, of each twenty grains; 
lemon or tartaric acid, twenty -five grains; mix with water, 
in two glasses, as usual. If you substitute a half lemon for 
the acid, it is still nicer. 

16* 



186 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



CURE FOR THE RHEUMATISM. 

Mix well together one quarter of an ounce of ether and 
an ounce of amber oil. Rub the part affected first with a 
flannel, till quite warm, then with the hand; rub on a little 
of the mixture, and cover it with a warm flannel. Repeat 
the application twice a-day till cured. 

RECENT COLD. 

A tea-spoonful of sal-volatile, taken in a small quantity 
of water or white wine whey at bed time, is a good remedy 
for a recent cold. Bathing the nose in warm water is also 
a great relief. 

RECIPE FOR THE STING OF A WASP, BEE, OR OTHER INSECT. 

Wet the part stung, and rub a piece of indigo upon it, 
which will instantly remove the pain. 

TO GET RID OF THE STING OF A NETTLE OR OTHER 

VEGETABLE. 

Rub the part affected with balm, rosemary, mint, or any 
other aromatic herb, and the smart will at once cease. 

RECIPE FOR BURNS. 

For a burn by vitriol or by any similar cause, apply the 
white of eggs, mixed with powdered chalk, and lay it over 
the parts burnt with a feather, and it will afford immediate 
relief. We have seen this tried most successfully to a 
child who had accidently taken some vitriol into its mouth. 

TO EFFACE SPOTS OF GREASE FROM SILKS. 

The recipes for this are very numerous, and, with one ex- 
ception, are all objectionable or ineffectual. Turpentine 
will extract the grease but will form an edge wherever it is 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 187 

applied: ether fails to touch either the spot or the remains 
of the turpentine: French chalk absorbs the offending mat- 
ter, but leaves a muddy or dull appearance, that is almost 
as unsightly as the grease. Advertised remedies (all of 
them, however, which have fallen under our observation,) 
whether in the form of ball, cake, or liquid, equally fail, 
however carefully applied. The only safe and really infalli- 
ble method of extracting grease spots from silks (of even the 
most delicate hues,) is the following, which should be ap- 
plied as soon after the discovery of the injury as possible, 
in order that no further mischief may be caused by dust or 
dirt settling on the grease. Hold the part firmly, to prevent 
the silk from being creased; then with a clean soft white 
cloth (an old cambric pocket handkerchief is the best mate- 
rial) rub the spot very briskly, but not with sufficient vio- 
lence to fray the silk; change the portions of the handker- 
chief frequently; the silk may be held to the fire to assist 
the operation, but this is not needful. In the course of a 
minute or two the spot will have entirely disappeared. 
This we know to be effectual. 

TO POLISH MAHOGANY TABLES. 

Grate very small a quarter of an ounce of white soap; 
put it into a new glazed earthen vessel with a pint of waterj 
hold it over the fire till the soap is dissolved; then add the 
same quantity of white wax cut into small pieces, and three 
ounces of common wax. As soon as the whole is incor- 
porated it is fit for use. When used, clean the table well, 
dip a bit of flannel in the varnish when ivarm, and rub it 
on the table; let it stand a quarter of an hour, then apply a 
hard brush in all directions and finish with a bit of clean 
dry flannel. This will produce a gloss like a mirror; and, 
to those who dislike the smell of turpentine or oil, will be 
found very useful. 



188 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



IRON MOULDS. 

Spirit of salt, oxalic acid, salt of lemons, are the usual 
applications to extract those unsightly stains; and as they 
are all so much of the same nature, that, unless great cau- 
tion be used in their applications, the article will drop into 
holes, it becomes every mistress of a family to consider 
whether such a risk should be left to a laundress, or whether 
she be not the more likely person to effect a perfect appli- 
cation, as she must or ought to have her own interests at 
heart, more strongly than a person wholly indifferent to 
her. The only caution requisite, is to rinse the article 
thoroughly after the application. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Pound very finely a quarter of a pound of whitening and 
a small quantity of stone blue; dissolve in a little water one 
ounce of soda, and mix the above ingredients carefully to- 
gether with a quarter of a pound of soft soap. Put the 
whole into an earthen pipkin, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour on a slow fire, carefully stirring it. Then, when 
quite hot, lay it with a brush upon the marble, and let it 
remain on half an hour. Wash it off with warm water, 
flannel, and scrubbing-brush, and wipe it dry. 

TO MAKE BLACKING. 

Three ounces of ivory black; two ounces of treacle; half 
an ounce of vitriol; half an ounce of sweet oil; quarter of a 
pint of vinegar, and three quarters of a pint of water. Mix 
the oil, treacle, and ivory black gradually to a paste; then 
add the vitriol, and by degrees, the vinegar and water. It 
will produce a beautiful polish. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 189 



OIL FOR FURNITURE. 

For polishing mahogany furniture, we would mention, 
and recommend the following it is simply cold drawn 
linseed oil. The property of this oil differs from that of 
most other oleaginous fluids; essential oils, as those of cin- 
namon, cloves, &c, are pungent; that of others is soft and 
lubricating, as olive, palm, gallipoli, neatsfoot. But linseed 
oil possesses more particularly a tendency to harden and 
become solid, on long exposure to the air. It is this pecu- 
liar quality that is taken advantage of in its application to 
furniture; and which, with a little patience, and no hard 
rubbing, will produce a varnish far superior in durability, 
beauty, and usefulness to French polish, or any mixture 
for the purpose, which we have ever seen; and we believe 
that there is scarcely one which we do not know, and have 
not made trial of. 

A very little linseed oil is to be poured into a saucer; 
then, with a small piece of clean rag smear the furniture 
with it. In a few minutes, wipe it off with an old duster 
kept for the purpose; and then rub the tables, <8cc. quite 
clean, with a second cloth. This simple, easy operation, 
performed regularly once a week, will gradually produce 
a polish that is unrivalled: for unless it were to be washed 
with soap, it will not injure; boiling water even might be 
poured over it with impunity; indeed, occasional washing 
with plain water, is an advantage to it. Unlike the easily 
spoiled varnishes of the shops, furniture that is rubbed 
with this oil is not so readily scratched; and, if it be, the 
next week's application will nearly obliterate the marks. 
Again, the pores of the wood being filled with the applica- 
tion, it becomes very hard, and is able to resist the attacks 



190 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

of insects. We have possessed articles of furniture thus 
polished, so beautiful, that our simple plan has been con- 
jectured to be a newly invented preparation " yet unknown 
to fame." We are aware that this method of beautifying 
furniture is well, but not generally known. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS. 

A simple plan, and one which has long proved successful, 
is to bury the eggs in salt; of course the eggs must be fresh, 
and they should be placed upright not on the side. In this 
way, eggs will keep good for a year. It is, perhaps, well to 
add, that this is an excellent mode of taking eggs to sea. 
The vessel in which the eggs are placed should be kept in a 
cool, dry situation; and a thick layer of salt should be placed 
at the top of it. At the season when eggs are plentiful, and 
consequently cheap, it will be wise to think about laying in 
a store of them. In cities, particularly, fresh eggs are, 
in the winter months, a delicacy scarcely attainable, and 
this merely from want of a little foresight. 

TO MAKE GINGER BEER. 

One ounce of bruised ginger, one ounce of cream of tartar, 
one lemon juice and peel, one pound of loaf-sugar, one gal- 
lon of boiling water; add one spoonful of yeast to work it 
and bottle it in stone jars before it is cold. 

TO CLARIFY SUGAR. 

Take four pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces; put 
into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass of 
pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add ano- 
ther glass, still whipping, until two quarts of water have 
been put in; when the pan is full of froth, throw in the sugar, 
and set it on the fire, being careful to skim it every time the 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 191 

scum rises, which will be the case as the sugar boils up. 
After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to rim 
over the edges of the pan, to prevent which, throw on it 
a little cold water; this will lower it instantly, and give time 
for the skimming, for the scum should never be taken off 
whilst the sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and 
that is the moment to skim it. Repeat this operation care- 
fully three or four times, when a whitish light scum only 
will rise; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, slightly wetted, 
over a basin, and pour the sugar through it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a china basin; and 
when the sugar is clarified, wash the pan and the skimmer 
with a glass of water, which put to the scum, and set it 
aside for more common purposes. 

TO MAKE YEAST. 

Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonfuls of fine flour, and sweetened with 
nearly half a pound of brown sugar; when almost cold, put 
it into a jug, adding four spoonfuls of fresh yeast; shake it 
well together, let it stand uncovered near the fire for a day, 
to ferment. There will be a thin liquor on the top, pour 
this off; shake the remainder and cork it up for use. To 
make a half peck loaf you should use a quarter of a pint 
of the above. 

TO PRESERVE POTATOES. 

The Scotch method of preserving eggs, by dipping them 
in boiling water (which destroys the living principle,) is too 
well known to need further notice. The preservation of 
potatoes, by similar treatment, is also a valuable and useful 
discovery. Large quantities may be cured at once, by put- 
ting them into a a basket as large as the vessel containing 
the boiling water will admit, and then just dipping them for 



192 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

a minute or two at the utmost, the germ, which is so near 
the skin, is thus " killed," without injuring the potatoe. In 
this way several tons might be cured in a few hours. They 
should then be dried in a warm oven, and laid up in sacks 
or casks, secure from the frost, in a dry place. Another 
method of preserving this valuable root is, first to peel them, 
then to grate them down into a pulp, which is put into 
coarse cloths, and the water squeezed out by putting them 
into a common press, by which means they are formed 
into flat cakes. Those cakes are to be well dried, and 
preserved for use as required. This is an excellent and 
ingenious mode of preserving potatoes, although attended 
with too much trouble on the large scale. It is said, that 
a piece of lime put into the water into which potatoes are 
boiling, will render the heaviest, light and flowery. 

PORTABLE GINGER BEER. 

A beverage, equal in flavour to ginger beer, and in its 
medicinal effects far more wholesome, besides the conve- 
nience of being portable, may be made in the following man- 
ner; 

Take of powdered lump sugar, two drams. Carbonate 
of soda, half a dram. Mix them together. 

Take of Tartaric acid, half a dram, best ginger powder, 
five grains, essence of lemon, one drop. Mix them together.. 

Dissolve the above powders in separate glasses, contain- 
ing together, about half a pint of cold spring water; when 
dissolved, mix the contents of each glass, and let it be drank 
immediately. 

The proportion of ginger may be increased to double or 
quadruple the quantity, agreeable to the palate; it should 
be the finest kind, (the subtile powder as it is called) 
which, with the other ingredients, may be obtained at any 
druggist's. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 193 

The powders, when made, should be kept from damp. 
A cubic box of four inches will receive six dozen of them. 

TO CORRECT THE ACIDITY OF PORTER, &C. 

Porter and other malt liquors, are apt to become very 
sour, and consequently unwholesome; to remedy which, 
take as much Carbonate of Soda as will lay upon a dime, 
(or more if the liquor be very acid) and put it into a 
tumbler pour over it a little of the liquor sufficient to 
dissolve it: fill up the glass with the beer, and it will effer- 
vesce, (more or less according to the strength of acid) dur- 
ing which state it should be drank immediately: as, if 
allowed to stand long, it will not be so agreeable in flavour. 

The most acid liquor will be rendered as mild as new. 

To persons affected with indigestion or stomach com- 
plaints, or with whom porter disagrees, this method will be 
found of great use, in tending to the removal of such com- 
plaints. 

YEAST. 

The following method of making yeast for bread, is both 
easy and expeditious. Boil one pound of good flour, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gal- 
lons of water, for one hour; when milk-warm, bottle it, and 
cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. 
One pint of this will make eighteen pounds of bread. 

TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF A LAMP. 

Soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry it well before 
you use it; it will then burn both sweet and pleasant, and 
give much satisfaction for the trifling trouble in preparing it 
17 



194 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



METHOD OF OBTAINING FLOWERS OF DIFFERENT COLOURS ON 

THE SAME STEM. 

Split a small twig of the elder bush lengthways, and hav- 
ing scooped out the pith, fill each of the compartments 
with seeds of flowers of different sorts, but which blossom 
about the same time, surround them with mould, and then 
tying together the two bits of wood, plant the whole in a 
pot filled with earth properly prepared. The stems of the 
different flowers will thus be so incorporated as to exhibit 
to the eye only one stem, throwing out branches covered 
with flowers analagous to the seed which produced them. 

USEFUL RECIPE FOR EFFECTUALLY TAKING OUT SPOTS OF 

INK FROM LINEN. 

Take a piece of mould candle (the tallow of which is 
commonly of the finest kind), melt it, and dip the spotted 
part of the linen in the melted tallow, then put it to the 
wash. It will come perfectly white from the hands of the 
laundress, and there \vill never be any hole in the spotted 
part. This experiment has been tried, and found superior 
to salt of lemons, or spirits of salts, which often destroy the 
linen. 

RECIPE EFFECTUALLY TO DESTROY BED BUGS. 

Take two ounces of quicksilver, and the whites of two 
eggs, and so on in this ratio for a larger or smaller quanti- 
ty. Beat the quicksilver and the whites together until they 
unite and become a froth. With a feather then apply the 
compound thus formed to the crevices and holes in your bed- 
steads. This done once or twice in a year will prove ef- 
fectual. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 195 



A FIRE PROOF AND WATER PROOF CEMENT. 

To half a pint of milk put an equal quantity of vinegar, 
in order to curdle it; then separate the curd from the whey, 
and mix the whey with the whites of four or five eggs, beat- 
ing the whole well together. When it is well mixed, add 
a little quick lime, through a sieve, until it has acquired the 
consistence of a thick paste. With this cement broken ves- 
sels, and cracks of all kinds, may be mended. It dries quick- 
ly, and resists the action of fire and water. 

TO RENDER SHOES WATER PROOF. 

Mix a pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow wax, two 
ounces of turpentine, and half an ounce of Burgundy pitch, 
carefully over a slow fire. Lay the mixture, whilst hot, on 
the boots or shoes with a sponge or soft brush; and when 
they are dry lay it on again and again, until the leather be- 
comes quite saturated, that is to say, will hold no more. 
Let them then be put away, and not be worn until they are 
perfectly dry and elastic: they will afterwards be found not 
only impenetrable to wet, but soft and pliable, and of much 
longer duration. 

FOR AN OBSTINATE COUGH. 

Take a half-pound of the best honey, and squeeze the 
juice of four lemons upon it; mix them well together, and 
add a small portion of sugar-candy. A tea-spoonful may be 
taken every time the cough is troublesome, and in a very 
short time a cure will be effected. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS. 

/ 

Relative to the preservation of eggs by immersion in lime- 
water, M. Peschier has given most satisfactory evidence of 
the efficacy of the process. Eggs which he had preserved 



196 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

for six years in this \vaj T , being boiled and tried, were found 
perfectly fresh and good; and a confectioner of Geneva has 
used a whole cask of eggs preserved by the same means. 
In the small way eggs may be thus preserved in bottles or 
other vessels. They are to be introduced when quite fresh, 
the bottle then filled with lime-water, a little powdered lime 
sprinkled in at last, and then the bottle closed. To prepare 
the lime-water, twenty or thirty pints of water are to be 
mixed up with five or six pounds of slaked quick-lime put 
into a covered vessel allowed to clear by standing, and the 
lime-water immediately used. 

MILDEW ON LINEN, &C. 

The mildew upon linen proceeds from their being put 
away damp from the wash, and it is a very difficult blemish 
to remove. When it has unfortunately occurred, you will 
find that soap rubbed on, and afterwards fine chalk scraped 
upon the spots, with a day's exposure to the sun, will re- 
move it, if not at once, at least upon a repetition. 

Fruit and red wine stains may be removed by a prepara- 
tion of equal parts of slaked lime, potass, and soft soap, and 
by exposure to the sun while this preparation is upon the 
stain. Salt of lemon (oxalate of potass] will remove ink and 
iron mould. 

When linen or muslins are scorched, in the getting up,, 
without being actually burnt, a brown mark is left upon the 
spot, which may be removed by laying some of the follow- 
ing composition on it, before the article is again washed: 
Slice six large onions, and express the juice, which must be 
added to a quart of vinegar, with one ounce of rasped soap, 
a quarter of a pound of fuller's earth, one ounce of lime, 
and one ounce of pearl-ashes. Boil the whole, until the 
mixture becomes thick, and apply it to the scorched spot 
while it is hot. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 197 



COCKROACHES. 

There is one species of vermin, which cannot be expelled 
too soon from a residence, when once they take post near 
the kitchen fire; for they will soon swarm thence, all over 
the house, to the utter destruction of clothes, hats, pictures, 
&c. It is pleasant, indeed, to hear the cricket ' chirping on 
the hearth,' but the cockroach ought to be expelled. The 
remedy is short, and infallible. Take a small quantity of 
white arsenic finely pulverized, strew it on crumbs of bread, 
and lay it near the haunts of these insects: a few nights will 
suffice; but dogs, cats, and other pets must be kept out of 
the way of partaking of the fare. 

VELVETS. 

It is perhaps not generally known, that velvets are readily 
restored, by passing the under side of the velvet over a warm 
smoothing iron. The best way of doing this is for one per- 
son to hold the velvet tight, and another to pass the iron 
over it on the wrong side; after which the garment must be 
spread out, and a brush, or very fine whisk, like those now 
sold about the streets by Dutch women, passed gently yet 
briskly over the pile. The good effect of this, even upon 
the most worn-out velvet, will scarcely be credited, until 
tried; and it is equally applicable to velvets that are but little 
worn. 

CLEANING BLACK DRESSES. 

A very simple yet certain mode of removing stains from 
mourning dresses is, to take a good handful of fig-leaves, 
which must be boiled in two quarts of water until re- 
duced to a pint. Squeeze the leaves, and put the liquor 
into a bottle for use. The articles, whether of bombazine, 

17* 



198 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 

crape, cloth, &c., need only be rubbed with a sponge dipped 
in the liquor, when the effect will be instantly produced. 

VINEGAR. 

As vinegar forms such an important part of cookery, 
it must be always important to ascertain that it is unadul- 
terated. The chemical process is simple. In a test glass 
of vinegar put three or four drops of acetate of barytes, 
which will produce a white precipitate. Filtrate through 
paper, and heat the powder in a tobacco-pipe until red- 
hot. Then put it into spirit of salt, or diluted aqua-fortis. 
If the precipitate dissolves, the vinegar is genuine. If it 
does not, then the vinegar is adulterated with oil of vitriol. 
If metallic adulteration is suspected, especially in dis- 
tilled vinegar, take the following tests: add liquid ammonia 
to vinegar until its odour predominates; then if the mixture 
assumes a bluish tint, you may depend upon the presence of 
copper. 

Again, add water, impregnated with sulphuretted hydro- 
gen to the suspected vinegar. If it becomes black, or yields 
a black precipitate, the presence of lead is obvious. 

TO POT BUTTER FOR WINTER USE. 

In the summer, when there is plenty of butter, care 
should be taken to preserve enough for winter use. But 
observe, that none but good butter, which has been well 
made, and is quite free from buttermilk, will pot well. Have 
potting pans, to hold from six to ten pounds of butter. Put 
a thick layer of butter in the pan, press it down hard, then 
put a layer of salt, and press that down, then more butter 
and so on: allowing one ounce of salt to every pound of but- 
ter. If this be too salt, it can be freshened by being washed 
in cold water, before it is sent to table. Always keep the 
top well covered, with salt, and as that turns to brine, more 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 199 

salt may be required. Tie paper over, and keep the pan in 
the dairy, or the cellar. Some persons use one quarter part 
of lump sugar, and the same of saltpetre, to two parts of 
common salt, but I never, that I am aware of, tasted butter 
so preserved. The richer and finer flavoured the butter is 
when fresh, the better it will answer to pot. 

LAVENDER WATER. 

Eight ounces of spirits of wine, one drachm of oil of 
lavender, ten drops ambergrease, and twenty drops of es- 
sence of bergamot. 

MILK OF ROSES. 

Two ounces sweet almonds, beaten to a paste, forty 
drops of oil of lavender, and forty ounces of rose water. 

TO CLEAN PAINT. 

Put a very little pearl-ash or soda into the water, to soften 
it, then wash the paint with a flannel and soft soap; wash 
the soap off, and wipe dry with clean linen cloths. 

TO CLEAN PAPERED WALLS. 

The very best method is to rub with stale bread. Cut 
the crust off very thick, and wipe straight down from the 
top, then go to the top again, and so on. The staler the 
bread the better. 

STOVE POLISH. 

For polishing stoves the best thing is the British Lustre, 
as it does not soil the hands on touching. It is sold at the 
apothecaries, and directions for using are printed on the out- 
side of each package. 



200 HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



POLISHING BRASS. 

Take an ounce of oxalic acid and dissolve in a pint of 
water or spirit. Rub with a piece of flannel and wash 
afterwards with soap and water. This imparts a beautiful 
polish to brass and is perfectly clean. It should be remem- 
bered where there are children, that this acid is a deadly 
poison. 

SHAVING SOAP. 

A very nice soap for shaving may be made by mixing a 
quarter of a pound of Castile soap, one cake of old Windsor 
soap, a gill of lavender water, the same of cologne water 
and a very little alcohol. Boil all these together, until 
thoroughly mixed. 

RENNET. 

A most excellent article in case of sickness and very con- 
venient at all times in a family. The great difficulty in 
buying it in the market is its being so greasy. The apothe- 
caries in Boston prepare it in such a way that it is as dry 
and transparent nearly as isinglass. About two ounces of 
this put into a pint of wine. When you wish to make 
custard season the milk to your taste, and warm it blood 
warm. Two great spoonfuls of the wine put to this will 
make a firm custard. It should be used very soon after pre- 
paring. To make whey, warm the milk and add more of 
the wine and let it stand until separated from the curd, 
which it will soon if the curd be broken with a spoon. 

PICKLE TO PRESERVE BUTTER. 

Half a pound of salt, one ounce of salt-petre, half a 
pound of sugar, three quarts of water dissolved together. 
Skim the pickle till clear. 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING, 



201 



DIRECTIONS FOR JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 

BELOW will be found the figures of the five larger animals 
followed by a reference to each, by which the reader, who 
is not already experienced, may observe the names of all 
the principal joints, as well as the part of the animal from 
which the j oint is cut. 

Venison. 




1. Shoulder. 

2. Neck. 

3. Haunch. 



4. Breast. 

5. Scrag. 



202 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



Beef. 




1. Sirloin 

2. Rump. 

3. Edge Bone. 

4. Buttock. 

5. Mouse Buttock. 

6. Leg-. 

7. Thick Flank. 

8. Veiny Piece. 

9. Thin Flank. 

10. Fore Rib: 7 Ribs. 



11. Middle Rib: 4 Ribs. 

12. Chuck Rib: 2 Ribs. 

13. Brisket. 

14. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton 

Piece. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck or Sticking Piece. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



Mutton. 




1. Leg, 

2. Shoulder. 

3. Loin, Best End. 

4. Loin, Chump End. 

5. Neck, Best End. 



6. Breast. 

7. Neck, Scrag End. 

Note. A Chine is two Loins: 
and a saddle is two Loins, and 
two Necks of the Best End. 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING, 



203 



Veal. 




1. Loin, Best End. 

2. Fillet. 

3. Loin, Chump End. 

4. Hind Knuckle. 

5. Neck, Best End. 



6. Breast, Best End. 

7. Blade Bone or Oyster-part. 

8. Fore Knuckle. 

9. Breast, Brisket End. 
10. Neck, Scrag End. 



Pork. 



1. Leg. 

2. Hind Loin. 

3. Fore Loin. 




4. Spare Rib. 

5. Hand. 

6. Belly, or Spring-. 



204 



HOUSEKEEPER S BOOK. 



Cod's Head. FIG. 1. 
a 







Cod's Head (Fig 1) is a dish in the carving of which 
you have nothing to study beyond that preference for par- 
ticular parts of the fish which some persons entertain. The 
solid parts are helped by cutting through with the fish-trowel 
from a to b and from c to </, and so on, from the jaw-bone 
to the further end of the shoulder. The sound lies on the 
inside, and to obtain this, you must raise up the thin part 
of the fish, near the letter e. This dish never looks so 
well as when served dry, and the fish on a napkin neatly 
folded, and garnished with sprigs of parsley. 

Haunch of Venison. FIG. 2. 




Haunch of Venison is cut (as in Fig. 2.) first in the lino 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 



205 



a to b. This first cut is the means of getting much of the 
gravy of the joint. Then turning the dish longwise towards 
him, the carver should put the knife in at c, and cut as 
deep as the bone will allow, to rf, and take out slices on 
either side of the line in this direction. The fat of venison 
becomes cold so very rapidly, that it is advisable, when con- 
venient, to have some means of giving it renewed warmth 
after the joint comes to table. For this purpose, some use 
water-plates, which have the effect of rendering the meat 
infinitely nicer than it would be in a half chilled state. 

Haunch of Mutton is carved in the same way as Veni- 
son. 

Saddle of Mutton. FIG. 3. 




Saddle of Mutton. This is prepared for roasting as in 
Fig. 3, the tail being split in two, each half twisted back, 
and skewered, with one of the kidneys enclosed. You carve 
this by cutting, in straight lines, on each side of the back- 
bone, as from a to 6, from c to d. If the saddle be a fine 
one, there will be fat on every part of it; but there is always 
more on the sides (ee) than in the centre. 
18 



206 



HOUSEKEEPER S BOOK. 

Edge Boi e of Beef. FIG. 4. 

c 




Edge Bone of Beef, like the Round of Beef, is easily 
carved. But care should be taken, with both of these, to 
carve neatly; for if the meat be cut in thin slices or in pieces 
of awkward shape, the effect will be both to cause waste and 
to render the dish, while it lasts, uninviting. Cut slices, 
as thin as you please, from a to b (Fig 4). The best 
part of the fat will be found on one side of the meat, from 
about c to d. The most delicate is at c. 

Fore Quarter of Lamb. FIG. 5. 




Fore Quarter of Lamb is first to be cut so as to divide 
the shoulder from the rest of the quarter, which is called the 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 207 

target. For this purpose, put the fork firmly into the shoul- 
der joint, and then cut underneath the blade-bone, begin- 
ning at a (Fig 5), and continue cutting all round in the di- 
rection of the circular line, and pretty close to the under 
part of the blade-bone. Some people like to cut the shoul- 
der large, while others take off no more meat with it than 
is barely necessary to remove the blade-bone. It is most 
convenient to place the shoulder on a separate dish. This 
is carved in the same way as the shoulder of mutton (see 
Fig. 7). When the shoulder is removed, a lemon may be 
squeezed over that part of the remainder of the joint where 
the knife has passed: this gives a flavour to the meat which 
is generally approved. Then, proceed to cut completely 
through from b to c, following the line across the bones as 
cracked by the butcher; and this will divide the ribs ((/) 
from the brisket (e). Tastes vary in giving preference to 
the ribs or to the brisket. 

Leg of Mutton, FIG. 6. 




The above engraving represents a leg of mutton served 
up in the dish, lying upon its back. The best parts are in 
the middle at e, between the knuckle and further end. Be- 
gin to help from e to/, in thin deep slices down to the bone. 
If the outside should not be sufficiently fat, cut some slices 
from the broad end from h to i; this part is most juicy, 
though many prefer the knuckle of very fine mutton, which, 



208 



HOUSEKEEPER S BOOK. 



though dry, is tender. On the back of the leg may be cut 
some very fine slices, from the broad end, longways. We- 
ther mutton may be easily known by a round lump of fat at 
the edge of the broad part at d. The cramp-bone, as it is 
called, may be cut out, by taking hold of the shank bone 
with the left hand, and cutting down to the thigh bone at g", 
then passing the knife under it in the direction g k. 

Shoulder of Mutton. FIG. 7. 




A shoulder of mutton is here represented with the back 
uppermost. When this joint is not over-roasted, it is very 
full of gravy, and by many preferred to a leg, as having ma- 
ny very delicate and savoury parts in it. When it is first 
cut, it should be in the hollow part of it in the direction d 
e, down to the bone: this being done, the gravy runs first 
into the dish, and slices should be then taken off, on each 
side the cut. The best flavoured fat lies on the outer edge, 
and should be cut out in thin slices in the direction hh. 
When all is taken from the hollow part, in the line (/ e, 
some very good slices may be cut, on each side the ridge 
of the blade-bone, in the direction / g. The line between 
the two dotted lines is the edge or ridge of the blade-bone, 
which cannot be cut across; On the under-side of a shoul- 
der, there are some very fine cuts, very full of gravy, which 
are by some preferred to the upper part. 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 



209 



Ham. FIG. 8. 




Ham is generally cut by making a deep incision across the 
top of it, as from a to b, and down to the bone. Those who 
like the knuckle end, which is the most lean and dry, may 
cut towards c: but the prime part of the ham is that between 
a and the thick end. Some prefer carving hams with a 
more slanting cut, beginning in a direction as from a to c, 
and so continuing, throughout, to the thick end. The slant- 
ing mode is, however, apt to be very wasteful, unless the 
carver be careful not to take away too much fat in propor- 
tion to the lean. 

Rabbit, for Roasting. FIG. 9. 




Rabbit, for Roasting, is prepared for the spit as in 
fig, y. To carve: begin by cutting through near to the 
back-bone, from a to b', then, make a corresponding cut 

18* 



210 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



on the other side of the back-bone; leaving the back and the 
head in one distinct piece. Cut off the legs at the hip-joint 
(e), and take off the wing nearly as you would the wing of 
a bird, carrying the knife round the circular line (c). The 
ribs are of little importance, as they are bare of meat. Di- 
vide the back into three or four portions, as pointed out by 
the letters f g h. The head is then to be cut off, and the 
lower jaws divided from the upper. By splitting the upper 
part of the head in the middle, you have the brains, which 
are prized by epicures. The comparative goodness of dif- 
ferent parts of a rabbit will depend much on the age, and 
also upon the cooking. The back, and the legs, are always 
the best. The wing of a young rabbit is nice; but this is not 
so good in an old one, and particularly if it be not thorough- 
ly well done. 

Rabbit for Boiling. FIG. 10. 




Rabbit for Boiling, should be trussed, according to the 
newest fashion, as in Fig. 10. Cut off the ears close to 
the head, and cut off the feet at the foot-joint. Cut off the 
tail- Then make an incision on each side of the back-bone 
at the rump end, about an inch and a half long. This 
will enable you to stretch the legs further towards the 
head. Bring the wings as close to the body as you can, 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING, 



211 



and bring the legs close to the outside of the wings. The 
head should be bent round to one side, in order that, by 
running one skewer through the legs, wings, and mouth, 
you may thus secure all and have the rabbit completely and 
compactly trussed. 

Turkey for Roasting. FIG. 11. 




Turkey for Roasting, is sometimes trussed with the feet 
on; and I have even seen it brought to table with the head 
as well as the feet. But such trussing is exceedingly ugly, 
and altogether unworthy of a good cook. The manner 
here described (see Fig. 11) is the most approved. If the 
breast bone be sharp, it should be beaten down, to make the 
bird appear as plump as possible. See Carving, in ob- 
servations on Fig. 15. 

Goose. FIG. 12. 




Goose. For Carving, see observations on Fig. 15, 



HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK. 



Fowls for Roasting. 
FIG. 13. FIG. 14. 





Fowls, for Roasting. The most modern way of truss- 
ing these is as in Figs. 13 and 14. If it be but a chicken, or 
a small fowl, a single skewer through the wings, and the 
legs simply tied, as in Fig. 14, will be sufficient. But a 
large fowl is best kept in shape by the other method (Fig. 
13). See Carving, in observations on Fig. 15. 

Turkey, or Fowl, for Boiling. FIG. 15. 




Turkey, or Fowl, for Boiling. For boiling, turkeys 
and fowls should, according to the newest fashion, both be 
trussed in the same way. There is nothing peculiar in this 
way, excepting as to the legs, which are to be trussed with- 
in the apron. To do this, the cook must first cut off the 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 213 

feet, and then, putting her fingers into the inside of the 
fowl, separate the skin of the leg from the flesh, all the way 
to the extreme joint. The leg, being drawn back, will thus 
remain, as it were in a bag, within the apron; and, if this 
be properly done, there need be no other break in the skin 
than what has been occasioned at the joint by cutting off 
the feet. If it be a turkey, or a large fowl, the form may 
be better preserved by putting a skewer through the legs as 
well as through the wings (see Fig 15). But with small 
fowls, there needs no skewer for the legs. All skewers 
used in trussing should be taken out before the dish comes 
to table. To carve fowls, turkeys, &c. see Fig. 15. Be- 
gin by taking off the wings, cutting from a to b, c to d. 
Next the legs, putting your knife in at //. Then, if it be 
a large bird, you will help slices from the breast (e e}. But 
with the smaller birds, as chickens, partridges, &c. a con- 
siderable portion of the breast should come off with the wing, 
and there is not enough left to spare any thing more from 
the breast-bone. The merrythought, situated at the point 
of the breast-bone, is taken off by cutting straight across at 
h h. In helping, recollect that the liver- wing is commonly 
thought more of than the other. The breast-bone is divided 
from the back by simply cutting through the ribs on each 
side of the fowl. The neck-bones are at g g; but for these 
see Fig. 16, and the directions for carving the back. 

Back of a Fowl. FIG. 16. 




Rest your knife firmly on the centre of the back, at the 
same time turning either end up with your fork, and this 



214 



HOUSEKEEPER S BOOK. 



part will easily break in two at a b. The side-bones are at 
c (/; and to remove these, some people put the point of the 
knife in at midway the line, just opposite to c d; others at 
the rump end of the bones, e f. The neck-bones (at g h) 
are the most difficult part of the task. These must be taken 
off before the breast is divided from the back; they adhere 
very closely, and require the knife to be held firmly on the 
body of the fowl, while the fork is employed to twist them 
off. 



Duck. FIG. 17. 



Breast. 



Back. 





Duck. This should be trussed as in Fig. 17. The leg 
is twisted at the joint, and the feet (with the claws only 
cut off) are turned over and so brought to lie flat on the 
rump. For Carving, see observations on Fig. 15. 



JOINTING, TRUSSING AND CARVING. 



215 



Pheasant. FIG. 18. Partridge. FIG. 19. 





Pheasant and Partridge. These two are trussed nearly 
in one way, as in Figs. 18 and 19, excepting, that ihelegs 
of the partridge are raised, and tied together over the apron 
crossing each other. For Carving, see observations on 
Fig. 15. 

Half a Calf s Head. FIG. 20. 




First cut handsome slices along the cheek-bone in the 
fleshy part, in the direction d e, as in the annexed engrav- 
ing; letting the knife go close to the bone. At the neck end 
/, lies the throat sweetbread, which should be helped in 
slices from/ to g, with the other part, as it is by many con- 
sidered the best part of the head; the eye may be forced 
from the socket by putting the point of the knife in a slant- 



216 



HOUSEKEEPER S BOOK. 



ing direction towards the middle, cutting round so as to 
separate the meat from the bone; the eye may then be di- 
vided. The palate is reckoned by some a great delicacy; 
this will be found on the under side of the roof of the mouth. 
There will also be found some good lean meat on the under 
side of the jaw, and some nice fat about the ear. There is 
a tooth in the upper jaw, rolled by some the sweet tooth, 
very full of jelly; it lies firm in its socket, but if the calf is 
young, it will be readily removed by putting the point of 
the knife under it. It is highly necessary that all who 
preside at the head of a table should be acquainted with all 
these particular delicacies, so that they may distribute them 
to their friends. The tongue and brains are served up in a 
separate dish; 

Roasted Pig. 




It is very seldom that a Roasted Pig is sent to table 
whole, the cook generally first cutting off its head and di- 
viding it; and then the body is served to table, garnished 
with the jaws and ears, as represented in the annexed en- 
graving. This done, the shoulder should then be taken off 
from the body, by passing the knife under it in a circular 
direction, and the leg separated as shown in the dotted line 
rf, e,f. The ribs may then be divided into two or more 
parts, helping at the same time an ear or jaw with it, with 
some of the sauce also. Pieces may be cut from the legs 
and shoulders. Some consider the neck end the finest part, 
while others give the ribs the preference. 



JOINTING, TRUSSING, AND CARVING. 

Pigeons. FIG. 22. 



217 




This engraving represents the back and the breast of a 
pigeon: No 1, being the back, and No. 2, the breast. Pi- 
geons are sometimes cut up as chickens are, but being such 
small birds, the best and most approved method is either to 
divide them in half from top to bottom, or to cut them 
across. In order to cut them down, begin at the neck, and 
cut down in a line to rf, (No. 2) in preference to cutting 
from/ to e, by d, as shown in No 1; the latter way being 
exceedingly unfair; as the lower part of a pigeon is unques- 
tionably the best. 



19 



V 



CCT 2 



